 

og 40426-10082

eur

 

 

- June 15, 1978
NOTE FOR : : The Director
FROM : Haviland Smith

SUBJECT : The HSCA Investigation of the Mexico City Station

1. The memorandum from Scott Breckinridge, attached hereto, dated
15 June, addresses only one aspect of our problem with the HSCA. In the
fall of this year, the HSCA will prepare a report for the Congress which will
be unclassified. There seems every likelihood that this report, whether we
are able to contest it successfully either with the Committee or perhaps even
in the Courts, will contain sensitive information, the revelation of which
will be very damaging to_our interests in Mexico. Not only will this report
provide evidence of our activity in Mex} i which
i ivities ainst Mexican Caw, bu also

 

 

    

 

    
 

 

 

The best example of this, but not the only

 

 

 

“ exanip €5 ete p activity, the evidence from which will be

an integral part of the HSCA's conclusions.

2. Mexico City is a focal point for Soviet intelligence operations
against the continental United States. There is a long, documentable history
of Soviet activities based in Mexico being run into our Country. The relation-
ship that is a critical ingredient
in our ability to protect ourselves against these Soviet intelligence acti-

vities. You will recall that the Boyce-Lee case was brought to our attention
by those elements of /the Mexican government. > as we suspect, the Conmittee

ublishes the kind of information spelled out above, the result on this
Dwill be disastrous. It will seriously weaken our
ability to protect our country from Soviet intelligence activities.

 

 

 

 

 

3. We believe that the issues raised by Chairman Stokes in his letter
to you affords an excellent opportunity for you to underline to him some of

the problems which are inherent in an ultimate declassificatjon and publica~
tion of the sensitive information they have gleaned from our files on general

intelligence activities in Mexico City. This may not prove to be helpful
in dampening the ardor of the HCSA staff, but it most certainly will put
them on notice that the course they are taking will have direct repercussions
not only on CIA activities in Mexico City, but on our bilateral relations

with that country.

woe 19998
