      
   

“SECRET-EVES OMY.

    
    
   

unrealistic. The solution seens even nore improbable. “than ever: ‘before. .
Would appear that we spail have either Diem or military junta. .:.°. 2 ..
View time factor have not coordinated this bessage with embassy but :
: have exchanged views Pouy. oa subject Ratter.”

  
   
  

 

 

cy Leeann ee ga

24 August ;

Telephone eall from Marrizan to pp/P. Record by pp/P.

Mr. Harriman called Mr. Eelms just before 2000 hours and -

outlined to him the substance of vhat eventually turned out to be

ie

\

i

i.

i

i
vo
iq

i

Deptel 243 tc Saigon. To Helms query, Harriman confirmed that the

  
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
   

 

; thrust of the telegrem contained an implicit, pull out of American:
forces and support if the Nhus' were not ousted. Harrizan said that

the message had been cleared “with Hyannisport," with the Secretary ©

   

_. Of State, and with Mr. Gilpatric.

~~o \- < State telegram to Saf Deptel 243) -

The Department informs the Ambassador that the US government

 

eamot tolerate a situation in which power lies in Nhu's hands. If

Diem is unwilling to rid himself of Hhu, then Diem himeelf may have to

  

"go. ‘The Ambassador is. authorized: (1) to inform the GVN that actions

_____eagainst. Buddhists. ust. be. redressed; 2) to. tell _ key. military. leaders__

 

that the USC cannot support a Diem regine that includes the Nhu‘ s and
that “ve will give them direct support in any interim period of: breakdown

 

central. governnent-mechanisn;"..(3) -to-make statements in Saigon removing
 

, following statement:

  

 

   
    
  

 

: g TBS i

the military taint on the pagoda raids; The telegram includes the

“ "Mme Ambassador and country team should urgently examine all
‘ possible alternative leadership and make detailed plans as to how
we might bring about Dien's replacement if this ‘Should tecane
necessary. You will uaderstand that we cannot frem Washington
give you detailed insiructions as to how this operation should
proceed, but you will also know we will back you to the ‘hilt
on actions you take to achieve our objectives.” Tae

Cable fron Hilsman to Lodge (personal) sent via CIA channels
(DIR G3E54) } .

"State cable sent separately represents agonizing et highest

levels. Course outlined is dangerous but all agree that delaying

 

‘elear cut US stand is even more dangerous. It won't be easy for’
you, but be assured we will back you all the way."

ago

(Comment: This is a good point at which to break the
narrative and insert a series of excerpts fron ‘Marguerite Higgins’
BOOK:

"The crucial act, with its overtones of Greek tragedy,
opened with a cable. It was dispatched to Saigon late in the .
evening of August 24, 1953, a date made more significant because
it was a Saturday. Washington usually empties cn summer veekends
or lapses into a somnolent mood as officials desperately seek
relaxation.

 

 

“The telgram contained spectacular new instructions for the -
U.S. embassy in Saigon. It was drawn up at a meeting called ty.
Under-secretary of State Averell Harriman and Roger Hileman, |
Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern affairs and head of .
the Vietnam task force. ‘The President's senior advisers were, for

 
  

 

 
   
   
   
  
  
    
 
   
    
   
 

 

    

  
    

21 August (continued)

Current Intellicence Kezorandim (OCI No.
in South Vietn

     
 
    
    
 
 
  
    
     
  
    
  
  
 

“Additional reports of plotting against the Diem goverzzent
have been received. While there is no hard evidence of ieminent

ection, the Puddhict issuc continues to make the siluatiou dangerous.” ns

a

- . Saigon Station's Chronolozy of August 1953 Coup Activities
At a meeting between Conein /an officer of the CIA Saigon Station/

oy . and General Don, the latter asked for US Government assurances of

support for moves against the Diem regime.
22 August

CIA cable to Saigon (PIR 63334)

“Ref Dept. telegram in process. Reftel (vhich Has. not yet seen)

states basic line to be taken and directs it be pushed at ali levels.
. Hileman requested Hqs. send companion telegram to station pointing
out that this is one technique to bring about surfacing of where and
who real pover is. Pressing this line can maximize possibility of
obtaining US objective. Even if it does not succeed, it can
substantially assist in identification of altermate or successor
leadership with necessary drive, abilities and ambition, to incor-
porate in our overall contingency planning and serve'as focus of
_ buildup program. Has. will comment in further detail after seeing —
message, if necessary, but passes above at Hileman's request.” .

   

 

 

 

~~CIA- cable -Trom Saigon” (SAIG 0208"

   

Chief of Station John Richardson forwards his personal views re
alternate leadership: "... . . Recent events have made us feel

i
I :

: i: - that hope for civilian goverment to replace Diem administration is
: . - = * oe ae
. : : .
|

     

737

+ SECRETE

 

vES OLY

  
    
  
 
   
  
   
 
   
   
    
 
  
 
   

the commitment be has made to the Buddhists, disorders will: probably

_ Mare again and the chances of a coup oF nm attempts
will became’ even vettere +7 1° * e ao not think - + *
necessarily profit af he were over
on of his pon-Communist oppo’
i initially 2€85 effective against 4
ort froma the US, gould provide reasonab.
fort." ‘

  

nentee!

regime mignt be
given con
leadership

tinued SUP)
for the governmen

: ak August

 
   

 

Rumo: :

. moe reret Tne coup reports and rumors which have arisen since
the Buddhist crisis seca to reflect some serious coup plotting, .
put we have no firs evidence of advanced planing by any g.oup to

regimes s °° * ° . 7

rthrow the 7

iS
south Vietnam se trooPs and police attacked and occupied Buddhist
Diem imposed nation-wide martial law.

 
    
  

a oy C/FEs

 

Mr. Bald recommended that We continue to provide asylu for the
“gua Bonz sy Syaand st_nonks/. until Lodge arrives and reviews the mat
Ta not be made avasinble 75° oe

tere

 

 

_ It wes agreed that official channels sho
press dispatches by American reporters

Lternate leadership

- granamitting, in Saigon. On the
in Vietnam, it was pointed out

   
    
 
 
  
  

matter of possible @

- that there was no indication tha’

+ Diem was not in full control. -

  

-2-

   

ttt
=
 erecar esrb
Strate
eons gsr
 

 

  
 

John F. Kennedy
; Lyndon B. Johnson

McGeorge Bundy

 

Dean Rusk
George W.-Eall

W. Averell Harriman
: Roger Hilcman

: Joseph A. Mendenhall
Frederick E. Nolting
Henry Catet Lodge
William C. Truehart

Robert McNamara

 

Roswell Gilpatric
fo Gen. Maxvell Taylor
io. Gen. Victor Krulak
Adm. Harry D. Felt
“Gen. Paul D. Harkins

 

   

i oo ob HeCone ~ _
Gen. Marshall Carter
“Richard Helzs
John Richardson

:
ch

i

|

* #. David R. Smith

 

William Colby

  

 

‘Special Assistant: to the President for.

Secretary of State

‘ Ambassator (arr. Saigon 23 August 1963)»:

 

\ Commander, MACV
Gen. Richard G. Weede ‘ Chief of Staff, MACY

Director of Central’ Intelligence

“GIA Acting COS after 5 October 1963. oe

fo Chief, FE Division
Sm ibe.

| SORT oy

 

    

The President

Vice President

 
     
 

National Security Affairs -

 
    

 

 
  
 

Under Secreta tary or State

Under Secretary of Ptate for Political pope tbe
Affairs - Fe

Assistant wey of State for Par
Eastern Affairs.

  

UN Adviser, Bureau of Far Eastern Affairs

Ambassador (left Saigon 16 August.2963) |

   
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
    
   
  
      
 

 

Secretary of Defense

Deputy Secretary of Defense

 

Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff
Counterinsurgency Specialist, JCS
CINCPAC jn ,

DCI
Deputy Director for Plans

CIA Chief of Station until 5 October 1963

      
    
The successful coup against the. » Dies regine a South: Vietiam,.
- which resulted in the ‘deaths of Nigo- Dinh Diem and his brother; Nhu,

began onl Fovenber 1963 at 1335 hours, Saigon time (0015 hours,

  

’ Washington time).

 

This report: on CIA and U.S: Government involvement in the coup
consists of a chronological listing of events, actions,and

deliberations having to do with Vietnam. The report is drawn

 

entirely fron documentary sources, either by quoting selectively

or by summarizing. Significant overt happenings having bearing on

official actions are included in the chronology. Facts on File,
sa veelly digest of world news, was used as the source for there :

historical events. Also included are @ few excerpts from Marguerite .

 

: : Higgins’ book Our Vietnam Nightma re* to demonstrate the extent to-
vhich some once-classi fied information is now common Imovledge.

os me AD dates are in 1963.

  

 

   
    

| . a SNIE 53-2-63: “The Sitvation in South Vietnam"
[ ST

. "If--as 1s likely--Diem fails.to carry out truly and promptly .

 

  

ARHRE

|, Marguerite Higgins, Our Vietnam Nightmare (New York: Harper & Row, 1965).

       
 

é-

 

~le

SEOET-BGS OLY

    
 

 

 

Forevord ot ;

. Positions of prominent people in late 1963 |.

“ (he anti-government riots tegin . 2... ee ee wee 1
Attacks on pagodas; imposition of. rartial law : 2.
Discussion of US response to yagoda raids 2. eee eee ee ee
Conein meeting with Gereral Don 3
CIA guidance on State telegram re alternative leadership .... . 3
Richardson's personal views re alternate leadership 3
Harriman informs Helms of the substance of Deptel 243 ...... 4
Deptel. 243: guidance to Locge on inproving or replacing regime kh.

“Hileman comment supplementing Deptel 243... 6 6 eee ee ee ee 5
Marguerite. Higgins on Deptel 243 . 5
igs points out danger posed by Deptel 2433 directs CIA support... 7.
Gen. Khanh requests assurances of U.S. support : T.:
Initial embassy meeting to discuss Deptel 243 . «6.2 2 ee wo qT.
Lodge presents his credentials to Diem oe - 8
Second thoughts on authorizations given Lodge in Deptel 243...

Saigon reports inst uctions given Cla efZicers ceeing the generals’ 9 |.
Results of CIA approaches to the generals . 2 2 + ow ee oe . 9

“More second thoughts on Deptel 243 - 9
Lodge and Harkins are. asked for an interim appraisal of prospects. _ 10
COS believes situation has reached point of no return 10
Continuing concern over poor prospects for success of coup. . . io
.faylor cables Harkins re Washington's second thoughts nh
Taylor's cable to Earkins causes Richardsoa to change scenario . 12
Steps to be taken to get the coup back on the track : 12
Discuesion of where coup planning went astray « «0 eee eee. 13

_ Richardson reports collapse of coup plot in late: ‘August es ee

 

’ President denies charge that CIA makes its owm policy wee

 

. Disagreements among country team members . . 2 6 0 se ese we
Discussion of steps necessary before deciding to cut aid...» . :

Sheldon's view on Vietnam ; 3 Lodge still ‘pursuing’ ‘coup effort

  
 
   

    

“ QABEE OF CONTENTS

  

2B

   

   

 

   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

General Harkins’ meeting with General Khien . .
Discussion of ways in which we might live with Diem regime ...
Colby's summary of differing positions taken . *

Richardson's damage assessment report

Press reports of CIA coup plotting . 2... 2. 1 «ee we ee wee
Further discussion of ways of working with Diem regime

Press reports of CIA support of Col. Tung's Special. Forces +--+.
David Bell warns of aid’ cuts

Richardson's views on prospects for Lierediate future

Krulak & Mendenhall reports; optimism vs. pessimisa Ce a rd
Bundy stresses need to unify US government posture .
Lodge estimates situation worsening rapidly; urges sanctions

State begins to see no alternative to working: with Diem ©

 

  
 

 

104-40214-10036

 

Unsanitized copy of Diem @.2nort

SEGRET-EVES Q2LY

vat
 

 
 
     
    
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
 

feet nae

 

Press reports. of atssencion in US mission. & “CIA

“PCI briefing of CIA Subcommittee of House Armed Services

 

 

- ‘lodge thanks Washington for "sagacious instruction”

The assassination . + «+ © 2 sss 6 s'8 2 #9 so oe ee oo %

 

   

ON se eee

 

Richardson's views oa need to vork with Dien regine. .
DDP. conversation with Dave Snuith re possible. Richardson ouster .
Lodge. changes position; agrees Bust work with Diem: regime

IMI writes ledge that Lens@ale not acceptable as cos. 5 ene

McNamara-Taylor report: can withdraw troops by end of 1965 .. ..«
Lodge confirms his desire that Richardson be replaced
amar or ena
Discussion of guidance based on McNamara-Taylor report

Gen. Minh requests assurances re US position on coup attempt ..
Dave Smith recommends we not oppose generals'assassination plan
MecCone instructs Smith to withdrav recommendation

Smith confirms he had done sO 1-6 21 0 ee eo ew wh we we ww
Guidance to Ledge; suspension of AID project leans

President approves policy of no active encouragement of coup .-.
UN fact-finding mission on repression of Buddhists

President comments on Richardson transfer;.CIA follows guidance.
Modification of policy of no coup encouragement —
Aebaccador'r ‘nstructions re CIA contacts with generals . . 2
UCT. briefing of Senate Foreign Relations Commitice :

Te generals' plan for a coup in the week following Oct 260.
Budget Bureau officer reports Lodge charges against CIA
Follow-up meetings between Conein and Gen. Don, 2k Oct 2 2 se }
Bundy reservations over handling of contacts with generals :
Lodge reports CIA punctilious in carrying out his instructions .. 35 : ‘
Coup plotting; US goverment policy; DCI's views . - 36 -§
Lodge confirms Conein's vona fides to Gen. Don... ee see ee - tp 8 ©
Iast Conein/Don meeting before the coup was launched .
lodge gives his views on current coup plotting (29 Oct) .... 5
Discussion of chances of success of the planned coup
Bundy-to-Lodge cable giving detailed guidance re coup posture « .
Lodge says we have no power to delay or discourage. a coup

The White House rejects Lodge's views eee wi ww were see

  

Coup begins; Conein goes to JGS Eqs; takes money with him eo eee
CRITIC reporting on coup identifies Conein by name

 

  

Recap

 
 

‘ sme 1 We

    
 
 
   
    
     
     

= ay ‘1967
FOREWORD

This account of CIA and U.S. Goverment involvenpnt in the
‘Vietnamese generals’ coup of 1 November 1963 is drawn fron
‘documentary sources: Not all of the docuzents summarized or
quoted pear directly on the coup itself. . We included some. that
pay seem irrelevant, because they illuminate the atmosphere in
which U.S. Government policy decisions vere reached.

i : We interviewed only three people in the. course of this ‘

 

i inquiry: William Colby, Chief of FE Division at the time (and now);
John Richardson, Chief of Station during the coup plotting of
Cc. “August 1963} and David Snith, Acting Chief of Station at the time
~ of the coup/assassination of November 1963. Each assured us that
he knew of no CIA assassination schemes against Diem--cther than ~
| . the role played by CIA in maintaining contacts, by direction, with
i the Vietnamese generals. ‘ : :

: : : Many of the documents upon which this report is based are

- classified TOP SECRET. Since the report is being delivered

personally end in only one copys we bave chosen not to subject

  

. it to the external accountability controls that are entailed in

8 _TOP SECRET classification,

 

   

- On the folowing Page is a list of v. S. Government officials

   

whose ranes are mentioned in the report, together with the positions

they held at the time. : 1 :
