 

° aa naa ite ened)

4 ApréY 1960 ~

‘earmot attend the meeting to express their adherence to the principles expressed
there at a later .dste. Therefore, they will rot attempt to L.pose a single narrow
system of political, economic or sociel thoucht, but rather vill emphasiae the need

_ for a return to constitutional government, uncer which all perties have the right
to express their arn.opinions and the people have democratic choice, Se
: . . so oe

i

 

 

Propaganda - . ans
5. We plan te exploy press, radio, films, intrusica and other techniques .

to undersi:e and discredit the government and to nrepare the people for later action.

This phase will have as one of itarobjectives the dissemin-tion of the truth to-—
_ people who have been misled by the present regime. The names of specialists in

radio work have been provided, and the decision will be made later as to which of
these will be. used in which place. ‘Three an who have been selected for this
radio work are Juan PALLI, Antonio ALCNSO Avila, Miguel SUAREZ Fernandes and -

Angel Felix YERGO, Other names are on a list which has been provided.

6, Discussion was held concerning the technique of having sone material pre~
pared in Havana and sent outside for broadcaats back into the country. It was;
felt that this teennique, would permit timely exploitation of developments inside

the country, Another suggestion involves staging incidents shich would arousé '-
Costro, filming his impassioned reaction on TV or in poblic arpearsnees and ther,
by careful editing, to emphasizing gestures and facial expressions to produce &@
-, good satirteal film. This film-might also employ 6 musical bsekground carefully |

aychronized with Castro's movements as 6 wey of heaping on additions) ridicule. :

7. We also discussed ways of printing material outside of Cuba for later. dis-
tribution inside the country or in other target areas. One specific example was a
‘pamphlet on the denial of hunan righta ig Cuba today, which it is hoped can be
prepared in time for distribution at the forthcoming conference on Freedom and, :
Democracy in Caracas. Another techniaue in connection with radio brosdcasts involves
the use of small pocket recorders, These would be carried on the rersons of repre-
sentatives of the group for surreptitious recordings of casual conversations which,
after editing, could be replayed over the air to give whatever impression. which ‘we.
wish to create, Still another technique involves the use of indestructible recorder=
aseaker ecuipment which cen be left in pu lle places with pre-recorded messsres. |
Another uses tape ‘recorders and loud speskers placed in hotels overlooking public _

assembly areas where, after an appropriate period of blank tape, a message can be
broadcast, to. sow confusion and ‘consternation among the authorities. Another
propas-nda tecknique which might be employed would be wall resters with pictures
of Fidel ‘earing the beard made of some suistence which dissolves readily in the
rain and which would leeve a rather ridiculous-looking, veardless figure following

-a rain.

Action

 -B. After a lengthy discussion of tris cuustion, it wis decided that precise
peans of action should be determined following meetings with other leaders and

SECRET

 

 
 

 

i .

 

a ra
aye

through 30 March between Mr. Schards,

1
\

Sener

& April 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Transcript of Recorded, Summary of AXPALM Meetings

2. This mezorandun summarizes djscussions witch hare erkeg pt piace fron 2 Mareh
Mr, Foster,® Mr. “Rivers,? Mr. Thompson® and

Mr, Faimer.3 During this period, we have discussed a turer of topics under the

following headinga: General; Folitical; Propaganda; Action and Immediate Plans.

General -

2. It ds agreed, first, that any possitility of reaching a peaceful agreement
on the credlem confronting us in Cuba is no longer present and that Pidel has passed
the point of no return. Second, prompt action is desirahie because the situetion

is growing worse every day, and the solution to the prodlea beecmes more difficult
as it is allowed to deteriorate, Third, this problem is not Lintted to Cubs,

alone tut is international in scope.

Politicar

3. It bas been agreed first that a name, a platform ard a symbol should be
chogen at the earliest oprortunity. It has also been agreed that these gentlemen
will meet in Jacksonville on the 3rd and 4th of April with representatives of other
groups who have similar oninions of the situation and who wish to coordimate their
actions, It will be at the Jacksonville meeting, and if necessary at later meetings
in Havens, that decisions will be taken on the name, platform and symbol for the
“joint organisation, which we will meanwhile refer to as the Junta,

It is agreed tht the sririt of the Caracas Pact should be revived wherever
rossible in the official pronouncements of the Junta. Me, Edwards, Mr. Foster and
Xe, Rivers are preparing their own platform of polities), sccial and economic mea-
sureg which they will take with them to the meeting and wiich they will provide to
us. at the forthcoming meeting, names of ceople to be creniy identified as repre-
sentatives of the Junta will be decided, At the Jacksonville meeting these gentle-
mon will tear in mind the idea that they wish to make it cossible for others who

 

ae , .
1 = Oscar SCHEVARRIA Salwat
2- Ange? FERKANDEZ Varela

3 ae
4
5

SECRET

 
 

& April 1960 :
Page 3

meetings with excerte in this field. It wa also agreed that, ceanwhile, training
of qualified peonle should proceed.. -In this connection, it wis agreed that an
assessaont -prograr based in the Miami area would be the first’ s:ep. For this.a-
team of three or four people headed by Manuel Artime has been designated, It is
expected that on the 3lst of March these gentlemen will neet with his in New Tork
and will expiain to hin his duties which will be the following: = : +,

a. He will be instructed to. make contact with certain selected neople who ..
- arealready in this. country, -He will base his contacts on clearances
which are received through @ representative of Hr. Frank Bend ‘whe
attended several of the meetings. ne

 

b. After Artime has made his initial assessment of these candidates and “
hag obtained thelr agreenent to varticipate, he will send other, lese
well-known membre of the team to escort these people into the assessment
areas where they will undergo medical, intelligence and psychiatric
examination, A list, of 16 candidates who are ready at the moment and
most of whom are elready available inthis country has been submitted. Ie
is expected that an additional number, bringing the total to somewhere
between 30 and 100 enn be located following the return of these gentlemen —
to their homes, It has also been agreed that a list of 20 members of -
the old ary who are now in the Miami areca, will be carefully screened
and cheoked by these gentlemen on their return and that thosé ‘on whom’ .
no derogatory inforuwation is available will be the subjects of Artine's

presssessment. .

9. The initial cadre of instructors will emerge from the group of 20 and the
group of. 16, Those who ara chosen liter will be instructed in turn by the initial
cadre at a location to be chosen outside of this country. The question of special-
ists was also taken up. In the field of physicians, including ss chistrists,
there are a probable ten or more who ean be recruited and brought out at such time
‘as the need for then arises. There are eight or more specialists in small boat

. operations who would be of value in exfiltration operations, There are. approxi-
mately five cuilified pilots. There are vife or more radio comunieators. This
will be the subject of a later comzent. - The group alse has access to” several
boats capable of travelling out as far as the territorial limits of three or twelve
miles, and probably even fucther, There are fur or more such boats available.” :
In this connection the question of radio beacons and their use in exfiltration
operations wis also discussed. It was pointed out that equirment may soon be
available which can be sarried by small eraft and which wil) sake a rendesvous at

sea more simple and nore securé.
Immediate Plans

10, A schedile ws dram up to show the cov-ments of Mr. Eqvards, Mr. Rivers
and Mr, Fester during the week or so. Following are the activities wileh each

expect:

(ca

Sede
 

Gla)

 

. 6 that{Hermano LA

" QbHevang and there he will talk to| Hermano LA

ON frst ES

we Apri 1960
rage Mi

\

On 31-March, Mr. Foster will go to New York where he ll meet with the

o thers end Fahuel ‘Artine who's expected to return from Mexice'om the
On the first

game date, The meeting will be held at the Statler Hotel.
scond of Arril, Mr. Poster will be in New Tork. On the third,
proceed to Jacksonville, on the fourth he will. moot there. with -

ntatives of other sik tof On the fifth, he will retura to

   
 

repre
2A Jeoncerning the possibility

jean come to this country for approximit ly four weeks
It is contemplated that if

 

of | pelalized training in comunieations.
a6 (He: “TAZA) £8 available for this, then he on bis return to Havana
yn to pass his training along to a group of other

bs

e

ER/b1

d.

were tobe broken. :
«With him-to certain people “in Havena the decisions reached at the ,

" S Gacksénville meeting.

   

““Mhig:would-be extrenely important in the event that relations
Another assignment of Mr. Foster will be to carry

c This {s assuming thit certairi members whose
presence is desired will bu unable to attend the Jacksonville meetings
and will therefore have to be contacted by Mr, Foster on his return.
Another task which has-been given him is to check out the list of twenty
names of candidates in the Miami area which came from another source,

Mr. Rivers will accompany: the other members of the rroup to New York
on the 31st. He will go with then to Jacksonville on the third, he will
go to Tampa and Miami on the 5th and 7th and will probably return to

Havana on the eighth.

Mr, Edwards will go to New York on the 3lst with the other two. He will
meet there with Artime on the 3lst and _on the first. On the second, he

‘will go to Boston to speak with Mr. Rodriquez Bezos}concerning possible gé

training of the istter in comnunicat ons work, Mz. Charles Barker will
meet him there and will speak directly to Mr. Rodriguez Bezos lif the OG
possibility looks good, Mr, Edwards will proceed then to Jacksonville on
the. third for talks there and will return to Havana at some later date,

Concerning Mr. Artime, his instructions will bé to return to Miami after

the New York meetings and await contact from a representative of Mr. Carl
Bender. He will be instructed in more detail there on how to proceed with
the reception and assessment of people chosen for the action phase, These
detsiled instructions will come from the renrasentative of Mr, Bender,
Before he leaves New York or. in the early afternoon of the jlst of March,
Mr, Artime will also make contact with Mr. Alberto Hoque at the Commodore
Hotel to discuss collaboration of Roque with the group. Mr. Artime has
been chosen. for this.work since he will not be returning to Havana end
the cuestion of exposure ia not critical here,

 

 

STROSS
po/wi/b

gegnet
