 

 

Attachment to U2-2500

(Page No. 13)
0/ICL Reminder for Eulogto:
In the month of January fam forwarding a cable

from bi-One requesting films of that country and other Central American

countries,

‘he sugyest you tase care of this matter as soon as possible
and to report the possibilities of ottataiay these films or of sending

some pereon for the purpose of realizing this wora, including the cost

of the operation.
Revolutionary,
Pablo

(Page 15)

é/N ICL

Comrade Ferro__

Several days ago we received a request from comrade
Euloglo with reference to your need of-a laau to pay some debts,
which resulted fron: recent purchases made by you.

¢
We are aware that your wore requires certain commoddties,

such as a presentable hourse, capable of maklag personsy who"you
recelvey feel comfortable in the atmosphere they are in.

Now, you should have analyzed your economic possibilities
before incurring those debts. Uf you had done so you would have
realized that these were not witbla jour reach (budget), for
which reason you would have turned to us, with the purpose of
finding a solution to that problera.

We are instructing comrade Zulogio to maxe you a reasonable
loan with which you can get out of your present debts.

In the future you should consult us and in particular present
a plan to comrade Eulogio, on any probilec of that nature, with
the confidence that it will be solved.

You should make us a report justifying the loan that you will
get to pay the debts you haya,

4

 

 
 

(toe tozsotonz

“od >
eh

2 March 1665
W/E £68694
Gd -3566

MESMORANDUM FOH: Chief, WU/1

SUBJECT : General: AMMUG/E cebrlefimg Repurt €287

. specille: Photu-coples of re~
moved fram the 4

 

a blexice:

“1 ad February 1985, AMML x4
several documents retrieved (rom the’ :
in Mexico by Mexico City Station, Of BAOWA W AM MUGI,

the attached were the oaly ones identifiable to hin ag correspondence
pertaining to the LGI (Directorio General da inteligencia),

 

2 AMMUG/1 pointed out the following items of algniflcance
in reference to the attached correspondence:

A The name “ALBERTO written in pen Ia the upper
right hand corner probably refers to the "ALBERTO"
of the LN Section of the (GL

® The nawe in the upper right haad corner indicates
the persun to whou the reply should be directed,

CG. The name "FETRU written in the upper right hand --+
corner refors to Jose Miguel MOA Fernandez, who was
assigned to the Cuban Embassy In Mexico.

DB. The ‘signature “PABLO” indicates it ls correspondence
from Cuba to Mexico,

S. These documents wery forwarded ag attachments to

we

HMMA-45052, dated 23 December 1604.

Attachments: Tranglation of fragments °
Distribution:

2-ah/1, w/att |

1- 4H/C/ESEC, w/o att CS C7 HH] BS

2-AMMUG/I, watts
i-}ary/Heraice, w/atts

t-Lois, watts ~ .

a-hE (1-5-4 and 201-726852 w/atts) . Jaceyy yor

Pa dntee

wees

3}
