oa-t0178-t000g] =:
MA bea . . . .

| Te ee ora earcre ssarcecs-ty

 

   
   
    

 

 

Ca Qubinof “I-D-BN=T-Iotel, p HRSA0327

TATA TTS

Chief of Station, Habana

   
 

  

“DUNG Can at | Bi ROGED
BY QUALIERD BQ OfSE ONLY

SCHON eauietD ™ ——
wi =

     

   
  
  
   
  
   

1. Attached for the information of Headquarters is the "political bible® of the
MOC, a recently announced organization which has hopes of blossoming into a
political party, Also attached is the Boletin Formativo e Informative Ko, 3,
dated 15 December 1959, which states that the MDC will announce soon the date
of its firet national congress, Further, the MDC hopes to invite Christiana
Democrats from many countries of the world including Dr, Rafael CALDERA,
Secretary General Nacional del COPEL in Venesuela,

2. The MDC haa ite national offices at 263 Ninth St, in Vedade, Habana, The

. following persons are the leaders of the MDGs .

fe 2 a — -.
. * (Taq: Josef ete #RASC0 = president b* Bane TO cla
2 hing Melcher*GASTON, owner of the Central Dolores round Us. a Only

 

hed Valentin FARENAS ok R roduee

io > RFIALLO + mec :
The Woe ide not. highly organized. A basic organisation exists in all provinces
with Camaguey the best organized having a membership of 600-1,000... The _
Nagy ct de Cuba organization is headed by Lauresng!GAKHOTE Jr., broker, and
Guillermo TINEZ, ‘The Santiago organization has its political sights
ted primal at the campsainosz, labor, and students, The MDC has a basie
vehantaation of twelve students at the University of Oriente and can count
Limited strength in the teachers! organisation, However, at this tine the MDC
has no means of reaching other students except through word of mouth. No plans
exist at this time for publishing MDC propaganda. However, in the future the
MDC in Habana plans to mimeograph selected articles and send thes to the
provincial organizations for distribution, The local MDC is iooking for a
porson or avenue which they can use to reach the campesinos and labor,

3. MOC ropresentatives have travelled to most coumtries of Europa and some
countries of South America to study Christian Democratic movements wherever
they have existed te learn the modus operandi of those movements and to
oapitaliza on their experience,

4. The MIC realises that it mist be very carsful in its actions having already been
attacked by Prime Minister CASINO, The MDC will do everything poseible to avoid
being connected with counter-revolutionary Sroups eo that they cannot be classed
in the same category as BATISTA elements,

 

 

5. The above information was who is under
developront by the writer? s pro-US having received his education in
the United States. As a representative or broker, most of his business has come

from US firme, He is now affiliated with a.US firm in Habana,

6. None of the above information has been placed on a "mat" on the assumption that.
most of it has already been reported by the Havana Station,

’

LUARGED Fraxs RIDE) Titey can cee

Distributions lf», eer otay Fag Rider

 

3» Hqs w/atts he, tind
2 = Habana w/o atts “Dig ‘
2- Files — : :
LL January 1960 ‘ \
x ‘ ’ : oo ~
———— i . Pe SS eas oat \ eet te
: SUL Lee aE Ct sONtN

 
