13-00000

 

 

 

 

 

yoo® 622" CE SD/L

and thereby get an idea as to what the military vas planning in the
vay of armaments and things of that nature. The SUBJECT also advised
that the responsibility for getting information surreptitiously fron
American Embassies in foreign countries who employ indigenous personnel,
falls within the confines of the KGB. He stated that the way they go
about this is to work through the indigenous personnel. and arrange to -
enter the eubassy at special times during the night. They would first
make a close survey and a photograph of the area in which the embassy
keeps its classified material, then they would subsequently enter this
area and (open up the safes. then he was asked how this was done he
stated, “oh, combinations to safes are not hard to acquire", He said
that the important and difficult part of this activity is taking the
material out and photographing it and then placing it exactly as it
was before they touched it.

i
i
i-

 

 

 

SECRET
“t-
ae

 

 

 

 

   
    
    
 
  
   

‘the ‘SUBJECT to get. all:the information available on “OSwAED ‘and pre :
_@ summary to be furnished the top officials of the ‘Communist. Party.
‘The SUBJECT then directed the KGB Agent in Minsk to likewise prepare -

a summary of his file on OSWALD and- informed him that within.twenty

nlinutes a KGB.agent would arrive by special military plane ‘to pick

up the summary for return to Hoscow,. “He said this was accomplished ,
and within one hour they vere preparing a detailed report. on Since

activity in Russia. This, concluded the SUBJECT, is the story of -

OSWALD in Russias 70 0 ee

 

 

C. Ps AFFILIATION ..

: (f) The SUBJECE also: indicated that: he, did. not join the Communist
. Party until he was 27 yeara ‘old, end he did this out of respect to his
father, who at the time was on his death bed and asked hin SUBJECT) -;
‘whether he would do him one more favor before he died. That is how... -
the SUBJECT stated he joined the Communist Party.: (Otherwise, ° he > probably
vould not have been a menber to this day. °-—

   

"DIPLOMATS AND INTELLIGHICE TYPES

(g) The SUBJECT stated that the KGB are able to differentiate...
ot between Anericans who are assigned to Moscow and are actually the. =.’
oi. ' State Department type, from those. who have an intelligence background,
i: . by the fact that the intelligence type of people do not associate with ;
the Russian girls, that is they will not go out with them alone, whereas
the State Department type will. “Also, over a period of a month or two, |
they invariably are able to find evidence that the intelligence types --.
have been masturbating. This is usually detected Shrough | close | exam
; ination of the individual’ s- towels and hed sheets. re ;

 

RUSSIAN U-1 ATRCRAFT

(h) On 25 February 1964 during the evening meal, a discussion was
had regarding the recent airplane crashes noted in the newspapers and on aa
TV in the United States. The SUBJECT commented that he has a lot-of
. : friends who are test pilots and vho are now engaged in testing what he -

! referred to as a U~1 type of aircraft that is faster than any other
So aircraft in the world. He added that these friends are highly paid.
but they have very dangerous jobs.

 

“SECRET

~5-
=.

~“Fae2 622 ESD

SUBJECE'S FATHER -

 

 

(4) The SUBJECT also made reference to his father during this
“. : “meal, describing him as a very tall and extremely well-built individual;
~ and one who was extremely intelligent and a self-made, self-educated

i i man. He learned the shipbuilding trade mostly through his owm research
: ia and study, and also from. the SUBJECT's grandfather, who was one of the
first shipbuilders in Russia. The SUBJECT added that his grandfather
died at the age of 94. He also stated that after the death of his
father, a memorial was built in his memory since he was considered
avery capable director of the government shipping industry. That -
was about the last time he saw his mother and brother and sister, as
they all went to this ceremony in honor of his father. He also
indicated that there was a periodical which gave a complete run-down
on his family background, including that of his grandfather and his
father, and it was well publicized; and this he believes had a lot
. to do with his being eble to get some special preference and move
~~ along as fast as he did in the KGB organization..

 

KGB _PRESSURE ON FAMILY

(3) On 27 February 196 during lunch, the SUBJECT stated that he
has been informed that the KGB is putting pressure on his immediate
family, particularly his mother. Hovever, he said he was not overly
worrled about her because she is well-off financially, and being up
in age there is not mich they can do to her. However, what concerns
him most is the fact that they have already started to play on the
sympathies of his two children and his wife. The SUBJECT stated that
he was anticipating this; however, he did not think that they would.
start so soon to pressure the family. However, he does have some hope
that in due time he may be able to get his family out of Russia. This
hope' he said was given to him by the Chie? of SR Division. :

oi : LIBRARY OF CONGRESS PENETRATION

 

(k) On 25 February 1964 during a sightseeing tour of Washington
by vehicle, as we passed the Library of Congress, the SUBJECT pointed
to the building and stated that “we have people working in there”.
Special Agent Stanley C. LACH sald, “who is 'we'?" and the SUBJECT
answered, "KGB". He continued by stating that this was a good place
to place people because they could readily learn by jist watching
what research was being done in the Library of Congress by the military

SECRET

-G«
13-00000

 

 

 

"Feee 625 TF BD/L

traveled to the Far East, except while handling an egent who was
active against the Japanese. He (suBIECT) stayed in the Kurile
Tslands vhich are within sight of Japan. This was in 1949. He
said that he was active in the picking up of egents by plane and
ship in this area. :

FAMILY BACKGROUND

(c) In the latter part ‘of the evening on this same date,

20 February 1964, the SUBJECT stated that his father was a menber
of the Communist” Central Committee, one of the first menbers of ;
the Communist Farty, and that he had great respect for his father.
The SUBJECT also indicated that. his father was a shipbuilder and
iater became one of the first to organize and set up the Russian
Atomic Energy Plant. It was during this latter activity that he
(the SUBJECT's father) and three other officials came in contact

: with radiation, which affected his father's liver and a few years

: later at the age of Sh his father died of cancer. The SUBJECT.

: : went on to state thet his father, being a very prominent Communist, _
vas given treatment for this cancer in a special hospital which is...
Located in the hills outside of the city of Moscow, and during his °"-
tenure in this hospital the family resided with his father. They
had five room living quarters beside the room in which nis father
was confined. This privilege, he said, is only given to the especially
prominent VIPs of the Cormunist Party, indicating that his father was
ene of the top men in the Communist Party. .

 

MILITARY ACTIVITY

(2) The SUBJECT revealed that in 1919, at the age of 16, he was

a Hayal Cadet. He was called into the service before graduating from
vhat is. our equivalent of a high school. He had taken part in the
fighting In the Black Sea Area where he described hand-to-hand cosbat
with Germans, claimed he was wounded, and because of his bravery he
was awarded the Soviet Order Medal and the Order of Stalin. The SUBJECT
stated this was unusual for a person of his age and gained him great
respect. At the end of the war he had no more desire for military life
although his superiors tried to keep him in the military. Instead, he
vent for four years to the Institute of Foreien Relations and learned
the English janguage. Upon graduation, a nan came to him and told him
that he had a job lined up for him. He stated that this actually was
more Like being ordered to take this particular job which turned out

 
104-10418-10165

 

a

SREP

TO BE OP ERED BY ADDRESSEE Onn

 

oe so District Field Office
: ; 11 March 1964 ;

MEMORANDUM FOR: Weadquarters

 

 

SUBJECT :

 

 

Y2OS GS FBT

1. Reference is made to Headquarters letter of aestgament in
this case dated h March 1964,

 

2. During the period 20-28 February 1964, waile SUBJECT? was
under the protective custody of Special Agents Stanley C. LACH,
George R. BREWER and. Alfred B. McCARRAGHY, SUBJECT voluntarily ~~.
furnished information concerning his background and activities,’ ~
as well as other information. of operational interest, the substance
of which is set forth in the succeeding paragraphs. Tt is to be =:
noted that at no time did any of the above-named egents solicit
any of this Information or make inquiries of the SUBJECT regarding
any of the matters discussed by him. SUBJECT spontaneously related
these incidents in casual conversation during leisure periods and
vhile enroute with the agents to and from places of entertainment ete.
In most cases newspapers » magazines and TV programs prompted the
SUBJECT to make couments relative to these matters. Following is
@ summarization of this information:

SPORTS, HOBBIES .

(a) On 20 February 196 SUBJECT disclosed that he enjoys the
following sports: football, hockey and billiards.

FOREIGN TRAVEL Oo : iv
; gem ot He

(b) He also revealed that he has previously been in the,United
States while enroute to Cuba, Venezuela and other Latin Ameri can
| countries. He has at one time or another during his service with the
i RGB visited and worked on operational projects for the Soviet Union
i in practically all of the countries of Europe; however, he has never

Po SECRET
13-00000

«

SREY

 

 

 

POOR GED. OE BD/T

to be with the Naval Intelligence. He claimed that there vere two
nilitary intelligence organizations at the time, the Heval and the
Ground Force military type. .

LEE OSWALD IN RUSSIA

(e) On 23 February 1964, as SUBJECT approached the table for
the evening meal, he noted that the Time magazine lying on the coffee
table in the living room had a picture of Marie OSWALD. As he sat
dowm he hit the table with his fist and satd, "I feel that I could
heve stopped OSWALD", At this point Special Agent Stanley C. LACH
asked him “how?". He proceeded to state that he (SUBJECT) was head
of the KGB Tourist and Visitors Section which kept control over the
activities of OSWALD while he vas In the Soviet Union. He eaid at
the time, OSWALD was of no special concern or interest to the KGB
because he lacked intelligence background. Therefore, when he applied
for permission to leave Russia, they (KCB) under his (SUBJECT) direction .
informed GSWALD that he vould have to rake his application through the =
appropriate channels of the Stete Department, who in turn would request:
his release from the Russian counterparts in handling of visas. This... -
he said was all done for propaganda «nd show purposes. He went on to
state that if they really wanted to release OSWALD, it could have been
done cn the spur of the moment, but since OSWALD had nothing and was
not worth anything, they decided that this was an opportunity to show
the American State Department that they did not mind releasing individ~
uals if they applied for release through the appropriate channels.

Prior to this application for release’ of OSWALD, the SUBJECT stated
that since he was of no particular interest to them and there was.
nothing in Moscow that they could use him for or place him into, they
decided that they vould send OSWALD to Minsk where he would be placed
in a factory working on radios in the hope that some training in the
electrical and electronic field might result in his development into

an electronics engineer; however, he showed no capability in this field.
The SUBJECT then stated that it was Just at this period, before sending
OSVALD to ifinsk, that a very strange thing happened..

 

OSWALD was. supposed to have a meeting wlth a travel agent in regard
to preparations for his going to Minsk at wh, o'clock in the afternoon.
Mtb 6 otclock he still did not report to the travel agent, so the travel
agent decided to go to the hotel where OSWALD was staying to see if he
could Locate him. When he got to the hotel he asked the clerk if OSWALD.

SECRET

-3-
13-00000

 

i
|
!
“t
1

 

 

 

 

was in his room, the clerk nodded affirmatively, | and the travel agent
proceeded to OSWALD's room. He tried the door, but the door was locked.

He knocked, got no response, and then with the assistance of the clerk

they broke into the room and found OSWALD lying across the bed with both

of his wrists slashed. The travel agent and the clerk responded immediately
by taking OSWALD to the near-by medical facility where he was given blood
transfusions and after e period of time regained his strength. During the
investigation the following day the SUBJECT stated that the doctor indicated
thet had OSWALD not been found for approximately ten more minutes, he would
have been dead. It is here that the SUBJECT again pounded the table and
said if the travel agent had not broken into the room, but had instead
contacted the KGB office like they are instructed to when they do not
get any response from people with whom they have appointments, that he
(SUBJECT) would have most likely directed the travel agent to forget
about him, and on the following day or later that evening he would have.
sent one of the KGB agents to check on OSWALD, at which time he would
have been found dead. This, he went on to state, is what hurte hin
when he realizes that he could have been instrumental in disposing of
OSWALD without any special inquiry or serious investigation, OSWALD
being nothing, and at the same time today the President of the United
States, President KENNEDY, vould be alive. The SUBJECT then went on’

to state that after OSWALD was sent to Minsk it was there that he met
Marie. Like hinself (OSWALD), Marie was a girl froma peasent family
with no special background and somewhat illiterate. It was because

of her poor background that she was given permission to marry OSWALD
and return to the United States as his wife.

The SUBJECT then went on to deseribe what took place on the day
that President KENVEDY vas assassinated. He said that this was actually
on Saturday in Moscow, the 22nd of November. He was home at the tine
ond happened to have the radio on, when he heard that the President of
the United States had been assassinated. Approximately one hour later,
the radio informed him that the assassin was Lee OSKALD. This announcement,
he sald, really stunned hin. He grabbed his coat and dashed to his office.
Imnediately upon his arrival he searched for the OSWALD file. When he :
found the file he reviewed it and found that OSWALD had not been used
or even approached for use by the Russian Intelligence. He put ina
long distance call to the Chief of the KGB Section in Minsk and inquired
whether they had used, trained or prepared OSWALD In any way for intelli-
gence activity. The Chief informed him that according to what he could
recall, they had not made any uce of OSWALD. Just about this time, he
(suBsEcr) stated that his superior walked into the office and directed

SECRET

wh.
