 

 

upd

he On 7 January I ‘contacted Tichborn who suid that he could be in!
Washington on Lh. January and that he vould have to return to Los Angeles
by 3 February. I asked bin what his fee would be ‘and he said that it -
was his understanding that he had previously talked in the neighborhood -
of $1,500 to $1, 600. I countered by saying that in view.of the shortnes§
of this trip I did aot feel I could do any better than $1,300, which he t
accepted, I asked him if he desired that we advance him any money at —
this time or if he could buy his ticket on the cuff and that we. vould
make some.snrt of arrangements while be was in Washington, and he
said he woul’ buy his ticket and that he would abide by whatever
procedures wo normally follow. JI told him at this tine that I would

prefer that he bought a round trip ticket Los Angeles ~ New York -
I also instructed him upon arrival

Havana and that he proceed that way.

 

din New York to buy a ticket Washington - New York and return.

this aa I feel it-is preferable fron a security standpoint that he not
have any indication on the ticket he will use in entering Cuba that he
hes been in Washington immediately prior to the trip or that he intends
to return there following the trip.

5. ‘The substance of the above was commnicated to Mr. Dahlgren,

C/Wi/3, who egreed that in view ox the time factor 1t would be

preferable for Tichborn to come on the lstk rather than the 16th and that -

the price was right, etc. I confirmed the date. with Mr
contact Tichborn again, advising him to call me upon arr

Washington on 14 January.

HWDavia:bjl.
Dietribution:
’ Orig. - Subj. file
1 - chrono
L + C/PP
1 - WH/Cuba

 

 

Horace W. Davis
Acting Chief
Political Action Division

 

 

 

 
Thoa-t0t74t0047

 

 

 
 

 

Re
RETURN 7,
Packround Up
O-ANazt Reproduog
& Mnuary.1960 - - ,
MEMORANDUM SOR THE RSGORD ,
SUBJECT: Cuba TDY - Bavard G. Tichborn (P)
3
Cuba desk, about. - . ---

ne oy Oa & January I talked with
\Tichbora's TDY to Cuba. He not eatir up on the matter; BB ee
was agreed that we would meet C/wH/Cuba, on 3 January.
. 3 o}3-
2. we wes unable te attend; hovever, I let Mr.
read the file and pointed out that I vanted to know specificully if
" they vere still interested in Tichbora going te Cuba, when they wished
him te go, and stated that I wished to have an idea of what operational

“< uge they intended to make of him. Nore specifically I stated that I

o

gid not feel that Tichborn should be connected in any way with
I considered the latter to be completely blew. I also
2 that, aecordizg . to the previous correspondence, WE
would be ected to pick up the ‘tab for Tichborn's expenses as wali
as his fee which I expected to be inthe neighborhood of $1,500, this
aum béing within the figure mentioned in Mr. Collin's menorandum to

Col. King.

| 3. Ester on in the afternoon, wo na to say thet they
were prepared to go ahead, that they hoped that Tichborn could be pT
available for briefing in Washington 62 13 January, ‘They envisaged :
this driefing as being very cursory. The main briefing will be given :
by station personnel following Tichborn's arrival in Hevans,.
Me] called my attention to IN 47609 in. which it was stated.
that the Havana Station would brief TMchborn, introduce him to a few
contacts -- I hope they von't introduce him in a manner which will
completely blow bim béfore he starts -- ani that they suggested that
he represent himself as an attorney engaged by unidentified American
businesamen to explore the investment opportunities in Cuba.

 

i

 

 
