COMMENTS ON JOINT RESOLUTION(S) ON JFK ASSASSINATION FILES. ~

we .
® The resolution is based upon "records" rather than
information :and thus does not comport. fully with the “third
agency" rule, whereby the Agency whose information is at stake
reviews the information. The body that originated a particular
“record” may not be the “originator” of sensitive information
contained within it. The resolution creates the anomolous
situation that the entity whose interests are actually at stake
with respect to a dissemination determination has no knowledge
of or involvement in that determination. (This is particularly
troublesome with respect.to congressionally generated documents
derived from Executive branch information, with respect to -
which the resolution provides no appeal from Review Board
determinations.) ;

6 The broad definition of “assassination material,”
coupled with the Review Board's broad powers to request
additional information from Executive agencies, and #he: fact
that the Board makes the determination of what is assassination
material, could lead to a new investigation of the
assassination, rather than review of existing efforts~~and such
efforts could well stray into sensitive areas in fact unrelated
to the assassination. There should be a provision whereby
unreasonable Board requests for additional materials that
strayed into sensitive areas unrelated to the assassination
could he appealed--perhaps to the President.

® There is a potential conflict between E.O. 12356 and the
resolution, The resolution contains no provision requiring
security clearances or secure document handling and storage
practices by the Assassination Materials Review Board or its
Executive Director/staff elements. Absent security procedures
and facilities that met Executive branch standards, agencies
would be unable to provide assassination materials to the new
body or its staff.

® There should be substantive expertise injected at the
early, informal stages of the review process. Neither Board
members nor the Executive Director may be government employees.
or have any background in the assassination investigations, so
they are unlikely to have any familiarity with the documents at
issue and may well have no expertise in intelligence or law
enforcement equities. While the Executive Director may request
detailees from Executive agencies and may consult with . ,
originating agencies, there is no requirement that he do so.
An Executive branch agency with knowledge cf the information at
stake and potential harms (or lack thereof) likely to result
from release of the information may have no involvement in the
process until after a disclosure determination has been
made--until a formal appeals process. Mandatory detailees
(within reasonable limits, if they are to be nonreimbursable)
from agencies originating information (who would review their
Agency's materials), and/or mandatory consultations before
determinations are made would ensure that relevant expertise is
brought to bear as part of the decision-making process.
104-10331-10268

°

te tet
ete

oT cn

 

UNCLASSIFIED

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE. AGENCY
OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL AFFAIRS
AND

COMPTROLLER

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

 

FACSIMILE TRANSMISSION COVER SHEET ..

_ CONTROL NOW DX

 

 

 

 

 

 

TRANSMISSION DATE; 2 April 1992 PAGES: 3
. TRANSMITTED 10: . : FAX NO:€703)_ 527-0935
NAME: - Jim Barry “ae
ORGANIZATION: Center for the Study-of Intelligence _
BLDG, ROM: _ Roam 526 C of C
TELE/EXT: Secure 45066 _
SUBJECT: JFK Comments
TRANSMITTED FROM: : FAX NO:___703-482-5841

 

 

 

NAME: b ocasies __ :

BLDG, ROOM: _7B-14 -OHB
TELE/EXT: Secure 37914

 

 

 

 

THIS COPIER IS DESIGNATED AS "UNATTENDED" AND WILL RECEIVE DOCUMENTS
FROM 0700-1900. YOU MUST LET THE RECEIVING PARTY KNOW YOU ARE SENDING

A FAX.

UNCLASSIFIED
® The Board's broad powers to subpoena witnesses and
documents and hold hearings could conflict with the DCI's
statutory duty to protect sensitive intelligence sources and
methods from unauthorized disclosure. This could be remedied
if the Board were required to consult with the DCI (perhaps AG
or D/Secret Service, in their areas of expertise?) as to
whether a hearing should be closed, or whether a subpoena
Should be narrowed. Disagreements could be appealed to the
President. .

@ While the resolution specifically provides that it does
not affect FOIA actions, we suggest that litigation related to
assassination materials should be stayed while the Review Board
is conducting its business. The resolution clearly has more
liberal standards for public disclosure of information than
other access laws, and the public is likely to get moze:
assassination Materials more expeditiously if agencies ate
‘permitted to focus their resources in this area on supporting
the work of the Review Board.

@ Section 6 of the resolution, which outlines the bases
for postponement of public release, represents an improvement
over the earlier draft we had seen.. However, one major gap is
that there is no provision for any type of deliberative process
ox similar privilege exemption that might apply to certain
records or portions of records. (Moreover, if the Review Board
agreed that this type of exemption applied, sending these
documents to Congress would undermine the privilege.) We also
believe that intelligence agent under section 6(1)(A) should be
defined with reference to the Intelligence Identities
srontyenn Act (see 50 U.S.C. § 606(4) definition of covert
agent

® We are concerned also that the procedure whereby CIA
‘assassination material qualified for postponement of disclosure
would be transferred to the Archives. This would disrupt
existing arrangements worked out between the DCI and the
Archivist with respect to handling sensitive CIA materials.
This problem could be alleviated by providing Archives an
index, with actual materials to be returned to CIA for holding.

® Other agencies and particularly the White House are.
likely to have additional concerns, such as the burden the
resolution places upon the President to detérmine appeals.

® We also have a number of more detailed concerns and
suggestions relating to other specific provisions of the bill
and would be happy to work with you when the Committees get
down to specific drafting issues.
