14-00000

being made, several were included revealing the presence of another

"CIA agent" in the Cuban government, this time inside the Cuban
Embassy in Mexico. This target was Teresa Proenza Proenza,
long-time Cuban Communist and.contact of the Soviet intelligence
in Mexico, who was acting as Cuban-Cultural Attache. She also

was a close contact of the Vice Minister of-Defense. On

10 December 1963 Miss Proenza was informed of her sudden transfer
back to Cuba; she actually departed on 23 January 1964. Her -
recall was believed to be a result of the spurious documents and

of her known iong~ time. ‘friendship with the Vice Minister of Defense.

c. “The first reaction’ to ‘the operation inside Cuba

“occurred in the week of 14 March 1964. At that time a junior

member of the Communist Party (PSP) was tried and convicted

-of betraying non-Communist leaders of the resistance to. the former
government of Cuba which had been overthrown by Fidel Castro.

As the trial wore on it became apparent that since the young —..
Communist. had been the protege of the Vice Minister of Defense
the trial was really a ‘trial of the latter. ° ~ .

d. During 1964 deliveries. of documents to the Cubans
were continued and payments received. On 18 November 1964
the Vice Minister of Defense was arrested on charges of .treason
and removed from his post, as was his wife who also held cabinet
rank. They were jailed as was Teresa Proenza.

e. After terms in prison all three defendants were
released to house arrest. Proenza was later permitted to work as
a librarian in Havana. The Vice Minister died peacefully in his
bed several years later. His widow was allowed to leave Cuba
to reside in Spain. This phase of the CIA operation wound .
down in March. 1966 when the Cubans ceased taking an interest in
it.

4. Concluding Remarks ;

The foregoing is but the Barest outline of a highly
complex operational system that made use of a wide variety of
techniques and assets which have not been revealed to the public.
The story would make dramatic headlines if it became publicly
known, especially in the present environment. The fact that
several persons were deprived of their freedom as a result of the
operation would attract further attention. Furthermore, this
operation laid the basis for other operations of a similar
nature that were successfully mounted against Cuban and other
hostile targets. In short, this file is a Pandora's box the
opening of which would not only expose the cryptonyms of other
operations of this type but would attract unfavorable publicity

‘for the Agency in certain quarters and would expose hitherto

secret techniques and assets. This would make their employment
in the future very difficult. The fact that this series of

SECRET

 

 

 

aaa Wace EATER Boa, Uae a BP RRO IEP TPT rn
$04-10059-10423 oe
arore , . ( | SECRET

 

TAG A

 

 

w .
MEMORANDUM
SUBJECT : Political Action Operations in Cuba - “The PROENZA
Case |
i
1. Introduction _ ae oo Jf .

This memorandum sets forth information concerning the
conduct of a series of interlocking non-violent political action
operations against the Cuban government, its internal coalition
and its alliance with the Soviet Union mounted in. 1963.

 

2. Objectives cP

Pursuant to instructions from. the 303 Committee,
during. the Kennedy Administration, the CIA established among its
ohjectives against Cuba the fragmenting of its governing
coalition and exacerbation of its relations with the USSR.
This decision was taken prior to the October 1962 Missile Crisis.
As a result of the decision a number of non-violent operations
were carried out. Those pertaining to the Teresa Proenza Proenza
case are set out below.. :

_3. The Operations

- ascribed to a disaffected CIA agent in Mexico were passed

to the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.

e documents made it appear that the Cuban Vice Minister of
Defense, a highly placed and extreme Moscow-line Communist (who i
had been in Moscow when the missile build-up was planned in !
early 1962), was actually a CIA agent who had betrayed the build- '
up. The purpose of this disinformation was to cause a great
strain in the relations. between the Cuban Communist Party (then i
known as the PSP) and the other partners in the coalition. It
was also hoped that the operation would redound against the USSR if
because the Vice Minister of Defense was a senior Moscow-line :
member of the PSP. It was calculated that the USSR would i
“move to defend the Vice Minister, who was probably their chief . :
agent in the Cuban government, and that a collision between the
Soviets and Cubans could result. The Cubans accepted the
spurious papers and paid for them per our demand.

 

 

|

os

a. On 3 April 1963 a set of spurious documents falsely |
'

b. Through the summer of 1963 several further deliveries
of spurious documents were made to the Cubans and several
thousand dollars were received in payment. But results of the
operation from inside Cuba were not yet observed. Therefore
on 13 November 1963, when a delivery of documents was again

   

    

NG NOTICE - Oe
stusit! Luigence sources |. |
fag MENIOOS INVOLVED SEGRET

hae |

a GL iMener cL ov lel baF

  

 

 

 
ae ? ( : ' SECRET | an

~ 3

operations did not begin to register on the Cubans until after
the death of President Kennedy should remove any suspicion that
it could in any way have caused Castro to direct an assassination
attempt against the President, : 2

“SECRET

 

 
