 

GO el ene ON water nanverttife tenis bees ne tener eta a ne ee a a eh Lantana 9
4 F |

Top Secret . Ul

~. L
“(SEVENTH DEPARTNENT - January 1962-January 1964) 7

. r

OSNALD never received any KGB training or KG assign- Me

ments. If any other department of the KGN or the CU had
wanted toe use OSMALD in any way, it would have had to secure

Pa
eos . ee c-
permission from the Seventh Department, which originally eo
Opened his case file. In view of OS'IALD's apparent nental
instability, no Sovict intelligence organization, particu-

larly not the Thirteenth (Assassination and Sabotaqce)
Department, would have ‘considered using him. KGB Head- baal
quarters did not maintain a control fale on him following
his settlement in Minsk, as it would have done had OS4ALD
been of any operational interest. The only KGB record on
OS'ALD maintained in Moscow was an index card giving his
name and the fact the Seventh Department had originated a
file concerning him.

The KGB maintained no separate file on Marina OSALD;
all information about her was kept in OSHALD's file. There
was no indication in OSNALD's file that the KGB had had any
interest in Marina either while she was in the Soviet Union
or after she left for the United States.

pt ot oer

Comment: NOSENKO later told CIA on one occasion that he
“only skimmed the file” and on another that he
had it in his possession about 20 minutes. In
October 1966 he again said that he read the
file and that while doing so he saw a picture
of OSWALD for the first time. NOSMNKO added
that he never met OS'IALD personally.

NOSENKO's assertion that the KGB First Chief
- Directorate first learned of OSNALD when he
applied for a re-entry visa in Mexico City in
September 1563 is probably incorrect. The
consular file turned over to the U.S. Govern-
ment by the Soviet Embassy in Nashington
after the assassination indicated that the KGB
First Chief Directorate would have known of
OSHALD as early as February 1963 if not earlier.
That file contained Marina OSWALD's letter of
February 1963 and a letter of July 1963 from
OS'NALD, both of which indicated that OSWALD had

is a oe |

rn

Fa

ra ee Eg

303

e . TS No. 197124
_ Top Secret Copy

‘et

%

 
74-0000

ener ener eens 0 meme ent AR monn ene
eee ete emer rine meee en a te me mee

ehh

Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTNENT - January 1962-January 1964)

Comment: (Continued)

with an official (whom CIA identifies
KGB officer) of the Soviet Eroassy in

the KGB relationship with OSUALD,

The CHEREPANOV Papers

worthy person at the Ancrican Embassy.

of Foreign Affairs.

309

“U0 La kb a

iS

ow

earlier requested permission to return to the
Soviet Union. In the last dated letter of the
asa
Nexico
1
|
‘
i
|
:
i

eee a ene mene ee ean al NC” if CTT A er

file, one of 9 November 1963, OSUALD advised
the Soviet Embassy in "lashington of his travel
under alias to Nexico, his fruitless contact

City, his contact there with the Cuban Consulate
_and his efforts to reach ilavana in order to
visit the Sovict Embassy there. “lithout regard
to possible earlier correspondence, OS

SWALD's

request for a Soviet visa addressed to the

Embassy in Washingten in July 1963 would require

the Washington Residency to report the matter

to Noscow just as NOSENKO described the Mexico

City Residency later did. NOSENKO's apparent :
‘ ignorance of OSWALD's communications with the =. +. om

Soviet Embassy in Washington discredits his

claim to ccmplete knowledge of all aspects of

Comment: On 4 November 1963 in Moscow, a MEZHKNIGA

————~__ employee claiming to be one CHERFPANOV, passed
to an American book-buyer a package which he
requested the American to deliver to a trust-

Embassy

officials found the package to contain a
bundle of typed or handwritten documents which
appeared to have originated in classified KGB
files. Fearing a Soviet provocation which
could lead to a denunciation of the Embassy
for possessing classified Soviet Government
docunents, Embassy officials had the documents
photographed and on the next day, 5 November,
returned the originals to the Soviet Ministry

YS. No. 197124
Top Secret Copy

 

 
 

cy

'
‘e

al
mie
a
vd
a
i
a
a
a
a
7
3
3

Top Secret

(SLVENTH DEPARTNENT ~ January 1962-January 1964)

Post-Assassination Review of KGR File

NOSENKO next learned of OSNWALD's activities as a result
of President Kennedy's assassination. About two hours after
President Kennedy was’ shot, NOSMNKO was advised of this fact
in u telephone call to his home from KGB Headquarters. A
short while later he was told, again Ly telephone, that the
President had died. Aboyt two hours later, NOSENKO was told
that OSWALD had been arrested, and he and the other officers
of the American Tourist Section were called in to determine
whether the KGB had any information concerning him. After
establishing OSWALD's identity from KGB files and learning
that his file was still in Minsk, NOSENKO phoned the KGB
office in Ninsk on GRIBANOV's orders. The local KGB dictated
over the telephone a summary of its file on OSYALD. This
summary concluded with the statement that the KGB in Minsk
had attempted “to influence OSYALD in the right direction".
GRIBANOV had been greatly disturbed about the local KGB's
efforts because it had been given specific instructions to
carry out nothing other than passive measures against OSWALD
there. He ordered that all records in Mins} pertaining to
OSWALD's stay there, as well as an explanation of the
meaning of the statement about influencing OS"IALD, be flown
immediately to Moscow by military aircraft. NOSENKO personally
read the explanation from Minsk concerning the meaning of
this statenent and thoroughly reviewed OSYALD's file when
it arrived by plane. He then turned the file over to S.M.
FEDOSEYEV, the Chief of the American Department of the KGB
Second Chief Directorate, who prepared a two-page summary
memorandun for GRIBANOV. This memorandum, which NOSENKO
read, was forwarded to KGB Chairman Semichastnyy, and
Semichastnyy in turn reported to the CPSU Central Committee
and to Khrushchev concerning it.

OSWALD's file from Minsk contained no information to
indicate that the KGB in Minsk had taken any action with
respect to OSWALD contrary to instructions from KGB Head-
quarters. From the date of OSWALD’s arrival in the USSR
until his departure, the KGB had no personal contact with
him and had not attempted to utilize him in any manner.

307

TS No. 197124
Top Secret Copy. 1

 

 
 

Top Secret 6

(SEVENTH CLPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

NOSENKO thought he himself was present at the time. ALEKSEYEV
was given OS.ALD's buckground, including his suicide attempt
ane the fact that he was net considered normal, and was

told to advise the First Chief Directorate that OSWALD should
not be permitted to return to the Soviet Union. ALUKSEYEV
Yvelayed this information to the Pirst Chicf Directorate.

 

NOSENKO did not know to whom OSWALD had spoken at the
?t Embassy in Mexico City, and he knew of no contacts
betwcen OSALD and Cubans or representatives of the Cuban
Government there or elsewhere.

 

Comment: Independent sources, however, reported on
visits by OSWALD to the Cuban as well as
Soviet Embassies in Mexico City between 29
September and 3 October 1963 und on his .
(apparently overt) contact with a KGR officer
under Consular cover at the Sovict EmLassy
there. NOSENKO oriyinally said he knew
nothing of any such contact. In October 1966
he revised this to say that OS'ALD did not
have contact with the KG in Mexico City.
NOSENKO explained that he had been sitting in
the office of Scventh Department Chief, Kou.
DUBAS, when a cable arrived at Moscow Head-
quarters from the KGB Legal Residency in
Mexico. The cable, which NOSDNKO said he did
not personally see, reported that OSWALD had
visited the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City
requesting permission to return to the USSR

: and that the cable specified that OSVALD had
dealt with Soviet Forcign Ministry personnel
only.

306
® . TS No. 197124

; Top Secret Copy —____

aoe cr canna te whee ee

rors

rz
he

ee

rt

“ee

nm

an a a

as Or OO 2 0 <2 OO

 
Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT ~ January 1962-January 1964)

Although the KGB considered it possible that OSWALD

might be an American agent, the KGB did nothing to
investigate this possibility because “this would be

done after the person 1s allowed to stay in the Soviet
Union." Surveiliance of OSWALD was not increased after
his request, and OSWALD was not anterviewed by the KGB

in an attempt to establish his intentions. KRUPNOV

sent NOSENKO, his chief, a memorandum on information

‘ which had been received concerning OSWALD. The momorandun
erted reports by G3 informants at the Hotel Berlin, where
OSWALD was staying in accordance, with an Inturist atinerary
and a two-page report by tha Inturist interpreter to whom
OSWALD rade his anitial request to remain in the Soviet
Union. A file ancorporating all inforration which KRGPNOV
had collected was thereupon opened in XOSENKO's section.

From this information NOSENKO and KRUPNOV concluded
_that OSWALD was of no interest to the KGB, and both agreed
that OSWALD appeared somewhat “abnormal.” For this reason
NOSENKO anstructed KRUPNOV to advise OSWALD throuch the
Inturist interpreter that he would not be permitted to
remain permanently in the USSR and that he must depart on
the expiration of his visa, then seek re-entry as a
permanent resadent through normal channels at the Soviet
Embassy in Washington. KRUPNOV followed NOSENKO's orders,
and either that day or the next NOSENKO learned that OSWALD
farled to appear for a scheduled tour arranged by his
Inturist guide. This prompted a search, and after several
hours, OSWALD was found in his hotel room, bleeding heavily
from self-inflicted wounds. After hearing of this incident
from KRUPNOV, NOSENKXO then reported it to K.N. DUBAS, Chief
ef the Seventi Department. MNOSENKO believed that DUBAS in
turn reported it to GRIBANOV, head of the KGB Second Chicf
Directorate. GRIBANOV upheld NOSENKO's original decision
that the KGB should not become anvolved with OSWALD and
that OSWALD should not be permitted to remain in the USSR.

There was no attempt to debrief OSWALD because "he was
not an interesting person and wasn't normal.” OSWALD was
never questioned on his past nor asked to write an auto-
biography. :

304
° . TS No. 197124

_ Top Secret Copy —____

 

ty

AL

Fy

ET MOP rm aom

rT

oe

 

 
74-0000

ms: meas
0 Raed fl ah ct eect ew lan ELE tan Se OIE TN ST —

. Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT = January 1962-January 1964)

KOSENKO did not know who eventually granted
OSWALD permission to reside temporarily in the USSR
or who approved issuance of his temporary residence permit.
The KGB gave instructions that he not be allowed to live
in the Moscow area. Either the Soviet Ped Cross or the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs may have made this decisior
to assign OSWALD to Minsk. The Seventh pDapartment updated
his file, and it was sent, along with a cover letter pre- !
pared by KRUPNOV, to the local KGB organization in Minsk.
KRUPNOV's letter summarized the case and specifically in-
etructed local authorities there to take no action con-
cerning OSWALD except to observe his activities “passively"
to make sure that he was not an American Intelligence agent :
on temporary “sleeper” status. NOSENKO read this letter,

, and it was signed by DUBAS. On the basis of the instructions

contained in the letter, NOSENKO said, no active steps could

be taken in Minsk without KGB Headquarters approval. It was
NOSENKO's opinion that the only coverage of OSWALD during
has stay in Minsk consisted of periodic checks at his

place of employment, questioning of his neighbors and
associates, and coverage of his maii. After OSWALD's

1
1
1
1
1
1
3
4
4 . :
1
3
4
I
J
1
4
‘

hands of him" and that even though there was considered :
to be some possibility that he was a “sleeper agent,”

KGB Headquarters interest in him while he was in Minsk
was “practically nil."

The KGB Second Chief Directorate was not concerned
with OSWALD's return to the United States in June 1962,
by which tame NOSENKO was Deputy Chief of the Seventh ;
Department. No further word on him was received at KGB i
Headquarters until he appeared at the Soviet Embassy in
Mexico Caty in September 1963 and requested a visa to
return to the Soviet Union. The Mexico Legal Residency
reported his visit to KGB Headquarters by cable, re-
questing information. The KGB First Chief Directorate
had no record on OSWALD. M.I. TURALIN, Deputy Chief of
the Farst Chief Directorate's Service Number Two (Counter-
antelligence Abroad) called the Seventh Department to
see if the latter element had any information on OSWALD,
ghe Chief of the Sixth Section of the Seventh Department,

VVK. ALEKSEYEV, received the call and reported the in-
quiry to feventa Department Chief CHELNOKOV or to KOVALENKO.

rs]
2
Q
G
°
th
tr
fad
°
es]
Q
wt
cS
4
s
td
o
aa
x
aQ
q
oO
wn
”

305

- Top Secret Copy __T_

 
74-0000

—atcmratin GiDhagemeeam neremareas et

Bab bb” Bab Bad bak Be kd ed a ed

ee

 

Top Secret *

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT ~ June 1955-January 1960) aad .

1963. NOSENKO insisted that he ret ut once
-in Odessa and once in Moscow in tha

L rer tains that he saw NOSENKO on three occasions,
= Odessa, while visiting ree be and
peridd.

Comment: NOSENKO volunteered his account of the FRIPPEL
case in Geneva in 1962 and 1964, le freely
st related the details of the surcr
February 1963 meetings with)
USSR. His acco £
consistent with
noted above.

  
    
 

 

 

 

activities is
yexrsion, except as

Lee Harvey OSUALD (1959-1960)

For continuity of presentation, both periods of NOSENKO's-
alleged involvement with OS'JALD in 1959-1960 and in 1963
are described elsewhere. (See p.303.) According to NOSENKO,
he was involved with OSNALD in 1959 kecause he was then
Deputy Chief of the American-British Commonwealth Section
of the Seventh Department. In that capacity he participated
in the decision that OSHALD was of no interest to the KGB
and he should not be allowed to remain in the Soviet Union.

    
   
 
  
 
   

Comment: NOSENKO's information on his involvement with
OSWALD in 1959 is insufficient to serve as
evidence confirming or refuting his claimed
service as Deputy Chief of the American Section
of the Seventh Department in 1959.

143

e . °

TS No. 197124 i

. Top Secret Copy _1 i

 
 

i

‘eon pins) Ban cored ‘tome Perr iver pene oe me

Gd Cae

(SEVESTE PEPARTMENT - June 1955-January 1960)

Ooerational Act
Deputy Chief of the Averica

 

According to NOSENKO, the Seventh bepartrent was reorgan-
ized in June 1958, and NOSEiINO's section, which therectofore
had Leen concerned with opcraticns against foreign tourists
from all countries, was split into tio new sections, one
concerned with tourists from the United States ane the

Eritish Commenvealth and the other with tourists from Eurcepc,

Latin America, and all other countries. NOSEUKO claimed
that at that time he was promoted to the position of Deputy
Chief of the American-Britisa Commonwealth Section, “the
most important section of the Seventh Department".

In September 1958, he claired to have personally recruited

Gisella HARRIS. It was also i 3 id, that he surer-
vised the sexual entrapment of although Seventh
Departmeat Chief DUBAS made the actual approach. Beginning

in the spring of 1959 he saic he directed his age CREM
and VOLiOV in a series of successful entraprents-
and [scent NOSENKO stated that hé “also

 

 

 

 

used these homosexual agents in 1959 in compromising
Anerican guides at the Sokoln Bxhibity| wend

Finally, NOSEN;O said. ne recrnite

 

 

 

for FOIA Review on
e

 

¥Yéprésentative of the

NOSENKO clained that NIS“6pératicnal siccéss AUring 95g
earned him a commendation from the KG3 Chairman. [He has
since retracted all claims to any awards carned during his
RGR service.] It was Sccause cf his positicn as Deputy
Chief of the American-British Cormonwealth Section, NOSENKO
said, that he first became involved with Lee Harvey OS'IALD.

 

NOSENKO asserted that the recruitment of agents among
foreign tourists was secondary to his department's principal
mission, the detection of “lestern intelligence officers and
agents among the increasing flow of tourists visiting the

Soviet Union. In line with that counterintellicence mission,

on General GRIBANOV's order in the fall of 1959, NOSENKO

—_ Number 1549- 49 V4

FEB 1978 127

Top Secret . Copy

 

TS No. 197124

 

 

 

 
1400000
FTcsesantneme mene te tari Onon recon eee Yate tte Rh eee RETINA
eevee eee eee aeRO te IE NRA ACER ORL EAS AA ACCES MOTT —

‘ an : 1

SPAR ane be Rat x ane ah ae et ree trittthamnnan Settee Ti een neil ome mtilid Bema nm) RR nt ninth Rit nnn ene}

~ !

Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT ~ January 1962-January 1964)

was promoted to the position of a (one of three) Deputy Chicft
of the entire Seventh Department. A year later, he was made
First Deputy Chief, and thus second-in-command to CHELNOKOV
and general supervisor of all Second Chief Directorate tourist
Operations. The Seventh Department, which had a strength of
about 100 KGS officers, was responsible for all operations
against tourists in the Soviet Union. From this period NOSENKO
Claimed to have learned, either by virtue of his position as -
Deputy Chief or otherwise, of a number of KG3 operations
against Americans, including two arrests, one recruitment, and
investigations of a suspected FBI agent and of Lee Harvey
SVALD. NOSENKO as well attributes to his senior KGB posi-
“tion~during this period his knowledge of an American GRU agent
an@ of the KGB investigation of a disaffected American Embassy
Section officer, the latter occurring just before NOSENKO re-
turned to Geneva for the second time, and defected.

 

eer ope Ano

 

~

ew

_ OP,

Recruitment of SVENCHANSKIY
' NOSENKO's Information

In September 1963, NOSENKO took over from his subordinate,
Seventh Department case officer Ya.N. NOSKOV, the management
of KGB agent Alexander SVENCHANSKIY (cryptonym “ANOD").
SVEXCHANSXIY was the president of “Afton Tours", a travel
agency in New York City, and the owner of a Chicago Russian-
language bookstore. There was originally some suspicion
that SVENCUANSKIY might be an FL informant, and the KGB was
also concerned over SVENCHANSKIY's contacts with AMTORG per-

. sonnel in New York City. NOSKOV, the case officer at the
time, "felt" that SVENCHANSKIY was not an FBI informant and
recruited him in 1969 or 1961 after he was arrested for
blackmarketeering while visiting the Soviet Union. SVENCHAN-
SKIY's cooperation was secured against KGB promises that
Inturist would refer business to the agent's New York travel
agency.

a one

et

i per

SVENCHANSKIY's task was to screen visa applications of
prospective tourists to the Soviet Union for persons who
might be connected with American Intelligence. If he suspected
such a person, he would make a signal by moving the photograph
on the visa application slightly, or making a small pin-prick
or pencilled mark on the application form.

Late

it

TS No. 397124
Top Secret Copy

~ ;

° 292 E
a!

 
74-0000

 

ee: Gen et PE TSA SELATAN

'

4 J
Rhett

Top Secret
(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

The OS¥ALD CASE

NOSENKO's knowledge of the KGB's interest in
OSWALD stexmed from his claimed Tourist Department
assicnments. He asserted that while Deputy Chief
of the American Section in 1959 he participated an
the KSB determination that OSWALD was of no operational
interest, In September 1963, when NOSENKO was Deputy '
Chief of the Tourist Department, he was informed of
OSWALD's visit to the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City to
apply to return to the USSR. Immediately following
President Kennedy's assassination, NOSENKO, as
Deputy Chief of the Tourist Department, reviewed KGB
records of OSWALD's stay in the Soviet Union including
the Second Chief Directorate file on OSWALD.

For continuity of presentation, both periods of
NOSENKO's alleged anvolverent with the OSWALD case
(1959-69 and 1963) are discussed here.

The information NOSENKO provided on the OSWALD :
case as significant af it substantiates NOSENKO's
claired positions in the KGS and confirms the validity
of his claim that he knew the extent of KGB involvement
with OSWALD.

NOSENKO's Information

Residence in the USSR

Prior to OSNWALD's arrival in the USSR, he was
completely unknown to the KGB. Moreover, upon
receipt of his visa application, the KGB Second Chief

, Divectcrate determined that he was not of sufficient
importance to justify any special interest by the
Seventh Department. Not until about October 1959,
when OSWALD expressed a desire to remain in the USSR
did he come to the attention of NOSENKO, who was, at
that time, Deputy Chief of the American Section of
the Seventh Department. All available materials on
him vere thereupon collected and examined - the visa
application, Inturist reports, imterpreters' reports,
reports from hotel agents, and the results of a check
of KGB Archives. NOSENKO's subordinate, KRUPNOV
interviewed the interpreter to whom OSWALD had stated
his wish to stay in the USSR.

° 303 ¥S.No. 197124
Top Secret

nc eh ee tus) BCs dd LD

Copy ——_.

aa

 
