 

| Boe 0. ar # | Agar oe. ao —_

 

- RYT Avanos, fom ee —— _ _
aS on ne ASTOUNDING. | Se ENCE... , Paares AS
m bias fot SI AgAre. TE ed (9:37. |

= Brawny.. Gb sts = Creat Cok

 

 

Soa vans 1435. Aad. (ates kia
— ated Ae rele maial. Piro U. 23. S—
CT Cp 4S a ct BS

Asad te gauersal hs

Au reisy WWTE fs faaier an
- Adare” ea Ry — ANE AO lg i _

LHAABS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

: ce eon rere oe
 

> res ay eobelat

OO win Wein pote Je
S Te 4e1?2 odin lke.
= “Pett be - Wine ded

| -- we Gat 0 — doe Ww -

| hua Keane bee eae .
= — Owb rye ss a dre

Wel e vee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

* &

a . cutee a a . woe _ oe
i

i ceeeee ee ee . wee ee ee we eee be nee

 

_....... insert bettem Page 5 at place indicated: cme ee ee ene
co) JHMartin died im the Spanish Civit “ar and acquired eee

_ upon his return to the US ths wife and family of the

wee cence ne original JiMartia : . .. . cee cent ee bce
on... 4) diartin survived a the Spanish Civil] War and was ae
7 at some tine recruited by the Soviet Intelligence

 

Insert at bottea of page a 6:
8. Alteruattvely, Ivanov may ‘be Witartin, 4 .e. Martin may have
~~ guffictently ‘gained the trust. ‘of the ‘Soviets to be posted atroad,

| to hsadle such anette as Compbel2.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

er ee
74-00000

 

 
  
    
    
  
  

    

SECRET a
EYES ONLY : :

 

q&. OTS has been sent a copy of the photographs

of William Hamilton Martin and Mikhail Vlasovich

Ivanov to make a technical comparison.

 

 

 

 

ESI nasA eas HAP ORES Se eR ae aE in ete RO NCCP EOP Quran et RAED EEE BIA

eo aE

  

STS RIR
 

 

 

     

. “. . “e a ' an 2 SECRET
EVES ONLY

that the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee (SISS)
lists the following information for one James
Hamilton Martin:
a) Member of International Brigade
b) age (in 1937); 27
c) address: 800 Stewart Avenue, Garden City,
Long Island, New York
d) San Francisco Series Passport #31264,
issued 25 August 1937
(Note that year and month of James Hanilton Martin
passport issue coincide with year and month of William
Hamilton Martin move to Washington State). It is
conceivable, therefore, that James Hamilton Martin and
John Hamilton Martin are connected with the same pass-
port, i.ce,
Tames
a) The John Hamilton Martin who went over to
the Spanish Civil War, was killed and the Soviets
substituted an Intelligence Officer in his place,
_b) that Jon Hamilton Martin turned his pass-

port in upon arrival in Spain, as was the practice,

 

and it was ‘lost* and used in a slightly altered

Also, in its study of the Institute of Pacific Relations

(IPR), the SISS shows that in June 1944 one Nellie

i
|
_ | oo - ” fashion by a Soviet Intelligence Officer. <
EY
: |

 

 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 

he

 
   
    

 

‘Vienna in July 1966.

 

SECRET

EYES out

Wright, not further identified, was employed in a
clerical capacity by the IPR.

7. It is suggested, at this point, based largely
on the striking facial similarity of Ivanov and
William Hamilton Martin, that Ivanov and Willian
Hamilton Martin are one ra the same person. Further,

that William Hamilton Martin is possibly Soviet lilegal

‘Intelligence Officer who 'defected' in 1960 and

reappeared in Vienna in 1966 as Mikhail Viasovich
Ivanov. This theory, in light of Campbell's relation-
ship with both Martin and Ivanov, would necessitate
Campbells knowledge that Ivanov and Martin were the ;
same person. A plausible explanation as to why the
Soviets would risk drawing attention to the Ivanov/
Campbell. relationship lies in the fact that this Agency

installed an audio penetration in Ivanov's apartnent in

station, at that tine,’

 

suspected Ivanov of being a KGB S&T officer. The

. Soviets at a later date may have discovered the audio
. penetration of Ivanov's apartment, at which operations
, ; conerning Campbell may have been discussed, and decided

- that the best way to protect Ivanov and Carpbell was to

hove .
hed Campbell ‘walk in’ and ‘tell all’.

S.C San dnerf)

 

 

 

 

 
   
   
 

 

2.

ORAM eB gee fee esas! a ean cee reece eb ereaeda Po ARR Aetna aoremven rt me Se MPLA

that Ivanov was more in control of Campbell than we

 

   

RB sca ania neice spam nvr aan: eat

ne

ay ;
BS he was hired by IM (61)
(Ivanov (DOB 1 Dec 31) first appeared in the West as
‘head of the computer section of IAEA in January 1966.
There were no prior traces on Ivanov). Campbell stated j
that he first came into contact with Ivanov in the

summer of 1966 (July or August). Campbell further said ‘

Ivanov with respect to selling to the IAEA an advanced model

“seever
BES oily

 

that one of his sain jobs was to gain the confidence of

of the IBM 366. Campbell went on te relate that his
relationship with Ivanov had developed in such a fashion
as to indicate that Ivanov was developing him for the

benefit of Soviet Intelligence.

 

 

Station, after June 68 interviews,

 

 

decided to use Campbell as a ‘window’ on Ivanov, which

Campbell agreed to. After it appeared to Headquarters

were, a.decision was made toe terminate: Campbell's
relationship with Ivanov. The plan to terminate the

relationship was as follows:. . a

a)

Ivanov in which Campbell would be ‘wired’ for sound

b)

_ recordings of the meeting, told that "US security’

had been on to him all throughout his relationship

   

Cenpbell would go to several meetings with

Ivanov would then be presented with the

2

~ Stoney
_ BYES OMY

   
 
 
 

  

 

  

 
 

1044021910085

eo:

 

 

 

 

  

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

 

phe Sere eee ete

.15 October 1974

SUBJECT : 1) Involvement of George Campbell,
203-844271, with Mikhail Vlasovich

Ivanov, 201-791386

2) Possible Identification of Mikhail
Viasovich Ivanov as William Hamilton

Martin, 201-282338

1. In 1961 George Campbell was hired by IBM and-

sent te Vienna, Austria as a systems engineer. On Il

June 1968, George Campbell, in an interview with an

officer of this Agency, reported a recruitment attempt
by a Soviet employee of the International Atomic Energy
Agency (IAEA), Mikhail Viasovich Ivanov, which, Campbell
said, had United States security as its ultimate goal.

Campbell gave the following information by way. of his

background:

a) that he spent his youth in the state of

“ Hashington

| University of Washington (CA 53-562)

‘c) that he worked for two years in the engineer-

a) that he then returned to the University of
riya .
Washington for a BG in mathematics (CA 59-60%)

b) that he acquired a BS in mathematics at the
8° ging department of Boeing Aircraft (CA 57-59?)

e) that subsequent to his acquisition of his .

SECRET
EYES ORLY

 
   

 

 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
   

 
 

    
   
  
  
   
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
   

 

SECRET
EYES GHLY

with Campbell, and that he, Ivanov, might be

nme s8 OTRO WA

exposed for utilizing the United Nations activity
(IAEA) as cover for espionage purposes.
On 10 Jan 69 Ivanov was presented with recordings of the
meetings with Campbell, but he refused to take them,
Last available infor@ation on Ivanov indicates that he : i
departed Vienna PCS in April 1970. Last available infor-
mation on Campbell is that he was still in Vienna in
January 1970.
3. It will be noted (paragraph one) that Campbell

 

told the Station officer, in June 1968, that he

 

 

 

had first met Ivanov in 1566, a period of two years. It

should be pointed out that a transcript of a conversa-~

 

tion between Campbell and Ivanov (6 Sep 68) mutually Co

acknowledged knowing each other for ten years. Further,

Campbell was not questioned concerning this discrepancy.
4. In George Campbeli‘'s CI/OA folder, there is

identified as a possible trace from an ONI Investigative

  

‘report, dated 1 March 61, one George Sheffield Campbell.

 
 

George S. Campbell on 18 Nov 60 (date of interview), seat joe .

 

was a graduate student in mathematics at the University
of Washington. He was being interviewed as a ‘developed
informant’ in the case of William Hamilton Martin, the

c’.:. NSA defector. Campbell said that he had met Martin

 

   

SECRET. -
EVES OHLY ©”

1 ifigperanrminse rote rere om nn een pan nen chat meat AEN ik nari sta teen eames © ONT

(Rr REET OREN ET LITT CEU RT ESTE SECTS SEEMS TEETH OCA ICE Onecare ng ee
1

So toot arn tee dee eA

  

 
74-0000

    

Tee boa Fo hee ee

 

   

“~

3

 

SECRET
EYES OULY

through James bros, a fellow employee at Boeing Air-
(sre

     
 

   

plane Co y/, in the spring of 1957. (From Jul S6-Jul 57

   

William Hamilton Martin was a graduate student in

    

mathematics at University of Washington). (Note that

   

the transcript of the 6 Sep 68 Ivanov-Campbell snecting : - ae

   

indicates that they have known each other since circa t

  
 

1958 and that the ONI report indicates that Martin had 4

  
 

known Campbell since 1957).

        

S$. The following information on William Hamilton

   

Martin and family is derived from Martin's Statement of : : an

   

Personal History filled out in conjunction with his , oo a

   

application for employment with NSA: oe : : mo

   

a) Father: John Hamilton Martin Dob: 24 Feb 09

     

b) Nother: Nellie Luciliee Martin nee Wright Dos

  
   
 

Dob: 3 Dec 12 ; : a

c) Residences:

   

A) 1931 (william Hamitton MartinDOB) -1935

   

‘Georgia :

   

B) 1935-1937 Tennessee

     

oe c) August 1937 Washington State
»

   

6. A review of William Hamilton Martins File,

     

"201-282338, indicates that his parents were traced with

   

negative results (Memorandum for the file, 21 Sep 60,

 
 

filed in 201-282338). It should be noted, however

   

cone SECRET
"> BYES ONLY -

    
   
