 

t
gE

  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 

. above operation. This money is also to be considered as an

.  AM@HIP-1 that this payment was made for other than gee
expenses. 46 did not include any reference to the $7,
. —

-2- . io

see Carrillo on his way back from an ostensible business trip te
Paria and other cities in Europe. AMWHIP was given nc other

specific missions for thie trip, however, should any requirenents
arise between row and his day of departure he can easily be é
contacted and briefed. .

  

 

ee

 

cy

a,

with AMVHID-1 na he head bees givan a kee aseignment in.
Caracas. AMWHIP-1 was also told that the undersigned would
also goon be leaving his present assignuent and that ANWHIP-1
would be fatroduced to another contact to the near future,
True to form ANYHIP-~-1 expressed his reluctance to be is
contact with new personne) just at the time when he felt
he knew, trusted and understood his present contacts. He
said, however, while he didn't particularly approve of the
U.S. Government's manner of rotation of ita personnel; he
understood that it was neceseary and was a policy of long-~
standing, This was in response to an explanation of the
‘departure of Sanson and the undersigned,

ee ee’

  

. &, At the request of AMWHIP-1 the undersigned accompanied
QHIP to his meeting with Mr. Collado. The meeting took

lace in Mr. Collado's office, lecated on the 28th floor, .

O Rockefeller Plaza. Mr. Collado's office number in the
Standard O11 suite of offices ts 2816. The undersigned used

ehdan dagen Lt

oo, the same Mr. William Wickman in thia meeting with itr. Collado.

The meeting was scheduled for 1500 hours and lasted only about
ten minutes. The sole purpose was to effect a personal meeting
between the two principals. thus allowing AMWHIP-1 to describe
Mr. Collado to Ambassador Carrillo if such a sove was necessary.
.The meeting vas also useful should the two men meet sometime

in Europe since both men travel there frequently on business.

' After the meeting in Collado's office the undersigned took leave

‘Of AMMHIP-1 on the corner of 5th Avenue and 47thSStreet » the
latter returning to his office, The undersigned checked in

"with ARWHIP-1 by telephone once again at 1800 hours in the

event there were any developrents which he should be aware in

| this incidence; there vere none.

-. Finances . :

8. AMVATP-1 was given the sum o: »500 for expenses he

: Bad incurred during the past several trips to Europe in KUBARK's

behalf and also to cover his forthcoming trip to Europe on the

indirect partial reimbursement. to AMWHIP-1 for $7,000 he bad
given to AMLASH-) (see memo dated 3 March 1965, paragraph 3.1.).
It should be noted for the record that no mention was made to
rational

      
 

 

 
 

 

 

Na

ue

i
ay

ue

10 March 1965 ; Kc a)

  
  
   
  
   
      
  
      

MEMORAKDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT : Meetings with Emilio Gabriel Collado and AMWHIP~1
in New York City, 8 March 1965

REFERENCE: AMWHIP-1 Memorandum dated 4 March 1965

" Meotings/Time/Place and Purpose: .

, 1, AMMHIP-1 was met at his office at 1200 hours on 8
March for the purpose of briefing him regarding hia role in
the rapprochement deceptican operation” and hie meeting at
1500 hours the same day with Mr. Collado in connection with
the aforementioned operation. Trs undersigned had lunch
@ith AMWHIP-1 et a searby restaurant and remained with

him through and including his geeting with Mr. Collado.

. < |. Detaile of the Kee ting:

2, AMWHIP-1 was briefed for his meeting with Ambassador
Carrillo in Paris in connection with subject operation. Te
gist of the story that AMWHIP was to convey to Carrillo is

as follows:

The ANTHUG regime has reached its end. Soviets are
ready to back cut because of billion dollar asnual
burden. USA will continue boycott until A¥THOG
de removed and neutralized. USA accepts original
revolutionary goals as sound; also accepte fact

- that capable PBRUMENS are still in high Government
positions today. After ANTHUG and Communism have
been ousted, USA will be willing deal ¥ith such

~-: gapable PBRUMEN officials.

tructed to allow this information to come up
d conversations with Cerrillos in
Collado's name as his source of

 

 

be
t .
Z
‘
i
i

      
      
    
    
 
    
   
   
 

  

   
   

AMVHIP-1 was ins

normally in one of his prolerge

Paris. He was told to use Mr.

_ the information. AMWHIP waa also instructed to tell Carrillo

“pg Little as possible about Hr. Collado but enough to make Hr.
urce of this information and also

Collado seem honified as the 80
to permit the Cubane to check on his existence 42 they wished

to carry the matter to thet extent, AHEHIP was also told to

AmLASH - (. Phe

   
   
 

  

       

           
 
 

ie ree

 
74-0000

   
   

3- hey

, haw em
6. Subject took departure from-avieoe at approximately

1540 hours as stated above; there were no incidents of a

gecurity nature to report.

Addeond za

It should be noted for the record that the undersigned
also paid a vieit to the officsof 00/Contacts at 205 &. 42nd
Street in order to thank the undersigned's contacts there for.
their efforts in securing the services of Hr. Collado for the
above operation, This courtesy call was made et approzimateliy
1150 hours and lasted only a few minutes. The offices of DODS

- Were not visited by the undersigned. .

 

PASI Baca Yon

 

eet,
Ls.

 

 

 

 
