13-00000

   

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

had increased to the point where they covered all
major cities; Rio alone had seven, Similar or-
ganizations existed at the national level, such

as the Society of Friends of Cuba and the National
Committee Against Intervention in Cuba, Cuba also
broadcast daily to Brazil in Portuguese.

Brazil under Goulart also affordec Cuba an
excellent base for promoting hemisphere-wide, pro-
Cuban front groups. The constituent congress of
the Single Center of Latin American Workers (CUTAL)--
which is planned to replace the moribund Confedera-
tion of Latin American Workers (CTAL)--was held in
Brazilia in late January. The Brazilian delega-
tion to the Cuban~supported Second Latin American
Youth Congress (LAYC), held in Santiago, Chile on
9 March, was headed by President Goulart's nephew,
who brought a letter from the President warmly sup-
porting the conference. Brazil was also used as
a transit area for some Latin American subversives
returning to their countries after having received
training in Cuba.

In late April, the dissident Communist Party
of Brazil (CPB), which follows a pro-Chinese line,
was reported to have directed two Cuban-trained
leaders to begin paramilitary operations in Sao
Paulo and Goias. CPB members have been encouraged
by their Cuban comrades--=many have been trained in
Cuba--~but Havana is not known to have given them

direct support. __ ~

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4. British Guiana

The government of Premier Cheddi Jagan is openly
pro-Castro. Thus, Cuban activities in british cuuiana,
nh contrast to subversive efforts elsewhere in the
hemisphere, are deSigned to support rather than to

bring down the existing regime.

Clinton Adlum, the Cuban trade representative
in Georgetown, is probably giving. both political and
economic advice to Jagan's | People? s Pro xressive Part
h Guiana

 

PPP Cuban Ships call frequently at Britis

ports to deliver food and fuels and to pick up rice.

~4.°

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

~SECRET-
13-00000

 

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Numerous unconfirmed reports have stated that these
ships also transport arms to British Guiana which
allegedly are then shipped elsewhere in Latin America,

The vehicle for British Guianese trade with Com-
munist countries, as well as for Cuban funding of
Jagan's regime and the PPP, is the Guyana Import E -

port (GIMPRX). Havana ordered ‘payment q@iedpegoowonns

‘oypekhemmanasey of GIMPEX @ReSeprenhEy, ostensibly

for payment of goods, according to a usually reliable
source, It is unclear, however, whether the money
was ever actually paid, GIMPEX has loaned such funds
in the past both to the government and to the PPP
publishing house, Another source reports that the
publishing house passes the funds to Janet Jagan

for PPP salaries and expenses.

Georgetown @
trained terrorists are behind much of the sporadic
violence which has occurred during the months-long
strike by the pro-Jagan sugar workers union; it is
attempting to gain an official endorsement by the
Guianese sugar industry. A senior official
has told the US Consul General that six or eight
Cuban-trained youths provide the technical support
for this group's growing terrorist efforts in George-
town. Another source reports some Guianese were
recéiving guerrilla training in the interior of

the country in November 1963, presumably for the
newly~ ~formed Guyana “Liberation Army...

  

 

 

  

5. Chile

The Cuban effort in Chile concentrates on sup-
port for the presidential campaign of Salvadore
Allende, Allende is the candidate of the Communist-
dominated Popular Revolutionary Action Front (FRAP),
and he has a chance of being elected in the September
preSidential elections. Allende has yis ited Cuba,
on Several occastons i his campaign manager was in
Havana in Januar’ While there, he was promise
financial Support “tor Allende's campaign. A usually
reliable source reports that Che Guevara recently
said: "Watch Chile, it will be the next Latin Ameri-
can country to enter our camp,"

—5-

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
~SECRET-
13-00000
-SEGRETF

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

police to an armS cache which was to be used to sSup-

port guerrilla operations in Peru, Bolivian authori-
ties have uncovered and dispersed at least three pro-
Castro guerrilla groups in this area in the past year,

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. Brazil

Before the overthrow of President Goulart, Cuba
was engaged in an active subversive effort in Brazil
providing funds, guerrilla training, and propaganda
support to Communist and pro-Communist groups. Operat-
ing primarily through its embassy in Rio de Janeiro,
Havana collaborated closely with Francisco Juliao's
Peasant Leagues in northeast Brazil and with Leonel
Brizola, Goulart's violently anti-American brother-
in-law. The former Cuban ambassador privately
described Brizola as having the best prospects for

: starting a Castro-stule revolution in Brazil. The
ambassador appeared to be favoring him over Juliao
from late 1963 until the April overthrow.

 

 

    
 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

FEports that apout 10 days:
—hefore the beginning 6f Goulart's overthrow, Ha-
vana sent money to Brazil in an effort to bolster

the Brizola forces. Four an_couriers reportedly
took the money to Brazi

Cuba also maintained a substantial propaganda
operation in Brazil, primarily through the local
office of Prensa Latina. A Communist party member
in the state of Bahia revealed, for example, that
the local Communist newspaper was financed by Cuba,
The number of Brazilian-Cuban Cultural Institues

 

-3-

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
—~SEERET-

comene
13-00000

~SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

President Juan Lechin. Through its embassy in La
Paz, Cuba reportedly has given Lechin and his sup-
porters some armS and money to aid his bitter strug-
gle with President Paz Estenssoro__fo

a 2

 
   
 

pees

 

believed it necessary to organize well-armed combat
cadres from among various leftist-extremist groups.
He said Havana was Prepared to Supply the required

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[x : to provide
and material support to Lechin for his campaign
to unseat President Paz in the 31 May presidential
elections, Lechin was scheduled to meet with Cuban
agents in early April to discuss his financial
needs and to determine what he was prepared to of-~-
fer in return for the proposed Cuban assistance,

In addition, the Comittee of Anti-Imperialist
Struggle, a pro-Castro Bolivian youth group which
aspires to establish a terrorist organization on
the model of the Venezuelan Armed Forces of Na-
tional Liberation, was organized last year with
the help of Mauro Garcia, then an officer of the
Cuban embassy. Members of this group were caught
in November 1963 attempting to plant bombs at the
home of the commander of the Bolivian Air Force
and near the residence of the US Ambassador.

he Cuban government continues to regard Bolivia
as a staging area from which £0 Sénd 71 rained _sub—

versives into neighboring countires. It is pos-

siblé that Some Cuban Support for guerrillas in

 

“northern Argentina may have come across the border

from near~by Bolivia. Bolivia also has. Jong been

to Pery after having received j guerrilla warfare
training in Cuba. In August “I963, a Bolivian Com-
munist party (PCB) member in north Bolivia led

-2-

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
13-00000

i oT

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

labor organization which could serve as a platform
for spreading pro-Castro propaganda among urban
labor movements. The embryonic Single Center of
Latin American Workers (CUTAL), which held its con-
stituent congress in Brazil in January 1964, ends
Havana's quest. This Brazilian congress was such

a total failure, however, that it is doubtful if

in the near future CUTAL will provide Havana with
the type of organization it envisaged. Cuba's sup-
port for the 9 March Second Latin American Youth
Congress (LAYC) also was well established. This
conference, too, ended in near-failure. Havana now
is attempting to organize another hemisphere "soli-
darity-with-Cuba" congress in Montreal, Canada in
July. This proposed congress--which, however, is
being officially discouraged by the Canadian govern-

- ment--would be modeled on a similar effort staged

in Niteroi, Brazil in March 1963.

5

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-SECRET-
13-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
ANNEX

Country-by-Country Rundown on Cuban Subversion

 

‘lL. Argentina

Clandestine reporting for the past year con-
firms that the Cubans are cooperating with small
extremist Peronist groups in an attempt to estab-
lish a coordinated subversive effort in Argentina

 

 

agents A be the principal support agent of a
group of Argentine terrorists and left-wing Peron-
dq to be directed and supported ‘Syme

  

Last January, sapekew@ traveled to the provinces
of Jujuy and Salta, near the Bolivian border where
Argentine police discovered pro-Castro guerrilla
camps in March, Some guerrillas who were arrested
in that raid are known to have had guerrilla war-
fare training in Cuba. Among the propaganda items
found at these camps was a book written by Jorge
Ricardo MaSetti, who was in Cuba in 1963 as a
director of Prensa Latina, He is thought to be
"Commandante Ségundo™ and is probably in charge
of the small guerrilla bands discovered in north-
ern Argentina in March and of the, One_ of the FAL

Ss those. “found_in
ache, It is be-

 

 

2. Bolivia

Cuban SubverSive activity in Bolivia has been
centered on attempts to strengthen pro-Castro
sentiment among the followers of extremist Vice

-1-

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET
13-00000

SECRE1
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

3. What emerged from these and other Cuban
pronouncements was the apparent conviction of
Castro and his aides that further Communist revolu-
tions in Latin America are inevitable, that Cuba
can speed up the process, and that in Cuba's own
interest it is urgent that revolutionary action be
initiated wherever possible and as soon as pos-
sible. It is logical to assume that despite recent
official soft-pedaling of the issue, the basic
Cuban viewpoint remains the same. Cuban leaders
continue to believe that the very presence of their
regime will inspire other Latin American revolu-
tionaries to action, and undoubtedly will continue
to give assistance to these efforts.

4, Cuba's policy of revolution in the hemi-

_ Sphere has suffered severe defeats, however, since
the 3-ton Cuban arms cache was discovered on a
Venezuelan beach on 1 November 1963. For example,
OAS action stemming from that discovery is pending;
despite the Cuban-supported terrorist campaign,
eonstitutional government in Venezuela was success~—
fully transferred following President Leoni's dra-~
matic election victory last December; and the out-
breaks of violence in Panama last January failed to
upset constitutional processes there. The April re-
volt in which President Goulart of Brazil was over-
thrown was also a severe defeat for Havana. These
reverses may have produced a feeling in Havana that
a breathing spell is necessary. In addition, Castro

may have been cautioned to moderate his revolutionar
year has been designated "the year of the economy."
This and Cuba's all-out campaign to obtain needed
commercial and industrial goods from West

also may be factors prompting Havana to lessen its
public expressions of support for revolution. More-
over, Castro may believe that a soft-pedaled policy

on revolution now may pay dividends after the US
elections in November. He probably assumes that
conditions for a US-Cuban modus vivendi--on his
terms--will be more favorable then.

5. Nevertherless, evidence presented in the
accompanying country-by-country index shows that
Cuba has continued since the first of the year to
promote, finance, and otherwise support pro-Castro
groups and individuals in Argentina, Brazil, (be-
fore the April revolt), Chile, Panama, British

2

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

~SECREF
 

104-40338-10018) 4

“SEGRE
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
OCI No. 1586/64

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Office of Current Intelligence
4 June 1964

CURRENT INTELLIGENCE MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT: Cuban Subversion in Latin America
Since July 1963

1. Cuban subversive efforts in Latin America
are continuing at a steady pace, despite recent
major setbacks in such countries as Venezuela and
Brazil. From July 1963 through December, when
Havana evidently believed a "second Cuba" was likely
in Venezuela, Cuban propaganda stressed.the inevi-
tability of Castro-inspired revolutions in the
hemisphere. Since the first of this year, however,
Cuban leaders have muted direct exhortations to vio-
lence and have. emphasized other policy priorities.
Nevertheless, the Cuban potential for subversion in
Latin America remains high.

2. In his speech of 26 July 1963, Castro re-
captured much of the militant tone of his speeches
in late 1962. He made it clear that he regards
Cuba as the main source of inspiration and guidance
for inevitable revolutions in the rest of Latin
America. He claimed that what has been done in
Cuba can take place "exactly the same way in many
Latin American countries." The hemisphere's mili-
tants, he said, must take advantage of conditions
presently favoring revolution and “open the breach.”
On 28 September, Castro said that while "imperial~
ists believe they can destroy the Cuban revolution,"
the Cubans believe that before that could be accom-
plished ‘many other revolutions like ours will ap-

. pear on'the. continent." On 24 November, Che
Guevara said the spreading of revolution in the
hemisphere "is also our responsibility and it is
part of our daily preoccupation."

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
SECRET
13-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Guiana, and other countries. Indeed, on at least
two recent occasions, Che Guevara was quoted as
restating familiar Cuban views on revolution. In
an interview published in an Italian newspaper in
March, Guevara reiterated that the road to "national
liberation" in Latin American must take a turn to
violence. He emphasized that violence would be
"necessary" in "almost all" Latin American countries,
for "there is no other way." In an April interview
in Algiers, Guevara said: "It is very, very, very,
very, but very, hard to achieve liberation in Latin
America by employing peaceful means,"

6. A number of reliable clandestine sources
have provided information on the many facets of
Cuba's subversive effort in Latin America. The most
serious form of subversion from Havana_is_ its (train-
ing of other_Latin Americans in the practical_arts_
Sach tratateg As_many as 1,500 received

tic It is estimated that several

  
  
 
 

traveled to Cuba in 1963 also received such train-
ing. It_has been learned that "scholarship students"
who go to Cuba “ostensibly to study "agriculture" re-
ceive “guerrilla warfare training. This this instruction
encompasses _ th ise and management of 9f communications
équipment ; “the techniques of military intelligence,
including methods of establishing intelligence net-
works to obtain information from peasants; training
in a variety of weapons, including rifles and small
armS, which aré “yeddily available in most Latin
American countries; training in explosives, and
training in guerrilla tactics, including instruc-
tion on how to 6perate independently in the country-
side for extended periods of time. A separate train-
ins Communist. _youth from

Li American. ¢ es. The school's one-
¥éear Course is divided between the study of Commu-
nist theory and practical training in political
agitation and subversive activities. Reports from
returning trainees confirm that the Cubans are de-
veloping extensive files on most Latin American
Coutries on subjects “pertinent” ‘to “thé planning

and dévelopment of further subversive act
Detailed questionnaires submitted to GER 23
trainees requested comments on possible air drop
zones, weather conditions, locations of military
bases, competence of local authorities, border and
frontier controls, and a long list of similar ques-
tions, obviously designed to build up a body of basic
knowledge wi A

 

  

  

 

  

  
 

3

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
SECRET
13-00000

~SECRET-

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

7. Latin Americans returning to their coun-
tries after having received training in Cuba often
take a round- about route to conceal the fact that _

 
 

S23) Hina ue) t They then go through
Garope to some > other Latin American country, from
which they enter their own. Cuba gives these
travelers documents which show no indication that

they had been in Cuba, Some guerrilla warfare

trainees are chosen for intelligence assignments
and are given (Special training in. clandestine com-
munications, which permits them to .maintain_acon-
‘tact with Cuba after they have returned home.

 

8. In addition, Latin Americans who receive
guerrilla warfare and other types of training in
Cuba are encouraged, on their return home, to pass
on what they have learned. Cuba-trained men are
known to have been conducting” 3 Such tr
CostaRita;~Panama, British Guiana, Peru, 3
where. “ “PAS, ‘the ‘Castro-oriented revolutionary “er—
fort in Latin America has a potential for steady
growth even if there should be a lessening in the
actual training program in Cuba.

  

9. Numerous reports have alleged that Cuba
is supplying arms clandestinely to some Central
and South American-based extremist groups. Only
in the case of the arms cache discovered in Vene-
zuela on 1 November, however, has there been in-
econtrovertible proof of Cuban complicity in such
efforts. A good deal of the undeniably extensive
arms traffic which goes on in several areas of the
hemisphere is basically a continuation of long-
established patterns of arms smuggling between
nationals of the countries involved. Cuba does
possess over 100 fishing vessels and some cargo
planes which are well-suited to gun-running or
air drops, but we cannot confirm that they are used
for this purpose. In addition, Cuban leaders have
always stressed the importance of Latin American
revolutionaries procuring their own weapons from
local sources. Moreover, some financing from
Havana undoubtedly is used to buy arms.

10. Another important aspect of Havana's ef-
forts in Latin America is centered on supporting
and guiding hemisphere front organizations. Havana
has long sought to establish a new hemisphere-wide

4
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-SECRET-
