ooo sof ET NTT
+. US.COEPLELESE

a ai Gave Tram Asrise
Wasa ts Wow Dened

figecm. ts The Rae Yea Tate

 
 
     
       

-

 

;
5

bring GAY Tae poy
there turned down their request!

Iq making her apptication.|

  

       
 
     
         
    
 

 

 

Mrs. Block pleaded iat uniess| : fo4
abe were permitted to return}: : .f
peo breads frabably never ba 4 .
rents apap. said) .
that her father, Bs years old, : ’
was seriously if with a heart :
ailment and that her mother, . *
bling in one eve, was in danz e@ Press Latornat D i
ef hosing her sight altogether. | AMERICANS RETURN dames C. McKenzie, ‘ tree ftaamnee 4 .
_ US, Officials Hopetul and his wife, left, flank Me. and Mrs. Viktor Pozdneyev and daughter after peti : {
United | States consular offi- Howeow by ais, At right ls Ronald McCowas of Portsmouth, Ohio, who helped aroun ine By a .
elals taken uj ‘ks'| Poedneyevn to. :
' ease with the Foreign Ministry, eee ee netomat Christina, and McKearies to ses May Day In Moscow. * i
See seats Reveien Ministry reece | 4

plications im the thet] . :
the intervention af the suasuistsjiana eee Tiet to-the Nether.

 
 

Then the Rincka rettlad down)
to wait for the anawer—whicb|
paver came.
“After about a month; the cou-|:
ple and the Soviet official who:
visited them

hotel agreed ‘that the:
net go on living at Kuvict Gove
amment expense indofinitely,
. They decided. to nevopt Soviet
Hum inatend at Chinen, ~

  
   
   
  
 

  
  
 

 
 
  

& Month and an

a Roviot Fmbuee ta the Hiack Hea city, the)

Blocka were given a iwaernam
\ aparunent and 1,900 ritsled

   
  
  

     

608} te hay furnitire, Ofte)
atale asked Uhem whether they
wanted (a hecuine Bnviet sti

ad, Hut Mra, tack, who wee

eginning io hava agreed)

theughia, answersd that they,
wanted tq wait ab leant @ year
pefore deciding,

Star dtenppuluiment grew rape
idly, My Petenary of the fallawe
{na ene, she anid, ale waal
vary, very unhappy.”

He Bevaine itesatlafled

But Morrie lank waa stilt a

vinad Camnniiial, ‘Tew ine
aal tv ane, Whale fekette
asf fidin, fia dative ATaE®
: ane elie alee Fug having “pers

decuted® bin and devinced Viet)

tat aottling down in the
Then a yar ay aa later,
ja
becanie Alnaatiafled, "is
i hed with hia supertara al}
warkahop, wilh party offie

  

 
  
 
  

  

     
 

      
  

   
  
       
 
    
    
 

at te

Y, AF

RIL, M1064 .

hae

 

t
3
4

 
    

 

 
 
 

   
     
 
     

   

 

     
   

ie mr de HME I Ml, SPRUE RSF

   

i alate wha acinaitiahed htin and
. : : Hie authnritien raepenathie far] .
moe . feu gg anid Cand dintritvutton, | ‘
74-00000

: . been sent to Siberia long ago, said Mollie, -Hoth despised Khrushchev.

 

_, Party. No one got into the party without having worked hard to do 80}.

the fact that they obviously must have had a knowledge of Hussian be~
' fore their arrival in the Joviet Union.) "Russian has toc many synomyms ,"

4
* wae invited to vieit them or te urite to them

” the vioinity of DATUM, ‘There the food = partioularly fruit and veves

-. on

SECRET
-3- .
the address and -ave it te the surce.)

hortly after their arrival in dessa they realised thzt this \
Ws8 not when they had expected. shey immediately beran applying te |
Russian authorities for veruission to retum., ihe spplications had {.
been returned with v.rious comeants, usually that they had to vote {
other Russian authorities, (iis had gone on for several years without)
giving any results. they had aliost resipned themselves, ivt if they™
were ever to retum to the U.3.A., they would settle quietly dom

coreplace and not tell snyone that they ha: been in the wouhors Soviet. -
vnion.

Ye. Block said that he was a "diesel engineer" and the conversae
tim revealed that he i:éw e good deal about diesel machines, ile did
not say where he worked, but complained that he was sent from Job te
gob without being eble to concentrate on a special arca as he had
done inthe 4.3.4. As a matter of fact this was an error in all of
the wrking life in the doviet Union, he said. Io one Specialized and -
Ro one could do a real job in a particular area. @r, Block earned
something over 40 rubels per month.

Mollie Block was a teacher at the polytechnical institute in
Qdessa. She earned 40 rubels per month, A. chief at the polytechnical
institute maxmix earned 90C rubels per month and hed his own home -
ty the Black 3ea, she said bitterly, as an example of the fact that
the class differences were aa great in the Joviet Union as in the ¥.3.A.

Both told that they were unpopular among heir colleagues and
Russians in general because it was their custom to criticize conditions
in the Soviet Union. Had we not been émerican citizens we would have
Conditions were no better now than under Stalin, they thought. “ow there

Was corruption in all areas, Mollie said that only 3<4,4 of the popu=
lation of the Soviet Union were accepted as members of the Communist

but if ons is the sou of a Party. erticiy| (pempit 13 easier to de so.
Im the beginning the language had been e difficulty ( in spite of

My, Elock kept repeating while they talked about the languuge.

On the other hand they had been fortunate and rot'en @ twoerccm

eparpment for 19 rubela per nonth, It did net come out how, for example,
@ kitchen was ejudpped, but they considered themsalvas lucky fn

Gomparison to Huasians in comparable positions. ollie wrote ow: -the.- -
address: PERKTOPCKUY PORSNE 18, APT. JL, ODLIIA = UJ34, snd the source

The suemer vacation they had spent dn a Uttle rusort tow da

tables © was much chexper and tetter than in Quesga,

 

    

Se aman aim meee ee imate ee

sewer E

4.

 

 
74-0000

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

- “ge cRET

Yr. E1ock corplained particularly s' cut the food in Otessa. He : :
had difficulties with his sigestion tecause of the black tres, he - . 5
claimed, It was not possible to get suite br ad anywhere. except
dn Leningrad and..oscow and there where foreim surists st ayed, ie
had gotten. a. physiciarg's certificate saying that he needed white

bread, wut to no avail.

tebles in Jdessa except waen they were in sevason tw. the surrounding

agricultural districts.

conan AN ed

ke

te thee gph a fon Coen
ao

shere wig alsa a shortare of fruits and vege-

77

transport of such wares. from distant places

ia the soviet Union did not occur. : i

that there was no doubt thit Sollie: was-locally fumiliar with ivew York,.

hey talked a great deal about the U.3.4., and the source said =~ f
Qa one occasion the source xentioned the place Weehawken in connection

with New York. Mollie. corrected. him instantly, saying that seshawken | ot 3 ge
was on the other side of the thdson Kiver and therefore in the state of t

New Jersey.

The dmghter sat cuictly the entire time and stared straicht ehead.
Upon being addressed politely by the source, she siggled childishly.
I 4a possible that she understood something, but she answered in
Russian via her mther and said that the source ought to come home
with thea and sce her parrott.

_. Mollie asked several of the people at the hotel if they might get
caviar for tte source, but with no result.

GE'S COMMENTARY 3

 

The source and his guests left the restaurant at closing tine
(tiidnight local time), (n the street iir, block tried to get a taxi
for the source, but could not get one. Afterwards each went in his
- om direction.

The source-was aware the entire time that the mesting might have-
. been arranged. However, he’ found no real basis for this.

° He was also aware of some lesser irregularities during the event,
but these could easily have had a naturel explanstion.

. ‘The source emphasizes that they asked him for no. favors or asked
- Kin to do nothing except visit then, ihey showed no curiosity, asked.
Little, and “ollie was too ocoupiod with what she: herself had on her
heart to Iisten cnd understand whet the source said. The couple hed
AO reservations about eicohol and did not. react to the fact. thet the
gourge drank little and remained sober while they graduslly became

- quate animated,

SECRET Aah /f¥e3i

 
 
   
 
  
   
  
 
    
    
  
 
  

“6
74-0000

  

DISPATCH
Phage
a7
pyehief of ‘Stations! | PIN

 
     
       
       
      
    
       
       
  

ACTION: Fer Your Information aud Traces

Forwarded herewith is o(Teepert from a seaman source —

whe while is Odessa om 2 April 1964 had a five hour conversation ©

 

with one Welite BLOCK, her husband, a diesel engineer, aad daughter —

Tina, The repert will presumably be ef interest te ODENVY. Traces
are requested on Subjects, The 26 April 1964 issue of a New Yerk

Times bas a first page “eRe leerii—
: eaneth J Chatmead

Attachment:
Orig & 2 ce of report, h/we

Sia titenetmteere oo eke
°

petites *

7 to Su 186 fli

aah ahr-y + hay tq€ 1- os ‘pe!
S-—C/WE w, @ tt
2n0C/SR w/l e¢ atts . ate Ge bien f

SECRET

   
 

  
   

23 [Bap an0 4.
 

‘roa t0164-10036

“, . . SECRET

(deem Fe

TA.
aan ROUTING AKD RECORD SHEET an | e@
: J . iwS RUC TIONS

PCR TO FUNG YO: ACTION BRANCH

“a oF ik . . “~
1 Ful sp Sect, eet 3 ae il ire flap Tf ble no and ttle shown are not proper,
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless uf records insert proper hile no. below and forward :
“7 mgathcast acton taken of comments requir- document to RID. AN. . ny
. tag preservation.
~ “
~

ia
Ree oem, SA 0/2/85

: i
| - === ANE TRACES INITIATED
BY RID SENT TO-

WET CHR M9 Bn)

  

ee

   
    
  

os

iv]

 

G

=

J

~
~~

EN
~
c—>
A

pee ect
| fev] ny nes ects tt.
ee

be us Bee, wens

c ;. ‘ "Ae, Lecoiaen t Po
hi Jnls | ty pete yates fo

™ . — .°
of : pnd on pe Oli Et.,|
- | | , RAGLARSID, “a_
mathe | | |

    

aah eer 3
aa =e :

  
 

 

SWIET Ux
O0E 334 :
April 2, 1964 oo E

Cases Keeting with american family BLUCK, , :

@
i
*
9

& Forweyian seaman who was in ODESSA on April 2, 1964, had
aifficulty in finatrz the city's largest hotel. ‘hile ta was
search “he wae approached on the street by an sumer i can-speaking
woman, MulLIc :LOCK, who offered her assistance, she was with her
husband and duuvhter and told him that they were American citizens
who had lived, amng other places, in Bronx, New York, but had been
living in Odessa for the past four yeara.

The following degcribes the occasion in grester detail:

: The source was fh the Inierclub (seamen's club) in Odessa
.. ; where he tried to buy huselan caviar, He was referred to the
. : hotel Odessa. A hostess at the club said that there were two
' hotels by that name in the city, He was to go the the largevy,,
and she explained to him how to get there.

The source tried to find the hotel but got lost. Twice he
asked Husuians but was not understood, The last time was on. the
“boulevard. Suddenly a woman's voice called out in cmglish from
the other side of an adjoining street, whereupon she. came over to
the gource followed by a man and a young girl. In fluent Amorican

. She asked the source 4f he wire english and said that her husband -

, and daughter were American and living in Udessa. Without any pare
ticular cause-both she and her husband complained loudly about con=
ditions in Odessa without any consideration fur passers-by. ‘the
Russians to whom the sourcy hud. addressed himself stood around a bit
before they went further, otherwise there. did not appear to be. anyone

- who noticed the meeting: particularly. ‘The .scurce explained that he
was on hie way to the hotel vdesse and invited the: family to accompany
him. They refused at {iret because they were not: dressod well snouph,-
they had come from work, had just picked up their daughter and were
on their way tome, When thy source insisted, they allewed themselves.
to be pursuadad, ‘there were no formal introductions, but} during the

he conversation it cams out thet the family wus called BLUCK and the

Sig ee wife's {iret name wax MULLING, ‘

are [-f9¥23/

Hotel Ccenea was logatad in the vicinity in a eide street which

 

\ led-0ff from tie boulevard, 44 the antronce to the rastuarunt they

i ward etopped by a wuitruan vio protested in wusotan, After some con=
{ . Vergation betwen Hollie ani the waitress they were ullowed ta enter,
| no Mollie said the wattreas hal thourht the daushter wae too young but
|

1

|

 

had given in because tha daughter wae in the company of hap parente. bi
; “alg fy l Of
The yuests in the rentaurunt were Larvely comprised of officers
and gome aiviltane inaluding ae i wonen whe, julging from thele
Eul# /efewon} 110%
zz

 

CB

 
 

 

Wore @ dark burgundy-coloured coat,

 

 

aA
one

- SECRET ~~

ole

behavior, were prostitutes, iveryoane was nicely dressed, eonetioring

that it wis suasia, so the flock facily's reservations seessd to have.

had 4 basis, 4 baitecss showed the source and ais party to a table,

To the anar-nent of the sloce family as well as the Source, the

waitress spoke uncerstand<ble :nglish, crinks were ordered and the.

Source aad his guests sat in the restaurant for about. § hours, As

they cid earlier on the boulevard, the couple. spoke freely and without

taning care that the conversation ses not overheard by others. At

the closest table sat two prostitu.es who sere entertained by several .
different officers. It did not appear that they wore intersated in oot

 

renee
a

the soures's party.

Hens ne mab gate

The source guessed HOLLIE E.O7K'S age to be about 45. Jnall and ‘ t
plump. Cocpletely black, slightly curly hair which hid hor ears, hark.
(beow-tlack?) eyes. road nose. she was on the whole quite clumsily —
bullt with short fat linbs and quite uiettractive. source felt that.
she xignt be a Jewess with some slavic backrround. he appeured intellie@
gent, cuick and effective, hectic, vory erocentric and somewhat domine
ating. she was unusuelly talkative but a poor Listener. She syoke.-
perfect: American and, as far as the source was ble to judge, with .
@ New York accent, and possessed the quick humor which is typtoal in pores
ew York, She was dre:sed in a tailored coat of a greenish colour, = - :

worn dress of poor quality, thick woolen stockings, flat and worm”
shoes. .

Sabana teach obelbel.

Mr. BLOCK (iiis first name was not mentioned) might.be between _
40-45. About 183 em tall, slender, blond hair, Colour of eyea not -
noticed. «ight be of Baltic descent. Appeared to be passive and. not -
particulurly intellicent. He spoke little - possibly because he was
.. interrupted by Mollie as a rule. Spoke definitely American but eacas —
“  gdomally found it difficult to find certain words, He wore an old .

. Gixpence cap, a faded scarf and an old wom cout of grey and dark prey >
herring bone patiern which he did not remove in the restaurant,

The daughter's first name seemed to be TINA. According te *eliie
sing tes 12 years old. Comparatively tall and slender, black Hatt,
Large dark eyes, fine features with a slichbly crooked mam and — ;
fomevhat sharp nose, She appeared pretty, bul. the source could find
me real family likeness between her andeither of the perents. Vary
‘Childish. Spoke only fussian and kept to Mollie the whole time,

: Mollie sald thet the whole family was born in the U.d.A. and

hed mostly lived in the Sronx, New York, but also for a time dn cen
Yransieco, About 4 years ago they had moved to the Joviet Unica and.

lived in Odeeaa, They were still american citizena. The sourca axe
preserd nis aitonishment at the foot that thie ws poasible, sn:

Wolile reluctantly told tht br. vlock had been @ menber of tha Lope

*  bhdden Amerlann Communist Party and that they had therefore yotten a

. vhea £2 the Joviet Union. nhen the source doubted that they aauid @t412

he Anerican oltivens, Komdlie said tit thelr pasaporte ware in hoscow

G feet which anyone could @tavlish by referring ta the Amero Yoneul,
Anarlesn imbasay, Enter Tajayzovens treat 19, vossowe (lhe wmbe dow

   

 
