overthrow Castro. General LeMay wondered why we di notyise
_ bombings. There was also a discussion of Navy and Air ree
programs to protect raiders in international waters and in the
‘event of hot pursuit. It was agreed that further planning would be
conducted. :

     
 
   

— ee

  

wn

       
   
   

to you. No one criticized you. Senators Pastore, Hum

Anderson praised yous]

G6
6. [Zohn Warner has prepared a recommendation based on
that our standing in Congress is currently on the declin

Saltonstall, Vinson, and Arends to seek advice an velop a strategy,
for public statements by these members and other ibcommittee
members. : a

GE oe
7. far. Kirkpatrick has forwarded a memoranduni on efforts to obtain
a a replacement } for Colonel °} Grogan:]

 

8. Dick Helms has forwarded a memorandum of his briefing of the
Bureau of Budget officials on the Agency's covert agtion programs.
McGeorge Bundy attended and offered 2: opinions;/ (a) that there be
a regular annual briefing of the Special Group covert operations
as a whole, and (b) that during the present peri§¥d of apparent detente
there might well be very good reasons for investing even greater
resources in covert actions.

9 (Sonn Bross has forwarded a memorandum forthe record on your

 
  

 
 
 
 
 

| security. Bross is presently drafting a\m morandum to the Secretary | 4
of Defense on this subject which is being\yeviewed by Houston and
Bannerman.7

 
 

 

J
;

1.

2. Gn commenting on the proposal to send Dr, Cavanagh

c c Deif,

1 October 1963

NOTES FOR MR. McCONE:

9¢

{ppp has prepared for your information a summary of General
. Chiang Ching-kuo's visit to the U.S. Attached to this summary

are the four most important papers as follows:

a. Your position paper;

b. CIA commitments paper;

c. Memorandum for the record on DDP briefings;
d. Record of conversation with the President.

The visit is considered to have been a success and Chiang Ching-kuo
returned with an understanding that any abrupt move by his govern-
ment to recover the mainland with military force would not be
supported by this country. Chiang Kai~shek has accepted the position

paper and CIA's commitments paper, and our station is now workin
out cooperatio

 

 

      

GE
Rome, Bill
Harvey suggests that Cavanagh be certified to t ican as your
personal representative, and suggests you might\4o this through
Cardinal Cicognani or Archbishop O'Connor. Request your guidance.7

SE
3. (ppp has run another assessment of the reipShity of the documentary

material provided by Penkovskiy and see reason to change their _

 

_statement of 31 May to USIB that it wa.

 

 

 

 

 

Helms suggests you have this assessment checked with DDI and Ost
and if they concur, re-assure USIB along the above lines.

Dez FitGerald briefed the Joint Chiefs recently on his overall program
against Cuba. In the discussion the main thing that emerged was
General LeMay's view that the present program was far too small to

ye

fo
nn ae ¢

 

   

10. (Mr. Gilpatric has written. you a letter confirming versation
‘about assigning Frank Hand as Special Assistant to Wneral Carroll.
I suggest I pass this to General Carter for Agency action.

  

 

   

Ww. Elder

 

-3=

 
