14-00000

   
   
   
    
  
    
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
    

SECRET es

      
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
   

     

CHIBA Hido,. -MUCHAKU Seikyo, ‘IZUMI. Taku,

EGAWA Taku, ~ °° -WORAMATSU Hiro, \) AWEYA_Noriko,

FUJIT Nittatsu, . ‘NISHIO Noboru, | KATO Yoshiro, ao
HARTYU Ichiro, . NOMURA Koichi,° ’  SHIROYAMA Saburo, ~~
HOSHINO Yasusaburo,. OGOSHI Teruo, . . ‘TAKAHASHI Taketomo, . .
ICHIYY Saburo; : OTSUKOTSU Yoshiko, ODAGIRI Hideo,
‘TKEYAMA Huro, -: . SERIZAWA Tae, , .-OKUMA Minoru,
ISHIDA Takeshi, _- SHIRAI Shimpei,' : ° SANO Kenji, -
KANAI Yoshiko, “ .. SHINMURA Takeshi, — SUZURT Wichihiko,
.KASAT Seiichi, - | SHISHIDO Hiroshi, KUBATA Hanya,
KATAGIRI Yuzuru, . SUGTURA Mitsuo, ¢- SHINOHARA Seiei,
KATO KATO Shuichi, * SUGIYAMA Tatsumaru, . MARUYAMA Kunio, as
KAZAMA Michitaro, . SUZUKI Masahira, . TSURUSHIMA Setsurei,
MATSUURA Sozo, TAKEUCHI Yoshitomo,. MURO Kenji, ae
KQROKORO Masao, WADA Nagahisa,  KONAKA Yotaro, te
-KITAKOJI Satoshi, © YAMADA Munemitsu, | SAKAMOTO Yoshikazu,
KOBAYASHI Shoichiro, YAMADA Toshio, SAITO ¥ | Masahiko.
KOMATSU Sakyo, - YAMAGUCHI Kosaku,

 

  

: Some Beheiren activities and acconplishnents:

‘Regular once-per-month demonstrations at a public
. park in Tokyo, consisting of anti-American speeches
-, and followed by street marches. -
An all night TV “teach-in" with.Beheiren activist |

leaders, along with special guest, U.S. pacifist |
“Carl Oglesby (Chairman of the Students © for a —

_ Democratié Society. > =

A full page advertisement in the New York Times.
. (16 November 1965), followed by another full page —
. ‘ad in the Washington Post (3 April 1967), appeal-
-. ing to Americans to stop the war in Vietnam. ee

 

'. A "Meet “in, Conference of Two Nations for Peace ‘in oS
“i Vietnam," held in Tokyo in August 1966, and... ~ °
_ attended ‘by. Beheiren activists and seven U.S.

~. pacifist leaders (including Dave Dellinger), — .
_ and observers. from France, England, Canada, the
'- USSR, Pakistan, and Mongolia.

A mass meeting in Tokyo. in October ‘1966, | guest :
speakers of which were French pacifists, Jean-Paul |
Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir. —
means Se

_- Nationwide tours of Japan for lectures and peace
rallies for such anti-Vietnam war pacifists as :

- SECRET
14-000

De Professor | and the late, -
of ‘the United ates, Claude Bourdet of ‘France,
; and Thich Nhat Hanh of ‘South Vietnam. wy
A mass meeting .in Tokyo in January. 1967, - sponsored
: .by Beheiren and featuring U.S. folk singer and. .
‘ pacifist Joan Baez. | eg
. Sc

(A continuing program of direct aistripattel of

> vest or hospitalization fron Vietnam,
' Participation by two Beheiren activist ‘leaders:

“(Kyoto University professor KUWABARA Takeo and
. International House staffer TSUR KL

"taking advantage of a trip to the U.S. to attend.
_rallies and demonstrations at Dartmouth University
;in early May 1967, followed by an unsuccessful.
-.-on behalf of Beheiren,
Continuing efforts to pring to , Japan for a
‘Soviet poet Yevgeni Yevtushenko, an effort that
- ‘has not yet reached fruition but | is still
',, Pending. So .
: Participation in the Stockholm Jaly” 1967 “World :
wf activist leaders as delegates. ws
. , Cooperation ‘with the U.S. Quakers, vecifiote,. ;
and in sending the yacht "Phoenix"
with medical ai first to Haiphong, then ona -
.. second trip in the Fall of 1967, seeking but «=~
failing to. find landfall to deliver medical aid
' to either North or South Vietnam.

‘Attempted, but failed due to inability. ‘to obtain

: - (MUTO Iichiyo) to the U.S. to participate in the
21 October 1967 anti-Vietnam War demonstrations.

SECRET

  
    
  
    
   
   
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
   

 

 

 

pamphlets to U.S, troops stationed in Japan,
and those coming to Japan on warships, and for .

a non-political Japan~America Congress on
Cultural Problems) in anti-Vietnam War-Speech

attempt to ‘invite Cassius Clay to visit, Japan

nationwide speech tour on behalf of Beheiren,

Conference on Vietnam," by sending two. Beheiren

 

U.S. visa, to send a Beheiren activist leader

 

Wo 8

‘SECRET

 

 

    
 

 

 

14-00000

~ SEGR a

- ‘

  

anew group ‘to. ‘promote and aid defection: of ¢
Future U.S. “servicemen in Japan, Beheiren ce
Chairman ODA is now preparing to depart for. Dore
Europe in order to contact and study European 7
anti-Vietnam War and. deserter organizations.

   
   
   
     
    
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
   

: 4, : Japanese who have been ‘identified as: active Beheiren -
supporters or sympathizers: . 7

   
    
   
  
  
 

YOSHIKAWA Yuichi (Behéiren Secretary General) | - former
: JCP member, : a ;
- ODA Makoto (Beheiren Cha rman) - popular novelist. ;
- KKAIKO Ken Akutagawa’ prize winning novelist. _
“KUBO. Keinosuke - film: producer and director, — “
TSURUMI Shunsuke ~ Doshisha University professor... :
FSURUMI Kazuko - sister of Shunsuke (their father is the
: date philosopher, Yusuke);
FURUYAMA_Yozo_-_high.school. teacher, _.......
MUTO Ichiyo — ex-JCP (tried to travel. to U. S.. to représent
' Beheiren at October-21.demonstrations this year, but |
“was denied a visa to enter. the U. S.). .
- YAMADA Atsushi - ex-JCP. Le 4 .
- FUKUDA Yoshiyuki --playwriter.. a
* TOMINAGA Ichiro = cartoonist;

FUKASAKU Mitsusada =professor,.. |
. AWAZI. Kivoshi —. graphic designer. gg
ete Christian leader, - ..
OSHIDA Kiju - film director. ._
_ UMTHARA Shtin - writer, 20-1. *
“BASHINOTO Mineo SHIMOTO - Buddhist p est.
{OITA Yoshie - novelist. ./.°. 0. ))

. GOTO Hiroyuki - scientist.

 

 

 

. Oe akan - professor at Kyoto University. : 7
- MOT shikazu - assistant professor at Tokyo University.

: IDARA Rokeen  avofessor at Tokyo University. Lo S
 TIDA Momo - writer,

. TSURUMI Yoshiyuki - employed sat ‘International House in
tokyo. ae tte rr a. 5

 

 

“others: a

  

-TERAY Minako» KOBAYASHI Tomi, | | YAMANISHI Eiichi,

‘umini ; samu (Shu), YASUDA Takeshi ,-

7 eS Hidetoshi, YOSHINO Genzaburo,
fATSUMOTO Ichiju, | MARUYAMA Masao, “ YOSHIWARA Koichiro,
FUKUTOMI Setsuo, MIDORIKAYA. Toru, OKAMOTO Taro,

: KURIHARA Yukio, MIZUSAWA Yana, MATSUMOTO Seicho,

- ANDO Jimbei, MORITAKL. Ichito,, EI Rokusuke ,
14- 00000,

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  

  

 

YOSHIKAWA and Beheiren American collaborator -
met with Soviet Embassy Chief :
éss ache Nikolay V. Vasilyevich and- yt aa

First Secretary Sergey D. Anisimov.on ~ vot
30 October. This meeting was urgently wo. :
requested by the Beheiren side, to discuss :
“an extremely important, extremely delicate

- matter," without doubt the case of the four -
a sailors, . : See

(c) | Beheiren-U.S. Pacifist Liaison: Beheiren.—
‘contacted one
7 » who fiew to Japan on
November, apparently helped Beheiren
“leaders check out the bona fides of the

deserters; and returned to the JU. .S. , on
il November, . ’

 

 

 

   

sy “£scape to Moscov :— The four deserters. timed.
up .in MoScow on 20 November. ‘The press’ has -
speculated, widely and unanimously that the four
cleft Japan on the Soviet passenger ship BAIKAL = ~
‘om 11 November, Again, there is no dissenting

” opinion, overt or covert. The only mystery

.. concerning this final phase of the Japanese

' portion of this case concerns the mechanics of .

- how the four boarded the BAIKAL and who assisted
‘in the maneuver... But with the sailing of the.

| BAIKAL from Yokohama, Beheiren completed its
‘.most highly successful and beautifully executed

. activity in its two and one-half year history, - | =
, Not: only did Beheiren smear the United States Tf
” Government's image in Japan, gain a vast amount an
_ of priceless publicity that will swell the ranks
of its Supporters and be invaluable in future —
activities, but Beheiren doubtlessly even made :
a profit, financially, on this low budget operation-~ —
donations are still pouring into Beheiren head~ ~ -
- quarters from all over Japan to "help and ‘Protect :
U.S. deserters." an .. coe

  

 

sn ements ae tng  s ef  t  e

 

. (6) New Deserters: The successful flight to

' Moscow, through the good offices of Beheiren,

“has already stimulated one new would-be defection

“case in early December, involving two sailors ;

from Yokosuka U.S. Navy Base, and prospects are

. that. more will follow. Beheiren itself has tried -
to keep the "desertion mood".alive by organizing H

i

“SECRET

 

 

 

 
14-00000 ,

  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  

   
 
   
  
    
   
   
   
   
  
  
    
  

 

unique in Japan in this regard) to take the
ball and run“with it. Beheiren ran all the way --
and scored its most notable success since it was _-
organized, (Paragraph 5 contains a listing of _
‘Beheiren's more notable activities since its.

' founding. Paragraph,6 is a partial listing of
. foreigners who have been. in contact with or.
cooperated with Beheiren,). : ot

The Case of the Four Sailor Deserters and
Beheiren

-()) How It Started: The consensus of all
-available press reports, with no recorded dissent;
- indicates that the four sailors voluntarily left
.. their ship, went AWOL, and ended up wallowing

. around Tokyo's hippie-land. Precisely what .

' personal grievances prompted the four to embark .
on this misadventure is not known. But, up t6é
this point, the four could fairly be categorized
as misguided youngsters, gone astray in a foreign~
- land, and due to get slapped back in line with
.. traditional Navy justice. when they finally ae
decided to stop the fun and go back to the ship.
“So far, this made their case far from unique.

- (2) How It Became ‘an Incident: ‘Instead of ;
.. returning to their ship of their own volition
or being apprehended by the Shore Patrol, the
’, four made contact with Beheiren leaders.. Again,
press reports indicate that this ‘was just a
coincidence, that there was no pre-planning by
’ “the four to contact Beheiren. There is no~
' available reporting that indicates otherwise. :
*. But, once the Beheiren people made contact, they
recognized. the potential immediately and moved
fast for. the ‘Kill. . . ;

(3) Beheiren Takes Over: -When the four made
~ contact with Beheiren, it suddenly became an:
- entirely different ball game, Beheiren had ;
everything needed tc capitalize on this:. veteran |
activist leaders who are experienced enough to
‘recognize the windfall that had come their way;
an apparatus that could provide hiding places
for the four; long standing liaison contacts

_ with Soviet Embassy officials for use in plan—

ning exit from Japan; solid contacts with

a

8 a
~ SECRET

 

 

   
14-00000

 

SORE

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  

  
 
 
    
  
   
  

: reliable American pacifists with whom the’ bona |
-. fides of thé four sailors could be checked;
' money and organization to capitalize on the.
. propaganda potential (such as preparing a
‘ moyie film for the initial Beheiren press con-
ference announcing the desertion, prepared more |
_ likely. than not by Beheiren stalwart KUBO
- Keinosuke, an independent film producer) ;" and Loe
“English speaking activists capable of sympathiz- ~-
ing, encouraging, soothing, or agitating the - .
- four young sailors, so that there would be no .
turning back. ae :- re

te

. (4) The Beheiren Apparatus at Work: While
-many of the small pieces of this puzzle, which
' would put the whole case in proper detailed
_chronological order and eliminate speculation
on minor points, are still missing, the follow-
‘ing elements, all part of the- Beheiren Bpparatus
“ make up the bulk of, the Picture:

 

F
Sa)’ ‘Hide-out: When Beheiren got 1 hold of . |
- the four on 26 October, they had to be wee
hidden out for the approximate two week. a |
. period until their exit from Japan could
“ be arranged, This presented Beheiren no
great logistical problem. A number of H
the Beheiren activist leaders have homes i
. well suited to harboring fugitives. For
example, Beheiren activist leader FUKASA Jot
Mitsusada has a villa hiddén away in ah
Chigasaki, which was used on the night of. f
- 12 September for a meeting of about 20 top : t
. Beheiren leaders, and which would be highly : !
- suitable for hiding the four deserters. 0 -' i
. Other private dwellings, belonging to a
' Beheiren. leaders and loyal supporters, are ~~: |
‘scattered throughout both the Kanto (Tokyo) ~ iz
. mE
f
{
{
{

 

 

 

and Kansai (Osaka, Kobe, Kyoto) areas,

 

Lhe. (b) ’ Beheiren-Soviet Liaison: Beheiren |

'. Secretary General YOSHIKAWA has maintained
‘periodic contact with Soviet Embassy
officials for years, Beheiren Chairman
ODA has met, Soviet Peace Committee officials
in Moscow, In the case of the four sailors, i
- “information provided by a reliable sensitive .- :
source has clearly established that both — . :

 

 

   
1400000 we.

   

a) |

   
 
   
  
  

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

itself. has tried to keep. the “desertion mood" ‘alive by.
: organizing a new group to fromote and aid the defection of |
future U. S. military servicemen: in Japan. End of Summary

. ge Following is information on Beheiren and its involvé~”
. ment in the case of the four. u. 5. Navy deserters,

as Origin and Development of Behéiren Oo Ye

(1) Founding: Beheiren was organized in

. April 1965, nominally as a politically inde~

pendent group of intellectuals and cultured
. persons whose purpose was "to help restore
peace in Vietnam." Actually, it is a loosely
organized group of ex-Japan Communist Party ...
(JCP) members, progressive intellectuals, | oo
_ leftist. cultured persons, and leftwing students © ~ ae
- banded together in the namé of opposition to the..." ”
Vietnam War by two common denominators; dedicated
anti-Americanism and refusal to be. dominated or
_ controlled by the orthodox JCP, .

; “@) Hard-Core Secretariat: The real force :

". behind the organization of Beheiren has been :

a brillant Communist named YOSHIKAWA Yuichi, rn a

whose conspiratorial organizational skilis have so a
I
|
|
1
|

  

: been perhaps the most indispensable ingredients
in Beheiren's development. YOSHIKAWA was expelled
from Tokyo University for his role as an All~
: Japan Federation of Student Self-Government |
~ Associations (Zengakuren) leader “in the 1960
JU.8.-Japan Security Treaty riots. He then went
“nto full time JCP mass movement professional
’ work, becoming the Secretariat official in .
- charge of international relations for the Japan
-Peace Committee, YOSHIKAWA broke with the JCP - :
'in late’ 1964, following the rupture in relations -
between the cp and the Communist Party of the ;
“Soviet Union (CPSU) in May that year. The inspir-~
‘ation for Beheiren springs in large measure from -
YOSHIKAWA's personal desire to use his organiza-
tional talents “in countering the JCP and its
Japan Peace Committee, YOSHIKAWA, im addition .
to being a well qualified English linguist him-
self, years ago surrounded himself with a small
following of similarly qualified lieutenants,
. whom he brought along into Beheiren to give him
the necessary depth and experience to run this
new organization. YOSHIKAWA functions as
Beheiren's Secretary General.

a secher a

 

 

  
 

 

 

~ SECRET

CENTRAL INTELL, IGENCE AGENCY ©
2 "Wastincron | D.C. 20505

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Honorable Walt We Rostow . :
totes Special Assistant to the President _

: Le “The following ‘information on | Beheiren was, compiled.
by: a representative of this Agency(in [and comprises
his personal interpretation and knowledge based on overt.
and covert information available to: ‘our

as of 20 December 1967. Copies. of this memorandum are
being furnished to Directar, Naval Investigative Service;
Assistant Chief of Stafi, Intelligence, Department of the

 

 

 

 

Army; Deputy Assistant Secretary for Security, Department

of State; Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation; Chief,

S Counterintelligence Division, Directorate of Special ;
_Investigations, The Inspector General, USAF; Gommandant,
_- Headquarters United States Marine Corps; and Chief,

Counterintelligence & Security Office (DEACT), Defense

a Intelligence Agency. This report partially answers DIA‘
» letter S-4845/CI-4 of 29 December 1967 and oral. requests:
of Similar nature’ from the Department oF the Navy.

2. "Summary. On 13 November 1967, when the leaders
of the Japan "Peace for Vietnam" Committee (Beheiren)
dramatically. announced at a press conference in Tokyo

that four U.S. sailors from the aircraft carrier USS INTREPID

* had deserted their ship. because of opposition of the Vietnam

War, the name Beheiren suddenly assumed a degree of prominence,

--The four sailors’ successful flight to Moscow, with Beheiren ~~~

aid, where the Soviet propaganda machinery proceeded to Qf
make capital out of this windfall, has kept Beheiren in the

 

oe public spotlight in succeeding weeks, The incident has
“already stimulated a new would-be defection case involving

two sailors from Yokosuka Uy So Navy Base, and Beheiren

“CLASSIFICATION ‘hia

Lachetn On an

 

 

     

 

| EX bpocs ot eyfy 60%)

 

 
14-00000

© SECRET.

   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  

      
   
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  

(3) Respectable Intellectual Front: Following
fundamental Communist principles for mass move
-ment work, the ex-JCP organizers of Beheiren: vO
“kept themselves ‘in the background and lined up

- a number of prominent Japanese progressive ~ we
‘intellectuals and leftist cultured persons to’
front for Beheiren. The choice of ODA Makoto, -
ex-Fulbrighter and popular young novelist, ‘to -

. be the Chairman was a fortunate move for :
‘Beheiren... ODA has. taken to this front work
like a duck to water, It has given him a . mn
‘chance to give unbridled vent to his own latent -
anti-American’ feelings, puffed him up to the
extent that he has been dubbed "the emperor"
by other Beheiren activists, and given him at
‘long last an ideological mission to pursue. :
-. YOSHIKAWA has performed magnificently -in feeding .
A's ego needs and in infusing and Andoctrina~_
ting ODA so that his words and actions take on
sufficiently. virulent anti-American overtones, -
ODA has sérved another vital function for
Beheiren by “recruiting a Sizable number of
fellow intellectuals. to join the ranks of
Beheiren activists;- (See paragraph 4 for a
‘Listing. of a number: of those Japanese who have .
been identified as_ active Beheixen supporters
or sympathizers. yd. . -_

 

 

(4)... Organizational Development: In ‘its two
and one-half year history, Beheiren has not -
changed appreciably its organizational format,
although it has moved its office three times ;
and modified its name even oftener. Beheiren
is not a "mass organization," because it has
‘had no sizable- popular backing to the present
time. Its.hard core, secretariat organization
is run by: YOSHIKAWA and his lieutenants. Its
public’ image,-intellectual front is led by ODA, ;
~<and given body by a score of like-minded intel-_
- lectual friends of ODA and YOSHIKAWA, who form —

 

the loose body of Beheiren's activist leadership. |
Under this Beheiren leadership superstructure. “7 }-
. lies a base of only Several hundred Beheiren —° ;. ° :
\’.“yank-and-file" supporters, mostly young Japanese —
-. students, Organizationally, Beheiren has no cone
* formal membership system, so its base of support
' ers is fluid and not precisely measurable.. - |
».. However, the base support for Beheiren has oe {
1
2

 

 

 

“SECRET as

 
14-00000 -

SECRET

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

oe nen

  

* definitely been | on the upswing during 1967, and

- made such notable strides during the past summer .
that JCP Headquarters officials. finally felt. c.f
constrained to note with concern that Beheiren ; -
Was .beginning to drain off a growing number of Te
progressive youth who otherwise would have been
absorbed into the JCP’s own youth movement, ot
Beheiren leaders have tried to help this growth
along by setting up a youth section, calling it.
-"Young Beheiren." Beheiren's imaginative actions °
. and publicity-conscious programs have been

-, responsible for its recent growth, and this
period of growth seems to be now on the verge
of really gaining momentum. As a result of its “*
role in the case of the four deserting. sailors,
Beheiren has reaped bountiful publicity, has
succeeded in touching-a delicate Japanese’ public.
nerve of sympathy and pacifism, opening a flood-~
gate of support for Beheiren from all over Japan. |
_ When this'case fades from the limelight, it is . 9: i”
still most likely that a fair percentage of the.
current wave of popular support for Beheiren
will. solidify into permanent mass backing,
giving Beheiren, for the first time, a meaning~
“ful base to ‘support its future activities. :

  

     
 
 

(5) Activities ‘and Accomplishments: Beheiren
has engaged in a humber of propaganda actions,
‘and participated in international anti-Vietnam °
:War activities. . It has tried to cooperate with
certain front activities in Japan controlled by
the JCP, most notably the Japan Committee to
~“Tavestigate War Crimes in Vietnam activities,
-Which culminated in the Tokyo Court of August
1967, but has been soundly and rudely rebuffed -
by the JCP, In spite of this, Beheiren has
‘churned’ along at its own pace, with a continu-
‘ing series of anti-Vietnam War actions, most of :
“them related in some way to the American pacifist ~
movement, In this regard, Beheiren has succeeded -
in.cornering a virtual monopoly on Japanese
. contacts with U.S. pacifist movements and .
effectually capitalized on this to promote its —-
own action program. The case of the’ four
.. deserting sailors, while an apparent lucky
“windfall for Beheiren, only points up the fact
that Beheiren, through past organizational work ;
and promotional activities, was ready and capable |

 

 

el. soe o a est, '

~ SECRET

 
