 

>

22,

23.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-~8-=- : CS-311/04298-64

Administration Department. The same safehouse is used for suc-
cessive ‘Agents, ‘but only one is trained there at a time. Follow-
ing the agent's operational, plan as laid down by the case officer,
the MI Department provides instruction in the necessary skills :
through its own sections and vartous departments of the DGI out-

Side the operational departments.

All illegal agents are trained in normal tradecraft elements such.
as clandestine meetings, election and use of dead drops, recruit-—
ment of agents, establishment ond operation of agent nets (only
for agents specifically intended for network direction), use of
informants and collaborators, photography. and some form of com-
munication, Practice in operational techniques such as surveile-
lance and counter-surveiliance and servicing dead drops is given
in appropriate sections of.Havana, Each agent in addition is in-
structed on ‘matters relating to his particular mission, and is
given whatever communications training he will need, Communica-
tions receives special. emphasis because all arrangements must be
made during the training period, Techniques include secret writ-
ing, codes and ciphers, radio transmission and reception, micro-
dots, and microfilm. Only a few agents are trained in the latter
two techniques, and not all are trained in radio, but almost all
receive instruction on secret writing, which is the most widely
used means of communication between agents in the field and their
ease officers, The type of communications training the agent will
reccive is usually discussed with the case officer by the MI
Department, but sometimes the MI Department decides without con-
sultation and sometimes if consults the SI Department for opera~
tional background on the country where the agent will work.

The ST Section (Technical Section - Seccion Tecnica) of the MI
Department has the main responsibility for agent communications
training and itself conducts the training in secret writing, It
first requests the LG Section (Chemical Laboratory - Laboratorio
Quimico) of the MI Department to devise and prepare a secret
writing ‘system - for the agent's use. Most systems depend on
sympathetic inks made with salt, blood, urine, and other materials;
the type assigned the agent. is determined by his mission and
operational situation, Each agent receives a different system,
although two agents working in the same operation use the same

 

, system, An agent normally learns two systems, one for incoming

correspondence, development only, and one for outgoing corres-~
pondence, preparation only. In addition, if he is to direct an
agent network of his own which requires internal clandestine com-
munication, he is taught a third system, both preparation and
development, for use in the network, The case officer not only
doés not participate in the training but knows very little about
the secret writing systems, since the processing of messages from
agents in the field is handled by the ST Section and he receives
only the developed text, and the ST Section, for reasons of
security and compartmentation, refuses to teli the case officer
anything specific about communications,

The ST Section trains the agent thoroughly on the materials and
methods he is to use and gives him practice in processing messages
under direction, then in preparing test messages and in developing
and interpreting test messages prepared by the instructor, The
training period varies according to the complexity of the system
and the requirement for competence from the agent, In cases

‘where communications are of special importance, the instruction

may continue for two or three months with great detail, and the

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
 

24.

25.

26.

S-E-C-R-B-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-9- CS=311/04298-64.

agent is expected to attain a high standard of performance, An
ager: who fails the course may have to. repeat it, if the cpera=
ttonal plan requires it and his schedule permits, Training
nofrially continues until the agent has achieved the desifed
ficienty; anvevaluation of his ability fs included 1
file, |Actually, however, secret writing training ha
uniformly successtdl in BGI cxporteni tea y ; print

tions from the agent in the field coutd not. at headquarters
because the secret writing was improperly prepared, and agents.

have also had difficulty 1n deciphering messages sent to. then,

\

 
     
   

 
    

‘Agents ‘never write directly to BG] neadquatters; all their mail

in both directions goes through accommodation addrésses,. usually

-in another Gountry. Instruction in selection and use of accom-.

anokner ce
modation addresses is given by the NS Departmeat (Department of

Legal Centers - Departamento Centros Legales), which haadles DGI
field stations and thei corréspondencé, because . accommodation
addresses are usually in countries where Cuba has official repre-
sentation and the field station services the letter drops, Out=< |
going communications toa agents go by diplomatic pouch to the field 4
station ead are dailed from there to the agent. Agent letters to
headquarters go te an accommedation address, where they are picked
up by the field station and forwarded by diplomatic pouch. The
country used for incoming communications 15 usually different from
that for outgoing: an agent in El Salvador, for example, may send
his reperts to Havana via Mexico and receive headquarters direc-
tions and replivs via Paris, Tht MIS D:partment controls the
assignment of accommodation addr~sses. Since the DG] believes

that there is less dirger of -sposing th- agent if his cover

letters containing secret writing are as realiStic and natural as
possible, the agent is briefed not only on the accommodation

address to which he is to write, but alse on the persons who
actually live there--ages, tackgrcund, relationships, etc,--so

that he can refer te tarthdays and personal int-rests or family
events, The agert 15 also taught selection of plausible but not
genurne return addresses for his Outgoing communications.

   
 
 

Agents who are to learn ccdes and ciphers and radio transmission
and reception are trained by the ST Section, which has its own
radio transmitter for irstruction purposes, The radios the
agentS use in training are precured in their own countries and
are adapted for cland:stine use by the ST Section; most such
equipment is Western-made, ard much of it is American, The agent
learns transmission and ree:pticn and also is taught how to adjust
a commercial radio to his individual requitrments and how to make
minor repairs on it. H~- way Jearn the standard Morse code but
usually is taught a num-tical code arranged in groups. As with
secret writing, the case ¢fficer knows little about the actual
mechanics of the radic communications arrang-mentsS because radio
messages are process+ Jj cutsids the operational departments and
reach him only in the form of clear text, and because compart-
mentation keeps him from acquiring technical knowledge.
Similarly, he knows little abcut the profaciency required of the
agent and sees only the final evaluation report prepared by the
ST Section for the agent's personal file.

{f the agent is also to receive trdining in microfilm and micre-
dot techniques, the ST Section arranges with the LF Section
(Photographic Laboratory - Laboratorio Fotografico) of the MI
Department for the use of equipment and the assignment of a
syStem and then itself gives the training. The LF Section has

 

$-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
 

 

18,

19,

20,

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-7T-9 : CS-311/04298-64

except the ones to which they are specifically assigned for train-
ing, ind never enter any DGI official establishment or the case
officer's home, .

A foreign agent candidate arriving in Cuba is first debriefed by
the case officer on his background and qualifications, since up

to that time the DGI has only advance notice of his selection and
knows Little about him. The interview is recorded, but without
the trainee's knowledge, On one occasion in early 1964 a case
officer arranged to meet a new trainee in a Havana restaurant for
the preliminary interview, The case.officer provided himself with

' @ pocket tape recorder, which he tested in advance and found was

in good order, When he started to record the interview, however,
he discovered that he had either forgotten to adjust the mechan-
isn after ‘he had tested it, cr he pushed the playback instead of
the record button; the restaurant was suddenly electrified by a
voice saying: “Testing, ons, two, three; testing, one, two,
three." The interview was hastily concluded and was rescheduled
the next day in the safehouse where the agent, a Guatemalan, was
lodged: in this case, of course, the agent was aware that it was
being recorded, The results of the interview are entered in a
biegraphical questionnaire covering all aspects of the agent's
family situation, political viows, background and education,
employment experience, connections, and intelligence potential;
the document forms the basis of the agent's DGI personal file.

In addition, the agent is required to write a complete report on
the operational situation in his country, including types and
Styles of dress, eating habits, working beurs and holidays,
location of public buildings and places of entertainment, the
press and its type and circulation, urban and rural transporta-
tron, educational facilities, airlines, personal documents for
idectification, and lecal linguistic idioms.

In cases where an intelligence agent is selected from among
guerrilla trainees, he may remain under the jurisdiction of the
LN Department, which retains him as a guerrilla agent but arranges
for his training as an illegal agent also, Training for intel-
ligence work, however, iS always separate from guerrilla training
and is not revealed to the Communist Party or leftist group
sponsoring the agent, who becomes, in effect, a Semi-overt Cuban
agent in guerrilla activities and a clandestine agent in intel-
ligence reporting or other functions, One such agent, trained in
Cuba in 1963, was returned to the Dominican Republic about mid-
1963: he carries on revolutionary activities with the Dominican
Popular Movement (slovimiento Popular Deminicane - MPD) as a knowa
Cuban-trained guerrilla and at the Samé time works as an illegaY
agent (under the LN Department), without the knowledge of his MPD
colleagues, as a penetration of the MPD,

The ‘case officer from the Illegal Department arranges for the com-
plete support of the agent during training, providing him lodging
in a private house or apartment, Supplying his food and clothing
and personal equipment from the DGI warehouse as is done for
guerrilla agents, and keeping him in pocket money. If the agent
is married, the expenses of his dependent family are also covered
by the DGI, The case officer does not give any instruction, but
arranges with the’ MI Department (Department of Technical Opera-
tional Support) of the DGI for training the agent in the skills
he will require for his future mission, The MI Department has no
schools or regular training sites but uses private houses or
apartments, which are procured and maintained by the DGI General

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
 

14,

15,

16,

.

-S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

~6- , CS-311/04293-64

Practice im guerrilla warfare and weapons and explosives handling
is. given on the school premises in Havana, In addition, both dur-
ing the course and near its conclusion, groups of students are

- taken to the Escambray Mountains in Las Villas Province to put

their training into practice and to Jearn to live off the country.
They are integrated into regular Cuban army units ‘for short
periods and take part in any military activities then in progress,
During 1963, for example, a group‘of Guatemalans and a group of
Salvadorians were taken separately to the Escambray and partici-
pated in the operations then being conducted by the Cuban army
against antt-Castro guerrillas in the area,

Guerrilla students are required to meet a standard of complete
familiarity with all the-information and material forming part of
their instruction, Examinations are given regularly; students
who fail them are required to repeat the instruction. A student
may haye to repeat the entire course if he cannot pass the neces-
sary examinations, There are many failures, An agent candidute
who proves completely incapable of mastering the course is :
removed from the school, and an- effort is made to find him a
special job elsewhere, During the course, the instructors issue
monthly reports to the school administration, both on the course
as a whole and on the performance of each student. A copy is sent
to the case officer, Reporting on students covers personal
attitude, discipline, capability in study, political level, etc.

While guerrilla training is in progress, two special preparations
for the future are made, The first is the arrangement of the
agent's travel to his target area, either his own country or
another, Passports and other documents are prepared for his use
on the return trip; funds are allocated for his future activity;
and provisions are made for his carrying money or possibly special
equipment back with him if that is required, The second thing is
the assessment of the trainee for other possibilities, Through-
out the course he is observed and evaluated; if he shows more than
usual aptitude and ability, he comes under consideration as a

potential intelligence agent for collection of information or

-penctration of his home government.

If a trainee is assessed as
Suitable for intelligence-agent work, he is removed from the
guerrilla course and receives special instruction for more
clandestine and more complicated tasks,

Training of Intelligence Agents

17,

Intelligence (illegal) agents, from whatever source they are drawn
(foreigners visiting or resident in Cuba, contacts of DGI agents
or organizations abroad, or guerrilla trainees selected for
Superior abilities), come under the DGI [Illegal Department, which
iS responsible for their recruitment, training, and subsequent
handling. Since they are truly clandestine agents, their rela-
tionship with the DGI requires special security from its incep-
tion, They travel to Cuba alone rather than in a group, and in
Cuba they are kept apart from other persons of their own nation-
ality and from one another, Agents of Cuban nationality are also
kept apart from other nationalities and during training lead
normal lives as far as possible. Both Cubans and foreigners are
kept from, contact with the Cuban Government or official circles
to avoid suspicion of any government connection, As with guer-
rilla trainees, agents are assigned pseudonyms for use ‘with the
general public in Cuba and for use in field operations later,
Agents are not allowed any knowledge of any DGI installations

S-E-C-R-E-T .
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
 

8.

10.

-ing Section,

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-~-4- CS-311/04298-64

consulate? Since there are no official Cuban missions in Central
America, the agent nogmally makes his way to Mexico and obtains
has Cuban visa there, In order to keep secret from the author-
ities in his own country that he is going to Cuba, the agent
candidate gives another destination, and the Cuban consular :
offices ‘help by issuing his Cuban visa on a separate sheet of ’
paper instead of-stamping it in his passport.4 The agent candi-
date may pay his own passage, but usually he is supplied funds or
ah airline ticket through a local DGI agent or the leftist group
to which he belongs; the funda are issued by the Central Process-
Whether he ts issued a ticket or given money to buy
his own, the funds originate with the DGI and are forwarded to
the candidate's area through the DGI representation in the Cuban

Embassy in Mexico,
DGI officers attached. to Cuban consulates are alerted to assist

agent candidates in their travel. The agent is given a password,
which varices from place to place; agents from El Salvador, for

- example, are told to mention “Mauricio.” When a DGI officer at a

consulate interviews visa applicants, he expedites the visa for
anyone uSing the proper password; if the password is not used, he
stalls the applicant for several days while he cables Havana for
authority to issue a visa. If the visa is issued in Mexico, the
agent trainee is given a plane ticket on Cubana, the Cuban Govern-
ment airline, and is ‘cld when he ts to leave, Accommodations and
subsistence are provided if the trainee has to wait for passage.
Agent candidates from British Guiana sometimes travel to Cuba by

small boats, not regular shipping service,

Agent trainees going to Cuba use a variety of cover stories. For
the local authorities, their travel is to some other destination,
often as tourists, students, or laborers, For their own group,

no cover story is required; for their families and friends, tour~
ist or Student travel is the usual explanation, For persons out-
side the group, if Cuba is known as the destination, the cover
story is a scholarship for study at a Cuban school or university.
Groups of trainees from the same leftist organization often travel
together from their own country to Mexico and thence to Cuba, but
intelligence agent trainees always travel alone,

Upon arrival at the Havana airport, trainees are met by DGI
officers appearing as ICAP officials, The DGI has an arrangement
with the Cuban immigration authorities under which persons of DGI
interest are cleared through entrance formalities without compli-
cations, The trainees are placed in hotels while final training
arrangements are made, then are transferred to the schools where
their training will be given, or to private houses or apartments
if they are intelligence trainees. The case officer from the DGI
department which will thenceforth control their activities is re-
sponsible for them during their stay in Cuba, Using the funds
allotted by the department, he provides them lodging, food, per-
sonal expenses; medical care, and anything else they need during
the training period; shoes, clothing, and personal itens are
drawa for them from the DGt warehouse,

As tar aS possible, DGI trainees live the normal life of students
and use the cover story that they are studying on Cuban Government
scholarships. Their movements in Havana are not restricted,
except that arrangements are made to keep them away from fellow-
citizens visiting or living in’Cuba, Since most of their train-
ing is given in Havana, and the course is intensive, they do not

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
 

li.

 

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREICN DISSEN

-~ §- CS-311/04298-64

usually travel to other parts of Cuba during the instruction
period, unless they are taken by the scheel te participate in
national campaigns for which all students are dratted, such as
cane-cutting and coffee-picking, After the training course is
completed, if there is any delay in returning students to their
own country, they may travel outside Eayana; trips are arranged
and financed by the DGI liaison officer in ICAP. During délay
periods, however, they are at the disposal Gf the school, which
may use them in "voluntary" campaigns er other ways, Guerrilla
agents of the same nationality are kept tcgether if they belong
to the same organization, but trainees from different organiza-
tions of the same country are s«parated. Trainees of two nation-
alities are never put together, and forsigners are. never grouped
with Cubans, In both livirg quarters and training, the illegal
intelligence agent is separated from guerrilla agents, A111
trainees are encouraged to have as little contact as possible
with persons outside th school,

Upon arrival in Cuba, eack agent_is assigned a pseudenym, which
he uses throughout his training. actually, within the guerrilla
schools, students in either large or small groups use their real
names, since their identitics are usuaily krewn to their fellows
from earlier association or traveling together, The pseudonyn is
primarily a means ef protecting ths Student from identification
by persons outside the school. For a time, the Dul used the
pseudonym only during the triuining period and assigned another
pseudonym when the agent returned homy, but the confusion ef keepe

“ing separate files was so great that the training pseudonym ¥as

adopted as perman-nt. Sometimes, however, pscudonyms are still
changed, for security reasors, when the student leaves Cuba or
aft-=>: he has returned to thy field.

 

Training of Guerrilla Agents

122,

13,

The LN Department, and specifically th- case oftacer in charg? of
a group of agents to be trained as guérrillas, arvanges for their
instruction in the ER Department (Department cf Special Schools -
Departamento Escuelas Especiales) of the per./ The case officer
himself does not conduct the training, which is entirely an EE
Department responsibility. The stud+nt group is assigned to one
of the EE Department schcols in Havana, by natienality; training
groups are as large as 25 and a3 sm21] as three ot four persons.
Courses last three to Six months, depending cn the type of train-
ing and the ultimate mission cf the agents, but in special cases
may last as long as a year (two Guatemalars wars trained that
long). The instructors are ail military, drawn from the Cuban
army; there is one for each military specialty, and a political

anstructor,

Training covers all aspects of guerrilia warfar-, weapons hand-
ling, explosives, Sabotage, demolition, nilitary tactics, coxzbat
engineering, etc,, aS well as means of countering anti-guerrilla
activities, Weapons are of both American and Communist-Bloc
provenance, Some specialized training 1s given, for example,
there is a school for frogmen at the meuth of the Jaimanitas River
in Barlovento, west of Havana, and two Guatemalans and a Dominican
were trained as frogmen during 1963. Guerrilla agents do not
normally, however, receive any communications training (secret
writing, radio, ete.}: when they return home, their channel of
communication for sending information and receiving instruction
and support is through the organized group to which they belong.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEW
 

bj

Hdgrs_Dissém

WH/ COPS
WH/PO/A
WI/PO/B
WH/1

WH/2 .
wH/3 :
WH/3/¥
WH/4

WH/5

WH/6

WH/R

WH/SA/EOB
WH/SA/MOB
WH/SA/R :
WH/SA/ Int
WwH/SA/CI
WH/SA/SO/NS

Ci/Staft
Ci Liaison
CI/R&A
RID/AN

AF/1
AF/"?
AF/3
AF/4
ANI?
AK/CL

EE/K
EE/SA
EE/BR
EE/YA
EE/H
EE/
EE/C
EE/IIS

FE/PMI/1T
FE/JKO/JO

. FE/JSKO/K

FE/VNC/¥N
FE/R
FE/CI,

NE/AA/LES
NE/AA/AP
NE/AA/E
NE/AA/I
NE/5/P
NE/G/C&L
NE/tntel
NE/CL

WE/1
WE/2

w .
(lh eel coll eel el el od an hoe ee ee he

—
Ko]

tae pas ata bet bat ie

dad ol ell a

ed

2

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- la e@

WE/3
WE/4
WE/S
WE/BC
WE/R

SR/CI
SR/CI/K
SR/RR
SR/0/WH

Wat pad nd pad ak pd! pal Pad

Field Dissem_

WH/MEXI 1
WH/MNTY 1
es a

 

 

WH/SA/WAVE 5

CS-311.04

293-64

 

a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TE t

1
IE i) 1
L/WASH U 1

 

 

 

 

S-~E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
 

 

104-10186-10109

  

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ,

‘This material containe information abecting the Netwesi Defense of the Cottes Mare wtinin the meaning of the Baptonage Lawn True
RETURN TO CHAI Cec acca m9 ane 196, ite Lranusimica oe rerviawre of Dich Ib Any waste Ss aa uaaulbertand: perwoe le prohibited ty lew,

 

Rackground Use Only S-E-C-R-E-T
Do Not Reproduce NO PORFIGN DISSEN
CounTRY Cuba xepoRT NO, = CS-311/04298-64
SuMECT Selection and Training of Cuban date msTa = =—«-12 October 1964

ee

- PLACE & - sy
OATE ACQ. June 196-4

Intelligence Agents Abroad
an NO. PAGES 1¢

REFERENCES - CS-311/00115-64 ,

OaATE OF 1963-1964

INFO.

ARDS PORT NO.

THs is UNEVALUATEO INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE,

source: A former Cuban intelligence officer who served with the Cuban
Inteliigencs Service until April 1964. ¢

°

Introduction

1, The Cuban foreign intelligence service, the General Directorate of
Intelligence (Direccion General de Inteligencta - DGI), in dis-
charging wts function of protécting Cuban interests and security
and proneting the religacs of the Cuban Government, employs agents
of many nathonatities, Although its activities extend to Europe
and Africa, itS principal agent strength is in Latin America,
Agents have in general two types of assignments: collection of
information on the local government and the local situation, and
promotion of revelutionwry activity, including guerrilla warfare,
Ali DGI agents abread are therefore divided into two basic cate-
gories according to function: intelligence agents charged with
collection cf information and penetration of local governments and
organizations, who are truly clandestine, i.€., are not’ known in
their target countries as Cuban agents: and guerrilla warfare and
Satotage agents, charged with directing and supporting revolution-
cary activities, who are often known as Cuban agents to the local
Communist and leftist groups with which they work, The two types
of agents are trained separately and are controlled by different
departments 1m the DGI neadquarters in Havana, intelligence agents

by the [llegal Department (Departamento Llegal,called Ilegal) and
guerrilla agents by the LN or National © iberation Department

(epartareazo Liberacion Nacional).

 

Agent Selection
Agent vescesten

2, The DGI employs sore agents of Cuban nationality, as opposed to
stafl members working abroad, They function as intelligence agents,
.C., Clandestine agents under the Illegal Department, and are

S~E-C-R-E-T Gea
NO FOREIGN DISSEM apecmpriyeral
peree er

ee

 

 

      

REPCINCLANT C3
(ate: Foald diwvibetion Indicated by te7)

- “ an a T =
—F 4 NP (AMMUC~1)
for Distrib fon Seas. ac ‘e CS-311/0-2298-6
{

‘LS 2 (ror AF oR “ACST,_O} ON r, SY, FBI DIA - 2
versus fe 3, Ch 21, REN AN 1, WH/SA 46 (5), SR ASS

Ho23 Cot, AF OR (8) EF gs’ 410), FE 12 (8), NE Yi (19), FI

 

 
 
 
 

 

  

 

  
  
  
 
 
  

 

        

 

1
 

@t the time of his recruitment.

S~E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-~-2- CS-311/04298-64

recruited by that department. Of three known agents in this cate-
gory, one was a member of the Cuban internal security service, the

Department of State Security (Departamento de Scguridad del
Estado -. DSE), Julia Danasy Vasquez. We was a trained parachutist
Two other known agents, Rafael

Guzman and “Chino” (name unknown), were recruited because they
were friends of one of the Tilegal Department officers, Saul
Gonzalez, One criterion for recruitment is that the agent sball
not have a wide circle of acquaintance,

Agents of other nationalities are usually recruited by agreement

- between a DGI officer and the local Communist or leftist organiza-

tion to which the person belongs, but there are other possibie
sources, ,

a, Foreigners visiting Cuba. Most foreign visitors to Cuba are
handied by the Cuban Institute of Friendship with Peoples
(institute Cubano del Amistad con los Pueblos ~- ICAP), which
arranges for their travel to Cuba, their itineraries, lodging,
and entertainment while there; and their return travel to
their homes or other destinations. The DGI has an arrangement
with ICAP under which members of the DGI MO Department )

 

(Department of Illegal Centers ~- Departamento Centros Ilegales
meet and interview forcign visitors for the purpose of extract-.

ing any information of value to Cuba and of assessing them as
potential agents, Contacts are so well camouflaged as normal
ICAP courtesies that few of the visitors realize that they ure
in touch with an intelligence agency, The DGI does not deal
with foreign diplomats, who ure the responsibility of the DSE,
but it has access to any other foreigners. If the MO Depart-
mene considers any visitor a potential agent, especially if he
shows a Marxist or extreme leftist attitude, it reports his
name and whatever it has learned about him to either the
Tllegal Department of the DGI, which handles intelligence
agentS not in contact with local Communist or leftist groups,
or the LN Department, which works with guerrilla ayents in
contact with such groups. Referral is made on the basis of
membership in or attachment to an organized group. In no case
does the MO Department recruit the agent; that privilege is
reserved for the operational departments.

b. Foreigners resident in Cuba, The BC Section (Colonial Bureau -
Bure Colonial) of the SI Department (Department of Information
ervices - Departamento Servicios de Infermacion) of the DGI
is responsible for Screening foreigners residing in Cuba
(except diplomats} for potential agents, Like the MO Depart~
ment, the BC Section makes no actual recruitments, but reports
potential agents to the Illegal or LN Department, according to
whether they are or are not affiliated with an organized group.

Persons volunteering information from abroad, The MO Depart-
ment is also responsible for screening letters from persons
abroad who volunteer information or support to the Cuban
Government. Its principal aim is to extract any useful in-
formation from such letters, but it also notes any persons who
appear to have agent potential and refers them to the proper
operational department for consideration,

 

Members of Communist Parties and organized leftist groups in
Latin America, The group recommends to a DGI contact--an
orficer on a trip to the area, a local representative or agent,

S-F-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DESSEM

yf

 
74-0000

we! ; : S-F-C-R-E-T
: SG PCREIGN DISSEA

~3- : CS-322 °01298-64

cv a headquarters officer ar Cuba tf a group official is
: . visiting ther: --any of ats members as candidates fer guerrilla
Craintsg in Cuba or ir thetr own country. The DGE and the
Kroup agrees on which ef tho candidates are most suitable, A
DGI agent «ocking with the group may also recomrend members
for trairane, generally as guerrilla Cighters but possibly
also as clardesting tuteliigence agents: in the first instance,
the recorm-naiiion is known to the group, but in the second
is kept esor-t from it,

Recruited agents sent te Cuba for guerrilla warfare training.
DGI offactr: chearve guerrilla warfare and sabotage agents

. during their ¢raining in Cuba and select those of special
potentias fer recruitment as unilateral intelligenc: agents,

e.

 

f, Agents of ctrer intelligencs services, The DGI sometimes re-
eruits 4+ deuble agents employees of hestile inteiligence
Servic.4s vitn whem it comes inte centact, Such agents may
also te tired cver to the DGI by the DSE if it has riecgnized -

and cecrult.d them, - : . lof

4. When an agent variidaty is preposed, the Illegal or LN Department
reviews the: avai iit information about him, If Ke 15 aon Cuba,
it may roquns! tbs DSE to conduct an investigation; the DGI -
Inspection D.partr, (Departamento Inepeceion), which deals
primarily with Des tart Personnel, has Totes for submission to
the DSE requester, an investigation, Sinen the DG? decs not re-
veal th? gi-rteties of its irtelligence (illegai)d agents to the
DSE, not all teent var dadates ace thus investigated, The eopera-
tional departqonts select thrir agents on the basis of all the
Ava abe anfecnat os a personal recommendation from a DGI
stait member cor + ed agent. The candidate is then recruited,
Cuban agents 1 avars of tte government agency for which they
are working, be nts af offer rationalities ar! net: guecrilla
agentS are reers te work for theie own organization, eostensi-
bly, and inte liigtsus: agents are usually aware oniy that they are
working for tb Cuban Government. They may belis that thty are
under the joriedliction of tas Cuban army bscaus? maaitary person

. fhe: tmetruction, and thea mera sophisticated may

nel give scr:
believe they a ke the DSE, which is widely known as aa in-

telligence organ,

Preliminary Tra
5. When a Cuban agent is recruited, a schedule fer his training is
? arranged ap cack a way that he can continue his aermal minner of.

living. It be emblcyed in an office cr factory, h. continues
in his regular : and the training is set up for his free time,
If he is inumyp , nO goers cna living just as he has betere, and
the training is wrduied for heurs when his absences frem has
usual haunts 18 sot neticeable,

 

  

   

 

    
 

 

  
  

    
    

 

   

  
    
 
 

 

un

 

 
  

6, Agents fron forvign countries are usually brought te Cuba for
training in caither entetitgernce Cr gucrrilbla-satotags activities,
The DG as netitie¢d of the agent's selection through channels
from the field, ard the Central Processing (Tramirss; Seeticn of
the LN De partment handles arrangements for thi tve 1] te and
from Cuba, Normally the agent candidate uses his own travel docu-
ments, but src imes the group to which he belongs provides a
passport bei re to a fellow citizen who has already been to
Cuba, He mus! ‘Ubtain his Cuban visa through the near-st Cuban

 

 

   

   

S-£-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
