 

4. South Vietnam: Advised Rusk that I felt the situation was
most serious, the government was very fragile, that there was little
meaningful reporting from the Embassy, MACV, or the Station.
There was no evidence of Country Team operation and increased evidence
of Viet Cong activities and victories. The Secretary had no particular

program in mind.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6. [Reviewed the Ghana ‘sstuation briefly. Concurred in the
withdrawal of our Ambassador. Objected to the appointment of Edgar
Kaiser as a government emissary because of conflict of interest. I ‘
pointed out that Kaiser would wish to "patch up things" because of his \
contract in Ghana. Advised Rusk that I felt the Congress or the American
public would not be happy with our commitments of $2.00 odd million
to the Ghana enterprise and have them tearing up the American flag
and discrediting our intentions. Rusk thought that we might tell Kaiser;
that his projects were, down.the drain because of Nkrumah's attitude |
and let him move in on Nkrumah in order to save his own enterprises. i
This matter was left in a tentative status.

y

 

Rusk then raised the question of the ability of General Nkrah
to take over the government. I advised that the General, in our opinion, |
was well respected in Ghana, but not inclined to accept responsibility. |

ACTION: Rusk asked that I explore this prospect fully 3 and

 

Sore Ty (eyprus. | The Secretary expressed concern over the danger

of placing U.S. troops in Cyprus in fear they will be singled out by -
violent mobs anda serious situation would result. He asked our appraisal
of the consequences of U.S. troops joining the NATO forces and the

prospects: of the dangerous s situation on developing: ] we

-3-

 

 
 

   

98

(ACTION: We should prepare an opinion for Rusk on
this matter promptly. 7
'

8. (Rusk raised eA question of DIA briefing reserve officers
in Congress. He expressed great bitterness and said he was prepared
to issue an order that no State Department communications go to DIA
because he had learned that many very sensitive cables had been read
at DIA briefings to selected members of Congress. The Secretary felt
so strongly that if this practice was not stopped he would tender his |
resignation, I urged him to take no action until I had discussed the
matter at USIB because I had been concerned over the. same problem
but I thought USIB was the proper facility to restrain this activity by —

DIA.] 96

9. (Discus sed sensitive problem with Foreign Minister Bhutto

-in Pakistan which I agreed to talk over with Critchfield and report to

the secre]

3Al |

 

 
 

€ c

Reviewed briefly the North Vietnam operations (with
Secretary McNamara joining us) and I recommended that the
decision as to who would be in charge should be resolved by
the Secretary and myself, and should not be put up to the Ambas-
sador.and the Country Team. > We briefly reviewed for Secretary
Vance the scope of ‘the operations since he will be dealing with |
the subject regularly in the Special Group meetings in the future.
Secretary McNamara agreed, in a subsequent telephone call, to
have draft instructions prepared and coordinated with State and
the White House after securing CIA's approval.

Gilpatric explained the details of the Cuban operation to

Vance who was quite familiar with them because of his work on

the Cuban Task Force. I stated that President Johnson had ordered
all special operations withheld pending a thorough review of the
Cuban policy, and that Mr. Bundy said this review should be made
the first week in February because of his and my absence from the
city during the last two weeks of January. Vance felt this was too
late, that we should review the policy and determine the future .
course at once. I said this was perfectly satisfactory with me..
General Carter, supported by Messrs. Helms and FitzGerald, knew

‘all about it, were thoroughly familiar with my views and were

empowered to discuss policy from CIA's point of view.

JAM:mem

 
foesese-ote] * . . pho
| - C €

ee -

74 ‘2

14 January 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: ‘Meeting with Secretaries Gilpatric and Vance at lunch this date

Earlier in the day Secretary McNamara had advised me that
Deputy Secretary Vance would assume all responsibility of DoD/CIA
relationships, Special Group activities, etc. heretofore handled
by Gilpatric. _ og
Gilpatric explained in detail the background of the formation of
NRO, the problems that we have encountered, the successes and failures
of the satellite reconnaissance effort, the need for using the special
skills of CIA and the resources of the Air Force and finally the Fubini
memorandum of January 13, He said that the plan outlined by Fubini !
seemed logical, that CIA's special skills rested in imaginative : h
development, that once a system was developed and operating it a
‘could be handled as a routine operation by Air Force fulfilling require-
‘ments and schedules established and approved by USIB upon recommenda-
tion of COMOR, that he felt Air Force desire to engage in development
: should be respected and they should pursue the perfection of and
ultimately the improvement of the GAMBIT, and while all this was good
he had not discussed the subject with McMillan. However he stated
| that the plan provided for the utilization of the special resources of both ,
organizations. sn 4
_oreanina ions) a gg PoE arora ar
g ((McCone stated that he agreed, he traced for Vance's information
the background of U-2 development, CORONA development and now
OXCART, he reviewed the "philosophical" approach to reconnaissance
traditional with the Air Force which contrasted sharply with the needs
of the intelligence community, finally that he felt that a plan such as
that covered by the Fubini memorandum was O.K, if we really adhere
to it, provided appropriate funding and gave the whole NRO effort
proper direction at the level of SecDef (or Deputy SecDef) and DCI,
McCone raised the question of Under Secretary of the Air Force
running a line organization, expressed preference for a civilian in
the position of Under Secretary of the Air Force or Assistant Secretary
of Defense with a small staff for planning, : programming, budget
review, etc,, with actual physical operations of a more or less routine
nature being handled by an Air Force command. McCone pointed out
that McMillan was leaving and this would present a 2 problem.)

t

 

 

 

 

ert

All agreed the approach was reasonable, that many details had
to be worked out, no decisions were sought or made, and.the subject

would be further discussed, |

JAM/mfb

Loe
’

 

oe

 

6 February 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Discussion with Secretary Rusk at Luncheon, 6 February,
12:45 - 2:30 p.m. :

“1. General discussion of relations with the President. The
Secretary felt that he was preoccupied with many problems, such as
Congressional relations, press relations, election, etc. The Secretary
is taking more responsibility than he did under Kennedy. A great
many matters are being settled at Rusk's desk and not referred to the
White House. Rusk generally concerned over Administration management
technique, agreed that we are still ina shakedown period. He felt the
President was working very hard -- perhaps too hard, but effectiveness
and method of administering office is not yet fully developed.

Ve 2. Cuba. After reviewing the situation I stated that I was not
‘/ at all satisfied with our policy with respect to Cuba. "Iwas convinced
(& that Castro had turned the corner and would very probably grow stronger
as he improved his economic situation and gained popularity, I stated
that I felt he had passed the low point and barring unforeseen economic
or political problems would improve in his image ‘and in his acceptance
in the future. Therefore, we could expect more provocation in Panama,
“Venezuela, and practically all other Latin American States. I said that
Iwas in disagreement with the paper which had been prepared by the
Crimmins Committee,which was being considered by Secretary Mann
today, because it outlined and overstated Castro's difficulties and
outlined-a plan of action which would not overthrow Castro or for that
matter cause him unacceptable hardships. Furthermore, many of the
actions would give Castro a good propaganda platform. I stated that
Castro had passed the point of no return, as far as.I.was concerned,
and that he was conducting himself in a manner and carrying out
provocative acts which had been declared by. President Kennedy,
President Johnson (when he was Vice President) and Secretary Rusk
himself as being totally unacceptable to the United States. I therefore
felt that all prohibitions and self-imposed restraints, such as the use
of American territory for training-of personnel, launching of provocative

 

 

CIA. HAS NO GEJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANG/OR

RELEASE GF THIS DOCUMENT
> AS SANITIZED

248
 

 

acts, etc., could be declared void. Threfore, I concluded we had one

of two courses to follow: either we move in on Castro in the most
aggressive possible way, accept attribution and destroy him by acts of
violence short of war or including war if necessary, or, as an alternative,
live with him in the hope that providence might take care of the situation.
I stated that I felt the latter was a big gamble and the prospects were
that Castro would grow stronger and as he did so he would cause
increasing trouble in all Latin American countries. In urging dynamic
action I stated that, in my opinion, we should advise Khrushchev in
advance, advise Castro in advance, and.let the public know what we had
in mind.

The. Secretary'was passed a note that, the water had been cut
off in Guantanamo, After a telephone conversation. with McNamara it
was determined that an adequate water supply was on hand,- more could
be supplied by ship and the 3,000 Cuban employees in Guantanamo could
be replaced. I suggested that we refuse admittance to‘Guantanamo of
all Cuban employees.

: vee aes GG :
(Action: NRO should immediately order continual ;
‘U-2 surveillance of the Guantanamo.areay]... .  ... ...f

 

a 3. {Panama. Reviewed with the Secretary the clandestine reports
of February hes and 5th, indicating’ Communist operations. Restated
the statement that the world opinion was thoroughly convinced that the
United States actually invaded Panama, killing Panamanians, etc, Stated
that I could not understand the reluctance on the part of the President ,
and Rusk to admit participation of Castro Communists in the Panama j
situation. Rusk expressed surprise, stating that he had in a speech made f
reference to this participation, I stated that the Crimmins paper was Mi
today being modified on State Department's orders to eliminate such |
references. Rusk said he hoped to get Chiari to the conference table |
before Castro's participation was fully publicized. I asked if Chiari {i
i
f

really knew what was happening to him and read statements from the hl

 

 

 

February 5th clandestine reports, _ ae

aR ace a

     

1
y ACTION:. Rusk suggested that I explore the advantages |;
of briefing Chiari on the growing Communist threat to his |
A i country, Rusk had no other suggestions. 7

Nope eee ope een wernt

 
