~~.

SECRET

SN

SS “intercept and photographic

coverage was not (and normally mS 0
means of acquisition and the Gee oF \o)
th

but the spot reporting of, &

ordinary interest ahd, ceo in summary logs. Full texts of

12 It must be stressed that the

 
  
 

in "real time." The
ormati on precludes anything

e monitor to be of more than

selected items require consultation of the tape and either a full tran-

scription or full translation or both. Photo coverage tends to becone

available in quantity lots which requires scanning and selection on a

rapid and accelerated basis in four or five day "peaks." One of the
"triggers" that normally operates to focus and accelerate more speedy
review and reporting of this kind of raw intelligence is the mention of
aname. This was precisely what occurred in the second of two conversa-
tions on 7 October with the Soviet Embassy, during which the speaker said

he was “Lee OSWALD." It was this information reported by the Station to

"Headquarters in its first indication on OSWALD on 8 ‘October 1963;

13. The Mexico Stati on did one hs in its 8 October report

on Lee OSWALD based on its 1 October ercepts: it coupled the

data with descriptive mas < a sensitive
collateral source--a ~ qe a apparently an
American, who was observe il Embassy on 1 October.

The Station reported this aif NS se as a matter of coincident
fact. The Station did not nah or suggest that the data deduced fron
the photo was in fact OSWALD, or indeed, was in any way related to OSWALD.

SECRET

1 tk ones
atone

PAGE |

25

_ COPY HOS

wel
SECRET

SS

; ; . A
lee Harvey OSWALD -. CIA Coverage of wer o City Sta
Ss & y
LS NS S

14, One additional element: backgxt aN ust be stipulated now as
EN 2]
the final precondition to ~ eC SSSotevance (or irrelevance)

of the photo of the unknowis <i mee laced in the chain of evidence

on 23 November in Dallas by FBI AgeWt Bardwell ODUM: what was the

 

totality of CIA Mexico's coverage of OSWALD's activity as of the after-

noon of the 23rd when all available coverage had been checked?

15. The totality of Mexico Station coverage on, or reasonably

inferable to be OSWALD, consisted of five (5) voice intercepts as follows:

a. 27 September 1963 (Friday), 1605 hours Mexico City time.
Silvia DURAN, a Mexican national, a local employee of the Cuban
Embassy, Consular section, a receptionist, speaks with an unknown
male at the Soviet Embassy. Silvia pure tells the man that the
American citizen was there, the one ts a visa for Cuba on
his way to the Soviet Union, and wo o know with whom he was
talking there because she (S4 ae sent him to the Soviet
Embassy saying that if QQ, and gave him a visa, then
the Cubans omssn Sa him a visa without further
paper work, only advising ine Sn in Cuba. The American, she
says, wants to know with whom he had talked there because he says
he was told there would be no problem. The man in the Soviet

Embassy says to wait a moment. A different Soviet speaks, and

SECRET
SECRET

&

10. At no time during his stay in pees did the CIA acquire
a photo of OSWALD. A careful review aS Ze voice ‘intercept,
as well as photographic, of both ieee an Embassies was
conducted by the Station on ce Oy 1963 after the assassina-
s

963. It is, therefore, firm

  

tion, going back tovmaterial
that there was no CIA photo coverage AS OSWALD at any time during his
Mexico trip or stay in Mexico City. Moreover, although it had made a
cabled request on 15 October, the Mexico Station had no photo of OSWALD _
in its records, nor did it receive one from Headquarters~-which did not |

have one either--before 22 November 1963.

11. buvity This intensive review of voice intercept transcripts .
by the monitor and other personnel on the basis of the 1 October inter- —
cept--which had been reported to Headquarters and disseminated to the
interested members of the intelligence community (as an ex-Marine OSWALD
was a Navy and FBI case under the “ee Agreement, and potential Ty

of interest to the Department of KG ‘ ed up matches based on

    
  
   
   
  

‘eptember 1963. These
vember 1963. Analysis
ppt could be recalled by the

.

monitor--and this was not atv ins GLQnt element because of the
memorably poor Russian spoke by OSWALD) could not be made because the

tapes, in accordance with the normal practice, had been erased and re-used.

SECRET
a

SECRET

,
1963 to about 8:30 a.m. 2 October 1963: a rtace of residence was a
Ss .
small commercial traveler hotel, noe
S

ANS
Chey "gringos"~-the
ran yea Gas. Exhaustive and

 
  

Hotel Commercio~--where he was regiSte

detailed interviews and RN

ey Mexican authorities and
the FBI, after the neni GRD hed that in the recollection of

ahd returned late each day of his stay.

 

all hotel personnel he left early

8. Assuming, and allowing for the fact of late arrival and early
departure, that he slept one-third of the time of his stay (38 or 39
hours), there remain some 78 hours of activity to be accounted for,

Overall, CIA's information can account solely for very brief periods

during 27, 28 September and 1 October. All coverage by CIA during the

entire period was technical. The Station had no live source (living

 

agent) coverage V

 

+

9. It should be noted that OSWALD was in no sense “under investi-
gation." None of the facts of his defection and stay in the USSR and
return to the U.S., 1959 - 1962, were know tlexico Station files
before 10 October 1963, when the bare his biography were

forwarded by Headquarters in ese ‘a AY cabled report of
ror

8 October which had forward Gy S is, what d
EX'S 0) is, what appeared to be

a contact by an American FN vi & ain transit to the USSR. This

was indicated and deduced from SS acquired information on

1 October, which was the first and only occasion in which OSWALD.

identified himself (partially) by true. name.

,
SECRET
gguZee-
pace 99 of
74-0000

fo SECRET
‘( CS

sensitive intelligence operation =e Nin October 1963 by the

CIA “had De path oviet and Cuban

Embassies in Mexico City.. Cy \Y

 

 

 

SS)

3. Under the xtraore SS 7 f effort to develop information
on the assassin and. the assassination, copies of the photograph were
‘made available by CIA's Mexico Station Chief on the afternoon of
22 November to the local FBI representative, and later that day,
‘assertedly on the decision of the Ambassador, copies were conveyed by
an FBI representative by a special flight carried out by the U.S. Naval
Attache to the Dallas office of the FBI for possible use in the ongoing
investigation. One photograph, cropped by the FBI, was shown to

— ( Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD (Lee Harvey OSWALD's mother) in Dallas on the

' evening of 23 November 1963 by FBI Agent Bardwell D. ODUM.

4, The Warren Commission's report describes the sequence of events
at pp. 364-365 and 667 (Attachment B) mm Aime resulted in .
Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD’s allegation th oe been shown a cropped
photo of Jack RUBY the day before . soot son. (A further
0

comp lication compounding enisceftyalug eh EX n was the fact that

when she had been shown S QS
i oS

before the Commission, it

  
  

ct

» otograph in her appearance
ped by the FBI in Washington in

a slightly different manner.) >

5. No detail in the Warren Commission report illustrates more

vividly than this one the difficulties that beset simple truth in the

SECRET ©

CuuZe7e

   
SECRET

NS
politicized, rigidly deterministic inte eo climate that has been

Xa

 
    

 

nurtured by the media over the pa

& She Kennedy Assassina-
tion. The photograph, acknowl iged ji ™ me e RUBY, has continued to

 

preoccupy “specialists” << ys Sie centerpiece of another
_ hypothesis that holds OSWALD te to WS, "Framed" by the use of a.

double in his activity ‘in Mexico City. 2

 

Lee Harvey OSWALD - Reporting on Mexico City Sta

6. Although in no way related to Lee Harvey OSWALD or his stay. in
Mexico City from the morning of 27 September 1963 to the morni ng of
2 October 1963, at least one set of photographs of the unidentified man
originated during OSWALD's stay there. It is important, therefore, to
an understanding of the acquisition and handling of the photographs by
the Mexico Station to review what the Station ascertained and did with
the information it developed about OSWALD Cr" City, together with

Headquarters action on that SS

7. From all credible - \an (none, incidentally,
added since. the Pst S Warren Commission),
Lee Harvey OSWALD spent x s and two (2) partial days--

about 116 hours in rae OS Mexico Qs from about 10:00 a.m. 27 September

 

2 This is the thrust of the article "The CIA and the Man Who Was Not
Oswald" by Bernard Fensterwald and George O'Toole in the New York Review
of Books, a copy of which is attached to reference (Attachment A).

3
SECRET

eeeé

mE Oe
CU ZGou

PAGE 3 2 of 3:

COPY NO.

 

 
74-0000

Se re

a

- SECRET. |, : oe

. .
. , Q oo

3. The attached report i GQ intended to bé an

answer to the Fenstexwald/0? a

. h

  
  
 

icle which Mr. Belin
epared a paragraph-
by-paragraph refutation,.and 7 that article,
< , ca é .
Es y handled by a sepa~ 7 popyrrt:
rate memorandum to PN will prepare this as Ne ”
a memorandum if theese
—" "aWLL ew
4. The point of ene QPErenced memorandum is that- ad © pet
consideration should be given now to "whether or not the oA
entire matter can be fully disclosed at this time." This. gltelt
submission is designed to make it possible for you, the ‘
IG and others whom you may desire to consult to make this
decision. The narrative-interpretive summary has been

“put together in such a way that it discloses no cyptonyms,

pseudonyms or other CIA jargon. However, its contents qo
well beyond what has been released to the public thus far
in the Warren Commission documentation. This point must
be borne in mind in making a decision on Mr. Belin's
question. To remove any question in anybody's mind about
our good faith in this matter, the narrative is backed up
by copies of actual documentation from our files. It
seems to me necessary, in reply to Mr. Belin, that he or
his representative review the documentation that backs up
the narrative. The documentation has not been keyed into
the narrative presentation, but it follows the chronologi-
cal order of presentation from 9 October into the latest
developments in the matter, and there is an overall index
to facilitate reference to individual items. [NB: There
i : i this is it.]

 
   
  
 
   
   
  
 

5, As noted above, one o hotographs taken in
Mexico City on 4 October 19 duced into the
Warren Commission public xée ex, it was intro-
duced into that record int ersions. The
Warren Commission and 4 re made fully aware in
the course of their_i i eudquarters and in ;
Mexico City of the aR 8 photograph, the fact é
that we had additional’ p Aphs of the same individual . 7%:
taken at different times i
of full knowledge of these “facts reached their own con-
clusions regarding the irrelevance of the photograph to
OSWALD and the assasdination.

 

> . { :
6. In fact, we actually hold twelve different photo~
graphs of the Unidentified Individual. Each of these artet—
reproduced in the collected documentation backing up the
narrative report (see Items 25 - 27). Chief, LA Division,

2
SECRET

ouuzeTs

pace __88 of

CORY Ne.

n
*
“

 
ototsrt00g7] 4 ; =
ie : ( (

 

SECRET. a

. A 2 May 1975 ;

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy os Operations Staff

SUBJECT :. Review of Agency Holdings regarding
, Photograph of Unidentified Individual
in Mexico City published by the
Warren Commission

REFERENCE : Letter dated 15 April 1975 by
Mr. David W. Belin, Executive Director
of the Commission on CIA Activities
within the United States, to
Mr. E. Henxy “Knoche (copy attached to
accompanying xeport)

1. This is further to, and in completion of, my
inter’m memorandum of a few weeks ago.

2. ‘The attachment is a detaile iew in narrative,
chronological order - together wi opriate comment—
ary - of our extensive aeter ce cxephe t case that
have a bearing on the Cy Go, ae s taken by
Mexico City Station on(D 1963 of an

e of a combina-—
and under the
ate to the develop-

Unidentified Individual.
tion of analytical error
stress of an urgent de
ment of the investigati sassination, a
cropped versior. of one oO 3 8 ographs of the
Unidentified Individual was troduced into the chain of
evidence in the OSWALD case on 23 November 1963 by an
FBI representative in Dallas. The successive vicissi-
tudes which have now made this event a cause celebre
right down to the present moment are detailed in the
narrative.

 
  
     
 

  

* SECRET.
eh arnet te pyc

LLSFT

poe a - cory NOL
74-0000

‘that there are still sensitivé
-fact that the operation which produced the photographs

‘at any time in the pas’

SECRETS ae

wo gn os ;
had indicated in writing to nee ops, that he.has no

objection for Mr. Belin to 4 ey is. desired with
these photographs at this <i L 1d be noted that
Mr. Fenstexrwald in 1971 Fann ally shown, by

Mr. Houston during a VESRE SEO mey, two of the

twelve photographs, 9€) h one already published
Oy r
N

  
   
   

in the Warren Commisgx (It is these two that
he has published in fT Review of Books article
which Mr. Belin attaches to(his memoxandum. )

7. It seems to me that whoever makes a decision on
whether the entire matter can be fully disclosed at this

_time should bear in mind that a subsidiary decision must
‘also be made, i.e., whether to crop or otherwise fuzz up

the background of the photographs or, alternatively, to
publish the entire run of the photographs for the first
time without taking out the background. Obviously, none
of these questions apply to the passage of this material

‘to Mr. Belin and the Rockefeller Commission itself. TI

think they should see the entire documentation as it
stands. Perhaps after that, the question of what could
be discussed and the question of “how?" and “how much?"
could be taken up with Mr. Belin himself. My personal
recommendation is that the more we can say about this
matter in a fully open and final manner, the better off
we will be as an Agency. But it is my understanding

S aspects deriving from the

 

was | and as a consequence

 

. publication at this time woulda cr me additional problems

iS-should be noted that
i ARS memorandum to
J.C. King on 22 November Oe eGPen 8 in the backup
4K Wect role in the
? the hands of. the FBI

at that level in Mexico. Al

 
     
  
  
   
   

 
 

decision to put the p

SENS

     
    
   
 

  

    

in Dallas laterally aS ES ad. As far as I know,
there has not been BK Qs shed about this aspect

   

hve we had any discussions
with the State Department

NN

Raymond G. Rocca

42sout that aspect of the matter.

Attachments:
as stated :
3
° Pa
SECRET
coy2st!
89

COPY NO. .
74-0000

oN

om

SECRET

2 May 1975
& ,
SUBJECT : The Photo of. an Unident(g & S in the Warren
Commission Report oe Ological Survey

   

ES
re £E. Harry Knoche,

REFERENCE: Memorandum by Da Se i
15 April 197&

1. Reference memorandum ™) it would be appropriate to
reconsider full disclosure at this time of the circumstances and factual
data relative to the Subject. The purpose of this survey is to permit a

realistic evaluation of the suggestion.

Background
2. This examination and summary of the record concerns a cropped

photograph considered by the President's Commission on the Assassination
of President Kennedy (hereinafter cited as arren Commission) and
introduced into evidence as Odum Exhibj IN . The photograph
(together. with others of the same oe inated froma highly -

RY

  
     

1 See Hearings Before the Presid Commission on the Assassination
of President Kennedy (hereinafter cited as Hearings), Vol. XX, p. 697.

SECRET

 

LLI5O
30 ot 2

pace VY ot ~
COPY NO.

 
