 

 

   

consideration oan probably not be held by them for ary lesgth of
tine unless certain segments ef Castro's alr fares can be seutre~
lised either pricr or during the coup. The Mafers are not so mush
concerned eboat Castro's greand forces according to Ray there are
orly thres ick oF passes Lesding into the lee of Pines over
merah lend, These roosts the MRPare feel, can be easily enough

of, cotrelled by thea, fe matt stand, the gemeral omcept of
Cie. tion would be ete capture and nestralise Chine.

form 9 caavay approrimately 40 man and drive
to the @ prison aros--an ostensibly routine trip which has
bem perforszed in the past « number of times in order to get

 

* occupy tactical end, perhaps, aleo strategio locatios.

4 (4) The reason thet or was set ag the iarget date

“9 o was that both! and are-due for rctaticn in the very
near fzture, TRON, plannere think, «a Sunday 1a the
best day to mount such en operetian. ©
3. Afver the above exposition ad asked for the following assie=

tences

, (a) Our support te and/or atvioe on how to nestraltse Castrote
eir force, .

(b) Intelligence data concerning coastal mining and air fields,

. (o) Delivery of anti-air craft artillery end continuing re-
supply for anti-Castre rebels after the operat/un has begr., and
(4) Maps prepared by the deriah Service Company of Palladelphie,
Pennsylvanie, (?)

, lL. Witheut maxing any coamltzents cn the above request T saked
whether ac not Ney had proper ocamanioation facilities at his disposal end

whether or not big people inside were able to receive, handle, end use my _

Ouppliee which right caze their way. I alse esked wiat specific types of
weapmme the MRP planners were thinging of and vhat kind of asmrumiticn, -

Ye-scpply would be needed for arms now already in the bande of anti-Castro
Cubans in thet ares. “It beceaé clear thet Bay did act have the scovers to

 

eiadl “technical level ,® i.e, Colonel. Berquin an OY

‘Se At this peint of the conver estion T tegen with tre typleaentation
cf the Keedquarters decisions reached io regerds te the Fendér: grcap'e:
@spport cf the K2Ps I aid that I wanted tc repéet comente I hed sade
Frevitaaly to Chitas, Reteves, Baryein, and Nayy nagecy, thet the Bender ©
group could net afford any Guplicetion cf antieleetr: efforte, Wat an
atuirietrative enc sopehy mactinery had been esfatiiened fr jitte same
time, an that tuto nachinary, f.6., °bo Frente Reece’ iciscario Demecratico,

ger] heave te be utilieed tc tha falleet in operati we ef ute ecrt. Ray

“hase questions which he felt should te referred for F discassion to

     

|
|
4

g1bk
 

104-10179-10013

 

an

pte yr ee ees

 

21 Nov.Contact Report,

to be the basis for
AY's future govt. .

Ree gee maces vce eee eo

   

  
 

   
      
  

&

UENTO Cla
nd Use Only

19,0 Consti tutio . -

RET
23 Hovenber 1960p, ckgi
’ DoN

 

CONTACT REPORT

SE Mets Meeting with Meruel Ray aid Rewl Chibes in the latterts
apartagt (30 west Sth Street, Mew York Mity) on 22
Woveaber, 1960. .

PART CRE OF THUD

2. Woter thie meeting had been called by.se in order to imple _
went the decisions reached at Hesiquerters concerning cur futare *
ralationshipea wits the MRP. (See Memorsndum For The Record dated 21
Noveaber 1960, DIR 12532, OUT Su523, and C/WE/L/PA'e serorantm to
C/wiy', § Kovenbe>, 1960) aleo see MASH 1774, IW 45816 which etates thet
Aunt obtained Varona's concerrece om 21 Novester to finance the MRP via
. the FRO’s controller.)

2. The meeting was atarted by we telling Ray that I had received a
somewhat garbled meseage concerning @ certain operation in the Jale of
Pines. How serious an midertaking wes thie and whet, preciecly, was
involved? (Comment: thle question waa posed pursuant to instruction by
C/AGT), end in line uith C/M/L/Pi's mancrendum to me.) Ray inforned we
as follows: _— « 7

. (a) There ‘ars-two garrisons stationed ‘at the Iele of Pines
with whos bie organisation has contact. ne garrison 16 commanded

 

 

Oy = count on azpraxinately 750 men to
SYfolige hin whe: and it ecides to break away (rou Castro.
S o hag approxiastaly SO trustwortny afficielie under his

Command (whether these officars were military or civi lien Ray did

not know) which were reacy to aseiot in eiti-Castro activities—the

.@ecend garrison was located at the Punte Del Este and wes primarily

@ coast artillery installation, Rey did not reosll the nase of ite -
, Gowmanding officer. _ .

(>) Quite at from the above, Ray!s pocnde “are ‘fa com

 

- tact with a (fw whe ig the|comender of the priscn]where
: (Faber, Matos te « According to reliable information, Ray
. -O\eays, may de of help in arranging the escape of Matos, A

fonal arrived in Nigmi on 21 November said that Metos = |

SYeseas to tran nd De irra. Be wife who can visit Mim

at the prieon--the chkay 10 uttits afforts designed to ~~
liberate Katos fram priesn, : Ie : mo

i “(e) Tn considering the eituation oatlined in (a) and (bd) above,
" Manze? Ray's military planers felt that- ane aingle operation should
De ferzet  siste the Mar s\arrare tollewe that, if Hater Mates can
- “De fresd and tf the two gan: cecttves ts mecacratn 2(8) above
Wis defert, Ghan otner ¢-core anf a g20d part of the pcpaation 23
the Tale of Pines, iio by the aess lates, ts anicabtedly loyal to - |”
last: * wetage "he UIP feate that the Tele of Pines area under = ~~

aaj-ASFAGHE : 4

816K

 
" wxtonbtedly knew

en os _ 8

eles the military adviser to the PRD
any aripra:te would undovitedly carry the FRD label and in all like~

" Udhced FRD-prepared, antiolagtra litersture would accospany ouch ohip-

‘mente; plane acd pilete utiliged in euch an woderteking were FRD ssacts

and identified ae such.

6. Rote reply to this wes sasouhat as fcllowss while the FAD
thinks it controle these pilote I, Baader, should at least realise that
the pllota whe were woriting formerly for Cebana Air Lines really
balongei to the MEP. In any esse ho, Ray, and the ARP weald secept the
Proposed arrargarent because it would not imply that the KhP is politi-
ally beholder, to the FRD) it would simply indicate tc the people inside
“Ccba that the MRP was utilising all resources to chtain the eqnipamt
Beceassry’ to overthrow Castro, Meturally he wes not mtimalastic about
thie fortala but he could live acd cope uith it.

™ I teld Ray thet I woald have to get in tcush with our military
people in order te'find ast dhether or not we now heft naffictaat date ea

. head on which to base a deciaion. (Comment: C/ii/h wee briefed tale

Phavically by me on the foregoing and on additional arpecte of “OAs
mcoting whitch are reported in part two of thie Contact Report. C/ku/4
and I felt tnat we cid not have as yet oufficient data to make any
Commitments; C/WH/L inetrusted me te advise Ray thats

(o) Either tbs HRP should euberit = detailed ple which we
would ccnslder end en the baste of which we wedld then decider
whether te be af aseistance or not or; : .

(>) The RRP coald go it alone, and ask wa for gone soststance
after the operation hag been leenched and we wold make our
d@eciaion then on the beaie of existing cireunstences.

Above wus trananttted to Ray vho indicated that the HRP did net desire
t alone amd that he wuld ingtruct Barquir to immediately cone
jin Mis te work out a coordinated operational plan.)

8. Kt tnte point af the mecting I folt that the tive wus ripe to
make tbe $2500 payment (by Booder check) and to advise Rey that another

$750O would be made available to nim Wla.Jusn Peola, the FED ocaptreller. I

Repeated what Y hed said previously ebout duplication and followed the

approved lines contaized fa ay 19 Hovenber. tee nenorandum to C/wi/k. Rayte
and Chtbas? reactions were not wmexpected: they rejected this particlar

funding proposal. (Caments for additional detatle ead other ites covered
‘daring thia meeting sea parts two and three, “Contact Repart, 22 Rovesber,

Rosting with Ray and Grtbee.*)

re OBRLRD DROLLER - re
CARs Pa

ae,

be KL . -
1- CAKE & CABVA/S (ret to *)
Ye afwr/s :

|
of

  
 

 
