13-00000

HR 1-2b ~---~ ”

b

a

 

as os) ORGANIZATION
THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR. The Deputy Director “shall act for, and exercise
the powers of, the Director during his absence or disability” (section 102(a)
of the National Security Act). He also acts in compliance with the letter of
January 16, 1962 and other Presidential directives, and the Director's Delega-
tion of Authority to the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, dated 2
April 1962, as follows:

DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY

I hereby delegate to the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence
all authorities vested in me by law or by virtue of my position
as Director of Central Intelligence and head of the Central Intelligence
Agency, including, but not limited to, the certification authority set

- forth in section 8(b) of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949,
as amended, except for any authorities the delegation of which is
prohibited by law.

- All other delegations of authority currently in force remain valid
to the extent they are not inconsistent with this delegation.

/s/ JOHN A. McCONE
Director of Central Intelligence

THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR. The Executive Director is responsible for over-
all management of the Agency and of the Office of the Director; for coordi-
nating component activities; and for performing such other duties as may
be assigned by the Director and the Deputy Director. The Executive Director
is charged with ensuring necessary action by the proper component on de-
cisions of the Director and the Deputy Director; with overseeing internal man-
agement; and with ensuring coordination of component activities. He en-
sures that all components are kept advised of policy decisions or intra-govern-
mental actions affecting them, and he reviews all papers requiring action by
the Director or Deputy Director. As “Chief of Staff” of the Agency, the
Executive Director acts for or in the absence of the Director and the Deputy
Director in. exercising his directive and approval authority.

Revised: 16 August 1963
u\:

.
13-00000

* _ . HR-w. (yk

HR 1-2b ~ b0CLe 65°  QRGANIZATION

b, THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR. The Deputy Director “shall act for, and exercise

the powers of; the Director during his absence or disability" (section 102(a)
of the National Security Act). He also acts in compliance with the letter of
January 16, 1962 and other Presidential directives, and the Director's Delega-
tion of Authority to the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, dated 2
April 1962, as follows:

DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY

I hereby delegate to the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence
all authorities vested In me by law or by virtue of my position
as Director of Central Intelligence and head of the Central Intelligence
Agency, including, but not limited to, the certification authority set
forth in section 8(b) of the Centra! Intelligence Agency Act of 1949,
as amended, except for any authorities the delegation of which is
prohibited by law.

All other delegations of authority currently in force remain valid
to the extent they are not inconsistent with this delegation.

/s/ JOHN A, McCONE
Director of Central Intelligence

ce. THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR-COMPTROLLER. The Executive Director-

Comptroller is responsible for overall management of the Agency and of
the Office of the Director; for coordinating component activities; for directing
the budget, program analysis, and manpower functions of the Agency; and
for performing such other duties as may be assigned by the Director and the
Deputy Director. The Executive Director-Comptroller is charged with ensur-
ing necessary action by the proper component on decisions of the Director

_ and the Deputy Director; with overseeing internal management; and with

ensuring coordination of component activities. He ensures that all compo-

nents are kept advised of policy decisions or intra-governmental actions af-
fecting them, and he reviews all papers requiring action by the Director or
Deputy Director. As “Chief of Staff” of the Agency, the Executive Director-
Comptroller acts for or in the absence of the Director and the Deputy Director
in exercising his-directive and approval authority. In support of the Executive
Director-Comptroller there are the following staff components.

Revised: 31 March 1964 (183)
13-00000

- , | Loge 6 nettertacl .

ORGANIZATION — - HR 1-2

2, OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR Le
a. THE DIRECTOR. The Director of Central Intelligence is the” President's

principal foreign intelligence adviser and head of the Central Intelligence
Agency and is responsible for the discharge of the responsibilities of the
Agency and those of his position, as they are prescribed/by the National
Security Act, the Central Intelligence Agency Act, other legislation, the Presi-
dent's letter of January 16, 1962 to the Director of Cen’ Intelligence, and by
other Presidential directives. The letter of January 16/1962 reads as follows:

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Infeligence
In carrying out your newly assigned duties as Director of Central
Intelligence it is my wish that you serve as she Government's principal
foreign intelligence officer, and as such that you undertake, as an in-
tegral part of your responsibility, the coordination and effective guid-
ance of the total United States foreign intelligence effort. As the
Government's principal intelligence officer, you will assure the proper
coordination, correlation, and evaluation of intelligence from al!
sources and its prompt dissemination to me and to other recipients
as appropriate. In fulfillment of these tasks I shall expect you to
. work closely with the heads of all departments and agencies having
responsibilities in the foreign intelligence field.

In coordinating and guiding the total intelligence effort, you will
serve as Chairmian of the United States Intelligence Board, with a
view to assuring the efficient and effective operation of the Board and
its associate Bodies. In this corinection ¥ note with approval that you
have designated your deputy to serve as a member of the Board,
thereby bringing to the ‘Board’s deliberations the relevant facts and
judgments of the Central Intelligence Agency.

As directed by the’ President and the National Security Council,
you will establish with the adyice and assistance of the United States
Intelligence Board the necessary policies and procedures to assure
adequate coordination of foreign intelligence activities. at all leveis.

With the heads of the Departments and Agencies concerned you
will maintain a continuing review of the programs and activities of
all U.S. agencies engaged in foreign intelligence activities with a view
to assuring efficiency and effectiveness and to avoiding undesirable
duplication. - \

As head of the Central Intelligence Agency, while. you will continue
to have over-all responsibility for the Agency, I shall expect you to
delegate to your principal deputy, as you may deem necessary, so much
of the direction of the detailed operation of the Agency as may be
required. to permit you to carry out your primary task as Director of

” Central ; Intelligence.

It is my wish that you keep me advised from time to time as to
your progress in the implementation of this directive and as to any
recommendations you may have which would facilitate the accom-
plishment of these objectives.

/s/ JOHN F. KENNEDY

Revised: 16 August 1963 , §

9
13-00000

      

HR 1-5 RESCiED Et
DATED
(2) Be responsible for investig: fot fraud, misuse of funds, conflicts of
terest, and other matters “involving misfeasance, malfeasance, nonfea-

, or violations of trust.

(3) Provide a forum where Agency personnel may, on a highly confidential
basis, confide grievances or complaints which have not received satisfac-
tory. consideration through regular channels of command. (See Regula-
tion No. 20-870.)

(4) Maintain and control all Haison with the President's Board of Consultants
on Foreign Intelligence Activities,

oo (5) Provide general guidance and supervision to the Legislative Counsel on all
Cmts se \dbongressional matters other than legislation affecting the Agency. (The
\% *Legislative Counsel is advised by the General Counsel on Agency legisla-
tion. See HR 1-14¢(2)(f) and (g).)
(6) Perform such other functions as may be determined by the Director.

5. ASSISTANT FOR COORDINATION. The Assistant for Coordination will
assist the Director of Central Intelligence im the coordination of the intelligence
activities of the Government, as prescribed by statute and National Security
Council directives. He is responsible for continuous study, review, and submis-
sion to the Director of possibilities for incréasing integration, reducing duplica-
tion, and improving coordination within the national intelligence effort, in con-
sultation with representatives of other intelligence agencies.

" ORGANIZATION”

6-11. Reserved.

6 a Revised: 1 April 1961
SECRET
SHORET ~~ R 1-110
- ‘REGULATION _. . ORGANIZATION
NO, 1-110 Revised 7 December 1959

going cables involving questions of national policy; and insuring that all
-{ntelligence items contained in cables are transmitted to the Office of the

Deputy Director (Intelligence).

INSPECTOR GENERAL

4, MISSION

The Inspector General is charged with conducting inspections and investigations
on behalf of the Director throughout the Agency, both at headquarters and in the
fleld.

5. FUNCTIONS

me Inspector General shall:
. Survey and evaluate the assignment and performance of the missions and
functions prescribed for all components of the Agency and recommend to the
Director such improvements as may assist them more fully to perform their
appropriate functions. .

b. Be responsible for investigations of fraud, misuse of funds, conflicts of interest,
and other matters involving milsfeasance, malfeasance, nonfeasance, or viola-
tions of trust.

ce. Provide a forum where Agency personnel may, on a highly confidential basis,
confide grievances or complaints which have not received satisfactory con-
sideration through regular channels of command, (See Regulation No. 20-870.)

d. Maintain and control all liaison with the President's Board of Consultants on
Foreign Intelligence Activities.

e. Provide general guidance and supervision to the Legislative Counsel on all

. congressional matters other than legislation affecting the Agency. (The Leg-
islative Counsel is advised by the General Counsel on Agency legislation. See
Paragraphs 3b(6) and (7) of R 1-140.)

f. Perform’ such other functions as may be. determined by the Director.

SPECIAL ASSISTANT FOR PLANNING

. 6 MISSION

The Special Assistant for Planning is charged with assisting ‘the Director of Cen-
tral Intelligence in planning Agency. activities.

q. FUNCTIONS

The Special Assistant for Planning shall:

a. Develop and recommend policies and plans for Agency activities.

b. Furnish guidance regarding the long-range plans of the Agency.

ce. Conduct program analysis, as directed by the Director of Central Intelligence.

4. Perform other related duties as the Director of Central Intelligence may
require. :

ALLEN W. DULLES
Director of Central Intelligence

DISTRIBUTION: AB

 
coco

ORGANIZATION RESGIID CY me. HR 1-2
EY Fal

2. OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

a. MISSION. Under the direction of the National Security Council, it 1s the duty
of the Central Intelligence Agency to advise on, and to make recommendations
for the coordination of, intelligence activities relating to the national security;
to correlate, evaluate, and disseminate intelligence relating to the national
security; and to perform services of common concern to the intelligence agen-
ejes and to perform such other functions as may be directed.

b. FUNCTIONS

(1) The Central Intelligence Agency shall perform the duties and functions
prescribed by the National Security Act of 1947 (Sec. 102), together with
such other duties and functions as may appropriately be assigned to it by
competent authority.

(2) The Director of Central Intelligence is the head of the Central Intelligence
Agency and is responsible for proper performance of the Agency's func-
tions. In the performance of his duties, the Director shall exercise all
powers inherent in the head of a department or agency of the Govern-
ment,

{3) The Deputy Director of Central Intelligence assists the Director in

performance of his duties and acts as the Director In the absence of thal

official ©

In addition to his normal authorities as Director of Central Intelligence,

the Director is charged with the carrying out of such specific statutory

functions as are set forth in appropriate legislation.

(4

~

3, EXECUTIVE OFFICER

a. MISSION. The Executive Officer is charged with coordinating all staff actions,
directing the activities of the Executive Secretariat and Cable Secretariat, and
performing such other duties as may be assigned by the Director and the

: Deputy Director.

b. CABLE SECRETARIAT. The Cable Secretary is charged with coordinating
policies governing the preparation, release, and distribution of CIA cables and
fs charged with the review, processing (exclusive of the encrypting, decrypting,
and transmitting processes), distribution, and dellvery within CIA headquar-
ters of all classified incoming and outgoing CIA cables; ensuring that the
originating office has secured the personal approval of the Director on all out-
going cables involving questions of national policy; and ensuring that all in-
telligence items contained in cables are transmitted to the Office of the Deputy
Director (Intelligence). The Cable Secretary ts also charged with the re-
sponsibility for the control and dissemination within the Agency of non-CIA
produced cables and telegrams.

4. INSPECTOR GENERAL

a. MISSION, The Inspector General is charged with conducting inspections and
investigations on behalf of the Director throughout the Agency, both at head-
quarters and in the field.

b. FUNCTIONS. The Inspector General shall:

(1) Survey and evaluate the assignment and performance of the missions and
functions prescribed for all components of the Agency and recommend to
the Director such improvements as may assist them more fully to perform
thelr appropriate functions. .

Revised: 1 April 1961 \3
SECRET

 
13-00000

' CIAHISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE AS SANITIZED
1998

ARRB Request CIA-1

DRAFT

The following Office of the Director Central Intelligence

(DCI) documents can be Released in Full:

R 1-110

HR

HR

HR

HR

HR

HN

HN

HR

HR

HR

1-2

1-2b
1-2b

1-2

1-2b

1-6

1-55
1-3b
1-3,

1-3b

7 December 1959
pp. 1-2 :

1 April 1961
pp. 5-6

16 August 1963
p-. 5

16 August 1963
p. 6

31 March 1964
p. 6

30 December 1965
p. 5
30 December 1965
p. 6
29 November 1961

2 April 1962

16 April 1962

28 April 1965
16 August 1963
p. 7-9

31 March 1964
p. 11

16 December 1966
p. 12

Organization and
Function (Mission
Statement)

Mission Statement
Office of the
Director

Mission Statement
Office of the
Director

Mission Statement
The Deputy Director

Mission Statement
The Deputy Director

Mission Statement be
Office of the
Director

Mission Statement
The Deputy Director

Assumption. of Office

Director, CIA

Delegation of
Authority

Organization -
Establishment of the
Executiive Committee

Delegation of
Authority

Mission Statement
Independent Offices

Mission Statement
Independent Offices

Mission Statement
Independent Offices

 
104-10301-10005

 

at
HR 1-4

HR 1-3b

HR 1-3

HR 1-3b-

HR 1-3

31 March 1964
p. 12

16 December 1966
p. 12

18 February 1969
p-. 11

23 May 1975
p. 12

_ 30 May 1975

p. il

DRAFT

Mission Statement
Independent Offices

Mission Statement
Independent Offices

Mission Statement
Independent Offices

Mission Statement
Independent Offices

Mission Statement
Independent Offices

The following DCI document can be Released as Sanitized:

HN 1-33

 

3 April 1963
‘pp. 1-9 —

 

Organization of the
Office of the
Director

7

 
13-00000

 

te enenrr== R 1-110
REGULATION ORGANIZATION
NO. 1-110 |. Revised 7 December 1959
asin bal -
ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS Orie ded x
Reselssion: R 1-110 dated 24 March 1959 oa] Cpe nf.
CONTENTS

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR. .........121

INSPECTOR GENERAL» 1) ) 1) ll ll 8

SPECIAL ASSISTANT FOR PLANNING | |... . 2

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR -
1. MISSION
Under the direction of the Nationa! Security Councll, It is the duty of the Central
Intelligence Agency to advise on, and to make recommendations for the coordi-
nation of, intelligence activities relating to the national security; to correlate,
evaluate, and disseminate intelligence relating to the national security; and to

perform services of common concern to the intelligence agencies and to perform
such other functions as may be directed.

2. FUNCTIONS
. The Central Intelligence Agency shall perform the duties and functions pre-
seribed by the National Security Act of 1947 (Sec. 102), together with such other
-duties and functions as may sppropriately be assigned to it by competent
authority. ~ 3

b. The Director of Central Intelligence is the head of the Central Intelligence
Agency and is responsible for proper performance of the Agency’s functions.
In the performance of his duties, the Director shall exercise all powers Inherent
in the head of a department or agency of the Government.

c. The Deputy Director of Central Intelligence assists the Director in the perform-
ance of his duties and'acts as the Director in the absence of that official.

d. In addition to his normal authorities as Director of Central Intelligence, the

Director is charged with the carrying out of such specific statutory functions
as are set forth in appropriate legislation,

EXECUTIVE OFFICER -

3. MISSION _

The Executive Officer is charged with coordinating all staff actions, directing the
activities of the Executive Secretariat.and Cable Secretariat, and performing such
other dutfes as may be assigned by the Director and the Deputy Director.

CABLE SECRETARIAT

The Cable Secretary Is charged with coordinating policies governing the
preparation, release, and distribution of CIA cables and is charged with
the review, processing (exclusive of the encrypting, decrypting, and trans-
mitting processes), distribution, and delivery within CIA headquarters of
all classified incoming and outgoing CIA cables; insuring that the origi-
nating office has secured the personal approval of the Director on all out-

1

ae
