74-0000

 
    
     
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
   
  

   
   
  
    
    
   
   
 

- Afemrding to SARRERlg weedllestion, this segured
LAZO qepiled a formidable Mle. om the Subjecs.
comemication with a Saaltarteny, Dee lagel firs
ciely racalle ag. tha$ of tard Semmets. @OTLIANS y
tantle the ease losally. 4 private StL wes intros.
va ‘pd Congres by Congresimmn “ILLIA of Hew Jersey
*he Spbieetis aitisepship, but JANESR ¢esa nat ime:
weg takes om the Sill, AS the tiga, he «ag in
Floubties. and tesg @ Job ag a teacter driver ozte.
or about J sonthe, in wdch period he ‘ed ao somteeh
Ald, “hh, a8 3\ER believes, interpreted Nis fadlurs
i ty ing office ae @ lack Of Smerest in pressing the case
sotena tal sonales ions. an a

 

 

 
 

3 tt loos that Dee LADD. and WC WELLEANS had compiled a. .,
cnriy and decummted file on his backcround, tesluding his
oy Dacor! and avards few the Aroy dir Cera, Currently, — ;
nS 2 Scene Zesepect ant fe im thw Uasy as ba
279 pavsled ts torrie RATANET

“Tse roguntnd 12 aaoertain fron De oo
the Nashingtes Lew cira whites hantled 2

"3 oage sn 1253, end the reason ‘ fer the fadiore at she"
lis . . . . a

 

 
 

tog t010-40475

 

 

Bf dehy Wk

IENCRANCUM FOR: Chiezy wey

SURGES. (og yes

. “(2thedn669)

“ly The Sebiects af operatioaal gees of both Taverns station |

‘and GI\TS, da corvently in the Ysshiacton, Des, BFUE 4G thd

estios of ire igvard Ani, in an offer’ to tesolva iis cite

wiains, ile sas Gxterriewed vy a repregentativa of

om 15 duly 1 at the Sherehan ifetel to ceveiop ab
intnemetions gancerming hia Loga of cl lisane

  
 
   
  
  

ond une a nriecter of war for 26 monthts Fe wis honarably sepsuated

. treasury representative ig breaking up two narcotics rings plrig
_atwaan Flert Cuba. Ee sopead as egeors. fap Bree THUCAR os

caret oy their visit t9 Gute, for which he reesiyed, 2 *tite-

te “Tn DSAERs oyinioe, he became the otfeot of peramal
te ca the warts of sn aimed Sebassy statf meee, who. Souk
on to prvsie pie eitirvenship stata hewed on hia senters!ic
aan ~iliogs Ta aa effart te reutify hie plight, Hee SPRL
oy FR representatives seme bis to Pre Maria L400.
ny Unvama attorner, 0 prepara. the care 2ar a plea 59

 
  
  
 

   

     
74-0000

vf
7
f

a so a

       

Be The OfMice of General Counsel be ccapletely brtafed
co 3uhsect"a care tat oe requevtel te farsisk erictaer eet
‘ase aoprcpriate aetion to apsist the Subjeaty whether by
aporial Llesislat <2 oer any to megein' bis US, etaema

Mstribation:
Ordy & 1 » Addresses.
l= Subj
i» Chrong.

Wi/4/SOtamMoroney: tk -n ial 62

 

   

 
