([toe-totaz-t0082)

  

. . : ne EDM y vamert ae
"qRTERNAL Eo coi ¢

S ; .
" Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel HSCA Page 6°
Friday - 17 December 1976
} | - qa)

presse ges
fea | €

wl lee |

20. (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON Austin Smith, House Appropriztions
Committee staff, called and said he wanted to alert us to the fact that he
would be traveling to West Germany, Austria and Switzerland and would be
leaving Monday evening. He said he has no plans for any contact with

I thanked Smith for the alert.
Z

21. (Confidential- GLC) LIAISON Called Paul Daley, Department
of Justice, and discusséd with him the Director's meeting with
Chairman Thomas Downing (D., Va.) and Representatives Henry Gonzalez
(D., Texas) and Stewart McKinney (R.,-Conn.), of the House Select
Committee on. Assassinations and: told him that the DirectéF“thowght it
would be a ‘good: ides to ‘ihchide’Representative Richardson Pr eyer
(D., N. Car.). Daley thought this was a good idea and we agreed to keep
each other informed on the happenings. :

Later in the day, a call was made to Daley's office to inform him
that this meeting had been cancelled due to. Committee meetings and had
not yet been rescheduled,

 

- 22. (Confidential - GLC) BRIEFING Called Eddie Martin,
| Administrative Assistant to Senator Edward Kennedy (D., Mass. ), and
told him of gur interest in briefing either the Senator himself or a designee
on our(LESTIPEND program, It was agreed that Tom White and

oF C/CCS, would come by on Tuesday afternoon at 2:30
; to talk to him about this subject.

23. (Unclassified - GLC) LIAISON In the absence of Gretchen Koitz,
spoke with Kathy Cooper, in the office of Representative Les Aspin (D.,-Wis.),
and told her on a confidential basis that(~ Dyes
in fact an employee of the Agency, that the appropriate people in the °
Agency were aware of the domestic problems and that as far as the Agency
was concerned this problem should be handled between and his
wife or their attorneys, When asked if we could supply, _* address,

I said I would have to check and would be back in touch on Monday??

 

 

 

24. (Secret - THW) BRIEFING I spoke with Fran Williams, in the
office of Senator Lawton Chiles (D., Fla.), and scheduled an appoiatrnent
for 5 January 1977 at 11:00 a.m. to brief the Senator on the(LPSTIPEND
program. Oz.

 

7 [Pe
