 

~2=

eonstrsction of a sugar mill in Nicaragua with Somsa. ‘the
conversation concluded with Subject's statement tcat Somosa
was coming to tashington on Li July to ace *tovmest brase*® in
hopes of winning support for a push azeinst Castro. Acco:

to Subject, Sowosa is convinced that tre Caribbean ain't big

enovgh for both Castroitea and Sonosaites, One genre haz to go,

aay 8057 un

eget

Haden Musi ANA! i.

se Acree ne tman a gs et gt

 
 

[tog t0162-10224

 

 

 

 

 

 

“ag duty 2963. .

MEMORANDUM FoR, THE RECORD
, _ SUBJECT: Telephone Conversation with ‘AMEMBER-1. about his

' meeting with Inis Somsa

“BATE 4-10 dply 2963, 1800 hours

1. AMEMBER-1 called me to tell me that he had had lunch
with Leia SOMOSA. He said Somosa's eoparent purpose in arranging
the luncheon, for it had been upor. Somsa’s initiative that they
had gotten together, was to discuss certain Cuban refugees who
seem to be gearing up for action in regard te the question of

‘Cuban liberation. I asked after nanes and Sub‘ect cited Veciana,

- Batista Falla, and AMSIDDY-1, stating that these were che names
' Somosa had thrown out during discussion. I asked Subject.to. tell .
we what he had said in regard to eacn and attempted to elicit

~SSmosa' sown: views on: each of these personalities, -Pertinent for

the record is the fact that Subject declared to Somosa tnat
AMBIDDY-] was, in his own view, a very questionable fellow for

two reasons: the first, he vas overly. encky and inordinately
ambitious and, secondly, he comes from a pro-communist fardly.

In an attempt to determine Somsa's views on AMGIDDY-1, I requested
that Subject define more precisely what he meant by commnist farily,
but was unable te obtain a seaningful response. I asked Subject if
4n the lest instance it sizply didn't boil down to the fact that be
Suet didn't like MMBIDDY and he agreed that tois aight well be the

‘ease. Along the line Subject stated that Somsa had simply been
' thinking of taking up some sort of contact with AMSIDDY-1. I did

net press for further details in view of my oresumption that there
Was probably some special sort of relationship between Somosa and
_ AMBIDDY-1, the nature of which it wuld. be unbealthy for Subject ha
to know, nf 7k Toy Hen S an 4 ce eet pre bee ph a0

Ee a those portions of the phone an, devoted te AMBIDDY-1

“ did not bear the same proportions to the. whole as. the discussion

ef AMBIDDY-1 does to this report. The bulk of the conversation
-@onserned Snquiries on ny part inte the denth and nature of Subject's
relationship with Somosa, Subject nad kmowt Somosa for decades and
fie a very close friend of the entire fanily,. ‘owas large’ tracts of © .
property in Nicaragua and is oresently. considering entering upon:

iow

 

 

te

|e

 

a ra

a

 

 

OER ERENT Ep ReretbE “enter renter
