14-00000 _

  

- we ¢ erp cris

tr a language other than Spanish.or ola taken to ‘another location

for translation and typing. f did the Russian transla-

eye “the translations
ea he conversation.

   
  
   

tions but because of the
usually ran about a
As soon as the S'

self as Lee Oswald phoned the Soviet Embassy, Miss Ann Goodpasture of the-

 

rned that an American identifying him-

Station started screening all photographs. However, here a » there

was a backlog because the photographs were picked up th

ox
but those picked up were usually for dates a fe teats

a week

    

4 . .
efore since the .

technician who was processing the film, yada night- time basis.
es

  

Further , photographs were not mane ce until a complete roll of

$s. of amount of unused film remaining. —

film was used. Later this oS Cee and the operator cleared the camera

at the end of. each day red
The instructions were to cover the entire work day (office hours) and to
photograph all Soviets, their families, all foreigners, and cars with
foreign license plates. Human error A but generally the agents

RO

a gone” developed mechanical dif-

Oswald came to pw attention of the listening post operators

  
    

      

were conscientious. The ON age had more sophisticated

equipment using a‘p mn 8

ficulties.

from a tap of the Soviet line.. It was picked up and taken to Mr. Boris

ere
OL

 

PAGE | 229,319

 

“COPY. NO.

 

renee

a ee
 

  
  

waited to compare the

  

BY

as

 
 
  

nscripts were made in
ef of Station could read only

these two languages and becalye @ personally screened the transcripts

 

for operational leads.

~~ 9000163

 

le

pace 230,319
_ COPY NO. —

eens,

 
14-00000 — oe wy Co 7

  

o lake ( SEPD ey sagen 169 4 Tey
a ! hy wed ‘ .
SER rae ponnisi! EES
. . Fi

‘Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double laned

street on the southeast corner of that b (See attached diagram).

   
  
     

LIMITED was the First photo aN a
basis in the early stage ssn
tion received word th cy photo

being released by the Warr ER

strictly on an: experimental
> Was closed when the Sta-
e “unidentified man" was
LILYRIC was an alternate photo )
‘ graphic base. It was located in an upper story of an apartment building ;
‘on the same side of the street as the LIMITED site ent be middle of :
> the block south. It had a planted view of RRS of the Soviet
Embassy. LICALLA, the third mee Se Nos Jocated in one. of a
row of four houses on the sourng NS the Soviet Embassy compound.
This site overlooked the a of the Soviet Embassy compound. The
purpose of this over SSN s.to get good identification photographs of
Soviet personnel. The three photographic sites were managed by ares

cruited agent who was a Mexican citizen, the son of an American mother:

and Mexican father (deceased). This « ted ‘the Film from the
LIMITED and LILYRIC sites three ae : DS film was. then de- i
veloped and printed smog at ps. LICALLA film was [

nation of a technician, this Tike that of LIMITED and LILYRIC was

originally processed na = co to. the resig- . ap
Fim .

 

o

Processed on the outside by a recruited agent.

 

-0000159

  
{ese a09

q.

 

 

‘mail intercept operation.

oe | ( | ¢

 

Mexico Station Coverage of Soviet and ao Embassies (1963)
From the a Rn —=,
n t Station the Station had’

SS
developed a support apparatus\t exploit leads from the Soviet Enbassy in

Mexico City. This umbrella type project  Coamaads of nl tfT ine

 

  

AS)

the arrival of Rr. Wi

 

 

phone taps, three photographic sites, a ay “ype once team “and a
5! .

 

  

ow Oy by

 

Telephone taps (LIFE
Pp ps ( pa

 

 

 

ti potted by a Station case officer. The number

a

 

 

 

: assisted by technicians on ie fro

of lines tapped vate ited only by the availability of a listening post

. _’. nearby and the availability of langauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,

Czech, etc.) transcribers. Generally, these were ‘Mexican or Mexican= 7

. American recruited agents.

Three photographic sites were han a Station case officer’

‘a advised the Station

on the best types of MX nt devices. ‘These
operations had sub- “nt a es CK (namely: LIMITED, LILYRIC
and LICALLA). LIMITED was a ‘GO e directly opposite the Soviet Em-

bassy (across the street) which’ had both a vehicle and a pedestrian en-

trance. The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the northwest corner of the

6000158
"2, IMPDET

 

Ayoseus

PAGE CC Doe
COPY Now

 

7

CL BY 604645

 

 

orn ne a ne nt meme t aretaneanen penatietttemreneNee
14-00000 _

seggemerre SS eee eI LSE

, LIBIGHT, which ‘was handled by an American case®e:

 

Mobile surveillance was conducted aN two American staff officers.

These two officers organized a surv« in of six recruited agents
which used late model as EW A man or surveillance. The team .
could be activated by ee N.. whenever. someone of — |
interest left. the gate of a cee These agents were aware of

the LIMITED site since they Yad | been issued LIMITED photographs for

 

identification purposes. . a -
: The Station also conducted | NG SoS pt operation,
ae

 

 

 

 

 

iN r tained selected letters

 

 

 

was principally occupied with pq

 

 

from a subagent |

2. overage: gor" : a _ -
NS unreliable and insecure as characterized by

the nature of the fat that time. The Mexican Direction |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Federal Security (DFS), was a hip--

 

 

 

pocket group run out of the Mexican Mi Ks \ Government. This- Ministry
ves

q wa and control of
ac
ERAS aE d corrupt.

  

 

foreigners. ‘Their cen Qe

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

— 0000160.

 
14-00000

 

 

. The listening post had 30 lines

was staffed by .

 

  
 
 

connected at one time. The transcriptig

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In 1961

[the Station AG eC roject case officer. A : |
. Station officer te ooo upervision of the listening | ae i
"post, and in picking up the Wy AU and the tapes. There was also |

an American technician inside the Vistening post.

3. Oswald Coverage:

 

 

           

 

 

 

 

 

 

ban es
bassies iy —“ ie? tation immediately ”
ere connected Five Cuban lines, Five .

Soviet lines, three Czeth lines, two Polish’ BON and one Yugostav

 

 

 

 

 

line. At the listening post, a at short summaries of
en mi

conversations of ian ed in a dafly resume ,
‘for the Chief of station ter, $s completely recorded, :

full transcripts were typed ae to ‘the Station; however, there

‘BS

was usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels which contained Russian

ee nn hee

 

PAGE 228 oe 39

" COPY NO.

 

 
