13-00000.

DA ec i ce it eee ae mem pte 4 msm

 

y

Se as emt ge ee erm me ac petctnet en

CONFIDENTIAL

(a) Evidence of emotional instability or irrational or
suicidal behavior, particularly in persons who have a record
of transitory residence or employment;

(b) Expressions of strong or violent anti-United States
sentiment;

(c) Prior acts (including arrest or convictions) or conduct
or statements indicating a propensity for violence and antip-

athy toward good order and government.

The term ''subversives" shall mean persons (including members of
the Communist Party and Communist front organizations) who
knowingly or willfully advocate, abet, advise or teach the duty,
necessity or propsiety of overthrowing or destroying the Govern-
ment of the Unitec States or the government of any state, district
or possession the-eoz or the government of any political subdivision
therein by force or violence or by the assassination of any officer

of any such government.

CONFIDENTIAL
13-00000 .

10 11 12 13 14 15 16 45 16 17 18 19 20 21

17 18 19 20 21 22 23 2, 23 24 25 26 27 28
24 25 26 27 28 29 30 Hs 30 31

 

 

 

 

19:45 5:00
MEMORANDA

 

 

 

 

 

326 Friday, November 22, 1963 39
a dealers ante meTeeene  F Re ee etme ee mame ee en

CONFIDENTIAL

APPENDIX B

Types of Individuals to Be Reported by the Central Intelligence Agency

to the Secret Service

Individuals who have made threats of bodily harm against, or have
attempted to cause bodily harm to, officials or employees of Federal,
state or local Governments or ioreign government officials while
they are residing in or planning an imminent visit to this country;
provided that such threats or acts are made against the Government

official or employee because of his official status;

Individuals who th:eaten or attempt to redress a real or imaginary
grievance against Federal, state or local Governments or any

employee or official thereof by other than legal means;
United States citizens who defect or indicate a desire to defect;

Nationals of any country in the Sino-Soviet Bloc (including the USSR
and Communist China) located in the United States, and who have
escaped from the contrdl of any such country, or who, being outside
such jurisdiction ind control, are unwilling to return thereto, and
who have been of : peciai interest or value to the United States, and
who cannot be eliriinated as a possible source of danger to the

President or any erson named in Article I, Paragraph B;

Subversives, com nunisits, racists and fascists in the United States

who meet one or riore of the following criteria:

CONFIDENTIAL

‘

|
|
2.

CONFIDENTIAL

APPENDIX A

Information to Be Furnished on Individuals Reported by the Central ,
Intelligence Agency to the Secret Service |

Identification Date - to the extent available to CIA, name or names of
individual (includiag prior legal names, aliases and pseudonyms),
address, photogrz ph (or staternent as to availability of such), physica

description, date and place of birth, employment and marital status;

Reason or Reasons for Reporting - statement of the class or classes

a ——_ Se

in Appendix B, which the individual reported fits;

A summary or excerpts, as appropriate, of such portions of any
CIA file on an ind:vidual reported which cause him to fit any class

or classes in Appendix B.

 

CONFIDENTIAL
 

CONFIDENTIAL

(1) Groups outside the United States which advocate
assassination of government officials as a political weapon
and which appear to constitute an existing threat to the
President or any persons named in Article 1, Paragraph B.
above;

(2) Sabotage and assassination training by hostile
intelligence services or groups and the identity of persons
so trained who appear to constitute an existing threat to
the President or any person named in Article I, Para-
graph B. above;

(3) Plots in the United States or abroad to assas sinate

a Chief of State or other high official.

D. This agreement shall be reviewed by representatives of the CIA

and the Secret Service annually, or at such more. frequent occasions as
either the CIA or the Secret Service may request, to make certain that
the system of reporting is both practicable and productive. Revisions

may be made on the authority of the Deputy Director of the CIA and the

Chief of the Secret Service,

IV. Provision of CIA Personnel to Protect the President

A. On occasion the use of a large number of armed officers is

required to carry out the protective functions of the Secret Service due to

such factors as the size of the crowds, the number of persons to be pro-

tected or the existence of a national emergency. At such times CIA may,

at the request of the Secret Service, detail some of its security officers

CONFIDENTIAL

 

 

 
CON JENTIAL

to the Secret Service in order :o augment the Service's capacity to carry

out its protective functiors in the most secure manner.

B. Such officers detailed by tne CIA will be designated officers of
the Secret Service under the direction and operational control of the Chief
of the United States Secret Service. No person shall be so detailed unless
he has qualified in the use of firearms either in accordance with standards
established by the Chief cf the United States Secret Service, or in accord-
ance with standards established by the Director of Security of the CIA.
Persons so detailed will be authorized to carry firearms and to perform
such other protective functions and duties as are authorized by law, as

provided by section 3056 of title 18, United States Code, as amended.

Vv. Implementation of Agreement

A. The Secret Se-vice and the CIA undertake to maintain an active

liaison to insure the pron:pt passage of available information concerning
individuals reported to the Secret Service by the CLA and evaluated by

the Secret Service as dangerous to the President or any person named in
Article 1, Paragraph B. Furthermore, in order to effect the best possible
security of such persons, the Secret Service and the CIA will take such
steps as are necessary tc. insure that the terms of this Agreement are

fully carried out.

Ceatral Intelligence Agency
ee

el

Dated: 27 Morty Qos By. ee See

all S$. Carter
maty Director

 
 
 

Uriicd States Seer. : Service

James J, Rowiey
TON SIDE N TIAL Chief

~*
13-00000-

 Attachnest

GUARSEFICATIONT
OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

In reply refer to

 

Action Memorandum No. A +437!

Date ? April 8905

 

Deputy Director for Plana
Oepety Disecter for Intelligence

TO : Deputy Divector for Science k Technology
Deputy Disector fer sapport

| Agreement Between the United states Secret service
aad the Central Intelligence Ageacy Concerning
SUBJECT : Presidential Protection in the United states

REFERENCE: pceccerandam fren. DOCI te LD/L, DD/F, eng GD/s,
dated 8 June 1963, subject: The CIA Role in Support
of Presidential Trips Abroad

bh. Attached for the information of adiseseees is a copy of subject
agrecieat developed by the Chief of the Secret service and re, in accordance
with the recommendations ef the Warren Comndssien acd the actious of the
Preeident’s Cemadiites on the Warren Report.

2, The Deputy Directer for Plans le responsible for (insuring
Ageacy cen:pliance with this agreement and for s:sintaining the active Maisen
with the Secret Service, The staff function in this regard te being performed
in the Counter Intelligence Staff of the DD/P. All Agency componente is
liaison with the Secret Service are to heep the Counter Intelligesce staff
ieforn.ed of their dealings with the Jecret Service, The Counter Intelligence
Staff will provide advice te other Ageacy components who receive requests
for support frem the Secret Service,

%. This agreement does mot amend of: alter currert Agency policy
&s expressed in my m:emorandan: ef 8 June 1993 concerning support of

' residential trips abroad, An additional ayreer-ent with the jecret service,

involving CLA end other Governn.ent agencies dealing with }- residential travel
abroad, is in process of develop::.ent.

(Signed), Marshall $, carter
dvapehall.5, Carter
SUSPENSE DATE: tieuteaanat Gereral, USA
. Depaty Director
‘ ~

ee: OGC a ; fe.

nfs (CLASSIFICATION)

Yet

SCUZPFOSMS LZOnso>
104-10340-10020 pave cee eee
TRANSMITTAL SLIP |

 

   

Foam 0 941 REPLACES FORM 36-8 GPO. 1987-—-O-430545 @
1 FEB S5 WHICH MAY BE USED. :
 

CONFIDENTIAL

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE AND
THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY CONCERNING PRESIDENTIAL

PROTECTION IN THE UNITED STATES

I. Purpose of Agreement

A. The purpose of this Agreement is to define the types of infor-
mation, administrative assistance and support to be furnished by the
Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to the United States Secret Service so
that the Service may best fulfill its responsibilities to protect the person
of the President of the United States while he is in the United States. The
CIA role in support of Presidential trips abroad is the subject of a

separate Agreement with the Secret Service,

B. The terms of this Agreement shall be applied to the protection
of members of the President's immediite family, the President-elect,
the Vice President or other officer next in the order of succession to

the office of President, the Vice Presiient-elect and former Presidents.
tl. General Responsibilities

A. The Secret Service has the responsibility for protecting the
person of the President. It undertaker to identify individuals who, be ause

of their individual propensities or chazacteristics, are dangerous 9~ ho
may pose a threat to the person of the President. It arranges whatever

action is required to counteract any th eat to the person of ‘-e President

posed by such individuals.

 

CONTVIDEMTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

| B. The CIA has primary responsibility for the clandestine collection
\

: Of foreign intelligence information, and for the correlation, evaluation

4» and dissemination within the Government of foreign positive and counter
intelligence. It gathers znd maintains biographic and other data on
organizations and individuals, official and non-official, for the purpose of
performing its statutory junctions. It also originates, and receives from
other sources, reports on organizations and individuals. However, the

Agency has no police, subpoena or law-enforcement powers or internal-

 

security functions.

Ill. Information to be Revorted by CIA

A. The CIA will furnish to the Secret Service information that comes :
into its possession of the type set forth in Appendix A to this Agreement i
concerning individuals coming to its attention of the classes set forth in i
i Appendix B to this Agree:nent. The information may be furnished in more

than one report, and in emergency situations priority attention will be i

{| given to its preparation and delivery. {

B. After reportirg an individual to the Secret Service, the CIA
will thereafter-~-unless the Secret Service otherwise requests~-report to
the Secret Service additional information which it thereafter receives or

obtains concerning such individual. :

C. The CIA will Jurnish to the Secret Service intelligence and

intelligence information tnat becomes available concerning:

CONFIDENTIAL
