14-00000

 

- in New. Orleans at the time of the Oswald~Bringuier .
_ confrontations in August 1963. It was concluded that .
>. Oswald was never a member of the DRE, which in fact
‘rejected him, and that the DRE was not involved in the
7 aasassination. ; .

 
    

In April 1967 the undersigned showed a copy of the Thomas

e-

memorandum to(Mr._Tom Flores) then C/WH/COG, who considered

that it reflected inadequate information and bias. It was agreed,
nevertheless,: that the charges which District Attorney James Garrison
was then beginning to level against anti-Castro Cubans and this Agency
necessitated careful checking.

 

: ve : The first report in the cl R&A series on Garrison, 26 April
1967, listed-seven Cuban refugees then linked to the case (Sergio

- ARCACHA’ Smith, Carlos BRINGUIER, Julio BUZNEDO, Manuel GARCIA

Gonzalez, ‘Pascual. GONGORA, Miguel Silva TORRES, and Carlos

_QUIROGA, ) ‘requested any additional WH/COG information about them

and about the’ following groups: the Cuban Democratic Revolutionary

. Front, the DRE,. the Information Council of the Americas, and any other

anti-Castro groups active in the New Orleans area. The request added,
"Information about CLA relationships with the above-named groups should
not be restricted to New Orleans but should also include Miami and other
areas to which Garrison's investigations may lead."' Information was
also requested on Edward S. BUTLER, Alberto FOWLER, Emilio
SANTANA, anda paramilitary training site at Lake Pontchartrain. By

a memorandum forwarded on 8 May 1967 the then AC/WH/COG,

 

 

 

 

 

 

provided the requested information and added, "WH/COG

 

 

basis. we

will continue to review all material that may contain information pertinent
to this subject and will forward such information to CI/R&A ona priority

5. Since that date CI/R&A has prepared a series of reports on

the Garrison case. All of these have been forwarded to WH/COG. In

turn, WH/COG has provided additional information from its own files —
and those of the Miami Station, to which it has addressed several inquiries.

6.. CI/R&A is currently compiling a separate list of all Cubans
{as well as other Latin Americans) whose names have been linked to the
Garrison investigation. This list will be forwarded to WH/COG with a
request for checks if it contains any identities not previously traced
against their files (including those of JMWAVE). :

2 ome
ata :

wigs

MgB

 
104-10067-10056

 

   

 

28 February 1968

 

MEMORANDUM

*“.Garrison Investigation of Kennedy Assassination:
- Allegations of Involvement, CIA and Cuban

 

Le ‘Mr. Calvin Thomas of the SB Division wrote a memorandum
entitled "Possible. DRE Animus Toward President Kennedy" and dated
8 March 1967. - At that time Mr. Thomas had recently returned from a

- tour of duty. in Yugoslavia. While there he had read about the Warren

Commission's investigation and had noted the pre~assassination encounter
in New Orleans between Carlos Bringuier of the Student Revolutionary
Directorate (DRE) and Lee Harvey Oswald. He recalled his own dealings
in Miami with the’ ‘DRE, a ClA-subsidized group. He considered the

DRE members whom he knew to be unpredictable and untrustworthy. He

- speculated as to whether DRE elements could have been involved in the

Kennedy assassination. He recommended that CIA investigate this
‘possibility if it had not already done so. Thomas was assigned to Miami
from July 1962 to August 1963. Neither CI/R&A nor SB has a retention

. copy of the ‘memorandum, but Mr. Thomas is still at Headquarters.

2s Mrs Arthur Dooley of CI/R&A discussed this matter with the
following members of WH/COG: © ,

 

oe a. - Quige_ Margaret Forsythe: She stated that CIA's
inte rest in the DRE had been made known to the office of the
Attorney General by letters of 9 January and 18 April 1963
addressed to J. Walter Yeagley. The earlier letter said, in
‘part, "The DRE is of interest to this Agency which sponsors
and supports its propaganda and intelligence collection activity
_inthe Western Hemisphere... as the DRE is not a group
under complete Agency control, the above does not insure that
_ they will not undertake isolated paramilitary operations without
-prior notification."

 

 

: . b. Messrs. | [then recently returned
from a tour of the Miami Station, and Carl.Trettin, DC of the
CI Branch, WH/COG, who knew Bringuier and was stationed

 

 
 

7. .The problem arising from Garrison's charges of Agency
involvement in the assassination is compounded by the nature of .
some of our former Cuban operations, which resulted in a form of
indirect association, For example, Garrison has sought without
success to extradite Sergio ARCACHA Smith from Dallas. FBI reporting
of 28 March, 1967 stated that according to Layton Patrick Martens,
Garrison will try to prove that Arcacha was the "second trigger man"
in the assassination. The checks run by WH/COG and CI/R&A have not
shown any link between Arcacha and CIA. However, WH/COG has
reported that Arcacha was the delegate of the Frente Revolucionario
Democratico (FRD) in New Orleans before the Bay of Pigs, that he
maintained regular postal contact with FRD headquarters in Miami,
that the’ FRD and the Cuban Revolutionary Council were supported by
GIA, and that funds were supplied to the head of these groups, Dr. Jose
‘MIRO Cardona. Consequently Arcacha may have believed that his

activities in New Orleans were ClA-supported. This phenomenon of

indirect association appears in other cases as well and may well underlie

_ some of Garrison's ‘accusations, '

. 8. tt ie ‘suggested that C/WH or hie representative might
profitably query Mr. Thomas about the allegations summarized in

' paragraph 1,. above.. Although the date for the trial of Clay Shaw has

not been set, - itis plainly drawing closer. Once it starts, the newspapers
will carry a flood of accusations, old and new; and it would be ¢ judicious
to be prepared in advance. :

 
