74-0000

     
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

  
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Recommendations for debriefing of Evilio DOQE Miyer

Ae Complete bicgraphio data (£112 out a Prop er gg ov Ss abe A alip,
B. 412 politioal affiliations since 1956 = alt organisations to vhioh
he belonged or with uhioh he was in sympathy.

3. Outline military and para~militery caresr = organizations « names of

. Gaperiore = muber of subordinates = his setivities = his missions and hoy

he seccuplished then ~ his failures « demand specifics.
"Ihe Relatives inside Cuber their past end current political sympathies =
wore any dnprisoned ar. shot by Batiata? by Fidel?

S- Arrest records by Batiate = by Fidel - by crininal police, as oppesed
to political or seoret police = Crines he bas comuitted (amiggling, theft,
wxdder, rape, use of nercotics). Has he been blackmailed? Doss he know anye
One who could bleoksail hin? Secret crines? Have oxy of his welatives ox -

. Seiends been arrested for these orincs? oe Ue es
" Ge Contests with Coounist Party: nesbere or oyupathieers © make dise
tinetion between 26th of July Movement ed GP, Did he attend oP nestings or

"86 duly mectings, Boos ho know any OP senders? Vas he ‘ever asked to Join
” the Party? Bid he ever agree with the aing of the Party? ;

To Contecte with Cuban Intelligence Boevice (DIER-G-2) » ever errested
by then © frionds er es-verkers arrested by thes

 

= did be ever work for then
oP praise to work for than = betray anyone te thems.

Tt fe noted thes tne WOFUMTTIR examiner who exenined DUQH in January
—- 4988 cheractoriued hia a posseasing Limited inelitgone, and the oxaniner
bad vory Uitte background information on hin en which te base detailed intere
Foaetions DUGIK'a unfavorable resotions 4n the exmination ware fob explesned
fn any way by the subjeat, whe insioted he vos conpletely truthfuls A detetied
Gebriefing should provide the nat eporater With the ensentiale for oorroteration,

 

   
 

(foe-oree-tonz)....
aa

RO INDERING REQUIALS

ORLY QUALIFIED
EADQUARIERS OLEK
CA FUDGE INDERING

ACTION REQUIRED « REFERENCES

REFERENCE: DIR 48927 (dated 21 March 1962)

Transaitted herewith are the recoamendattons ef the LCFLUITER
people for the debriefing of Evilic DUQUE Miyor xe © MQUE's
questionable LCPLUTTER exam.

(2D OF DisPparcn)

Attachanats
As Steted, B/W (1)

Le Seale

| en ae __& or
! ob 2 © C05, JWMAVE

 

_acattinag tent ERT merce segs oet RNP tn « meee RSC A
