 

  

 

 

SECRET

12 %It must be stressed that the voice intercept and photographic
coverage was not (and normally is not) processed in "real time." The
means of acquisition and the volume of the information precludes anything
but the spot reporting of items judged by the monitor to be of more than.
ordinary interest and, therefore, noted in summary logs. Full texts of
selected items require consultation of the tape and either a full tran-
scription or full translation or both. Photo coverage tends to become
available in quantity lots which requires scanning and selection on a
rapid and accelerated basis in four or five day peaks ." One of the
"triggers" that normally operates to focus and accelerate more speedy
review and reporting of this kind of raw intelligence is the mention of
aname. This was precisely what occurred in the second of two conversa-
tions on 1 October with the Soviet Embassy, during which the speaker said
he was “Lee OSWALD." It was this information reported by the Station to

Headquarters in its first indication on OSWALD on 8 October 1963.

13. The Mexico Station did one more thing in its 8 October report

-on Lee OSWALD based on its 1 October voice intercepts: it coupled the

data with descriptive information it had acquired fron a sensitive
collateral source--a photograph of a male individual, apparently an
American, who was observed entering the Soviet Embassy on 1] October.
The Station reported this detail on the 8th as a matter of coincident
fact. The Station did not assert or suggest that the data deduced from

the photo was in fact OSWALD, or indeed, was in any way related to OSWALD.

SECRET
13-00000

 

 

 

 

SECRET

Lee Harvey. OSWALD - CIA Coverage of His Mexico City Stay

14. One additional element of background must be stipulated now as
the final precondition to understanding the relevance (or irrelevance)
of the photo of the unknown individual placed in the chain of evidence
on 23 November in Dallas by FBI Agent Bardwell ODUM: what was the
totality of CIA Mexico's coverage of OSWALD's activity as of the after-

noon of the 23rd when all available coverage had been checked?

15. The totality of Mexico Station coverage on, or reasonably

inferable to be OSWALD, consisted of five (5) voice intercepts as follows:

a. 27 September 1963 (Friday), 1605 hours Mexico City time.
Silvia DURAN, a Mexican national, a local employee of the Cuban
Embassy, Consular section, a receptionist, speaks with an unknown
male at the Soviet Embassy. Silvia DURAN tells the man that the
American citizen was there, the one who wants a visa for Cuba on
his way to the Soviet Union, and he wants to know with whom he was
talking there because she (Silvia DURAN) had sent him to the Soviet
Embassy saying that if they accepted him and gave him a visa, then
the Cubans (Embassy) would also give him a visa without further
paper work, only advising Immigration in Cuba. The American, she
says, wants to know with whom he had talked there because he says
he was told there would be no problem. The man in the Soviet

Embassy says to wait a moment. A different Soviet speaks, and

SECRET
13-00000

 

 

 

 

 

SECRET

10. At no time during his stay in Mexico City did the CIA acquire
a photo of OSWALD. A careful review of all coverage, voice intercept,
as well as photographic, of both the Soviet and Cuban Embassies was
conducted by the Station on 22 and 23 November 1963 after the assassina-
tion, going back to materials from August 1963. It is, therefore, firm
that there was no CIA photo coverage of OSWALD at any time during his
Mexico trip or stay in Mexico City. Moreover, although it had made a
cabled request on 15 October, the Mexico Station had no photo of OSWALD

in its records, nor did it receive one from Headquarters~-which did not

have one either--before 22 November 1963.

11. butte Fhis intensive review of voice intercept transcripts
by the monitor and other personnel on the basis of the 1 October inter-
cept--which had been reported to Headquarters and disseminated to the
interested members of the intelligence community (as an ex-Marine OSWALD

was a Navy and FBI case under the Delimitations Agreement, and potentially

_of interest to the Department of State)--turned up matches based on

content with materials intercepted on 27 and 28 September 1963. These
matches were reported to Headquarters on 23 November 1963. Analysis
based on voice comparison (except for what could be recalled by the
monitor--and this was not an insignificant element because of the
memorably poor Russian spoke by OSWALD) could not be made because the

tapes, in accordance with the normal practice, had been erased and re-used.

SECRET
 

 

 

 

SECRET

1963 to about 8:30 a.m. 2 October 1963. His place of residence was a
small commercial traveler hotel, not frequented by "gringos"--the

Hotel Commercio--where he was registered under alias. Exhaustive and
detailed interviews and interrogation by the Mexican authorities and

the FBI, after the assassination, established that in the recollection of

all hotel personnel he left early and returned late each day of his stay.

8. Assuming, and allowing for the fact of late arrival and early
departure, that he slept one-third of the time of his stay (38 or 39
hours), there remain some 78 hours of activity to be accounted for.
Overall, CIA's information can account solely for very brief periods
during 27, 28 September and 1 October. All coverage by CIA during the

entire period was technical. The Station had no live source (living

 

 

 

agent) q@jerage either unilatera gor from Mexican Tiaisonz

 

 

9. It should be noted that OSWALD was in no sense “under investi-
gation." None of the facts of his defection and stay in the USSR and
return to the U.S., 1959 - 1962, were known to Mexico Station files
before 10 October 1963, when the bare bones of his. biography were
forwarded by Headquarters in response to a Station cabled report of
8 October which had forwarded, on a routine basis, what appeared to be
a contact by an American for a visa to Cuba in transit to the USSR. This
was indicated and deduced from technically acquired information on
1 October, which was the first and only occasion in which OSWALD

identified himself (partially) by true name.

SECRET
 

 

 

 

 

SECRET

sensitive intelligence operation being conducted in October 1963 by the

 

 

 

 

GiirandMextcamsecurd ty authori ties} against the Soviet and Cuban

Embassies in:Mexico City.

_ 3. Under the extraordinary press of effort to develop information
on the assassin and the assassination, copies of the photograph were
made available by CIA's Mexico Station Chief on the afternoon of ,

22 November to the local FBI representative, and later that day,
assertedly on the decision of the Ambassador, copies were conveyed by
an FBI representative by a special flight carried out by the U.S. Naval
Attaché to the Dallas office of the FBI for possible use in the ongoing
investigation. One photograph, cropped by the FBI, was shown to

Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD (Lee Harvey OSWALD's mother) in Dallas on the
evening of 23 November 1963 by FBI Agent Bardwell D. ODUM.

4. The Warren Commission's report describes the sequence of events
at pp. 364-365 and 667 (Attachment B) which ultimately resulted in
Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD's allegation that she had been shown a cropped
photo of Jack RUBY the day before he murdered her son. (A further
complication compounding this erroneous conclusion was the fact that
when she had been shown a copy of the same photograph in her appearance
before the Commission, it had been cropped by the FBI in Washington in

a slightly different manner.)

5. No detail in the Warren Commission report illustrates more

vividly than this one the difficulties that beset simple truth in the

SECRET
 

 

SECRET

politicized, rigidly deterministic interpretive climate that has been
nurtured by the media over the past decade about the Kennedy Assassina-
tion. The photograph, acknowledged now not to be RUBY, has continued to
preoccupy "specialists" and has become the centerpiece of another
hypothesis that holds OSWALD to have been "framed" by the use of a

double in his activity in Mexico City.?

Lee Harvey OSWALD - Reporting on Mexico City Stay

6. Although in no way related to Lee Harvey OSWALD or his stay in
Mexico City from the morning of 27 September 1963 to the morning of
2 October 1963, at least one set of photographs of the unidentified man
originated during OSWALD's stay there. It is important, therefore, to
an understanding of the acquisition and handling of the photographs by —
the Mexico Station to review what the Station ascertained and did with
the information it developed about OSWALD in Mexico City, together with

Headquarters action on that information.

. 7. -From all credible evidence.-known to this time (none,-incidentaily.,—- --- -.—
added since the exhaustively unique work of the Warren Commission),
Lee Harvey OSWALD spent four (4) full days and two (2) partial days--
about 116 hours in all--in Mexico City from about 10:00 a.m. 27 September

2 This is the thrust of the article "The CIA.and the Man Who Was Not
Oswald” by Bernard Fensterwald and George O'Toole in the New York Review
of Books, a copy of which is attached to reference (Attachment A).

3
SECRET
 

 

SECRET \ 4 ”

3. The attached report is not intended to be an
answer to the Fensterwald/O'Toole article which Mr. Belin
attaches to his memorandum. (I have prepared a paragraph-
by-paragraph refutation and comment on that article,
which I believe is more appropriately handled by a sepa~ Not ore
rate memorandum to Mr. Belin, and I will prepare this as :

a memorandum if that.is desired.) ee
‘4. ‘The point of the referenced memorandum is that wa

consideration should be given now to "whether or not the
entire matter can be fully disclosed at this time." .This — litt
submission is designed to make it possible for you, the

‘IG and others whom you may desire to consult to make this
decision. The narrative-interpretive summary has been

‘put together in such a way that it discloses no cyptonyms,

’ pseudonyms or other CIA jargon. However, its contents qo

well. beyond what has been released to the public thus far

in the Warren Commission documentation. This point must

be borne in mind in making a decision on Mr. Belin's

question. To remove any question in anybody's mind about

_ our good faith in this matter, the narrative is backed up

by copies of actual documentation from our files. [It

seems to me necessary, in reply to Mr. Belin, that he or

his reptesentative review the documentation that backs up

the narrative. The documentation has not been keyed into

the narrative presentation, but it follows the chronologi-

cal order of presentation from 9 October into the latest :
developments in. the matter, and: there is an overall index a, LE.
to. facilitate reference to individual items. [NB: There f ln
is only one copy of this collection; this is it.] peor

 

5. As noted above, one of the photographs taken in ne,

Mexico City on 4 October 1963 was introduced into the Dh Ley
Warren Commission public record. However, it was intro- fi oT
duced into that record in two cropped versions. The yee
Warren Commission and its staff were made fully aware in ine
the course of their inquiry at Headquarters and in fo

Mexico City of the origins of the photograph, the fact
that we had additional photographs of the same individual
taken at different times in Mexico City and on the basis
of full knowledge of these facts reached their own con-
clusions regarding the irrelevance of the photograph to
OSWALD and the assassination.

6. In fact, we actually hold twelve different photo-=
graphs of the Unidentified Individual. Each of these ate—:
reproduced in the collected documentation backing up the
narrative report (see Items 25 - 27). Chief, LA Division,

2
SECRET

-  - a
104-10449-10277

 

or

SECRET — -

Cage Bike pecan haan ee ee en et

2 May. 1975

‘MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Chief, Operations Staff

| SUBJECT |. _t. Review of Agency Holdings regarding
Lo Photograph of Unidentified Individual
in. Mexico City published by the
Warren. Commission

REFERENCE : Letter dated 15 april 1975 by
Mr. David W. Belin, Executive Director
of the Commission on CIA Activities.
within the United States, to.
Mr. E. Henry “Knoche (copy attached to
accompanying report)

1. This is further to, and in completion of, my
interim memorandum of a few weeks ago.

°2. The. attachment is a detailed review in narrative,”
‘chronological order - together with appropriate comment-
ary - of our extensive holdings on the OSWALD case that
have a bearing on the matter of otographs taken by
Mexico City Station on(h, (4) ana 5) October 1963 of an
Unidentified Individual. As a consequence of a combina- ~
tion of analytical error, misjudgement and under the.
stress of an urgent desire to contribute to the develop-
ment of the investigation of the assassination, a
cropped versior of one of the photographs of the
Unidentified Individual was introduced into the chain of
evidence in the OSWALD case on 23 November 1963 by an
FBI representative in Dallas. The successive vicissi-
tudes which have now made this event a cause celebre
right down to the present moment are detailed in the
narrative.

 

e SECRET.

ek _IMPBET Of py
 

 

i
-]
H
a

 

 

SECRET we _

had indicated in writing to Chief, CIOPS, that he has no
objection. for Mr. Belin to do whatever is desired with
these photographs at this time. It should be noted that
Mr. Fensterwald in 1971 - 1972 was actually shown,’ by
Mr. Houston during a visit to the Agency, two of the

- twelve photographs, other than the’ one already published

in the Warren Commission report. (It is these two that

the has published in The New York Review of Books article

which Mr. Belin attaches to his Memorandum. y

7. %It seems to me that whoever makes a decision on
whether the entire matter can be fully disclosed at this
time should bear in mind that a subsidiary decision must

also be made, i.e., whether: to crop or otherwise fuzz up

the background of the photographs or, alternatively, to
publish the entire run of the photographs for the first
time without taking out the background. Obviously, none .
of these questions apply. to the passage of this material
to Mr. Belin and the Rockefeller Commission itself. Tf
think. they should see the entire documentation as it
stands. Perhaps after that, the question of what could.
be discussed and the question of "how?" and "how much?"
could be taken up with Mr. Belin himself. My personal
recommendation is that the more we can say about this
matter in a fully open and final manner, the better off
we will be as an Agency. But it is my understanding

“that there are still sensitivé aspects deriving from. the

fact that the operation which produced the photographs
was jointly rim with Mexican liaison and as a consequence.

. publication at this time would create additional problems

at that level in Mexico. Also, it should be noted that
the Ambassador, according to Win Scott's memorandum to

_._3.C. King on 22 November 1963 (see Item 8 in the backup
documentation), allegedly played a direct role in the :

decision to put the photographs into the hands of the FBI
in Dallas Laterally from the Field. As far as I know,
there has not been anything published about this aspect
at any time in the past nor have we had any discussions
with the State Department about that aspect of the matter.

Raymond G. Rocca
Attachments:

as stated

SECRET
13-00000

SECRET

 

| . 2 May 1975

| SUBJECT : The Photo of an Unidentified Individual in the Warren
: Cannission Report: A Factual Chronological Survey

a3 REFERENCE: Memorandum by David W. Belin to Mr. E. Harry Knoche,
i : 15 April 1975 (Attachment A)

|. Reference memorandum suggests it would be appropriate to

 

reconsider full disclosure at this time of the circumstances and factual
data relative to the Subject. The purpose of this survey is to permit a

realistic evaluation of the suggestion.

Background . | ; 6? c/o
2. This examination and summary a PA : y,
Odle?™

photograph considered by the Presiden g Zz OK 0? 4
of President Kennedy (hereinafter cit (7 Uo? oy

cal ’ introduced into evidence as Odum Exhil

(together with others of the same indi FOF)

1 See Hearings Before the President's ae) wre [ iv
of President Kennedy (hereinafter citec ik a fy :

SECRET
