74-00000

B. June 1961 - Cain contacted Hr. Lohmann, . :
of the Chicago Field Office, to report an
approach nade to hia by a fir. Kroupansky

who reportediy was negotfatinga with the
President of Panama to investigate coanunfsm
in Panama. Cain was to assist Krovpansky in !
this endeavor. :

C. Summer of 1951 ~ Cafn was met in ‘lexico
City by a CIA staffer, tdentity unknown, -
purpose unknown. . . . !

D. October 1967 ~ Cain wrote to Hr. Lohwann
from Panasa. He reported on his findings of :
attitudes toward the U.S. in certain Central :
. * Amarican countries and offered his services ta :
. tha Agency.

E. April 1962 - Cain made an unannounced visit

to Agency representatives Winston Scott and |
: : . Ceol” Hexico City and informed thes . i
mo SH MHvestigative agency ha had in Mextca : :

6
‘ . (with branches in Chicago and Los Angeles) which
: he used to provide police training to Haxtcan
Government agents. Cain could provide no proof
j of U. S. citizenship. He was told by Hesars.
' : . Scott and that the U. S. Anbassador did not :
_. @pprove o tean citizens becoming involved
i : in Nexican politics. :
F. 4 dune 1962 - Cain was deported from Mexico
| * for carrying a Toaded revolver and brass knuckles,
| . iopersonating a Nexican Governnent official, and |
i : violating his tourist perait by working.
| |
i
i

: : 6. 19 August 1963 - Cain was met at the Lake

i Shore Brive Athletic Club and Adolphs Club in

i Chicago, Illinois by WH Diviston staff officer,

i and the Chie? of the Chicago DCO

a Tt¢a, @ contact report states that in the

1 distant future Cain would like to work cvarseas,

i possibly with CIA. It was pointed out to Cain

a . : that his current cooperation with CYA night be
of benefit to him should he apply for enploysant
with CIA in the future. At this tine Cain worked

 

~2-

wt
nethel

ane ccemaeettR nce feecarenetemmete eam = - cose Satter me

|

 
 

[toetontatonzt) i ;

v

WH/COS: 344.74
10 January 1974 !

HEHORANDUM FOR: Chief, Nostern Hemisphere Division
SUBJECT : Salvatore Giancana and Richard Catn”

{
pecs REFERENCE 3 Chicago Tribune Articles of 23 and 31
| : ; Deceaber 1973 .

-- 4, A routine name check was conducted on Salvatore

Glancana with negative results. A check was then made wtth

the Office of Security to determine whether their records

reflected that one Salvatore Siancana was ever employed by

CIA as alleged in the raferenced Chicago Tribune article of

31 December 1973. We were advised that any Inquiries cone
i cerning this uatter should be made to Hr. Brackinridge,
Ceputy Inspactor General. I/COG touched base with Hr.
Breckinridge who said that he had received a copy of the
referenced article. .,

2. We have developed the following information on
Richard Catn, subject of the referenced 23 December 1973
Chicago Tribune article. Richard S. Cain was bora in Chieaga,
Tiltnois tn October 1931. He dropped out of the first year
of high school in 1937 and enlistad in the U.S. Aray where
he served until discharged in 1950. Following his army service
he was assocfated with investigative enterprises in Niam? and
Chicago. In 1956 he entered the Chicago Police Dapartnent
(Vice Squad) where he remained unti] 1950. Concurrent with
that euploynent he operated the Accurate Laboratories, a private
investigative businass. Listed below is a chronology of CIA
} contacts with Cain: .

i

fj

I

i

i

i

A. Fall of 1860 - Cain initiated contact ; |
+

with the DCD Chicago Field Office and vol—

untarily provided information on the active
i ities of Cuban exile groups in the Chicago
‘ area. .
1° . ~file
| : . :
i £2 InPpEeT . ranrt Wither g Gedney
| CL BY: 054555 SFpRE Gain & Ze
7 Fllty
hee .
| .

   

~ Rg Rens

 
~3-

for the Cook County Sheriff's Office. He :
also was in contact with Cubans in the Chicaga
area who were involved in ventures which were
not completely legal. Cain was told of Agency
requirements in general, and agreed to assist
the Agency by Providing infornation on undar=
cover activities of the Cubans, espectally
Paulino Sferra and his contacts, providing
nanes of any Cubans who sight ba usa?ul to
CIA, and noting in particular runors of any
CIA contacts tn the Chicago area. .

H. 26 and 30 August 1963 - Tnfornation fron
Cain to the DCD Chicago Office was passed to

the Cuba Desk at Headquarters. The 26 August
information concerned the Student Directory, a
Cuban exile group located in Miaal, Florida.

The 30 August infornationrreported Hiro Cordoza's
interest tn purchasing arns, oo.

T. 11 September 1963 requested
a@ PCSA/CSA on Cain but @ is no tndication

it was ever granted,

3. 12 September 1963 - Cain reported to the
Chicago Field Office information on persons

claiming to be representatives of the DRE -

Directorio Revoluctonario Estudiantil - who

purchased arns for the DRE. Cain planned,

another meeting with eged DRE repe
resentatives, — via DCO Washingten
and DCD Chicago;-yot word to Cain to "get out

of the picture” as soon as possible and to make
ho conmttnents. .

K. 12967 ~ The Office of Security files show
that the F8I in 1957 initiated an investigation
on Cain beacause of alleged Mafia connections.
For this reason the F312 recoanandad that CIA
terminate its association with Cain. :

L. 15 April 1972 - Cain returned to Chicago fron
Hexico City, then disappeared about 1 Hay 1972

=3-

sted

     
    
74-00000

a

a.

ohe

saying he was going to Latin Ansrica.
Cain allegedly was involved in illegal
international arms deals and on various
occasions stated he was working for CIA.

H. 16 Hay 1972 - An FBI agent In Hextco
City asked Mexico City Station for traces
on Cain. According to the FI an Eastern
Airlines pilot had identified Cain as tha
skyjacker who forced him to fly to Honduras
on 5 Hay 1972. . .

3. There is ns ‘indication that a clearance was ever
granted for the use of Cain by the Agency or that he recetvad
any compensation from the Agency. We have been unable te
substantiate Cain's claim that he worked for the oss during

Orville Bathe
C/N4/COG

Distribution: .
Orig 4 1 ~ Addressee

1 - COG Chrono

1 = C0G/0S

dy Originator

“@- Off. of Sec. L. Howe
le ie 323871

DDO/WH/COG/0S:CHopkins:rb (typed 10 Jan. 74)

 

 
