 

 

 

 
         

TENTATIVE

 

CStNG, 70-1

a CHAPTER VI - PART A
CLANDESTINE SERVICES

INSTRUCTION NO, 70-1 27 moh 1955

f

cA

 

NEA DIVISION
Chief
Deputy Chief

 

 

 
13-00000

 

EE DIVISION

Chief
Deputy Chief

Plans
Staff

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

SECRET
FENTATIVE
CSI NO, 70-1
CHAPTER VU - PART A
CLANDESTINE SERVICES
INSTRUCTION NO, 70-1 27 May 1955

 

g- Prepare intelligence and counterintelligence information reports pertaining to his geographic
- area for dissemination to appropriate Government agencies in accordance with established
requirements.

  
  
    
 
 
 
 
   
    
    
     
   
  
  

h. Prepare or ensure the preparation of operational plans, programs, and projects for the ac-

‘- eomplishment of the mission assigned to his geographic area, including operational and
Support annexes and/or administrative plans, asi effect necessary coordination of same

_ with other Agency components. $

: Assist in the development of pertinent strategic cold war plans as required.
Agsist in the development of-hot war plans pertaining to his geographic area and provide as

directed for the allocation, transfer, or generation of assets to meet accepted hot war obii-

 

minister all defector matters within his geographic area.

Provide guidance and direction to the operational and administrative activities conducted by
jeld stations in his raphic area, to include the development and, after approval, trans~-
mission of letters of instruction and related mission directives as S appropriate and required,

 

 

 

that appropriate cover is provided for all clandestine activities within hia geographic

 

 

 

Coordinate and supervise the establishment and activation, and direct the operation, of field

‘stations ‘and facilities necessary to actompligh in his geographic area the mission assigned:
division. a oe a
F hat : ’ jsteal security is maintained

 
  

rs and overseas areas of°

meat personnel, training, and rotation programs in accordance with Agency regulations.
headquarters and field elements af hts aivisioa compty with all. operational and

     

   

     

tt ali components of the Agency, other Government agencies,
; irected in the execation of the above mission and functions,

DD/P.

 

we FRANK G, WISNER
‘<" Deputy Director (Plans)

 

SECRET

 

 
13-00000,

a .

   
  

Bs SECRE i er

Vo be ngene us ee per A Ppp Sob.
Gm. CLANDESTINE SERVICES ee 3 Geel vow eD
INSTRUCTION NO, 70+ / “/

 

 
 

13-00000

 

dasa

 

TENTATIVE
CSERO, 70-1
CLANDESTINE SERVICES ORGANIZATION
INSTRUCTION NO, 70-1 27 May 1955

tw

3.

 
   
   
    
  
   
    

bME |

ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS OF THE
CLANDESTINE SERVICES

CHAPTER VII, PART A — AREA DIVISIONS ¢

MISSION

all clandestine Operations undertaken in his geographic area in the accomplishment of the DD/P
mission, and for the coordination and support of DD/P clandestine Operations mounted from Als z

ORGANIZATION

pee organization charts, Figures 1 - 6,)
MAJOR FUNCTIONS

The Chief of an Area Division will:

a. Plan, develo:, direct, and Support ali Federal espionage operations and activities within his
geographic - rea, . oo :
b. Plan, deveb.p, direct, and support all psychol

ties within his geographic area {except 22 qualified in
Operations) to include

  

    
 
   
 

 

Plan, develop, direct, and Support counte:
* acUvities within his geographic area,

 

 

 

counter intelligence interest relating to his geographic area. .

 

 

  

 

 

 
CONFIDENTIAL

highlighted copy of the guidelines indicating any information which it considers sensitive
and for review only by Mr. Gunn while at HRG [ per discussion with Barry this is not a
sanitized version of the guidelines ].

cc:

CONFIDENTIAL
104-10330-10008

 

‘

CONFIDENTIAL

7 April 1995
MEMORANDUM FOR: J. Barry Harrelson @ DA
FROM:
SUBJECT: Response to ARRB Questions / Requests
REFERENCE: Memo dtd 6 March 1995 to Ellie Neiman re ARRB Initial Review of Oswald

201 File

1. In response to ARRB the DO has the following answers and /or comments to the
specific questions raised by Mr. Gunn during his review of the OSWALD 201! file.

a. RYBAT- The sensitivity indicator RYBAT is used on correspondence
whenever, in the judgment of the originator and releasing officer, the correspondence
concerns sensitive operational or administrative matters. When used RYBAT will appear
on the slug line along with other pertinent action indicators or cryptonyms to ensure the
protection of sensitive text information.

b. CUSIG- the '"'I'' In SIG stands for " investigations "' and appears in the
Birch O'Neal testimony and also in CS! No. 70-1 dtd 2 March 1955 [ a copy attached

- herewith] ; this particular document was released i in full in Reel 48 folder 18 of the JFK

microfilm holdings.

c. VR - Indicates that a'' vital records'' copy of the cable message was
provided to the cable secretariat archives for its use in the necessary microfilming of the
message at a later date - this automatic dissemination to VR ensures a good microfilm
image copy for records storage. :

d. D-200-5-41 - The '’D" indicates a processing code used by the records

. analyst to place a cross referenced copy of the same document into a particular file other

than. the main file . The file number 200-5-41 is the official GPFLOOR file|-all documents
originally. assigned to this. file have been reclassified to other subject files . The GPFLOOR

' file was clogéd out with the last document filed dated 26 August 1968 [see JFK Reel 48

folder 29 for a listing of documents processed from this file].
“ e. SLUG LINE - The crypts released elsewhere in the text of a message are
always protected in the slug line along with other indicators as a method to preclude
reconstitution of DO files; for the release of the crypts in the slug line could build
sufficient information to reconstruct sensitive operational information the DO.is trying to
protect.

- f. ‘DO/WH Organizational Chart - [see attached CSI No 70- 1 dtd 27 May
1955 and updates written in from cable chrono information }- the second attachment dtd 5
July 1978 authored by the CIA History Staff answers the original request for this
information.

g. HRG Review Guidelines - On 15 March the DO provided HRG with a green
»
1

CONFIDENTIAL

 
13- ee

Pay
#

i eneateedieniatieeeentAienenaeit a cithint cet aecmtaenee amantiaen meee eee

_SOREHBENTIAT SSaet ATTACHMENT
NITEDALAL
{ NITEPAIAL LSE -SiniLy 7 April 1995

RESPONSE TO ARRB QUESTIONS

| IONS
O% ] CIA SPECIAL COLLECT
RELEASE AS SANITIZED ©

2000

in response to ARRB the DO has the following answers and /or comments to the
specific questions raised by Mr. Gunn during his review of the OSWALD 201 file.

a. RYBAT- The sensitivity indicator RYBAT is used on correspondence
whenever, in the judgment of the originator and releasing officer, the correspondence
concerns sensitive operational or administrative matters.. When used RYBAT will appear
on the slug line along with other pertinent action indicators or cryptonyms to ensure the
protection of sensitive text information.

; b. CUSIG - the "'I'' In SIG stands for " investigations ‘' and appears in the
Birch O'Neal testimony and also in CSI No. 70-1 dtd 2 March 1955 [ a copy attached
herewith] ; this particular document was released in full in Reel 48 folder 18 of the JFK
microfilm holdings.

c. VR - Indicates that a” vital records’' copy of the cable message was
provided to the cable secretariat archives for its use in the necessary microfilming of the
message at a later date - this automatic dissemination to VR ensures.a good microfilm
image copy for records storage.

d. D-200-5-41 - The °'D’’ indicates a processing code used by the records
analyst to place a cross referenced copy of the same document into a particular file other
than the main file . The file number 200-5-41 is the official GPFLOOR file -all documents
originally assigned to this file have been reclassified to other subject files . The GPFLOOR
file was closed out with the last document filed dated 26 August 1968 [see JFK Reel 48
folder 29 for a listing of documents processed from this file].

e. SLUG LINE - The crypts released elsewhere in the text of a message are
always protected in the slug line along with other indicators as a method to preclude
reconstitution of DO files; for the release of the crypts in the slug line could build
sufficient information to reconstruct sensitive operational information the DO is trying to
protect.

f. DO/WH Organizational Chart - [see attached CSI No 70-1 dtd 27 May
1955 and updates written in from cable chrono information ]- the second attachment dtd 5
July 1978 authored by the CIA History Staff answers. the original request for this
information.

fis FRR & ta erat ad

     
   

o f
ha af,
} .
. _ ARS \S aoe net TENTATIVE ~~"
4 . 3; NV a SPL - ~
Soca, _ SE ad ae CSTRO, 70-1
: < CHAPTER V
CLANDESTINE SERVICES
INSTRUCTION KO, 70-1 2 March 1955
® Recommends policy for Clandestine Services activities relating to the internal security
“OF the United Siates-and. _provides staff supervision over the collection and provision of
> we information appropriate to ‘United States internal security agencies.

‘2. SPECIAL” ‘MWESLLGALLON cor ~

jor-Functions—~

Performs the CI investigation and analysis of any known or potential security leak in the
Clandestine Services organization, whether in headquarters or tn the {leld, from the stand-
point of its effect on (1) existing operations, and (2) the cover of personnel. In performing
this function, maintains close working relations with the Security Oifice, the latter being
primarily concerned In such cases from Agency security rather than an operational secu-
rity standpoint. = *

3. ADMIMESTRATION STAFF

a. Major Functions

(1) Guides and supports C1 elements in the field of organization, personnel, specialized
procurement and supply, finance, budget, travel, publications, and general admitgatra-
tive facilities.

Note: Since CI personnel have the FI career designation, Career Management functions
are largely performed by FI Staff.

(2) Performs counterpart functions within the CI Staff on behalf of those Agency support
. units responsible for procedures relating to personal safety, physical security, and
miscellaneous administrative controls.

(8) Coordinates with the other components of CI Staff to insure correlation of their activities
with the administrative capabilities of the Agency.

U. LEALSOR STAFF
8. Major Functions

(1) Provides staff supervision and guidance in matters relating to liaison with other United
_ States Government agencies on matters pertaining to counterespionage and operationally
related matters pertaining to internal security.

(2) Provides guidance and suggestions, as requested and appropriate, to other components
of CIA in matters pertaining to counterespionage and internal security involving Maison
with other United States Government agencies.

(3) Coordinates with the Security Office, or other components of CIA as appropriate, matters
involving liaison with other United States Government agencies on questions which have
counlerespionage aspects and other aspects intermingled or not clearly delineated.

5. SPECEAL PROJECTS DIVISION
a. Major Furctions

‘The Chief, Special Projects Division, is responsible for the handling of such special projects
aS are assigned to him by the Chief, Cl, or directly by the Chief of Operations or the Deputy

 

Director (Plans).
* £EF*
cheese
an aa ~ * y eamcke poly
: a th I

Aree

¢

 

 

i
i
