 

Si a es Ne ge ee

 

e2a

The exile groups presently affiliated with the CNC ores hovirdento Recuyeracton
Revolucionario (M22), Voviglento Deaocratico Cristiano (10C), Juventud Decocratico
Cristieno (JUDEC), the youth Fection of MOC, Directorio Nevolucionnario sstudiastil (pRB),

Acefon Revolucionario Democratico (ADC), 30th of November Movenent, Rescate Dnocratico

_ Ravoluctonario (roa), Kenteeristi, and the 20 de vayo, The Unidad Revoluctonario (UR)

to believed about to join the CRC. The vovinients ‘Revolucionar to del Pueblo (RP)

will be encouraged to join, but any offer resistunce. It fe not unlikely that soue

factions of tha groups effilfated with the CRE wilt refuse to cooperate with it. :
It should bo noted that the Fronts Revoluctenario Desocrata (FRO), haa

been abolished end ite cembership larg@ly assisilated by the cic.

 
 

104-10227-10136

 

 

Prepored vy \. T. Ellis
VH/S/VA-PROP, Cor FBI at
foitfs tal off lee

1G Nevenver 196k

   

 

DRAFT LETTER TO FBI

Purauant to the telephone conversation 16 Novenber 1961 vetween br. Jabon

of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Mr. of CIA, information

concerning recent discussions between U. S. Government reprosentatives and Dr.

 

HIRO Cardona, bead of the Cubon Revolutionary Counetl, 18 set forth in the
folowing paragraphs. wi

On 31 detober 1961 representatives of tha Department of State. end the Central
Intelligence Agency met with Dr. NIRO and read him a policy paper which bad bean
agreed upon by the tvo sgencies. In this paper the U 6, Government reiterated
Ate confidence in Dr. Io and expressed the hope that be vould continue to lead -
the fight agairat the CASTRO Negine until Cuda ie liberated, It was stated that
the Unites States regards the Cuben Revolutionary Council as the central point of
contact in dealing vith Cuban exiles, and at avery appropriate opportunity will
lend the CRC all appropriate asaistance to becoue the unquestioned leader and

unifying force of the Cuban exily comunity. To this and the United Etates vill

_arrange that exile groups other than the CRC now raceiving direct support will

henceforth receive this same assistance through the CRC. It was. pointed out that
the possibility always exiete that new exile groups Will form which may, in the u.8.

view, merit direct support if they are unwilling to work with the CRC; in such

dnetances the CRC will be kegt fully informed.

 
