74-0000

Mee ze . . we er

~” Gany56/038 22 oo 9-1-'56 .
“RE: Your G@S}753 of 14=2~'51; further to our
2

22.(CARY52/589 of 11-6-'52,
SUBJNCT: Investigation into. the KRIVIT
2 ADA; “HANS” and —

   
 

SKY

en

  

  

 

Te ape at present reexamining the tCoabiot cuse and are
maxing again inquiries abot the firm of (GADA)of Ansterdam men— _
tioned in your a.m. letter, — oo : :
Pending the results of these inquiries we herewith pass you the
following infornation additional to that sent to you by our

22(CABY52/589 of 11-6-'52, that you may the sooner be able to form

 

6|py

_"LUDSIG" - Ignace 2bISS8, and of "Halts",

an accurate idea of the case,

i an April 1951 your representative recciveda from the

~ acording to information received by us from them - a

eport on the statemeats the Dutch subject Henri Ch#istiaan PIECK, §&

born 19-4-1895 Den Helder, made concerning his activities for the
RIS. In this report occur the names of "HATS", alias "HARRY", and
"PLTER", alias "Theodor Maly", alias Paul HARDT, while two dra—
wings were attached to the report, which PInCK had made of -

 

In the book "This Deception" (published by DUELL, SLOAN &
PEARC: + New York) the authoress Hede MASSING tells, that in the
first half of the thirties she was in contact with Ignace REISS,
SORGE, KRIVITSKY, Paul HARDT, and "RELIK", In the beginning of
the Vth Chapter (p. 68) the authoréss jsives a gescription of Ri-
churd SORGH, sayings among other things: "His cold blue eyes,.
sligaotly slanted and heavy browed, had retained their quality of
looking amused for no reason at all", a
t seens a peculiar cOincluence, tha

    

PIECK in describing "HANS"

  

“gays! "always appeared to be smiling", and "was slightly Asiatic

in appearance", Fhough in some further points the two descriptions
do not quite tally, there is a possibility that "HANS".and SORGE r
are identical, and that for this reason that GORGE was in the forme:
half of 1955 ap:ointed correspondent for Japan by the “Algemeen _
dandelsblaa" of Amsterdam, and. "HANS" had reportedly been commis~
Sioned to go to Jupan (though according to PICK he had not obeyed
the instruction). No doubt Hede MASSING made much more detailed
statements to the F.B.I. on her activities for the 21S than those
laid down in her book; she nust also have given descriptions of

the persons with whom she was in contact. -

PIECK fave physical descriptions of his enrloyers in the RIS. It

is recommendable to examine whether the two descriptions of Faul
HawwtT taliy, aud whether Hede. WASSING may be able with the help
s0a's urawing of "HANS" and the description to iventify the

t% would be advisaple also to show to nede “aS5in7% oak
of Ignace d#I18S to be able to check whether after a Ll
JS 5 years il.CK HaS been able to draw a good likeness of his
formers employers, and has done so with great fidelity.

Se should particularly be grateful for the investigation of
the XRIVITSKY case to possess copies of the statements ilede
#acSING made concerning her contacts with the’ 21S, and of KRIVITS-
aY"s statements fegarding his contacts, targets, and other useful
informetion. mo ;

     

- Further -

fm Sn
Fg om

 

 
  

 

 

 

 

    
 

 

 

(o4-f012340075)

ae x

“we

 

 

¥

  
  

 

RRIVIPSAY Case

ehere isa t

 

 

dnguiri es into

  

er ble:

2a

22

tached, herewi a (oa HY56/038 da ted. Janney
-opviously been handed

the ah (RIVIESEY,

to us 235 a result cf our.
atbler. _ the contents of

tory and, in essence, “Yequests %

lede .!

al

 

fesse

peperiea to show her .two-
7 or. eliminate e :
1S “HART: Y, was: cohneeted with

 

20HGE, o£ Mis dn wany : events. '
“2

 

OYE

 

ther ‘alr ‘the old ie

‘anid ais oa ben bas
this stud
Act on: be. taken

 

    

“roflerones to ©AHY56/058 in: your, realy.

 

 

a‘ subj L
suse ib is’ Se oner: tional
y and it is req ed th
by Heacqa u -Ples

 

 

 

    

 

   
    
 

 

 
 

aot rn © re C)

a an : Dy .

Further ve should greatly appreciate to receive full in-

‘formation from you on the bacxground of the original report
on the cover firm cf “GAva" passed to us by your a.m. letters

<

.

   

 

 

 
