 

a

‘ .

agrt

8. On 3 August T phoned Subject and told him that his clearance hed
not been granted as yet, that I had no way of knowing when it would be
Gréated, and that he should net predicate his activities on the axpectae
tion of the eleurance at any given time, : . .

% Subject asked uho would pay for the calls to me, and I told hig
&t would be alright to reverse the charges either to ay office or ay
home. . . t

10. Subject aaid that the Peiraza group is air lifting and divpping
material into Cuba, 7

We On & duguat, at ay request, Tim Cobb asked CI/OA to check with
the FbI to determine if they have a case on serSell as had previously
been reported by Reichherit in Miami. Later in the dsy Cobb informed
me that CI/OA had deternined from ‘the iireau that there is no case on
WerBell at this time, and that a POA had been granted on him.

12. I proposed to have Reichhardt ect all the derogatory information
on kertell he can, to forward to Headquarters for review, and thereafter
to determine whether or not he should be confronted with this information

‘ prior .to active operational use of hin, Although he has been evasive and
oovicusly not completely frank with “8, it aprears that -erbell doos have
access to inforzation of interest on Cuban and Doninican-Revoluticnsry ”
Bctivitios stent scotnet tie Casero vovernment, and that he is well con=
nected with the underworld elenents operating {n the Miant sited.

COMENT: This request vas given to Reichhardt by phons on 5 August.)

 

 

 

 

 

ete] ag 7

Luc

4

|

|

 
 

roa totea-t0t2s

t

+
te hap
ee
ta
i
4

ETURN TO CIA
1 ound Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

5 August

ae reMcRANDEI FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Mitchell L. terBell
é ; (201-259910)

\

1. Subject ochoned ne on Sunday, 2 éugust, to ask if there was any
news on hia clearance. He gaid that he wanted to co.to the Dominican
Republic in the next dey or two, and would like CIA te pick up His.
exoenses. I told him that there was no news, and that I had jus: gotten
back, but that I would let him know on Monday, 3 August. de asked me to
phone him at Highland 6-8L)3 in Miaed.

2. Subject ‘said he had phoned ay office during sy absence and
talked with "Harge", my assistant.

. 3- ‘He said that Robert Rodenberg, 9 former OSS man, is working
* with Manel de Moya, Rodenberg was described as a resident of Wash~
ington, wealthy, and not engaged in any particular occupation, Accords
ing to Subject, Rodenberg is engaged in the procurenent of arms for the
Dominicans, - . :

L. Subject said that George Cox, a tall gray-hatred individual
fron Washington, is trying to pet Batista into the United States legally.
Cox is a heavy drinker and clatwe to he fn the Akl: Eclotiong tisiumee
in the United States, Subject said that he had asked my assistant for
information on Cox.

S$. Subject said that Batista is not going to get cut of the
‘Dominican Republic since he is wanted there by Trujillo and the Pedraza
eroup to provide money fcr a possible revolt against Castro.

6. Subject said that Silva (fm) is going to the Dominican Republic.
Silva is assistant to Rolando Masferrer. According to Subject, edraza 1s
buying equiosent in Eurove in large quantities. oe Marola, who is work-
ing with Pedraza, has Teceatly acquired a PHY aircraft for use against the
Cuban Goverment. ~ ‘

Te Subject asked if he should maintain his contact vith dustin
Cleichauf, the OO man in Miami, I was surorised to hear that Subject
hed been put in touch with Cleichauf ‘and suggested that he not maintain
the relationship since I «: now availeble.
