 

 

 

 

 

 

It was- learned on 18 January 1963 thse there fe an alleged
GRtt-CIA activity in progress at Soattle Univarsity. The
inforcant fe a Mrs. Margaret Penning who Lives tn Pucdlo,-
Colorado, Mra. Fanning atetes that her daushter, Clara, @
atudent at Seattle University fo being taught thee CIA was ~°
fuphicated in tho Kennedy sasassination.

” Mea. Fanning allegedly has received ‘several talephona calls

recently from Clare in which sho related that eona of the
pridate at Seattla University hed convinced the students that
Garrison's theories abéut the aezensination are correce and
that the charges about CIA's frplication are also correct.

Mrs. Fanning states her daughter {9 afraid of CIA and considers
CIA as baing comparable to the Ccstapo. Mrs. Fanning has tried
to persuade hor daughter thae these chargea Sra totally untrua
but apparently hes had no success in changing her daughter's
viewpoint.

Mee, Fanning also states that her daughter has been told to
be sure not to repest to anyona the foresoing information and
‘ that the priasts at Seattle University have instructed their

students not to diacues these mactera with their parents.

Mre. Fanning stated that her dauchter has reached a point whera
she wants to send money to Carricon and that a group of studeata
at Soattls University would like to go to New Orleans to demone
etrate support for Carriaon,

 

 

on

oe!

 

 
 

ty ote

Subject: Alleged Anti-cta Comments made ‘by Priests at Seattle University

. 4 Ef it is determinai that there is any truth to the allegations
we will be advised. We suspect, however, that Miss Fanning ta fabri-
cating in order to cover up her poor academic progress.

Coo, . cA a ekeeee om

WHR sks
ec: Chief, Denver Office {actn:' D. S. Jerdan)

Attachments

  
 

104-10189-10017

 

TO =
Attn :
FROM =
SUBJECT:

REF 3

i

1026-108

GeTomAL pone mH wn
Sete ene oa
GU red ter cre tarats &

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum
SEA-57-68

Director, DCS DATE: 7 February 1968
John W. McConnell

Chief, Seattle Office

Alleged Anti-CIA Comments made by Priests at Seattle University

Denver memorandum DEN~51-68, dated 1 February 1968, with attachment

. co .
1. You will find attached 4 copy of a Memorandum for the Record
dated 31 January 1968 and written by Don Jordan of the Denver Office.
The cext of the memorandum. needs no further explanation, :

2. I made a cursory check with local sources who were unable to
confirm or deny the allegations made by Mrs. Margaret Fanning, mother
of Miss Clare Louise Fanning who is currently a student at Seattle
University. Since the matter is not cxactly in our ken‘and might be
of interest to the PBI I made a digeat of the original memorandum and
gave a copy to the Seattle FBI Office. A copy of. the digest was also
given ‘to Mr. CIA O/S, Sdattle Resident Agent. A copy
of the digest is attached, Seattle FBI Office said that they probably
will not take any action but would pass the information along to their
headquarters in Washington DC. In all probability the information
will be attributed to the[ ‘| Field Office.

 

3. I made a further check with Coloriel Michael J. Dolan, Place~ ~
ment Officer, Seattle University, to determine if he had heard anything
about the subject matter on the campus. Colonel Dolan works with Mr.

CIA, OP/RD. Mr. says that Colonel Dolan
Gan bé trusted to be discreet in any dealings that we might have with
him. Colonel Dolan was unable to give me any information of a sub-
stantive nature regarding Subject but stated that Miss Fanning is .
having academic problems and her grade point has gone down steadily
since enrollment at Seattle University. Her present courses are all
taught by laymen so if she has any contact with the Jesuit priests the
contact would be outside of the classroom. It was Colonel Dolan's
opinion that the university administration would be very interested in
running down information of the nature outlined by Mrs. Fanning.
Colonel Dolan has stated he will make some discreet inquiries without
implicating either Mra. or Miss Fanning.

 

‘

we :

. Buy US, Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan io.

 
 

 

. cal ton the. listed numbe:

   

‘BL January 1968

“MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD’

SUBJECT: Call from Mrs. Margaret Fanning Regarding Antd-CIA Activity
“at the University of Seattle

1, On 18 January 1968, 1100 hours, the Denver Office received a
from @ woman who identified herself as

Mrs. Margaret Fanning. “Mrs. ‘Fanning stated that she lives in Pueblo
t the tice of- the call she-was a¢ Stapleton Airport enroute
Mee. Fanning*s “reason for calling us was her great concern
Sher daughter, Clare, is being taught about the CIA and che
Kennedy assassination at the University of Seattle where Clare isa

atudent.

 

 

  
  

2. Mrs. Fanning has received several telephone calls recently
from Clare in which Clare informed her mother that some of the priests

at the University of Seattle (a Jeauit school) had convinced the students
that Garrison's theories about the assassination are correct and that the

charges about the Agency's foplication are also correct,

3. Mes. Fanning stated that her daughter Is actually afraid of the
CIA and considers that the CIA is comparable to the Gestapo.
atated that she tried to persuade Clare that what she (the daughter) had
heard is totally untrue but Mrs. Fanning had no success whatscever in

changing her daughter's viewpoint.

4. Mra, Fanning also stated that Clare asked her to be’ sure not

to repeat to anyone any of the foregoing information and that the priests

at Seattle Univeraity had instructed their students not to discuss these
matters with their parents, Mrs. Fanning was obviously most upset that
& faculty member at a university, particularly &@ priest, had festructed

students not to discuss matters presented to them at the school with their
In this connection, I suggested to Mrs. Fanning that she poselbly

parents.
had legitimate grievance against the school and that she might write a

letter to the president on thiz particular item, -

5. I also pointed out to her thac if there is in progress at the
University of Seattle activity which could be construed as a threat to
the US internal security, the F21 would be interestec, I expressed
appreciation for Mrs. Fanning's concern about the misinforzation oa the
CIA which is apparently being disseminated at the University ef Seattle
but pointed out that there is very little we can do about such xatters,

   

irs. Fanning

 
74-00000

(’ . fc" sete ea Ateneo se

 

a : : Page 2
: . Hi January 1968 ©

  

. Aaa ‘tether “tnd teatton: of the reasons for ber extrene concern,
. Mea, Fanning mentioned that Clar@ has reached the point that she wants
_) te send Gartison money and that. a group of the stogents at the University
“Bf Seattle would like to go to New Orleans to demonstrate support for
- ‘Garrison, .

  

‘7. . Th the course of her discussion Mrs, Fanning mentioned that her
daughter's godfather is a man by the name of Robert Lotite whoa Mrs.
‘Fanning said worked for the CLA for nine years, ‘The daughter, Clare,
emphasized to her mother that nothing should be -said to Lotito about
the daughter's beliefs in Garrison's theortea on the aasassination and
the CIA.

MICHAEL M. TODOROVICH

DS Jordan/jéa

 

 
