74-00000

a~ Ps

   
  

d) Subject tas again unable to describe how he waa”
permanently registered as a member of the MVD K/O, bow he .
perforacd bie duties ag a Secretary or what these duties ;
were in connection with the 12th Domsomel Congress, or to - nr :
mame the Secretary of the KVD K/O.

 

- 3. Service in the Baitic: In the course of the discussion
of his service in the Baltic In 1952, Subject made such in- .
credible errors, and gave such lame descriptidns of his work, . :
that it is necessary to conclude that he did not serve there
ag an intelligence officer, aud that if he has ever visited
that area at all it was only very briefly.
a) Sebject not only was unable to name the Chief of
. Intelligence of the 4th Naval Fleet, he cowiid not even give

* . his proper title (be insisted that big official designation
was “nachaloik razvedki;.” actually, of course, it should be
“nachalaik razvedyvatelnogo upravleniya” of the 4th fleet).

b) Subject does not know the name of bis iamediate
commanding officer, the chief of the HEP. Subject did not
know the names of more than two of bis fellow officers at .
the HEP. In an effort to answer this queation he gave a .
nawe - YELISEYEV - that he bad not once wentioned when under
sisilear pressure im April 1964; it is apparent thet he invented
at on the spot.

: ; , 2 Subject continued to insist that be served in‘
a _ S:  . “Gevetek, Primorskiy Kray." Subject was then shown a wap,
re and found that the name of the place where he had allegedly’
served was in fact Primorsk. Subject said that be couldn't
understand why he had remembered tt as Sovetsk, and said
that he had never been in the city of Sovetsk. Subject was
also shown the Administrative-Territorial Divisions of the
- ; USSR, and conceded that there ig no Primserskiy Kray in the -
Soviet Union except the one in the Far East. Again, he had.
mo explanation for his error. Oddly, after initially con-_
ceding his error, from time to time Subject continued to
Say that be thought that he was probably right after all,
and that the village of Sovetek was too gszall to appear < on.
the map that be was shown.

; . : @) Ia describing his initial arrival at the BRP;
oo mT , Subject said that he arrivad in Kalingrad, then had to go>:
, : - by car from Kalingrad to Baltiyeu because there wag no.

 

.#

SEORET
FS omy

Tae NRE BE Seat AIS tC ag ALI Cimbinnann tt

 
‘toa t02tf-10060

te

 

 

SECRET
EYES ONLY

WRMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: HEPORT OF INTERROGATION
DATE: 30 July 1965

1. Today's taterrrogation consisted of two short sessions
(1410-1515, add 1610-1650). Subject was confronted with proof
of bis errors om Komsosiol regulations. and algo of basic
georgraphy in Kaliningrad Oblast. Questioning was confined
to these two areas, and will be described below. In addition,
there were some interesting additional indications that
Subject may have spent Boxe time in Soviet jail or prison
camp. os

2. KOMSONOL:

a) Despite a number of leading questions and hints,
Subject was unsble to recall that Komsozol Congress (the
14th) took place in February 1954, while he was allegedly
the Secretary of the SCD K/O. If he bad really been a
KXomsouol Secretary at the tims he-should renember the Congress
very well, gince be would have been involved in its preparations. -
fold about it, Subject gaid that such Congresses took place
practically every year. This is false; the previous Koesonol
Congress, the llth, was in 1948; -

b) Subject again stated that he vas. sure that the
@azisum age for Komsonol uewbers at that time was 27. Subject
was shown the pertinent Kousomol regdstions for the peried,
which provide that the msaxisum age is 26. Subject simply
continued to inaist that he ie sure that he was excluded
from the Kowgomol in 1954 when he reached the age of 27, and”
that no exceptions were made for him. Be did not coument on
how he could be wrong on the regdlations if he had been a
EKousemol Secretary.

©) Im the discussion of Komgomol ragulations, Subject
continued to insist that the dues wero 2% fur all nenbers.
He spotted the paragraph about 2% entry dues in the regulations
that were shown to him and ga d@ that monthly duos were
identical with entry dues. This is not so, but as we do not
have a copy of the 1949 membership dues scale, I was not

 

aq

 

 

 

able to siov him documentary proof of bis error.

a
c

 

 
 

-Mo os

    

 

   
 
   
  
   
    
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
 
   
  
   
  
 
   
    
  
    
 

‘eran
vib

EYES OY

Prailway. to.Baltiysk. He then went. by ca’ from Baltiysk to.
Prisersk. Im reality there was and ia a rail connection
from Kalingrad to Baltigsk, which passes through. (Subject
was not.told this, hovever.)

@) Bubject admitted that be did not do any operational
work at the MEP, and said that was why he was dissatisfied
and. wanted @ transfer. However, Subject could not give a
detailed or believable description of what bis duties vere.

As he bag done ao often in the past, he attempted to divert
the questioning by imunching into what is evidently a pre-
pared iecture about the concept of  atay-bebind operations.
He was cut off.

4 (S8OTE: In talking about his service in Ealiningrad
Oblast, Bubject has mentioned Primorzk, Sovetsk, and Zelenogradsk.
It is interesting that towns of identical or closely sinilar
names also exist in Leningrad Oblast: Prinorsk, Sovetskiy, and
Zelenogorsk. Both Zelenogradsr and Zelenogorsk are resorts.
The Primorek and Sovietskiy in Leningrad Oblast are both ca
the. coast, about 10-12 kilometers fros each other. Bearing
in. mind. that Subject has previously described. working. in the --
woods in Leningrad Oblast in 1945 under conditions that sound .
wery similar to forced labor, it is possible that there ia
sone clue here ss to how Subject's legend was prepared. At
this stage, however, it is not. possible. to draw any firw
eonclusiong and thé coincidence ia simply noted for future:
reference.)

&. Im the course of the four days of interrogation to
date, there have been a number of indicagions which tend to
eonfira previous impressions that Subject may have spent
gone time ag a prisoner in a Soviet jail or prison camp. .
As sone of thease have not been noted im the previous ister-
rogation reports it may be convenient to summarize thea

- here: mG ‘

a) On 26 July Subject made the intriguing reuakk,
“tyureunyy opyt otrabatyvalsya." This was in ansver to ny —

‘question about how be kept track of.the days.

b) On 30 July, Subject voluntarily lsunched inte a
‘long and detailed explanation of bow he keeps track of the
days in hig. present circumstances. A possible explanetica
for this ensolicited description is that Subject had. reflected.
on the implications of bia rewmakk.on- 25 auly. . ;

SRT
AYES ONY

 
 

 

ec) On 26 July, while £— vas asking Subject about’ the
wuaber of his Party membersbip card (which he did not remember)
Bubject said, “I don't even remember my personal KGB nusber."-
I tumediately asked Subject when such personal serial numbers
had been instituted in the KGB, and he replied that he didn't
remenber, that no one carried them with them but kept them in
the safe, that they were intended for vartine purposes.

COMMENT: Personal serial numbers never existed either.
in the army or in the EGB, and to the best of our kmvu-
ledge they do not exist now. The only place in Soviet
society where such nusbers existed ia in the prison
eamps: this wes one of the chief grievances and com
plaints that the prisoners made in the fawour Yorkuta.
uprisings of 1953.

4) In previous interrogations Subject hag described
working in the forests cutside of Leningrad for two months
im 1944. The conditions that he described gound much more
like forced labor than that of a military unit.

@) Although tattooing is certainly practised to gous:
extent in the Soviet Navy, Eomsomol and Party pressures
restrict this to a considerable degree. The number and extent
ef Bubject’s tattoos is more characteristic of young jailbirda..

f) Bubject'a account of the handsbooting episode
guggests one possible way that he might bave wound up in
aii. Certainly this incident could not have been taken as
lightly in wartiwe aa be would have us believe.

g) Subject's atory about a 15 day dentence.in the
Lyubyanka becauze of the venereal disease incident suggests
that this may have been inserted in his legend to cover slips

etemning from long prison experience, and possibly alse to i

: help bim in passing the polygraph.

b) Subject’s earlier accounta about fighting at Tuapse, .
yuaning away from school, etc. also have several references ;
te prison that may be significant. te once referred to the.
military unit in which he allegedly joined in Baku as a "penal
battelion", he returned to the school "under guard,” upon

 

 

arrival in Hoscon | be was "arrested,?

 

Pa om

 

 

 
