IONFIDENTIAL

i
1
|
the FBI, Immigration and Naturalization Service and a |
Embassy in Mexico City. SG

4. There are several other FBI reports dated
October 1963 concerning Oswald's activities in the : ;
Fair Play for Cuba Committee and his eventual arrest . . :
for disturbing the peace in New Orleans in August 1963. '
These were passed on to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. There are no other substantive documents in
‘our files prior to the assassination date.

George T. Kalarla

George T. Kalaris ; :

Chief ;
€ounterintelligence Staff _

DDO/CI/R
4/0) bo (18 Sept 75 . ,
Distribution; )

; Orig @ 1 - Addee ;
~ C/CI oS
~ CI/REA/O 0 - Ofte nth ee ey |

 

 Oheertee

CONFIDENTIAL

 

2 | DEFAME :

Se pe

 
 

(OAOOOT] Co me

Le ‘ - o ( CONFIDENTIAL (

 

. EK -109 3
MEMORANDUM FOR: Executive Assistant to the DDO .
FROM. : Chief, CI Staff

' SUBJECT :0 Lee Harvey Oswald

1. Lee Harvey Oswald's 201 file was first opened
'. under the name of Lee Henry Oswaid on 9 December 1960
as a result of his "defection" to the USSR on 31 October
1959 and renewed interest in Oswald brought about by his
queries concerning possible reentry into the United States.

Z. The file contains two Federal Bureau of .
Investigation reports, dated 25 May 1960 and 3 July 1961,
respectively, which contain interviews of Oswald's mother
and brother concerning the possible return to the United
States of Oswald and of his loyalty. The American Embassy
in Moscow also sent two telegrams in May and October 1961 -
conveying Oswald's wish to return to the United States
and five of Oswald's letters asking for compliance with
his request. The file also contains an Oswaid letter. sent
to the Marine Corps disputing the Marine Corps discharge
classification Of him as undesirable. It is believed that
‘the above documents were also circulated among the FBI,
State Department, Immigration and Naturalization Service
as well as Naval Intelligence.

 

3. “There is also a memorandum dated 16 October 1963
from Win Scott, COS Mexico City to the United States.
Ambassador there concerning Oswald's visit to Mexico
City and to the Soviet Embassy there in late September-
early October 1963. Subsequently there were several Mexico
City cables in October 1963 also concerned with Oswald's
visit to Mexico City, as well as his visits to the Soviet
and Cuban Embassies. These cables were passed on to |
the FBI, State Department and Naval Intelligence while
Mexico city Station was told to pass the information on to

Docement Number HBT 43 6 a : 7 - ' _ -

tor FRA Reviewon NDV 10765 CONFIDENTIAL :
| _ [8 Spt 7s

L_RECORD COPY] Ar teva

ar tae seven eae eC eens APRIL MEeeT HD AD Se nog a RE et

 

i Bn —Osey
