 

page 2

wootrn chore of the Almondares “tv py,
officiel: aleo Live in’ this arya, Meverthe)ess,Smak thie section hae a onthauntdLny

Vievusxgmxkhs of the city of Hnranae

.
i
ay
if

Be RePUnTe SAMs KUN

moe

Te is. said that imcortant gove Fosent

In all ay cine in Habana ont wast G March 1962, the date of ap

deperture, I new saw more than 9 Cubsn air force Jetf plones tn the air
at one tiave I have tolked to ay frienis, postion! tardy one who lives

Qenr the siretrip at Campo Libertad, an no on: Aaa g5un more then this.

aurber in ths air at on time.

This leaves us ta byifeve thit the

air force does na; hive as 7 any te ee tye ear they dave .

“i
i
'

(9-13-19
Poe

 
 

‘roesr7 008 :

es
e

 

 

  

—— _ 1S Ke,
Country ba et Da
Subj (sre below different reports) GS Swerameec Senta vacuo AMA: re 266 a : .
“Date of Info Prior te 7 “ar 62, EEA fag 7 . ,

 
 

Date pice 20q Prior to 7 Mur 62 Habaia Cube .
Source descript. Cubin national wh: was Bt tudent at thu University of Habana

Ly. The student resistance organization in babana 1s Use TArcetorto

. Re ‘elvotonarte betudiantil (use, Suatent Revolutt: nary UWArectory).

One. of its lvaders is eho is tha chief of finnae

for Habana Province. ‘Kut ke the gonural
ooordin. ter of the ORK, He bes an esternal line of. -cormunscatton, ;

— Jan. .
Havana, ——- replaced _. yo is.

 

    
 
  

  

 

The tur "as

 

 

arrested ty the Cuben socurtty foress in | January 1962 and ds presently
in prison.

2, The DRis hus a olandestine propazania nou:paper called Irtscheray!
butxtha. 4t is publish ona very L ruglar bagiss

3. . In or-er to finance its activities tho DRE sells bonds in one and

» five peso denominations. however, b.caus> of the security concitions in

Cuba, one gust be very crrefui in eclling the bonds or else hy may sell

one to @ cove nment avent sho are ccnstantly frying to provcxe oppositionists a Ly
[to bhow thensolvos, :

b. During the la-ter part of February 1962 two bombs exploded in tho AETURNTO cia
University of Nabans. It was sa44 chat the beabing «as done by the - Background pre
DRE, : Do Not Reprod

; Ban “EE RePOnT- Sava £ScE

The section of habana known as Alturas del Bosque (roughly, the

intents of the oods) is being heavily fortified ty the Cubsn Yovernments a
pont? FBR
This area 4s located on the north side of 23rd Streef{/// above tho be) Q.. Vs

eg boy : { an a
