14-00000

ta ene ee ements chee

=

. a
Chie?, Appraisal Section 14 JUL 3:

wo

t

Vard K. Greene
Appraisal Section

WILCOLTT, James Bernard, Jr. 3109301
WILCOIT, Elsie Louise 37109300

1. The Subject persons are man and wife. James Wilcott is currently
assigned as a Staff Agent, GS-07, to DDP/WH at JMWAVB. His vife vag en-
ployed by this Agency under Contract Type A clearence at en tation
during 1960 and has held past staff employment. but does be 1: to be
currently employed... The: Catef, PSD has requested thas an overall review
of the Suoject persona'-records be made in Light of information which hes
recently teen developed.:: Such information indicates that James Wilestt
has had contacts with: poasible known. Communists end with individerals in-
volved in the inteyration movement.

2. A review of the file.of James Wileott reflécts {Ast hé Is 33 -vreacs
of age, married, and native-born of native-born parents. .He graduated
fron high school in 19h8 and from 1948 to 1952 served in the United States
Amy. #row 1953 to 1957. he attended college, being privately emolsyea during
the same period. On 4 March 1957, James Wilcott entered on duty with this
Agency. During polygrapa interview. at thah time 2
/ . . . oo . _ and vas

favorably re-polygraphed:.in.1958. His security file reflects no deresetor;
information from 1958 to.the present, with the exception of Arvuy nedicel |
records reviewed in 1956 which indicated that he "cormlained continually

_of backache, but that medical examination revealed no organic cause.
Conference with his Company Commander revealed en ‘extremely pcor adjust-
nent’ to military life and indicated that he continually used his alleged
medical diseabllity in order to get out of work end built such a wall sround
himself that his Company Commander felt that he was of no use to kis outrit.”

3- A review of Elsie Wilcott’s file reflects that she is 30 years
of age, married, and native-born of native-born parents. She ettended
college until 1954 and from 1954 to 1956 was privately employed. Ta March
of 1957 she entered on duty with this Agency as a Clersx-Typist, GS-04,

-having been favorably polygraphed. ‘In September of 1953 she resigned to
continue her education. In 1960, Elsie Wilcott wv. issued security 22-
vroval for Contract Tyre A erployment at cael Pstgtion. (She ane
Jazes Wilcott were married in September of 195%.) (3-3

 

 
 

0d 10256-10285) .
.O]): UNCLASSIFIED =] K OMLY

 

k] CONFI YTIAL 3% [1] SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

WILCOIT, James B.
WILCOIT, Elsie L.

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EXTENSION: NO.
Greene | pate
1k July 1965
reine designation, room number, snd DATE OFFICER'S | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
. | _INITEALS to whom, Drow a line across column after each comment.)
RECEIVED FORWARDED
1
: 14 JUL 1965 2k
Chief /appraisal y i 1. GLKy an interesting employee
2. 7 case on which we've been rather
; . to stymied because Subject got away frpa
Che 1 Irate; 6S us. I frankly feel that a member of
Z J / - might better do the interview, but
Walp. SD \ it doesn't look as if it will work
; { - i~ out that way. Tom Cole has had the
4 | case before, I think.
LP yb. Is | we
5. oo 7 2, CL. ope ti PSP uwewnecl:
1 bas, he. a Aownd Pees
oa eh : Peeky c
6. oy “ae crapper: Low a 6 cl en L
jf —|____|
! | —
8. i
; \
9. ” — |
10.
I
MW. | ii
= |
12. i : :
; :
13. —
| :
14, ' j
i H Hl
3 —
|
|

 

™ 610 “tmes’s (] secret ([]_ CONFIDENTIAL

 

Ol IeTERNAL [7] UNCLASSIFIED
14-00000

‘GONFIDENTIAL

4. On 5 April 1965, James Wilcott advised a representative of EAB
that while visiting with members of an integration movement, he had come
in contact with an individual who professed to be a member of the Communist
Party. Although the reasons for his contacts with these individuals are
not entirely clear, a review of Subject's statements reflects the follow-
ing: On 10 April 1965, James Wilcott, hereafter referred to as Subject,
was in contact with one Ray Robinson Junior (NR-OS Indices), a representa-
tive of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee. Robinson asked
Subject to come to 1618 Corcoran Street, Washington, D. C. to meet a number
of integration movement people. According to Subject's statements » when
he arrived at this address a group of about eight people were sitting around
"drinking and smoking marijuana." Among these was one Alex Passikloff
(NR-OS Indices), a self-admitted Communist.

5. After various discussion with members of the group, Subject agreed
to drive Passikloff and one Alfred Smith, a student at Howard University,
to.New York City. They arrived in New York City about 5:00 a. m.on 11 April

~ 1965, and-went~to™ the apartment’ of friends of Passikloff, identified as

Joseph A. and Betty Rotandi (NR-OS Indices). The Rotandi's are also de-
scribed as dedicated Communist Party members. During this day, Subject,

‘Passikloff and the others visited an individual identified as Blyden Jackson

 

(NR-OS Indices) who is the head of a new organization called Council for
Jobs and Freedom of New York (NR-OS Indices). Subject and others also
"ended up" at the West Side W. E. B. Dubois Club in New York City. (The
W. E. B. Dubois Clubs are well identified as a new National Marxist organi-
zation, nyondea by J. Edgar Hoover as "spawned by the Communist Party,

U. S. AL

6. There are a number of questions currently umanswered in the case
of the Subject persons. Among these are: How long has James Wilcott
been involved in the SNCC movement?; Where was Elsie Wilcott during the
trip to New York City; and Why did James Wilcott allow himself to become
involved in this matter to the extent of going to New York City with these
persons and visiting other individuals who are allegedly self-admitted
Communists? :

T- Subject has apparently reported to his station at JMWAVE. How-
ever, it is believed that his involvement with the aforementioned individuals
is extremely serious, for the most part because of unanswered questions.
Therefore, it is considered that he should be interviewed in depth as soon
as possible regarding his involvement in this matter. It is recommended

CONFIDENTIAL
5. ONFIDENTIAL

that the Security Officer, JMWAVE be briefed on this case and asked to

ae “pd ot es ae

conduct a comprehensive interview of Subject.

 

‘pw | |
2D hele FS tue dot de LzS

i) > fae fe A
ASH See 1G TUS

0 wal Lam. Tab, O/B eG [oi wale

CONFIDENTIAL
