 

a
eee a) Reem ba GTS
pte tees ; oo. 1 an ; >

4. The dolay in reporting thie antter gaa des to the fast that
Cesendrink was om howe leave when the SLOBIBa defection tock place,

John f, OSSE3BRINE

Approveds
‘ 5 _ ; er
Leeter 3, REDMILES

Attachments ; ae.
Offjotal end Unofficis) nases (Chrarsk

Dietribations
2 = EE w/att U.S.C.
2 w KUZODA w/ate U.S.C,

 

 

FR ee

 

> in eetinnee

ot tants cnt

Sete mine asminee Aedes wns
 

 

‘hog 10487-40068

 

  

 

DISPATCH

   

 

enetee ee

74y2 Tprax\ 5207, 19 dugust 1960
wre. | FRaW]5531, 2 September 1960

dz

 

EID ISS

    
  
  

 

 

cn me ee

1a es

» £F Usknogn
Thief, KUSODA x-raf ts Lha-
529-125e20

Wels
niet of Station,[caraaay]

 

 

 

Uperattonal /caa? [cape 13x02 .
Pessevle Knosledg# ef Wladimar SLCBOBI SN,

af! apaty

 

Aa OE JVOGED
LILO MG OFSK ONLY

 

Jone. Por your information caly
10-to
de TLE} 5000, 9 Auguat 1960

 

D. [FRax)6336, 10 Gctoder 1960
20-%*

1. Paragraph one of reference C should be modified to show that
SLOBODA knew Jchn %, Oseenbrink by truename a8 early as March 1960,
at which tise Ossenbrink dealt vith SLOS0DA offteislly in the procuring -
of East German city pians and other materiale roe (c BI¥K. Since
oocupying she (CAPHIBK offices in late May of 1960,” Ussendrink saw
SLOBODA about three times in the latter's office, each ef which visits
concerned the acquisition of basia Intelligence asterials (o.g., East
German telephone books, city plans, eto.). Ovwenbrink did not indicate
to SLOBODA the reason for Ossenbrink’s request for theese saterials, but
SLOBODA did know Ossenbrink's phone extension at Casp King, since
Ossenbdrink occagionally left word with SLOBODA for 8LOBOZA's superior,
Mr. Len Heller, Chief of Publications Preocuressat Section, to phone

Osoenbrink for official purposes, oz

2. Oseenbrink has questioned all xuanx (cd YX staf? nembers on
their mosiedge of SLOBODA, making uss of « photograph of SLOSODA for
this purpese, Mose had any personal contact with hin; however, 611
felt thst they had seen hia at the Caap King ooffee bar. It should
be noted that wany US army silitary personnel et Camp rte ha

efeapnx (see

offieial knowledge of the official sand unofficial name of jC.
% the KUBARK (CAPHIEE otaff

attachment under separat:
igned to Cad$ Ling for vork ia

mesbers are eaployees of

 

(caparex. fhe aane and mission of [ea 18K is olaseified presently

[ MPIDESTIAL «© BOPORE, which seane that the official nase and siseion
of (ci HIWK 4@ widely known among other US Army offices at Casp King,
entoe alao had frequent occasion to deal with 3LOBODA's former office.
Moreover, in conversing with U3 arny personnel at the Casp King coffee
bar, Lt ia conceivable that SLOBCDA learned the true names of all

xuparx [eajperax personnel without their knowledge.

30 “ta eusma: it appears that SLOBODA could have learned the
following about fea WK during the period HargheAuguat 1960 «

ol @. Official end unofficial nage and siesioa of
(cdpuimx. (offioiel and unofficial nage of CAPRIEE
forvarded as Identities A. and B, respectively“aader
separate cover attachment)

ae
b. True nese of KUBARK and (CH#IaK staff mendere,
fmoluding the fact that they are assigned to Saup Xing

by
zq
