 

- disturbance exists since the Maoist sponsors will have had almost a

 

 

.

work stoppage and demonstrations on campuses and in cities through-
out the United States, tentatively set for 19 May. A potential for

A ee

month to observe and assess the effects of Dr. King's Washington
campaign. : : ,

5. Iwill continue to keep you advised on significant dévelop-
ments in this area as they come to our attention. You will be pleased
to know FBI liaison has been most cooperative and effective in providing
this office with timely information about the various domestic militants
and protest groups. :

<< ¥ Charles W. Kane ie

Acting Director of Security. -
Attachment as stated
Distribution: .

Orig - Return to OS
2- DDS

  

EVES ex
SECRET.

 

 

wall
14-00000

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

.
.

Director of the aforementioned National Mobilization to End the War
in Vietnam, the united front organization which includes a broad
grouping of organizations of diverse political philosophies, including -
Communist, Socialist, pacifist and civil rights. It was this or ganiza-

 

‘tion which sponsored the 15 April 1967 demonstrations in New York

City and San Francisco and the Pentagon protests of 21 October 1967.
Politically, Bevel has leaned far to the Left. He has vigorously pro-
tested U.S. policy in Vietnam and has called the President a murderer.
Although not specifically declaring himself to be a member of the
Communist Party, he stated on 5 March 1966, in reply to a question
about Communist Party membership, that "every thinking American ©
should be."' He has also stated: "We here will decide what the Govern-
ment will be when we take over." His wife, also active in the Vietnam
protest movement, was one of the "peace ladies" who met with North
Vietnamese and Viet Cong representatives in Southeast Asia in 1966,

Despite Dr. King's statements the Washington

-protests are for "jobs or income for all, " there can be little doubt

the activity will be closely interlinked with the "peace" movement,
particularly at the stage when "peace" groups are formally invited in
as the activity escalates. The FBI has noted that Dr. King has shown
not only a willingness, but even an eagerness to accept Communist aid,
to support Communist causes, to confer with high-ranking Communist
functionaries, and to rely heavily upon the advice and direction of
dedicated Communists with concealed affiliation. It notes, specifically,
that one of these Communist advisors wrote King's vicious denunciation
of U.S. policy in Vietnam which he delivered before the 15 April 1967
rally held in New York City by Bevel's National Mobilization Committee
to End the War in Vietnam (then called the Spring Mobilization Com-
mittee). According to the FBI, Dr. King is regarded in Communist
circles as "a genuine Marxist-Leninist who is following the Marxist-

Leninist line," -

 

b. Close on the heels of the initiation of Dr. King's
Washington campaign, and possibly well-timed with the proposed formal

' call for participation by "peace" groups as that campaign escalates, are
Pp y “P group g

the "National Days for Black Unity Against the War in Vietnam, 19-20

May 1968." Sponsored by the Peking-line Progressive Labor Party oe
and certain to attract the more militant factions, the protest calls for
nationwide demonstrations "against the war in Vietnam and slum land-

lords. " ' The announced highpoint “ nN protests is a day of widespread . :

VES gS GAL

SECRET

  

 
14-00000

 

 

 

‘

volunteers will remain in the nation's capital "until America responds."
In what Dr. King calls the "last resort for nonviolence, '' SCLC re-
portedly plans lobbying and other action against the Capitol, a shut-down
of all government buildings, transportation tie-ups and school boycotts,
It has been threatened that if troops are used to quell these actions, Dr.
King will call for demonstrations in other key cities of the nation, As
the campaign escalates, SCLC has indicated it will call in peace groups
to strengthen the program.

Significantly, Dr. King's campaign will begin early
in the announced "International Days of Protest, " 21-30 April 1968,
sponsored by the National Mobilization Committee to End the War in
Vietnam, a group in which Dr. King, Mrs. King, and Rev. James Bevel,
a King aide, have been particularly active. The National Mobilization
Committee is known to include members of the. Communist Party, USA,
and other subversive groups. Present plans for the ten-day Vietnam
protest call for local and regional demonstrations and concentrated
organizing efforts around the country, as well as coordinated protests - . Soa
abroad. As part of the campaign, the Student Mobilization Committee to:- :
End the War in Vietnam, Students for a Democratic Society, and SNCC's ~~
Black Anti-war Anti-Draft Union have issued a call for a national
student ‘strike for peace in Vietnam and against racism at home and
abroad, '' 26 April. On 27 April the sponsors have called for a unified
demonstration of the full force of the movement with organized protests
and marches in major U.S. cities.

 
 

Spearheading the Washington ¢ campaign is Rev.
Bernard Lafayette, Jr., 27, a member of the civil rights movement

‘since he was a teen-ager. He was an original member of the Nashville,

Tennessee, student movement in 1960 and participated in the much-
publicized "Freedom Rides," As field secretary for the Student Non-
violent Coordinating Committee, he led voter registration and commu-
nity organizing campaigns in Mississippi and Alabama. His most recent
work has been with the American Friends Service Committee in Chicago
and as director of the Neighborhood Service Project in the Roxbury
section of Boston. : :

   

oe Foining Lafayette i in . coordinating the Washington
protests is the Rev. James Bevel, who reportedly will direct the. Mnon- .-
violence" during the campaign. Bevel, it will be recalled, was released
from his duties with the SCLC more than a year ago to become National

   

 

“Sasi alvin:
 
. boa ; , - - rot. fh Vas G Pe 3 Le.
a : 7 . c a c: per : . Ceo / 7
~ SECRET oe

. crete yes er

ube. § oo

“45 WAR 1958

MEMORANDUM FOR : Deputy Director for Support - ;
SUBJECT ' ; The Militants: An Up-date on the

Black Power Threat . Looe

 

1. This memorandum is for information only.
smrormation

2. By memorandum entitled "Threat to CIA by Some
Black Power Elements, " dated 11 December 1967, Ll advised you of
the results of inquiries with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and
the review of existing materials in the Office of Security concerning
militant "Black Power" organizations and personalities, I specifi-
cally noted those groups and personalities which have expressed
hostility against this Agency and its operations.

3. Since that time additional significant information has
been received which reflects increased activity on the part of the
‘militants, coupled with threats for what they have termed "The Bloody
Summer.'' Although the ranks of the extremists are still proportion-
ately small, their threats of violence must be given greater weight |
than might normally be attributed to their small percentage of the U.S.
Negro population. A review of these recent developments is attached
for your information. : ,

4, In addition to the new information on the extreme mili- _ ;
tants, we have also noted two scheduled developments for the months
of April and May which will be of interest to you. They are: Set

. a. Beginning on 22 April 1968, Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr., and his Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC)
‘Will IHiHate their Poor People's Campaign" in Washington, D.C.
On that day, Dr. King has indicated he will lead "waves of the aaffon's~ “=<
poor and disinherited" into the city for prolonged, . disruptive and "non-
violent" demonstrations to demand government action for "jobs or in-
come for all.'"' He has indicated that his initial cadre of up to 3, 000

awe he st

EVES prt

SeCRET [

   

1
Security (circa 1958 through 1969 and reported |
‘to this Offic imari dowd
to

 

       

 

ruIG-GUCUAENES WITHIN Tab B refer to

 

 

The Reverend Martin Luther King, together with —
other civil rights leaders, and ‘it is presumed
that the substance of the information contained
within these documents was passed to the FBI
through our routine liaison Channels, Limited
Sanitization has been effected on two of these
documents to delete certain information which
is completely unrelated to civil rights and/or
the Keverend King.

c. Tab C consists of a 23 May 1967 FBI
study entitled "Racial Violence Potential in

. the. United States This Sunmer,'' which refers

in part to Reverend King. This documient was
obtained from the Office of Security file on
Stokely Carmichael (054493 507). No saniti-
zation has been effected On this FBI docunent.

d. Tab D consists of several FBI documents

-which refer to either Reverend King and/or

rs. Coretta (nee:. Scott) King obtained from
Volumes IV, VII, XIV, XIX of the Office of
Security file entitled “Vietnam Peace Drives"
(OS#467 849). No sanitization has been
effected on these documents. -

e.. Tab E consists of a 23’ August 1961 FBI ©

document entitled "Southern Conference Educa-_
tional Fund" which mentions Reverend King and’.
was obtained from the Office of Security file |
concerning the Southern Conference Educational]. .
Fund, Incorporated (0S5#358 4151). No sanitiza-
tion hasbeen effected on this document. :

f. Tab F consists of two FBI documents
from the Office of Security file on Mrs. King °
(058541 487). ‘Both of these documents appear
to be portions of two separate FBI docunents- -
the first being an excerpt from-a 2 July 1968
electronic message and the second being page

five. of.an FEI memorandum identified only by ae

 
‘od t0120-10472

 

21 OCT 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: General Counsel
ATTEATION ': Mr. Richard H. Lansdale

FROK : Sidney D. Stenbridge
Acting Director of Security

SUBJECT 3 Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr.
‘Department of Justice Request

i.. Reference.is made to your request of 4 October 1976
(OGC 76-$493) in relation to a Department of Justice inves- °
tigation concerning the past activities of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation (FBI) which were directed at the late -
Reverend Hartin Luther King. Reference asked that the Office
of Security determine through its files the nature and extent
of any contact between the Agency . and the FBI concerning ~
Reverend King.

2. A search of our files has disclosed numerous FBI
documents which either mention or concern Reverend King as well
as a limited number of internal Office of Security docunents

- which relate to FBI/CIA interest in Reverend King. Forwarded

herewith as Tabs A through J are copies of each of these docue
ments. A brief description of these documents together with

an explanation of the Office of Security files fron which these
documents were obtained appears below: :

ae Tab A consists of both. Office of Security . LO
and FLI originated docunents from our file on = © oo
“Reverend Martin Luther King (05€353 062) and which |
appear to relate to referenced request. No_
sanitization has been effected on these documents.

b. Tab 8 consists of docunents taken from the
Office of Security file on Hr. (Jay Richard Kennedy ‘
((08#172 §27)\ and which appear to relate to refor- ~
enced request. It should be noted that (Hr. Kennedy"
was a confidential informant of the Office of

“82 IMPDET .
CL BY 010249

OS 6 4363/A

 

 
14-00000

the nunber "NY 1009-95954," Hrs. King's file
does not contain either of these documents in
their entirety. No sanitization has been
effected on these documents.

g. Tab G consists of a 15 June 1965 FBI
nenorandun entitled “Denonstrations Protesting
United States Intervention in Vietnam and the
Dominican Republic" which mentions Mrs. King.
Cited document was obtained from the Office of
Security file on the Congress of Unrepresented
People (057466 698). No sanitization has been
effected on this document. :

h. Tab H consists of a $ January 1966 FBI
nemorandum entitled "Demonstrations Protesting
United States Intervention. in. Vietnam" which: .
mentions Mrs. Coretta (nee: Scott) King. This
document was obtained from the Office of
Security file pertaining to the Women's Strike
for Peace (O0S#356 394) and-has not been sanitized.

i. Tab I consists of two internal Agency
documents and selected pages from an FBI docu-
ment, all of which concern and/or refer to
Reverend King and the FBI's. interest in that
regard. These documents were obtained from the
Office of Security file pertaining to the ,
Black Power Threat (0S#534 051). The selected
pages from the FBI document appear to have been
extracted from a Becember 1967 FBI memorandum
entitled “The New Left: Road to Anarchy," and

_the entire document could not be located. No
. sanitization has been effected on these docue
ments, — eo

3. Also attached hereto as Tab J is a copy of an Agency
dispatch from the JNWAVE Project in.Miani, Florida, to Head-
quarters, dated 15 July 1966, This dispatch relates to a joint

- Dade County Police Department/PBI surveillance of Reverond Martin
Luther King which occurred on 19-20 May 1966 and was obtained
from the Office of Security file relating to the Peace Center
of Miami (0S#333 467). The information within the dispatch .
concerning the surveillance had been provided to JMVAVE officials
in confidence by a representative of the Dade County Police

 
14-00000

TET. © SECRET : ; @

 

Department, without the knowledge of the FBI. This dispatch
should be coordinated with the Latin America Division/Directorate
of Operations prior to our showing the dispatch to the Department
of Justics. .

4. Please note that all of these documents are forwarded
to you on an "on loan” basis and retain their present classi-
fication. It is our recommendation that the Departnent of
Justice be allowed to review the attached documents here in
ileadquarters in the presence of representatives from both the
Office of Security and your Office, Should the Department of
Justice determine through this review that they require copies
of any of the attached material, additional coordination and/or
Sanitization could then be accomplished prior to transmitting
any of these documents. to the Department of Justice. os

5. We defer to you as to whether any coordination with
the FBI is necessary prier to showing the attached FBI memoranda
to the Lepartment of Justice. Please contact Mr. Bruce L.
Solie, Chief, Security. Analysis Group, extension 7682, when
arrangements for the Lepartment of Justice review of this
material have been established. Mr. Solie will insure that an
Office of Security representetive is present during the review.

s/
Sidney D. Stembridce

Atts

Distribution: mo,
Orig 6 1 - Addressee

DDA

D/Security,

OS Registry

DD/PSI

SAG

King File

0S/PSI/SAG| jan (200CT76)

be food on
pretee

 

a
