1 4-00000

   

  
      

includes tke

 

 

 
   

 

give you to hcw tais operation ula
proceed, t fou will also know we will cack you to the hilt
on actions you take to achieve our objectives.”

 

H

25 August

. Coe . Cable fran Hilsman to Lodge (personal) seat via CIA channels
DIR 63554)

 

pence :

‘ EF age "State cable sent separately represents agonizing at highest

ve a levels. Course, outlined is dangerous but all agree that delaying . ’
{ clear cut US stesd is even more dangerous. It won't be easy ror

you, but be assured we will back you all the way.”

be. . (Coment: This isa good point at which to break the

narrative and insert a series of excerpts fram Marguerite Higgins’ |
ys "book: : :

 

ea “The crucial act, with its overtones of Greek tragedy,

: : opened with a cable. It was dispatched to Saigon late in the
evening of August 24, 1963, a date made more significant because :
it was a Saturday. Washington usually empties on summer weekends
or lapses into a scmolent mood as officials desperately seex
relaxation. -

 

"The telgren contained spectacular new instructions for the
U.S. embassy in Saigon. it wes draw up at a meeting called by - t
Under~secretary of State Averell Harriman and Roger Hilsven, i
Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern affairs and head of H
the Vietnam task force. The President's senior advisers vere, for ‘

 

    

   

EF erent nt A SiR LA

cect epg neereneten

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

“.

itary, flashed

the vere mis

"

 

of August 24 was a radical revision of the
previous philosophy of one war ata time. It envisaged the
generals’ maaing war on their cwn government, and wita the
implicit blessing of the United States.

2.» the ca

 

 

“Tne substance of the cable was that the U.S. embassy was to
wake an effor. to persuade Diem ta fire his brother, release
the Puddaist revels, end press censorship, and restore other,
Gemocratic litervies suspended under martial law. Aad if, as the
cable anticipated, Diem would sot do these things, then the
encassy was to contact the Vietnerese generals and tell thes that
the United States would no longer siand in the way of a revolt.

 

   

« . » the controversial August 24 cable was dispatched
from Washington Saturday evening after being cryptically summarized
to President Kennedy at the suzmer White Eouse at Hyannis Port.

"The acting Secretary of Defense, Roswell Gilvatric . ..
had the cable described to him over the telephone. Mr. Gilpatric
says he was frankly surprised that such an important set of
instructions saould be rushed out on a weekend. But he did not
feel that ne ought to veto the telegram since . . . it had the
‘approval of the President.’

 

"In McCone's absence, the cable was described, again
cryptically, to Richard Eelms, ceputy director of the CIA,
who also did not feel disposed to veto somethirg ‘approved by
the President.'" :

  

 

 
4-000

  

   
  

 
 

than ever beter,

 

Woul Tp we
View time factor have
om . we have exchanged views

W 2: August

    

fully on subject mat

 

 

Telephone call fren Harrizan to UD/P. Record py DD/P. 943
Mr. Harriman calied Mr. Helms just cefore 2000 hours and \ of

» outlined to him the substance of what eventually turned out to be

Bo . Deptel 243 to Safgon. fo Helms query, Harriman confirmed that the
A
oe . thrust of the telegram contuined an implickt pull out of Amerlean
Pe
i . Yorces and support if tre Neus! were not ousted. .darriman said that
Se!

 

the message had’ been cleared "with Hyannisport," with the Secretary

of State, and with Mr. Gilpatric.

 

. JV State telegram to Saigon (Dentel 243)

The Department informs the Ambassador that the US government

 

cannot tolerate a situation ia which power lies in Nnu's hands. If

Diem is unwilling to rid himself of Nhu, then Diem himself may have to
go. The Ambassador is authorized: (1) to inform the GVN that actions

against Buddhists must be re@ressed; (2) to tell hey military leaders

that the USG cannot support a Diem regime that includes the Nnu's and
that “we will give then direct support in any interim veriod of breakdown
central goverment rechanian;” (3) to make statements in Saigon removing

   

;
|
:
|

 
in South Viecnaa
" "Addi tional reports of plotting against the Diem goverment

kave been received. While there is no hard evidence of ismicent - .
action, the Buddaist Issue continues to make the. situatica cargerous:".

Saigon Statioa's Chronology of August 1963 Coun Activitte’s

At a neeting betveea Conein /an officer of the CIA Saigon Station/

and General Don, the later asked for US Goverment assurances of

support for moves against the Diem regime.

CIA cable to Saigon (DIR 63334)

-"Ref Dept. telegram in process. Reftel (vnten Has. not yet seen)
states basic line to be taken and directs it be pushed at all levels.
Hileman requested Eqs. send campanion telegram to-statica pointing”

~. Out that this is one technique to bring about surfacing of stere and
who real power is. . Pressing this line can maximize possibility of
obtaining US objective. Even if it-does not succeed, it can
substantially assist in identification of alternate or successor ot
leadership with necessary drive, abilities and ambition, to incor-. "
- porate in our overall conticgency planning end serve as focus of
buildup program. Hqs.-will coment in further detail after Seeing
_RESSAER, if "necessary, but passes above at Hilszan' ‘S request.

er cable fron Saizoa (sare 0208)

' Chief of Station Joba Ricuardson forvards his personal views re
alternate leadersiip: "... . . Recent events have cade us feel
that hope for civilian government to replace Diem administration is

 
The suezess ful coup against the Diem regize in Ssuth Vietnan,
vhich resulied in the ceaths of Ngo Dink Dien ; and. Exes brother Raw,
tegen on LK Hovexber 1953 « at 1315 he hours, Saigon tf tine (0015 hours,
Vashington tire).

This report on CIA ana U.S. Government involvement in the coup...
consists of a chronological listing of event., actions,and
deliberations having to do with, Vietnam. The report is drawa

from documentary sources, eilher by quoting selectively

or by summarizing. Significant overt happenings having bearing on

“offictal actions are Incluled tn the chronology. Facts on File,

: a weekly digest of vorld news, vas used as the source for these
hf storical events. Also included are.a few excerpts fron Narguerité”
Higgins’ book Our Vietoam Rightuere* to demonstrate the extent to

. Which some once-classified information is now common knowledge...

All dates are in 1963.

Riots erupted ‘in Hue.
Jo wy

_ SNIE 53-2-63: "the Situation in South Yietnan”
cee cn

"If--as is likely--Dien fails to carry out truly and prozptly -

 
against him will become even better. - 2. .
_the Communists: vould necessarily ‘profit if he we overt arya a sone:
“Combination of his non-Comzunist opporents. A non-Communist successor

regime might be initially less effective against the Viet Cong, but,

given continued support from the US, could ‘provide reasonably effective
: leadership for the governzent and the war effort.” SY

1s August
Current Intalligence Memorandum (OCT No, 2339/63): "Coup
Pimors in South Vietren' : :

# . . . . . The coup reports and rumors which have arisen since
the Buddhist crisis seem to reflect some serious coup plotting, :

but we have no flrm evidence of advanced planning by any group to-

a attempt to overthrow the regine. . 0. + +
21 August —
South Vietnamese troops and police attackea and occupied Buddaist

pagodas..throughout. the .coumtry....Diem imposed nation-wide-martial..lav. : .

- Presidential Meeting on Vietmam. CIA participants: DCI, DDP, &
C/Fe. Record by C/FE. ~ . :

kre’ Ball recommended that we continue to provide asylun for the”

_ two bonzes /Buddhist.monks/ until Lodge arrives and réviews the matter.

It was agreed that.official channels should not te made available for
transaitting press dispatches by American reporters in Saigon. On the
“matter of possible alternate leadership in Vietran, it was pointed out

that there vas no indication that Diem was not in full control.

 
 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

  

Rictare

     

mg of CIA se Armee Services
Neienaca Taylor report: cana withdrew troops by exd of 1935
Loége confires his Cesire that Richardson te replaced
Richardson departs + ew es ttt te ae meee
Discussion cf guidance tased on Meiiasara-Taylor. report:
Gen. “ina requests assurances re US position oa coup
Dave Smith reccmmends we not cppose generals'ascassiration vlan
MeCoce instructs Smith to withdraw recommendation

Suite convimms ne had dene suo. ee ee es
Guidance to Lodge; suspension of AD x project. Lcans
Président approves policy orf no active encouragement of coup. .
Ul facte?inding nission on repression of Buddhists
President comments on Riccardson transfer; CIA follows guidance.
Modivication oy policy or ro coup encouragement
Ambassador's instructions re CIA contacts with generals . 1...
DCI briefing of Serate foreign Beeston Committee
The generals’ plan for a coup in th ex folloving Cct 25...
Budget Bureau officer reports Lotse charges against cIA
Follow-up: meetings Detveen Conein azi Gen. Don; 24 Och». -
Bundy reservations over handling of contacts with generals
Lodge reports CIA mmetilious in carrying out Sis instructions .
Coup plotting; US goverment policy; DCI’s views .
Lodge ceafims Conein’s bora fides to.Gen. Don... 2» ee ee
last Conein/Don meeting teZore the coup vas lavaczed
Lodge gives his views on current coup plotting (29 Oct) ....
Discussion of chances of success of the planned coup
Bundy-to-Lodge cable giving cetailed guidance re coup posture .
Lodge says we have 10 power to delay or discourage a coup

Ry

   

 

 

The White House rejects Lodge's views . 2 2 6 2 2 ee ew eo oe

. Lodge thanks Washington yor "sagacious instructica”
Coup begins; Conein soes to JGS Zqs; taxes money with him ...
CRITIC reporting on coup identifies Conein by mame
The assassination . 6 2 2 4 6 ee eee ee ee ee ee ee
Recap . .

 

     
   

 

 

 

san se
 

 

 

  

 

 
  
  
   
 
 
 

GABLE OF CC

Y
a
®

E

wate Sone E ae ee

  

» Foreword Fase ae £
3itioas o? pronineat people in iate 1963 0 iL

Tne anti-government riots begin 2. 2 6 ee ew ew we ee ww ww ww 1
Attacks cn ragcdas; imposition o7 martial law 2
Discussion of US response. to.pagoda.raids . 2... 2 6 «2 ee ee 2
Conein meeting vith General Don: 3
CIS guidance on State telegram re alternative leadership ..... 3
Richardson's personal views re alternate leadership : 3
Harvinaa informs Eeins of the substance of Deptel 243 ...... 4
Teptei 243: guidance to Lodge on improving or replacing regine 4
Hilsman comment supplementing Teptel 253... 2 0 2 ee ee ee ww 5
Marguerite Riggins am Deptel 243 5
Hqs points out danger posed by Deptel 243; directs CIA. support . . 7
Gen. Khank requests assurences of U.S. support . : 7
Taltiai emtassy secling to discuss Deptel 243 . 2 we ee ee we 7
Lodge preseats his credentials to Diem | 8
"Second thougats on authorimtions given Lodge In Deptel 243 2... 8
Saigon reports instructions given CIA officers seeing the generals 9
Results of CIA apsroaches to the generals . 2... 0 ee ee eee 9
More second thoughts on Deptel 243 . 9
Ledge ana Sarkis are. asked for an interts appraisal of prospects. 10
COS believes situation has reacked point of ro return . 0
Continuing concern over poor prospects for success of coup. ... 10
Taylor cabies Harkins re Washington's second thoughts nu
feylor's cable to Harkins causes Richardson to change scenario .. 12
Steps to be taken to get the coup back on the track : 2

, Discussion of where coup planning went astray”... - ee ee es) 13
General derkins‘ meeting with General Khien 13

. Discussion of ways in which we might live with Diem regime .... ih
“ Colby's summary of differing positions taken eo et Se
Richardson reports collapse of coup plot in late August ..... 15

_Richardson's darage“assessment report ~ rs G1
Press reports of CIA coup plotting. 2... 2 ee ee eee eee 6

. Further discussion-of ways of working: with Diem regime 16 a : : ufos
Press reports of CIA.support of Col. Tung's Special Forces... .° 17 po :

 

David Bell warns of aid cuts . cig

President denies charge that CIA makes its.own volicy ......- 19

Richardson's views on prospects for immediate future 19 tod:
Krulek 4 Mendenhall reports; optinisa vs. pessinims .- 1... 19 cs |
Bundy stresses reed to unify US government posture 20

Disagreements among country team members . 2. + 2 2 so ee © we. 20
Lodge estimates situation worsening rapidly; urges sanctions So aL
Discussion of steps necessary before deciding to cut aid... .. > 21
State begins to. see no alternative to worting with.Dien. | : 22
Sheldon's view on Vietnam; Lodge still pursuing coup effort .

 

   

 

Pe
eteilig J

  
  

BL May 1957

  
    
  
 

    
 
 

Tale account of CIA end U.S. Covernzent involverent in the
"Vietnamese gererals' coup of 1 Novenber 1963 is ‘drawn, fre
docuzentary sources. ‘Hot all of the documents summarized or re a vf

quote@ bear directly on the coup itsel?, We included some tnat

 

may seea irrelevant, because they illuminate the atmosphere in

 
 

which U.S. Government policy decisions vere reached.

   

oe

We interviewed coly three people in the course of this

     

inquiry: Williaa Colby, Chief of FE Division at the tine (and now);

 
 

Joba Richardson, Chief of Station during the coup plotting uf

 
 

August 1963; ard David Smith, Acting Chief of Station at the tine

 
 

of the coup/assassination of November 1963.. Each assured us that

 
 

lhe kmew of no CIA assassination schemes against Diem--other than

 
 

the role played by CIA in maintaining contacts, by direction, with

 
 

the Vietnamese generals.

 
  
 

' Many of the documents upon which this report is based are

 
 

Classified TOP SECRET. Since the report is being delivered

 
 

personally and in only one copy, we have chosen not to subject

 
 

it to the external accoumtability ccatrols that ere entailed in

 
 

a TOP SECRET classification.

 
 

On the following page is a list of U.S. Goverrrent officials -

 
 

whose nazes are menticned in the report, together with the positions

  
John F. Kennedy
Lyndon B. Johnsoa
McGeorge Bundy
“Dean Rusk .

George Ww. Ball

wd. Averell Earrisan

2 Presices

@ President
Vai cca ot vet :

Special Assistant to the President for

National Security Affairs ,

’ Secretary of State

Under Secretary of State

Unger Secretary of State for Political
Affairs a .

Asststant Secretary of State for Far
Eastern Affairs

Joseph A. Mendentall | UN Adviser, Bureau of rar Eastern Affairs

Frederick 2. Nolting Asbassador (left Saigon 16 August 1963). .

Benry Cabot Lodge Aabassador (arr. Saigcn 23 August 1963) °

Williem C. Truehart DCH

-~ Robert McNazara Secretary of Defense’

Rosvell Gilpatric Deputy Secretary of Defense.

Maxwell Taylor -Chairzan, Joiat Chiefs of Staff?

Victor Krulak | Counterinsurgency Specialist, acs

Harry D. Felt CIICPAC

Paul D. Harkins Comander, MACY

Richard G. Weede Chief of Staff, MACY
Joba McCone a _ Director ef Central Intelligence

Gen. Marshall carter (DX .
Rickard Eelas Deputy Director for Plans.
John Richardson CIA Chief of Station until § October 1963 :
David R. Soith “CIA Acting CCS after 5 October 1983

. Chief, FE Divisions .

Willian Colby :
fi +

 
