14-00000

 

a 5. I asked some clarifying questions on the OAS report
of a possible demonstration against the OAS Assembly in Santo
Domingo in June 1970. He said that Rolz-Bennett normally
maintains contact with the OAS Deputy Secretary General
Urquia, who is a close personal friend and is also a Central-
American. The head of the UNDP office in Santo Domingo is
Hugo Navegas. He has been asked to get the information on
the possibility of such a disruption.

 

6. Victor Paz Estenssoro, is one of three experts picked
up under an OAS contract with the University of Engineering
in Lima. In actuality, Paz will receive a P-4 salary from
the OAS. The project is up for board approval and will last
at least a year.

 

j

7. (WSLAB/T)Jwent on at length on the difficulties between
Miss Alexander, the former Bolivian ambassador to the OAS whose
parents were murdered in La Paz, and Sanjines. In brief, Miss
Alexander was accompanied to Washington by a catholic priest
Father Eduardo. Sanjines offered to find him lodging in a
Washington monastery, but he demurred. Whenever Sanjines
called Miss Alexander during crises in Bolivia at early morning ies
hours the father would answer the phone. He also helped with a
Miss Alexander's work at the OAS and was around the Embassy
office. Sanjines once found them doing some research in his
files. Colonel Banzer, when assigned to Washington, said
that there was an intelligence report that Father Eduardo
had been involved with the guerrillas. The military finally
forced the father to leave the Embassy. Miss Alexander sent
him $100 on which to live. When her parents were killed he
reappeared.. When Miss Alexander returned to La Paz she read
a written report submitted by Sanjines on her affair with
the priest, and when she came back to Washington she called
up Sanjines.and told him off.

 

8. Sanjines said that his relations with the State
Department have cooled off. He thinks that the nationaliza-
tion of Gulf Oil has weakened the government. There is a
vacuum in Bolivia and this has. caused the present Bolivian
government to be much more subservient to the United States
than was the government of Rene Barrientos. He believes,
however, that his own position with the Bolivian government
had been strengthened. Sanjines is going to San Jose for
the presidential inauguration. He heard from Colonel Ayoroa
‘that Victor Paz Estenssoro as a personal friend of Figueres,

had also been invited to the inauguration. Sanjines said
that it would be interesting to talk to Paz.

 
   
   
 
 

, /
9. I asked WUSLAB/1/if there were any recent develop-
ents betwee and the Soviet Embassy. During

 

 

 

  
 

104-10072-102483

an

   

24 April 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Meeting With [WUSLAB/1] on 22 April 1970

1. Arrangements and Security: The meeting took place
in the foffice?safehouse] at 1400 on the above date and ended
at 1500. There were no incidents of a security nature.

  
  
 

2. Production: Bolivian Ambassador Julio Sanjines
Goytia talked on the phone to president Ovando on 20 April.
Ovando said that there was pressure from the civilian members
of the cabinet on the Debray case. They related their request

/
Top

 

% that Debray should be released.to a letter Ovando wrote the. : ‘
2 Italian novelist Alberto Moravia which they claimed stated : :
he would release Debray. Ovando commented to Sanjines that
2 he had not committed himself to release Debray. The civilians pas
~ think that the release of Debray and Bustos would take the ee
4 pressure off the government. Ovando admitted that the govern-
~ ment could not control the students. The Minister of Education
. -had been destroyed when the USIS installation was damaged.
4 Ovando commented that he would reconsider the Debray situation
Y 3 and commented that there were no legal precedents for Debray's
vo release. The military will go along with it if Ovando and
4M the cabinet will put down the union members if needed. Marcelo
5™~ Quiroga still claims to be able to influence a segment of the
~ x mineworkers. Ovando'does not want to suppress by force the
g 2. student demonstrations. Ovando indicated that there is a wave

 

of uneasiness in the country. He is thinking about taking a
_stronger hand in certain issues and compromise on other issues.

_ 8. Minister of Planning Jose Ortiz Mercado is coming to
Washington on 2 May for a four day visit before he goes, to
San Jose for the inauguration of Pepe Figueres. /{WUSLAB/1 ;
believes that Ortiz will be ffrank®with him], and téll him” what
the situation is like back in La Paz. He will attend the

(crap review/of the Bolivian program.

: 4. Sanjines described the Rogelio Miranda Baldivia
problem (Miranda is the Army Chief of Staff in Bolivia) as

a personal matter which has now become ideological. He does
not get along with General Juan Jose Torres, the Commander of
the. Armed Forces. Miranda is now trying to change some
commanders in field commands.

 

    
 
 

29 Not Reproduce

 
14-00000

wand never, the |

 

 

{his absence received a telephone
call TAKOV, the Soviet Under-Secretary, who asked
that end directly to him Congressional reports on

Chemical Warfare, USSR-US cultural exchanges, hearings on
the United. Nations These documents are being sent to

KUTAKOV. [WuSLAB/ifremarked
interested in i i

wud They Were interested in

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10. , Plans: The next,meeting will be on 28 April at

1400. [WUSLAB/1/go0es to on 29 April to have his
eyes checked. :

 

 

 

 

eZ

FLOYD B. MCCULLY

peepee _
ota
(wus 246 Jors

    
      

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
