and compiling information for a response, those resources
are. drawn away from the document review. We urge the
Board's staff to avoid overly broad requests that may lead
to extensive searches.

(U) 6. We appreciate the cooperation of Gunn's staff in
persuading the Board. to accept our recommendation that some
40,000 pages from the sequestered collection be declared
non-relevant. (This avoided the need to review these
materials for declassification.)
104-10331-10136

Po

 

an

fe

SECRET
30 January 1998

NOTE FOR: D/OIM

FROM: John. Pereira
Barry Harrelson

SUBJECT: Talking Points for Meeting
with Jeremy Gunn, 3 Feb 98

Background: Gunn has been with the JFK Assassination

‘Records Review Board since its inception in 1994. When the

Board's Executive Director resigned in the summer of 1997,
Gunn replaced him, but continued as General Counsel as well.
Gunn may be accompanied to your. meeting by two of his senior
staffers who Handle CIA matters--Michele Combs and Bob
Skwirot. .

Suggested Discussion Points:

(U) 1. CIA is committed to meeting the deadline of 1
September 1998 for completing the review of records and
transferring them to the Board. Recently we shifted seven
additional contractor/reviewers to the JFK team, bringing
the total to 20. If necessary, additional resources will be
madé available. ;

(U) 2. The merger of former HRG into OIM does not create new
impediments to CIA's ability to respond to requests from the
Board and will not slow. down the document review.

(S) 3. We are looking forward to meeting the Board's
Chairman, Judge Tunheim on 18 February. We have followed up
on Tunheim's request to obtain(from

records and other information related to Oswald's activities
in Mexico. We have asked he Mexico City Station] to provide
any additional information by mid-February.

 

 

 

 

(U) 4. Per the Board's request, we are sending a team of
reviewers to the Board on 4-6 February to review materials
from the Army, JCS, and Presidential Libraries. This. joint
approach makes sense to us, and is preferable to having
documents circulate from agency to agency. The process seems
to have worked well earlier for other records.

(U) 5. We intend to respond fully to the Board's many
informal and formal requests for additional information.
(See listing. of requests, dated 18 December 1997.) However,
to the extent that resources are devoted to searching files
