74-00000

 

 

SURTECL: Request for Zervices of Collins Modem Pleld

Engineer

uy

(Signed) RICHARD H. LANSDALE
OtFite or General Counsel

 

 

fa sro
Ayo! PILOAAS os Weas
|) Director oF Becurity -

8 FEB 957

Date

 

FRovals

 

 

Sivector or Persomel . —

   

Distribution:
Crige &1- Addressee’ vfath.
L~ Director of Security + #/9 att.
1 ~ Bireetor of Hersoanel wo att,
_-f ~ General Counsel w/o ott.

 
 

([tocctotor-totao]

COC EZ ORER

ares ) . - oe = CM Lo LE

~ Pa ated
CO ye

 

/
Director of Logistics

 

Request for Services of Collins Modem Field Service
Engineer

 

1. The Office of Commamications recently purchased ivo Colline Radie
Company Model. TH-216D-15D High Frequency Data Modems at e cost of 420,006
each, These Modems are specially designed equipment and will te used to
sest the feasibllity of transmitting Seeure (enerysted) Voice over a narrow
band, high frequeney, radio cirenit. We alse intend to determine their
suitability for use in high speed data transmission, and tests by our
Engineering Staff sre schednled'to commence in mid-February.

 

2. Owing to the fact Modeas are very complex in operation requiring
special set-up techniques and adjustment, it vould be advemtegeous to have
@ specialist availeble to sasist our personnel and to assure timely completion
of the tests. Accordingly, it is requested that a contract be let with the
Collins Radio Compeny for the services of a Field Service Engineer. It is
preseatly estimated that the servires of this Engineer will tbe required at

ay or approximately six to eight weeks depending om test

resulta, The exact date on which the Engineer is needed vill be determined
ss preliainary installation of the equipment is completed. For planning
purposes, however, ve estimate he will be required on or about 6 March 1967.

 

3. ft is understood from disenssions with Collina representatives at
Rewport Teach, Celifornia, that engineering services of thie tyne cost
apcroximately $3,000 per tonth in addition to travel exzeases. Ue re 6
thet the services of Modem Field Service Engineer, Mr. 06
be necared, as he hae an Agency TOP SECRET clearance effective 19 May 1965.

4, For any additional lnformstion, please contact vr-()
35

on Extension £045.

 

  

JORN WU. COFFEY
Director of Commmnications

AGtschment:
Reunest for Procurement Services

 

 

 
