 

@

 

   

.* Sinecte
until they ran eut’ ef arent:

 

which was secured by the militia in "La Canmpan

have veen raceived by Rise and Duques!s preups. during the a cémmun st

* geen. squad was erganizel ani sent on

Beoph e “in “Reneral fren Santa Clara: definitely
ic

 

Oct eb : _.
mencentinugds0«o °

taal
: semewhere in Havana near his’ heuse. . ‘During the teedi everyene was’ prasented:
‘8s caught’ with Sinecie's sfeup. up in arms in the Eacanbray, ‘ani that Gui-.

 

Lier

 

was caught when running away. Actually, seme ef them never arrived te ©
‘gs camp. Sene referts, state that Gineclet s .greup feucht eff ‘the attack
Len dni then surrendered. Other reports say
‘that there was net much fichting. because apparently the camp was cevered

ith agas that rendered them useless, that a jeg-was then let leese te |

ick’ them dewn and all e= them were arrested witheut much ef a resistances - _
Ais@, Some reperts state that Sinectie killed Benvives befere during an are
-aMent ever. eng that were drepped and which Sinecie claimed were fer

“ime It seems there was mers than just ene deep, since the drep en fept. 29
a™, and that sequent dreps

   

 

Igteber 11-

   

ith "Pareden™, but the
the peisieners;and

teber 12 started a mass cencer‘ratien te ask “e- Yet arf cemmnutation

or the death sentence, but the sane .cemiunist geen squais cernered the epen

concentration inte @ church and ‘did net alles}them te preceed. It is net
clear whether inven mts en en the Sscambray and Guillerne l@ake4 eut befers
er.after the tré@l, lot evidently much ef it has L@€ed eut ani everybely is
afraid and under cever, waiting te.see hew deep infi'tratien has been
accemplished. There has been a tremendeus Idfieralization anene the greups
cennected with the Sacactray actien art the peeple in general, but it has
Censelidated the car arevevatienary greups at least in that sene. It
seens that the gress up in arms-in Zscantray: @ise, hest erganiset, Ruque,
ani ethers are tezether ani ceerdiratiug their e?ferts, That there haa heen
more fighting in Sscantrar since the crane an? the militia ani/er army has
net been able te ¢ ever Sese rrotps, whe are Sighting hack indicating
& coordinated acti and persesten of arms and asmunitien which they id
nes seen te ‘weve before, a7 vl received frem suvsdquent succes?™1] drepss

 

 

  

     

 

Onserya sien: Guillesae never did accemplicha@ his nisster as he‘never did
arrive te the greups up in arms in the Iscambray as Military “eerdinater
for the Venpanye Few is isath has aachleved the. uni“teatien e* that
frentpan. a general awave 5 9° the peegie in vereral,e: eatalt: in
Vee te. ae C¥ all the p Le sertencel be feath, Guillerre wet the enly
ene ‘with a clearyisien: ef his place ir history and a cers-en ebiective. Th
viless Td nes have any Ifealism and vere simple greup leaders, Filllerme
dd net talk during the ooh ar] Li.D set offer any cemments fer er azainste
The prinfeners were net tertired or even abused, except by vend af meuthe
The tribunal pestened the death sentence three Linesen Cct ober 12, despite
the fact that tare was an avidert persenal reasen fer killing | Suillerme {n
particular whe had always ecpesed ani steed in Srent of Filel Sastre and
against cemmunisn si chets university Jays. Evidently, the jury was

“optical eS the p “e

    
   

 

cal censecuences such death sentences weuli create
av ong the Wuban people in zereral, especially when Guillerme ani seme ef
the ether enes were actually rare] @ an! made appear te be up jpyarms
with Sinecie. tring squai Guillerme stated that 7 Rave trust
du Ged and ia the past. @ Bev were evecuted with autematic guns and
Suillerme ant ie: tien balan instant death at 9:00 psn. on Ceteter le,
@ little distance Tres "La Janpana’ Hy. The belies were returned te Santa
Clara lenegtery, putke is net yet knewn if they have bean returrel te the

faciige

 

 
  

  
   

 
 

 

 

 

 

UE G7_ ON _ASCANTIAY

so te Sellewing infernation/securet by
. # +@ fren his ceversatiens with Guilletme,
vs, alentin, Graciela, larche, Pace, Atha, etc. ani in ore sertel te

was

  
 

jurine the rast 30
re Ofeda, Jesus, Fernands,

@t'- on appreciation of latest happening ant present situation in Iscanhraye
H Lepy: Please check previeus reverts fer accuracy. ise was th» first ene
te tuke up arma in <scambray avainst Sastre shertly after his takine ever the
countrys As time went en, ether creups tee arms and started te ererate in
different.zenes threugheut the Escanbray, Seme ef these rreuns were Sinectie,
Benvive, Duque, ‘Alba, tamirez, etc. etc. as rererted., Guillerme, whe is ;
well knwen and liked. in ‘that -zene as the ene respensible fer the II Frent ef:
facaabray in the fight against Batista, went te the zene frem Favana, prebdaby.
in the first quarter ef 1960 te erranize his ewn creup and ererate a clandes=
tine raije stat i Suillerre hat.a radie statien hidden and left. frem the

 

o previeus fight against Batista, as'well aa seme arms and flags hidden in the

éene.s Sulllerme did net take up arms at the tire. His sreup was settings ére
and zed ah, werking unde’ cever wher he and ethers were surprised semetime

nh‘ dune/e therabeuts. At that tine seme ef Gujllerme's eseup. were

  

‘baxen crisiener but Guillerme set away and care te Gavana were be rerained

The Company had evidently premise] hir and his bretier lefinit

‘thelr stand apainst cermunism senetime in 1959. Finall

hidden touktuussimeeniienessngetadate, availing centact frem the “erranye
 MUPPerts
public

 

 

prebably at the time Guilterre, lanche and ethers in the O/a is

 

 

Guilierne there when instructions were. given te get hi by

“waa then trained by the Ceupany ard specific nlans ef actien ar? prenises

“each ether but there was ne cennmen ehjectives and ceeperati

wand the party csuld net preceed and awaite! there until a breach could be mad

were avitently agreed en. Guillerne vas sent back senetime in latter part ef

July er ‘begining ef August 190, with the ebvieus instructiens te ersanize

actien in Ravana ‘an! then preceed te “scambray te ceerdinate and epen up

a [rest thers. Up te that time the rreups in Uscambrav were in centact with ©
« Tach greup

ause ef ris

 

 

  

walk fren sald camp in Pice del Tuerte. Sinecie was surreunded hy treeps

made e ite there the party heard ef the drep inAAnabanilla. fet being able
te pre d te Sinecie's cunp, Gulllerme, the decter and Jesus decided te
backtracs, The rest of the party remaine! trere ani later en were ahle te
continue ani reacn Sinecie's camp. Willerne with the fecter and Jesus
retusned te "La Reza" after ‘uri, their equipment in the last sten hefere
returning (fernandez’s furi.j, under a tree benind the heuse. There was ne
ene in “La feza" and Guillerse wit! t'¢ decter teex a car Ten hire (hutere)
from tla Meza" te Sumanayaruae Jasus Sellewed twe er three henes later, taki
anetner car fer hire a ceunie ef miles deve the read. Suillerre and the lect&
were caicht in Curmanayasua vhile having a drink in tewn. A milicians asked
them questiens and arrested then when they were net avle te fullv identify
themselves er perhaps they were recemnizel, The Jecter had aheut "Cloneses
hidden in his secks and Guillerne abeut3C00 meses in his secka, anicture -
ef its wife ani ef the chillren ani a pi*c# of naner te remin! hin hew te
put the maps tesether but with ne relation te it. This vanes was ceverine
che piet ani the pictare ef his laughter was stanped en the back "Prletd
"Cetera lta Trieste", whit! Raprans te te the rane ef the plete -ranher that
the piecure in Favariae Methive ese was fount er them ant the arrest waa)
ple pick upe Jesus heard ef the greest when arriving te Turaravarua and
eite was Ssuces ani te Pavana, “esis was stepped ir Las Cruces he a
rilictane fer yuentientini a trecent ce the next * warg he .
elaived he caulld identify | he gave_up his T.9. lacd supelied
: apany (net the fe te Aeetoultusa shiet: vssus
taavera, Lut whe ef red atriper, “ears eating
tiat he was Tellevel by tie tb tem ant Sen
niowhet re lest

   

 

 

 

 

   

 
 
   

   
     
     
  
 

 

 

ant

     

 

 

 

 
