 

fw copiaunts wikagrecable Geverument Foguistinrea oF according ta tha
Gatsoitsnss policies of your cover fecilicy, wRictowe la directed by the
Uorvern nent.

& Rapapsset. Ibie recognised that your (allure te aceoyad
for of refund any @ Mires S4¥ERCed you Rersasdey ekall extule the Goverme
ménator your cover facility of witheeld the fetal agseuns of gach tadabe~
edusea a7 aay poriica thereof from easy mecies dve you wader the borage
of thls contract tm ceck masner as 11 deamé apprcpriate.

5. Bewelite. ja} You oflt be oatitied te death and disability
dunofits equal te tnoge autacrinedg under the Federal Employees’ Coms
pensati.a Act, 6a arncaded. Claims by pou, your heirs, or logel repree
Seniatives umio# this paragrapa will be procesced Sy ths erganiantioan
ta accordance with ie procedures im sack mascez as not 2 impair securliy, .

fb) You will Bs entitled te the conlauasce of
pay aad elicwseces im a manner chollag te thal sod forth bs the Missing
Persons Act (50 U.8.GeAcy App. 2601 of615).

is) The United Bmtes Caverament will with.
hold feom the compantation daa poe mmdar this coniract, pocial eocurlly
dodyaticas tx comformanes with the Boe4si Beaurity Aci of 1935, aa
amenied, and tha precederes of thie orgenine ios farscantiy 3-1/5%
on tha Gret $4422). Fer reascaa of eseurity, 2! lagelriss conerraing
your relstioustip as the Sects] Boaurtiy ayetem shall ba weda direcily
to this orgsaissiioan, and bs ae eveud may any eved prosion: be presented
by you oy em your beball to 207 Papresaxiative of the Lorees of Ola
Ags bud Zarviesre insurance “miqos authorized by fils vrgualaaiies.

(6) You will be eatitied to alck asd asneal
leave equal te aad eabject te tho same gulas sad veguls*tens applicable
to Gevarument appointed empleyess, Anzaval leaves maay ealy be faken
83 times ana places Appreved ja sdyasce by appropriate Carermnest
Pap resesatives. ” :

is} Yeu ars bevcta eetheriagd to apply for
enrelisrend Ine heath ineuresce pregzam ie? certam ealested Comtract
Emclopves of thie ey gvtisatiem, subject to all the terms aad eoudlticns -
of va$ program. HM accusted, thie exganisation bs presently autorined
te bax a portion af the premiain Coat, pra will bear the remainier.
Your fissnctal contrivatian will be elfedtad eliner 87 payroll deduction
ar by direst renltmimge at pasiodia Intervals t be estaziiched by thle
orgsalzatiog,

(1) Youare bereia eutBertord Rossing azata-
taece be ccafsrmanes with and subieccs tw the peltelee of thls ey go aination,
 

104-10180-10214 3

 

“py

de. Peter J. Digervens

Bear Mr. Digarveses

Resorence is made to your contract with tha Valted Sintes
Gevormusnt, aa cepreseated by the Contrectsag Off.cer, effactive
US Jaty L941. Said contract ja Reroiz terminated by mutasl conpent
ofthe partica thereto, asd in ieu thareal tas foliowday agreansat le
substituted.

The United States Government, a9 tepzeneated by the Core
tracting Office: , hereby contracts with youad 6 Contract Emaloyee
for the use of your sarvices and the parformanco of dellee of a conlle
dential asture under the following terme aad gonditiuns:

1. Corepensation, kn full consideration fer the wie of yor
services and the performance of specified confidentia? duties you wilt
be compensuted in an amount caleulated at the rate of $9400 per annem,
fa addition, peuare herein autboriced Prevaten Pay ba lise of overtiog
ts eusformaace with and subject to the pallcice of thie orgiclzitiom
Préeeamly sai4 Presilua Fay is ea amount eqesl to fiftees par seat (15%)
of the base pay foe & GS-7 goveraimant employes. Paymesis will be
wade ae requested by you La writieg ia oa aporoved manmer. Adcniag
paid yeu divectly or guaranived by the Gowrament sacar thle paragraph
eonetitete tecome for Federal tax curpoese. You will te adviaad ag $e
tha methed to he follawed ta resorting tad paying ouch barge, The method
as wellas the precederas weed by tale erqatisation ty tmalemea} ite

tax raporting respon sigilitias will be based primarily apoa cover and

sercrity requiremenic. Untssa orecluded by euch requirements, taxes
will be withheld therefrom and eubmitted by te organieaticn,

2. Zrave'. You willl de advanced or roimbuxced funds fow
Sravel and trancportetion expenses for yoo, pout dezeadenis and your
hoesehold effects to and fram your domestis pormasent port of serigemest

-herounder, and for you alazs for authorived operations! travel. You

muy be ontitied to per dinm in ties of eabsistence {x the course of all
travel performed beraumdsr and, whon authorised, for you stone while
on temporary dety away from your pesmsaant peel of aseizgemess. All
travel, transportatios sad gaz diem provided dor wndor This pacagrapa
saast be property axthoclase, aad expenage iacarted Petecadsr sre
sebjict to payment ez! sezsuating La compliaace wits sapliead!s Cavese-
nent regzinticne et aecutding to dhe agtasliehed policies of your esrer
facility, whiekewar is directed by the Govesament.

S$. Gperatineasl Seperses, You will be alennced ov reiabarced
fends for neceueary cperetiwal gareaver tacivuaieg, Set nos ten ed to,
entertsimnraont omd the purebans of itisemetice, Ba spevlilcelly agproved
by the Coversmenat, Bosh Fasde will be ecbact ts paynsieet and agconetiag
14-00000

Fda onesies Gite meng VOCE Ls fu tat) emeetved

 

*Ere.t OF throeg ky your eovaer Activities are the pruserty ef tin VU. 6.

Coveremen. Proceduraliy, auch omolsroenie whit be ofiset ageinet
acyo.nts day pou user this agreement and ars ackaowled zed tu be pa yon ent
by the Guyernnent bute sector aod for Feceral tacocve tas autyoaes.
Mecwor emoicmente daceed (hone dus pou ender this coatract, you wil!
isponed of the excesa mnowst ta conformance wilh Governaiecial lnsiracs

toms.

¥. Erecutt-n sf Daewnente. U, be the pertera race of services
under (Mo camtracts you aavace tha custedy of Govaremes: fuods er
tue title of record tu property of any nelure whatsoever aad wherever
athuate, which property das Is fee! bean purchssed with monies of the
U. $. Covermment, you hereby recogilag aad achnow!edgs the anletence
ofa trust relatiogghis, elther eapraes er ceastructive, atc you agree
to execute whatever documants may be required by the Guveraaient te
evidences this relatlunchtyp.

@. Secrecy. You will be required ie keep Coraves secret
this contract and a ormation whizh you may obtain by rerson hereof
(stiess voleased ig wrltiag ty the Government from such ehi-qeties),
swith fall knewlodgqa slat violation of uch esereny may eublect pou to erliale
QAL prosecation mndse the Lastcnage Laws, dated £3 Jee i542, a3 amenved,
oud ether appliesale lawe and regulations.

9 Mstrectisns, Iasbractions roeeived by you from the
Gvremaent afte & pert Oftkis eentre ct and ase incorporated haseln,
provided trat such inatractions are Bot Secaeistent wits Lae army
hareaf,

3%. Uswatharinca Conmliaenta, Ro premises «1 BF cramite
aanats paytaliskeg to ja Figuis, priviisgee or benefits athor than Gass exe
presaly sliovlated ta writing ls tals agreenens of aay Aneongma sss thereto
shall be Uadwsg os ths Cererament. .

Jk. Term, Pbis contract te effective ae aft Septerades
1942. aad shall continus thereatier fur a period of two (2 youre valase
eoonen trveinateds :

fa) Wpaw chirty (34) days’ actus! metles by althee | party
favrelas of

Qo) pes actos! setiea t you ta the erect? ws Fusuks
afas olitaly required medical examirgtion ara deters
minoid v7 ie argazinztion to be pasatelactory, ey

{ec} Withee peter astics ry the Coverneent. ha the
aviat €(@ reach of Bala qwesract by pour viotaticn of

 
4

the necurily provisicas hoveaf or by your otherwise
rendering yourself neavailable for sadeptable services.

 

Gabject to the avallabillty of spprepriatioms, this agreeman? may he
erteaded upon aviica ivocy the Goverament. ka the event af voluntary
torasicasion om your eret or termination fer cause by the Governm ond
prior ty the expiration of this agreament oy any renews) thernof, yr
wlil ast be satitled te retere travel expeuses te your parasancns place of
vestdence, Terninatian of thie agrerment will ast releases you from the
obligations of any security eath you may be required te take.

UNITED @TATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Gontrectiag Giisce

ACCEPTED:

wales ba Shgsivene tet

WITNESS:
APPROVED: a ay
