 

nr

 

 
  

 

 

MEDRANDTES FOR THE RECORD

FROM z Lawrence F. So Darker

28 Xovenber 1963

“SUBEECT 2 Neetinzs with LIMMI-9, 23 and 27 ‘lovender 1963

 

1, Ca the nisht of 23 Noveiber Le contected Sarker by phone and
@ meeting was held frem 2130 to 2230 hours,
centact was to exnress his condolences for the recent assassination of
President Kennedy, It +s clear that L-c vas hadly shaken up by this
line iennedy his eyes clouded up

with tears. ..

happenirs <= when “he spoke of Urs, Jacqn

Le?'s reason for making the

 

tos . wd
2, ‘Ue was asked if he had ever seen Covet“. no, Had he e

that Oswald visited the Cuban Embassy in
the Cungn Embessy that mew Oswald or

 

3 Oovieusly waware of ber detention).

At this tine cilyie*ivean was in the her,

side the Embascy vas to the nevz of the

Mexican -= no.
ew 2nyths

  
 

Js

 

 

   

  

2 the reacfion

Sresilent t+ “Geath, Le9 2

few > ae et

ver heard

Did he mow anyone
gz abdout hin «= no».
of tit “viean pvolice but Led

of those
2id thet”

he had heard very little talk about it, that the Saterday morning staff

neeting was a short, nerfunctory affair,
*o be truly shocked, He head heard no
liine, ‘e said that this reinforced
lis, the Ozhan people, even

  

 

 

but
© expressing plessure about the
pelief that ence Fidel Castro

y of those 3

 

that gust about every

10 ere now classified

 

cicla o “nerte tynes, will quickly sho thenselves to be essentia)

people and essentially US-oriented,

one semied

as
lly goed

24 Le? was asxed to renort on the :ftermath of his conversation with

Ze ue

ambassador imias about the phone call 1-2 had r-ceived fron
in the intercsts of seovrity, it vas deciled, with 25 and wt

<9 should renort to Armas, "1. 9 said that es

amas arareoth’ tid not recognize AX
w-pely sintet that
Contain stnicd Le? to care to see him at
fous end teld
9 L-9's hene. Am:

 

  

    
 
 

nress the noint b-

Bt lean eae - the ques elon ever cone ww
ie pegeste. the contect to his inbassacc:
roslliy natet ta brush off A3 as the tro

eaid th
“ote. seed tobe gq

= the colice that Mexico is a

  

   

2 shee

  
 
  

aia “thas the constitetion woulen'>
setter coosrrate if she wanted to £e5
7 in tho Consulate, that he
: ithe request (this seer
eswald cori net De istued 2 transit.

 

 

mid not co ont raking m

 

  
  
   
 

weterious meetings w

eens

    

 

went very smoothly
ne was rentionad «.
stein (urnene),
radon, caab bey 2
that ir he wanted
9 that he had done
th
velieved that Armas th
Anyvey, bis skirt
been conterts3
orked after nl,
© very close

  
    
 
   
  
 
  

 

 

   

 

on 27 November

 

5
for 6 heurs- by
her parformance oo 32
ets ry ond that the co:
ne Te this the volice

 

 

"er a visa but

  

9 the & wd

and LaS made i
back in the Enbassy
-

and which,
assent, that
— that
= TD
that the
elt that
i to see
the ritht
peoole in
ought that
ts are
i by 1-3 --
ss that he
in Guta.

 

the -Feleral
ia she kept
astitution

just lsu-hed

 

: » she had
that thet she had

that cuba

Cant thas
pflect that

ass and
 

 

- ” SeCB

 

nthl he recefved a USS. vise, She said that_ the cops had threatened her
mite extracition to the US (seers unlikely) whereupon she said she would be
“led to co to the US to face Cswala, She said that complaints would be made ~
to Fresident LCHEI Meteos throurh Zertetsbspes, (L-9 does uot mow. sho 7
RISE is or what his access to 1M is) Silvie said that she wes quite sure :
vrised that word of her arrest was relayed to Zaul i ARICIO Nozales-so fast
‘by ¢ Cit SI2 ho flashed - the vord by 2299 hears 23 Nov, At this point
ToPesa FSA one of. the. ‘grow! Listentns to Silvie tell her tele, omiered
her nephew to leave «= said; "w2 don't tent you around heres" All in all,
Silvia thoneht she did’a good job of stending up to the nolice. 4-9 repeated,
az he has done before, that she is a vevy intelligent, quickewitted girl,

She did not appear to hava been roushes up in any way or to have suffered fran

her “ordeal,”

 

 
 
  

 

 

 
 

5S. L-9 had nothing more to o°fer on the |
again shown a vketo of Osuald ~- never saw
os much %: around the Embessy abou’ the

unedy assassination -=- vas
He said tha* there is
~~ perhaps because no

he sane tine no one wants

    

one is emectad te anprove of such a thing yet at +:
to make too much fuss about it for fear of being stunected as pre-imerican, .

6, L-9 reported on other matters as follows:

 

a, The Counselor of the Soviet @nbassy (no nare given) came to
the Cuban Unbassy at about 2045 Monday 25 Kevamber, te spoks
with Dra. Varro MCI. The 4 poansedor was not present at the

tine. —eSLa-

 

  
 

beet

 

be Inc, Joreatineyo wae in the Embassy on Monday 25 Novenber,
he recarked that he had been to cee Tii2 Grdag some tins ago
about getting a permit to send his ecn to Cuba to see the heart
specialist Dr. Eprique CUR TA, c ts son suffers Irs sone heart .
ailnent), DIAZ Ordez questioned 7 clasely about the >
trip (this wes while Ki «se linister of Government) >
advantage of the occasion to cormzisin to IC thet rac:
precuradurta had confisce Sed sone medical slides fron a Cuban
heart specialfct art. (L-?
recfovered these slit sesor ny to Ty GO was sce at unset,
saig that the vroonrsde done business coing tht
said that Do

 

  

   

   

 

 
 
   
 

 

wos the person

   
   
  
  
  
  
 

  

  

said apy
na saw to it re retuned, T
nmeatione heb he would see to it that

a turned over to Le?
that everyens should be
* 50 vho micht prove to

be a useful fricad,
(Outan Consulates was held
went on at this meeting.

an maid

  

Ce A moshing a Consular cf
mi Tuesday, L-9 dose not
Te Lad was paid 12,920 peses a= “24920 ereh cor the months ef Nov end
Dee cles 4,009 yeor-end bonus. Ze wae void thet the C/O would te out of
ecember ana ne reiterated his desire to have the operation
the intorin -- he iz not anytous to be "exrozet” to any nore
eney comme channel to hin in case
in arin: the ofits absence.

 

   

    

tou Juring mest o
put on ice curd

   
  
 
 
 

      

for ser

ary Tor us to contact

   
 

 

 

at mag

 
 

oil pain

in nferior., will fo.
nov oubting she 3

   
  
  

      
 

 
74-00000

    

3° Lawrence

fddendua to GR covering meeting with LITAMIL~9, 16 How 1963 =

  
  

LITA DL«9 reported the following additional infornati

Raloh Ry, E tein, an American citizen holding passport 5 541033,
F Fesidin; A 3510 Z. Send Strect, Caicago, Illinois, left .

Chicago ‘fuecdzy 12 November and cane to Nexico wia Cenada where
he obtained a Cuban viea at the Cuhen Consulate in Toreato,
He arrived in Mexico on the nicht of 15 November and stayed et
the Hotel agnes. visited the Cuban Pnbassy: on the morning of
‘16 November and was cue to fly to Cuba the same day, The Cuvan
Embassy paid $ 23,80 excess baggage charges for tin {tS Cy).

 

   

      

Stein is an enginesring draughtexan and speaks italian. He left
a postcard vith Le9 to be nailed tos ;

  
 

a

   

ot
Shirl Linge

. ISlO S. Sani Street
Chicago, Illinois

U.S.A.

      
    
 

Fessaget

Dear Shirl & Clint

   
    

   

In a few minutes I leave I1,C
settled I will write frm ..4°P%
of you very auch,

Ralph

 
 
     

   

oe,

d Aucune BF keadin.

» CArtatioae hecckhe Gere.

  
74-00000

 
   
  

 
  

 

 

Jast tine ‘to take‘uny SWirsterials, .£ good briefing oa ones
It would do hin no harzi to rence sequaintances inside ‘Cuba: and a tone

the dod.
. vacation ‘would Probably do him a. tot of good.

 

 

   

 
 
 
    
 

Te

 

Next meeting: Cpen. : : v4 -
Lowrense EF Lj2XO

  
 

No heart-to-heart motivation-boosting session was required at

this encounter ~« other than being a hit shaken by the AML&D-3
phone call, L-9 was in a good mood ard not noticeably nervous,
3's wife revarked on 18 Nov that "Aquilar” was quite nervous

when he > got into the car at the pick-up point, .

   

Adds”

 
    
  

 
 

   

 
 

f. Drae engtine” na tala Terese not to have anything to dowith ©
SL Ivano REYES” Fuentes without ch hecking béforchand with hers

 

   
  

fos
gle S&PERNATEDZ Boa { mom a3 ROA) was working until the wee small hours"
,~ of the norning on the night ef 14-15 Nov. (Code work?)

     
     

PEPTTP4ts rane is Baul,

he

   

   

 

 

2 peut beer: IRA says he is going to get married in May in Cuba toa

N 5ifl who works in MINREX, ‘when acked if this vould be by proxy, he
a . said he would go to Cuba for the marriage but that his wife would
not subsequently come to Mexico, (This is en interesting sidbit Cd
, it will.be recalled that PEREIRA has been coming up on LIEN TERY as.
a possible horosexual. )

            
   
     
    

5 force in the world that can deter AZCUE fren his determination to

3 retwmn,. Ats wife is desperate, hates the thought of soing te Cuba
but coes want to see her chilerm vho are tere, L-? overheard A
say in the office: "Itye already started to fight, wi tas
Ttlicke.a | prisoner in the Cabsiia Fortress.' Said this oni#

de 442018 will be leaving for Cuba on 18 Kov, L-9 believes there is no
%

        
        
 
        

Ke RosartofCiSTELL 20S, fenale, Mexican writer, was at the recent

Tat TERbas5y party Given PCC RREGE in the honor of Aleje

She vorks at the Ci. re whe has a responsible

‘lone “dhe said that she hai asked. rrission o> the Nector
CHA VEZ to zo to Cuba. hioh,

: gaid, "I quit." CHAVEZ then smoothed ‘:er ruffled feathers

. -plaining that "se she were to quit she vould be acting In an une

atriotic manner in a difficult sit cidce-now that DIAZ Ordas

is lined uw for the Presidency all - ointnents will be of
people from the political rig.t. cand: she wouldonly create a vacancy
for a rightist.

         
     
 

 
 
       
       
 

 
   
         

oa

1. A Cuban in tovn lookin: -for 2 visa te return hone to Cuba entered
the US six tines illegally, Uis. nare is daine Beso folina.

   
 

  
      
 

    

Embassador Hernandez Arnas says that’,
Feresgn | Offices was sey helena to |

Te

   

 

    

On Wednesday 13 Nov at 1000 hours 1-9 overheard &
aman at the door of the Imbassy trot ~
problexs with the couriers lovely, ef!

douches."
S t RET:

  
  
 

 
 
 
 

      
 
   

sin his posversion a
Cuba from Mexico on 16 Hovexber. ef

 
   
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
    
  

Hora: ‘was shooting off at the mouth at the same party.
Pte argentine Journalist !>uzr.cS over to her and said,

at true that MARCUS blasted SL rdaz purposely -= to instre
he would get the PRI nomination, FUIGROS agreed, (This refers
the issue of Politica which had'a photo of DIAZ Ordaz’ on the :
cover along with the words -- He wili not be president), Dolores said
that DIAZ Ordaz is a good friend of her. father end that her brother
11 probably become a diputado in the new legislatrre;, She said that
PTA TAZ! line would be the same as LOSEZ Meteos* == no problet,

     

Lately the Anbessador has been turning on loud music in his office. |
(To cover conversations - ?)

     

 

La9 went to the Soviet Enbécsy part ating the Oeteber

Revolution - 7 Nov.

   
 
 
    
  
   

L=9 took the pouch to the airport Friday ( & Nov-?), He was

accorpanied by Hozgelio, He turned the pouch over to the “sobrecergo”
(steward) on the Cubana plane. | Had pieked it mw just inside the door
of the Enbassy, (Test. missic

   
 

 

The planned exhibition of Shan encravings iE San a Leuk Potosi did not
come off for reascns not fully clear -~ sone administrative SEAFU.
L=9 is now planning to set ' yran exhihit at Guadalasara,

 

- S$, B-informed L-9 that-he-would-be-on vacation from about 2 December until
Christrastize — said that he covld put Le? in + with another officer during
. this peried or could out the operation on i¢e energency mail channel left
open, L-9 said that he nuch | preferred to put it on ice, dees not want to be exe
posed to any more seople, For the first he shoved same concern about
finances «= said that hs “nicht go to Cuba rc: would lire to have
7 some money available. to do see shoop: (@meeds to pay
the next six-months adtance rent for’ his 3 Ye explained that
,dhen he goes to Cuba he hopes to take rary thi @2] along deen sending
cvages to his sister-in-law and feels that this is zood insurance in several
‘ways, especially since it suits her to heve a source of simply in Mexico <= hence
Le9 would probably be left alone and_allewed to remain in Kexico,; For his reat
zivbe-will need six tines 650 pasos or 3,900 neses planned . to pay hin his
“~Yoverber and Decerder salary plus. a
local custo) at. the. next meating.
erable hin to pay his’ rent,
to Cuba for Christnas. If he

   

    
  
   
  
 

  
 
  
  
 

 
ap Chr aS a ntys wo alata Sead ak tatredin dak cede pets ee a
Ac na Sa Rak NE ths a mA EAS 9 fal Shep Zinbertigscan ss sadtitancad 5 Mak is ana Bn betta SEE an el Se dressy . fa . amy os .
‘ Ratan thas hitachi Dib anf wos | a TR aS em eR ain Riad ici, Syed as alt Aen

t

  

 

   

ep .
i
‘ .
H °
|
} i
THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT
ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER, FORWARD CS
DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER
TO RID/RPU GE-58,
'
f
NOTICE
CONFIDERTIAL
rope 2593 aay” &

 
 

 
 
    
 
  
   
     
     
   
 

ed AE etc QA te Watens i ‘ oe
. _ axe. rey ae .

"APPROVED FOR RELEASE QQ: 2° = sP Be
cansasi A STORCH, REN GR sete oN

 

FILE TITLE ;x aT LIT AM he G - Operties
* aga ‘ (s0-6 706, 3 . :

fa

wnitine.at ayy: : one,

  

‘led 76! Yeobr | Lager ~ }-
Bf7/73 3 Re rh Kn Le,
24 Ie ~; a.) Bark. - Che 03 B0k
1 pean - Leper
Nivel a BERK Oe
. Faiz :
° CO EK LER fe_ SG

 

Mata Bp

   
74-0000

    

f PERUKEN LITANIL-9

There are attached to contact reports coverin, meetings with

   

 

     

 

LITAMIL-9 on 16 and 27 Novenber 1963. -

 

 

 

Attachment :
As stated

 

Djstritution:
“E-CAMD watt —
2 - C/SAS w/act -
2 ~ COS WAVE w/att : Soe : :

2 - Files . 3 : .
Fer RAYS SAS ED.

  

é

    
 

 

 

 

Crgraten Se Mncy AND artes”

EMEA 22588

    
 

   
   

 

26 Lad ‘reported that ‘on the ‘afternoon of 16 Nov he was cak
ANLEO-3 who wanted to see him on a matter of importance, Le9 ¥:
prised to receive this call but told A-3 to “cone over here new if ¥ an
: to." Ae} said he thought it would be better for the tro to meet at the bar ge
of the Del Prado Hotel at about 1800 on 18 Nov, L=$ asked 3 for instructions. ,

3B said that in view of the nossibility that j.<3!s hore shone micht bs tavped .-
or that A=} might let word leak out that he had cortact bad Le9, Le? should ine .
fora Ambassador Hernandez Armas of the call -~ it ves acreed that 3 would cone
sult further on this matter and that tha final decision would be relayed to hin
on the evening of 17 Novenber -~ L-9 would call 8's hore end 3, in a short cons
versation would use the word Acapulco if the incident should be reported ——
Fazatlan if not. (L-9 called-as scheduled and the word Acapulco sas used).
L-9 waz advised to keep avay from A-3 who was believed to be in tewn in’
conneetion with his efforts to get his relatives out of Cuba. He was told not .
to mo to the Vel Prado Monday night wnless 4rmas insisted that he do se, He
should make every effort to avoid any encounter with A<3 -« staying avay fron

his howe as much as possible.

3e;L-9 has some Lingering suspicions about A-3 -- sai *
Av3 used to drive a Mercedes Deny 190-SL snorts car, bright red, which he sold.
to an officer in the Mexican Embassy - L~9 found this strange since the Mexican,
who had diblenatic “status, covld bring a new car into Cuba duty-free at much loss
than the going price for a used one on the locz] narket, L-9 concluied from tits

that there micht be some sort of hanikyep between 4-3 and the Mexican official,

 
      
   
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    

 
 
  
  

  
  
    
    

  

      
    

 
  
 

 
  

Le9 reported further as follows

   
 

   
 
 
  

 

aciOPLGRES Sanches of the Sellas Artes
22 com? to the conesusion that FLORES is 100%
Ee arenes a meeting between Arb,
! “aria Isabel on Taursday
14 Nov (we Heket “this = on LIEW}, This had to do with en
exhibit of Hexican art in Cubz -- schrivied for January 196%, L-9
had earlier nade sone arrange-ents to send Mexican paintings by
air to Cuba {also Bickel wp Of: ST). -y
& rtey
On Uh Nov Yexicam doctor (etn =
7 ban

“ now in'Mexi, revorsed that.c
government and had) in the cwise of hurricane relies, FY sold to cuba

299,000 pesos worth of nerchandize far only 30,005 pesos.

  

13 seen a bit of

Institute lately and
in favor of the Cestro, resin.

   
    
 

 

 
     
 
   
 

  
  
    
  

 
 

 
   
 

 

  

the Cubana stewardess. Tarte

  

- At ‘the aeshtiehd ‘én n: ioverder Le9 sau t
th a "imam guseno"

   
