13-00000

SECREV/RYBAT
.

* WH/COG 67-194

| MEMORANDUM FOR:. ADDP-
, " -  - C/CI/R & A Gi, Rocca)

SUBJECT

ee

- Garrison and The Kennedy Assassination

REFERENCE

CI/R & A Memorandum Dated 26 April 1967

1. In response to reference memorandum, WH/Cuban Operations
Group has endeavored to provide all available information on
individuals and organizations requested in paragraphs 5, 6 and
7 of reference, . Attachment 1 contains background information.
and biographic data on individuals obtained from WH/COG and .
JMWAVE.files. Attachment 2 summarizes the background informa-
tion and Agency. association with the organizations listed in
paragraph 5 of reference.

2. WH/COG. will continue to review all material that may

contain, information.pertinent to this subject and will. forward
such information to CI/R'& A on a priority basis, .--.

seamyees

Attachment 1.
Bio data on individuals

Attachment 2 OM
Background summary of FRD, DRE, INCA

 

 

 

 
13-00000

 

 

Co oC
aa “Attachment 1

Sergio Vicente ARCACHA Smith (Enclosure 2 of reference memorandum)

DPOB: 22 January 1923, Cuba

1.- Traces on ARCACHA do not reflect the date he first ~
arrived in the U.S. However, he became the FRENTE REVOLU-
CLOWARIO DEMOCRATICO. (FRD) delegate in New Orleans prior
to the Bay of Pigs invasion and continued in that position
until the FRD. ‘ceased to function, The FRD was the predecessor
of the. CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL, and was organized and
supported by ‘the Agency, The organization was used as a ‘
front for recruitment of Brigade 250G for the invasion.

During this period ARCACHA reported to the FRD headquarters
in Miami through a.post office box in Coral Gables, and

. reportedly maintained extensive relations with the New

Orleans FBI-and Immigration offices. Two of his regular
FBI contacts: were a Mr. De Bruce and the deceased Guy
Banister. :

2. <ARCACHA was also one of the promoters of the
FRIENDS OF DEMOCRATIC CUBA, INC (FDC) which was incorporated.
in New Orleans on 6 January 1961. This organization was
ostensibly. created by several New Orleans business and .
political figures, ~ including the deceased former FBI agent,
Guy Banister, to collect money to aid Cubans in their
fight against Communism, According to the articles of
incorporation, these donations would also be used to support
the FRD and the funds were to be channeled through ARCACHA,
less a percentage to be retained by the FDC. An investi-
gation conducted by a reliable Miami Station asset concluded
that the FDC was organized strictly for the personal gain
of the promoters with the approval and collaboration of
ARCACHA, The investigation produced no evidence that any
individual donations were ever solicited or received and
recommended. that the funds of the Stevedores Union and the
books of the New,Orleans Exporters Company be investigated
for evidence of personal gain and possible evidence of
federal tax evasion, since both the president of the New
Orleans Exporters Company, Gerard F, Tunague, and the Chie?

. of New Orleans Stevedores Union, Alfred Chittenden, were

officials of the FDC, Approximately one month after the
FDC was created, strong criticism from some prominent Cubans
put the organization out of business..

3. Information in an immigration ecard reflects that

' ARCACHA travelled to Caracas, Venezuela at an unspecified

date. Wis address in Venezuela was HOTEL TIUNA, Strest,”

and his US address was listed as 4523 Duplesses Street
New Orleans. Passport No, 00433,

 

 
 

 

Emilio SANTANA (paragraph 7 Cc of reference memorandum)

DPOB: 7 Sept 1935, Cardenas, Ma ganzas y Cuba

_ also. reported 7 Sept 1936 and’ 7 Sept 1937

ad. Subject. is probably. identifiable with. Emilio SANTANA
Galindo, who was recruited by JMWAVE in December 1960 as a
guide for an infiltration team, SANTANA was paid a monthly
salary under provisions of his MOC until he was terminated
on 15 October. 1963 when the ratline developed by the team
became inoperable due to occupation of the target area by

-Soviet technicians, Another compelling reason for SANTANA's

termination stemmed from his untruthful reporting concerning
certain aspects | of the team operations, '
2, In an atteinpt to establish positive identification, ©
JMWAVE obtained a report from the Dade County (Miami)
Sheriff's office that an Emilio SANTANA (no matronymic)

- born 6 July 1936 in Cuba, was declared a fugitive from -

Louisiana on a.federal warrant 22 December 1965, FBI Sheet
132287F, based on two counts of. burglery in Louisiana.

He was arrested. and booked by the Dade County Sheriff's
office on 2 February 1966 and was presumably sent back to
Louisiana. At. the time of his arrest SANTANA gave his
address as 851 SW 4th Street, Miami, which is the same

‘addréss shown. on an old immigration fem when he was

living in Miami. Headquarters files indicate SANTANA is
separated from his wife who apparently still resides at

the old Miami'address.. Since SANTANA's date of birth varies
on various documents in his 201 file, the variation in birth
date on his arrest sheet is not conclusive. The fact he

did give his former address to the arresting officers
indicates he is Emilio SANTANA Galindo. A 1962 immigration
form includes a photograph which could be obtained from
JMWAVE for identification purposes if this becomes nécessary.

3. Although JMWAVE has had no contact with SANTANA
since his termination, there is a note in Station files
dated 23 June 1964 that SANTANA used the Agency as his
employer on an augo credit application.

 
 

RYOAT a
Ce, SECRET (

7. Information about another New Orleans resident; Laurence J.

LABORDE, who may be involved in the case, appears in Enclosure #2
to this memorandum, ,

8. . The list of persons who are or may be involved in the
GARRISON probe and who are also known to have been associated with
CIA now stands as follows:

ae Carlos BRINGUIER. No evidence of Agency employ-
ment: or clandestine association but has visited the New Orleans
office of Domestic Contact Service.-

oe b.- Laurence J. LABORDE, See Enclosure #2.
ce Emilio SANTANA, See Enclosure #1, -

d, - Clay L. SHAW, See Enclosure #21 to the first
‘CUREA report, 26 April 1967, subject as above,

Enclosures: a
1. WH/COG Memo & atts. , described: ‘para. 3 above
2. ‘Memo,, subject: Lawrence J. LABORDE

SECRET

 

 
 

 

 

ven | .
CU SECRET (

i Nerin Emrullah GUN (14)
j. William GURVICH (15) |
, ik S.M, KAUFFROTH (16)
1 David FL LEWIS (17)
m, Layton Patrick MARTENS (18)
fh Mrs, Lillie McMAINES (19)
: ; . °. Perry RUSSO (22)
, p. SCHLUMBERGER Corporation (24)
q. Clay L, SHAW (25)
re Edward Stewart SUGGS (26)

Be. Additional information has been obtained on the following,
(Numbers again refer to: enclosures: to reference, )

ae ‘Sergio ARCACHA Smith. (2) See Enclosure l tu this :

report.. The files of WH/COG contain no information linking
ARCACHA to CIA,

; b... Edward Ss. BUTLER, (5) See Enclosurel, There
has been.no CIA-BUTLER tie except the innocuous contact report
-in Enclosure 1, .

Cc. Carlos Jose BRINGUIER, (6) There is no record of
a direct association with the Agency, But see Enclosure lin
respect to the Student Revolutionary Directorate (DRE), the New
Orleans branch of which was once headed by. BRINGUIER, The
DRE was conceived, created, and funded by CIA,

d. Julian BUZNEDO Castellanos. (8) See Enclosure l.
BUZNEDO has 201-289995.. JMWAVE. requested a Provisional
Operational Approval on 6 January 1961 for his use as a PM’
maritime trainee, The POA was granted on 16 January 1961 but

 
 

 

 

 

SECRET 6

cancelled on 4 April 1962, There is no record of involvement
with the Agency other than his participation in the Bay of f Pigs
. operation,

a e. - Alberto FOWLER, (10) See Enclosure 1, There is no
; record of association with CIA other than his participation at the
Bay. of Pigs.

fs, Gordon Duane NOVEL, (20) A separate memorandum
on NOVEL has been prepared and forwarded to recipients of this
report, Despite his claims and those of one of his lawyers, there
is no record to substantiate any direct association with CIA, His
ties to Walter SHERIDAN suggest a possibility that NBC is coaching

' NOVEL to get maximum publicity before picturing him on a TV
program. intended to destroy GARRISON's act,
g. Carlos QUIROGA. (21) See Enclosure 1, There is no

‘indication that he was ever employed by the Agency.

‘th. | Emilio SANTANA Galindo, (23) See Enclosure 1,
He was employed by CIA from December 1960 to 15 October 1963,

6, ‘The recent developments concerning Alvin BEAUBOUEF merit

' summarizing. Burton KLEIN, BEAUBOUEF's attorney, said on iv

May 1967 that he had turned over to authorities in Jefferson Parish a
tape recording of an attempt by investigators working for GARRISON
to bribe BEAUBOUEF to give false testimony, BEAUBOUEF, a 2l-year-

old and unemployed, was.allegedly offered a job with an airline if he

would cooperate, The offer was reportedly made by two policemen
representing GARRISON, One of them, Lynn LOISEL, repeated and
elaborated the offer of a bribe in the presence of KLEIN, who tape
recorded the discussion without LOISEL's knowledge, LOISEL offered
$3,000 and an airline job, KLEIN, who no longer represents BEAU-

BOUEF, took the tape to Washington and tried to sell it to Walter SHERIDAN,

the NBC news reporter, for $5,000. He rejected an offer of $500, Learn-
ing of the tape, GARRISON's men called again on BEAUBOUEF, threatened
that he would be shot if he got in the way, (They had previously threatened
to maké public some photographs linking BEAUBOUEF to the homosexual
David FERRIE,) They took him to the court house and frightened him

into signing a statement that he had not considered the offer of a bribe,
(Newsweek, 15 May 1967.)

 

 

 
 

SECRET “(

with anti-Castro organizations but withheld the information from
the Warrén Commission, The CIA and the FBI presented the
Commission a fake picture of Oswald and withheld information
about Oswald because he and/or a Cuban companion were CIA
agents."t (UPI of 9 May 1967.)

- d,. ‘The New Orleans Grand Jury issued a subpoena calling
on CIA to produce its photograph of Oswald and'a Cuban companion
“in Mexico City, (UPI, 10 May 1967.) .

‘e@. On 10 May Mark LANE, author of Rush to: Judgment,
testified before the New Orleans Grand Jury. Upon emerging
from the jury room he identified CIA as the "powerful domestic
force" which ", . . participated in the original plan which, in

' fact,: culminated in the death" of the President. (The New Orleans

Time-Picayune,. 1] May 1967.)

f.. GARRISON charged on ll May 1967 that CIA was
paying the lawyers of some persons involved in his investigation,
He named Burton KLEIN (attorney for Alvin BEAUBOEUF) and
Steven PLOTKIN (an attorney for Gordon NOVEL) as having

' received CIA money. Both denied the charge, (AP, 11 May 1967, )

(Comment: No CIA record of KLEIN or PLOTKIN. )

g. GARRISON claimed on 12 May 1967 that Oswald's
notebook contained an entry, PO 19106, which was an encoded
version of Jack Ruby's unlisted Dallas telephone number, WH 1-5601,

h, On 8 May 1967 GARRISON "said that he had begun an
investigation. of the activities of the CIA and the Federal Bureau
‘of Investigation.'' (The New York Times, ll May 1967.)

i. ) On 12 May GARRISON claimed that Ruby's unlisted
number also appeared in an address book belonging to Clay L,
SHAW, (AP, 12 May 1967.)

je On 15 May 1967 an attorney for Clay L. SHAW said,
that the figure PO 19106 in Oswald's address book was a telephone
number in Russia. (The New Orleans Time-Picayune of 16 May
1967,) (Comment: The statement is almost certainly correct,
‘as has been previously reported. The prefix is believed to be in
Cyrillic, a double D, not PO. The entry is placed among others

 

 
104-10435-10034

eo Maye

 

ad

 

 

heaene|

co SECRET =
1 June 1967

MEMORANDUM NO, 3

SUBJECT _—s«::: GARRISON and the Kennedy
. Assassination
CI/R&A Memorandum of 8 May 1967,

REFERENCE =:
re wo. Subject as Above

1°" Recently District Attorney James C, GARRISON has made
a number of spectacular charges against CIA, These charges became
more vehement after newspaper and magazine articles attacking the
GARRISON probe had been printed by The Saturday Evening Post,

Newsweek and (on 21 May 1967) the New York Times,

2! ‘The ‘following are the major accusations. made by G GARRISON

7 since. 8 May 1967, the date of reference:

-. a... CIA and the FBI "cooperated in concéaling facts
behind the assassination of President John F. Kennedy from both
.the,Warren Commission.and the American public," CIA "knew
all along that the Warren Commission's report'was completuly

untrue in its conclusion that Kennedy was shot by Lee Harvey
-Oswald acting alone," The GARRISON investigation "has turned
up mounting evidence of CIA involvement in Kennedy's death."
GARRISON asserted that CIA "duped the Commission by flooding
its members with a gush of.irrelevant information to obscure the
‘truth, '' (The Washington Star, 8 May 1967.) ,

. b. - GARRISON intended to-ask "the U.S, Senate to investi-
gate" the "alleged Central Intelligence Agency 'coverup',"

GARRISON is a personal friend of Senator Russell Long of Louisiana - |

(Washington Post and Times Herald, 9 May 1967.)

-¢.. ,. GARRISON has told the New Orleans States-Item
that "Oswald was probably a CIA agent who worked undercover
with anti-Castro Cubans while publicly demonstrating for Castro,
The, . . CIA and the FBI were aware of Oswald's connections

 

 

 
 

written in Russian by Oswald in Moscow or Minsk, very

probably the former, On 23 May 1967 the FBI confirmed to
C/CI/R&A that the page had been shown to Marina Oswald, who
could throw no new light on it, An FBI expert had made a

visual re-exarnination of the original, On this basis he could give
only an unofficial opinion, but it was his view that all entries

- on'the page had been written in the same ink and at the same time.
'.The FBI has not given us a-written report on this subject. )

“k, On 17 May 1967 GARRISON said, ''We are particularly

; interested in clarifying now why there is. also coded in Lee

Oswald's address book the local phone number of the Central

Intelligence Agency. We have had evidence for some time that
‘in Dallas, Texas, Jack Ruby was working for the CIA at the same

time Lee Oswald was working for the CIA here, This means that

the CIA well knew that these two men knew each other, We also
‘have evidence that Lee Oswald was not the only man in Dealy

Plaza who was an employee. of the CIA and now we have found the
phone number of the CIA in the front of Lee Oswald's address
book, Since it is obvious that it is no longer possible to get truth

‘in any form from officials of the CIA agency (sic) in Washington,

no: matter. how highly placed, we are looking forward.to talking to
this businessman from Irving, Texas, about some of these
coincidences, ". (The New Ozleans States-Item of 1?7.May 1963. }

1, - On 22 May 1967 the Moscow Domestic Service and
TASS gave publicity to GARRISON's charges against CIA, The
Havana-Domestic Service published on the same day a longer (two
page) account which included the following: "Five Cuban counter-
revolutionariés, acting on behalf of the Central Intelligence Agency,
assassinated President John F, Kennedy on 23 November 1963,
New Orleans District Attorney James Garrison said last night,"'

m. The above itern is based upon a TV appearance on
21 May 1967 by GARRISON, who told the WWL-TV audience that
Oswald did not even touch a gun on the day of the assassination, *
that the five Cuban assassins were angered by President Kennedy's
handling of the Bay of Pigs, and that CLA, which he labeled as
more powerful than the Gestapo in Nazi Germany, was withholding
its information from his office, (The Washington Post, 22 May
1967.) .

 
 

 

rea

32 aed

SECRET =

n, In the same TV speech GARRISON claimed that
CIA knew the names of the Cubans involved and that CIA had
said of Oswald, "As for the kid, well, that's just one of those
‘things. We (Washington Daily. News, 22 May 1967.)

9, - A TASS itern, in English, 29 May 1967, ran as follows:
",... GARRISON said today over ABC that President. Kennedy
was killed not by Oswald but by a group of conspirators made up,

in particular, of former employees of the U.S, Central Intelligence

: Agency. ‘Oswald himself was not a CIA agent, but was obviously
an ‘intelligence employee of the U.S, Government,"* "The CIA
concealed from the Warren Commission, ‘from the American
people, and from the world the fact that its former. employees. were
involved in the assassination. . ., Garrison said, The attorney
repeated his call for a congressional investigation of the CIA,"

3, ° The AC/WH/COG has replied to the CI/R&A memorandum of
26 April 1967 by providing information about a number of Cuban individuals
and groups, (The WH/COG memorandum and its attachments are included
herewith as Enclosure #1 and copies to the ADDP, the Office of the
General Counsel and the Office of Security).
4.° No significant additional information has been developed on
any of the following persons listed in reference, (The members in
parentheses are those of enclosures to reference, )}
a. Dean Adams ANDREWS, Jr. (1)
_»b. Guy BANISTER (3)
'e, Leslie Norman BRADLEY (4)
d. - Vernon BUNDY (7) 4
e. David William FERRIE (9)
f. Manuel GARCIA Gonzalez (11) . .
g. James C, GARRISON (12)

h, Pascual GONGORA (13)

_ RYgaT
SECRET

 

 
