 

 

-~

Tey aD MD

CONTINUATION OF, ieee meee»
DISPATCH. (SB Gael i VAT

ie Erich ZIMMERMAN, who is asserted by MAKEEL to be a friend. (Comments Hqa.
traces have been run on the fire and the owner, with negative results.)

ry

 

¢. MAYKEL stated that in dealing with Corsicans it 1e sometines ad-
visable to give a Corsican as a refereooe. If he finds this advisable or neces-

sary, his reference will be Jacques SANTELLI, 75, Blvd. Auguste Blanque Paris. .

(Comments Hgs. traces have deen run on GASTELLI with negative resulta.

- de : Since MANKEL 18 known to ths Sureté in Paris because of his assis-
tance te the U.$. Buresu of Barcotics, he vas told to obtain visas for his trip
im Garsany. His passport wes feviewed, and there appeared to be no objection to
his using it for the upcoming trip. . . :

o. He yea told vhat isuntsation shots anf malaria suppreasive he

, will need and was given funds to obtein then. . 32

ot . Be was toid that dontact with an American would be gvailable at
his destinstion im case he needs it. (Comments Paras. 2 and 3 of @UDAJ234 take
cero of this for JOUVEHOY's briefing porposes.) He was pol told that person
meeting him would be from the American Evbassy, nor should be be told thig.

ak, 12-10

. ‘3. RABHEY gave JOUVENOY the same briefing concerning our purposes as he
hed given a cy oeal Hotes vere left with JCUVEROY for his use in briefing

MANKSL spec: T, one types we want HANKEL to find for us. Those notea,
plus AUDA 234 provide JOUVEROY with most of the information necessary for MANKEL ‘a
final briefing; the only other information and action necessary at this time are:

: =\0
a. On receipt of this tepetcn[ fo cable Luxenbourg the alfas
te be used by CRICKARD if she meets MANKEL.

. b. Luxembourg to include in the briefing to NANKEL the statement that
if CRICKARD wants to get hold of him, she will telephone hin between 0830 and 0900
hours or between 1700 and 1730 hours at his hotel, La Crpix du Sud, will give hia
her alias, dnd.vill say, “Brigitte wrote to me that you would be here and asked
ee te showy you eround.” MAKKEL will reply with a statement of appreciation. He
should be told in Laxembo that if be ives such a call, he will meet
CRICKARD per sub-paragraph f, paragraph 25/40DA)234. On receiving the call, he
should imsedistely suspend his search activity antil told by CRICHARD to resuss
it. Ye to be included in his briefing in anticipation of the possibi-
lity tha cation may pick up information affecting MANKEL during his stay
there, £92, @ Police inquiry. It ahould be stressed to NANKEL during his briefing
in Lexesbourg that he should not seek contact with us per paragraph 2efaunil234

unless he runs into obstacles clearly requiring diacussion or seozes danger to

hisself or his mission or has something to report wbich carnot avait his return
to Luxeabourg. We will not contact his unless ve pick up something affecting
his or his mission.

@.  MANEKL should be told to epend some time actually trying to sell

the coin-cperated mac’ weal firet stop would be hia contacting the Dakar
Chamber of Commerce. If tation has any particular guidance in this respect,
Please cable to Luxe: r ja~10

4. Reference paragraph 4, iti fose: MANKEL should be briefed on all the
sub-paragraphs, bub should be acentrate first on sub-paragraph e, rather
than dilute his effort. Unles tation objects, in-whieh case please osble
to Lxxembourg with reasons, the of MANKEL should include the parenthetical

rote in sub-paragraph o, since this will permit hiak to take precautionsry seasures
in dealing with these types. We crefer that after he has explored the possibili~
ties offered by sub-paragraph a, he explore those offered by sub-peragraph d.
Sub-paragraphks b and o should be considered last resorts. Although he will be
avare of it from his own normal activity, MANKSL should be spocifically told to

bs alert to the fact that the circles in which he will be dealing are usually
leaded with police informants and that we want big to axarcise saximum caution. ,
He should also be told that we do not consider this a mission which can be extindeA
ed infinitum. If he is not able to find the typas ve vant and arrange future .
contact (recognition signals, etc.) within two weeks, approximately, it is unlikely
that additional time will gst hia anywhere, although we bare an open aind on this
cofnt. Wa do rot want bis to feel that he mst return with success; if ha cannot
 

 

a

‘og 10485-10076

a s Paras. 3b, 3e, 4) 5

oe . RETURN TO CIA
. Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

   
 
 
  

|
PROCESSING ;
aC hee t

   
   

Ten eens SRD
Teme HRP ”

1 PEN TLS OSS
ERR AT ROTTING

: MSS

Description and Photogragh of Joad Marie André MANIA,

   

 

BEF: (iia) 2, 7 October 1960

1. Forwarded herevith is a picture of MANKEL. Although the picture vas
taken in 1957, he looks today exactly as he did then, with the exception of a
few less hairs on the top of his head. Description: 42 years old, apparent age
45, height 6 ft. 1 in., thin build, hair dark brown, large ears, right sar lobe
has diatinct inverted-v cut; above his left eyebrow is a permanent lump (does not
show on the attached picture), large enough so that it cannot be overlooked;

. walks with head and shoulders bent slightly forward; speaks Gerssn and French
fluently and can pass ag a native of: France; on a scale of excellent, very good,
good, fair, poor, his English is rated good. If English is used with him, it
should be spoken slowly and distinctly, choosing words which leave no doubt as
te whet is meant. 2

2. MANKEL was met in Luxembourg)by RABNEY and Elliott 3. JOUVENOY, Cos,
Luxembourg, on 19 and 20 October. A} 234 had not been received in Frankfurt
by the time of RASNEY's departure a there for Luxembourg, but arrangements
were made to have it reisyed to Luxembourg, and JOUVENOY hes confirmed his
receipt of it. The following sub-paragrapks provide the substance of the
meetings with HANKEL:

&. In view of the extreme sensitivity of the objective for which ve
- want him to perform hie task, he was not told precisely what we want hir to do,
Instead, he was told that we have evidence of Soviet operations among nationality
groups in Africa, specifically, Corsicans, and that we would like to have hia :
spot, assess, and recommend some dependable, quick-witted persons for our use.
(Comment: It was thought best to withhold our true, specific requirements pending
the final decision to use MANKEL.} Be agreed to go on the trip for us.

b. Regarding cover for the trip, MANKEL suggested that he travel es a
salesman for a German firm producing coin-operated soft-drink, coffes, ete.,
machines. He already had a brochure from this company and stated that he could
easily obtain an authenticating to-whom-it-may—concern letter from the owner. The
firm is SCHWELMER BISENWERK, MUELLER AND CO., GME, SCHWELM, WESTFALIA; the owner

DATE TYPED . CATE DSFa" ED

2 Hoveaber 1960

 

ore = = TeST or
rrfops [| «3 bo esa t. ls | RS
COORDINATING
OCH SYS t CATE é OFFS § AE

wE/2 1047 |

Da‘ 1910's :

 
74-00000

       

  
  

Fate ub A

 

TAOCRE ae

CONTINUATION OF "SECRER

DISPATCH

     

al

   
   
  

     

Page 3

find the types we need in Dakar, ve will look elsewhere. (fhe operation we have

in mind is too sensitive to ri blowing it in this phase, end the search for

asects gust be conducted with truly ainisus risk.) .
thorised to

5, JOUVENOY is antl

    
   
    

his gonsy for travel to Frankfort for this purpose. (ve will decide on his return
. how much to pay him for his time on tke misaion.) ° : ;

: 6. . If there are any qestiors on the pert of| br Laxenbourg, please
cable to each other, with info to Hos., or to Hqs. with info to the other station.
Cables should refer to this dispatch and be elugged RYBAT LAURICLE ZRACORH.

       
    
    

7. For In view of the fact that the cover installetion ia not
guarded during off—doty houre, this dispatch should be reduced to cryptic mces-
sary notes and destroyed after tha first reading. MANKEL ‘a picture and all cable
traffic, as well ag your copies of @UDA1 234, should also be destrcyed as soon as
no longer needed. Beovssary notes, 1.e5,70n arrangeaents for centects, and MANKEL's
picture, until the firat contact, ebould be sealed fm guch a way that any tanporing
will be imesdiately evident.

    
        
   
   
    
 
   

Attachment
Photo, as stated, 1 cy

     

Distributions j2- (0
ices ’ w/attachaent a/s
COS pp w/o attachnent |
2 f/ops

     
    

 
