 

~ SECRET —~
‘. DOI 50-10
” DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS- GENERAL
. NO. 50-10 : 4 September 1973

e

Directorate or another agency: or if an individual or firm will be requested

to perform an operational task or to deviate from his or its normal pattern

of activity; or if the activity, even though consistent with the individual's

. or firm's normal pattern of activity, will take place because requested or
Cc funded by the Domestic Collection Division; that case will be sudject to

the requirement for approval by the Deputy Director for Operations.)
a

 

 

(see DOT 240-8) :
{1) Operational use of - J
C: requires prior approval Ey the Deputy Director for Operations wheneve

there is danger that such activity might serve in any way!
\ [Such activities include but are not limited to the

 

 

 

 

 

 

| The “op-
erational use abroad off
media for non-US. audiences does not tequire approval by the Deputy
<_) Director for Operations eve iit “have some

unintended and unsolicited
(2) Approval by the Deputy Director for Operations is also required prior

to the operational use of{

 

 

 

whenever the individual is a US.
citizen or whea : involved is under US. ownership

: or control.
CQ . b Employees
It is DDO policy to avoid operational use of employees of the

organization including indigenous employees. Exceptional individual cases
involving priority operational objectives will be considered on their merits,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: Prior approval by the Deputy Director for Operations will be required
: C in all cases. . .

: ©. Individuals | {see DOT 50.18)

: paiveal | _ |which in any way have
: or seek to have an | ‘are

 

considered to be in a separa jtive category. In view of the peculiar
aspects ff including the special requirements of

t the Act, approval by the De; ty Director

for Operations is required prior to the operational us i
| of any individual who is : \
who is located in or operating into the United States,

 

 

 

 

 

 

8
SECRET

  

ir SEE an ct age

Lote. wba See o

 

 

 
74-0000 :

oes
a :
. e ed = .
-~ , -~ -. 4
. SECRET . :

DOI 50-10 2

DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GEXERAL .

NO. 50-10 4 September 1973

 

 

a son
| aes DOF 60-11) : :
Prior approval of the Director or the Deputy Director for Operations is .
required for operational cuntact in the United Stat i! i
|

       
  

 

_ If, while in the United States, such individual is to be invest ated,
approached for recruitment, or contacted for operational purposes,

will also be required in accordance with para-
Bel above,

‘ | D |
‘eis DDO policy that the operational use of ‘
including those of its various main organs and of :
is of such sensitivity as to require
special consideration by the Deputy Director for Operatic: especially
worthwhile cases wherein operational use of a particular individual .
is deemed essential fur the accomplishment of the DDO mission, approval '
may be obtaiued. In each case involving a non-U.S. citizen assigned in ~
the U.S. or a U.S. citizen wherever assigned, the prior approval of the
Deputy Director for Operations wi i agraph &b.
regarding use of non-US. citizen jot assigned ’ ,
in the US.) Lf, while in the United States, the individual is to be ‘
investigated, approached for recruitment, or contacted for operational puz-

‘Seay also be required as outlined

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

poses,
in paragraph 6b, above.
|

 

Cross or its affiliated rational Red Cross, Red Crescent, or other equivalent
societies requires special consideration and prior approval by the Deputy '
Director for Operations, DDO elements should make every effort to avoid

the operational use of staff members or officials a t) i
ever, when especially high priority objectives are at stake and alternative

agent assets are not available, approval for the use of such individuals may *
be granted by the Deputy Director for Operations. i

}
‘The operational use of staff members or officials of the International Red > |
1

 

&
tional contact with officials of the Vatican State will be made only

with the prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations. Operational

 

 

 

 

 

 

use of will be contingent on prior approval by the Deputy
Director for Operations, ‘
h !
_ |
oo
10 4
SECRET .
- wee + - . a - woe ne mene [ ataieel
Fae ARBRE i Fa Gee By ee ot Mens mmm 200 7 eee a

yooeme

  
    
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
  

~ SECRET ~
DOI 50-10 )
BDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-CENERAL . !
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973 !

 

“The operational
is, under ain condihens, contingent on prior approval
A the These are_par-
oho ae e)
who ar and who are
i flags. Each case involving the proposed operational use :
ose of these! will be reviewed by the Chief mT .
V4 Division in the ight of the agreements existing between this Agency i
the national intelligence is cerned, After weighing all of the
equities, the Chicf of the, Division will decide whether approval O :
is required concemed. When re-
quired, approvals Tor the operational use of such individuals will be ‘
obtained from the appropriate jby the
Division. :
£ :
Operational usé"o! ardless { k :

who are Tearrying the “y

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[is under certain conditions, “Subject t
to provisions of the agreements existing between this Agency and the ‘
Each case involving the proposed

Operational Use oF sich Ff i be reviewed by the Chief
of the Division or the Chief o! Division, as ap-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

f
4
I

propriaté, ii light of the iter

weighing all of the equities, the Ciel oF te ivision or the ip)

Chief of the | Division _will_determine the coi of action to

be taken with regard to concerned.

 

 

 

7. APPROVAL BY THE DDO REQUIRED

Approval by the Deputy Director for Operations for the operational use D

of any individual who falls into one of the categories described in this para-

graph will be requested by memorandum. The individual's covert approval

status will be described in the memorandum to the Deputy Director for }
t

Operations, together with a concise explanation of the intended operational
use. (In connection with this paragraph, contacts by the Domestic Cullection
Division with individuals or firms do not require approval by the Deputy
Director for Operations provided they constitute merely briefing or de
briefing for the purpose of obtaining information acquired by an individual
or representative of a firm in the course of his normal activities. If, however,
in any case the contact is on behalf of another element of the Operations
74-0000

  
    
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

!
aan ~ on
a
OAL DOI 50-10
. DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL
- NO. 50-10 4 September 1973
provided [Te accordance with this _nolicv, the followin:
( * who come to the United States for operational
- purposes.
cA and Human Sources of Foreign Intelligence fsisdY
The has been established at head-
C quarters to provide for United States Intelligence Board (U: i
ie is USIB policy that no individual
r agency will be used for operational pur-
poses| without the specific prior approval of the
: | If a DDO element desires to arrange the
( 1 hill con-
. tact the

Petermine whether there is a

 

willin, Giscuss this matter.

 

 

 

 

: (i) The operational use of|______bf the above-named|
: s pesinicted

i which require the prior approval of the a
: Such approval will be obtained at the earliest feasible stage
i of development through the

 

    
 

 

O

 

 

 

 

 

 

O

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i
!
|
(2) The “above restriction also governs the | -
i
. . Approval for the
| be sought through the same channels as Stated in subparagraph (1)

above.

(3) Authority to make operational use of the persons

deseribed_in the al phs without obtaining prior

approval concemed may be granted only
by the Deputy Director for Operations or by the Director.
_) of
an u
| _ SECRET
Sa me i SN One at en eet is a es we ea eet

 
74-0000

 

e .
-_ on
SECRET
C DOI 50-10
o DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973

(b) Ef the individual is a former member of ACTION, or a former
trainee whose ACTION service included duty or training over-
seas, five years must have elapsed since his separation from
ACTION.

C If contact with a former ACTION member or a former trainee whose
ACTION service included duty or training overseas should be un-
avoidable during the required five year waiting period, the Deputy
Director for Operations may request an exception from the Director
of Central Intelligence. Among the possible reasons for such unavoid-

C able contact would be the designation of a former member or trainee
as the liaison officer to the Domestic Collection Division.

j
|
:

 

 

 

 

DDO policy prohibits the operational use of individuals who are receiving
lmder certain provisions (see below) of the

 

 

 

\ Falling under this prohibi-
(including
vho have been selected to receive
pointed
the President of the Cnited States. Operational use of such individuals
is prohibited only during the period when they are participating in the

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| This ibition specifically 1
does not apply to the several other categories of|,___isupported by i
other provisions of such as
_other provisions of} a
: O do ot conte Wider The Beg OF thd

[see 7... below).
©. Officials or Employees of the| |
DDO policy prohibits the operational use of the officials or employees
' of the [Contacts with such
. O individuals which DDO olficers are obliged to make in their cover ca-
pacities must be limited to their cover assignments.

d. Officials, Employees, or|
DDO policy prohibits the operational use of,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i persons actively participating in programs which are wholly sponsored
' and controlled by any of these Additionally, there will be
. No operational use made of the officials or employees of these organiza-
tions. In general, however, there is no restriction on nouoperational con-
tacts or consultations with such individuals.

re .

i
i
{
{
: : SECRET
i
f
{

 

 

     
74-0000

 

 

. id 7 oe
“\ SECRET “
DOI 50-10
DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL ” |
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973 {
. |
e Employees of |

 

 

DDO policy prohibits the operational use either in the United States

or overseas of the employees of any U.S.-owned or controlled]
is policy does not apply to operatio )

ne ie which are engaged strictly in commercial

@ EXTRA-AGENCY CONCURRENCE REQUIRED

a. Employees of|
Approval for the operational use of stalf or contr (including foreign) )
employees will be granted only in
cases where the |bas been notified
of and has approved of the intended operational Wie ih accordance with

the provisions of DOI 10-5.
b
In accordance with the agreement existing Between caw w
7 the restrictions listed below “apply *)

Vis the responsibility of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Chief, Liaison Group, Opcratious Staff.
(2)_All investigations by this Agency of |
are the pri

 

 

 

 
 
  

the Aipth ;

erm. ; :

i __j sumed qhFSrmation concerning an individual's D
‘@étivities or background; not include the ac- :
ceptance or the development oF information through social contacts |

or contacts normally made by Agency officials in discharging their

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cover functions. os ; .

2) Any approach in the United States) D i
i

(3) Any planned meeting_i “United States for assessment and_social :
Sevelopment betwee ; :

 

 
  
  
 

 

 

ef domestic DDO operations involve matters pertaining to
propriate identification
United States will be ~

 

the
of persons” engaged in the operations in

 

 

    
 

id ad
-~ te
SECRET
DOI 50-10
DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973

3. DEFINITIONS

Within the context of this instruction, the definitions listed below will apply.
Special note must be taken of the fact that the key term “operational use”
employed throughout this instruction has been defined in the most succinct
manner consistent with clarity. It has not been feasible, however, to cover in
a definition the entire scope of possible variations in operational circumstances
which may be encountered in DDO activities, The definition of “operational
use” is intended to provide guidance for the majority of cases, and must be
employed with responsible operational judgment. Issues involving a deter-
mination of “operational use” which cannot be resolved with reasonable as-
surance by the responsible operating components will be referred to the
Deputy Director for Operations for decision.
a. Operational Use
Operational use is interpreted to mean the recruitment, utilization, or train-
ing of any individual or group for DDO Purposes on cither a witting or
unwitting basis by or on the behalf of an element of the Operations Direc-
torate, Utilization is made of an individual or greup whenever that in-
dividual or group, responding to the direction or solicitation of a DDO
element, provides information, performs services, provides cover, or supplies
financial, material, or other support necessary for the accomplishment of
DDO operational objectives either directly or indireetly, to or for an ele-
ment of the Operations Directorate.

b. DDO Element
Any person or group who or which is responsible to, owned or controlled
either directly or indirectly by the Operations Directorate. Included under
this definition are employees or members of Agency proprietary mech-
anisms.

© Operational Contact
Any association having as its purpose the initiation or furtherance of DDO
operations, .

4 RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL USE

s

a. Restrictions on the operational use of individuals or groups are of four types
and cover twenty five separate categories as outlined below and as described
in greater detail in paragraphs 5 through 8 of this instruction:

(1) Operational Use is Prohibited (sec paragraph 5):
(a) Members and trainees of ACTION;
(b)

 

 

 

 

w

 
 

10213-10208

 

2
*

 

— : andy
Wag
DOL 50-10
a H
DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-CENERAL
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973

RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL: USE OF CERTAIN
CATEGORIES OF INDIVIDUALS

Reseission: CSI 50-10, 13 July 1970

L GENERAL

a. Elemental in the conduct of clandestine operations is the use of human
ents to accomplish the missions of the Operations Directorate. In gen-
eral, it is DDO policy to select agent assets with primary regard to the
agents’ abilities, target access, and security, and with few restrictions as
to their origins, professions or status as members of particular groups. The
basic rule is that any consenting adult may be used by the Operations
Directorate. There are, however, certain sens:tive categories of individuals
or groups whose operational use by the Operations Directorate is prohibited
or in some way restricted for reasons not necessarily related to security
considerations,
b. These prohibitions or restrictions stem from one of the following:

(1) The Agency has been directed by U.S. Covernmental authority to
sestrict or avoid the operational use of a particular category of in-
dividuals.

(2) The Agency has entered into a special restrictive agreement with an

* organization, government, corporation, or official responsible for a
category of individuals.

(3) The Director or the Deputy Director for Operations has imposed
restrictions on the operational use of a certain category of individuals
due to the extreme rigk or sensitivity of such exploitation.

2 PURPOSE

The purpose of this instruction is to set forth the prohibitions and policy
sestrictions (as distinguished from security restrictions) which currently per-
tain to the operational use of various categories of individuals, together with
the special approval procedures to be followed in certain cases. Where ap-
propriate, reference has been made to another publication which provides
more detailed guidance than has been attempted in this instruction. The
special approval procedures set forth in this instruction do not supersede or
alter in any way the requirements for covert approvals contained in DOL

   

[> and DOLF 10-5.

ivy.

» sober
le - OOS ett entail mardi emer te ee - .
74-0000

one

t opsy

 

r Sts
ey
“ SECRET }
DOI 50-10
DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973

 

(e) Officials or employees of the!

 

 

 

 

 

 

(4)

 

 

 

 

 

{e) Employees of |
(2) Operational Use Requires Special Extra-Agency Concurrence (see
paragraph 6): a.

 

 

:
*
*

2

¢
1

i

 

 

 
    

Emplo:

 

 

 

 

 

rational Use Requires Special Approval by the DDO (see pata-
ore D:
a

 

  
   

(4) Operationar-vse ief of Area Division (see

 

 

{c)

b. Operational use of an individual who comes under more than one type of
restriction will be controlled by the highest type of restriction applicable
in his particular case.

 

 

 

‘
i
4
'

 
74-0000

 

¢ ~
lam
 -- secrer
DOI 50-10
DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-CENERAL
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973

5. OPERATIONAL USE PROHIBITED

a. Members and Trainees of ACTION

(1) It is Agency policy that members and trainees of ACTION will not be

in any capacity, with or without remuneration, by the Agency

or by organizations under its jurisdiction. (The term “members of AC-

TION” will be understood te mean anyone employed by or associated
with ACTION except trainees.)

(2) It is Agency policy that former members of ACTION may he em-
ployed or used by the Agency or by organizations under its jurisdiction
only in accordance with the following:

(a) Except as stated in (b) below, a former member of ACTION
may be employed or used operationally by any element of the
Agency only if a period of five full years has elapsed since his
separation from ACTION.

{b) An Agency-controlled organization may hire a former member of
ACTION, but only for duties related to the overt purposes of such
organization, if a period of at least twenty-four months has elapsed
since his separation from ACTION.

(e) The employment or use of a former member of ACTION under
the provisions of subparagraph (a) or (b) above must have the
specific prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations.

(3) Former trainees whose ACTION service included duty or training over-
seas are subject to the rules governing employment or use of former
members of ACTION (subparagraph (2) above). Former trainees who
did not serve at any time as members of ACTION and whose ACTION
service did not include duty or training overseas may be employed or
used operationally by DDO elements provided the specific prior ap-
proval of the Deputy Director for Operations is obtained.

(4) A former member or trainee of ACTION whose employment or use
is permitted by subparagraph (2) or (3) above may not be assigned
to or used in a country for which he had been trained or to which
he had been assigned while with ACTION.

(5) Information may be received by the Domestic Collection Division
from private corporations and other organizations employing former
ACTION personnel, notwithstanding the fact that the information may
originate with former ACTION personnel, However, any direct brief-
ing or debriefing of or contact with former members or trainees of
ACTION is subject to the following:

(a) The specific prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations
must be obtained.

 

 
