 

SECRET

ne

o\

memorandum for the files on each.

personally give his blessing to the Frente he said, witha
‘straight face, that he gave his blessing to any group of
Mexicans which lawfully wished to organize in Mexico

for this was a democracy. He added, however, that he
feared that the Frente was, getting ready to put up a
candidate for President and that Anericans, including the

_ Ambassador, could be embarrassed if they found them-

selves involved in this matter.

-e. Concerning the question of the Colombian proposal
which the Ambassador asked him to consider, /LITENSOR_\© |

* gaid we are late in making this suggestion to him. He

asked, however, that I advise the Ambassador that he would
do what he could to have the Ambassador's suggestions

taken into consideration, He ‘said he would get in touch-with
Manuel Tello today prior to his departure from Mexico City.

I told him; as is recorded in memorandum, that the
Ambassador understood.the historical reasons for Mexico's
pésition and also understood that the request wag late.
LIfENSOR]then raised the question of President Kennedy's
visit which’he said Senator Mansfield had raised. Cie said
that he would prefer President Kennedy came in December of
this year, as he had advised Senator Mansfield, and that his
personal preference was for a meeting in Monterrey. He
said, however, that the place of meeting would be lefr entirely
to President Kennedy to choose, and that security of President
Kennedy and hie party could be guaranteed any place in Mexico.
His personal preference for Monterrey is because he thought
it less likely that a small group or an individual might attempt
to cause embarrassment to President Kennedy and his group,
and that such efforts could be best controlled outside Mexico
City proper. He brought up the question of President Kennedy's
health and the probable affect of the altitude in Mexico City;
but L told him that I thought President Kennedy's troubles had
been due to his back and not to his heart, and that the altitude

should not affect him.

3. For details of the aubjects as listed by me, see separate

Distribution: |
Orig - LIPENSOR|

1 - LIENVOY/Production ;
1 ~ Ambassador Mann file-—-— ~~ .

SECRET

of

pale
 

‘04-40183-10103] « ,

* a

ft - : ‘ ‘

FARETURN TO CIA
* ’ ° Background Use Only
. i Qo Not Reproduce

SECRET '

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE:
FROM: Winston M. Scott

SUBJECT: Visit wie LAPENSOH] :
: |

 

: - ol
1. On 21 November 1961 I met with furfensog|at 1100 hours
and toox up three topics which I had been-requested to discues
with him by Ambassador Mana. .

2. The results briefly were:

. _¢ ol
a. Concerning the agrarian question, [LiffeNsoa, said

that he would prefer to discuss this matter personally with
Ambassador Mana prior to Ambassador Mann's having any.
discussions with [iis MinisteraJ He suggested that
Ambassador Mann and he mect “next week" as soon as
possible after he returns froma visit to/Chihuahua te oF
dedicate a railroad: He asked that this meeting bea,
secret one and be arranged through me aad 2

 

 

 

~ oO

b. Concerning the Frente Givico Mexicano, fixrensor |
said that he would prefer that U.S. businessmen not give
money to this or any other anti-Communist group in Mexico.
In particular, he aaid he feared that this group would get
involved in internal political affairs in Mexico and he thought
internal politics was the businesa of Mexicans and that
Americans should not get themselves involved. He suggested

\ that Ambassador Mann tell U. §. businessmen who wish to

maxe a contribution to the Frente that they could better help
Mexico by investing in private enterprises in Mexico which
would help to raise the standard of living in Mexicd and thereby
would fight Communism. When [ totd him that I would

SECRET

CHAT KO OMECT.OS TO
DECLASSIF CATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

ad Noho tf

 
