 

  

 

 

 

5. Oswald's visit to Mexico City and other developments ‘there have
produced detailed discussion of certain everits in HSCA drafts. One of
those intended by the Committee for unclassified publication has to do .
with a man who made allegations that Oswald received money in the Cuban
Consulate for the purpose of killing the President. This considers the
investigation of the allegation, with criticisms of the’ performance of
the Agency. It involves detailed reference to. the Station in Mexico.

The other section intended for unclassified publication has to do with

a man who flew to Cuba from Mexico City a few days after the assassination
of President Kennedy. Again, there is extensive reference to the role

of the Station. Another section referring to the Mexico City Station -
involves detailed discussion-of sensitive sources and methods; the position
on sources and methods is clear, but there is. uncertainty in the Mexico
Station aspect. (S) .

' 6. The present issue ‘Gs ‘whether ‘there can be some euphemism for
describing CIA personnel in Mexico City for the investigation, without
specifying that they were assigned there on a permanent basis, or whether
we simply oppose any references. The Committee can be expected to contest
our objections to any references to the Station or CIA's presence there .
for the investigation because the story cannot be told otherwise. To omit
such references would mean that these limited sections would probably have
to be deleted or so emasculated as to render them sterile and incomprehensible. {c)

2” 7. The Warren Commission report has only limited ‘references to CIA,
crediting it with reporting Oswald's visit to Mexico City prior to the

 

es J,assassination, and obtaininig by undisclosed means a photograph of an

SS ‘unidentified man. Other information from CIA is not specified in the -
~ report; while: the press has accurately described those matters, the Agency
has never officially confirmed it. (C) _ ; .

8. The Church Committee report, in Book V5. makes 28 separate refer-
ences to the Mexico Station (not Mexico Cit Station) or its Chief, or
its communications with Washington. While this is not publication by CIA,
it has the quality of official confirmation by virtue of being contained
in a Senate report. The Agency did not contest this at the time. Further,
‘the Agency subsequently approved references to the Mexico City Station and
“its Chief, in the book published by David Phillips, possibly because
already public in the Senate report. (C)

9. Staff Discussion: Since the Church Committee investigation, and
the approval of the references in the Phillips book, there has been an
increase in the sensitivity of the Mexico City Station. While CIA has
come under attack in the Mexican Press from time-to-time in the past, the
Station and the COS in particular recently have been the subject of a
running campaign. This is the first time that a COS has been subjected
to a prolonged personal attack in the local press. Heightened political
scontroversy within the ruling PRI Party has focused attention on the
‘Embassy and the Station, with allegations o of bribery and other misdeeds
 

$04-10067-10373)

a

 

 

‘8 February 1979

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

VIA, 3 Deputy Director of Central Intelligence
: Legislative Counsel ;

FROM : S. D. Breckinridge
a Principal Coordinator, HSCA |

House Select Committee on Assassinations References to

SUBJECT -
; Overseas CIA Stations (U)

ee.

1. Action Re uested: That you approve one of the options set forth
in | paragrap eueste ; : oo

Background: - CIA's participation in the investigation of
President Kennedy's assassination was limited by the pattern of Lee Harvey
Oswald's life. He served in the Marine Corps in Japan, although he did not

come to the attention of the CIA at that time. He travelled to the Soviet  ~
‘Union in 1959, returning to the United States in 1962. He did not come
_ to CIA's attention until his defection was reported by the U. S. Embassy

in Moscow. He.travelled to Mexico City in late September 1963, returning
to the United States in early October after a five-day stay. CIA detected
his presence and reported it at that time as a routine CI report because
the contacted the Soviet Embassy. (C)

3. “False allegations by a disaffected CIA employee claiming CIA-Oswald
“ties in Japan consumed some of the Committee's time and attention. They
discredited his testimony, but in the process of discussing Ait, they talk

 

 

 

in Tokyo.
We would endeavor to have |

 

 

 

 

the Committee sanitize and downplay this section of its report simply
because of the discredited nature of the witness's testimony. If this is
unsuccessful, unclassified publication may become an issue - (c

4.. Oswald's entry to the Soviet Union, with a visa given by the
soviet Consul In Helsinki, leads to HSCA discussion in its report of
and the file held on the Consul,

 

fe wR nme ati AS aR

‘WhO WaS KGB. We believe this can be remedied by sanitization; if not,

“dt could become an issue if HSCA insists on | Publication.

ORIGINAL CL BY ~ 713190

 
    

EXT BY:
OREASS So

 

 

 

 

or February 1985
a aie sien oti dat ea asa re

‘

involving high-level officials. ‘Because of the political discord within
the PRI, certain high-level Mexican officials have at least seen fit to
permit the continuation of this campaign if not supporting and instigating
it. Their objective is to tarnish the image of other officials who are
political opponents and. traditionally have -been very supportive of the
Station. The interest of the United States in Mexico's gas and petroleum
has heightened sensitivity concerning anything that may affect the
political atmosphere. The official publication by any U. S. Government
entity of material which confirms the presence of CIA operations in
Mexico (past or present) provides’ new ammunition for. renewed .attacks.on

- our Station and causes considerable embarrassment to the GOM. President

Carter will be visiting in Mexico soon. The president himself has instructed —

- the Attorney General that there can be no references to the Mexico. City. -

Station in its prosecution of ‘the ITT matter. While the President can _
instruct a member of the Executive Branch on this matter, a formal position
from him agers subject, directed to the Congress, does not have the’ same
weight, ; ; - ; .

10. The agreement between you and Chairman Stokes provides that when
we receive an official notice of the intent to publish, you have five days
in-which to respond to him if you object. At present, we have this inform-

~ ation on an informal basis and the five-day period does not apply. Therefore,

this is posed to you.in anticipation of a disagreement if discussions do

‘not produce a way around the issue.
11. Our options are:
a. To seek some compromise by discussions; (U) ©
b. Accept’ some euphemism that suggests the presence in
Mexico of CIA people in 1964 for purposes of the investigation
without specifying that they were assigned there permanently; (c)

“C. Categorically oppose publication of those sections |
mentioning any CIA presence in Mexico. (Cc) :

‘V2. Action Requested: We intend to pursue option (a), but prior to
doing so, your decision on options (b) and (c) will be necessary to shape

how we proceed. (U
ae, ©, Tne

S. D. Breckinridge —
i
i.

Distribution: .
1 - DCI 1 ~ R. Holmes “7
1 - DDCI 1 - Legislative Counsel
7- ER ; 1 - OLC/Subj
1 - DDA 1 - OLC/Chron
1 - DDO OLC/SDB/kw - 9 Feb 1979
] - OGC Attn: R. Rininger fo ;
1 - LA/DDO Attn: W. Sturbitts .*

OS Attn: J. Sullivan

 

sae

 

ate
ca

 

 

 
