 

 

 

 

eg anion

= :

hief, Western Hemisphere Division

 

 

 

 

!

 

Mr,

 

1, Transmitted herewith !s the Memorandum of Oral Commitment for

 

 

2 Subject wae originally a contact of

of 1960, using his boa
operations with MA’ A TIME. He wae oubse

 

the Havana Station and in the eur-ner

made the firat of four successful sea rendezvous

Cuba, in fe December 1560, Since thie

 

 

 

maritime operations tn WASP, MATUSA TIME
beatae. On several occasions he has effected rul
veception parties uder extremely hazardous cir

3. Se Miami Sb jact

quently forced to escape from

date Subject hae sailed on many

and on several Cubanecrewe?
bbereboat beach landings to meet

cumstances, = - ie

was associated with the AMDIPs but hag become

disenchanted with thus group because of cocetant positical aquabbiee aod their
lack of ability to perform to his satisfaction. He now wishes to disassoctate

himeelf completely frem aay Grub.

under KOBARK control,

4. It iy proposed to use Subject as a small boat captain in maritime

a2 Political group and desires to place himself }

cperations; as an intermediate craft ¢tewman in beach iandings; as interpreter

on American-crewed vesecls; to assist in training Cuban, non=English-epeaking
crews and to assiet generally where and when needed, oo og :

END OF DISPATCH

RRecurer

 

Oak Tee

10 Auguat 61

 

hisses Oi de Rcaiede eo aad bee de,

St Be ace ea SRD

eed atacand GEE Seta eon oe

   
   
    
   
   

   
    

 
  

TOMAONGTAORTS]

 

 

 

 

eo an |, RETURN yo fan)
: Background Use On
Do Not Reproduce

 
   

OMY Nase
RAATTUS Ste

 
  

q

!
J

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reception parties under extremely hazardous circumstances,

a Sp Mtoe! oon oe
ander KUBARK costrel, =~ 7

on American-crewed vesselo; to assist in training Cuban, none.
crews and to assist generally where and when needed, :

END OF DISPATCH

 

 

  
 

RERQRE &

  

4

_ 1 Prancmirted herewith ts the Memarandi of Oral Commitment for
Mr,

ut aaa ~ OS :

2 Subject was ort, ¢ .& Contact of the Havana Station and in the surmer
of 1960, using his boa made the firat of four successful sea rendervoug
operations He was subsequently forced to eucape from

Oh Cuba, tal iis. December 1960, Since this date Subject hae sailed on many

maritime operations in WASP, MATUSA TIME and on several Cobanscrewed
Boats. On several occasions he has effected rubber-boat beach lan:

: 3. —nMGs wee ject was associated with the AMDIPs but has become
disenchanted with this group because of constant poaitical squabbles and thelr
lack of ability to perform to his satisfaction, He now wishes to disaseociate
himeelf completely from any Groban politics: gtoup and desires to place himeelé

4. It te proposed to use Subject as a small boat captain in maritime
operations; as an imermediate craft ¢Tewman in beach landings; as interpreter

English- Speaking

UFGA-3914
MEADGUAATEDS Fad RAO

 
   
  

dings to meet

  

  
 
        
        
       
      
 
         
       

 

Eis ELAR, Sak, BBN in nk mates Aas MORSE Ae heme

trict O OTHER ete Bia

see Fa ec saha ot cea

“

   
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
