 

 

 

4. Bill Kent reported from Miami that Rojas is working with
Manuel Brana and in New York with Jose Antonio Mestre, alias Jose
- Agustine Mendez, Rojas talked to Mr. White and Mr. Hopkine of the
| White House Staff in Pennsylvania recently. :

5. AMCLATTER+1 algo reported that Tony Varona said he was
dealing with Eduardo Gonzalez, a Rescate man in New York, who was’
bringing down 300 people from New York in addition to the unspecified ~
number of people coming from Miami,

6, AMCLATTER-1 commented that when Rasco found out about
. the proposed trip he called the MDC representative, name unknown,
In New York and told him to are that the movement was stopped since
it wae not FRD-~-sponsored, Eduardo Gonzalez called Varona to try to
get the MDC representative to lay off, which Tony did, assuring, Raaco
that this was his own personal operation,

Le 7, Mr, Stanulla suggested that Mr, Barnes should make it quite
‘lear in any convereationa at the White House that we seriously doubt ©
that at this stage Varona or anyone else can exert very much control
if the delegation comes to Washington, This seems obvious since by
now not only does it seem that several groups ia addition to Varona'y
were initially involved in tho organization of the cavalcade but otherg
may well try to get into the act,

8, We have been promised through the Bender channel more
precise information on whon the cavalcade will arrive but given the
somewhat confused picture onc cannot count on receiving advance

word,

Note: See memorandum to A/DDP/A, wubject "Jouc Manuel Brana
Duran, '*

 

 

 

WH/47SA7Econ

[rh (13 Jan 1961)

 

Distribution: toe fy

Original and ] - €/WH/4/PA
1 ~ WHd/ Registry
1---Orviginator 7S

 

 
 

{104-10220-10306

 

 

 

13 January 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT; Cuban Delegation Planning to Come to Washington

RE At 1730 hours 12 January Mr. Barnes was given a summary
of our present information concernizg subject, which consisted of the

following items: /- Ven  frpers 6 1 the Crewe ek te.

a. To thank Presidont Eisenhower for the $1,000, ‘600
roliéf fund made available for Cuban refugees,

b. To thank the Peruvian Ambagsador for the break
in relations between Peru and Cuba,

e, Totry to get an audience with the OAS in order
to influence other Latin American countries to break
relations with Cuba,

2. _According to 4 Bender source (AMCLATTER-1) who taiked
with Tony Varona, Varona considera this a completely unilateral
operation, i,e,, an Autentico Party operation. Jt wag arranged by
Tony through one Ernesto Rojas who contacted White House officiala
Hopkins and White. Also involved are Manolo Brata, Jose Antonio
Myestre and.an MRR mat’ namod Jose Antonio Mendez, (AMCLATTER-1

. also mentioned a (fnu) Manolin Hernandez, a wealthy sugar man

connected with the Reforma Central,) AMCLATTER-1 had no
information concerning the size of the group although catimates seam
to run from a few hundred to about a thousand.

3. From Mr. Jacobs wo hear that Rojas is an unofficial delegate
of AMBIDDY and lives at 6711 Glencartyn Drive, Lake Barcroft, Falls
Church, J&fferaon 2-5598, A call to this aumber was answered by
Rojas' wife whu gaid yes, he is connected with the matter of 1, 000
signaturas for presentation to Eisenhower.

 
