 

ne SECRET

his wife, who recently arrived from Mexico. Mr. Reichardt
declared that he is not being operationally used by the
WH Division other than as a contact. He is not under con-
tract. From the above, it is apparent as in the case of
Pedro Diaz LANZ, CIA has no responsibility for the good
conduct of Marcos Diaz LANZ in the United States.

ec: #202923

0S/AKS/WIC:es 26 Oct 59

 

 

~~ SECRET
 

‘04: 40113-10270)

SECRET

“Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

FROM —:

SUBJECT:

File DATE: 26 October 1959
Chief, Alien Affairs Staff

LANZ, Pedro Diaz - #202792
=

 

 

 

1. On this date in response to my request to Mr. |
of WH Division, Mr. Bernard Reichardt, the WH representative in Miami,
Florida, temporarily in Washington, telephonically contacted the
writer. In response to the queries of the undersigned, Mr. Reichardt
provided the following information: .

 

The Immigration status of the subject at the present
time is that of a lawfully admitted permanent resident
alien. He is not under contract to CIA and he is not of
operational use. He presently resides with his wife and
other members of his family.

2. Mr. Reichardt also pointed out that since his earlier appear-
ances before the Senate Sub-Committee on Internal Security, he has had
no further contact with Congressional Committees. Mr. Reichardt
further advised that with regard to the subject's activities which were
publicized over the past weekend, CIA had no foreknowledge of these
activities. He stated further that he was not contacted by the FBI
concerning the recent activities of the subject.

3. From the above, although this Agency evidenced en interest
in the subject in the past to the immigration and Naturalization
Service, it is apparent that CIA" ‘has no responsibilities with regard
to hin.

3. During this telephone conversation Mr. Reichardt also pro-
vided the following information concerning the subject's brother,
Marcos Diaz LANZ (#202923):

Although this Agency interceded with the Immigration
and Naturalization Service with regard to Marcos Diaz
LANZ's coming into the United States in the recent past,
this individual has been paroled on his own recognizance
and this Agency consequently has no responsibilities for his
custody or other activities. Marcos resides in Florida with

SECRET

 

on
