14-00000

 

      

a
—_

 

 

 

 

 

     
 

Lbs Fee BS ye

   

   

a

4 voremmerryee seee
ET Tem ce ee ne eee
 

 

 

SEGIET

   
 
   

29 June 1964

    
 
  
 

Debriefing of Russell H, Saubora in Wash., D.C, 16 June 1964
SUBJECT; DMJM Engineers :

  

  
    
    
     
 
   
   
   

i ved Gasbera reported he met with ANBIDDY/1 at the Miamd
r airport on & June 1964 for a brief discussion of organi-°
mational changes. After their talk, A/l requested Sambora
accompany him to the airport hotel to act as interpretur
(with an Americen enginee? (pousibly DMJM). Sambora did.
‘pot recall the same of the engineer but that the engineer
had atated thé airatrip in Nicaragua would cost sonewhere
-: mm the vicinity of a million dollars.. According: to:
Gembora, A/l simply listened.to the proposal and. waid ne
would’ sake the matter under advisement. :

 

 

 

 

 
74-0000

on SECRET/RYBAT 1h)

Chief of Station, JMWAVE - - Xx : -

\

Deputy Chief, WH (Special affairs)
TYPIC/AMWORLD—Identity

gee anna een mn screenees

BEYS: A. UFGA 16513, 15 June 1964
 B. DIB 31528

1. Chief, WH requests that | an davestigation of the truth of ; -
ome of the allegations cade im Ref a report be held in abeyance .
pending determination whether Subject in fact has decided te leave
Papaias for[ i

 

‘ regarding the house in the WAVE area which ANBIDDY.1 intends to
_ pavehase in the name of

3. Uf i¢ should turn out that the conditions described in.
Ref repert are not drastically remedied and continue to powe a
featering threat to the security of ANWORLD, your Station may have
te be requested to investigate. In the meanwhile, we are hopeful
that Sebject’s removal from the WAVE area will serve to attenuate
this bad situation.

|

&. Headquarters continues to be interested in additional data

de Thanke to Jef A report, we were able (without going inte '

¢eo awoh sordid detail) te put AMBIDUY-1 om notice that we view his t

gesociation with Subject ia the WAVE area as a potential threat. to :

| AMBOBLD's and EUBARK's security and that the political scandal . ; i

potential of the existing situations is equally formidable. We. . 7 f

eenseqeeantiy fell in with AMBIDDY.1's suggestion, made. during ‘the v4

latest wreting im Panama City, that he wove the center of hia illicit i
‘affair to Manngua where it would be easier to contaia unpleasant

than im the WAVE area. We urged AUBIDDY.1, and be :

te heed our advice, that ne dot permit subject te take :

aleag te Sicarsqua senbere of her present entourage, ‘eaaghing out

identity: of Bef A an a particular cace in poin Go.

8. 280 should be etreesed that AMBIDOT-1 is uavavertng: ta hia

 
   
 
 
    
  
 
  
  
    
 
 
 
    

 

his affeir with Subject, and. most likely Be vould not: have yielded to

i
1
\
i
{
aay Hence, we had no choice hut to settle for the prom. ;
pated nove to Biearagua which. represents @ palliative at best. . |

; Kenneth E. Philbroos
Distribution: Gee 3909 8@ dune leed
cEEATS oO

= SS,

  

 guoameyavesé = 3018/9

 

4 - E/EA/haee Wit/aa/a0/mmt Httiecksher bh

~] 203 ’
— Wales Geapor-1 aor”

 

 

 

 
74-0000 . . t

i *
rend sated

 

  
   
       
     
     
       
      

o3}=

6. We made we attenpt, which in any case would have been
vain, te break up the relationship hetween AMBIDDYel and
[oe spologized to him fer involving ourselves ia,
@atters of a private and intimate nature which unfortunately
were beginning te impinge upon ORYORE security intexests.

- @MBIDOTeL in turn aac) it clear that he chinks he ie in leve
ead that separation is net im the cards. We dropped the .
iseee by assuring AMBIDDY-1 that the day would cone when things
could be seen in better perspective ed that he could depend on
Go 206 te gleat oc remind him that we had told him se.

a’ . Se We mentioned offhand that we assuned chat [ca —
hag all the pepers necessary te effect her departure

«. AMBIDD¥-] replied that she bad not been able yet te
Wa siuply comentes that she should

 

 

  
74-0000

col, nod , oe \
onal : We aatere ted . L

29 June. 1964

 

|
| Ammon MEETING 10 REY OMLRAKS, 24 June. 1964
| SUBJECT s

 

 

 

Decision to Kove Her to.

 

 

 

 

 

i. Drawing liberally upon data supplied 1 in: OFGA nif512s
Se repinded MAIDOT“1 about our stentvings regarding his

@aectiation with He conceded auare>
meses of seme of the rumors circulating about her. past private
Aste and stated that be had satisfied himesif that chey were
aafeunded. We injected that we imew thar

- ‘has: beew asked to do seme investigating and had given
; @ @legn bill of health.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. largo aver thet be he istened co talons
~ latter hed castteng nea.

 
 

 

     
 

 

 

 

 

 

elleged {1ifeit relationship

; BATISTA, AMBIDOYe eizply declared the charge
: did knew Carles CANTILLO Genzales

. whe was an old triad of the taally. She alec had. met exePreet«
Geek SPEIRS: bet nocning of a senpronising necere hes cusued.

 

 

 

 

 
74-0000

 
 
 

  
  
  
 

  
 
   

 

      
       
   
       

 

  

 

 

 
 

. 3. Our query why Adelaida, if sbe had AMBIDDY=1°s°
interests at heart, appeared to have qualas about cvning up

in vespect to past events, was parried by AMBIDDY-1 by claiming —
that Adelaida was of course aware of all these rumors and had
warasd him of possible political esbarraseaent. ; :

6. Sveluating UFGA 16512 on the basie of cur talk with
AMBIDUY-1, we conclude that its main source. has a high batting
average. At least there appears to be a hard core of truth te
Otactically all ullegations made, to the extent we ware able
te check thes out. We would venture the ress that, despite ;
his protestatiuns to the contrary, ANBIDDY<1 ie eulte conversane
with past history, but can see no practical gain in

 

 6@ telling us. He may reason that an avowsl of intent to marry” .
@ Wouen whose antecedents are in fact as described, would seriously

blemish his image and that. by pleading ignerance now he can, if
@ should get out of control, always strike a pese of injured
amaecense and elicit e “here but for the Grace of Ged ge. t° ree

, S8tion trom-hie PBPRIMK associates,

 

 

2. Agreesent thet all interested parties would. benefit: by:
; | abede from tha WAVE area to i
oa the basis of AMBIDDT«l's scceptance of our Flat etate>

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mint that wa. view Qs @ potential hasard te AMWORLDts and
RUGAR’2 security. Ye based this Teasening upon numerous: iadt=
Gatiens thet had become all but completely ptivy te...

that was geing en in AMWORLD and that her discretion

‘Moke @ great. deal. to be desired. We drew us dental fron AMBLDDTeL
, When etating that. Adelaide had becene witting-ef the WAVE: training

eoures fer AMBIDDY¥el and that she presumably knew
support. fer jo We referred to

 

 

 

 

Without etating that we cuspocted her of holding charter weabership

fa thee eerecity, Yc -suticusd by nana and
. eter was lsbelled by us a lesbian believed te be: im

seupluta exnfidenae, AMBIDDYo) evineed surprise and.

fee weasene difficult te tathen alavst dismay. We concluded by

 

 

 

 

 

7 etrese the impertance of bresking up ( eirele ef...
7 covestane end eonfidente ae an indispensanla. prerequisite. for

containing the threat her accoss.te inforaatiza we consider:
Glasaified represents and asked AMBILNT<1 te naka ause that ne
wenber ef this gscup would. fellew. her te[_ :

 

 

 

        
    
   
 
     
      
      
 
   
       
     
      
   
       
    
       
   
74-0000

 

       

   

a “SECRET a op

3. Al expressed a desire to mect with Mr. Archer
somtine after the August. operations,

wok JW evebe, 7
Re J, Hernandez
WH/ SA/ SO/HH :
File: J :
AMBIDDY-1 = 201 : .
* Conversations .
Oliva = 201

   
  

 

 
 

 

04-40163-10041

 

oe,

)

30 June 1964

_ MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

‘BUBJECT: Telefhone Conversation between AMBIDDY=2 and
Martin Ferrer

ama er ner rer acre EUABEN ES IRAE TE

           
    
 
       
      
     
  
           
    
   
    
   

DATE ; 30 June at 1100 hours.

_-. 2, Upon Erneido Oliva's request, AMBIDDY-1 went to
meet with him last night. At the meeting Oliva mentioned.
to A=] that ho (Oliva) was receiving the backing of. -KUBARK.
&nd the Pentagon and implied A-1 was-algo receiving aid,
Oliva stated that he has met with Alfredo Rodemeyer, the sane
‘Rodemeyer that both of them had met early last year... A-l
replied this waa all before the death of Kennedy ‘and he

. RG longer had contact with any of ODYOKE's officials.
Ascording to Oliva; Mr. Rodomeyer. spoke badly of some of the
personne] in A-1's organization, e.g., Antonio Iglesias. ._
Oliva mentioned that he had talked. with Thomas Mann-.
recently and expected to geu Mr, Mann within the coming week
to receive cupyort. for his conventional warfare program,

_  &=1 told Oliva he had no objection to the. conventional
“ warfare plan and that he would morally support Oliva in
. ‘Adberating Cuba, However; he would continue in his own: .
Little way.with his unconventional war, According to A-1,
. te nade it clear to Oliva that he was not receiving ODYORE
1) . . :

veers seme emenentene ntact ge

 
  

      
   
   
       

ae nore satasernatte gee bene uss 8

 

: a, Ani expects. to leave on 1 July for Costa Fica
tomorrow. He again mentioned that Adelaide will asea bx
leaving the United States, A-1 commented he docs. hot expect
to visit the United States as often as he has. done in the

“ peat. Awl asked that Enrique and Ur, Arctier clearly undere
Stand that he does intend to keep hia word concerning the —
_. Ghanges he has montioned to us at the last. two meotings,

nota Abave conversation canducied Ce OS
“WO prearenged trequenity cere Reetyted trom evtemeting
Ghenged privacy code : oo oer, po

  

 

    

SREY, tcapagenk aR EG. ae. BME?

 
74-0000

 

29 June 1966 —

ADSIORLD'S MEXTENG IN WEY ORLEANS, 24 Jun. 1964
SUBJECT: AMBIDDY=1's Image and Philosophy .

‘Such suspicions end inclined toward taking his proteste=

“Qhoms of Liberedion nd  Latecee Zaire wich 6 hreey ae erst
Galt... Qnse im powsr, he would treat the 1940 as a scrap of .

and run the country slong autoriterian lines. Flattered
Cyrais ingligd tocionien in ce Line of awscasoton, Ack only -
Poieed Gild diacent.

Considering: the exigeneies of euteneay -
"es muoh opportunity, let aloze leverage in chaping |
reuse thar’ Lagringpes-ay 42 we have convered. covbin ine.

 
74-0000

 

    

 

\ -
eo: .
. ‘
. . ?
Ta this contoxt, we mentioned aentizents expressed by AMBIDDY<1 ro
om Venezuela TY deprecating largescale revenge during the ree
Gems tructioa phase and voiced hope that he would de his share ta 4
eee these noble ideas put inte effet, ; :

   

 

a Weary D. Heckaber re

 
