 

 

.)

 

es la“

er)

Page 2 of 2 Pages

 §-E-C-B-E-T. KO FOREIGN DISSEY

3. Nelo's letter acknowledged receipt of a cable from
Badrigal; it then wont on to state that “Rogelio obtained
the viea" and. now “the Haitien can come whea Naose

 

 

 

(Pield Comment: Bogelio may be Regelio Pinto. 99
quoted Holo ag saying that Starke bad obtained a viga for
Jacques Horinglane, © Haitian who would bo the first of

the Eaaferrer group to arrive in Costa Bica.) Hslo then wrote
that because nothing had been heard from Madrigal since the
latter's visit to Costa Bica “the frieads kere” had begun to
believe that “overything hag been a pips dream of mine; that
we meither are going to do anything nor havo anything.” Belo
complained that Hadrigal's cilonce appsared to have “lossonod
the onthusiasm of this man of action and of rapid recolutions,
who does not like to be made to waste his tise.” Holo warned
Madrigal that if the Hasferrer greup had not reached a deci-
sion to move abead with the plan, it would be better for tho
Eaitian not to come to Costa Biea. Helo algo warned that if
there vore no Cubano participating in Basferrer's project, he,
Melo, would mot cupport it, since he vas interested only in
tho Cubana’ problems and not thoce of tho Haitians, Melo in-
formed Hadrigal that he expected to arrive in Hew York on 18
Pobruary; he suggested that they discuas the subject in detail
at that tine.

 

4. On 4.Barch Belo again left Gan Joss for Hiemi. Hoe
told the Costa Bican security officials that he would be avay
from Coste Bica for a sonath. -

5. Wield Diseen: State Aray CISCSO

° say ort w \ of
to rr A en pip cues
ee Oe

ay a i ‘
ke ande im we Ts ! '
i ‘ yet 4
\n valved iy j jot! an aq )
the Oye veel uo I: ;
Fa | a
Vicve Lica Ln (ray Vi
be i \ 4 )
‘ ‘ wes ! Mh 4s tiny
sot ’ ~ yo 4 a4
° /
cee ‘ . ~ ‘ Bay “renege.
‘ ioe,

 

      

{see HenMcae eRe RET

a

 

 
ANIA ANG a . ;
‘BO FOREIGN, DISSHH : nt Pace

THIDAS AN IMLORSA TIO
Tigas AN INS OEM ATS

 

of 2 PAGES

 
  

*
MERU) NUD DINAL LY EVACUATED INERT LGR AEE

ya ~

4 A-B-C-B-B-T REPORT NO.

pate oistR. 7 March 1968 x
country Costa Rica ;

bol @ February - 4 March 1969
Y NK ee am

SUBJECT heather, Weitten by i ernando Melo,! *
Indicating That Ne otiations

Gudwig Starke and Rolande..

Were Not Progress ing.

 

 

G:

    

n
agierrer

 

 

 

Aca (4 March 1968)

SOURCE

 

 

 

 

 

 

a 1. Q@Pielid Comacat: The followi rt should be read
in conjunction wi G-314/0 1096-68 4065) and
99), which reported that Pernando
Helo Fontanills, & Cuban oxile in Costa Bica, tao serving as
. , &n Intermediary in acgotiations between Ladvig Starke Jinonez,
- a Costa Bican right-wing oxtreaiot, and Bolando Kaaierrer, a
Cuban exile in tho United States who waa involved in plotting
against the government of Preaidont Bono Duvalicr of Haiti.
The negotiations dealt with a plon wasreby Starke vould pro~
vids @ staging areca for an invasion of Haiti by Haitian acd
Cuban exiles under Basferrer’s leadership. In returo Bas-~
ferrer, if successful, would gubssquenatly- support a move by
Btarke against the Costa Bican Government. Belo vas roported
to be planning a trip to Hew York on 21 February 1968 to talk
with Haaferrer and the latter's representative in the negotia-
tions, Father Diego Hadrigal Aivarez.) ~

2. When Helo returned to San Jose on 2 Barch after
<7 visiting New York City and Hicmi, Florida, he wag detained
i ‘ and soarched by security officials ot the airport. Among
Hg ake Helo’s posseaaions the security officials found a letter,
H signed by Holo, addreased to Fathor Diego Hadrigal, Bew York.
° fhe letter was dated 9 February 1968... It waa typewritten on
etterhead stationery of Rogelio B. Pinto Inpresos.
Conneaut: Melo selis printing equipment and
@ may gingss connection with the Pinto fire;
however, Rogelfo Pinto bas been reported in the past to have *.
hea. been involved in plotting against the Costa Rican Government.)
aa ee ceeenneennneren a i a aon ee ee

SPAS NST TS ARE SUR HINA ES  RS EAS tbe ETE TES

 

 

 

 

 

 

EGE

g~E-C-R-E-T WO FOREIGN DISSEM
DISTRIBUTION ~ a

 

 

 

 

SO eT a ae i a ere
oS
ae
.
s
Lt
w
io
1
‘

 

   
