13-00000

-5-

SMWMAVE/JHOCEAN. In summary it is meet unlikely that any
future good would result from a trial of Masferrer and/or
any of his ageeciates, and it ig highly prebable that there
would be created a climate which would mske JHMWAVE
operations—of all typea~-more difficult to carry cut in

& secure and economical munanner. This is not to say that
JUEAVE would have to go out of business. This was sot the
ease im the "Zenith" flap, nor is it likely to be the cage
with Masferrer. Hewever, there appears te be little doubt
that the threshold ef sensitivity ta Agency activities on
the part of the gemeral public end ef these persona whe,
from whatever ustives, question the advisability of the
Agenoy. “operating® within the U.S. would be raised.

lL. The question of using Cesar Dicsdado as a
preeecution witness presents additional problems. DBicsdadoe
has beea retained as the Custons officer at Key West at
the request of the Agency. The Agency reixburses Custoas
for Diosdado‘s salary. Because of hie encyclopedic knowledge
ef Cuha and the Florida Keys aren and because of his long
involvement in “operational activities” by the Agency, and
by ACSI on occasion, Diesdado is considered by many exiles-
~and some officialse-——as being “a Company (Agency) man." If
queationed under oath Dicadade presumably would have to
reveal details of bie agscciation with Agency, gations

: handling
refugees and eseapescs would count for Little in a court~
reem where the emotions of the Maeferrer fiasco would be
runing high,

12. A further problem could arise frou the fact that
Diosdads played a leading rele in the investigation of the
Hasferrer affair, including previeus ahortive attempts by
the Masferrer and Haitian exiles to launch operations from
Florida, and the fact that Dicsdade personally (acting in
his official capacity as Customs Agent resident at Key West)
led the raid agasinat the house at which the exiles vere

SECRET
13-00000

 

o?

SEGRET

arrested and the arma confiscated. The defense might weil
accuse Dieadads of having acted net only for the U.8.
Customa but alge on behalf of the Agency.

13. Im ad@ition to the foregoing points it should he
acted that bisterically the similarity of this eperation
and the “Bay ef Pigs" could reopen the whele question and
aha ponent tang Gnd pine sanelibenge amb rebemenee
The racial isaue also might arise because many the peracas

prosecution. A large percentage of the people undoubtedly
view Hasfterrer's activities ag efforts te rid the Vestern
BReniaphere of an abominable black dictator with the further
intentios ef using Haitian territery ac a base te reneve
another dictater neither of whem are friendly to, the 0.8.

§Signed) Jacob p. Esterling

soe aa . LBL)
DDP, COG new
3 February
Distribution.
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 + ADDP
1 ~ BDP Reg
i = 0Gc ;
} ~ C/WED
1 = WH/COG
1 = WH/COG/ESEC
1 = Masferrer 201

SECRET
13-00000

 

-2-

i. Pablo Horejon-Figueroa (member of
2806 (Brigade)

(3. Arturo Meyans-Alvarez

k. Manuel Jase Leon-Fernandez (sexber

iguex
a. Lote Alberte Olivera (nember of
2506 Brigade)
; 6._ Carles Lais Scte Borges (menber
ef 2506- Brigade)

5. It i@ believed that the trial of Kesferrer or
any of his colleagues could demage Agency intareats iz
ene or all of the follewing aectora:

a. Unfavorable pablicity concerning
Ageney operations agaiast the Cuban target,
uctably maritime infiltration operations
based in southern Florida.

b. fhe exposure of current Agency
(primarily JUWAYVE) agents, operational
facilities, covers and operations, notabiy
these im the maritime infiltration field.

c. The creation of a climate which
im the 1 run could lead te continuing
o Agency interests and which would

the Caribbean countries, sore difficult and
wore costly (by wirtue of the necessity of
ereating new or moxe complex cever mechanianus) .

6. The eppearance of certain individuals at the trial
eould lesd te the revelation of information concerning a wide
varlety of operational matters—using the term “eperationsi”
im ite broadest senge. Of the personnel listed in the 0GC
mesorandum of 3 February 1967 (QGC 67-0161) David Cabeza
was eeyloeyed by the y im agent status. Cabeza wag a .
key figure in the AMP, operation, at ene time an iagortant
SHHAVE operation. Cabesa'sa brethes ia currently cup loved | by
JHYAVE; fer gome time it bas been planned to terminate bin
-~@t an appropriate time. Cabeza ig in m position of being
able to reveal considerable information concerning certain

 
104-10310-10250

 

 

 

ss eee

Nd coy 2e¢epl
i sp-s 4
eH/c 67-54
AFER 1967
MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Plans
SUBJECT: MASFERRER Prosecution, Miami, Florida
REFERENCE: Office of General Counsel Hemorandam 67-018)

_-  @ated & February 1067

lL. This neserandan ig for your information.

2. In reepouse to paragraph 2 ef reference, Wi
Divyigion hee unde a review of cur Miagi Station and
Headquarters files to determine these perseous listed in

ph 4 and nll persons listed in the FBI report
attached to reference with whem there has been any
Agency asecciation.

3. Of the persons listed in paregraph < of reference
the following have hed some association with the Agency:
&. Father Diage Madrigal
G. Jalie Cesar Horrilla

‘Listed below are the persons cited im the FEI
report atteched te reference who have been associated with

the Agency. Of these, only two, Jesus Rodriguez and Arturo
Hayane—Al:

¢. dese Hamel Hacies, dr. (meaber of
2506 Brigade) .

4. Bemire Gonzales Infante (meuber of
2506 Brigade)

@. Ad@elfe Bartolome Jimenex Aquilea

2. Erte Arias (member of 2506 Brigada)

&. Alfvedeo Ruiz

bh. Bafeel Torres (member ef 2506 Brigade) _

SECRET |e

 
13-00000

ad

operational techniques and facilities employed by FRVAVE
in the past, ae well as the identity of a sumber of foracr
agentes of the JHWAVE Station. Although, by extrapolation
and. by exbroiderisg on iaformatien and rumors cireulatiag
in the Cuban exile community Cabeza probably could present
@ picture of JMBAVE activity which might appear exeiting
te the laymen, it seems unlikely that he has access to any
significant amount of inforwation concerning sensitive
current ectivities. While to the knowledgeable person,
within the Agency er within the federal commmity in Miemi,
Cabexe‘s information ig likely te be unispressive, there
seems to ho Little deubt that he could-~as be hae dome on
a number of eccesicas during the past two years--present
a picture of JEWAVE aetivity which might imtrigue the
public. It ie impassible te predict uhether Cabeza

goneral
would present the Agency im a unfavorable light or whether

he would choose te concentrate his criticiam against other
federal agencies.

%. A susber of the other persens listed in the
reference algo are in & position te make allegations
concerning varieus Agency activities, including JMWAVE
operations ia the msritize infiltration and

: aight appear
the general public, especially if spiced with tidbits of
securate information.

they could present a certain aucuat of information
paat practices ¢ personnel and facilities used by SMUAYE.

Probably the greatest danger te the Agency lies in
the pooutbiiite that the circle of tostizony might be expanded
by the defeuse threugh the gubpoensing of persone whe are not
en the list or wentionzed im the FRI repert but whe are known
te the listed personnel ag being currently expleyed by JEWAVE
or as having heen employed im the recent past. Given the
legal precedents establiched in other cases, it appears
13-00000

likely that these current eaployees (agents) of JHVAVE
would have to provide true and detailed answers in response
te questioning im court. Such testimony could cause major
@anege to the current operations, personnel and facilities
ef the JMBUAVE Statien. Although it appears that a number

the danger ta JHWAVE activities, notably but net

, cae lusively maritine infiltration operations, would be

official U.8. Gowernment agency, the Department eo: ef Juatice,
prosecuting huplese Cuban and Haitian exiles (Hegrees) fer
conducting activity of “the sane type" ag that conducted

by the Agency with the blessing of the 3.8. Governuent.

4n imaginative defesse counsel might even go se far ag to
aceuse the 0.8. Customs Service and the Agency of conspiring
te “step the competition” by the exiles with the activities
eonducted by the Agency.

16, JWWAVE believes that there is no question that the
trial af the Nasferrer group would bring te the serface—~in

tions ugginst Cuba from bases in the U.S. le the
public im general is highly arupathetic towards the
Agency with reapect te ita activities the Castre
regime, there are a emali number of weeal persons who

@ax aduiniatered
te charges of Sgeucy “corruption of academic inatitautions.”
fhe fact that the University of Eieni leaderanip would, as
the past, cooperate closely with JHWAVE and the

@ aot evese the publicity, and conceivably could
lead to enough pressure on the Untveraity that i¢ indeed would
be forced te re-examine its relationship te the U.8. Gevyernsent
concerning the South Campus area, or ite relatienship to

SECRET
