74-0000

 

: in communication with his arrested friends Since 28 February 1966,
“he said “No, but I amagine that they must be profoundedly. analyzing

 

 

That QUHOPS-1 and

 

 

-<] (AMLASH-3) évident - for while

 

“sure Rolando couldnever' really do Something like that". And “that

he appeared at other times determined and at others very indecisive

Cubela has been reported by several sources to have been drugged.
The clear, precise, careful, educated Statements he made throughout

the trial do not bear this comment out to any degree. A handwriting
analysis done by Mrs. Hall of TSD in April 1965 bears out many of the

underlying subtleties he showed in the trial. To quote a few: "He
is a cool and calculating observer who relates the smallest details

to their larger aspects",....Most people in his environment may not
even be aware of his astuteness and vigilance, as he may intentionally
convey the impression of being preoccupied with his own thoughts.'"..,

they revealed minor facts about the Madrid meetings with Artime which
could only have been of their own knowledge, both Managed to. mention

Basically rather impressionable, he makes strong efforts at concentrating

on what he is doing, shutting out all possible distractions and
diversions" ......"He possesses great facility in expressing himself

in word and script. He has some skill.in adjusting his style to that
of the people he is talking to. While he can be rather eloquent, he
is not likely to divulge anything which should be kept secret"... ."He

 

am
 

[0g 10408-10185

 

14 April 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

' SUBJECT: The CUBELA Trial

Briefly, Rolando Cubela ‘Secades has been in personal contact with
staffers of. this agency -in 1961, .1962, 1963, 1964 and, for the last
time, in February 1965 shortly prior to his return to Cuba.

The Record of Cubela's long conversation with Manuel Artime Buesa
on 30 December 1964 {reported by Artime via Nestor Sanchez in the

_ attached Memo dated 3 January 1956) clearly indicates the extent

of Cubela's probings and high-level military contacts and his
attempts to form an internal group’ which would work together to form
a non-Communist government in. Cuba in the event of Fidel Castro's
demise. .

During the reported conversation of the trial, there is no indication
whatsoever that Cubela revealed anything more than his "weakness,
playboy attitude"et cetera in plotting with a man like Artime to

‘assassinate Castro. Under private interrogation to date there is no

known possibility that Cubela has revealed the names of the real ~-

‘military leaders with whom he really was in contact and with whom

he discussed the overthrow of Castro, because none of these major
individuals, whose names are known to us, have been arrested or
detained. Ameijeiras, of course, does fall in this category. However
. he, like Juan Nuiry Sanchez and Victor Bordon Machado who are
reportedly arrested, falls in the category of known personal friends
of Cubela. The other military leaders whom Cubela contacted who
have not been arrested are apparently not known to be personal or
close friends or acquaintances of Cubela. Among the latter are Vice
Minister of the Armed Forces and Chief of the General Staff Cmdte.
Belarmino Castilla Mas and the former chief, Cmdte. Dr. Sergio del
Valle Jimenez, who is stiii a Vice Minister or the FAR and a member

-of the Political Bureau of the CCCP; a third member of this group

“Was. Cmdte. Guillermo Garcia Frias, former Chief’ of the Army of the

West but currently a member of the Political Bureau of the CCCP.

___ Garcia Frias has been almost constantly with Fidel Castro, even on’
—travels iiixrougnout the island, and for this reason was replaced as
"Commanding Officer of the Army of the West in the past few months.

 

maine

“Several careful readings. of the entire proceedings of “the “trial
appear to indicate that as soon as Cubela learned the extent of the
regime's knowledge of the plot to assassinate the Premier he adopted
an an immediate line of defense his own "weakness, emotional in-
stability, deterioration, liking for gay parties, the 'dolce vita'

‘life et cetera, as the common denominator to make himself and the

few friends known to be involved'through the betrayal by AMHAM-1
as the sole “responsibles" for the plot. _ When asked had he been.
