13-00000

Air Force intelligence services iu connection with background and
* knowledge of espionage and sabotage organizations, even though the
military, Naval, acd Air Force intelligence services may have no

apparent direct investigative interest. .

-"(g) Should differences ef opinion ef a miner nature cccur, the
directers of the four intelligence agencies feel that with proper
personal lisison, such differences cas be satisfactorily adjusted ©
lecally by the officials in charge of the various divisional orgaai-

zations.“

(2) Instructions
This supplement recommends meetings at least twice monthly of
the interested agencies. Where desirable or necessary, these
meetings may be held more often than twice per month and in
certain areas, because of the travel distances duvolved or other

* gactors, meetings are being held ence per month by special
agreement. It is not necessary that the Bureau be advised of
the business discussed at these meetings, ualeas there is a
particular matter of which the Bureau should be cognizant. The
Bureau should be promptly informed of any change in the schedul—
ing of these noetings or of any agreement to comaence or dis~
eontinue meetizcgs in a field office area.

Supplemental Agreenent No. II to the Delimitations Agreement: (Rescinded.]

Supplemental Agreenent No. III to the Delimitations Agreement:

“INVESTIGATIVE JURISDICTION ON VESSELS :
GF MILITARY SEA TRANSPORTATION SERVICE . Teo .

"2, the iavestigative Jurisdiction of all sctivities under the
categories of espionage, counterespiouage, subversion and sabctage
on vessels of the Military Sea Transportation Service is as follows:

*a, Tavestigative. jurisdiction on vessels purchased by the ‘ :
Wavy will be the responsibility of the Office of Baval Intelli~
gence. . meat =

py, Vessels obtained by the Navy through a ‘bare boat charter’ -

will be under the investigative jurisdictions ef the Office og”
Haval Tatelligeace.

"oe, Vessels allocated to the Military Sea franspertatien Service
which are tatued and supervised by their private owners are under
the investigative jurisdiction of the FBI, .

#

290 Ey

 

oe ERAN PIER

tem meeps a eae oo Pe

datousnanptarasat tit swastanstt eho nara aie oth) Py PR IE © are AOS eT

Coe HR wee topes Gere *

eee
a |
13-00000

ae

"2, When perseanel whe are subjects of as investigation under a or b
abeve reach a U. 5S. port or a port where the FRI bas a field agency,
er priér to Feaching such port, if practicable, the Department ef the
Bavy will promptly furnish the FBI all pertinent informstion concerning
ry atiod. “Ir perscunel who are subjects of an investigation
as above remeve themselves from the vessel upon arrival ef the vessel
in pent aed further surveillance is considered necessary, the Navy will
continue surveillance until notified by the FBI at local level that the
FEI has taken over full responsibility for the case. Hodwever, both the
Bavy oné FSI will make every effert te transfer responsibility upes -
arrival of the veasel at the port. . .

®3, When the JBI opens aa investigation under ¢ above or when an F3I
duvestigation in progress develeps or is believed about to develop
ramifications under a, 6b, or c above, the FAI will promptly fursish
all pertisent informatica to the Navy and will thereafter coordinate
dts actions with the Havy whenever and wherever deemed necessary to
Ausare praper pursuit of the case,*-—

Supplemental Agreement we. [IV]to the Delimitations Agreement:
" INVESTIUATION OF PRIVATE CONTRACTORS OF THE ARMED FORCES
"Zt 4s agreed by the subscribers of the Delimitatioas Agreensst

hereinafter referred to as subscribers) that. with reference
aveatigations of olvilian employees, applicants fer empleyment, -

. @irectors and key personnel of privately owned plants an¢é facilities,

working or bidding on centracts important to the Army, Navy, or Air
Foros (hereinafter referred to as the Armed Forces} precureseut, the
following will be followed iasefar as practicable. Exceptions therets
will be adjusted by mutual ajrcement between the subscribers concerned.

®la) ‘The Araed Forces will conduct background investigations_ef such .-

eysoai unless there is @ particulér reason for requesting that aa
gation be conducted by the FBI or the FHI has a special interest”

4m ge particular case and has notified the Armed Forces of such interest.

®(b) The FBI will conduot complaint investigation ef such personnel
upon specific request in €ach case by one 6# more of the Armed Forces,
Ig one of the Armed Forces kas no further need for an investigation
Fequested, but not completed, prompt notification will be made to the

Fat.

 

" 8(o) Investigations conducted by the Armed Forces under (2) above

 
  

will be terminated asd all isfermation passed t he FBI when credible
derogatory information of a loyalty natire is Uncéyvered. Upon receipt
BY Tiers case; the FHE*wsll proceed as under {b) above if ene of the

Armed Forces so requests.

“(a) When one of the subscribers is aware that ancther is conducting
an investigation on a person’or firm (dentieal or closely connected
WXtH"@ person or firm it contemplates investigating, no investigation
will be undertakes without the consent of the subscriter which has aa
arestigation in progress. the investigatios agency will make available
LT) Othe. ‘<erested agency copies of the reperts of the investiga=-

tion made, .
®(e) Normally, identity of confideatial informants will not be con~

municated from one subscriber t¢ saothur3; however, when ouch communtca-
“4tGn Geéurs;-the receiving subscriber will empley the higheat possible
safeguards to insure that such informants are uct compromised. so.
transmittal of information concerning coufidential isformsats te a third.

_-wubseriber or €@ another a,ency is authorized except by specific con=
Bet BCY 23 Buss ee §

he Originator.

as oo.

 
13-00000

™ AY -

‘ a
i at 2. Supplemental Agreements to the Delimitations Agreement . * .
‘ T On 6—2-49, five supplemental agreements to the Delimitations Agreement j
at - were approved by the members of the Interdepartmental Intelligence Con-
1 2 4 ference, snd they are set out below. Instructions, where necessary, con~ i
+ . eerning each of the supplements will be found at the ead of that supplie=- .
: wonts :
? ig &, Supplemental Agreement No. [I]t the Delimitations Agreements
: 4 . . i oad . . t
2 a . “COOPERATION AND COORDINATION BETWEEN
a . TRE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION ,
7 THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION OF THE ARNY i

° fHE OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE AND
, @RE OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS, INSPECTOR GENERAL, U. S. AIR FORCE

¢ : *fhe Dirastor of Intelligence, U. S. drmy, the Birecter of the
* Yederal Bureau of Iavestigation, the Directer of Naval Iatelligence
- and the Director of the Office of Special Investigations, Inspector
: General, U. 3. Air Force, with = view to prometing the ciosest
possible cooperation and ecerdination between the Field Services of
these agesoies agree that the fellowiag recemmendations will be trans= .
mitted to their field inatallations: : .

 

ome OTERO So o0*

®(a) Special Agents in Charge of the Federal Bureau cf Investigation

.. Divisional Offices, Militery Intelligence Officers of the pertinent
Avmies, District Officers of the Office of Special Iavestigations,
Inapeotor General, U, $, dir Force, and Maval District Iatelligence
Officers wild maintain close personal Jisisea between these offices
and their representatives, IncTudiag a meeting of representatives of
the four agencies, preferably the offfcers ia charge, at leas< twice,
5éF mouth; for the purpose of discussing peading and contemplated

. Favartigative activities, and any other subject necessary to insure

. _ . that there is proper coordination of their investigative work..

   

 

iJ . ®(b) The close personal liaison to be maintained between represent—

bd 7 - atives ef the feur sgenoies at ali times shouid insure that there is.
paduplication_of effort in any field, and that a proper coverage of
the whole davestigative field is maintained, Particular attestion
should be paid to avoiding any duplication in connection with the use

.- . ef informers. nnn . : .

®(e) A distinctiow should be recognized between the investigative
duterest of individual agencies and the coverage interest, It is
° _ beldeved that ali four sgeacies should study, from time to tine, the
coverage of the investigative field in order te insure that sil
chansels of interest and avenues of information are adequately
eovered by at least cone of the participating sgencies. .
€

: ®(a) Where there ig doubt as to whether or not one of the other
* : ageveies is interested in information collected, it should be. trans~
: . mitted to the other agency. - .

. ®*(e) Consideration should be given to the fact that certain classes
of information are of general interest to the Military, Yaval, and

. . . .

ee SEAR HAE PALE NOG TD OS t AEN GENE Att NE Heeb ome. we oe

 

. oo .
. .
e
'
. !
.
Land .
w
. . .
e
.
.
‘
[amominasa aaanaranpongpepesneanpaaneearecmuausumnduepgasusasacmmereqasnenthadsishetohissndeiamantnbdpcasicccdidemnibtialsird hhh Lio coe

e
SOF EEEUPETEONTEND eeeeremrrere, Sem 16 1+
13-00000

®aPPENDIX B a

PERIODS OF PREDOMINANT MILITARY . 5
IRIEKESTS, NOT INVOLVING MARTIAL 149

8. In time of war certain areas vill come into prominence as potential
theaters of operation. “hen an arued forces cauwzander of such a potential .
theater is designated, he definitely has interest in, thoush not control'of, © -
‘the civilion life within the area. in order that the armed forces cammander . —".
may prepare hinselZ for the discharge of the possible responsibility which —. . E

amare

 

0 Boccect
,

aT ART

    

may affix to hia, the following prosedare is agreed upon:

. @], Agents of the FEI; of ONT; D, Aray; and the OSI, Ic, U.S. Air
Force will contime to functicn i accordance with the Provisions of Sections .-
XZ, Xt, Iv, and v. a.

. : ®2, In addition thereto, the asmed forces commander cay teke steps oo, it
. %@ analyze the facilities existing and te explore the zanner in whick cone .
- Bete coverage will ba chtained if martial law is declared. Adequate liaison
a with the other subseribing agencies will insure that the armed forces commander
. WELL have the benefit of the experience, judgnent and knowledge of the repre- ,
sentatives of the other agencies. .

from eecerss

Seat, pruned Mgt cry eek wig entree ama Pe pareR

83, The arned forces cozrander ia authorized to request and réceive .
such inforzation from the other three agencies as ke may desire and they may . p
be able to furnish.

cory

®I~T. The analysis and exploration referred to above will show tke coverage
furnished by each of the subscribing agencies and any additicnal coverags each
“subseribing agency can undertake. “hen the commander feels that more complete ~
. eoverage is required, 1% 1s recegnized that he 1s authorized to aument the
 % coverage with such elesents of the subseribing agencies as are uncer his

. . Jurisdiction. Frior to any invasion of the spheres normally coning ctnder
sO «the cognizance of the others subscribing agencies, the armed forces ccumander

s should obtain the necessary authority froa the Secretary of Defense.

®III. : Irrespective of the fact that the preceding recomendations have
. Placed the initiative in the hands of the armed forces commander, whenever

 

 

. . any of the other services feel that such a survey to detemmine adequacy of
a : coverage should be undertaken, it should be so recomended.® :
ea
(2) Instructions ;
° : : The major differences between the foregoing Delinitations Agreement
- .* and previous versions are as follows:
es .
' ° The Director, OSI, USAF, is a party thereto. . ®
.: The Bureau baa jurisdiction over Git etvittans tne insofar as_es) ptonage,,
; eounterespionace, Sobeersioe Bia sabotage are re acered, “Fegardless of en=
7 ployment. ; a

 
13-00000

=¥, The Office of Special Investigations, Inspector General, Uv. Ss.
Air Force will be responsible for: . . .

° Y 7 2, The investigstion and disposal of all casea in these categories
: . 4nvolving active aud retired military persennel ef the Air Force.

cm

q

a
*
‘
ve

. a °2, The disposal, but sot investigation, of all cases in these
. categories involving civilian employees of tke Air Force in the
nn } United States, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islaads.

3, The investigation and. disposal of all eases is these categsrias
duvolving civilian sdpleoyees of the Air Force stationed in areas other

t than the United States, Puerto Rice, and the Virgin Islands; except ° }
-* that part of such investigations as have ramifications in the .

¢ . United States, Puerte Rice, or the Virgin Islands. :
f

®4, The investigation of all cases in these categories involving
eivilians and foreign nationals who area net empleyees of the other
- subscribing organizations, in areas where the Air Force Commander
. has supreme jurisdictica over the armed forces stationed therein,
4 : + Anmcluding possessions of the United States other thaa Puerto Rico .
and the Virgin Islands. The investigation of the same cases
deseribed above in that portion of Alaska deseribed in Section 5,
below, with the exceptica of civilian employees of the Executive . °
Branoh of the soverameste | ; : ,

etancheg soe ese 2 os «Hl. alenream

taeseroy) forennbeeepeenmenacar pend?
REAR See CIPO oF CRETE CS SES TERND SUPRA eT Obed
‘ OURAN TS SNES 8
. tc .
wee

3, The investigation of al] cases in these categories involving we

oivilians, except as described hereizabove, (1) is that part of the .

Aleska Peninsula whioh is separated by & line drawa from Ilianaz

Bay northwest to the town of O14 Ilianas and thence following the

south shore of Lake Ikiamnsa te the Evichak River te the Evicksk

Bay; (2) in the islands adjacent te the Alaske Peninsula excluding .

Kodiak and Afogaak Islaads which sre the responsibility of the

. Office of Waval Intelligeace; (3) in the Aleutian Islands excludiag -}
. Adak Island which is the responsibility of the Office of Naval

. . Intelligence; aad (4) in the Pribilof Islaads.* ° ° .

6, Informing the other subscribing organizstiezs ef asy impertast
. . developments. 7 -

, : 87, Advising the Federal Bureau of Investigation ef the identity
. and location of the plants engaged in dir Force contracts.

Paweores ap cemneERny:

1 CaN CERR ite o sSepmRES EE oA

 
   

 

. i * «SWE, 1, Where Sections IIIT, IV, and V involve general territorial
° . eoverage, responsibility for suck coverage will pass from one
@lement of the armed forces te another automatically when a change
ef command responsibility ensues, This previsien is subject to
modification by direct agreement between the interested elements

; . ef the armed forces.
° mo ®2, While investigative jurisdiction over tke civilian populace in
2 0 former enemy territories occupied by the armed forces has been

provided for in Sections IlZ, IV, and V above, these provisions are
. subject to direct adjustment with the Department of State if and
whee that Department .

Cer ee CL a CN NY A ALAN ney REGED

{ ("original paragraph ohanged, See IIC Working Committees Minutes of
September 15, 1954, and June ey 1955.] an

20,

   

 
13-00000

. H aasumes govermentdl direction in such areas of occupation.

a fVII. From time te time it may be desirable in the light of changing
conditions to modify or amend this Delimitations Agreement. Subject to
the exceptions already provided for above, general amendments or modi—
fications involving all. of the four subscribing organizations shall be

. * Zssyped in the form of a revised Delinitations Agreement and not as sep
arate instructions. : :

®VXIT. During periods of martial law, or periods of predominant armed’
forces interest no$ involving aarvial law, when agreed upon by the sub— -
scribing agencies, the provisions of 4 ppandix A or * Be hereto attabhed,

. will additionally apply. : a
sly, All agreezents of a continuing nature and applicable to two or more
of the subscribing agencies to the Delimitacions Agreenent which affect
the basic jurisdiction thersof which are now or hereafter mutually entered
into by any of the sutseribers thereto will ba reduced to writing; will
thereafter beceze surplezents to the Delinitations Agreement, and dis=
tributed only toe the extent agreed upon by the co-signers.

SAPPENDIX A le
x . FaRTOD OF MARTIAL ur
ote SI, It is further agreed that when a sta: eof martial law hag been don
. elared by the Prastdent ts the arred forces. ‘goamander will assis. respon= -
. sibilities for ceveraze in these casegorics. His authority te direct .
. | @Fid-eontrol the suzseribing agencies of the armed forces will be limited
only by such instrussicas ag ha may receive fran the Secretary of Defense.
‘, : He will have authority td coordinate the intelligence activities of the
subscribing agensies in his arsa of responsibility, within the limits of
their available persomnel and facilities, by the assignnent of missions.
the designation of objectives, and the exercize of such coordinating control
as he deems necessary. He is not authorized to control the administration,
or discipline of the subscribing” ‘agencies in “the area of his responsibility,
: cos hor €6 issue” instrustions” to thom beyond those necessary for the purposes
- . stated above. °. :

° Lacy Personnel of the subscribing agencies in the area of responsibility
ef the arzed forces commander will still send reports to and be under the
eontinued supervision of sheir respective headquarters. They will render
euch aid and assistance to tha armed forces ccamander and his designated
representatives ss are possible and practicable. Thay will furnish all
pertinent inforzation, data, and other material that are or may be necessary

. or desirable to the arzed forces cosmander by the most expeditious means
* and mothods possible censistent witn requisite security. Each head=
. quarters of the subscribing agencies will promptly be advised by its pazen~
Pp eles of all infcrcasicn sand data appropriately identified aa having been
: furnished to the arned forces comumandey.

n°

 
13-00000

~ 8,
4
He, .
af ae - +. *

 

see cis seme ween ge oe

Bo AGREIMENTS ;

7} -1. Delimitations Agreement .
The fellowing agreement was approved and sigaed on 2-23-49 by the .
Directors of the Federal Bureau ef Investigation; Int-lligence Divisiea
of the Army; Office of Special Investigations’, Air Forces and the .

. Chief of Baval Intelligence: . 4 . toy

"Subjects: Delimitation of Investigative Duties of the Federal

- Bureau of Investigation, the Office of aval Intell=-
Agence, the Intelligence Divisiea of the Army, and .
the Office ef Special Investigations, Inspector
General, U, 5, Air Force.

e Agreement yer Coordination of the sedera. ere ay
. ef Investigation, Office of Naval Intelligence, In- . .
- : telligence Division of the Army, and the Office of

Special Investigations, Inspector General, U. S$, Air

Fores.

      

*X, The undersigned have reviewed the directive contained in the Presi=
Gent*’s Memorandum of June 26, 1939, as augmented by his Directive of
September 6, 1939, the Delimitations Agreement of Februsry 9, 1942, and
the Presidential Directive of October 30, 1947, In addition, cognizance
_ bas been teken of the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1946, and
the specific application of that Act is set forth in Section II hereef.
All other provisions of this Agreement are apart from and have no relation
to the stated requirements of the Atomic Energy Act. In view of the °
‘above, it is now agreed that responsibility for the investigation of all . Lele prs
° activities coming under the categories of espionage, counterespions fo» These ogee .
eubversion and sabotage (hereinafter referred to as ‘these categories} De frsecl

will be delinited si Lndicated hereinafter, The responsibility assumed e : |
t
t
t
i

 

+ Ob seen

by one organization in a given field carries with it the obligation to
exchange freely and directly with the other ‘subscribing organizations
ell information of mutual interest. When the orgasization with primary
. operating responsibility is unsble for any reason to produce material :
in that field desired by the subscribing agencies, such special arrange- : .
ments as may be legal or desirable will be worked cut through negotia— , .
tion at the national level prior to activity by one agency in another 7
agency's field. It is recognized by the subscribers hereto that the .
Readquarters Department of the 4rmy has deceatralizea such functions ooo
to ita major subordinate commanders, When the major subordinate com : VF ae te
* manders of the Department of the Army cannot effect satisfactory . :
special arrangements, the matter will be referred to the Director of op |
Intelligence of the Army fer further segotiations at the national leval. ig t
{j

 

Clese cooperation aod coordination between the four subscribing organiza—
tions 4a a mutually recognized necessity. .

 
 

o4-4s0-10tt4

B
*
.

Lf,

&

é

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS. STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUNBER/VOLUNE: DEL/MITATIOUS =

 

 

 

INCLUSIVE DATES:

 

 

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

_ ROOM:

 

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

 

 

 

RECEIVED : RETURNED REVIEWED BY ‘(PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIs
Se i ee. 16 BETS bitin NOd, |

ie

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

Qo
13-00000

 

 

. _, *2E. FRI will be responsible fors

 

- > °"®2, All dnvestigations of cases in these categories involving
{ 7 o oirilises aod foreign nationals of all classes in the continental
° j . nite tates, Puerte Rice, the Virgin Islands,(the State of
tf . -Hawaidie*,jJand the State of Alaska except as specifically deso: {bed
- | herefasfter in Paragraph V, Section 5, .

   
  

wn.

ere: ®2, .AlL duvestigations of violations of the Atomic Energy Act of
. . 1946, There are no territorial or personnel limitations on this

- ” provisions

. *3, The coordination of the investigative activities of civilian

t . agenoies in the Usited States, Puerte Rice, the Virgin Islands,

. and the State ef Alaska except a3 specifically described hereinafter
. 4m Paragraph V, Seétion 5, which provide information regarding
. . ¢ gubversive movements and activities in these categories,

1 wpe maa: Ge ees

: *4,: Keeping the other subscribing organizations advised ef important
- soe developments ia these categories withia its cogaizance, partioularays

a, Activities of inactive rescsves of the armed services .
Anoluding the Nationsl Guard, . . ee

 

 

. ®"p, Developments affecting plants engageé in armed forces
“7 "  gontracts. an - o-
®9, Developnests concerning the strength, compositiex, and

futentions of civilian groups within its ecegnizance which © :
are classed as subversive and whose activities are a pe= +

” @emtisl danger te the security of the United States. oS
. - 88, Developments affecting those vital facilities and vital
es wtilities which have been designated by the Secretary ef
. ° Befense. . . -
. Do ®e. Developaents affecting critical peiats of transperta~
.t 8 ¢ion and communications systems which have been designated
by the Seoretary ef Defense. +. .
+: 2. + -"(por b, d, and e above ag protective coverage is contemplated.)
. * st * - . : eo! .
. . wo XT, AD, Army will ve responsible for: . : . .*
° . one ° .

 

®3, The Snvestigation ‘aad disposal ef .a12 cases. ia ‘these gategorias
Anvolving active and retired military personnel of the Army,

 

®2, The disposal, but not investigation, of all casea in these
eategorias involving civilian euployees of the drny in the United

t States, Puerte Rice, and the Virgin Islands.
. ®3, The investigation and @isposai of all cases in these categories
ve .- _ * devolving civilians employees of the Army statiosed in areas other
¢ than the United States, Puerto Rice, and the Virgin Islands, .

®epditerial revision of this Agreement to reflect the statehood ef
Alaska was approved by the IIC on January 7, 1959. 7

. t ("e*Revision to reflect the statehood of Hawaii was approved by the
t XIC on September 9, 1959.) .

we.

 
13-00000

except that part of such investigations as bave ramifications

in the United States, Puerte Aico, or the Virgin Islands.

®4, The investigation of ell cases
@iviliaas and fereiga nationals who
subscribing organizatioas, in areas
guprene jurisdiction over the armed
including possessions of the Usited
and the Virgis Islands.

in these categories invelving
are not employees of the other
where the Army Commander 2+.
forces stationed therein,
States ether than Puerte Rice

"3, Informing ‘the other subscribing erganizations ef any impertazt

developments.

"6, Advising the Federal Buresu ef Investigation of the identity and
lecation of the plants engaged in Army contracts. :

°IV. ONE will be yeaponsible for:

vt

®1, The investigation and disposal

ef all cases in these categor: es

dinvolving active and retired naval personnel of the Havy..

*2, The disposal, but not investigation, of a1) cases in these
ostegeries involving civilian empleyewes of the Navy in the United

States, Puerto Rice, aad the Virgia Islands.

®3, The investigation and dispesal
duvelvisg civilian employees of the

of all cases in these categories
Navy stationed in areas other

than the United States, Puerto Rico, amd the Virgia Islands,

%g, The investigation of ail cases
eivilians and foreign aatieasls whe
subscribing organizations, in areas
supreme jurisdiction over the araed
inoluding possessions of the United

' except that part of such investigations as have ‘ramifications
in the United States, Fuerte Aico, er the Virgina Isinnis.

  

in these categories isvolvizg
are not empleyees of the other
where the Navy Commander has
forces stationed therein, -
States other than Puerto Rise

and the Virgin Islands, sad{ia]the State of Alaska except as

desorited ia Section 5, below.

®8, The investigation ef all cases
oivilfians and foreign nationals whe
other subscribing organizations and

iu these categories lavelving
are not employees of the

‘with the exception of civiliaa

employees of the Executive Branch of the Government on Kodiak and
Afognak Islands adjacent te the Alaska Peninsula aad Adak Island

in the Aleutian Chain.® :

developments. .

. =6, Informing the other subscribing organizations ef any important

‘ .
*7, Advising the Federal Bureav of Investigation of the identity
and location of the plants engaged in Navy contracts. .

 

{ ("etnis paragraph added, See IIC Working Committee Minutes ef
{ _ September 15, 1954, and June 6, 1955.)

 

ae

 
