 

 

oe CONF IDERTIAL

(When Filled In)

6. I understand that for all grievances and complaints there are estab-
lished procedures within the Agency permitting appeal by any employee of
the Agency and to carry any such grievance or complaint outside the Agency
will be considered a violation of the undertaking set forth above in
paragraph 3. If the appeal procedures are inadequate in any situation,

I am aware that the Inspector General is at all times available to any
employee with a legitimate criticism, grievance, or complaint.

7. I further understand ‘and agree that my employment by the Central In-
telligence Agency is conditioned upon my understanding of and strict
compliance with CIA Security Regulations, and the appendices thereto.

8. Inasmuch as employment by the Government is a privilege not a right,
in consideration of my employment by CIA I undertake not to publish or
participate in the publication of any information or material relating to
the Agency, its activities or intelligence activities generally, either
during or after the term of my employment by the Agency without specific
prior approval by the Agency.

9. I agree that all information or intelligence acquired by me in con-
nection with my official duties with the Central Intelligence Agency
remains the property of the United States of America, and I will sur-
render, upon demand by an appropriate official of the Agency or upon
separation from the Agency, any material relating to such information
and intelligence in my possession.

. lo. I take the obligations set forth above freely, without any mental
reservations or purpose of evasion.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have set my Hafid and seal this 20 aay~or
FES. , 1956

Bode D. Tata calf —_(se01)

Witness:

 

 

 

CONFIDENTIAL
 

 

1044013010284

- ¢ . ow

CONF LENT AL LO9YEE)

SECRECY AGREEMENT

1. 1, Boris Dimitra: TArasoFe , understand that upon enter-

ing on duty with the Central Intelligence Agency I am undertaking a posi-
tion of trust in that Agency of the Government responsible to the Presi-
dent and the National Security Council for intelligence relating to the
security of the United States of America. I understand that in the
course of my employment I will acquire information about the Agency and
its activities and about intelligence acquired or produced by the Agency.

2. I have read and understand the provisions of the Espionage Act, Title
18, USC, secs. 793 and 794, and I am aware that unauthorized disclosure
of classified information relating to the national’ defense may subject
me to prosecution for violation of that Act, whether such disclosure be
made while I am an employee of the Central Intelligence Agency or at any
time thereafter.

3. In addition, however, as I am undertaking a position of trust, I have

a responsibility to the Central Intelligence Agency not to disclose any
classified information relating to the Agency without proper authoriza-
tion. I undertake, therefore, not to discuss with or disclose to any
person not authorized to hear it such information relating to the Central
Intelligence Agency, its activities, or to intelligence material under
the control of the Agency. I further understand that this undertaking

is 4 condition of my employment with the Central Intelligence Agency, that

_ its violation may subject me to immediate dismissal for cause or other

appropriate disciplinary action, and that this undertaking shall be equally
binding upon me after my employment with the Agency as during it.

4, I understand that the burden is upon me to ascertain whether or not
information is.classified and if.so,.who is authorized to. receive it,
and, therefore, I will obtain the decision of authorized officials of
the Agency on these points prior to disclosing information relating to
the Agency, and failure to obtain such a decision will be grounds for my
dismissal. . .

5. I understand that my unauthorized action or utterance in the nature

of a publication or which would reasonably be expected to result in pub-
licity on intelligence or intelligence activities would be in violation

of Government and Agency regulations and would be grounds for my dismissal.

** QETURN TO CIA
@ackground Use Only
(o Not Reproduce

CONFIDENTIAL

FORM NO.
P DITIONS
1 DEC 55 368 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS E!
