74-00000

 

a merger with their attacks on the government policy in Vietnam and, even to

a lesser degree, into attacks on government policy in the Dominican Republic.

 

 

predicted that more and more of this will appear as the. summer

 

 

goes along. He stated that among the most important leaders of the movement,
he felt that only Allan MORRISON had a thorough understanding of the problem,
that FARMER in a vague way understood the problem, but was not acute enough
to clearly understand it and combat it. He said WILKINS and Whitney YOUNG
probably understood this matter, but they are too busy attempting to create
a good image of themselves in the public eye to be willing to get down and
fight this penetration in an all out manner. :

20. stated that he would be continuously itouch with
either Chie? SRS or the writer as he obtained information of interest.

‘

 

 

 

 

Gre mney
she ba hab loa 4
Ey iad) Call

— SECRET,

-9-
 

 

 

of CORE, have been doing anything when they should have been strongiy
active. | states that it is his opinion that this is due to the
movement being held in check by Peking line Communists who are demonstrating
and consolidating their strength. He stated further that the "deacons" are
nothing more than small ad hoc groups which the Peking line Communists have
set up as needed and are, in fact, riding on the back of CORE. |

stated that they are not CORE groups, but are activist Negro advocates of
violence and who are working to disrupt and smear CORE and its leadership.
They are constantly working to convert CORE from a non-violent group into an
action group which would, of course, put CORE in the Peking line.

 

 

 

 

 

17. The writer asked! if there was any indi€ation that he
knew. of thqt-.would show.that. the Negro leaders-~YOUNGY iS, F .
RANDOLPH or MORRISON--were going to expose KING. statéd that
there is no such information, that none of them wanted to be responsible for
the exposure, nor could they agree among themselves to do it as a group.
MORRISON, himself, according td would like to expose the situation,
but he could not do this alone and unsupported. stated again,
as he had many times previously, that unless this exposure comes from the
Negro leaders themselves, the attacks on KING will be useless and will end
up only making him perhaps a martyr and would set back the Negro Civil Rights
Movenent for years.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18. Toward the end of the conversation, pointed out that
any examination of the Civil. Rights Movement, at the present time, would show
a clear and concise picture of Communist penetration and activities, namely,
from the Peking line Communists.. | said it is well to note that
the war in Vietnam has now been linked to the Civil Rights Movement and,
gradually, the two unrelated areas are being blended together in an all out
Communist Party line attack on U.S. policy. stated that this has
spread confusion into the Negro Civil Rights Movement and has duped many of
the leaders of the movement and caused them to make utterances which are
stupid and certainly unpatriotic. referred to the activities and
statements of A. Phillip RANDOLPH in behalf of the "Refusel to Fight" move-
ment.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

19. [_____] further said that the aims of the Communists were
clear in that they wanted to link the Negro leadership and the Negro mass
Civil Rights Movement into a position of anti-government action, and that
the Peking line would be away from the Moscow “peaceful coexistence line" ,
and would be continuous agitation for violent action and disruption. He
stated that so called leaders like Martin Luther KING, Jr. and Harry BELA-
FONTE have very clearly started blending the Negro Civil Rights Movement into

Pues PLY

wv wise
14-0000

 

SEGRET

 

 

ee
EVES
Le. stated that the details of the KING matter are

 

 

 

-definitely known to the editors of the New York Times and the New York

Herald Tribune, but they will not break the story because they have been
asked not to. - stated presumably by the President.

 

 

 

 

15. The writer than referred to the thesis that Martin Luther
KING, Jr. is moving in a way that is indicative that he is being controlled
by the Peking line Communists

 

 

 

 

 

The
writer asked’ what possible action would the Peking line Comm-
nists take in the KING matter. lreplied by saying ‘Bhat. it is
certain to him that the Commnists, both the Moscow and the Peking types,
are aware of the Martin Luther KING, Jr. matter. statéd as. far
as he could figure out, the Peking Communists would handle KING in one of
two ways: a

(a) We will permit you to remain head of the Negro movement in
the United States and you may continue to rise in public ac-
claim. The other Negro leaders have no courage and they
will not expose you. They are cowards and controlled by
the Capitalist leaders of the United States. You will, how-
ever, remember that we know what the story is and you will
do what you are told. Or

(b) They, themselves, the Peking Communists, will expose KING.
and in so doing they will end him, they will everlasting
discredit all the other Negro leaders, and they will then
be in a position to disrupt the Negro movement, cause chaos
and trouble, and possibly gain control of it. If they ex-
pose KING, they will say to the Press and public media which
they control to the Negro people, that yow leaders have be-
trayed you, they knew this story of KING all along and were
cowardly. They obeyed instructions from their capitalist
leaders.

16. Lemme! stated that he is absolutely convinced that the —
Peking line Comminists are moving ahead of the Moscow Commmists, both in

the world area and in the domestic scene. He pointed out

 

| He

 

stated that there are other indications of the Peking line Communists show-
ing strength, and that there are a number of ways this can be demonstrated.
He called attention to the fact that for the last 3 or 4 weeks there has been .
a period of inaction and that none of the Negro leaders, except James FARMER

SECRET

 

 
14-0000

 

SECRET.

EVES ery

11. With this background in mind, the writer asked ‘who
were the top Negro leaders and what were their
relationships one to another.

 

 

 

 

Whitney YOUNG of the Urban League
Roy WILKINS of the NAACP
dames FARMER of CORE

\ 7 A. Phillip RANDOLPH, veteran Negro union. Jeader 2
Allan MORRISON, top Negro editor and Journalist in the —_
United States.

The other leaders of first magnitude that entered the discussion are Martin
Luther KING, Jr. and Harry BELAFONTE, who has been established clearly as

a close and intimate friend of Martin Luther KING, Jr. and whose left wing
background is also known. Some of the lesser Negro leaders will be mentioned
later, but those of the greater strength and opposed to KING are YOUNG,
WILKINS, FARMER, RANDOLPH, and MORRISON. | replied to the ques-
tion of rapport among these leaders by saying flatly that there was no rap-
port at all, that all mistrust and dislike the other, and in certain cases,
there was often antagonism. /stated that the brightest, shrewiest,
and cleverest of all was Roy WILKINS, but a man who had no popular or grass
roots following. He stated that Whitney YOUNG was a bright Negro, but who
had no following whatsoever in the popular sense, but was making a definite .
play to gain power by seeking to be publicly connected with important
individuals both in the Government’ and out. described A. Phillip
RANDOLPH as a controversial old man, possibly becoming Senile, who was afraid
to act for fear of damaging his ow reputation and who liked to imagine
himself as the "Moses" of the Negro race. RANDOLPH has some popular follow-
ing, but he is aloof and has not committed himself as intensely as some of
the others. James FARMER, according to Kennedy, is probably the most sin-
cere and devoted of the leaders, but is naive and has a complete capacity

for saying the wrong thing at the wrong time. FARMER personally is clean

and he does, in fact, have the grass roots support of the large organization
CORE, which he controls. ° insisted that he is law abiding, non-
violent, and a decent individual, but not too politically intelligent.

EVES a {
dds

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

le. stated that for weeks the problem of Martin Luther

 

_ KING, Jr. has been discussed between these leaders and that all of them are

 

aware of the details. stated that to show the range of con-
nections involved here and the sensitive nature of it, he gave the following
example.

 

 

 

He said that a few days ago, he was in the office of Whitney
YOUNG to discuss with him this matter.[__—=——=sdiW stated that
for the first 15 minutes or so, YOUNG was constantly bei
to the telephone And the conversation was interrupted.

‘ commented: that the first two calls that came in were in-
consequential, but he stated that the third. call was from the
President of the United States. [—_____] Stated that he -
listened to two more calls then told YOUNG that either he would ;
have to quit accepting phone calls or Mr. Kennedy would no longer | _
discuss anything with him. Whitney YOUNG then told_his secret
to stop the calls, and they discussed the matter.
stated that the conversation was basically his at empting to
get Whitney YOUNG to come to some agreement with the other leaders
on the KING matter by pointing out that Roy WILKINS was in favor

-of "dumping" KING, and that he, Whitney: YOUNG, hadn't committed
himself to anything. indicated that this conversation

was not profitable.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: 13. Of considerable importance to was the following.
He was having a conversation with Allan MORRISON, the Negro editor, and
MORRISON said to him that he had received confirmation, in exact detail, of
the derogatory KING story. Further, that the information had come from
Washington from a highly placed official in the Department of Justice, Mr.

who had in turn conveyed the information to a Mr. a Negro

 

 

 

so attached to the Department. of Justice, who was workiig if Chicago and
who had given it directly to Allan MORRISON. MORRISON stated that he was
told that the Washington source had the entire KING file in his office in-
cluding photographs and tapes on Martin Luther KING, Jr. [| saia
he asked MORRISON if he had done anything about this; and, according to

MORRISON told him that he called a meeting of the top editors

and officials of the Johnson publications (Ebony, etc.) of which he,
MORRISON, is the top editor. According to MORRISON, he told those present
the story. After some shocked silence, Mr. JOHNSON said to MORRISON and
those present, we cannot publish that; and | said that MORRISON
told Mr. JOHNSON, if we don't publish it, it is going to blow up underneath
our noses because it is certain to come out sooner or later.

 

 

-6-

SECRET
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Government. While | did not absolutely refuse to cooperate
with the Bureau, he made it obvious that only if there was a matter which

- he felt was of interest directly to the Bureau Locally, would he furnish
this type of information; otherwise, he would furnish it as he has done
previously or cease altogether. The writer attem ted, more or less unsuc-
cessfully, to discuss jurisdiction with[ —] but{—S—=«*@smainn~
tained his position that the matter was not one of jurisdiction for the FBI
or any single Government agency, but was one that the Government y including \
CIA, should be interested in; namely,.the international Communist efforts es
at corrupting and seizing the Negro Civil Rights Movement. ; a

 

?

y
- Pind

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

APT
"iy

cir

_-2-

SFRRET

 
 

04-10196-1404

 

me me SECRET ao

7 NES OY

9 June 1965 -

MEMORANDUM FOR 3 Chief, Security Research Staff

 

 

SUBIECT 2

 

 

‘(Conversation with 8 June 1965,
Washington, D.C.)

1. On 8 June 1965, the writer met with/Mr. Kennedy atthe’ Hilton
Hotel, Washington, and had a long discussion with hin beginning at’ approxi-
mately 1:15 and ending at 5 p.m.’ coments covered a wide’
range of matters, but basically they can be broken down into 3 main topics;

 

 

 

 

(a) His attitude towards the FBI; . aud
: . yank

 

(ob

 

 

 

“(c) Comments on the Negro Civil Rights Movement, the various
personalities connected with it, and some of (Mr. Kennedy's:
opinions and theories regarding future events connected
with the Civil Rights Movement. ,

Each of the above will be discussed separately.

- Me. Kennedy's attitude towards the FBI

2. Sometime back, Chief, SRS, decided that it would be advantageous
to have give information, particularly regarding the Civil Rights
Movement, to agents of the FBI in New York City, particularly if this infor-
mation concerned domestic or local events and activities. Chief, SRS, felt
that it would be a faster means of communication than heretofore used where-

inl ee communicated with SRS officers who, in turn, passed the in-
formation to either the FBI or areas where it was useful.

 

 

36 made it very clear that he did not wish to commni-
cate with FBI agents, that the Civil Rights Movement should be regarded as
an international situation because of the Communist directed infiltration
into the movement, and that he felt in some respects that he was being
"downgraded" by being spies 2 aq ce by the FBI and not in a higher echelon.
ak IN
ABP

 

ei

SECRET

 
14-00000 . a

 

 

 

 

 

 

Civil Rights Movement

9. For background information, it is to be recalled that Mr,
‘ Kennedy has long provided information on the Negro Civil Rights Movement
and its various leaders. . position is one of complete sympathy
with the Negro and the Civil Rights Movement » but holds that only through
legal means and peaceful means should the Negro aims be accomplished.
Leman! whe is a violent anti-Communist, has been alarmed at the Communist
movement into the Negro Civil Rights field and the Communist penetration into
the various Negro organizations. He has undeniably done everything in his
capacity to help the Negro leaders, ‘particularly James FARMER of CORE.,

PUES GY
SECRET,

~3-

 

 

 

 

 
W-09006 | 4

SECRET

 

 

It is worth noting for the record that has been involved with
various Negro leaders since as early as 1934; and he has know a number of
the leaders, on a very close personal basis, since that time.

 

 

10. main concern has been that the highly derogatory
information, of which he is familiar, concerning Martin Luther KING, Jr. ;
will be exposed_to the public by the wrong people and at the wrong time
which, in jopinion, will.set the Civil Rights Movement back

ip etn years and would perhaps give the Communists a chance to either further dis-
rupt it or toseize control of the movement.

 

 

 

°

11. To make certain that this report reflects as accurately as
possible the derogatory information on Martin Luther. ‘KING, Jr.; hete ‘are
three main categor® s: ~

(a) Highly derogatory information on sexual. abnormalities and
sexual activities which have taken place within the United
States and. overseas;

(>) A possible theft of money; and

“(e). Association with identified Communist or pro-Soviet types.
on av intense personal basis;

To further set the background, it should be recalled that several months

ago a very serious dispute erupted between Mr. John Edgar HOOVER and Martin
futher KING, Jr. At that time James FARMER, head of CORE, received infor-
mation, from an absolutely reliable source, that the FBI had derogatory in-
formation on Martin Luther KING, Jr., that Mr. HOOVER was incensed on attacks
on his agents and the integrity of his organization, and that grave possi-
bilities existed that Mr. HOOVER would turn loose to the public the derog-
atory information which has been presented above. In turn,
jand at approximately the same
time, FARMER confronted Martin Iuther KING, Jr. with the facts. It is suf-
ficient to say that the matter was hushed up by KING visiting HOOVER. A
number of meetings took place between the top Negro leaders and discussions
were held as to what to do about the derogatory information, since obviously
other individuals would know about it. To date, nothing has been done, and
the debate is going on in the top Negro channels at the present time.

eves AY
~k-

ocRET

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
