74-00000

 

  
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  

! “3, Ga 89 Rophmber 1861, Me, Chuyles V. FIOEET wna Gdurtefed wen
7 _ Mis Fotarn fron 2 oh the STIG ores and Me ebeagums rete to the
a 2 Cthtae et Hagsettone bir, OEEE efivtoct of the fodlouing susttonts that *.
cored Garing ho Gavel foc CIN to Wasktngten vbdle in Kay Usb.
- Cee Get engiuaew of Un exter vassal BLRNA, firct mu Lemy lea,
-, Meaggumed to eset FROG fa @ mall restowact cb Iungh tie visa
- PIGEEE wae in Kay Waste . larry rowoguies’ .PIVEEE en prostate’ te tall ~~
| tein the he, Laevy, hace viere FIOGET bal besa ead viet he tad bees dstnge
i i fartha vex} on to stete in cn intlecrote rasmer that he kes vhere
| @lA ef ‘Yyoa" seoglo wepe of all times. Ur. PITT AtA not woees the
cioutien frtine ent sttemyted to exit gracefully. My oteted thea ento
19 met Ge Fives tien thas Levey eo bean intiomrete tn bis dtemuenten
of Project astsvities, “Pema yoviens emhoct vith lexvy, Mr. FIGER
‘tas cbymijed hin wo be elliiatad te alectal, of moony repstetion, ext
isiiewmets in bio camuyaxiions Isoover, this infivideal is tho enky :
_. Gnginese chetwé te TANNA Hiss ex cyarute the vanesl. In Giffioulates —
with tho operation ef the TERA dap primeity of lenvy's boing em
Inevinen ethinen, Larry tas ctcted tn affect that be Gose not caro vin”
sivse qrtares. Ra Al ge eR eperctians if he co desires. © 8 varies
" ¢iues be tas turtinw bareted tho Agua. an
- $e Shs anther in tromia to your sbiwmbien for poeathia ection mein

CER ace ace oo contr cB BE yn cart toch ST) Fh nna santa abet ee ©

 

  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  

  
  

   
 

 

#)

fo4-f02t80004]: =

  
      
      
   
  

See Below

Reference tA WAVE 1092, 1 February 196
B. DIR 40391, 7 February 1962

 
 

. 1. Hesdquarters regreta that the derogatory informstion on Subject -
was uot forvarded to BUAVE as stated in Reference B.
| herewith.

       
    

It 4g forvaréea
b

 
       
 

  

“2. Action ou Subjects Provisioval Operational: Approval. has been
suspended until the information being fovarded ia clarified. AVE
comnts are requested.

  

 
 

Original & 1 - SUAVE v/att’ Do

Gi . yO CAOGUARTEPS LE
CASON ”

COORDINATING — -
orn sue ee

 

 

 

     
    

OFFICE os 7] TYPIST xT. *
trw/ Ops ‘Support “I. Moughan us

 

 
