yaoou09 + &

" ferg000 | mo 2 August 1960

Cuba is also knowledgeable of the incident. since she called him
for edvice. BREWER advised her to cali the FBI. She telephoned
the FBI from the home of Mrs. MORRIS or MORRISON (act further
identified).

Mrs. VAIENTINER, according to DAVIS, aid a little investigating
on her om. After the meeting of the group was over, Frank BENDER
called National Airlines to confirm his reservations for 19 July
1960. Shorthy thereafter, Mrs. VALENTINER called National Airlines
and determined that BENDER was destined for Washington, D.C, She
also conducted discreet inquiries at the motel and ascertained
that the cecupants of Roan 209 were a group of businesmmen using... .__...
the room for the day. Mra. VALSNTINER was careful to note the

‘ License plates of two cars that were used by the conferees;. She

conducted no further investigation.

: Special Agent. DAVIS deseribed Mra. VALENTINER as discreet,
cooperative, intelligent, .ambi-CASiRO, and anti-Commmist. DAVIS
feels that this particular inctdent will “@iesa natural death”
end that the people who have becane knowledgeable to some extent

of our activity are digoreet enough to not discuss it further. -
During his discussion with Mrs. VALENTINER, DAVIS at no time divulged
any United States Goverment sponsorship of this matter.

‘Acting Special Agent in Charge Richard BAKER concluded that

_ a8 far as the local FBI Office was concerned, this was s closed
“matter. He added that any other participation by his office would

have to be approved by VAI Heafiquarters.

At Coral al Gebles, Florida

He 1100 hours, 2% duly 1960, the Reporting Agent, unter alias,
moved inte reo 206 at the University Court Resort Motel.
physical survey at the motel was made on this day. Kttestion 15.
invited te Exhibit #6. Building "C" where the meetings vere con-
ducted have completely equipped connecting dinette kitchens. Mra.
Clark VALENTINES currently occupies roon 210 at this motel where,

. hed she elected to do so,would be able to overhear the entire .

eonversation in roan 209 from her kitchenette. As will be noted
on the page 7 diegram of Exhibit 46, her kitchen extends three to
four feet (actual neasurenent) into roca 209. The kitchen doar

is of plywoed construction. In building C there is a 3/4 to 1 inch

gap between the floor and the base of the Xitchen deora to apparently
allow for vall to wall carpeting. Petween roons 203 and 209 there
ia a steal reinforced plastered wall. It io the writer's opinion
that 1% is impossibie to monitor conversation taking place in 209
fron 208 without the use of proper Listening devices. According

 

 
14-00000

#e19000 O sO ; 2 August 1960

to ir. BROWN, previously identified ta thia report, the windows
were closed and aad the air coniitioning vas on when the mestings
were conducted. .

At Washington, D. Co

 
 
  

Staff employee, alias Frank BENDER, was

: July 1960 by the Reporting Agent and Mr. Joseph
‘ty Officer, Project JMARC, in his Offices at Barton
cooperative.

Mor. DROLLER prefaced his remarks by indicating that he had
completed a memcranthm for the record, requested by Mr. LABGAN,
and made a copy available (seq Exhibit #3).

Mr. DROLIZR indteated that the gist of his cover story for

the infigencus persoonel {a that he is a private American citizen
and a menbex of a group-of American citizens (busineas, education,
etc.) who_sometimes in the past find thenselves in minor disagree-'
ment with the United States foreign policy in Latin America (faver--
ing TRUJILLO and the like). ‘hat this group has noticed a much
more “forward look“ by the United States Goverment and that the
group is therefore directed to do anything which can be of
assistance to patrichic citizens who will bring about a change
of the CASTRO Govermment. DROLLZR further declared that operating
with this cover story, he has never mentioned that he was en
employee of the United States Goverment. Mr. LANGAN, at thia
point, queried Mr. DROLLER whether any mention of the United
States Goverment had been made by the indigenous personnel who
participated in the meetings. DROLLER could not recall. He
further pointed cut that United States Government ceme up in
meetings when diacussing United States foreigm policy, but never
in connection with exployment by the United States Government.

Me. DROLLER displayed the alias travel documentation which
ha has been using en his excursions to Miemi Reach, Florida, srea.
It vas noted that the address 1:4 West GSth Street, Hew York City,
was listed on this documentation, but aceording to Mr. DROLLER is
not backstopped.

 
F-00000

#e1go0o : 2 August 1960

fren discussing this matter further with anyone, end also to
caution her friends whon abe had told of the incident to do liks-
wise. : wee .

believed these ware three Cubans ‘present together with two other .

Special Agent DAVIS indicated. that he interviewed Mrs.

; YALENTIRER in ber quarters in the notel during the hours 2300 to

Oks on 19 and 20 duly 1960. ‘he writer, at this point, inguired
as to the size of the crack underneath Mra. VALENTINER's kitchen
door, DAVIS answered by stating that it was large (exact dimen~-
sions not noted). He further de@lared that she had mentioned to
him that she was able to observe the portion of the leg (to the

The weiter further queried DAVIS as to whether she had any know-
ledge of Spanish. DAVIS replied that she advised him that she
possesses Sluent Jmowledge of Spanish after having resided in Cuba
for ten years. Her husband bas lived in Cuba for thirty years.
While at the motel, DAVIS observed that she nad notes of the ~
conversation waich ashe referred to during the interview. It should
be noted that these notes were not confideated by DAVIS.

DAVIS stated that Mrs. ROBINSON, who is also a resident of
the motel, was present during the meeting for a very short period
(exact times unknown). Mrs. ROBINSON is the wife of an American
businesaman in Cuba. Mr. Lawrence BREWER of the Esso Campany of

 
of

oC te any mention of this incident during hia meeting. -
aa GLEICHAUF subsequently advised REICHEARDT that

£219000° er 2 August 1960

to write a memorandum for the reeard as an eddendum to Exhibit
#1 setting forth im detail the receipt of information fron the
FSY and what subsequent action was taken by him in this matter.
Attached as Exhibit # is a memorandum for the recard, @ated 23
July 1960, volumtarily subaitted by Mr. REICHHARDT. =i

Mr. REICSHARDT volunteered the information that he had

learned that Mr. Justin F. GLELGHAUF, Chief, 00/Contacts Office, og OY
Coral Gables, was to meet wi
a 2 July 1960 and discuss a

matter not connected with the ty indigent, In this connection,
REICHRARD? briefed GLEICHAUF on the security. leak so that he

 

 

 

 

 

 

_ped made no mention of the inéldest to hin.
REICHHARDT hed no further pertinent information to offer!

Attached as Exhibit #5 is a memorandua for the reeara pre- foe
ee by Mr. John J. SULLIVAN, Security Officer, FOB,'on 25 July
i ° .

At Miami Beach, Florida

Aeting Special Agent in Charge, Richard BAKER, of the Miami
FSI was contacted in his office, third floor, Justice Builfing,
3915 Biscayne Blva., at 0955 hours, 25 July 1960, by the Reporting
Agent and FOB Security Officer, Jonn J. SULLIVAN. Mr. SULLIVAN
briefed Mr. BAKER why we were there and requested that he furnish
any information available relative to the incident that occurred
at the University Court Resort Motel on 19 July 1960. Mr. BAKER
at 1005 hours requested FBI Special Agent George DAVIS, the in~
yestigator handling this matter, to participate in the discussicn.

Special Agent DAVIS inficated that at 1500 hours on 19 July
1960 a call. was received from Mrs. Clark VALENTINER, wife of en
executive of the Continental Can Cospany, Havana, Cuba, who re-
ported that she had overheard a discussion of an anti-CASTRO group.
At this point, Mr. DAVIS pointed cat that his detailed report on
this matter which is incorporated in a larger report dealing with
unsolicited information, was forwarded to the FBI Headquarters
on Saturday, 23 July 1960. DAVIS added that the only matter that
he did not include in his investigative report was two license
plates numbers which Mrs. VALENTINER hed provided him. Hrs.
VALEUTIONER had noted the license plates of the participants in ~
the meeting conducted in Rocm 209 at the University Court Resort
Motel.

 

 

{
wi
t

SEGIET (3
74-00000'

#219000

i.

dd.

2 August 1960

Tionel. (used, frequently and this is the code name for
ene Of the MRR men) - ;

"Me. BUNT

Oriente and Havana, Cuba

References ag to Washington, such as, "What are ny friends

in Washington going to say?”
Mexico

Frente .

National Directorite

MRR

Executive Committee

Junta ,

Visas

Discipline (often used)

Pilots (mmbers such as 40 or 50)
Revolutionary Front (referring to FRD)
Training and training areas

Executive Coumittees and Secretariats (example: "Why
hasn't the front come up with the Executive Camittee?”)

Airplanes (Example: Frank BENDER stated, "I have planes
in the training areas, but you have not produced the
pilots.")

At our meetings in New York

"You have not cooperated with my Jimmie who came to Miami
ag my military representative.”

BROWN stated that to the best of his knowledge no mention
was mafle of the United States Goverment or the CTA.

-~3-

SECRET
219000 - _ oo 2 August 1960

BROWS stated that no calla were received at the motel during
the firat meeting nor vere there any cuteide calla made. There
were no incoming or outgoing calls made during the second meeting.
Two incoming calls were received by Jerry DROLLES at 1500 and 1530 .
hours at which time Mr. ARTIME called end talked to BROWN who in-
terpreted for DROLLER. HEROWN further recalled that at.the end

they interrupted by motel employees or occupants. He added that |
the motel. reon‘did not have a radio, hovever, there was a tele-,
vision set which was not used during the meetings. .

   
   

eit? to his table. He pointed out that although his
chatting with the Cubans during lunch was in Spanish, they aia
not discuss business. ‘There was no discussion between tables.
After lunch the group returned to the roan at about 1125 hours
ana waited for Mr. DROLLER to return. Mr. DROLLER retioned to
the room at about 1:40 houra at which time the third meeting
commenced. BROWN noted thet while waiting for Mr. DROLLER, little
er no discussion transpired between he end the three Cubans.
Attention le invited to Exhibit $3 which is a memorandua for the
record, setting forth in detail am account of the meetings on 19
July 1960. ,

BROWN mentioned that he“had never been at the University
Court Resort. Motel bef he meeting nor bas he been thare since. —
ion to offer. .

  
 
  
 
  

Bernard =f CHHARDT, “Stet Employee, was interviewed CO
ca 22 and 23 July 1960 im bis office and the office of/Hr.
He vas cooperative 944: gave what eppeared to be truthful statements.

REYCHHARD? stated that he does not have much more information
to offer than has been cited in his cable (Zxhibit #1), dated 20

July 1960. Mr. REICHHARDT was instructed by the Reporting Agent rol L
-he a,
SEGRET 7

 
 

2 4% 1s
FILE NO.___ 7229000 ___ DATE____2 August 1960

 

SYNOPSIS

         
   
 
     
 
   
    
       
         

digtlosed that on 19 July 1960 three separate
meetings were held at room mumber 209, University Court Resort

 

The tvo (2) staff employees vere interviewed and insofar as
they recall no Goverment or. CIA interest ws divulged during the
course of their meetings with the three (3) Cubans.

  

Interviews with Miami FBI representatives reflected that
lirs. VAIENTINER hed told the FBI that one ef the conferees stated
that he was hired by the United States to do away with Castro.

The FBI, at the request of staff employee Bernard Reichhardt,
told Mrs. VAIZNTINER that ineldent reported by her was under Fat
investigation and for reasons of security, it was desired that she
refrain fraw discussing incident vith anyone and that she also
counsel hex friends to do likewise. | :

that the room selected for the meeting was vulnerable.

   

REPORT NO.

FORM NO.
I’wov se 11250

Physical survey of the University Court Resort Motel revealed -

Attached to the original of this report are Exhibits 1 through

(205

 
(f-tor-t0527

 

  
 
 

Feet a a ae

 

Li @

 

: RETURN TO CIA
‘ Background Use Only
Be Not Reproduce
74-00000

At Coral Gables, Florida

*

a

" 219060” ; —_ so. 2 August 1960

GENERAL:

03
On 22 and 25 July 1960, Chief, Forward

 

 

- Operating Base (Fon), was in ewead in his ce relative to

the security violation at Coral Gables (see Exhibit #1).
_O8, : :

 

Bernard REICHHARDT, a staff employee who mainteins his office.
outside of FOB. ther stated that he had been briefed
on the security leak while he wes in Washington, De c.

fie.) _f who dia not attend the meeting where the security
vared a memorandum for the record (see
Exhibit #2) setting forth the details of the arrangements end = ©

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

at the University Court Resort Motel,
Coral. Gables, Florida.

On 22 July 1960, Case Officer Gravel Je i, Sstaf? employee,
vas interviewed at the Atlantic Motel where :

roliable in his statements.
OF
Mr. BROWN, alias[ | statea that Jerry DROLIER,
alias Frank BENDER, came to Coral Cables on Monday evening, 18 July
1960, from Washington, D. C. BROWN added that a meeting was hela
at a safehouse at 2300 hours, 18 July 1960, in order to discuss

the program for the f with meubers cf MRR. Staff employees
William KENT, Jerry DROLIER, and BROWN were present at:
this meeting.

Mr, BROWN continued that the reason that Mr. DROLIER came to
Coral Cables was to have a meeting with gaveral wenbers of the MRR
on 19 July 1960 in order to “iron out" internal cissensions.

At 0810 hours, 19 July 1960, Case Officer BROWN arrived at

“the home of a friend of ARTIME vhose address he recalled to be 623

Velarde Avenue, Coral Gables, Florida. BROW! coul4 not further
identify ARTIME's friend other than the fact that he was a Cuban

and o Esrvard University graduate. Upon errival, BROWN observed
that ARTIME wa "still im the sack". ARTIME and EROWN deperted

the residence at 0905 hours, proceeded directly to the motel, and
arrived there at eyprocimately 0920 hours. He used a sterile rented
venicle in transporting ARTIMS and errengements for the motel to be
used for the meeting vere mada by Jerry DROLLER.

SESRET 7

 

 
74-0000

N

(

nN
A

Case Officer BROWN further elaborated that he was not aware

not expose the indigenous participants wmecessarily while

. hours 0915 to 1015, 1120 te 1330 and

1430 te 1600, 19 July 1960, when the meetings cccurred, the doors
wes

:
i
8

o eating or drinking as there wes no
motel. To the best of BROM's re-
collection, neither he nor the iniigenous personnel vere seen by

|
f
ee

The conversation waa louder than nomal and it was noted
that Jerry DROLLER speaks with an obvious Germanic accent. English
and Spanish were spoken freely throughout the meetings.

BROWN indicated that the following names, areas, and terms
were mentioned during the meetings: . : :

 
