 

 

 

 

 

 

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

that nest zecting vite Ids I wes informed cy LEBANOW thet CIA's tentative plén was . N
to texe DIAZ fron i215 nere, to 222d hia in & secure place, hat he G then Le ’
meved to enstlier ara in the zocntry, put thr-uch an intensive inte ticn uy the

intel ence coumnity, and then removed to a Tereiom area where he wold te su 4
TEBANOW's instructicxs were tc sontinue with the plan tir holdin: .
TcdiS pesple of this tentative Puan and steted that Generel CABELL :
discuss the matter with Generri SWING sonetize during the day of § tow ‘
expecte? that LiliS wild ve instructed to hard DIAZ over tome. I yed this to
SCHCERERGER when = zof 4 July. He seened ertirely receptive
to this iden and sexwiraly his first inclination was to proceed alons +: 3
withers delay. On 2:cther refieztion, however, he decided that he .
until he got those syerifiec instructions frec his headquarters but . .
& cali to Washington to try to speed this up. -

 

wifcetions vhica then set is by reason of the dif. siz :
= Generai CARELE, and Gecteral SWIG and the a: 4

together
‘sions with the IsiS were in dan 7 : om
2 wars

Clained taat it wes
cooperation throu 3 WAS excellent, that I
Iwisked, and in fest worzed ovt with FEREIS tee plans for coth rete
IGiS c2fices during <Se night of 2 July end z . :
(Addentua: Tae in apparentiy has not dred reietionships with IohS, fer
eooperaticn frou th 3 contimed to ve excellent.) i

et

ii. After it tesen to ce clear that CTA was not going to be inv

movement of DIZZ, envercer nevertheless kent me vonstantly adv:
wherecocuts and as: i we et eny time I wished J could sez nim, 73
occesiva for me to see DIAZ, and I vas fineliy edvised cn the norm
that DLAZ und his wi escortes cy SCHRCLDSR, had departed Miami
by train at 10:00 7 duly. With the departure of DIAZ from Mi
Statemerts made by 2S to the press on 3 July regarding the admittance of DIAZ
‘to the US, the interest of this crfice in the case cane to @ close. a A ‘

eo
or

 

ia

"
4 64

!

  

 

USE FEO. 2OITOM,
EMACES baw

 
 

 

 

 

fe yatta pte ee

oY

SENDER wiht CHECK CLA ATION TCP AND BOTTOM .
TUNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY "

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

   

  

 

     
 
 

   

settee nba bhai

 
 
   

 

 

 

  
 

Tf een ae
[tsar —1 more ——
__

    
  

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADORESS AND Protat pO.

 

      

 

a

Sidi Sealine, tenia abe Nac rdnine, emia on snintinrgutmn geen on

 

V/ER

 

 
 

 

04-10167-10053

ge oe

 

os SECRET °

wy Oe JAWHES! FILLED One
en

 
  

    

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
WOTE: In the absence of comments or ird:cascom of ection
taken, this cov sheet will be dashoyed chen the

     
  
      
 

document i filed. . o~
a .
| Se" Keeaeo E .
;
“ Fan
a -~
Pon) A
oO
° °
° fon
o
co)
° a
° a!
im) o
ww ; v
se u

    

         

w
: Back
bad Le
be Se)
3]
w 3
we -
i
we <
DATE MUICROFILMED “+t
z
 

 

 

|. DISPATCH

 

 

 

 

acTeore OED

 

Heport cn Miaai Zese Involvement. in irrival cr

PARKED FOR MEELIS
Pedro DL% Lanz in tas US

OQ INDEXING BEQU RED

Te INDEXING CAN §E JUDGED
2tCHe $7 QUALIFIED WO. DESK ONLY

 

 

 

i. This office ves Sirst informed of the arrival of susie ‘
Weinesdey, i July 1959. Eswever, since it wes not yes clear whet the CIA role would.
te, there were no instructions a3 of that time. ‘

   

2. On the afternoon of 2 July I wes inforned by LQCANOW <het elthouch no clear
indication hed yet ben ziven es to the uitimete disposition of sibject, I was to
attenpt immediately to contact hin, conduct a preiininary interrzsation, end to render
tc hin whatever essistence I fudzed to ve proper.
versetion with LIGANCW, I reseived a cai. from it
of TinS, who said that he ned subject end the other members of
and offcced me access to ain for whatever Purposes I considered

 

   

   

3. Before going to IAS I checked in with she F2I to see !7 they had yet
interrogated subject and if sc to whet extent and aicnz what

the

prosveded to Mr. AHNAIS' c2Pise end vas introduced ts DIAZ and ats perty
ecxprised of DIAZ} his wife Tenia,,Sergio DIAZ Bruei, and Carles BCHZGCYEML.

 

4, oT spoze briefly with DIAZ alone, primarily for the purpese of determining
his disposition tcward cocreretion with US officials and inteilizence pecdle parti-
cuLerly and to detercine «hether“or not he was in possession of exy docunerts. vhich
mignt oe of value. With regard to the first, he steted that he =a every: intention |
of cooperating fully wit ail US officiais and thet he was eager to make gnown his.
own views on the Castro covernnent. ‘With the excerion of a i
which-he had released to the press pricr to deaving Cuba, he wa
I then talked to him about his imediete plens and he said that was piecing himself
coxgletely at the dispagel of US officials but that ne was concerned about his :
crotner Marcos end wes hopeful that he sould conceal his vheree’ 3
ticn wes avatilatle of Marces' situation. I also discussed With ain the effect that
the measures being teken et thet monent to find hin ight have <n the general
poruiation. He said that ne felt that the impact of these messvres would! be very
great since it would make tae people realize how serious the government there viewed .
the resignatica of a senior official cased on charges of Commn‘st tendencies in

 

  

 

“the government. In deference to these feelings on the part cf the subject and being

 

et the moment still unsure eas to the ultinate hendling of him, it seened desiracle

‘that bis preses@xin the US not become pudlic inforzetion for the ‘ine betas.

5. I discussed this with AHREUS end abxed vhat his intentions were! with

-regard to reteining or releasing the rarty. He said that under zormal c: tances

BRUELL, who is an American citizen, would be released forthwith tnd that the others
would be paroled as soon es the paper work wos conpieted. I poizted out hin -
the desirability of keepin: this party under wraps and asked if he would! be willing
that they reuain In the I°S offices overnight, during which tine I could make

_ arrengements to remove thez to some other secure plece. AHRENS ssid that} insofar

as he was concerned, he wus willing cut that he would have to "neke a chekk". It

is assumed thet he telephosed Washinston or some other superior c:fice, in any
case in a fev cinutes said that he wruid be wiiling to do as I ssxed provided I
would prepare 6 statement recuesting this action, tc te sirned w+ the four aenvers
of the purty and cy myseit. The Toliowing statement wes trepares and si ae

"We the undersimed request that in the interests of our persons. safety ve be
pernitted to renal cn these prenises cver nicht.” (In the Liss? cf what’ came etter,
it aight ce well to menencer that had not this acticn been tekex,. DIAZ and his party
wound ive been releucei end elmost certainly he would have been exposed and imme.
@tately sudjected to. sress interviews.) Having taken this step, I bec: preoccupied
with a) rigging the fa ses for keepine these individuals overnight; aba b) pre-

eriny @ plan *> move +} he next morn! Not wishing to alicw memoer of

° CASSIE ANON . j

 

 

we
MACE £6

 
 

i

i

. - CONTINUATION of . i CAPES . DISPATCH SF eGCK A MD. 4
* ss DISPATCH i UMA | do

a -. al

‘ : ¥

 

 
  

 

me ne Bey and was &t that
is. It was
nesescary. “the: refore to reisese SAUELL for for “the Purpors cl returning the boat end
yeyang the charges. He revamped within several hours presunabiy without idetdent.

 

£

& I then sontacte: M to determine whether or not he wes abie and
os to assist in holdicZ“this party for a period cf perhaps several days. He
: ietely agreed to assist and was then informed cf the idertities of the people.
02 as AUM's situation is particciarly adeptezie to this sirt of extivity since be
ves a:one in 2 well appoisted tworbed recta apartuent @ reasinadly sec

 

  
    

 

ree and only rerely has acy visitors. iz addition to this, he vas a likely “shedce
cesause he is weli known t> aad | rust ty DIAZ. Fs further assistance to
this pian end ter ares are virtueliy inseperabie coth in:tLuir

 
 

business and socl 7 a} "s B eotistec ce was aiso enlisted. .
Jy ,

7. Later that evenics (tais is sti:i 2 July) in a telegome conversation
with ATREIS, I leamed thet ze had. been ructed to cefer exy aztion on suoject
end his perty pending further instruct: He indiceted to me rather vamieiy thet
“cther pecple” were inter: - I then med from LAIANCW that the Army, wes

4 (Sus an officer--Major (T70--to interruzete sutject. I then ned to infere

   
 
   
 

 
    

  
 

iM that cur timing was set cack tor coving the party and esked nin to stend by
or further irstriction.

3. On the morning cf 3 July I net with Major C70 and excther reoresextative -
£ the Army («hose name wes not recorded), to diseuss with then the next voves to ;
be teken. In eccordance telerthone ciscussion witha LEZANCW, I explained to
O20 that our unde: stand was that the Defector Comittee bad exreed that CIA:
would undertake custody of ject for the purpose of roving hin to a place Saitable
for interrogatics by the witie of the intelli-ence comumity oct thet in tad” neantine
suypet would te cade avaiiatie to any nexser agency of the intellicence commaity.
CPt, who struck me as b 2 rather pompous off: <5 indivitusi, said thet this
wes not the Anc's understaciing at all exd that, softer as he wes concerned, the
person was in the custody T2nS end ths+ the Army aed ooteined sliearence from then
to interrogate DIAZ. I 5: i realized cf course they IiiiS did have custody and
hat whatever was done with DIAZ at. this point would neve to coe with the consent
of IaiS, but thet oased cn <he understanding that CIA would heve responsibility I.
hed sone ehead end made piers for movins DIAZ to ensiher location with the! uitizate
aim of moving him out of this area to Sime more suitecie lecaticn. I explained that
tine was en isportent facteo> end in this scnnection esxed OPPO how long he thousht
his interroga vmight. tee. His answer was, “I dcn*t mow--it, nicht take two hours
or it might taxe two days.“ I pointed cut to OTTO thet I had made no attenpt to-
interrogate DIAZ, and that I considered :t necessary Saat sumthing ve done to
F Site DIAZ cf the ovvicus exotional ad physical strein he vas under vetore any
r further interrezsation. I, informed OPT that when DIZZ leameéd that ne was to de
: interrogated oy still another group’ (he rad already talzed to the Fol, I2H8.end Me)
thas he hud reeeted negatively end at one point said thst he didn't feel that he
vented total: “3 anyone e_se whatsoever witil, "I set to Washinston". certo seemed
uniapressed with this and seid that he wished. to isterrcsate DIAZ inmediati a7 :
Without recounting all that assed between iayself exd OTTO, which vas vongid: rable,
it should be noted that his interest in this situetion seemed more centerdd ca the
posture he assimed with CIA representatives and the prerogatives of the Amy than
in the volue of an immediate interrogeticn of DIAZ. «acter a good deal of nitpicking
A shings I proposed, it wes finally egreed that, i: uring the period of Jinterrogation
cy O2TO 1t became: necessary remove DIAS and his pesty from the IIS office prenises,
Crm would te fully resporsizie for security and thet st the sconclusion of his inter-
rogation DIAZ and his party vould either se returned to the vistedy of i al cr to ne ©
at ‘@ point and a time on vhich ve could ssree and I:NS vould ezprove. Th: out
" tis seseion vith CYTO, he many tincs repeated a Pat, iittle parese, “He a. ‘bere
. to work with cla, not for sae"

   
  

  
  
  

    

 

 

 

   

 

 

Fa

 

SEL One eee

  

 
  

Sime ener werent

i : 3, This of course wss an knocked into o cocked bat Inter thet dav{(end defore
—.. ome had on orpertunity to c2et with DLC), when JERS recetved tnstructfons that
Shere were to’ .e no further interropaticn ws uf DIAZ |.» mending the errivel
2 TlnS' Rovert 2. SCHCRRIIIRIER, Assostiste Dem cissioner; rron
Richmond. AMTIS told me tnzt he was expecting SCE <0 ve in his cffice

   
 
    
   
 

   

 

  

‘ ‘
é cn the morning ef & July aif arranged t=: contact hin there at that timef Before
z :
ane ;
rome use fetus tonne case CATION PAGE 060.
we? Sa” Pm sme ano ste ft 2c. “

   

x

—
