and any materials related to the Oswald case had been
made available to CI Staff for incorporation into the
official 201. She further commented that. it was her
recollection that the only material found in DCD files
was related to the Garrison investigation.

3. In discussions with Mr. Mike Cleffy regarding
the G-135 check, latter advised that there was no possible
way of determining if such a check had been requested on

‘13 December 1961. He suggested that the CI Staff search

the Lee Harvey Oswald file and Marina's file. This was-
done and we found in the Office of Security file on Oswald

._ a G-135A name check dated 5 December 1961. With respect

to Marina Oswald, there is a Department of State Division
of Security. request for security information on her.
dated 9 December 1961.

4. With respect to the alias used by Ben Pepper,
I checked with Mr. Norman Shepanek who provided it..

; 5. None of the above information has, of this
writing, been made available to Mr. Dwyer. It is in-
tended that it will be best to tell him verbally when
next he comes to continue his review of the Oswald file.

poocr/og/sol[ hanya December 1975

Distribution:

VI - Mr. Waller
i - Mr. Breckenridge
1 ~ CL/0G/80
 

104-10310-10053

4 December 1975

MEMORANDUM: FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Telecon from Senate Select Committee Staff

1. On the afternoon of 2 December, Mr. Dan Dwyer :
of the Senate Committee Staff called undersigned to inquire
about the Oswaid file. Specifically he wanted to know if
the DCD holdings were reviewed for any information relating
to Lee Harvey Oswald. Initially I replied that I believed
they were, however, as I was not sure, I would make the
appropriate inquires and if. they were not, would initiate
the necessary check. -Mr. Dwyer then asked for the full.
name of Mr. Ben Pepper whe had been interviewed by the
Senate Staff last week. (Ben Pepper appeared before the.
Senate Staffers under an alias and I did not know what
that alias was.) I advised Mr. Dwyer that I would make
inquires as to whom he spoke to and would provide him
with the name. The final query of Mr. Dwyer was to ask
whom or how the Agency handled Immigration and Naturaliza-
tion requests on Form G-135A. I replied that.I was un-.
aware of the form, therefore I could not give him an
adequate response. However, occasionally I have seen
queries on some sort of government form which required ©
response to either the FBI or Department of State re-. :
lating to visa applications. He_asked if it were possible
to determine if a G- 135A check was made on December 13,
1961. .I asked on whom'was the check being made and Mr.
Dwyer advised he did not know. if it was Mr. Lee Harvey
Oswald or his wife, Marina. I told him I would look into
it and advise him when next he came to the building.

2.. On advise from Mr. Fred Randall, I contacted
Ms. Helen Spilman of DCD regarding the first question of
Mr. Dwyer. Ms. Spilman looked into the material and ad-
vised that DCD holdings had been reviewed several times

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 008885
