104-10227-10008

  

REPORT OF INTERROGATION
DATE: 28 July 1965

_—

1. Questioning concentrated on how Subject: joined the
Komsomol organtzation jn the KGB in 1953, and on his alleged
service ag Secretary of the Komsomol organization of the SCD,
Under detailed questioning, it quickly became apparent that
Subject, did not serve as the secretary of the SCD Komsomol
erganizetion, The follostug examples should suffice:

. a) Subject docs not know how a ‘Nccretary ts selected,
-and cannot describe his cuties in a spucifie manner.

b) Subject does not know the name of the secretary of .
the MVD K/O. Yet he would have had to deal sith him very whens ae

frequently.

c) Subject was unable to recall the nane ct <the man
whom he succceded as Secretary of the SCD K/U. He finally
said that 1t way Nikolay YEGORUV, trom the "German Dept."
of the SCD, but since he hax never mentioned this nane-
before it is likely that he improvised it.

d) Subject was unable to identify the two-sther memberg
who served on the K/O board with hin, except that’ one of
them was "Nina," a typist fromthe "German Dept.”

 

 

e) Subject was unable to give 2 satisfactory account
of his dealings with the MVD K/O or of the ideatities or
responsibilities of the people with whom he dealt there.

 

2, Subject insisted that in 1953-54, when he was
Secretary of the SCD X/O, the maximum age for a Konsomol
member was 27. This point important both hecauee he should
know @xactly if he had been Komsemol Scerctary, and vecauso
it was of vital concern to him personally, In actual fact,
the maximum age was 26. (A new ustav was adopted in March \

 

1954, which also set a maxixum age of 26 but provided fora
two year extension in cértain cases, Subject should have
known very well about this new Mstav, both because’ he wus
Sccretary at that time, and because of hig oan problen.): {

3. Subject maintained that all the members of his K/o
paid 2% monthly dues. This is incorrect, as monthly dues
were calculated on a sliding scale determined uy the wage
Group of the nember. 2% as the correct figure for entry dues,

 
104-10227-10008

Te

 

4. Subject was unable to five a consistent or correct

“account of how he deregistered from the Konsomol Organization

of the NRP in the Baltic und Teyistered with the K/O in

the MVD. His statement that he was issucd a new Komsomol
registration card by the MVD K/O is impossible. His
difficulties with this question probably stem more from the
limitations imposed by his legend than ignorance of Komsomol (
procedures, . po .

5. In general, Subject's knowledge of Komsomol pro-

‘cedures is’ consistent with that of any ordinary, npathetie

Komsomol member (he could easily have this same knowledge
even if he had never been a Komsomol member), However,

his knowledge of how dues. yoro collected, registered, and.
deposfied in the Bank on i2netskiy Most is special know ledge
on which he was probably briefed (the same procedures and

the same bank are used by all the Kousomol and Party
organizations of the MVD-XGB), Subject's overall know ledge
of a K/O secretary's duties i§ far too weak for him to havo
served in this capacity anywhore,

6. Other questions:-

a) In discussing tits Komsomo) me:bership in the Baltic, .
Subject again referred to this area as the Primorskiy Kray. ,
Challenged on this, Subject appeared to be astounded, and.
insisted vehemently that he served in the city of Sovetsk,
Primorskiy Kray, and that he even received letters addressed
that way (Subject was not told that he was also wrong on
the city), Told that. Primorskiy Kray is in the Far East,
Subject compounded his geographical blunder by saying that
he knew all about that because Sovetskaya Gavan', where he
had served before coming to the Baltic, is in that Primorskiy

 

Kray ( it is actually in Khabarovskiy Kray).

b) When Subject first mentioned the German Department,
he was asked to think carefully about whether or mt there
was a German Dept in the SCD in 1953, At first he aserted
categorically that there was, but whea challenged he retreated
very quickly, saying that "I think there was, I'm not sure,
I'll think about it." After the luncheon break He returned
and said he was sure that there was a German Dept in 1953,

  

 
104-10227-10008 =

  

a . > . | .
: at 3. ‘Tentative Conclusions: The above’ items all indicate

: . that Subject did not work in the KGB tn 1953 or 1954, Some
of them -casé doubt on whether he ever worked in the KGB at all,
although it is very difficult to come to a firm conclusion on :
this-as yet because he dvoy have an impressive knowledge of .
KGB personalities, and knows quite a bkt about KGB procedures
and installations as well. Tho rest of the interrogation will
attempt to establish, if possible, whether Subject's knowledge —. S

 
 

 

 

  

 

; of the KGB, can be explagned entirely by vigorous briefing,
Hi training, and carefully planned exposure, and to determine
ot more precisely in what capacity he was actually -connectod
. with the KGB, . .
: , ! .
! | :
Hi : . _ Ted
| i
i :
;
i :
i
I
7
i
;
z
|
i .

Rg ieee ate

 
104-10227-10008

  

Subject had. difficulty ‘dn grasping the Lerminolory ONIN
and finally satd, "Oh, you mean UOPK." - He replicd that he had
never been to any of their hases or sufchouscy: tn that period,
and tricd to talk instead about seme of the 7th Diructorate

installations. that be has already reported on,

“A case: officer in
SCD in 1953-55, he

 

 

“COMMENT: =If Subject had really be
eo. ‘the Ameficat Embassy seetion of th
po 3 would have had to visit N/N safehouses very often His
a inabillty ‘to nome a single one is very ciieniny., The
: 2 confusion about the termtnoloyy ts alse interesting -
even though Subject has previously shown jn his homework
Thae hes awaw of the organizatioaw) cyolution of. the
: lance apparat., he dovs:net respund to the old :
: terminology in conversation as he ehould 1f he had worked
: me there at that time. "“UODK" ts a new term for what wag
_ formerly. "UPDK"; it was staffed. hy and Bubordinate to
N/N, but was in no sense the saweé thing as N/M,

 

   
   
 
 

 

  

 

Building #12, Subject mentioned the 3rd Spetsotdel, which wag
responsible for the preparation of various false documents,
Asked several times what the former designation of this unit
was, Subjeet replied that it had adways been called thie 3rd
Spetsotdel as far as he knew. . .

i

wee m) Deseribing what. was located in the Ath entry of
q
'

becn called Department | D, "
‘after the death of Stalin.
abject allegedly came

“Ty been re-named, and
O.it-by: ita old designation

COMMENT: This unit had alw
_The designation was chaige
‘In other words; at the time
to work for the KGB it chad j
most officers continued to re
for sume time,

  
    
   
  
 

 

 
  

ain the Baltic,

n) «In speaking of Wis naval GRU Her
the Baltic

Subject said several times that he-had- sery
for "several months only." . :

COMMENT: This 13 a significant chanze in his story from
the April 1964 interrogations. Ie t made it in the

conversations with John Gittinger,. iho did not challenge
himoon it, Jt may be worthwhile returning tf/this period

Yater in this interrogation.

  

os da
104-10227-10008
j

  

 

2
a

 

: ‘When Subject was arked what the second copy could be for,
he said that he thousut it was for the security check -
/Spe sproverka/, This igs not correct, Also, Subjeet
maintained that these were the only forma and papers that
. Soe, he had -to fit] out - this is not cerrect, and he will be
Pod. im questioned later on the ethera.

   

 
 

h) Subject insisted. that he was not requrced to take .-
Bo a. medical exumination aw part of his processing for. ontry into”
i 0 the KGB. When challenged.on this and asked to explain it, en ee
Subject said that it was probably because they knew that he — ws
Was on active duty in tho Navy, and possibly also because
his application had a special characters because of KOBULOV's .
involvement. . ‘ : : =p OS

: / . CONMENT: A medical exam was mandatory fur all new employees
ao e of the KGB, whether or not they were of-ficers on active -
; military service. .

i . i) Asked about his salary when he tirst started to work -
: for the KGB, Subject said that he got a baste salary of 1700

: ‘rubles as a case officer, 500 rubles for bis rank of lieutenant,

ih . plus ‘secrecy, languago, ‘a ength of service pay. He affirmed -

that this was corroct. undor.close questioning, “I then told

   
   
  
    
 
 
 

    
 

b, _. Subject’ that NGB officer no-Vonger being paid for rank:

! in March 1953. -Subject he wasn't at all .

: interested in mor ally couldn't remember, '-
i . Then he said that ho remembered t re was one year when

feved was 1954, and

they wore not paid for rank - whicl
; rank when ho first

that he still, thinks that he was |
entored the KGB, ~ : . :

 

COMMENT: Salary for rank was taken away from MGB officers
in mid-1952, It had not been restored as of February 1954,
although I believe it'is likely that it was restored at .
some time thereafter,

j) Asked who were IGNATYEV's deputies, Subject mentioned
SAVCHENKO (among others), Asked what was SAVCHENKO's background,
Subject said that he had been in. the Ukraine, then had beon
head of the Intelligence Directorate of the GB, after BERIYA
he was deputy chairman of the KGB for a short while, after which
he went to Moldavia ag Chief of the Moldavian KGB, Subject thus
repeated a mistake he had made previously. He firmly stated

 
104-10227-10008

    

5

Chat tie did not know. of any othur SAVCHENKOS, When told that
thore are two Goneral SAVCHENKOS and that he had thei mixed
up, Subject replied, that ho didn't know SAVCHENKO 's first
aneiny and that he didn't sce what ditferenee it made anyway,

 

 

COMMENT:. “As explained carlier, Subject has confused Lt,
Gneral Sergey Ronanovich SAVCHENKO and Let, General. Ivan,
Tikhonovich’ SAYCHENKO, Both of them occupied Prominent ’
Ppesitions in the MGR at this..time, Sergey Romanovich had =.
been MGR Minister in the Ukraine prior to 1950, was .
Deputy Minister MGB And head of the Intelligence Directorates -
“MGB from 1250 to Nov. 1952, was a Lt. ‘Gen, “without Portfolio".
from Nov 1852 to March 1933, when he was made deputy chief
: . of th advisor's section of the FCD: Ivan Tikhonovich
: » SAVCHENKXO was head of the Chief Dirceetorate or Special
“Services under the CO/CPSU from 1948 to November .1952 |.
(the predecessor corganization of the &th Directorate KGB),
then Chief of the 8th Directorate MGR frem Nov 1952, Ut
is this SAVCHENKO who later went to Moldavia, Any officer’ |
who served in the NGB in VW5I or. later should know of ne
both SAVCHENKOgs and -bo rble to distinguish between them,

witb ian

  

 

 

   

k) Asked to describe the front of the KGB club, Subject ..
Poe said that he did not remember. an sign (there was one in 195. :
' : but mentioned that there wa itronom next to-it, Asked™.
‘ when ‘the Gastronon was open ec Badd * mly that it was
. ‘already there when ‘he starte » KGB. Told that’.
there. wag no Gastronom there t bocame rather -
contused; he made up a little story about W KGB officers. com-- F
Plaincd about the <poor security created © opening of the Do,
Gastronom, ‘and satd finally that perhaps 2 Gastronom wasn't : : :
there until 1955, ° :

     
 
  
   

  

   
    
  

   

COMMENT: = The Gastronom -was definitely not there as of
1954, It is listed in the Moscow .Telephone Directory for
1958 (no directories ave available for the years 1955-
1957). It is’ believed that Subjeet's Slip on the Gastronom
may bea revealing one, and if we can éstablish exactly
when it opened it may provide a good clue as to when
‘Subject was first associated with the KGB, .

      

 

1) Asked to describe the lecation of any safehouse
belonging to NN (external surveillance) of the SCD in 1953-54,

 
104-10227-10008 i

   

  

REPORT ON INTERROGATION
DATE: 26 July 1965

E l. The interrogation took place from 1230 to 1500 and
i from 1600 to 1730, | commenced according to the previously.

: prepared plan, Subject asked no questions about my identity,

: raised no objections of any kind, and Said he was willing to”

1 answer any questions, Although 1 frequent ly challenged the

i truthfulness and correctness of Subjeect's ‘answers, the overall -

tone of the interrogation was calm, and Subject's attitude was

‘correct and cooperative. Soft drinks were served, and at his

request, Subject was allowed to smoke during the second Part

eof the interrogation, Subject said at the beginning that he

" had told only the truth in the past, that he had ‘not. been sent

fo by. anyone, and that he. was willing to tell only the truth to

ne. . . :

 

2, Questioning was-concentrated on the. 1953-54 period,
The following are the must interesting and significant points
that emerged: : :

 

 

 

a) In talking about his return to Moscow on leave
fron “Sovetsk, Primorskiy Kray, in the Baltie; the end
of December 1952, Subject was unable to correc. explain the
proper registration procedure for a military officer on leave.
He atfirmed that he did not have to report to anyone upon
arrival in Moscow.

  
 

COMMENT: If Subject was truly a’naval intelligence officer,
according to regulations he would have been required to
report to the Personnel Department of the GRU/VMF and also
to the Naval Commendant of the City of Moscow within three
days of his arrival. Subject did not dispute my statement
that these were the regulations, and finally said vaguely
that he reported to Naval GRU Personnel "seven or ten days"
after arrival,

 

rf b) Under close questioning, Subject's story about his

5 "meeting with KABULOV took on some new aspects. He now says
that relations between his father and KABULOV were those of
colleagues only, that the two families had never gotten to-

: gether before, and that he (Subject) himself had never spoken

é to KABULOV before this occasion, Furthermore, Subject now

> says that the meeting took place at KABULOV's dacha (rather

TEE magne te
MA-t0227=1 0008 MATERTAL REVIESED AT CIA READQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMULTTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

   
 
 
  
  

FILE TITLEZNUNBER/VOLUME: Veal) REPEC CTS on!

OE A ?}

der the John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992
TAF UST ZIV7 Notey

ROOM: ; NW 53216 6/17/17

INCLUSTVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

 

 

 

DATE DATE 7 . 3 i . :
RECEIVED | RETURNED | REVIEWED _BY. (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

 

 

 

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR RENOVED FROM.THIS FILE
104-10227-10008

 

i
i
F

 

   
   

v

 

that at the NOSEXKO dacha), that the date of this tet-together
was either 1 or 2 January 1953, and that Vasiliy VAKHRUSHEV
-(ho was then narricd to KABULOV's daughter) was also prosent,
“Ina typical piece ef improvisation, Subject even said that

it. was VAKERUSHEV, rather than KABULOV, who first rained the
question of what Subject ways doing. .

- COMMENT: In view of Subjects different previous stories:
about this incident, hig readiness to changu his: story .
and to improvise under. my questioning makes it impossible
to believe thathe Was actually recomucnded by KARULOV to
the KGB. : : : ,

c) In talking about his first visit to the KGB, Subject
Was unable to give a consistent and Necurate account of the
procedures at the KGB Pass office, Specifically, he maintained’
ihat the name of the interviewer was not indicated on the pass.

 

The name of the intorviewer is always indicated
on the visitor's pass, It is difficult to understand

why Subject would not know.’ -4f he had ever Rerved

in the KGB, much less in 4: : , i

COMMENT:

   

 
  
 

 

ma, a) Subject maintained that on th t visit he talked”
to some personnel officers (he cowld not ri
were located in an office on the sixth flo
of Building #12, He said-that he left his J
on the ground floor of this entry. He said that these Offtcors:
were in the same section of offices ag ROZNENKO, whom he: talked

to here on a later visit,

COMMENT: Subject insisted that he was positive about
the fact that ROZHENKO'sS of fice was in the 8th entry:
even though I told him this was Lapossible, In‘fact, up
to the time of my departure from Moscow (Sept 1953) ,
neither ROZHENKO nor any units or officers of KGB Personnel
were located in the 8th entry, As far ag the garderobe

- ds conéerned, although Subject correctly mentioned that
there was also ore on the second floor by the dietetic
restaurant. there was no garderobe on the ground floor in
those yearg, (From 1947 to the time 1 left, KGB personnel
were located on the Gth ang 7th floors of the 7ti entry,
Building #12.) : ot

 

 
104-10227-10008

 

  

 
 
  

©) Subject said that on the day he first reported for
work ("13 or 95 March 1953") he went from the p office to
__. the 4th entry, where. his -pass was checked by -the guards, and
: : then went unescorted to KABULOV's office on the Jrd floor,

COMMENT: =. 1t is not posible to Ko through any entry
of Building. #2 with a vindtor's pass without escort,
(Especiilly to tho office of the deputy ministers) a . i

1) In general, Subject gave a correct description of
what was located in-entries 2-7 of Bed ldings #12, However, he
did not mention the oxistence of an extra entrance to the left
of tho KGB Club. Moro important, he satd that he did not .
know whether or not there was a Oth entry, but that he be lieved
theru was not, : ; 2

 

 

|

t
!
1
f

COMMENT: = The Sth entry was located around the corner |
on Malaya Lubyanka, and was used by a few sections of
the 9th Directorate, Althougt Subject may never have
had occasion:to-enter it, ho tainly bé. aware
of its cxistence, espociall mentioned going
to the Moscow UKGB, Which w ed ne to entry 9,

     
 

 

@). In describing ‘the Papors that he h
to apply for entry into the KGB, Subjoct nent
questionnaire/anketa/ and an ‘autobiography, | - ¢
i received the forms on his first visit to tho KG took them . os
t ‘ hone and filled :them out, and thon delivered them to the . ae
personnel officer on the following day. He said that he.was
obliged to turn. both the questionnaire and the autobiography
in in two copies, He maintained that. the questionnaire did
not have any name, other than simply “anketa.” Ne suid that
it was four or six Pages long. Subject way challenged on all
these points, but insisted that he was correct, ~ .

COMMENT: The questionnaire is called "Ankota Spetsialnoge
: Naznachentya Sotrudnika KGB:" This is prominently printed
: " . at the top of the first page. It is not less than’ 12
pages long - probably 16, Never, under any circumstances,
-4s it permitted to take this questionnaire home to fill
out. Only one copy of the questionnaire (or autobiography)
was ever required, although an Applicant might he asked

to make a new one if the first was incorrectly filled out,

 
