 

 

 

 

“pd

 

  

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel
. Thursday ~ 10 November 1977

48, (Internal Use Only - GLC) LIAISON Received a call
from Miss Sue Tinajero, former employee of the House Select Committee
on_ Ass inations, concerning a current Committee sana we
been denied security clearances. (See Memorandum for the Record.) -

“49. (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON Received.a call from
John Swanner, Staff Director, House Committee on Standards of Official
Conduct. He wanted to talk to me about means by which payment could

_ , be effected by the Committee to current and former CIA employees for the
'; cost of their travel and other expenses to Washington for the purpose of

giving testimony to the Committee, ae re articularly interested in
_ the case of Mr. John Richardson, forte but said he was

also concerned about a number. of other cases of other individuals who
| would have to be called back from abroad. We discussed several possibilities.

, and I told him I would talk with our Office of Finance people to see if some

arrangement could not be made whereby we could advance funds for the.

- cost of travel for these individuals and be reimbursed from the Committee

on a quarterly basis without the individuals' names appearing in any of
these records, (Swanner had said that the Committee's difficulty was
a procedural one, not one of principle. He had explained that all of the - .
’ Committee's records are subject to public review and any vouchers that
might be executed for a witness! travel would ‘publicly identify that
individual.) I later discussed this situation with Jack Blake, A/DDCI,
Hugh Lacey and Warren Magnusson, OF, and they feel that suitable
arrangements can be worked out. Paul Garbler, OLC, will follow up -
with the Office of Finance and other interested offices, such as the Office
of General Counsel and the DDO on this subject.

"he Thr Pores Ghaige Dong |

Legislative Counsel

 

ec:
O/DDCI 03 - §SA/DO/O
Me IC Staff

Ex. Sec. Comptroller
DDA DDS&T : NFAC

Mr. Lapham

Mr. Hetu | } GO44

          

    

«rep ie
INTERNAL GS

E ONLY
