ot y~N SE CRE T pops
“ ok yo
3. From the above description of Mr. X, it is reasonably

iclear that Mr. XN is Antonio Carlos VECIANA Blanch (201-312966).

VECLANA, an assistant bank manager and past president of a public
accountants association in llavana,. first contacted CIA_in Havana
in December 1960 when he asked the COS, at that time in
to help in an assassination plot against Castro. VUCTANn ™asKca7~
for visas for ten relatives of the four men assigned to kill Castro,
and also requested four MI rifles with adapters for grenades plus
eight grenades. The COS did not encourage VECIANA and subsequently
checked with an Embassy officer who reported that VECIANA had made
similar “wild-eyed" proposals to him. On 23 November 1961 the

Miami News published a report of an unsuccessful attempt by Antonio
VECIANA to kill Castro. VECIANA reportedly had arranged to
assassinate Castro and Cuban President Osvaldo Dorticos on 5 October
in Havana, but the bazooka he was using: failed to fire.

 

 

 

4. There has been no Agency relationship with VECIANA. A
POA, which was granted for his use in para-military affairs in
January 1962, expired in November 1962. VECIANA was born on
4 October 1955 in Havana. He was a member of the People's Revo-
lutionary Movement, an anti-Castro group. in Cuba during 1960-61, and
was one of the founders of Alpha-66. A certified public accountant
by trade, VECIANA was with A.I.D. in La Paz in 1968-72. VECTANA
was registered in ISR to the U.S. Army in November 1962 and he
was terminated without prejudice in July 1966. On 23 July 1962
VECIANA was interviewed, at his request, by Mr. Harry Real from
the DCD New York office. VECIANA asked Real to arrange a meeting
with a senior CIA officer to discuss Alpha-66's plans to assassinate
Castro and to request CIA's assistance (U.S.$100,000; 10,000 Cuban
pesos; 48 hand grenades). There is no indication that this request
was ever acted upon by CIA. :

"S. In April 1966 a LA Division officer, a using
the alias John Livingston, met VECIANA in New YOrk City™” The

meeting was arranged by a retired naval officer, James Cogswell,
who had informed Chief, WH Division that he had information of valuc

~ concerning Cuba. When Karrived in New York City for the meeting,

he was introduced by CofSWéll to. VECIANA. He imuediately launched
a discussion of the Cuban political situation and noted his strong
feeling that the only solution was the assassination of. Castro.
wadvised VECIANA that he was in no position to provide him with
assistance or cncourage him in an assassinution attempt and was only
interested in gathering information which he thought was the purpose
of the meeting. VECIANA subsequently said that his roommate Felix
ZABALA, a_Cuban refugee, had excellent contacts in Havana. It was
clear to | however, VECIANA was attempting to use-ZABALA poten-
tially to7B@€ Agency financial support for his organization.

 

”

va

 
104-10422-10275

 

 

4
LA/COG/021-77

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations

FROM : : Raymond A. Warren
Chief, Latin America Division
. +
z.
SUBJECTS oo: A. Jack Anderson 20 January 1977 Column
LO Titled "CIA Tied to False Oswald Story"

B. Identification of the Mr. X in the
Anderson Column

1. The attached column, citing the testimony of a Mr. X,
alleges that a CIA agent tried to link Oswald to Cuban intelli-
gence officers in Mexico. There is, of course, no substance to
the column's allegations. The column identifies the source as
Mr. X because of attempts on his life, but subsequently gives
enough information on Mr. X to establish his identity.

2. According to the Anderson column, Mr. X was first met
by his CIA contact in Havana before relations with U.S./Cuba were
severed. Mr. X had helped to organize bank accountants to eim-
bezzle Cuban government funds to finance anti-Castro causes.
Mr. K was reportedly recruited by a Morris Bishop (CIA contact),
to plan an attempt on Castro's life. The plan was to fire a
bazooka from a nearby apartment building while Castro was deliver-
ing one of his marathon speeches. According to the Anderson
column, the plot was discovered by Castro's police and Mr. X
escaped to Miami. Mr. X also reportedly tried to assassinate
Castro in Chile in 1971 in league with the Venezuelan Luis Posada
Carriles, who is now being detained in Caracas for the 6 October
Cubana airline bombing. The Anderson column ends with the report
that Mr. X worked for CIA until 1975 for expenses, but ‘was paid
$253,000 in cash by Morris Bishop when he was terminated.

   
  
     

al WARNING NOTICE _
““?SENSTTIVE [INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS “INVOLVED
2 ST “SECRET E2 1MPDET

“ CL BY 025251

 
_VECTANA suggested that $50,000 would be needed ta get his
Sactivities off the ground. - Pindicated to VEGIANA that he
would Look into the ZABALA matter and would probably arrange for

“ZABALA to be “contacted in Puerto Rice.

 

 

6. There-is no indication in the file that any Agency officer
in contact with VECIANA ever used an alias Morris Bishop. There is
no Morris Bishcep listed in true name in the DDO rolls. There was
never any contractual relationship with VECIANA and he was not

paid CIA funds.

7. On ll January 1977 a sanitized copy of VECIANA's 201 file
was made available to staffers from the Senate Select Committee on
Intelligence.

 

aymond A. Warren

es}
wo

Attachment .

DDO/C/LA/COG/OPS:WJDevine:js (9229) (21 January 1977)
- Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - ADDO.

«

1 - LA/COG/Chrono
2 - C/LAD
4G - 201-312966
lL - hold
- EAL OPS

1 - ASST. TEDL
13-00000

 

7
cone

“Jack Anderson az

 

a

 

ly lysiery -

iA mystery witness o sworn to: con

 

gressional i investizators that 2 Central

; telligence. Agency agent introduced
“him to Lee Harvey Oswaid in Dallas
three months before Oswald gunned
‘down President John FP. Xeanedy.-.

oo The witness, whom we have agreed B

“to identify oniy ag Mr. X because of at-

clesely withtheCIA.. =

The group held secret meetings at
3126 Eoilandale in Dallas before the as-
“gassination. Not long after Kennedy
. °° ‘was shot, a Dallas deputy sheriff was
| .\told by am informant that Oswaid had

 

 

"3123 Harlendale.”. aa -

' Mr. X’s dramatic testimony ‘casts
“new light.on the story Sylvia Cdio,
LB daughter of a wealtay opponent of Cu-

r

: hee Dallas apartment by three men

- who identified themselves as f atl .

 

. of her father.

One was introduced to ‘her 2$ eon ~

” Oswald.” When she saw the picture ia
_ _ the newspapers of the man who had
~ shot Kennedy, she fainted from shock.
“It was the same Oswald, she was cer-
’ -tain, who nad visited her apartment.
. ".. Congressional investigators have
-- now learned that the late J. Edgar

‘sHoover deiiterately misled the War- -

» ren Commission about Odio’s mystari-
: ous visitors. She was such a persuasive

+ witness that the commission staff was .. -

- preparing to investigate her story
thoroughly.

Staff members even speculated, ae.
cording to one internal memo, that the -

 

 

+3, toa:

tempts of his life, is the founder of a.
“Cuban terrorist group that “worked :

been associating with some Cubans at.

    
 
 

‘pan Premier Fidel Castro, told to the:
¥BL Two montks before the Kennedy iy
Killing, she related, she was visited in.) ,

THE WASHINGTON POST

JF K

antiCastro. forces - might have re-
_eruited Oswaid, a known, pro-Castro
activist to sill Kennedy. :

. “The motiva on this,” states the me
‘mo, ““wouid of course be the expecta-
that after the fresideht was
killed, Oswald would bd caught or at

J Les Whitten

ag ee)
SS 37

‘He would then blame the assassination
° on the Castro government; and the call

 
 
  

sistible.” .
“= But Hoover’ ‘abruptly blocked this

line of inquiry by notifying the War-
rea Commission on Sept. 21, 1964, that
the. FBI had Iccated and identified

Loran Hail, Lawrence Howard and.
William Seymour, all anti-Castroites.
and “Leon Cswald.”

deniais before Hoover wrota his letter
to the Warren Commission.

The investigators have alsu obtained»

_ the tape of a fascinating con
predicting two weeks in adi

  

Kenaedy would be shot “from an cit. -

_dce building with a high-powered ri-
fle.” ‘The prediction was made by the
late Josepb Diilteer, a rigat-wing rab-
ble rouser, who also happened to have
elese ‘connections with antiCastro
leaders.

. 9, 1983, in Miami by an FBI informant
named Willie Somersett, who turned
the tape over to the FBI the next day.

Wednewday, January 19, 1977

« Jeast his identity ascertained; the law .
. enforcement authoritiss and the pub--.

. for a forverul overthrory would bei irre.

 

 

QOdio's callers, G2 named them as -.

‘Hoover even suggested that Odio could ~
have confused ine names “Loran Hall” ..

Now the congressicnal investigators :
have uncovered evidence that all three «
' denied visiting the. Odio apartment -
and that the YBI had obtained their.

  

The conversation & was taped on Nov. ;

Milteer is heard on the tape describing |

 
   
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
   

Inguiry ,

how Kennedy would die. Thea the rab-
bie rouser added knowingiy that Ken-
- mnedy “knows he is a marked man.”

Milteer later admitted to the FBI:
that he had been in~Dallas in June,-°2°-:
1963, but denied having any knowl. 4-.-
edge of the Kennedy assasssination. 4°":
Ho-vever, the informant told the FBI. >
that he asked Alilteer after the sacot-+- 3

‘ing whether he had known about itia~ :
advance or had merely been guessing. *°
“T don’ t do any guessin replied Mib

2 fear: so: o

. But the most explosive ‘deve! oment~ |

is Mr. X's statement that he met Os-..
wald in the company ofa CLA agent.-:

Congressional investigaters questioned: :

the mystery ‘witness closely on three
separate occasions. They finally con-.

. cluded that “his credibility is strength-

ened by the details he provides consist-..
ent with what he told us before. Signif--
icantly, he remains very strong on the §

Oswald signting.” “

The encounter occurred in a down.

town Dallas building, where Mr. X h:

an appointment with his CLA Contact,

The agent was accompanied by a man”:

: whom Mr. X later recognized.as Ken wg
- nedy’s Eiller. -

“When he saw it was Oswald that”
Killed Xennedy,” the investigators re ~
ported in a confidential memo, “ha'.&
nearly ireaked out, but he never said 2
anything.” a
. The investigators tried to pin down

Mr. X on how he could be sure that |

_man was Oswald. Mir. X replied, ace

cording to the memo, that he had"
learnea “how to retain the character- >:
ics of a person; he had trained himsel?
to do that. And if it wasa't Oswald, its:
was someone who was exactly lie Ce E
‘wald, his exact double. -. ong

 

      
    
   
    
   

    

 
