 

‘hog 1078-40020

  

 

   

To var eR a

   

Bild - FOG

Yad auattin He So

     
   

 

 

  
   
 
 

MARKED FOR INDELNG
MO INDEWING REQUIIED

INDEXING CAN BE 1U0GED
BY QUALIFIED HQ DESK ONLY

    
   

 

 
 

B. 2B BUI (cot sect (Sacue, Bera) [9-6 515-10
E, B-6) 15-1 uy
C, UIE 97 (not ext Farce, sera) | by15 v “Do Ret USS Only
Ly (Gsva}35u {nat cert Luxe} uy
72h
L. for Lexeshoarg: FYI Pending aiyected concurrence fros O"-1L0E,

the subject af para 2, reference fi will be turmed over to ES-AcK for S-HN
serfs, 2 TEST? (7), COoVTveST officer fn[iem)uill bancle the ease |>

    
   
        
   

eeder (COS, Pernjand wil work closely with CLAYmrod (hr) who wihl represext
atarests. VIS JO
2, forjfera} seferecess A, B, end C contain tne following taforsetionr

a A vabdcn citizes reported trat ta uideaApril 1959 one

Apaaed CBLAC Ys axa LTiAWA'K asked hia to join a ring
which receirei largo ascunts ef free oriua fres the
ChiCoss ca comlifion thet 1t be ewugeled inte the Unkted
States. ielacia said tuat two ulelifens residing in
Paria ned exccecefully engaged in Unde tratfie: . cae ot
whos alledgecly tai received 52 kilocrane of free eplom
vin long fong and celivered it personally in the united
‘States after asterizg via Canada, Full french Cocusectation
neeced for an kerican visa can allosgeuly be obvainad
fer 32M. .

SRLS s edirwss is civen as 25 rue Sract, Paris and be
is described a3 follows: Ase L7, height 175 cam, selgnt
70872 cLlos, drown Pair, talcing, owel Tace, brotm ayes,
erookrd nose, thick lira, heavy cigarette aur, Forn
in !aeque cocstry. incgcled narestica before and aftar
tha war froa ‘crth ifrica. Convicted three tines, the
Jaot tles for tieft and was Lact releared in ecexber
3954, (.0 Heaccusrters traces)

Ge al

       
   
      
   
   
     
     
   
   
   
    
   
   
 
    
   

Tue Wiastboercer stated Hie williacseas te accert

celal fs effer Uf he ea have Jwriean cuidance. CUS,
Lexecboorg, vao interviewed hin, otserved that he probably
krows wore tian he told or is involved in sone ceal for
wnich he Boreas to prutect hinealf by beta able to state
that be ia workics for the tuerhesng., COS, Laxentourg
eusfested ac UG AOR popraserbative te sant to Ln derdou ry
wna :e he eouls fuily (ntorrogate the luxeabourger and
agreas bis story.

    
   
    
   
    
   
    

3}. O'ALGE sestquartars was informed of Loe atove in the oriciaal m<o
inforain, thes of toe SY-rat-TébB provoscl, -nleas you beliers taal the
atove case warraa:s inteti:, ition ty 1 (ITT, wa euggeat taat Cua el od Le
etvieed and arran,ereste aaue turegurh the ‘asecboury .tuties for an OL ALOE
representative $0 interme ete ing .ake-sLoarper te cetersire etat interest
be way offer te o ALh.

      
   
     
    

eat RY a ea
LT Jere 1999 15-1 1B-G 7
wo ABT shions, ste an cfs

      
 

 
