 

; ¢€
L SECRET

- + , ~ 2 -
%

in Spain- (which:Espinosa entered illegally), Espinosa was. in-
formed that. there is a plan to:overthrow the Castro regime —

ané to kill Castro and some.of his main’ leaders. The plot is
led by: Cubelzg. -an@-some ofthe March 13:Movement; plus (I be-
lieve) some-military officers, They must move very quickly

_ because: more ‘and ‘more people are. ‘learning of the plot and ~
there-is growing risk of -exposure. ‘They are anxious to have
some coordination, .or at leeet- consultation, with: responsible
Americans, .' They :are:-not confident: that ‘they could win an'all-
out fight against the Cestro forces, and are ‘thinking more in-
terms of taking control for a short time (perhaps only a few
hours) ,-killing Castro and his most ‘effective men “(thus |
ruining -the Castro movement - ‘forever), and then trying to hold
out..for -ag-long ae feasible, {It:is essentiel that ‘they know ©
what, 1£ anything,:the Americans might’ “do to help, now and/or.
later, when. the-coup. is. attempted,-: Algo, they wished to lert
the. united: States. ‘Government. to what” was: > being Planned,’ _

 

 
 
 
 

 

Bo Ret emer be a vt
noche: bar “might: have: tured to
iHawever, they’ believe’

 

 

 

 

 

unreliable.: A Cuba © ent. to Badr: some time ago by
the. ae fooled by her and, being
‘wery fond of women, in an apartment in Madrid, He
also arranged: for her:to:work with: the International Rescue
Committee, «When. the: proper’ momentcame;“four months ego, . she ~
flew. back to Havana’ with>-some “very-useful files, In‘ these ~
ei the:Cuban-plotters have no confidence whatever
‘{ They urgently asked Espinosa to be their go~
-be eliable American officials, The “top security"
man-returned to Havana, while one representative of the
plotters waited in Spain for en ‘answer, .

 

ane . Espinosa hurriedly: ‘returned : ‘to ‘New York: Clty. “He called _

o! ‘Brien of ‘the New York FBI. to ask ‘that ‘the latter arrange for-
his to telk with some serious and reliable man from CIA,
O'Brien did so,- Espinosa then-told the foregoing story, and
more, -to a-CIA men named "Hal", Hal impressed Espinosa as
being intelligent and reliable, Espinose understands that Hal
or someone elge went. to Spain to check on his story. At all
events, Espinosa wes assured CIA understood the urgency of the
. matter. and that he would be called within a few days. A week
’ bee pacsed, However, no call has come and time is rapidly.
 

 
  

[to tots-to0 cn, aan vt thes 3
Lye Cc ‘ ihiwber...

SECRET
i
in

| ;

 

ARA/CCA - Mr, Stevegson July 9, 1965
’ ARA'- George Lister

4 ae Visit of Cuban Exile Vietor Espinosa. .

      

; “ta accordance. with. ‘our conversation ‘yesterday. have. get
. forth, below -asFeport on the visit. of, Victor Espinosa « ; eos

‘

ws 7
Aemmanenanes he,
ae rene

   

“~%

 

; A Venezuelan ‘Christian. Democratic friend ‘of. ‘mine, Yalmore
Acevedo called me..from New York. City yesterday. morning. to.ask
as. a-personal - favor: -that-I receive a Cuban-exile.living. there

: who. bad something... "amazing". to- tell mes, hen, I: ‘expressed mild
skepticism, Acevedo -urgently repeated his -request and.t agreed,
Within.a surprisingly.short:.time the- Cuban ye: Victor Espinosa yr :
arrived.at my office (he.said he bad,takenthe plane. immedi-....
ately); Espinosa gave-his-addresa.and.. telephone number as

; follows: 415 East 52nd ‘Street, BA Br. A ‘Summary of his

) statements, follows « ingot ‘ : ae

 

    
      

5 -¥apinosa. has eon involved. in ‘Cuban iberation activities
for many -years,,',He opposed. Batista and. opposes Castro.,,.. de is
not.a-member of. the March.13- Movement, -but-has long. been very |
close-to. many of-its-leaders, including: Cubelag’.. Espinosa was
trained. by CIA, .in-both. Louisiana and. Guatemala ,. and was one..
of those who was. ,sent- into. Cuba - -prior to:the ‘Bay of. Pigs. . He
. plans..to. become an- American .citizen. in August. ofthis: “year...
He admires the United. States.and American strength and ,compe~
x tence in many fields. -He asked a New York acquaintenance of:
his for. the name of someone in.the Department, davolved in
Latin American.affairs,. He-waa told.Acevedo knew such an
official. Espinosa asked Acevedo (without, he claims, re-
vealing his story), 3 and the. jatter. called, me, -- : :

se

. A ‘Little: earl lier “thie” “yaar “Espinosa ‘received a a request
from one of his reliable Cuban contacts in-Europe, asking that
he come there quickly... Espinosa went to.Miami, obtained false
Cuban papers, and went to Paris, “There, . Apparently.:in-the -
presence of the Cuban Ambassador ‘to France, - he met one.of.the
"tap security" men.of the Castro regime, who-had come to-Paris
for that purpose, During various meetings, both- ‘in- ‘France. and

SECRET ‘

 
74-0000

 Teppe

¢ - SECREL €¢€

.

os : | -3- ; |

running out. Espinosa's friends in Paris keep calling him,
cautiously asking whether there has been some "response", __
but Espinosa has had to keep putting. them off, Meanwhile,
the Cuban who was waiting in Spain for the answer has had to
xeturn.” Espinosa keeps waiting to hear whether the Americens
will play ball with the Cubeldg “group. _ The plot has lasted —
for over 18 months, and the plotters plan to go ahead very .
soon rio matter whether the Americans “play ‘ball" or not, One
veason is ‘that they almost have to go ahead now, for the plot
will soon be discovered and thea it will be entirely hopeless.

. Espinosa also referred to a jeweler by the name of

{Zino (spelling?), located at 47th Street, in New York
City. Tepp¢/dtino works for CIA and has frequent contact with
the Cuban Ambassador, in Paris, The Ambassador regularly dis~
poses of jewelry and other valuables made available from Cuba.
He does this through Tepp no, However, the latter fools
CIA. , For example, the Ambassador agrees to sell for $80,000.
Teppéeltino informs CIA the price is $110,000, and quietly
pockets the difference, On the other hand, Teppeldino and
CIA think the Cuban Ambassador does not know he is working for

- CIA, but the Ambsgsador does know. |

enon

_ Espinosa is determined to bring the very dangerous
eituation of the Cuban plot to the attention of some top level
official in the United States Government unless he receives ,

" at least some reply from CIA.

Gomment:

Espinosa was not overly tense and did not indulge in his~-
trionics, but I felt he was quite determined to push this
matter further if he did not get some response within the very.
near future, I cannot, and do not have to, judge his reli-
ability on the basis of this one conversation, However, if I
had to guess at thie point I would be inclined to accept most
of what he said sbout actual events, But of course there are
all sorts of obvious possibilities, including provocation.

In accordance with what we agreed on, while Espinosa was »

SECRET

een erey
ian on
SECBEL
he
ana toid ‘some length that of course
t into. Howevex » U added
further -

 

 
