  

 

 

  

Wa

Vil. stueation and Culture

2. To tarry out & tras Eeucations! Ssfor. strected tt premre the,
eitisenry for dts resprrsiztiities in s demotritis ectisty, to produce
the teehniciaca required oy the eeor.qale catelormen. c’ the nation, te
fnereese the culture of ovr people aod 22 extend ei.caticn to all the

. Comtry, using effectively ths resources with are lavasteds

2, fo reestablish the fresdon ef et:catio prowting the feeerkinn

 

con

sorsl. sredning of childs and posthe

3. % suppress all ni Mearisation acd towlitarian indoctrination
of ehildren end youth. ; 7

&e To give pork university ecncsiion its nscessary autoncay, the
modern erginie bases, and the necessary -ecenonie mesos to: realise ‘the 7

fullest the high social responsibilities witch fall te those higher centers

chine ipa cy dsb

of edusation acd investigation (learning and researeh),

    
    
    
    

 

“WILT, Public Bealth
“te To develop effective plans whieh: peralt every Cuban, reerdless

- ef eeonaste resources, to hare the gost eemplete attention for bealthe: 44 ©

m | ies Tocee

 

1. To ratify the positions of ali members of the Rebel Aray, kay
Ysa Galeus veng who contrizate to the downfall of the Coommist tyracry
and te proacte those vbo déesrre it fer keroiss in battle.

  

 

 

 

re to organise the Bechnical druxd Forees in the serviee of the i
4

Republis to wich can belorg doth manbert of the old arny and those of '
the Bebol Aray who are not responsible fer ertalnal desde. . 4
3. To initiate the process of emabiisicant of an obligatory

military service for the Arasd Farees.

  

aoe

   

ad
 

 

X, | Fresdon of rrisoners and Revisicn of *eralsios

  

  

gO eM tan ryaiedertis eels

i

  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  

&. fo dissolve the ailitias

ed

le To announes immediate freedoa cf 011 prisacers for acts of
“peeietacte to the Caruntst dictatorship, thrash nullification of the

eserespording triale and to revisy the tases beard by the ao-caliet

 

Bevalx.ierary Triounale in da omar to exrrect cases of injustice.

x. Rendieatien ef Comarisa anf ali Antiwterperatic aetivtey

i. Yo proseribe tha Cearmnist farty and every organisation corey

bo

 

$6 ths dewerstle representative syeten or which paces atteuprs amfisst {

  
  

“tbe rational sowereigty in accordance with the dispositions of article

: EXE. International Relations
“3 wmueiation of tha intarnatianal courrentset and trarties vase

ae

 

een the maticcal soversignty end place the. peace and security of

the - beulaphere dn dangore
ae “Tamediate resumption of the trediticoal relations with the

 

‘denocratfe eountries of the world and the fulfiliannt of Legitiante e

“ anternational pacts (agrocomats).

     
 

 

 

 

2. To repesi the Laws atiet Sere artless treteecnion freedoa
7

to suppress the sc-chiles weluneecr romtrdiui st.

   

3e To anclish the state casimol cf wore e2¢bcl.

" Sareau of employment of she intstry cf this Eranch.

  

ke To incline trward the pactisioation ef the worcers in the = {

profits of the ecterpr.seé.

%, Yo sictt seatctes to surantes equal onpcorienities for study;
% oF P

3

 

apprenticéship, ex: exicyaant te yo:

6 To revise ant epnrcve the coyssisati-ne c! soctel security, |
atiusting the furcttocizg of the cok of Social Severity to Practical!
actusrish prestices. ; ‘

Vi. Beturn cf legttinste Proverty

Qe To restore te their legiti~ate curers the goods and rights i
501204 4
intervened, canfiseated, occupied, orm affected ¥ tte Cosmet =ist §y SyBtont,

except these whieh Poe seasons cf puslis utility

me eeetet Anterest
Ce TT Suclal Gniereat”

the state conaiders eaprepriabls 4s the fora srovided for in the Constie
tution and the laws. Bet ebjecte of this restaretion will bs the property
dishonest
confiseated ducticwmixes in fuss mt casey approval of the /accose
plices and businestasa vhs peeane rack under tha erisinal atetatcrensy

of Zatista.

4

 

A period of & days wut bs once for penis ‘who consider teeter! 7
property unduly confiscated to te ame te eostatlian recourses bs fore
Civil Office of * the Suzrece Court, pentane the socres ponding euificcal
Posalutions, | . hos fa ree 2 ot r

 

pene.

 

Sk ond Bn an cei as

  
    
  
  
14-00000

 

i
j

   

5 So : Iv. Agrarian Syatea ‘ . .

  

Ls To establish an asmartan systes which givey an eieqrce elation

to the situations dn f{sct created by the Somuuinist Govertoant ac which.

Zacilitate to tne oesupante of lots of less than five cabelterias the

 

wi acquisition of fcll omiership of sams, paying to the previocs omer

6 fair price io duly guare:tesd bonds whlch will be liquidated before

their expiration in order to ‘fnenee intustrtal Frofates of national

nteresie ;
2, To pr sossribe lard aivisione The pusiicatic: of the o6es for .

developing this dtepositia: of the ecnstitution remiins pending for

further consideration. .

; 3e To armource Mepcsttions wadiet offer the peasant adequate

i
5
d
4
4
4

    
  
 
  
  
 
   

allowance, Jor.g-ters eredi:s; and low interest, tathnign) advdne

 

Porsstion facilities, storage, and e2 ifective moans of puarentacing a

   

- lend. 7

. 4. To prepitiate ant stimulate the creation of peasant cooperat, ives

 

- baoed on the’ free desiaion of their sexbers, offering thea the technical,
iS cs
{ : aveiotance and resources «he state haa avaliable for the cost effective

functioning Of Sara, .

 

fed digi

5.: To appt Beasures wich easure the peasantry a high level of
income, odveation, health, ant living conditions.

\ - 6. To Andetate a dross pies of eoastruetion of rural dueling:

   

. .

le To ‘posters to the working class the foetal” rights reenant red ent”

   

|
. v. Labor. Stes .
| ‘quired in the protecticn of the Constitusion of 1940,

 

  
14-00000

 

   

 

 

  
  

 

 

   

  
  
   
     
    
   
 

 

4
i
“t
wet
t
é
I. Pondaaental Crtertizes . {
1. To xrerthrex the lowantce epranny hic
Peopie ef Cuas ard to resztibiten. sonal yeas sr haraony amwg al tre | 5}
Cuoan people, 7 |
2. ®o provers to che toh 3 tee faces tad) resocsteucticn 4
38 & corse: tae” to ALL ae govemdng aol govermet = Hrectec to suit j
the tases of tre Mew Resebitr acd ts diner: the aourse of the Satton ' .
toward @ Lich and Sefintre tistcrieal assilaye 4
Ile State of Une —~ Reertasionment of. : !
: : ; : e
3. To purantae the imetiace estab. istics of a State of Law “
wah prevents exteeses Of wnete who pretended te introduce scetsl , : 5
chase. with the pretext of carciing ot turtles according vs inttvidual 4
OP grey eritaria. . a
2 ‘Yo establish the Corstitution of 21940 with the axcertion of
“the following precepts: ,
.- &, these relative ts ite organic part whose fui fiiicert
fights with the sane kind as ‘he provisional govertae st .

 

   

feferved to in spclication of the Agrirtan Reform, gist a3 it resadne
forsplated on these sases of which inderrirications can be nade tn bonds.
. €. Those relative tn the wilifonth tv toe teschers ind the
bringing cf the State to the Untworsity of Rabana seenvee tt hae beer,
dence strated ia prsetice thet 18 te impesaiole to sseocphion. Law wilh

guarentee an adejuate remuneration to the teachers and a ps opae ecated inns

tlon te the Cniversltios.

 
14-00000

 

 

. with the suitable Adaptations ts tha present

 
 

 

@ripsic: $ tl se Law fo Geters:

whieh could be carried s:5 cy

 

3. Te bold genera. elections we an urdelayable perio! <f LE

tie downfall ef the Jormaziat ty

 

ta tetas a cundicate for

  

any elective

  

iii, follsy of & thon Exemionte Perc lomment

 

1. To prosote an setice police of recanaircetion of our esoncay !

   

and for the Lorsent af industry, arriculture, zining. and vs
ahich inereases our nations: dncoca, of wort fcr the unenpicyed and
raises the standard of itvite of the pesulatien.

femal, and fcrveim

2. To stimslate frrestuents of private,

   

 

capital and +: guarantee the foea initiative al: ccivate cwneschic tn |
. . a

 

dts broad cones: of social Mnmetion, to the enct expeaad in the
previoud article.
3. To revise tuessrstem forces ty ths tyranny, ret

  

 

eat Tal

 

gener] systea of the Law of indabe

 

 

economy and the requiresets of the resonstecsth

&. To promulpste tee lador Cafe te recclate relations antng th
factore 22 production ani te Creata the Labor feirts.

. Urean :

- $. To rereal ths toetalied lan of typexxtm Lefora, fteeetng ren

effective 2 Oetorer 1940 and granting droad opportunities for the

construation of ecuncikls wot sopular Amusing.

   

     

 

 

 

    
  

 
 

 

 

 

 

fy

 

”

i.

 

 

oe

 

PARRA Pano NOES IT eS 8 Rr ro pacorme#

 

 

“the victor. 4t a-v rete tre ol leetren of the Frevistornsl Presi-

-Abcct ome-trird will be selecte+ ¢¢ ore, and the other tuo.

 

    
 
     
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
  
  
  

ceed esta fama ifewanbca pub emacie ee «

 

S taene YeT “a.

Tre Seomrtitge® me tanterdt tom wiz

assestly of 17, 30, or eny otrer

 

stim of a breedecased |
unter of telezates, i

In lieu thereof, tne ‘committee’ wuld (perracs «lready nas)
¢raw ap a list of siv carttiates for tre oresideney. Exactly
how azreemert on this would be ac-leved was “ct made elear,

The list of manes weil. be sent t+ Cuba to be ecproved by the
directors of each *secter™ and would alse be mibiitted to erile
groups fer aperovai, = / iH

   
 

 

After all or wort sf the Sescters® hare indicated thelr arree-
ment with tre list of siw curitzates, eacn me cr we origiral
Committee of Stix (FAT, FRISS, OATEAS, ARTIME, CARRILLO ard
VA2CHA) would receire a "rellot® wit- siy nemes of thei
cantidetes | at ‘a there 3s indteate his preference
in orger cf 28. wr did not sey so. pree
gemaviy scas @ ict syster wrils be used for ceterwining

    
 
  

  
   

 

at wold be secorpilehed by-the Tnmittee cl Six.
Carr was teld that srowided azreerent 125 reacted or the pt. :
cedure, the vatter of selectins @ Provisional Presicent esa
‘be accomrlisned within ten days. “nat is, the liets will be
sent to the “secters*® ir Cobe and elsewhere ard be returned to
the Committee (ir “iiadi withir tre tor-day pericd. (thts, .
poems very octinistic). a:

The President will than @lect freely tre venbers of his council.

 

 

thirds will be selected once tre Provisicnal Jovernment ig set:
wp in Cubs and CASTRO de overthrewn,

 

JER CONTE There vould be tuo distinct perts to the “cds

Part A. A Legislative Catinet comnceed of 1) to ls xiristers
“with pertfeiios® ums will oe frealw selected by the
Prestitert. There wer:l+ roearently have beer g
ard legisletive fenettcrs.

    
 

 

-i0te7-10217],

(2

-wtnost security in the futere. ]

. - SECRET

 

=
3
at
£

7 Nareh 1961

ar ce eas A At pia tin nmi wine bu,

HCRARDUM FOR THE RRCURD
CUREECT ¢ Pima for the Setablishmnt of the Ceban Provisional Governoent’

ERYZO0S4t; Hemorwedas for the Rerard by C/Wi/e/za, dated 26 Fevrury 2961p
Ferm Folajset i

 

L Ae indicated in paragraph 5 of the refereceed nemrentom, Vercnt and
Ray--secording to the wderstanding resehad durizg the 24 Feuruary 136] bkashington
tretingesurre ta proceed to Few Yort on or about 2 yesruary. Tere they net with
Arting, Cerrills, Chibes, end Potos end reterpsd to sathington the efternoon of
5 kerea. A nocting betwees Varoma, Gey, and Hr. billird Carr teck gloce oo
6 Mareb is the Soorehem Hotel (this seetirg was taped). :

2. For the record, the presence of Kr. Carr should be explained here: Por
the longest tise it hes bee felt that-oat the begining of e ney aechanies such
ea 4 revolutionery commeil--it woulé be vise to istracere ea mw face vhich ue
not ctmmitted trough past srecciations to any givin political or organizational
course. In lnoking for a sattadle individwsl, it wes felt thes Mr. Carr would fill
this bills Ee would. preserve tas contizaity of the Sender Grow wage "sensor
pertoer* be bed ooen froa the irception af the project; he would eles be a ury.
face in as much es be bas pot bean very active in tha project-for the Inet four to
five conths. Thos, Mr. carr wee aatiwd by Calef, bas during the weekend of 26 Febronry

ceimtet tages tm thes eetetltsteosn® ext & somes emce

to uscumd the roll af gfionry piyciisior in ter esiablliaieent af | Tevolutiqnary

' eouneil. Hr. Czrr agreed; be esng totachingten there be wis fully briefed end
bronght ug to cate by Mr, Drolisr andi er Jo3 i

 

eis Totem fer meee Pe nd cme me

a eet BE cabs BmiGr partoey “nares lous be enpeneie am ots

inter this introductions cast aod ipoller brougst to the attentioe ef the cubens
‘tbe § Heareh 134] "Baltimore fun story, vbich geve a fairly cecurete report of
the eurrent pecotations. The Cabana were advised in ratoer strong terms to obtain

&. At this poirt of the eneting, Droller excused Lineel? ty osying thst. be

‘bed other feportent business to attend end withirey from the meeting. i

50 The results of Cerra discussions vith the Cubans are sussrised in’

‘ettachoent “A*. A translation of a tentative Cuban egresd progren ie attacbe

‘ gemt "Bt. ;
oh GERARD DSOLIZR
cer a/mne/A spansien
iy
nyt
chan sient wy
aL Ee tate greys Annet

 
a

 

 

 

 

 

2.

ROT AM OR

 

oie depetibetinijntniin wn.

 

-2- : te
- : °
Part B. A technical cabinet eomrese: of fran 6 6 19: wewke:
te elected bY the

i
?

 
  
  

 

- Sutehoct pertfelfoe? whe wilt
verioss “sectors® and acrecre< .
These serters would drew up om ‘estas lews, ete. for! .
sutaiasian to the “Lectsiative Tattret® for svcrava é

    
    

NISTER OF SEUSS. A Minister of Twferse will be selected
freely ty the rresident prior to going irte Cube . toe

 

MOGSTEE OF FERITN REIATIONS. A Mirister of Foreim Relatioce
will also be selected freely by tne Frest-ent prior to ecing
inte Cuba, . .

Tyce . . : .

A four-page Progras or Platform wtich TAROKA and RAY said shed |
only be eensidered "a rougn draft" was civen to Carr for nts informa.
tion. A summary is sttached. : :

Itexs of the program es a whole, on which agreement as yet has not:
beer reached are tre followirg: ° : 4

a,

c.

‘3. BILITY paTrERs : ,

BAY

 

- mt ae

General agreenert on need to nationalize "obras prblicas® .
transportation end comeuntcations facilities, :

"Cutarisation* of the Banks. VAROAL ¢s ageinet reqeirieg sll:
Geposit barics te be Cuben. RAY is io favor, MAT, however, net
opposed to foreizn banks havire agercies in the country with
al) the rights end privileges, eccept the right to aecept ~ ;
deposits. . a {
i

Agrarian Reform. Almost complete exreenert except fer matter /
of “limitation of land® ~ 9 phrase which Carr was cratle tof
explain further, except that he supposes thwy meast there wast!
be sone maxixan linttations on land that can be held by any !

firw. x!
one person or rw. . : sh,
Public Servants. RAY wante to purge all CASTRO peonle fron |
the Uist of civil servants. VYAROKA does net think a *pisnk® +}
on civil servants needs be incluied in e olatforn of principled

and orograa.

 

ord VAROWA, according te Carr, wre anited in their tidnkt ng en
military aspects of the operstion against CASTHDs

  

 

 

 

 

  

hl bee atid nis inaadevtaanain eatin. Atte deeb ota ans inetnnandn edule alae

 

 

 

 

yan
 

 

 

 

$s.

De

EB.

Nile agp eee 4

 

Botr feel we have sent “uriesirenio" people to the caspe and
trat teis carrot further be tolerated. Yecruitiry zust ne 5
éore by Cubans uncer § personnel designated cy tre Frente.
Fiierte" mast stco rec rr, altnourn ne ia free to intt
what the needs are. - (Tony said will quit tf rerritice no
comtrolled ty FED.) :

Beth insist that Gol, Mancél TAREIA Castro be named as tead of
“the caxp ard that Juan COMSLEGRA be given work ina ailitary
eapacity. These two, plus the present camp commanders, should
make up the "“leneral Staff.* :

 

re

      
  

PAY conplained that "nothireg” is beire done to supply the
fighters in tas gscazorars. Z

1 “public statexent™ must be made that mo Zatistiancs will be

’ taken in. “pa Gonzere eras

BY sedis im ae LA lad ne
Certain reeraiting personne) { 3) should be
remeved from their positions. . : :

RAY made an “iwpassioned"” plea for rositive help from tho United
States for tis eroup. Mentioned need of bost and en increase Cr
bie groap) in psveholorical warfare activities.

REY told Cerr he wants to get away on 7 March for Mart. He seid.
he will zive us 58 to 72 hours to out this matter “on a level of
final decision or resolution.”

 

 

 
