 

UOMO) Lege Ug UALT
7 rare wy”

 

Journal - Office of Legislative ‘Counsel
Friday - 22 July 1977

 

28. (Secret - PLC) LIAISON Jack Williamson, DCI Security,
called ta advise that the Office of Security will grant appropriate compartmented
security clearances for Roger Carroll, GAO, temporarily assigned to the
House Government Operations Subcommittee on Legislation and National
Security, for his access to the national program contracts that CIA has

 

with E-Systems%5 DDS&T/OD&E, was advised and I will
make arrangements for Carroll to come out early next week to review the
documents in Mr. office.

23

29, (Internal Use Only - PLC) LIAISON Bill Hogan, Counsel,
House Armed Services Subcommittee on Intelligence and Military Application
of Nuclear Energy; called requesting assistance in certifying the
compartmented clearances for Committee staffer Peter Hughes, who will
be leaving next week for a trip to Strategic Air Command: headquarters.

I called him back and referred him to the office of Col. Steve Harrick,

OSD/Legislative Liaison, since our records showed the clearances were
issued by the Department of Defense,

30. (Confidential - PLC) BRIEFING Rhett Dawson, Senate
Armed Services Committee staff, called and requested that the briefing
of Committee staff by Dr. Castillo, OWI, set for this afternoon at 3:00 p.m.
be changed to Monday, 25 July, at.10:00 a.m, The new time was set with
Bob English, CSS, . Tcalled Dawson back to confirm,

. 31. (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Spoke to Norvill Jones,
Staff Director, Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and Rick Asplund,
in the office of Senator John C. Culver (D., Iowa), and learned that
there had been no declassification of Admiral Turner's contributions
to the GAO report on AWACS. [Bernie McMahon,] EA/DCI, was advised.

32. (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Bob Blakey, Chief
Counsel, House Select Committee on Assassinations, called to schedule
a sessioa Monday to negotiate the nondisclosure agreement, memorandum
of understanding and to review the security rules which will apply within

the Coi:wnittee.
FOR RELEASE 195
re epA REVIEW PROGRAR

19/02

  

IX rep yet Ly

“and

 
