 

feting. Chief, Contact Division (Direct)
ATTN =: Suppart
Dallas Residest Agency MICROPILMED 4 ; \ .
an APR 7 1969 \

poc. wncro. SER.

     
 

“Rew case . 43259

   

REF : Headquarters Hens 20 hpe 6h
© Details ot J. “Watters Moore s costact “asthe Gone. =
Ve Mebrenschilet Prem 1457 he leet. Moore” Bram -

 

          
 

 

Ro ; “y have S aorie-Coarge do Hohrenschilat, ‘ard ints » lee since 3957.

Hy latest actual contact with thes ves in ths fall of 1981, although I
received @ Christmas card from thea during Christuas of 1983. The card

Balled free Port-au-Prines and a copy oF ny POONA euent is attached, Dilan ty
. i A Yemcanville, | “sees Le fo O3/ i escent busi Wwe S45 tuhendhs .
cos "e.. ‘After our ‘Yate, Soskdant’s assassination, eltheron the 3d. Be

eae auth ‘of Hoynaher 1963, I rerelved a telephone call irea{Dr.) Paul.
Reichertz, Dirsc Dirsctor of tha Sccany Hobil Research Laboratory at Dancayitie :

 

'.. Teras. Yel Relchertz advised that_meabers of his staff had attesded sone etn

__ kind of social or ‘@iscassion greup in January 3963 at which Lee Hervey. .
.0svaid was prenast, Ho mention vas made af this time ef George de Hokren—

'. “sehildt. = told: Dr. Refchertz he shoulda report this information tothe .
local office of ‘the FBE and hereplied that he knew no ona in the: Ballas.

 

office of the FRI and asked if I would pess the infermatici-aleng for hie. nen

r cabled the FDU and.they said thay would send somebody ont to talk-to -
' Br, Reicherte. . I made.no éffort to follow up on the mxtter with. Paul .
Relchert= sf alco L Felt it wae none of ny business but during a visit

with Marya

geod eamtac t lor nine for many years, sha advised that she had heard chat”
: ae tonrensent dt. had. befriended Cswald after bis arrival in Dalla and.

  

Daggan Sear} Librarian st Sccony Mobil Researt¢h Lab and a: . 4° 1°

_ had intreduced hia to a stud cup.on the USSR. sit> USA enc ~ |} verter:

 

. _& Panconville “Taxas USA - : 7
o wy an gontact with de NohrensehLldt wes. the. result ae. >

nee @ source lead from headquarters, dated 22 Noy 57, advising that George. -
de Hobreaschildt had recently returned to Dallas after spending approxi- —
mately a year in Yugoslavia on a job for the ICA.- I called en de Hchrar~
echilit in early December 1957 and subaitted « name check, dated 6 Dec 57.

At that tine, do Nohrena® bilder Eave me a copy of atandard-psrscnal history ” .

form S75, ees plves, considerable biegraphic Gata, Which te aa | enclosing. .

Lew ae Os WALD Géi- asanes)

Doe. cewhnins | seeonel=hanel. kenewledye # De. a: Beis HER 2

ene Movyaun Deccan, both £ Sac Mobi 7 nw Se Pe
vy o co] oteny e ap (a) T- FBI
vi Coxtne kvasiK ; ps PRY. ce = 7

med mu!

sy Sey ey wee Monta) c nanny _ ep ee eas

 

 

 

 

;

 
 

   

Be et ae . “ SUR RE GS a C

At this time I sav and | Bet Urs. Jan de Hohrenschilat, | a white Pugsian
emigras From Shanghai. I saw the do Mohrenschildt's several times in 1953
and 1959. In late 1959 or early 1960, Mr. ant Urs. do Hohrenschilat went
en an 18 menth biking trip through Hezicd and Central America. An account

_of this trip, as taken fron khe 18 Cct 61 is: sue of the Dalles Tnes Herald,
is eaclesad. .

4, In the way of a perscaal essessuent, I woke say that tha.
deo Nohrenschilit's are an interssting and unusisl eouple. This is, I
bsliave, the second parriags for both of thes. Hrs. de Kohrenschitdt,” :
vine hus been a- successful. drass designar, hes a grou arried daughter, .
ho is quite a fine artiat.. Geoyus de Nohrenmachildt has several children |;
by his first. vite (reportedly a vary wealthy woman now living in the ©. :
Riad East). ° Cne of his chiliran dicd of. cystic fibrosis and. George a
Hobrenschilit has alvays hewn very active in the yearly cystic Fibrosis mo
fant raloheg, campaign. a an i : wok ree

    
     
 

“Be. George de Mohronacatlat makea a good appenranca, Re feo
: about - sin feet tall end wolgha arcund 180 pounds. For a man. his age. ©
approninately 53, he keeps bingalf in geod. condition andis a bit ofa --
physinal Zitness nut.- He is a moderate drinker and when I last saxo 0
hin, snoked:a pipe. F would describe hie personality as frlendly and out~ |
» going althongh I have heard him ragerred to aa conceited. He reputedly
_ has an eyes for the: ladles and XY understand his interast doas not go oo ;
-unreciprocated. He leads a scmawhat unconventional life, plays temis ;
at 5 ofclosk in the morning, ha is rather ovtepoken, hes a keen interest |
'_ in international affaires and in serial. justice, By local conservative 99.0 0
| stardarda, he would. be considered. a Liberal. ile outlook ¢ ca ) Like is.
; continantahs ; ; ne :

 

 

 

   

   

ree ~ be “ba Hohrensebilat: is 5 fateay wel. ‘known in petrohende circles .
Ss Ballas. I only know of one good friend of hia. This is(Col}}Lawcence ~~
* Orlov (Retired) who. ia iu the off leasing business. The colonel and I re
--- both play handball. He mentioned the last tine I saw him that de Holréne 0-0.
. sehildt wanted his. to come, to Hsiti to belp hia run a- plantatios and 8 ae
organize a company there. I believe that tha de Hohrenschildt’s left -
For Haith iu sbouy February of 1963 but I aa very vague on this pointe

 

. Zé there in emy additional informatica I can furnish, please iet Be know” oe
wc ert- OSA Onan Lastuessmen a Dellas “Texas USA . eae oF Ste!

 

Geeel_ Fricnal ancl bcictness : avsectite, of Geer a s . -
| DaMOuRENSEN EDT Gein 725434) g, |

   

de. BALTGN HCORE*.,

_ Wwalton¥ocre/rs - ee ms os -

 

Enclosures ° 7 yO a
as stated above. . oo eS a ee

| ey hy -
“hel PSUS

     
13-00000

 

 

te

 

me GE WARNING NOTICE
Te Fg : SEGRET- “| SENSITIVE SOURCES AND
, oy bao . | METHODS INVOLVED

 gesiating o police officer and to vight days seprlponnent OF &

Alosandya LATOSHEY ond Alssadza ZAPOLSEL, |
(Be MOBRENSCHILDT.

i =) Bee ~ oy ea ;
-abpet onoCtnxt (C5 JOUR ENS ETE, pos-280679)

_. MORREMSCHILD was deseribed as 5 poirelesm onglaaer who |
(Said winwled in the Toxas off flelés and in Vorwsuvia. Goncazning |

_Bovies Stara Sasualey Sarvics probably sinte the wid-3940"5, Hs a
; State Seewelty Sexviee bas niso been known to the ¥RL.

‘Department of tha Aymy; the Raparimeht of States asd the Civil -

ation about George De MORRENSCHILD TE. Be
Distribution: .. os
; ' Orig. & I~ Addresses , a ety nae FER
oo. 2-pDP: .- | ., Richard Hebna | oF
- L-C/CYR&A .  Depmty Director fay Plans) |
1+ C/CLSIG rr ae
1-C/WH/3 te a OS Sa i on

c Rua As201 ay 3
rorkol it Tr _ BE " SEE, 201 oa ie

 

   

nretig

    

«

fine of 14 3a ras ob charges of drunketmess and use of = false
name. Senteice was suspeaded ponding completion of e theoe~
your probationary gerlog.

& “‘Pheonghost bis acdulz Ria, Gesrge D Be . MOHRENSeOT .

has unbed variailess of hia basis some. tasiading such vorianiarsa. -

tarry de AIOQURENSCHMILOT: Jersy you MOHRENSCHILDT; George 7
von IDSA EDSISILD; and _Cuorze Serqhis de MOSRENSCEILG, . -

Tn Uke voaaner he clus speme to have yarled his formar othe:
ovighs from Buyaion, to Polish, Swedish, Dssish. and Gorman, .
These appaav te be tye versions of hls mothes's maiden soma:

    
  
 
   
   
    
   
 
 
 
  

    

(9 gl ep aGpeplal Agast, Jumnas #, MORRISSRY, comet
CIA op 19 March 1984 and reviewed this Aponny’s files ¢ on the

g, “On @ Mowely 1965 tha 3Bz! Sentahed to oie Apeney a
repost. dated 24 F Pebaaasy 2964. The report provides details”

 
  

“Fedor Jdleksaovlers SRAMIN, who was mu Soviet csioomnt in
Wasblagion, D.&, im 935. I5 that soport Yuri (George) Da - |

 

served In Cuba fe 1943; alter Werld Wie 1 he alse aeyead ie the |
B.S... Himeary. and Fistand, SA ccording to pur resorda, iRe Inw
formation about GALLANIN and his association with the Sovias -

o Yoo may alae wish | i zapke inguicies ‘ab the Office ot

Naval Intalligentie; the Avsisteat Chiaf of Stafi, intelligenae, 0 .. oo

 

‘Sasyice Commission becaves thaae Qeparizaants also have fators” oe

 

 

y= Cl/R&A/Bartinan

4
a

     

 

 

  
 

SUBSET.

 

et eo. pop LAZ74

: = anol “sent be Warren Commission -
MEMORANDURM FOR : Br, J Les Ranke ee fe a

1968 requesting : any ! ” iefosmnatican on Gaprge aac Teams De! .

' shows thak. rhs Alas contain seaports recalyed from ether ULB. |

. Dy MOMRENSCHILDT had been considered for “emphoyeent inc:
. 1382. bul wae not hixed because he waa alleged to ba a Nazi |

 

     
         
    
 
 

   
 

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE SOURCES AND
METHODS Java HED

MICROFILMED 4

_ SECRET
“APR E1968 S a

ISRO. GER.
6 7 —_ .
c& tA yafe eae De Mehyensel

 
  
  

  

XAAZ ~ (737

  
 
  
   
   

   

poc.M

 

   

 

: Tam Wer ane

| Ganeyal Counsst fe ye
 Peesideal’s Comsaission ¢ oxp ‘ths &
. Assosaioation of Prealient Becmarly

 
 
 

 

   

    

  
 
 
 
  
   
  

Goosas and Seams De MOBBENSCHILDT 7

 

 MORRENSCAILDT ‘thal is gvalladle la CRA Wes. Our: roviow

Govarmaeant agasciaa, primarily the PBI, a5 well as soma toe
lazmation developad by thin Agency in 1957 and 1954.. Tha.

sovlew aloo prodused xeferemess to Information inthe yeeords.
of the Cudrdinater ‘of Informatine and tha Office of Strategic .
Sesvices. According tothe reeezds of theas ageusies, Gaorge ©

    
 
 
 

esplonags agent, No informatiwa develepes by CIA. lor its.
preésgeasocs) before the assassination of Prealdent Seanely
-bad eatablinhed any lias baiween the D MOHSENSCEILDS 3s
and sadad Harvey. OSWALD oz bin fasaily. . .

 

2. ClAts initial laterent i Be Geoxgs Be } Be tOHALNSCHULDT.
gevoloped ay z reselt of his sojourn in Yugoslavia 143957 on os
behalf of the International Cooperation Ageney (ICA). In thet oS
‘ connestion CLA headquarteva sent a rouse adrisesy te dts | 2 coos.
allay representative who calles on the De MORRENSCHILD Bie a a

 

 

in tha eavly part of Desember i957. In the course of ‘several | eM :
saaetings the CLA representative obtalaed foraiga intelligence. woe te
. "bith was nromptly disseminated to other federal agentioa in ot

ten separate Fepertes: The Dallas zeprosentative continusd

See

. ye 8.

J Po1s ~ 725; 435 |

  

  

et
richtad irom ase
_ | dewngendlug 338
ceclassiticat a9.

   

“3

 
    

“SEGRE

 
13-00000

  

SECRET

and poorly connected, and some of his associations in the past have
raised serious questions. Certainly his relationship with the
Oswalds has ‘caused him considerable trouble and may have caused this _
Agency and the FBI to spend more time. and energy on him tn the * past
than was necessary.

10. Both ‘the FBI and this Agency, however, had dropped their ;
interests in Mr. de Mohrenschildt's: activities - by the mid-to-late “"
1960's... We speculate that any attention he is now receiving could:
either be from local authorities in Dallas or from media represéenta-

“tives on the trail of.a warmed over story concerning the ‘assassination |
_ of President Kennedy.. We offer no proof of this conjecture beyond |
Mr. Moore's reports attached at F...What we can say is that we have
found no indication that either. CTA or the FBI has ‘taken any active -

. interest in wre de Nohrenschildt: in. recent years. oe al a

 

    
   

hee i
Attachments: 2 Se
OA thru F a/s. ” “ “ oo,
oa
. Roos
e.
. Ba
Qo $) ESSE

——s ~ Be

SECRET , ; re

 

 
13-00000,

   

Ey ere _ R.

    

er Jistry

CENTRAL.INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

28 September 1976

Mr. G: de’ Hohrenschildt
2737 Kings Road -
Apartment 142°

Dallas ..1 Texas. 75219.

  

* please forgive ‘the L delay in iy y reply to your . Septenber 5th Netter
: te took ‘time to explore: thoroughly the matters you raised.. i

 

Let me. say first that I know it must. have been ‘difficult for you”
: to seek my help in the situation outlined in your letter. I believe I~
can appreciate your state of mind in view of your daughter's tragic an
cs. ° death a few years ago and the. current poor state of your wife’ s health. o
eee | was, Sextremely sorry to hear of these ci reumstances . ; a fe

 

 

. “In your situation, I can. well imagine how the attentions - you a!
described in your letter affect both you and your wife.. However, my
. staff has been unable to find any indication of interest in your -
- ‘activities on the part of Federal authorities. in recent years. The.

. flurry of interest that attended your testimony before the Warren | -.- -
Commission has tong since subsided.: I can only speculate that you -
May have becone "newsworthy" again in view of the renewed interest = -)..

_ in the Kennedy assassination and, thus, may, be. attracting the atten-
tion of people in the media, © : fa :

so I hope’ this letter has been of some comfort to y you, George, ;
although I realize I-am unable to answer your question completely.

_ Thank you for your good wishes on my new job. As you can imagine, :
I'm finding it interesti ng and challenging. .

Very truly, yours, >

an BA

GeorG Bush
_Director |

   

    

 

 
13-00000

 

 

“Ey uNeassie OCR. compen oO: SECRET |

, ROUTING AND RECORD lad

 

SUBJECT: {Optional}:
“Mr. George de Mohrenschildt

EXTENSION

_dohn H. Waller ws v4
Inspector General 6565 m7
gee designation, “room _rumber, ond | we | OFFICER'S douments (Number each commant to show from whom
: a, . INITIALS, to whom, Orow a fine across column after agch commen.)
- ae 7 This is the response to-the
jetter from de Mohrenschildt

that: you gave me a few ays ago.

Mj

ROOM: 7 E12.

 

ae 610 “eset 0 secret ~ 0 conFiventiaL.. C2 tgeaaty «© 2). uncvassirien

  

 
104-10444-10145 : a
2, : ; /45

 

 

 

a a i . Oe 9x0

   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
     
   
   

: “The attached “suggested draft to. ;
. Mr. De Mohrenschildt was written without
knowledge.gf the flavor of your personal |
relationshyp with him. The tone may not.
be appropretate, but the message boils
“.-: | down to thé’ fact: that neither CIA nor
4 the. FBI appear to have been interested | -
in MB De HBprensehilat fs for a number of.
years: woo an

wo “This date w was: coordinated with osc
7 on 22. Sep. So.

 

John Waller es a

 

“FORM NO .

4 FES 35 aan REPLACES FORM 36-8

WHICH MAY BE USEO,

 

 

 

. 4

   

 

 
13-00000

FROM. op

” .. Inspector General

SUBJECT Mr. George de Hohrenschildt
“REFERENCE Mr. de. Mohrenschildt's letter to yous. a

attached at A a Suggested Graft reply. to Mee de + Mohrenschi Tat’ s letter.

has been in touch. with: the FBI as well.

 

SECRET ‘
922 SEP 1876

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence
"> John H. Waller

   
   
  

* dated, 5 September 1 1976

 

“Action Required: a a

ae “None. - “This: memorandum is for your “information. We have: ‘also Soe

 

“Action. Taken:

BL We have reviewed DDO and 1G files on Mr. de Mohrénschildt: In
addition, at our request, the CI Staff has run Agency traces on him and

 

~ Findings:

3. There. is ‘voluminous material on Mr. de Mohrenschi tat in ‘CIA.
files, most of it.dating from the -post-Kennédy assassination period
when he testified before the Warren Commission on his acquaintance
with Mr. and Hrs. Lee Harvey Oswald. (A copy | of the de Mohrenschildts*
testimony is attached at B.) oo

4, The bulk of the material ‘in our: files consists of FBI reports, ;
the most recent of which is dated 1967. The FBI has informed CIA that
it has no traces on Mr. de Mohrenschildt beyond that date; our: files | to
contain at of its previous material on him. : noe

 

7 E2, IMPOET
SECRET CL BY 055636.

   
13-00000

 

SECRET

5. Mr. Helms’ 3 dune 1964 memorandum for the Warren Commission on
the de Mohrenschiidts is attached at C. It describes the Agency's
interest in obtaining reports from Mr. de Mohrenschildt in 1957 as a
result of his sojourn in Yugoslavia that year. Contact Division (now
Domestic Coliection Division — DCB) had its resident agent in Dallas,
Mr. dg. Walton Moore, contact Mr. de Mohrenschiidt at’ that time. The |
history of Mr. Moore's relationship with Mr. de Hohrenschildt from 1957
to 1961 jis also attached at C. As a routine matter, Mr. Moore requested
traces on Mr.. de Mohrenschildt. The trace results (attached at D) con-
tained sufficient derogatory information to preclude further.extensive
contact with the de Mohrenschildts. (An 0S summary on Mr. dé Mohrenschitdt
prepared in response to the. current request is also attached at D. ) :

6. our. files: show ‘that a mafl cover was - -placed on letters: addressed

‘to Mr. de Mohrenschildt c/o the U.S. Embassy in Haiti from about:1964 to

1966: - (This:was probably not uncovered at the time of the external. in- -
vestigations.) This -included opening and photographing the contents of.

, some lettersrby the CIA Station there? The results of this operation .
_ were, shared wht ;

  

on Mr. de Mohrenschildt. came; to the attention of this office ‘during

- the’ Rockefeller Commission investigations. - We were asked to respond to a

memorandum submitted to the Commission by Mr. Paul, Hoch entitled “CIA
Activities, and the Warren Commission Investigation." Mr. Hoch called for

an identification of Mr. J. Walton Moore's employment affiliation and

asked what Mr. Moore knew about. Oswald and what he may have told Mr. de
Mohrenschildt about him. ‘Our reply” to the Rockefeller Commission is.
attached at £. ce ae : ; - a

o 8. The most recent. information. we have ‘on Mr. de. Yiohrenschildt comes
from Mr.-d. Walton Moore who was contacted in May and July 1976 by writers

connected with the Reader's Digest, and with the Dial Press-and the Dell

Publishing Company. Both writers questioned Mr. Moore about Oswald and

Mr. de Mohrenschildt. ° Hir. Moore's reports on these contacts are attached
- at Fe So Ps

Conclusions: : a : ; ye se

9. Mr. de Mohrenschildt appears to have lead an adventurous and
colorful life as a petroleum engineer and businessman. He ‘is both well |

 

a
SECRET

   

 

 

 
