 

peyehiatric cam, while living in California, i

ac

SUR: mots PLTRUL i, " icholas
aka PETRILLA, Nicolina

 

Subject, a tourist in Russia, appoared at the American lubassy in Moscow
on 2 August 1999, indloating that he ulehed to rumain in the Soviet Union.
Tespite being cauticnad by an Mmbassy official, Subdjoct insisted that he wished
te renounce his Americar citizenship. He said he Liked what the USSK stands
for and thought he would be able to makn a better living in thet country. He
executed an oath of renunciation of his Amricen citizenship on 3 Septanbor
1959, and stated that he had applied for’ Soviet sitisanship.

~- Subject vas born dn Erootklyn, Rew York, on 3 February 3921, ‘of Italien.
bern parents. fie was a rheet-motal worker dn Valley Strean,! lige York, who had’.
beon divorced, in Decembar 1957, from hia Rugsian-born wife, whom he had married
in Recenber 19Sh and ty when he hog a daurhter. Subject reportedly served in
the Untted States Air Yoree, curing Verld Kar 11; and was dikcharged in vctober’
19LS, after undergois: treatment in a contal hospital. Ha subsaquently had

x

Subdject obtained a passport on 2 Juno 1953, for a twoomee trip to Ungland
and Huegias ontered the UdS.: at Viborg, from tinlend, on 10 duciwt 1959, on a
regular seven-day tourist visas and entored Lenin-rad aa 4 tourist, on 1) August
1959. 1 :

After renouncing his American citisenship on 3 September, 1999, Subject re~
spposred at the Anerican entagzsy on & Septentar 195%, stating that he felt the
Soviets vers giving bin the mm around and that he had chan ed his mim! and
wished to rctein his United States citizenship and return hom. the Sovicts
had ronortedly advised Suiject that to obtain Soviet eitisenchip, he would have
to retum to Washington, 0. C., and apply at the Soviet Emtassy there. accordin:
to a foreign service dispatch iloscov, there was no evidence cf planned
Seviet provocation or entrapmonts but the Soviets had facilitated his avtions :
by Imowingly permitting him to overstay his vica, encouragisg through his In- i
tourist guide to send hie citizenship application to the Sepreme Seviet, and
allowing hin to renain on credit at a deluxe hotel. :

The State Departaont ruled that Subject’s attempted renunciation of his
United States citizenship was not a legally competent act, and be was given a .

. One-way passoort for the United States. Ho_pesupeg wo his hows in Sew York,

  

on 22 Soptenber 195°.

(ike above information is largely’ taken fred a ‘foreign soivice
dispatch, of 9/12/59. Infornation regarding Subject's ob-
tainin: a paseport to return to the United States, and in-
formation reganiing his return home, 45 from Kew York Tincs
heyepaper articles. : i

 

 
74-00000

|
!
The following information is SEORET . |
1

7 PRTRULL, wiehotas 7 “While traveling in the USSR as a tourist
@Nicolina PETRULLA i
Defected August 1959 in the summer of 1959, Nicholas PeTRULLT
appeared at the United States Enbassy.in
Yoscow on 26 August 1959 and informed’
.. , Embassy officials that he wished to remain
in the USSR. On 3 September 1959 he executed
an oath of renunciation of his American
citizenship and stated that he had applied
for Soviet citizenship. On 8 September 1959
- PERTULLI returned to tha U. S. Embassy’ and
stated that the Soviets were "giving him a
run around" and that he wished to retain his
American Citizenship. He was given a one-way
: Passport to the United States and returned to ©
. . . his home in New York on 22 September 1959. A
sheet metal worker by profession, PETRULLI wats
born in Brooklyn, New York on 13 February artis oN So po
of Italian-born parents. He had been trout
in December 1957 from his Russian-born wife. gait"
whom he married in December 195 and by whon
he has a daughter. ering World War II FETRULLE ,

served in the United States f Air Force and

 

treatment ina mental hospitals He subsequently
i
ad psychiatric care while living in California.

  
74-00000

Ae PSIRULLI, ‘Nicholas co
Date of Births ca 1921 '
Place of Birth: USA : :
Date of Defections sumer 1959
i
Potrulll. left his family in the U.S. travelod to’ the Soviet Union and-
gtated that he wished to give up hie American aitisenship. When questioned,
he did not know why he traveled to Russia, vhat he planned to do there,

how he planned to support himself, and why, specifically, he desired to
renounce iis American aitiaenship. loar~ciz73, 29-Jan 60)

A sheot-metal vorker, Pstrulli had a history of pental illness. Ha
shanged his mind about dofecting just before the Soviet Union refused
hin oitisenebip. (Waah. Evening Star 26 Yow 59]

. fe had turned in hie passport to the u:3. Subassy, Moscow. Tha State
7 Departaent ruled that his attanpted reminciation was not a legally
competent act. Subsequently, tho Mubassy Lasued hin a passport valid
only for rotura to tho Unitod States. He recelved.a Soviot axit visa
- less thas 2 houra before hie plene loft Moveov on 21 September. Ho has
sinos been Living with a brother is Valley Stroam, ‘Long

Island.
(Raw York Times 20 Oot sot

   
     

=o gore =
: 38 “fh rates we
age so oe on

 

 
74-0000

bea a

 

SUIT: PETWULLI, Rlatelas : :
ara FENCE, aheolinn :

tebjoct, a tourtet tn Ruste, eapmared at te iaariase nibecty ta Hoeven
on 7 Anguet 1957, intloating thas ho wished te remia ia the Fevist Unica, :
fegpits balsa eariioned by an Eabaosy official, todjset inatgted trat be wished
to. sgsouse Bie dentitoas eltironskipes Bo sold be Liked wast the Uta stante :
_ far and thong’ bo would be able te make a better Living in 0} eountsy,-
~ Saeented on oath of fommsisticn of Mis Amrian aitisarship on) Saytoser
1959, ani eteted Cint be hed applied fur Sovist eitisenehips

Sebjcot vas bern a Bruckiya, Sew Tork em J3 Fotavary 1922, of Itslune .
ders parecte. fe wae o shewt-netar verter In Valley ireea, Reo Terk, vv hed .
bem diveresd, in beossbey 1957, fron bia Smuadenmtore wife, vhou go bed oerrisdt
in Secesher 195), end by vt. he ban adacrtter, fcriers repertetiy ert in
the United States Ate fares, during werld var ly ‘ext was Sistargel 14 eotcher
Wes, after entareciag treateent an a mental honntal. dn Gubecqamnly hod
|‘ Payohlatris ears, wails Ilving in Califcraia,

Cudjeot ebtainnd @ parapsrt oa 8 daze 1997, for a Oroack trip ta inyhesd
and Pusaing antered the tech: at Viborg, fren Pinlend, on 10 cuned 1959, co &
renuiler sevenstay teariot wisey end entered fenincsed be 8 Sewrist, om 11 dapat
ISP»

After reneuneing hie Janvieas ¢liisendlp ca 3 sap tanbor 1957, Say oct re~
at Ge American ahem on © deowaler 197, distin: that he felt ee

Soviets ware clviag bin tbe mam aroced an! thet be ned lev sd Mis ale! god
eished to retwia Aiea United ftates slilasastiig aed return buna, Tho topiats
bed repertetly stvised Saijext that t? ebtaln Serist ettiaesds, Be wonki beve
$e setaip tn Yartinetan, B. Co, eset apply ah the Gevist mdeery Cre, accordlec
0 « forsign ewrvice dismateh from tec, there ues bo evidences of
Serict prowsetion o¢ entzegewoty but die Soviets but feciliieted bis setione

Qonrivt gcidd to eer bis qitiseuip epplisati:o to the fnprems Soviet, and
sliouing 1c to mumin on ereAls ef © Cohum hotels

. ihe rtete Separtssie® Peled that fabsoat’s atterptat’ romecistion of hig
Caited “tater cliinentaip wae not a Jogatly competert ast, amt be ws gives &
emumey pasetert for the Gaited stated. Re retusriod ve Mia bone tn New Leet,
on &2 Septasbar 197%.

(= ateve infermntian 4 o targa takaa “pron a feraizcn eurcies
Chamaton, af 9/53. Infuruntion ragardtiag Ta Ject'a sbe
taletn 2 nacepert to retura fo the baited Etatos, jacei ine
formation reqarticg hts rebum ba, 2 fran Be Tore Liek
Rorshapel ariielueyy

Grom Cov Ober of Senuvdy dale aes) 0s - 76/384

 

 
 

 

FETRULLI, Nicholas :
Date of Birth: .19 February 1921 at Brooklyn, “H.7. |
q

Education: Highschool

Military Services USAF during World War II; discharged 294s after
undergoing treatment in a mental hospital.

Marital Status: Divorced. December 1954 married a Russian-bora sie,
4n December 1957 divorced herj one child, a girl.

Professions Sheet-metal vorker oo. .
Date of Defection: August 1959 ,

Petrulld left his faally in the U.S., traveled abroad on @ twoweek trip.

Hs entered ths Soviet Union on a reoguler soven~lay tourist vies on 11 August.
On 23 Auguat be notified the 05S Gabasay that he vished to give up his Amorican
citizenahip. When questioned by a stranger, he did not know why he traveled

te the Sovict Union, vhat he planned te do there, how he planned to support
himself, and why, spocifically, he desired to renounca his Aduerican citizenship.

a sheet-wotal worker, Petrulli had a history of mental illness. He changed
hie mind about defucting Just before the Soviet Union refiaed hin citizenship.
(desh. Evening Star 26 Nov 59)

He bad turned in bis passport to the U.S, Fmbasay, Moscow. Tho Stats Daparte
ment riled that hig attempted raramolation vas not a legally competent act.
Subsequently, the Frbasay issucd bia a passport valid only for return to the
Uakted States. He reosived a Soviet exit visa leas than 2 hours before his
plane left Mogcow on 21 September. He has since been living with a brother
in Wallay Stream, Long Island. (New York Times 20 Oct 39)

ee '
we :

Aare ee sii A rtcns cunee an |

   

 

 
 

 

7 .. GRR

ILE Hiciflas (Siceltne at birth but never veed), ae 201 - 7¢ 137
ey

PL

13 Febsuary 1921, roo]; N.

ensut otal serxer, carrentcer, and edd jens, US resid-nce faligy Stream, Lonz Isi.
!

 

   

 

‘ : Shoe

Vorld liar IL, Three years service in airforce, including service 3 in India
as enlisted ground crew carpenter. (aAnE-h roscaw: Despatch ii, Li Sept $9,
attacnad) — -

Cctober 1945. Medical discharge, for which he pranted ard still receiving
30% disalility pension. According to his om statez:nts, he may have been dis-
charred on mental rrounds and ray have had later Psy yehlatric treatsent fron.
the TA. (Desp. wa)

1945-1953. "For ate Jeight | years after the war” he was at a trade school
in Loz anneles. (Unidentified newspaver article dntelined Koscow 5 Sept 59, cited
in DEA-66069 of 21.1.6, in SRS files)

19 Dee 195k. Married Helen SCHOLAR, born 1910 in “useia. (63069)

19 Dec $7. Divorce. She residing Los ingeles! with forr-year-old davghter;
running candy besiness. (65069) a i

1993-1959, At this tine (and vrobadly in the whole post-sar period so far)
personality clashes with sunerioks nade it imorssible for hin ta holt jobs.
Lp addition to carnenter and sheet metal worker {acnarently his specialties)
he worked as acrobat, draftsuan, grocery cler«x, etc. (62059)

Early Avpust 1959. He departed New York on an orgarized tour to vestern
Europe a tho USER. (Wesp 111). He said that he paid §965 (60052). He may
have hac helo from tha brother with when he lived, because except for his

irresular working income, he had only nis sansion: ‘ela te hin, $10 to wife

for mipport- of child. (Lesp 111)

10 Encust 1959, Entered Soviet tnien at tyvort, 3| on rey lar sevendday tourist
vise Taeved In washington 20 July 1959. On to Jenincrad and rloscow the next
day. (Desp 111)

  

18 Aucust 1959. Vay his tour rrorp te entrain for seningrad, there to
board the EALTTRA for London. He suddenly decided to stay in loseeu, foiled
show up at the station, ard canceled shin reservations through Inturist guido. ~
Ee had no communist sympathies or iheolerical Inenings toward the CIS, and .
“Shad no grievances against the US. Thoncht he could get x good job in the SU
“though ott bons had no friends there ani knew nothirg, of country, people, or
language. (6806

18 Aupurt 1959 and the follewi:
other ricans in the not
about it. (Lesp 111), Sire:

27 fumvst 1959, He ws nent fa ed nis ‘Set eintion in casual conversation with
a resicent suer: orn correspondent, whe sugrested he Anfors the Arirh. (Lesp 111)

\
s tea days. Spoke about his decisien to
sewhere ‘but did not write hone . -
’ : ate rs |

en At : Meme

       
 
 

   
    
 

23 Aneust 155 590 He visited the Exbassy an? «was ihtesrieved fer tuo horre
Saray Ue the cara he > -
by Eny.ar, with tne correspoment slso mesent. Geve dic resrar “or eanttag
to sta’, “aid nad taken initiativ. bpzemesngank askin: hotel manzcer and

entrrist guide how he ‘could sta’y no one had ineveed ¢ or in menced, pen

 

 

 

 
 

104-10267-10428

 

"Machine Program,

theo

EX «|786
5 December 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT; “American Defectors to the USSR" |

1, The attached material was part of a soft file entitled
“American Defectors to the USSR", which was set up by SR/6

‘(Support) around 1960 and maintained by various SR! components

until ca, 1963, The compilations were derived from a variety
of sources, and contain both classified and overt data,

2, Inthe fall of 1966, the files were turned over to CI
Staff, In most instances, basic information was then abstracted
for the US Defector Machine Program, In all instances in which
the material was unique, or represented a valuable collation effort,
it has been incorporated into the appropriate 201 file, along with
a copy of this memorandum,

3. Itis suggested that any dissemination of this data should
be coordinated with SB Division and with CI Staff {CI/MRO), in
view of the frequently inadequate sourcing and of the fact that
disseminations have already been made through the US Defector

 

 

 

 

Orig - CI/MRO :
1- RID/FI : :
1 - SB/RMO
2. CIU/R&EA : :
1- GI/R&A . : ;

er ee a Life € |

fesy of? levee

SECRET Fé a info

REVIEWED BY FBUJFK TASK. FORGE

On . J, [10f PE ple z |
SC RELEASE IN FULL
Cl RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

 
74-0000

hi
exploitat® an possi: tte g vere exclaimed toe Alm but &

  

. was done. (Desp. 211)

 

  
  

rey sti a
ev olanti RE
23 not pled bee
The nitfalls and
isnisced ag cloik-ani-
dagrer, ssid hac keard tinelchanring in USSR. Ye was fiven rane and telephone
saber of “nerican Catholic eriest in iexccow, «ho sraseqvently talked with hia.
F az rational, Lorical, serious, non-acgressive, but )incisted on renouncing
citizenship and cefecting. (Leso. 111) (

 
 
 
  
  
  
 

 

 

 

 

29 “urvst i969, He went ahead ard seat the letter te the Sunreme Soviet.
He did not keep » cory but told AmEnb it included five ‘szectfie points as spe-
ecified by Inturist cvides 1) DPOB, 2) nanes and addresses of relatives, 3) hds
property ard bank accounts (sone) ; 4) hie skills, edue; tion, ani work record;
and 5) his moral, iceclo: ican, ano (illerivle) reasors wanting Soviet ‘cit=
dzenship. Wouldn't sar what he had written under 5) er whether he chad said
anythire. against the us. ADesp.. uu) r |

 

2 Septenber 1959." He cane to the Bobassy, turned in his passport, told of

’ sending the letter to the Suprene Soviet, and indicated; he had not. chanced his

amird., ‘Snyder again explsimé the irrevecatility of remneiation and whea Pete
rulli said he unersteod. (sérievsness, asked hin to cons, “pack in the afternoon
when Snyder werls Le pregared to adiinister the oath of ‘remanciation. This

5 Sentenber 1959. He told several reovla that he felt "orally and econ-
onically at hom in the Soviet Union ... rainy jobs in recent years in US ard
not hagny there. tkBascieésj2 Not bitter arainst US, ot just liked Si betters
people not in a hurry and not nervous wrecks; ha thoncht ther were tryin. te do
thincs right in the SU. (65069)

 

1

8 Santenver 1959. He cone to the Extassy to req:est a written statenent
of his citizensnin states fer tie Soviet avthovities. “nea teld Gchassy would
infera him as’ soon as State informed then, he switched to questions re visa
reqvirencnts for enterinc US. he felt Sevs civing hia re around becanse no
acknewledcenent -of his letter or repeated job reamects. Mentioned he without
noney or friends, no sneak aussian, ete, wrich had all sen pointed aut to hin
a few days before. Exanciatels Still no Seviet eres: exploitation know to
Amoassy and no aporesch to the “nbassy abot hin. He still at Hotel itraina,
at Soviet expense but left ts his am devices. inb ocinad this sight indicate
Sovs undecided what do nity, Tin or do-nct think hin gocd :exmlottation noterial.
Xo evidence of prevocaticn or entrapnent » tut Sovs have deliterately facilitates
his actions: nernitted hin overstay visa, excouraced Ain throvyh Inturist gvide
to séek citizenship fron fxprene Soviet, and alloved his .renain at biraina oa
credit. Petrulli renained nest and rational throvgh all three meetings at
End. Imediately aiter this | interyiew at ED he tole Awrican correspondent
he ivst wanted te go hore. (Beso. Lc. Sets was erebably what care out in
Kashinrten Post ‘on 9 Sept:- said he,} ci stupid thing to renounce US cit-
Tzeasaip in hopes ef Scviet ... wanted fe hone -... had renaunced Uo citizenship
because of "too nary contradictions" in the Atierican war of life ... would
Gecline with thenss even if they now offered nin Coviet titicenship eos Chanre
of mind nut due to disillusionment with 2° dct because no! friends or relatives
to look out fer him as at hone. (68069)

   

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

  
 
 

U._Jertemer 125°, On thts cate an nnicentified Yevtet effictal teld
hin (In Yesponse ta AIS letter reqvestin; ‘Loviet citicenstir) that he sheuld
have applied at the SeovEmy bashiny ton; manacer of lictgina dotel teld hin he
would have to vecete the preaises by 16 oeptexber; ard beth told him to re-
trieve his rassport fren the Am@-rb or get scme kirt of trivel docusent fron
thea, oecause he had to leave. His brother aad -sent hia 3300. (68069)

 
   

15, Sentenber 1959. He appeared at An’ad and tous above ultinatun. (68069)

: 19 Septerber 1959. According te DBA-68069 he applied for aa encrgancy
passpert on this date, but it seems lilely that he mist have applied for it

on the 15th or seme date in retucen, because a hashing ton Post article-of 19
Sertesber (cited in 65069) renorted that his US”citizenshio had already been
returned to him, since State had declared hia legally inconmetents sare
avoeared in KY Times of 19 Sept. He declared hinself luckiest gvy in the
world", His serious rental condition further confirmed by oxewlfe, who said
he a very sick man alternately woncerfel and terrivle.,

 
