 

April We;
September 1972

Early 1974:

 

that Subject had been sentenced to death
by the AGB. An article regardixy this
sentence appeared in The Chekist sexnetime after

3964,
Subject was in touch with CIA officials. .

A KGB defector provided a copy

of the 1969 XGB Alphabetical List of Agents
of Foreign Intelligence Services, Defectors,

Members of Anti-Soviet Organizations, Members of
Punitive Units and-Other Criminals under

Search Warrants. In this List the KGB listed
Subject and his wife as under the sentence of
death for revealing Soviet State secrets.
Subject and family living in N.Y.C. Area, he

is writing and conducting research. He is
presently in contact with the Agency and also
with the French. He has also visited South

Africa and worked with the South Africans in

recent years.
 

27 Rov. 1962:

f

14 December 1962:
21 Feb. 1963:

Spring 1963:
8 August 1963;

22 August 1963: ".

23 August 1963:
4 Sept. 1963:

October 1963-
April 1964:

1964/1965:
June 1965:
, ~August 1968:

October 1968:

July 1970

September 1979:

‘ March 1972:

 

treatment by the Agency.
Subject. was dissatistied with his talk
with the DCI and visited the Attorney-

General on his own unofficlally. Subject and

 

his fanily travelled a

 

 

 

visited The Netherlands. y
‘Subject interviewed by the

Subject met again with the DCI.

Subject and his family left N.Y.C. on

SS Sylvania for England.

Subject worked with the British.

Subject returned to the U.S.A.

Subject met the Attorney-General again,
Subject met the DCI again.

Subject met the DCI again and stated that he
wanted to become an advisor to the DCI and

the Intelligence Community.
.¢

Subject in contact with the Agency mostly in

the N.Y.C. area. Subject was cooperative to

some extent. ns

 

Subject, according toa bfficial, : -

 

 

 

 

in the N.Y.C. area.: ;

Subject in contact with the British regarding
possible publication of his book.

An FBI source indicated that he had no
current information concerning the KGB
attitude regarding Subject but the source
stated that if the KGB knew Subject's location
it might undertake to elininate hin.

Subject was in contact with Agency personnel
and visited Florida.

Mr. SOURWINE of the U.S. Senate Internal
Security Subcommitte expressed an interest in
Subject under the name DOLNYTZYN.

A KGB defector reported that he knew

 

=
 

— wa Nie J ee | . eee tum ee ee

of the CI Department of the First Chief
Directorate, KGB, to prepare for assign-
ment to the KGB residency under Soviet
Embassy cover in Helsinki, Finland, as
tue Ci officer working against foreign
‘ intelligence services.
August 1960: Subject was assigned to the KGB residency in
Helsinki, under the name KLIMOV (his true

name was compromised through the 1954

defection of Petr DERYABIN in Vienna), and
with the cover title of Third Secretary.
15 December 1961: Subject, with his wife and young daughter

-defected to the U.S. Government which granted

i
i

them political asylum,

15-18 Dec. 1961: Subject and his family (his wife Svetlana

, Mikhayjovna GOLITSYNA nee CHERNOVALOVA,

DPOB: 1 March 1929, Salsk, Restov, USSR, who
he married on 23 August 1953 in the USSR, and
daughter Tatyana, born 22 June 1955) walked

in to a U.S. Embassy officials's home in
Helsinki on the evening of 15 December 1961.
Subject and his family then flew that night

to Stockholm, Sweden by commercial flight
accompanied by the U.S. official. U.S. Embassy
personnel in Stockholm provided a safehouse for
the group where they. stayed during 16 December
1961, That night the family and the U.S.
official from Helsinki in company with the
U.S. Air Attache to Sweden flew in the Air
Attache's plane from Stockholm to Wiesbaden,
Germany. The group then started off for the
U.S.A. on an old Liberator but the Subject's
daughter became il] and the plane returned to
Wiesbaden, The neat day, 17 December 1961,
the family still accompanied by the U.S.

RRA: Ww
74-0000

 

4

 

28 December 1961:

1962:

 

Eabassy official fron Helsinki flew on
Pan-Anm fron Frankfurt/Main via London
and Bermuda to N.Y.C. They then traveled

by rall to the Washington, D.C, area where

they finally arrived on the night of 16 Dec-

enber 1961.
Subject met Attorney General Robert KENNEDY
along with Mr. HELNS, DDP.

Subject was debriefed by CIA Officers,

. officials from other US Agencies and teams of

Intelligence Officers from Free World nations.
Subject provided much valuable information on
the KGB, its organization, personnel, operations,
aims and efforts against the Free World.

Subject, however, proved to be a difficult

handling problem, especially as a result of

16 February 1962:

his personality and his constant demands for

regular meetings with high-level US officials
such as the President, the Attorney-General,
the Directors of CIA and the FBI and for a
policy role in the US Intelligence Community.

Subject had another meeting with the

' Attorney-General.

‘2 July 1962:

Subject met again with the Attorney-General

"and Mr. HELMS.

9 July 1962:
22 August 1962:

1S Nov. 1962:

27 Nov. 1962:

Subject had a conversation with Mr. HELMS.
Subject had interview with Mr. SORENSON of the
White House Staff and Mr. Edward R. MURROW,
Director of USIA.

An FBI source reported that the KGB was aware

.of Subject's presence in the U.S.A. and ordered

all Soviet IS personnel to report immediately

‘any information which they may obtain regard-

ing Subject.
Subject met Mr. NCCONE, DCI, and protested
74-0000

1950-1981:

September 1951:

November 1951:

December 1951:

March 1952:

September 1952:

 

dLeACL

languace; he was one of 30 students who
specialized in counterintelligence during

the second year of the course,

Desk officer, Operational Case Officer,
Supervising SK activities in China,

assigned to the SK Section, Eastern Depart-
ment, First Directorate of the MGB Head-
quarters in Moscow, the SK functions having
reverted from the KI to the MGB in 1949.

At his request Subject was transferred as

a desk officer to the Anglo-American Section,
Counterintelligence Department of the First
Directorate, MGB Headquarters in Moscow.
Subject was promoted to "Senior Operational
Case Officer."

The KI, was dissolved and former state security
elements were returned to the MGB. Subject's
functions continued the same, but, in the
reorganization, he was assigned to the CI
Section of the American Department of the
Anglo-American (First) Directorate of the
First Chief Directorate of the NGB.

Subject and an unidentified young colleague
wrote a joint letter through the Central
Committee of the CPSU to STALIN making
suggestions for a fundamental reorganization of
Soviet foreign intelligence and counter-
intelligence work.

While on vacation in the Georgian SSR

Subject was ordered to Moscow for a four hour
meeting, with his friend, with STALIN,
MALENKOV, and BERIYA. STALIN thanked the two
officers for their suggestions, discussed
intelligence matters in detail and asked then

to send him a letter with specific preposals

oe
 

10172-10262

ee

16 May 1974

SUtySCT: GOLITIYN Biographical Highlights

1. Anetoliy Mikhaylovich GOLITCYN @KLIMOV was born on
23 Augus: 1926 at Piryatin, Poltaava, Oblast, Ukrainian SSR,
of lower class parents. After childhood education and studies
at the Frunze Artillery School in Odessa, where he was a
Komsonel (Cv Youth) organizer, Subject requested and was
granted transfer into Military Counterintelligence.
2. The following are highlights of the chronology of
Subject's professional career:
Septenber 1944: Subject was mobilized and sent to the
Frunze Artillery School in Odessa where
he remained until July 1945. At that time
Subject left the Artillery School before
completion of the course and enrolled in a
Counterintelligence School,
1945-1966: Student at the one year course, Military
Counterintelligence School, GUKR/"SMERSH,"
Moscow,
1946-1948: Desk officer, Assistant Operational Case
Officer, assigned to the Eastern Section

(otdeleniye) of the SK (Soviet Colony -

security of Soviet officials abroad) Depart-

ment {otdel) of the First Chief (Foreign
Intelligence) Directorate of MGB. Head-

qusrters in Moscow. During the period

Novenber 1947 to September 1948 Subject held

the. title of Referent and his office was
designated the Fifth (SK) UVepartment of the

Thire (Eastern) Directorate of the KI

(Comnittee for Information), but his functions

were unchanged.
1948-1650: Student at the two-yecr course, Higher
Tutelligence School of the Kl. Subject

studied general’ subjecis and the English

ecrpry
 

March 1953:

October 1953:

August 1984:

| MLE barn te ee ee

for necessary reorganizations, together

with the nanes of recommended chiefs.

In a subsequent letter they recomnended

Sergey Ivanovich OGOLTSOV, then in prison

for “political crimes," and Yevgeniy

Petrovich PITCVRANOV, then chief or deputy
chief of the NGB in the Uzbekistan SSR.

STALIN met Subject and his friend a second
time. OCOLTSOV was relessed from prison and
appointed Chief of the First Chief Directo-
rate, with PITOVRANOV as his deputy. A

Chief Intelligence Directorate of the MGB

was then formed, containing a Counterintelligence
Department with an Emigre desk and seven geo-
graphical desks. Subject was appointed by
OGOLTSOV as chief of the American Desk,
supervising approximately 15 staff persons.
When STALIN died and BERIYA took over control
of the State Security apparatus, which he ,
combined with the MVD into a unified MVD, he
replaced OGOLTSOV with one of his own appcintees.
Subject was reassigned as deputy chief of the
Russian Emigre Desk of the CI Department of

the Second (new designation for foreign
Intelligence) Chief Directorate, MVD. Subject
supervised activities against emigres in
Austria and Germany.

Subject was assigned to the MVD residency in
Vienna, Austria, as an operational case officer
in the Emigre Operations Group.

Subject was transferred to the British Sub-
Group of the Anglo-American-French Group of the
KGB residency in Vienna. His duties were of a.
counterintelligence nature, i.e. concerned

with penctration of foreign intelligence services.

3
CECRE
74-0000

; : Cow
. ‘ 1955-1959: One of 170 students attending the four
: year internal security-counterintelligence
course, the KGB Higher School Juridical

: : Institute. He presented and successful ly

defended his thesis on the subject of SK

activities among Sovict delegations and _
tourist groups traveling abroad. He re-

ceived his diploma in August 1959. During

his school tour Subject also spent several

weeks in on-the-job training as a student

assigned to pertinent elements of the KGB's.

Second (Internal Counterintelligence) Chief

Directorate, with access to operational files

on foreign diplomatic personne] in Moscow

who were KGB targets.

September 1959: Subject was assigned as a Senior Operational

ae Case Officer responsible for NATO information

| : : . within the Treaty Organizations Direction,

| Information (Reports) Department, First
(Foreign) Chief, Directorate, KGB Headquarters,
Moscow. His function was to translate, edit
and summarize information reports obtained by
KGB agents abroad and to disseminate the
pertinent information to the Central Committee -
of the CPSU, members of the Presidium, including
KHRUSHCHEV, and, in the case of information
with military aspects, to MALINOVSKIY, the
Minister of Defense. At one time, during a
CP cell meeting, criticisa was voiced about
the delays in translation and processing and
, Subject was assigned to study the situation,

. Thus he examined registry logs showing the
titles of agent information reports, the place
acquired, the date received and the date of
dissenination of the finished Russian intelli-
gence reports ® the governacnt.

April L960: Subject was transferred Co the American Section

4
arnarr
