 

hg t04d0-40039

 

| ,Thursday - 26 January 1978

. &#& .
| INTERN AL=USE-ONEY=* J dered
Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel - Page 3

10. (Unclassified - PLC) LIAISON Together with Bruce Johnson,
DDA, Dick Rininger, OGC, and Shep Shepanek, O/SA/DO/O, met with

ouse Select Committee on Assassinations, and discussed proposed
revised procedures for the staff of the Committee to review CIA unsanitized
documents. (See Memo for the Record.)

Je Cornwell, Deputy Staff Chief, and Michael Goldsmith, staff of the

ll. (Unclassified - JMD) LIAISON Called Jack Ticer, Clerk,
Senate Armed Services Committee, and advised him that the Director will
not have to leave the hearing early tomorrow after all, that he will be able
to stay if the hearing goes to 1:00 p.m. or later. Ticer said they will not
know until after the hearing gets well underway whether they will be able
to wind it up at 1:00 Pe m, or have to break and ¢ come back for an afternoon
session, Lon,

12, (Unclassified - JMD) LIAISON Called Judy, in the office of
Representative John Dingell (D., Mich.), and made an appointment for the
Director to meet with Mr. Dingell at 1:15 p.m. tomorrow regarding the
Congressman's letter of 20 January on NUMEC. I explained to Judy that
the Director would be in a briefing on the Hill and that should end by 1:00 ©
but that if I found he was going to be detained longer, I would let her know
and we could change the time, She said this would be fine.

13. (Unclassified - JMD) LIAISON Phyliss Bacon, Senate Armed
Services Committee staff, called and asked about the 5 January 1978
transcript of the Agency briefing of the Legislation Subcommittee. She said
she had the transcript which is stamped Top Secret. She asked if we were
to retain this transcript and also whether we had seen the transcript. I
told her I was not sure on either of these points but I would check and get
back to her. She said she also wanted to reaffirm that OLC has complete
control of all the Committee transcripts of our briefings. I assured her
they were retained in this Office and that no one was allowed to take them
out of the Office unless Mr. Cary or Mr. Miller.gave their permission. She
said that was fine, and that she would put this in/their "guidelines"! which

Bead te CARY
egislative Counsel

 

ce: O/DDCI wr ( Ex. Sec. DDA DDS&T Mr. Lapham
Mr. Hetu SA/DO/O IC Staff Comptroller NFAC

17 ORR

 
