 

 

 

 

8. We are providing you vith a letter from a cover company
(attached hereto) which you will use only In the case of extreme

‘(emergency in the event that you cane to the attention of the Cuban
_Quthorities. This letter states that you are there on a vacation —
and that this company bas asked you to get ‘some first-hand information

on the subjects mentioned in paragraph 7 above while there if you
are so inclined, This will provide you with a plausible excuse for
being toth a tourist ani one interested in talking with local | oa

personalities. °

9. Your misoion generally is to talk with as many mowledgeable
persons as possible regariing the political situation in Cuba, with
special emphasis on the opposition, its strengths, weaknessen, plens
and progres. Of particulsr. interest is the possibility or feasibility
‘of a coalescence of these opposition groupe.

B. Administrative

1. While on your present asaignment you will keep a record of
your expeuses which wil ensble you te submit the required accoumting
for funds upon your return. Ty keoping the accounts you should note
times of arrivel end departure, detailed Botetion of expenses incurred, —
and the rate of exchange obtained When exchanging U. S. dollars into -
local currency. -

2. Upon your return you wil ubatt two accountings. One will
include your salary unjer “services rendered”, and also your expenses
and vill be in true nane to the folloving company:

24

 

 

 

3. The second sccounting will aleo include salary and operational
expenses and will be submitted in pseudonym to:

Henry ¥. Parkin:
P. 0. Box 6105
Southwest Station
Washington, De Co
(e+ of. Tv. :
saat: Yet: awick nt
4 whe

 
  
 

 

 

104-10174-10043)-

 

 

 

Dear Mr. ichborn:

_ > The: following 4s get forth as clarification af : your present
mission, and the procedures which will be followed in the. conduct
of ite Please indicate your agreement. by signing below. -

Ae Qperstionas
Ls You will be briefed generally on sore aspects of the Cuban

 

Situation while ia Washington on this date.

2. The: major briefing to ‘be given you concerning the local

political situation, security precautions, and more detailed

instructions on your present mission will be undertaken ‘upon your :
arrival in Havane. - :

Upon’ arrival’ in Havana @ tourist card will be: ‘Aeatied by.

   

the Gahan Inigration authorities. You will give your. true ‘name ond

occupation in the United States and state that you ‘are ia that area

- a8 6 “tourdat”.

oh Your: ‘initial contect in Havens. will be with “IDRN A. (oane’

and telephone number * attached hereto). “When making this cali,- you
win identify, yourself as Pred Morse.

2. Be Tom A vill then give you the briefing mentioned in persgreph .

2 aboves

6. IDEN-A wi21 aleo arraage to put you in contact vith ebout.

‘two individuals for the purpose of starting you on your aseignment. —

It 1s anticipated that other leads add contacts will result from

’ these introductions, both in Havana and the interior.

7. When talking to eny local contacts you make while in Cuba,
your cover story will be the following: that you are talking to thes
on the bebelf of some (unnamed) American businesamen and investors. in

: order to assess discreetly their position and legal resources as concerns

the revolutionary lews and to determine the possibility for future
financial development ani investments.

 

es veka
