 

ee
Ba vee
. 12 Reovesber 1962

MEMCAARTUM POR TES RECCRD 7
SUBTEST: Mrs Helms! Cocversstion with Jcee Lesa of the ORB

PERSONS FRESSYT: Mre — *s Joaeilasa, Restor De Sanches

 

 

ery
TIME AND PLACE: 1590 ~ 1630 hours fMre Kelna' Office

le Mre Helns was interested in any details ‘nova to Lasa regarding
the 82 odd missiles referred to by Lute Fernantas Rocha én his 12 Rovesber —
Tew York TV interview. Lase was unatle to furnish any Jeteile and admitted
the figure cf 60 was unfariiiar to bis. Mr, Helas retarned to o weating
in the Mrector's office. During Mr. Helzs' steence/ Laos telephoned >
Miart atten, tiag to resch Rocha tn orter to confire his previous telephone
Beasage for Rocka to return to Washington tha nent of 12 Noveater, Laga
was unable to reach Mamial Salvat as the latter had otready aeportea for
the atrport to meet Rocha. *

: ow)

2. At apprexinstely sap. Helas'returne’ from the Taresterte offices

In resuming the conversation Mr. Lasa ves anxious to dtecase the eplecde

with Al Burt of the Miamt Zerald. Before relating the dete!ls Lass explained

be vas vaxing nO excuses as the in:idert vas sheer. stv
: *

  
 

circles, still, according to Wr. Hela, if the DRE decided
to act ftma responsible masoer, they could do thonselves
real good im reporting full édotaile on missiles and under .
ground storage areas, ‘giving tine for the Agency to coufira
the information before they ran off releasing it to the press,
causing considerable displeasure withia 0.38. Governsert eireles
and exhibiting the DRE aga buzch of hotheaded, irresponsible,
youth. kr. Helms also mentioned that 1f we could not reach

QA agreement and work in untsén {o pushing towird our sxtaal
goal, there was no need in working at crogs purposes. Ek.
Lapa fully appreciated and understood the irritation their
presu releases end TY tnterviews were. causing the U.S. Gevern-—
ment.
4.0 Lesa utated they had been led to belleve iz Riagt :
that aid to all Cuban oxtle orgacization was boing cut back
and that operational expenses for Novexber were not pasoed to
the DRE. He asked if this meant the U.%. nad decided to coe
‘exist with Castro, Hr. Helms stated no such decigiog had been
nade by the U.S. Goverasant. Lassa also stated that althougs
Rocha liza discudesd & variety of different subjects with nis
“Niami contacts, to Lasa’# kaowledgs the convargations té dis
cuse ¢he cverall ‘tevan of our relationship which thay expectad
after his last trip to Washingtoa aaver have takon pince, aad

he certainly hae not been party to gay discusaton, Yr. Ez las
 

 

404-10170-10032]

of the DRE, Contic:iug, he stated ve all wake aistates, and

this was one of ocrs. Uf it appeared to be a stab in the
yt

back, it was unintentional. Re atated the nevapapermes had
invited them to lxsct at the best restaurant ia Miami, Burt
stated the purpose vas to interview Rocha atter lunch regards
ing bis trip aud wtny in Cuba. He also aseured thee that
asyttiing gaid duricg lumch was “off the record", Burt coa-
tinued by atating {¢ waa known that the [at Frecalved fizancial :
aid from Cra and thst there were certain dieagrecnente toe ,

tween the ORE and the U.3. Government. Continuing in tris

 

vein, he oxtracted 5 :tcy tiadites he later printed. In short
the (Boys) didn't mace when to keep their mouths ehet. mr.
Belus atated that krovizgs nonething of the newspaper tmaivess,
he tally understocé and accepted Lasa’s explanation.

3.0 Mr. Helms then gave Lada & dutch uncle talk regarding

the DRE%s presa relesses and TY interviews. Er. Eelae ex=

plated, whereas newasaper hexdlines today could deceive thes

into feoling certain prestige, bo, Inan, could rest assured

today's heediines coataiaed so long ters dividends. At a time
when offensive vespras, such 29 IREM's and 1L-28'n were: mabdjects —

of negotiations of utmost concern to the highest elements in

the U.8. Governmert, irreaponsible presa releasas and ed

iuterviews were subtect! of gone irritésioa-in 0.8. Covarmseat

 
 

SEthET

4

indicated be wasted to Aleckas. and settle thi subject with
itr. Rocha the followiag easy. A meeting wags ast by Mr. Helna .
for 1030 hours, 13 November 1942 with Mr. Rocha, leaving it
up to Mr. Rocha if he, Rocks, dodired Lane to be present or
mot. In due respect to yr. Bocha Er. Helas did not feel he
‘should dictatewo Mr. Rocha aiould bring to the meeting.
5. On a strictly personal basis, 1f m co-existence policy
is decided upon, ir. Inea saked Mr. Beles if he could help
him obtain employment’ in Washington. Be. zisted he had bie. |
‘aister and four nieces to aupport as Sis brother-in-law waa
fa jail iu Cuba, ang ke (Lasa) could aot afford to ba without
_work, Ec. Holas stated bo coulda't proaise asything, but would
sertaialy do whatover possible. ;
8. “Atter the peeting wits ir. xalzs, arrangements wero
unde for reservations at the Dupout Plasa. Back at the hotel
lage again called Kiaat end this tine was able to talk with
Bocha. Isa asked Rovha to come to FYashingtoa with full power
aad authority to make decisiona for the DAE as the eouveraationa
ths following day with Lasa‘as friend (ur: Helns) vould decide
the future of the TRE, Leen suggested Rocka advies "La Vaca.
Sagrada", "Rl Gordo" (Salvat) that Bocha wae exercising bis
executive poeers as Secretary Gessrai of the DRE ehea he cane
to Yaahingtoa. Lass leter explained ‘taey slays consulted
with each other 1f at a11 possible before the Beeratary Gansral

 
74-0000

 

exercised Ais executive power. Rocha stated ho ‘ould take the

plane from Hiasl at 2300 houre, 12 Kovouber. 1963,

7. dummar ining the souversation that. followed at the

[noe
hotel, Mooim adnitted he vas pesatutstio about futere U.8.

‘policy toward Cubs. He felt the lateat v.8. actios had

such favorable respopse both doneatically end internatlosally
that ho doubted the Kennedy aduinistration would risk
tarnishiag this victory with an invasion: of Cuba. 1 reiterated

“what Mr. Holms had eatd earlier that 1¢ was impossible to say

as 20 declaion asd ‘beaa retched.

VE

wastr © cance
TTT, PA-PROP -

 
