 

 

 

 

eenen eee”

 

 

matters. In other words, I want to make it clear we do not regard patriotic ~
citizens as informants.

Mr. Sreen. I take it you also would not have regarded Lee Oswaid as an in-
formant from the contacts with him that you have told us about and the other
agents have told us about?

Mr. Betmont. Indeed not; in no way could he be considered an informant; in
no way.

Mr. Steen. Did you supervise or assist in the preparation of the information
contained here? .

Mr. Bexmonr. Yes, sir.

Mr. Stern. And you are familiar with it?

Mr. BeLmont. Yes; I am.

Mr. Stern. And toe your knowledge, does it accurately and completely state
the Bureau's practice in recruiting a prospective informant?

Mr. Betmuonrt. That is’ correct.

Mr. Sreen. Is there anything you would like to add to. the information covered
in there with respect to your practices regarding informants?

Mr. Betaont. No; only in my personal knowledge this is a correct statement

' and Lee Harvey Oswald was not an informant of the FBI.

Mr. Steen. Did you ever use the term “agent” to apply to anyone other than
an employee, a special agent employee of the FBI?

Mr. BeLmont. No; we do not.

Mr. DuLes. Could I ask you, Mr. Belmont, whether Mr. Fain’s separation
from, the FBI had anything whatever to do with the Oswald case or in. his
handling of the Oswald case?

Mr. BerMonr. No; indeed not, Mr. Fain came to the retirement age and de-
cided he wanted to retire, which is his privilege, and he retired and is presently
working in Texas and very happy, I understand.

Mr. Duis. Thank you.

Mr, Becmonrt. He retired in good graces, good standing, so far as the FBI is
concerned.

The CHarmMan. And a year before the assassination.

Mr. Bexmont. Frankly, I don’t recall.

The CuamMan. Yes; it was August 1962, he testified. .

Mr. Srean. You have already covered this, Mr. Belmont, but just so that the ©
record is completely clear on this- point, was Lee Oswald ever am agent of the
FBI? .

Mr. Be.tMont, Lee Oswald was never an agent of the FBI.

Mr. Stern. The letter of February 6, 1964, from Mr. Hoover, alludes to testi-
mony furnished the Commission by District Attorney Wade. Have you subse-
quently been advised that Mr. Wade had not testified before the Commission?

Mr. Betmonr. Yes; we received a letter from the Commission advising us
tLat the incident referred to was an informal discussion rather than actual testi-
mony before the Commission. -

Mr. Srzzn. And also to complete the record, have you been advised that Mr.
Wade was not suggesting that he believed the rumor about Oswald as an in-
formant, but felt obliged vo call it to the attention of the Commission?

Mr. BeLMont. The Commission’s letter so advised us.

Mr. Srzen. Mr. Chairman, may this be admitted with No. 885?

The CuammMan. It may be admitted under that number.

(The document referred to, previously marked Commission Exhibit No. 835
for identification, was received in evidence.)

Mr. Sresn. Mr. Belmont, I show you a letter dated February 12, 1964, a
number of affidavits by special agents, attached to it. It was identified yester-
day, parts of it were identified yesterday and it therefore carries the number for
identification 825. Can you identify this letter for us?

Mr. Betmont. In order to be sure—I beg your pardon. This is a letter dated
February 12, 1964, to. the Commission from the FBI, to which is attached affidavits ~
of FBI personnel who had reason to contact Lee Harvey Oswaid and who were in
a supervisory capacity over the agents who contacted Oswald. ~

Mr. Stern. Did you supervise the preparation of this material?

Mr. BeLmont. These affidavits were prepared, of course, by the men themselves.

15
13,00000

 

 

 

sper

 

I have read the affidavits, and they were compiled as an enclosure and sent
over with this letter.

Mr. Stern. You have reviewed them in preparation for your testimony before
the Commission?

Mr. Betmonr. Yes, sir.

Mr. Stern. To your knowledge, are they accurate?

Mr. BeLmont. They are accurate, to my knowledge, yes.

Mr, Stern. Are they complete?

Mr. Bermont. Yes.

Mr. Stern. They do not omit any significant fact you know of?

Mr. BeLmont. No.

Mr. Stekn. In connection with the material they cover?

Mr. BeLMont. No.

Mr. Stern. Unless there are any questions on that, Mr. Chairman, I suggest
we admit this document.

The CuarrMan. It may be admitted as No. 825.

(The document referred to, previously marked Commission Exhibit No. 825
for identification, was received in evidence.)

Mr. Stern. Mr. Belmont, I show you a letter dated March 31, 1964, from
Director Hoover to Mr. Rankin, the General Counsel of the Commission, with

- a series of attachments. Can you identify this which has been marked. for

identification as No. 886. Can you identify this for the Commission?

(The document referred to was marked Commission Exhibit No. 836. for
identification.)

Mr. Betmont, This is a letter dated March 31, 1964, to the Commission from
the FBI to which is attached the instructions contained in our manuais as to the
type of information which should be disseminated to Secret Service and our
relations or liaison with Secret Service.

Mr, Stern. It was prepared in response to a request from the Commisston?

Mr. BeLMont. That is correct.

Mr. Srexn. Did you supervise or assist in the preparation?

Mr. Betmonr. I did.

Mr. Srern. Have you reviewed it recently?

Mr. Betuont. Yes.

Mr. Sregn. Is it complete with respect to the matters covered?

Mr. Becmont. Yes; itis. —

Mr. Sreen. Is there anything you would like to add to it with respect to the
matters covered?

Mr. BeLMonr. Well--——

Mr. Doties. May I just interrupt here a moment. Is this inquiry directed to
the question of whether it is now adequate or whether this is complete as of the
time of the assassination? I think we have two questions there to consider.

Mr. Betmont. Mr. Dulles, this letter outlines our relations with Secret Serv-
ice and the material that is attached covers both the instructions to our agents
prior to the assassination and the current instructions.

Mr. DULLES. Subsequent to the assassination?

Mr. Betmonrt. Yes, sir. C

Mr. Durres. Yes.. .

Mr. Sreen. What were the criteria you employed and instructed your agents to
employ before the assassination in determining what information should be
reported to the Secret Service regarding threats against the President, members
of his family, the President-elect, and the Vice President?

Mr. Betmont. These are contained in detail in the attachments which repre-
sent sections of our manual of instructions which ere availabie to all of our
personnel in the field as well as the seat of Government, and also in the FBI
handbook which is in possession of the individual agent in the field. Urhese
instructions require that any information indicating the possibility of an at-
tempt against the person or safety of the persons mentioned by you must be
referred immediately by the most expeditious means of communications to the
nearest office of the Secret Service. Further, that our headquarters in Wash-
ington must be advised by teletype of the information and the fact that it has
been furnished to Secret Service.

16
13-90000

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in view of the fact that we have practically—we have all the reports, he says -
we have ail the reports that are in that file, and it just seems like thrashing
old straw to go over it and over it again.

Mr. McCrory. Do we have copies of all these telegrams that are in here from
the Embassy?

Mr. BetMont. You are looking at——

Mr. McCoy. Not Embassy; here is one from Mexico. Do we have that?
We don’t have these in our files, for example.

Mr. Betmont. This is subsequent to the assassination. You see your area
of interest at this point is information, all information we had prior to the
assassination. I did not remove from this file the items that started to come
in subsequent to the assassination, you see;

Mr. MoCuoy. My feeling is that somebody on the Commission should examine
that file. I can’t come to any other conclusion after reading it all, because I
don’t know what is in it, what is in our record, and what is in that file. There
is a good bit of material there that is narrative, which I think would be relevant.
Certainly, I don’t believe we can be possibly criticized for deleting or not pro-
ducing a file which contains the type of information that you are speaking of.
We are just as interested in protecting the security of your investigative proc-
esses as you are.. But I don’t think that when it is on the record that we have
this file, that may contain material that was not in our files, and we are given
the opportunity to examine it, without disclosing these confidential matters that
we ought not to have somebody go through it. . .

Mr. Duties. I agree with that but I think we could save time if we checked
off first what we have already and that would cut out about half of that file
probably. .

Mr. McCrory. I think in a rapid glance through it, I think just about half of it.

The CmairMan. Weill, suppose you do that then, get those and let's see. All
right, proceed, Mr. Stern.

_ Mr. Steen. I think perhaps we ought to leave the entire matter of the file
then until we can give you the information.

The Cuarrman. That is right.

Mr. Srern. May we admit for the purposes of the record this list at this time,
Mr, Chief Justice, which has been marked No, 834?

The CHamman. Yes. There are no > security matters in this?

Mr. BeLMont. No, sir.

The CHareman. It may be admitted as Exhibit No. 834.

(The document referred to, previously marked Commission Exhibit No. 884 for

__ identification, was received in eVidence.)

Mr. Steen. Mr. Belmont, can you identify this letter dated February 6 with
an attached affidavit which has been marked for identification as Commission
Exhibit No. 8857

(The document referred to was marked Commission Exhibit No. 835, for
identification.)

Mr. BeLmonr. Yes; this is a letter dated February 6, 1964, to the Commission
from the FBI to which is attached an affidavit by Director J. Edgar Hoover.

Mr. Steen. What is the subject?

Mr. Brtmont. Stating flatly that Lee Harvey Oswald was never an informant
of the FBI.

Mr. Duties. Would you define informant. Obviously in the sense he knew
some information as previously indicated from the previous interviews. I mean
for the record, would you just define what you mean by an informant in this
sense?

Mr. Belmont. An informant in this sense is an individual who has agreed to
cooperate with the FBI and to furnish information to the FBI either for or with-
out payment.

Mr. Steen. Thank you.

Mr. Be.tmont. This would not, of course, include the cooperative citizen to

-~whom we go, and who frequently amd frankly discloses any information'in his

possession, but rather someone who joins an organization or seeks out informa-
tion at the direction and instance of the FBI relative to subversive or criminal

14
13-00000

 

ata.

 

 

 

We received communications from the Navy, and from other agencies,
Mr. Duties. Is there any getieral procedure with respect to Americans abroad

who get into trouble. Do you get informed so in case they come back you can

take adequate precautionary measures? Is that established SOP?

Mr. Betmont. Yes, Mr. Dulles. We do receive such information, and if we
pick up the information initially as we did here, from press reports or otherwise,
we go to the other agencies and ask them whether they have any information and
‘establish an interest there so that if they have not voluntarily furnished us the
information. they will do so upon our request.

Mr. Dottes. Thank you.

Mr. Stean. On page 3, Mr. Belmont, in the answer to question No. 3, the
second paragraph, could you tell us why the FBI preferred to interview Oswald
after he had established residence and why it was not preferable to interview
him upon his arrival in New York? :

Mr. Betmont. This is a matter of experience. Generally speaking when an
individual such as Oswald arrives back in the country and the press is there,
there is an unusual interest in him. Immigration and Naturalization Service
has a function to perform, and we prefer, unless there is a matter of urgency,
to let the individual become settled in residence. It is a much better atmosphere
to conduct the interview, and to get the information that we seek. If it is
a matter of urgency, we will interview him immediately upon arrival. .

Mr. Stern. On page 4, Mr. Belmont, in your answer to question No. 6, was
it ordinary procedure for Agent Fain to re-interview Oswald so soon after his
first interview under the circumstances? Is there anything unusual about that?

Mr, Bexmont. There is nothing unusual whatsoever. Agent Fain interviewed
Oswald on June 26, 1968-—1962, I believe it was, was it not?

The Cuamman. Yes; 1962.

Mr. Betmonr, And was not satisfied that he had received all the information
he wanted nor that it was a matter that should be closed at that time.

Therefore, he set out a lead to re-interview Oswald, and after an appropriate
period he went back and re-interviewed him. This is within the prerogative of
the investigative agent, and certainly if he was not satisfied with the first
interview it was his duty and responsibility to pursue the matter until he was
satisfied.

Mr. Steen. In your answer to question No. 3, does the response of Oswald to
the question why he went to Russia seem typical to you of the returned defector,
or unusual?

Mr. Becmonr. There is no such thing as a typical response. Each case is an
individual case, and is decided on its merits and on the background of the
individual, and the circumstances surrounding it.

’ Mr. Sregn. Would it be usual for the defector to agree to advise you if he got
acontact? Are they generally that cooperative?

Mr. Be.mont. We ask them because we want to know, and the purpose of our
interview with him was to determine whether he had been recruited by the
Soviet intelligence, and we asked him whether he would tell us if he was con-
tacted here in this country. He replied he would. Whether he meant it is a
question. However, you must bear in mind that this man, I believe it was
when he was interviewed in July of 1961 in the American Embassy, the inter-
viewing official there said it was apparent that he had learned his lesson the
hard way, and that he had a new concept of the American way of life, and
apparently had decided that Russia was not for him.

When we interviewed him likewise he told us that he had not enjoyed his stay
in Russia. He likewise commented that he had not enjoyed his stay in the
Marines. So that in direct answer to your question, it is customary for us in
such a case as this, to ask the man if he will report a contact, and it is customary
for him to say yes, because frankly, he would be putting himself in a rather
bad light if he didn’t say yes,

Mr. Stern. Turning to——

Mr. Duties. Could I ask a question there: Do I correctly read your report
and those of your agents to the general effect that you had no evidence that
there was any attempt to recruit Oswald in the United States?

Mr. Betmont. No evidence whatsoever.

8

0
ors S-E-C-R-E-T

Headquarters Distribution for
Book Dispatch No. 4726

 

 

 

 

2 DDP 2 C/WE
1  ADDP 1 C/WE/1
1 C/OPSER’ 1 C/WE/2
1 c/TSD 1 C/WE/3 -
1 C/CA 1 C/WE/4
1 c/ccs 1 C/WE/5
“1 cC/soD 1 C/WE/BC
; 1 cC/Cl
1 C/FI 2  C/WH
1 C/WH/1 ©
2 C/AF 1 C/WH/2
1 C/AF/1 1 C/WH/3
1 C/AF/2 1 C/WH/4
1 C/AF/3 1 C/WH/5
1 C/AF/4 1 WH/COPS
1 C/AF/5 1 WH/POA
eo 1 C/AF/6 1 WH/POB
- 1 WH/ Plans
2  C/EE ;
1  C/EE/G 2 CI/R&A
1 C/EE/K ~ 1 CI/ LIA
1 C/EE/SA 1 CI/OPS/ AF
1 CI/ OPS/EE
2 C/FE 1 CI/OPS/FE
1 C/FE/CH at CI/ OPS/NE
1 G/FE/HULA 1 CI/OPS/SS
1 C/FE/JKO 1 CI/OPS/WE
1 C/FE/PMI 1 CI/OPS/WH
1 C/FE/TBL
1 C/FE/VNC .
1 RID
2 C/NE
; 1 C/NE/1
; 1 DC/NE/AA
1 C/NE/4
1 C/NE/5
1 C/NE/6

Originated by: Chief, CI/R&A, Ext, 7468/23 December 1964
QGid Mme.fA.E. Dooley, Ex4 GIVE

 

S-E-C-R-E-T
 

Vianrrine

Wee ee

 

 

 

 

ALAN Ht. BeinenT A SS1$THANT Te Tite brastrerR , eB]

ARY oy GLY

Mr. Svern. I think he might be able to highlight the answer. We have the
exact answer on the record, and I thought it might——

The CHAIBMAN. Well, highlight it, if there is anything in addition I would
think that would be relevant and pertinent. But toe ask him to paraphrase
that which he has done with great meticulousness would seem to me to be
abortive and would take a lot of our time, and I don’t see what it would prove.
If you have anything in addition that you want to ask him, if you want to
ask him if there is anything in addition he has not put in there, that is all right. -
But to just ask him to paraphrase answers that have been done with great
care would seem to me to be confusing the record, and serve no purpose.

Mr. Sreen. I might ask, Mr. Belmont, whether there is anything you would
like to add or amplify in these questions?

Mr. BeLMontT. I believe the answers speak for themselves, although in view
of Mr. McCloy’s questions a little while ago, I would be very happy to make
clear our approach to this matter. For example, the fact that our interest,
in defectors, in this case, is shown by the fact that in early November 1959"
we opened a file on Oswald based on the newspaper publicity as to his defection.
And the fact that he had applied to renounce his citizenship. We checked our
files then to see was this a man we had a record on, and found that we had a |
fingerprint record solely based on his enlistment in the Marines.

We had no other record on him but we placed a stop or a flash notice in our
fingerprint files, at that time so that if he should come back into the country
unbeknownst to us and get inte some sort of trouble we would be immediately
notified. That is our opening interest in the case with the thought in. mind
that should he come back to the country. we would want to know from him
whether he had been enlisted by Soviet intelligence in some manner.

That is our procedure because of our experience that these things have hap-
pened, and we consider it our responsibility to settle that Issue whenever we can.

Mr. Sreen. Could you explain, Mr. Belmont, this procedure of placing
stop in the files that you just referred to?

Mr. -Betaont. We merely notify our identification division to place what: we
eall_a fiash notice in the man's fingerprint file, which means that should he
be arrested and the fingerprints be sent to the FBI, that the appropriate division,
in this case the domestic intelligence division, would be notified that the man
had been arrested, for what and where he was arrested, thus enabling us to
center our attention on him.

Our ‘next interest in this man arose as a result of the fact that his mother
had sent, I believe, $25 to him in Moscow, so we went to her in April 1960
and we talked to her. At.that time she told us that he had told her that he
would possibly attend the Albert Schweitzer College in Switzerland.

So as a followup, we had our legal attache in Paris make inquiry to ‘see
whether he had enrolled in this college. The resultant check showed that while
they had expected him and a deposit had been placed that he did not show up
at the college.

Mr. Srean. I think that is all covered in quite adequate detail in the answer
to the first question.

Mr. Duties. I have one question. I would like to put to you on the first ques-
tion and answer in your letter of April 6, in Exhibit 833-—-the Bureau's letter
of April 6. You refer, first, to the fact that the first news you got about Oswald
was from a news service item, and then later on at the bottom of the second
full paragraph you state, “A file concerning Oswald was prepared and as
communications were received from other U.S. Government agencies those
communications were placed in his file.” ~

‘Phe record. may show the other communications, I guess our record does
show, but do you feel that you adequately were advised by the State Department
as this case developed or by the CIA or other agencies that might have known
about it?

Mr. Betmonr. Yes. We received a number of communications from other
agencies, and we set up a procedure whereby we periodically checked the State
Department passport file to be kept advised of his activities or his dealings
with the Embassy in Moscow so that on a periodic basis we were sure we had
all information in the State Department file.

   
   
  
 
   
 
  

7
13-00000 _

ne S-E-C-R-E-T
Distribution For.
Book Dispatch No. 4726
AF Division EE Division

 

 

 

The above listing has been
reviewed in the EE Division.

oa
(Initials)

FE Division

 

 

 

 

 

The above listing has been
reviewed in the AF Division.

 

 

 

Lae
(Initials)

 

The above listing has been
reviewed in Division.

 
  
 

(Initials)

S-E-C-R-E-T
 

104-10423-10337 z . .
weet at - TAL Linrndvey

PROCESSING

‘ .. sslF TIS
. D i S P A T C Hi S-E-C-R-E«-T BRS, action
TO

 

 

 

MARKED FOR INDEXING |

"_Ghiefs of all Stations X__[ No noexn

INFO. ONLY QUALIFIED
HEADQUAMTERS DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

NSN EEE
Chief, KUDOVE RSS MICROFILM

 

 

 

 

FROM

 

SUBJECT

Narre ormmission Testimony - Selected KcerD . _
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES. —

FYI

 

1, The Warren Commission's Report on the assassination of
President Kennedy focused attention on the magnitude of the problem
involved in the protection of the Chief Executive, As you know, it is
our responsibility, overseas and in headquarters, to render every
support possible to the Secret Service in the conduct of its statutory
responsibilities in the United States, and especially when the President
travels abroad. :

2. The circumstances confronting the Warren Commission
produced discussion and testimony on various aspects of the problem
of Presidential protection and on interagency operational cooperation,
which normally do not find their way into the public domain. These
include the acquisition and dissemination of information, consultation, _
coordination, and operational interchanges. I believe you will be
interested in the attached extracts of testimony given before the Warren
Commission by U.S. intelligence and security officials. Pertinent
portions have been side lined. I commend these materials for reading

. by all officers in positions of senior responsibility in headquarters and
overseas, .

 

oe

‘FLE Cron M,. KNIGHT

DATE TYPED DATE DISPATCHED
3 FEB &..
| 23 Dec. 1964

[CROSS REFERENCE TO . BISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

 

 

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

I
Book Dispatch No, 4726
\ CLASSIFICATION

S-E-C-R-E-T 100-300-12
13-00000

NE Division

 

 

 

 

The above listing has been
reviewed in the NE Division.

 

~

: (Initials)

Vv

S-E-C-R-E-T

~2-

Distribution For
Book Dispatch No. 4726

WE Division

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The above listing has been
reviewed in eé WE,Division.

    

(Initial g)

S-E-C-R-E-T
‘ yo . S-E-C-R-E-T

Distribution For
Book Dispatch No. 4726

WH Division

 

 

 

 

‘Mexico City]

 

 

 

 

 

 

The above listing has been
reviewed in the WH Division.

Zs

       

(Initials)

-3-
S-E-C-R-E-T
