74-00000

 

 

“Qe

"The money for the underground 4a ruch and contact te doubtful, an

‘excuse, The problem uf Cubs costs a lot of xeneyl The neople of the

Escambruy ~ it's difficult to deliver arma to them? But we are going to
run that cisk, The urrs are guing to be Aonts Voll, riska must be taken.”
Vire agin referred te the groupe that didi't want to colisborate with the
Couneil but would collaborate directly with the Avensy atating that he

had opvosed it und util oprosed It; ‘that he received a very affoutionate
letter ssking bin to try vork out all the oroblors tetween us ond necept

& solution, ami that a ruprosentative would be designated to work with hing
that I had auprared unt he had spent two very pleasant days with re; that

I waa very undarotanding; that trent; dayn bad passed of creat angletye.
(Hot twenty but ten,” I tnter-oued.} H@ auid he figured that ;-robably he
right have arr.o ani hein for the underprounl and ‘row about lane of action
and had felt dtrencthened, "Eut® he sald, "now I tual knocked down, Lone
of the plang or propagania propos:ls hava bean accepted, none, The firing .
wall in Cuba continues functioning, 31 dead Jn 3%) days. by resignation has
pron wa ition long ago, und XY am ready to subrit, it ca soon as I return to
Niaris 3

I declared that he rust not do that, that be sust have pationce., that
it takes time to resolve these things; He replied that he has beon waiting
Since April] and rentioned all] the sufferin.: he bad gone through, attacks
by everyonn, rothers of prisoners an! dead, the Arerican Press, Fortuce,

Tine, Lifo, Hew York Tinea, etc., all againat bin alom: with ALABAU Trelles, —

and othoras and that hoe had aupvorted all of ttle in silonce, He had becn
asked it it were true thet there was no air sunrort and had not anawered,
"the other tire I kept my lips closed with ateslute reith, the noxt tine I
skoll huve ry eyes open ami have rany questions, I don*t uncerstand how
you peonle can deal with sore of thee unknown Cubans, i

He said, "I've given many vroofs of loyalty to you. What they attribute
te pe the other day in Mier that ®thero would be an invasion in a few
daya", that 19 not true. I have a tape recording of shat Tsadd ulich vas
*very soon (without ventioning any date) in Guba there would be unvetled
the great Pascuss (resurrection) of the Fatherlerd, and the prese hus nis=
interpreted Puseuss us the Pascuns do Nevided (Ciriateas).

- f

"Thus the orend cones out with staterents sttrituted to Dr, Miro that
the invasion will take place by Christraa, cornletely a lle and nothing
iike whut I said.* I conceded to br. liro that ie had suffered a trerendous
number of attncks in silence and that the prosa hed over a period of tine
core out with erltical revarks. I asked his. if ha planned to pass: through
Wastington before returning to Miami and he sais he didn't have money for
such expenses; that tig wife waa terribly worried about their sor, but
that he would have to reiain in Kew York until Wednesday to atterd the
luncheon for all the editors of the Latin A: rican press, who want to cone
verse with him, to help with propagands but wittcut costing the U.S. a
cont, an .

rare
ae

Lien
 

 

i

ae

 

cormiasions within the CRC: finance, propaganda, clandestine, rilitary,
organisation, ete. The .nes who are ro «ood or don’t want to vork, he

eaid, he would cut off, but that he couldn't Just fire sareone suldenlys —
He then said asluries vero oral] @ §200, $225 per ronth ae ean everare
except for particular individuals, euch os hie usaistant Aragon, a very
capable person, and the chiefs of the various organizations who work *full
tine" and receive 3460 each; further that he planned to give each orgeniza=
tion approximately $700 per ronth for their operating expenses, 6omoa leas, |
some a little more ~ (MRR, Rescute, 30 de Nov, 26 de Maye, AAA Indenend=
jentes, Kontecrist1). : . : poo

. . . { :
Wien I questioned whether the honteerieti orvanizaticn was util) in
the CRC, he said it. was, that only Juste Carillo had dropped cut of the
CRC but the group rerained in and had a now head. He added that he had
just had a requost from Carillo to provide hin (Carille) with « thousand
dollars; that Carille had photographic copies of sone checks that he had
paid.to Waldo Frank tor propagania activities ayainét Cuta and that
Carillewaa asking roimburserent but kKiro said he didn't consider he had
to give it tv Carille. ! :

Returning to the budgot, Miro Said, "Thera are ‘eke varlous employees}
there is the item of trips; there are the military jjeople grouped under
the military comminaion ~ I cannot let tha. suffor nisery. There ore no
atudenta on the payroll] beceuse they are being supndrted by you (the
Agency). And right there a difference ia established betveen those in
the Counc! and those vio receive money (rom the Ageney directly, whieh
ia more than thet received by ry people. See how you (the Agency) withe
out intending to, and for reasons of insecurity, are going to destroy
the Council." He then stated that ho had placed Alvarez Dias, who had
been Finiater of Finance, in charge of finance mattera because he (Miro)
could not be everywhere, andto make certain that no exiensea were paid
on whioh they were not in agreeront, and which Paule vould carry out.

t

I querried wether Paula would coutinue as accountant, ani Miro sald,
"eertainly, ag accountant.” He aaid that everyones has been coring to him
(Mire) with all kinda of pleas for money and therefore it was nocessary
to have Alvarez Diaz in here so that he and Pauls night resolve the finances
matvera, Miro added vorda of praise for Paulu, "It's like I want to heve
for each section of the Council, like I wanted Conte! Aguero to handle
propaganda, but since he is receiving roney fren you, (the agenoy) he
doesn't want to. I have to have goreone to take this lond of f of ra; firat
ag in Naval affairs, acreone to lock for boats, arpa, ete.”

I asked about Festre for proparanda and Miro replied that hestre is
no good, never wis of value; that he Lad leen put ini charze of the proca-
ganda cormission previously and givon $28,020 ronthly, but had done nothings
Then he launched into a criticlar of the Swan proparanda; that it wae @
share, handled by Batistianos: Fernandes VARELA, & Cithodies Suares
Hemandes, a senator in the epoch of Batista. He nared another (sounded

;
SEE T

|
|
{
j
74-00000

genes
He again repeated, “Thure rust be rasaive oropagendas asoondly array

we shall furnish the dead, but I need to zr0u Plow are ve going to die.®
Me comented that he waa going to ask that his photo;raph vet be put of

. the cover of a certain sagasine because he didn’t know vhethor he was

going to continue; that in the present cire-watances he didn't see how be

could continue, Again I urged that Le rust do so, ord that I felt certain -

that ve could reeolve sure of his provosale, rrobubly not te the extent
that he desired, but at least im purt, but that tine was necessary te.
accomplish this. , . :

He repeated that the Council seods ts have e-ae .otion taken in Cuts,
tut the Agency keens on uncertaking actios a without any connection vith
the Council. Further, that he must have the raann for eonductiong propa.
ganda, auch ns outlined in the "Operaticn Griota.” Ha asked, sa when eould
I give tin sore arowera, I replied thot during the current week I expected
to have reotings in which these ratters wul¢ to discussed = the Lepartwent
of State, with Kr. Goodwin, with representatives of the Agency, and that I
hoped thut surething woulst te resolved, tut thut ho must realize that rany
people are involved in such natters and svlutions are rot reached quickly.
He reiterated that he had to keen telling 1.43 oryeatcatlona fralit a little
longer” and that thia wna becoming oulurrassings

Then he brought up hia prevosal of havin kim and the Council go to
Cuba, saying “porhans it would be advantageoun that I die in Cubag that
the Council ask recoymition fron Cuban 4041 and the nilitary aid of the
United Statea -- al¥ to tuke place within 4¢@ nourn, Ho added, “I hare
told you of tha reuction of Cardinal Srellran, Sve have dono vory padly
in the Cuban affair.® | .

i
I recinded hir that desoite the urgency that we all recognised fa the
Cuban situation ami ita threat to the Uritea Siatwa and 42] the Arerieas,
there are rany other vorld problera - Lica, rerlin, ate., ~ wileh also
occupy the attention of our goverrzent cacnie.

Then I auid I wished to take edvantag. cf cur réeting to ask him for
information relative to his current bude»ts first, did he believe that
there ware any necnle receiving 9 aslery Sra the Councd] vio might also
be getting financial aid trom H.E.4, He oid, "Xo, £ would never parrit
that.” Then he declaged that he had two ways of orertinj: shen ho obssrked
the perscnnel of the verioua organizations int; the CHC: either to ext off
their salaries auidenly, vr to put ther to wary Sor their cays that tre
"norina” (rayroll) yrew a Little Lit Lecuuze ke had to take din certain
neovule, ani that he considered tis ubsorbing ther was secorsing to the
policy ef C.I.A. Then he declared that the rexinu bererit received by
rofugees "ror H.f,W, was $1C0 per far tly ces contre ani that no there Lere
could  farily live on a humired a ronth. Hence, be did not feel that ke
could cut off the peoule on the staffs of the Cit organizations, and send
ther. to the H.E.wW, ‘"herofore, they were unsigned to the different
14-00000

here (in Council) reprenenting organizations rust know somathing of vhat
they are going to do and if they ask for 40 rifles, I aust bo able to say,
"Mere they are” — not to give arms directly into their hands = hut through
& contact for this, Othervise you people ruke your plane, ond 141] retire
frum overything. And be assured that novor, never will J aay « single vord
against the Agency or the United States, never} por exvluin reasone which
shouldn't be explained.

"If XT cannot have the responsibility that I should have, I ahxll not
Jend nyaelf to what ray result in a tragedy, None of tho problems [ have
planted have been resolved) not that of the rristrates nor that of the
Evcumbrey, nor the soney to the uncerground, haa been rosclved, not the

“plan of propagamia that I gave you. I cannot continuo to ait in an office,

While you continue operating, ag you wish, with ry sflont ounsent, You may
cheves somone else like Wr. Godoy, who 4a agking ‘Cor arms, Choose and
see vhether hia nace will save Cuba. You are poiny to create another Fidel,

who is nothing.

T revinded his that I had my talke with hin only ton days before, not
twenty, and that I could talk to no one in Wauhington until 9 week ago and
had to have rany conversations with rany people, end that his proposals
could not be resolved In such a short tire. He returned te the a;recront
that "plana of action be discussed jointly; that 4¢ there vere objectiona,
that the objections be discussed. Ha asid thero had been no objections so
fer to discuss; nor objections to propaganda plane, He was to have sontact
with o representative of C.I.A. to neet with representatives of orgunigas
tions that want to collaborate, and with Dr, Viro =« nothing developed on
thath He declared that he should have knowledge of the activities of
thone that don't vant to collatorates and suid euch day there will be sore,
because they vant to cuin the power for thesselvea; to act on their om
sconint, Ho said he knows there le a “Jim® and a "Robert" and othera that

are doing thinge,

Tf assured bir he rust realize thet there ware sany problens involved
ia hia proposals ani that tine was easential to work then out, 2 rerinded
hiv of Lie conversation with kr. Goodwin and the lattera’ estate: ent to the
effect that thera could te no thought in the foreseeuble future of a mille
tary operution against or invasion of Cuba, Miro countered by referring to
hie conversation with the President on 1@ July and his (Miro*s) complaint
of inactivity, He sald the President pronosed the recruiting of Cubans in
different units of the arry for training so as to utilize ther at the
opportune tine, and that the officers would be invited to our nilitery
achools, Hiro said he had gathered soce of the military topether and ine

forzed them of this offer, and tho next voex he was: culled to disoues the

‘recruiting, wi:ich he a-proved, Then Genera) Herahey went to sea tin at

hia house, telling hiz thet Cubans wouldn't be sant,to Berlin or any such
Place but kept in the U.3, wwailuble for use later, Miro said, “It there
is to Le no invasion, then let's utilize the underground, which needs ars
and roney.? | : :

peas
c

1

 
74-00000

on ~—y
Se
(CRC), Ihave seven, to wrk with you, with ne, vith the people who are

going to carry out the activities, with the people that I designate.
Nothing of that is being done, Then what they want is to work alone.®

: "I will not continus. I will not continue from the:tine I retura to
Miemi, I have gone on for five ronthe, struggling. I cannot accept this
situation, I have tried to pull together those sroups 4s asked in the
White House. f haven't succeeded in crouping any rere, because ~ I want to
speak clearly in order to rerain good friends alvays ~ because you huve
prevented it. The etucenta haven't joined, not because of no political
reason, but merely tecauss you suport ther: directly. Presumably the idea
ia that in thia vay the seourity of this nation is better saferuarted,

A Coneejo was desired to serve aa the Coordinnting group and to provide a
feans by which the United States vould not appear toto intervening in Cuba.
Ir there ia to be a Consejo, it must have all the dignity of a Council,*

"Vhen I try to form a Council, grouping all elexents together, they
don't Join because they are talkiays directly with your people « and there
is an office fer that ourpose in Fiami = which deals with all the ren who
want to work, sho vant to do things. This is all indecendent of the Council.
And seme vork for a destruction of the Council, I cannot tolerate this, I
have a gon vho is a vrisoner; either I know the plena, and I knew the saneuver
snd the problems that they are going to carry out, or I, when I arrive in
Miemi, will say, "Xo," and send woid to washington, Let them do without me.
There will be someone who will submit to these things, but not 1."

®Aand of the four iters that prorised me to resolve, there
have not been resolved any, and I find gyself in the dark, And I as. very
sorry. I am not going to corvrevise the security of this Ration, but
neither an I going to couprorise the situation of these boyae When they
disappeared, lost their ives, etc., I va contronted with "And you are the
preeidont of the Council." I cannot remaine in this WAY a o*

*I haven't been able to group together anything, I ‘as vrowised that
the zagiatrates would all incorrorate together (into the Council), but
that rascal ALALAU ds working against the Couneil and I have reason te
beliove that he 4s doing it with Agency aunport, otherwise how would he pay
for his polities] denunciations,@ YF resoonded, that [ believed this could
not be true, He akcuted, "I kave expressed my position te you, and I want
you to get an ansver when you can. If tesa orotlers that I have set forth
do not have an demediste solution, I 4 not'to kuew and to dispose of
relative actions to be taken, then how, in view of ry situation, ust I do.®

He asked about the vlan for clandestine sabotaze action by commando
raid, that he had given us, anc what had core of it, I replied that he rust
realize that the study of such a plen necessarily was slow end must be

" conaidared by rany. He said he was convinced that there vas no intention of

accepting such plans, and that while now we diacues auch plans, we lose out,
“I cannot accept this situation, nor would you.*® , :

:
‘
:

 
74-00000

 

who
He then sald that he could go ahead ant! dissolve. the Council, and let
@uch organization go ahead anu do aa it plecaed; that he couldn't proaide
: over & reaningless council; thet this vas not a threat, but he would step
; oute I resasured bir that he vasa hishly cateered in Washington and It wea
neceasury that he continue as head oJ the Council. He rerlied, "but they
dlereyvard rast . * 7

te ralteratrd that he had -lanted four oroblers, nono of whieh nad
: teen resolvods raiteruted that ie bed rlantid the pronayanca oroblen. @
é long time ago, but that :rupagemia continues Indapanient ot the Counefl
i ant peuple cre sent out ifke those to the Con-rusa of stucents in dae
Paulo, viere they repeat inga like parrots wileh don't go. with Latin .

Averican audiences. ,

: °I have asked for or-a; elthar vive us rassive ald, one, tvo, three
nillion @ whatever {a necessary, because this is to deatroy Compuniai,
! and wefl] r:ke our plang. Ard wa'li furnish the dead, fcr wo can do no
Fore. %e rust work in ayreeront, Lecause new ench time ‘that 1 syeak,
: it's "we abel] gee, we are going to study," = und nothing hapoens. No,
i - 9, T shall not oreaice over another Council existing: unier these clroume
_ stances, I have often srent 24 hours without sleeping, trying to pull

together the groupa » ond mantine, problets arise on all sides. why?
Becaure so lony as other prouse et suncort, they von!t enter the Council,
The EP ta in contact with you and getting array; now the Unidad Rovolu=
clonario, I rerain the ridiculous one, Alroas'y I've ‘auffercd a lot and
heve a son who fa a prisoner, And I've talked a lot. during theay daya,
ard T keen on being a puppet, vut verse than & vusrets because a vuppet
is toved, but I'z not even roved.”

: *Thercfore, I say to you that the grouns that want to work with us,

YOu, the chief of that grow:, and I, we ought to ruvolve all these twueatdons,
for eyazvle, with the chic of the nilitury group, beennse he has rulled
together the profassicnal arry ard the rebel ary (elorents) and the arvy
of iikeration, such us Varela, Sotus, Nino and the boys, sho have core

' from the Lrigade.” He declared thet SUT!'S io a fighter, ia willing to

: Yeturn to Cuba, ard that he had great confidonce in SUTUS. an

i T assured him that the legalization of SOTUS! residence would be
arranzed, and that Yr. Hurwitz inforred ne tht he believed. something
could be dora for the other tnree returnees Vi-ose nares Sr. Hiro had

+ giver sa.

: Dr. Miro reiterated that he rust speak clearly, that he could not
continue thus as 4 travelling presicont without having anything to give to
. : hie ceocle —- nothing to the undoryroun! through Couneil sotion; mer sould
' ‘he be ignorant of plans which he o:novsed where Cubans yo out to dis, ond
i then having their relatives core to his as responsible, He declared, *I
* don't want to live on a budget, creside over un adr inistrative office,
+ FYeosive peorle, tell the: lies, ssying, “We wall ses." The ren vho are
 

 

 

Mivo declared that internal prozegencs and claniestins action in

Cuba evild not be delayed any longer. I szreed on the neananity, and

that 1% wae believed that measures are recessary to forrent in Cubs

the opposition to Castro, "The seexls are against hit” declared Hiro. ;
’ ®But. Increase it," I anavered. Miro thes ateted “If this action doesn't .
ate. frax the Conejo (CRC) -—- not as a: independent agency, tut in :
close exntact with you (the Agency), — “hat ve forrent is a corplete
disorder in Cuba, and aftervarcs no zovermant can succeed; secondly,
Lf ve do rut have a central plan, and carry it out vel] in 4 core or
less lintted neriod of tine, there viii rarely be r.ore shooting of

- people (prisoners) by Fidel."

"4rd this is my insistence. Ecw I sr afrald to go to Kian. shat
an I % tell the paonle there? what co i 0? Converse? Meanwhile the
Ageney keeps on infiltrating poople inte Cute but disconnectad fror the
Council. I was told in ry conversation ith the President to enplifty
the senbership in the Consejo, I rave endeavored to do that. In the
Council there are other creat organizations « dolegates from each of the
organizations « that ask ne for arma, tynszite, things, and I up here |
powerless, Theretore I rust work with yw people in order to seo how
ve xay hard over arma and a plon of actinu 20 they ray see that this le
not meresy an endloss series .of satotaze actions.” I reoiiet, *.ell, I
believe that a wollevorked-out plan tzet al.cvs yood chances cf success
will us favorably considered." : :

*Hwyv about arze for the Escantrey?® asked Miro. I replied that
it was ry understanding that arma for tie Escanbrey eould only be ©
landed on the Korth Coast; how then wil: they pet to the Escarbrey?
Miro said that the boaf which had rand zany trips (working Sor You),
vould bave to establieh conmunication an: find out when they vould pick
up the array what cannot be done “ie averece Osvaldo Randres in fis
situaticn of anguish becauue he 1s the ouly real regional focus of
resistance thut there ie there, and te bas teen really loft dn a desperate
situation for three ronthe. :

T interposed that there aeered acme «question about the paper fro
Ramirez 2eking for arms, whether it wes we real thing. *Pperfectly
identified" ronlied Miro, "Fs assured thet it in perfectly identified and
requeata have come to me through different channels asking for these arzé.
Tem still waiting now for a month anc a belf, All you huve'to do Je tell
us the reana of delivery, tha neorle tc contact and then celiver to our
Cutans the urna, dynatite, fuses, I ax stil) waiting, end criticien (of

Cubans against inaction) ineressea catly.” :

“411 the delegations of revoluticrary groups in the Council] sak re
for arrs ard ceans for fighting. but I cannot vrovide ther anything.
Meamé.ile the Agency is infiltrating -eozie into Cubs without counting on
the Consejo for anyt!:ing. This puta it into an absurd position ~ merely
a "eouretl vainted on the wall.” I Lave seid, “look for someone elee if t
am not ecaosidered able to do the job tut we rust work. I have confidence
dnths Agency, but I cannot work inttis fashion.” :

i tt es
~ sgt t {

 
 

104-10232-10018
ae

4

 

20 Ootuber 1961

VEMORANDUN FOR THE RECORD

SUBJIATs «=Peeting with Dr. Kiro in Now York City on
October 16, 161

*

The reeting with br. Kiro on October 16 ws restruned from 10100
until auch tine as bia sutience ton inated with Cariinal Srollran, He
artived at ry roor. nt about J0150, Hu declorec that the Carndins] had
wert when he leurned the detuilu of the suffering of the Cubana st the
handa of Castros ceclured that the Archbishop of Miant wan't doing
enough for the Cuban refuseaay that the U.S. wasn't doing enough for
then; that Castro cust be overthrow, Hiro tohi the Cardinal that in
all Latin Averica there vere going to Le organized acts of ayrpathy
for the Cuban sufferers, The Cardinal said be woul say » Mage lor
thes on Octobor 17. He invited Piro to coe tin at any tire.

Miro anavored ry query ag to the Lacerda ut(rirs by stating that

“" te waa very successfuls 2,8CO poonle were insiue the auditorium and

another 1,000 peo'le outuides that Lucerca had recodwed such appluupe.

The intereArerilean Press Aasoclution affairs alec had given an
opportunity to present the Cuban tragedy. He nal? that he (Firo) had
tolt how Fidel had shot 31 peonle in Septexber aJone, and other vetalley

“had deseribed how Conmunisr: vas gaining groun! day by day; tht in

Cubs they have installed a powerful radio ataticn broadcasting to Lutia
Arericay that ten countrics have Lruken with Cuba, but Argentina hae

not; that everybody is confused.

Re inCormed re that aa for the docmments relating te the Cuban
plots in Argontins, the Arrontine rilitary ren cere to talk to Varona,
and he gave them scne‘doourents that have no imortance, The officers
told Verona textually "ve huve no confidence in the Argentine Foreign
Office,* navertheless, when they arrived there, they turned over the
docuzenta to the Yoreirn Offices, But these decurents had no inoortances
they were ccrely to .eronstrate that there had been an extradition of
dceumanta, an’ that they vere or{ginale. The fi rortant uccurents are

beld by Vaorona in Mionts i

Miro eaid they also visuslised another act involving Lacerda in
Miani, Dut tbat bis “adr iniatrative® budget really does net “rovide for
props-arda activities (suc as the Current SIP end Lacenia affatra), I
countered that it was cunaldered that his budget was sufficient for his.
to ecnduct sore propaganda activities; obviously nothing on @ Bajor
seale == but some things. :

ee
& a T
 

"I've asked for roney for the clandestine groups. khat have they asia

about that?" Miro olied ‘that there is a problem of the reans of
delivery, that the % present sppeers undesirable, Tho
Ambassador ian't theres Well, we ook for another reans; the

anything - those peonle need :onsy" he countered, I have to carry out cone
crete thinga,” he declared. "I'r now like a person in a aviering pool
without water." "For three emi a half nonths I've struggled to maintain a
revolutionury apirit. My rilitary reople ara saiting till I arrived and
tell then, "thia tust be done, that must be done. Scthing yet! and without
any cian, I don't go unywhere; ‘nowhere!

 

 

"The other time I went with sy eyes closed, through faith, Ke hed a
failures and the failure fell upon-res~T cannot proceed under such cireur
atances in no way. I've asked for-$50,000 to send in to the unljerground.
The Russians are spending $40C,CO0 in propaganda and have lesa than the
U.S. e shall not compronise the U.S. Tell me the way to send it in, The

_Gounoil is to aid them, not merely to conduct ceatings.#

*0On that request they bsven't renlied anytting?" he asked, I anssored
that on thie iter, I had made known Miro's desire, but that so far nothing

had been resolved,

"I'm not corplaining," he stated, "but for three rontha I have been
asking for a con.ict withthe authority to resolve. Why? Because I'm
getting nowhere, when I return now I ehall be asked, "How about 4t?7 and
must answer, "You will have to walt becauge I have rothing.! And meanwhile
the Agency keeps on infiltrating people into Cuba inderendent of the.
Consejo. Let us go back. Without being in agreement, I cannot serve you.
I have so interest in presiding over a Council that is of no uge."

 

T pointed out that the Council must continue to exist, with him aa
its president, aa the coordinating body of the resistance roverent, but
that there sre certain difficulties in putting the student or labor activie
ties under the direction cf the Council; that these groupa are now functioning
efficiently and that I trusted that he could see the problers of completely
changing their control, direction, and coordination. I added that I
believed that he should know semething of what they are doing and that I
believed that should be kept inforced,

"I know absolutely nothing,” he revlied, «hat cones to me ia from
these same individuals, I au not in agreement with that, I'm becoming ridie
culous. Under these e!roumstances I cannot continus, I have nlanted the
probler. of tho underground, the probler of the collateral organizations
(that he vould like tc have in Council by teing their source of support
and coordination), of the engistrates, and now you have seon whet ALABAU has
done (proclaiming GARCEKAN as president of exile goverment), tho ig worke
ing with you people, and you have seen the reaction cf the State Departrent.
How yosterday ALABAl is publishing nolitical denunciations against the
Council. I have discussed the zatter of the :agistrates with the C.I,A., I
don't remenbar the naxe of the person. A month kas paesed and the other
Bagistrates (those with ALABAU) haven't been stopped (in their activities)
amd they haven't had elections aa I requested to select another lsader.®

: SLeeey
t

fae.
74-0000

coat T

“ee

 

|

"The students are continuing their activities. I ‘believe that I have
sonetiing in ry head aa a taesis for the deternination of vhat shonld be
discussed im the Council vite ra; and in agreerent vith you; but these
exioting cireuratancea, wit.cut any comnection, take it ‘so that I cannot
continue the clandestine aid, Yo the first problez, I presented your reply,
"ve shall se." To the seta? probler, the collateral osgenizationg
which continues the sure 28 *efores the third protier I presented, on arts
te serd in, nothing. The fourth. nrobler, the propazunca’ operation "Grieta®
that I showed you, nothing.” 2 reclied thit om the latter I had discussed
the ratter, that it waz, IT telieve:, a suggention given to tie in the Depart=
rent of State. Jd :

: ;

"If we don't rake sresavends and send arra into Cute now, it's useless,”
he declared. “And I canset rerain in ellenca,” I rerlicd tiat I telieved
quite a bit of propaganda wes teing conducted. "Yea, but. incependent of the
Co:neil., I CaNhUT Ez A PLZ2iTI® “They (the Agency) keep on dealing with the
MRP, with the Unidad Revoluctcrz rio, and they haven't ontered into the Council
aipnly becausn they ara in cireet contact with the dyency. Thus it appears
that pone of the oreblers uct I took up with you sce twenty days ago have
been resolved, and I'll tave t% taxe another solution. I'vant to know the truth
if Tr not acceptable, I'll leave and without any ecand?é snatsover. I have
awalloved oll the eriticiss, tn ry own house, in allence, aa though I were
reaponsitle Zor everything. I carnot continua to do thisiend be doiny nothing.
I cannot be @ puspet! I neve ms ans to give.®

He reiterated that newting had been resolved on any of his requests and
provesals, am! that he ecia't ecntinue thus, That he could quit, go to. .
Puerto Kico a9 o profasssr. Re edéed te would want te vork with ug. Ho then
referred to the acts of Lanevts tr. Maw York, which had cost four thousand
dollers, plua paasace, a ricie.cus sur spend from the edzinistrative Budget.
"Ke huve paid the prasare, nis living costs ere.” he said. ;

i
"tow I vo to Fiard where I have to face the organizations grouped into
the Council, "Aira for ever;srere?” *I haven't any. All the organizations free=
wheeling there vile. don't sexe to Join torether Lecause they cre working
directly with your neoole.® I said this say unfortunite anc aske@ whether
there could not te sure form.:* realizin. contacta with ther without noces=
sarily channelising their szcert ard direction through the Council, such
as ty forming a comittee sicrg the lines I had sugersted in Mieni,

 

Miro then referred t. whe evreement reached in the White House reeting
with Fr, Goodwin, Mr. Koodwird, with sertlezen of the C,ILA., and with Ir.
Hurvits, Firat, "Irate caly tiiny that ts cecorndged 19; the Consejo (CRC);
Cr. biro is the :eracn of cur curfidence and will have aa ect inistrative
budget which he will eontrs? am will report later the expenses of coordinae
tion, au: that any other excenses, troparanda cr clandestine activity, will be
paid by the Avency; for the treviers of the organizations! in the Couroil there
will be @ ccntact to assist is working out their solutions; that is to say,
that their preblera of toata az: errs," Another point wagithat im case there
are organizations that dco act choose to Join the Couredl, Pr. hiro vill be
perfectly inforred in actance of the ratters at hand and will give his
authorisation, That 1a to say, it estatiishes a unifying control over the

 

 
