14-0000

~ SECRET

~6-

United States and its Western allies. This ratio-
nale is covered in more detail in Chapter VI of
this report.

It is against this background that we view the approach
to CIA by Nosenko and his subsequent handling. In doing so,
we shall for ease of reference from time to time allude to
the thesis regarding KGB operations and intentions--elaborated
by Golitsyn and others--as the "Monster Plot." In fairness,
it must be allowed that this term was in common usage not
by the thesis' proponents but rather by its detractors; yet
no other name serves so aptly to capsulize what the theorizers
envisaged.as a major threat to United States' security. If
the term carries with it emotive connotations, the latter
were certainly shared by both sides to the controversy; and
this fact alone is enough to justify including "Monster Plot"
in the lexicon of this study.

SECRET
14-0000

SECRET

-7-

CHAPTER II
Biographical Data: 1927-1962

Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko was born 30 October 1927 in
Nikolayev, Ukrainian SSR, son of Ivan Isidorovich Nosenko
and Tamara Georgiyevna Markovskaya. His father was born in
1902 and died on 2 August 1956. At the time of his death,
the senior Nosenko was Minister of Shipbuilding, a member
of the Central Committee of the CPSU, a deputy to the Supreme
Soviet of the USSR, and recipient of a number of the highest
Soviet awards and medals. He received a state funeral, and
he is commemorated by a plaque on the Kremlin wall. Young
Nosenko's brother, Vladimir, born in 1944, was a student at
the Institute of International Relations as of 1964.

From his birth until 1934, Nosenko lived in Nikolayev.
: In 1934 he and his mother joined the senior Nosenko in

Leningrad, where the latter was working as chief engineer
at the Sudomekh shipbuilding plant. Nosenko continued his
schooling in Leningrad until late 1938, at which time he
and his mother followed the senior Nosenko to Moscow, where
he was to serve as Deputy People's Commissar of the Ship-
building Industry.

In 1941, shortly after the war broke out, Nosenko and
his mother were evacuated to Chelyabinsk in the Urals.
Nosenko stated that he and a friend tried to run off to the
front, but they were caught and returned home. At age 14
Nosenko entered a Special Naval School that, in August
1942, was relocated to Kuybyshev. Later, this school was
forced to relocate again, this time to Achinsk in Siberia.
Nosenko did not want to go to Siberia and, through the in-
fluence of his father, was accepted at the Frunze Naval
Preparatory School in Leningrad (not to‘be confused with
the Frunze Higher Naval School, aiso in Leningrad), which ,
by this time had been relocated to Baku.

Some time after August 1943, Nosenko tried on two
separate occasions to get to the front, but failed. He
and a friend did succeed in returning home to Moscow with-
out authorization. These escapades seem to form part of a
behavior pattern that was eventually to culminate in defec-
tion.

By August 1944, Nosenko had resumed his studies at the
Frunze Naval Preparatory School, which had returned to its

SECRET
14-0000

SECRET |

-5-

Counterintelligence in the Bundesnachrichtendienst (BND).
The Felfe case is particularly significant because it was
believed by a number of counterintelligence specialists in
the Agency that Felfe's career had been systematically pro-
moted by.the Soviets through what came to be known as the
“"throw-away" technique. According to the theory of this
group, a considerable number of valuable and productive
Soviet intelligence operations in Germany were made avail-
able to Felfe so that, by detecting them and signaling their
presence to the West German authorities, he could build up
his reputation as a counterintelligence specialist. While
there is debate about the value of the assets the Soviets
made available, there appears to be enough substance to this
theory for it tto have had a strong impact within the Agency,
particularly upon those persons who were members of the former
Eastern European (EE) Division of the Plans Directorate.

In the course of time, the continuing record of KGB
success in penetrating Western governments made it the more
feared of the two principal Soviet intelligence services.
Although we had had our successes also in penetrating the
Soviets, they were primarily through GRU defectors-in-place
such as Popov and Penkovskiy. The defection of Anatoliy
Golitsyn on 15 December 1961 was thus a major event.

Once again, it is not necessary here to go into details
regarding Golitsyn, because this case has been covered exten-
sively in a recent study. However, two points are worth
noting: .

1. First, Golitsyn was diagnosed early in
1962 as a “paranoid personality." Although account
was taken of this psychological problem, it was
considered in the light of a threat to the con-
tinuity of the debriefing process rather than as
a factor reflecting on the validity of the purported
intelligence he gave us. It was apparently felt
that, if we could maintain his stability, we could
depend not only upon the objectively verifiable
facts he gave us but also upon his often very
theoretical generalizations.

2. Secondly, Golitsyn presented us right from
the beginning, continually elaborated throughout
the years, a complicated rationale for believing
that the KGB was successfully pursuing a mammoth
program of "disinformation" to the detriment of the

SECRET
74-0000

SECRET |

, -4-

on the intelligence and counterintelligence organs of the
USSR, and as such was inevitably somewhat redundant, since
the same field was the major preoccupation of the CI Staff.
Nevertheless, as will emerge later in this report, there
was during most of the period with which we are concerned a
substantial congruity of views between the SB/CI Group and
CI Staff that militated in favor of coherent operational
policy, even though the two organizations might disagree on
matters of detail.

One curious aspect of the organizational problem should
be mentioned at this point because, while seemingly minor,
it may have played a significant role. While the SB Division
understandably. had a number of competent Russian linguists,
the CI Staff did not have a single Russian linguist who could
be brought to bear on either the Nosenko or Golitsyn case.
The staff was therefore dependent for its data on translations
of Nosenko material and, in the case of Golitsyn, on informa-
tion obtained from discussions conducted with him-in English,
a language in which he was not fully fluent.

A third organizational participant in the Nosenko case
was the Office of Security. This office had overlapping
jurisdiction with CI Staff and, to a lesser extent, SB Division
in any matter that involved a suspected Soviet or Soviet Bloc
penetration of the Agency. While not usually a problem, the
overlapping jurisdiction was considerable in both the
Golitsyn and Nosenko cases because so much of the activity
in connection with both operations revolved around allegations
that the Soviets had penetrated the Agency at a high level.

Although allegations that the Soviets had recruited
Agency staff employees did not first originate with Golitsyn,
it was he who lent special force to them by, spelling out a
complicated theory of Soviet intentions and modus operandi.
He thus provided a detailed conceptual framework within which
to develop a hypothesis towards which some members of the
Agency were already predisposed. Golitsyn thus became the
ideologue's ideologue.

Prior to Golitsyn's defection, the Agency as a whole had
been hard hit by.its dealings with high-level Soviet penetra- -
tions of Western governments. There is no need to go into
detail on them, since they have been well documented else-
where, but they included British representatives such as
Kim Philby and George Blake. Another important penetration
was Heinz Felfe, who rose to be Deputy Chief of Soviet

SECRET
 

7 SECRET 7

~2-

The quintessential quality of a report such as this
is that it be objective. We have not, on the other hand,
refrained from expressing our opinions. Even to have tried
to do so would have been futile for two rather obvious
reasons. First, into the reconstruction of events of the
' complexity herein described there always enters a degree
of selectivity and judgment; in this sense, "opinion" pro-
vides the essential matrix of our product. Secondly, we
have viewed our task as one of constructive criticism.

SECRET
14-00000

J SECRET |

CHAPTER I
Organizational Background: CIA's Handling
Of Soviet Positive Intelligence and CI Matters

The history of the Nosenko case can only be comprehended
within the framework of the organization and day-to-day func-
tioning of the Central Intelligence Agency as a whole. In
fact, opinions regarding the handling of the Nosenko case may
differ substantially according to individual's differing
views regarding internal Agency organization and functioning.
This being the case, it is useful at the outset to make
explicit our understanding of how the Agency actually func-
tioned in the relevant period, the 1960s, as distinct from
how it might theoretically have functioned according to
Agency organizational charts and regulations.

 

The two instrumentalities for the conduct of day-to-day
operations in the Soviet field were the Soviet Bloc Division
(known successively by this and several other names*) and
the Counterintelligence Staff. In the nature and interrela-
tionship of these two organizations we find the key to much
of what was to happen in the Nosenko case.

Although the SB Division was considered a "line" organi-
zation, the CI Staff's name would imply (if the Agency's
formal organization were to be taken at face value) that its
function was limited to advising a command echelon. In fact,
such a distinction was never enforced.

"CI Staff" was actually a misnomer, because the organi-
zation carrying this name did not even concern itself to any
appreciable extent with the counterintelligence function of
the Agency on a worldwide basis. Rather, it concentrated on
the USSR and Soviet Bloc countries. .

Within the SB Division, there was lodged the so-called
Soviet CI Group, which was in many respects a competitor of
the CI Staff. It concerned itself, during most of the
period to be covered in this report, primarily with information

*This area component during the period of this report was
known as Soviet Russia Division (1952-1966) and, Soviet Bloc
Division (1966-1974). The two names are often used inter-
changeably.

SECRET
74-00000

Chapter IV

Chapter V.

Chapter VI

Chapter VII

: SECRET |
-ii-
O. Resolution of the Case .....
Nosenko's Contribution: A Summary
Evaluation . 2... 2 ee ee ee

A. Information on KGB Personnel .

B. KGB Recruitment Efforts Against
US Citizens . . 2... 2. 1 1 so

C. Moscow Microphones .......
D. William John Christopher Vassail
E. Leads to Foreign Nationals ...
F. Summary Evaluation .......
The Analytical Foundations of the

"Monster Plot™ . . 1. 2 1 2 ew wee
A. Lack of Systematic Interrogation

B. Faulty Record of Conversations
With Nosenko ......-+ +a

C. CIA Misapprehensions Regarding
Nosenko's Life Story ......

D. Errors or Omissions in Available
CIA Headquarters Records ....

E. CIA Assumptions about the Second
Chief Directorate .....4...

F. The A Priori Assumption of
Disinformation as Applied to
the Popov and Related Cases...

and Application in the Nosenko Case... .

Dezinformatsiya: Origins of the Concept

Golitsyn Vs. Nosenko: A Comparison of
Their Handling By CIA .........

SEGRET

.

76
81
81

82
84
84
85
85

86
86
.90
93

100

101

106

113

123
 

i

041053410005

 

Introduction

Chapter I

Chapter II

Chapter III

Organizational Background:
Handling of Soviet Positive Intelli-

 

SECRET

THE MONSTER PLOT

gence and CI Matters .....

Biographical Data: 1927-1962 .

CIA's

‘Chronicle: 1962-1969 ....

A. Initial Contacts ...

B. Bona Fides .....

C. The Case Against Nosenko

BD. Defection.........

E. The Problem of Disposition

F. Erratic Behavior and Its Aftermath
G. The Decision to Incarcerate

H. First Polygraph Examination

I. Incarceration and Intefrogation :
J. Elaboration of the Plot Theory

K. Life in a Vault .....

L. Inter-Agency Disagreement

M. Voices of Dissent

N. Helms Takes Control
Chapter VIII Use of the Polygraph
Case .. 2...

Chapter IX

Chapter X

Chapter XI

Chapter XII

C SEE

-iii-

in the Nosenko

. oe © e& ©

Psychological and Medical Findings .
A. The Role of the Psychologist . .

B: ‘The Role of the Psychiatrist -

Cc. Conclusions .......2.4..2.,4

Impact of the "Monster Plot" on CIA's
Positive Intelligence and CI Missions

A. The Case of ~ tee kk

B. Effect on Other Potential Opera-
tions. 2... ee

C€. How CIA Worked to Defeat Itself .

Methodology and Leadership .....

A. Lack of Counterintelligence

Methodology ....°.......

B. Influence of Chief, CI on
Methodology ...........

C. Impact of Faulty Counterintelli-
gence on Positive Intelligence
Collection ee

D. What Went Wrong? .......~«;

E. Summary... ..........

Conclusions and Recommendations .. -

A. The Letter of Instructions ...

B. Recommended Action ..... a

- 136

142
142
149
157

1598

159

173 ©
175

177

177

178

178 -

179
181

182
182
184

 
74-0000

Po SECRET 7

Introduction

On 5 June 1962 Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko, a Soviet official
temporarily assigned to Geneva, contacted an American Foreign
Service Officer in a move that was eventually to lead to
Nosenko's defection. This act was the first in a chain of
events that is unequaled in complexity by any other Soviet
operation handled by the Central Intelligence Agency since

‘its establishment. Because the case still has important

implications for the overall Soviet intelligence effort of
the United States, and because it raises many basic questions
about the techniques of handling Soviet agents and defectors,
a reinvestigation of the case was commissioned by the Agency
in June 1976: The results are embodied in this report and
its annexes. ‘

Although United States officials of many agencies, up
to and including a president of the United States, were briefed
on the case and either played some role in making decisions
concerning it or actively participated in running the opera-
tion, it does not now appear that, between 1962 and 1976, any
single individual has ever been fully informed as to all its
aspects. The complexity of this investigation therefore
stems in large measure from the fact that the case has pro-
ceeded along at least two, and often more, compartmented
tracks. Thus, the effort to get a total picture of what
transpired has involved an unusual amount of research in the
files of various components of the Agency, plus personal in-
terviews with a large number of present and former Agency
employees.

The actions.taken in regard to Nosénko were not the
result of decisions made by a unitary Agency acting as a
corporate entity; rather, in this case more than in most,
decisions were made by a number of senior individuals on the
basis of their own strongly-held views, which sometimes con-
flicted with the equally strongly-held opinions of other
senior colleagues. Thus, this report must, if it is to be
comprehensible, attempt to depict the decision- -making process
in all its complexity by referring when necessary to the
individual participants.

SECRET
