74-0000

    

seater

: = Sécurity Information

  

33 95L5
Pia fe9uBS

    
    
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
   
  

   

An Investigation condusted a by the Speci _ Security Divis Oy
ing April end May, 1952, at Dallas, Texas, was of a favorable nature
concsining the Subject with exception to his business activities. Ths
Subject is President ef the Liberty Broadcasting Compeny which company

suspended gperations on 16 Hay 1952 and went into toy
Ls June 19526 * .

 

Ee

Ah former associate of ‘the Subject ~< associa dis
exployed by the Subject as of 1950 -- stated that the Subjectts nete ;
rise in the radio field (due to assosiation with wealthy father’ e
- wealthy, cand: i influential father-in-law). was followed. by: a. rapid: de
“and” that: fran : wasion; piracy {of baseball games) an
* were ‘practiced: by. the’ ‘Subjects. that he enters into contracts with
“intention of honoring his ‘contractual obligations; and that his moral:
life, heavy drinking and extra-marital indiscretions have’ been questi
The Subject is siso given

 
 
  
 
 

  

   
   
 
 

‘3

z. the. Subject bas no “pole record and his | credit: ‘rating’ S
satisfaétory to date but will, ne doubt, bé affected by the Fesult

 
    
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

om Sree ie
oa t0tDet0187

 

es “Fresidact ee ‘a poe an ihios ‘wil pron
& &, Sravks neh Asses af thie crgetti zeti che

“gekerade; 8b Bev Gre —
ferese Lowislene 2 Governee TIES 2 Ce _ ae Subjes’ is  Brocently assole

os sted sith LOBERIT &

the follevidg Inform.

: ‘faques ‘sed & ever’:
Subjecs is: described.
= Sethon | Ea |

“st aia Me achodl = Ailecke, te 1935383.
Yess during ‘the aamere ef 931 end 29283" ¥S

=

trp Boao, ‘oes poate Re! comple Vion of Freshatn year at oe
: is. eerie

Jeg :
soa a. :
is 3 ‘Babisct Wee. apices to wa0e3- at tse Universit y af
Suojeot is patet os te Gar Sti, datgisér oi :

 

invest tages tion condu

gard agineyy discloses favaratie inPornebion:1 eintive +

272m Blk raspests sxcspt. Is.
telviad ins =

pesca and. fete ssbimatant

: aforses

etesoe 4

 
  
  

  
   

ant, whe hes’ been associated with the ‘Subject for. ‘aporonisatsly ‘three

yeaa, reflects that the Subject has employed fraud, dup;
wet oo , Lies and-has failed to live up to his contractual blige tic
mratd 6

"Stress is “Leid ‘primartiy on the’ “subject's ise’ of:

frand, ctee; his heavy drinking, vhich might tend to disevssiong of = = me 7
. classified informations. possibly in his posessaion,. with unguthorined, ose

 

 

 
   
 
 
  

 
   

 Sectirity Information
