 

 

 

     

ift7y

   

       
   

ead ATs

. coxeshorex was’ porn. in Ctego | <3 avila, Cai
cuba, about i933.

    
  

‘OS incident. in- isso" an
pan Invelligence Servi

  

    

 
 

    

   
 
 

to runoz he has taken courses in soitties1 and r
instructios,-and is a militant member of tha Coxnu ist varty .
@ has participated in ‘almost a1L of the rovolution “

fa Canagu yw, aad also the o.
Sol. He participated in th wholesale arrest oF ‘parsons. at
zinc, of rho Giron davasion, ‘and: asrestod a ifow “thousénc

      
  
  
  
     
  
   
 
  

 

     
  
 

he regine. CONCEPCION and Eitsoa ALTUNAGA, £180.38 Soaber ;
re) G2, connit ‘ted tha::s in the city of Canazucy” anounting |
tmost. 2,000,000 »sesos and for this reason CONCIPCION was . *

transferred to Oviente Provinec. atle in Camarcey he was :
CileZ of Gperatioas of the State Security Department. . - : ob

 

 

 

 

   

¥ relizple source, in 2 report dated 7 January. 1834, said ;
18 Lovember 1963, one "Augusto" 1 at the gate of tne Cavan.
é

    

n Mexico City to sew > Qocar CONCEPCION. "Augusta" has” song 4
mdagly elandestine contact. wita’ CONCEPCION’ and’ sugusto™ 2
rg to bo engased ain | Resisting: unspecified people; ‘sometimes ',
Sus, te travel to Cuba,

    

 

 

   

able soured reported that, Oscar CCNCEPCION } adore
ed in Hexzco City fron Eabana on 16 January 1964. Ee carried |
Cican Elplonati © pass pert number D/G3/403.

“3 ” BS .
icia, airlist revealed: that Oscar CONCEPCION Nendoza ‘sxrived
TOR Eabona on 2¢ April 16s4 oO i say 186

       

      

CONCLPCION Caballero.

  

SECRET an ne .
NO FOREIGN DISSEY - re

 

 
feoomer Ce van IS officor
wevece until. April. 1984.

 

2s Cesmonts

          

we ..we following weve mt is ond of a series containing personality
. . anitermavticona droviccd ‘by the Source and includes supples satal
-antorgevion ‘“S¥om tke records o2 thi s Agency.

   

  
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
   

is roctested that tho addressees taxé ho action on. any of
iividuals mentzoned in the personality reports withous
seueang wath this Agency. .

 

   
 

‘Oseas CONCIPCICN Mendoza, nickname ox: pseudonyn “Ricardo
“Sonchito,” is the Cuban C reial Attacha at the ;
2ssy -in Mexico. io 3 ¢ of the Direccion General
wlageacia (Goneral octora f' Intelligence — 2G1) and ic
sutcst for Venezuelan groups. Source saw hin in MoNico in

 

   
 
 

sce described CONCZ2CIGN as having been born
v eet eight inchos tall, 150 pounds, maving |
icow's peak, Light own cycs, x thin, byt 1453,8
and a.round, _civan _Shaven face. 1,2,3

 

 

3s Comnents

 

 

Tne Subsect of this Agency's sbova referenced report, (2nu)
CONSIECTON, was Jater 1centified in 2 photograph by the
source of het report as Oscar CC? NCEPCICN send 2.

2. sn unvested source, in 4 report dated ‘l March 1931, identifica
OU SSP SION weadoza,’ 2s a sub-lieutenant in the tRtellivzence

POs

wnent, G2, of the Cuban ? Ministry of the Armed Forces

  
 

srcri
iGyx DISSES

   

 

 

ma mn
Fauld

ee

 

SP)

 
