GEM GLE QHIG CodiRam

GAM RYN, GAQRQA Wrdintd ¥ AOtn sn OFLAWARE
1 * TEO S°¢VENS. ALACRA

TAM AEYEH. Mh

art GASSER, CPE EEE Withists 8 Oath, Mant

Sand HRYGR alsAngas WARREN & RUOMAM, KEW KAMPEHRE
aX Gott, SOHN GEVMOUA, Cheif GRiha

meas! WISE ee Stee
SORE LERERRAN, COMMECTICUY
AROEL & AAA, HAWAN

LEGNARG WHER, ATA/F DIRECTOR
FRAMKUN €. POLK, MINGRIT™ ETASI DIRECTOR AND Cites COUNBEL

The Honorable Robert M. Gates

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 20505

Deax Director Gatess

20 APR 1992
ER 92-2316

‘nite States Senate

COMMITTEE ON

GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIAS
WASHINGTON, DG 206 10-6250

April 14, 1992

 

I am please to learn that you will be testifying before
the Committee on Governmental Affairs on Tuesday, May 12,
1992. The hearing will begin at 9:00 a.m. and be held in Room
342 of the Dirksen Senate Building. The subject of tha hearing
will be the "Assassination Materials Disclosure Act of 1992."
The legislation proposes to create an independent review board
tO govern and coordinate the release of government information
relevant to the assassination of former President John F.
Kennedy. As required by Commmittee rules, please have 100
copies of your written testimony dalivered to the Committee by
close of business, Friday, May 8, 1992. While your written
teatimony may be as long as you wish, please plan to limit
your spoken testimony to five to seven minutes in length.

Your testimony wilt be extremely helpful to the Committee
and to the Congresg as it considers this important
legislation. While you may discues whatever aspects of the
legislation you desire, particularly how it relates to the
records and resources of your agency, the Committee would
appreciate learning your views on several specific subjects:

What are the reasons which the Central Intelligence
Agency has reeexrds related to the aggassination of

President Kennedy?

What have the methods been to date for the identification
and definition of Central Intelligence Agency records as
material xelated to the assasaination of President

Kennedy?

What steps has the Central Intelligence Agency made to
assess the scope of relevant documents outside of
materiale requested by earlier investigative or other
official committees or commissions, or through the

Freedom of Information Act?

What is the volume of material which you might recommend
be released to the public without concern for further

postponement?
13-00000

AHS cee “S0*bar Se

The Honorable Robce.: M. “ates
Page 2

Would you be opposed to a provision. requesting agencies,
whenever possible, to self-certify materials which may
_ released without agency objection?

What recommendations can you make with regard to the need
' for interagency working groups to identify thixd-agency

records in agancy files, to avoid duplication, and to

assist in the efficient disclosure of information to the

public?

What are the logistical, manpower, and resource concerns
that you have with regard to the review and release of

assassination material?

Thank you for your assistance and consideration. I look
forward to seeing you on May 12th. In the event that you have
any questiona, please do not hesitate to contact me. Your
staff has already heen very helpful to the Committee in its
preparation for the hearing. They may also contact Dr. Leonard
Weiss, Staff Director, or Steven Kata, Counsel, at
202-224~4751.—

Sincere]

John Glenn:
Chairman

JHG/sk
13-00000

AOR Gs
*
.

ar ercoreted

4.: Did any of these records originate with any other
Federal, foreign, state, or local agency?. If se, please
describe which agencies and the approximate numbers.

A small number of CIA's JFK assassination records,
probably lesa than 5%, originated with the State Department
and the Immigration and Naturalization Servica. Another smail
number of records, also less than 5%, are original HscA
records stating Committee requestea to CIA. -

5. How many of these records have been reviewed for
release under the Freedom of Information Act? How many of
these records have been released pursuant. to such requests?

CIA hag released 7,432 pages of JFK assassination
records, representing 1,969 documents, under the Freedom of
Information Act. There Ls no documentation of how many JFK
assassination records CIA hag reviewed under FOIA.

6. In the estimation of the CIA, approximately how m many
racords would he released under the standards conta
House Joint Resolution 454?

It is very difficult to estimate the aumber of documents
that would be released Lf the Joint Resolution passed. We
would review our holdings carefully to ensure that the maximum
amount of information is released, consistent with the DCI's
responsibility to protect intelligence sources and methods.
13-00000 nin cs

»

tae

ers

1.. Did the CIA retain possession of records requested by
or developed on behalf of the House Select Committee on
Assassinations? If so, how many pages Of such records does
the Agency have in its possession? What is the nature of
these records?

Yes, the CIA retained possession of records requested by
or developed on behalf of the House Select Committee on
Agssasainations (HSCA). The Ageney has approximately 300,006
pages of such records which CIA's Os) .
(originally collected in response to t en Commission's
inquiry. than added to) as well ag recorda collected in
response to specific requests fram the House Seleat Committe
on Assassinations. Although these records cover a wide
variety of topics, they principally focus on CIA operations A
againat Cuba and Castro, Lee Harvey Oswald's sojourn in the
USSR, and Oswald's activities in Mexico City and New Orleans.

They algo inglude a large number of names traces requested by
the HSCA staff, &8. Well ag materials relating to the Garrison
investigation, Watexgate, Cuban exile activities, and copies
of FBI reports xvélating to Oawald. Because the HSCA was also
investigating the assassination of Pr. Martin Luther RARGs
de., there is also some material on the Black Panthers and the

givil xights movement.

2. Does the CIA have records outside of those related to
the House Assassinations Committee that may be considered
relevant to the assassination of President Kennedy? If so,
please deseribe such records and the approximate number of
pages.

    

 

    

      
 

    

tuelude
tafevots lus
oF

The CIA responded to requests from the Warren Commission
and the House Select Comittee on Assassinations -
(approximately 300,000 pages, see above). The CIA haga never,
however, attempted to locate evary document bearing ou every
conceivable angle or theory relating to the assassination of
President John F. Kennedy. Toa conduct any further search, CIA
wou require specific guidelines of the kinds, of records
sought.

3. Did any of the records described in questions 1 and 2
originate with the Federal Bureau of Investigation? If so,
approximately how many?

We believe that between 40% and 50% of the records
described in questions i and 2 originated with the Federal
Bureau of Investigation.
13-00000
| ne seers UNCLASSIFIED

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
DCI History Staff

' 316 Ames Building
Washington, D.C. 206505
Phone (703) 351-2621

 

 

FACSIMILE TRANSMISSION COVER SHEET

 

{TRANSMITTED pave: 4/2 /¢z PAGES ‘TRANSMITTED__ ©
(cover sheet included)

 

TRANSMITTED TQ:

NAME: Tonu Pete ~A
ORGANIZATION: - 6h ,

BLDG, ROOM :

TELE/EXT: (Fore Char ($94 220%

 

SUBJECT: OCA Lerma wiiner) & INE MEN Cw fe arr.)

"fi OA AS DRABT MOU usertt STATE

      

NAME: Ken MeDenisen
BLDG, ROOM: 24 es
TELE/EXT: (So1a7/ — Cra (S22 Vee
MESSAGE:
o Theo wt bneds 0 Ft :
: e / patna tet vy,
daft uf asta parigottll GRAN? eecttend of tec. ~
Sfuacetinng watptin Shel, Pei as ate he Knileds
Manned - Oe 9.
we (Kota |

UNCLASSIFIED
- Central lntelligenes Agenty

 

The Honorable John Conyers, dr.
Chairman

Committee on Government Operations
United States House of Representatives
‘Washington, D.c. 20515

Dear Mr. Chairman:

The Director has asked.me to respond to your letter of
6 April requesting certain information regarding CIA holdings
of records related to the assagsination of President Kennedy.
We do have a significant number of records relating to the
assassination of President John F. Kennedy, although many of
these records were originated by the FBI or by investigating
committees of the Congress. We believe that a significant
portion of our records could be released if H.J. Resolutin 454 ,
were enacted into law. A

I should also point out that the Central Intelligence
Agency is qurrentiy embarking on its own review of
assassination records, I would expect that this review will
result in the public release of a significant body of
information. .

To help the committee understand the nature and number of
CIA records partaining to the assassination, J am enclosing

the answers to the specific questions you raised in your
etter.

Sincerely,

Stanley M. Moskowitz
Director of Congressional Affairs

_ Enclosure
13-00000

The Honorable John Conyers, Jr.

SUBJECT: Agency Records on the JFK Assassination

OCA/LEG/DMPearline:rw 23 April 1992 (OCA 1123-92)
(OCA 1123-92/1)
(OCA 1123-92/2)

Original - Addressee (w/enclos)
- DCI

D/OCA (w/enclos)

- DMPearline Signer (w/enclos)

- OCA/LEG Subject File (w/enclos)

- OCA Record (w/enclos)

~ D/Center for the Study of Intelligence (w/enclos)

PRR REE Eee
1
 

104-10337-10001} -

ES

\ chewed Intellaenec Agoiky

 

April iT

The Honorable John Conyers, Jr.
Chairman ,

Committee on Government Operations
House of Representatives
Washington, D.c. 20515

Dear Mr. Chairman:

The Director has asked me to respond to your letter of
April 6, 1992 requesting certain information regarding CIA
holdings of records related to the assassination of
President Kennedy. We do have a significant number of records
relating to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy,
although many of these records were originated by the FBI or
by investigating committees of the Congress. We believe that
a significant portion of our records could be released if H.J.
Resolution 454 were enacted into law.

I should also point out that the Central Intelligence
Agency is currently embarking on its own review of
assassination records. I would expect that this review will
result in the public release of a significant body of
information.

fo help the committee understand the nature and number of
CIA records pertaining to the assassination, I am enclosing
the answers to the specific questions you raised in your
letter.

Sincerely,

Stanley M. Moskowitz
Director of Congressional Affairs

Enclosure

aoe
OCA 1123-92

1. Did the CIA retain possession of records requested by
or developed on behalf of the House Select Committee on
Assassinations? If so, how many pages of such records does
the Agency have in its possession? What is the nature of
these records?

Yes, the CIA retained possession of records requested by
or developed on behalf of the House Select Committee on
Assassinations (HSCA). The Agency has approximately 300,000 ¢
pages of such records which include microfilm of CIA's Oswald
file (originally collected in response to the Warren
Commission's inquiry, then added to) as well as records
collected in response to specific requests from the HSCA.
Although these records cover a wide variety of topics, they
principally focus on CIA operations against Cuba and Castro,
Lee Harvey Oswald's sojourn in the USSR, and Oswald's
activities in Mexico City and New Orleans. The vast majority
of documents pertaining to Oswald were created in response to
specific inquiries from the Warren Commission and HSCA. They
also include a large number of name traces requested by the
HSCA staff, as well as materials relating to the Garrison
investigation, Watergate, Cuban exile activities, and copies
of FBI reports relating to Oswald. Because the HSCA was also
investigating the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr., there is also some material on the Black Panthers and the
civil rights movement.

2. Does the CIA have records outside of those related to
the HSCA that may be considered relevant to the assassination
of President Kennedy? If so, please describe such records and
the approximate number of pages.

The CIA responded to requests from the Warren Commission

“Sand the HSCA (approximately 300,000 pages, see above). The
> CIA has never, however, attempted to locate every document

bearing on every conceivable angle or theory relating to the
assassination of President John F. Kennedy. If the Agency
were asked to explore newly advanced theories the search for
\decuments could be a rather large undertaking’ involving the
: review of thousands of additional documents. To conduct any
_ further search, CIA would require specific guidelines
describing the kinds of records sought.

3. Did any of the records described in questions 1 and 2
originate with the FBI? If so, approximately how many?
greeut Be
We believe that between 40 percent and-50-pereent of the
records described in questions 1 and 2 originated with the
FBI.
4. Did any of these records originate with any other
Federal, foreign, state, or local agency? If so, please
describe which agencies and the approximate numbers.

A small number of CIA's records pertaining to the
assassination of JFK, probably less than 5%, originated with
the State Department and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Another small number of records, also less than 5%,
are original HSCA records stating Committee requests to CIA.

S. How many of these records have been reviewed for
release under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)? How many
of these records have been released pursuant to such requests?

CIA has released 7,432 pages of records pertaining to the
assassination of JFK, representing 1,969 documents, under the
FOIA. There is no documentation of how many JFK assassination
records CIA has reviewed under FOIA.

6. In the estimation of the CIA, approximately how many
records would be released under the standards contained in
House Joint Resolution 454?

It is very difficult to estimate the number of documents
that would be released if the Joint Resolution passed because
consideration for protection of classified information and
other sensitive categories of information would be required on
a document by document basis. We would review our holdings
carefully to ensure that the maximum amount of information is
released, consistent with the DCI's responsibility to protect
intelligence sources and methods and with privacy interests of
individuals involved.
