 

 

 

{

TTT pierre

November. Headquarters noted the-intent to use him as a utility
agent in order to (a) organize and conduct a surveillance team; (b)
intercept packages; (c) blow up bridges; and (d) execute other assign-
ments requiring positive action. His utilization is not to be restricted
to Leopoldville. Indeed, he may be subject to call by other African
stations although it is expected for him to be resident in Leopoldville. "'

WIROGUE arrived in Leopoldville on 2 December 1960. His case
officer gave him the following instructions: (a) to build cover possibly
by opening a photographic shop; and (b) to try to spot persons fora
surveillance team, intelligence assets and paramilitary assets.
Shortly after arrival, WIROGUE ran into QJIWIN, who later told the
station that WIROGUE looked like an intelligence agent. In attempting
to recruit QJWIN for his "execution squad", WIROGUE exceeded his
instructions to avoid making approaches without checking with
Leopoldville Station.

In January 1961, at the request of the Leopoldville Station,
WIROGUE was given permission to take flying lessons. By March,
he had obtained the position of adviser to the Congolese Air Force
with the rank of major; in that capacity he was usad by CIA for the

purpose of gathering intelligence on the Congolese Air Force. By

April, the Congolese were trying to use him to obtain arms and

 
 

 

ran ss

. b TA ;

instructors in Western Europe. Also, He was then teaching the
Congolese to fly aircraft. He departed Leopoldville in July because
he had run into difficulty obtaining a residence permit, and his CIA
contract was terminated in September 1961.

Africa Division believes that WIROGUE was recruited for his
Congo assignment because of his third country national background
in order to establish a support mechanism in Leopoldville. At the
time the Congo was in chaos, we had few assets there, and the
likelihood existed that the political situation would degenerate
quickly. The Station possibly also wanted to have a latent paramilitary
capability. An October 1964 assessment of WIROGUE indicates little
flap potential with him since he knew little about the Agency. He spent

most of his time trying to develop contacts and was not directly involved

in any particular operation.

 
 

 

. the latter on 14 December with an offer df 300 dollars per month to

participate in an intelligence net and to be a member of an "execution
squad. '' When QJWIN said that he was not interested, WIROGUE
added that there would be bonuses for special jobs. The cable
mentioned in paragraph 6 that the Station was concerned with the free
wheeling of WIROGUE, his lack of security, his inability to handle
finances, and his unwillingness to follow instructions. The Station
was willing to keep him on probation, but believed his recall would
be the best solution. A suggested alternative was to put him in
Stanleyville to try to obtain immediate intelligence on that area.

In an attempt to reconstruct events, Africa Division was apprised
of the above and was asked to search its records in an attempt to
clarify what WIROGUE was up to in the Congo and his reference to an
"execution squad.'! The research did not clarify the matter to any
great extent, although some assumptions can be made on the basis of
circumstantial evidence. On 19 September 1960, two members of
Africa Division met with WIROGUE to discuss an operational assign-
ment in that division. In connection with the assignment, he was to
be trained in demolitions, small arms, and medical immamunization.
In October 1960, a cable to Leopoldville stated that he was being

prepared for a deep cover assignment to arrive Leopoldville late

 
 

 

 

' Based on available evidenge i sedis clear that the Agency
was in no way involved in the assassination of Lumumba. However,
in the course of our research, two aspects of the Lumumba story
surfaced that indicate Agency involvement in a plot. In the one
instance, our 1967 source mentioned the name of an Agency officer
who was designated as the case officer for an assassination plot
against Lumumba, but reported that he had declined the as signment.
That officer was the originator of a 19 December 1960 cable to
Leopoldville in which he authorized the return of QUJWIN to
Luxembourg on 21 December to await further instructions and the
payment of 1000 dollars to him for his December salary by the
Luxembourg Station. The last paragraph of the cable advises
Leopoldville that headquarters is working out the details of a Congo
assignment for QUWIN. The same officer was the originator of a
31 January 1961 memorandum dealing with payments to QUWIN.

In the second instance, a 17 December 1960 cable from
Leopoldville deals with the activities of a newly recruited agent,
WIROGUE, whose mission was to try to spot persons for a ~
surveillance team, intelligence assets (with emphasis on Orientale
Province), and paramilitary assets. The second paragraph of the
cable mentions that he resided in the same hotel as QUWIN (although

neither knew of the others CIA connection) and that he approached

 
74-0000

 

 

mentions the termination of QUWIN's conttact, refers to the fact
that his only assignment since January 1962 has been to establish
cover.

Agency officers who were handling QIWIN in Europe were almost
certainly unaware of the fact that he was being considered as an asset
by the senior Agency official who had begun to become active in
February 1962 in the assassination plot against Castro. An undated
(EYES ONLY) memorandum from the Deputy Director (Plans) refers
to a 19 February 1962 memorandum and authorizes the retention of
the services of QJWIN in activities which we have identified as
coincidential with the assassination plot against Castro. The date of
the reference memorandum coincides with the time that the senior
Agency official became actively involved in this enterprise. A
memorandum of 27 June 1963 dealing with the further handling of
QIWIN mehtions that this enterprise has been terminated, except
for one precautionary "life line."

In summary, it is almost certain that QUJWIN had nothing at all
to do with the assassination of Lumumba, even though the contents and
language of available files are often cryptic and imprecise. If he had

been, it is highly unlikely that the number of Agency officers handling

and conteraplating assignments for him would have been so large. The

 
 

 

 

 
  

headquarters division for whom he worked was concerned, inter
alia, with obtaining foreign cipher and code books, and it is reasonable
to conclude that QJWIN's primary and exclusive responsibility was to
find individuals who could do this kind of job. One of the officers who
first met QUWIN in Luxembourg was on a trip overseas to find safe-
crackers and document-suppliers. The 14 December 1960 cable
mentions keeping him clean and using him in Dakar and possibly Milan,
which was specifically mentioned in the 13 October dispatch as offering
good possibilities for finding safecrackers and document-suppliers.
Further, good tradecraft practices would dictate that the last thing
that would keep an individual clean would be involvement in an
assassination plot. Although the Chief of FI/D coincidentally was
later assigned responsibility for the Castro operation, there is
no evidence to suggest that he was privy to assassination plots prior
to his briefing in late 1961.

While QUJWIN was considered for use in the "executive action
capability", there is no information available to suggest that he had
ever been approached in this regard, much less used in any of the

planning.

 
 

 

death of Lumumba at the hands”

  

ongolese. However, there is no

evidence to suggest that QJWIN was in any way involved in Lumumba's

demise. The case officer who was the source of the information of

the contemplated use of QJWIN in such an activity understood that he

was never used in this manner.

existing knowledge beyond that summarized above.

The following information reviews

A 13 October 1960 dispatch from __|transmits notes to

headquarters from one of the two officers who subsequently met

QJWIN in Luxembourg.

The notes list the names of police officials

and criminal elements and allude to the possibilities of finding safe-

crackers and document-suppliers.

QIWIN was met in Luxembourg on 19 and 20 October 1960 by

two Agency officers and was asked if he would undertake a trip to

Africa, presumably Dakar.

2 November 1960, lists

 

 

 

 

(The appropriate dispatch, dated

as addressees.)

He was not given the true objective of his mission because of its

extreme sensitivity and pending a final decision to use him. Instead,

he was told that the Soviets were operating in Africa among nationality

groups, specifically Corsicans, and he was being asked to spot,

assess, and recommend some dependable, quick-witted persons for

our use. He agreed to go on the trip.

On 2 November OJWIN was

met in Frankfurt by an Agency officer, and he accepted an offer to
 

104-4 0103-10294

 

 

- A ot
( mopap (
meee

QIWIN

According to statements by a senior CIA officer in 1967, made

to the Inspector General, the Agency was instructed to develop a

capability to conduct assassinations. Termed an "executive action

capability, '' such a project was initiated in 1961, apparently assuring
an existing cryptonym, ZRRIFLE. At the request of the case officer
(the same officer providing this information in 1967), a clandestine
asset in Europe, QJWIN, was to be used in the project. The case
officer understood that QIWIN had been considered in 1960 for use

in the assassination of Patrice Lumumba, but that the proposed
operation was never carried out because the designated CIA case
officer declined the assignment.

The case officer in charge of ZRRIFLE also was involved in an
operation to assassinate Fidel Castro, running from early 1962 to
mid-1963. "However, QJIWIN was not used in this effort, reliance
being placed instead on a Cuban exile leader. QUJWIN was never
briefed on the Castro operation, according to the officer handling
ZRRIFLE and the Castro operation.

Records do show that QUWIN was dispatched to the Congo in

1960, being there in Novermber and December 1960, prior to the

 
74-0000

 

, proceed to Leopoldville. (

(

 

there originated at headquarters because someone must have
considered him qualified to handle a potential operation there.) The
precise mission was not conveyed to QJWIN, and he was only informed
that the mission might involve a large element of personal risk. We
do not know and at present are unable to determine what the assignment
was. Subsequent cable traffic discusses arrangements for QJWIN to go
first to Leopoldville and then to Dakar.

On 8 December QJWIN was in Leopoldville where he cultivated
a close personal relationship with a Yugoslav Air Force pilot. There
follow suggestions in cable traffic on what approach QJWIN should use
to recruit him. However, a special channel FI/D cable of 14 December
rates this target as marginal when considered against the frarnework of
plans for QJWIN and instructs him to desist if action has not already
been taken. The first paragraph of this cable states that we ''would
like restrict QJWIN to activity directly pertinent his mission
Leopoldville or forthcoming mission Dakar and possibly elsewhere
{e.g., Milan) for FI/D purposes. He our only asset of this type and
we wish keep him clean of any operational involvement other than that
originally planned for him.'' This cable would tend to rule out

involvement in an assassination plot, since it is highly unlikely that

 
74-00000

 

 

an individual picked for such a sensitive and dangerous assignment:
would be burdened with other chores or assignments imrnediately
thereafter.

Lumumba was still alive, albeit under arrest, as of the middle
of January 1961, and it seems clear that QUWIN had left the Congo
in December 1960. A 19 December cable to Leopoldville authorizes
his return to Luxembourg on 21 December and instructs Luxembourg
to pay him 1000 dollars for December salary, which is the final
payment for his services on this operation. Also, headquarters was
working out the details of a Congo assignment. An 11 January 1961
headquarters memorandum, which refers to T/A's dated 21 December
1960, states that the referenced amounts were given to QSWIN by the
Chief of Station, Luxembourg. This suggests that QJWIN was in
Luxembourg on or before 21 December.

Subsequently, it appears that QJWIN operated in Europe trying
to spot and assess individuals whom the Agency could use in safe-
cracking operations, in line with one of the principal missions of
FI/D. A 24 May 1962 cable to Luxembourg mentions that a decision
was made to keep him in Europe and that the Leopoldville assignment
had been cancelled. A transfer to Baden-Baden is deemed a good

choice. Also, a 24 April 1964 disptach from Luxembourg, which

 
