 

‘id-t00z7-10087

tae,
2h March 1961
MEMOPANDUN FOR ‘HIE RECORD :
SUBECT: Starting of the Revolutionary Council

1. Around nocn-of 24 March 1961 Mr. Carr advinel us telephonically that
he had been {n touch with Mird Cardona. Miro intends to eppvint Varons,
Hevia, Carrillo, Artine oni Ray (or Pesos) to the Council. . :

2. Miro wanted to be advined whether Varona ani Heyia would be acceptable
to positions as Secretaries of Defense and State ( Hire did nut feel strongly
as to which of the tvo got which position). ‘The other abcve-mentiaed ine
dividuals would temporarily act as ministers without portfolio. ven the

. appointmante to the positions of Btate and Defense would nt now be announced.
Carr wanted to know if the foregoing vas alright with us.

3. The quostion of the beat sulted candidate for the position of Secretary
of Defenso vos discussal by Masars,| and Droller eubsequent to Mr Carr's
telephone call. It happened that C/WiD and AC/mi/h vero at that maent in

_ the office of the DCI and thus the problem wns referred to that level for the
decision. The following deviei relayed to Nesora.[ Jana Droller by the
AC/H/4 was transmitted to Mr, Cary at 1630 this date .

&. Mr, Carr shudd try to persuade Miro to give Artime the portfolio
of Dafense Secretary; Carr could give as reasona for wur feelings Artine's

popularity, hia ycuth, hio ability and readingss to yo into Cuba together
with the assult force. . .

. 0. If Mire does not. vant Artima assigned to this position, Carr should
inform Miro that our next perforence would be Carlos Heviaj; our reasons are
thet Varona might reise mony probloms in view of his vell-known position
concerning striok Cuban control of troops at this particular time.

e. Whatever develops during this forthecming mecting with Miro, Mr.
Sarr chould at all times be most flexible and not decemd anything.

Mr. Carr vas also advised to tell Miro that wa would prefer only the man given
the portfolio of Defense to accompany Miro on his forthcoming trip to the cumps.
If however either Hevia or Varona wore given the bertfolto, then we foel either
one ahculd be accompanied by Artime for reasons already stated above,

GERARD DROLLER

1 Book IZ
eX RC Grganization
1 RC Military
‘ 1 @l files
1 W/4/PA Chrono
