 

-the incident in which he was involved. we were able to pass
this information to the police through the &DGLACT ERS)0| Up until
that, time the police had been after another AMFINK. With this
information they were rapidly able to identify the culprit.

Ot
3. Our technician paid a visit to the (DAFGHAN site during
this period and spent most of one day on updating his techniques,

: Rr . , :
5. Security: (KDAFGHAN-1 was SGSWIRLED during this quarter «ii,
with no signs of deception, (References B and E) The SGSWIRL

OUKDAFGHAN-1 that somebody had been investigating hirt* and (DAFGHAN=1
drew the obvious conclusion, The girlfriend (Reference C).is

012972, a suspect intelligence officer, Unfortunately, neither
we or Headquarters have been able to locate the basic document,
HMMW-13665, 7 June,1965, Because of this, and her sharing one
of the beds in thé KDAFGHAN safehouse with DAFGHAN, we intend
to check her out throughly (see plans and Headquarters" action
required below). Because of our suspicion that, sKDAFGHAN-1 or
KDAFGHAN-2 is possibly being monitored by the AMFINKS, we have
cut our meetings with him to two a month and taken special counter~
surveillance precautions at each meeting. So far, we have noted
nothing unusual. Our plans for a CI operation designed to smoke
out any possible AMFINK monitoring of this Operation are being
held in abeyance pending the results of our investigation of the
Subject of Reference . :

2% 6. Agent Personnel: There have been no meetings with
(OAFGHAN-2 during this period except for the one visit by our

echnician to the site.o KDAFGHAN-1 continues to show sporadic
Signs of extreme nervousness, if not ménta instability. In.
addition he seems to be becoming more an more passive, Through ~
his observation of AMFINK he gains a great deal of information of
interest to us, While our files show that once he used to report
this, we now find that it has:-to be pumped out of him bit-by-bit,

its significance. In our opinion, an extended vacation away from
KDAFGHAN-2 is long overdue.

7. Production: Production continued as before during this ,
period with the exception of the month of March when no photos were:
taken because of the hours. We have begun showing some of the -
photographs of local contacts to the’ KDSALEMS. To date the results
have been negative. We continue to pass © appropriate portions
of (KDAFGHAN production to LNERGO. ; : .

CLASSIFICATION

   
 

 

  

53a USE PREVIOUS EDITION,

ipl

 
  

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division : neat .
ONLY QUALIFIED DES! sa
Chief of Station, WH/Miami
FROM °
oni
gh? 3h)

   
   
 

|
SUBJECT TMA :
°3 QO i

 

 
 

Mi

   
 

  

   

Action Required: ' See Paragraph 10
B..° MEXICO CITY+18887: ....

~:C, “MEXICO CITY-18889

-D
E

. HMMW+18913, +10 March J19%72
HMM¥>18914, ‘10 March f1972)

. ee na 0% fhe
References; . A.-°-HMMA-41490, 11 Januar [pee] ‘

 

1.*. Summary: © The: Project continues as before, routinely:
producing photos and. information of -the. activities of AMFINK::
personnel’ and their visitors 2(KDAFGHAN was able to implicat
one’ AMFINK’ ina .criminal: activi Y, but.unfortunately: the com
whitewashed the case.: Another possible’ lead to a solution: of
our security. problem: has. cropped: up in- the form:of(KDAFGHAN@1's
girlfriend. ."We* hav : in.locating a new OP site.to
replace:this-one.o2(KDAFGHAN-1 continues to have his persona
problems;* but: they: have yet:to reach the point. where they affect
the seeurity of this operation. . :

 
  
  
  

 

    

 
 

ee es
of March the (KDAFGHANS carried on their activities as usual: pro- :
viding photographic coverage of the entrance: to AMFINK: from. 0900 i
to 1800-each working day./: In: March, we had,(KDAFGHAN. change ‘his :
hours (to/from 1600 hours, when the AMFINKS*return. from lunch; tos

2300 hours,;.when the last. one: usually leaves for. home... This "0 8.-: |
coverage convinced us that most, if not all, .AMFINK clandestine Uke
activity is carried.out in. the afternoon and. evening hours. They]

are extremely active during this part of day im the sense of the- Hal
numberof trips they make: outside-of AMFINK..: Some even disappeared,
completely .during. most of the afternoon. This information should
help ‘our efforts. to surveill.. the: AMFINKS....A lucky break was had

when (KDAFGHAN witnessed. the return of the Subject of 201-886893- from
~Continued......

  

 

  
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
   
    
  
  
  
 

 

 

Distribution: mote
Orig. & 2—- Chief; WHD:
sooth 5 2 = COS, WH/Miami

A

   

ROSS REFERENCE TO a

auuitivol ne seus to pe pecoming more ana more passive. ‘nrougn
his observation of AMFINK he gains a great deal of information of
interest to us. While our files show that once he used to report
this, we now find that it has:to be pumped out of him bit-by-bit,
with he apparently either not recognizing or being interested in
its significance. In our opinion, an extended vacation away from
(KDAPGHAN-2 is long overdue.
Pa} .

7. Production: Production continued as before during this .
period with the exception of the month of March when no photos were}.
‘taken because of the hours. We have begun showing some of the
photographs of local contacts to the KDSALEMS. To date the results

t have been negative. We continue to pass the appropriate portions
“WW of KDAFGHAN production to LNERGO. eae
oy om tub

 

 

CLASSIFICATION PAGE NO,

‘2 of 3

    
 

64 53a USE PREVIOUS EDITION,

100 SECRET

  

CONTINUED

      
   
     
  
 

 
 
  
 
  
     
     

 

 
- DISPATCH

   

SECRET.

 

8. Administrative/Finance: We provided the (KDAFGHANS with
new passpo

amount.

Subject of Reference C during this period. When this is accom=
Plished we will begin a CI exercise based on a piece of misinfor-
mation tailored to make the AMFINKS take overt and verifiable
action. In the meantime we will continue our search for a new. oP

keep théeqp FGHANS on until the new team is in place and the new

OP operating. If by the end of this calendar year we are unable

to locate a new site we will terminate thé{KDAFGHANS, let the
current site cool-off for awhile and then Place the new team in
the same place. The costs of terminating these two agents will— .
exceed six thousand dollars. We expect them to resettle in either
WOCORK with the rest of their family or=in Spain where they have
property. We foresee no problems in the termination. :

  
   

of

xts in March. Costs continued within the programmed

9. Plans: As mentioned above we will be investigating the

g this line. We will

10, Headquarters Action Required:

a. Please try again to Locate HMMW-13665 of 7 June 1965
(File # 50-8-2/2-1),

b. Please review 201-012972 for any. other possible
- information of the Subject of Reference c.

 

« GNYRDALPHE

 

 

 

 

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

 

CLASSIFICATION

SECRE?

 

PAGE NO.

3 of 3

     
