 

le on invasion.

 

 

 

5. Hiro advised that acnin Hr. Berlo had taken the "Rey line” but that
in viow of hilo, Miro’s, plyability tho meeting had been very friendly. Accord-
fag. to Miro; Mr. Berle-had again stressed the fact that it wali to highly
desirable for the Cuban Revolution to start inside the ccuntry rather than by
in this connection Miro 214 he requested an ansver from Berle
ea to vhother Cuban troops would ‘be. Sigported by the U.S. Mr. Berle wanted
to aide stey this question but Miro.aaid his. vay préssing Mr. Berle asaing him
again and again, “Are wo" going to be. alae or not?” At that tim derle is
allegedly to have told Hiro, "I ive you my vord of honor, you will act be alone."
After having relatei the above to Droller and Miro locked at Dreller and
said, “I now have Berlo's word of hunor, tut Ifieed Bender's ossurances as
well." After sume mumonta of silence, I said the following: Many things
would depend on specific situations et any givon tina; clearly the question was
not so mich ong of assurances of comsltment of Narines but one cf devising
. Proper techniques which waild asoure the desired effects. Mire as a Cuban
. potriot had to think primarily: of Cuba, but I wanted to assure hin that the
“~~UiB. dntereste and states im Cuba ond tha Hemisphere were as great cr even |
' greater than those of Hiro. Cloarly, I said, the U.S. dogs oct intend to
_becoma the loser in this striggle. Hiro guiled thanking me for oy vievs.

6. Miro thon contimuot to relate that during hio meeting with Berle he
bed asked assurances for three types of financial supports

a. A seall credit for immediate Revolutionary Council use.

bd. A bisser credit to be used during the actual atruccie inetfe
Cuba for the purchose of modicine, fool and other necessary reconstruction

‘measures, and

e. A ble "elebal credit” which is viewed by Miro as an enseatial
‘Reasure for putting Cuba buck on ite feet econanically after the wer-
throw of Castro, According to Hirc, Mr. Berle made no ccmeltment except
to say thet these matters were unter consideration.

Te iro then inforved us that Berle nad sugvssted that hy and the Council
go to Nev York to take such steps ao necessary to cive a rebuttal te Kaul Rea's
10 April speech befure the United Nations. In ecanection with the lest point,

ena Drollar briefed Miro as follows:

a. It ie desired that Niro mest the press prior and after Haul Roa's

enticipated apeech before tha United Hetions General Assembly. Miro should
det Lem Jones associates arrange the techalcal details for these press con-

ferences.

 

en

 

 

 
 

10 April 1961
MEMORANINH FOR THZ RECORD :
SUBJECT: Meetings with Miro Cantona and on 5 and 6 April 1961

 

 

1. On Wednesday, 5 April. 1961, Niro Cardona acccmpanied by Mr.
cwme to tashington for a meeting with Moesrs. Berle, Bonsal, Schlesinger and
Bodleg. [_ land. Drollor wera briefed by Miro Cardona on this meeting in
tha late afiernoon-cf taat cay in the Shoreham Hotel suite.

 

2. Mire, who came to the Droller meeting accampanied by Carlos
Pini, waa mich depressed; Ho said that Berle ond his friends seemed to
prometa a "Fidoliamo ein Flilol"” ling; they are all the way to tho loft ©
Niro stated, adding that during tho conversaticn Key's namd vas canticned
elovan timse in highly lawittory terme, “1 knew I would have a orcas to
besr when I asked Ray to join the council," Hiro said, "now I os convinced
that this aa a very, very heavy cross in deed." When Droller remarzed that
it might be wisa not to read too much into the statemsnts made by Mr, Berle,
end that after all the postures of a future Cuban Government would bo a
comiuetely Cuban affair, Miro locked at Drollar vith a tvinile in bis eye acd
said, "Co rot verry, Gace I have my feet firmly cn the ground 1 know precisely
what meada to be done; up until then I make a 180 degree turn end I ew
more lef than thoy are.” Hiro then advised end Droller that Mr.

Berle hed suggested that he, Miro, get together with Mr. John Plant--
Political Sciantist at Harvard--for the purpose of having the latter asaist

Bim in drafting the proclamation of. the Kovolutionary Cuuncil. Acccruing
to Mire he was rathor luke varm to the proposal and said ha would aca if
he neetal the chap’s services. . ;

3. Miro advised that ancther completely private meeting had beon
gchetuled for him by Mr. Berle on the afternom of 6 April.

- 3, In the evening houre of 6 April “land Droller met again with
Miro for the purpose of:

a. Obtaining Hiro’s report on the aforementioned meeting with
Hr. Berle, and

b. Briefing Miro on specific publicity linea Miro wes to take
during the forthcoming weeks, .

 

 
14-00000

-3-

“"b, ‘The preas conference prior to Rad Roats speech should tae placa ~

. on Btitunlay 6 April. At that tine Miro should annunciate the political, . j
: + @ucnimic and social postures cf the liovoluticnary Council; using tue Castro ‘
ot Gu eriment's past and current sina as a backdrcp for hid remarks, Miro is i
“ * @xpected to scumil-a clarion call primarily directed at Latin American |
“os (7 "guilences; Fidel Castro will be labeled a camter-ravolutionary; the Rovale 4
: utionary-Council's cbjective vill bo a recapture of tho basia yoale of the . “t
revolutions the 1940 censtitution--a very Libern) dociment--ia considered to i

i

;

i

i

 

 

Provide adequate anovers to the problema viich are facin; Cuba today} song
themes convayod to Hiro by Neasro. RBerlo, Schlesinger and othes vill be surfaced.

| ¢. The press conference which is to follkw the anticipated Aca

‘speech before the Unitod Nations deneral Aoseubly ie tentatively scheduled Fi
for 10 April 1961 (Since Roa may not speak before M » WW April, layer i
Hiro wants to have a transcript of tho spocch on hand before making his 7 :
rebuttal.) Deteils of this rebuttal ananct be pinpointed at this mamnt;

hovever, it would be essential that the theres cited in the attachment vould :
be injected into Hiro's and his colleagues! uttereices at that time and at - i
ony other time thay vould be mosting with the press. ‘

Miro expressed full agreauant and the meeting was adjourned.

8, On 7 April 1961 Miro wont to How York to work on the aforenantioned
conforence. He gave en interview to the Naw York Tinss correspondant (attache -
ment C) which reflected the guidance given to Miro the provicus night. _ i

. t

9. Om 8 fgrtl Miro ant the Revelutdowuay Councll held a press cuuferenua :
at the Hoosevelt Hotel which was highly ouccessful. : .f

 

GERARD DROLLER ;
C, wi/a/Pa

: Attachments: (3) : :
i i. Guidence fur Mire :

@. ew York Mmas Article of & April s
3. Declaration of the Cuban Revolutionary Council :

un
