 

U.S.S.R.

‘Subject: THE U.S.S.R. AND CHINA

{. On this subject, Source can report on the opinions of people ITke:

“ KHALIPOV, ALIYEV, SUKHODEYEV, GVISHYANI (xosyciIN's son-in-law), OSIPOV =

and Polkovnik-General BYCHENKO (FNU) (Commander of the P.V.O. In the :
BAKU Area). The following Is a gist of the main Ideas:

oa The danger of. war with China ts not taken sertously in official :
" -- gIreles of the U.S. S.R. and particularly in military circles.

'-. General KHALIPOV sald more than once that common interests
outweigh the differences between the two Communist countries.
The majority in those circies are of the opinion that the
spreading of warnings about war with China is a deliberate

“‘plece of dis-information by the Soviet authorities in order
to justify the keeping of a large mobi Ifzed force. {tf was
often sald that neither China nor the Soviet Union fear an -
attack by the other side. China needs anti-Soviet propaganda.
for her own Internal purposes and the U.S.S.R., In order to -
keep mitifons of mobilized soldiers. , -

b. In those circles It Is thought that war with China Is. Inpossibie

- for. the following reasons: .
1) Even given the use of nuclear weapons, ‘It would take a
tremendous effort to destroy just the military potential.

weleee - ; a

 

of China. KHALIPOV mentioned a figure: 200 atomic bombs.

 

cried avers

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
/ 8

(2) War with China would in fact bea war of mutual attrition

—

and even in the case of a formal Soviet victory and a
" change-over in Chinese leadership - the U.S.S.R. will be
unable to feed the hungry masses of China. According to.
. GVISHYANI, there are a hundred million hungry people in
China, and in the U.S.S.R. there Is not enough food for
the population. A Soviet victory would thus double the
needs of the Soviet Union. tn this respect and would but
. too great a strain on her economy ..

2. From some conversations mainty with KHALIPOV, Source concluded that
tne Sovlet Union is preparing for war with Western, Europe rathér than

“with China; here are his. reasons:

a. The substitution of old weapons for new ones takes place first and |
foremost In the western parts of the Soviet Union, and not on-the .
border with China, except in the VLADIVOSTOK area, and this not be-
cause It is. near” to China, but, mainly, because It Is near to the
U.S. A. :

b.. According to KHALIPOV, two or three days will be enough for the.

- Soviet Army to conquer Western Europe and he elaborated:
England has about 920 tanks and 1500 planes;
France ~ about 900 tanks and about 1500 planes;
Germany - about 500 tanks and about 1000 planes; .
ALL this put together is but about a sixth of what the U.S. S.R.

~ ean put in the field against the West within 2 or 3 days; and
‘until the Hest. decides on counter-measures it will be too late.

le

 

oS, According to Source, who bases his opinion on his conversat tons with. the -

“een People, not only is the Soviet Union in, no fear of a war with China, but
. * even thinks: China WEE loin her in awar anatnet tha bine

 
13-00000

U.S.S.R.
Report Now: = 4-G444
Subject: MISCELLANEOUS INFCRMATION . - 4

Source: Born 1938 In RIGA, has ‘an academic education and is a
soclologist by profession. He acquired his academic
training in Moscow and Baku. In 1962 he worked for

- about six months with the M.V.D. In Baku and after that; -
until 1963, he worked as a lecturer In philosophy In

; Baku. tn 1966-1967 he did his doctoral work at the
University of Moscow. From. 1967 until December 1973
when he left the U.S.S.R., he worked In Yaroslav!
and In Baku. He was a member of the Sociology Asso-
clation of the-U.S.S.R. From 1964 he was an active

- Member of the Communist Party in Azerbaydzhan and was”
a member of Its Central Committee. He was closely —

 

assoclated with the First Secretary of the Azerbaydzhanl | -

"Party. He cooperated willingly and made the Impresston.

‘of being a highly intelligent and educated man with >. |
“anatytical ability, good perception and excel lent memory.

Validity of Information: November 1973

en remteeennetmerontmensneemanneetoneetronntmnnr et

Reliability: 8/2-3. on

 
13-00000

SECRET/SENSITIVE
or rn

  

Integrated circuits are , needed to meet the size, i
weight, power, and reliability of modern military

: equipment as well as the needs of many civil
electronic. systems." ;

Admittedly, the question of electronics covers only one phase of ‘the
'. question of military power, and we have not been able to pursue this
“ question of technology further, given our ever-shrinking assets.

19. Since my days are numbered here, I do feel an obligation to

“dispatch these papers for analysis and ‘comment by your. expert before
my time runs out.” . ;

"20. As previously noted, this package represents a unique dis-
semination, unofficial in character. It is requested that this ~°:

_ exercise be tightly held and that we consider modalities for the.
_ future exploitation and/or discussions of the product. and the Source.

We and our allies regard Source to be the most valuable Soviet .
defector since World War II. :

21. At-your convenience I would appreciate a short acknowledge-

- ‘ment of the above and a reaction from your reader. In the event that

these papers do not stimulate any worthwhile interest, I would ap
preciate their return for the use of my successor. ae :
‘Y

Kindest personal regards from,

of Blin | Baglasttornn
Janes—Angtéton

Attachments: as stated

SECRET/SENSITIVE
13-00000

%,

_ SECRET/SENSITIVE
: 5 0

13. The principal speaker was SHELEPIN who was ‘supported by.
General GRIBANOV of the Second Chief Directorate as well as many
other senior officials of the Government and Services. SHELEPIN

_ gave a, broad analysis of the world situation stressing that the

USSR and the USA had reached an atomic stalemate. Accepting this
to be a fact, he stated that al] plans for war such as stay--
behind net-workers should be abandoned. . He outlined programs and
reforms for the Intelligence Services which were accomplished:

’ under LENIN and which required the intelligence potential to be |

in harness with all other departments of the Government. He
stressed that each intelligence operation should be designed to
help achieve broad political objectives. Noting that the letter

--"P" (Politika) had been obliterated from OGPU by STALIN, as
-SHELEPIN announced the creation of the Department of Disinformation —_

within the KGB but subject to the control and direction of the —
Central.Committee. The Department's task was to use all organs —
of Government to implement strategic disinformation. in accordance
with directives. This was meant to include all channels to the
West; namely diplomatic, press, military, cultural and economic.

_ This was in addition to the use of double agents and provocateurs.

; 14. In discussing the various objectives, SHELEPIN expounded |
on the wisdom of pursuing peaceful coexistence in the developed

’ countries and wars of national liberation in the underdeveloped —

countries, noting that these courses of action were not contra-
dictory.

15. Shortly thereafter, the Central ‘Committee ‘charged the
KGB with the recruitment of two thousand additional S&T staff
officers in order to exploit-on a broad basis the opening to the
West. The purpose for this increase was to gain Western technology
as well as to effect the recruitment of agents and agents of in-
fluence in the Western scientific world. It should be noted that
one of the more efficient and productive elements of the KGB and
GRU had always been their successful acquisition of scientific
secrets and R&D from the West. SHELEPIN noted that the change
of balance of military power: could only be achieved through this
additional strength of acquiring the technological and strategic
secrets of the West. This would also strike at the USA and hasten
its isolation.

16. According to the Source, he learned in 1961 that the KGB

' had acquired approximately one thousand new staff officers for

S&T in accordance with the Central Committee directive and that.
about one thousand slots remained to be filled. In 1961 he and
some six hundred KGB officers attended an important lecture given
by a senior general of the Defense Ministry. The lecture was to
outline the S&T tasks which the KGB would be. expected to undertake.

SECRET/SENSITIVE
13-00000

". SECRET/SENSITIVE =~
6.

He stressed that the objective of the Soviet and the Bloc was

not only to achieve parity with the West but to overtake the —

-. United States and swing the balance of military . power to the - -

Soviets.

17. _The general stated that the lisse was fourteen years
behind the United States in electronic technology but that the”

gap would be remedied by coordinated action in the following .

Fields:

a A greatly increased espionage effort
because of the addition of one thousand. staff .
officers to the S&T of. the. KGB and the > Academy
of Sciences;

. b. Disinformation, j.e., programs to tits-.
jJead the United States and the West regarding
Soviet technology which would lead the Western .
scientific community into expensive and time-
wasting blind alleys of R&D;.

To acquire new technology through .
trade” agreements; and ;

d.. To make treaties and other diplomatic

: arrangements by which the Soviets and Bloc would
acquire information and which would permit Soviet
scientists to gain access to the United States
scientific community for the purpose of spotting
potentials for the KGB and GRU. Most important,
he said, was that treaties could be used to
block the natural technological growth of the
Western powers, in particular, the United States.

18. As noted above, the lecture on shortcomings of Soviet
technology in electronics was delivered in 1961. Attachment F -
is a National Intelligence Bulletin (TOP SECRET UMBRA) dated ~
16 July 1974, which has a direct bearing on Source's information
regarding the aforementioned lecture. The National Intelligence
Bulletin begins with the following: . : ;

“Leading officials of the Soviet electronics
industry have told visiting US experts that the
Soviet Union is four or five years behind the
United States in integrated circuit technology.
The US experts, who tested Soviet equipment. in
this field, have confirmed the Soviet judgment.

SECRET/SENSITIVE
SECRET/SENSITIVE

young. daughter who lived with her grandparents in Russia. In
1961 she was permitted to visit Source and his wife abroad,

and this triggered his defection. Overall, the case is one
where we unwittingly had an agent.in place in the KGB who was |
breaking down Soviet compartmentation of the KGB, both in the
First and in the Second Chief Directorate. His purpose was _

to obtain information of great value to the West should he»
have the opportunity to defect. oo Co, ;

3.. By way of special ‘talents, he is essentially. an

analyst and historian. He was frequently called upon by senior |
members of the service to study and make recommendations where
there were conflicts over cases affecting more than one depart-
- ment. In his drive to gain more. knowledge outside of his par-

' ticular sphere, he managed on one occasion to be appointed to
the Inspector General's team which gave him access to the logs

of KGB production indicating the overall .espionage production
obtained by the KGB. The investigation was initiated by the
‘Politburo who. complained of the delay in receiving the product
derived from espionage, such as British Admiralty, Cables and
Plans, NATO documents, etc. This gave Source freedom to in--
spect the processing of secret information and to trace its
handling from the moment it arrived in Moscow, the translation of
the product and its preparation for the Politburo. Unfortunately,
the names of agents were not indicated, but it. enabled Source,
after his defection, to identify the actual documents which were
identified by Western services on the basis of his description.
This, in turn, led to investigative action and important < counter-
intelligence successes in the West. ;

4. Source has cooperated with some nine intelligence and
security services under our-aegis. He has imparted first-hand
_knowledge of major covert political programs from the days of
“LENIN to 1961. This knowledge was acquired from reading deeply
into the archives and records of the activities of Soviet intelli-
gence services beginning with the Revolution. Equally important
“was his long tenure in the Higher Counterintelligence School
where he was able to milk. KGB officers from many departments of
the Service abroad. who were brought back for short periods of .
retraining.

5. Because the Administration, the State Department and
the Agency, in part, appear to be firmly entrenched in their
views regarding the policy of Detente, I believe that a prelimi-
nary unofficial reading of these materials by an expert in your

Department might generate an interest in. the Source and his views. -

SECRET/SENSITIVE

OOO00-EL
104-10431-10006 .

-

cece een cee ee nee ee

 

 

; oe duck eared hy Feeg’s
SECRET/SENSITIVE 8 Mfaa feos

31 danuary 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Secretary of Defense
'.. .. James R. Schlesinger

: SUBJECT , oat Analysis of Soviet Policy towards the United States

by an ex-Member of the KGB

le Several weeks ago I talked to Bill ‘Nelson, po, x ;
regarding a.more thoughtful: use of. our Soviet KGB Source’ s knowl-
edge of fundamental Soviet Bloc policy.. The information relates -
to the clandestine programs of the KGB sponsored by the

..Central Committee in its reorientation in May of 1959 against the

United States as the “main enemy." My suggestion was to submit a
number of your speeches and solicit Source’s critique as seen ©

' through the eyes of an ex-KGB officer. Mr. Nelson stated that he

had no objection as Jong as there. was a description of the
Source with a statement that his study did not necessarily repre-
sent the views of CIA. I should add that the FBI and other serv-
ices are on record to the effect that they have never been able
to disprove Source's factual information although they do not

_necessarily agree with his hypotheses (see Attachment A).

_ 2. Attachment B sets forth the highlights and chronology of
his professional career in the KGB. This alone does not convey the
true significance of his defection to the Agency in December 1961.
From 1953 until 1961 various circumstances and events led to his
disaffection with the system and hardened his determination to

defect should his family be reunited. His concern was for his*

*Bill has taken sick leave for the next teas and hast not o¢ ” —
seen this letter. 0590819. af
i

 

SECRET/SENSITIVE |

 

03034
13-00000 -
SECRET/SENSITIVE,

“This could lead’ te a Sympostum “in which ‘he would: be “invited to”
_.. participate and respond to adversary views.’ His reaction to
.. Such a proposal is unknown... He has always resisted control in
_ the sense of being an agent of any given country. Further, he
does make demands for classified information and position papers
including the nature of the sources before addressing himself to .
any particular problem. Nevertheless, his paper on your speeches.
' were obtained from him using only unclassified information. =.

 

6.- His production has run into several thousands of pages .
of transcripts of interviews including meetings which he had ~
with other foreign intelligence and security services. The
‘yrange of his information is so vast and detailed that we are oo
hard put to use it as an overlay for interpreting current Soviet ~
events, We have learned from experience that if we. give him a.
problem with an adequate data base, he will computerize and. re-

-.arrange his basic information to support his analysis of any new ~
. -  gubject. This approach has been fruitful because in supporting —
—_— '. his thesis, he often reveals new information of value.

: nt Cis a sensitive report received from our
ttachment D is an assessment regarding ‘the
activities, rolé, modus operandi and reason for

to a Ambassador DOBRYNIN's success vis-a-vis the United States (which
: is incomplete wherever an asterisk is indicated); and... cole.
Attachment E is a rough draft of. his review of the following
- books - SOVIET STRATEGY FOR THE SEVENTIES, SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
AS AN INSTRUMENT OF SOVIET POLICY and CONVERGENCE OF COMMUNISM
AND CAPITALISM - A-SOVIET VIEW - submitted to us during your
tenure in the Agency by Mr. Don Cotter. We intend to follow-up
_on this at some future date. This, and other attachments, are
partly drawn. from a draft manuscript which he has in his posses-
sion. The manuscript. runs to over two.thousand pages. He guards
it jealously and is reluctant to publish it at this time. He -
has permitted me to read several chapters, and they are. of unique
interest because of the classified information (based on documents)
which he read in Moscow.

 

8. By way of digression, a bird's | eye view is set. forth
below of Source's theme.

‘9, The major reorganization (which. produced ‘the KGB
Department of Disinformation) and the gradual reorientation of the -
: KGB and GRU was completed at the end of 1958 when SHELEPIN suc-. ~
: ceeded General SEROV as the chairman of the KGB. (General SEROV,
who worked with KHRUSHCHEV in the Ukraine, was downgraded to head
the GRU). This development climaxed two years of inspection by a

. ; SECRET /SENSITIVE
13-00000

‘SECRET/SENSITIVE
i?

special: comnittee headed -by- SHELEPIN. who. worked under the : whe
Central Committee to investigate activities and policies of the

KGB and GRU. They concluded that the Intelligence Services had
not carried out deStalinization which required that the services
follow the Leninist concepts of intelligence and its role in’ .
political action. By way of explanation, the OGPU and Cheka were
credited under LENIN with having saved the Revolution. This was
accomplished by suppressing enemies at home, mounting successful -
penetration operations into Western governments , the manipulation

of agents of influence and conducting massive disinformation pro-: :.-

grams by feeding deception to the West through their intelligence
services. Under STALIN the services degenerated into instruments
of personal. terror to preserve his cult of personality and lost ©

' . sight:.of the overall political, economic, and military objectives

of the Soviets..
. 10. Before STALIN's death, there were anti-Stalinist ele-

ments who. were uncovered and repressed, but their cause to find a

a Leninist solution to post-war problems continued after his. _
death. For example, MALENKOV began serious investigations into

- the KGB and other police organizations by enlisting the talents

of the Leninist/Marxist Institute. It was his objective to have
the investigation culminate in open revelations regarding the
crimes of STALIN and the activities of the police state. The

~ course which was set would have ultimately Jed to the trials of .
KHRUSHCHEV and many members in the leadership who were prominent ~

in advancing the Stalinist regime as syncophants and “boot-
lickers. noe ;

i. MALENKOV was unfortunately outmaneuverd by the collec-
tive which voted against him on issues, particularly regarding
Germany. Even in victory, KHRUSHCHEV could not stem the tide
let loose by MALENKOV; therefore, in order to survive, he had
to "steal" the process of de-Stalinization and shape it to his
own ends and the survival of himself and his friends. This led
eventually to the "secret speech" regarding STALIN's crimes in

‘which he twisted the facts to exonerate himself and his followers.

This led to unrest in the Bloc and the Hungarian Revolution which
forced KHRUSHCHEV and his cohorts to initiate plans and programs
which represented a return to LENIN.

12. %In May 1959, a secret, six-day series of meetings was

‘held for Government bureaucrats possessing a COMINT security

clearance. It was attended by approximately two thousand members
from different parts of the Government. The purpose was to hand
down and explain in Leninist terms the decisions of the

Central Committee relating to the deStalinization of the intelli-
gence services and to set forth policies which would result in
their reorganization and reorientation.

SECRET/SENSITIVE

 
