13-00000

P. 7-8
pid CIA personnel play any role in building up, disseminating,
then denigrating a report that Oswald had received money to kill
Kennedy from someone at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City? Was
there a CIA connection with Gilberto Alvarado Ugarte, the source

of the story?

Answer:

As stated in information provided to the Warren Commission by the
Agency CIA had no connection with activities or statements by
“Gilberto Alvarado Ugarte concerning allegations that Oswald
received money to kill President Kennedy from someone at the
Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. After Gilberto Alvarado came to
the American Embassy in Mexico City on 26 November 1963 and made
his allegations, his story was investigated by local CIA and

FBI representatives in liaison with responsible Mexican law

 

‘enforcement authorities. The Agency representatives informed the
FBI that Alvarado was a well known Nicaraguan Communist under-~

ground member who was an informant of a Nicaraguan Security

 

Service officer . On November.

 

 

30, 1963, Alvarado admitted to Mexican security officials in
writing that his whole story of having seen Lee Oswald receive
“money ‘in the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City to assassinate
President Kennedy was false. On the same day, CIA reported to
appropriate U. S. Government authorities that Alvarado stated

his motive in telling his false story was to get the United

 
13-00000

18 3

s . SPERE 1/Seh Sil

 

ys (0

States to take action against Fidel Castro. He also said that

he hated Castro and thought that his story about Oswald, if
believed, would help cause the U. S.-to take action against

Castro.

 

 
13-00000
CIA is aware, that the individual in the photograph had any
connection with Lee Harvey OSWALD or the assassination of

President Kennedy.

 
13-00000° -

priority pouch a photo of OSWALD so that a check could be |

- given in the cable of 22 November. The dispatch noted that. photo

cy

‘glade of “all recent coverage for OSWALD. Forwarding soonest

copies of only visitor on 1 October who could be identical with
OSWALD." of .

16. This obviously was for comparison at the CIA Mexico
City office which had estimated. the age of the unidentified nale
whose photograph it had selected as having the “apparent age of
35."

17. A dispatch was prepared in accordance with the indication

coverage of the unidentified individual had turned up on 4 ‘and _
15 October. The text of the 22 November 1963 pouched dispatch
read: . - oe

"2, Attached are copies of the only photographs

obtained. . .on 1 October, 1963 which appeared to be i
an American. This same man visited [an] Embassy on

“4 October 1963.

"2, ‘Copies of these photographs were ‘shown to ‘the

U.S. Ambassador on 22 November 1963 and a copy of

each of the two photographs was given to Chief FBI,

Mexico, on. that date. . .

"Pp. S.. Photographs dated 15 October 1963 were te
inserted after typing of dispatch. These were taken.
as [the] person entered [an] Embassy."

18. The "Unidentified Individual" remains to this day

“unidentified. There is still no credible evidence, as. far as”

 
13-00000

9. it must be stressed that what information there was

- had not been (and normally is not) processed in “real time."

The means of acquisition and the volume of the information
preclude anything but the spot reporting of items judged to

be of more than ordinary interest and, therefore, noted in
summary logs. Photo coverage tended to become available in
quantity lots which requires scanning and selection on a rapid
and accelerated basis in foun‘or five day "peaks." One of the
“triggers” that normally operates to focus and accelerate more

speedy review and reporting of this kind of raw intelligence is

the identification of a person's name. This was precisely what

occurred on 1 October. It was this information reported to Head-
quarters in its first reference on OSWALD on 8 October 1963.

10. .The CIA's Mexico representative did one more thing in.
his & October report on Lee OSWALD based on the 1 October infor~-
mation: he coupled the data with descriptive information acquired |
from a ‘sensitive source 77a photograph of a male ‘individual,
apparently an ‘Anerican, who was" observed entering an | Embassy

on 1 October. This detail was reported on the 8th as a matter of :

coincident fact. CIA's Mexico representative did not assert or

suggest that the data léd to any deduction that the photo was in.

fact OSWALD or, indeed, was in any way related to OSWALD. 1
ll. One additional element of background must be stipulated
now as the final precondition to understanding the relevance (or

irrelevance) of the photo of the unknown individual placed in the

chain of evidence on 23 November in Dallas by the FBI agent:

what was the totality of ‘CIA Mexico's coverage of OSWALD's activity

4 | Loe
13-00000-

Headquarters correspondence and reporting. |

po

a - . Cc
as of the afternoon of the 23rd when all available coverage
had been checked?

12. The totality of this coverage on or reasonably

inferable to be OSWALD was read by, discussed with, and

examined by Warren Commission staffers in Headquarters and in.

‘Mexico City during a stay from 8-13 April 1964. All were made

_ available promptly to the FBI. ; . oo

13. At about mid- -day on 1 October, the camera registered |

the entry into an Embassy of a white-shirted individual. In the

: 6
opinion of CIA’s Mexico representative, among all the persons:

photographed that day, he appeared to be the only non-Latin and

possibly American who entered. On the chance that there could be .

an association between the identification data derived from

coverage and the descriptive data derived from the photograph,

_. the two-elements were reported as separate facts in the cable to

Headquarters on 8 October. ©

- 414. This action was not unusual and really amounted to an.

* gnalytic “quantum leap," in’ terms of the primitive status of

- the: OSWALD identification. | Many examples of a similar kind of..

~

thing can. be found in the day-to-day record of Mexico City

15. .On 22 November 1963 CIA's Mexico representative cabled

Headquarters at 2229Z time after learning of the arrest of Lee H.

OSWALD, age 24, possibly in connection with the assassination,

and referenced its earlier messages of 8-9 and 15 October .and

Headquarters' reply of 10 October. This cable requested by
13-00000

c ; 6.

SUBJECT : Review of Agency Holdings Regarding Photograph of

Unidentified Individual in the Warren Commission
- Report

REFERENCE: Memorandum from David W. ‘Belin to E. Henry Knoche,
dated 15 April 1975

“4.- In accordance with reference request, we have examined
and summarized the record concerning a cropped photograph that was
considered by the Warren Commission in the course of its. investi-
gation. The. photograph (together with others of the same
individual) originated from an intelligence operation conducted
in October 1963. The photograph is of an individual who to this
day remains unidentified. Intelligence did not provide a photo-
graph of Lee Harvey Oswald during his brief stay in Mexico city
‘that month, -

2. Under the extraordinary press of effort to develop infor-
mation on’ the assassin and the assassination, copies of the photo-
graph were made available by CIA's Mexico representative on the

afternoon of 22 November to the local FBI representative, Later

-that day, assertedly on the decision of the Ambassador, copies

were conveyed by an FBI representative on a special U. S. Naval .

Attache flight to the Dallas office of the FBI for possible use

in the ongoing investigation. One photograph, cropped by the

_ FBI, was shown to Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD (Lee Harvey. OSWALD's

mother) in Daklas on the evening of 23 November 1963 by an FBI
agent. , | ;

3. The Warren Commission's report describes the sequence of
events that ultimately resulted in Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD's

on
 

104-40322-10276)

 

TRANSMITTAL SLIP |"? sept 1975

* Mr. Colby

REMARKS:

; Attached is the unclassified
we - statement on Oswald.

Also attached are our
responses to the Presidential
Commission on.a series of
allegations regarding Oswald.

FROM: . oO soe :
Inspector General | tly

 

FORM NG...
TFEB SS 241 Walch MAY BE USED, o |

 

 

  

 
13-00000 -

 

a .

allegation that she had been shown a cropped photo of Jack RUBY

the day before he murdered her son. A further complication
compounding this erroneous conclusion was the fact that, when.
she had been shown a copy of the same photograph in her appearance |
before the Commission, it had been cropped by the FBI in Washing-
ton in a slightly different manner.

4. Although in no way related to Lee Harvey OSWALD or his
stay in Mexico City from the morning of 27 September 1963 to the-

morning of 2 October 1963, at least one set of photographs of the

unidentified man originated during OSWALD's stay there. It is:

important, ‘therefore, to an understanding of the acquisition ‘and |
handling of the photographs by the CIA's Mexico representative
to review what he ascertained and did with the information

developed about OSWALD in Mexico City, together with CIA Head

quarters action on that information.

5. From all credible evidence known to this time (none,

incidentally, added since the exhaustive work of the Warren Com-

“mission); Lee: Harvey OSWALD spent four (4) full days and two (2)

. partial days -- about 116 hours in all -- in Mexico City from |

about 10:00 a.m. 27 September 1963 to about 8:30 a.m. 2 October

1963. His place of residence was a small commercial traveler

-. hotel, not frequented by "gringos" -- the Hotel Commercio --:-where

‘he was registered under alias. Exhaustive and detailed interviews .

and interrogation by the Mexican authorities and the FBI after the
assassination established that, in the recollection of all hotel

personnel, he left and returned late each day of his stay.

 
13-00000

( | €

6. Allowing for the fact of late arrival and early departure,

'* and assuming that he slept one-third of the time of his stay

(38 or 39 hours), there remain some 78 hours of activity to be
accounted for. Overall, CIA's information can ‘account only for
very brief periods during 28, 29 September and } October.

7. It should be noted that OSWALD was in no sense “under -

investigation." None of the facts of his defectian and stay in

the USSR and return to the U.'S., 1959-1962, were known to CIA's

_ Mexico representative before 10 October 1963. On that date, the

bare bones of Oswald's biography were forwarded by Headquarters in

. .
response to a cabled report of 8 October which had forwarded, on

a routine basis, what appeared to be a contact by an American for

a visa to Cuba in transit to the USSR. This was indicated and
deduced from information acquired on 1 October, which was the first.
and only occasion on that visit in which OSWALD was recorded as .
identifying himself (partially) by true name. " .
8. At no. time during his stay. in Mexico City did. the CIA

acquire a photo of OSWALD. A careful review. af all coverage was

conducted on 22 and 23 November 1963 after the assassination,

"including materials back to August 1963. This confirmed that there

" was no CIA photo coverage of OSWALD at any time during his Mexico

trip or stay. in Mexico City. Moreover, although it had made-a
cabled request on 15 October,. the CIA’s Mexico representative had
no photo of OSWALD in his records, nor did he receive one from
Headquarters -- which did not have one either -- before 22 November

1963.
