74-00000

e

- SECRET

financial systeu being used but if they vere

experiencizg difficulties I excoursged then to

accept Mr, Helms’ of~r and set up a syeten wits -

the help of an Agency expert.

 

They were concerned over oot having received the oper-

ational expenses for Xovember and wondered when they could

expect them. I promised to check.

 

Seer rns 1

‘ ?
WO

FESTOR BY SANCHEZ

TYY /PA-PROP

 
74-00000

 

territory, Rocha stated this concerned hin very
guch and did agree to test the R/O’ es and individue
als infiltrated. But, I asked Rocha did he honestly

feel this was sufficient? I continued that he

kaew ts well as t that the communiate were capable
of penetrating at rather high levela, a» proven by
known cases vaich Bave been uncovered. Further-
more, I continued, a8 @ responsible leader he should
find it difficult) to ask his non to undertake some-
thing he would not ¢o hiaself, after all this ig a
basic principal of good leadership. This approach
visibly rocked Rocha especially vith Laam nodding
profusely in agreozent (This fellow Lasa must be

kept around as a prop). Rocka then related the story
i

 

of how even the Jeauite have beon penetrated, Again,
I asked Rocha to consider the Lie detector tests on
the Basia of an aid for their own protection,

(3) Financed: Rocha expressed hope that we

would not continue the present system of requesting

 

funds by vrittes gomorandua for each expenditures

He complained this involved mich paper work, and many
times because of the delay in receiving approval, ,
sonetines 3-4 days, operational opportuaities would

be missed, I admitted I was not aware of the

 

 

} owas

 
74-00000

 

 

our Repae te natiz America vere held responsible

for the eceretsation of all Agency activity in}
their partion: ar countries whether their own or one ;
ia which their help vas anked by another elesent

of the Agnes. It waa the Agoncy Representatives

in the LA gourtries wao felt it nocessary to ‘yave
the Feaponestiiity to pay the salatios of their
costects if they wre held responsible for activity |
they were anked to become involved with, I suggested
I felt 1¢ was a smal] concessiog to make for the
benefits ve <oaB included) were deriving from this
cooperation. Roche agreed, but at was evident he
was @till dragging Bigs feet so I brought up the
subject of the CRE general fund and bow 1f the DRE
did not pay the salaries they gould hold back the
percentages, “voluntarily” from each man's salary,

I suggested tist probably an arrangézent could be
reached with their new Hiaai contact thet the salary
could be apis t, permitting Agency Reps, to pay the
DRE Reps in/tA the salaries agreed to, aad giving
DRE Haa in Haat tha percentage they ‘would hold
back if they tiemselves wore paying the salaries,
Both Rocha aa Lasa admitted they personally felt

  

 
74-00000

 

SECTET

this ware & reasonable approach acd adsitted they _
would agree to such a solution, but deatred to
dtecues It with their people in Miami. (pre-

wumably Manuel Salvat). 1 made i% clear that

“.¢be above wus only @ personal ides ‘xe how [ felt

ag agreenect’ could be reacoed. ‘tape taiRing to
Rocha connented that he wan certais aa agreenoat
could be reached aad he personally agreed to
gach & solutiioa. _ (Lasa pushed focha into stating
be alao agreed). ,

(4) Regarding the use of the Lie detector
I told Rochal { was not interested ts bow the aub-
ject ‘ead pedeched wits thes but felt if they were
at ali seriously interested in the security of their
orginizatios, I found it hard to believe how they
could afford not to take advastage of thia aid to
kaep theuselves from being penetrated. The Agency
is cortataly concerned ‘over the possibility that
a group with which tihbeg Sooo coopentiag could be
pezetrated and he, Rocha, as the group leader should
be ever wore concerned, egpocially when he la re-

spouaible tor the lives of individusle ia hostile

'
'
4
:
}
1
|
|
'
|

 

 
74-0000

LUNE

* cewey eo
2°

contact im Htami a copy of the Ugly Americen. Be agreed
this wasatt condusive to good relations but added he wae
so fed-up by thie tine that the DRE felt it waa impossible
to discuss anything of importance with their contact. say-

way. oie St .

 

3. According to: Rocha the following items in order
of importance have caused the most difficulty:

a. Wilitary operations: The, DRE feels it
has boon completely checked in thig field, ob-
viously the field im which they fee) and want
to be operating. tan They feel their plans are
not corsidered seriously and alternate plang.
have not been presented to them. They would Like
to know if the DRE ia going to be considered for
participations in military operations (aabotage,

° etc) or permitted to conduct their own? Rocha
claims 85% of the DRE membership in exile are
presently inactive, they also have approximately

: 30 men who have hoon trained by the Agency.
In skort @ desire to use the DRE manpover tor
operations against the Castro regime. As ree
quested by ir. Helas, Rocha agreed to present

their plans for Agency consideration.

ae
| SEES

 

 

 
 

AO4H0470-10020) .
oan : eae

 

ay

or

4,

me

cee 7

15 Noveaber 1962
\

MEMORANDUM FOR TRE RECORD

SUBJECT: Conversetion with Ur. Rocha and Wr. Lasa
After Their Meeting with Mr. Helas

 

PERSONS PRESENT: Luis Fernandes Rochg, Jose Lasa,
Mentor D, Sanchez

 

 

 

 

 

TIME AND PLACE: 1700 hours, 13 Noveaber 1962,
Dupont Plaze Hotel, Wasbington, D.C.

1. Rocha and Lasa were very pleased and happy
over their discussion with Mr. Helms. Unless U.8. policy
ne . becomes one of coexistence with Castro Rocha ia certain —
the Agency and the pre can ‘continue mitually beneficial
cooperation,
2. The purpose of this conversation was to dofine
the sore specific pointe of disagreepent a6 viewed by
Rocha, Before starticg Rochas admitted that maoy of the
past disagreements vere minor but had become "the Ber line”
of the DRE mainly because of the manner in which they :
were presented by their Miami contact. In short they re~

fused to be dactatod to and threatened, Rocha gave his

 

pf

 
74-0000

wy

| SECHET

b. Internatiocal Operatioan, Latin Americas
Operations: .
(1). Administrative; The DRE has 15 mea

ready iscludiag vieas to send to countries in

Latin America. . They need the money and authortzation

to send thes.

(2) They are presenting a plaa to have two
Wtraveling secretaries” who could travel and check
“the activities of the different delegations. They
also feel there ig & need at present for a mecting
or reusioa of the chiefs of their delegations in-
order to formulate new plana and targets. Rocha
eo feels the old thenes of discrediting Castro, be-~

trayal of Revolution, ete., have lost their steaa

and new propaganda thenes gust be developed.
(Rocha ia personally interosted and admitted that
‘even if and when the Cuban problem ig resolved the
ORE wants to continue its operations im Latin
American, I introduced the subject of continued -
future long range cooperation. Rocha and Lasa
both agreed this would be vory éesirable provided
knowledge of this cooperation could and would be
Mnited to the top leadership of the DRE, fearing

they would be readered completely ineffective if

 

 
74-00000

 

Step
4

—"

stamped a6 stcsges of Tackee imperialios 4

Latin Americas. S\agreed thia would not te de-

atrable for either party. ‘They claim this ss
what bag happened|to their delegate in Lima
and the reasoa for pulling him out. . They a4~-
ait he has doze a tronendous job but exparded
go fast and is doing eo such he has beec labeled
a CIA agent. Rocha adaite the failure of the
Lisa Rep ta that he did too good of & job,
fronic#é an this may souhd. Rocha clatas
Peruvians have asked him why the DRE has a
CIA agent as Zep in Lina.)

(3) This discussion brought up the sebdject
of eslaries fcr DRESL/A Repe and who wouid pay
them. Rocha aduitted this subject and Lie hea
tector tests Rave| become the “Berlins of tre DRE".
He agreed they vere misor compared to the importance
of the overail relatiossabip. 1 suggested it waa
inconceivable to ne thet ecae arrangenert acceptable
to both parties couldn’t be reached on sek minor
details (emphasizing minor to soften his “Zo con-

Fronise™ Berlia position.) I used the lize that

 

SECneT

 
