Vevppatenar seam itvirin stent

SA0000 7 —_—s
‘
q ‘et , 7 ars ‘ -
we & . ‘ ( : _ * ”
ote. - se sof :

, LO ad

. 6. Agee knew that SCALETTI was in Mexico
even though SCALETTI was working regular hours in the He
pecbaney nine that there were other

Clie haus

Co IL. SCALETTI .

 

 

 

 

 
 

(oe torto-0305)

Le
.*

ce oe A

-MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

7 SECRET C thecle the CBusras

eof i-

31 May 1972

; Iu-3 7.
SUBJECT: Agee Effort Against Cuban Operations(_ _]
wa

1, Elsie L SCALETTI recalls that Raymond A. FRADYER, Chief of

the Cuban Section, tried to get Agee to discuss the development of contacts
with access to the Cuban target in the Olympics. In these Gjscussions it may
well be that Agee was told about LIARM-I,

who was a conta land we were trying to get invited to Cuba.
(IARME} is no longer a contact pe pven though he is still with

 

 

 

 

 

+2. SCALETTI recalls the Cuban Section feeling very frustrated that

- ee ae ee a a a oe — nt me ee a eee See ee mand. ~ - wom
Agee could provide no icads or assistance to this section in its effori to target

_ against the Cuban teams, She recalls no memoranda prepared by Agee for the

Section, no leads given the Section, and he came to discuss the olympics with
C/Cuba not more than half a dozen times. - ;

3. As SCALETTI recalls, it is unlikely that Agee knew any thing abour

the operations being run against the Cuban ‘areet ne that which he might have

picked up at Headquarters or known about
such as audio, surveillance, photo surveillance, etc.

erations in general --

4, SCALETTI had Agee over to her home once for dinner; there were
no other guests. Agee had SCALETTI, her husband, and Laura J. UTSTINE _ob&
(on TDY) to his apartment once for dinner. The conversation was always“ een 0
light. The only significant thing about Agee's plans which arose was his
discussion about buying used drycleaning equipment in the United States,
bringing it to Mexico and setting up a. drycleaning plant. This was brought
up as something for the future and just an igea Phil was toying with.

Sig Moloné&

5. SCALETTI ran into Agee by chance on the side street by the Embassy
one day after the arrival of John A. PROBERT. Agee said he understood
PROBERT had arrived fas O§) and he wouid like to say hello. I suggested
he call FROBERT. I immediately informed PROBERT of my chance encounter
with Agee, and informed PROBERT that Agee had resigned under somewhat
of a cloud and suggested he get briefed himself on Agee's assignment in Mexico.

’ . RETURN TO Cia
Ceres eos Background Use Only
wiCieE] Do Not Reproduce

 
