74-00000

 

14, Upon ‘Zenteno's: return, Mizones told him of the
message and Zenteno took it as an authentic order and made

_ no. effort to have it confirmed. Mizones asked if Guevara's

life could be preserved since he had these instructions.
Zerteno replied that his own position would be placed in
jeopardy if he did not comply. Mizones asked him to make. -
‘the attempt anyway. (Mizones believes that Zenteno had |
_ already resigned himself to the inevitability of Guevara's
execution.) Zenteno: said that he was in sympathy with Mizones*
wish but that it was not in his power to reverse the order. -
He told.Mizones that. he was well aware of the treatment which
Fidel had meted out to Cubans and told him to execute Guevara
in any manner which he might choose. Zenteno said that he
‘had to leave for Vallegrande at 10:00 a.m. and would send
a helicopter back to pick up Guevara's ‘body at 2 p.m., and

- Mas-a friend", asked that the body be ready. Mizones.

reiterated his request. that the order. be appealed and Zenteno
agreed to make the. attempt, and said | he. would advise if he
were successful.

. 4s. - Failing a “counter-manding o£. the order and as the
_senior "Bolivian officer" left in Higueras, Mizones said-he.
was left with the implementation of. the execution. After —
Zenteno left, Mizones was able to talk to Guevara, who
_identified. Mizones either as’a Puerto Rican or a Cuban
:working for U.S. intelligence. He said he made this judgment.
on the basis of the questions asked and on Mizones' accent.

- While. Mizones was: with Guevara, shots were fired in adjoining:

rooms and Mizones later determined that these involved the.
execution of two other prisoners. Recognizing these shots
for what they were, nevertheless, Guevara blanched when ~
Mizones confirmed that he too would be executed; although —
later. ‘composing himself. a, .
16. After deaving Guevara, " Mizones “told a sergeant. ‘of a
the order to execute Guevara and entrusted the mission to him.
He was told to fire below the head. The order was given to
‘the sergeant at 1:00 p.m. ‘and Mizones heard the shots fired
“at Guevara at 1:20 p.m. At 2:00 p.m., the helicopter returned
to Higueras. A Father Shiller performed the last rites and
Guevara's remains were strapped to one of the helicopter's
skids and Mizones accompanied them to Vallegrande, where .
they ianded at 2:30 p.m. “Mizones said that he lost himself

in the crowd gathered at the airport, but that |
| took charge of the remains and was photographed.
izones ud that the title of the photograph, which appeared
in the press, gave an incorrect identification off
the nane Mizones used : os

 
74-0000

 

17. Mizone

documents, films and equipment and then :
.where Mizones contacted his case officer. . He was taken to.
a home where fhe DCOS? and other Americans were priefed by _,
‘him. ‘Everything which he had been able to retain was turned -.
_-in-then to be carried by @ special courier. to Washington. :
Mizones then. flew back to Santa. Cruz where 2- c-13 de .
.by General Porter, - CINCSOUTH, was to pick ‘him and.
up for a flight to the Canal Zone. This plane arrived With”
a flat tire on the 10th or Lith. _ The U.S- Mission aircraft,
- a C-54, was then flown to Santa Cruz and he and (\
_ were flown back to. La Paz. After overnighting there, another
C-130 carried them to Panama where Mizones was asked to ;
relate his story to General Porter. After 2 weeks in Panama,
Mizones and[ were documented as GS-16s so that they
could poard a over- cooked military flight | Chard ~
South Carolina. After their arrival.there, they journeyed

 

 

 

  

 

 

 
‘
‘|
i
ee

 

 

 

 

 

~2-
. 4. Prior to their departure, both Mizones and
Were issued false ll S re-entry nermits in the names”
land respectively. _These were
received in New ior to their departure on’

30 July for La Paz on a Braniff Airline flight. Their case
officer had preceded them.and met them on 31 July at 7 a.m.
_ at the La Paz airport. Mizones believes that Bolivian visas

were stamped in their re-entry permits.

5. se officer and another American took them to

 
 

      

meet to whom they were introduced as
expe nh guerrilia warfare. He issued each a personal card

in.which.were handwritten his instructions te all civilian. .
and military officials that they be given full support. At
ten that morning, they met General Ovando, Commander ~in-Chief
of the Bolivian Armed’ Forces. - (it wasn't until about a month

/ dater that Mizones met in Santa Cruz.) While in —

. no new instructions were issued to them about their

: — - After about a week there,. they were flown to Santa

“Cruz de la Sierra for a.few days and. introduced to Colonel
Joaquin Zenteno Anaya, Commander of the Eighth Division. —

' -Zenteno arranged for Captain.""Poppie" Shelton, the American

officer in charge of the military mission training the 2nd

ttalion, to come to Santa Cruz to meet Mizones and:
i They were also introduced to Major Arnaldo Saucedo,
G-2 of the Eighth Division. After 3 or 4 days’ in. Santa Cruz,
“Mizones ana" vent to La Esperanza, where they were
quartered at thé Bolivian officers’ compound. In La Esperanza ~
they met Major Ayiroa, the Commander of the 2nd Ranger Battalion,
and: Captain Gari: Prado. es Be  ,

 

Prior to their departure from La Paz, Mizones. and .

were issued Bolivian uniforms and credentials as

pra in the Bolivian Army: - Nevertheless, they did not .
‘receive Bolivian Army insignia. Later, Mizones was given. by'

' Major Saucedo a Bolivian tri- ap~insignia which he wore
(escarapela). Mizones cag were issued Smith ahd Wesson

7 double-actioh automatic pi's ring their activities as in-

‘ “Structors and advisors they assumed the role of Bolivian.

officers, although they were known as foreign advisors to a.
number of Bolivian. officers... (Mizones said that he learned later
that the A ican Ambassador had prohibited anyone other than
he and from becoming involved in. the anti~guerrilla
activi e field.) -

 

. 7.° Despite their apparent status as Bolivian officers,

* Mizones said that they never were given orders by higher-

_Yanking Bolivian officers (One exception to this rule was the
order which Colonel Zenteno issued to Mizones on the day of
Guevara's execution, if Mizones story is to be believed.)

Rime ee

t Fen tee cue tnmeree atin See
 

Prod-ton03-tonig]

 

  

- 3 June 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: "Deputy Inspector General

SUBJECT: ' Statement by Benton H. Mizones concerning.
So . his assignment Bolivia in 1967 and-his role
in the capture of Ernesto "Che" GUEVARA.
de la Serna: | ;

REFERENCE: — . Memo dated 29 May 1975 |

_ - 2. .Yhe undersigned met with Benton H. Mizones, contract
employee, on 2 and 3 June to obtain his story about his
assignment to Bolivia in 1967. This query is.based upon ref
- interview, during which Mizores mentioned that he had re-
transmitted an order from Colonel Joaquin Zenteno Anaya,
‘Commander of the 8th Division of the Bolivian Army, to a.
Bolivian sergeant, which resulted-in the execution of Ernesto
'tChe'’ GUEVARA de la Serna, Cuban. leader of the guerrillas then
‘operating in Bolivia. —.: : . : Coe mo,

. 2. Mizones said that his assignment came about after ‘an
interview held in Miami in June or July of 1967, at which time
he was a case officer working for the Miami office. He had -
been selected for the job interview:because of his para-
military training and_experience. He was asked if he would
agree to serve with a fellow Cuban. He

‘He was told that Hé was-to go to Bolivia-‘with a -
where they would be engaged in training intelligence

 

 

 

 

 

: the 2nd Ranger Battalion of the Eighth Division of.
the. Bolivian Army. He was also told that he and

would be assigned to the 2nd Ranger, Battalion as advisors

._ and would be based in the town of Esperanza. While in Miami, .

he and ere given briefings about the political. and
guerrilla situation in Bolivia, and he was given a refresher
‘course in communications. Mizones and were told

 

that there were strong indications that Guevara was leading
the guerrillas. Among the instructions given them was a clear
one that in the event that the Bolivian Army captured Guevara,
they should do everything possible "to keep him alive."

3. They were introduced to their future case officer
_in Washington, who was to be in liaison with the Bolivian
forces in Santa Cruz.
74-00000

an

. a Coe .
(0B (
8. Mizones was assigned to Santa Cruz end has .
asSigned to La Esperanza, where the latter cond of

the intelligence training. - As time went by, Mizones' own
duties gravitated to becoming basically those of an advisor.

- He said that his case officer was aware of and a ou! this
developmient.. Among the things which Mizones and
attempted to accomplish was the preservation of the lives of-

captured guerrillas, for the collection of intelligence about

the guerrilla’s locations, as well as for humanitarian reasons.

' Mizones said that he: saved the life of Jose Castillo Chavez, _

traveling for that purpose to Vallegrande from Santa Cruz,
where he spoke briefly to Castillo at the Nuestra Senora de

‘Malta Hospital. At this time Mizones learned of the intent

of Colonel Selich of the Rangers, to have the prisoner executed.

' Mizones prevailed on Major Saucedo and General La Fuente to
.take his side: The prisoner was flown to Vallegrande where .

Mizones covered all medical costs and carried out a two-week: a
interrogation. The resulting twenty-page interrogation report ;
provided the Bolivians. with a complete concept of the — . ;
~guerrilla's strategy, which turned out:.to be the key to
Guevara's capture, according to Mizones. This report was
attributed by the Bolivians to be from their own people.

9. This important development was followed. by an

_. encounter: in late September between a unit led by a Lt. Galindo
and the remnants of the guerrillas. . During this action, a Cuban .

lieutenant named Miguel;"the Bolivian Coco Peredo; and a
Bolivian physician named Jose Gutierrez Ardaya were killed. a
Mizones travelled by jeep to Pucara, where.the bodies were . °°.

‘located, and. through the information he had Learned from

Castillo, he was able to establish that the men were from ~
Guevara's forward element. Upon his return to Santa Cruz, -— |
Mizones advised Colonel Zenténo, that the 2nd. Ranger Battallion .
should be immediately deployed, with the remaining two weeks .
of their training cancelled. Zenteno accepted this advice™

and the Rangers were moved to Pucara, and the Headquarters of -
the Eighth Division were moved to Vallegrande. Mizones
continued in-his advisory role, suggesting ‘areas for troop
deployment as well as the deployment of the intelligence. .-
.teams. On the 8th of October, contact was established with -
‘Guevara's remai s. {At this. time Mizones was) in —
Vallegrande enh he Esperanza.). On the 8th, Major
‘Saucedo reporte radio that "the chief" had been -
captured. Mizones then flew over the area in a PT-6 carrying
with him a PRC-10 radio with which he was able to communicate
with the Bolivian forces. He then confirmed that: Guevara was -
“the chief" who had been captured. He returned to Vallegrande
where he told Col. Zenteno that Guevara had. been wounded. and.

' captured.
74-00000

10. That day Major Selich was sent to Higueras to

“interrogate the guerrilla prisoners and assembled the

captured documents. Since Colonel Zenteno was planning to £ly
by helicopter to Higueras on the 9th, Mizones asked him on. . °
the evening of the 8th if he ceuld accompany him to interrogate
Guevara. Zenteno consulted his staff and agreed. (The oe

 

' helicopter had room only for a pilot and two_passengers,)

- Mizones prepared a 100-word message to the

 

in code reporting Guevara's capture and asHing that” an Ei nbassy

_Yepresentative be sent to the area to prevail upon the te

'. Bolivians to spare Guevara's life, since he did not. believe

that he could succeed in doing so. This message was prepared ~
for the scheduled 10 a.m. transmission of 9 October, and :
was not transmitted to the relay point in. Asuncion, Paraguay, |
until about 10:30 a.m., after Mizones arrived in Higueras

- and set up his radia. transmitter an RS~-48.

il. Zenteno, Mizones and the pilot, Nino de Guzman; set

"out by helicopter from Vallegrande at 7:15 a.m. on the 9th,

- and arrived in, Higueras’ at about 7:40 a.m. Mizones accompanied :
Zenteno and Major Ayiroa when they visited Guevara in the  . = -

school room which was his improvised jail. Guevara would :
not answer Zenteno when spoken 4 to... He was. bound,,. hand - and foot,
and- had a leg wound. .

12. ' Mizones and Najor Selich ‘then reviewed the captured
documents and Mizones obtained permission, from Selich to :
photograph all the papers, including Guevara's diary, and also.

',. Selich's permission to. retain the original accommodation .

addresses found.

; - 13. While Zenteno ‘and all the other Bolivian officers ‘
(with the exception of a Lieutenant Perez) were outside -of

the village attending to other military affairs, Mizones - -
- Yemained-in Higueras as the highest ranking "Bolivian efficer". |
_In this capacity he answered a'call received on ‘the military .

field telephone and answered as Captain ' He was given
the code numbers 500 and 600. as orders. ere to be
implemented by command. of “higher authorities". He said that

the connection was not. clear and he could not recognize the
voice but it could have been that of Major Saucedo. In any
case, Mizones said that.since it was a line only available - .
to the military he was confident that it was order re-
transmitted through military channels. He said that he knew
that 500 referred to Guevara, 600 to the word execute and

. 700 to the preservation of Guevarra's life. These simple

codes had been identified to him previously.
