14-00000

 

) Ynitiaily in English but continued in Spanish. VIERA said he

3. GOTTLIEB apparently has current. information on the
activities of the persens-he mentioned; for example, he
knew that Juan A. PAULA was involved in the jewelry business
(PAULA and Antonio Felix GENOVA Corzo, a WH/Miami proprietary ©
employee recently purchased a Jewelry business) and ‘he knew
that Reinaldo PICO had resided in Venezuela and had racently
returned to the United States. The phone conversation lasted.
about 45 minutes and GOTTLIEB told VIERA that ‘af he. came to
Miani they would have lonch together.

“4, VIERA does not know GOTTLIEB but talked to him because
GOTTLIES said he was recommended a tte thn es °
has resided in the Washington area for more than ten years.
has _residec

was a former Agency asset and is currently Chief ‘of |
The conversation was “:

  
   

 

 

 

 

_ provided no information to GOTTLIEB on the basis that he is a
Cuban exile and did not want to get involved in internal U.S. _
‘affairs. We do not know why GOTTLIEB was interested in Joaquin.
SANJENTS or Juan A. PAULA. (Attached are Summary biographies:
"oF persons of interest to GOTTLIES. ).. oo, ;

8. On 7 May 1973 i ‘chick, SCLEEAD, we
.. briefed on the substances of the report from WH/Miami per

 

 

 

fa Fe
ow

ining

 

 

to Juan A. PAULA, who works for ths MUTUAL a
which utilizes y.
: as office space cover. Among Other duties performed by

 

 

 

the proprietary are the monthly checks sent to the dependents

' o£ imprisoned assets which are Signed in true name by. PAULA.

was unaware that PAULA had purchased a new jeweiry a
business in association with Antonio GENOVA; however, he feels
that GEMUTEAP is protected and. compar tmented from the WH/Miami -
proprietary and he has the utmost confidence in the proprietary |
being able to field any questions, GHMUTUAD communication with

 

the proprietary is by unliste and a post office box,
said th and could possibly be linked.
to. [but the trail wonld end there. He .

 

 

£eels that either proprietary could only be linked to the Agency
by innuendo. He did say that Howard HUNT was aware of

YUAN when he served as C/CA/EUR.) feels secure as
far as/ and ( [and] are
concerned, | : :

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
104-10062-10046

 

 

 

& MAY : S73

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations

SUBJECT. 8 ‘Media Inquiry to Cuban Exile Journalist in

. Miami re Cuban Involvement in Watergate
Case and Attitudes in Miami ‘Area

“
1. This nenorandua is for your information only.

2. On 7 May 1973 we were advised by Stetion WH/Miami that

“two employees of a Station WH/Miami proprietary haditold the

tation that one Rene VIERA Gonzalez, a Cuban exile journalist
who writes for Diario Las Americas and owns. the Westch nester
Mali Bookstore in Miami received a call in early May: from one
ENU GOTTLIEB who said he worked for the Times in Washington.
..(GOTTLIEB is believed to be Sanford GOTTLIGS, 11102 | Brandywine
St., Kensington, Md, who was formerly an employee of; the

‘National Committee on Sane Nuclear Policy". -A pretext call to

the Washington bureau of the New York Times verified: that one

» "Sandy" Gottlieb was employed there.) GOTTLIEB asked VIERA

what People | in Miami were saying about the Watergate! case and

what partici ipation the Cubans had in it. He specifically

asked about the activities of Reinaldo PICO (former 2506
Brigade member), Orlando PIEDRA (former Chief of Cuban Bureau

of Investigation in Batista Government), and Rolando MASFERRER -

(former Cuban Senator and Self-admitted former Communist).

He also asked if ITT had an office in Miami, whether Joaquin
SANJENIS Perdoma (former Chief of a WH/Miami. proprietary who
was anicably terminated in 1972) and Juan A. PAULA (former
WH/ Miami proprietary employee and former Controller of oo
Revolutionary Democratic Front-FRD-and currently employed by

an OGC proprietary) were still in the Miami area. He. was also

interested in Edgardo BUTTARI, a Cuban born in West Tampa,

‘Florida, a former Cuban Congressman and Minister of Conmerce

who ‘is reportedly associated with Mr. Charles "Bebe REBOZO,
ccording to GOTTLIEB, BUTTARI was appointed as "political
chief in the Republican Party",

 

#ABO®
14-00000

 

an a - oe

 

 

 

6. mentioned that the bona fide law firm occupying
the othé¥ portion of the offices are the attorneys
for (These 1a ers are cleared and witting.) —
One of the lawyers told that will be the “biggest
_canary singer of the year™, he common receptionist area is

manned by (MEMUTUAD employees. who also monitor all telephone
calls, incoming and outgoing for the other law firm.

mentioned that there have been numerous calls from the media
and outgoing overseas calls to such places as Japan and Europe.

 

will be traveling ‘to Nassau and returning | cia
wiani on 10 May 1973. He int ends to talk with his proprietary
people at that time on other @PRUTUAD business and will alse
contact COS, WH/Miami. (The COS has been aler ted to expect

a call from EVANS on 10 May 1973.} ge oe

Janes E. Flannery

‘James E. Flannery |
Acting Chief Be
Western He anisphere ‘Division ~ ce.

 

“ee: Director of Security - So , Ok.

 

Attachments: A-F Biographic Summaries

 
