 

19 APR 1963

Os Deputy Assistant Secretary for Security.
Departuent of State

FROM: Deputy Director, Plans

‘SUBJECT: KAHIOR, Mervin - pee

1. Reference ig made to the name check request, dated 11
February 1963, subject as above, whose name you desired checked -
against the files of this office. The files contain the folloev-
ing information. concerning Subject.

: 2. According to a report dated 21 April 1961 from a usually
reliable source, reflecting subject's ou statements, Marvin
‘KABEOR, born -9 Hay 1934: 4n Mew York City, wis a stutent of . .
Russian and Russian Mtéerature at the ‘University of Copenhagen .
from 1957 to. 1961.- During this period, Subject traveled from
Demeark to the USER tice on & visitor's Visa issued. tc him to

|. wheat his uncle in Minsk. Tha first trip covered the period

3 May - 9 July 1958; the second, 2 June - 8 Septesber 1959.
As a result of the processing of Subject's application for a

| ‘Wiaa to the USSR in 1958, he became friendly with one Boris
'Fedorovich KHRYACHKOV, ‘an official at the Goviet exbasay in
Copenhagen end a KG officer. Ostensibly in conriection with

Subject’s ‘visa application, be gave KHRYACHKOV. a etatenent

-@omerning his beckgroumd and relatives in the USA and USER.

During Subject's stay. in Minsk in 1953, he was visited ayproxi-
mately four times by oné Viktor Ivanovich BAZONWV who stated

. that..bs was from a “ministry.”. SAZOROV never attempted to recruit |

Bubject; however, he did suggest that Subject co-operate in an

- aetive struggle for peace. Although Subject preferred not to
. 866 SAZOHOV, he felt that a refusal might lead to trouble for his

Yélatives in the USSR; consequently, he passively agreed to

- BAZOROV's general ideas. Upon his return to Copenhagen, however,
-@ubject resused his association vith KERYACHXOV; and in’ February
-1959 beg -a clandestine mesting systes vith his. At this time

Subject wos again requested to subait written statements con- |
cerning his friends ani stulent scquaintances all under the
prutense of gaining another visa to tha USSR. In Aime 1959
Bubject again traveled to Minsk, ani, during the registration process
at the OVIR (Office of Vien ant Registration), ho met ene Yevgenty
K2H8 who requested him to write yet another summary concerning his
background. In addition XAHE asked him mmercus questions, spoke, , 1)
: . 2 74

. aeri d

gS copy SEGRE IN 20f-2

  

 
 

1044017340070

eel

 

Es
. RID/AN GA 50 :

_ oncuassingo J? TERR ((] conripe “at es SECRET

  
 
  

   
 
 

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM:
# - ™ esct-3/ 115,757
nanfor 77 (es). Bev York

ign designation room ovenber. ond Sas
INITIALS [te whem, Prow @ Fee ccrom eahna ator euch comment)
CI STAFF 2¢ 35 18 AAR 19

apts 8
>

 

    
   

  
 

3

   
 

  

 

RID/CE__G-A-10

LCE
| | el
sl |

     
   

 
  
 

     

a
_ Background Use
Do Noi 5 neprod ce

      
 
 

  
    

  

   

 

 

  

Pee oe
ee ce

 
 

BOCMAT O1ME pea
19 APR ISEF

 

USE PREVIOUS INTERNAL
| Petes 610 “tttons [2] secret — [] CONFIDENTIAL iS OMY ee

 
 

.

SECEET

at greate length about peace, axi offered him money on the
grounds that “he knew it was rough for a atvdent”. Subject
reportedly refused the offer, and, follorins this encounter, ©
vas visited regularly by Victor SAZORWY (sea above), who,

‘“towerd the end of July, invited him to a hotel where he and

SAZOHOV vere ‘mat by KAN. During thie meeting, KAHN identified
binself in SASONOV's presance as a representative of an intelli-
gence service, and made an obvious attempt to recruit Subject.

The latter was requested to sign a loyalty pledge to the effect
that he was to collaborate willingly with Soviet Intelligence.

He refusca, and, although an argment ensued, uo physical pressure
or threats were applied. Subject did not see KANN again. At the
International Club, upon Subject’s return to Copenhagen, he encountered
one Viedislav Mikhailovich ARARCHALIN, an employee of the Soviet
Babasnsy and a X08 officer with whom he conversed, usually in the
presence. of other students. Towards the end of Fovewber, ABARCHALIN
effected a reunion between Subject and Boris KIRYACHKOV. The letter
atteapted to dismiss the previously mantioned shorted recruituent

in Minsk as a sisunderstanding. Between Sovember 1959 and April
1960, Sudject held a few street-corner meetings with KHRYACHKOV.

On different oceasions the latter requested him to: a. rid himself
of his paesport because of the many Goviet bloc viuss which it
contained) b. accept delivery of lettera from KERYACHKOV in
England to be turned over unopened to someone else; ani c. rent an
apartment where Subject vould invite his Americen friends to mect
Soviets. Subject reportedly refused these requests. In April 1960".
Subject was introduced by KBRYACHXOV to another Soviet called
"Grigoriy.” The latter was to be Subject’s new contact. Subject
net: Grigoriy approximately four additional times, but refused
@rigoriy’s requests for written statements about his stulent triends.

3. According to.a report dated 8 May 1961 from the same
usually relisble semurce, and, again reflecting Subject’s statement,
Boris KHRYACEXGY gave Subject a bottle of whiskey and two English
language books to be delivered to ana SHARIFF in Moscoy during the
course of Subject’s trip to the USSR in 1953. Subject delivered
the gifts as directed and wes asked by GHARIFY, = member of the
staff of the Moscow News, if ne was interested in writing a short
article for ths? publication concerning his impressions of Minsk.
Subject agreed and wrota two handwritten pages atating that he had
been favorsbly impressed by What appeared to be Kinsk’s rapid
growth ani recoietzuction. He received 500 rubles for his efforts:
for which he signed a receipt. (1% is not known vbether the erticle
vas ever published.) .

'

‘ ‘
+ :

SECRET

 

 
 

aed

SECRET

h, KR repert dated 1 September 1961 frea a usually reliable

- gourea indicated that Subject had been friendly with ons Willian

STEINSMITH, an American citizen born about 1933. Living in Déemark
without a residence permit, STSINSMITN hed sold pro-CASTRO and

‘anti-Vost ‘articles to the local Danish press and bed been in cos=
CALAFORRA

5. Yor further information concerning Subject, you are re-
ferred to the Federal Bureau of Investigation ani to the Departecnt

i. ; of State, Peseport Office, Aserican Exbasay, Copenhagen, Denmark.

. 802-3/775,757 r

Enel: - 1 nase check
RID/ce: 3MA/IK/em

Based onfassiio34h, fResajposse, ferckys633 (201-279710)
- 72 22

coe .

SECRET

 

 
