 

 

 

tiny

 

. . . . & ; Z ; S eark _ :
ert - (PF RETURN TO Cla.
o~ cet Background Use Only
N8e Not Reprod. uce

2. Wosking along the sane line it 4s: Headquarters feeling that”

oe. Tebborn could perfor. a very useful service through: consultation
uf Oaite ese ep - hut thet! rape

with the station, “Deny: Verona: ond: Sanchez Arango; 88 welt as throw

his independent observations and contacts which a short. or woulda”

 

 
 
  
  
 

 

 

give hin an opportunity to makes It is propoced, ‘therefore, that
« Tichbern be ‘gent to your | Station on: to consult with Station ; -
by eaten duce hs fo pat ad  Somdtg st We As dey cree es :
<, Poe dice ‘
personnel. We should like to have your comments on this proposal rorren ‘
86 well as whatever ideas you may have on how to get 3. ‘Mchborn oO
Sancte 46 . .
into contact with Verona and Arango. Obviously this should not be too

digtiout once the project is approved and you. have a working relationship -

; yar Ae .
ey “Abani / However, in the interest of expediency, we would prefer: |

ThEek pe os
be sou that ge Tiehborn be sent imediately, ever before te final project
ye
oe ue fre tala approval. “Although 29% Tichborn's prine ‘yesponsibility at the moment

“

t
“9

. » Fee.
if 1 sould be directed tovarda better implementing Project AA!} “Aree;

: 4t vould also be expected that the Station vould renier bin every

epee

Btn waft

w Te a assistance in trying to jaentity and possibly talk with political
Le Sasc wee

al Or groupings other than those represented by Varona, ‘eango- ‘and the

AE AWATCCUUSTH 7

aud wed Montechristt Group which Project der atl foresees supporting at ‘pats

sttay hee
yy) eg DCO time. In the event other groups 5 Summ up which are deened vorthy of

om sigh oEe 6 :
israel suppart, Project 77°"? a “Wadd be amented to include thea. MreBtebharn

 

"tt et 3. GYF Tickbora vas bern|

tle auton FO oan
’ oo

 

 

Be ia a practicing attorney

SECRET.

 

 
 

404-10174-10064

 

 

 

>|pv

 

 

 

  

rean
ceeie
DRAFT
Edtavis:bj1.
& October 1959

o RE ETUS
Backgrounc
De Not Repro

  

 

Sieh q Sop = sh Mee Ate

. oF. .
SUBJECT: Political Orgsaizer = Edvard G. Tichbora (P)

A “ihe ‘senior KUCAGE Steff had. recruited a mumber of individuals
who have hed extensive’ experience in politics, particularly as campaign

managers and political organizers.
a

organizers vas sent (to

and the two principal ageats of a political action project.
addition to his conversations with these individusais he also traveled

Very recently one of these

ere he was in contact with the Station

in

around the area end talked to a number of unwitting individuals

prior te meeting again with Station personnel and the princ{pal. ‘agents.
Aa a result of his conversations and of: his delving into the lotal

“political scene, he was able to come up with an exceedingly informed

 
 
  

assessment of the local political scene ‘8 well as concrete recommendations ;

in regarda to the organization of the political action factions being
supported by XUBARK, plus recoimendations aa to how they should proceed
towards meeting their imediate problens vhteh wee the U4" of
& number of divergent tacteie® into a. coercive orgenization capable

af united action against the. Communist at the polls. ‘the Station wes

* very plesued with the results of this!{ndividual's IY ant the Station’

Pe EES

has followed his recommendations almost tothe letter in their-

recommendations to Headquarters.

SECRET,

 

 
 

 

 

 

; - cand has shad zy great. deal - ‘of political expertence. -e Tan unsuccessfully
- for a high office
ds. a Pht Beta Kappa; was preside jos

= : HERICAN

 

- . aN mn
; ererr ; #” RETURN TO CIA
Natta - Back round Use Only

jot Reproduce |

 

le

 

 

 

“ent has published s amber of erticles on int and labor. fo ts en AAAARE
pf

eitizen of Mexican parents, who speaks ‘native Me&ican, and has a typical

for
Mexicen aypearancey Onee~on—the- ground he Gould pass/a Mexican. He

hea on several occasions visited in Cuba and ‘at, the time of his
recruitment Im evinced great interest in the situation in Cube and
Pye (LE

POT

   

  

was

 

“ naked the recruiter what action, if ezy,
taking in Cuba. ‘This was en unsolicited inquiry as Cuba had never

. been mentioned in the course of recruitment. Needless ‘to say, his

" . necrutter made no statement.which woud ‘tndteatio any active role 6n .
OOSOLE a,

the part of etiee Government. tneeton. : .
y ae eanled eeol, 13 REQUESTED
