Dm

wee . SECURITY INFORMATION

“Security Officer, OCI 11 duly 1952
4eting Chief, Security Division

S.1. Clearances of I&S0 Personnel

Pursucnt to discussions between the Deputy Security Officer, CIA and
the Security Officer, CCI, it is requested that the 1480 persome) listed
below be cleared for Type "D" Special Intelligence to provide for a brief-
ing as to the existense of the activity and not to involve access to work-
ing material:

 

ur, Cleyton is uativesbern ef native-bora parents, His wife ms born
in the British Empire but fe mow a naturalised American éitizen. His wife's
parents and one sister ere British subject's residing in the Union ef South
Africa.

Ur. Cotter was born in this country of Irish-born naturalised parents.

Mire O'Comel, Mr. Bauman, Mr. Maucher and Mr. O'Rourke are native-born
of native-born parents.

Mr, Osborma, & U, & eitigen by birth, was torn in Canada of an American
father and 8 Swedish mother who is mow deceased,
tC)
Kye born in this country of a German-born naturalised father and
@ native-born mother.

The extent of the known foreign connections concerning these employees
is as set forth, ; 5 ‘
io)

In view of a change in assipgment ct a. longer requires
an &.I. clearance and may be debriefed.

ir. who was cleared for Special Intelligence as an euployee
of 1480 has transferred to Staff C, OSO and no longer requires an 8.1, clearance
for purposes of this office, If his clearance ia not required in Staff C, he
may be debriefed,s ;

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION E. Pe Geias
 

[id t0128-10324 “ES bo
a

° SECURITY INFORMATION

” Ls

- Security Officer, OCI 11 July 1952

Acting Chicf, Securit; vision CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PRO.
ng Chief, Soourtty Divkat GRAM
o.7. Clearances of I&cSu Personnel RELEASE AS SANITIZED
1998

FPureucnt to discuagsions betwoen the Deputy Security Officer, CIA and

| the becurity ufficer, CCI, it 4s requested thet the 14aso persomme] listed

below be cleared for Type "D" Special Intelligence to provide for a brief-

ing as to the existence of the eotivity and not to involve access to work-
ing material:

CLAYTON, Kenneth
COTTER, Rilliam J.
BLUMAN, Jack
NAUCHRE, Andrew J.
OSBOREE, Willian A.
Cc 63 a
G*ROURKE, George #,

lr. Clayton is native-born of native-born parents, His wife wag born
in the British Empire but is now a naturalized American aitizen, His wife's
parents end ons sister ere British subject's residing in the Union of South
Africe.

ur. Cotter was born in this country of Irish-born naturalized parents,

ir. O'Commel, Mr. Bauman, Hr. Maucher and Mr. O'Rourke are native-born
of native-born paronts.

Mr. Osborne, a U, S. citizen by birth, was born in Canada of an Amorioan
father and a Swodish mother who 4s now deceased,

tr. [03 Jwos born in thie country of a German-born naturalized father and
@ native-born mother.

The extent of the known foreign connsotions concerning these employoes
is as set forth,

In view of a change in assigment lr, £03 2 ne longer requires
an 5.1. clearance and may be debriefed,

lr. L OF J who was cleared for Special Intelligence as an exployee
of I&SO has cransrerred to Staff C, OSO and no lonrer requires an S.I. clearance
for purposes of this office, If his clearance is mt required in Staff C, he
may be debriefod.

 

SECURITY INFORMATION E. P. Gelas
