SEGRET
Seourity Inferantics

bo Shortly bofero Kro. Laco loft Hew York to socuns her exbasesdorial
pact, eho vesaived Pr, Morlica at dimnor, The dimnor woo held at Hoary LWUCS'o
ingicteacs, ‘who Ambasesdor, auch harrica by procoing cppaintecato, woo act
eble te apaad tho whelo evening at dinnore Fr, Moplica, however, reunined to
folk with Hr, luce, who deasted 015,009 to CIP, Later Pro Horlica ccafided to
eabjest thet he thought Kr, luce had oven greater eplritual eubetance than his
hfe, (36 eight bo that Morica moscurce spiritual substanco by the emount of
aid ccatributed to bio cause.)

97, Accoriiag to cubjost cho hee mot Camifinal SPELIAAN caly twiee, Her
first posting with hia vas ia 1946 when Opollcsn game to Besa to receive hie
ee had. Fersthor with Pr. Kepiica, aibjess called ca Opelicaa cd hia Astol,

wien canoes the werk of “ORP czd ealiedtcd tho Ganiinal's finenolal aid.
Gab §sot bavover, etatee that 1% vas cho tho wae cacecsaful is porcuading tho
$e mais 6 ee Ss Go ead that cho proscated her engo ca tuo

pointe, guests ot a Xr | That GIP wee ea epoctolie wort end os uch was
wry ef eagpars, mas eho tas 6 Yow Yoru rockdent end,as auch, tho

Cardinal cao ber tsceap Me Gho Lectcal pereaa to whca che cheuld dhroo’ her

seal, é& the end ef hsp presmtaticn the Oardizal teck ext Rie ches bosk,
Gzb$esdo Ghractiaa namo, end wrote her a cheok payable to Auna Bredy fer
80900 Gedgecs citcd the obeve incdden$ oa on example of the way the Cardinal

&> e2id thes che was very careful that the cheek vas cleared and ro=
easeésd thicags the benk eeccumt of CIP,

Os eo etming to Bous, cabjcat wackted Spolinss ot his Hey Terk
bora, 3 ear tos t ra 3 Carla asked sa te che vere in need of funds for he?
poromaad, BeRT Rea isdicsving that ko would offer bio exupport to the extent
tied chd eoald to chiles to porccaally continue hor cork, Subjsat told Ris thed
G29 CLAM bed @ MbR%o esaey of bor cs ced eeald not Foquirs cay funds for hep

2. papeenad enkatenesso, bat would wolccsa axy dezaticaa to O2?,

an éscemting te cad$cst, Cartiinal Gpolissa fe a man cf political eeumca

Oo est &xealissteally grate Eis crathelaed tho Cardinal for curmevading
bosses rats ald ea os e2k4 thc} be ecca hlo packtten eately to tho perscmad
freee s 6? becd ES3, circa cca bidsd e5s3 So Go Coa co Way fo Lie fracades

Baca fo gush betes the dcordcaa bicragchy becsusa
ef Elo eat fectestes 63 Giglete ecaty % end ne general coxcucd eo @ "LAtole
Yao sama teatts eci3 Kis 0 Coa ped o28 cosng Churca rcal esteto Ercens
Es tho Eleamap EOOSScEL? dacidcat cf o fer geaze bach cadjeas
ead thed palinea’o roceatatses woo cd eho epsaifia clvoctiea cf the Kaly
RSP

239 sree eppercmtly bas bea very suscosaful ts esliciting Meda fires
the foostesa Gxetsgo, emg thea Archbdehop CULMIES of Basten, who dsastod 61099,00
wata the precisa ec? i SaMsses Cazzewi, Agatber heavy coatribeter to CLP da Kary
Ell, pranincz) GetBelie laywenm ef besten,

besurity Lefoseatioa

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
    
  
  
  
  
 
  
    
  
    
  
 
  

   

COC HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE AS SANITIZED
1998 a

_ SROBE? Cedvinense
Security lafermatica oz
2 Ostobar 1959

Chiof, db
aftui Ghief, Italien Branch
Beater Ropregeatative

o eo

22 Oaworeatica with ro, Anna BRADY

Bast Gadss05) (itos546

lo ks o cocktail coavercatica waich Dobbe had vith cubjest of hie hems ca
3 daly 1999, the folleving informatica, relative to roferenced reports, cacrged,

2 Aseerding to cubjest, cho docs not mow Ero, Leso vary colle In 1985,
eerily ofter Ero. Laso catcrcd the Church, cubjest wrote her o ictter in wuich
e&o oxtkdsecd ber work cad requscicd ber to esalcd tn tho apsctolle offers ef CIP
ty besening o egensop ef tho ergsnicsticn, do eubjcst 40, 0 pore ifke bore
world of esarce bo ef trammésaa prestige valus. Bro, Luce replicd ta a comial
Letter withasd eqmaittios horesl” soying that cho would alvayo encourage
thedp grest wert, As 3 to eubjest thay exuhsngs4 G0 op threo leitcrs bud
exdiest elsayo cveldcd ca: Broo Lace whoa thay both Uived ta New Vera,

Bee OD ett Oe Lave Viale doverase epeSen to Tao Asbaseccap was
63 ws “Gaby ea ¢ ( 433) pocepiica hold 0% Ville feverna, AS thad O4n9 ena pre=
exsts4 kore. the ressiving Mine ea ips, Brady of CIP, Tha éuvasesdc
pocogaie’ng ty tease cscorved uot cho warned Vike Pr, EORLIGZ, to waien Recs
Brccy acdécd esscate

do 88, co ragcrenssa stato, thers to 6 csaasstica botueca Tho énbaceniop

exa eubgccs "expect ho eswiainiy cot edzitting 46, Beddos So cf tho ezicica
tant eanges weg Goliing tae ¢suta end epce Gat9 frooky cna cisccaolyz,
Botbs alsa veccivad tha tnprescica ted eey ecaclésp thet bre first
O88cste 63 eokdca Fae Laso'o ef kad bom Fe fed end that € y Bay baresr
0 083 ¢f excsahy fo 69 pesmatacn} cozarta bras lees, Tile Sich Cag
rinsa fren cabjesso varteca reaura tocar’ fia Anbosentse ta vihd y ghd pescreed

ESoo 3 ee Oe eich t &3 e mush clear ex4 Ededep parece gee
ehad eno bao esrived and gocea't have to CB Gly ESFO BECRI0?

So && em eimo vay cabficsd ecescdates heresl? aith Kea, luce as 6 esrceP
tenet, Sedjecd boo pemssticd thet ens, Like the kchacesésp, fassa nany prcalcre
€9 0 taza Gascutiva wording ia Btaly exd thas ta 0 coy eho ecackéere boreal co
having blszad o path fer Ero, Lace, siace che workst ta Italy e9 0 canna eEequtive
hezg bofare fe. aso arrdved

 
  
   
    
   

NS SET EE LEIA AER, OAM EB ORE
. . tae ‘ a

ESBEP 22
Sesurkty Enfermatien (cones tes
Faga 9

Baagesd liveo very exdcctly end
bene ta ep $8 hav G5cc9 oad nemtar of Livings @ the castrasy,
brarcat! SET S obo to bsp axpendie

 

% of Bapaing bo Fabs Usa BS ANGSLIO wos pleced a CEP ty thes
a ao Kaadied’g @yag God caro im the ergaaiasiliens °

1 Gbsva Ford Clicad be yead tm eamectien wth the refermscd
coal ES weld BESAUERLE)S veyesbay

  
