 

 

 

{Hotes

Pages 6 and 7

SECRET

SECRET

Attechwent to: AB Memo Ho. 6794
Page -5

Are for quarterly registration. entries...
‘hese entries indicate registration end
dete of next quarterly registretion.

. Eometines plece of registration is

included in the nandwritten entry, ALL
euch registrntions appear ubove the
signature of an CVI officiel or OVIR
representative.

Are for normal militia or CVIR residence
registrations and dercgistrations.

- Are for “special remarks" {ucluding
esployment cachets, and document
validity extension far one (1) year.
These extensions are validated by
oviR.

The goznak appears at the bottom of
page ll.

Some of these entriea and cechets may appear on the vrong page. )

 

we

 

2
 

SECRET

, ittechment to: AD Heeto Ho. 67Gb
. Page -3

The serial. number furnished Wy Mr. Duncan, 312479, of a Moscov
idesued YIV RA. AZUL CIVO V OSSSR LIMA LITS BES GRAZROARCTYA. in
early 1960 cennot be atcurctely checked. ‘The latest exemplar serial
mumber issued in Moscov by “OVIN Upravl. Militei1 gor. Moskvy i
Moszovekoy obl." (GVIR of the Masco city nnd Moscow oblast Militia
Acministretion) on.14 June 1955 is P Ro. 2h22%6,

 

The bearer who reportedly retained this document witil Jamery
1962 while residing ia Minak would have liad. to register his docu-
ment every three months and extend it in early 1961. ‘he beurer's
travel to Hoscow in July 1961 should have been recorded on page 4
or 5 of hie docusent, although just hoy rigidly the controls vere
exercised at that tine comet be determined.

os It is recocmenied that this document, serial moxber 311479, be
eworitted to TuD/AB for @ Cl analysia.

@. ‘The following are the contents of the 11 pages of
subject document in the order they appear on each poge:

‘ Page 1 = Validity; surneme; first sane and patronynic;
i Aeeunnce authority; photograph of ceorer in

i lover left corners cerial mmber ve right of

{ photograph; euthenticating cachet partially

i 7 over photogrenhy end a line for bearer's
signeture. (some exemplars.wire not .eigned). .

; Pege 2 ~ Data on the bearer.
1. Mate of birth (either year only or cauplete

! date)...
& Place of birth.
3. Rationality. °

i
4, Whence and date bearer arrived im the USCR.
. 5.  Profeseion and type of work.

|
t
i
{

SECRET

a Lc a

 

Por

 

i Setnabus eyes sb ein moyenne an aH IE Ama RICH HELA name 8 eae Iacono

|
|
{
|

 

 

 

 
1400000 . - ; . 2 sop wt ;
cerita bnagtininsten bd cag penne A TARO ESP ce BiMRRA PCNA BP DNCLINR Nas teUnm es emt trae acath sae NEI DF SHEEN RETIRE TBE TI Ee TE EA
‘ ° fou

. - ve
° “ . :
1 ® ‘

’

 

SECRET

to Attachnmt to: AB Meno Ho. 6794

6. Peaily status.
Te last citizenship.

 

A fieceal stasp boarinr the docummt gerial mssber :

: is attached below these seven (7) questions. A 4
valicsating sigmeture of the chief of the militia

H een nintretiu usually eppears to the risht of the

1 fiscal stemp. The ecme cuthenticating cachet used

: on pege one (1) is effixed over fiscal stamp ead

} . Bignatuse. The date of issuance eppeare in the lov«

: er right corner and the ccrink mower appenre at the

' bottom of the page.

; Poge 3 - The neme, age, relationship oni docunnt besio
for inclusion of perconas included in besrer's
document ere listed on this page.

Pages k end 5 - Have eight (8) spaces per page for entries,
with velicating signature and cachet plua
the dete, permitting the beartr to reside
in em given erea, The validating sisnature,
at least in the Moncoy iseucd excoplar is
thet of an OVIK offictal. Travel. to.other
cities is also reflected here. Two (2) of
the avellable exemplars shoy travel. In
each case a reoidence permit cntry ia mede
before leaving one trip. This extry
inclufes.a length. of=..atay: deedline.. . Ia:
ene of these tvo excuplars, (the pre-Vorld
Wer Il exexpler referred to above), snother
entry vere onde upon return te place of
reeidence, :

 

ce hs serial number also appears at the bottom
of page Se :

contined/

 

'
 

008 . wie
Sah cig mt epitaph er es st AS EEN RATAN SMe AEA RO ICN AY NOI OPE

 

pte sgn RENE ao Ho NS tenet

 

 

SECRET eo

AB NEYO No. 679k
6 April 196)
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, s2/Cl so
ATTENTION : Mr. Stuart Puncea . ui
EYRE? 3 Docunentetion Information Concerning the coviet
Stateless Ferron's Identity Bocument (VID HA
PATTEL'OTVO V SSSR TLYA LITS BeZ GRAVHDANSTVA)

=-Case 4630

ROPEREMCE . : Your Oral Nequect for TOR//D Support on 20 March 1964

 

1. hia memorandum and attachment confirms the ints
pascod varbally to Mr. ince of SR/CI by Mr. Bovanke and!
of TSD/AD on 23 and 25 Merch 1963.

 

: . : e . ee
2. Ploese align the attached request for TCD/AB Support Fora
(De108) and return to this office.

3. If TS0/AB comsents are Leing concidered for further bo :
distrivution, it io requested that the tranniitting correspondence 2
be coordinated vith this office.

4. uentions on this matter can be referred to Mecers.
Bovenko 1 extension 2054, 222 vect Out Building. 7 t

 

 

CHIEF, PSL/OA/AB

Attechsent: as stated

;
|
i
i
i
i
i
1
|
1
|
|
|
|
'
|
| Distribtutionr : : . er rere
; : Original and 1 - Addressee, v/att. . ‘ , , _
‘

 

(ev AB Case 4630, w/att.
TI AB File, w/att. ‘
2 = AB Chrono, w/att. ‘

bp/P/TSD/AB/2: D. Bowanko: prk

 

KS SRERET

   

    

 

 
 

 

 

EI on tte mneneen cee

{tostnato-t00ns

'

[snapper eaten hep eR pear por intertrial erin ae Re Me SO aA Alien

 

' a

-

SECRET
T REQUESTING OFFICE COnTRCL NO DATE OF RIQUEST
cote scout cnet eens oe cote | A Maren Gh
DB CASE NO wf DUE DATE
ee EDO oe eae eee) 2S Hare Oy
[EXTENSION DATE RECEIVED

7732 arc: Ay

bRO
O% CKYPTO

 

BROWECT OFFICER'S,

 

 

 

REQUEST linciude type of items, number of tems, purpose ems will serve, document country, use couniry, ele)

For documentation information on tre Soviet Stateless Person's Identity
Document (VID 1A ZEITEL'SIVO V SSSR DLYA LITS "EZ GRAZEDAISTVA)e The requestor
is interested in available information concerning the basis, imsudnce and use of
tiis dociment.

The information provided by TSD/AP is to be used in tie analysis of’ biographic
information, includire that taken from documents which are currently not available
to KUBARKe

Data provided TeD/AB concerning the bearer of subject document and the document
itself follows:

1. Subject document s.r ial Noe 311179 was issued in Moscow during lete 1959
or ## early 1960.

 

"RECORD OF ACTION ~ ~ ~
2. Bearer resided in Minsk from 1960 to mid 1962.

3. Bearer traveled to Moscow in July 1961.

he Subject document was retained by bezrer until January 1962 when he was
issued a Soviet Alien's Idertity Document (VID NA ZEITSLISTVO V SS°R DLYA I) OSTRANTSA)«

Sufficient information was providec vertally to meet the requestor's im ediate
needs (a 25 March deadline). This present request is to confirm the information
passed verbally and to fil] in the gapse

 

DOB an. '63) SECRET | cssea tee sutonane
downgradmag and declamnfication:

   

 

 
 

SOA ena nnb A kee dfs SOR HT MRSA tA NSTI AR HO tt AP Le MeN AU he MC pan doe atone SASSOON EAS ARTA ao ROA Nae

  

   

Attachment to: 45 Memp No. 6794 :

TSP COMENTS ON TE SOVIRE STATELESS PEPGI'S IMENTTSY Locus i
MEW? (VID HA SHITEL'SIVO V ESER DLYA LITS oz GHAZHTARETA) i

i. These coments.ecre besed on an annlysis.of 15 exesmilers,. - i 2
(Ch originals, 2 complete photocopies, & panes of a third photocopy :

end 2 pees epoch of the remaining photocopy exemplars), Issued in

seven (7) different areas of the Soviet Union between Lt Jenuary :

1cS end 1 March 1060, end on Limited docwauntetion intelligence ‘

information.

ae

Cnly two of these e-explara vere issucd in Moscow, the area i
of Sssugnce in your case. No information is availetle on the use |
of this document in Minsk. daly three (3) oftte available
exemplars were iesued efter carly 1957.

. 2. It is epparent therefore, that a thorough study of this
docuncnt is not possible, capecially as pertrine to a specific - -

ao area. However, certrin general informetion.docs vecome clear ond 7 : “
4s presented in the following commenta: i

etifr paper cover (card board type) and ie approximately $5.12.
The state veal on the front cover contnins LL, 16 or 15 bands :
depending on. the gomak.(printing. year)... The seal. ond words: VID i
BA ZNITEL'STVO V SESR PLYA LITS are printed in black ink; the

: words BEY. GRAZHIVWIUCTVA ere in blue ink. ‘he docusent contains 12

j rembered poses plus the inside bnek cover. The undertint is a red,

| pink: and blue repest pettern done by. the Sammel process. ‘The text

i
{
i
i
i
H
| @ ‘The document currently in une has @ tan-colored
t

  

o fe@-printed In block-ink, Thu vords' REZ GRATITSNOTYA are printed in’

i : biuo ink from bottam to top of each page. Uniike the other two ,
internal identity documents (PASFORT end VID NA THTTEL'STVO DLYA
IBTETRANTGA) used in the Soviet Union no regulations or instructions
are included in subject document. It contains everything included

in the foviet PADPOPT plue edditional information an the bearer,

‘ “and epparently serves the game purpose. The bearers of subject

document appear to be subjected to a more rigid control then normal

PACPORE bearers. : oo m : .

 

i
1

 

 
 

Nowoa . a caanabelagieet tien Gapped
sere nt pr rings ier as SEAR He th tS RAINE AISA MBE ORE AION Sle GRAN UTE ENE ES NSBR EINECS SN SPOON APN EPA ARDEA IEE EA IEA NE IS

 

7 SECRET

Attachment to: AB Han Ho. 6/98
Page -2

This Cocument is epparently used to control the so-called
"stateless (IO GRAZTDANSTVA) population of the Soviet Union.
The term. 822. OLAPETARCTVA ma usad here probebly aeann “without
foviet citizenship” ruther than the normal vestern meaning of
: the term “atetelesa”.

de For issuance of subject docunent en spplication

is sumitted to OVE, (Visa and fegistretion vection) or to Pro
(Pasportao-ienistratsiomyy Ctdel - Passport Hegiatretion Section)
of the UM (Uprevlentye Militeii) or UYD (Jpravlentye Vautrennikh
Yel). PRO executes OVIR functions in those wrens vithout an CVIR.
These cryens are all subordinate to the HYD (Ministry of Internal
Affairs). OVIR is reeponrible for the documentation control of

all foreigners in the fevriet Union except forciym officials. There
ere ne evetlable exemplars of subject cocuswnt vhich reflect the
reorgenizntion of the MVD inte MOOP (Ministries for the Protection
of Putlic Order) which took place during August and September 1962.

@. Mbject docwwnt is initially mde valid for one (1)
year. The number of extensions permitted ie unknown, however,
gince the quarterly registraticus average four (4) per page, pases
: 6 end 7 would be full vithin tvo years, tus permuitting only one
‘ i * extension.. The serial _mobers of. similar.documents vhen given-.as.-
basiea of igesumnce also gives credence to this theory. ‘inally, of
the exemplars which hed been extended, aone were extended more than
once, The benres> mist register vith OVIR every three (3) months.

gd. Te mmber of excmplnrs precludes a Pinel determine

ation ef the serial muabering syetem used in subject documents.
it ia possible thet the block sycttem 1s used, i.e. a dlock of 100

- or 1000 pre-numbered cocuments with the corresponding pre-mmbered
fiscal stamps might be mrpplied to OVIR or PRO offices for issuance
in their arewas. ‘Strese supplies would te replenished with eddition-
al blecks when necessary. ‘the fill-in of the document probably is
meds locally. All serial members ere preceded by the letter "P"
(significance unknown) and contain six (6) digits.

 

contimed/

SECRET

 

’

  
