13-00000

t WAKNING NGHTGCE

Stuck SMT, S INVOLVED.

 
 
    

aleo when they arrived there. Over theae radies, ene of these Soviets

tramseelitted numbers and “pelats.” They remained in the Smbasey, and
that morning (epperently <° November 196°), a mexeags came through
and tescts were drusk in Keacsian Vodka ond the tasuians present said.
owe have schieved what ca want.”

%. The taller then gave “infesmation™ about tha Servlet role
in ainking a a: Novy auclear submarine aud on Sevict sabyersion in
Indemenic. He would net identify himself, amd when he descelbed the
cor he drives (ac « mavy blue 1952 Eatck, Meense plate New South ¥ sles
WS 627) be adaad they often change pistes, heave fl@y eets in reserve,
and can chenge them in fivs seconde.

&. The caller added cams vague inforesation ahoul a wemen
employer of the American Seabarcy he things worke for the Seviete.
The conversation concludes with the caller preemieing ta write 2 letiar
te the Noval Attache ot the American Embaesy.

7. The caller epexe geod Caglich and bie accent ami voice did
nwt change threughew! ths comvertstion, so it was assumed that be
wae mot disguising his vaice.

8. ‘eetralian authorities working on this case consider the
callzy to be a crank. They efate that Soviet offlese in Australia
de ant use anything but Soviet chaaffiaure: they have ac recerd o!
thaiy using » Polish chaaffeer. Thoy are cosfinuing thelr ieveetigation.

   

METHOCS |

  

NUOE MED,

 

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE SOURCES AND,

 
  
SEURET

iMetrtbetion:
Cviginal & 1 + Addressee
2+ SOP
1. C/¥Hy3
be C/CU/SIG
1 - C/Ci/Rka

4 - CL/RSGA/TRRalt
Lo CL/RE&A/264

Grigtnated by: CL/RUA/TRHslimk/6664/ 21 May 196

 

 

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITS we mers AND

Let ry
as :

   

  

 
  

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE SOURCES AND
METHODS Inert cr

   

Ty
13-00000

 

_——-SRERET

 

CUT Teletype Ne. 65491, dated 29 Novermbor 196°, Hed of M17 hours,
tothe (site House, Department of State and Federal Bureze of
lavestigation, «ith a copy to the Secret Service

i. Your attention is called te a ceries of anonymous teluphone
calle oeade to the otlice ef the U.i. Nawal sthache in Canberra,
Agstvalia, by a man claiming te have bed kwooladge about a Lovict
plet to aceassinate the lete F vecident Kennedy. Cer fivet recerd
Qi thie matter fe a Hayal Attacks cable free: Gapkerra sent on
44 Newember 1961.

iq St appease that the caller, whe professes to be the Polish
cheaficnr ef a Seviet Eealaeny car in Canberra, fires phoned in
over a year ago, on 15 October 1962 repeat 1962. At that time he
taid 2 stery ubout five Sevics submarines carrying 406 to 560 Seriet
seléierve om their way te Cuba. One purpose of this tracp movement.
he eaid, was te suppert the Governor of Miszissippi. Be added thes
there was a plet te pay ene hasdyed theasand dollars te Rill Preeident
iemasdy. Behind the plot. ke said, were the “Irea Gurtain Countries, “

and “Commeantst aes ia Zaglaad, Hong Kong ant probably rome thor
cpartrics.“*

ss Ga 29 November 196° vopast 196°, the day after the
assageluation of P resident Kenaedy and over s year aiter the first
telegheme cali, 2 mam belicwad te ba the came porsen phomed the
Szabusey again and spoke to the secistent Naval Attache. The caller
referved to hie call 2 year heck and stated ke kad esid that the USE %
hed pet op 10G,000 dollars fer the ageascination of f recidant Kemmedy.

4. Giving what he claimed ware farther details about the
aseessinetion, the caller enid that abous two weeks before (which
would have bean in carly Novescber 1961) bs wae present when sa
Agstralian man, 35 to 46 peare old, amd tall, was dispatched by
the Soviets te the United Stetee carrying « case about “5 to 46
cemthmete rc long, 5¢ centimeters bigh, and 8.5 centimeters wide.
The ueme Vasyl Two wae seed ta some connection ith thic man.
He ves put om 2 plane in Sydmey end while the calles drove the too
Seviat sscerte back te Canberre, their shorteave radio in the car
was going comataatly. 4 shert«ave rade wae going inthe imbsesy

   

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE SCURTES AND

  
     
 
 

 

 

PLEASE NOTE: .

 

ATTACHED To THIS DocuMENT, yf Af2 -| 7367 parep 22 Me GY.
_°;, ISTHE PARTIALLY DECLASSIFIED VERSION WHICH IS AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC

AT NATIONAL ARCHIVES.

 

   
 

 

 

 

 

: ay.
OFFICER'S | COMMENTS (Number each 4 show from whom
“INITIALS, fo whom. @ line across: column after each” comment.)

 

 

 

 

 

| Document Number £2

 

“for F

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
13-00000

a a SECRET

        
     

   

V YGNO €
SENSITIVE SOURCES AND
METHODS INVOLVED

9-262

XAAZ- 173267

MEMCRANDUM FOR: Mr. J. Lee Rankin

SUBJECT: © Anonymous Telephone Calls to United States

Embaesy in Canberra, Australia, Relative to
Planned Aseassination of President Kennedy .

 

1. I refer again to paragraph two of your memorandum,
dated 12 February 1964, relative to diageminations te the Secret
Service made by CIA.

Zz. On 24 November 1963, CIA received from the Department
of the Navy a copy of a cable from the Naval Attache in Canberra,
Australia (IN 67327, Top Secret, later downgraded to Secret),
reporting a telephane conversation the previous day with an
anonymous individual who had described himacl{ ag a Poligh
chauffeur for the Soviet Embassy in that city. This individual,
while discussing several matters of intelligence interest, touched
on the possibility that the Soviet Government had financed the
assassination of President Kennedy. Reference was made in this
cable to the receipt of a similar anonymous telephone call on
15 October 1962.

3, Upon receipt of this cable from Navy CIA took the
following action:

a. Gabled to Canberra asking full detaiis of the -
telephone conversation of 23 November and the call made
on 15 October 1962. It should be noted that CIA had not
previously known of the 1962 telephone call.

Documert nmi 06-3 eh)

PEGE REM oq soba Ju 76

208 gsuTrysea unt

   

~26)- 299245

WARNING NOTICE
ENSITIVE BE eaugry: 5

       
   
 

ares
13-00000

—sTaNING NOTICE - f°
vB SOU. 3 AND
ETHODS. INVOLVED

~ SEGRE

   
        

je Dhe CLA Station in Canberra, on 37 Nowember, farniched
“alt avaliable information on the 1962 telephone coll. It appeara
thet, amir ee on thal-cocacion wtated that “Ivrea Cartain “cuetrias”
planned te psy ¢ hundred thousand dollars for the sss4nainstion
of F resideng Kennedy.

Se Ca #1 Movanbes. the CL’. Canberra Station alxe furnished e
soonplete dqjall onthe sqangmes: tolephons sail of 23 Mewember 1962. ~

é. Ge 29 Sioverbsr, Gla Geseminsted this lafermetion, as
- epplied.ky ity Conberse Ctetlety te the White: Genes, Gepartment
of tate, and Federal Bercau of Invectigation, with « copy-to the
Secret Servier. A copy of thie diseemimation in ite exact text
is attached te thie memoragdem.

 

4. ¢ Station tm ce: Te & d ter discussion of the
calle hea the optaice of the
Sastralias authorities, (he caller was a crank. tn any event, they
were net able te ideatiiy any Polich eenployes of the Soviet Embacsy,
the seutomobile described by the caller as the one he dreve, or the
Heenece piste aumiber given by hime. Ne ‘arther information os this
cali has been received. Available evidence would tend to chew that
the caller wes ageme type of cvask. Thie cosciuvion, hewerer, cannot
be conflemed.

 

 

3. Pleese note thet the nature Gf the information in this
memorandam aud ita attachment requires the ace of» seneltivity
indiceter . ‘

Richard Gelms
Deputy Cirscter for Plane

\Sachrmest

   

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE SOURCES AND
METHODS Ie VED

    
     
