1

 

In this instance it was the Navy and the FBI to the
exclusion of CIA. When Mr. Wallach alluded to
allegations that Oswald may have been an agent of
CIA or was sent to the USSR with instructions to,
defect, Mr. Rocca made a strong point that Oswald
was never a CIA agent nor to his knowledge was an

j American citizen ever asked to defect to the USSR,

‘ although there have been many Soviets who were sent
i by Russian intelligence as defectors to the West.

 

3.° Mr. Wallach expressed interest in reviewing

the chronology of Oswald's activities prior to the
assassination and at what point in time did Mr.

Rocca become involved. Mr. Rocca explained that .
during the period of 23 November 1963 through mid— .
January 1964 action responsibility for the investigation
rested with WH Division. After that he became involved.
He referred to it as the GPFLOOR Phase. During this
period Messrs. J.C. King, C/WH and Gack Witten, ) 26 ..
C/WH/Mexico City Desk were the two Washington level
officers in charge. Mr. Win Scott, who was COS Mexico
City, was responsible in Mexico. Mr. Dave Phillips, -
who was Stationed in Mexico was also knowledgeable. |

In Washington? Witten who had oversight of GPFLOOR
dealt directly with Mr. Helms, who presumably kept Mr.
McCone advised. Mr. Rocca then recounted Oswald's
Tilitary career and Oswald apparent contacts with the
Cubans while he was in the Marines. At this point Mr.
Rocca made a point that there are gaps in the infor-
mation provided by both Soviet and Cuban Governments to
the Warren Commission and these gaps were, in his words,
“relevent and open." Mr. Rocca stated Oswald's con-

i tacts with both the Cubans and Soviets should be

{ investigated. He related how Oswald went to Finland .
| - then to the USSR, how he was handled by Rima Shirakova .
| a Inturist Guide who he said was in fact, a KGB agent.

H

Mr. Rocca suggested that Oswald's attempted suicide was
part of a scenario to "allow Oswald to remain in Moscow

7 on
    

0

  

 

 

 

0419-0001 =

13 November 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD '

SUBJECT: Meeting of Mr. Rocca with Members of the
‘Senate Select Committee Staff

1. On the morning of November 11, 1975, Mr. Rocca
met, at the request of the Senate Select Committee,
with members of. the Staff of the SS Committee. Spec-
ifically Mr. Paul Wallach, Staff Counsel and two |
assistants Messrs, D. Dwver and 7 Grissom handled the
questioning. Mr. £ the CI Staff attended

as an observer. - OF

 

2. Mr. Wallach asked Mr. Rocca if he were aware of

. the existance of a 201 file on Lee Harvey Oswald: prior

to the assassination of President Kennedy on November 22,
1963. Mr. Rocca advised that he was unaware of the file
until the Monday after the event. Under questioning Mr.
Rocca went on to say that to the best of his knowledge
there were only five documents actually in the 201 file
and were of an interagency nature. He suggested Mr.
Hartman be queried on this point. Further, Mr. Rocca
went on to say that there was appare y an error in the
original file opening of Oswald's 201 which was under
the name of Lee Henry Osawald and not Lee Harvey Oswald,
but this was a human error which did not deter the
investigation. In response to why the Agency was not
involved in the investigation of Oswald in the pre-
assassination period, Mr. Rocca stated that there existed
guide lines under the Delimitation Agreement with regard
to military defectors which limited jurigdiction of these
cases to the FBI and to the responsible military arm.

E2IMPDET
CL BY 008885
 

 

ah tee eB Fas SCONE I

   

ors aaa on OY a

 

by a reluctant government to permit further assessing."
His handling in the Soviet Union, his resettlement in
Minsk, the fact he was allowed to marry Marina, whose
uncle was in the MVD, etc. were areas which Mr. Rocca’s
comments were that there are areas-which the Warren
Commission did not fully investigate and which, in
retrospect, suggested to him that the question that
Oswald may have been undexy KGB control was never re-
solved. ‘ : . ;

4. At this*point in the interview the questioning
turned to assassination plots against Castro. -Mr. .
Wallach asked Mr. Rocca if he participated in any such
plots or if he was aware of any. Mr. Rocca gave a :
negative response then regaled the group about the

- . international political atmosphere at the time, ..
‘recounting. President Kennedy's meeting with Khruschev

in Vienna, the Soviet build up in Cuba, the Missile
crises, Castro's long visit to Cuba in 1963 which led.
to greater assistance by the KGB to the Cuban DGI, and
finally the fact that Castro held a press conference

-at the Brazilian Embassy in Havana which was clearly

according to Mr. Rocca a warning to the U.S.. that any
attempts on Cuban leaders, i.e. Castro, would be met in
kind. Mr. Rocca referred to Des Fitzgerald's trip to
Paris to recruit AMLASH for the purposes of overthrowing
Castro, Fitzgerald's close contacts with the Kennedy
family and fact he replaced Bill Harvey in the Special
Project to assassinate Castro. (One of the Staffers
referred to it as Task Force W.) Mr. Rocca then com-
mented on Operation MONGOOSE which he said Bobby

Kennedy was running with McNamara and which involved ;
Mr. Fitzgerald. The meeting broke at this point. Next -

. meeting to be on the morning of November 13, 1975.

5. Incidental items which arose. At one point Mr.
Rocca made reference to a debriefing of a Soviet
defector Golitzin. Mr. Wallach asked if this was
refuted by Nosenko. Mr. Rocca advised he was not

  
1

13-00000 ~~

of

 

t
'
4
i
€

Zin

.

*
te
tos
ma

 

*,

cele ce Se Sekt me me Pg eee pall agen tne nce ete eee I GIRL bated ndash, Pons secon Siar ana
aint x. 2. ‘hy Ahr ae: : satiate ale

cleared for Nosenko at that time hence could not
comment. Mr. Wallach asked for the report on the
debriefing of Golitzin related to KGB assassinations.
At various times Mr. Rocca deferred questions to
people most knowledgeable on given aspects. These
are: Messrs. Murphy, C/SB, Bagley, DC/SB, Wigren,

SB Research and Miss Virginia Valpey re analysis on
Oswald's stay in USSR, Soviet methods etc.; Miss .
Betty Egerter fox file procedures; Messrs. Gack %f -
Witten)and Dave Philips re Mexico City investigation;
Mr. Len McCoy re dissemination of SB reports; Mr. Kim
Chalmer re HTLINGUAL; and a Mr. Bruce Solie re Office
of Security files and investigations.

6. A final point. Mr. Rocca in furtherance of. 2”

his theories suggesting possible Soviet and/or Cuban
complicity in the Kennedy Assassination, provided two
documents from the files to Mr. Wallach. ,2The latter
graceously gave the documents to Mr. with a'-

 

request they be reproduced prior to @ next meeting we

as he may submit a document request for them at a .
later date. Copies of the documents in question are |
attached. ; ao

Robert Wall

AC/C1I/0G
Attachments - .
Distribution: .
vOrig & 1 - AC/CI (to be held for C/CI)
1 - CI/oG/so Pa
4
erya trad
