 

 
 

 

 

     

CUASSIFIGASION T BisPATER $14 GOL AND NUMBER

CONTINUA TIO? : pea ta GS
NPIND ATION OF SECRET [crea 36,980

 
 

 

2, COLONBIA. nh

 

-ttoa, Bogota, The ANSPELL team arrived in Bogota on 12 February
1964 but were unable to make contact with the local AXSPELL/ANDARB ”
contact until the next day. They were unable to get adequate advance
publicity and had trouble finding space tor the exhibit, About 200,
‘persons attended the exhibit, and AMSPELL conferences were attended by
approximately 485 persons. HLBA-69lircported GIS 9's observations
on the local reaction to the tour, which he judge 'o be indifforent.
The AMSPELL teaii freely. admitted to WAVE that the Bogota operation was
something less than successful, but :blamed the lack of advance prepara=
tions and the existence Of an unfriendly press for their failure. It
should also be noted that the AMSPELL team was not on the best of terms
with some of the™tocal Cubans, and this fact probably had a good deal

to do with the poor showing. . .

be. Medellin, The showing in Medellin was better than in
Bogota, ‘The press was lukewarm but the director of the Caracol radio
station gave: them’ considerable publicity, and they were able to hold
the exhibit in a‘eentral spot in the city. About 400 persons visited
the exhibit over ‘a period of three days, and 850 persons attended con-.-

ferences given by the team, .

 

t : .
c. Cali, The team received good advance press pYay in Cali,

: which was perhaps one reason for the fact that the local Communist party
was also well prepared for their arrival, On the very first morning
of the exhibit, a large crowd of Communists tried to enter tne exhibit
with the obvious intention of starting trouble, and when they were ao
jocked out began to throw rocks and “stinkbombs” into the exhibit hall, ©
The incident provided considerable publicity for. AMSPBLL, as reported
in BOGO 4332, A total of 100 persons attended the exhibit, The AMSPELL
team claimed tnat the Communists were very strong in Cali and that work=
ing there was like swimming upstream. ,

3, ECUADOR.

a. Quito. The team arrived in Quito on 25 Narch, after spend-
ing several days in an unsuccessful attempt to obtain visas for Peru.
QUIT 5867 reported the AMSPELL team's personality clashes with the
local AMBARBs. and the consequent poor performance by the AMSPELL team,
who complained of the absence of police protection, adequate facilities
for the exhibit, etc., and departed just two days later on the 27th.
One member remained in Bogota to hold conferences, attended by 325. .
persons, Whiie not accepting the blame for this fiasco, the AMSPELL —
team generally corroborated tne above story in their debriefing by WAVE.
After such incidents as reported in QUIT 5867, we are reluctant to
recommend any future tours, .

b. Guayaguil, The AMSPELL team considered Guayaquil their
most successful operation, an opinion seconded by Guayaquil base. who
termed it. a “resounding success," (See QUIT 5867 and HEGA 2900). The
exhibit received front page coverage in “El Universo" and "El Telegrafo'
and they were given a half hour on a major TV station, An estimated
total of 1,200 persons visited the exhibit, and the team spoke before
40 members of a local group, Frente de Defensa Nacional. an

4, Santiago, Chile.

The ANSPELL team arrived in Santiago on 3 March to coincide
with the opening of the Latin American Youth Congress (LAYC), The
Santiago operation was a complete loss because Chilean customs authori-
ties would not release the exhibit during the congress and the AMSPELL
team was unable to obtain space of any kind to hold conferences due to
competition from the congress for space. (See SAGO 6577). The. AMSPELL
team had been counting on a contact in the Catholic University,

o facilitate their activities but} id them that
the LAY was a failure from the Communist side and that°fhe AMSPELL tear
could contribute more by remaining quiet than. by actively propagandizing

: , CONTINUED /

 

 

 

PAGENGO

2

T CLASSIFICATION,

Seo Sa USE PREVIoW'S EDITION. SECRET }O
conmisuen

1401

 

 

7

   
   
 
  
  
     

 

 
 

ee

    

DISPATCH

Deputy Chief, WH/SA

    
 

Chief of Station, JMwave /14.C
famnct-) TY PIC, ANSPELL/Operationa®
AMSPELL Tour of Latin America.
ALTION REQUIRED - REPORENCES . °
REFS: A... WAVE 1448
HLBA 69120000
BOGO 4332
QUIT 5867
HEGA 2900
SAGO 6577
SAGO 6595
LAPA 5550
HVCA 11,393

1. SUMMARY, The Reference a. ANSPELL exhibit toured six
Latin American countries during a five-month period, February-dJune
1964. With the exception of Guayaquil and La Paz -- where excel
lent results were achieved -- the tour was only moderately success-
ful, and must be classified a failure in Quito, Santiago and
Montevideo. According to ANSPELL, the total number of persons who
viewed the exhibit was 6,720: Another 2,792 persons reportedly
attended conferences at which the AMSPELL team gave talks on the
Reference A. exhibit and the. dangers..and.weaknessesS.of-Castro-. --
Communism....Publicity was given the exhibit by 34 newspapers (47
items), 30 radio stations, and six television stations. AMSPELL
estimated the TV audtence at 1,300,000. Sample clippings are
enclesed under separate cover. Reports from WH stations and the
WAVE debriefing of the AMSPELL team lead us to conclude that the
tour was a moderate success that could have been much better if
if had been better organized and if the ANSPELL team had had more
experience. {On balance) we believe the tour was well worth the = -
approximately $12,000.00 KUBARK paid out. We do not, however, .
believe it should be repeated in the foreseeable future in view
of the relative inexperience shown by the AMSPELL team on the
recent tour and the many difficulties encountered in trying to
organize the exhibit in the various cities.

/ CONTINUED /

& Copy

 

OM OO.

ote oe ee

Attachments: U/SC
A. AMSPELL Statistical Repo:
B. Mise. Press Clippings j

 
 
 
 
 

 
  

OATE TYPED

23 July 64

DISEATCH SYMBOL AND NI

 
   
 

owed

   
 

DISTRIBUTION:
3 - DC/WH/SA, w/attachs, u/se

 
  

 
    

 

   
 
  

  

UFGA-16,980
EADQUARTERS ALE NIGER

 
   
   

4 19-124-26-/3

    

 

 

 
 

   

     

CONTINUATION OF.
DISPATCH

|

!

 
  

CLASSIFICATION OISPATCN SY™BOL ANG NUMBER

UFGA 16,980

 

   
   
  
    
 

SECRET

against (and thereby
was that ‘the AMSPELL tean did nothing,
Cuban delegate. to the LAYC as hostag.
Was quickly scotched by the Station,

5. La Paz, Bolivia,
woz, Bolivia,

 

he exhibit in La Paz,
was due to Bolivian preoccupation wit
‘ i e sea for Boliv:

6. Argentina,
ae Buenos. Aires,
27 March duri

AMSPELL &roup also obtaincd
7 TV, as part of a 30-minut
overthrow of Goulart in Brazil, According
program is rated as lvaving 500,000 viewors,
four conferences. hefore small groups of Rotar
“which were attended by a total of. 400 persons

to

b. Rosario,
and opened the exhibit
of finding a site due t
chamber of commerce fin.
“Galeria Libertad",
visited the exhibit
Papers (La Cronica, La Tribuna,
tour, The local radio stations
but did not give any additional

on 15 April, after the
© the lack of advan
ally came through with
in the center of town, A
during the three da

publicrty,

Cc. Cordoba,
where they were able to
during a three-day
was again very helpful in arranging
ing local press publicity,
Principios and Cordoba,

7.

show the exhibit
Stay, 2023 April,
for sp

ace
Good press cov

at
ained in the local press a

& one~hour show on the local TV channel 10,

calling attention te) -the con

_Av amateurish pi

¢ for political pris
(See SAGO’ 6595),

 

ted the exhibit dur
was. also obtained in the L:

‘The -AMSPELL team arrived in Rosar

ce preparations,

ys it was open,
‘La Capital) gave good
gave spot announcement

The AMSPELL team made a hurried tr
to an estimated
The local chamber

Montevideo, Uruguay, The AMSPELL team reported th

ain thoroughfares,

ss

The end result
an to kidnap a
oners in Cuba

ELvess,

   
    
       
  
 
  

Yy, with the closing
d by the Venozuelan
age in all four of the
adio' stations carried

 

publicity, a total of only

According to AMSPELL, this
h such things as a national day ‘to
fa which stopped al} traffic and

t
rived in Buenos Aires on
delay caused b

 

Y period,
2 Razon
10 "mInutes on’ Panorana

a: Prensa and La

© program on Cuba and the

AMSPELL, the Panorama.
The AMSPELL team also held.
jans and university student.

do on 11 April
is tomary difficulties
The local
Oo, the

cu

an excellent sit
total of 2,000 persons
Local news—
publicity to the
s of the exhibit .

ip to Cordoba,
600. persons

of commerce

for the exhibit and obtain.

erage was obtained in los

 

cr unsuccess~
felt obliged
of reaction
Despite
contacts, a fair amount
nd the AMSPELL team had

¢ CONTINUED /

 

 

 

SCARF ication

SECRET

roam
seo S3a use patvious gortion.
“401

|
!

PAGE NO.

2

a a

 
 

 

CoNIMUANGNOR SERRE — SARK NSEC ANS NORE
TINUATION } :
DISPATCH | SECRET UFGA 16,98

cee ee — a a =z

 

 
  
 
 
  
  

8: Caracas Venezuela, The ANSPELY, team arrived in Catacas on
..9: May, having cut Brazil from the tour because of visa ‘problems, Their
@arly arrival caught their local contacts unprepared and it was not
‘until 16 May that the exhibit opened, Excellent support was provided
by station assets and widespread publicity was given to the event,
However, the exlibit was located in-a relativoly remote spot and onl
300. persons attended the exhibit, according to AMSPELL, (Tho Statio
estimate was 400-500), Another 140 persons attonded ANSPELL con=
forences, The station report (HVCA~11393) which nas been corroborated
by the WAVE debriefing of the AMSPELL toam, describes the typical
experience of the AMSPELL team throughout the. tour with the exception.
that local support was not always as effective as in Caracas.

9, Enclosed under separate cover 1s an AMSPELL statistical summary
ox the tour and press clippings from the. count os visited,

 

‘ANDREW K, REUTEMAN

 

£8 copy

 

 

“aor

~ j CLASSIFICATION a PAGENG
SUS" S8a_Use previous tortion. ] SB ECRET | | 4
CONTINUES

 
