74-00000

 

7

I

|
7

to Dr. Eario GARCIA Inchaustezut, Cuban ambassador to Uruguay.

: | eT Jose BLANCO, active Communist leader.
t

 

‘Reanintitemeiene cree ene eterna errr ttn a nent ee sie pear tetenees tava

 

   
  
   
  
  
   
 
   
  
    
  
  
  
    
  
    

. S~E-C-R-E-T : a
. we. "6843/80, 92h
“university student and an idealist of proved valor,  DORTICOS Yaunched .. -
inte a brief criticism of the United States, accusing the United States -
of wanting to “monopolize Latin America." He referred to tha Pentagon
as "an cotopus with long tentacles which has sent agents inte all parts.
of the world*, including "omeeay,; for the Pporpece ef usderrining unity —
amerg students. DCRTICOS. said that additional United States agents
have been sent to Uruguay since the visit of President Eisenkower, a

5. DORTICOS invited the students in tl: group te visit Cuba as guests of
himself and Fidel CASTRO, saying that this was an idea of CASTRO who
is in sympathy with the Uruguayan students and who has expressed the -

. desire to have Uraguayan students visit Cuba as students froa other

. countries have dona. He said that the Cxban Gevernnent would pay the
fot. expenses of such visits. He also offered to make a financial donation
io: - te the FEgU.2 -

6. The group included the following:

- Comandante Rolando CUBELAS Secades, President of the Cuban Federati

. ' of University Students.2 oo

p . Alfredo Mario ERRANDONEA Fernandez, FEUU leader and active Communist.

' Raquel GONZALEZ, FEUU leader, and Comrmnist leader among the university
students. . . . i”

Misti Kovlerko, Communist with an active interest in the FEUU, although
not a student. : : .

Igor MARTINGZ,. Coxmunist student in the University Law Schocl, who recently

: visited Cuba. ee

Raul PASTORINO, pro~Commnist interested in student and labor matters.

Carlos Mainardi. : .

 

7. During the general conference at the University unidentified rembers of

the Uruguayan Communist Party "shock force" acted as’ bodyguards for
. DORTICOS. ‘These men were armed with metal bludgeons and firearms, and
were among those who took part in certain street fighting incidents
during the DORTICOS visit. .
“22:7... 2s Source Comment. Some members of the group thought it unusual and
: lusioning that a visiting chief of state should offer money to

the FEUU. . - mo .

2. Field Comment. CUESIAS was in Montevideo texporarily on an ostensible .
mission and was active azong pro-Communist student and labor:

grotps while in Montevideo. Inasmuch as’ there.are conflicting reports
from other sources concerning CUZSZLAS' date of arrival at “Zontevideo,
‘‘e./ -- source may have mistaken a member of the DORTICOS group for CUBELAS.

(S-RAC-B-E-T |

  

      

 

   
 

104-40215-10027

 

 

 

 

FE
§
a
iH
F
E
i

riACE &

SOURCE:

2.

3.

 

 
  
 

. wepudiated the March 1960 visit of President Zisenhower to vo Uruguay.

 

 

“that Kerdone was taking orders from no one and could act upon his own .

 

  

NOH MRCOyE NG

    

 

    

    

the wansouaen or mvelation of which in @ny renner to an Unauthorized person if
; S-E-C-R-E-T
a
tm CURES Rein 2ndo

    

    
 
  

Urugeay/Siba a : REPORT NO. “cs
Private Conversaticn between Cuban DATE DISTR.
. President DORTICOS and Group of -
_ Coummist and Student Leaders. NO. PAGES a
* : REFERENCES RD
- 30 May 1960 {
“FIELD REPORT NO. HIM~1070 i
ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1S TENTATIVE, ;

Ureguayan official (B); from student (F) who participated in the conversation. ce
Appraisal of Content: 3. |

Osvaldo DORTICOS, President of Cuba, leveled severe criticism against the _-
U.S. and adcitted that his visit to Uruguay had not been welcomed in some

circles of the Un uguayan Goverrment, during a fifteen-mimite conversation a.
in which he participated with approximately txenty other persons, most of .
whom were Uruguayan university students actively interested in Communisa-
and in the Federacion Universitaria del Uruguay (Federation of University
Students of Uruguay - FEU). This conversation tock place on 30 Hay 1960,
immediately after DORTICOS. had spcken at a conference and rally at the
Nationa? University of Uruguay. oe

This small gathering was arranzsd before the ‘DORTICOS visit by Ambassador
GARCIA Inchaustegai. Daring visits made by GARCIA to the University
Law School he had told FEUU leaders that the Cuban Goverment was -
dinterssted in becoming acquainted with those Uraguayan student leaders
who, in the name of the Movimiento Latinoazericano-26, had actively

 
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

Ambassador GARCIA introduced some ef the group to DORTICOS, who asked
GARCIA, "Are we among really true comrades?". GARCIA answered in the
affirnative, whereupon DORTICOS explained that, in ‘spite of his having |
been received at the Montevideo airport by Benito Nardone, President of
the Uruguayan National Council of Goverment, he was informed that in
some high levels ef the trugayan Goverment, his visit had not been
welcome. He then said that Nardone had nevertheless met DORTICOS at - ©.
the airport for personal political reasons and in order to demonstrate

authority, apart from the National Council of Goverment.

" pozrtcas seta that, regardless of Kardone's action; the true interest. of

DORTICOS and of Pidel CASTRO was to be in ccntact with the people, and

students who in Uruguay are the same as. those: of Cuba, namely, "the _
of liberty" with the desire to exancipate themselves fron‘,

United States tyranny. He referred to, Fidel CASTRO asa former 2

  
