74-00000

“de

5. Wi Diviaien receival two copies of the deteiofing report in
Pebruary. Briefly, eoue of the operatichal information and suggestions
offered by TICHDURY are as follows:

as There apy oars to be tele chanoe of s ooalttten of the

‘opposition. grvups at present uince they are not vell
ta samber of tho oppositian

organized. end, accarding
to whom TICERRN talked, CaSTRU fe in no present danger of
losing the devotion of his follovera

“ b, TICHBCRH belfeves that inducement of defections aug the
CaSTRO followers would have more offect on CASTRO then ony
othar aingle ssticn we might undortak:.

‘@. There is « long-standing schlion betwoon Pidel and Kaoul
CasTRG, which if exploited, could be cperatimally sdventageous.

de Most inportant, TICZSCHH euphasiged that CaSTRO wust not be
usiewestinated by the U.S. nor uritten off ag aucther
Latin american revolutionary.

bs TICHEORN's file 4s available for roview in PaD. His true nam is
forvardel under eeparate eover.

Horace W. Davie
Chief,
Politieal Action Divislas

Grig & 1 = Addresses
l= Subject Mile
l= Chrono
 

[tog 10174-10082

‘py

1 tee
See see eee oon

\ . & Hay 1960
MEMLRANDUN FOR: Chief, Covert action Staff

SUBJECT» Edward G, TICHBORN (P), PAD Contract Agent

i. This mamorandua is in reply to your request for background data
on TIOHBURY for use in your disousalon with Ghief, Political Aotion, Wi/4.

2, TICHBURM was recruited by Horsce W, Davic in the fall of 1959 for
use in the PaD politieal edvisor program, 1.0. advising forefyn sontacta !
of KUKARK on political orgentsation and techniques, particularly as they bad

apply to sleatian catpaign, —

 

      

     

O8 3, ‘ThcHBORN 9 an american oitisen,[ pyearo oldy he is a graduate of I
hag been an attcrney, spectaliaing in trial work in L
a oles @ 1949. He entered pulitias in Los angeles the sane ..
Ho wae elected(Prestdent of the Los angolés Young Democrats, 2 : ae

;

gampaign, in 1952 and avein in 1956 he waa a menber af both
ed EM.

In addition he haa participated in numerous loc: campaigns. In 1958 was & :

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

His present activitées include mambership in
os H

 

 

 

40 Yn Jawery of this year TICHDORN travelled to Cuba on behalf of Wi ;
Divieion where he spent about two weeks assessing the political aituation, | '
with emphasis on ascertaining the strengths end wealmessea of the nae :
Comamist groupe, and investigating the possibilities of a eoslescence of :
these groups Lnto appolitical organization. 4t triefing sessions prior to
Yia departure, TIGHBORM demonstrated an inmediate grasp of the type of mission |
proposed-to himy-snd upon hie return, revealed considerable insight into the '
Guben situation.

| :

|
