74-00000

 

Sample Bond
Attachment to Memo for the Record
dated 12 Feb 64

JUNTA —
REVOLUCIONARIA
CUBANA

“A
Certificado Ng.
acess 3590

 

      
  

fa querta contra la tirania @ comunista. ed
resaktto: POR LA DIRECCION’ ie? “
oe Cz -
a EMarabotte fenoel Ray —
FONDO INSUREESSAON EXCLUSIVO PARA EQUIPOS INDIVIDUALES” DE COMBATE — pECAUDADO DE DI

CHEMBRE 196) A ENERO 1tad
 

 

characteristics of Thermite, Thermate, grenades, as well
as the problems involved in the use of electrical firing
devices, A/1 hag an obviously good grasp of redio
devices, and of the characteristics of explosives; but

at the same time it is obvious that he depends upon more
technically competent personnel for working with these
materials. He stated that he has engineers in the JURE
who have a familiurity with radio and explosive materjals.

L. A&/l's Continued Negotiation with the Second
remaing

Front of the Escambray - A/1 stated tht while he
Tn contact with EToy eyTrERREZ Menoyo, he has not as
yet reached the point in his negotiations which will
bring that group into the JURE, A/) indicated his
opinion that within approximately six weeks he will have
worked out a program perhaps bringing this groups into

the JURE. -
2. Comments - Insofar as the activities of the JURE

in U.S. territory are concerned, I believe it is important
to point out certain facts,

A. Whereas various AMTAUP/2 reports have indicated
various activities and statements on the part of ‘the JURE
representative in Miami, Rogelio CISNEROS, against this
Agency, there has not beon any overt proof of these
activities. Nor has thero been any overt proof of a
propaganda drive, black letters of any sort, adverse
radio propaganda, or even & program based on a person-
to~person basis, We should take note of the fact that
CISNEROS's talking han boen restricted to his own little
coterie of clandestino cronies. I discussed the matter -
of AMTAUP/2's reporting at great length with Tony Sforza
and Warren Frank, J indicated an interest in proof
that CISNEROS ig behind a denigration program against the
Agency telling them that we would not tolerate such a
program, if in fact, wo could prove its existence, I
specifically pointed out tho case recently reported of
the choice of ono Dioninio SUAREZ Esquivel, who reportedly
has been chosen to go to Latin America and carry out a
program of denigration of the Agency in universities, as
& case which we could and should follow in order to .
satisfy ourselves that the JURE 1s working against us.

B. The AMOTS and tho JURE ~ I satisfied myself in
talking to Tony Sforza that the AMOTS in general are
politically opposed to the JURE and that the reporting
of this group, to which AMTAUP/2 belongs, must be
considered in light of its projudices and lack of
objectivity insofar as the JURE is concerned,

sow,

Scored

 

 

‘
‘
74-00000

Sad |
ee

‘ €. The Position of Rogclio CISNEROS ~ Despite
what may be the nature of ANTAUP/2Z's reporting, and we

, must admit that he appears to report pretty much what
he hears, the activities of Rogelio CISNEROS in Miami will
sooner or later, unless my warning to AMBANG/] has some
effect, involve the JURE with U.S. authorities. This
development is something that we should expect and the
time may be here when it becomes necessary to tell
AMBANG/1 that CISNEROS had better leave the U.S.A.

3. Financial Matters + AMBANG/1 received a total of
35 thousand dollars. Ten thousand of this sum is understood
to be for the assistance of those elements not aligned with
JURE but with a capability to take action against CASTRO.
While AMBANG/1 specifically mentioned Eloy GUTIERREZ Menoyo
in this context, I advised him to use the money where it
would do the most good in getting the fight going inside
Cuba. AMBANG/1 submitted 35 thousand worth of bonds as
receipt and also signed ten (one thousand dollar) bonds he
had not signed during the last meeting.

NAKA Rodrigvez ]

SAS/SO

 

i Hd
M. Col, Diattsicy
1
4.45.
Se Dele af. ¥ Juve.

 
 

_—

~2—

: B. JURE Purchase of One Ton of Pentolite = A/1
informed me tha the ad purchased a fon of Pentolite,
a high explosive, which is not as desirable for use as
C-3 or CH4; but nevertheless, a good material for them.

My first reaction was to ask where A/1 had this material.
I reconsidered this request, stating that I hoped it was
well hidden. A/1 assured me thee it was. I gathered
from my conversation with A/1 that this material was

not in place in Costa Rica, :

In view of WAVE's report via AUTAUP/2, specifically
in WAVE 1463 (IN 11718), Para. 4, “Alanis said large -
sum money has been spent in purchase modern C~3
explosives and some C-4 which was in CISNEROS' home
there subsequent from Costa Rica," I discussed this
matter of explosives with ©OS, WAVE. This discussion
was predicated actually on my telephonic discussions
on this sume subject with C/SAS. On the basis of
this background, on 5 February 1964, I called A/1l in
San Juan, Puerto Rico. Based on a.carefully prepared
line which Shackley and I had agreed on, I told A/1
that he had better move all such material immediately
out of the United States, including Puerto Rico. In
speaking of Puerto Rico, I advised A/L that despite: .
his influential friends, he was bound to get into
trouble if he did not get out of that area and move
his operations to Costa Rica without further delay,

I also warned A/1 that the setting up of communications,
that is, a radio station in Miaml, would almost.
certainly get him into trouble with United States
authorities and result in the confiscation of his

‘ equipment. A/1 was obviously unsettled by my
statements and asked me if I could not intervene
with appropriate authorities for time to move the
materials, I told him that I could not so intervene
ag each arm of the Government had its role to play
and its duties to fulfill and these could not be.
influenced. A/1 stated that he would move as fast”
as humanly possible to take the materials out, .

C. JURE Plans. ~ According to AMBANG/1, ho plans
the infiltration of two teams into Cuba within the next

six weeks.
was projected within the next two weeks as of this date.

This team is to infiltrate in Las Villas Province and

will head for the area of the city of. Santa Clara. The
second team, approximately four weeks later, will be
infiltrated into Oriente Province. Each team will carry
&® supply of weapons and high explosives and communications

The first team, of from two to four individuals,
[0g 10179-40153

 

RETURN (0 CIA

Background Use Only

— _ ~ Do Not Reproduce

 

12 February 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Meeting with AMBANG/1

1. I saw AMBANG/] on 1 and 2 February 1964 aad | later
called him by telephone in San Juan, Puerto Rico on & February.
The main items of interest from this mecting follow:

A. Loss of Cache - AMBANG/1 voluntarily raised
the subject of the Toss of the cache of material on the
island of Caja de los Muertos. The loss arose from a
failure to cache these mat@rials on an island south of
Cuba in the area of Camaguey Province. - The JURE
controlled ship, the M/V VENUS, sailed from Puerto Limon
during the month of January with the intent of caching
these materials, including some 200 lbs. of the C-4
which had been made available to A/l. On reaching the
cache area, the ship was surveilled by a small, commercial-
type. aircraft, resulting in a decision on. the part of
the VENUS Captain to proceed to Puerto-Rico rather than
risk the Joss of the materials to the Cubans. A/1
stated that he interviewed each member of the crew
separately and cach told essentiolly the same story.
Upon arriving in the area of Ponce, Puerto Rico, a cache
was mado on the island previously mentioned with the
intent of retrieving the materials in about three days
after tho ship was refueled and certain repair work
done. The location of the cache on Caja de los Muertos,
which is normally inhabited only by turtles, but
unfortunately, a Puerto Rican searching for turtle eggs
spotted the disturbed sand covering the cache, and
eventually the cache, which he reported to Puerto Rican
authorities. According to A/l the materials recovored
are believed to be in San Juan, Puerto Rico, now in the
hands of the Puerto Rican police, A/l has talked to
Governor Munoz Marin‘'s bright, young, right-hand man,
Polanco ABREU, Speaker of the House, who will do what he
~ can to return the materials to A/1. It is A/l's opinion
that he stands a 50/50 chance of retrieving the materials.
It ia A/i's opinion that the JURE had not been implicated
in the cache and that the crow of the VENUS have kept | .

appropriately silent.

 
 

 

 

Schell
. -

equipmont., They will also carry tho first 20 of 60°
radio receivers and one transaitter, It is intended
that the remaining 40 receivers and one additional
transmitter will be infiltrated later. The equipment
‘is to be used in sabotage ops in Oriente, Las Villas,
and eventually Havam Provinces. According to A/1l, the
first two teams infiltrated will not be met by JURE
personnel on the inside of Cubé; but will proceed on
their own to establish their contacts once inside.

D. JURE Strength Inside Cuba ~ I asked A/1 if it
were true that Your meabers of the executive council of
the JURE were actually inside Cuba. He stated that of

-the nine principal officers of the JURE, four are inside
Cuba and five are outside. It should be noted here that
‘we have information to the effect that the executive

council of the JURE is.so divided and located. A/1l
indicated to me that the JURE h th
who is present]

 
   
 

oO

~» In addition A/1l
@ contact with his former
an individual whom he

id not identify; but who, according to him, still maintains
an important positionyin the Cuban government. A/1 ,
advised me that had indicated his
continuing sympathy and apparent willingness to participate
in a program of resistance to Castro, A/1 informed ne

of these developmonts inside Cuba in a matter of fact way.

 

 

=
Stated that he has likewise

 

 

E. The ELC Joins the JURE - A/1l gave me a copy of
the ELC statement joining The JURE. The ELC, according
to 4/1, is now dissolved and becomes a part of the JURE.
This accord, reached on the 17th of January 1964, brings
into the JURE the best former rebel army officers in
exile and should give the JURE a military background
and support second to none in the exile community. A/1l
advised me that the ELC did not bring any great sum of
money into the JURE, but it did bring a. certain number:

of arms and equipment.

Fr. A New Drive for Funds - A/l gave me a bond,
number 3 , wi 3S presently being used in a campaign
to raise additional funds by the JURE. For $92 tho
donor receives one of these bends with the understanding
that the JURE will purchase a rifle and ammunition to be
used in the fight for the liberation of Cuba.. A/l stated
that this campaign has been inordinately successful and
that thoy are expecting to raise a sum between $40,000

and $70, 000.

 
 

Srp

SttKE

~4e

G. Other Preparations Being Made by the JURE ~ A/}
showed moa chart which was in essence a work schedule,
which 18 & guide Line ior the preparation of their
communication facilitics to be used between Latin America,
Puerto Rico, and the U.S.A, This chart also included
the development and preparation of all the electrical
gear to be infiltrated into Cuba. The chart was an
orderly presentation of the work to be done, the time
‘in which to do it, the cost involved, the equipment
needed, aod man hours required to finish the job on
time. The time span of tho chart covered December 1963
through March 1964, causing me to believe that, if it
were aGhered to, the JURE should be in reasonably good
shape so far as its electrical explosive plans in general ,

are concerned,

"+ H, AMBANG/1's Considering Acrial Re-Supply - A/1l

had many questions at this Uime regarding the Feasibility
of eventually using an aircraft to re-supply his efforts
in Cuba. He wondered about radar efiects and potential

on low flying aircraft. I mentioned to him that there -
were various fine commercial type aircraft which had
unusual potential for clandestine operations, but that

I knew of mone that had the capacity for a round-trip

from points as far away as Puorto Rica and Venezuela

to Cuba. A/1l advised me that he had the pilots necessary -
to engage in such missions and that he was most interested
in considering this capability; not only because of the
purpose it could serve in re-supply, but also in the
psychological Gffect that such operational independence
would give their movemont.

I. A/l_ Asks for Whatever Guidance is PossibjJo on
a great Intorest

Cuban Radar Capability -"A71 indicated
n receiving any information we can make available
1,

regarding radar capability along the Cuban coasts.

advised him that I would attempt to provide this information
but that I could not be sure that we knew the location

of every radar site available on the Cuban coasts.

J. Documentation for A/l's Return to Cuba ~- I took
with me to this. meoting four documents prepared by TSD
for A/l in order that he might sign these before returning .
them for TSD authentication and aging. A/1 was most
pleased with this material and agreed to furnish additional

photographs in different poses and clothing in order
that final documentation bo made.

K. Reply to Questions Raised Regarding High Explosives
and Electrical Equipment - I reviewed with 1 detailed

o quéstfons raised by A/l regarding the

Yeplics by TSD T f
. 2aqe petal ee
Stole ee |
