 

 

 

period unrelated to the objective of your inquiry. In its entirety it
constitutes a highly sensitive collection of information that should
receive the most restricted handling.

The other item has to do with the so-called 201 file of a Cuban
citizen, and a Covert Action operation in which she featured as one of
those affected by it. “The activity transcends the time period of the death
of President Kennedy, its results evidencing themselves subsequently
over the ensuing year and more, The nature of that operation has been
described to Mr. Blakey and Mr. Cornwell, ‘It is of an unusually sensitive
nature, with ramifications well beyond the subject of your inquiry.

We engaged in discussions with Mr. Cornwell, trying in good
faith to arrive at a procedure whereby your staff could have access to
relevant materials, and at the same time limit the unnecessary exposure
of unrelated sensitive operational activity. At his request, we took
sections of the history designated by him and made them available for
review, with knowledgeable officers present to discuss with him questions
that may arise. Similarly, at Mr. Cornwell's directions, we provided the
material from the 201 file of the individual of interest to your Committee
for the period 1 September 1963 through 31 January 1964. Mr. Cornwell
was able to review these various materials only hurriedly on 18 August,
to be reviewed further by him on his return from Dallas. The 201 file

in question was made available for review by your investigators.

 
 

[toe toras-toate

 

 

 

( {RONFIBENTIAL ~ be. DRAFT

We 16
co pq “\md Cacciql ts

hdr leg : Course |

Honorable Louis Stokes, Chairman oGt (Rin i =gev )
Select Committee on Assassinations ;

House of Representatives ; SAY Der
‘Washington, D.C. 20515 AYDO,

Dear Mr. Chairman:

Subsequent to our telephone conversation on 16 August, at
which time you informed me that subpoenas had been voted by the Committee
for four items of information, the matter has been the subject of exchanges
between your representatives and mine. I assume that you are now aware
that one of the items had been reviewed by one of your staff representatives
the morning of the day before you told me the subpoena was voted. Another
was for a paper that cannot be located, relating to a file that had been

reviewed by your representatives. I assume these do not pose a question,

The other two items, the subject of this letter, appear to have developed

into a different problem.

One of these two remaining items deals with a history of the

aA

Mexico City Station, covering the perioa{__]ko 1969. That history
contains only a few pages of reference to the five day visit of Lee Harvey
Oswald to Mexico City (and that is described incorrectly), and to
related subsequent events. This material has been reviewed by your
representatives. Other than these few references the balance of the history

of -
deals with operational and management developments over af2Z|year

BONERENTINL 22 32/
vera Tea
CECE TTA cumiezo cia
. Background Use Only

Do Met Reproduce =O
 

 

 

7.

 

On 22 August Mr. Blakey came to review these materials but
declined to review the history, insisting that he should see it all. Further,

Mr. Blakey rejected the principle of any limitation on his review of the

201 file of the person in whom your Committee is interested, He also

insisted on seeing the separate operational files as well, although
advised that the activity was unusually sensitive and unrelated, In
essence, this negated the progress made to date. In fact, we understand
Mr. Blakey is indicating that the Committee plans to go ahead with

its subpoenas,

I believe that you will recall that unusual access was extended to
your Committee, specifically reserving, however, the question of special
handling of material depending on their bearing on the authorized study
and investigation, and on considerations of sensitivity. We were unaware that
there was any problem different from any number of daily working problems
encountered in this inquiry, until your subpoena. In fact, as noted, on
two of the issues addressed by the subpoena your representatives had
reviewed available material. Subsequent to that, the rather detailed
exchanges between your representatives and mine had appeared to have
been entered into in good faith, and we had proceeded accordingly,

At this point please be advised of the sensitivity that bears on the handling

of this material, if you have not been so advised previously by your staff,

 
 

 

 

™.

((GONFIDENTEMLS

Further, please be advised of my view that except as noted above, they
do not appear germane to your authorization,

I trust that we will have the opportunity to discuss this candidly
vather than under the conditions resulting from the subpoenas voted
by your Committee. Please let me know when you return to Washington
so we can discuss further how we might handle the matter.

Sincerely,

 
