 

8 November 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: Jeremy Gunn,
: ARRB Staff
FROM: Barry Harrelson,
; *  CIS/CSI/HRG
a ’
SUBJECT: Issues re Cryptonyms, Country

Designators, Action Indicators. and
Employee True Names (U)

Attached is memorandum from the DO Focal Point . for the
ARRB addressing the release of cryptonyms, country’
designators, action indicators and employee true names. “The
memorandum is intended to provide guidance to you and your
staff and complements information provided in previous_
discussions. Ellie and I welcome the opportunity to discuss
these issues with your staff. (U)

 

Attachment coe a ee ; —

Unclassified When Separated
From Attachment. : .

  
13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL
24 June 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Historical Review Program
ATTN: JFK Project Officer

ao ee

 

a
FROM: “Frieda omasta’
Associate Information Review Officer, DDA
SUBJECT: _/ ISOLATION, ISOMETRIC, ISOTROPIC, 1 MKCOSMOS

1. This is further to our memorandum dated 16 June
1998 (attached) wherein the Directorate of Administration
(DA) asked to provide a determination with respect to the
release of! ISOLATION, ISOMETRIC or ISOTROPIC:

2. On 16 June, we advised you that these three terms
together with the term’ MKCOSMOS were reviewed and the DS&T
determined that’ ISOTROPIC, and° MKCOSMOS must be withheld in
their entirety dnd the DA determined that \ISOLATION and

“ISOMETRIC must be withheld as well. Please be advised that

the association to this Agency of the locations referred to
by these four crypts is classified in light of the fact that
the locations, themselves, are under military cover.
Accordingly, any crypts, slugs, or other words associated
with the locations and linking them with the CIA must not be
released. .

3. We hope the information provided above will assist
you.

Attachment: As Stated
CONFIDENTIAL

CL BY: ‘393504 -,
CL REASON: 1.5(c)
DECL ON: X1

DRV FROM: LOC 1-82
SECRET

SUBJECT: Position on Cryptonyms, Country Designators, Action
Indicators and Employee True Names

context identifies a source or a relationship with a
specific liaison service.

True Names of Staff Employees ~ In most instances we

will release names of employees who have retired in an overt ©
status and were serving in Headquarters when cited in a
document. We will continue to protect the true names of
employees cited as serving in a field position. References
to field personnel in true name are uncommon, however, since
pseudonyms are normally used in correspondence between
Headquarters and the field. .

fo fA Wisin, ie,

 

 

 

SECRET
13-00000 _

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

‘

SECRET FE

Chief, Historical Review Group

Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.
DO, Focal Point. for ARRB

Position on Release of Cryptonyms, Country
Designators, Action Indicators and ‘Employee, True
Names~ :

During the period since the ARRB last met, the DO has
considered the four issues listed below that have not yet been
addressed with the Board. These issues appear throughout the JFK
collection and by stating our position up front we hope to
facilitate the Board’s review and to reach an agreement that will
be mutually satisfying to the Board and the Agency. .

Cryptonyms ~ Except for cryptonyms related to ~
operational assets or activities involving Mexico or

  

ami,

the Agency will release the main component of cryptonyms and
withhold only the two-letter digraph. Treating cryptonynms .
in this manner will. protect the nationalities of individuals ©
and operations that are not pertinent to Oswald or the JFK |
investigation and render an easiér reading of the written -

material.

\

Country File Designators - We will delete the first
element of operational activity and operational interest
files in those instances when the credibility of‘ the.
narrative is not affected. The first element of the file
number corresponds to the alphabetical position of the
country name which is easily discernible, whereas the
subsequent two elements relate to type of activity or
interest and specific subject.

Action Indicator (Slug).Lines - Generally, we will
release the entire action indicator line of a document.

Occasionally, however, we will withhold portions when the

_ CL BY(0695930 }
UR DECL OADR >)
“ DRV HUM 4-82 -

  

SECRET
13-00000

»

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW = 2nd Floor « Washington, DC 20530

June 6, 1995

Mr. John Pereira

Director

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear John:

As you know from our meeting with you on May 18, 1995, as well as from previous
meetings with ARRB staff members, CIA’s current practice of redacting the sluglines
from its cables in the JFK Assassination Collection is of interest to the Assassination
Records Review Board. As a result of discussion on this topic at the May 18 meeting,
the Board in fact asked those present from CIA to provide it with any additional
information available in support of this practice.

If you have any further information in support of redacting otherwise releasable

-cryptonyms when present in cable sluglines, we would appreciate receiving it by this

afternoon, so we can present it to the Board at its meeting tomorrow morning.
With many thanks for your assistance in this matter.

Sincerely yours,

S21 (NL

‘David G. Marwell

Executive Director
27 September 1995
Note to: HRG and DO reviewers
Subject: Phone call from Bill McNair, 21. September, 1995, re
AM crypts

Bill left the following message on my voice mail:

“I have just talked with( sd DC/LA Division,
and unless we see a specific incident where giving up an AM
crypt will betray an asset, then let it go . I don't
believe there is any place we will see that. She is will to

give up-d1l AM crypts simply because there are so many
iterations going back...and things have been: changed.”

Barry
‘ HRG Senior Reviewer
SECRET

SUBJECT: Release of JFK Assassination Records

-=On the subject of-cable, dispatch and file numbers,~there
is no objection to the release of this information as it
pertains to Mexico City, to include 201 numbers of key players
in the JFK story. All hqs cable numbers can be released as can
dispatch numbers to Mexico City. The release of cable/dispatch
numbers from other Stations can only be done if there has been
prior public identification of a Station in that location. The
release of file numbers pe se, however, would reveal the
methodology by which we file/store and retrieve information-
which is still in practice today and thus we cannot approve it
on a blanket basis. Blanket release of 201 numbers reveals
similar information as well as targeting/acquistion
methodologies which we similarly need to continue to protect.

2. I realize that the above guidelines continue to mean

‘chat much information will be “blacked out." As bad as it may

appear, none of this information is substantive and its
omission does not detract from the “story.” ‘Its release,
however, could permit detailed analyses of our commo,
methodology, contacts and staffing which we cannot accept.

New Subject: Release of William Pawley'’s name

3. It is agreed that an attempt will be made to locate
Pawley‘s next of kin to request their permission to release
information pertaining to his relationship with CIA. If the
next of kin cannot be indentified or located, the subject can
be revisited. (Note: the information in the Congressional
record or in the book “Deadly Secrets” notes that there was
contact and even support between Pawley and the CIA but does
not identify the full extent of that relationship.) -

  

JohnBerg

   

SECRET
 

 

40332002 ; SECRET :
en ‘ mn - a coro 33-158 |

25 June 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Historical Review Group bet
Chief, Information Management Service
Director, Center for the Study of Intelligence

FROM: John Berg
x Special Assistant to the Associate Deputy
Director for Operations
SUBJECT: Release of JFK Assassination Records oo
REFERENCE? A. Memorandum from DDO dated 9 June 1993:
Subject: Release of JFK Assassination
Records -- Differences;

B. Memorandum by Dave Gries of 22 June 1993:
Subject: JFK Assassination Records-- Proposal
for discussion

1. Regarding the items discussed in the referenced memos,
it appears that a further interpretation is required.

~-On the subject of cryptonyms, we cannot give wholesale
approval for their release, but if the crypts have been
previously blown or exposed they can be released. There may be
cases in which, if the crypt has been retired, does not relate
to existing or another project and does not contain a valid
digraph, it may also be released. Note, however, that crypts
which are related to a series (ZZBOAT/1, ZZBOAT/2 etc.), would,
when exposed, link operations or assets to one another or which
refer td other operations or projects cannot be released. ~

. --Qn-the subject of pseudonyms, if the pseudonym has been
previously blown, there is no objection to its release. Note
that release of pseudonyms serves to link officers with
assets/operations and this “guilt by association” could lead to
futher, undesireable, exposures. Care must also be taken so
that the release of pseudonyms is not done in such a manner so
as to enable a researcher to accummulate through an inspection
of numerous documents the approximate size of.a given station.-
(The sense of this is to mean that only a small number of
pseudonyms would be considered for release.)
13-00000

 

 

1 November 1993

.MEMORANDUM FOR:

C/MRS/LA/MRS
FROM : Joanne Harris
SUBJECT : JFK Project - Review of Cuban Files

I reviewed 106 files to ascertain the status of Cuban assets which
were listed in the attached. Seventeen were. found to be former assets,
pre-1970, and most of the seventeen were involved in the Bay of Pig Operation.
Additionally, the following five appear to be candidates for Protection
from public disclosure.
a. ( AMIRE/1| - 201-274049

A Career Agent, died of natural causes in October
or November 1968, The DCI sent.a ene of condolence to his wife.

b. WILDCAT’ = 201-294213

FBI Double Agent, PNINFINITE assisted in ops in Mexico.
He was still active as of March 1982.

c. “WKSCARLET/3_- ba 201+ 300985
Formally terminated in 1974.[" shad contact
with him until circa 1976, at which time he was implicated in bombing of a
Cuban plane and was incarcerated in Venezuela. As of March 1993, he was still
involved in questionable activities.
d. AMICE-14 - 201-307337
_Worked for PNINFINITE through early 1970's.
e. AMMUG/1 = 201-749651

Cuban defector, He was terminated in 1967, but was used
through 1971,

SFERET
‘7 June 1995

Memo for File

Subject: ARRB request re “slug line” deletions

The policy of deleting ALL crypts & designators in the slug
line was questioned by ARRB members at the 18 May meeting

with CIA. The DO representatives present & McNair)
deferred to the Office of Communications.

 

 

 

 

Per’ 6 June 1995 discussion witht +4 DA/IRO, “the slug
line is strictly an internal distribution line”, and. the :
release of crypts or other designators in the slug line is
not a communications issue; slug crypts are not “commo
generated”. The DA has no objection to the release of
otherwise releasable crypts in the slug line of CIA cables.

The DA response was provide to.J. Gunn, ARRB staff, and Bill
McNair, DO/IRO, via phone on 6 June 1995.

sack Son

CC: HRG reviewers
DO reviewers
