13-00000 -

 

 

SECRET

«Jo

   

as

can grevt hin 0 transit vion and ctuply notify Coban immigration euthort ties.
the Soviet fizet exts her to walt, env! the she hes to explain the whole thing
over again to ennther Soviet official, who tates har telephone shor eof
promises to call her back. Gilvin DURAN eonclutes this call by telling the
Soviet che harself has moved ani gives her new aidsuss for the soviet Iukasay
tulletis. Ee asks her to phous (erga Semenovich) RURAREEO (Geoond secretary
wo Date aot Gar Hulletin) tw give Rin te oes GMeens eat bo aia who the Cutan
Cultiomal Attache is. Gsivie DUDA gives the Abtadhe’® mmo ao terete FRORUA end
sie har taleghone muuber. a |
1 Sapemmer, 6:25 mI ~ A Soviet official enils Gilvia DURE tack ent
tells her thet the “fuuriem” hel tesa to ese the Soviet‘e ant show thon o
Letter from the Goviet Consulate in Washington saitesting that he bef heen
waiting for visas for himself anf his wife te go to the Soviet Union for a long
tine, tat that no easuer hed cane frum Washington, adding that the watt was
sonctimes four or five mouths. Tho “Ameriecen” bad show the Soviets a letter
showing he ws © mesher of ea oryurtsstion in favor of Cuba eat hed clatued thet

the Cubans eauld not give hin 4 vies without o Russian view. Silvia BURAT

~ SECRET
13-00000

SECRET

  

salaloe thet they bere the came gecklemy the fo te still at the
Gonmlete; they oomnct give hin ¢ transit vien sles he ts aanared of © Soviet
wien, evan ‘hoinfs be gush washes ts gp to Oats to wath these Siar bin Sextet sles
fe te grantel, He dees anh iow tape im Gite. thay tot ts enmvenenitens os
Gkle note. BLiivie TURE says thet ate will auto Wsba on bie “our,” and the
Soviet quminies by saying, “asides be ie mek Racw.? Be enoueee Mimelt for

the tncomenanen be ha conn en nein MIEN age 1 8 Leh

28 feyterber » - ivia DOS alte ten en etary toon ta Crt

 

. | Consulate, fhe suys thet che has the Amertoms with her again. thi Soviet

| encumring eaks her ts watt. then qacther geuiet tckes =p the plows, Glivia pits
| the Auesigun en. the Auartean tries to talk Russian to the Soviet vho answers

Sm Gagieh, ‘he daeviec oddu hie €o qed: Beenie. War Aaweloen woo tha be
he8 boon da the Gaviet Baber eof again wiih. Gh Comsat, anh Gant they hed

tom Big eftivesg. The Soviet reghtes thet be kmucw: thet. Ghe Anoricen than

 

| eayd, eonovhet eniguetiontly: “I Gif act knew &¢ then. I went to the Guten
Bibanay to catk than for ny ailivess because thay Rave 4%." She Soviet invites hin

i
‘ to atep by again ani give thon the eliiréss, anf the American agrees to do £0.
|

. SEGRET

“ae
13-00000

-t

 

 

 

Bouss, tee Geate Departamnt, the Peterel Burem ef Davestigntion.

GSUAED's name was not ectuslly mentioned in these afditianl calls, but
eimilerity of epeech and varicus pisin polute of content link them to bin. ghese
calls are quumriesi below in Giromiagienl ardar. Ghay cover the ported fran
ST Saytenber 1963 te 3 Cetover 1963, the whole apan of COWED's viekt to Mexico
City es leter learns’ trom tame) pecords. .

e1 Sarteteer A mun sheuan the Soxish Miseeay Attache mat bape te
nents a vies te go to (less. vn enowuring eaye bot chould ont 25-60-55 ant
eat for the Conmul. Galler ues far the obiovas, nol th 15 given to is.
(there tg no apectal reagan for linking this call to GSWAID.)

By Septeaber, 4105 FH - the Caen Consulate ghaned the Goviet Camlate.
Silvia Duran, Huciesn oxtdonal clerk of the Cuten Consulate talked to a Soviet
effieial, caying thet o ase Auericas eiticen ws ef the Cuban Consulates asking
for 6 trenait visa to yase through Cute on his wy to the doviet Usten. she
wants to knew to vhos be telked to the Soviet Conmlate asl vho teld hin be would

bave ao protien about i¢. If o Soviet vies is assured, the Cuben Consulate
Seo SEPRET 08 £97 | 20)-2FIZES
13-00000

 

 

 

 

GHEE ont passed then to wa, end the FBI gave ue a cosy of the Boviet
Gonmuler file eo GOMAID vaich het been publtely given ty the Soviet sshesestor
to the Seuretary of State. On Friday 6 Decssber 1963, Daputy Abtomey General
Eutreubach tovitel us to review the FI's easyrehenstve report on the cass to
make gure Gur courcen ware net Joqpardige’ end thet cur infoeumtion was corssetly
qotel. We fous! the report highly interesting ant ns threst to our security, a2
lang ¢s it was reel culy by the euthorivel tovestiguttve belles, ~

After the firet few days, the CUA investigntion of the case wis hantiet
at Hondqumrters by 0 staff vowlly charged ak with investigation and enalyeis of

tha most important security ences, ani by officers emi analyste of our Wester

‘Banteghere Bivicion.

Baperte from Muriee

4a son 4s cur Hoxie (ity Station realised that Lee GOWAED was the prime.
guapect, it began re-sereening ali the written telayhaue transcripts fn ite
files = covering the Soviet Bubaney for the pertinent pextoll. The extual tapes
were ales revievs’, wut many of then hel teen erased after the noreal_teo wks

wait. Govexel calle belicved te involve OSWALD were discovercd af emi their

SEORET
13-00000

 

 

SECRET

    

ag

Gur Maxlen City Station very eften produces infaueties on 0.8.

sitdaess quutooking Soviet bles asteasics ta tamies Qty. Pregamily the
Infwentign wa get la awirenly lacriedneting, el on ane or tim sncemlen &
have & oven boon able to sopechent eal retum to the WA dnartemn nilttasy
yeraamal whe ere attexpting te defect. In all such cases, our Eeaigurters
te yeu ths derogstany infesuntion on 2 U.8. ettieen to other gwermnt aginates.
Wo wave ot infernal of whch action ti PAE ent cer aquiten my have taken et
thet tine based on cor ropart, tater iovestigation bas sunfizsol él the @rtatie
a? bin trig, chee an cttyed, and unt ae @t8. da could erosoing Mane vite the
Yat, cur Mexico Station walartodh no loeil tnvestigniion af ite om. As ve nw
know, QSWALD left Eexico on 3 October end was no longer thera vhea cur report

ee pat ext.

 

 

 

 
13-00000

 

SECRET

aha

 

2 Bovertper 1963

43 soon es the nome of lee GOAL woe emnticncd in connection with the
ecmessination of President Remedy on 82 Woveuher, CIA file checks were begin
Sait the Mextesn station was edket by cable for more information on CSWAID.
Within @ wook, temty-caven cabled reperts hed besn cent to the Unite Rams, the
tttmte Dapartment, ai the DEE. Soe

CUA Sold tations provided amy iver of infurmstion during the wl
et after the essusainetion. the besos City Station researihat Sto tela
tape wary thirenghly and cone wp with several mere conversuttons probehty, ,
iavolving (GMAID, tat uot actually mmtioning this asus; these comected hin
tise to the Coben Consulate in Maxton City. Several Mexicans ware arrested
an Qacticnsl sient bia sstéeitdes, giving & gaol pletara af shot he ane owelly
up to. A host ef fabrieaters, sume eponymous, boriberied qvarcens exitaacios

with apuricus tips an the case, ugst of vadeh we devestigete’. All of these ware

Daring this phase of qur work, we served primarily in support ef the FEI,

— eet
SEGRE

investigation. he Depertuast of State photegraphed its entire file os
13-00000

 

— FORWARDED a
* RIB/MIS '
Dee 5 Gis M67

  

 

apron en

  

4
i
t
‘
q

 
 

1041001810040} . aaa
~EEh Unevasstriep +) PPTRNAL (CO CONFIT"NTIAL Dd SECRET

      

      
  

   

a . ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET |

 

 

RD JAN

TO: (Qfficer designation, room number, and
building) COMMENTS (Number each comment to shew from whom
: ALS, to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

 

 

ocument nunber BEL = 120

rFOIA Review on MAY 676

Dp

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MIS
ved,

1 eg, Soby, Abie be

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

seer’ GVO “tomes A] SECRET © ([] CONFIDENTIAL [[] INTERNAL =) UNCLASSIFIED
13-00000. -- :
~ ge SECRET ~ KAAZ-17ASS |
{0 Dee 63 |

Cie roe “joDee 63 |

* Simnary oF Oanele Case Preparect f.-
p Benne af Cea Te ei es (24s . Br: eth aa Pavposes |

      
   

 

ef Onkuewrn :

Qa 1. Getebar 1963, the CIA Minieo City Gtetien intercepted @ teleghane

| nl Lee GRAD mato fen on whmewn ieostien i: insdey ity to ths bests

| | Bubesay there, using his ow name. Speaking token Rusaien anf weing bis tras
nome, GSWAED was talking to the Exhaasy guard, GINESROV, whe often aecyers the
yhone. OSHAED enté he haf vielted the Eabesay the previous Getuntay (a9 Geptender

1963) eal spoken to @ consul vhose name he hel forguttm, enti waa had ir eet

 

cent © telegran for him to Washington. Be wd to av 6 ae Penang
| new." The quent ontd Af the cousul was dark 18 was (Valeriy
ROREROOY . Sho guard checked with somecme eles ani seid thet the message bea gone

cut tut no answer hed tean received. He then hung wp.

 

 

wis plow of eteeetion ws protee fees] — 4

 

 

a hei been transcribed end a oumery of it cabled te Washington.

Document Number 367-72 6 SEE i ET.

4 for FOIA Review on MAY 1976 tS cory

Sta,

 
13-00000

 

ths cabled reyort wus reosived tn Washington on § Osteter sal check
in our files, vere it was imulfately noted that the Lee GSAID shouting the
Soviet Uatasay tn Hacloo City vas probably the Lee GBWAED tho hel afectel to
the Soviet Unien in 1939 aad retuned te the GHA in 1968. Ge 10 ovtshew 296%,
the Gay after the report fron Mexleo City, CIA Hesiquarters cast eut @ eabded
report sous Lee GHAID's shone call to the doviet Exbassy) the revert: wen to

the VBE, the Department af State (heanuse GJHAID was @ U.S. eitieen), ext to

 

the Bavy Department (becouse he wae G forwer Marine). ths cabled niger’ te thoes

 

former Gefactor. A cony of tte eae eae was taitveet ty ant te tte
Tndgration sal Dataralisation Serviee, vith witch we hare no oxble Hilts Se
ous day a long cable wont out to Mewleo City fndosuing cur Gtation of the

baskground of Gefector Lee GBUAID and acting fer mere iafucuetion. Gar Statics

was instructed te pase ite information on the phone call te the Kexieco Gity offices

of the FRY, the Dubesay, tho Havel Atteohe, end tho Imigretden enf Exturalisstion

Service. Thie was dane.

SEGRET
