 

13-00000 -

SECRET }

identifiable damage to national security." (Emphasis

added.) The information withheld from disclosure in docu-

 

ment 509-803 resulting from al] Jana/or

 

which could reasonably be expected to lead to the identi--

fication of a confidential intelligence source, in this case

 

 

 

is thus properly

 

 

 

 

classifiable and classified.

13. Section 1-501 of Executive Order 12065 states what

 

must be shown on the face of a document when it is
“originally classified." This section deals with documents
originated after Executive Order 12065 was effective on 1

: December 1978. Such requirements could not have been
imposed on classified documents already in existence such as
; document 509-803. Section 1-402 of the same Executive Order
| states:

Only officials with Top Secret classifi-
cation authority and agency heads listed in
Section 1-2 may classify information for more
than six years from the date of the original
classification. This authority shall he used
sparingly. In such cases, a declassification
date or event, or a date for review, shall be
set. This date or event shall be as early as
national security permits and shall be not
more than twenty years after original
classification, except that for foreign
government information the date or event may

- be up to thirty years after classification.

 

As I indicated-earlier, I am authorized to originally

 

classify information at the level of Top Secret. For the
purpose set forth in this affidavit, I have reviewed document
509-803 and have determined that portions of the document
remain properly classified at the level of Secre+. The

i document is properly marked to show that classification.

u Furthermore, the document is marked to show a date for a

eg

identifie

    
 

subsequent declassification review, ani Ioan

  

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SECRET v : ae

the classification review authority who determined that
classification should be extended.

14. The withheld portions of document 509-803 can be
viewed in groups for purposes of discussing their exemption
justifications. The deleted portions marked "B" on the
second page and the following page marked "No. 2" contain
information demonstrating that the source of the information

overheard both ends of conversations conducted over

telephones located in Soviet diplomatic facilities in Mexico .

 

 

 

City. i

 

L

 

 

 

 

| Public‘allegations of

 

such activities have been made by private individuals, but
official acknowledgment has been avoided because of the

potential damage. The information has been withheld because

 

ie ss land it discloses

 

 

intelligence sources and methods and is thus properly
classified and withheld pursuant to FOIA exemptions (b)(1)
and (3).

15. The deleted portions of paragraphs 5 through 9 and
l2a through 12a contain information which was provided
“exclusively by the Mexican National Security Service
concerning what the Service had learned of Silvia Duran's

knowledge of Lee Harvey Oswald's activities in Mexico City in

the fall of 1963. The Mexican Service's information came

 

 
    

fron the inter-
x
rogation of Silvia Duran by the Mexican Security Service.

 

 

Silvia Duran was initially identified as a: person potentially

   

 

ynowledgable of Oswalt! 's. _activities, “as. the resu

 

 

 

 
13-00000

arele

 

SECRET

ll. It was not possible to identity |

 

 

 

in an unclassified affidavit. To do so, in light

 

 

of what was already evident on the public record concerning
the substance of the document and the locale of the events

described, would have been tantamount to disclosing which

 

 

CIA and, given the kind of

 

 

activity, the specific (services) involved. An essential

element of the intelligence Ns an

 

 

 

 

 

 

understanding is confidentiality) ‘The intelligence:

information /exchangey normally must be kept secret as well |

as the fact of the An effective

 

 

 

 

“ [working liaison) would not exist without the necessary [mutual

 

commitment to confidentiality)

 

 

12. The reality of such commitments to secrecy is

recognized in the language of Executive Order 12065.

Section 1-3 describes the kinds of information which are

Classifiable. It specifically identifies in "Section l-
301(b) foreign government information; 1-30l1(c) intelligence
activities, sources or methods; and 1-301(d) foreign
relations of the United States." Section 1-302 states that
“Bven though information is-determined to'’concern one or
moré of the criteria in Section 1-301, it may not be
classified unless an original classification authority also
determines that its unauthorized disclosure reasonably could
be expected to cause at least identifiable damage. to the
national security." To further emphasize considerations
which are unique to U.S. foreign intelligence activities,
Section 1-303 elaborates. that, “Unauthorized disclosure of.

foreign government information or the identity of a con-

fidential foreicn source is Bresuned to cause at least

 

8

“Ss RCRET

  

 
13-00000

 

 

éntinue cooperation with our Government in intelligence

 

 

 

| = SECRET i
|
| etscomtt
|

pr law enforcement activities and possibly also in othey/

 

 

 

 

 

9. There have been a number of books and magazine
articles by private authors in which various allegations of

CIA intelligence operations in Mexico City have appeared.

 

The had also been

 

 

alleged. Such private guessing and speculation does not
have the authority of an official disclosure through the
FOIA release of official records. Consequently, even though
some speculation has accurately described secret activities,

preas where we now cooperate /

the damage has heen limited because such disclosures do not

 

officially challenge to take official

 

note; furthermore, they are only approximately accurate and
could not be considered authentic. Disclosure of the

withheld portions of document 509-803 would complete the

authoritative.

10. Beyond purely internal discomfort any disclosures

 

|
|
damage possible by making the disclosures precise and
would cause there are potentially
1

 

 

significant foreign relations consequences also. Diplomatic

suffer because-certain portions of the withheld material
demonstrate the violations of the sanctity of foreign
diplomatic territory and facilities in Mexico. Such
developments would, at a minimum, increase the likelihood

that the Mexican Government would want to diminish any

 

arrangements with several foreign governments are likely to

 

further hazard involved

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

13-00000
re SECRET

‘employ in intelligence collection,/withheld pursuant to

rf

FOIA exemptions (b)(1) and (b)(3);
c. Information which is currently and properly

classified in the interest of national security,

 

because it discloses details of CIA's knowledge of the

 

identities and activities of Soviet intelligence

officers and the nature of CIA's counterintelligence

efforts to collect said information, withheld pursuant

 

to FOIA exemptions (b)(1) and (b)(3); and

d. Information identifying CIA staff employees
and organizational components, withheld pursuant to
| FOIA exemptions (b)(3).

6. In doing my review of the document at issue, I
determined that only exempt portions have been withheld.

Conversely, all segregable, non-exempt material has been

 

see " - "Ih released.
7. The major concern which prompts the CIA to cdntinue
to withhold portions of document 509-803 is the damage that

| would be inflicted jupon the liaison arrangements with the’

 

 

(National Security Service of the iff the

 

 

withheld portions of the document were publicly disclosed.

Most of the information would not have been available

 

except for the

 

| | The

 

information so withheld was received under an arrangement’
‘Of mutually assured confidentiality,” To disregard that

arrangement and to disclose the existence and the product:

   
  
  

of the arrangement would threaten its current viability.

 

 

through its. ‘National Security

 

 

ammaal

Service, has been, and is, a very. useful. partner of

 

 

   

 

 
 

13-00000

 

 

 

 

SECRET

the security and intelligence services of the United

States. The collaboration includes efforts to stop the flow
of narcotics into the United States, to monitor and negate
the activities of Central American terrorists organizations
and to monitor and negate the activities of hostile foreign
intelligence services, particularly the Soviet services,
against the United States. A number of other benefits also
accrue to the United States as a result of this collabora-
tion. The loss of this liaison arrangement would cause
damage to the United States' ability to protect its national

security. The protection the arrangement provides could not

 

be entirely replaced if withdrew.

 

 

 

8. Disclosure of the kind of collaboration with ‘the

 

 

United States by the which

 

 

is apparent in the withheld portions of document 509-803,

“would cause considerable trouble to the current Government

 

of Such activities would not be viewed with favor

by a significant portion of the public inp |

Disclosure of the existence of such a relationship by the

 

 

 

 

U.S. Government is likely to be used actively and

 

effectively against the current by

dissident political groups. Moreover, the government itself

 

 

 

is likely to feel compelled to make public gestures to
discredit any allegations or inferences that the current
government would engage in such collaboration. Despite the
fact that the current collaboration is close, the government

would not want to acknowledge it publicly. Furthermore, the

 

may fear that its current cooperation

 

 

with the U.S. Government also might be disclosed if its past

  

Therefore, it might limit or even.

   

      

 

 

 
13-00000

:
;

SECRET

9 January 1979, and the other on 11 January 1980. During
the course of this litigation the document at issue, marked
509-803 for identification purposes, was initially withheld
in its entirety pursuant to FOIA exemptions (b)(1), (b)(2)
and (b)(3). During a review connected with Mr. Owen's
affidavit of ll January 1980, a determination was made that
portions of the document were no longer exempt from release
as a result of disclosures that had recently been made in
connection with Congressional hearings. Effective with the
Order of the Circuit Court of Appeals on.12 November 1980,
all filing instructions previously withheld and deleted from
the released version of the document were reinserted in the
releasable version. Additionally, all classification,
markings and related information control markings which had
been deleted from the releasable version of the document, as
part of the declassification process, were reinserted in the
document and then marked to show that the classification
designations are no longer appropriate. The newly revised
version of the document was provided the plaintiff. (CIA ..
Exhibit A).
3. On the basis of my review of the document at issue,
‘in connection with this affidavit I have determined that one
additional modification of the document is necessary. The
word "City" has been reinserted in those portions previously
marked "B" on the second page in the first line of the text,
on page 3, in the second and fourth lines of paragraph 4,0
and in the third line of paragraph 5. The CIA concern over
public acknowledgment of the - “existence of: CIA stations or

other facilities in specified foreign locations ‘is real. In

SECRET

 
’

a

5

 

104-10320-10099).

 

 

 

 

 

©. SECRET @

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

2 WE

MARK ALLEN,
Plaintiff,
Ve Civil Action No. 78-1743

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY,

' Defendant.

ett Sout See Seon Sei? Spel Malt Manat Mant Seat

eee nnnccrinnnenceneneetttetit nt RT A

AFFIDAVIT

GERALD L. LIEBENAU, being first duly sworn, deposes and
says: i
1. Tr am the information Review Officer for the
Directorate of Operations (DO) of the Central Intelligence
Agency (CIA). My responsibilities include the review of DO
documents which are the object of Freedom of Information Act
(Fora) requests to and litigation against the CIA to ensure
that details made regarding the disposition of such docu-
ments, pursuant to provisions of the FOIA, are proper. The
statements made herein are based upon my knowledge, upon
information made available to me in my official capacity,
upon advice and guidance from the Office of General Counsel
of the CIA and upon conclusions vceached in accordance
therewith.

2. Through my official duties, I have become

acquainted with this case since the ruling of the Circuit

. Court of Appeals on 12 November 1980. My predecessor,

    

this litigation. Several “ageidavits of Mr.

 

Owen have b

 

 

4
{
{
i
i
:
i
j

 

 

 

 
 

SRFCRET
: '

a . “
most circumstances, some damage to the official relacions
between the United States and the named country is
predictable. In the case of the acknowledgment of the
existence of a CIA station in Mexico City in 1963, it has

been alleged or referred to in a number of forums and

publications, semi-official and official, including

accidental disclosure in CIA documents released under the
FOIA. Consequently, withholding the same information in
this document can no longer be justified. A copy of the
document with "City" reinserted is, attached as CIA Exhibit B
and is being forwarded to plaintiff. -

4. To fulfill my official responsibilities, I have
been delegated authority for original classification of
information as Top Secret. I have reviewed document 509-803
and have determined that the portions which remain withheld
are properly exempt from disclosure because: _

- ae “it is currently and properly classified
‘pursuant ‘to Executive order 12065 as information
requiring continued protection against unauthorized
disclosure to protect against damage to national
security and thus exempt from release pursuant to FOIA .

- . exemption (b) (1); , .
b._ the information reveals facts about
intelligence sources and methods which the Director of

Central Intelligence is responsible for protecting

against unauthorized disclosure as set forth in

50 U.S.C. 403(d)(3), and which is thus exempt from

release pursuant to FOIA exemption (b)(3); and «.

.

 
13-00000

 

 

 

 

SECRET

e. the information reveals facts about CIA
organization, functions, names, official titles or
numbers of personnel employed, all of which are exempt
from disclosure pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 403g and thus
FOIA exemption (b)(3).

5. The letter markings used to identify the kind of
information withheld in each instance remains basically as
set forth in the affidavit of Robert E. Owen except for the
reinsertion of material formerly deleted and identified as
category "E" and “F"; said categories being withdrawn and
previously deleted material having been reinserted pursuant
to the Circuit Court Order of 12 November 1980. The
remaining categories are repeated below for the Court's
convenience. Additionally, more specific language has been

added and underlined. The additions are possible because of

the classification of this affidavit:

a. Circumstantial information which, in
combination with other information, could lead to the
identification of an intelligence source, in this case

a foreign government's security service and its
SB foreign 9 ey 3S

 

intellicence service collaborating with the CIA under

 

 

“- + Sn arrangement of confidentiality, withheld pursuant to
FOIA exemptions (b)(1) and (b)(3);

b. Circumstantial information which, in
combination with other information could lead to the

identification of an intelligence method used to

   
 

collect intelligence information abroad, |

 

    

4

BECRET

 

 

 
