14-00000

50 NOT TYPE ABOVE SIRE.

eC

i : Be
“ap pe

- and dark camplexioned.

  
 
  

rr o 1 ci-BO-BOT TIPE apowe Lins
< CnQoHe Pel «D-BelPoIahe! .

here he served as a Castro agent end was sending information to the
G-2 in Havana about antiCastro activities in Miant. His fenily sti
live here in Miami, but I ao not know theix address. ‘I have knowa-
Hernandez since we were children because we were raised in the same
area in Havana. He is about 26, 5'6", 130 Aes; black liedr. ant cyee,

“a MED RIM 2 ;
Marina Arrieta’ is a chivate ahd is president of ‘cuR where she lives at .- of.
Reparto "El Pelmex” - Merinao (Havana) 99 Ave, between 126;7)128 sta. 9?
She ig e Communist. She is sbout 45, 5°7",; 10 ibs, blond hair, blue
eyes, married with two small children. (names unknown). She belongs to
all of the Communist organizations and also serves: as a gvaré on the
street. She always reporte on all activities of: people. 4 in the nesghbor-

  

hood where I lived.

 

Dalie Gonzalez is a -chiveta, a Coomunist and lives’ on ed ‘Ave ‘ana 128 Bt,

aieb-“Marinao; Havana. She is 35, 40 years old, a6 135 lbs, brown eyes

and Hair, married with two daughters; 18 and.21. (One is a miliciana :
and performs guard duty. Dalia de the president of CDR: ‘where . ‘he Lives -
and also bélongs to‘all the Communist organizations.
on many people in the ne ‘neighborhood. where, z Ad yed. «

   

Tomes Lemus Gener, who was a clerk. in. ‘the Copahebene hel tn bismine
(Havana), is now a G=2 officer at. Jose Marti Internations). Airport in

-.RauelloBoyeros. uHe checks on Cubans coming to Miami. He is 26, -

5'63", 155 lbs, blue eyes and dent brown’ hadr:

teers) known Bim. for
2 long time.

   

Bebo Alvarez, vho lives on: 59th Ave’ : (Navarette): between 130%: and. “sea
Streets (Acadetde Alvarez), .is.a'Gs2, Lt (Investigator) ‘eat Ia-Cabins
Prison. He is also the chief of the. firing aquad: and after people: are
executed, he takes the remains to the cement&ry. “He is about 38, 5'10",
190 Ibs, black eyes and haix, uses dark glasses. He is married. He
was a teacher at the ‘Academia. Alvarez mentioned above. Since he was
one of my teachers in school I have’known him for a long time. |

cend= ~

 

 

  

 
 

(rod toor3-10142 -

CT

“INFORMATION REPS

ial

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

 

This material contains informotion affecting the, Matlenal Oefense of the United Stetes within the mecning of the Eapionege Lows, Tile ?}
18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in ony manner to an unevihoriesd person ts prohibited by law.

 

COUNTRY
SUBJECT

DATE OF
INFO.

 

PLACE &
ATE A

ome BO Ot a On

  

  
 

CaO-). . ‘DeBeH-T-T-A-L

 

Cuba REPORT NO. 00-MG) 3 ry5,04¢6
CI Personalities mS DATE OTR CA al Mew eB
NO. PAGES 2

 

 

 

To 23 Dec 62

Cuban national, A 13. 310°159,. age 20.

  

 

Source was captured during Bay of Pigs invasion on 29 Apr 61. Ne

served in Castillo del Principe Prison in Havana until he’was ransanec
and came to Miami on 23 Dec 62. Source was qualified as a redio opera-
tor and as a "forward observer" for artillery. . He wes trained in
Guetenote prior to invasion. .

 

finis report was developed by an’ ‘ar Fore: ‘popresenitative anstgnea to
Office. of collections] ee os

Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo tno wes a Major in Figel Castro!s revolutionary
forces (20 Front of Escambray ) and who is. variously: in Miam4 or else-
vhere in the US, is a Castro agent. He informed jon 142 men in Cuba,

many of whom are, stili.-in prison. I heve also heand ‘from many of iy
friends that he is sending information to G-2 from Miami, Fla. He

has infiltrated in anti-Costro groups in the US and. swears. that he is
against Castro, but I believe he actually is a trusted Castro agent

and uses his anti-Castro activities as cover....Regardless. of his apparent
anti-Cast:. ~' itdes, he is definitely using or exploiting the gulli-
pility of . . .. .i-Castro organizations and possibly the US government
agencies uc & front for what’ I believe are his true operations for Castro.
I believe this man is’ involved in activities against the best driterests
of the United States: and should | be thoroughty checked. He informed on
my brother a 1, Guring July 1959. My brother

el. Dec @. My brother arrived in Miemi one day after I did. My brotinr
and I are willing to testify in a court of law on n the: above ; allegation
ageinet Gutierrez. . .

(fnu) Padille, who was an officer in the roig’ de. Pinos Prison. in 1960
and who is in the US, possibly Miami, ie a Castro agent. He is in his
20's and has typical Cuban (Latin) features. I do not know his ‘complete
name. Many of the people that were in prison told me that this "Padilia"
was operating es @ Castro agent in the US. I do not know when he came
to Mleni or any other information on this man other than the above.

Alexis Hernandez, alias "AL", is a Communist and is now a G-2 Lt at Sth
and Lith (6-2 Hq) in Havana. Hernandez was a visiting professor of
medicine at the University of Miami from 195¢:to 1959. While he wis

4
3
2

C-O-N-FaI-D-E-LjsTaI“A-L
9x08

 

_ REVURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
* Do Not Reproduce

 
