 

104-10227-10118

vebntl
31 Marek 1961
fe .
. j “
VEVORANLUM YOR THE RECORD i
‘FUBSECTs DD/P Meeting with Mosors. Barnes, Etapulis, Hunt, ané Droller on

31 Mareb 1961,

1, This eseting was called tecnuse the CD/P and Me. Bornes vere Some vba
perturbed about the Quality anu tong of the Jraft of the Cutan White Paper, A
copy of thie draft bad been sent to Kr. Sebleginger of the White House vbo hed
also expressed his Oieapyolntasnat tn the draft, :

2. The op/r made tha point that the Cuban bhite Paper should have the
moet powerful eapeol that ean bo Gevised, He weet co tu Say thet we are
primarily interested ia getting ri¢ of a Consist regime fa Cuba and that it
ig really up to the Cubane te choosc the progressive, lidaral, forword «looking
government they want. “I aa wor led,” the bu/P Treanrked, that fn an indirect

Ginht still be under the Impression that the look vhich prevailed under the old
adwinfetrution was etill favored by some U.8, elenants, Everything poosible
should be done to convince Miro and minbers of the Revolutionary Counci1 of the

contra. 8 connection, Moaure. Biesell and Bernes vonJered out loud
Se pot be bandicayzed by bis own yeraonal eonvietiong in

making AWitcing case when presenting the current swerican viewpoint.
— SD The suc total of the remnrks of Mecers. Stonulis, Bunt, asd Droller

8. The draft should not be looxed Upon AS a really etrict
indication of the opinions of the Revolutionary Council. ‘The :
Revolutionary Countil bad been faced vith tight ceadlines ard . ‘
they have been presented with many additional problecs includ ing
their trip to Guatemala, their relations to the military, ete.

Also, ve anid, it should be renenbered that Miro did not care
for Ray and that the only reasoz be vas keeging up nepotiations
with Ray was that he believed the State Department (Bonsal and
Berle) vere in favor of this, Kr. Ftanulia pointed out that the

ssignment vas a bit delicate in view of the latters long
and faithful service with the ti Livision,

 

&. AG the end of the meeting Hr. ftanulie ssted the DD/P vhether a decision
On the Mosquerra affair bad been reached, - Hr. Bissall said that this activity
should be terufneted. Chief, WHD ané cany others intimately concerned with
this matter agreed that this vould be the visest course to take. Be hinself
felt that on balance this Operation would be counter-gravuctive.

GERARD DROLLER
. C/HB/L/PA
Loe oe
CLVaew

 
