 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

  

woul! net, give any, TA, TY ayy Ehat he would return te
Alani on Lo Leta a ae: wiriaalby di oC an evaver to the pToblea
of the Jukes end lavyqa tufore he laft,

 

 

  

e. Ferminant Contact for 410, ARAGON vos told that Col. dendeid
chases, U.S.A., retire:, an Onbatancing man of wide military
and political experience, had been Gealgnatel ag pornaient con~.
tact for MIRO and that Col, Johnsen would «iso be {a frequen
contact with Mr. Deodwin, Col, Johnson vas ney in the preeces
° Of noving to Meat and contact betwoon Aim snd MIRO would te
established within ten cay bo two woes,

MIRO expressed eatisfaction ab tho detiznation of Cal, denaney
3a contacts. . .

2, Tho underatgnet repoitu! the siove to ui /ai/i, FoLowlag the cone
varsation with ARAUCN and, at about 1630 16 So; vember, egetn grove itn
ARAGUN, wid wag ntill in thy New licward Hotei (Rooa £52), Peters, to
adviae hia aad “ARO ef the folle AG concerning the atelus of the Jedges
and Lawyerd, as requasted ty [4y/iil/i,
4u axject to work ost details to frovide Op, MIKO or his
deaignee, $5,000 for the Jatgen anc lauyars for tha acaih
of Aaguat Id1 and §5,000 for th ta cf Septembir 1961,

.

these ommunte to ad 47 Guess given via
- ALARAU,

b. Wo had bean proposing to redung tlhe numbur of tadges and
lawyara already co the list and 1t vas mt MIADe Tesponathiltty

to make the eeluction of the f:dge@ and lawyers sho wure to te

paid froa the fimds te be vlaced at nis slopoval,

 

  
 

fe

   

The aranattion of eontrol and paymant of tne Jucyes and lswyera.
frog ALASAL to KDic would ‘ave to Le worked out asnoethiy end
withows rancor by MIRO despite the pursoral fealings of stro
towards ALAZAU, cinco it was notessary to avoid iafivhting and .
rocriatnation whien woult pecone Sren and attract pullle netics
Tf elashee led te bablictty, sapoort tor the Jaigua and Lawyere —
would have to be withdrawn,

 
   

d. The jucgsg and Lawyers group 13 expected to engace in Loaithve
Qetivities and all actica prowrasd involving thea will have to
be oubalttet to the now contact for e:proval, If ; osttive
pregrats are not doveipoi, the Judges and Lavyere canut exe
peet continuing sur erg, Surter, the Jutes anc Lawyers group
le not a relied aration and sase of Lig meavers who may
seed Joba ahoul lock to fied for Poottions of individually

Goes employment.

 

 
 

0229-10058

 

 

 

16 sis teeter gts

 

Contact wien [ve brneany 8 APALUY
15 and 1b Sentenber tL

 

 OOFU, Follewing Contact with or, HOR
CY mh,

    
     

i

 

—
0 Carcena hy le,

and the BACOrBi gnod ae the Sheridan aly ter thn
Paltinore, Shout 1130 te about, 1439 16 Sentan-er iy
the soning of aS Septecn: 79 4.29 by ty)
wlth “og Ya.regantative
"ee Howard Hotel (hora BOZ;,
of hie conversation with MA

 
 
    
  

 

7 as the

 
 

8 wneere|
hildancs EV OC Lad

    
     
  
  

Be

 

ot
aufon wits ttt:

% following fact-rs, ag #8 hope

 
 
    

  

 

   

Frings; ke, Because of
400 wil reali:

e

ot

 

(2) 4 COMM deracle gin ia Lavolvor, ap irowal tg Gecesaapy
at various devala, and Cwyoral GT lerent
volvad in any declalas, :

(2) Avpropriste Chaaials for Passing tha fance WI] hava
te be worked oud, .
MEO g reply oa thle Point, ag given throug, APACS wag TAst
YG Blouls revieg the aroun, of fares as wo found
. arrange the ayprog.

A-CesBAry and
Plate channels fi

or tranant:tel e¢ fanta,
b. Pha Problem of J. ;

     

    
  

, : 8 anc Lawysre is alan an not
to which no teen Sracciately, Ag analyals ap
the etatua

were ons 4. SS ord,

Teert tg Saving ty

Upen recetct af
Lo @ deciston,

fr, MIRO Snewar to thts ins

            

 

 

formatina, alOli deltvaree threw cy
FAGON, wag that he aca 7@85 tolls vOOy 3 Ag OA
y Seztanter, thas a4 Bolitlog b arvives ag Cre Oring the
Aacees and lawyera,  spacyy: SMAatcally exartpe sane 3
but when PRSSsec Cor cetalis bY tue -

 

Were teed could, nob, or

 
 

 

 

 

aor atone yor os

 

 

fy, MIND and bis sateuraze should not talk indiscriminately

ant lousaly atout voaiinetton cf tne tes eontacs, Col,

dchnanon, bul ¢ i. cleniy, cob attesptins
ereat paltat

wilont ly

 
    

 
   

    

vo represint ib t: exile prealy
-trbuaph indbeaticg &@ muidate Lor 4 The under: get nm:
pether he and MIP" hat any qauntione oa the force,

 

poing and apen cabhiac hack to AAS. wan todd that cIRO had
only ons question, whether he cosl. sapoct $5,000 for the Janae -
and lawyer for August, and tho oase around for by tesber. Phe
ma'ereigened angered affirrativaly, wnfch eatisfied APA and
Kiko and the eonvarsstion unde?, Th seraigned taen advieud
to/si7h of the upahet of the consareationa of lo Py tathurs

  

 

e-°

Hy Se CHASE RLALN
why T0/B
