74-0009}

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

conugetent businesasan te supervise hie financial affairs.
Parther, once lecated (preferably by us) future suppers
payaents would be aade to the business manager instead of
te A-l, with stricter accounting and double-chec«aing
fmvolwed. 1¢ would also be suggested that less security
would be cbeserved and more direct looxing into A-] busiases
would be the order of the day. Ag auch, it is ales -
rocoumended that the undersigned be allowed to sctually
visit the farm and report back on the actual status of the
fara. A-~l would also be told that henceforth, except oa

FI cellection missions, he should confine his efforts to
the farm and developing @ sensible program for cooperntive
training of Cubans, not Micaraguans, or any other nationale,

%. Y's ewumery A-1 should be told that unless be is
prepared to refocum hia activities more realistically the
Ageacy’s gravy train is about te pull into the station.

 

 

 

one - aalokees c ee) bina reay

CrAnrt
eounLs

 

 
     
   
  
   
  

 

  
14-0000)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

 

  
 
  
   
  

i "geerRetinece: (OU Re tm
. , HbsatZeee
a: loa DIR INFO NEXT CITE WAVE 78518

af Le

ES

 
      

TYPIC AMKTIOR MHGUTLE ann iP ; a
S PROPOSE HAVE ANKNCS~i PASS FOLLOWING TO CUIS VIA Se LETTER:
he FROM ALFREDO BORGES) MANUEL ARTIME ASRIVED MIAMI 6 OFC

FROM NICARAGUA WHERE HE INSPECTED BASE WHICH ME STILL KAS THERE,
APTINE CONTINUES PE VERY FRIENDLY WITH PRESIDENT LUIS SOMOZA.
“PROM OSIEL GONZALEZ’ EL“ COJO" ‘ROCHE WAS FORMERLY c-2
itEF Ww CAMAGUEY. LATER ‘TRaNSFERRED To. HAVANA... TOCK EXILE iN Emeassi
BCUADOR ako “LEFT CUBA. ViA BRASIL. “ accorDrsa To OSTEL ROCHE HAS
sits to Purrto Rica “AND wiant, But 1s now W NEW road '

  

 

  
 
  
  

  

      
       
 

     
      
 
 

 
 

: NETTAER. SOURCE GAVE A
B INGuEz LOYO, SUB Dinector :

  

 

  
  

 
   
 

ae is Pate ® HE aBdhe.

 

 

 

saeennet lah timeinemrrt

Hl
‘
H

 
 

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

iF “sa

Therefore, should 4-1's project moet with success, Somcca
would benefit both financially and politically. It is
@ifficult to imagine A-1 deriving the sane advantages
especially whea added to these considerations, is the fact
that they bave nothing whatever to do with Cuba of Cubans.

 

 

 

 

- . 4. As. to the second factor, and returning to the more

aT ; realistic aspects of the problem, A-1 ia the past has desca~

Is atrated bis ability to sell ideas and projects. In & word

. be i@ @ politician. Kowever, when it comss to administrative,

bi business and financial matters he is singularly inept. This

rt . was amply demonstrated during the AMVORLD era whea it vas

. : ealy thanks to the efforts of other well-qudlified people

: . that the project was ever able to sustain itself, in

@umary, as it now stands A~l is in the position of being

wholly beholdva of the good offices of General Somose. -

fie further derives no political advantages from this end

| is engaged in projects for which he has ne basic qualifications.
Ya a sense he ie leading with his weakest card. More

eericusly, hia efforts are politically out of focus.

: 8. The above presests an aduittedly gloony picture of
Ai and his current activities, however, there are certain .
aspects of the eituation shich might be used in order to.
‘gechannel A-l's efforts. For one, A-l claims that bis ce

; gagasine Tridente is now running in the black (this, of courage,

thy eoues from A-l eho probably has difficulty distinguishing an

: i . ageet from a liability). Secezdly, he baa purchased 22 acres

. ~ ef lend in West Palm Beach wheve be is supposedly to otart —

. training Nicaraguan Indians in the complexities of couperative
farming. Both ef these endeavors represent the positive sad
realistic side of A-l's progras. They also represent, or —
eould represent, his Cuban efforts instead of his Nicaraguaa
efforts, Instead of Nicaraguan Indians, 4-1 should be- a
concentrating on training Cuban exiles. Using the preceeds. —

 

show place for his cooperative students. In so doing he would
be refetusiss bis polities} efforte while at the came. tine

' dagrewiag bis Cubsia isage. From ths Agesey's point of vicc
&¢ could alse be more easily supervised. " .

6. { 4s therefore requested that the undersigned be
_ gilewed to eit dows with 4-1 and point out the folly of his ;
eurvent activities and attempt to refecus them along the lines
mentioned above. Should he accept these euggestions further
efferts would then be made to encourage A~1 to hire @ :

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
74-000

' , , CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4 -

 

i a AS December 1965 —

    
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
   
 
  
  

 

 

 

i
i
SUBJECT: “Status of ANCIVIC = AMBIDDY-R 0 | an

|: MEWORANDUM FOR: Deputy Chief, WED for Cuba

ly .

| 2 ie

! 1, The status of the AWCIVIC activity has reached

the point whecve i¢ must either be made into a weeful ongeieg :
activity or die for lack of purpose aad justification. t

‘8, As it now stands the activity's Principal Ageat,
4UBIDOY-1, is both literally and figuratively ‘flaying about”
im @ series of half-projects and haif-pians which are —
- peither meaningful to the Agency, meaningful to A~) wr
geaningiul to.his political movement. If he i@ to be taken
at his word he is curreatly deeply involved both financially
“aad politically with Genvral Arastasic Somesa of Kicaragua,
Financially he has committed some $75,000 of his Movenent'a
| gomey in @ shipbuilding scheme supposedly to be established |
at Monkey Point, Nicaragua. The plas, as envisioned by A=-1,
Gould be, that upon completion of these shipyards, they would \
effer esployment and. educational opportusities for the !
ignecant and poverty stricken Indians of the area. Once |
im operation, A-1 expects that the profits froa this.
@pgeration will be piowed back iste’ other endeavors such
Qa @ fishing cooperative. and a farming coopera tive=-also
. te ultimately benefit the area‘n indigenous populatics.-
411 of this, of course, hinges upon two fundamental factors:
Piretly, it depends upon the continued gocdwill of General —
, together with his willingness to contribute monies . ; |
1

 

n.d

 

 

 

 

 

 

re

LJ
to the previously wentionsd scheme. Secoudly, it depends to
: @ lesser extent upon A~l's ability te forge ahead with the
.. -pregram. This ia tars hinges wpca A-l's financial status
- . @md abilitios. ; a

3. dé to the first zactor, General Sasona has never hed -
& reputation for benign magnuanimity. The facts show quite oO
the opposite. He kas a renutetien gor being a hard-headed
self-geeking busineusminswilitariat who now sepires te political
office. Anyone wks gau help obviously receives his support.

  

 

 

  
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sg

 

 

 

 

 

 
ya-o0000ff

: CIA Approved for Release ~Rel 4

‘| - Toop . 2

} de todo el ws, y aie cmaiicomnte for latinowctsiais
6eSe iniciuad en (nem ti (onstauceioa ded ratic‘er de due! iadds y ce Le Focunla
{

i de Eguipos Pearcnd » :
oe Trtaperanos cue « fines de {reno venga el puince sauyp de Dndioa « toma ol cus de :

i couperativas en nwealen Canna dadeo. él Gobicano Niccaaciiense pasa el vinjegnom ;

| . dots pags de est.ncia y sade necesita us saber, oF aonstyuime fae viens de

f ; doe Estudos linidos, Lo cursos dusanin 3 meses, (ada crupo seal de tras indioss

; 8 la Reviata Taicente ha aurentodo au venia y au Linda, y actuleente ce distaibuye

we |

F iAlomi, Nao Youk, (hicago,(alifatnia, Las Angeles, Puente Pico, Tanga, Vienaaguea, (asm r

£2 Rls, Honciuane, Verezsela,fapaia y Aleraniaagn Copia ae diatribuys gentle yy

7 prasoralnente, pues el Gobieaw no ha peanitico su venta Libses ; ep

© Se ent temicnde ok ‘rae de Polite ‘ntemctived de Ja cule de (opaete a
*. delfn, de Dinigentaa cel (Re... rs

“10-Apnts venon cjarplaen del falltor nos de hein? que fowra puste ' }

de laa textos que se editan pasa los militontes del Movimiento, pao que juede | i

Mier, GALL pane quien quiera enocen da idiveinercia ded latino /mericnno.

imfate cit el Movimiento aepantind juguetes en Wavidad (ain te huniLlacién de da

piblicided) ening lo Nijoe de toe whileee y frases del leviniedo ue ein

ide ati diate pasa da impreaitn el Libsos * Cubsr Rasta, ‘axe 0 Lim-Pizo? del

‘que Les eacribe que ea un analisia de loo factones ue han inteavenido sa ad

‘aubdecarnollo econdmico de latinomamenion y que analiza my de concn da excep

‘elén ded oxso (ubasSostione que tas comuntatas jante han aide fnaiatia er des

“aplloncifn dustin del determiniemo econinion,y que da teale (Aina eo pelignoea

_ Pangan no ae emeniatar ino cue analiza doe probleme econinicas de cevendo oon

a tanta nent y venti de Rattan oo

ag ast

   
 
   
    
    
  

 
     
 

  
 
 

 

 
 
 

  
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

om Stn een nea pom €l momento oe deepice de Vdax con un abrazo,

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

 

# 3

‘jm Catt. en catudio dos pirfletos que cizorlasion pesidciccoente por GAAedy uno fas

_ das exbanoas (uba pos centao (tao puan ciaarlor jue ladinow nérions Cubatda
vease colyaéde
feVolveive o inaistia en la necesided de enpezae, cunto antes on un program en
onda Jaaca pasa (ubo,dos o tres veces a a senna, donde se nos dé oportunidad
de habloale o las milicianss,a los beexdasa bos niicizaes,« dre técnicoaa lo 4
estaliantes,a los obsencs ya lad campesinos, Solo necesitceme el eepucio de
dlenpo y el mato de Loe “Tapes"olo dents va por cients del Jwvinientos

 

ee

’

 
14-0000

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

&

= i

  

 

— S990 0 ee eee
. Chief of Station, WAVE es

pest PBRULEN/AMBIDDY/CIUAESE/Opera tional

    

       

ACTION REQUIRED: None; for your information and files.

REFERENCES: A, DIR 60049, 23 Nov 66

B. 6746, 1 Now 68
c. 8309, 2 Jan 64
DB 9889, 3 Jan 64

         
          
 
  
     

1, References A and B concern reporting by AMBIDDY/1 on
“am alleged conspiracy developing in Venezuela among Right-wing
members of COPZI to overthrow the LEONI regime. JMWAVE reviews:
_ the two reports (references) and is forwarding pertinent
-dnformation developed for appropriate use by addressees.

2. Reference A paragraph 2 states AMBIDDY/1 said .
‘Venezuelan Major (fnu) *GUTIERREZ representative for
' . ' plotters) commutes. between Caracas and Miami, and hig telephone

. -@umber in Miani is 387-0795, :

       
   
     
      
    
  
  

  

4. The Miami sumerical telephone directory lists the —
telephone number 887-0795 for Anselmo "ALVARADO, 560 Falcon . i
4ve., Miami sino tes Florida. (For additional WAVR info re one
, Anselmo ALY: see Reference D.). .

 
  

   
    

 

  

 
 

phone notebook waich”
: belonged to jinjor Rafael Ange’ WOLINA Franco when he empaeell
was exptured.

| Biitribution:

 

 

 
   
    

 
    
   
   
  
     
   
   
    
       
 

 

{o4-10163-10176 CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

 

é
HADCREAL MLVELSE a AT CO. HB AIMIAPTLES BY
HOUSE SEMECE CXPILDTEN 0% ASSASSPHATIONS STARE REIELES -

FILE TUPLE/NUMREP/VOLINIL:, (| ARTIME-Buese, Manuel

 

 

 

 

 

 

. 201-0267437
. Las ————— e
ae my, Volume XIV oo .
- . —_— et, ’
INCLUSIVE DATES: 2 _ oo an
» CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: — . i ; Le ee
a RNa: es. see. . gg

SELETIONS, UF.ANY: Third Agency Documents ; i

 

. ; 3 By . ® WAL 3 °
: Peas ven | IRETURNED PRINT NATE) ___ REVIEWING OFFICTAL. 7

“8 f 2 Ave BB ng wo | Leslie WIZELMAN Sima

    
         
     
 

seomeninnen 6 ase MY Se a +o eo eemeeercnsnnsis ee oo en Se

NO HUCHNENTS MAY ML COPTED OF REMOVED reo t mits Vink

ate

pwede,

 

k
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

— CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4
CONTINUATION OF A :

CiSPATCH i SECRET [__VFGA-24108

 

 
  
  
 

  

  
 

 

 

: 3. Eeference B states that their (coup group) aili
contact is Colonel (fou) *xarti; Parada, On 30 July 1965

  
  
 
 
 

  

dog
in Miaui, who clains to bé a close friend of Colonel MARTIN:

4. (fou) MARTIX Parada, a retired colonel of the
Venezuelan Arned Forces, arrive: | from Venezuela on 28 July 1968
aboard a LESCA plane as “as ex & passenger", and was staying -
at the Hotel DiLido on Miami Seach.

 
 
           
     
  

 

B. ARAQUE said Colonel MARTIN had participated is

gseoveral ill-fated uprisings since General Marcos PEREZ Jimenes
was ousted,

   
      

: Cc. In 1962 MARTIN was imprisoned and later released
by presidential decree. Nowever, upon hia release, he vag
. Glemissed from the Venezuelan Arned Forces.

   
     
 
  

B DB. CIMARSH/I comavnted that from Conversations with
ARAQUE, he believes that FARTIN 45 active in conspiracies supported

  

 

   

 

ae
:

 

 

 
 

  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
   
 
  
 

CIA Approved for Release - Rel 4

4
iz 1G ce Bieiuntee de 1965

fas FoRte Laotan So °
| Rb Bm 5597 ee a, :
' budtiz se 40 Oe . Oo . a ;
bod :  fstioudo Seivaz e : “ 1:
| 7 fe presente co fame mitidovale de malas anuntos de ior
i la cna, min juntas etnies a deuroens al Gobieme da Pole t
\ | ttyha fAjade cow plaze haata'un téenino de 15 dine a postin de la fecha de da prem .
7 ; sente, para dua el yalpeLicio grupo ailitor envid una aemesenineién al (ononed ;
| | Pemeiano pana ponerle Ja siguiente altemativas o se une al Golpe y Lo elisen Jefe /
i «de Gobianw,e ce lo axinaaio, to eacnalan del mle en wo de que ellos triunfaram ° .
, “Eh Corwnal Poncinno eat dudoso y ha wnndado a pregunrtar al General Somign st optnisn -
hy el aespectoole han dado ? dina pusa decidir. Procunnd avericuna doa nombres de dos j

"militares y an fuierga acal dentao de las Fuengoa Armadaa.El estado del pals ea cadtir , a 7
|e y de Savon pon Jaa sccuesinas perpetiados por tas gueraillas de SOSA, que camera Pt
gan oon el cecuesteo y hasta con la eueatea quienes nv colabosan con dinero,

+ Bn€L Licenciade Oruber de (oada Riza,me ha pedido apa abierta del Movimiento pam
- demostion en su conpata electoral que El no 0s un nuevo Fidel (asto.la revista Taider:
dalclanln pratin del nimena de Diciontne, una serie de aeponiajes exclusives con Cdubery
* encaminadss a exte fins . Lots i
FN sin Ls gmat de Gs ae pe
haga avias eae mies parts de Loe comniainany pase de dae conapiaadanee Fronk
- Maashal! ¥ (onpaitia. (ands da verifizue se lao envio, -
“be Teng see ds organiza de sepunie de (pete Pox del ER) pms satan da
« eetnn ok Sok Siva, ate aan oh Jl de abn ok (td
__, Fidel (aetna.

Seles envle el ditinn egemplan de Watterto Javeilt sega de measdsas joventilan,
Re aes pin the tha ongninclones jarnilety inclined dea nbvensltealagy

 
 
 
    
 
  
  
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
