 

:
; . ; Fes! of ae

.

Pa
’
re

; 5. Ray inquired whether cr.not @ deciefon had been made'an the
veining of certain MRP singletons. I said that thie was a astter fer
@iscusaion on the teshnicel i-rel, (Comment: wnlese this hes been
done already, I would suggest that BE/U/ IM tranazit pertinent
instructions cu thie matter to MASH ag som aa possible.) a

6. Deo we bere explosives inaide Sabe nzw which could be give to
the MAP people at en early date, Ray asked? My anewer to tuis was that
I vinply id not mow. (Comment: I would suggest that WU‘L/PM examine
this matter end Mumnish pertinent instrustions--whatever thay may bom
to NASH.) : : :

"7%, While Ray never deviated during this meeting from hie previous - 9:
: agreemsnt to coordinate military ples with us, he casti:med te probe to :
r find out whether er net we would be willing to aiuply furnish hia the .
‘ means with wiich this group could witiaterally nowt operatieaca. & case
7 in pejots, We need a boat,* Say said. It ia realized that mich a best
i costs money and, later cm, cectaia cover arreagexents will hare to be
if devised. Could ws buy the boat; could we provide it with the necessary
. covers and, after this is de, would we then tara tha toat cvar to the
MRP to be used aa they see fit? Ny acseor was tht this would fall inte
the category of duplication, wach had bees explored Mlly previously
during this masting. (See parts one and two of this Contact Report.)

8. Ray informed me that he hed sent word to Tony Verona aid that @
y meeting with his would bs arranged acony ws all mast particinate in -
: establishing @ eystes under wich devocratic institutions caaJbe esta~
Fe Dlished and cen be preserved, Bay remarked. ,

9. Ray told me thet he asd Caibas had an appointaest wth & rr.
See Halparn(?) of Time eageains in the aftermesi af 22 Noverbder.

  

 

13. Could T expedite a visa fo Cuber. currently -

working in Matrid for Guastalie, a Cuba fira? ~

: iised by the H8P fn psychalogical warfare werk.
into this netter. ; .

ot

. vt Ld. About three tines daring the meeting, Ray made « Yeqcest for +

fi special maps wiich, he eaid, were prepared by the aerial Service” Company,
y in Poiladelphie, Permeyiventa. This company wag mot seiling these mapa

   
 

 

 

 

Rove Ne We poblicly. Could I use my inflaence with the Pentagon or.cther places to |

te \ / get these maps? Ray that this problem had bean raised pre-e”

Py - viously in Miaail wi {Goment: wilees there ere sume 0".

Ver x, strong objections, I Woald feel that these maps cvald be mate available i
It ie waggested that WK 1/ PH

! ~ >
mS ot te the MRP through our ailitary chaanel.
cof ~ carry the ball on this, be it pro cr con.) . : So,
7. . Ole oe.
12. Ray volimteered the infametion that /Sort Maria)bas! aout 200
men wider hie cumend in, Oriente Province. felt, tnar(Sort) bad big
influence dc the S:erre Maestra and that fe erate OVeta~Yes ware .
with the > However, afer the Se rasik we. sh|Escattcay actecwe, Bera ta}plo
eitmusiesm had cecled gpeehat ad perhaps tris woald not ne the tite to
sake aay arproacues to Sarr joe Joma t T seem to recall some men gag
PASM traffre oa Serf} nerafore, thip iter ta callel to Wi Eels .
sttention fcr witeres use ther inte? to wake cf tt.) \
i

   
 

104-10179-10010

 

ae |

ADR MN pr amenNTE Ree Se

CONTACT RFFCRY

Shue, Mgating wth Marvel tay a4 Rav] Chibas do the latter's
apartset Oo. east S0te Street, Nes York Caty) on 22
Noewrer, 19.0,

PART TARES OF THREE ©

1. This povtion ef ny repcré om shove meeting deals with miscel<
laneous inforstion which care up during that meeting and threw, per
heaps, some additivnal itght on the MAPla political posture. -

2. Throaghost the entire converrstita it ceceme quite clear that
Marcel Say and his advisars suet have dies seed anorget themselves the
various prebing qoustivss watch Berder had reseed with Individual KRfers
OM Varicose oclatin:ss a9 @ regal! cf Cnese Cab amoriget themseives it
appears te ar tat tre NaF se beysrecg to Cone dow sone of tha acre
cCactreverssal postdoc gs there wae runeared reference to the Marts
desire anc corvictian ts tematn on the cf terme with the 0.5. and
to be fully comaittied u the free Weet  omast empnstically, Hey rejected
any Leplic atin thet ne ani/er bie grup mignt have "neitralist® aqdreq
tions--he des uct see hinealf in the rele of @ Latin Amoricun Mageer,
Again and again, Mavusl Ray emphast Let the unwed te fight. theSeret
Urior's influence in Cota te the uts When asked in‘ thi
whether he would retain the Sev n/oiace enbassies in:
tried te talk arcund tne subject, saying tnit these relatfonen:
have to be ccnetsered in the iight of existing circumstances at any
given tins; ne closed this tcpic by saying tust thesy desees of inter=
national eiguificarce had not been fully considered as yet by himself or
his etaff and thet they wald he given Cull thoveht-in the forthcoatng

weeks,

  

   

 

  
 

3.. Wren asked to define his position vie a-vie the Cuurch, Ray
pointed sith. prince to Valdes Pinc and heinol Gciseler—-the former an

dmportant lay Church leader, the latter an dnycrtant figsre in cabats

    

Gathelic lebur elexent. accomling to Ray, ave nigh-ranasy;
ere alec cleseiy affiliated with the MRP, Ir other words, Ray elaine
thet he Je working wall wth the Church aij the Church i6 ecrelag wail

with hJe scveunt. fe, lay, asked whether I hed receive the final copy
af the MMs privraa, wht ch he said was quite differant from the firet |

 
  

 

draft. that nad Sven ite to ae. (lomments this progras was recentiy  _

Pasliehed in dean; and de turreitiy belng translated by at, A cureory
exeeinallas atoes chat indeed tala pistfors has deer. toned dow a bite)

 

cue es ‘eisered f s~ tabt the Cuban Executive Caugattt ae cf Rascals

mh faseo and 19 now working closely with the KARP,

  

Foe a ta ye

ech

 

soot Bone?

Se ae be ae FM, MEAS 1H,

AS SEC a LET Rr eet V7 ay

  

te Set

fat

 
 

tates gyeea eames stern oo

se geceen,

 

  

SOT eg se pee mater com

" obtaining Intelligence {Tas
working on thes to induce their defection. Ray did not ust to give ths

 

ee,

a3, Appraciaately five HRP peente currentiy stetioned in New York .
are in touch with Pidelistas in that area, Ray seid. The HRP people are
as these Castro followurs and at tho cane tins

names of there people te mo and I did not porsee the astter farther at
thie session. © :

GFRARD DROLIRR
CAML Ts

 

GDrexh ;
Distribution:
Orig - cR

eo MRP
1 > Devt chev vers (ret 0.74)

iz - than . - ; . . .

 

 

 

1 5 RRR
