74-00000

zip

 

5. All information relating to this Agreement is classified
secret. Both CIA and the Company agree that the most stringent.
safeguards will be taken to protect this information, including
the existence of the agreement. Any information in any form that
must be given to a third party by either CIA or the Company will
‘be dons in strict conformance with the laws safeguarding national
secuxity information, and: only with full consultation between CIA

and the Company...

6. This agreement is sttective 1 1 October 1976 and shall. remain
-in full effect for an indefinite period, subject to cancellation
at any time upon sixty (60) days’ notice by either party thereto.

.The CIA wishes to express its appreciation for the manner
in which you have received this request to perform a service
related to the national security of the United Statea and for
yous Personal actention | thereto. .

 

“CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

 

   

BY ae
* Special Contracting Officer

 

 

 

 

    

“it age

 

 

President ; Date

   

 
froa-i0706-10042] ”

“ue Ne

 

“| .

  

 

eet

SF BRET 20 October 1976
. _ RETURNTO-CIA
. Background Use Only -

_ |, Do. Not Reproduce"...

 

 

 

SE
beax lr. Gteele,)

. This document fs intended to confirm discussione held between

 

‘yourself, representing _| hereinafter

 

referred to aa the "Company™ and Mr. John J. Hurray, Jr., representing
the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)... LE it conforms to your -

understanding of the agreement Teached, kindly so acknowledge by

signing below. —

"1," You have agreed on behalf of tha Company to assist CIA
by placing on retainer Mr. Richard T. Gibson at an annual. fee of

$9,900 per annw. Thin fee will he paid toe Mr. Gibson by the

Conpany in monthly increments of $750 each. The Company wilL
overtly negotiate a retainér contract with Mr. Gibson, which will
make eminently clear that both are negotiating and concluding the
contract as independent parties; that.the Company: will. have no.
obligation to withbold Federal, state or Social Security income

‘taxes.

2. In consideration of the support rendered, CIA will pay
the Company a fee of $10,000 per annun.:- Provision is ‘made in this
amount to offset any nominal expenses the firm incure in its overt
associations or support of Mr. Gibson. . :

' 3. CYA wil reinburse the Company in quarterly incremente
via « contrived contractual arrangement between the Company and
a notional facility of CIA. Cancelled checks will. serve aa
adequate accounting for monies paid the Company.’

“4, Because of CIA's interest in Mr. Gibson, it is requested
that the Company neither offer Mr. Gibson bona fide employment. nor
accept any proposal of employment from him without prior consent
of CIA for a period of two (2) years following termination of this
agreement.

E2IMPDET
CL by: 063837

 
