14-00000

SECRET ~

officialdom to be of real use. Similarly, Subject said

that he would not reveal Imbert's proposal to McGeorge :

Bundy, but would only deliver this proposal orally to - 5 .
the President. :

4. Tho Case Officer persuaded Subject to give him

a copy of the Imbert resignation (attached herewith with
: photos and newspaper clippings) and told Subject that the i ‘
, Case Officer would send these by messenger to the White a
pee House and would inform the President that Subject has a :
H proposal to convey to the President from Imbert. The
i Case Officer impressed upon Subjoct that it was not at
| all likely a meeting could be arranged with the President,
: Finally, Subject said he would wait until tomorrow after-
Boon or not later than Saturday and, if no meeting could
be arranged, he would return to Miami,

_ &, In the course of the conversation it became
apparent that Subject's personal reason for desiring a
4 meeting with the President is not so much to convey the
i Xmbert message but to have himself photog: aphed with the
a President and to derive publicity which would enhance

Subject's personal prestige among the members of the
- @xile Cuban community.

6. The Case Officer berated Subject, who responded
good naturedly, on his uncoordinated and unilateral
action as outlined above and told Subject that he was
only hurting his position with KUBARK, particularly if
it became known among newspapermen that he was a KUBARK
agent, Subject said he was sure this would not become
known and he could handle this aspect of the problem,
Subject also said that if his Case Officer in Miami was
unhappy with his behavior, Subject was willing to resign.
He said further he had just recently recoived an offer

7 | for a combined radio/television program from a Caracas,
| Venezuela station making an offer of $5,000 per month.

 

€Subject's KUBARK suiary if $3,000 per month,)}

7, Subject finally agreed that he would coordinate
with the present Case Officer in Washington prior to
any discussions with newspapor people here ur with Govern-~

ment people and that ho would report on mont ings to the
Case Officer,

Tee =
1
>

 

 

 
 

04-0166-1072]

a a es ats ‘
~ og . ‘\

 

SECRET

WH/C 65-372

& SEP Ere
a : et oo
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH Diyision
SUBJECT

a

Mooting Pita! Luis CONTE ero;
Date: 2 Saptember 1965; anes
Off Acer:

 

 

 

ages

 

t

i

?

}

1, A three hour meeting was held with Subject this |
Borning, The purpose of the meeting was to impress upon 3
Bubject the need to follow KUBARK direction concerning i
the aftermath of recent developments in the Dominican i
Republic. :
2, Subject reported the following: He talked by |

telephone on 31 August with McGeorge Bundy. Subject's H
interpretation of this conversation was that McGeorge ?
Bundy invited him to come to Washington, He also stated
that he had asked Bundy to, arrange. for a. meeting for him
with the President of the U. S. He did not explain to J
Bundy the real ourpose for wishing. a meeting with the ij: L
President. All he told Bundy was that he wanted to give . :
the President the original copy of Imbert's resignation, i '
What Subject really wants is to tell the President that ie .
Imbert has a proposal for provoking an attack upon the
Cuban Government involving the Armed Forces of the
Dominican Republic. Imbert's personal message to the
President (which Subject is to convey) is that the
Dominican Armed Forces are ready to engage in war against
Cuba, if the Dominican Armed Forces have covext U, &.
support.

 

 

3, . Subject said that as of 1330 hours voday he
had not heard from Bundy, but he had heard from Robort A,
Steyenson cf ARA/CCA and he was te meet with Stevenson
gome time this atterncon, As for the meeting planned
with Stevenson, Subject was completoly indifferent since
he did not consider Stevenson sufficiently high in U, 8,

 

}
coe RETURN TO CA, :
et tren] Background Use only | ;
Do Not Reproduos i

4

4

Ls

    
 

 
 

SECRET

te eee

 

Rass hae Sg

 

Fre,
 

 

 

 

oo

. -3-

8. Stevenson has becu informed by WH/C that he
is to tell Subject (if a meeting takes Place) that
Subject is to coatact his Case Officer in Washington.
Another meeting is scheduled with Subject before his
departure for Miar!, As the situation now stands it
is unlikely that Subject will have any contacts with
Government officials with the possible exception of
Etevenson, The present Case Officer has impressed upon
Subject the lack of wisdom in his present behavior, the
danger of blowing himself and the consequences that
would follow. Subject appeared to have understood the
gravity of the situation and expressed willingness to
cooperate, at least for the present,

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

tT. an
JOHN T, FLYNN
ADC/WH/C

Attachments:
Resignation
Photos
Newspaper clippings

 

 

SECRET
