 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

“14 damary 1970

to

_Aledander Herzea to defy to-[.of Economics. One of the in-
{

‘teur and father of Russian

IY YORK TIRES -

-New Dutch Group Is Publishing |
V/ritings of Soviet Dissenters:

Ry HENRY RAYVONT
A Rriup af West European, viet
1 , : | Obsessive
eet. ua a vat ized the §. rE! LS rere.
SIN, We Ales) gantarve said. “They
Herzea__Foundation. .in, chs there is nothing in Sowret
dam... ty disseminate’ jaw ta prevent them from pub.
Gras “by dissident Soviet! Jishing broad and thev insist
ters, { on exercising tier coe F
. _ What differentiates the Her-
The purpose is to protect the! 2°n Foundation from some of;
rs Tame anainst PACs! the émigré presets that publish,
eal exploitation, careless: manuscripts smugeled out of
uanclations ang other compli-! the Soviet Union. he maine
eatiuns that have often marked] tained, is that jt has the. ap-
the publication in the West of} Hrovel of the authors to acti
ae eects smugaled out of a8 their agent abroad.
ae Soviet Unian. i bl i
With the increasing interest! Established in 1968
sin Soviet dissent, scores of The foundation wos esinh-|
Wos'ort publighers in recent, lished in 1948 hy Dr, Karel van’
smontha fave tumned ta the hog Prve became foendly with
foundation fox book visits’ tol ditetatee at the Univer Gy af
suck warks as Andrei” Amal) Levden, with suppert from a-
Tiok's “Will the US.S.R. Sur-| group af Duich businessmen, }
vive Until 29849" Analy Ti” Whip he was Moscow core
Marchonko's “Ny Testimony," respondent for a Dutch newse,
and Cssays hy Favel Litvinov,|. paper in 1967 and 1988, Dr. van:
Brandsca’ af “Maxim Litvino,| hey Reve became friendly with
Soviet Foreinn Xinister under. several writers who asked i

 
 
  

 
      
    

  

 

  
 
 

 

 

    
   

Statin, he” hetped in Retting — their!
Though the translations re-+ books published in the West
ceived wide notice in the West-' | After he returned to Amsier- :
em press, Little was kaown dam in 1968, Dr. van het Revel
about tae foundation until one Was joined by Dr, Jan Besemvr,|
0 its representatives came here Another Russian Nterature pro-|
last week ta explaiy its role fessor, who was also H news-}
ited States publishers, Paper’ enrrespondent in Mos-|
We received ar inspiration Cow, and Prier Reddaway, a
from the enlightened cffotts of Jectarer at the London Schint

 
  

 
   

   
  
   
    
    

  

an methods against Rus-| Stiaute’s Principal advisers is
authors by publistring them} Max_] rd,
in tke West and sending theici Russ ture,
books back through a literary, The’ faundation’s procedure
undernzound, the” representa-, 8 t0 publish a manuscript in
tive, who asked Datto he ident its original Russian text, there-
“ied, said in-an interview. “Thy ‘insuring copyrigne befor
Herzen Had a 5 , ( offering 1 to publishers in
Herz ourna Western Europe and the Unit-
Herzen, an aristocratic litera. ed States.
1, Since it placed its first bao!
Socialism, in 1857 started alin. the West, Mr. Litvinov's
periodical, Kolokxet (The Bell),}"Dear Comrade” (published
3A London to publicize his idensihere by Pitman}, the organiza-
and those of other dissidents) tion has“suptPviged Gansta
banned by Tsarist autocracy.[tions and collected royaities
The journal established a long: for the authors. It is now pre-
tradition of Russian publishing Pating several test cases to de-
in exile that over the years hag termine whether the authors
included such authors ‘as Lenin, can be paid through official ac.
Gorky, Trotsky and Pasternai:. Counts ia the Soviet State
“The new generation of So- Bank. a

 

 

amet

 

 

 

 
 

 

[0g 10119-40367

20 February 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:
SUBJECT: AN HET REVE, Karel ~ £339052

: REFS} Atteched Clippings from the HEW YORK TIMES €td 11 Jan 1970 and
NEWSWEEK dtd 12 Jan 1970

 

le References reported that Subject, founder of the Alexander Herzen
Foundation in Amsterdam, is publishing the writings of Soviet dissenters;
notably Andrei AMALRIK, Andrei SAKEAROV, Pavel LETVINOV end Anatoly f. MARCHENKO.

ee

 

 

Sereh K. Hell
ers /os
;
J Atts. Refs.
ZL rb al
“e phe hie :
4 ee : ae
vad Le. “
fhe
ge Ad
gt

—.

 

 

wie)
SS

 
 

CO’

Peres Ie nat

aé January 1970

Underground Press os

  

Hy normal city-desk standards, Karel
von Tet Reve wasn't much af a news.
eorad Th his dass as Moscow corr, spend.
forthe Death daily Pet Parool, “I
pt foreetting fo atk names asl age,”
heotecalls. Hut then, van het Heve was
coally acscholar of Hussian diteratnre who
ha bony

 

    

   

 

signed on with the newspaper
of spending a year-or so in the
nion, And now, back at his lee-
M Levdeo University, the mild-man-

 
 
   
  
  
  
 

 

writer who printed
no matscripts abroad, van
hecun releasing a flood of
political deceuments and

carake rite sind
miomoirs for publication in the West.
Acting ouly as agent and translator, van
bet Reve made headlines with the hitter,
apocalyptic Pamphlet “Will the USSR.

 

Survive Gatil SS42" by youthint historian
4 Amatvik, which appeared in tho
ie of the British quarterly Sarvey,

a het Reve gave Ne

 

  
   

 

: poe A00-pave dossier on the
closedadoor trial of four Russian clissi-
derts—Yuri Galanskor, Alekwinds Ginz-
Aleksei Dobrovelsky and Vera
Lanthonvanthat took place in Mason's
grim: Kolunchevka Street courthouse in
carly TOS,

Van het Reve, as it happens, “oor.

 

   

  
 

rest af Moscow's foreign press corps
subzero cold on the street ontside the
court, “The charges were, in essenee,
ro tv in the production of a “white
i of al cedly anti-Soviet documents
cermin the 1966 ty
Yak Daud and Andrei Sinyavsky plus
abeged enllysion with NTS, a counter.

  
    
 

  

 

ered” that trial himself, Mrivering with -

al of writers -

Co

igré gronp jin
riends of the ac.

 

tionary Russian
Franklurt, Germany, }

   

 

~ensed smuggled out themnuail accounts

of cach day's procer Ears, and when
the triad ended, van het Rove, through
his friendship with one -of ‘the self.
Appeinted court reearders, came jato
possession of the 120 diferent manu-
setipts which make up the book that
Loogmans Green will publish in Britein
“Mater this year. . .
_ Time:
technical, courageous voices like that of
Ginzburg bring the combative atnos-
phere nf the tral ta life.“ thought and
J oovtinue to think naw.” he dechired to

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

the judge! “that if J iev’* agree with -
qicg,

semething EF should express my disagrer-

, Ment openly... Dkaow that you will con-

“van het Reve insists that the Herzen_

 

vict me ‘because not ane person charged
under Article 70 [anti-Soviet activity) has
ever bec? acquitted, 1 will co off to the
camp calmly to serve my time.” .
Van het Reve naturally isn’t eager to
reveal how he smngyled out this mass of

decunentation. “Let's just say Toman.

aged,” he smiles. Probably through the
time-honored methods af the plain brown
cenvelope and the Iugeace of departing |
foreigners, he and the Herzen Founda-
tion, which ironically occiipiey Thé former
headquarters of the Dutch Communist

Party in Amsterdam, have “managed” to

reeeive nant only the Amalik pamphlet
and the Cinvburg trial records, but a
steady flow of ather anti-regime works
inchuling a sherp attack an Soviet politics
hy Andrei Sakharov, the noted nuclear
phisicist, and’ a factual account of life
in the U.S.S.R.’s Jaber camps hy Anatoly
Marchenko, who is stil! serving fime for
“agitation

A Japerd Stalinist tamed democrat,

 

 

 

Foundation is apolitical, “Our only aim is
to give these people a chance to publish
and that’s all,” he says. And if he can

keep his foundation clear of damaging -
Support and free of any profit .

 

outsid,

rustive anys ms

well di

  
 
 
 

Tet EAL gas yy,
a the er vifon Gia
ands abroad, :

 
    

Though much of the material is -

 

 

 
