 

 

   

 

 

 

~~ ate

if
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Search rte ae

 

Pees. try

 

 

 

 

 

 
74-0000

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

   

 

 

 

   

  

i" , ;
. : =
: . . .
= a ‘ ae pos , So o - . . -
f oo oS : "
: .
Hi 7 we
. . e .
.
. LL .

           
14-00000

 

 

 

er
we

bo

. ‘4. A major concem hes been uniftastion of the various exiled
factions. This has now started, but tiw comnittes fools thet
é ch represent should be proportionately reprase:ted
musact during the exstera period cr reconstructions
vat. o lafists of ‘any shaie should be included in the
provis governaant.  Cuainenrs representatives 6f the socnante
classes should. particigete for the firwt tise in’ Cuban politics snd -
should de consulted et all stages» : : fe

5: They expbanteed that the problan ta not merely @ Cuben one,
wut ie © Qmmamist springboard against the United States. They urgee

‘that the United States dq vhat they, the businessmen, failed to do in.

Cubs - to teke the ofimmsive. _Developacsts in Cubs have followed the
elascic Cammofst techniques, £0 thet it sxuld not be difficult to -

enticlpata future mores. ‘United Btates propagenia sust be overhauled.

lénel potal, somo Latins are deglaning to suaier vhother they are rigt
about tha United Btazea ead whathor they should ovttoh aides. videl
Castro won his revdlutiou by proyagenis eat sot by are. ;

6. the primacy worry of the comittce scans to be the lefist
orientation of leaders vbo-nava taken over ihe goremmect in exile

as mindaters. £2 42s tro 3°

‘of. tha bet espects of the Custro program,

Te ailvio Sanabria commented thet, although CIA eppeared to be”
fn tench with all of the other Cuben grosye, s9 doe had eyproached
hia orgentestion to esaist or to learn what tt was doings The whole
committee offercd to be of any possible ascistance to CIA et. any tine.
So effort wes pede to solicit information er unde fron CIA during .
this seesica. : ; a . . :

F. gd. Serida,

Pnclosures: 3 ARZC documente

WelA2T9

 

 
 

 

 

  

 

 

a EE

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
https://asc-app-0 1! :7002/jfk/boxes/JFK64-28/coversheets

Hn

OCUMENT

SECRET

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

|

Box Number:  JFK64-28

Source Number: 104-10193-10147
CADRE Ref ID: C00559494

Pub Date: 03/24/1961
Pages: 8

C00559494
104-1 10147

0193-

 

 

 

SECRET

76 of 105 1/12/2015 1:54 PM

 
 

 

2p

 

FROM,

CONF:

pe INFO

|. yume REF: WE 5177 (uy 1378)

 

BELL 16
CoP, ADDP/A, WH 3, BELL S/C

PRIORITY KAVE
RAS]

AUIHORTTY GRATED FROVIDE YUNDG PER REF.

 

|
|
|
|

Jo.

WH Cooment: #AMYUME orgsnizatios took possession, of 100,000 paso:
; ta Caba for witeh wa peovide 20,000 U.8. dollars
to.s source in Misat. Fis are for epsrational

APTES
o3
: o/wi/h/PH h VA
meee c/w) FHABCE
AS RRB BRED ; SECRE? AUtHANTECAy ”
Copy No

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

   
   

  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
   

Nes

 

       

  

sont HO.
1 APR SS

237

3

SENDER WILh, CHECK CLA’
eee
ron TNCEASSUELED.

 

CENTRAL

 

 

   
  

 

 

{ INTELLIGENCE
OFFICIAL ROUTIN

 

 

 
74-0000

 

 

   

 

Chief, Contect Bivision a ah March 1961

Atta: Gugport: Branch (Croviey) rrr aT

Chief, Washington Office
Interview vith AKEC Comittee

1. kt the request of Mr: Asheraft for feichitt, Wi Divieicn,

Frank Sheridan {aterviewed the cosmsities for ARED at the Washington yf

Field Office sa 24 March 1961. ‘hey consisted of Abel Mustre. Victor
Pedroso, Silvio Ganabria, (eslie Pantin, Carlos Garcia del Tren, and

Paul Seiiman. Hestre eteted thet the organization vaa founded about

June 1960 in Miaxt es oe clandestine apolitical group with the objective
to ovurtbrow Castro, to unite the various Cuven exile Quin and to

oc -qpemte laws fur the effective revonstructicn of Cuba. Fembarship ts
conprised of. individual businesaxes rather than representatives of

2. The coumittee hed been meeting with various Guited States
officials in Vashington, D. C., to acpress ite vicws. Ite mubers
ere worried over Ceatro propaganda, which, although wntrue, has been
accepted eo fact, tes, twenty thousend killings by Betista ani the
Clain that Castro's wes eo social revolution rather then a political —
ong. ‘they poluted out that the Cuban econony ves forserly prospering
with an enlerging middle class, se that the tems social revolution
hes beea used uy Castro primarily to promie iciist sussures. in
addition, Labor leglalation vae in effect which actually pot euployers

ef 9 disadventege vith erployees, compared to ths other countries of

Latin. America. ‘he problem facing Cudan labor ves primarily the

‘seasonal Gua crop econcmy. ‘iow the pecole Lave less pay, less

camodities available, no claims agniast qyone and merely vork for
@ Castro-Cosraaist government. Tke farmer hea not been helped by
agrarien refoas, bit has been obliged te enter cooperatives or to
aell his crags et controlled prices, which are pald when and hov
the goverment pleasce: This ie merely an imitation of vit Castro

promised. .

3. The connttes fecls thet spporters of tho revolution ectuaily
were seeking Ionssty in goverment aud the Liberty outlined in the -
1940 constitution. In thie regard, the orabars feel that the Comsnists
nay try fore eecond round in any government revlecing Costro. Such ‘
mm tnterin regice must develop cereal measures to promote true
democratic elections. ‘This govermest may include covert Comamists
uto would be ao constamt threat. For thie reason, it was emphasized
end re-emmbasized thut the exile leatars be most carefully screened

by the United states before their returu to Cuos.
