74-0000

 

   
  

Additionally, the files of other individuals ass
Mr. Robert A. Maheu were also searched. These i
Peter R. Maheu, Mr. John Meier, and
currently an Agency contract emnnloyee, who was
daring 19683 and i! in under & comme

arrangement provided by the organization.

 

 

 

 

    
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

3. Memoranda were located in the file of Mr. Johnny

Roselli which summarize contact on 26 February 1971,

initiated by this Agency with the Commissioner, Immigration
and Naturalization Service, Department of Justice, Nr. Raymond
Farrell. The purpose of this effort was to intercede with

the Immigration and Naturalization Service on behalf of Mr.
Roselli in the action being initiated for deportation. It

was determined that this Agency would be kept informed of the
prosress of the action against Mr. Roselli in an effort to
forestall public disclosure of his association with the United
States Government. The Attorney General at the time of these
contacts with the Immigration and Naturalization Service was
Mr. John N. Mitchell.

4. On 21 March 1974, this matter was discussed with Mr.
John C. Richards, Office of the Inspector General; Mr. Lyle L.
Miller, Deputy Legislative Counsel; and Stanton F. Ense,
Deputy Director for Personnel Security and Investigations,
Office of Security. The Office of Security file on Mr. Johnny
Roselli was made available to Messrs. Richards and Miller,
including the memoranda cited in paragraphs 1 and 3 above. Mr.
Miller indicated that he planned to await a follow-up call
from Mr. Lenzner on this Subject.

Stanton F. Ense
Deputy Director of Security
Personnel Security and Investigations

tw
Te

?

0096-100

ng 10096-10030] -

om,

moe

 

(25 RAR RTS

- MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD . .
" SUBJECT: ‘Agency Contact with the Immigration and

Naturalization Service on Behalf of Mr.

Johnny Roselli. -

Reference is made to a request forwarded to the

eg
Office of Security on 19 March 1974, by Mr. John C.

Richards, Office of the Inspector General. The Subject
of inquiry is based on a request for information, made on -
135 March 1974, by Mr. Terry Lenzner, Assistant Majority

Chief Counsel, Senate Select Committee on Presidential

| Campaign Activities, to.Mr. Lyle L. Miller, Deputy Legis- |
-Lative Counsel. Mr. Lenzner cited a 14 May 1962, Agency

memorandum which refers to contact between Mr. Lawrence |.
Houston, then General Coimsel, and the then Attorney -

'- General, Mr. Robert Kennedy, with the intention of "quashing ~
of a Grand Jury organized crime indictment against Sam a

' during President. John F. Kennedy's Administration were being ~~

“ Gianconni (sic) (Salvatore Giancana)." Mr. Lenzner is under- .

Stood to believe this reported contact and the circumstances |.
surrounding the intended Agency utilization of Mr. Giancana

surfaced in 1971 as part of an effort to obtain blackmail- ©

oe type information on certain principals in the Democratic

Party. Mr. Lenzner specifically requested information on ~~

" Agency contacts with the Administration during 1971 relating ae

““to this matter.

os 2. The files and records of ail individuals identified
'. with the planned utilization of Mr. Glancana were searched. -..
' These individuals included Mr. Robert A. Maheu, who arranged ~~

contact with Mr. Giancana through Mr. Johnny Roselli: Mr.

Richard Cain, recently deceased, whe was identified in the

_ press as knowledgeable of Agency association with. Mr. Giancana;

‘and Mr. William King Harvey, retired Staff employee, who
acted as principal contact with Mr. Roselli during the -
late 1960's and up until Mr. Roselli's incarceration.

E2 IMPDET.
CL BY 061142

eb een nereeeenen verse

 

 

 
