 

ory

 

4. Mr, Bissett also apparently informed Mr. Esterline and Colonel
King that the proposal ta move from JMCGAPE to an adjoining area along-

., side JMRIM had been disapproved because of the strong opposition of the

Office of Communications and the Central Cover Group, Accordingly,

“Mr, Esterline is now willing to go along with the recommendation we.

made last week and which was approved in writing by ‘Colonel King that
a team be sent out as soon as possible to the Florida area to attempt to
assess the problem and find a new suitable location or locations,

. 5. Mr, Estofline stated that there had also been some discussions
with Mr, Bissell and Colone} King on maritime assets and that they would
like to have as soon as can be Prepared a paper on the subject of maritime

» activities, including the financial and any other pertinent aspects , and

activating of the -85-foot craft which had previously been discussed with

the. PM people, Mr. Esterline stated that he would also like to have a

paper on the subject of possible sabotage school sites and factors affecting
the reopening of Randolph, : :

6, Comment: It is abundantly clear that, for political reasons, the
Special Group is. not prepared to make any decision on the CRC matter weet
and this re-write job is strictly busy work, Accordingly, no significant
changes in our previous Position scem to be indicated,

 

 

 

 

DC/WH/4

” REW:dla (9 June 1961)

Distribution:
1-0 - C/WH/OPS

1 ~ C/WH/4

1 - DC/WH/4
WH/4/Exec
WH/4/ Plana
WH/4/Intel
WH/4/Support
WH/4/FI-CI
WH/4/PA-PROP
WH/4/PM
WH/4/Financel

‘

 

i
i
1
i
i
I
i
t

 

 

 

 
 

| RE Baka

 

9 June 1961

MEMORAN-DUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Planning for JMATE Activities

i
i

1, Mr, Estorline, C/WH/OPS, ‘stated 8 June 1961 that the Special
Group had met on that date and, in addition to the Nicaraguan paper, had
considered the paper prepared by Branch 4 on 7 June, entitled: Policy :
Decisions Required for Apuenc Relationships with the CRC and OF
decision of the Special Group was to negotiate

Cuban Exile Groups, The
bring the subject back to the Group later,

this matter with State and

 
 

 

 

2, Mr. Easterline’ stated that he had discussed this matter with Mr,
Bissell who would like tu have by next Monday night, 12 June, a re-write
of the paper of 7 June, Mr. Esterline discussed the re-write at some
length, Basically what Mr, Bissell apparently wants is a memorandum
forwarding three or perhaps four individual memoranda covering the -

.8ame throe subjects which we presented before plus perhaps Swan -laland,
Mr, Bissell wants it gpelled out more clearly why a major part or all of
the support to the respective activities must be overt, In the event that
we Consider, which we probably should, all the pros and cons in this
matter, we should spell out who the funds come from, the delicate point
of if the funds coma from the Agency, should the Agency then have a re-
view responsibility over the Department of State in ite distribution of |
said funds, On the other hand, if we do not have a review function, then
we must be, in writing, relieved of responsibility once we have turned
over said funds. This, of course, will bring out the basic inconsistency

in the Agency's being involved,

3. Mr. Biaselt eaid that he had looked at our budget again and was
not satisfied with it, and accordingly it would have to be rewritten -- his
main objection being that he does not want the items for support of the CRC
and related entities mentioned in the preceding paragraph included in said
budget. He also commented that in our presentation, presumably referring
to the presentation of Paragraph 2 above of the budget of the CRC, he did
not want a breakdown of FRD items, but rather one whole budget for the CRC, |

 
