74-00000

Fitzgerald assured the DCI that the highest priority had been
assigned to the above program within SAS.
COMMENT: See the AMTRUNK Operation paper and attached
biographic sketch on Tad SZULC, a possible foreign agent.
" SZULC claimed to have had direct access to President
Kennedy, Attorney General Kennedy, and McGeorge Bundy on
a continuing basis concerning Cuban matters since early
1961. If true, that would have placed him in a position
to be used as a possible channel by which policy infor-
mation on CIA operations and activities conceivably could

have gotten to the Cuban Government or to the Soviets.

DDO/LA/Kennedy Task Force:Chris Hopkins:rp

   
74-0000

 

2. A Secret-Sensitive draft memorandum from William

Harvey to the DCI, dated 27 November 1962, which outlined

‘on-going operations and suggested proposals for continuing

activities. Page 12 made clear that an intensive program

would be continued to take advantage of any possible opportunity
to weaken, subvert, or split the regime in any possible fashion,
which was recognized as a long term effort. Page 16, para V. B,
recommended that the plan be discussed with the Special Group
(Augmented) for concurrence. ,

3. A memorandum to the DCI from Desmond Fitzgerald, undated,
attached to a buckslip dated March 1963, which outlined a program
to exacerbate and stimulate. disaffection in the Cuban Armed |
Forces. The DCI had requested that TFW submit a plan to split
the military establishment from the CASTRO/Communist regime
with a view to replacing the existing regime with one acceptable
to the U.S. The CIA proposal was to identify and seek out
disaffected officers and attempt to convince them that their
future lay in disposing of CASTRO and establishing a new govern-
ment which could be returned to the OAS. (This appears to be
the AMTRUNK Operation. See separate memorandum.) Pages 9. and
10 cite a statement made by President Kennedy in his speech
at the Orange Bowl in Miami, Florida on 29 December 1962 [to
the approximately 1,150 Bay of Pigs prisoner returnees.

Kennedy's statement reportedly had a favorable impact on the Cuban
populace which might have bothered CASTRO.] Fitzgerald stated that
CIA would also explore leads to dissident elements in Cuba from

journalists such as Tad SZULC of the New York Times, et al.

 
74-00000

  

One, some, or all of the foregoing individuals
could have reported to the goc, Agency attempts to
recruit them. . Further research is necessary, and
indeed recommended, to determine whether those who
did agree to cooperate were run back against us.
Knowledge by the GOC of such recruitment attempts
against some of their highest level officials,
together with GOC knowledge of other CIA activities
targetted against Cuba, might have prompted CASTRO
to consider taking retaliatory action. The retalia-
tion concept increases considering the possibility
that Tad SZULC might have been reporting White House
policy to CASTRO, and the GOC and/or the Soviets all
along. ,

Of interest is the fact that on the heels of
the aforementioned recruitment attempts, (between
1960 and 1962, to split the CASTRO regime), came a
request to CIA from the State Department, in early
1963, for an operation to do just that. Proposal
for the operation was made to Mr. Hurwitch by

Tad SZULC. It appears that pressurewas exerted on

‘CIA to support the activity and it became the AMTRUNK

Operation. (See the separate memorandum on the

AMTRUNK Operation.) In view of SZULC'’s involvement,

‘this could have been a political action operation

(by the Soviets/Cubans) against the U.S.G./CIA.

 
74-0000

 

c. ‘Juana de la Caridad CASTRO Ruz (201-218126),

younger sister of Fidel and Raul, was recruited ;

 

 

 

She

 

 

 

 

[| functioned as a JMWAVE Station propaganda asset
which included broadcasting into Cuba.
d. [ _—'|Major Raul Jaime DIAZ~ARGUELLES Garcia
(201-269882), reported to CIA from Havana through
LL | (AMSTRUT-1) (201-316646), (7.

who travelled to

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cuba for TFW from ____ | where | slived. Raul

DIAZ, a known terrorist, held an influential position in

 

 

the Cuban Department of Technical Investigation of the
Department of Information of the Rebel Army (DIER). He
reportedly worked with former U.S. gansters who were
deported from the U.S.; was affiliated with the narcotics
racket; and was believed to have been in complete charge

of any activity contemplated by two Cubans, Aldo Pedro
MARGOLLES y Duenas and Emilio ARAGONES y Navarro. MARGOLLES
and ARAGONES were involved in a 1961 plot to enter the U.S.,
meet with Cuban agents, and assassinate President Kennedy.
DIAZ allegedly was responsible for assassinations during

the Batista regime, and was trained in the use of explosive
bombs and automatic weapons. He is believe to have
directed assassinations in the past from somewhere in
Mexico. DIAZ was killed in Angola in December 1975 when

a land mine exploded beneath his jeep. DIAZ was reported

to be a good friend of Rolando CUBELA.

3

 
74-0000

meL

 

e. Raul ROA Garcia (201-170466). An effort to

contact and recruit him in October 1962 failed; however,

 

 

b

 

was recruited by and worked for TFW. At that time Raul
ROA was Minister of Foreign Affairs.

f£. President Osvaldo DORTICOS Torrado (201-260268).
An October 1962 approach to him in New York failed. He
became so ired that the agent who pitched him was forcibly
removed from DORTICOS' hotel.

g. Jose LLANUSA Gobel, at that time Director of
Sports in Cuba and one time "Mayor" of Havana; recruit-
ment attempt failed.

h. Major Jose Ricardo RABEL Nunez (AMLEO-3) (201-249386)
then Chief of Rural Housing in Cuba. He refused to work
in place but was willing to defect. Defected to the U.S.
in an INRA plane in December 1962, and was recruited by
JMWAVE Station. He returned to Cuba on his own in 1965,
reportedly to attempt the exfiltration of his family. He
allegedly was arrested upon return to Cuba, imprisoned,
and set free in 1967. His file reflects that he might
have cooperated with the G-2, at least after his return
to Cuba.

COMMENT: RABEL was interviewed by JMWAVE Station
in February 1963 in relation to the AMTRUNK on-island
target personalities. He could have been forced to
reveal all he knew to the GOC when he was arrested,

or he could have been a provocation.

  
74-0000

A.

INDEX

Operations to Split the Castro Regime

“LL.

2.
3.
4.

A Study of the Loci of Power
HMMA-19325, dated 10 July 1962, with Att.

Draft Memorandum to the DCI from William Harvey

Memorandum to the DCI from Desmond Fitzgerald

AMTRUNK Operation

1.
2.

3.

4..

5.

Memorandum on Tadeusz (Tad) Witold SZULC, with Atts.
7 February 1963 Memorandum for the Record by
Albert C. Davies, with Att.

Memorandum on Nestor Antonio MORENO Lopez

Memorandum on Jorge Ajbuszyc VOLSKY, with Att.

JMWAVE Dispatch UFGA-8381, dated 8 April 1963

Memorandum on Jose Ricardo RABEL Nunez, with Atts.
 

(toctot0s-t00r2 an

x

Operations to Split the Castro Regime ,-
Interim Working Draft,
Dated 10 February 1977,

with Attachments
74-00000

 

INTERIM WORKING DRAFT 10 February 1977

 

OPERATIONS TO SPLIT THE CASTRO REGIME

Review of this file leaves no doubt that CIA was being
pressured by Higher Authority, as far back as early 1962, or
earlier, to come up with an operational plan for actions
against Cuba with the eventual aim of overthrowing the Castro
regime. The following three documents of particular signifi-
cance were surfaced. A Study of the Loci of Power,

March ~ June 1962, and two policy papers:

1. <A Study of the Loci of Power, March - June 1962, cites
on page 5 the direction in which Task Force W (TFW) was moving
in efforts to split the regime. CIA had already recruited or
attempted to recruit certain individuals including the following:

a. é | (201-205568).

 

 

 

A sustained effort by TFW to recruit him in Brussels was
unsuccessful. Despite failure, (I remained in close
and friendly contact with TFW sources.

b. Major Rolando CUBELA Secades (201-252234), ex-

Ry President of the Federation of University Students, and an
S. M.D. A Mexico City Station dispatch (HMMA-19325 - att.)
a dated 10 July 1962, cites 11 defections and "“recruitments"
NY of Cuban officials in which Mexico City Station had been

involved since about January 1960, and indicated that
none of the agents was ideal from the standpoint of control.

An unsuccessful "approach" was made to CUBELA.

Stoke.
74-00000

Ce

 

COMMENT: CUBELA might have reported the initial ©

. approach in Mexico City to the GOC and consideration

could have been given to running him back against CIA as

Fad
On

a provocation agent. Several incidents tend to illustrate
this view:

(1) CUBELA reportedly had let it be known for
some time that he wanted to defect. Word of such
inclination could have gotten back to the GOC. If it
did, it is unlikely that the GOC would have let him
continue to travel outside of Cuba under those
circumstances.

. '(2)  CUBELA reportedly had all the tools necessary
to carry out an assassination of CASTRO, and probably
some opportunities, had he really wanted to. do so.
Perhaps he was sent by the GOC.to confirm whether
the U.S.G./CIA would support executive action - or to
confirm information possibly passed to the GOC/Soviets
by Tad SZULC. (See biographic sketch of SZULC attached
to AMTRUNK Operation report.) CUBELA also wanted to
meet with a high-level policy making official.

(3) CUBELA, following arrest, was given a rela-
tively light sentence, considering the seriousness of
the charge. Upon ‘incarceration he reportedly functioned
as a prison physician, and drove around in a jeep
unescorted. Such treatment by GOC is quite unusual

and, if true, is an indication that he was trusted.

 
