 

 

 

their onbctngs and reaistance typo activities into Cuba. Col. Jobneos
aaid thai he fale that this was De. MIRC's belle!, but MIRO realized
there might be soma exceptions. In certain areas Coleone] Johneon

felt that sorse eupport could bo given to speciiic CRC activities: for
axampls, propaganda activities like “Operacicn Grieta." Col. Jchnoon —
continued that MIZO seamed to affer on alternative to CONTE ACUERO
as head of the CRE propegands section and, contrary to information. :
from WAVE, Dr, MIRO did net appoar to be inaletent on the removal

of Paals as sccountant,

3. Mr, Beterline brought out the fact that MIRO had been
seeared thai he has a $1,069, 000 fund during the coures of the sext
year with virtually no strings attached, and a license to come back and -
26% for rnors. Mr, Katesline felt, if tho Agency accepted the reapenai-
biltry for pasoing these fueda te MIRO, that we would be accepiiag aloo
the reeponsibility for the possible misusa of these funds. Bcreover,
gives 280 fact thas MIRO will be taking guidance from Goodwin and
Harwttch, the slement of centzol chich might otherwise have been
exorcised tarengh aediting of accousts and thon making recomméndationa
would be virtually non-oxistemt. Mr, Barees stated a similar point of
view, and remarked that this would have to be taken up at a highor .
level at once, He then reviewed the devaloprments af tho last few months
which have mads the Agapcy's position very dalicate, My. Eaterline
rerarhed that the petestial misuse by MIRO ef fuods could become'a
soures of embarroecment to the Adminiotratian, -3

a Mr. Baruce then’ discussed the ahkernative channsle fer
taking up this matter tn the absenre of My, Bissell asd Mr. Woodward.
Fo sald be porscaally felt the Agancy was virtually faced with a decision
heve ef efther tneleting that it bo the chanaol to MIRO and at its. dis
cretion tho channel te ether Cxman groupe, of ws might refuses the
reopens ibility for any type operations beyond otraight FI-Ci. A -
decision in this arsa, he remarked, rests with the DCL Mr. Barncs
thea suggected that, after touching bace with State, he, My. Esterline,
Mr. Legvy, and perhaps Coleze] Johnoon should eadsaver to arrange.
an appeintneal with Mr. Goodwin ia the Whits House and at tha! meoting
eimply discesa icformally the entire situation of the CRC,

 

 

 

 

Agting Cabot, Wit]

 Dtatribetions

Orig: & 1 - C/WHD
1 C/WH/4
2 > C/WH/4/Pians
‘oa t0a77-4014s

 

 

 

7

 

. te major cabotage, the Special Group roust be coozalted.

“hes

19 Getcber 1961

” .ae MORANDUM FOR THE RECORD -

SUBJECT t Diocossicn with Mr, Barnes conceraing
: - A. Sabotage Operations
B.: Relations with the CRC

 

 

 

 

PARTICIPANTS: Mosers, Baraca, Estorline, Zogby,
7 . Celene! Johnson, Mr, Schreyer (during discussion
of Rom A enly). -

|g, My. ‘Schreyer began. the mecting by citing the varlou3 papers -
proganted to the Spocial Group since July ca the eebject of sabotage.
He alao referred to his actos aad the Director's notos ca said meoetings.
Ho pointed eat that, from a legal standpoint, there was sorne eusstion ©
as to whather wo aro autherised to engage in minor sabotage activities
etthind rolorence to the Special Group. Bio clear that. with regard
The lack of
clarity in connettion with minov esbeiage results from the phraseclogy
in those paragrapas prefacing the paragraphs concerned with sabotage
in the Agency's papor eulunitted in Jaly. Im substanca the preface -
states that orgaained iutorns} groape will bo established; thou, oubse-
quent paragraphs say minor sabotage will bo planned, Frem a legal
etandpoin, seme quoctien might aceordingty artes as to whether wade
lateral minor sabotage operatives could be condacted. Against this
ecatingoncy Tem, Parrott specifically: advised General Maxwell Taylor .
oa Saturday nosa of the two operations thon running. -Geroral Taylor
offarcd mo objection. Mr, Barnza caid thot be wonld take thie matter
up with the Directer and recommend that, Just io kaep the mecerd
‘etraight, tho Director should urearicn if at ths neut meeting of the

. Special Group, :

fig cet tar Gr Fd

 

von tne one

 

2. Crlenot ?
Caruona up dtonday, Aller eotee discussien, Myr. .é.sterline asked
Colonel Johnson if he felt that Dr, HIRO realy delieved tha! he had
authoriaation (rom the White House aad the Stats Department to take
over the collateral groups ao well as any jaternal groups, including
