 

104-10142-10079

oT

 

 

 

bothered by the third age

 

avait

   

 

Gay
Ly
al
7 — a eee : . . ; PE reer ee nee
dournal - Office of Legislative Counsel a - ¢ , A
Vhursday - 23- December 1976 oe Snaneeenntaeennnntoree

 

 

16, (une lassified - NDL) LIAISON Called Judy Hollis, in tha
office of Senator Roman Hruska (Re, Neb.), and told her that the
of the Senator and ‘Mr. :-Bush would be signed by Mr. Bush as soon 25
we got the pictures back from our photographer and we would get them
to the Senator, She said that would be fine,

 

17. (Secret - THAW ) LIAI SON Jack Lawn, FEI, called saying that
staff members of the House Select it LA, Sinations were: Mo
cy rule an could not unders stand why, if they
are going-to sea:all documents, they cannot look at all documents in
possession of a particular ageucy, whether that ‘agency's documents or
another agency's. He asked for our position on this matter stating that
the Bureau was willing to allow committee staffers to read certain cocuments
located elsewhere but wanted to reserve some decuments for reading at
the Bureau only. I told him we had not had a problem in this area as yet,
but that if confronted we would probably try to play the role of a bro in"
obtaining the perrnission of the third agency for review of the documents by
staffers: and in general be as cooperative as possible within limits.

    
 

    

  

 

 

18. . (Internal Use Only - PLC) LEGISLATION Steve Needle,
of General Connsel, QMB, called to advise that the proposed Executive
order to pick wp for CIARDS the change in the Civil Service law for comput
cost-of-living increases, will be sent to Justice today with an urgent request
that it be expedited for submission to the President.

 

 
    

19. (Secret - PLC) LIAISON Called Chairman Lucien Ned:
House Armed Services Special Subcommaittee on Intelligence,
Counsel, House Armed Services Committec, and gave them a rundown on
the Moore case frorn the fact sheet: by Security. . Chairman Neds > me his
home phone and asked that I call him if anything important develops. Theft
word with Mr. Garmbino's, D/OS, office to ‘call me at horag should < }
jmportank come Mp and advise them: of Chairman Nedzi's interest in:

    

   

 
 
 

 

 

   

   

MILLER

five Couns rel
2 0/35

 

JER

 

Muy Lacpbain BASIO/O
Mow Waliiowios Coranteolien

 

 

 
