104-10213-10256

‘oe . CONTINUATION OF
. DISPATCH

15, AVS Station regrots that reference C has not been
Answered to date. In reply we can only stato that AHLEQ-3
was thoroughly briefed on the limitations of his aliss docuzontation
when said ducumentation was issued to his. He was told that thu
credit card <ccuments could never be used for identification or
credit purposes. de had algo been warved to avoid situations
where he would be asked for positive identification, such as
reating a car, apd by attempting to procure a rental car in
ZRMETAL he was acting contrary to Anatructions given to him
by_his WA Oo. On O-3's return to WAVE he was castigated for
hig actions, and again briefed on the limitations of hf{s alias
documentation. In order to stren:thon his alias documentation
an I,D. card document idoatifying nm ag an employeceof "Charles
8. Wilson Associztes" has been isaued to his, as suggested by
(Chester D, DAINOLD ‘fn conversati:<:s with AMLZO-3 in ZRYETAL.
In regard to points a and b in pu::sraph 2 of refererce C,
the KURIOT representative in WAVE Station states t the Florida
drivers License issued to-Joueph A. Reese is a vali., backatopped
drivers license for actual use by the Subject and the address
a legitimate gafehouse with backatopped rental cover. Subject's
cover etory was that he recently soved to the Miami area from
New Orleans, Louisiana (which city the Subject lived a for
several years and has relatives residing there). The Subjct's
documentation is therefore correct for his cover story. The
gpelling of “instalment™ on the National Credit Card was correctly
copied from the original document reproduced by KURICT and we nust
point out that "instalment" is not only correct according to tho
dictionaries but is the spelling-of the word which is now frequently.
preferred. (The Wall Street Journal invariably prints the vorud c
as“"ingtalment” with one "I™.) It vould be appreciated ‘ (ca
Headquarters would in the future coordinate with KURICT io
Headquarters on questions which deal with AQUATIC matters prior to

querying WAVE.
costs

16, AMLBO-3 continues to receive a flat salary of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) per month, and also is paid approximately
one hundred dollars ($109.00) per month for purchase of foodstuffs
Gince he is encouraged to eat his meals in the KUBARE
@afehouse and stay out of public places. We have also continued
to pay the wife of AMLEO-5 the amount of one hundred and twenty five
dollars ($125.00) per month for subsistance for herself and her
two children to supplement the $120.00 per month she receives

. . from the Cuban Refugee Center, The C/O has continued his efforts
to find part-time employment for Mra. AMLEO-S so that KUBARE
could be relieved of the necesaity to support her, but to date
wo have been unsuccessful in our efforts primarily because krs.
AMLEO-5 hag never worked in her life and has no work skills
whatsoever. No other financial expenditures of note vere made
during the period, and no financial assistance is presently
contemplated for any other AMLECa.

   

INTELLIGENCS PRODUCTION

17. During the reporting period no positive intelligence
reporta were disseminated by the AMLEO group since none of the
active agenta are located in the target area, nor do they
circulate in Cuban exile circles.

18. We are continuing to utilize ANLE0-3 as a censultant
on the MHAPRCN program, and to this end are planning to have
him expand his reporting of personality information on selected
individuals and to utilize him to explain interconnections
between various individuals and groups as they take shape in
MHAPRON research. :

2
i

   

“0 el

 
104-10213-10256

& ~s eo

CLASSIFICATION DISPATCH SYMBOL ANO NUMOOR

CONTINUATION OF Ss Ec ReT | UFGA.11375

DISPATCH

FUTURE PLANS

19. Puture plans for operational exploitation of AMLEO-3
continue to remain the same as outlined in detail in reference D.
The operational use of AMLIO-3 in defection/recraitment
operations will not be permitted until his wife and children are
successfully put into asylum in one of the Latin jAnerican Epbassics
in Havana.

20. WAVE Station will continue to work on AMLEO-3 developmental
cases concentrating on MBAPRCN leads, and attempt to build tywo-
way communications channels into such leads, AMLEC-6 is still
considered to be the best qualified lead by AMLEO-3 to act as
principal agent and recruiter of other disaffected military
personnel in Cuba. Details on these developmental operations
will be reported via separate dispatch.

END OF DISPATCH

 
104-10213-10256

BY

\
e

s

 

roa . :
8-60 S3a use enevious eorrion.

oat ry)

CLAOBITICATION DISPATCH OYMGOL AND NUMBER

CONTINUATION OF UFGA~11375

DISPATCH SECRET

a

code phrases for individuals) indicating that Identity B

has continued to be very helpful to her by supplying

her with blackmarket food, loaning her her automobile, and other-
wise assisting her with her problens. Identity B may be
carrying out such actions on a genuine fricndship basis,

(she has even been denounced by the neighborhood defense
committee “as assisting gusanos") or she may be buying insurance
for the future. The possibility also exists that she is reaaining
a confidant of ¥rs. AHLEO=3 on orders of AMNTMUG-1 ar. ig
reporting on all developnenta to AHNTHUG-1. In early September
1963 Raul PRIMBLLES (201-327902) arrived at Identity 5's

home for a visit vhile Mra. AKLEQ-3 was present. Mr and Yrs,
PRIMELLES ignored the presence of Mra, A~3 and did not speak

to herewhilo greeting Identity B. Because of this Identity B
promptly turned her back on her visitors and did not anawer

thes, continuing her conversation with Mrs, AHLEOQ-3, Ur, aod
Mrs. PRIMBLLES were thrown into sone confusic: by this reception
and departed from the area. . ,

12. Mrs, AMLEO-3 has also mentioned that UXSNAFU-12
was most kind to her during her recent home leave in Cuba,
and made it quite clear she was anxious to get ip touch with
AMLEO-3, During the latter part of August Mra. 4-3 again
mentioned to her husband that UNSNAFU~12 had written Identity
B from Faris atating she waa surprised at not having heard
from AMLEO-3,

ATTITUDE, MORALE, AND PERFORMANCE OF AMLEO~3

13. During the reporting period AMLEO-3 hag cousistently
been cooperative with his C/O and hag maintained a good attitude
tovarda his work. During the latter part of Agust 1963 AMLEO-3
began to lose his patience with the slow progresa in getting
his wife into asylum, and began requesting permission to return

to Cuba himself in order to exfiltrate his wife black, AMLZ0~3

became quite demanding in this regard and claimed that KUBARE's
time had run out, and since he bad waited pstiently for aino
months he now felt it was his turn to try his luck, ANLEC<=3

is extremely confident of his own ability in action situations
and operations and extensive argumentation sas necded to
persuade him that such a course of action would be suicidal

for his wife and children and that hig wisest course of action
Would be to give us additional tise to bring the asylum operation
to a successful conclusion, Because of AMLEQ-3's faith in
higher authority, CCS JMWAVE, Andrew KE, REUTEMAN visited AMLC0-3
on 8 September 1963 for the purpose of convincing him that any
unilateral action on his part would only be counterproductive
and playing right into AMTHUG-1's hands, KUBARK's limited
commitments to AMLEO-3 were also reviewed along with the history
of our actions to help his wife and children leave Cuba legally.
After sone frank exchanges of facts ANLEO-3 was finally convinced
that the only productive course of action left to him was to
continue to sweat out the asylum proposition and hope for the
best. Absolutely no further commitments were made to AMLEO-3
during these discussions and alternate courses of action if

the asylum attempts fail were not discussed but instead left in
abeyance. .

OPERATIONAL SUPPORT AND PLANNING
———$—$———— Eee

14, As previously mentioned in paragraph 13 of reference A,
AMLEO 3 went to ZRUETAL during the period 26-30 July 1963 for
the purpose of obtaining a French visa for his alias ot
documentation, AMLEQ-3 successfully obtained the French visa
during this trip, and his alias passport now contains valid visas :
for travel to Spain and France, .

   

wie eee

 
104-10213-10256

.

y
Gs

t

 

wet

  
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
   
 
 
   
  
 
 
   
  
   
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  

ELABSIFICATION =

UFGA-11375

CONTINUATION OF ! 2
DISPATCH i RET

7. Later. duriog the conversation AMTHUG-1 asked

Mrs. AHLEO-3 if her nusband still aad the presentation Soviet
pistol that be.had given hin in 1961, and Ure. AMLIO~-3
informed his that her husband bad taken it with hin whep he
defected and asked AMTHUG-1 if he wanted it returned to bis.
ANTHUG=1 did not reply to the question. Later.on, while
discussing ber conversation with AMTHUG-1 gith Identity B,
Identity B suggested to Mrs, AMLLO-3 that she request AMLTO<3
to send the pistol back to AMTHUG=-1 via Ambassador LECUUGA
at the United Nations, NYC. Identity B added that the returo

been one of the things that bothered ANTHUG--} most wien
AMLEO-3 defected. (i.e. AMLEO-3 -bas noted thet these special

special mean:
to be his very personal and close friends. AMLEQ-3 clains

that not even AMLOUT-1 had received one of these special
presentation pistols from AMTHUG-1.) Consiicration is being
ivea AMTHUG~1"s request, if it woulc aesist Mrs. 3

vill be held by KUBARK.

8. AKTHUG=-1 2180 told Mrs. AMLEO-3 that ber husband had
ateter a light plane when he fied and implied (aitbough she
does not #0 state directly) that he would like tc see it
returned. The balance of Hre. AMLLO-3's lettor cencerned her

she and her husband with 5° rash actions, and without giving
any additional facts stated that her conversation with

had beeo a 1008 one but that ghe could not get him to nake
any promises re her departure.

DEVELOPHENT_OF OPERATIONAL LEADS TO DISSFFECTED CUBANS

9g. During the operational period one of AKLEO-3's
operational leads, whom he had written & report on for the

pilitary leads during the period and was able to submit

‘ AMLEO<$3 is presently preparing reports on pas target studies
or Felipe GUERRA Matos and Major Jorge SEGUERA,, Cutan

10, AMLEO-3 also assisted ip the handling of AMLEO-5'8
wife during the period when she established direct telephonic
and in Cuba, and tried to convince

him that she wanted to returp to Cuba with her children,

yom.
-¢
ZE8
o
a
a
wo
wea
ec PR
ree
Bod
nD
a
ebe
oad
i-7
>
1
wad a
4
£28
%
vg
ig
®
3
&
ay
a.

country first and resolve their personal family problems.
3 baby sat for the wife during these calls, since we
only knew what day the calls would be coming in and never the

also assisted the Case Officer in the conversations

contact with the mother. Ne had noped that the mother of
AMLEO-S would attempt to estabiiso contact onher own with

so.
contact efforts (maintaining his cover as being disassociated

1. Durisg the period fragmentary j{nformation has been

   
 
 

    

S Roan rag

WM tee weoate
Sse Sa Use PREVIOUS EDITION. -| ts

resentation Soviet pistols were given by AYTAUG-1 to probably
less than ten people in Cuba, and their presentation had a very
ing for ANTHUG-1 since the recipients were suppose”

to
in her efforts to jeave Cuba, but for tne time beics, the pistol

AMTRUNE PM operation’, was recruited via the recently successf
AMTRUNE infiltration operation and given the crypt of AMTRUNE-

have to mect her in a third

AMLEO-5 in recording the last telepa:
conversation gabe had with her husband. Ip this sane operation

AMLEO-3, put to WAVE Station knowledge she never attempted to do
If she had, we would have allowed AMLIO=-3 to respond to her

received from the wife of AMLEO-3 (utilizing picknazes or other

of the pistol might belp matters since the losa of the pistol had

desire to leave Cuba, mentioned the necessity for ainness by both

ul
10.

reports oD some four individuals | for these operations. all such
104-10213-10256

L
’ :

{
oncén_| Action
[warery sce motes ne {-
.
!

hief o
watct Operational/TYPIC/ AMLEO
perational Pregress Report
‘AETION REQUIRED - REFERENCES. = .
ACTICN REQUIRED: None; FYL . i
REFERENCES: A, UFGA-10496, 6 August 1963 25% yp 7h ‘
B, WAVE-4034, 8 September 1963 ce el A
c. UFG#-2379, 6 August 1963 ad . i
D, UPFGA-7858, 25 February 1963 5. .o
7 ott

 

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS t

1. This report will cover the period GU July 1963 through
15 September 1963 and is a follow-up report to reference 4.

EFFORTS TO LEGALLY EXFILTRATE AMLEO-3 FAMILY FIQ{ CUBA

2. Since transmission of reference A to Headquarters several
developments occurred which effectively‘ eliminated several alternate
solutions to the problem of the ANLEO-3 family in Cuba. The
alternate solutions that were elininated, as found in paragraph
3S of reference A, were (a) “Maintain Status Quo ag a Family
attempting Leave Cuba via Offices of Swiss Exbassy as Part of the
American Repatriation Program"; (b) "Have AMLZO-3 Family
Withdraw Papers From the Swiss Embassy and American Repatriation
Program and Attempt Leave Cuba as Normal Refugees «4a Mexico
Or Spain"; and (e) “Have the AMLEG3 Family Case Takin up With the
GOC Through the ‘Donovan’ Channel for Possible Legal Exfiltration”,
Elimination of the above alternates left only two solutions
that were at all feasible; (c) “Have the AMLKO-3 Family Take
Asylum in either the Uruguayan or Mextan Embassivs in Havana",
or (d) “Have the AMLEQ-3 Family Exfiltrated black in a Maritime
Operation by either a KUBARK or Independent Maritine Team.”
Because of the inherent risk involved in a black oexfiltration,
it was decided that the AMLEO-3 fanily should be put into
asylum in either the Uruguayan or wcxican embassics with all
possible speed. : .

(CONTINUED)

Distribution:
3-Headquarters w/att USC OATE TYPED

Attachment: USC 19 Sept G:

Identities 3 DISPATCH SWERL AND BETTER WO
° AREA SE oem at
UFGA-11375
—_ >

HEADQUARTERS PLE NUMBER !

. 5 4 19-6-75/3

 

   
    

[9 -6- 84/3
ehtery, ~

  
 

  
CONTINUATIONOF= = | st _ :
toasozts-to2se  Uburwcn | | sweeee | woens

\

’
e

t

4

im 6, As noted in paragraph 1 of reference B, the wife
°

ff

 

 

j and appealed toc bim for permission to leave Cuba with her

see ge oe

‘ asked “But he calle you every day.” paren

3. To this end steps were initiated in on 24 July i963
to put the AMLEO-3 family and AMLEO-2 into asylum in the Mexican |
Enbassy in Havaba. The AMLEO~-3 family and AMLEO-2 were advised
via the AMWEE-1 OWVL channel on 4 August 1963 to preparo
themselves for asylum and to await further orc¢ers via tho gare
chansel. KUDARK Station in Mexico City, meanwhile, took urgent
action through ita Wexican liaison channels to have the Hexican
Foreign Ministry obtain visas for the AMLcO-3 family and oo
AKLEO-2; and then send word to the “Mexican Embassy in Mavana,
Cuba that the AMLZO-3 family and AMLEQ-2 should be granted asylum__._
when they appeared at the Hexican Consulate under cover of
obtaining their visas. The visa portion of the operation w:3
satisfactorily completed and notification of same was sent into
the Kexican Embassy in Hevana; but word re asylum for the
AHLEO-3 family and AMLEO-2 was not sent to the Mexican embassy
due to insecure commo channels and lack of trusted couriers, and
to date no secure method has yet been found to notify the Hexican
Embassy in Havana that asylum should be granted to the AMLEOs.

=,

4. As s-result of the above, word wes sent to AMWEE~1
via OFVL on-11 September requesting he determine whether or not
Identity A’ would be willing to act as intermediary to receive
the AMLEQ-3 family and AHLEO-2 into asylum at a specific tine
and date at the Mexican consul:te. AMWSE-1 asked for
clarification on the manner of approaching Identity A on the case
on 13 September via pouch, and wore detailed guidance on the
matter was sent to him via CHVL on 14 September. A final reply
re possibilities for action via this channel is oxpected from
AHMWEZ-1 momentarily. If the AMWEE-l reply is favorable, then
he will be told te arrange the meeting at the Mexican consulate
between the AMLEOs and Identity A so that they can be taken into
asylum by the Mexicans.

8. As noted in reference 53, if the ANMWEE-1 report is a
negative one, then consideration will be given to having the
AMLEOs take asylum in the Uruguayan Fmbassy in Havana. The
teat case utilizing AMCANCE-3, mentioned in paragraph 5 .. of
reference B, is to be attenmpteu on or about 21 August 1965, and
4f this attempt at asylum is successful then arrangements w#ill
be made to have the ANLECs enter the Uruguayan Cmbasay in the
game manner,

2. : fl tw bes eer. $d of

f AMLEO-3 finally made a direct contact wita ANTUUG-1 on 7
September 1963, while he was at his Santa Waria beach house,

children and rejoin her husband AMLEO-3 in the United States,
On 14 September 1963 AMLEO-3 received a letter from his wife
giving more details on the above meeting. The wife of AMLEO-3
had ‘been visiting the beach home of a family friend, situated
next to that of AMTHUG-1 on Santa Maria beach, on a daily basis
hoping to see AMTHUG-1. Finally, on 7 September 1965, she saw
him swimming alone in the ocean and promptly vent into.the water,
introduced herself , and requested praission to talk to his. “wv
AMTHUG-1 granted ths permission, and during their conversation :
AMTHUG-1 made it clear he would sot grant urs. AMLEC-3 permission <
to depart Cuba at this tine, stating that the ti.ic vas not _
propitious due to the attacks and raids being carried out +
against Cuba, and that Mrs. AJLEO-3 vould just have to sait. >
Mrs. AMLEO-3 then told him she did not sce why he was holding ber \\_
and her children responsible for what her husband did; that she 7
feared her husband might forget her and their children cempletely --
4f£ the separation continued, and that if AMLEO-3 was left much N
longer alone he would find a woman to replace her. . ANTHEUG=1 .
replied by asking her “Do you consider yourself a burden to your
husband?” The wife replied “It is possible", and AHTHUG-1 then

CuAvSIFICATION

T
i
Toye | Ix] eoruem.. do

 

    
    
 
     
   
   
  
 

  

ee ae
 

104-10213-10256

1
°
1

AMLEO-3 said “it is possible," and CASTRO then asked “but
he calls you every day." This information, according to
AMLEO-3, was included in a letter from his wife which he
received on 14 September 1963, There is no copy of the
letter either in tte AMTRUNK Operational file or in AMLEO-3's i
dossier to confirm that statement. /Comment: AMLEO-3 1
‘ defected to the U.S. in December 1962, immediately became :
: a JMWAVE Station asset, and was used to screen names for

the AMTRUNK Operation. He was terminated in July 1964,

reportedly due to conflict with JMWAVE Station for not ,

having exfiltrated his wife and children. He returned to

Cuba on his own in 1965, allegedly to exfiltrate his wife ‘
and children, was arrested, sentenced to 30 years ’

imprisonment, served two years, and was set free in July!
or August 1967. There are two firm accusations that he 7
was a CASTRO agent as early as July 1963. Comment: it.
true, it appears that AMLEO-3 could have been providing .
CASTRO information on the AMTRUNK operation from its
inception. Also, it perhaps could account for CASTRO's
statement that AMLEO-3 called his wife in Cuba every day.7

b. UFGA 11829, dated 18 October 1963:

A newspaper article on changing trends among
high-level personnel within the CASTRO Government, written '
by Tad SZULC, appeared in a major daily newspaper. SZULC
reportedly tolc a high-level U.S. Government official
that Dr. WORENO, the AMTRUNK team leader, was the source
of his information. A debriefing of MORENO produced
information at considerable. variance to that in SZULC's
article. Confronted with the article, MORENO admitted
talking to SZULC but denied that most of the information
in the article was based on anything which MORENO had said.
The article created considerable furor in Washington, D.C.
Comment: specifics concerning the content of the’ article
and name of the paper in which it appeared were not cited
in the dispatch. There is no copy of the article either
in the AMTRUNK operational file or in SZULC's dossier. If
true, SZULC's article(s) could have been used as a channel
for providing information to the Cuban Government, wittingly
or unwittingly.7

ce. WAVE Cable 7300 (IN 58037) dated 9 November 1963:
— ee vember los

. Transmission of a One Way Voice Link radio
message #6 to the AMTRUNK's in Cuba on 9 November 1963, asked
if they had developed any leads into the higher echelons
of the Rebel Army, and who at higher levels appeared to be
good prospects for recruitment. It cited rumors that persons

       
104-10213-10256 ‘

[
wy ~ E
_ ** : oe

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination '
= + Records Collection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note) . 2

NW 53217 6/20/17 “SECRET_

25 April 1977

SUBJECT: AMTRUNK Operation

1. Description:

The proposal for this operation was presented to
CIA by Tad SZULC, via Mr. Hurwitch, the State Department
Cuban Coordinator, in February 1963. It allegedly originated
with Jcrge VOLSKY and Dr. Nestor ‘ORENO who referred to it
as the “Leonardo Plan." Its objective was to overthrow the
Cuban Government by means of a conspiracy among high-level
military and civilian leaders of the government culminating
in a coup d'etat which would oust both CASTRO and the
Communists from power. The CIA supported this activity and
encrypted it AMTRUNK. The AMIRUNK cryptonym was changed to
AMSTEAMER in the Spring of 1965, several additional
infiltration/exfiltration missions were attempted or
completed, and the project was terminated in late 1966 due
to security problems. In retrospect, the activity appears
to have been insecure and doomed to failure from its inception
primarily for lack of compartmentatim, and loose talk on
the part of its principals.

2. Findings:

a. UFGA 11375, dated 30 September 1963:

{
The wife of AMLEO-3 (Jose Ricardo RABEL Nunez, |

a JMWAVE Station asset directly involved in the AMTRUNK

Operation), reportedly made direct contact with Fidel CASTRO I

on 7 September 1963 at Santa Maria Beach, Cuba, in which

she asked CASTRO's permission for her and her children to

leave Cuba to join AMLEO-3 in the U.S. Mrs. AMLEO-3

reportedly expressed fear that AMLEO-3 would find another i

woman if she didn't join him. CASTRO replied by asking

"do you consider yourself a burden to your husband?" Yrs.

 
404-10213-10256 !
% H . . :

' -_) ~3- ; i

in top positions of the army were dissatisfied to the point |

that they may have been thinking of plotting against Fidel, :

‘Comment: There is no proof that the message came to the A

attention of Fidel CASTRO. However, if the operation was |

penetrated, as it appears to have been, this information :

. could have reached him.7 ees he

d. WAVE Cable 9630 (IN 87039) dated 25 December 1963,
Report Sumber UTG 13:

The following information was contained in a

' Secret Writing message from AMTRUNK-9 (Modesto OROZCO) dated
6 November, postmarked 22 November, and received on 2 ,
December 1963, AMIRUNK-9 allegedly received the information
from two other sources, AMTRUNK-9 reported that during the
early part of November 1963 Fidel CASTRO Ruz, during the '
course of a private conversation, expressed fear of the
possibility of "Commando Insurrections" which might take
Place on a large scale in Cuba, as the Cuban economy was such
that he could not maintain a state of military alert for a
long time. He indicated that any prolonged period of military
alert might cause discontent among the troops, a situation
which would be dangerous and create irreparable consequences.
So as to negate this possibility, CASTRO was undertaking an
intensive propaganda campaign to give confidence to his troops
and to limit the occurrence of any internal uprising.
/AMTRUNK-9 made an unauthorized trip to Cuba following his
termination by JMWAVE Station. The files do not reflect
his subsequent whereabouts.7 i :

e. WAVE Cable 0952 (IN 03920) dated 23 January 1964;

In a debriefing of AMTRUNK-9 (Modesto OROZCO)
on 17 January 1964, he provided rather sensational statements
that the Government of Cuba was ready to fail at any moment, t
that enormous quantities of weapons were in Cuba, and tmt |
the Soviets were out to get Fidel, However, AMTRUNK~-9 was
unable to substantiate such stories with sources, dates and sf
facts. It was learned that Dr. WORENO planned to introduce |
|
j

 

 

AMTRUNK-9 to VOLSKY. It was pointed out that SZULC,

personally or through VOLSKY, may obtain information for a
sensational-type article such as he wrote last September /19637
following the MORENO interview.

’ Chris Hopkins , :
=!LAD/JEK Task Force :

C

Attachment: Addendum/References

ear:

a
7 '

 
104-10213-10256 mo oo i

toy {- . ‘ : . i a
Ls ’
: : . iE

+) ») ;

ADDENDUM

a. UFGA 11375, dated 30 September 1963, Operational .
Progress Report on AMiEO-3, from Station JMWAVE to i
Headquarters, Special Affairs Staff. Filed in :
AMTRUNK Operational folder 19-6-84/3, Folder 2, :
Job # 68-496/16. . ,*

tome lt .

b. UFGA 11829, dated 18 October 1963, Progress Report
AMTRUNK Team, Period 1-30 September 1963, from
Station JMWAVE to Headquarters Special Affairs Staff.
Filed in AMTRUNK Operational folder 19-6-84/3,

Folder 2, Job # 68-496/16, .

lac. anes

c. WAVE Cable 7300 (IN 58037) dated 9 November 1963,
to Headquarters. CIA radio message to ANTRUNK
agent in Cuba. Filed in AMTRUNK Project 19~6~84/3,
Folder 3, Job #.68-179/40, os

*

d. WAVE Cable 9630 (IN 87039) dated 25 December 1963,.
Report No. UFG 4313, from JMWAVE Station to
Headquarters, Filed in AMTRUNK Reports folder
19-6-84/4, Folder 3, Job # 68-179/40.

e. WAVE Cable 0952 (IN 03920) dated 23 January 1964,
from JMWAVE Station to Headquarte's. Operational
cable concerning the debriefing »: AMNTRUNK-9.
Filed in AMTRUNK Operational folcer 19-6-84/3,
Folder 3, Job # 68-496/16.

4

|
'
|

 

  
