 

 

 

oy

Pd

 

eT

~2—

see Carrillo on his way back from an ostensible business trip to
Paris and other cities in Europe. AMFHIP was given no other
specific missions for this trip, however, should any requirements
arise between now and his day of departure he can easily be
contacted and briefed.

3. For the record it was mentioned at this time that
Nick Sanson (Nestor Sanchez) would no longer be in contact
with AMWHIP-1l-as he. had been given a new assignment in
(aracas) AMPHIP-2 was also told that the undersigned would
also soon be leaving his present assignment and that AMWHIP-1
would be introduced to another contact in the near future,

_ Teve* to form ANWHIP-1 expressed his reluctance to be in

contact with new personnel just at the time when he felt
he- knew, trusted and ‘understood his present contacts. He

- said, however, while he didn't particularly approve of the

U.S. Government's manner of rotation of its personnel he
understood that it was necessary and was a policy of long-

. Standing. This was in response to an explanation of the
departure of Sanson and the undersigned.

 

- 4, At ape request of “AN undersigned accompanied

AMWHIP to hi. leeting with wit The meeting took
f {gee mn thel

ffice number in the

of fides is he undersigned used
Yam Wickman in this meeting with Mr.

The meeting’ was. scheduled for 1500 hours and lasted only abou
ten minutes. The sole purpose was to effect a personal meeting
bei I two principals thus allowing AMWHIP-1 to describe
Mr. o Ambassador Carrillo if such a move was necessary.
The meeting was asso geet should the two men meet sometime

   
  
 

 

in Europe since both) 1 there frequently on business,
_ After the meeting in| office the undersigned took leave

of AMWHIP-1 on the corner 6. h Avenue and 47th Street, the
latter returning to his office. The undersigned checked in
with AMWHIP-1 by telephone once again at 1800 hours in the
event there were any developments which he should be aware in
this incidence; there were none.

Finances

5. AMWHIP-1 was given the sum offs , 500 for expenses he
had incurred during the past several trips to Europe in KUBAR“'s
behalf and also to cover his forthcoming trip to Europe on the
above operation. This money is also to be considered as an
indirect partial reimbursement to AMWHIP~1 for $7,000 he had
given to AMLASH-1 (see memo dated 3 March 1965, paragraph 3.1.).
It should be noted for the record that no mention was made to
AMWHIP-~l that this payment was made for other than operational
expenses , Gud did not include any reference to the $7,000,

 
 

404-10247-10091
@. es

°

.

 

 

10 March 1965

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD at

 

‘SUBHECT : Meetings wit pad ANWHIP=2
: in New York City, TC) *

REFERENCE: AMWHIP-1 Memorandum dated 4 March 1965

Meetings/Time/Place and Purpose:

7 1. AMWHIP-1 was met at his office at 1200 hours on 8
March for the purpose of briefing him regarding his role in

the "rapprochement deception oper, oa d his meeting at
1500 hours the same day with MxOk lin connection with

~the aforementioned operation. The undérsSigned had lunch

with AMWHIP~1 at a nearby restaurant and remained with,
hin through and including his meeting with Mr

 

 

 

 

Details of the Meeting:

2, AMWHIP-1 was briefed for his meeting with Ambassador
Carrillo in Paris in connection with subject operation. The
gist of the story that AMWHIP was to convey to. Carrillo is

as follows:

-The AMTHUG regime has reached its end. Soviets are
ready to back out because of- billion dollar annual
burden. USA will continue boycott until AMTHUG

is removed and neutralized. USA accepts original
revolutiomary goals as sound; also accepts fact

that capable PBRUMENS are still in high Government .
positions today. After AMTHUG and Communism have
been ousted, USA will be willing deal with such
capable PBRUMEN officials.

AMWHIP-1 was instructed to allow jthis information to come up
normally in one of his prolong o%onversations with Carrillo in
Paris. He was told to'‘use Mr. ame as his source of
the information. AMWHEP was algo instructed to tell Carrillo
ittle as possible,about Mr ut enough to make Mr.
seem*bongfied as the sourc is information and also
to permit the Cubans to check on his existence if they wished
to carry the matter to that extent. AMWHIP was also told to
74-0000

pe

-3- .
. Amune) :
6, Subject took departure from at approximately
1540 hours as stated above; there were no incidents of a

security nature to report.

Addendun

. it should be noted for the record that the undersigned
also paid a visit to the officeof 00/Contacts at 205 E, 42nd

Street in order to thank the undersigned's co ere for
their efforts in securing the services of mr?! or the
approximately

. above operation.

This courtesy call was made @
1150 hours and lasted only a few minutes. The offices of DODS

were. not visited by the undersigned.

 

 

 

WH/C7FI7TC
