 

 

9, The dau

  

n 4

hter of Fendrix is engaged to Lewis ("Lon")
t Ve has passed

 

Constantine, who is epplying for a job with eer
certain exams and was to have an interview in Washington on li May
followed by a physical exam shortly afterwards, A hitch has develap
in that he was originally considered for some sort of a jeb in the pl noto-
yraphic ficld, but he has been told the job has now been filled by sameone
who returned to the job so that instead he is beings offered a 2-3 year
contract, probably to go fo Lacs, He is not gure of the career opportunity
@ contract status vrou ld give him, and is tern betwoen this situation and
some offer now b- a ia job with the
Agency. (Hendrix claimed that Constantine that his fances
nee worked for the[ ___—ijand that she has ctuck to chat] story as
far ne employment gcos, ; i ig point of this.) I said it
would be possible to check what th 5 :) as and to find out what the
ons were towar syson, but that 1 could not affect
e

    

made by IRS,

 

 

 
 
  

Agency's intenti

 

imany way the decision of h und het conditions, Hendriss
was carefvlat all timnes net teach fore int t
tet nes to the anoavant chance jn

  

  
  
 
  

cap pabi Ley could end 3 @ career = emoloyee with bus, but if wootd
on employrnent
considered.
and let h
My impress

respects him and wont : Lot try to, in interfere on his

 

 

 

: Jonathan G. Hanke
. C/WHICA

 
74-00000

3, Hendrix commented to me that the general feeling in N.Y.
is that there may be two penetrations in the Washington office, two in
the N.Y, office, and one in thelr Cleveland office. He did not elaborate,

. 4 Wendrix made the following comments about the ITT/Chile
_documonts: :
Te. ' A, He was aware that Raymond Brittenham, whom he.
deeacribed as a senior Vice President and a bit of a fuddy-duddy
who enjoys Harold Geneen's confidence, had first seen Jehn McCone
and then come to. Washington recently to talk with Agency represents
about the ITT/Chile documents. ‘One proposal that Brittcnham had
thought of discussing with the Agency was that several sensitive
documents be turned over to the Avency for safekceping, He did
not seem to know whether this had actually been discussed by
Brittenham with the Agency, Hendrix czid that Prittenham had
discussed with the Agency what ITT might say in the Senate
hearings, what the Agency might say, che. (I did not.achnowledge
having known that Erittenkam mct with Agency representatives,
saying that this was presumably « 7th floor matter. He might nat —
bave believed me, but I thought it better not lo confirra the fact
to him that a contact had in fact taken place eince he apparently
did not talk to Brittenham himself about this. } oo.

 

B. Fnu Schafer, the lawyer of the firm in Washington
 yetained by ITT as counsel for the expected Senate hearings on
Chilean activities of ITT, has told LTT officials that he thinks —
the timing and intensity of the Ssuate sub-committee interest in
the Chilean activities of [TT will depend on the general political
situation in the U.S., particularly in Viet Nam, Schafer has been
in touch with Pat Holt, the sub~committee aide. ©

‘C. None of the ITT documents on Chile have been turned
over yet to the Senate sub-committee. The docurnents are still
being worked on by ITT. When pressed as to the quantity involved,
Hendin said the total is about 500 decuments. :

 
  

 

(4-10086-10047 o . ——-

   

15 May 1972

. oo MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION

SUBIUCT : Meeting with Hal Heudrix, HW May 1972

1. Hal Hendrix called my home on 10 May, saying that he was
in Washington and wished to see me, Arrangemort 6 were later made te
mect him in downtown Washington at a street corner at 8:00 am on
lL May. I picked him up as scheduicd, and after driving around awhile
we had breakfast at the Marriot Metel in Rosslyn, after which I drove
him to the airport so he could catch the 10:36 a.m, plane to New York,

2. Hendrix had a nuraber of points to cenvey, bul nons of them
were of such importance for him to have made a trip to Washington
bh

a

©
han

just to sca mec. Therefore, his explanation seams plaue
in Washington basically to see Jerry Hannifin of the Yime/Life bureau

fo discuss a feed on who might heve leaked ITT docurnents to Jack Anderco
Hendyrisc explained that he was recently told by a "Caribbean ruffian"
named Fou Goodfriend that the pereon who furnished the IT‘ documents

te Jack Anderson was Ixving Davidson, an old fiend of Andereon who some
years ago had once set aside a cesk in his office for Andercon to use on
occasion. Goadfriend said that the picture of Dita Beard with a number

of her Washington contacts publighed early in the YT scandal days had
included Davidson somewhere in the group. Davidson is described as a
lobbyict for one or more Latin American Governments as well as for
Israel. Hannifin is considered a very knowledgeable and trusted friend

by Hendrix who wanted Bannifin's opinion whether Davidson might in

fact be a source of Anderson's, Hannifin's initial impression was

that this was a remote possibility, but he said he would check around and
try and talk to Davidson himself to see whether he could get a rise on

the guestion of LET, Hendrix said he care away from the rnecting with
Hannifin pretly well convinced that the load to Davidson as the source on
ITT documents was probably not a good one. :

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

3

D. The three documents Hendrix mentioned to mé at our
last mecting as being incriminating from the point of. view of
documenting ITT funds of political activities in Chile have not
been destroyed, ITT's chief lawyer in N.Y. has told Hendrix
that while away ona trip recently, at least four young lawyers
in his office read these documents. He tried to transfer one
of the lawyers out of his office, and the man threatened to blow
the whistle on ITT over these documents if transferred, One
of tho other four lawyers feels equally strongly about these
documents. Asa result, the documents cannot be destroyed.

It is not clear, however, whether ITT plans to turn thes three
documents over to the Senate. Evidenially 17 T had first hoped
to turn these documents over to the Agency for safekeeping in

, preference to turning them over to the Senate.

E. It has been determined by ITT lawyers that biacking
out proper names in docurnents before they turn the documents
over to the Senate sub-committee is vermissable. The ITT
lawyers are vow going over ali 500 documents to do this, concentra
onthe names of Chileans. If they finally turn over the three
sensitive documents te the committee, names of persone, banks,

* and Anding mechanisms will be deleted, but the basic purpose af

try funding Alessandri cannot be hidden.

¥. In discussing these three decummts, Hendrix said
th: 1t thé manin N.Y. to whom IIT was to have paid the money for
Alessandri was (inu) Orchard, a Chilean employed by UN Seeretaris

’ father than a member of the Chilean Mission to the UN}. The comp

through which the payments were to be made was the Lone Star
Shipping Company. (This agrees with information in the files).
Jacked whether the Swiss Bank account number for other trans~-
actions was also listed there, and Hendrix looked puzzled and said
that no Swiss Bank account was invelved, WhenlI pressed and .

- said ray understanding wes that earlier he had told re money for

the Edwards group went through a Swizs account, he merely

said there were no references to that in these three dacuments,

He then said one of the three documente was unfortunately a
roescage from Gerrity authorizing that the Alessandri movement be
given “half the sum recommended by Hendrix," :

 
74-00000

. Aly!

 

5, Hendrix spoke by telephone to Eerrellez on 9 or 10 Nay at

which time Berrellez reported on a meeting that day with M@BRIG-2

in Buenos Aires, This was the first time that they had met since their

early April meeting in N.Y. Berrellez told fFWBRIG-2 that ho had not

been able to make the deposit on the second $100,000 for reasons Hendrix

had explained earlier to me. fFWaric- 2 was concerned by this and asked
_ that IY T do everything possible to resume these payments since he had

money troubles, (Berrellez remarked, however, that G@RRIG-2 seemed

in very good spirts personally, and quite optimistic about the chances

of the opposition in Chile). Hendrix plans to reopen the question of resumin
. payments to the Edwards people in Chile when he gets back to N.Y. and

sees Gerrity.

. .6, The U.S. manager of the ITT telephone manvufacturing plant
in Chile slipped up to the States a faw days ago and reported that he
thought the government would be moving in on the IIT property very _
soon, He had already been authorized by the company to send his’ -

. furniture up, ITT is also asking Benjamin Holmes to come up te the
be. : U.S. for a visit. I remarked that my recollection was that Holmes
' was on rather good personal contact with President Salvador Allende,
and Jose Toja, but Hendrix commented that even Rolrhes was now under
suspicion by the Government of Chile.

 

7, “Hendrix heard yeaterday from Bob Deach (phonetic) of the.

' Scripps Howard office in Washington that Ambassador Edward Korry had |
left his position at OPIC and is now the president of a beok seller's
association according to a press item which appeared within the last
‘two weeks. Hendrix was unaware of this and asked whether I knew .
anything ebout it which I said I did not. ms

8. He had a vather, interesting explanation of the by-play in
Chile on turning the ITT nationadlization question over to the Congress to |
decide, Berrellez reports that there has been a delay in Allende's s
proposal that Congress handle the ITT nationalization because of _
disagreement on how to procced, The fear of some hard- Liners was
that the povernment was not being tough enough on ITY, Allende's intent
apparently is to make a proposal that the Congress would be forced to. ,
reject theraby giving the President a chance to calla plebiscite on the
issue which, being about ITT, he could not possibly lose, An interesting
thourht. ;
