 

 

    

CLASSINCATION

- Meeailiskylansi US

  
 
  

ONLY QUALIFIED OFS
CAM JUDGE Ist IFO

 

    
  

   

chtet ‘06 08 station, Hexteo cit City

‘wont
LIFRAT/LIOMEN

Fenon sequin - RePERENCES.

       
   

  

Copigs of the LIOMEN traffic are ‘veing forwarded under separate

 
 

cover for the period. 12 Janvary through . 15 March 1965 and includes xyz 140,

 
 
  

sy and 173.

  

go
Ky Deve Fe fade,

Willard c. curris

  
 
 
 

. Attachment:
Under separate cover

  

Distribution:
22 + C/WH/SA w/att (usc) ch j
1 = c/w w/o/att
2 - Files

  

   

 

 
 
 
 
  

CROSS REFERENCE TO

f 4 April 1965
pot HOS FILE NUMBER
Os | 50-6-32/7

RST

 

   

    

  

  
 
 
74-0000

 

T¥Z #140 January 12, 1985 9250 avay:

4nnouncer’s voice was hardly heard, @nd lator 4loerw and Bax
are heard t:dking dut 8hotr votces do noe cone thru Baud enough
60 understand whut thoy are sdyings. a : LG
Later, Bax te talking w8th a Yecleen xan about tte Institute
_Cinatituto de felactonas Culturales Cubanomoxteano). It seene
ae be explatning the bay the Institute worka, @lc., and aster
$hle, Hezteun man leavea. 7 : . . :

| ddberu and Hax’s votcea ere hoard for avay and cannot understand

 

what they cays .

beter, Albers talka with Pedertco Alvares dut voice 6re 20f Aeard .
clearly and after this, hear typeurtiting, Har alo seéas to be
talking to Federteo. bus cannot understand anything they ayo |

y that ‘the Anbaasador

 

Interphore ringa end they ask for Alberu end ga
wante Alberu to gee Ata dbetwcen 22236 and 2,

alberu dictatoa: "Received a detter fron #tcanor Palas (woy tt
Sounced), that he reccived the tnuttation too late and could not
9° because ie had alregdy ather Plens, but that Ae will be g4ad
80 go next yaar and takes advantage to say hellos

4iberu geoma to be dictating to Hax but they sven to be sar ausy

and cannot hoar edearly anything.

HOTE: ds in other rYZ reels, votces are not heard clear enough
to aake sonse of what they say, so very hard to put cowa
anything on paper.

End of 172 140.

{ ety ana JF EY
aH 6-4 ana -IO73/

 
74-0000

XYZ $176 #arch 19, 1965 | -10:00 asm

Hear radto program above all -~ @l80 notsas in the offtea-
ond Rojac? votce talking to soncone else in distance ==
seens that Ao. t3 giving tnyormation to @ student about
acholarshtpa, but cannot hear clearly. .

Aster thte, no sore talking is heard and then thare ta
@h interruption while kojas makes a phone call. :

 

Announcers Phe following convesat tone correspond to. t
Wonday, Harch 28, time ts 10:15 Ars. 7 : te soos

   

4 ‘usual, .fadto program is heard above all. Rojas seens
tobe talking to someone but votces are far away

 

i . . ;
: Announcer: fre following conversattons correspond to
Tuesday, Harch 23, ttme ts 10200 aa.

Rojas talks tn dtetance with someone anc ..nnaot understand
‘what they are eaying. :

'. Radto program te on ag usual. : : te.

“Busse” of interphone is heard but no one answers. -

md of LYZ $174.

 

 

 
 

ry¥g g272 Hares 11, 1965. "10:00 Are.

Radto program ts on as asual, Rojas ‘is talking with @ woman
but volces gound.in distence and con only underetuad @ word

~hepe and there, It:seens taoy are talking about a echolarshkip

 

ond Rojas tolls Aer sket ts needed.

Honan leaves and Rojcs is alone for a while, Then, he $3 Aeard |
talking with some people ti distance Dut cannot underatand their
conversation because too far amay ead radto on, which interferes

with conversation.

dnnouncers Phe Solloztgz conversations correspond to Friday,
~Harch 18,1965. Piae te 10:10 Are. : .

- glberu and Rojas are Aeard talking but their votces sound sar
away and cannot sndersicad, — ae

 

r

Pypawriting.

fhey seen to be talkiag to songone ‘else but cannot hear clearly.
There’s an interraptten while they make 4 eald and afterwards
continue talking but cannot Acar clearly. :

fypeurtting and radio gong on but no conversation.
Rojas now 4a telking to songons olse but votces sound far avay,
besides interference of typeoriter and radto.

Bad of £Y8#172
j2-20009

 

Announcers:

 

TZ 7169 March §, 1965 "10200 ene

Rojas ts talking ¢o @ woman =~ they seen to be talking adoxue
dooka cad. Sojas aprersntly tckes usr rane down dut cchnat
hear tt. clearly —— seers that this woman hes to orite ser
thesis for the Untoarsity end wants inforuction. Rojas celle
Aer tt $8 Setter that she write a letter recuesting said tne

Soraation and Ae wlll send it to Cuba, Their voices fede away

 

 

; cand the woman geeas to leave.

* Fear noises tn the office and radto program which ts en os uaual. |

   

Rojas exchances a fev words with someone ta distence sad tien
there® 3 don beccuze-o7-a prone coll. |

 

‘Rojas aghs J6rria over the interphone what tiac dées Eke plené

arrive Qdey.ond Jorrin anewera thet is-arrtoes at 2235..
Fondey,

yen falloping ccaversations correspond to
1965... Time te 10200 are. - -

  

Alboruts voice ts heard ser away talking t@ enother nsa dat :
cannot uncerstcnd what they are suying because not edeap. enough.

Typowrtting end radio heard cad then some persons talk to 8of6a |
but votces sounc fer away and afterverds hear then daughinge

Another serson comes in the ofyiee and telxs to foJaa. out 3a
usual their voices do not come thru cleerly end ccnnot. under
atand what thetr conversation 88 sJout. Hon leaves end then
Rojas end 4lderu’s: voices are heard but not clear aad ecano$

underatand, ;

End of XYZ #169.

i
 

AYE F274 Hercs 10, 1985 40100 awa,

Heer votces of HCL anG Fofes' == adico radto &Pogram whichite &eard

eleurdy a8 usual,

1

Ware She.told me that testuelly.

(They koep telking but hard to understend because of recto progran
ene voices not eiecr) . a i

Hojas seens to be talking to someone who taike like a Cuban but
not able to recogrize the pobca, 4

Adderutelle Rojas something about the work.

Too much noise and redto Frogran inberfere with votces cf Rofes
and Alboru, :

Hax 18 also in the offtee and says gometiing aout tae Plone 7
arriving at 12 o'clock (jrea Cuba), de discusses wit sidoru
about some packages cf books thet evtduntly auvu to be vent to
Cuda,

(Sound cut off at thts pelntj),  -

Heer nolsss and typewvttiag, but ebouu all,
continuously on and is heard over everything olse,

 

radio prograt which ts

Herts votce ts heard.and tt scens thoy aro arguing as to who te
going to take the eeceages with tid books to the airnort,

@ojas is talking to soneane wre cone in, aac achs him tf Ae ts a

Cuban. Could not hear ensver clearly but bt seens ag satu “no, ;

Then fujas esxs Alas hat ars yeu?

fans Fo ga yrom here (ferice),

Rojast Faat year are pou Studi ing et the University?

(This sen ozplaing something te iujes but unable to uaderstend

him Seeause oy redto progran walen 13 heard aboud their voices.)

de is saying somgihing civut the “Kevosccron" (proovdly refers

(80 the Cubsn revoluttyun.)

flojast I’m going to put you in contect with the Insthtuto FYoricuno=
Cubano de Relacienes Cultureics...(#ojes ylous aia sore
bulluting), :

Prey continue talking but very Aare to understund what they ore

saying bocause of radio intersercnce. :

fofase Mer.t3 a JPtttle beeklet valor ta vor, youd ead is @ bribes

Atetory of Cuba, =~- Ba you heve anyone who can rvcon.end you?

(Hon*s enswer not heard clearly =~ te 3peuks very low

fojust Do you kauc a ecredenttelP.

Ne8CEHS to say AG hae. Hojags telis zt to go to tag Instituto

a@ask for Haz lia jas tasray~ . :

Vuera’s sone more talk dnd then xojas telis Aine oo

Noridorrin that you are coating d2gk to get sone dooxs ;

Cubtucad dt cache. a
Sone nora-sonuarsation—-follows which could not 20 heard clearly
end after tite no acre gound, : .

 

 

 
 

End of LYE 171.
 

 

Z¥Z 3166 Horch 3, 1365 20200 am,

. Radto program on which can de teard clecrly, also notses in of [te

Zator A4lders and Rojas talkin distcnce «= there seens-to de...
another nan wlth thea but cannot underztcnd whet they aay
deccuse voices are far aay == ell that comes through $s the

_ Padto = also fear typeuriting, Seeas that Rojas is lose

- alone Sypewriting ag do not kecr anyone élae. .

Later, Rojas ts talxing to another man in the offtes due con-

versation yoeclear.
\

an

Rojas as ' Jorrin jon tnterpAone..if dlberu has gore ost and
Jorrin sa Bag 7 .

Rojas coattaues talking with the other aan.

Rojas says? Yesterday J pas looking in all the stationery
stores down town and apent oll afternoon to find that they
only had tats Iittle atae = we'll leave it hare sor-us end
we can pass on to hia that one over trere. :

Rojas and dideru continue talking and then tnterrupt thetr
conversation to make @ telephone call, fhey start talking.
egain but unadle to hear clearly. Alderu leaves and Rojas
romatns alone in the office.

Afterwards, Rojas is talking to a Meztcan nan —= They seen
te be talking about the Casa de las Anericas contest dut
their voices are too far away to hear clecrlye

dlberu and Rojas are again talking but their votees sound
far away and uaadle to understcad what they Saye

Bnd of XI¥Z #166.

 
 

 

ZYZ 4168 Horch 3, 1965 20100 coe,

Hadio program on which can de Aeard clecrly, also notses in of ft

Later dldera and Rojas talkin dtsténce = there seeas.to de...
another man with them but cannot understand wret they say
Seccuse voices ere far way =~ all that comes through te the
Pedie w= also Aear typeuriting, Seens that Rojas is lege

| Gone typewriting as do not heer anyone 6lse.

Later, Rojaz ts talking to another man in the offtes but con-
- persation get-cigar. . .

Rojas as ‘A lon tnterpaone tf dlberu has gone out and
vorrin aa ates ; .

Rojee’ continues talking with the other naa.

Rojas sayst Yesterday I was looking tn ali the stationery
stores down town and epent all afternoon to find that they

_ only had tais little size «= we*ll leave it here JOP us end
me cen pass on to. him that one over there. .

         

Rojes and dlderu continue talking and then taterrupt thetr
conversation to make @ telephone call. hey start talking.
again but unable to hear clearly. Alderu leaves and fojee —
Pemaing alone in the office. . oo

Afterwards, Rojas ts talking to a Hextcan nan — fhey seen
to be talking about the Casa de las dxertcas contest but
thetr votees era too fer amay to hear elecrly.

dlberw and Rojas are again talking but their voices souad
fer awey and unedle to understand what they say.

Gnd of TPZ 3166,
AP RS

    

DOE RE EATS GE RANE

 

 

TYZ $167 March 3, 1965 | 10:00 ans

Hotses and recto program going on ia office. Leter, Albera and
Rojas are heard talking ta distance. |
Rojas talks to sonoone else but voices far away ~- Later, Ae talks
#0 a woman but unadle to anderstend dacause voices tao far aay,

besides noises and radto program taterference.

‘Aster ‘talking to.verious people, none. of \whtca conversations Bere

clear enough to understend, finally Aojas 4s heard tclking about
fitlas and theatre to someone who may b¢ Godoy, but their voices
are Jow and cannot understand all of what they séye-

 

 

Bnd of £YZ #167.
74-0000

xyz #160 Harch 4, 1955 10:00 a. 4

_ spar pbiaee and hadto program, but no one talking. :

fp Hojes asks Jorria on} the interphone tf dlberu hag arrtved and

7 Sorrin saya vty
( Later Rojas taika wtta flberu but. voices sound far avay and cannot

A ear_what—ghey 3GYye
. ee
Rojas ts telling goae aan what is necessary in order fo go te ‘Cuba.

 

‘fant Phey are two boys; the eldest ts 23 years old and the youngest:

ta 8. :
(fhte man 13 @ Vereauelan and it seens he wants to send the
..two boys to Cubes) #ojes tells Atm that he needs a letter
na order to-de ebse ‘to send tho cht&dren oat of the country,
"“ that ta, the father’s consent, as well as their school cer-
tifleates, pactos, and letters of recomnendation, @a& well
as filling out an applicatton.
“Phe man. says he.can gtve Atm all the papers needed. ‘and that
. the purpose of hts trip to Hertco was to. arrange. the boya?
ao . trip. and that ke cannot go back to Veneaguela decause he ta
. not a mtilionetre; that Ae can give Aim a letter from the
"Club Espanol” of which he ts a menber. Han asks fojas how
dong ‘will all this teke because he has just enough time to
“go back to VYeneguela. Rojas tells hin they cannot say
exrectly-how long tt will take.
Bant _ Pho boy is not going to Cuba to study but to learn the
“eye te HarrtateLeninis? Doctrine, for one or two years as may de .
we necessary I will give him. whatever money he needs.
(Aideru,. thte man, end Rojas continue tolking but their votces
are now heard-in distance and cannot understand clearly.)

Another man seaus to come in and talks to Alberu, Cannot hear
clearly Dut it sgeas this aan wants to‘apply for @ scholarship
in Cuba and Aldeoru tells him what ts regutred, Hen leaves and
Rere no one speek =~ all thet 13 heard ts the radto progran whick

8a elyaya on, end notses in the offtea.

 

   

 

Later, some boys ask for raguzines and Rojas gets them for tihen-~
cannot understead what they say = | they daave and aster tate

hear nothing more,

End of XYZ #168.
