13-00000

 

 

 

 

 

 

31 July 1975 > eae

MEMORANDUM FOR: LA/EICO
cca Mr. William Sturbitts

SUBJECT ‘: Review of Lee Harvey OSWALD 201 File

for Freedom of Information Request

REFERENCE | : Request Number 75-105, 2 June 1975

 

a ‘A review of the Lee Harvey OSWALD file (201-289248)
has been completed by the Mexican Branch in connection with
reference Freedom of Information request. Most of the
information contained in the file that pertains to Mexico
came from sensiti methods, such as photo
surveillance;: nd mail intercept
operations. Although the mail intercept and photo
surveillance activities have been dicontinued, the fact
that they were in operation in Mexico continues to be
considered sensitive. | |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. The Mexican information reviewed covered three
areas:

a. Sylvia DURAN Tirado. A Mexican female

employed by thé Cuban Embassy in Mexico who provided

assistance to OSWALD in his attempts to obtain a Cuban
visa. Information regarding DURAN appears in the Warren

_..Report, however, it is not attributed to the Agency.
.The Government of Mexico (GOM) did arrest and interrogate

DURAN re her connection with OSWALD, and a copy of the

GOM deposition appears in the Report. The deposition was
turned over to the Commission by the GOM via State Department.
Since knowledge of DURAN's contact with OSWALD originall

came to both the GOM's and Agency's attention[>

all mention of Agency knowledge or

 

“participation in DURAN's arrest and subsequent interrogation
has been marked for non- ~release. eS

b. Photo of unidentified man taken in front of
the Soviet Embassy in Mexico. THis photo was taken by
Station Mexico photo surveillance of the Soviet Embassy
during the month of October 1963. When news of the
arrest of OSWALD as Keanedy's assassin became known,
the Station immediately forwarded copies of the photo
to the FBI in the mistaken assumption that the photo
was of OSWALD taken while he was in Mexico that fall.

It was later determined that the photo was not of OSWALD

and in fact had been taken after he had departed Mexico.
(OSWALD was in Mexico from 26 September thru 3 October 1963.)
Even though the photo was not of OSWALD it had been shown

to OSWALD's wife and mother, with the background partially

 

SMe

 
 
104-10422-10307

 

(] UNCLASSIFIED = ([]_ INTERNAL oo [1 CONFIDENTIAL (1 SECRET

    
  

 

 

 

 

 

C/LA/EICO
Mr. Sturbitts

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ser’ OVO “oie (] SECRET ©] CONFIDENTIAL =] (ATERNAL =), UNCLASSIFIED
 

  
 

 

 

 

 

-2-

cropped in an effort to digguise the place where the
photo had been taken. The photo became somewhat of an . zim
issue when the Warren Commission decided it belonged aeiaad
in the Report as part of the exhibits since it had been

shown to the OSWALDs. The Agency finally allowed the

picture to appear in the report with the background
completely... blocked .out..and with the agreement that ‘no.
mention: would be made about where it had, been taken.

‘As far as can be determined, the Agency has never

admitted publicly that the photo was taken in Mexico,

‘even though there has: been ‘a great deal of speculation

‘to that effect by several authors and journalists. As

a matter of fact, one of the lawyers who worked with the

Commiss on.later. leaked. information to an author regarding

the :pho j) but erroneously: said it had’ been ‘taken: in:

front of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico by CIA. Still,

the Agency has not revealed the actual location, only
saying it was taken soméwhere outside the U.S. All
mention of, the photo.has therefore been marked to be _

‘ withheld, because of sensitive sources and methods vt

involved.

  

 

c. Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte. ALVARADO, a
Nicaraguan citizen, walked in to the U.S, Embassy. in
Mexico, claiming to have knowledge re Kennedy's assasination.
It was learned that ALVARADO was an agent for the Nicaraguan
. Intelligence Service (NIS), however his story re the
“assassination was separate from his work for the NIS. After
lengthy interrogation, including a polygraph, it was
determined that ALVARADO had been fabricating a story claiming
he ‘had: seen. OSWALD receive. money | from a Cuban official at
thé’ Gaba’ Embassy in Mexico. “The ALVARADO story appears
in the Warren Report. but it does not reveal his identity. In
_ order to c tinue to protect, ALVARADO and the Nicaraguan
i” ng rom: possible embarrassment all mention of
ALVARADO has been marked for non-release.

 

 

 

2. A list and copies of douments from the OSWALD file
have been forwarded to your office for review by other LA
branches and possibly other Divisions. The documents are marked
according to which volume they belong in the 201 file (there
are 57 volum plus many bulky atachments.) .

        

3. During the review, it was necessary several times to
refer to the Warren Report and the exhibits to ascertain
exactly what was already known about the Mexican aspect of the
case. It is doubtful that the other branches will find this
necessary, but in case they do, the rren Report is held

in the Library. Z

Jack Mathews
C/LA/Mexico

  
 
