74-00000

QUESTION ADDRESSED TO SENATOR CHURCH: Was there a-
reason for the cover up? :

-Senator Church replied he had no “gudgment on that.
There could be many reasons "we just don't know."

QUESTION: - How ‘far up did the cover up go?

Senator Schweiker replied that he doesn't know,
his committee ran out of time to pursue
this and this is the next logical lead to
pursue. He added that Mr. McCone has testified
that he didnot know of CIA attempts to
assassinate Castro. Senator Church interjected
‘that the state of the investigation does not
“show | whether there was a conscious effort
to-cover up. -
‘Senator Church saia there could be several other
“reasons such as one frequently pointed oat
that since Allen Dulles was on the Warren
Commission thereswas no need to tell the
Commission.

 

QUESTION: “Are any of the participants in the
i cover uP still employed by the CIA or FBI?

Senator Schweiker replied it would be unfair
- to answer this question and. that there could
or.could not be current employees involved.

QUESTION: What about the interest of President
- .Johnson in 19677- . .

Senator Schweiker. replied again this was an
example where they did not fully reopen the
investigation and conducted only a pro” forma
inquiry where several important leads “fell
through the cracks.

QUESTION: Is there any new information: in the
report? : : . .

Senator Schweiker ‘replied a couple of leads
such as Cuban intelligence agents moving in
flights in cockpits within Mexico and the
US and-then on to Cuba.

 
14-00000

. QUESTION: Do you know that the man riding in. the
cockpit of the aircraft was a Cuban intelligence
agent? - :

Senator Schweiker replied that there is strong
'- eyidence that one of the Cubans mentioned. in
one of these two leads in the report was a

Cuban intelligence agent.

QUESTION: | What’ are ‘other. motives in President.
Kennedy" s assassination? © : :

Senator. ‘Schweiker: ‘replied that he hated to
‘speculate on this matter and that it could
--have been Castro retaliation, retaliation by
_anti-Castro grops or ‘at could even _tavolve
e the Mafia.

 

QUESTION: ‘$ince you say Mr. Helms did 1 hot ‘guteiit
‘his responsibility: in this regard, ‘what are
s you doing: to terminate his aubabsadorship?

‘Senator - Schweiker replied che had made ‘no judgment _-
“on this. matter and will wait for the oversight
“committee, continuance of the investigation.

(This was the ‘Last. question ‘and the news conference. ended. >

2. the ‘above description of: the question and
answer period ‘during the news ‘conference was compiled.
from notes taken. by the undersigned and should.not
be treated ag:iaverbatim transcript or complete ¢ account
of all that was Stated.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Upd
74-0000

 

QUESTION: The report. states there is no hard
evidence of a conspiracy. Is there
circumstantial evidence? '- .

| Setiator ‘Schweiker answered that the report
. leaves unanswered many. questions that need
to be resolved and there is sufficient
evidence to warrant additional investigation.

qustroN: Why isn't Senator Hart here?

Senator Schweiker replied that Senator Hart had
supported him fully throughout the investigation
but that Senator Hart had been detained at
another engagement and had called Senator.
Schweiker only minutes before the start of
the press conference to indicate that he

could not be. ‘Present. . :

‘ QUESTION: What - are the names of ‘the senior —

intelligence officers who withheld information
from the Warren Commission? : . :

“‘Senatory Schweiker xeplied that Hoover and Helms
failed to provide the Warren Commission with
“all relevant information but beyond those
‘two individuals the investigation has ‘not.
‘been completed. | co a. .

an QUESTION: ‘Allen: Dulles ‘who was a member of the

Warren Commission knew about assassination
plots against Castro. Why ‘didn't he provide
. the Warren Commission with this data?

Senator Schweiker replied ‘that ‘there’ is no
‘indication any other member besides Allen
Dulles” knew of the assassination plots.

= QUESTION: Were there any important facts left

out of the report for security reasons?

Senator Schweiker replied in the negative.

 

{

 
[0d 10096-10193

 

   
 

24 June 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR “THE | RECORD

. SUBJECT: - Senators Church and Schweiker News Conference

Concerning Release - of Senate Select Committee
Warren Commission Report

1. The: following is a summary of the 23 June 1976
news conference sponsored by Senators Church and
Schweiker concerning the release of the Senate
Select Committee report relating to the investigation :

of the assassination of President Kennedy:

‘Senator: Church opened the news. conference with

a brief: statement outlining ‘the: history of the Senate

‘Select Committee and indicated that this report represents

the last of .five reports issued by the. Committee during
its tenure. Senator Church praised Senator Schweiker

and Senator Hart for their investigation concerning

the Kennedy assassination and said that the report's
central. conclusion is that senior officials of both

the CIA and the FBI failed to turn over relevant
information to the Warren Commission. Senator Church
indicated that the reasons for the failure to turn over
this relevant information are.unclear ‘and then quoted .
from the report to the. effect that: the: possibility exists
that this non-disclosure was‘intentional. Senator Church
concluded his opening. statement by recommending-that the
matter be referred to the newly created oversight
committee with the recommendation that - the committee
continue this investigation to resolve unanswered questions.

Senator- Church then gave ‘the floor to Senator. Schweiker.
Attached hereto is a copy. of Senator Schweiker's opening

statement. Following Senator Schweiker's reading of this

statement the news conference was opened to questions
from reporters.

. A general description of the questions and responses
thereto follows:

RETURN To c
Backgroung Use Oniy
0 Not Reproduce”

 
74-0000

QUESTION: Was there a conspiracy to cover up?

Senator Schweiker replied that neither Helms
of the CIA nor Hoover of the FBI told the
Warren Commission, nor individuals within
their respective agencies responsible for
investigating the assassination of President
Kennedy, of plots to assassinate Castro.

QUESTION: Have you referred this matter to
the Justice Department?

Senator Schweiker replied that he had taken
no action in this regard and intended to
leave this matter to~ the judgment of the

' oversight conmittee..

‘QUESTION: What is left to be done in the way of
. investigation? :

Senator Schweiker replied that the question of
how high. up and the purpose of the "cover up"
‘needs to be pursued, as well as several other. —
igads not identified within the report.

. QUESTION: ° Why has the oversight: ‘committee (Senator
, Inouye) stated that they will not decide for
six months whether to take up this matter?

Senator Schweiker replied that he has.talked .
to Senator Inouye and that Senator Inouye
has promised to bring this matter before the
oversight committee. .

QUESTION: Was AMLASH a. “double agent?

Senator Schweiker replied that the Cuban government
had an excellent intelligence network in the
US and the question of whether AMLASH was a
double agent and whether Castro knew of AMLASHs

: activities with CIA; is very important issue.

 

QUESTION: You have indicated that you do not have
faith in the Warren Commission investigation,
therefore, do you then not believe that Oswald
was the lone assassin? —
74-00000

Senator. Schweiker replied that the Warren
Commission was missing several. ingredients
when they made their investigation and therefore
he (Schweiker) could make no decision
‘on the matter.

QUESTION ADDRESSED TO SEN. CHURCH: Do you agree
with Senator Schweiker that there was a
cover up?

Senator Church stated yes, he agreed with the
report and the decision to publish it, however,
Helms has not been fully interrogated on this —
‘matter and there are several important leads
that need to be followed up. Senator Church
‘stated-that Helms was interrogated but the
‘committee did not have time to complete the
‘whole chain of necessary questions. .As an
‘example one:response Helms gave before the

| committee as to why he had not informed the - ;

Warren Commission of the plots against Castro .—
was that “no. one asked hin. ,

Senator Schweiker commented that. more - ‘leads are
‘coming in even now. Many of those leads are
>not: in the report and that people. are volunteering
information | on: this even? now. :

QUESTION: | Is there enough evidence: to reopen a .
full scale investigation. of. the ‘Kennedy’ assassina~
“tion? :

Senator Schweiker replied that if Oswald had been’
. convicted the - trial would later have been .

\ declared a mistrial solely on the basis of the
FBI's destruction of Oswald's note in the —

_ Dallas office. He added that yes there is enough
‘evidence to open a full scale investigation, but
‘the next.step would be for’ the oversight committee
to pursue - ‘the leads.

QUESTION: ADDRESSED TO SENATOR. CHURCH: Would you
require further evidence before you feel that a’
. full scale. hearing, should be convened?

Senator ‘Church replied yes, this is incomplete
and there is. not enough evidence yet to open

“a. £ull seale hearing. However, it should be
investigated further. :

 
