 

L

 

 

is Ny Na . 1 ene

     
  

   
 
 
  

CLANDIEICATION * OR2AATCH GVISEOL AD MUMEER

CONTINBATION GF:
bishaven "+.

_ OS '

     
   

 

SECRET UFGA-4322
indicated that the retirement was scheduled to take place at the
end cf September 1962. At the end of thé luncheon session ar-
rangenonts wore made for JENTONS to take Maj, Watlington on a ~
vous of Opa Locka, Based on this tour additional discussions

axe to be held with Maj, Watlington. particularly in regard to
the development of procedues for referral of agents to ACSI
from the Opa Locka flow.

4. OPA LOCKA, Maj. Watlington and JENTONS subsequently
went out to the interrogation center at Opa Locka. Here they
had an interview with Col, Kail, “the tenor of which was, on the
part of Maj. Watlington, to assure himself that the ACSI repre-
sentative, Francasi, was having adequate access to operational
leads. Col, Kail said that operational leads were shared ac-
cording to their abilities between the KUBARK representative and
the, ACSI man. However, there were occasional difficulties in
assuring that the men best qualified received the body in question.
In addition, he said KUBARK occasionally pulled a man out of the
Center without his completing the full treatment which precluded
the ACSI representative's getting his hands on someone who might
be well qualified for their operations. Maj. Watlington believed
that assurance that the ACSI representative got a fair deal
might be achicved through a more complete briefing of Col.
Trudencio Ulibarri, who is in charge of the preliminary screening
so that he would more fully understand what was needed. JENTONS
said that this would be a very good idea, but that it would be
better if it were a dual briefing with a KUBARK representative
being present as well. Maj. Watlington said that he would ask
his headquarters for permission to have such a briefing given.
Coil. Kail expressed his opinion that the assignment of JENTONS
to formal liaison with the ACSI representatives would do much to
eliwinate present difficulties and all present echoed this pious
thought.

5. AGREEMENT, When JENTONS turned Maj. Watlington over to
Lt. Col. uses after the meeting at Gpa Locka, the two ACSI
representatives said that they believed that, for the time being,
it would be better to continue the system as at present, pending
JENPONS' permanent orrival at the beginning of July 1962. As. Lt.
Col. Causes is obviously skeptical about the outcome, this was

' agreed to as a stopgap measure.

END OF DISPATCH

“%

 

 

warais

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
     

       
    
    

500000" _——_ _ : deepen - :
ie _. ‘SONTINVATION OF . CLADEINICATION DiRRATCH GYEERL AND MUMBTA
|e a BiPATeH SECRET UFGA-4322

   

 

 

t

oafeguards be built into any Opa Locka referral in.order
that wo could minimize the possibilities for duplication
-of effort and/or wire crossing. This concept waa readily
accopted by Maj. Watlington. It did not, however, strike i
a totally responsive chord in Lt. Col. Causes. This was
noted but in order to proceed with preliminary arrange-
nents, REUTENAN put forth the proposal that ACSI register 1
a. list of ‘dgent requirements with Opa Locka and that this
‘WWst could then be used as a basis upon which refugee
° screenings could be conducted. It was suggested that Col.
. Kail would be the logical point of reference in Opa Locka
through which the referral system could be managed. In rae
‘ “this connection it was pointed out that once Col. Kail Oe
identified an individual whom he considered to ‘be pri- —~ |

 

 

 
    

Greg ene pmnimne n Ae

TEST REE REITER LA ERT AIS

 

 

 

 

marily of ACSI interest, he could arrange for this indi-
vidual to be referred to Lt. Col. Causes‘ covert unit.
At the same time Col, “ail would make arrangements to pass
i to KUBARK representatives at Opa Locka and to Station
JMWAVE a copy of the Opa Locka debriefing of the individual
who had been referred to ACSI. Upon receipt of this in-
formation KUBARK representatives at Opa Locka and at
Station JMWVAVE would review the referral. If this review
revealed that the individual was not of operational
Ty interest to JMWAVE and his primary access was not in fields
. other than OB, no objections would be expressed relative
to ACSI retention and full exploitation of the body. Maj.
Watlington expressed satisfaction with this proposal and
“gtated that he would be prepared to discuss it further
once he had an opportunity to personally review the func-
tioning of the Opa Locka center. ~

; LOA eR Re_use by anctherUs. Agentg- Tewe 6)
“Ae 13 3. antonig Vounseavaties hoi Horn 13 June 1926. Lt.Col.
f° Causes asked if wo could clarify the current status of
© our relationship with Cuesta. As this name did not ring

a a bell with any of the JMWAVE representatives, Lt. Col.
Causes was asked for further details. This produced the
ptatement that ACSI was interested in CueSta ‘And wanted
to use him in an infiltratien operation: ACSI had allegedly
previously traced Cuesta with Station oliVAVE and had re-
ceived the reply that’ KUBARK had been in touch with the
andividual but had terminated him because he was unreliable.

, In view of this response Lt. Col. Causes wanted to know
whether we would recommend the reuse of Cuesta by ACSI.
Woe responded to this by stating that we would review our
files and would forward a written reply to Lt. Coil. Causes
within the next few days. . yo. boa |
- De pe ROEAIT GR Reds by onees WS mgeuey Gem e’.

UZ c. Pauroano “BATISTA Faila. Born 1 May 1935. .Lt.
Col, Causes asked T¥We StilY vétained au operational
interest in Batistal I¥ wo did not “ACSY was interested-
an using this individual in an filtration operation and
8S Oo xvesuit wanted JMWAVE's opinion-as to Batista's
capability and reliability. We advised Lt. Col. Causes
that we would check cur files and would forward a written
reply relative to Batista within a matter of a few days.

2a ABNOP PR GE Use fp en $03 7
uC . aS Antenio *ORDONEZ Hern =. Born 24 August 1918.
, Lt. Col. Causes asked if We Were currentiy in touch with
Ordonez. Ag this name rang a bell with RSUTEMAN we re Z
oponded by stating that7Zéubjéct tag of tnterést to vd In =

 

 

qeneerre tigen em ann:

Let hap Mann laden eee eas

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
     

 

this connection we indicated we were{ willing to reexamine], |
Gur relationship with OrdoneZjyin order to detérmine “his — 4
full potential or capability, and if his capability was .
“greater in the Of field than in figids which wereiof interest_-

 

 

 

 

a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cn
    
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

ET Soe : oO cn a

      
 
  

7 te SS Ete:

 

 

 

 

Chief of Station, JMWAVE
mane’ Operations 1/CYROSE

Agreed Activities
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

 

 

,

. t

. i i

REFERENCE: DIR-14742 je:
t

; 1. INTRODUCTION. As a follow up to reference, Maj. Watlington
arrived in Miami on 6 June 1962. After Maj. Watlington had an op-
portunity to discuss the local situation with Lt. Col. Carlos Causer *
‘the local ACSI representative, arrangements were made for a lengthy
session on the subject of Agreed Activities. It was agreed that
this discussion would take place at 1000 hours on 7 June 1962 at a
JENAVE safehouse facility. This meeting subsequently took place as
scheduled and was participated in by Lt. Col. Causes, Maj. Watlington,
Dudley R. JENTONS, Charles B,.WIESINGER and Andrew K, REUTEMAN.

The specific points which were outlined in this discussion are
covered in the following paragraph.

 

 

2. DISCUSSIONS. in the course of the 7 June 1962, conversations
with ACSI representatives the following topics worthy of recording
were discussed.

a. Opa Locha Refugee Referral Precedures. aj.
Watlington made the point that in accordance with the
agrecrents which had been reached between ACSI and
KUBARX, local procedures were to be agreed upon in
order that ACSI might obtain refugee referrals froa
Gpa Locka which could be used as a basis upon which to
mount OB collection operations. Maj. Watlington under-
scored the point that ACSI had no interest or charter
to run other than OB collection operations. At the
cane time if any of their operations produced intelli-
Geace on subject matter other than OB, this intelligence
would be reported via existing ACSI reports channels.
REUTELAN indicated that JLAVAVE, acknowledged the validity
of ACSI's mission in the OB field, and we were therefore |

willing to merate fully in this regard. On the other
ona Beret gee y 8

 

"Ge ved that it was essential that certain
[FoR 3 fo da fr

GS GOPV

   

  

dhetritution:
3 - Chief, TFW

eeiniecy
lei

ae oe Au Ls OQn st
| Ba RetReprates OF BIS |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
sreeicieiaian —— —— es xn
: CONTINVATION .. CLASSIFICATION

«

er

     

et a RA A A

pisrATcid mo , SECRET. UFGA-4322

Lt. Col. Causes stated that he felt that he had
established hin equity in Ordonez through the nane

” trace procedure, Despite this, he had found that
Ordonez had disappeared from circulation; and, there- Py
fore, he assumed that we were debriefing this man.

e. fhird Country Diplomats. REUTEMAN asked the
ACSI representatives whether they were currently in
touch with any third country diplomats. aj. Watlington

 

 

 

 

 

wae eee eet sen EE CORR RE SL IRE TT

 

with ee hs in ACSI's being denied the use
of these facilities. Ac a result Maj. Watlington stated :
that at thy present time ACSI was not: in touch with any :
third counjry, diplomats. On the other hand, ACSI was :
interested in pursuing the third country diplomatic
channel ds a means of establishing communications with
inside dssets. At this point Lt. Col. Causes stated
that he was very disappointed at KUBARK's refusal to
allow him to use the facilities of the;
eee an It was indicated tha wndéer=
. 7 reaction; however, the KUBARK
position was based on sound security principles and
could not be altered, The additional explanations which
were made relative to the security implications which
were inherent in the use of third country diplomats and
how misuse could affect long standing government to
government or service to service agreements between
ODYOXE and free worid countries did not make any impact
on Lt. Gol. Causes. This gentleman was predisposed to
interpret KUBARK's refusal to allow him to use certain
2 shanneis as a clear indication that
OnG-G6F — To imary responsibilities in the Miami
area was to restrict and inhibit ACSI operational activity.
Once this attitude was identified no further attempts were
made to persuade Lt. Coli. Causes that our actions had
been taken in the best interests oft the intelligence
community.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'

ney maps ee mp earner ee

ce aye etn ere ES

 

 

 

f. Maritime afiitration of ACSI Arents. A dis-
cussion of those Support Services Which KUEARK might
render to ACSX operations revealed that Lt. Col. Causes i
wag still interested in having JMWAVE infiltrate two of
his agents into PRRUMEN, In this connectioo the point
was made by ACBL that under optimum circumstances they
would prefer that JMVAVE assume responsibility for the
agents in. the Miami area and then deliver them through a
secure mechanism to Havana, ff this were not possible
ACSE would reiuctantly uccept infiltration of their agents
into avy point in PBRUMEN, L¢e. Col. Causes was toid in
very precise terns that JMVAVE would not undertale to |
infiltrate any of his agents into Havana, On the other y
hand, we would cousider any proposal for the infiltration iN
of selected agents to a beach area in PBRUMEN, The point ¢
was made that in this connection Lt. Col. Causes had to :

- understand that our maritime capabilities were limited
and we were currently committed to the full exploitation
of these assets for at least six weeks in advance. As a
result any operational plan which he might submit to us
should be keyed to the agsumption that approximately six
- to eight weeks would paGs before we could realistically
consider the servicing of his request. Lt. Col. Causes

. agreed to project his operational plans within this frame
°* . of reference, :

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

toes

 
ane

ee

Taped dea

 

 

 

wGuanowor | Se A  auFGATION Voarien onion Aco ana
DISPATCH © | SECRET UFGA-4322

   

. G. Documentation. A discussion of the documentation —
problem relative to agent infiltrations revoaled that at
* the ponent -Acsi did not have any.documentation problems
which they’ felt warranted discussion at this session.

: h. " Coordination Forms. The discussion of opsra-
tiopal coordination yoveaied that ACSI was willing for
JUVAVE to coordinate locally those operational. proposals
which might be received from,Lt. Col. Causes. Once this
coordination was effected and if there were disagreoment,
then the operation could be referred to the Washington
headquarters of both ACSI and JMWAVE, Maj. Watlington
stated that the forms for effecting coordination in ac-
cordance with procedures which had been agreed upon at
Washington would be sent to both JMWAVE and the ACSI unit
in Miami in the near future. In view of this Maj.
Watlington suggested that we not initiate the coordination
mechanism until these forms were on hand circa 1 July 1962.

i. W/T Assets. The discussion of the use of W/T
facilities in terms of PBRUMEN operations revealed that
the Miami ACSI unit did not have any W/T assets in ;
PBRUMEN at this time. On the other hand, Lt. Col, Causes
was“ interested in establishing W/T assets in PBRUMEN. In
view of @his he asked if JMWAVE would continue to assess,
polygraph and train those individuals that ACSI thought
were suitable W/T candidates. It was indicated that we
were certainly prepared to review all appropriate cases
and would render whatever support was required. This then
resulted in a discussion of whether JMWAVE would be willing
to monitor ACSI W/T transmissions from PBRUMEN in those
instances where the W/T operator had not been assessed,
polygraphed or trained by KUBARK. We indicated that we
would be glad to moniter,;such transmissions if we were
told in advance of the date, time and frequencies on which
tho breadcasts were to be made. This then led to a dis-
cussion of whether JMWAVE would be willing to transmit
C/V messages for ACSE agouts. Here again, we stated that
we would favorably concider any requests for C/V trans-
missions providing that we knew the content of the nessage,
the identity of the agent who was to receive it, and the

« agent's location and equipment which he might be using.
Lt. Col, Causes stated that in view of this discussion we
could anticipato that he would be levying requirements on
ug in the near future for support in the W/T field.

recoived from their Mianl representative it would be re-
viewed, and if ACSY approved the operation KUBARK would
be asked to issue a system. If JMWAVE agreed via lecal
coordination that the operation in question required the
use of S/V, then this recommendation would bo cabled to
our Washington Headquarters where coordination would be
effocted with ACSI. Once this was accomplished, KUBARK
Washingtagn would cable to JMWAVE the number of the system
s which was\to be issued, JMWAVE would then issue the

syatam to the ACSI representative in Miami.

Se

naman eer gee ii eR PE

sapere t

LONE Ate an teens TRE ERT MET TT tee

Paeee rn ae!

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. OOMMENT, At the conc lusiéa of the above discussion arrange-
monts wero made for lunch, but Lt. Col, Causes chose not to partici-

pate in the luncheon session. During -the luncheon conversation
"Kaj. Watlington indicated that he did not believe that Lt. Col.
. Causes would cooperate within the spirit of the DCID's.

As a result

he asked that JMWAVE be extremely patient with ACSI until such ‘time -

ag Lt. Col, Causes retired and could be replaced. Maj. Watlington

&
