74-00000

Page 10.

Page 15.

 

. says eo 6 within weeks of this meeting CIA escalated

the level of its covert operations, telling AMLASH
the United States supported his plan." | :

This misrepresents what AMLASH/1 was told

at the 20 October 1963 meeting, which was that
he would receive no support unless he was
‘successful ina coup of his own. There is-no
planning relationship between the inconclusive

status of the understanding with AMLASH/1 and
_what was going on under MONGOOSE.

“Oswald contacted a known KGB agent" with the Soviet
Embassy in Mexico. While it is known that Oswald
contacted the Vice Consul at.the Soviet Embassy in
Mexico City, it is believed that it was for the purpose

of obtaining a visa for the Soviet Union. The fact that .
the Vice Consul happened to be a KGB officer complicates
the matter but there is no evidence that Oswald knew

this Soviet was KGB. Therefore, recommend this
sentence be modified accordingly. ‘

itHoover and other senior officials first learned of
plots to assassinate Castro in July 1964,'' Did they?

"Moreover, there is evidence that CIA's investigators
made requests for files which should have given

_ knowledge of the AMLASH operation, but for some

reason they did not acquire that knowledge. ''

A quick review of Cl Staff files, in the time _
available for this review, disclose no requests
that, of themselves, would produce information.

on the. AMLASH operation.

The draft report raises the question of what was
furnished investigators, which raises the question of
what was requested, by whom? (See comment on item
on page 14). , :
74-00000

 

 

or € FOP SEE

OF course, the reference to especial relevance
‘of the AMLASH operation in this context is
questioned, . :

Page 21. Draft report states that President Kennedy did. "admit .

a that the Bay of Pigs invasion was in fact an operation
sponsored by the CIA." Our impression was that he
accepted this responsibility as. his, for a government
program, How and in what forurh was the stated
admission? Se

. Page 27.

(numbered 29)
Speaking of renewal of contact with AMLASH/ 1 the
draft says". . . the exact purpose the CIA had for
renewing contact is not known, but there is no evidence
that CIA intended at this time to use AMLASH in an
assassination operation.

When AMLASH came out of Cuba in September
1963, it was the first chance since August 1962

' to see him. Recontact needed no mysterious

_ “exact purpose."' It is correct to state that
there was"no evidence’of intent to use him as an
assassination operation; rather, the circum- _
stances that followed suggest just the opposite.

 

Footnote: The case officer did not say, as stated .

in the draft, that the basis for meeting with AMLASH
was the belief of AMLASH that the first step of any
coup was assassination, While AMLASH's views were -
known, as shown by the evidence his views were _
rejected at least during the critical period.

Page 29. The opinion expressed in the draft report, in relation
to the Harker interview, about "AMLASH not being ©
a terrorist, '"'is correct. Should it be reconciled
with statements on Page 8? _—_,

 
74-00000

 

7 neve mnenisaete gta oe men =

Page 2.

Page 7.

Page 8.

Page 9.

va “TOP SECRET 510s nave

Copy 10 of 10.

. Item. Comments on Draft Report of SSC Subcommittee

Line ll. The word "agents"! may describe FBI
employees, but it is not a term ordinarily applied
to CIA staff employees. .

‘and complete paragraph, 2d line. “The phrase

“backed by CIA, '' in describing the Bay of Pigs.

operation, is imprecise. CIA was: the government

instrument for conducting the operation, but there
was considerable other participation in what was

. an operation "backed" by the U. Ss. government,

The statement that the FBI knew about these plots

by at least May 1962 needs some elaboration. |

These plots (assassination) did not involve AMLASH/L
at that time, and what the FBI knew may have been
about aspects of contacts, the nature of which it did
not know. (Need this be reconciled with the state-
ment at page 12 giving the date of FBI's learning
whatever it learned in J uly 19647)

and and 3d paragraphs. It is noted that operational .
activity in June 1963~-the date given--was that there was

“no “Activity with the criminal Syndicate (this having .

been ended several months earlier), and there had
been no contact with AMLASH/1 since August 1962.
Statements by Castro about "terrorists"! had to > apply
to other activities. .

Paragraph at bottom of page (continuing over to
page 9). References by Castro (12 September 1963)
to "covert activities" undoubtedly referred to not-
so-covert activity of MONGOOSE.

Bottom of page, speaking of 29 October 1963 meeting
between AMLASH/1 and Fitzgerald, the draft report "||

STOP.SECRET cassis vy sone
74-0000

Ee TOP SECRET, €

token support that he could interpret as the support he had
been requesting unsuccessfully. That decision was taken

19 November 1963 inside CIA Headquarters by FitzGerald. and
formalized by a memorandum written the same date.

Prior to 22 November 1963 CIA had refused to give
AMLASH/I1 any support prior to a successful coup in Cuba. |
That he recognized that this specifically included a refusal to
participate in the assassination of Castro is reflected in the
description of a July 1964 report by the FBI, quoted in the SSC
Subcommittee draft, in which AMLASH/1 stated that Robert F.
Kennedy had refused support for the assassination of Castro.
As the 29 October meeting with FitzGerald is the one at which |

- he understood he was meeting with a representative of Robert F. .

Kennedy, it confirms the description in the 1967 IG Report.

. Whatever the relationship with AMLASH /l after 22 November,
the evidence is unequivocal .that AMLASH/1 had no grounds prior
to that for believing that he had CIA support for his vaguely defined
course of action. He knew nothing that, had it leaked, would have
served to motivate a Cuban retaliatory strike against President
Kennedy.

As a matter of interest, in reflecting what the record shows

of Castro's knowledge, the reports of AMLASH/I's public trial

in 1966 contain no reference to this earlier period. Nor did the
book provided by Castro to Senator McGovern, on what he con-
sidered plots on his life, contain any reference to AMLASH/1
activity during this period, referrisig instead to a later time.

The most recent information available indicates that :
AMLASH/I is still in jail, where he is serving a thirty year —

sentence.

-4-

TOP SECRET
oe TOP SECRET ©

The 13 November memorandum also stated that:

"Nothing of an operational nature was discussed
at the FitzGerald meeting. After the meeting
(AMLASH/l) stated that he was satisfied with
the policy discussion but now desired to know
what technical support we could provide him."

' On 14 November 1963 a Cuban exile in New York (the source ~
of the original introduction to AMLASH/1) stated to a CIA case
officer that AMLASH/1, while: '...satisfied...as far as policy
was concerned, ... was not at all happy with the fact that he
still was not given the technical assistance for the operational
plan as he saw it... He could not understand why he was denied
certain small pieces of equipment which permitted a final

_ solution to the problem, while, on the other hand, the U.S.
Government gave much equipment and money to exile groups for.
their ineffective excusions...'' The report of that meeting,
also stated: ',..if he does not get advice and material from a
U.S. Government technician, he will probably become fed-up
again and we will lose whatever progress we have made to date."

On 19 November 1963 a CIA memorandum records FitzGerald's
approval of a cache for AMLASH/1 inside Cuba, with high-powered.
rifles and scopes, During the period following 19 November ,
and prior to a meeting in Paris on 22 November, a ballpoint pen
was rigged as a hypodermic syringe with which AMLASH/1 could
administer a poison. The case officer arrived in Paris on
22 November 1963 and met with AMLASH/1 on that date. AMLASH/1
was shown the ballpoint pen device but did not accept it. He also
was told of the arms cache he would be provided.

: The record is quite clear that AMLASH/1 had no grounds,
“prior to 22 November 1963, to believe that he had any support
from the United States for operations involving the assassin-
ation of Fidel Castro. In fact, he had no advance support for
a coup, however ‘he|might attempt it.. This is emphasized by
his recorded complaints on the subject, clearly reflecting his ,
understanding that such was the case. His complaint on 14 |
November 1963, as reported through an intermediary, may have
led to the decision on 19 November 1963 to provide him with

a Be

TOP SECRET
74-0000

token support that he could interpret as the support he had
been requesting unsuccessfully. That decision was taken

19 November 1963 inside CIA Headquarters by FitzGerald and
formalized by a memorandum written the same date.

; Prior to 22 November 1963 CIA had refused to give
AMLASH/1 any support prior to a successful coup in Cuba. -
That he recognized that this specifically included a refusal to
participate in the assassination of Castro is reflected in the
description of a July 1964 report by the FBI, quoted in the SSC .
Subcommittee draft, in which AMLASH/1 stated that Robert F.
Kennedy had refused support for the assassination of Castro.

As the 29 October meeting with FitzGerald is the one at which
he understood he was meeting with a. representative of Robert F.
Kennedy, it confirms the description in the 1967 IG Report.

Whatever the relationship with AMLASH/1 after 22 November,
the evidence is unequivocal that AMLASH/1 had no grounds prior
to that for believing that he had CIA support for his vaguely defined ©
course of action. He knew nothing that, had it leaked, would have
served to. motivate a Cuban retaliatory strike against President
Kennedy. .

Finally, it is significant that the transcripts of AMLASH/ I's
1966 trial contain no reference to his activities prior to 1964; i.e.,
before President Kennedy's assassination. The transcripts suggest .
that, to the Cubans! knowledge, AMLASH/1 was not in touch with CIA -
before November 1964. Nor did the book which Gastro provided to
Senator McGovern in 1975, which purported to be an inventory of all
known plots against ‘Castro's life, contain any allegation of AMLASH/1
anti-Castro activity prior to late 1964. The book mentions travel by
AMLASH/1 to Madrid "where he was recruited by CIA agents." This
travel occurred in November 1964. The above two instances strongly
suggest that Castro was not aware that AMLASH/1 had any contact
with CLA prior‘to November 1964; i.e., one year after President
Kennedy's (death. ;

The reported AMLASH/ 1 notoriety in the Miami ‘Cuban exile
community did not occur prior to President Kennedy's death. This
developed after the 1966 trial and to some degree after AMLASH/1
met with Cuban exile leaders in Madrid in late 1964 and early 1965,
This was after AMLASH/1 was informed in 1964 that the U.S.
Government had severed its relationship with him.

The most recent information available indicates that AMLASH/ 1
is still in jail, where he is serving a thirty year sentence.

 

 
14-00000

Copy 9 of 10

-: c TOPSECRET = ¢ —ti8s2071

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON,D.C. 20505

10 June 1976

Mr. William G. Miller

Staff Director

Select Committee to Study Governmental _
Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities -

Roorn G-308 : 7

' Dirksen Senate Office Building
Washington, D. C. 20515

Dear Bill:

Forwarded herewith are comments on the draft report of
the Senate Select Committee's subcommittee on the question of
support by the intelligence agencies for the Warren Commission

‘inquiry. These comments have been prepared under a tight

deadline, which has limited the ability to research all the questions
raised in the draft report. :

The attachments to this letter‘are in two sections. The first
is a summary of considerations relating to the relationship between
CIA and AMLASH/1 prior to the assassination of President Kennedy
on 22 November 1963. The point is that the record of what was said
to AMLASH/1, and specific reporting of what he understood, makes
it clear that there were no grounds for him to believe, and he did: —

‘not believe, that he had CIA support for an assassination plot against

Castro in the period preceding President Kennedy's death. The .
second attachment is an item-by-item series of comments, ranging
from minor editorial notations and comments, to factual corrections,
and security points. : :

_As there is a basic difference between the interpretation of
facts in the draft report, and the facts as we know them, it would be
appreciated if there could be an opportunity to address the question ~
with the members of the Subcommittee. It is my opinion that it would
be a disservice to the public to issue the report as now written.

Sincerely, C
eet
S, D. Breckinridge | Son %
Deputy Inspector General z %
& £
Attachments: % &
As stated 7g-491°

JOP. SECRET. . Classified by Signer
 

 

 

 

  

 

 

copy NO.
NUMBER OF, PAGE:

  
 
  

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 

duties relate to “the matter.
and indicate period.of custody in the left-hand columns provided. Each. indivi
indicate the date of handling in the right-hand. columns, .

 

 

  

      
   

SEEN BY

SIGNATURE: | "4:0 | OFFICE/DIV,

REFERRED TO! . RECEIVED ” RELEASED”
OFFICE - SIGNATURE Soy fopate | TIME [.0ATE [TIME

 

 

 

 

 

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LAY
ae

 

be

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NOTICE OF DETACHMENT: When this ‘Jorm is ‘detached from Ton Secret material it shall be e completed in’ the appropriate spaces below.
and transmiited.to Central Top Secret oe ntrol for record.’ . ‘ ie

 

DOWNGRADED - os pestRoveps or: DISPATCHED (OUTSIDE CIA) si" -[:
TO oo By (Signature) = To ene - >

 

 

 

 

 

BY (Signature) . WITNESSED BY (Signature) a BY, (Signature)

 

 

   

OFFICE Oo : OFFICE ; DATE © cy | OFFICE. DATE -

 

 

  

TOP SECRET.
any

 
74-00000

¢ TS 185247 - Tabl
Copyl0 of 10

 

_AMLASH Operation

The objective of the AMLASH operation throughout its’
existence was the formation of a nucleus within Cuba to organize’
an internal coup to replace the Castro regime. . AMLASH/1i held
a position high inthe Cuban government.. He was disillusioned :
with the Castro regime and was considered as a possible political
action asset. The Agency had a series of meetings with him
during the 1961-62 period, the last of which was in August 1962
prior to his departure for Havana. He was never a fully recruited
agent. .

In September 1963 AMLASH/1 was met in Brazil, the first -
time since the August 1962 meetings. During the September 1963
meeting with AMLASH/1, he said that there were two ways to ;
effect a coup; through an outside invasion (which he recognized
was out of the question at that time) or through an inside job"
(i. e.- internal coup via military overthrow). He indicated that
he was waiting for a plan of action from the United States
Government. By this he meant high-level assurances of support
for a successful coup. The same cable which reported the results
of the meeting also indicated that AMLASH/1 "will always be a
control problem."

AMLASH/1 then went to Paris, France, where he was met
again. Meetings with AMLASH/1 in October 1963 consisted of
exploration as to what he might do, and requests by him for
U.S. support. In response to his seeking high-level assurances
of U.S. support, Desmond FitzGerald met with him on oe
29 October 1963. The plan for that meeting is described in .

writing in the file as follows:

‘UWitzGerald will represent self as personal
representative of Robert F. Kennedy who
_ traveled Paris for specific purpose meeting
- (AMLASH/1) and giving him assurances of

full U.S. support if there is change of the
.. present government in Cuba.'' (Emphasis added).

TOP SELRET Classified by Signer
74-00000

(

 

A memorandum for the record of that meeting, dated
13 November 1963, contained the following summary:

"FitzGerald informed (AMLASH/1 that the

United States is prepared to render all

necessary assistance to any anti-communist ,
Cuban group which succeeds in neutralizing

the present Cuban leadership and assumes
sufficient control to invite the United States

to render the assistance it is prepared to

give. It was emphasized that the above

support will be forthcoming only aftera _
real coup has been effected and the group
involved is in a position to request U.S.
(probably under OAS. auspices) recognition

and support. It was made clear that the U.S.
was not prepared to commit itself to support-°
ing an isolated uprising, as such an uprising
can be extinguished in a matter of hours if
the present government is still in control in
Havana. As for the post-coup period, the

’ U.S. does not desire that the political clock be
turned back but will support the necessary economic
and political reforms which will benefit the mass of
the Cuban people. ne (Emphasis added). .

In 1987 the Inspector General of CIA conducted an investi-
gation of the AMLASH operation, and interviewed Mr. FitzGerald -
and his exécutive officer (who had been kept thoroughly familiar |
with developments), FitzGerald recalled that AMLASH/1 spoke of |
the need for an assassination weapon, particularly a high powered
rifle with telescopic sights or some other weapon which could
be used to kill Castro froma distance. FitzGerald rebuffed

‘this’ request and instructed the case officer who served as an

interpreter to tell AMLASH/1 that the U.S. simply did not do
such things. FitzGerald's executive officer, though not pre-
sent, had the same mcollection. Mr. FitzGerald assured
AMLASH/1 of full U.S. support "if there i is a change of the

present leadership. "

 
