 

TEE RY ete Set tt

“ a

:

3. The presence of two bodyguards in this eroup indicates the
accessability to their target, a significant factor in a plot of this
type, especially since Castro is so cbsely guarded.

United States, he considera Manuel Ray ag the only person who would be
pernitted to return to Cuba, if Cubela is successful in a coup against
Castro. Cubela realizes, of course, that Ray is not a politician nor

5e If you desire to have thig inforsation sent to Hr. Chimnins,
we would like to include a few questions on Zarraga; vis his Knowledge of
several individuals mentioned, on whom there is obscure information.

AL

Addendun: Marceling ARTIME Vega

ARTIME has been a cutout between Cubela and Tepedine (AMMHIP),
like Tepedino, ARTIME is a Jewlen in Havana, learning that
ARTIME is closely tied in with Cubela and Tepedine supports
the belief that the group is tightly knit.

 

. eae SOhET eRe a te

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

fa a a
é .

Mr. Cheever,

1. The following is a summary ef information on the persons
mentioned in the attached memorandum fron

A. Jose de Jesus JINJAUMA

 

  

A Castro bodyguard who 1s described ag a gangster interested

in financial gain. :

B. (cavanad) Antonio CASTELL. Valdes

An MHAPRON target and old friend of Roalndo CUBELA (more
commonly known as AMLASH/1). CASTELL was reportedly
with the Cuban Security Department and is a cousin of
Ramiro Valdes, the Interior Minister. CASTELL is anti-
regime and CUBELA believes that he will "fall in line” if
there is a successful coup.
Si cdice

C, Rolando CUBBLA” (AMLASH-1)
A medical doctor at Manuel Fajardo Hospital in Havana.
He's determined to kill Castro.

D. Marcos GIRON (0diyer~

A negre, about lO, who is described as a communist
opportunist. He was formerly a National Police Chief
in Havana. :

E. late FERNANDEZ ot < Cerne
Reportedly an undercover agent for Castro and member ef
of the G-2, As of July 6 he was a Castro bodyguard.

F. Faure CHOMON

An old friend of Cubela's and Castell's, AlL fought

together against Batista and all were members of the

Directorio Revolucionarie (DR), a leftist student

organization. CHOMON was the Cuban Ambassador ot

to the USSR and is presently the Transportation Minister,
' 6. Sew .

2. Cubela, as you know, hag frequently expressed his desire to
kill Fidel Castro, infact, some officers in WH/SA, beld4eve that if
anyone would attempt such a fete it would be Cubela, Cubela'’s caxern,
however, seems to be one of assurance and certainly not cowardness, He
wants U. S, assurance of. immediate intervention should he be successful
in disposing of Castro and ether leaders. Perhaps this is the "personal.
Safety" JINJAUMA refers to in his letter to Zarraga. — ~ :

 

i
.
t
i

 

 
