74-00000

y. TAX STATUS

SECRET, ~

This is a profit-making corporation and has met
Federal and State requirements as follows:

1) Corporation Federal Income Tax Returns.

2) Federal Withholding and Unemployment Taxes.
3) Florida State Unemployment Tax.

4) Florida Corporation Report and Tax Return.

5) Florida Intangible Property Tax Return.

¢, AGENT IDENTIFICATION: The Corporation was providing status cover

fi, ASSESSMENT OF VULNERABILITY:

1.

and payrolling for 10 Cubans as of 31 January
1967.

Maritime Branch Assessment dated 6 March 1967:
This cover company should be affected little by

a flap. However, because of the berthing location
within largely tourist or recreation areas, its
commercial activity has been noted.

Cover Branch Assessment dated 6 March 1967:

A successor to Ace Cartography Company, Ace Marine
Survey, Inc., is currently used in connection with
the leasing of a waterfront berthing site for the
berthing of M/V SONORA, which is registered under
this firm. The firm also provides cover and serves
as well as the vehicle for payrolling the agent crew.

Ace Marine Survey, Inc.,is engaged in the field of
marine research, including the study of marine life
as well as the testing of marine equipment.

In view of the current limited use of this cover,

the likelihood of exposure is considerably reduced.
However, if such an exposure did occur, it is felt
that the damage to either WOFACT or the officers

of Ace Marine Survey, Inc., would be of no great
import. The major likely "injury" that would be
sustained would be the denial of further use of the
berthing site and the need for re-naming/re-register-
ing the M/V SONORA.

In order to add depth and lend further substance
to the_cover story, the officers of a legitimate Q¢/
firm,

Louisiana, which is engaged in marine research and
off-shore oil exploration activities, have agreed

to backstop the activities of Ace Marine Survey, Inc.
and to recognize the latter firm as a client.

gine

 

 

i)

Loto ® wl w:
 

Se — OLUREL

JMWAVE COVER FACiL. cy

A. NAME : Ace Marine Survey, Inc.
OFFICE ADDRESS : Room 214, 2525 8.W. 3rd Street, Miami, Florida
MAILING ADDRESS : P. 0. Box 1337, Main Post Office, Miami, Florida
LOCATION : Office of Attorney Norman S. Pallot

B. TYPE OF FACILITY: This is a Florida Corporation established by and
under the control of JMWAVE and certified to do
business in Florida. Ace Marine Survey, Inc. was
formerly known as Ace Cartography Company, a
corporation which had been certified to do business
in Florida on 11 July 1962. This Corporation was
amended on 4 November 1966 to its new name, Ace
Marine Survey, Inc.

The President of the Corporation is Alfred J.
Moran of New Orleans, Louisiana. Mr. Moran is a
very prominent businessman in the New Orleans
area. He is head of Kalvar and has investments
in a variety of businesses which include many oil
interests. He is known to Headquarters represen-
tatives particularly in Logistics.

OSTENSIBLE BUSINESS: Ace Marine Survey, Inc., is engaged primarily
in marine research including the study of marine
life and testing of marine equipment. However,
its general provisions permit it to perform almost
any corporate function.

2

), USE + JMWAVE use of the Corporation is to provide cover
for a maritime vessel, the M/V SONORA. The Corpora-
tion provides status cover and payrolling of the
agents assigned to the M/V SONORA and the safe area
or berthing site from which the vessel operates in
the performance of its ostensible business.

E. FUNDING : Method -— This account is funded through the |

Jby the following method: A onebk
in @ total amount of the deposits is drawn on
this account. A credit ticket is obtained by our
cleared contact from the cash vault. This credit
ticket together with the appropriate deposit slips
for the various corporations is then turned over
to a teller, where it is combined with ail other
transactions.which are processed by that particular
teller on the given business day. Since the number
of transactions handled by a given teller may go
as high as 250 to 300 there is slight chance of
the deposits being attributed to the particular
eredit ticket which accompanied these deposits.

 

 

Overt Attribution or Source

SECRET ua

 

 

 

 
74-0000

JMWAVE COVER FACILITY

Ceres Enterprises, Inc.

cugESS : Suite 1409 Biscayne Building, 19 West Flagler Street,
: Miami, Florida 33101

DDRESS : P. O. Box 5045, Main Post Office, Miami, Fla. 33101
Office of Attorneys George E. Brown and Thomas B. Duff
. ¢ACILITY: This corporation was established in Florida and

certified to do business on 10 March 1964. It was
established by and is under the control of JMWAVE,

 

The President of this corporation is Mr. Richard W.
Freeman, who is the retired Chairman of the Board

of Delta Airlines. He is also the principal owner 35 |
of the Coca-Cola Bottling Company in New Orleans. wt
In addition he has many other varied interests . i"
including investments in oil ventures. He is ex- 36 b=
tremely prominent in the New Orleans civic and a
social structure. 37 Y
LE BUSINESS: This corporation was established ostensibly to eS i.
maintain and operate boats for all types of marine a
research. we
This corporation provided cover for maritime rr (Oe
vessels, the M/V BARB and the M/V JADE, and served —
as the status and payroll mechanism for the agents al
employed by this corporation. ne

Method ~- Thi i .

 

 

 

 

y the following method: A check 43:
in the total amount of the deposits is drawn on ee Oe
this account. A credit ticket is obtained by our oe
cleared contact from the cash vault. This credit 18 |

ticket together with the appropriate deposit slips '
for the various corporations is then turned over 19 |
to a teller, where it is combined with all other — |
transactions which are processed by that particular 20 |
teller on the given business day. Since the number rm
of transactions handled by a given teller may go | 2
as high as 250 to 300 there is slight chance of —_
the deposits being attributed to the particular 2
credit ticket which accompanied these deposits.

Overt Attribution or Source ry . | 231

|
2? 95
oy = -

 

 

 

 

 

 
74-00000

IMEGOD soe ~

Meslss

Ls b Lae enantio anenetntnnntentteneertettindtin sent een eared cette,
t
- Tae
SEGREE
aX STATUS : This is a corporation for profit. It has met

federal and state tax requirements as follows:
1) Corporation Federal Income Tax Return

2) Federal Withholding and Unemployment Taxes
3) Florida State Unemployment Taxes

4) Florida Corporation Report and Tax Return

5) Florida Intangible Property Tax Return

4GENT IDENTIFICATION: None at this time.

‘SSESSMENT OF VULNERABILITY:

1.

Maritime Branch Assessment dated 6 March 1967 ~ The cover
mechanism established by the Ceres Enterprises, Inc. was very
secure during the period of its operation and remained so
until the loss of one of its agents who was captured in Cuba.
This made it necessary to terminate the activities of this
corporation and transfer its activities to another entity.
This was accomplished without any unusual events or actual
public exposure. If any should occur at this late date, the
damage would be minimal.

Cover Branch Assessment dated 6 March 1967 - This corporation

is currently inactive and will become legally dormant after
three years. It was placed in this status due to an operational
flap which could have exposed the corporation. The last active
tax return was filed at the tax year ending March 31, 1966.

An additional tax return will be filed for the past tax year
which will indicate no financial transactions.

Its assets and activities were transferred to other JMWAVE
entities. This corporation was established to provide cover
for a Maritime Branch vessel and status and payroll cover for
the agents assigned to it. The corporation is inactive and
will be allowed to remain so. It was placed in this status
due to a flap wherein an agent was captured in Cuba who had
knowledge of this vessel and its ownership. There was no
public exposure in the Miami area. However, because of the
past incident the corporation should not be used in the future
under its current name. While in use the corporation served
very satisfactorily for the purpose for which it was established.

°

>
© seen en
oO

ele f

ey
Nu *
- et

 
