74-0000

    

 

  

 

 

 

 

a MESSAGE FORM
oes-€. Bustos a
wet -MH/1 CO som RE
HT 28506 . TNO wom
dA >6§ AUGUST 1564 rit cS fee NO.
mo YR , | rn
. : : i
4048S 5 -
FLEADE ADVISE. ce Cs 7
: . END OF MESSAGE ' *
YH COMMENT: FBI recuested that certa’s questions be given to LICOOKY ;
by us concerning Juan Jose Arevaia and Lyle Stusrt, and tha -
book Shark end the Sardines. Justice da: thinking of :
prosecuting Stuart. ot : :
. : 4,
fe :
ohh,
é t 3
: { R
t ESMOND FITZGERALD : . A
f C/KED ‘ : ,  C/RH/L ao
. i Boon 8
t . i 7
. 7 t 7 tee
fp RELRASING SPFICER . —SECR t Eten “obrieae
: REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 15 PROMIBITED. ‘Copy Ra.

 

[
{
t
4
i
74-00000

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

   

 

 

June 6, 194 o

Lyle Stuart

Dr. Raul Ogegueda
Bertolome Costa Amic
Mario Monteforte Toledo

. Dr. Osegueda apparently hes bed a secret longing to get something of his
own printed in English. He seized upon the opporcunity of commenting Beals'
introduction to "Antikom:nfemo" in crier to write to Stuart thie spring. Stuart
wrote very cordially back to Osegueda, hoping to mest him on a trip to Mexico
in June. When Osegueda confessed to ze his correspondence with Stuart, he
sought to meke me see it as an attecpt to gpeak with Stuart ebout the royalties
Stuart has never paid me.

When Ogegueda finally did see Stuart here during the book congress in June,
he only very timidly and very, very triefly touched upon the royalty groblem, end
‘{ndeed went to a great deal of trouble to serve Stuart by introducing aim to
Costa Amic and to Mario Monteforte Toledo. (Stuart had expressed interest in’
getting in touch with some publisters and writers.) Osegueds pustled shat,
taking Osegueda and Monteforte Toledo to lunch vith Stuart, even manegead to get
the Monteforte Toledos to invite Scuart to dinner at their epartment. Taere
were tentetive discussions of collaborating in the distribution of Costa Amic ©
books. in. the United. States and of publishing some book of Monteforte foleto's.

 

. However, both Costa Amica end the Monteforte Toledos told re that they
found Stuart offensively vulgar ond vere not at all enthusiastic about having
anything to do with him. 3

vo weeks ago, Csegueda sketched the outiine of @ book (coatexporery bistory
of U.S. and Latin American reletions) he hopes Stuart will want to
sent the outline up to him.

  

     

secret

t
}
H
i
3

CHD HamAaryors 201-2985 9)

L.
ye

 

 
 

 

 

Qe

first contact with Arevalo, subsGquently troke with his because o? deep and
bitter resentment against him, then returned not too Long ago to eollaborate
with him. She is his wife's sister. She 1a certainly working with him now
only. because he finally offered her a little bette: pay. For her to have

at the time I knew her in 1963. She knows bis operation inside-out. In order
to get information from her, it vould be edsolutely necessary to epproach her
from some angle that would give no hint of governnent investigatics. She is
very gregarious. She 4s a fortyieh medium-attractive, lonely, New York single
wozan (unless ber status has changed since I knew her). By somebody she would
assume to be & writer, and who would be a bit friendly with her and see her
off-hours, she would pro!
end rather woxtily in some respects, so that must be kept in mind in case ahe
de contacted. SHS HAS A VERY DEEP AND LONGTIME NEGATIVE ATTITUDS TOWARD ALL
GOVERKMENT AGENCIES INVOLVED TS INVESTIGATION. She was active in liberal
activities in valcago, ana ge Dacor ftsritthy, rithonch che fa cortainiv
not comminist, she considered herself a little jeopardized by the Me Carthy

period.

Angela Delii Sante-Arroche could be contacted, too, of course. Twill
ook for her address at Costa Amic's office and pase it along.

SECRET

 

ably talk freely about Stuart. But she is quite elever

4
1
t
{
}

 
 

e:

 

EASSTICAT 7 iNG AS "
CATR - _PEGCESSING AT omy

 

SECRET :

“a anbung ecquiReD

 

[omy QUAL bee
7 * (ae OG EADDORS

 

 

SAnevers to Inquiries Submitted in Reference

" 7
Chief of Station, Mexico wy { scorn

whet

 

ACT Sha AO QUiRED - REFERENCES

Ref: Of 120k]

Forwarded herevita are answers to the inquirles forwarded in
dispatch submitted by subject of 201-2721 on 6 July 19k.

Oe

1 ao.
Lhd 4 4. ~Gtl
c. cozTis

v

Attachment:
As steted above

Distribrtion:
i= C/TED w/att

 

 

CLASSIFCATON

_ BBCRET

 

Bhetes

ancl aren f neti

 

 
 

 

duly 6,. 19h

LYLE STUART
AREVALO : « :
“,NTIKOMUSISMO EN AMZSICA LATTA" 7 !

Barly in the spring of 1962, here in Mexico, Arévalo told me that Stuart
wes: prodding him about getting auctber of bis books translated, to teke af-
vantage of the publicity around “The Thark ani the Sardines". I was already
far beyond speaking teras with Stuert and therefore declined to bave anything
further to do with kim, About thcee months iever, Arévalo told me that Start
vas going to publiés “Antikomicisso en Americe latina” and that a young Acerican
student, married to & Mexican, Angela delli Sante Arrocha {who hed written
"Arevalo, Fensador Comtemporaneo";* was doing the translation into English.
Barly in 1363, Arévelo told me that the transiation hadn't been satisfactory
and therefore Stuart had obtained 6 re-translation, by Cherleton Beals.

_ When Stuart wes here in Mexico in June, be told Dr. Osegueda that he was
very happy about the wey the bock vas selling. 7

Inaemich as Stuert has paid Brévalo only 10 percent of moneys received by
Stuart on “The Sherk and the Saricnes” sales (in contrast with some book con-
tracts in which the suthor revel 10 percent of the money represented by —
munber ef copies sold miltiplied by the retai? sales price) I would eseume he
is no sore generous with "antikommiemo”. i can esk Dr. Oseguede the exact
terss,. bat I baven‘t been able to see Osegueda this week.

 
 
  

I know of no affiliations of Stuart with foreign political parties of
governsent. His attempts to get close to Ficel Castro in 1960 were motivated
by a desire to explicit the journalistic advantezes of an interview. His’
original interest in "the Shark end the Sardines” vas. apparently. motivated by.
money-saxing intercs~ and by the hope thet he aight eperk a seusation - exactly-
what he did manage 70 do with his outrageous edvertising. Be seened to calcu-
Jate that there migzt be libel suits possible egainst the firms and the news-
papers he could provoke to attack him. . .

£ am sure you Lave it on file, but Iwill enclose a copy of Arevalo’
original contract with Stuart. It was superceded by another in Novembe> of
1961, gramting Stuert certain rights with regard to other foreign language
editions of "The Shark and the Sardines" and, I believe, establishing that
Stuart ebould have first option of other Arévalo books translated into Baglish.

. Information ebout Stuart's dealings with Arévalo md whatever others could
be obtained WITH GUILE from Eileen Brant, who vag bis editor at the time. of the
i
- : . . a
. . i
® Published by Costa Antic, 1962, Financed by Ale Radical Revoluctonario de El
Salvador. an :

3 n0PY
secret

OY he
fe Him AQGEMD

 

n
|
poe a
74-0000

I know of no affiliations of STUART with foreign

political parties of government. Hig attempts to get cicse
to Fidel CASTRO in 1960 were motivated by = desire to exproit
the journalistic advantages of an interview. His original :
interest in The Shark end the Sardines was apparently :
motivated by money-making intercats ond by the hope that
he might spark a sensation ~ exactly what he did manage to

- ¢@o with his outrageous advertising. He geened to calculate
that there might be libel suits possible sgsinst the firms
and the newspapers he could provoke to attack him.

The original contract of AREVALO with STUART was
superseded by another in November of 1961, granting STUA&T
eertain rights with regard to other foreign language editions
, ef The Shark and the Sardines and, I believe, establishing

sh t ORTT ET Senn d bane Fiver antion am ather AREVALO booka

translated into English. t

Information about STUART's dealings with AREVALO
and whatever others, could be obtained (with guiie) fron v
. Eileen BRANT, who was fais editor at the tine of the firet
‘contact gith AREVALO. She subsequently broke with hig
because of deep and bitter resentsent against him, then .
returned not too long ago to collaborate vith hiz. She igs 4
‘Ris wife's sister. Sne is certainly workiag with him nov ,
only boceuse he finally offered her a little better pay. FPor~ 1
her to have changed her sind about him vould be alnogt ;
tmposeitle, I believe, in view of the long history of incidents!
that had brought her to have contempt for hin, at the tine :
IT knew her.ia 1961. She knows his operation inside-out. a :
fg order te get infermetion from her, it would be absolutely
pecessary to approach her from some angle that would give 3
no hint of government investigation. Bhe is very gregarious. *
Bhe ia a fortyish medium-attractive, lonely, Yew York single
woman (unless her status has changed since i knew ber). If
contacted by gomebody she would assume to be a writer, aad
who vould be a bit friendly with her and aee her off-hours,
she vould probably talk freely about STUART. But she is FO
quite clever and rather worldly in some respects, 50 that must : —
be kept in mind in case she is contacted. SHE HAS A VERY i
DEEP AND LONGTINE NEGATIVE ‘ATTITUDE TOWARD ALL GOVEBNIGINT 3 H
AGENCIES INVOLVED IN INVESTIGATION. She wos active in i
liberal activities in Chicago, and if I remember correctly, :
, although she is certaialy not communist, sae consicered heree®
: a little jeopardised by the Ke Carthy period. ' i

 

 

i
i

 

j
t
;

 

_ Angela Delli SANTR-ABROCHE could also be contacted,
: of course. oe. i

eraery : . “4
Wer cata tien H

  

 

 
[0g t0175-10176

 

 

 

Director 7 ,
Peteral Bureau of Investigation :
Attention: Hr. 3. J. Papich : Pe : 4

TO

PROM +: Deputy Director for Plens i
SUBIECIM Lyle STUART

Reference is made to your memorandum dated 1 June 1964,
in which you provided this office with several questions you
gighed to pave passed to Liss Viola Junc COBB regarding
Lyte STUART. There Zoliovs the information provided by
ta vwour inquiry:

 

1. Regarding Lyle STUART, Juan Jose ‘ARBSVALO, and i

Early in the spring og i962, in Bexico, AREVALA told
we that STUART wes prodding hiss avout getting another of his
to take advantage a the publicity around

i was already tar beyors

nd therefore declined to have
in, About three months later,
waa golag to publish

Anti} as. and that a young Anericam
Student, married to @ Rexiean, Angela delli SANTB ABROCHA
(gio bed written Arevalo, payuador conten ranco, ywublished
by Comte Awic, 1964, financed by ALS “£2 2volucionario
de El Salvador) was doing the granglation into English.
Early 4m 2965, AREVALO told me that the transiation hadn't
bees satisfactory and therefore STUAKT had obtained 2 ro=
trenslation, by Charleton BEALS. 7

  
    
 
  
     

en

eaytasnys

AREVELO

  
 

 
  

 

When STUART was here in Hexico in June, he told
Dr. OSEGUEDA that he was ver? happy sbout the way the book
was selling. 2 1

Yrasmuch as STUART han paid ARSVALO only 10 per cent

of moneys received by STUART on the Shark ead the Sardtuc® oo \
enles (in contrast With nose book contracts th which the auther { |
receives 10 per cent of the mOBEF represented by nunber of ‘
copies gold mul¢iplied by the retail peles price} i would
aggume he 16 uo more gencrous with Ant lhominisas. i

cea

 

  

 
 

 

 

2. Regarding Lyle. ETUART, Dr. Baul OSECUEDA, Eertolone
COSTA Amic, and Harlo HBONTEFORTE Toledo:

De. OCSEGUEDA apparently has nad a secret longing te
ect something of his o7B printed in English. He geized Upon
the opportunity of comenting BEALS’ introduction to
Antixosuaisso in order to "rite to STUART this apring. ’
SPUANY wrote very cordislly back to OSEGUEDA, Boping to mest
him op & trip to Hexico 16 dune, When ©5: “gba confeased to
me hia corresyoudsace with STUART, he gought to make xe see
4t as en attenpt to speak with STUARS about the royalties
STUART has never paid me.

Wren Dr. OSEGUEDA finally did see ETUARBE here in
Hexteo during the pook congress 16 June, be only vers .
tisidly and very, very briefly touched upon the royxultys
arahlew, snd indeed went to a great deal of trouble to Gorv
BYUAET by introqucagg sar: ~~ clots tats cat os Barta .
BONTEFORTEB Toledo. (STUABT had expressed interest ia
getting ja touch with some publishers and writers.) CSEGTEDA
buntied about, taking CBEGUEDA and MORTEFORTE Toledo t% luasech
with STUART, even managed to get the KONTEFORTE Foledos to
-aueite STUART to dinner at their apartment. Tacre vere
tentative discussions of collaporating im tae digtritution of
COSTA Amic books in the United States and of publisaitg
gone book of HONTEFORTE Toledo's.

 

. Bowever, both COSTE dic aad the SOOPPRPORTE toledes

told m6 that they found STUART offensively vulger ond were not

at ali enthusiastic abcut having anything to do with hin.

of gro urcks ago, OSEGUEDA sketched the outline ef @

poox (contensorar
he hopes STUART will went to publigh, and gent the outlime

“Pvp to Bin. : :

sy history of 2.8. and Letin Americha relstior >

 

oak petite

foo .
/ ;
Z ogct-316/00762-64 : os i
WH/1/C. Bustos:chk : 18 August 1964
Distribution: ‘ : i BASIC: HMMA 24092
Orig. & 1 - Addressee :
yf - RI (201-278841) PROJECT:; NONE - .
1 - CI/LIA | ;
1 - CI/RRA : LIAISON:} KONE |
1 = WH/L . | :
1- wH/POA ;

 

 

ares

 
 

i
i
:
i
t
{
q

 

et

 

.2 SE ORSE T 1416432
Pe r

; DIR CITZ MEXI 0582
“y LTCOOKY

   

@F A. DIR 42439

a fy NABI 204) . ;
- Lieooxys1 ANSWERS TO REF B SENT IN HMA 24992 ON 1) AUG,
SECRET
: an

a carers

;
i
!

 

%
pe ee tueinetevedh alee eae

  

 
