RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only

 

 

froa-to193-o0t4

we 4 Do Not Reproduce
. . . ; ; . . . . . . €
- ay
. : : * ye : \ a - . :
‘ o “ CKA = Ask

15 April 1962

Chief, Task Force/W
Chief of Station, JMWAVE

Operational /GYROGE
Ratline fron Cubs, Las Villas

ATTENTION REQUESTED: PA/KUIUBE
REF: CKA-152 and 153, 15 Apr S573

   
   

 

L R% ce 0, Hsecting

Aen

Anore, A-10595931, born
rid E er living in Estacion Dolores,
Villas); Miami. address: Refugee Center, was interviewed. °

2. Source said that he formerly bélonced to the MAR in Estacion

Le. On 12 April 1962, ‘“Tose Anta
VLE 20 April 1939, Baltolone, Las ¥1}2

9
Dolores and that "El Chino" was his leader. About 3-4 months ago; "BL
Chino" was arrested and is still dn jail, Since this time, the MRR in
Ectacion Dolores has been operating without any leader. Source lett
Cuba by sriall boat, and the reason for his leaving, he said, was because
Plato Palacivs, an MRR member,’ vas arrested and teken to the paredon.
When Palacios was. paced before the paredon, he broke down and confessed
and implicated the source and others in counter-revolutionary, activities.
Palacios was released ‘and source fled. : 2 Se

3+ Source said that shortly before "El Cilue" was arrenied, the KAR
was to receive some arms fron "Yayo" Estevez. in Miami. On the day on which
they were to make the’pickup at sea, their boat vas confiscated by the

governnent. : 4 ; .
A, Source said he was miedo de Cuba by small boat because ‘th.

boat was obtained ot a Caibarien. He said thee] dM

is amnber of. the Caibarien FER and obtained the: services ef two ot

sesbere | his brother (name unknowm), who are fishernen,
menbers the MRR afid also milicianos. In the course of a fishing trip
they took a boatload of escapees Cineluding the- source) to Cayo Fragoso.

The eocapees hid in the mangrove swamps and the (Co prothers fished.)
A cuban. patrol came by and talked to the brothers, but soon went

 

away The! broshers then picked up’ the @bcapees and took then to .
Cayo i. 7 ‘them. there and then returnéd to Cuba. oY
and the, brothers are now in Cuba. ¢

 

5. Source is a cripple (he has a leg which appears withered), but
evertheless, he volunteered to go back into Cuba in any capacity. vhich is

needed. ’

et ce SOF IAG, y,

 

p16
