[toe-tort0-10065)
eo ae ok A os roo oe -
*- ast ] °°: SECRET © le

(When Filled fa}

aT!

TERMINATION SECRECY AGREEMENT

1. | acknowledge that by virtue of my duties | have been exposed fo or. the recipient
of classified information, which,‘in itself, or by the implications drawn from it, Is highly sen-
sitive and its unauthorized disclosure or negligent handling could adversely affect the interests
of the United States. | am aware that the unauthorized disclosure of classified information
. is prohibited by the Espionage Laws (18 U.S.C., Sections 793, 794 and 798) and that a vi-
'  olation of these laws may subject me to prosecution by the U. S. Government. —

2. V hereby reaffirm my pledge that 1 will never publish or reveal by any means such
i ‘information. : ! agree further that 1 do not now, nor will | ever, possess any right, interest, ~-
title or claim whatsoever fo such information. ! recognize the full and vested property right .
of the United States in such matters. ;

3. I certify that | have surrendered and no longer have in my possession or custody any
classified information or material acquired as a result of this association. a

4. | further acknowledge and agree that 1 have a continuing individual responsibity
i ’ to the United States Government for the protection of such information and that the termina-
tion from this relationship with my employer and/or the United States Government does not -
relieve me of my obligations under this oath or any other previously executed Secrecy Agree-
ments. 1 understand that | will not be relieved of these obligations except when specifically
advised in writing by the sponsoring activity of the v. s Government.

 

5.1 understand that this oath’ may bé retali ied by the u Ss. Goveriment for its future” :
use in ony manner within the scope of this oath.

  

oe OD take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose ‘of evasi

- ion
‘and In a

  
 
  
 
   
 
 

 

NAME OF WITNESS (Type or Print) -

   

NAME (Typo or Print).

 

 

 

SIGNATURE OF WITNESS |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. Co a
Te 2442 SECRET Backgro
. (#hen Filled In) . Do Net

 

   
