14-00000

. , SECRET

~ oe (When Filled In)

a, . 3 3S0O

| understand that no change in my employment status or relationship with the United
States Government will relieve me of my obligation under this Agreement.

i have been advised of the procedures to follow in order to determine the identity of
individuals who have been approved for access to this Project, the current estimate of hazard
involved in travel to a foreign area or to resolve any other question which may arise under
this Agreement.

PROJECTS*®

BYECOM

 

NAME OF WITNESS (Type or Print) NAME (Type or Print)

E. Howard Hunt

 

 

 

SIGNATURE OF WITNESS SIGNATURE
os

 

 

REMARKS NAME & ADDRESS OF AFFILIATION

CIA/DDP/EUR
Headquarters

28 August 1968

 

*The signator should place his initials after each Projact name.

SECRET
 

[tod-sort9-t0326} :

 

 

 

TE 2441 - SECRET =

 
 
   

 
  
  

I have been informed that approval. for-access'to, Proje

by Project Headquarters, « {shave ‘also been informed: tha

and controfs have’ been , established to. protect; Project. informatio
“must now’ based upon thei

  

    
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
  

 

[realize that a briefing of this scope “and depth, which- ‘identifies
_ codewords, and, admits to the ultimate, inetoonee opeticetie he F

   

levels of access.:

 

lam aware that travel to certain hazardéus or. denied’ a areas”o ;
. USSR, Communist China, and Sino-Soviet satellite. areas: may constitute an’ unacceptable. se- 2
‘curity risk and | agree, until formally relieved of this requirement, to request authorization :
from Project Headquarters prior to undertaking ‘such travel:

 

Having reviewed the above security requirements, | pledge that | will never
reveal, by any means, classified project information to unauthorized persons.
this pledge t recognize and accept the fact that [ have a personal and ‘individ
bility for the protection of all such information in my possession no matter where
nor how acquired and agree to abide by the security requirements and regi
lished for the Project.

 

 

  
