 

 
    
 

 

 

 

 
 
  

Mota Ltt t

  

 

 

+ to get His mother's permit extended wit Ou
returning ta Cuba, VALDES granted *
that ARANGO’s mother now has a per,
to lave abroad and that the fari

(BUNCE: Comment: “LAPOGO, shows thy

  
   
     

    

    

 

  

7 " Identst ” Sr ofkica ed inf
the fnu(JGLESIAS ho.
‘August 1964, not to Madrid-or.
He ‘said that “not toe long aga" (IGLES
‘CE Coniment: AMWHIP/2 ‘has’ not
as well-aware of the. jewelr:
and Aunt? /2 are engaged | (se
19), nd showed his ann yance:
ally r uban. }
and wife wére visited at:
‘of Public. Works. ~ (BUN
ked If he suspected AMWHIP/2
. Identity said no, that he considéred hi
_ a bu@iness man," said Identity, "and b
Cuban, -he cannot be expected to feel’
Despite this tolerant statement, however,
now limits his verbal exchanges with AM “to good morning and
good evening. He said that AMWHIP/2's wife seéms pro-PAPRIME but
talks too much. He added that when Chief of Stati Juan ALMEIDA
Bosque became friendly with AMWHIP/2 and wife, the latter learned of
underground construction going on near Abeir home (they lived out
of Havana) and now brags that she reported thin to ODYOKE intelligem
(BUNCE Comment: A recent letter to. BUNCE from AMWHIP/2 saya that
he expectéd to be in Rome before 25 January 1965. Wren he arrives
_ BUNCE intends to ask him for a ful} run-dowd on any and all Cubans.
now living in Cuba who have visited him in Switzerland.)

    

 
  

  

 
  
 

  
 
 
  
    

  
 
  
   
  

   
  
   

 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
 
 
 

ty Baid-that he

        
     
      
     
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
  

: Be. ‘Identity said that American. “Express: redit cards are
Presently available only to persons who have bank accounts in

dollars, American Express is planning to open credit card offices”
_indher countries and issue cards to holders of other currencies.
Identity, who is not satisfied with. his present salary, is being

° considered by American Express for the position of manager of the
‘credit card business for Italy. .If both. sides come to terms,

. + Identity will leave in March 1965 for two monthy training in’ the

0.8. Upon returning to Italy he will be travelling busily for

7 SOME: time, setting updght to ten credit, card offices.

 

 

 

” 9. As this dispatch and reference show, Identity fis a very
promising potential asset. As soon us thely relationship permits
(probably during February 1965) we intend to tormalize the
recruitment and submit PRQ's. Unless contrary Headquarters
instructtons are received, we alno intend to ask Idertity what
the difference is between his present salary and what American
Express would pay hia and offer to make it up (if it is not too
great) on condition that he stay in Rome. -

WALTER L, BUNCE

Distribution: .
3 - WE

1 ~ KUDESK

le- madrid

EL A OBI FICATION baaE eer
roow {
seo 83a 0 ues ragvioue aartron. | io by
sess a comtmre i
nos ann cee ee noe

 

 

 
 
 
 

    

 

ity
ot want ‘to meet big in his ERUNCE'S) ‘cttace or af ideatity
of employment, for reasons of buth necuriiy and cor tence.

etings will: be held in ertner’ Home,

 
  

 

     
 
 

 

 

. 3... BUNCE next asked for further geiarls on ddent it ts. contact!

ith :Capo Cugaissario Bartolo BONITO (paraziapn 7 of ceterecce)..

Identity: said that whenever a Cuban appears 1% the Parac. ih sector.

of. Rone ,. ‘BONITO “phones to ask Identity af he kui, the newcomer and
héther he 4 pro- or anti-Communist. Identity, was: told to make -

no change in his relationsnip with’ “BONLTO™ but oun det irs ere ‘uns tances:

- to sieation BUNCE to BONITO.

. 4. In respect to Identity '’s vina (paragraph 10 of Reference),
Ydentity was cautioned not to make any merties at the Consulate of
having been given advance information ahead protante lavorable
ction, io his case. he . Lo

   

 
    
   
     
    
    
     
    
    

5. In renpect to Angel Raxiro ARANGO y Alninas (é01-$3702),
Identity wan @&ked for the name of the Cubar G-2 chief whom ARANGO
had called from Rome (parigraph 8 of Reference). He replied that the
perso: called is Ramiro VALDES. (BUNCE Comment: - Undoubtedly -
Mintater of Interior Ramiro VALDES Meuerdec, 2U1-263065,) ARANGO.
made‘the call from his heme ir (ie susmer of! 1963. ARANCO's mother,
ho lives with hia, had a Apectal ecil permit, welid tor six months,
uring which time the famtly property in Cone was eacmpl from
_€Onliacation but at the end of -which perisd ste wan -eaper ted to...
-weturs to Cuba, She wae anty jmever, ard ARAMLO teleproled VALDES

   
     
   
  
  
  
  

  

   
   
 

  
   
   

 

see TQ

27 Jan 6S i

i
i

 

  
  
 
  

F canes awe me ~~ nie aS AE aa pt
201~53702 (Q1RAD 39339 |
201-726079 ee ——

ororer tet) ° H

20] -LUFNTITY

 

  
     

 

 

 

 
