74-0000

 

had voce introduced hy Dr, Dm a Subject at this tine
fight ths Pestittes i pet Ste bp og batter

Fign aS Pesetepee ee se et grt a,

. or eg g- Shaese BE: ©

-- "Gs “‘Shereafter. ‘Subsect, wegen * tb woe seuadliai® ery.
Frow 10ST te 1928 Sebjes} worked vith &6. 88 grgn PF whtS Areps,
and ante a trip te Switzerland te’ seh Student. wis. Ia, by 0 ta=
‘flucnbe"® certain professor po Join ERIS, tbjest alee s Seely

. fa August 1934, On her return frog Franc nach in the fall, she met several

& Theat susver tabject met rang {nasi &, one of her tusband'’s
otadests, After RASSILG received Sis Ph.B, Prom the university 8s
Frankfort/Reta in 1978, he end Subject vent te Berlis vhere they 1fved
ae sua and wife, They vere legslly marrieé {a 1926, Wass 8, nies, bad
buen a liberal at college, Joined the Commanist Party ent edited the”
tagasine, ‘International Agrerian Problens.® © He wang to Hosces ii the
winter of 1928, and Subject followed three nexthe Ister. while SASSrEs
worked af the Agrerian Inetitate, Subject wes eapleyed by iateraatYstal
Publishers, ané then ce a governess for the children of toala ‘pea?
Nerkoosha FISCHER, FISCHTE was at that time Forsign Cerretpondéat’ for
°The Eation.® fe 193] the MAS“INGF returact to. Borlig vhere they tere
active in the CP, However, at the sugge tion oc REISS, Ge-gheasergees -

  
 

with REISs* Seotatant Foliyy SILFTROPEIN, aan a
OE ees ye

 

_? tn October 1933 Subject cane te ee #8, te reney ber American
pesspert, She had becouse an American eltizen threagh her earrings to
GORPERT2, having been naturalized $ Decesber 1977, tn TAite Platss, Fow
York. Frier to coming to the 0.5. in 193%, che vielted the PISCHIES for
two woeks in Roscew. in Bew York she lived at Breveert Rotel fer @
short tine, and then, et the t of! “et where
she wae contacted ty Williag Josep steety Bn a tyriek aeeake he Gi4 ne
setive work for BINMAE at at ‘the tive, but returned te Barepe the Jatter
pert of the yezr, picked up her huabend fros a Gerann concentration
camp, and returned vith bia to the U.S. im January 1974, Subject

stayed ia Bew Tork while her husband went to tench at Consonwealth Col.
lege in ‘ena, *rikmneas.

8. chile in Hew York, Subject wse ia frequent touch vith villian
Joseph S7YhAK and ArtharfVAlTiRg, fur whom she acted as courier te Paris

new huscisan «gents, among whoe were Gerda STAKY SP7R, PATIL, "RORIS®
(BATA OFFI), and ®:°TUx", Subject vorked with these people until the
sunaer of 1927, It ons to *STLL" thet Subject furnished the mows of
Boel 1y.1" is 1956 re a possible contnet, "Pons", *RILL"s® essoelete
in the U.S., wes cguinst immedirte develorwent of FI'LD, ard no action
wee token umtil Pend “activG econt-eted FIZ tn Pirie.

OO. ws

 

oe a a ae oe oe oe ae

 
 

   
    

VA

: Bz a
ee OISPATCH NO. ..-

Age Pokey Bf roUe pom ne cenn ~ | EET Sb
ti “ ebuited-

    

CLASSIFICATION |

ah -
cll is " eatet of sussten,(—— 0 aly 1b —

FROM . V4 . :
Calef, Foreiga Braach M ©Cbe nan cle G é
SUBJECT: GEvERAL. ia

seeciric. Opersstonal x #z v + ALE
HEDW ti (GUuxPERE, frurEEra)
(alee MDATEISuR, HEDI fiass IRB)

 

 

 

        
      
        
    

1. Subject wae dora in Vienna, Austria, on
é thy daughter of Philip end Bo y
tenéed grazear school, hig& echeol, and
18, went te what was then Poland for
PAR :

 
      
    
   

     

om Anerican citisen, whe
wes co-editer ef s beck

 
 
 

pasiiching concern, Raltk VYeriag,* a knows
Party lefteving poblishing under the influence of the Cozousist
Party. Im 1928 Subject divorced RISLY® ond married GOMPERPE for vhom
she had been working several years prior to thelr morriage,

      
     
    
 

4, Subject and GOMPERTZ vent te Paris after their marriage and
then to the U.5., arriving on the 8.8, Leviathan, After a beief stay in
New York, thay went te Sam Francisco -aad lived with GUOERTE uncle, Ia
1937 they returned to Greenvich Tillage, Hew York, where thay acsocloted
with aany Coamaniets, In Janunry 1928 the couple returaed te Rarepe, te
Freokfort/iain, vhere OUPIETE worked for tho Inatitutes ef Social Rex

a rman
i hyn AE ne

RELEASING OFFICER
CPERA.

  
   
     
          
   
  

1Pe wo.
1
“® tea? ate7e

  
 

 

vndle °° DT. wis tn Pore dedne enthetasd work, Subject acted

sg ccsrirr between the Lio. end thet city en? elec furnished inforaztion ©
about news of the éry from the "Zev York Tines". In the sunser of 19:7
HAS iss returned frog Durere, stout waich time he and subject received a
letter from Ignate K-1°C advieing that REISS hod trokea with. the

Buscians, Aa they hed worked with FEISS, they agreet that they tor ware

tha KASSISGS were coctrcted by

   

through with Rusela, Soon there: ftgr
ORLRIC® and & “ (ere, Vesallg Tite) who trie’ to influence then
to go to Koscow, Althoush the ¥A¢31i suspected that: koscow wonted to
licsld:te the-, they decived to go mayuny, dut treveles on thelr Ameriena
porencrts, erriving in toeesw en S dune 1927,

   

  

     

1G, During their seven-nonth's try in Koecov, they were interro-
gezted about Fli%5 and bie eseeci-tes, In June 1978 they left Eurela and
broke eith the joviete, They hove lived since thea in Hew York City
ené in Fenreylvenin, Perlodiesliy they hove received visits end calls
from vericus Soviets inéle-tivg that the Rusalens ere keeping a check on
thea, In 1946 the FIPLDs contected the MAS IRCT and were teld thes they
(tho ka" PGs) hed broken with the Soviete and 414 rot vant te be moleeted
by the FILiDs epsdn, :

 

21. Subject has vorket ce 2 trangliter, boeriing-b vane keeper,
shicverd worker, end nersennel supervisor, She kae elas vorted fer Jave
ish Charity frox January to foril 1946, Rost of her tice Le nev taken
ut with the overstion ef her bo=rdiag house,

im, Subseet's former husband, Jalfan GOMPTATI, fs eurrantly rane
ning 8 book shox st 610 Fifth tvenue, Bew York, and in Finenclal Advicor
to the School of Social Research, hecording te Subject, RePtRtzZ troke
with the Comsuntsts in 1956, —

 
