[ited flies ature pf ~

6E Fv,
[sQlvears. We do not know ies alive or dead, «6 FO/ -
and believe that exposure could damagé him.and his family. _

| yy

npn pos 2 Ox
Onn V he Lo

GW :
Lele. Ger Lee LAtees i
. CON Cetrezcee h Be So heforchoS |

. . s to .
= . S j i
a. [gunmdexg}reat rage (CB mi
ma Fgnot € released. His id z a gmained a secre

b. Tom RYAN's name should be deleted from the front Ee, :
cover of the [SHAMROC debriefing. Mr. RYAN retired under BF 7

cover, and is employed as an intelligence contractor on a ;
sensitive project. - :

c. The name and cover name ot| ib Fb,
should be deleted.

 
SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

IDEN ATTACHMENT TO 10 MAY 1995 MEMORANDUM

 

The following names and descriptions are keyed to
paragraph 3 of the 10 May memornadum:

a. Dmitriy Fedorovich POLYAKOV; reportedly died as a

result of Ames disclosure. .
s
b. whether he is dead |

or alive 1S "not known.

 

 

 

c. Aleksiy Isadorovich KULAK (Kulyak ?); reportedly
died of natural causes.

SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

fp rf
a 2p Folic

oe" CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

amere eran oder pe ON AO ee
wine tbe eee oe (seo a Come a Otmh EP CME we -  GmEATEEE gees Gn quis GG Ren

. _ SF Sa NOT FOR PUBLICATI
: COUNT “New Yerk, US Nha. 2 Tia

. ‘tumect . Mardlyn nenres| DANE oiste 3 August 1962

 

 
          
    
 
    
   
   
  
   
   
 

iat Ee 4oe

a, u . 3 :
oe cae uate
“9.
Contents

  

it o ae. Rothberg discussed, “the ap:
: . . Hollywood parties hosted (by!

+ was ‘the talk ef the teu” Fottberg
words, that sbe seorets te tell, po, dows! ¢r: érizing’

    

   
  
    
  

ae the Preaidgnt and ttormy
% Asit by [the President pt a eeoretiair vane toe
‘ things outer a e Kilgellen replied

aourue’ of visit. In the mid-fift: ia Le
9 and UE gureromente te identify t\ocvarins ef(e
_ dead bodies, (trom a Brit: mt offinighs
story may come frou the Neato Sg tad REF:
eaid “sat if the atory fe true, it wseld ssrzS|4srrib:
Jact: ond his plane te have HASA pat men on the,

co

2, Subject repeatediy called the Attermy Generel, and complained about the way
she was being igncred by the Preaident and his brother.

3e Subject threatened te hold a preas conference wut | would, felt all.

ts Subject made vefsrencs tol Fbeses* Guba and ki ‘et the President's plan
te(id Lh Castro. .

5s Subject msde ref-——--~ to her("diary of of ecreta ut what, the newspapers
would do with ‘such disolaae foe rr ain

   

y

Sa magne SS ge

 
SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

15 May 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: Ms. Ellie Neiman
DO JFK Review Team

FROM: Barry Harrelson
Senior Reviewer, CSI/HRG

SUBJECT: FBI Request For CIA's Opinion
On Proposed FBI Release Of Agent
Specific Data

1. The FBI has asked for an Agency response on the
following matter. .

2. HRG counterparts at the FBI are engaged in serious
discussions with representatives of the Review Board
concerning withholding the identities of FBI confidential
informants. In the course of those negotiations, FBI
officers advise they are increasingly concerned about being
able to withhold the crypts and, possible even the true
names, of three former Soviet agents. Given that view, they
believe it would assist their overall efforts and
negotiating position if they could release additional
information on one or more of the three Soviet-agents.

3. The three former Soviet agents are:

a. “TOPHAT” also encrpyted as BOURBON;” true name

is provided on ee attachment.
b. [Gstamoce]* true name on attachment. ib
c. “FEDORA” also encrpyted or known as “IRONCLAD”

“SCOTCH” AND “JADE;” true name on attachment.

4. Attached are seven documents that the FBI is
considering for release. Two of them are CIA documents
found in the FBI JFK file. HRG has been unable to locate
these documents in the CIA JFK collection.

5. Please provide DO views on the FBI proposal.

A. - .
Barry Harrelson

Atts: A/S

SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
 

 

Orranas FORM eC. 10 sa0e-166
maw 1063 cortoed
O84 Got, B40, 0. 27

UNITED STATES GO ERNMENT
Memorandum

3
To: Mr. F.C. Sullivan\if7,

  

Us Gate: 12/23/63
T .

FRoM : Mr. D. J. Brennan, Jr.

? |
| sugject: RELATIONS WITH ome LLIGENCE apr

AGENCY (CIA) Oswald Qpt

Reference is made to memorandum dated 12/19/ 2, %
Brennan to Mr. Sullivan. Pursuant to instruction Agelit Patich
met with John MeCone, Director, CIA, on 12/28/53, (to confront the
CIA Director with false statements attributed to

. ‘Arent Papich advised McCone that te had a piece of busi
which needed ironing out before the end of the year, The Agent e
plained tha* since the assassination of rresident Kennedy, there
heve been various types of stories circulated concerning the case

 

  
 

S e Bureau which very directly affected relations between the
ureau and CIA,. The Agent stated that certain information had re
e2ca proportion to be most alarming and that the Agent had reques
-ermission from Mr. Hoover to discuss the matter with the CIA Dir

, UcCone -was then told that he was charged with being the
source of information conveyed to a high Government official and
Drew Pearson in that he, McCone, had stated that CIA had uncovere

 

che evicence collected; that some of these stories could immedi- i
ve discounted; and that there was certain information received :

  

zm by air. t tne CS)
sources.} The Liaison Agent is reporting this meeting in some detail -
so thatfou may have full appreciation of all aspects. 4

Tf

~
ness  ~y
X=

ache -
ted :
ecto:

lo
‘

to ~
d

a plot in Mexico City indicating that Lee Harvey Oswald had receivec
$6,500 to assassinate President Kennedy. The Agent elaborated by
stating that if this were true, McCone had endeavored to leave the
impression with certain people that CIA had developed information not

‘known to the Bureau and, in essence, made the Bureau look ridiculouc.

| {She Agent advised that if McCone had made such statements, we could

only assume that he was ‘employing vicious and underhanded tactics

i

 

 

‘since he and officials of his agency fully well knew that the story
| concerning the $6,500 had been proved to be absolutely false. NcCone's

attention was directed to the Alvarado interrogation, Alvarado‘s
| ladmission that he had fabricated the information and the subsequent(%
~ Mr. Belmont wo .
- Mr. DeLoach : a ea
- Mr. Sullivan pa = Sb

NOT RECORDED —. Dentecct@p cr (ones
195 JAN 2 1964 ae ae Cis

~ tir, Papich; ? cep 22 DEC 81.1963 7
a aeend “\

J?:chs 4.
a), hes, » — N

: isk : i
OU hee mee be ant

- ur. Branigan,,....
~ Liaison :

  
 

LoD AY pet ed et fet a

  
  
 
 

‘04-40338-10005 oe . S ac
oS oe ) . moo. me .

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
SUBJECT: (Optional)

Coordmet ign : JEW Osea ssinatinn Document (FRL referral)

rom Raseag Nigge Or Hesowes i ,
CAP /KQ DATE
eae Bor, 3-35-33

a aS
TO: (Officer designation, room ni + and building) oFFicta's | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
: INITIALS | to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

whey fi
TE Mn one Fig Mi _| & oT .
or Wour TEENCUM )
FRU. Meworandluw~
doled \2]23/ b3
(Brennan ty Sullivan )
Con Feancng CBA in

 

We are Pre POS im von
"Relocs2—tn- Ful * Coy
Maes Accum ;

Boag

ft slg

Pin Abtement=_

4

 

 

FORM USE PREVIOUS.
1-92 610 EDITIONS
 

ono Mr. Brennan to Mr. Sullivan cr ,
fe: RELATIONS WITH CIA ; Vash

corroboration of the polygraph.)

NeCone was very visibly incensed and left the impression
that he might at any moment ask the Agent to leave. After pausing
a few moments, he made the following statements: G)

(1) He stated that he has never talked to D on
in.his lize; that he has never sent any kind of megsage_to
Pearser. directly or - indirectly and that he does not have any

communicating with Pearson. He briefly referred
putes the fact that he has been the targ ttacks by Pearson,
one of these occurring within the last two weeks. (e|

.(2) With regard to the "$6,500 story," McCone advised
that as soon as the original report was received from his
people in Mexico City, he contacted President Johnson and
informed him of the development. He explained to the Presi-
Gent that this was a matter which required intensive interro-
gation of Alvarado and that CIA had coordinated very closely
with the FBI...He told the President that Alvarado would be

| kept in a safe house by CIA until the FBI was satisfied that
all necessary investigative action had taken place. (E)

(3) HicCone advised that he-has not been critical of the
Bureau; that if he had any criticism he would confer directly
with the Bureau and not get involved in malicious gossip. He
commented that in connection with the Oswald case, he has
encountered people who have been critical of the Bureau dnd
the Secret Service and he, McCone, has gone to the defense
of both agencies. (S)

CViecone was left in an angry mood but he did retain his com-
[.. ‘osure throughout. Before the Agent left, McCone inquired about the
[- ratus of FBI — CIA relations in general and the Agent replied that
- ay were satisfactory.) He also asked about the Director's health

“2 vhigh dhe Agent *Pooead ats PORE eer ry in en health.

As indicated abov o statement was made wniek ah in any
vay might jeopardize the seckvity of Mr. DeLoach's sources.

For information.

02 \ ,
ay
Y (7 ae

L/

 
Ban

 
  

10 April 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Grant P. Harmon
Unit Chief, JFK Taskforce
Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM: Barry Harrelson, Senior Reviewer
- “Historical Review Group
Center for the Study of Intelligence
_ Central Intelligence Agency

SUBJECT: Authenticity of Document

1. This is in response to your request to this office
to review the attached document and advise if it is a valid
Agency document or something made up using an Agency reports
format and information either entirely made up or from other
sources. The 3. August 1962 document purports to tie Dorothy
Kilgallen, Marilyn Monroe and former Attorney General,
Robert Kennedy, together with knowledge of an number of
matters, including the plot to kill Castro.

2. Those Agency officers who have reviewed the
document consider it to be fratiulent. While the format
resembles a “reports” form used in the 1960's, the
substantive information and presentation is foreign to
normal presentaion er collection efforts. Also, the control
stamps and other administrative items are not typical of CIA
reports written during the 1960's.

3. If you have any further questions in this regard,
please call me directly at (703) 351-2909.

arry Harrelson

BH:gb

FOR,

- hes fe
