13-00000

. SECRET

SUBJECT: Appeal to the President of Unfavorable Decisions by the
JFK Assassination Records Review Board (AIUO)

methods, and activities). When an exception applies, a
government agency may “postpone” release of the information. ‘for
up to 25 years. The Act also established a Presidentially-
appointed JFK Assassination Records Review Board to review each.
agency’s processing of records and to approve or disapprove every -
postponement, and to consider requiring the release of substitute
language for information postponed. The burden is on the
agencies to present the Board with “clear and convincing
evidence” that particular information meets the criteria for
postponement under one of the Act’s exceptions:. The Board? ‘must
advise an agency head in writing of its determinations. only ‘the
President can reverse the Board’s decisions and only an agency
head can appeal to the President. The Act gives the President
oniy 30 days from the date of the Board’s determination letter to
act on an appeal. In light of this deadline, the White House
Counsel has directed that it receive appeals to the President
within seven days of a Board letter. The Executive Director of
the Board, however, recognizes the difficulty in bringing an
appeal within such a short timeframe, and has recently indicated
that the running of the statute of limitations would probably not
be raised as a defense in an appeal.- As to the releases at issue
here, the CIA faces the following deadlines:

- CIA was notified as to the Board's decision on
Attachment A by telefacsimile dated 7 December 1995. The
DCI has not yet received a formal notification letter as
is required by statute, and the CIA has been informed that
one is not forthcoming. The Board decided that a formal
notification letter was not required because it only
substituted language into a document previously released in
part. (ATIUO)

~ The DCI was initially notified of the Board's
decision on Attachment B by letter dated 28 November 1995.
The Board denied the Agency’s request to reconsider the
release of this information on 14 December and decided that
an official notification letter was unnecessary. (AIUO)

- As to Attachment C, the Board issued their final
determination letter on 27 December 1995. (AIUO)

2

SECRET
A

104-10331-10096}--- =

be

 

cts

- 0 SECRET 00/0 9G= Fo

FEB 0 7 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence
VIA: Deputy Director of Central Intelligence
: Executive Director
General Counsel

FROM: David Cohen

Deputy Director for Operations .
: oe 3s
- SUBJECT: ; Appeal to the President of Unfavorable Decisions

by the JFK Assassination Records Review Board
(AIUO) ;

1. Action. It is requested that you appeal to the
President three unfavorable rulings by the John F. Kennedy.
Assassination Records Review Board. (AIUO)

2. Information at Issue. At its regular-monthly meeting in
Washington, D.C. to review the U.S. Government’s JFK files, the
Board announced its determination to release sensitive,
classified CIA information that the DO had sought to protect.

This information will: ;

 

 

¥

 

 

 

 

- Identify a Sensitive Unilateral Source
(Attachment B); and

 

~ Identify an overseas CIA station (Attachment C). (S)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. JFK Act Process. Under the JFK Assassination Records
Collection Act, government documents identified as “assassination
records” must be released in total to the public unless one of
six limited exceptions apply (which include intelligence sources,

CL BY (0198172 |

REASON 1.5 (c)
DECL X1
DRV HUM 4-82

SECRET
SECRET

SUBJECT: Appeal to the President of Unfavorable Decisions by the
JFK Assassination Records Review. Board. (AIUO)

4. CIA Efforts to Comply with the JFK Act. It is important
to note that the CIA has declassified and released a tremendous
volume of previously classified information in order to meet not
only the letter but the spirit of the Act. Additionally, the CIA
has been extremely forthcoming with the members and staff of the
JFK Board. With respect to the three matters listed above, we
firmly believe that. we have met the requirements of the Act to
permit protection of the information. We have presented clear
and convincing evidence to the Board, summarized in the
attachments, that each of the three above subjects falls-within
one or more of the Act’s six exceptions. However, despite’ i
numerous explanations, briefings and informal appeals to’ the
Board by Agency officials on these issues, the Board has
disapproved the postponement of two of the subjects, and directed
substitute language be released in one document that will, in
essence, release the third. The Board has rejected our
postponement decisions on other issues, but we decided after
extensive internal debate not to request that you appeal those
determinations. The Board's current determinations, we believe,
are so contrary to the provisions of the Act permitting certain
information to remain protected and pose risks to intelligence
sources and methods of sufficient gravity that we believe an
appeal is warranted. (S)

5. If you concur in our proposal to appeal the Board’s

actions, please sign the attached letter to the President
(Attachment D). (U)

PAU GREE"

Davi

Attachments:
As stated

3

SECRET
- SECRET

i ; .

SUBJECT: Appeal to the President of Unfavorable Decisions by the
JFK Assassination Records Review Board (AIUO)

IMS/ESG| ———«f44447/7 February 1996

Distribution:

Orig - Addressee

‘1 - DDCI, w/atts.
- Executive Director, w/atts. ;
- Executive Registry, w/atts. : -
- Office of General Counsel, w/atts.
- DDO/Registry, w/atts.
- C/LAD, w/atts. ; ve
~ C/EUR, w/atts. oS aa
C/PCS,.w/atts. - ~
~ C/DCI/CSI, w/atts.
- C/CSI/HRG, w/atts.
- C/IMS, w/atts.
- C/IMS/ESG,. w/atts.
- DO/IRO, w/atts.

as
{

ee eee
i]

4

SECRET
