   

as CLavideRe
De TITty F
Bf Veshinigton 7

te Col. (fnu) Fonorpty now en “sayhee int “the groziLinn Eubassy, Torteeue

cretary ay cure yee & Feale Shy, amie good friend.
iret colaneh,” fora: fan militery Biteche ia

     
  
 

 
 

comin, retired officer,
@e Former. fabessador Joseph D. Charles
De. Balle Setntelet, former lew profésuor; president of Haities

Senate end Nat. Jeand Agsenbly in 1351 ‘:foraur eubavsedor to. Franco,  —

mois in eile in/tew York (pt. 1AJ, (292 Centre) Por’ West et l0dth ,
Beoy tele Ui 5e50R5) « Charles celled:hin s "player," that is, en ‘
Opportuniet, but anti-Duvelier.

& Cole  ) Chea

gpl end honest man.”

 

F
af

Solentay anti-Duvelier end ubo ere es to beck f ay government." He
hea just paaned hig Moth birthdey (he ‘wae born 21 Apr 1923 im Coneives),

. makes hin eligible far the Presideney in oo fer as the constitutionel
whe age requirement fa:concerned. In cane vhs, aid not become proviaionel presic -

Gent efter Duvelier's overthrow, be would be satisfied with the post of

   

ot ae : uy

core a tno to 2 vee ees

rad be would be: qualified to becomes presits ~
ae are in Unie cetegory cen become presid

 

r Jo Conrlas ¥ éetd te would peod the: nore tat ccotonie help of the US
° Goverment,.end psople” to transfora Balti into « trus end prosperous
Genocracye ‘We oaid he would need etout'oue year to put inte «de ‘effect his

“pien for. thn economic ead social Govelopmant of mast," ubich, Gaong others
bes these ‘salient pointer

 
 

as Creation of 8 belinced ecawomy sdipted to Heitien contitions
Oe Te ey tan cuplottation OF Baturel resources
0. Mxdernization. of eyriculture

8. Chartes would Like to present his plen.to US officiele for cousideretion.
‘- Hg sie ebout 90$ of Haitiens ere exeinst Duvelier, vbo sminteins his rule
by keeping the militia otronge Gund Duvalier no longer bes funds to rey
the militiown but ellows then to hive off the Lends" Charles bellows

event of en ant! “uvalier Uprising, the army would Bill the
hated ailitiqnen who ere sumemn responsible only: to Duvedier.
Guce

 

Ge se {iniuhod, Charles vould euggeat that es e goodwill geatire
. Cord the Heitions, sau ere overtvelaingly pro-lS,, the UB construct the
irport and thus erate jobo.| nother vay, to boleter the coonamy

fn i

mt i ‘ L

We Charles hopes the Doninicen Republic will sot tnvede Duwelier": Belthe |

: j'defoet Hotti'e aruy oma militia |

      
   
 

Lis Defere Losing Porteaw-Prince, Charles vortbed out 9 telephone este vith -
: ble vite, Sophie. On 30 fur 63, he orlled her, and che told ia “nat to;
ae rrpowd Witch ment thet his Life Right be in Gender ba returned to
9404 now. In view of this, he told the Hsitian Conewh ia few fort thet he

' Bae to stey e fav Gaye longer to tuy porte for mechiogs used in h hip Haitian
aise] enterprize. % E

 

12 Charlee geve the folloving dete concerning his corcert He wont to parechicl
eehools in 193), wo greducted from Lycee: Goftrend, Gona@ivee; teught fa ; .
_ Sarah saecols after lle Seaer’e ania ini 333%) sri elee supported hie z
a footy vy, vena ni ) uyhelaterer, tinskeaper, plantesicn eqyerviser wad |

 

 

 
 

 

 

southern Haiti banana ‘Snduetry end bees sinsrel egentiin AAS. In 1949
hu oatablished his Owl éaporte import thnine'dae'lIa 1953 he went te linden
es 8 member of 6 lsitisn goverment econmmi¢ mission. In 1954 on behslf of
Haiti he negotiated s ecomtrect with Generel Electric, Ltda, of Coventry, UK,
for modemisstioa eri éztension of Haiti's Weleaxmunications systes. In |
1957 bo vos eppointed oaaber of a Esitien misaicn to en! internetions)
" eonference in Brussels. ‘In 1960 be founded Benque Commerciele d'faiti, of
which he is. sole ower. | 7, dm addition, he: “Se {TUL or part oumer of the
Heitien enterprises: Universal Enterprises Sh} Hetionsl :
-Deutach (oie) Associates; Clemard Joseph Charles Inmportekepert; © South
Haiti cocoa enterprises \J.C.Cherles & Co. He. ‘ts sole representative of
Generel Klectric; Lta., of Loaica, end Sienna: Scmukert, Werke, West Gere .
mrenys In the past fou years be has mode maty business trips te the W, i,
¥renoe, Itely and Veot Germay. Ho 6si4 he|had invested ebout U5$500,000°

 

 
 

    

Ketta

 

 

Interview with Clennrd Ses
Possible Duvalier Sucersser/Nis Ideaaf
Friends oad Supportera/ Interpretation

of Current Situatisa

   
 

To varly May 63:
wonf2 Mey 63

 

 

yewcms

 

te
"THIS i$ UNEVALUATED INFORMATION L

who hee folloved'Vievolopmeats in the Caribbean

 

eres closely for many mathe Gnd mainteins contact with poFsone directly cone

. * ’ .
habit of making 4steile’ shorthand astes enable

His comand of Franch and h:
him t report with-en unugual degree of eccurs:

 

 

ra Soaeph Charles, president

On 2 May 43, ve hada fourchour interview wi
end general unueger of Senque Commerciole d'aiti,
of the Evitien Chambor o
Heitian embaseador te tho we

Cleaard Cherles, vbese PO Box in Porteou-Prisce'ts Bo. 575%, told us thet bo wae
@ man of pessant. stock end that

’ of the predaninantly peasant pop

PorteauePrince, vice presideat

{ Caumserce, asd cousin lof Joseph D. Charles, former

while @ business Jeeder he: hee the full confidence
ulation of Heitd;: and, thet with the edditions)

sDevelier eray officcra, intellectuals, journal

pecking of forcibly retired anti
fists end wusinosavea, a is. in a poo
governnesst siter Duvelier is reapved. Ye believes
Wey when Duvalier's tera expi i
te eoemenos, vill bu the mas
veady to institute @ 7
Biiliag to ecceept dovnlec

 

 

 

technicians.

ition to Weems the bead of @ provisional -
tha span betwen now and 15
hia new tera is seneduled

98 end 22 Moy, |
ibs! believes Duvelier ia

ervciol period for, Tteiti.
ign of terror, killing those ube ovpose him, and 13
hole. sous two weeks ag the Polich cherge d'efreires

ead Charles beliaves be corrice Duvelier's ten ;

 

be G@uries firaly believes this vill be the Je

@llsyel victing
: Ofe On Wh

 

agit Phe diz

 

Cea 1 AGS
a4 edaaee win aru gen

map ba

  

 
     

couRd raly with @ firm pledye of

 
 
 
  
 

  
r of Adelphin Telson,

; formerly President of

 
74-0000

 

   
  
    

| DEPT OF ‘STATE ATRGRAM A=325

    

DATES: 16 FEBRUARY 1963

CLASSIFICATION: OFFICIAL USE ONLY

     
     
       
    

ANENBASSY, PORT-AU-PRINCE

 

SUBJECT: BANKING: BALANCE SHEET: OF THE
BANQUE COMMERCIALE D'i

FBI DOCUMENT.

‘a

DATE: 2 AUGUST 1962

       
  
    
      

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
:

SUBJECT: RE:. CLEVARD JOSEPH CHARLES
© ENTERNAL SECURITY - RAITT

rer FILE Nor 105-6311 (MrAMT)

      
     

 

   

rare

 

 

 

UEDA cage e. See cer era rd “exs@inow santos

 

ob

Mas

abe
74-00000

soe

Cp nen pe a RR

1960, During this’ pertod, he served al

the delegation to" the Ninth International °¢
. States at Bogata | (assay and is teported t
the United states, ; Foe ya

 

Joseph Dp, “charles, ay Negro, was born November 1907, at-
Limbe, Haiti. He ‘is married and has five ildren.! He received

his law degree ‘at. ‘the Law!

 

chool in Cap Hatien in 1928, A for-

 

 

mer law professor,’ Assistant Prosecuting orney and Judge of

 
   
  

the Civil Court in “Cap Hatien (1928 - 1940); Charles served as

Ambassador to the United States from 8 Oct tober 1946 until 1 June
as Ambassador on the
Council of the Organization of Anerican st ates (1949 . 1950).

He resigned his anbassadorial post ‘after the fall of the govers-
ment of President: Estime who had appointed’ hin, on! 29 February
1952, he was designated Secretary of Education and Public Works
by President Magloire and: resigned from the’ cabinet! on 31 March ©

3953, allegedly because of his opposition] to incressingly close

   
  
  
  
 
 

ties between the governnents of Haiti and!the Dominican Republic.
Charles chaired the Haitian delegatio
the first sessio

o the second, post of /
(1946); the second

¢ the UN General: Assen

 

session (1947) an the fourth session (94 » He chaired also

 

‘onference of Amorican

ave boon friendly to

~ Charlies has in the past been nentioned.nore than once as a
possible successor to the: incumbent. president. The most recent

oe

 
 

 

    
  

   

 
    
 
  
  

 

   

 

 

 

    

  

     

  
   
  

   
 

 

 

 

 
  
  
   

 
 

        
 

 

  
  

      
       
   
  

       
   
  

  

 

: ‘ : : :
i President and oe " er i
; ‘ of the Comercial Bank of Eaith : ;
i ra ; i
i Prager. of the redal Bark of Haiti ‘ ?
1 rn)
rt 4 ~ BSH), ceeepk Clemard Josesh Crarles is known ‘as 4 : '
confidant of President ~. a .
: stinioobakt it it Seoectock Francois buvalier and ‘asa businessaan of questionable
2 a ; 7 Feo Beach re cae
repute, one well~inforsed Eirsbesas: Charlés, i= “
. ee
; bt, ae
! fon ' ;
- _ the fact that hi ‘appears: te have a “line ute 8 the. Pataca and is perstina
ne ‘ by this sane source to know
fee - '. nothing abeut banking and te be a favorite ‘of: Président, Duvalies,) staunqaam :
~ 7 sea who adda that Charles is
mere accurately surdbed as a “promotor” than as a businessman and that bu. oe
: . am : ae 4
4s @ partner in the BCH ‘rather than the sole: owner, charies harkens feoniantlie
: . meee ty . ,
: ‘ endeavors te attzaci US venture capital forivarious Hadtidan projests and
Be Sanaa NL aN nn a a
oo @lains to be an honorary. odtigen of long Beach, “ong “sland, New York,
a 2. 7
3 .
; : - having promoted a “eieter eity" relationship etweon tet town ‘and
B : A dark fiegre aboud fiventoct. sevanntncie \ oT] te elem doserh Charles : . _
ly REPORT HAS SEEN PREPARED IN ROUGH UNFDITI, fog. f lak, Rept ong Harring gles Vo
yr 1 bxrtoit THE SERVICING OFAN URGENT MQUEST acorn con A un tmatilieg i
~ fe ee, EMR * Fang: mE i -
w | “ “ob
oben shea eeedleneeggre te ee en eS ate ai oe Be
 

   

  
 
 
       

rs

DEPT OF STATE ATRGRAN A-H06
FROM AMEMBASSY, 'PORT-AU-PRINCE
DATE: ‘11 APRIL 1963

 

CLASSIFICATION:

_ OFFICIAL USE ONLY ji" : a
i Beat” -
U.S, BUSINESSMAN SIGNS CONTRACTS WITH
HAITIAN GOVERNMENT AND LOCAL BANK }

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

      
    
  

 

wy

| Parochial school, ‘dna credited from, lees. srofe Gal! ir, 1939... Aecorting to

Charles? oxn ace stag, hie acrly cares? ph in renal Haitian

cial

      

 

   

 

 

 

boy
dy : . i i .
j i
sehoolsy worked ag:an upholsterer, tine=keere. lantation supervisor end i i ’
8 | ; ?
freo lance journslist, In 1947 he was appoint i '
wn (409 be : | '
and id ,becarie general agent serene he then established | |
; 4 : 7
. hinself as a manufacturer's: representative ant: ereated hs ‘oven export—inport a e-
business. Charlie: traveled 40 London in 1953, and to Brussels in 1957 as a | .
menber of various Haitian Government missions. - Charles forthe states that !
he created the Comioredal F Bank of waits in 1960, ‘ani is sts: ‘ sole omer, og vel \ : | .
wi 2 it

 

7 as a baing the sole representative in Haitd of the “General Rectric Company, Lid.»

: Hts BroRT RAS. ‘been PREPARI i :
£5 IN !
, FORM IO | EXPEDITE: THE SERVING CE aa NWSE,

 

oe

 
 

 

 

4
,

     

 

Port-sunPrince An2L5 9,

B Mach 63 ee ,

     

   
  
   
 
 

@ are really oniy too . wey
The others are pretty oe

“ele i ran’ récarze lquite flatly: ©
banks 2 in p radti, in Hand tne ova
gad affairs. ; Tae i roexanple, has @ porte
folio of Sled niilieat it, "all fraud", The
president of ‘thai tank, he said, is a rich nan Loduye Ris technique,
a ecconiing to ‘Ancr2, is to find someone Z)ling to cecest # lean waich
be knows carsiot or will not csepay on bi he Kicks back in somes eases
‘more than pall. André said ae knows pe Sonally of one min who was wre
. Teaving. forthe United States tho signed) notes fer @l0,CG0 and ace “
cepted $2,000, the remainder going into, Sie pecket of the bank presie =” . t-
-deat. As for reseives, the Coloxtoqiiaitian bank has been delow the . oa
. legal requirezents gor months end is n paying, iniaccordance with 8. + - .
- law, Sines of 3150 daily. Yinat will hapson when degositers want : oe :
tele money back he; andre, would rather; yy think acout.
* i 7 4 :

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

   

    
   
    
 
   
  

   

to interest some american
ape of seiting mew eapital
ex, understoca that the

 

. ~ anexé said ne Knew the bank had tr:
investors in .tae business, perhaps in th

“with which to Kcep ‘Boing. Ha, anerd,

- gmericans were a rather dubious Vismi group; even if they cid come
in (whieh he cid not at the moment yoreces) t ne didn't think it vould |

improve the situation, The Coloxbo-Haitizn bank, ne saic, was in

. such poor shape it, would take a uajor ove haul to save it.

   
    
      
      
      

   
     
    

“2 fad led the conversation ever to; the Colonbo-Hattian bank be~
.eause of certain spec} rosts we na I now took the cscasion |
. $0 ask about 'Clemard(CRARLES i ACIAL BANK OF HATTIE. André

. veplied that‘the sit 3 Ay tae samc, The bank held
a worthless port folic nade up of notes guaranteed by political figure.

  
 
  
 
  

     
   
   
   
   

 
 

“a = Ss _Sanghter!'s sis ture alone = and he also
wnew nothing” anout banking ous ne wes sdmathins.of a favorite with.
ie pave hin Support » The Bim@H holds/mortgacos on ; the
Tomaercial Bank of Fait: » tor example, and, since payments | are now .
substantially in arrears, Andrd sald, he might have| foreclosed. The -
“Prealdent, however: shad asked .nim not to. order +e avoid a :
ceamndaie ld): /

       
   
    
  
  

   
  

 
   

    
  

  
  

turning peiefty to the balance of | ‘pa ments question, I aaked-"
dndré how matters now stood” (having in and, but not mentioning, sone

 
 
 

 
   
 

   
 
   

The lates st relainod sheet’ on the pdiletatan ‘back af jiieats, faith
sone Sonment: on ite pracident > was forverde with Exbasay A=325

  

 

setae Ee or ape RE

  
