14-00000

  

ep pe tet emer a ne ae ce a a a
tao

. -  SERET >

wouls Sc Goes towiud to kava what GAnTin’s status in ine is

6o far ag the United States is concerned. If, for exauple,
your Government could not taze legal action, tbe Cenacian
authoritses would be is a positions if this matter came te
public attention to say that they tere not avare of any
barrier preventing MARTIN from seeing hia pareate in the United
States, should be moet grateful if throuzh your channels

ee could be provided informally with an indication of

HBARTIN‘’s otatus in law ia the United States.

@. BUCKLEY's only other comment om HARTIN tas that
be dida’t really know vhat to make of MARTIN, MARTIN
geencd outepeohen in dealing with the shortcomings of life
im the Boviet Unios, On the other band hoe spoke with a
@light stamaer and seemed nervous. BUCELEY’e wiew far ehst
4¢ fe vorth ig that MARTIN ia not faterested ia getting tate
trouble cith the Russians or doing anything shich they might
consider underhanded, I ghould emphasize that ne meaber of
the Cacadian Enbassy hag had any direct contact with M4KTIZ,

2. Qn 18 January 1968 the Fedoral Bureau of Investigation
wag advised of the foregoing informally, ia order ta explore
the possibility ef providing an indication of Subject’s
atatug in law, ag requested in paragraph 1. d. above,

3. Thais Agency was advised by the Departsent of State
oa 19 January that Subject's parents had urittes te the
Departseat advising that Subject would like to visit bia
parents, that he was planning a visit te Canada, ead
inquiring what Subject‘'s legal position would be ig bo cid
tedeed visit. The Department indicated that it planned te
inquire that the 0, 5, Embassy in Moscow knew of Subjoct’s
@ravel plans, ifacluding a check with the Canadiaa Gabaesy te
ascertain if Subject bad applied for a viga, The Depurteest
was apprised of the iaformal Canadian tragquiry as to Subject's
status, but indicated that it vould refrain from making any
reference to this incuiry im seoxing information from the
U. &. Eubassy in Moscow.

4 Gur represeatative was apprised of the
developments cited in paragraph 2 sbove, and requested te
péese them oa te the liaisom contact, om 19 January 1968.

Fos THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FoR PLANS:

Signed: Jozres R. Hunt
JAHES ANRGLETON

CSCI 314/00226-68
ec; Department of State
Federal Bureau of Investigation

 

SegeeT

   

 
 

CENTRAL, INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Wasnincron, D.C. 20505 bys
‘ Suet! Aye”
25 SANDS A, ate
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director ge
Mational Bocurity Agency o
SUBISCT $ Williem 8, MARTIN

2, On 1S Jamuary 1968 this Ageacy received the
following toformation fro: 4 @

 

 

a. The Canadiun Press Correspoadent in Mosca,
Williaa BUCKLEY, approached our Eabasey inforanily in the
nicdle of Lecesber on behalf of @illias MARTIN, the
ex-employee of R&A who defected to the Soviet Union ia 1860,

b&b Accercing to BUCKLEY, BARTIN wishes te see. Bis
parents for compagsionate reasons and wants to know if he
would be admitted to Canaua without fear of extradition to
the United States if he were to arrange a reniez-vous with”
hie parents in Vascouvor. We do not knew ehether HARTIN
still has a United States paseport or whether he has becese
& Soviet citizes. In any eveat KARTIN considers bisaself
inadmissible to the United States.

c, BUCELBY met MARTIN at the apartment of
Hovard RAUSCH, the Moscow corresponacent for Mc Grae-Hill
Publications. Im addition HARTIN later telepboacd BUCKLEY
to indicate hig interest in finding out whether or not be
could coze to Canada, BUCKLEY assumes, quite rightly 1
would think, that the aanner ia ehicn HARTIN hae sade his
request indicates that bis 2ugsian hosts are avare of Bis
iaterest in getting out of the Soviet Union to see his parents,

6. We mave inforsed our hnbasay that it should
take no action to encourage BUCKLEY or MARTIN to believe that
& visa would be granted ig MARTIN were to make formal
application. Since, however, MAKTIN's iaterest in coming to
Canada is already is a newspaperman’s hands, we caanot rule
out the possibility ¢nat BUCKLEY might erite about MARTIN's
interest. Such a story vould probably lead to the need for
af expreagion of the Canadian Government's attituce, Ia
making recossoncations on the king of response that might be
made ia the event that a questien ig put te ay Minister, it

   

  

SECTET SiQ-35s6 7%

nat So tet ne On

}
3
H
H
i
§
‘

 
74-00000

-
° ~ : rane

3 Sa ike

B/BC/CANADA: FMlowley:es ~ 23 January 1968
Based on: OCOA-12663 12 January 1968

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addr
SL = C/CI; £
‘Leo CI/Lia
Lm CI/BkA
2 = FID/CSB

 

   

“wm
