74-0000

 

nowt oan ee TS SE CRI -
@ eg .
woe a . .
‘assassination squad. which went to Dallas to assassinate.
President Sennedy.*>.We know of .no information in our

» files to substantiate that allegation,

. 3. p ‘ba z isa ‘former chief of the Cuban Rebel
Air Force. He is not nor is there any record that he
has ever been an Agency asset, although he could have
been debriefed by us after he left Cuba, .

 

 

; 4, ‘There have ‘been various press articles in the
past alleping that Lorenz was a CIA agent. She
is not an agent or. employee of ‘this Agency nor is there
. . any information indicating that she ever was an agent
or employee of this Agency.

5. The above information. may be passed in part or
in its entirety to the House Select Committee. on Assas-
sinations.. The FBI has already beén informed of the
significant details in this matter.

“Is George V. Lauder

f Raymond A. Warren

poostascos/ctos{ Prew a November 1977, xo194) i

Distribution:
Orig &.1 - Addressee

1 - LA/COG/Chrono
@- C/LAD
1.- Originator
1 - SA/ADDO (Benson Grayson) . . ; ; ;
1 - IG Staff (Scott Breckinridge oe ~
1 - Hold , .t

 
‘oa t0ta7-t0t29

- SUBJECT

oo, te oe [ 5 ‘hOv aT
PLEMORANDUM FOR: Gitice of the ‘Legislative. Counsel
OMTA ©: SAZADDO.
FROM fog Raymond A. Warren

. Chief, Latin America Division

“Allegation by a. ‘Senior Cuban Diplomat
Concerning thé Role of Cuban Exiles in
the Assassination ¢ of President Kennedy

oe.

1. According to: a fairly reliable source, a’ senior

‘Cuban diplomat stationed abroad made certain charges in

late. September 1977 concerning the alleged role of Cuban
exiles in thé assassination of President. John F. Kennedy.
This diplomat made these allegations .to his colleagues

in the course of an. official meeting in his embassy. The -
diplomat said, among other things, that Cuban exiles
such_as: former Cuban Air Force officer D i az Lan (fnu)
and others had been involved in the assassination of
President Kennedy. The diplomat referred to the assas-
sinaticn in the context of a security’ lecture in which

he claimed that counter-revolutionary. activities by Cuban
exiles have increased in recent months. He said that.
recent information had arrived implicating D i az in the
Kennedy assassination. The diplomat did not mention any’

other Cuban exiles by name or provide any further details.

He did not identify the source of his information, although .

's gtteen

cur source had the inpressien that the dipic uct

tions were based on a recent cable from the Cuban Ministry

of Foreign Affairs.

2. This division has” no other factual information
concerning the diplomat's allegations.’ We believe that
the basis for the diplomat's statement was, probably, an~
article which appeared in the New York "Daily News" on
20 Septenber 1977. This article quoted Maritza
Lorenz as saying that she, Orlando Bosc h, Frank.
Sturgis, Pedro Niaz Lanz, two unnamed Cuban
caiie brothers and Lee Harvey O s wa ldo teincd ani”

cs ‘

. WARY NG NOLTCE ,
SENSITIVE INTELLIG ENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

yr. “SE c RET /E2, IMPDET-
, ; CL BY: 912034

LACOG/258- WW.

 

&.ie lin |
