~ SECRET/SENSITIVE

7 June 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Select Senate Committee Draft Report on President
Kennedy Assassination

1. Per your direction, I accompanied Mr. Scott Breckin-
ridge of the IG Staff to the Senate Office Building to review
the SSC Report on the President Kennedy assassination.
Basically the thrust of the Report is that the Agency, CI in
particular, did a very thorough and outstanding job in
investigating all Mexican and Soviet aspects of the Kennedy
assassination. The criticism in the Report, however, as it
is directed against CIA, centers on the activities of the
Special Activities Staff, headed by Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald.
According to the Report, while the Agency in support of the
FBI's investigation went to great lengths to trace the
activities of Oswald in the Soviet Union and in Mexico, simi-
lar in-depth research as it related to the Cubans was not
done. This is attributed to the compartmentation of the
Cuban operations as they related to assassination plans
against Fidel Castro. The SSC Report has selected the
AMLASH/1 case as an example of this type of activity, and con-
centrated on it. The Report takes the position that the CIA
leadership being knowledgeable of these activities which may
have caused Castro to take retaliatory measures, and possibly
resulted in the assassination of President Kennedy, did not
make this information available to the Warren Commission.
Therefore, the Agency's leadership, in the Reports view, with-
held vital information from the Commission which may have
changed its findings.

2. The Report is highly critical of the FBI.

3. The following represent my comments related to only
three items in the Report which are within my area of com-
petence. Other comments prepared by Messrs. Breckinridge
and Sturbitts are attached.

a. Page 10. “Oswald contacted a known KGB agent"
with the Soviet Embassy in Mexico.

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 008885

SECRET/SENSITIVE
 

foeio4za000t]

ef ag
se

(1 UNCLASSIFIED OO [] CONFIDENTIAL (] SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET ;

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building}

     
   
  

 

 

 

   

   

COMMENTS (Number eoch comment te show from
° ENITIALS fo whom. Draw @ fine ecross column afier each comment.)

         

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

  
  
 

 
      
  

 
 

   
 

a ee
aca nash Pees nets eaaigiesT ame ten Mama Ne RR oe PRET

ee erp a teeny soo ori ears acs
[L_ CONFIDENTIAL C7] Us-owty.. 0) UNCLASSIFIED

bor 610 “erase SECRET

     

UP
SECRET SENSITIVE

Comment: While it is known that Oswald contacted
the Vice Consul at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City,
to the best of our knowledge it was for the purpose of
obtaining a visa for the Soviet Union. The fact that
the Vice Consul happened to be a KGB officer com-
plicates the matter but there is no evidence that
Oswald knew this Soviet was KGB. Therefore, recommend
this sentence be modified accordingly.

b. Page 53. Believe the word "technical" should
be removed when referring to CIA collection capability
in Mexico City.

c. Question arose as to whether identification
of the KGB officer in Mexico City and his relationship
to Department 13 of the KGB may touch on revealing
depth of CIA knowledge about the KGB in 1963. I
checked with Mr. Ben Pepper, C/SE/X/CI who feels that
nothing is lost by this identification. Recommend the
information in question be allowed to stand as is.

4. As you'll note from attached there is a meeting to
discuss the Report on Tuesday at 1400 in the Review Staff
Conference room. Unless I hear to the contrary, I'll attend
on behalf of CI Staff.

~

 

 

 

CT7UG7S0 —

Attachment: a/s

SECRET/SENSITIVE
