74-0000

proofing capabilitics, vas used to seal the lid to the box.

4. Four of the plastic bottles are marked with the number
"3" on their tops, one with number "2" and the other with number
"1". Those marked °3" contain extremely fine silver colored

. powder; the one marked "2" slightly coarser silver porder and

the bottle marked "1" a small amount of coarse pale red granules,
All the bottles contain the followin: substances:

Fe (iron)
K (potassium)
Kars (potassium nitrate)
KClO, (potassium chlorate)
KC103 (potassium perchlorate)
A trace of xat (sodium) is also present in all bottles,

§. The following ratios have becn determined:

Bottle #1 Bottle #2 Bottle #3
Fe 1 .4 2 < 3
KNOq 1 “ 1 “ 1
KC104 ' " 2 " I
KC10, 1 " 2 " 2

6. Because of the high oxygen content in each of the three
mixtures they obviously are used as first fire mixes. i.e., casily
ignitable substances which in turn can ignite other harder-to-ignite
materials. In this case it appears that an ignition device (a length
of safety fuse or incendiary time pencil) is inserted in the hole
into the smaller compartment, The pale red mixture, tecause of its
relatively high oxygen content, is probably used as s first fire
mix in this compartment. Mixed with it may te the contents of
bottle number "2", slightly less in oxygen content Sut higher in
iron and consequently hotter burning, In the main cau ar tment
would be the contents of bottles number "3" high 1m coatont, hottest
burning of ali three mixtures and relatively more <cifficult to ig-
nitewere it not for the boost given by the contents of bottle number
"2". AS the material in the smaller compartment ignites it burns
through the perforations in the partition igniting the contents of
the main compartment, The heat from this combustion melts the tape
covering the perforations in the lid thus allowing oxygen in the air
to aid and accelerate the burning. a8

 
 

[td t0180-10081

ee crm tein me ae

TSD-SDB MEMO 792
10 July 1964 \

MEMORANDUM FOR: C/WH/SA

  

ATTENTION : Mr. Alfonso Rodriguez
FROM : TSD/OA/Spectal Devices Branch
SUBJECT : Identification and Purpose of Contents of

Box marked “Special Fireworks”

1. Un response to your request for an evaluation of the
contents of the box marked “Special Fireworks," the following
information and conclusions are offered, “

2, The nailed plywood box was pried open on 24 June. It

4s a kit for making an incendiary device. Contents are six
clear piastic, pill type bottles with white plastic tops, filled
with metallic colored powders, a plastic box and lid. Two
bottles are labeled "Continental Plastics Oklahoma City” on the
bottoms, one marked 5 drams, the other, 8 drams, The other four
bottles are not marked with a manufacturer's name but are stamped
"P.7" on the bottoms; one has the numbers 23 and 0 opposite each
other on the bottom, the second has 16 and 0, the third, 10 and 0

and the last, 4 and 0.

3. The box, similar to a soap box, measuring 4" X 2§" xX 1"
and the lid measuring 4}" X 2-7/8", are either plastic or cellu-
loid. In one end of the box is a round hole sealed on the in-
side by a thin piece of celluloid covered with aluminum foil.

A compartment is formed hy a thin viece of celluloid, 7/8" from
the end with the hole, This partition is perforated with several
holes and covered on one side with a layer of aluminum foil. The
lid is perforated with several notes and sealed on the inside
surface with what appears to be a piece of wide transparent tape.
With the exception of a stamped number "1" on the inside of the
bottom of the box there are no identifying marks on the box or
lid. From the appearance of the box, covered on the inside

with silvery particles of po.der, it must have been loaded at
least once. Glue or rubter cement, probably a sealant with water

 

8 waarmee ag
74-0000

7. ‘The device may be used to start fires by surrounding
it vith combustible Secondary media such as paper, oily rags,
wood shavings, paints and turpentine in a ship’s paint locker,
smali metal shavings in a machine shop, excelsior in a ware-
house, etc, Only when a sufficient quantity of the secondary
combustible material is burning is there a reasonable chance
that the primary target «ill be ignited. The device might also
be placed in the seat cushions of an automobile, wedged in a
corner of a vehicle engine or placed in a box of ammunition.

8, There is nothing new in the composition of this device;
it appears to utilize well known principles of incendiary attack
using su»stances that are readily available and proven as depend
able injredients. Great care vould have to be exercised in vater-
proofing an assembled device if it was planned to leave it exposed
for a long period of time; several hours in a hot, damp clinate
would be an example of such an exposure. In the absence of actual
field tests it is not possible ta determine the effectiveness of
the device: how long it will burn, what proportions of the three
mixtures are most effective, how it performs under various
temperatures and other environmental factors, how it stands up

in storage, etc.

9. When the plywood box was opened it was observed that the
contents were packed in sawdust. Protruding from the sawdust was
a stubbed out filter cigarette, There was no indication of

scorched sawdust. e8

 

 

TSD/OA/SDB

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee

186
