 

 

 

 

sates Tacha gE Hae Sens

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2, a re ey
Ob re Or (Mantcipality of Hartanao) ax |

6 I narra

ge i
my
lk

 

 

 

 

   
 

«a
ied

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. Other trained Personnel, not connected with the govermert,

OG Le ote ens, tees

 

ee

“professor University of Ravana and Vilanova

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
74-00000

Bevan

——

oo o2

. (From Gamaguey.
Trusted hy the oF ial Fevelution.7 *

ery respected in Matanzas. Aloo linked with
original revolution.)

C7) a
(2) ) a Pe =

et
(tomenen

The wate center of conspiracy within the government agninst Castro,
according o Rey, 18 the Flaming Poerd (dente Comtral do Flansfioacté.)
B . TRATKED PERsOaNL

 

 

1. The following list includes technicians working for the government
contract or as public efficials. Thooe narbed with an antariae ()
are highly trasted by Ray.

| Ol Werks, Oeste revise ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pe ea
 

 

 

 

Ob (Favorable to the Pr] /

Ol rales va a \
opL 1 (Geld key position in Kavana Reported

prerince.
te Rave expreseed strong views againet Castro.)

of (formerly conmected with scobernecisa". flee in

opposition te Castra).

 

fc NGR Re ic Bikes a Ms x gual SME Se tnd eh lnc eae

 

 

 

 

 

OG (Permerly connected xith the Finanes Mintetry. Known
te be critics] of regine.) ;

| ceed Favorably inclined .

. to the HaP)

(Present poet eeaemne Deported to bo agninrt Castes.)

of__] ete

“fas ricently written te an
_RAEht be anxiaus to dafeot:)

 

 

 

   

&% a (Cue of the axocative sauder of the "Confedersct én

 

~ Cuben Markers! Unies. . j
Kae been socio eth ihe M2.) :
Bs
 

     

a:

. . - ; . <a
| {Another labor Leader, known to be anti-Castre.)
OG = cee Oy In opposition to

Oo wel es wun poses

checking on a report regarding his dieaffectien.)
Of Q recently of ¢ naval post in

A ieee at taatn Castro).

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ob oe (ine gorrut pekton kn Oita Kann te

be Anti.Castro.)

o£, 5
ewe

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BL ET ote cee pete

rm.

ete etasindie se loads sas carta Chow aah SR

 

sited ai ai LasteR, vae degC AN eran SERBIA IR Sdn
 

 

 

 

 

oe

21S TONE 3 FRET TZU 8 RRL ETN OA ALARA ABNER RO ROA 0

 

:

 

Musa & OTEH. “ev

“ Te aN . Ham, 8 Oct 62
REPORTING AGING: “oT /- Ce
SULT 208s Ctra * Boy Tad “ehegta”, Vusg Closuly connected to

  

SOURCE Marte DISZ Rivas, Uarrici to or, Ricardo MACHT, Vas comnect-
din Eavana with verious autie-Cozaunist organisations. -

mo vioit I meade to sourec, she told mo that sho had met Mrs.
Cira MAR@INES in Eavencs, That Mrco, MARTIULZ used the clandcstine
pscudonyn "Josefine" ond was married to architest Trank MARPINEZ,
That both subject and her husband were peryons in the absolute
confidenco of encineer Mamel RAY, ond "Josofina" hed boen RAY's
secrotery for 2 loug tine,

Source claime to have learned from "yooofina" that cho va3
dissatisfied with RAY's political actions, to the extent that RAY
wonted her to join the exccutive of the organization 3.0. BE but she
had rofused because she d4a not agree with “pho eed ee of this
orcenization, That "Josefina" had desoribod this omganization as
@ political novement the sano as Castroion, only changing the nome
of tho leader, @hat cho lmows the plan of this orgenization is to
organico oll entie-BATICTA and anti-CASTNO organisations, undor tho
@ircetion of the J.U.2,2,, cnd develop a natiounlintic and mpecially
on anti-fnorican policy in order to be able to group oll the ecloments
exinting in Cuba that have not Licuroed prominently in the CASTRO
regine, After the foli of tho OASINO rogime they plan to form a,
etrong political party tn Cuba ond eapitalize on the mistakes committed
by the provisional Covermmont, )Vith thio objectives in mind, they will |
stay -ocparated frou the 6.2.0, aud from all relations with the U.S,
Goverment in order to be able to carsy ont their plen freely, . oan

Mro, Oire NARDIZEZ lives with her husbend. at 1004-NE 17th St.,
Mtomi, phone sunbor FL-C-0493 on wiiieh they talk to neny persone
related with PAX's plan,

NOTE Ono. of RAY’ s nost trusted Loadere in 3 Lamt is till Osorio —
DAVILA, former treacuror’ of thé 262 of duly Noyenont and mon in the.
‘absoluto confidonce: of Hoydoo SANQCUNIA, Tora tous tine DAVIEA was
_ tho Oldef of the Havena Innipratioa Deyartiont, until bs oame to the
v, ,5, by dont from tho-coast of igancas, Sore deya cco I cubmitted a
aotailed report on Ocorio DAVELA, ext nlgo on A CLSR—OS and many other

 
[id f0179-10104

an a

 

Cc , C

DISPATCH ee ree

PUSHED
Po wane wen _—
a

Grey uaa
HEADQARTERS CTSH °
can feet 4 WROD Teg

 

a ee
WARE GYROSE/ ANCONCERT <1 SS —-HETURN TO Cia’
* . “Be kground U:
Report RIIN se Onl
a Tce oe Cina Ms Ei : “Dp Not Reprod
ACTION REQUIRED: FYI . . :
Attached herewith ia an ANCONCERT-1 report on Cira @MARTINEZ,
a confidante of Manuel RAY.
ENB OF DISPATCH
a -
yee |
| © ra
o
ia .

Attachment: hiw
Copies of report (9).

Distribution:
SeHeadquarters wats.

 
 

 

rea

oe noe mete me we ae RT Nbc bal eMart ite nee ree

& Oct G2, subj: Cira IARDINES (cont,

eet,

snow leaders of J: UR Ey becouse there is another group oF

individuols whose nones ere not adverticed but vho have commend pouers
in the J,U.2.E, Ono of these mon is Tenneio Liven, former lesder of
the 26th of July Movement, Private scerctary of the Commicsioner of
Esvona Jose LLALUSA, snd G2 delegate in Eavena Clty Hall, Lspor
persecuted many persons in the City Hall bsceuse he was the one who
msde the lists of persons who should be watched, to the G2, | Ee also
Bad close connections with the Minister of the Interior, Jose A,
NARANJO, whom he kept inforned about the persons under suspicion who
worked in the Ministry of the Interfor, One tine LEDON visited DaRanyo
snd inforned hin, in tho presence of NARANIO's socrotary, lucy
ECHEVERRIA, that he should keep Captain Ramon PiOILLA, at that tine
CGaief of the Isle of Pines prison, under surveillanee, In 1¢c0 PADILLA
was preparing the eceape of Captain Jerge S0TUS, and thanks to Lucy's
wernling PADILLA took preenutions ond the ples could be carricd out,
Isnneio LIDON liveo 4n Mien but I con't know his home address,

‘ Althoush he Inter dcelarcd hinsel? ca wy Phare ue te ond I think he
> gought asylua in the Brastites Embacs

oo haya uo trust in hin st all,

Sennen inne ne

ne aan net ne nee nce
 

i

 

oe sec to Mtn. AL tt by

 

ae We bevthir fname, un ‘

 

 

Lo . ne came - a re lad
e . if
a , BOM
*
On Sunday, October 28, I set twice with Manolo RAY of the Heyiaiento 7
“+ Reveluoiomaris del Pueblo Gap) at the Ser Juan Intercontinental Hotel, in $
San Juan, Puerte Rico. My main objectives were? (1) to elicit trom tia s i
list of Cubana, presently associated with the Castro regime, who are J
eritical of Castro and might ba nengideced potential dafectors; (2) to.
siveain a list of Uubans, either inside or cutside the island, who could be 62 :
availaile, in case of an emergency, to help in eatting up sone kind of 4
provisional government; and (3) to have his general views on the poreibility. i
of an inaurreetionary ‘movement.
Since I had arranged to return to Washington on the same day, I did |
net give Ray- muck vime to de a thorough job. However, he was able te “y
furnish me with a list of names, covering pointe (1) and (2). He promised 4
to provide me with additional irformaticn after checking with some of his —
arsociate@ in Kew York ard Milani. His thoughts on the possibility of an a
insurrectionary movesert 1111 be the subject of a separate nenorandun. d
List. £ . £4
. a
The persons herein indicated are either in Oube or are working for “
the. Cuban Governmert. I add my oun comments in parenthesis, based on a
ay conversations with Ray. ; ; 4
A ~ GENERAL : : 4
O6 08 3
gusted with the Castro regine.

‘Inatructions have gone out to seund him out. Mo

 

 

 

 

reply as yet.)
° L
oe| TSald to hold a key command position in Central
. Cuba and to be thoreaghly disgusted. Could be a
. Bey wan in a top level revolt.) .
Obf

Ulas Relped the MRP, Hun atlestinoe to Centro has
‘eonsiderably weakened) .

follow hin hin.)

{Is aputoas-to leave-Caba) we eee ete :

 

 

 

Fornsabed) ie actively sgainst the regine. )

   

 
