 

   

“ie Sacer aN SUN Nr ale alsa ae yey

   

pee

 

 

Parity tack round: Father is in the tailoring business. Cubela's
Parents have been aivorced for Sone time, His Father hag recently
(in 1961 or 1962) married a girl many years his junior, Cubela .
does not approve of this marriage.

Mother: Virginia Secades de Cubela. When Cubela is in Havana,
he generally lives with his Mother. Her last address, as of
February 1963, was given as Calle 38, #122, Esquina (corner of)
Avenida Zoologico, Alturas de Vedado (known also as Nuevo Vedado,
Havana,

 

Marital status end chiidre:: Wife: Mirtha Novoa Delgado de Cubela
Subject is separated from his wife ,whom he felt obligated to mayry.
(It is assumed that she became pregnant prior to this marriage.

 

husband-wife sense » according to a statement Tepedino made to
a 1962 uring the summer meetings in Europe in 1962,

a tola —— that he could not go back to her if he
wanted to becalsé she had been too outspoken in her dislike for the
Castro regime, He also mentioned (cont'd on next page): ‘
(Press article in Diario de la Marina confirmed the marriage in 59).
Eytra aritai ectivities andscr aberra:leas: loretta Sermey (no Has traces), .
Pan American stewardess of French descent based in Miami (at least
in 1962). Cubela wanted her to go t> Europe while he was there in
1962. Cubela appears to have known her for sone time, since :

basis Tor this statement, Tepedino said he would try to get her .

full name for us, Ha
Cubela is also friendly with a Cuban dancer named Sonia Calero

Sansana. One report from Army Intelligence on 9 June 1961 Galled

This report added that Sonia was a Cuban Intelligence agent workin;

cont'd next e); ad
é paso)i ss Bc RET 4
(clasat?tearton) Unit 7 q

{

ft

weure Lateg titled De eae oe varie ee re nn . ae we

ceerese ts Sener

 

 
 

10216-10154

Pa

 

Me
ay

fei

te

i iS eee Rete Stes ue ge nascar eR ENN nct

 

 

—~-8 BCR ET

(Caeosi: scatio sy

Xe c:Cubela Secades, Rolando Lazaro. Really (Lazaro Rolando

Note: When Cubelag signed an affidavit requesting a U. 8. o
immIgration visa after escaping to Charleston, §. C., after thé ;
Latest. kaown address: killing of Lt. Col Antonio Blanco Rico, he ¢

et

   

signed his full name as; Lazaro Rolando Cubéla
—

Secades,
Drop: 19 January 19335 in
Cren fue ges,
Relicioa:

Lancua_es: Spanish, of Cuba. Fair to good English, though limited
vocabulary and understanding. Has known 2 Pan American stewardess
ef French descent for some time. Interested in learning French.

Is studying French at Alliance in Paris during Oct. 1963
wisit to France,

Height: 5° 14"
Weight: 175 lbs.

Race: Caucasian — feir complexion

Cclor hair: Dark, wavy, thinning noticeably on top; hair usually
needs combing.

; Color eyes: Brown, rather small for his face; very intense. Left
eyelid reportedly droops when Subject is bored and/or fatigued.

Pistincuishing characteristics: Almost petulant mouth; small nose;
dresses informally by prefere prone to wearing jackets
without a tie. According to Cl Cubela presents a good
appearance in a masculine way when dressed up.

 

3 Las Villas Province, Cuba.‘

  

 

ne ae TSB IE IY IAG

2 FORA TAI or ermine erectageRET (

Sgt MARIE ack MS Ie AME a tinal

 

 

   
 

 
74-0000

 

 

ae

 

SECRET
cont'd from ~~"eiasaiticationy

Preceding page:
Family beckground:

 

Marital statis and children: cont'd from Preceding page - ,
and of her desire to get out of Cuba. This commentwas based on
the supposition that Cubela would be worki x us in Cuba on
his return, and was made to_Tepedino during the
1962 meetings in Europe. Cal expressed the belief that
"we" (possibly he was including Tepedino in his comment) do rot
think that Cubela does want to go back to his wife. There has
also been the comment that some of Cubela's "guilt" feelings come
from the necessity of resolving the Problem of this separation.
Note: since he still likes and admires her, he may be more
cautious while woraing against the regime while she, their child,
and his Mother remain in Cuba. Ed note.) . :

Extra carital activities and/or aberrations: cont'd from preceding page:

in Havana. (Another report identified her as the sister of a known
agent, Oscar Calero, who worked at one time in this job out of
Montivideo, Uruguay.) The Army Intel report further stated that she
was the mistress of Osmani Cienfuegos, Cuban Minister of the Interior.
Two addresses for her were given in 1962: 1) Mazo 256, Ayestaran,
Havana and 2) Calle 30, Esquina (corner of the) Avenida 27, .
Sonia is a dancer who made a trip to the USSR with an artistic group i
in 1961, and another trip to Prague in June 1962. ))00-A3 7252,031 of
26 February 1963 states that she was in the USSR in 1960 and again in
August 1962. (This means that she could possibly have been in Prague
in the summer of 1962 when Cubela went there. She is & mulatto with |
brown eyes, black hair (died red as of 1963), 27, 5°6", 130 lbs. She
is called the choreographer of the Club Parisienne of the Hotel .
Nacional, and is also a self~admitted Communist. She is a miliciana
and performs guard duty at the CMQ offices, and also does volunteer
work. Cubela is known to have phoned her from Paris to tell
he was returning to Havana in mid-summer 1962, according r+)

mid = ‘pai
~~" {elassif ication) fom preceding

SECRET _ page:

 

 

 
