104-10183-10105

 

\

will form a new political party";

cs)
£. FLafeXGOR) anced if Ambassador Mann were sure
General CARDENAS was not merely expressing a fear that the
money would fot get to the poor--"lise Senator Mansfield fears".

“ He said many of-us have that fear; the fear that in countries like

El Salvador the ruling families will reap all the benefits. He said
Mexico is different, ‘We have fifty years of Revolutionary govera-
ment and millions of landowners. 1 assured him that Ambassador
Mann had had it made clear to him by CARDENAS' messenger that
CARDENAS was “willing to be an adviser’ to help (since he was honest
and respected) to see that the money got to the poor and was not taken
by ‘governing persons". -
; _ col

g. I said The Ambassador wished (LIENSOR to ~now of
the approach and also would appreciate any suggeations/LETENSOR_| Of
would give:him. The Ambassador wished to -now whether L ENSOR, ol
‘would sug,est that he forget the matter or try to make contact with

General CARDENAS. |
_- ol

h. fia ENSOBIwas very profuse in expressing his gratitude
to The Ambassador(for -sending me to see him and for sendin, this ay
.report.] As to suzyeetions, he-said that/the approach should not be gy
ignoredyit was very interesting. He suggested that The Ambassador
‘send General CARDENAS a copy of The Constitution" of the Inter-
American Bank and send him word that a Commission of Advisers"
such ag he sug ested could not be established without an Amendnient
to the Conaitution. ity ENSOR feaid the covernment in each country
was (by the Constitution of the Bank) to represent that country--and
no provision for a group of advisers. was made. He further suggested
that Ambassador Mann say that Ambassador Mann would be willin, to
discuss the n.atter further with General CARDENAS ‘‘at any time
General CARDENAS wished to call on The Ambassador at the U.S.

Embassy Residence",

2 *
i. fs EN ORasxed if | had ever talked to General
CARDENAS. said I had never met him. He said he is intelligent

but very fixed in his opinions, is willing to diacuss any question but
does not change his ideas because he listens to arguments againat him.
He said General CARDENAS is never “openly angry".

SECRET

|
|
|
|

 

mal
104-10183-10105

- Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

— (44 USC 2107 Note)
RETURN TO CIA : i
Background Use Only NW 53295 6/15/17
Oo Not Reproduce
~ a 16 October 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE:
FROM: Winston M. Scott

ag Ol
sugect: 'LifEeNsoR

, ox
1. At 2030 hours on Friday, 30 June 1961, I sav /LITENSOR.|

2. 1 said I had been

“a. [had been sent by Ambassador Mann;

b. Ambassador Mann had had an approach from a
{friend of General CARDENAS who had said that General CARDENAS:

i, Thought the pian of President Kennedy to help
raise the standard of living in Latin America was a great plan by a
great man;

ii. Believed it necessary to see that the benefits
(money) which were distributed in Latin America get down to the poor;

iii. General CARDENAS was willing to act as-a
“consejero" himself to help see that money reached the poor instead
of getting into pocxets of ruling class and the rich; and

iv, That General CARDENAS was willing to meet |
with Ambassador Mann to elaborate on this idea should the Ambassador

wish it.

7 ¢. I said Ambassador wished LIEN OR Jfirst to know that
the Ambassador wished to support LifENnsor| and the PRI;
“ko; 7 .
d. I said that Ambassador Mann was concerned over the
possibility that this “plan” of CARDENAS' might be in some way
connected with the reported plan of CARDENAS to form a new potitical
party in Mexico and with his reported organization of “Estudiantiles
Cardenistas" in the 1.P.N. and other schools;

- ol .
e.' LIFENSOR|eaia “I don't believe General CARDENAS

a

 

O48 neloetof

m5
104-10

183-10105

Be

“SEGRET_

of
}. [LAFENSOR Jrepeatedty assed that 1 thank The Ambassador,

ra ol
k. ‘LIFENSOR]brought up Jorge TAMAYO's visit to
Guaymas (Project MERCURY). He asaed if The Ambassador was
“preoccupied” over the visit to the Guaymas installation by Jorge
TAMAYO. I said we were concerned when we learned of the visit.

ol. .

_1. [LIFENSOR}eaid TAMAYO was invited by either MENDEZ
Docurro (Director of IPN) or by MONGES Lopez without/Lt ENSOR*s/
prior. xnowledge. ; ol .

m. I told him that Ambassador Mann had eaid that we

should not be so concerned over TAMAYO's visit because: first,
there was nothing secret about the installation; and, second, we _in the O/

USA Invited TASS and PRAVDA reporters to Cape Canaveral. {Lifensor |
lied this.) —_

ae ol ‘
a. I told[LI ENSOR|of the Comnauunist circular asxing
voters to write “Libertad por Presos Politicos" on their election ballots.
He had not heard of this, I promised to send him a copy.

- el
3. I left/LITENSOR{at 2110 hours.

Distribution: of _.
Orig -[LITENSOR P-
1 - P-1495 (CARDENAS)
1- Amb. Mann file -——~
1 - LIENVOY, Prod. a
