74-0000

 

T. . I cannot evaluate Subiect's claim to be Evelio Duque.
By his om statement be knows there are Cubans in Mami who can
Sentify him. It therefore appears probable that Subject 1a
Evelio Duque. .

ate

exhunsekertms

Dn

 

 

 

|
f
!
i
i
i
[roa t0rt3-10174

epi |

 

 

i
Waa

Chief, Contact Division : 15 Jume 1961
Suopert Branck
Cilef, Miamt Field office

VIGAORANDUM OF FISTE TO: Evelie Duque
(He address available)

2. Ga 5 June 194) at the request-of UD, Q Maurice Honsaker
of the Miamt Field Office acted as an interpreter in a debriefing
interview with Evelio Duque, sn Zecexbray resistance leader. Doyut,
en assistant, and aa undergremd worker were brought to the US in
a Tishing lauohe They arrived in key Yest and were brought to
Hiesl by the US Barder Patrol. The ituterview was hela in Border 3

2 ° Others presest vere Valter Koch ef VED and/ |.
(rn ot Seourtty. ,

2. ‘he purpose of the interview we te secure same Infarmntion
in order to begin establishing whether or not the Subject wac Evelio

" tnfomation was gabsted.

36 Subject and nis group vere returned toe the custody af Border
Patrol officials who released them to secure lodging for the night.
Subject said he haa US $200. It was suggested to Subject that the
group go to a nearby motel rather then a dountown hotel. tt was,
aleo suggested that the group uot go shopping in Mieut for new clothes.

5. I returned to Border Patrol et 0930 hours on 6 Jum 61. The
menbers af the group were chotograpbed and filled out Faq statements.
¥oeh and a Mr. Hewett vere present. It vas evident that my services
a3 on interorster-debriefer were not needed. I gave Xoch a copy of

thy notes I had wade the previous day and eft.

6. Subject apgears to be a poorly educated middle class or
lower class person. Te is 34 years 014, strong and mvecular. Je
ia sbowt 5° 6" or T’ ond would veigh cbhout 175-130 poids. Le bas
a deep scar cna luis chin, end the exis of his Tincers on both oxmds
turned up sharply at the first foint ag if they had been broken at
cane time and had pot healed properly. "

uty [6 ~-R OS
