74-00000

 

20 February 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Ch
ATTENTION 2 Mr 3

‘SUBJECT 3 Evaluation of Possible Derogatory Infornation
on Narvin Kantor.

1. FBI reports contain t the following possible derogatory information on
Marvin Kantor . bee eae ee ee

 

“Wns Cer aS ARE identFied e (cewhérre ( tacluded Tate Dy ot,
( ‘ ‘
“nto ems Ac Fra eatened te ekewhécr ) ; :

Cc

we

 
 

 

fodfOtanAOsad] oo: . eee

 

 

  

Memorandum for Chief, CI/OA dsted 20 February 1961 - sanitized ©.

to preclude release of State and FBI info.

   

 

 
74-00000

 

h. Except for item 3-A the above points could te ‘construed as having a
CI conotation f.e.3 .

A. _ Subject appears to bs receiving funda from some outside source.

B. Subjects relatives in the Soviet Union could constitute an intelli-
gence control factor.

C. Subject has had one known meeting with a Soviet official with
intelligence connections. :

a CIA .
<————On the other hand a controled and recruited/source reports that Subject
receives money from his father; that Subject who is probably a Jaw himself is
cognizant of anti-semitism in the Soviet Union and that he has made disparaging
remarks about the Soviet regime. Further, the Soviets are known to be very
active in the American student colony in Copenhagen and as an isolated incident
in itself we do not attach any necessarily sinister import to the fact that
an American student was socially introduced to a Soviet national.
14-0000

.

.

«JY

S. We believe that during the developmental phase, the case officer
should attempt to create an apening for Subject to voluntarily bring up his
meeting and/or relationship with ABARCHALIN, A voluntary statement would
appear to resolve to a considerable degree any negative questions concerning
this meeting. Should Subject fail to bring the meeting out then the, patter
would have to be resolved through the LCFLUITER which would probabl dispen-
able to full exploitation of this case's potential. . ;

6. If you conour with the foregoing on receipt of POA we shall advise
the field to attempt an appreach as stated above. ;

Q>

 

 

 

 

WE-1/Dernmark

 
