mo SECRET

operational details which could lead to the disclosure of
intelligence sources and methods that it is impossible to
remove those operational details while leaving a coherent
remainder. Thus to avoid the possibility of unauthorized

disclosures, much of the substance of the document has had to

.be withheld. A sampling of previously released documents

containing the same information was provided with the Liebenau
Affidavit for the Court's convenience and for purposes of
comparison. In Discovery, plaintiff has now requested copies
of the documents provided the Court with the Liebenau
Affidavit. (U)

3. Ironically, I must note that plaintiff already has
copies of all the documents submitted with the Liebenau
Affidavit as a result of previous FOIA releases the Agency
made of documents concerning the record of CIA's involvement
in the investigation of the assassination of President
Kennedy. To indicate to the plaintiff, however, which of
those documents were submitted with the Liebenau Affidavit or
what substantive categories are contained in Document No. 509-
803 would move the Agency perilously close to disclosing
information which must Se protected from disclosure. See,
Liebenau Affidavit. That hazard is compounded by the many now
publicly available documents which discuss portions of the
same substance as is found in Document Wo. 509-803. Some of

them actually making reference to the document itself. The

specific problem focuses on the section of the document

concerned with Silvia Duran. ‘The problem posed by the
possiblity of disclosing the fact that Silvia Duran is the
subject of a significant portion of Document No. 509-803 is.

discussed in detail in paragraph 15 of the Liebenau

2

SECRET

ee momamreres eecmuestes 8 G9 Cort os SEEN et eine eee
104-10320-10098

 

 

Liebenau, executed on 9 February 1981, the CIA advised the ° ~f

documents that have been released. to the public.” See, ..

SECRET oo \ en oF a

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
POR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
MARK ALLEN, «~~. “4

Plaintiff,

Ve Civil Action No. 78-1743

ne neers ee tg EO TE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY,

Defendant.

ee? el Se Set See? Ma ape Sa See? Se

. AFFIDAVIT —

 

LOUIS J. DUBE, being first duly sworn, deposes and says:
1. Iam the Information Review Officer of the
Directorate of Operations (DO) of the Central Intelligence
Agency (CIA). My responsibilities include the review of DO

documents which are the object of the Freedom of Informatior

Act (FOIA) requests to CIA to ensure that FOIA determinations

made regarding the disposition of such documents are proper.
The statements made herein are based upon my knowledge, upon
information made available to me in my official capacity, upon
advice and counsel from the Office of General Counsel and upon
conclusions reached in accordance therewith. (0)

2. By classified affidavit of way predecessor, Gerald L.

Court of the detailed reasons for CIA's continued withholding
of portions of Document No. 509-803, the ‘subject of this
particular litigation. ‘The Agency has consistently stated
with regard to Document No. 509~803 that: "most of the

substantive information in the document is contained in other

Liebenau Affidavit, q19. The Agency has further asserted that

the information in Document No. 509-803 He etme ea

WARNING NOTICE~-SENSITIVE ' :
INTELLIGENCE SOURCES ; DERIVATIVE CLEY 009530

AND METHODS INVOLVED SECRET _ UDECL g@ REVw ON 05. JUN “00. ;
penven Fnom_D9¢-1____ 21
RO

 

 
- S ECRET
Affidavit. The damage the Agency seeks to avoid could be
triggered by the date of Document No. 509-803. Public |
acknowledgment of the official passage of information |
concerning Ms. Duran by the Government of Mexico to the
Government of the United States, for the Warren Commission,
did not occur until 21 February 1964. To disclose CIA's
detailed awareness of these facts as early as 31 January 1964,

combined with other circumstances also visible on the public

record, will provide a very creditable basis for a conclusion

 

that the CIA was closely involved in fiaison activities with/

 

 

 

 

(Mexican Security Services/ a fact which is true, but which has
not been officially acknowledged. The agency obviously cannot
assert that the damage is a certain conseguence of disclosing
this information. It is, however, my judgement that this
information, if disclcesed, would, in combination with other
publicly available information, increase the likelihood of the

' damage to such an extent that the Agency must continue to
withhold such information to avoid the probable damage. (S)

4. The possibility of releasing the documents on: the’
four other subjects listed in paragraph 19 of the Liebenau
Affidavit was considered and also judged to be imprudent.
Plaintiff himself has demonstrated an almost encyclopedic
knowledge of the various disclosures that have been made from
Government records on the general subject of the
assassination. He, in fact, has made some astute guesses
concerning the likely subjects contained in Document No. 509- —
803. .I believe to narrow the field of probable subjects by
disclosing all but one of the subjects contained in Document
No. 509-803 will increase the likelihood of the disclosure of

the one subject the Government cannot acknowledge, i.e.,

3

SECRET

eee I
we . e
oe . .

cet 7 .
a) e - i.

i
i}
SECRET - |.
|
|
|

Silvia Duran. For this reason, I believe the Goverment must

continue to withhold any further information which would disclose

i
t

l
the unacknowledged subjects of Document No. 509-803. (S)

LOUIS Jf DUBE

 

COMMONWEALTH CF VIRGINIA )

. ) ss.
COUNTY OF FAIRFAX )

Subscribed and sworn to before me this 5 day of
June 1981.

|
|
|
|
t
|
!
!
|
|
|
oer C Mad.
. : : Notary Pu ¢
- term of office expires on the 27th day of November, 1984.
My commission expires ; ” sestoned A Notary Public af Linds ¢. Colgea.
t
|
|

OGC/LMZ /mpm
Distribution:
Original ~ gudgé. Smith
- LMZ Signer
- OGC Chrono
-. DDO
- IPD
~ OGC Subj: 9999: Allen v. CIA, CA#78-1743 °

eh et pe

4

SECRET

nn ne ea a ee ee eee en eee a ee ee een
a
ow
