104-10182-10059 » b&

‘

about the Agency. In particular, in the Congo he was aware
only of the COS's contact «ith WIZARD/4,. “WIROGUE/1 spent
most of his time trying ro develop contacts and was not
directly involved in_any sarticular operation.

 
104-10182-10059

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: WIROGUE/1 Mission to Kinshasa, December 1960

On 13 March 1975 a search of available documents was
made to determine the reason for the comment in paragraph 2
of a 17. December 1960 cable from Leopoldville indicating
that WIROGUE/1 had attempted to recruit a European to be a
member of “an execution squad." The research did not clarify
this matter to any great extent, although some assumptions
can be made on the basis of circumstantial evidence.

WIROGUE/1 was an ethnic Georgian recruited and trained
for the old REDSODX@ program. Although born in the Soviet
Union, he moved to Western Europe when two years old. He
fought in the French Foreign Legion, and as of 1960 was
essentially stateless. Involved peripherally with the French
Resistance, he was sentenced to death by the Germans but
liberated by the U.S. Army in 1945 and returned to Paris.

By 1950 he had managed to rob a Paris bank of a sizeable

sum of money, receive a prison sentence and be released five
years later for good behavior. He was brought to the United
States originally for use as one of two agents for Project
AESENTINEL. He spoke native French and fluent Georgian,
German and English.

By 1960 the Agency was invalved in a reasonably major
effort to resettle WIROGUE/1, possibly in Mexico, for the
mission for which he had been brought to the United States
had been canceled. WIROGUE/1's file indicates vhat as of
30 August steps were being taken to resettle him in Mexico.
However, on 19 September 1960 two members of Africa Division
met with him to discuss "an operational assignment in Africa
Division," In connection with this assignment, WIROGUE/T
was to be trained in demolition% small arms and medical
immunization. Plans to resettle him in Mexico were can-
celed, He was provided a new pscudonym and immunization
shots. In October 1960 a cable to Leopoldville stated that

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 018307
Released under the John F,.Kennedy Assassination

104-10182-10059
. . . : Records Collection Act of 1992
{44 USC 2107 Note)
So a “NW 53295 6/15/17
C] UNCLASSIFIEO = [7] {MTEL (] CONFIDED AL [X] SECRET

 

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
SUBJECT. tOpronel)
WOM” “John H. Stein

Dc/AF :

3€2019

TO: (Officer dengnaton, room number, ond “
bu-ldng) OFFICERS | COMMENTS (Number sack comment to show from whom
INITIALS. to whom Draw a line across column after each comment }

 

ROGUZs pte
to clese te be

Oe mee foe: '
* encec eae waht ewel snl

 

bo, f

oe

 

Kifer & Quogue

PG -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Smt 610 “ters (9 SECRET ©] CONFIDENTIAL =] INTERNAL =F) UUNCLASSIFIED
104-10182-10059 » * o

WIROGUE/1 was being prepared fer deep cover assignment to
arrive Leopoldville late November. Headquarters noted the
intent to use him as utility agent in order to“(a) organize
and conduct a surveillance team; (b) intercept packages;
(c) blow up bridges; and (d) execute other assignments
requiring positive action. Mis utilization is not to be
restricted to Leopoldville. Indeed, he may be subject to
call by other African stations although it is expected for
shim to“be resident in Leopoldville." In this cable WIROGUE/1
= was described correctly as an inventor, photographer, archi-
a tect, forger and former bank robber. He was judged to be
i. >ingenuous, observant, shrewd, glib and one who relished
intrigue and daring. He was assessed as able to "learn
quickly and carry out any assignment without regard to
danger." As he was in the United States black, the plan
was for him to depart black, documented as an Austrian,
to-surface in West Germany and from there to proceed on
-his own to Leopoldville. In November 1960 "to prevent his
identification with the U.S. Government or BKHERALD and to
preclude any unexpected recovery of his past which would
associate him with his pre-BKHERALD life", WIROGUE/1 under-
went plastic surgery ‘to change the shape of his nose. He
was provided a toupee for constant wear and documented as
an Austrian who had never been to the United States. Cover
for his presence in Leopoldville was to be as shopkeeper,
possibly that of a photographer. A rather lengthy assess-
ment of his character can be summed up by saying he was
able to rationalize any action if he had strong case offi-
cer direction. Training records for WIROGUE/1, subsequent
to his engagement by the Africa Division, indicate training
only in SW.

WIROGUE/1 arrived in Leopoldville on 2 December 1960.
His case officer gave him the following instructions: (a)
to build cover-possibly by opening a photographic shop; and
{(b) to try to spot persons for a surveillance team, intel
assets, particularly in Oriental province, and para-military
assets. Almost immediately upon arrival he ran into QUWINE
who told the station that WIROGUE/1 looked 1ike an intel-
ligence agent. In attempting to recruit QJWIN@ for his
“execution squad", WIROGUE/1 exceeded his instructions to
avoid making approaches without checking with Leopoldville

station.

tr
104-10182-10059 .

In January 1961 Leopoldville asked for authority to
. i permit WIRQGUE/1 to take flying lessons so that the station
\ plane could be used for'clandestine missions (the plane was
: : registered in YQCLAM/1's name). Station acknowledged dis-
toe adyantage of crossing WIROGUE/1 and YQCLAM/1 operations’
(YQCLAM/1 was never involved in any assassination schemes).
Headquarters approved flying lessons. By March 1961 WIROGUE/1
had obtained the position of adviser to the Congolese Air
\ Force with the rank of Major and was almost immediately used
for the purpose of.gathering intelligence on the Congolese
Air Force. By April 1961 the Congolese were attempting use
himfobtain arms and instructors in Western Europe. By
. April 1961 WIROGUE/1 was teaching the Congolese to fly
: aircraft, although he himself had learned only several
i months earlier and was reading navigation manuals at night
: to stay ahead of his class. In July 1961 WIROGUE/1 departed
Leopoldville because he had run into difficulty obtaining

; a residence permit. He was terminated in September 1961.

i In a summary of his activity in August 1961, Leopoldville
, Station said WIROGUE/1 knew very little about station activ-
ities.

. It is the writer's opinion that WIROGUE/1 was recruited
for his Congo assignment because of his third country national
background in order to establish a support mechanism in
Leopoldville. At the time the Congo was in chaos, BKHERALD
had few assets and there was some likelihood that the polit- f
ical situation would degenerate quickly. The Station possibly
also wanted to have a latent para-military capability and i
WIRCGUE/1's background and previous training for the REDSO}KS
program made him a suitable candidate. This is, of course,
conjecture.

Perhaps pertinent is an October 1964 assessment of
WIROGUE/1 who had been turned over to HARVARD for resettling
in Germany. Resettling him had turned out to be an enormous
problem. The October 1964 cable notes that WIRQGUE/1 had
an intense desire for intelligence service and enjoyed the
role of lower echelon action agent. Although he threatened .
to zo to work for the French I€S, it was not believed that he Host he
twomestt would be accepted. The assessment indicated there
was little flap potential with WL{ROGUE/1 since he knew little

 
