74-00000

 

Dear >

 

The Agency's records indicate that you have been
contacted by representatives of the House Select Committee
on Assassinations (HSCA) in conjunction with the Committee's’
investigation into the deaths of President John F. Kennedy
and the Rev. Martin Luther King. - ;

As part of the Agency's effort to be fully responsive
to the Committee's investigation, you were authorized to
disclose classified information to Committee representatives.
This was possible because of arrangements worked out between
the Agency and the Committee whereby the Committee would
obtain this information in secure surroundings and handle it
properly once it was acquired. : :

The Committee has indicated that it plans to hold public
hearings in conjunction with its investigation. These hearings
are to commence this month and stretch over the next several
months. The Agency, of course, has no way of knowing whether
you will be called to appear during these public hearings.

You are hereby advised that the Agency's agreement with
the Committee under which you have been authorized to disclose
classified information to Committeé representatives dees not
extend to public circumstances. Consequently, you are not
authorized_to disclose classified information during any public
hearing. in which you may be called to appear. : 8

:

_ I£ you are called to appear in these hearings, and if you
are asked a question which would require that you disclose |
classified information, you are entitled to point out this fact
to the Committee and indicate that you are not authorized to
reveal classified information in public circumstances. You
should also indicate to the Committee that you are quite
prepared to answer the question in an executive session, and
you may request that the Committee convene such a session to
hear your response. :

If the Committee were to insist upon your testimony at this
point, you are entitled to requests that the Committee grant you
an opportunity to confer with the Director of Central Intelligence
before answering the question.
s.

 
14-00000

It is my opinion that the Committee would not continue
to insist in the face of these responses from you. However,
were it to do so, you must at this point use your own judgment
as to how to respond, since your continuing refusal to answer
could result in your being found in contempt of Congress. .

If you are notified that you are to appear before the
Committee in these public hearings, please notify the Agency
of this fact promptly. You may do so by making a collect
telephone call to the Agency's security duty officer, who
can be reached at (703) 351-6161 at any. time, day or night.
If you have any questions concerning this letter, please
indicate that fact to the duty officer, who will arrange for
an appropriate Agency offficer to return your call.

2, . Yours truly,

 
 

Iv.

 

In the absence of agreement with the HSCA on. how
sensitive matters are to be handled in its public

hearings, the Agency may face the dilemma of how to

‘protect intelligence sources and methods.

»« Current employees could find themselves
faced with the dilemma of abiding by their
secrecy oath and requesting to be excused
from™testifying, but having to choose
between a contempt citation and violation
of the secrecy oath. .
e Against the possibility that HSCA does not
undertake to work with us on this problem,
-we may have to give notice to the employees
of the problem, A draft letter has been
prepared (copy attached) for forwarding to
present and current employees who have been
interviewed by the HSCA.. Its limitations fre
apparent, in that it serves primarily to
apprise the employee’ of his or her dilemma,
e OGC will request further advice from the
Attorney General.
Should the most pessimistic development cone to pass,
the situation will be more political than legal. The
fact is that time is of the essence, and any stretch-out
will reduce the time in which the Agency can react with

considered judgments, either in cooperating in the public

 
14-00000

 

U.S. or its allies. :

The recent book about Oswald, Legend, by
Epstein, has dramatized Nosenko's defection,
repeating the early doubts about him and
leaving the strong implication that he is
still to be doubted. Recently the HSCA
investigators seem to have shifted the
emphasis of their inquiry from this issue

to how Nosenko was handled; this judgment
may be in error and the issue of his bona
fides may return during the hearings.

CIA did mistreat Nosenko. He was kept in
solitary confinement, he was given a
minimum diet, he was allowed few comforts,
and he was subjected to intensive interrogation
for extended petiods of time. He. ‘believes
that he was subjected to drugs, but there is
no record that such was the case; those who
were involved say he was never subjected to
drugs, although it was considered once and
rejected.

The question of the bona fides of Nosenko's
defection could involve’ matters that have
sensitive connotations; however, -a decision
to emphasize only his mistreatment would be

only embarrassing to the Agency.

 
74-0000

 

 

surveillance. The

 

 

the telephone operations with us;

 

 

 

it is for them to be

 

engaged in this activity. They are aware
of the fact of photographic surveillance.

®. Because of the telephonic coverage CIA was
able to provide the initial firm evidence
on“Oswald's contacts with Cuban and Soviet
officials, in his attempt to obtain visas
to Cuba and the USSR. CIA, limited in not
being able to conduct a traditional police-
type investigation, was able to suggest to
the Mexican authorities that they interview
at least one person known to have dealt with
Oswald during his visit. However, gaps remain
in’what is known about his visit. This has
attracted HSCA attention. ; , a

@. The reported questioning of somé HSCA investigators
has on occasion appeared to be developing a basis
for criticizing CIA's performance in its part
of the investigation in Mexico City, under its
charter to evaluate the performance of the
intelligence agencies. At one time, and possibly
still, they appeared to be attempting to develop

ae a case to the effect that (1) there was photography,

 

- : W2.
74-0000

 

and (2) CIA must’ have suppressed it.

. Practically all the above CIA reporting

on Mexico City involves classically sources~+
and-methods material.

Nosenko

. Yuri Nosenko was a KGB officer who defected

in early 1964. Among the items of information
that he asserted he brought with him was knowledge
about Lee Harvey Oswald, from his file in the
KGB. .
The bona fides of Nosenko's defection was the
subject of doubts and he was subjected to
extensive interrogation. He was in the custody
of CIA for some five years, under laws concerning
sugh persons, some three years of which was in
solitary confinement under what the Rockefeller

: & :

Commission termed “extremely spartan living

conditions."

. Eventually Nosenko was judged to be a bona fide

defector. -He has proven to be the source of a
wide range of information on many hundreds of

KGB officers, and KGB operations abroad, as well
as about the KGB. Over. the years his ,information
has been responsible for a number, of successful .

counterintelligence initiatives. by either the

 
74-0000

 

 

HSCA Hearings

I. The HSCA has scheduled public hearings for August,
September, and November.
e. The King hearings are 14-18 August, and 9,
. 10, 13-17, 20, -21, 22, 25-29 November. It
appears that CIA is unlikely to feature in
in these hearings, although this is only an
impression.
e. The Kennedy hearings are to be on week days,
6-29 September. CIA doubtless will share the
stage with the FBI. ,

II. We have requested the HSCA Staff for information on the
plans for the hearings, with special attention to the
security considerations, (orally on 29 June and 13 July,
and in writing from the DDCI on 26 July and 4 August).

To date what we know about plans was acquired from The
Congressional Monitor. .
°. It has been the practice of the HSCA Staff to
avoid dialogues, the effect of which is to conceal
much of what they are doing or thinking. The
resulting frustrations of trying to cooperate with

a = ase
the investigation are not important; inevitably -we

   

eS IMPDEV Gt. l3H0.|

a a nee tee
'
'

 

 
‘fg 10095-40496

 

Te

Ten 63 241

   

REPLACES FO!
WHICH MAY Be USED.

  
 

RETURNTO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

 
  
    
 

ae
74-0000

” ~ August 1978

 

 

¢ Summary Points on HSCA Hearings

1, The ESCA has scheduled hearings on the assassination
of President Kennedy for weekdays, 6 - 29 September.
Preliminary hearings on the assassination of Martin
Luther King are to be 14.- 18 August and November.

2. Areas OF apparent emphasis appear to be CIA coverage
in Mexico City, and issues arising ‘from the questions

“ of Nosenko's bona fides. On the Nosenko matter,
CIA's treatment of Nosenko is also under scrutiny.

3, The Mexico City story is essentially, in terms of
Agency. coverage, one of sources-and-methods, ° Aspects
of the Nosenko story also involve sensitive matters.

4. Recent handling of restricted Agency material (press
release), without checking with the Agency, may

-

indicate lack of concern about sensitive mattets.

w

; HSCA has failed, despite repeated requests, to discuss
with the Agency how to handle sensitive matters in
public hearings.

'6, Agency employees called to testify may be faced with
the dilemma of violating their secrecy oath or risk-
ing a contempt citation, fa

7, The matter tends to become political, in addition to

..
whatever legal questions there are.

 
74-0000

 

are provided partial insights into areas.

of interest, if not the details. The
significance of the tactic, however, grows

as public hearings approach, involving as

they do subject matter that we view as

having considerable sensitivity and importance

to CIA.

IlI- We obvious?y do not know all the lines of inquiry pursued

by HSCA investigators. They have undertaken to reconstruct
as much as possible about Oswald and the assassination of
President Kennedy. They also are attempting to develop
an evaluation of the performance of the intelligence
agencies in the investigation. Two areas of special
interest have become evident, both of which involve
sensitive operational considerations:
i . Mexico City
®. Mexico: City is considered one of the most important
bases for Soviet clandestine operations against
the United States. As a-result Soviet and Cuban
diplomatic installations have long been the subject

of CIA surveillance operations, conducted both

 

 

by CIA as well as

 

 

 

 

*
- eae

 

 

@. Telephone and photographic coverage of. the Soviet

installations is carried on, as. well as physical

 
