74-00000

 

by them. The "file sitters" will be those people most able to answer
the questions concerning the material involved, and to review and
sanitize notes which the Downing Committee staffers may take. When
notes are sanitized, we should supply paraphrases of the excised ma-
terial. All files and documents to be reviewed should be logged into
the review room. Downing Committee staffers should be required to
initial for each file or document they read.

-- Mr. Sprague and a few of his senior staffers should receive
an early introduction into our indexing and file systems, both those
of security and those of the DDO. This should enable them to better
understand what the system can and cannot produce for them, and the
time and effort needed to respond to their queries.

-- Interviews with Current Employees: Such interviews con-

ducted by the Downing Committee staffers should take place in one
location in the Headquarters Building, rather than having the
staffers fan out to different offices. While we reeset e the
delicacy of this subject, it would be most helpful if,Staffers were
required to write MOR's concerning the subject matter covered in
subject interviews. It would also be helpful if arrangements could
be made before hand with the Downing Committee to delimit the sub-
ject matter to be covered in any particular interview.

~~ Indexing and Control: The Review Staff registry controls
documents received from Congressional sources and forwarded to them
by recording the subject matter, date of request, and request number.
The registry also attempts to keep track of interviews conducted and
materials reviewed by Congressional staffers. It would probably be | d -
wise to establish a separate, more sophisticated indexing procedure ¢” « chen te
fer the above described function. Al? documents forwarded to the
Downing Committee could be indexed by having experienced employees
underline the necessary inputs and then forwarding the marked docu-
ments to computer people for inputting. This was done during the
external investigations when all such documents were forwarded to a
unit headed by Linda Young, Bob Young's wife. Having this informa-
tion computerized is an expensive process. It may be more reason-
able to index the documents forwarded to the Downing Committee by
using a system similar to the one used by OIG during the external
investigations. However, we should keep in mind that, if we index

 

 
 

[roa-t04ae-104] °
7s RETURN TO CIA
oe Background Use Only : SD. B,
et . - € — , . De Not Reproduce (
7 : Bev tog l toe? Bat lag fel

     

9 November 1976

oO
INFORMAL MEMORANDUM FOR: S. D. Breckinridge W7- e007

John L. Leader

SUBJECT: Procedures for Handling Downing Committee Requests

& ee
Mr. Leader and I met with[_ and Ray Reardon, OS, today
to discuss xperience on the Review Staff in preparation

for making recommendations concerning how Downing Committee requests
should be handled. (oPrade the following suggestions:

-- All requests fron the Downing Committee should be in writing.

-- We should check on the tasking sheets formerly used by the
Review Staff. These sheets showed who had the action, who received
info copies of the requests, and what the proposed deadline for re-
sponse was. They also were forwarded with a copy of the request as
it was received from the Congressional Committee. Each such request
was assigned a registry number. IMPORTANT: Be sure the registry

pees number assigned to an incoming request is also used for each re-
sponse keyed to that request; i.e., as a reference number on each
response.

-- Sanitization guidelines should be consistent for all: Agency
components and should be developed as soon as possible. :

ores Stembridge, OS, has had one discussion already with aad
(< os concerning security procedures.
.. ~- File Reviews: A1l files reviewed by the Downing Committee

“should be kept in one room and should be reviewed in that room. The
Directorate forwarding such files should be required to send someone
to sit with the Downing Committee staffers when the files are reviewed

1/8902

 

3 /r
1490009 0

 

only our responses to the Downing Committee, we may not have the informa-
tion on which those responses were based in a readily recoverable form.
0.

-- asked that any system we devise should include forward-
ing a copy of the final response which goes to the Downing Committee on
any particular question to the component most involved in the preparation
of the response.

-- The Review Staff registry needs a better Xerox machine than it

now has.
ae Fe
C= Alan E. Brody
OIG

Distribution:
Original ~ $.D. Breckinridge —
1 - Mr. Leader

1 - IS Subject (SSC-Warren Commission/Schweiker File)
] - A.E.Brody Chrono

   

OIG/A.E.Brody:aal

 
