 

. «

 
 

  

     
 

career er et a ae

: CONTINUATION oF | reas 7
| UFGA~4216 |

DISPATCH " $-B-C-R-B-T

    

 

 

   
    

This was, done more for reasons

 
  
  

participating 4 in their operations
of family ties and sympathetic att toward student activities ha

is traditional in Cuba, Needless: to gay, however, this is: a. modes
‘declaration on his part since the: type:of aid he had been lending wh
out reservation is punishable by deat e imprisonment for. all: r.

any menbers of his immediate fanily.

40 Subject related the “events. of 20 May in his emai beach
resort village as_ follows: . : Lo Paes

"At ‘about 10% 00 P.M. on Sunday, 20 May, he and his family had -
returned to their house, which is located about three blocks from the
Parque Infantil INIT where the townfolk were dancing and celebrating —
this-traditional date. Shortly after arriving, they heard gunfire.
in the general direction of the beach, This was described ag mixed -.
‘automatic fire and single s “There was mych outing and confusion)
in the streets of the town near the park,’ idee just about_
venture out and learn the source of the disturbance hen AMHINT: 33) 5
appeared in the doorway, dripping wet. and panting. Behind hia, Wa!
AMHINT-40," ole

- “After recognition and exchange of explanations, npacked one
of the family,puitcases for dry clothing and sent the two boys into
their bathroo! o change and remain concealed ‘until? the commotion died
down... “The[ Family wore departing Cuba and had their home prepared
for closure and processing with local militia post as require by» &

- revolutionary decree, After the two AMHINTswere settied{ ett
-his house and went out to send the pre-arranged coded cab Miami —.
confirming their safe arrival, They slept in his house that night and
departed early Monday morning for Havana."

Oo

family has a reputation for political indiffere
“for travel in which the two-man team traveled
£ rv for

  

         

  

 
   
       
   

  
  

 

       
  

   

    

 
    

“Although th

precautions were made
half way to Havana in another vehicle and changed to thi

"the remainder of the trip and installation ia @ Havana
2
nad to visit the

 

 
   
    

"Prior te departure Varadero, however,
Militia Post to turn-over the keys to his'h nd process his de=-
Parture. During a forty-minute walt there, he overheard conversations
among the officers. From these conversations, it was apparent that
the Militia patrol. encountering the beach operation reported the clash
as “escapees”: that two or mor? were illed and the bodies taken with
the other escapees: that there were no militia casaulties; that there
was no inkling that an infiltration operation had taken place prior

to the patrol encounter.”

: “when queried as to militia casualties since the DRE had reported
that at least two had been "dropped" on the beach, subject commented.
that ‘one does not shoot a militiaman down that easy. That they |

ere. just dropping to the ground at the slightest sign of action’.

oy vas certain that if as much as one man had been scratched the

 
 
        
   
 

 
 

 
        
        
 

  

whole town would have known about. it by morning.”

5. ¢ as very vague and lacked details concerning his knowledge-
_of propaganda” in Cuba. He recalled that the radio program with Juan
AMADOR Rodriguez on longwave at midday was popular and heard by many
of the townfolk. He remarked that they listen to a 5:00 AM and 12:00
noon shortwave program coming from Key West, and finally, that the
Voice of America shortwave broadcasts were very effective in his
region. He never tuned in to Radio Las Americas and instantly associated.
it with the former “Radio Swan” repeating the usual hearsay that "it  f-

was discredited”,

      
         
       
   

 

    
   
   
  
    
    
    

    
     
       
oa-t0t71-40012

 

 

    
  

~
~~ a an a

DISPATCH

” chief, Task Force ww

 

     
 

RTA REQUIRED one

Action: FYI and tea

 

 

Ref : WAVE 3922 wee
oe Sh 5 Bde bering sos
, oot “0 1. ¢ On 24 May ise t about 1230 hours local, JUWAVE debriefed
f ‘or general PW aspect land confirmation of the
: ndependent i nfiltrat ion operation Qf ANHINT+153 land ANHINT-40 by the
20 May 196

Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (one) on
bree “OC,
2. Subsese was bo EM 23 December G06 in, Jovelanes:. Province. of

Matanzas His address in
“Guba was atanzas- Province.” “in Miami, he is
temporar Fesiding a a Subject does not

ese : .

Plan to retyrn to 8 a uring the pr cgime.
ot

 

 

 

. . 3. LEON is representative of the middic-class, small town cubati f

official With moderate poltical terest ang, ultimately conservative .- 7
and Pro-PBPRIME, He was mayor po a from
1954 _to 1958, a period du ‘during which the BATISTA regime both flourished

He probably contributed very little: to the opposition of BATISTA and
by the same token contr ibuted very little to the opposition of CASTRO.
He is currently owner of the small dwelling at the above address and -
has loaned the shelter and facilities to AMHINT personnel but without i

 

SESUATES | eeentn ge
° . Distribution? RESTRICTED ED ek Sire.

 

‘tl
14-0000

py

 

 

_ of Cuban which was disgusting te the Yocal coun
> was continyous friction. He cornented

. however, and in various size crates that were trucked. out o
area in large convoys. van :

 

   

 
  

     
       

Tr

  

eee sae

CONTINUATION OF i : i . .
DISPATCH t S-E-C-R-E-T ; UFGA-4216

      
 
  
   
     
    
   
 
   
   
    
    
    
  
   
  
 
    
   
  
  
  

6, . Although subject was obviously not a good source for military
OB or other. intelligence observations, he did provide sore fragaientary
information on his area. He ‘deseribed a place known as Lomas Fings,.~..
located between Cardenas and Coliseo (10 miles South) pointed out on |
the map to be about 2256N-8118", ‘There is a Militia Post there with. o
about 500land 600 stationed there for short periods,. He observed some |
tank movement, about six to eight tanks traveling in and out of this
area at a time,, but could not describe them as to type or size. - He

described the militia personnel ia this region as a “Very low type"
try people and there

: that it was just such camps or
$ that. turned the general population into oppositionists.

  

post. as th

7. About 17 or 18 May, subject observed a large freighter unload
ing cargo in Matanzas harbor. The local people described it as Russ 1a

and subject could not confirm or deny this, The shipment was large,
f the dock

- 8. Near a village known as Palmillas (2238N-8045¥) about 10 mile
Southeast of Colon, Provinee of Matanzas, subject reports that there.
are: two guerrilla Pands of twelve to twenty men each, During 15 to 17
May, these bands attagéed farms occupied by militia, killing one
militiaman and running the others off the farm. They burned the house,
barns and destroyed the farm equipment.

9. Again on the 18th of Way, one of these bands attacked another
militia post and killed one militia. This particular ineident came fr

the doctor who tre ted the’ militiaman, prior his death and who is a
personal friend of ou

10, Subject concluded the interview with some of his opinions
and observations concerning the state of public morale in Cuba today.
He pointed out that much of the population, the “better people" of
the country, understood the United States position on Cuba. (The
implication being the reason for United States {fnilure to take direct
action or intervention in Cuba.) He said the people understand that
CASTRO is their own doing and that the United States cannot be held
responsible for his presence. He described the greater part of the
populace as sick and tired, undernourished, disgusted with blatant
propaganda lies, terrorized by repression but ultimately disposed to
resist at all costs. That if arms were generally available among the
populace, especially rifles and ammunition for them, CASTRO. would have
been overthrown by now, without a bit of outside help. That the farme
and some city folk, in desperation, leave their homes to join the
guerrilla bands with no hope for supply and many times turned down by
guerrilla leaders who cannot supply their own band as it is. Subject
departed with the reminder that the “Cubans traditionally prefer to
live good or not live at ali."

END OF DISPATCH

ee
pakss ETATON
