74-0000

a SECRET (~

3. During review of CAIN's Security file, I noted a message
regarding him from Mexico City, on 25 April 1962, which mentioned
a “Willard ANDREWS, reputable American businessman in Mexico,"
who obviously had had contact of some kind with CAIN, as well as with
a CIA representative in Mexico to whom ANDREWS had commented that
CAIN claims to have been with OSS during W. W. IT (Acopy of this memo-
randum is attached). In answer to this message which requested traces
on CAIN, Headquarters, in furnishing limited information obtained regard~
ing him, advised that neither his claimed employment by OSS, nor a claim
he made to have worked with Task Force W, could be substantiated. The
Station was advised that he did have (or had had) a legitimate detective
laboratory in Chicago.

  
  

ce to Willard ANDREWS, Security indices contain

indivi eferred to is Wyllys ANDREWS,
REWS IV, #2769, ‘a former OSS/CIA employee who
has lived in Mexico/for\many years and has continued to have social con-
tacts with representatives.of this Agency in Mexico as well as with Agency
employees from Headquarters who visit him from time to time. ANDREWS,
like CAIN, was born in Chicago of parents who also were born in the general
area of Chicago.

. tbr

 
 

5. The fir time CAIN came to the attention of the Security Office
was when the Mexico Station requested traces on him. Their request
stemmed from an unannounced visit he made to the Station, during which
he stated that he had an investigative agency in Mexico with brariches in
Chicago and Los Angeles. He had also stated that his agency in Mexico
was for the purpose of training Mexican Government agents in police
methods, in investigative techniques, and in the use of the lie detector;
and had added that he was investigating Communism in a certain unnamed
Central American country. .

6. In June 1962, the Mexico Station advised that CAIN was being
deported by the Mexican Ministry (of) Gobernacion for these violations:

a. Carrying a loaded revolver and brass knuckles
b. Impersonating a Mexican Government official

(He had identification as an investigator for the .
Mexican Treasury Office. )

Ee f.

  
 
 
 

c. Violating his tourist permit by working at his
detective office and at the Mexican Treasury :

2

SECRET
 

fosorteorig]
fener . OCUNEI “

: bs. v . spears Ya
fs ee 7 4

mn ‘|. UNITED STATES GOV¢RNMENT .

| Memorandum

| 5 TO? Ghief, SRS , DATE: 9 October 1967

  
 
 
  
    
  
  

Thru : DC/SRS and C/FIOB/SRS

M. D. Stevens

 

SUBJECT: CAIN, Richard S.
: #272 141

  
 
  
  
 

 

4. “1, Reference is made to the attached 5 June 1967 pcs mem
~yandum ‘on Subject, which in turn made reference to previous DCS |
.emoranda on him on 24 and 25 May 1967 and to an Office of Securi
,emorandum dated 29 May 1967. The 5 June 1967 memorandum
“enclosed copies of several 1963/1964 documents from the Chicago...
Field Office's file on CAIN, which ADC/PSD forwarded to SRS with |
the comment that "It appears DCS is cleaning out their files re Lee
Harvey OSWALD, et al."
Xv
2. Subject, it is obvious, had been a source of ¢ information
regarding an alleged discussion of the assassination of President ~
Kennedy at a secret meeting of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee
held in Chicago in February 1963 under the direction of Richard
CRILEY (#346 116). He also was the source of information regarding
’ the alleged attempted recruitment into the Communist Party of young
Cubans in the Chicago area by one Guillermo ESCOBAR, who accorde
ing to the Chicago office was “one of (SAS) leads
obtained from Ralph PEREZ." (Presumably Ralph PEREZ, #444260)
| . - | The documents also indicated
that in February 1964 CAIN was the subject of a conversation initiated
by Eldon S. COHEN, #38557 o/c, with a representative of the DCS
Chicago office who believed his purpose was to learn whether or not
‘CAIN was in fact on a two-month's sick leave from the COOK County
Sheriff's office, as he was said to be, or was on a political under
cover assignment which CGHEN inferred involved tapping the tele-
phones of gubernatorial candidate Charles H, PERCY and other
political figures.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ae

 
74-0000

ata

SECRET C

10 September 1963, the DCS was sent a memorandum which furnished
much of the above information on CAIN,

8. On 22 May 1967, the Director of Security indicated that he

‘had received information from the FBI which ties Subject to the Mafia

in Chicago; and he directed that the DCS be contacted for information

as to whether or not they ever established contact with him and, if so,
for what purpose. The DCS was also to be advised that, if they were

in contact with him, it was suggested that they break it off. On 25

May 1967, the DCS advised that there had been no contact with CAIN
since 1963, and furnished copies of eight reports for which Subject had
been the source of information, These had to do with anti-Castro Cuban
activities, procurement of arms, etc,

9. On 29 May 1967, Security advised the DCS that there is a |
current FBI investigative interest in Subject and recommended that
there be no further contact with him at this time.

 
 
    

 

10. Thel Septe
article titled "Brazen J
stated tha
running
he poses dg TTI
rst while chauffeur d courier, is more familiar to Chicagoans as
chard CAIN, a well known former Chicago policeman and more recently

a private investigator."

   

  

il. Eldon Ss, COHEN who is mentioned in paragraph 2 of this
memorandum as having evidenced an interest in CAIN during the guber-
natorial campaign of the now Senator (from Illinois) Charles H. PERCY,
#178329 and #EE-21773, is now PERCY's Executive Assistant. COHEN,
who became employed by PERCY in January 1964, following his resignae
tion from CIA which was effective 31 December 1963, at the time he con-
tacted a representative of the Chicago Office of DCS regarding CAIN on
10 February 1964, did not indicate that he was employed by PERCY. He
said, rather, that he'd been asked by the "PERCY for Governor"! people

 

 
44-0108 . ( MEU De. ‘

 

 

15. There is attached a copy of the above referred to September
articles in Life magazine, in one of which CAIN is described as the erst-
while chauffeur and courier of Sam GIANCANA. The second of these
articles makes reference to alleged friendly contacts of Jim GARRISON,

. of the OSWALD Case, with henchmen of the Cosa Nostra in the Louisiana
area. 7

| wae Ste

M. D. Stevens

Attachments: articles

MDS/cer

4-

‘oranrr
