; pong FRIESE AS -_

  
dp

  

; " . Ce Toes pea ay
; Pet ee hee aoe

cr ae

d. Tab F has the details oftd erational coverage
in Mexico City, including’ ~~ Itel taps. photographic
operations, and surveillance teams. I expressed the
opinion that Mr. Cornwall be asked to review this himself,
in lieu of other staff members.

2. I expressed the opinion to Gabrielson that the details would
have to be worked out with the appropriate DDO components, namely,
SA/DDO, LA Division (Sturbitts) and CI Staff.

3. .Maurice Sovern is concerned that a bureaucratic hiatus
(change in DDO leadership and that of SA/DDO,;as well as the departure
of Cummins) will place us at a disadvantage in establishing satis-
factory ground rules on.a timely basis. Blakey is pressing for
accelerated support; CI Staff has assigned several people to help
Russ Holmes. Blakey may find that a combination of pressures (which
I am sure he has been told by others worked) will find us where we
were a couple of years ago. We will always reply more slowly than
the investigators want and there may be some uncertainty in the
Agency at this moment as to how much understanding there will be
for the nature of our problem, as well as support while we try.
and work it out. . ,

4. It might be more than useful if you injected yourself into
this at this point. You-may recall that during the investigations
in 1975 the IG chaired a committee of Associate Deputies to establish
ground rules and to ensure that in cooperating it did not compromise
the protection of sources and methods. May be it is time again.

--
Soap x». Re

S. D. Breckinridge

de

 

 
 

[ig f0095-10344]

 

~ APPROVED'FOR RELERS? 1993
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PRUGRAM

7 oe ; 3 January 1978
MEMORANDUM FOR: Inspector General .

SUBJECT =: HSCA Investigations

1. Roger Gabrielson of OLC (now handling the HSCA since
Doug Cummins’ retirement) came to see me last week about requests
from Mr. Blakey. I had heard elsewhere that Blakey is restless
at the way the Agency is responding to his requests, and Gabrielson
told me that Blakey now wants to seé the materials on which our
Task Force's report is based. I expressed~the opinion to Gabriel-
son that I thought we could work out how HSCA staff members could
see the basic documentation. We have some of these specific back-
up documents for many of the statements made in the Task Force
report. LA Division has the voluminous files Snamiuth of what we
have to say is based. CI Staff has the so-called Oswald file. I
suggested different rules for the different material along the
following lines:

a. Tab C contains: material making possible the
identity of Cubans in jail as wel] as AMLASH. This
presents problems that I thought we could discuss with
“the HSCA. I mentioned specifically reading without ~
note-taking. I observed that Blakey had declared the
AMTRUNK section as irrelevant, which takes that entire
section out of consideration so far as the HSCA is con-
cerned : .

b. -I noted that Tab D, on AMLASH, contained a -lot
of information that would permit his identification.
They already know his true name, and we allowed the
Church Committee to review the actual files in their
raw form. I thought that we could given them the same
access subject to the note-taking. reservation and re-
strictions in the final report.

c. Tab E is a list of all the documents produced
and disseminated in connection with the Warren Commission
investigation. The actual documents are in the possession
of CI Staff and something could be worked out on this. We
spoke briefly on Russ Holmes sanitizing things ( a hor-
rendous undertaking).

 

 
74-00000

’ ‘Fille on Item #183 however, don't

TLL,

Please keep. this and ar ached
for our. record. It is rest . of
search by Barbara of Intestigat&a)
Files. Please check to see what
‘hits there are for HSCA..

Also have her check the W'ga

   
   
  
   
  
  
 
   
   

necessarily limit to the time
shown here. Compulsive Spy by T
Szule shows Hunt in Madrid 38 t
frame not consistent with record
(as I recall it}, Also check Hunt
travel records during time around
JFK assassination (papers on this
in the W'Gate Files, too, I think

Ask Jean tose if we have any
thing in OIG on Jim Gerrison, als
possibly under New Orleans, etc.

Our Assassination File, dso
has materials’, oF

All this in addition to the
IG draft history of W'Gatee

All this may be 2 bit heavy,
but add it to the xerox of files
of supporting documents for Task
Force papers

SDB
9 Jan '78

 
 

   
  
 

_. 3 January 1978
Date —_

From: SDBrecki nridge

Return to: Jean for Task Force file.
