14-00000

 

of Secret. It is understood ‘that:we are to comment for accuracy

-only.

As an editorial observation, on the first page, the third sentence
‘described CIA's "Claim:that no records existed” concerning.a debriefing

of Oswald as stimulating speculation of-some connection between Oswald

and the Agency.. The reverse was the case. CIA's Statement, in affidavit .

“form to the Warren. Commission, was in-response to such allegations.

Its response ‘was not "instigated by ‘a newspaper article." ‘It may be

that the Warren Commission reacted ‘to such an article, which led ‘to its

“request to CIA, but CIA does not. submit. affidavits in vesponse to press

stories. Simply stated, CIA ‘responded toa Warren Commission request.

It is noted that, among other reasons for Oswald's not .

being interviewed (and there were a number) , is the consideration ~- given
HSCA in interviews at conducted - -- that at the time the Soviet Union was
releasing a- large: number of its. citizens, who had been held: from migration,

and the machinery was “also occupied with more ‘Vkely sources. Ce)

Section Noted as "A 11," - ALVARADO. (c)

‘It is our understanding that this section is intended for unclassified
publication. ‘In its present form ¥ we have asstgned an overall classification
of Secret. It is also understood that a. review for accuracy is desired.

This draft provides an opportunity to sanitize the paper, letting the

-basic story to be told while protecting points of security concern to CIA.

‘Some of the comments will be detailed. Ce )

 

(vo).
14-00000

“that the literary presentation simple mention "CIA officers: assigned

President: Kennedy! ‘s assassination.

 

 

By way of preface, .we.would . prefer that the concealment of
Alvarado's -name and- national ity” ‘be continued, employing the "Dp" used
by the Warren Committee and the Church Committee. His naming would: permit

identification of his nationality. ‘Describing his relationship with his

Nicaraguan: case officer also reveals operational relationships of

the Agency. Reference to his origins in another Latin American nation
should meet the needs of description. Cc )

Further, reference to the Mexico City Station, or its officers,

also presents problems with which you are familiar. It is suggested

that you use a general euphemism that permits the story to be told

while avoiding specific reference to the Station, as such. We suggest

in Mexico to investigate the assassination." Although literally true

it avoids specifying ‘that they were a group of officers already |

at the Agency installation who- were -assigned to that work. References
“to communications from Mexico City could simple refer to cables and
‘dispatches from. the "CIA representatives assigned to the Mexico

investigation.” (Ss

‘The statement :at the bottom of the end: page, 2001160, says "the

Alvarado allegation. stands: as” ‘the: only: specific substantive investigation -

_ by v. S. authorities in Mexico City. of possible Cuban ‘complicity. in-

 

“the fact. Tt is untrue, as. the records. of this Agency “amply demonstrate.

Bt: may be the only, firm allegation that was made that ‘could be investigated. ;

  

owe

"That | Mr. Mann ‘thought. $0 ‘doesn’ t change

 
14-00000_

 

has any competent evidence that would provide a basis for imputing a

malevolent attitude to. ‘him he: was.a man ‘to keep his own counsel and

it is doubtful that many really knew his private thoughts Cu )
Additionally, it seems that ZRRIFLE never reached a stage that could

"be represented as the ‘capability to act in the United States, as implied

in the draft under the characterization of "means" in the formula of
“motive, means and opportunity." “Infact, the way in which ZRRIFLE
developed in Harvey's mind, in the course of his plans against Castro,
make the separation fairly clear; he related the two only loosely in his

mind, because of what might be described as generic similarity of subject .

_ matter, but beyond that there was no relation. tu)

_ ZRRIFLE did not Fit the design this draft would give it, so far as

the discussion ‘is concerned. Harvey's view of ZRRIFLE is set out in some detail :

in the 1967 report, by ‘the Inspector General, and there is no contrary

-evidence. If the premise is the reason for discussing this, then the
‘entire section fails because of the invalidity of the premise. G@)

“Section Noted as "A 9," ~ HELSINKI

It is: our understanding: that. this ts. not ‘intended for unclassified

publication. In its present form we have given it an overall classification.

‘of Confidential. It ‘is understood. that we are to comment for accuracy

only. “Factually, we have no comments. Cc)

“Section Noted as "A 10," which deals with non- interviewing of Oswald

Its our understanding ‘that this is not intended for unclassified

publication. In its present form we have given it an overall classification

 

 

 
14-00000

“of the ‘investigators to make’ a “forma inquiry about it.

 

It is interesting that the/officer interviewed, noted at page 3.0f +

“this draft, was being asked ‘to rely on his memory some fifteen years

old (as good. as his memory is, it betrayed him on this point). The

record is quite clear that the symbol "AG" was in existence prior to the

assassination of Lee Harvey Oswald. This really was a non-issue from

the beginning, and ‘simply required so much ‘time because of the failure

C v)

Section Noted as "A’7,": ‘Miscellaneous Issues "= = Lee’ Harve ‘Oswald's

O1 Opening Sheet’ - Gr

This appears to be entirely dupticatory of the section designated as

 
 

A-6 above, and the comments iniediately above apply equally to this. Cs )

Section Noted as "A. 8," = ZRRIFLE a oe Sy xe

It is our understanding that this is not intended for unclassified
publication.-.In its present. form we have given it an overall classification
of Confidential. It is understood we are to comment for accuracy only. Cu)

The assertion of Harvey’ s “known antagonism" and his “known hatred"

of "the Kennedy’ s" isa bit hyperbolic, as presented, and seeks to establish

a premise that is highly dubfous. Co)

It is correct to say that. fe: “disagreed wi with the Adninistration' Ss

‘approach ‘to Cuban operations, and told the Attorney General just that

uk iS
in quite candid terms. He was essentially a tough and blunt man, and

had no illusions as to what he.was.doing. The act probably Ted to his

-reassignment. It -is safe:to-assume that he held some personal resentment

for the Attorney General, but extension of that, in malevolent form, to

the President is a bit. much. ‘Further, it is unlikely that the Committee

 
14-00000-

 

Page 2000591. To whom:did it seem an "abnormal occurrence" to not
have: opened the file, and: ‘what “is° the’ word “purported” intended ‘to convey? Cu )
Issue A - #3, - Photo of Lee Harvey Oswald in Minsk
. Itis understood ‘that this: is not.intended for unclassified
4 publication, and that our review for accuracy is all that is ‘requested.
We have given the paper an overall classification of Confidential. Cw)
7 Page.1. The citation. of 12 H 212 and 213 should be un H 212° cand 213. G)

Page 10. ‘It would, be correct for Mrs. Vance to say she was never

contacted by anyone with CIA, in connection with Oswald's photograph.
‘CIA would not have been — responsible for doing so. Ce) .

_ Page 12. The shorthand reference to the DDO should be changed to
Directorate of Operations; the 000, Viteratly, is s the Deputy Director for -
Operations. Cv). oe

; Book ITI, Séction VIII Dd. 8 (Oswald Soviet correspondence)

 

It is. understood that this is not intended for unclassified |

publication and that our review is all that is requested. We have given

LP
we

aa vo the paper an overall classification of Confidential. CO).
; ot se “v ‘Page 1 and 2.. The "pre-assassination file” did not contain the letters
a

i “Cited because the Department of State--which had these--did not provide

 

them until.after the assassination. Cu)

 

 

 

o Jety=tsee=page:6.of <draft):7> Z
14-00000

   

‘Mr. G. Robert Blakey. a 8

Chief Counsel and Director
Select. Committee on Assassinations
House of Representatives :
Washington, D.C. -20515
Dear Mr. Blakey:
I am submitting herewith informal comments on 1 the drafts submitted
recently. It will be something of a mish-mash of factual correction
‘and comment, as well as making security observations where appropriate, (v)
Tt is my understanding that you intend for only one or two
of these sections to be unclassified for publication. Cv )

Section Noted as "A 5," Miscellaneous Issues - HTLINGUAL Index Cards

 

It is our understanding that this is not intended for unclassified
publication. Tn its present form we have given it an overall classification

of Confidential. It is understood we are to comment for accuracy only.

‘We have no points to make on-this. Cv)

‘Section Noted as "A 6," Miscellaneous Issues - Lee Harve Oswald's
201 Opening Sheet ~ "AG"

It is our understanding that this. is not intended for unclassified

publication. In its: Present form we have- given it an 1 overal classification

of Secret. At is understood we are to comment for accuracy only. Cu).
AS a matter: of observation, it is noted that had the investigators

made inquiry of those individuals who had working fami arity with the

computer symbols on 201 opening-sheets, the answer was readily available.

  

 

066 OF

 
14-00000°

your draft. (0)

   

“Mr. G. Robert. Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director
Select Committee on Assassinations

_House of Representatives —

Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Mr. Blakey:

Forwarded herewith are comments on the draft reports forwarded by
you recently.

_ The first of these is designated Issue A - #2, Opening of
Lee Harvey Oswald's 201 file. It.was received by us marked Top Secret.

‘It is our understanding that you do not intend to publish this in

unclassified form, and-wish only our comments for accuracy. We would

‘consider the classification of Secret more appropriate than Top Secret and ™

so handle it. (s)
Page 2000870. Line 9. The statement appears that there are two

naval documents listed as in the file that were not found there (presumably ,

by the’ HSCA investigators). Both documents are there, ‘but being ‘Third

Agency records, were enveloped: and ‘marked by their identifying numbers ,

which may not*have been recognized by ‘the investigators. yo

Same ‘page. It is noted that the Deputy Director for ‘Operations is

a person, his command. being the. ‘Directorate of Operations. Shorthand usage.

‘gives the colloquial usage of "DDO". for Directorate of Operations , but it

is literally incorrect. You may wish ‘to nodity this where ‘it appears in.

 

_ Page 2000571. “Russ Hotes. did prepare an informa explanation, a

“copy .of which was transmitted to your offices for. retention in the CIA work oe

 

 

 
104-10067-10378

 

DL-DG=O NS fie
.6-February 197

MEMORANDUM FOR: “William Sturbitts, DDO/LA
: _ Sack Sullivan, 0S
Richard Rininger, oGc
Russ Holmes

“FROM . ot s. D. Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator, HSCA.

“SUBJECT © =: Draft Replies to G. Robert Blakey ~

1. Forwarded herewith are draft letters to G. Robert Blakey
making comments on each of the three packages that we have received

“and reviewed together.

2. These drafts are at least subject to revision if the Director
supports the-view of the DDO that there should be no direct references
‘or some euphemism in, referring to CIA personnel in Mexico Station.

~ 3.. It is requested that you review these drafts and let me have
your comments. I would propose to write a separate letter on each
section so it would appear that we are making progress, rather -
than holding up everything for those sections that are still subject
to resolution of the references to overseas Stations.

4, You have copies of the Draft Staff Study and it would be
appreciated if I could have your comments on the attached by COB

Wednesday.

-§. 0. Breckinridge

“Attachments

UNCLASSIFIED WHEN: SEPARATED

-FROM ATTACHMENTS

006 ¥O7

 

 

 
14-00000 . : . »

 

_area on 28 November 1978. “It-:should‘be available there; it.still is at
CIA headquarters. (ec) _

Page 2000574. Not having seen Larson's testimony, we don't know what
he actually said. ‘The fact. is that the Office of Security does. not open’
201 Files, ever. That Office is under’ the Deputy Director for Administration,
while 201 Files in ‘CIA exist only in the Directorate of Operations. (<)

- Page 2000575. . The statement to the effect that information would have
‘warranted opening of a 201 ‘File on ‘Oswald is correct, but it is -incomptete.
While ¥t would have warranted it, had it been decided to do SO, “it would
not necessarily have ‘caused the ‘opening of a file. This is commented on
‘further below. CV) oe

Page 2000579. The memorandum in‘ question is quoted accurately, but
. the memorandum is not accurate. The Oswald file was opened as the result >
of work arising out of a request from the Department of State dated 25 October

' 3960. The testimony given by the person opening the file is correct on this
point. ‘Ome
Page 2000580. ‘Again, the memorandum is quoted correctly, but it is
incorrect. Oswald's Jetter to.the U. S. Embassy in Moscow was: dated
5 February .1961, being received 13 February. That was the first news of
his intention to return to the U.S., and his file had been opened already, in
December 1960, as a result of the earlier State Department request. (wv)
Page 2000584, It is probably incorrect to say that: Mrs. Egerter
"claims" ‘to have done something. She gave her: best memory of what she did
vand why, which was probably broadly correct, although with some errors in .

detail. The point is that what. she says is the best description on the opening.

cs)

 

 

 
14-00000__

 

 

Page 2000587 on Martin and. Mitchell, "...whose defection to the
Soviet Union in September 1960 was .GF- concern because of their previous access
to classified information." Cv) oe
Pages 2000589-2000590. References to "a thirteen month delay" and
that it (the Clandestine Service) "failed to act...by initiating the opening
of a 201 file," indicates a misunderstanding of the procedure and standards:
for * opening 201 files. (3) ;
First, there are certain criteria that must be met before
_a file may be opened: The administrative objective is to hold down
the number of 201 files... There is not, and was not, a positive
requirement to open a file. Rather, it was up to the judgment of
the officer in question whether. to do so or not, if it met the criteria: (c)
There was no requirement to open a file on a person such
as Oswald. « There being no requirement there could be no "failure,"
. if it wasn't done. “Nor would there have been a "delay." Oswald's
later role in history may make him seem more significant today than
“he was when the first papers. brought him to CIA's attention, but
professional hindsight supports the absence of such action at the time.
, ‘Further, it was ‘still a judgment call when the file was actually opened;
at would have been" entirely eppropriate to ‘hot have opened the file -
then. om a te
In any event, the. opening oft the file does not ‘affect. the records in
, the system on the person - ‘in question; it only ‘serves to consolidate

| eoped “at records into a single working file. 06).

 
