 

     

he haa ‘an interest in DeGuulle and the Gaullists, hes
frfends in Frocah goveranant end aruy_sireles end Noeps

 

 

 
  
   
  
 
 

edAitioa, be feels an obligation to explata DeGaulle's
‘Gaullict views 42 this emmtry when he is asked to do so.

bores deseribea( "Jes being an Adealiet and an
enthusiast, vho is iselined to put these feelings into estica,
as for exauple when he joined the Free French eat ea tims wher
the NS vas aot actively figkting the Germans,

6 in France on @ grant which allow
the manuseripte of the Late Freagh euthor,

 

 
 
  

» Ou egurce confirmed aur exieting over-

all have been included in Rife and memos

ebout him forwarded over the past aix years. In the circ ances of his

. family end ewlturel heritage, it is quite natural that; Juul

‘ develop sn active interast in France and matters Froach.obHis public
explariations Of present cen@itions in Frence refleet his ecatdauing
close association with his friends and associates there, many of whom
ere in politics, goveroumnt or the ailitery » Ow seurve agroes with us,
however, that thie is | af Givided Loyalty beteeen the US aad
Frence.’ Ee feels tha ia a loyel American who hes a long
£3 ; gna Segition’ yeast in France. From cur sua contante with

ob ive cen not disagree with this.

A, (ae to people is French governunit ead army circle te
exprecged in the series of reperta guamitted fras him undar Cases
4ONL3, 37605 and 35135. A review of thie miterial will provide clear

- evidence of the range of his persatal asaselatioas im Franse freon Prepi«
aent DeGeulle om Gente 6

5. During the years of our continuing contest wind wo have sever
had reason to question hie Giscretica or eauiuet, His appre. .
elation of Agency requiraments that we have disewised with him hee been

elesr end complete. If anything, he hee wrere of our needs
es hie experience with us has increased. de a bright, alert,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
AO4-10079-10224) . - RISE? Sere Gee gare Cregeen cS .

        

fhe
Tei

a RERUN TO eR TN

NG Dh er Poith oe,
np §G Me AOI FOR,

' CD/OO0 Case 42961” ES ad

onset it. Background. ahd bs at Inforestion om Professor.

FILES Morris Bignop $4 -H-o-—

   

 

 

 
 
 

  

 

ob amy wet rate to BOOS. For that reagon, we will not attempt to
y any great amount of this exsept as it vill provide a better eetting
for this ‘agsedement. ; ;

a

2. Gur norm) source deseription tor /— “Japresonts & capsule sumary
of his background. The following Sdditieaal poiate dovelepad by our
source seen to be relevent.

mai Acen 0
a) Ca liee born in France. Hie father tz a U9
» Gitizen. Bis mother was Freneh st the tio of hig birth,

 

 

 

 

aince, Stiirce's glose eseociation with began
at this partiowler period. . ol
a>. Somevkare slong the Line, was converted to Catholicisn
and owt source ribea es a devout Catholic. He uer-
., Bled o from whom be has been separated in recent

€) Qenorest) fe a great adatrer of President Decent) and knows
_ him persenally. Be hss a Strong and ceatinuing interest in
French politics and waits our Bouree does not know much of

RETURNTO CIA
Background Use Only

~3
Boy /e, Pa: - Do Not Reproduce //1 ;

 

Up
14:00

 

 

 

 

 

 

zal

 

6.

Te

8.

; cep/eo 25 oo ; =j-

individual vho has a wide roage_of Intereste. Our source agrees

‘with us, ineidentally, that-his iupest on olumi groups mast be

 

     

those, thet vould. prevail under e re vith the B2/P. Cur rele-
tioaship. hes bean. able to complemen | ability te expisin the
view in a way that vill aa

 

got Gamage his persoual end professional emtects and escociations in

France. In other words, the eollestion of FPI - which in 8 instance
hes been substantial - fe a form ef ecoperatian under which is

protested. ‘The needs and operations of the DD/P, on the othar o
. introduce & 8 end continuing element of risk for him. We have been

asked to aesess, performance in an entuel ‘approach’
end "reeruitment’ situation.” The potential in ‘appromch’ and *recruit~
ment’ situations ie to vs quite formidable.ofIt takes no stretch of the
iengination to foresee the ruin of professional career in
France (and possibly here es well) or of his leng-etanéing friend-
ships there if an opsretien tavolving him were to go sour. There ig no
reasaa to believe that he will not resogaize this potential immediately
if operational, matters ere discussed with hin. ‘¥Yrenkly, we cen not
predict his reactica to this sart of thing, but we dowbt that he is naive,
let along nelve encugh to put himself voluntarily uéer the guillotine.

As we have indleated carliar, travel pien# ia vest Baro
ere for the most part little know fa essoclates at 8
is by desig: to give .the widest freed of movemscit he

fe the U8 for a few days in early dime, but
. Following thie, he will return briefly
to France ané will epend the summer, tr ¢, probably in other coutries
of West Burope. Before he left( jan 63, be told vs taat be
would Like to drive throug: the Scendénay tries during this coming
summer, but ve have no way of confirming this aow. Tous, 1t would appear
the will spend very little tine in France from bere on cut -
very little time et any one ney Europe far thet matter.

  
 
 

   
 

 

      
 

A second clesred source at obtained the shove brief travel plan
fron @ friend af ( “Who Vinited([ —s last weekend. Believing
thet we sight with hin le bois in the U3, cur source

arrenged

en sppointeent with on 3 dum 64 at 57 PM im Rov York City.

Ta the t % a D/P representative would wish to mee at

that tins, could keep this appodutment ia hie company. of
603

 
       
