 

74-0000

   
  

‘DISPATCH.

     
   

'O” Chiat, WE

BOM H
ye  Ghiet af stattod [. Sree ee meee sine 10 owy iS?

a" AEDCAP ct
Oz (arpasorez /s ~CsFhocer/: S Contact with Grigoriy YE.
B on

   

 

 

 

 

   
  

 

 

ne

  
  

sera ata fet

 

 

  

-B. LOFHA}398S
22° era - g
1, In the last two or three weeks(ABPauNtE/S and (AEPAUKEE
contasts with Grigorly YS. GOLUB. As we have Bentioned in Previcas die-
Patches, B bad met OGLUB at the Soviet Embassy while she was
for her visa“to tle Soviet Union last February. GCLUB seamed to be quite
impressed with ami Ler ability to speak Russian and made her promise
that when she réty ied {fem the USSR she vould ‘cone and teli him all
about her experiences onthe trip, As is also knowif(AEYS ie a good
ereonal friend i (A8/S¢ AR/'S went to the train station to say farevell to
° 5 prior to the latter’s érip into the Soviet Union. At the tcata
atation was GULUS, @s vere other Soviets who had come to say good-hy to fees
Mikheel TOV, .G0L,08’s esalgtent in the Consulate, who Was going to _-z
Moscow, “Upon s: S GOLUB came up to her to ask how her triz was and
again to invite her to-hie office in the Embassy to tell him about it, She
oz_-responded that she intended todo it but had been very busy upon ser return.
S was standing near(AR/S, SSNS felt it necessary to introcase(AB/5;
GOLUB. Upon hearing that joy, would be on the train to Leningrad he
called LYUBDOV over aml intréduced (9/5 and ladys to LYUBIMOV stating that
now LYUBIMOV would have an attrective young ladyto talk with on the train.
On about 20 May S dropped into the Soviet Bubassy to talk with GOLUB
aa she had promised, GOLUS waa quite busy and therefore only hat the chance
to chat for a very few ainuteas. However, vhon he heard that she was
leaving the first week in June, he invited her to come to a farevell dinner
in het honor bis apartment Sunday eveiing, 24 May. He also tald her that
he vould invite(AKjs, atnce he had had the opportunity to bec acquainted
with her on the train from Leningrad to Helsinki. (Details are
DY trip including a report of ker conversations are include! inRef B).
02 (AEYS accepted. Arrangenents made with(As/S by GOLUB. Prior to this
point (AES had not beea told df (AK)'s’s associa’ with ua, but ahs strongly
suspected It. ARIS of e knew of (48/579 connection with us as she
had re 'S for TH trip. Werelt it necessary at this
point to infordi that (AR/5’s trip-waa taken under our sponsorship, We
had Intended to ‘to thia after [ix left Helsinki, as ve are hoping to
O*haveliB/S continue with sone of ‘S’a Finniah contests. B of the
involvement with GOLUB asi Qxys, ve" ht it better to inf of
thie and a little about GOLUB personally so that she knew where she stood,

wl. . ‘a 2
2, GOLUB made arrangements to mest vota (ays ana (48) in the downtown section

of Helsinki on the evening of the dinner, GOLUD called a taxi, an2 the
three of then drove to his apartment, Upon entering the apartment GOLUB
introduced both of them to his wifs, Bina, There vas no one alse invited,
GOLUB first apologised for the lerge size of the apartment and the fact
that it was ac sparsely furnished. He stated thet in Moscow they alvays
-had a small apartment but while in Hel they felt obligated to have a

' larger place where thay could entertain> SYS atated the apartasat vas
quite old with many rooms, all of witch weFe quite darge. One or two of
the ‘rooms weren’t furnished at all. The furniture did not appear to de
too old, was semi~moderp, ani not particularly tn goo? taste but still
comfertable, As far S could observe, the GOLUB’s had no kitchen
help or other damestica. “She believed that GOLUB’s vife had fixe! ths
dinner herself, The wife also served the Unner. There vas hever acy attempt
during the evening to ply the two girls with liquor. The GOLUBs serred
amall appetizers including caviar before dinner, a little vodka with the
meal, and a glass of cognac after, fhe evening vas quite pleasant, and
GOLUB and hie wife seemed to gst along fine, The latter was frieniiy aad
sociable and did not afpear nervous. One of the main reascns why O23
told them he wanted thea to ccme to dinner vas to hea> some Russ lan

     

  
    
       
      
      
        
   

   
 

 
 
 
 
  

    

  

  
     
     
   

           
         
       
     
     
   
         
          
      
       
   
     
     
   
        
        
   
   
        
       
    
 
    
      
    
        
       
      
 
 

 
   
  

were ad OORNOE

 
 
 

(tetorrat0a0a

BI’

of.

3

es]

wu

Ne

a

€

c

 

tT a
* ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
FSOM: . . —— WOE Is the p soserce pl commen ar ington of ection
Rios’ 7 Vaden. the coves sheet wd be dewteved when Hy
. Be document is filed

 

| Re ‘gato
whale alae hes Walt ,

D9 bard to den'de frons Hoo
Guat bao a Cao, of

AGE ni:
meee mGe al concoe
ais UGG —— oe

— (fee. AD
BT po eo
amet
ey Ty
mt

DATE MICROFILMED.

foam USE PREYIONS
au 8108 EDINOet,

MICROFILMIOD

AUS 27 sac0

   

DOC. MICRO.

SER.

I

     

dvs wakuaherg Var rakio
freuiakt SP pie %

dara wha
a dct acy ELE 9 0

US

PILE NUMBER

 

+ | OOCUMENT NUMBER

OSeMUNT GATE

7
. Lee 1959 Gruato39a1
SECRET’

  
   
  
 

(a)

&
ae

ra

id
eee as etse be, ance

(
 

j

33)PU

 

 

 

    
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
    
   
 
 
    
   
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
    
  
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
  

CONTINUATION OF :
OISPATCH + so

 

 

 

records and especially eome of his Challapin records, ‘After dimer GOLUB
aloo aboved them some Seviet/Russiaa art books and same of hie othsr mnentos.
He gave wy; a szell Russian art bock vith an, inscription and his signature.
COLIB put of some reconis and owe asked GE/5,to dance, A little while
after dinner a knock wae heard at the front re In walked another Soviet
carrying some reels of film and a movie projector. GOLUB intmaduced this
young man to the girls but (ME/5 did not catch his naze and did not want to
make an abvious attempt to ul! out vhat his name vas. A screen and the
projector were set up in @ room fn which there waa no furniture, Then
GOLUS asked the tvo girla amt his wife to come in aa he wanted to show some
flim, Bot GEYS and(AR/S°Gere delighted berause they felt they were going
to see some films on the Soviet Union, Rovever, the only films that GOLUB
had were some Walt Disney cartoons Starring Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck.
During the shoving GOLUB laughed uproariously and ssemed to enjoy the files
tremendously, After the filma they vent back into the living room and
chatted some more. About 2500 hours both the girls felt they had stayed
long enough and sald they would have to be going. GOLUB stated thet he ani!
his wife would walk them ie. . As they left the apartment Mra. GOLIB _.
walked orm-incarm vith(MEJS) “and GOLUB walked arf-in-arm with (AgySi2 They
first walked *a apartment vhich was about five.or aix blocks from the
GOLUBs, Mr, and Hrs, GOLUS vere extremely varm toverds QSY3 and vere very
sincere in their farewells. GOLUB stated he hoped she had success in the
future and thet if she should ever come back to Helsinki she should be sure
to look thes up, They then valked{AiY5, to her bus stop which Was sbout
eight blocks further, At the bus stop they said good-by“ts (AEYS and added
they were both looking forward to more such social evenings. JS stated
- later that the evening was very pleasant, that th the GOLUBs vere very ~
sociable and seamed to enjoy having them, Sinéé(@z/5 speaks better Finnish
than ehe does Russian, she and GOLUB seemed to be together most of that .
evening OUAEYS does not speak Finnish, so she wasodpaired oy necessity with
Mrs, GOLUB who knows no Finnish, While GOLUB and(Az75 were walking to(ALy/5’s
t, they lagged about one half a block behind Mra. GOLUB andlazyS,. %%
©2 (QEYs mentioned how much she enjoyed meeting Mra, GOLUB and the invilatios
for dinner, GOLUB stated that before his wife and he were married they had
kmown each other for a long time and marriage just seemed to be the naxt
step. He eaid that now he and his wife are "good pale", and he also
mentioned thet his wife, although she liked Helsinki, did not like the
weather which caused her a lot of sickness 22 (An/5, who is quite outepoken,
stated, "Then there is only one thing for you to do and that 1a to apply
for a transfer because your wife’s health is much more important than your |
job." GOLUB responded very quickly stating, no, she was wrong, the job wag
certainly more important to him than his wife. GOLUB stated that he was an
orphan and that the Communist system had given him everything,

5. Another interesting thing happened in the GOLUB’s apartment after dinner 02.
while they were listening to the Chaliapin records, GOLUB turned to(d
and said, "The friend that you met in the Soviet Union who is trying to send
you Chaliapin records is having a hard time finding thea because all the
tourists, are buying them up," This shocked end surprised (axy: because she
had never mentioned to GOLUB or anyone in Finland besides the Undersigned
that one of her contacts, Yuri NOZLOVSKIY, (See Personality Annex *4 of
VL OFHA}S8ss) whom she had casually met at the Bolshoi Theater, hed promised
send records. }had no response for GOLUB and let the remark pass.
We have no idea why oobi threv out this remark into the conversation as
he never mentioned. it again, : ,
5

, Ow
4. conm%arrea( Aas once or twice after the sinner to invite her out Senin,
but (ARY5 hed alwaya previous engagements, On i6 June GOLUB puoned (AE 5 and
asked. if she could Join him and his wife for a movie on Saturday nigiit, 20
June? S said no, that she had plans for the weekend, He then said
how about Friday evening, She said nc, she was stil. busy. He said then
Thursday. She was stiil busy, and he said then how about tamorrow night,
Wecneaday. She felt she had to accept at tals point, He then stated that
“he and his wife vould nese sys in dovntown HelsinxiJ{AzJ5, on the next
evening, went to the pre-arranged, spot alone and found GOLUB there alone,
When she asked him where Nina va 4s ia on first name basis with both
GOLUB ana his wife) GOLUB eald that his wire felt a little ill and decided
not to come to the movie’With thea bet that she had sent a gift along for
her, GOLUB then gave l4¥/5 a paper bag containing a set of inexpensive
wooden Russisa dolls, (4g, S was quite taken back by the fact that Mrs. GOLUB
: = me Cee aa a rored

    

 

 

 

 

SM MEE OS OT i
BA ee H

 
 

 
yeann00
CONTINUATION OF ;
DISPATCH. }
nn ee

  

  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
  

 
   
   
     
  
    
  
  
   
  
 
 
    
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
    
  
    
  
  
   
  

 

wasn’t ‘thers Sut felt abe had to go along to the movie, Thoy went to the
Capitol Theater in Halsirki which usunily shows Scviet films, GOLUB went
to the cashier, spcke Russian, and ordered two ticketa, When they walked
inte ths theater ‘S,pote: that thare ware very few people in the theater,
GOLUB had bought the’fiost arpensive seats, loges, which are individual
compartments usually for two peoplede} 3S was somewhat nervous and measy,
however, GOLUS was a perfect gentleman mghout the whale parformance,
After the movie COLUB walked (42/5, to her bus, They walked around the tovn
for about an hour vhile the tvo ‘OF thea discussed Soviet political theory,

- and Soviet vs western cultare. Her conclusions vere that GOLUB iv a firm
believer and supporter of his system but still talked objectively and
intelligently wanting to axplain to’ 5 why he believed commumiam vas the
best system. GOLUB waa quite vooiferdds about this, spoke quite definitely,
intently and waved hia arms as he spoke, He firmly believed that eventually
the whole vorld would be ccomunistic ami thia would come about peaceably

and naturally SC(AB/S raised the Hungarian Revolution to COLUB aa an example
of how "peaceably" commmism vould come about, GOLUB atated Soviet Russia
had to intercede, that the bulk of the psopie in Hungary want a cosmunist |
government, and only a few reactionaries started the revolution, He stated
that that wee the reason they had te eond Soviet tanks, He then brought w
the example of the US action in Guatemala. then this took Place, he stated
‘the Soviets protested and protested, but everyone knew in the Soviet Union|
that this action was something the had to do te protect ite own interests.
He said this. was the seme situation in Hungary. :

= Ot . . Ot . 4

5. (ays stated that even thongh the discussion/argument was quite long and.
a
OUte

 

6 it never became hasted nor did GOLUB become angry. He kept repeating

BJS that she should return to the Soviet Union for ancther tourist trip.
ora 5 atated that she would like to very much and would think about it. :
GOLUB also told her that it would be good for her to stuly a year at the
University of Moscow but that this would probably not be good for(AE/5’s
' future to have something Like this on her recerd. 92

era

On 25 June GOLUB phoned (ARYS again to inform her that he had Just received
some more phonograph records from the Soviet Union and she might like to
hear them. On 28 June he phoned hen again merely to chat. At this time he
told her that bis wife was leaving for holidays in Moscow and that there was
some nan in Moscow she loved better than her husband. This surprised(AAys o2.
who told GOLUB he shouldn't joke like that, GOLUB assured her that he vas
not joking.

We are ly tui the process of filling out @ PRQ IT, so a full OA can
be granted 5. She is a very intelligent, conscientious, and a quick,
young Am an student, She is well read and versed in Amsrican politics,
literature, and culture and has an insatiable thirst in lesrning the sane
about other countries, Her main interest at this point is Finland and the
Soviet Union, and she spends most of her spare time in the University
Library gathering material for her study project, Penno-Soviet relations,
However, she is far from the took: worm type. She is outgoing, fairly
attractive, meets people well and has travelled much around Finland alone
just to see hew the Finns live and work, She {a independent by nature,
outspoken, and somewhat aggressive tn finding out things she wants to knov.
She realises full well the implications behind her contact with GOLUB, and
we do not feal that she would ever allow herself to be put inte the position
to have to say yea or no to a seducticn attempt by GOLUB. Our impression
ie that she hopes men like her for her aind, She enjoys seeing GOLUB and
‘delights in their serious political discussions, GOLUB appeara to enjoy
them and her too, We will keep you posted on further contact.

The final results cf(Abys’s trip are being pouched in REFEREWE 8,
Costille’s lunch with GOLUB has been reported in Reference A,

P “fn
Hobie AN pee an
a William L, Costille
Distribution: :
2- WE
2-

 

UM PIT Oat tartare Sree are
Ory Re “+
ve ee Oe ot
eam ket Cent
