13-00000

theman. As amatter of fact, the Agency never did develop

a firm relationship with the man although it did provide

what was intended to appear. to him as tokens of its support

in the form of weapons.
Consistent with its original assessment of the man, CIA

put AMLASH in touch with a Cuban exile leader, with whom
the Agency had a viable operational xelationship. It was
hoped that through the Cuban exile leader and his organization

AMLASH/1 might come to fit into some future plan.

 
Vv

 

1977 CIA Task Force Report

At pages 90-92, the HSCA Report misrepresents the 1977
CIA Task Porce Report.

As stated in the HSCA Report, CTA responded to Book V
of the Church Committee Report by conducting an internal
inquiry, Essentially, the key consideration, so far as this
internal inquiry was concerned, was the significance of what
has come to be known as the “provocation theory,” i.e., CIA
plotted the assassination of Castro, Castro might have
learned of it, he might have dispatched assassins to kill
President Kennedy in retaliation. As the provocation theory
applied especially to Cuba, the focus of the study was on CLA's
Cuban operations.

The provecation theory had not been perceived in 1964

-during the Warren Commission investigation: the various |
aspects of the tensions between thé Kennedy Administration
and the Castro Regime were recognized. in a broad sense as
possibly giving cause to extreme action by Castro against
the President. HKdwever, that specific operations might hava
a more specific effect simply was ‘not conceived at that
time. “In fact, the HSCA Report states that the provocation
theory was first advanced in 1967 by members of the eriminal
syndicate. While CIA might be faulted for not perceiving
‘the provecation theory in this form earlier, the fact is
that it did not. In any event, the concept is still a

theory.

 
. . f
The decision we. “aken that the man could not be dealt

with as a principal agent and that an attempt would have to
be made to. find someone in his organization with whom the
necessary agent relationship could be established. The
problem thus became one of how to maintain the contact with
a man who claimed to have the organization and weaponry to
carry cut a coup, while at the same time developing a way of
taking advantage of whatever eventuated.

@he record is unequivocal in the conditional approach
that was settled upon for dealing with the man. He would be
told that he would be given na advance support and that only
Lé he succeeded in-a coup would he receive support. This
position was given him’on 29 October 1963. Subsequent reporting
from FBI and CIA sources made it clear that the man. understood
that he had been rebuffed and that he was outraged, Tt was
clear that if CIA did not want to lodse the contact, which
had as yet to be developed into anyching tangible, steps
had to be taken to mollity him. AMLASH/1 was asked to have a
meeting with a “CLA representative. A CIA case. officer” ‘exavelled

“Fy
to Europe, avriving the morning of 23. ‘Novenber 1963 and

meeting with AMLASH, possibly at the time of the assassination

of the President.

The purpose of this summary is simply to point out the
tenuous nature of the relationship of AMDASH/1 during. the.
life of ‘the’ president: This tenuous quality Was deliberately

because of the assessment of the ability of the Agency to work with

BEng

Ses Sie hata eat a a ck

 
13-00000

 

 

Iv
Comments on AMLASH

AE pages. 89-94 the HSCA Report discusses what is

known as the AMLASH operation. it also discusses a study

es weitten in CIA. in 1977, referred to in the HSCA Report as

the CIA Task Force Report. — First, there are certain things

hak should be understood about “the ANLASH operation. “While

the SCA investigators read the 1977, CIA Task Force Report,

_ they apparently. aaa, not, appreciate a. key consideration to

“how the operation was handled during | the life of President

Kennedy.

: Both the Eisenhower and the Kennedy Administrations had

and: clandestine activ. Ades in-Cuba. ° te was ia this context

 

 

 
in

Comments on Findings of the Committee

 

At page 12 in the Findings and: Recommendations of

 

the Committee, Section I, D.4., there is a stark statement

that CIA “was deficient in its collection and sharing of
information both prior to and subsequent to the assassination.”
The unqualified nature of that finding conveys impressions

that are subject to disagreement. The Committee is entitled

to its sonelusions, but by the same token, the Agency is
entitled to express its reservations about them. For instance,
as a comment at this point, what CIA could be expected to do
prior to the assassination is an interesting question in /
itself, which the stark statement handles simplistically.

The fact is that CIA had no advance information of any sort

on the assassination. of President Kennedy in Dallas.

At page 24 of the Report, in the Section discussing the

structure: of the investigation, the ‘Committee observes that

. its access, “was unprecedented by any. congressional committes.”
Of dourse, the permanent oversight, committees, | which have
“Anstitubionalised: security procedures,

Uttis more “correct to’ gay that no special investigative

“conmittce has had similar access in the past.

 
 

_ nT

Comments on Nosenke

AG page 86 ‘the HSCA Report observes that “strangely /
while (Nosenka) was. interrogated during this period (1964~
1968) he was questioned very Little about Oswald.” without:
defending the mistreatment of Mosenko or the mistakes an the
handling of his case, this: aspect has an easily understandable
rationale, “which was offered to the Committee. As the
Committee’ omitted reference to it, it is repeated here.

One of the problems with what Nosenko said had arisen
ont of inconsistencies as tO what he knew about Oswald,
complicated by the question as to whether he was a bona~fide
defector or @ dispatched agent. Ik was not judged profitable
to belabor the Oswald issue and the decision was taken to :
try to resolve the question as to whether or not he was a

bona-fide defector. If he was determined to be a bona~fide

defector, then the significance of his inconsistent statements

oft Soviet involvement.

 
-

 

- Botking Arrangements for the Warren Commission Investigation

The HSCA Report fails to describe the working arrangements
for the conduct of the Warten Commission inquiry. Such an
understanding is basic to any interpretation of what did and —
aid not happen during the inquiry. ‘

Following the assassination of President Kennedy, President
Johnson designated the ‘Federal Bureau of Investigation, as
the principal investigative arm of. the Governtient to investigate the

assassination. this was a logical step as the Bureau had - : :
: the largest bedy of trained investigators. The role. ak the ;

Bureau continued in this respect during the Warren Comaiission’
inguiry. The commission, which had. a much smaller staff, .
“yelied extensively on the Bureau for the ‘exhaustive investigation
that was conducted. oe

As testified to by Mr... Helms, as ‘cited in the HSCA.

“the Commission. Consistent. with the undérst ocd arrangements

oe ‘ pyinc 5
“that. Le haa to the Bt. in ‘the latter! s role ashinvdtigative
arm of the Warren Commission. ; this involved both quality

veporting and a great dross of material that ordinarily

36 eel

 
404-10320-10121

 

LA/DDO

HSCA

308

proo
prepared
:00 a.m. on We
~wouid be appreciated
ition from

eckinr

 
13-00000

 

by the FBI

might not be considered worth reporting. A consideration raised
here is that intelligence analysts routinely winnow out

useless and marginal reports to avoid flooding the recipients
with unevaluated trash. That the HSCA has taken issue with

so few instances of non-disseminated material indicates that

_the practice worked well in.the course of the Warren Commission

inguiry. jr this respect the PBI and the CIA worked closely
together. 7 There are a number of instances dn which dnitial

reporting by CIA was the subject of an investigative follow-

Up by the Bureau, just as CIA responded to Bureau requests.

_Whis constituted something of a team operation, providing

the available information at that time to the Warren Commission.
HSCA investigators seem to have treated the work of the
Bureau and CIA as separate from one another, feriticizing cra

for not conducting investigations that obviously were conducted
ay
As testified to by the Deputy Director of Central

 

‘Intelligence; in his testimony before the HSCA, CIA is not

an investigative agency in the usual sense of the term.

While it does collect information abroad, its sources are
carefully selected for their potential access to very specialized
and sharply focused subject matter. Those resources are not
readily subject to redirection for the purpose of police~

type investigations. Further, CIA's representatives abroad

are under cover and should not expose their true identity by
hes bh vaoteche red

agewin-the-usuel-polica-type investigative techniques.
38-3

 

They can seek assistance from those police and security

 

sical ve PAC bee of
organizations where /existing arrangements permit, frat
 

13-00000

Report.

; in any general, polieetype investigation they are Limited by
cover, training and resources fhe a result} Thee were a

number of instances in which CIA reports of information

possibly related .to the assassination ef President Kennedy -

. . 7 Uvsuteed, Prven asteblisledt
were actually ihvestigated } iby FBI personnel fassigned to the

fiasew asl foe alg,
location ‘or tha inguiry) This working arrangement and the

results, is ovérlooked in some of the treatment by the ESCA

While the HSCA éid consider the question of how such an

inguiry should be conducted in the future, there seemed to be a

tendency to treat the Warren Commission inguiry the way cc ee

staff investigators felt it should have been done instead of how

it was done under ‘the arrangements actually “in effect at the time.”

 

 
