 

S-E-C-R-E-T
NC POREIGN DISSEX

=~ 2e CSCI-316/02296-65

There are no DSE guards tnside the DGI Suilding, except for the
guard quarters (dormitory) in "M" Building. The headquarters
has two duty officers, who alternate, 24 hours on and 24 hours
off, They are not officially ior visidiy armed, but may carry a
personal weapon, usually a pisitol, as xany DGI officers do.
Most of the pistols are U.S. 38-caliber, 45-caliber, or Soviet
Red Star, Employees in “M" Building are required to lock up all
documents and lock their room doors any time the room is not
occupied. Keys are deposited in a key room. There is also a
Secret Office, on the second floor of the building, where docue
ments of all kinds are kept. Employees may borrow documents,
Signing out for them, for the day; everything must be returned
at night. Generally, each officer keeps his own files, locked
in a key-lock metal cabinet, in his ova office, .

: Originally a building pass was requires for entry into "M"

Building. Each officer assigned to the building had a pass,
similar in appearance to a driver’s licease. Officers working

in departments outside the "NM" Building compound, however, did

not all have passes, although some did. *The difficulty of ob-
taining a pass for entry into the building became so complicated ~
that outside DGI employees sometimes resorted to showing their
driver's licenses for admission, and successfully, There was
always confusion about entrances. Finally the pass system became
so cumbersome that it was abolished altogether, and admission to
the compound is entirely on a basis of personal recognition by
the guards, or, as noted above, by verizication by telephone

from an officer inside. Tnis applies both to personnel regularly
working in the building and to DGI employees from departments

outside the compound,

The same system applies in the Departameato de Liberacion Nacional
(National Liberation Department - LN) beilding. There are four
DSE guards at the outside gate who check all incoming persons,

If the guards do aot recognize a person, they telephone to whom-
ever the caller wishes to see in the building and obtain: -per~

mission to admit him.

The. LN Department also has a duty officer system, separate from
that of “M" Building. Each officer in turn serves a 24-hour
tour as duty officer; a regular roster is kept. The LN Depart-
ment does not observe regular office hours like the main head-
quarters; because of operational necessity, officers work when
they must. They are not paid overtime and are not required to
Sign time and attendance records, If they are working during
méal hours, they receive food in the building; they do not have
their own cafeteria but bring in food from the Departamento
Escuelas Especiales (Department of Special Schools ~ EE). ¢

Up to December 1963, the LN and Iblegal Departments were combined
in a single unit known as the Ms Section (Intelligence), which
occupied a large house at Calic G4 between 5 and 5a (on a corner
with no house number), in the Miramar Dsstrict of Havana, Per-
Sonnel of the two clements shared offices indiscrininately, al-
though there was a differentiation in the:r work as to illegal

or guerrilla operations. In December 15 the two functions
were separated, and the LN Department nmeved to two buildings at
G610 and 6612.7th Avenue, between 66th and 70th Streets, in the
Ampliacion de Almendares Section of the Xivamar District of Havana,
The [llegal Department remained in the Calle 94 house about one
month and then moved to a new, anknown,, tosation in Alturas del
Vedado section of Havana. The LN Departmeat bas about thirty . |

 
  

-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
 

104-10186-10148

Cf

 

SWAN ie TAC RD rove
ARERR ae ees a

 

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Tam matarel containg information afecting the Katina! Deferse of the United Staten within the meaning of the Kspionsse Laws, Title
IW TSC. Gave, 70} and 14 the treaminiea oc rereiatios of which tn any manner 40 AM Unsuthorued perms Ls probibited by law,

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSES

 

REPORT NO. CSCI-316/02296-65

COUNTRY “Cuba

gaxct Buildings and Security of the - pare pista, «2 June 1965 “y
Direécion General de Inteligencia aa ; ae
(DG) -- NO, PAGES 3 ee

REFERENCES RETURN TO ¢ 70 GA a

DATE OF «1964 ; ; Background Use

DFO. ~ Do Not Reproduos

RACE & Washington, | Dd. c. ~ ~ is

TE _ACQ: FIELD REPORT NO.

THS is brary 13 INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT {3 TENTATIVE.

soca, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence : ,
Service until April 1964. .

1. The Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of
Intelligence - DGI) Headquarters in "M" Building operates on a”
schedule from 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. daily. Personnel are re=-
quired to sign time and attendance records and once in the
building at 8:00 are not permitted to leave it until 5:30. They
are given lunch in the building cafeteria; each has a meal ticket,
issued by the Personnel Department, which is punched for each
meal consumed; the DGI, not the individual employee, pays. A
DGI officer from one of the departments outside the headquarters
building may eat in the "M" Building cafeteria; he gets a lunch
ticket from the personnel officer and also shares the mess free,
the meal being deducted from his regular mess facilities in his
own building.

2. The "M" Building is guarded outside by Departamento de Seguridad
del Estado (Department of State Security - DSE) personnel, two
at the main gate and two at the rear gate. Beside the large
double wooden gates, which have metal bars to close them, there
is a small door for pedestrians. It contains a peephole through
which the guards can inspect anyone seeking entrance on foot or
by car. Persons arriving by car sound a horn to notify the guards
that they wish admittance. If the guards recognize the pedestrian
or driver, they open the gate and admit them. If the person is
not known, the guards ask his identity and whom he wishes to see _
and telephones to the person: named and requests permission to .
admit the visitor. If permission is given, the gate is opened
and the visitor proceeds without escort. Each gate guard is
armed with an M-52 rifleandaPPShA or Czech M-25 machine gun,
and may in addition carry a personal weapon, usually a pistol. - \
The gates are opened by hand, not electrically.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

   
 
 

ot 69 Om
ee ob on

 

 
 

XP (AMMUG-1)
i_Cscr- 316/02296-

 

  
   

[Sone (oye

 

ae.
 

10.

om

$-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-3- CSCI+316/02296-65

members, besides ths four DSE men. ‘The office at Calle 94’was
Still unoccupied itn April 1964 but was guarded by two DSE men.

While the MA Section existed, it had a secret office like that
ia “M" Building, but when the section divided, LN did not
establish a new secret office ter itself.

Only members of tho DGI are admitted to DGI official installa=
tions; not even members of “other government security agencies

may enter the DGI buildings. Any contact a DGI officer wishes
with any non-DGI émplcoyve must be made outside the official
establishments. The DGI has one of its regular officers (identity
unknown) stationed in the DSE headquarters to handle liaison. A
DGI member who has business with the DSE applies to PINEIRO’s
secretary, “Vidalira”, who is the official contact center in

DGI headquarters, stating whom ke wants to see and why. “Vidalina”
gets in touch with the DGi liaison officer at DSE headquarters,
and arranges with him a contact in some public place between the
officers of the two servides. When the appointment is made,
“Vidalina" notifies the OGI requesting ¢cfficer, the DGI liaison
notifies the DSE responding officer, and tha two mect according

to the arrangements mad+ for them. Tka only possible exception

to the above rule is Ramon VASQUEZ, who may be a member of the
DSE. Before 1961, VASQUEZ had an extensive acquaintance in the
government; when the DSE was formed in 1961, he became a recruiter
ef personnel for it. From there, because of his large number of
contacts, he extended his Services to the DGI, reporting to it. any
persons he considere | suitable for starf employment. It is not
certain whether he is a merber of the DSE, of the DGI, or of some
other agency, cr whether his activaticos in this line are official
or unofficial, At any rate, he may enter the DGI offices when-
ever he wishes, He was trained in Moscow before April 1961 and

at the time cf the Bay of Pigs was suddenly promoted from
lieutenant to captain.in the G-2.

The DGI has an office to which porsons may apply for employment
and where new recruits are interviewed. It is in Edificio 51, |
on the 12th floor, at 13th and N, Vedado, Havana,

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
