 

 

 

20. With respect to the use of drugs, the Subject states thet ho
has never used drugs in any form.

  

21. With regard to his drinking, Subject stated that aside
the November incident which culminated in his arzest he has never -
to such an extent wherein his faculties ware imeyred.

22. The Subject was again asked in regard to any contact 1
Alex either immediately before or after his arrival in Fioride anc he
stated that but for the one phone call he has not been in touch with
hin. The Subject explained that efter his talk with SHROUD? his wits
told people who called that he was “out of town job hunting,” but did
not give any location. Upon leaving the aroa the Subject states he
has used his mother's home as a forwarding address. @ states ti
this is in care of his brother-in-law Clifford MOSHER on Brinker’
in Utica. :

 

 

 

23. In answer to the question as to whether or not the Subdjeet
entertains any sytpathy for Cormmism he replicd that h2 has nonc.

  
 
 

24. The Subject was next asked if he nad ever bean
of a recruiter) approach by Alex or anyone else in the cis
Cormmunist Party movement.
Hew York he mentioned leaving the governmint and a i
for kinsclf. He stated that at the time he was thinking of opening 2
14-00000

book store. Alex is supposed to have said, “don't leave your government
job, you are just where we want you in the Pentagon." Subject stated
that his reply to this was just a laugh. The Subject claims that at

this point he had adopted a rather frivolous attitude toward Alex. He
explained further that he considers him dangerous. By this he does not
mean that he was personally afraid of Alex, but that he recognized him

as @ revolutionary. ‘The Subject quoted ROBINSON as saying that Alex
worked against "Snick” and Ray sighted an incident where Alex kept trying
to stir up the looters in Brooklyn, New York in 1964 when snick was trying
to calm them dow. Subject likewise stated that during the trip Alex
had bragged that he ingited riots in Brooklyn, Jersey City, Philadelphia,
and perhaps Cleveland. ;

25. The Subject next told me of a session with Alex in the homo-

- \__-sexualts apartment in New York City. Subject identifies these as Russ

BATTLE and John BROOKS, 160 West 85 Street, Apt. 6-A. He stated that

in this apartment he also met’ a young man named Weldon YOUNG of 436
Street, Nicholas Ave, New York City. Subject described him as being
elther a student of pharmacology or of medicine at a New York City school.
The Subject claimed that at one point both homosexuals and he told Alex
that they were not in sympathy with Communism, where upon Alex became
very angry and finelly waxed sullen. Subject was next asked for his
empression of the WE DuBois group in New York. He stated that it was
clear to him that this organization was dominated or heavily infiltrated
by CP members. He states that Alex circulated throughout the hall talking
to various groups ard paid little attention to him. The Subject was
approached by an elderly well-dressed negro man who obviously commended
great respect from other members of this organization. This man, whose
name he did not learn, spoke to him at length the tennor of which was
that the United States is the aggressor in Viet Nam. ~

26. At this point the Subject was excused and told to report back
to this office at 900 hours on 28 September.

Daniel A. Cullen
14-0000

. with these people.

on several occasions after April 25 but Subject had already departed.
He explained that his wife joined him in Florida approximately one
week after his arrival there. ROBINSON had informed his wife that
he was coming out to visit her, however, he never showed up.

d- With regard to PASSIKLOFF, Subject states that ‘he is vague
and may have talked to Alex on the telephone on one occasion prior
to his departure from Florida. He believes that on the one occasion
when he spoke to Alex.Alex mentioned his classes on labor unions, and
the Subject said he put him off by saying that he would be in touch
with him later. The Subject stated that on the several occasions

~ prior to-his. departure -for-Florida-he avoided talking to Alex because. ,

of Mr. SHROUDT's admonition against becoming any further involved

 

"6." With respect to his Wldnight trip to New York in the ‘company ~-
of Alex PASSIKLOFF and Al SMITH, I asked the Subject what his wife's
reaction was to this rather hasty decision. The Subject replied that
his wife is usedto his meandering and did not question him nor express
any surprise in any way. He explained that his wife is more the home
body and more. introverted than he, where as he is rather gregarious.
The Subject described his marriage as a happy one and states that he

' and his wife and six year old boy live in perfect harmony.

T. I next questioned the Subject about his visit to the Corcoran
street address where he and Alex were apparently the only white persons.
The Subject reminded me that the wife of the home owner of that address
was @ white woman. He was never introduced to his host and hostess
and never heard their names.

8. I asked the Subject how he knew that marijuana was being
smoked during this get together. He stated that Ray ROHKINSON told him
they were smoking "pot". Ray offered him one but he refused and used
as an excuse that he had once tried it but had become ill. Although
Ray was the only person whom he saw smoking, it was obvious from the
number of hand rolled cigarette butts in the ash tray that others had
also smokey it. He described the meeting as being made up of little
 

[og 10256-10219

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 27 September 1965

SUBJECT : WILCOTT, James B. Jr.
FILE NUMBER: #109301.

1. Reference is made to Mr. BUNN's report. of interview of the
Subject in Miami dated 28 July 1965. Although the Subject had been
summoned, by cable on 20 July, no reply had been received as of 27 .
duly. Upon coordinating with Jerry-MULLANE SO/WH division.on this oo
date I was advised that Subject had arrived in his office at that
very moment. Mr. MULLANE sent him forthwith to Room 4 # 58 where
the Subject was interviewed by the writer.

; 2. The Subject advised that he had arrived at the Headquarters

i area early last evening and wes staying at the Park Arlington Motel

‘ at Arlington Blvd. and U. S. 50. His room number is 205-A and he may

: be reached on 52h-000. Subject further advised that he is ostensibly
an employee pn Miami, Florida.

 

 

- 3. I reminded the Subject that at the time that he was inter-
viewed by Mr. BUNN he had volunteered to take a polygraph examination
on any of the information which he had provided. Subject replied
that he recalled this very well and that he was perfectly willing
to take this examination.

4. I asked the Subject if he had been in contact with any of
the Civil Rights Workers about whom he had reported previously, since
going to Florida. I asked him most specifically in connection with
Ray ROBINSON and Alex PASSIKLOFF. He replied that be had not seen them
since the New York trip in April of this year. He qualified that state-
ment to this extert wherein he stated that ROBINSON had called his home

im ey
14-00000

™ ” . pieeeds of -

ceed

groups of people sitting around on the floor who paid no particular
attention to him. Alex talked to him about labor organization and
advised him that he conducted classes and Subject could join his class.
Alex did not say where or when these classes were held and Subject did
not pursue it any farther. Subject states that he had not drunk mich
at this time possibly four or five drinks, however, he was interested
in what was going on and purposely held back on the liquor.

9. From Corcoran Street he accompanied Alex and Ray to Alex's
room at the Cairo Hotel. He estimates that they may have spent as
much as one hour there and had one drink going from there to jazz land
on 1h Street. While at Alex's room he saw that Alex had numerous copies —

 

of the WORKER displayed. Alex told him that hé had all kinds of litera- - ae
ture and that if a member of the John Birch Society were to visit him
he.could provide that person with the particular literature to his liking.

_—_____-the- Subject. explained that_Alex made no bones of the fact that he was

a Communist Party member, however, he stated that he did not always
agree with Moscow or Peking, however, he had worked for the Party all
his life and had been jailed for them on occasion.

- 10. Subject was next questioned about the events leading up to
his arrest with Ray ROBINSON in November 1964. ‘The Subject stated that
on that particular evening Ray had invited him to his brother's home
to meet his brother and sister-in-law. The Subject does not remember
where this house is located. He states that the brother is named Robert
ROBINSON and he is an employee of the District of Columbia government.
He is reported to be a radio technician servicing radios on cars owned
by the District of Columbie. During the course of the hour or so that
he spend there there was‘no talk of civil rights. Ray had told him
that his brother is not a civil rights worker and Ray is constantly
trying to recruit hin.

11. From the ROBINSON house Subject and Ray went to the Subject's
home in Forrestville. While they were there the Subject consumed
several scotches while Ray talked with Subject's wife. Ray showed
her some draft notes he had compiled for a book he was proposing to
write. He was trying to interest Subject's wife in organizing and
assembling it for him. According to the Subject this proposed book
was although autobiographical in nature it described his experiences
in the civil rights movement.
14-00000

Cee a ce a mn meee beaten &

12. ‘The Subject states that when he went to drive Ray home the
liquor suddenly hit him and he stopped the car. He moved over to
permit Ray to drive. The Subject believes that the scotch on top of
the bourbon he'd had at the brother's house coupled with the lack of
sleep the night before put him out. Subject was very vague concerning
the circumstances surrounding his arrest. He vaguely recalls a police
officer talking to him and recalls being placed in the patrol wagon.
The Subject denies fighting with Ray and stated that Ray was pushing
and shoving him in an effort to rouse him. Ray told him that he wanted
to take him somewhere for coffee to help him sober up. Subject claims
that at first he thought perhaps Ray had done something which antagonized
the officer thereby causing their arrest. He stated that he called
the officer a day or so later to ask what had actually happened and
learned that it was the officer's impression that they had been fighting.
The officer stated he locked them up for his own protection.

 

13. The Subject was again reminded that he was remiss in his duties
in not reporting this at the time. The Subject stated in order to justify

_ his failure to report that he felt it was an unjustified arrest. He ~~

 

explains this by saying that had he been driving the car in His intoxicated

condition it would have been another matter.

14. With regard to Subject's picketing activity, the Subject
stated that they had spent some time picketing the White House with a
group from All Souls Unitarrian Church. He states the nature of this
protest was the execution of the Reverend REEVE a clergyman who lost
his life in Alabama. He stated that he carried a sign bearing the legend
which said, "stop brutality in Alabama.”

15. With regard to his contact with the ROTONDIS, JACKSON, PASSIKLOFF,
ROBINSON and MONSOUNIS the Subject stated positivily that there has been
no contact with these people either in person, by telephone, or by mail
since early April prior to his Florida assignment.

16. Subject states that he has not participated in any civil rights
activity of any kind since his assignment to Florida.

17. The Subject was next asked if he had been in contact with
Al SMITH, the Howard University student since the New York escapade.
He replied that he has not seen nor heard from his’since the drive back
to Washington.
