 

"~~ (SEVENTH DEPARTMENT ~ January 1962-January 1964)

- was no‘indication-in OSWALD's file that the KGB had had any

 

Cig: ME ice ML cae?

OSWALD never , received any KGB training. or KGB assign-
ments. If. any other department of the KGB or the GRU had
wanted to use OSWALD in any way, it would have had to secure
permission from the Seventh Department, which originally °
‘opened his case file. .In view of OSNALD's apparent mental
instability, no Soviet intelligence organization, particu- .
larly not the Thirteenth (Assassination and Sabotaqe)
Department,: would have’considered using him. KGB Head-
quarters did not maintain a control file on him following
his settlement in Minsk, as it would have done had OSWALD
been of any ‘operational interest. ‘The. only KGB record on
OSWALD maintained in Moscow was an indéx card giving his
name and the fact the Seventh Department had originated a
file concerning him. . ;

se a oc

The KGB maintained no separate file on Marina OSNALD;..
all information about her was kept in OSWALD's file. There

Frey

interest in Marina either while she was in the Soviet Union
or after she left for the United States. .

se cog wm hae tet

a a ai

Comment: NOSENKO later told CIA on one occasion that he

; "only skimmed the file" and on another that he

had it in his possession about 20 minutes. In ‘

October 1966 he again said that he read the s

file and that while doing so he saw a picture

ef OSWALD for the first time. NOSENKO added

that he never met OSWALD personally. ;
NOSENKO's assertion that the KGB First Chief

Directorate first learned of OSWALD when he

applied for a re-entry visa in Mexico City in

September 1963 is probably incorrect. The.

consular file turned over to the U.S. Govern-

‘ment by the Soviet Embassy in Washington

after the assassination indicated that the KGB

First Chief Directorate would have known of :

OSWALD as early as February 1963 if not earlier...

‘That file contained Marina OSWALD's letter of /

February 1963 and a letter of July 1963 from

OSNALD, both of which indicated that OSWALD had

Ps

try

‘a “at

ra

L 7 | Oe ; . | TS No. 197124
Za Secret © Copy --——_

 
 

.

 

 

st Taf Seoret

‘~_ (SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964) , —_

Comment: (Continued)
; earlier requested permission to “return to ‘the
Soviet Union. In the last dated letter of the
file, one of 9 November 1963, OSWALD advised: —
the Soviet Embassy in Washington of his travel .
: ; ‘under alias to Mexico, his fruitless contact
! 7 - . with an official (whom CIA identifies as a
‘KGB officer) of the Soviet. Embassy in Mexico
‘City, his contact there with the Cuban Consulate
,and his efforts to reach Havana in order to
‘visit the Soviet Embassy there. Without regard -
to possible earlier correspondence, . OSWALD's
request for 4 Soviet visa addressed to the
' Embassy in-Washington in July 1963 would require
the Washington Residency to report the matter
.to Moscow just as NOSENKO described the Mexico
ede: seve City Residency. later did. NOSENKO's apparent
pS Ses =. 8 “Egnorande ‘Of OSWAED's ‘“comminications-with. the .-sssv tr.
Soviet Embassy in Washington discredits his
@laim to complete knowledge of all aspects of
the KGB relationship with OSWALD.

 

The CHEREPANOV Papers

‘Comment: -On 4. November 1963 in Moscow, a MEZHKNIGA
a employee claiming: ‘to be one CHERFPANOV, passed
"to an American”-book~buyer a package which he
“--Yequested the American to deliver to a trust=
... worthy person at the American Embassy. Embassy
' .o££icials found the package to contain a.
‘bundle of typed or handwritten documents which
appéared to have originated in classified KGB
(files. Fearing a Soviet provocation which
: ., could lead to.a denunciation of the Embassy.
“. for- possessing classified Soviet Government
; ’ doctiments, Embassy officials had the documents
“photographed and on the next day, 5 November,
_ xeturned the originals to the Soviet Ministry
_- Of Foreign Affairs.

CS ea!

a8

hi bs

ae SN, 197724

bash task

 

ECR RUT AE ST
13-00000

 

coi eee ee neem meet en
na pce ct» corte ea meme at mt

He

 

--+—--(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT ~ January 1962-January 1964) - ,

Bass

rs

Post~Assassination Review of KGB File

NOSENKO next learned of OSWALD's activities as a result
of President Kennedy's assassination. About two hours after
President Kennedy was’ shot, NOSENKO was advised of this fact
in a telephone call to his home from KGB Headquarters. A
short while later he was told, again by telephone, that the
President had died. Aboyt two hours later, NOSENKO was told.
that OSWALD had been arrested, and he and the other officers
‘of the American Tourist ‘Section were called in to determine
whether the KGB had any information concerning him. After
establishing OSWALD's identity from KGB files: and learning
that his. file was still in Minsk, NOSENKO phoned ‘the KGB ;
office in Minsk on GRIBANOV's orders. | The local KGB, dictated. .....-.
.-over-the :teLephoné a summary Of its” File “on OSWALD. “This |

summary concluded with the statement that the KGB in Minsk
z had attempted "to influence OSWALD in the right direction".
= GRIBANOV had been greatly disturbed about the local KGB's
efforts because it had been given specific instructions to .
carry out nothing other than passive measures against OSWALD
there. He ordered that all records in Minsk pertaining to
OSWALD's stay there, as well as an explanation of the |
meaning of. the statement about influencing OSWALD, be flown
immediately. to Moscow by military aircraft. NOSENKO personally
xead the explanation from Minsk concerning the meaning of
this statement and thoroughly reviewed OSYALD's file when
it arrived by plane. He then turned the file over to S.M.
FEDOSEYEV, ‘the Chief of the American Department..of the KGB
Second Chief Directorate, who prepared a two-page summary
memorandum for GRIBANOV. This memorandum, which NOSENKO
read, was. forwarded to KGB Chairman Semichastnyy, and

Semichastnyy in turn reported to the CPSU Central Committee
and to Khrushchev. concerning ite

3

a)

<
.
a

Ce ee

Wa ie

OSWALD's: file: from Minsk. contained no information to
indicate that the KGB in Minsk had taken any action with
respect to OSWALD. contrary to instructions from KGB Head-
quarters, From the date of OSWALD's arrival in the USSR
until his departure, the KGB had no personal contact with
him and had not attempted to utilize him in any manner.

am

we | TS No. 197124
Oo V6 Secret Copy, Tt

ene ee ce ne cepeane eee eT aes emn: Ie vem ee

.
‘

 

 
NOSENKO thought he himself was 3 present at the time.
was given OSWALD's background, including his suicide attempt

. (SEVENTH DEPARTMENT ~ January 1962-January 1964)

and the fact that he was not considered normal, and was

told to advise the First Chief Directorate that OSWALD should
not. be permitted ‘to return to the Soviet Union. ALEKSEYEV .

xvelayed this. information to the First Chief Directorate.

NOSENKO did not know -to whom OSWALD had spoken“ at the
' Soviet Embassy in Mexico City, and he knew of no contacts
between OSWALD. and. Cubans or representatives of the Cuban
Government there or elsewhere. _ :

Comment:

“Independent sources, however, reported on
' wisits by OSWALD to the Cuban. as well as

Soviet. Embassies in Mexico City between 29
September and. 3 October. 1963 and on his

- (apparently overt) contact with a KGB officer

under Consular cover at the Soviet Embassy
there. NOSENKO originally said he knew |
nothing of any such contact. In October 1966

he revised this to say that OSYALD did not.:

have contact with the KGB in Mexico City.

' NOSENKO explained that he had been sitting. in

the office of Seventh Department Chief, K.N.
DUBAS, when a cable arrived at Moscow Head-
quarters from the KGB Legal Residency in :
Mexico... The cable, which NOSENKO said he did
not personally see, reported that OSWALD had

. Visited the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City
requesting permission to return to the USSR

and that the cable specified that OSWALD had.
dealt with Soviet Foreign Ministry personnel
only.

306

TS, No. 197124

 

pee S Secret : : Copy

ALEKSEYEV

 
 

 

Boa c scent ° ; C. ,
(omian sera - January 1962-January 1964)

; Although the KGB considered it possible that OSWALD’
might be an American agent, the KGB did nothing to
investigate this possibility because "this would be
done after the person is allowed to stay in the Soviet. -
Union." Surveillance of OSWALD was not increased after |
his request, and OSWALD was not interviewed by the KGB

in an attempt to establish his intentions. KRUPNOV
“sent NOSENKO, his chief, a memorandum on information ;
which had been received concerning OSWALD. The memorandum
cited reports by KGB informants at the Hotel Berlin, where
OSWALD was staying in accordance with an Inturist itinerary
and a two-page report by the Inturist interpreter to whom
OSWALD made his initial request to remain in the Soviet
Union. A file incorporating all information which KRUPNOV
had collected was thereupon opened in NOSENKO's section.

From this information NOSENKO and KRUPNOV concluded
--that. OSWALD was. of no interest to the. KGB,..and both agreed
that OSWALD appeared somewhat "abnormal." For this reason
NOSENKO instructed KRUPNOV’ to advise OSWALD through the
Inturist interpreter that he would not be permitted* to
remain permanently in the USSR and that he must depart on
the expiration of his visa, then seek re-entry. asa. _
permanent resident through normal channels at the Soviet
Embassy in Washington. KRUPNOV followed NOSENKO's orders,
and either that day or the next NOSENKO learned that OSWALD
failed to appear fora scheduled tour arranged by his
Inturist guide. This prompted a search, and after several
hours, OSWALD was found in his hotel room, bleeding heavily
from self-inflicted wounds. After hearing of this incident
from KRUPNOV, NOSENKO then reported it to K.N. DUBAS, Chief
of the Seventh Department. -NOSENKO believed that DUBAS in
turn reported it te GRIBANOV, head of the KGB Second Chief
Directorate. GRIBANOV upheld NOSENKO's. original decision
that. the KGB should not become involved with OSWALD and -
that OSWALD should not be permitted to remain in the USSR.

There was no attempt to debrief OSWALD because "he was
‘not an interesting person and wasn’t normal." OSWALD was
never questioned on his past nor..asked to write ano auto-
biography.

fo : 304 :
. , so TS No. 197124

Tob Seoret cay

 

some wots nme a ne te ee

 

 
 

Shea ae

19h Secret 7 .

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - ~ January 1962-January 1964)

NOSENKO did not’ know who eventually’ granted
OSWALD permission to reside temporarily in the USSR
or who approved issuance of his temporary residence permit.
The KGB gave instructions that he not be allowed to live
in the Moscow area. Either the Soviet Red Cross or the.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs may have made this decision
.to assign OSWALD to Minsk. ‘The Seventh pepartment updated

his file, and it was sent, along with a cover letter pre-

pared by KRUPNOV, to the local KGB organization in Minsk.
KRUPNOV's letter summarized the case and specifically in-
structed local authorities there to take no action con-
cerning OSWALD except to observe his activities "passively"
to make sure’ that he was not an American Intelligence agent
on temporary "sleeper" status. NOSENKO read this letter,

. and it was signed by DUBAS. On the basis of the instructions

contained in the letter, NOSENKO said, no active steps could
--be -taken in Minsk without KGB Headquarters approval. It was

". NOSENKO's opinion that the only coverage of OSWALD during

his stay in Minsk consisted of periodic checks at his
place of employment, questioning of his neighbors and
associates, and coverage of his mail. After OSWALD's
threatened second suicide attempt, the KGB “washed its
hands of him". and that éven though there was considered
to be some possibility that he was a "sleeper agent, "
KGB Headquarters interest in him while he was in Minsk
was "practically. nil.”

Request to Return to the USSR

The KGB Second Chief Directorate was not concerned
with OSWALD's' return to the United States in June 1962,
by which ‘time NOSENKO was Deputy Chief of the Seventh
Department... ‘No further word on him was received at KGB -
Headquarters until he appeared at the Soviet Embassy in
Mexico. City in September 1963 and requested a visa to ;
xeturn to the Soviet Union, The Mexico Legal Residancy
reported his visit to KGB Headquarters by cable, re= :
questing information. The KGB First Chief Directorate.

had no record on OSWALD. M.I. TURALIN, Deputy Chief of

the First Chief Directorate's Service Number Two (Counter-
intelligence Abroad) called the Seventh Department to

see if the latter element had any information on OSWALD, —
The Chief of the Sixth Section of the Seventh Department,.
v.K. ALEKSEYEV, ‘received the call and reported the in-
quiry to Seventh Department Chief CHELNOKOV or to KOVALENKQ.

305
TS No. 197124
-% Secret , Copy —L. ,
 

pace

en c aa Oe

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - June 1955-January. 1960)

claims that he saw NOSENKO on three occasions,
“twice in Odessa, while visiting the USSR in 1962 and
1963. NOSENKO insisted that he met but once
in Odessa and once in Moscow in that period. :

 

 

 

 

.

 

Comment: NOSENKO volunteered his account of the
case in Geneva in 1962 and 1964. MWe freely

at related the details of the 62 and
February 1963 meetings_with in the
. USSR. His account of activities is

consistent with version, except as
noted above.

 

 

 

Lee Harvey OSNALD (1959-1960)

For continuity of. presentation, both periods of NOSENKO's:
alleged involvement with OSYALD in 1959-1960 and in 1963
are described elsewhere. (See p.303.) According to NOSENKO,
he was involved with OSWALD in 1959 because he was then
Deputy Chief of the American-British Commonwealth Section
of the Seventh Department. In that capacity he participated
in the decision that OSWALD was of no interest to the KGB

' and he should not be allowed to remain in the Soviet Union.

4

    
   
 
  
 
   

Comment: NOSENKO's information on his involvement with
" OSWALD in 1959 is insufficient. to serve as
evidence confirming or refuting his claimed
service as Deputy Chief of the American Section
of the Seventh Department in 1959.

ae -TS No, 197124
. tof Secret Copy —-t__

 
(04-10429-10094]

 

 

 

- (SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - June 1955-January 1960)

Operational Activities (1958-1960) .
Deputy Chief of the American-British Commonwealth Section

According to. NOSENKO, the Seventh Department was reorgan-

ized.in June 1958, and NOSEHKO's section, which theretofore

| had: been concerned with operations against foreign tourists
from all countries, was split into two new sections, one
concerned with tourists from the United States ané the
British Commonwealth and the other with tourists from Europe,
Latin America, and all other countries. NOSENKO claimed
that at that time he was promoted to the position.of Deputy
Chief of the American-British Commonwealth Section, "the
most important section of the Seventh Department". :

     
   

In September 1958, he claimed.to have personally recruited .

It was also i id, that he super-
vised the sexual entrapment of although Seventh
Department Chief DUBAS made the actual approach. Beginning

in the spring of 1959 he said he directed his agents YEFREMOV
and VOLKOV_in' a series of successful entrapments— ~DRET (LUKIS),

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

an NOSENKO stated that he also
(ase these. homosexual agents.in 1959 in compromising =
andi

 

 

Finally, NOSENKO said, he recriited the Moscow
YéprésSentative. of thel
NOSENKO claimed that his operational siecéss during 195
earned him a commendation from the KGB Chairman. [He has
since retracted all claims to any awards earned during his
KGR service.J] It was because of his position as Deputy ©
Chief of the American~British Commonwealth Section, NOSENKO
said, that he first became involved with Lee Harvey OS'ALD.

 

 

 

 

NOSENKO asserted that the recruitment of agents among: = — L
: foreign tourists was secondary to his department's principal
mission, the. detection of Nestern intelligence officers. and _ : |
agents among the increasing flow of tourists visiting the
Soviet Union. In line with that counterintelligence mission,
on General GRIBANOV's order in the fall of 1959, NOSENKO

ERE
Ta te

Wer (ue ruins

cet . . CLASSiFloaTion REVIEW ps . k
_ eonovoray ow 9S “9-7 SAE i
9 AQ : ; DERIVATIVE cL BY a !
Document Number 1549- f= 127 woe 0 payne ro
for FOIA Review on. FEB 1978 , : peanven FaoM . Oo. 1971 24

” ni 0. oo Tap Secret . .. Copy ft
i]

    
 

i
pLassiFicaTts
powpucteD O& ~%
DERIVATIVE

 

FULL TEXT COPY = DO NOT RELEASE
13-00000

 

   

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT ~ January 1962-January 1964)

“was promoted to the position of a (one of three) Deputy Chief
of the entire Seventh Department. A year later, he was made
‘Pirst Deputy Chief, and thus second-in-command to CHELNOKOV
and general supervisor of all Second Chief Directorate tourist
operations. The. Seventh Department, which had a strength of
about 100 KGB officers, was responsible for all operations .
against tourists in the Soviet Union. From this period NOSENKO
claimed to have. learned, either by virtue of his position as ~
Deputy Chief ‘of otherwise, of a number of KGB operations
against Americans, including two arrests, one recruitment, and
investigations of a suspected FBI agent and of Lee Harvey
OSWALD. NOSENKO as well attributes to his senior KGB posi-
-“tioen during this period his knowledge of an American GRU agent
and of the KGB investigation of a disaffected American Embassy
Section officer, the latter occurring just before NOSENKO re-
-turned to Geneva for the second time, and defected.

 

. Recruitment of

.

 

 

 

NOSENKO's Information ©. 7s =

In September 1963, NOSENKO took over from his subordinate, .
Seventh Department case officer Ye.N. NOSKOV, the management

ef KGB agent ) (eryptonym "ANOD") .
was the president o

and the owner of a|
| ®here was originally somé suspicion

_ that might be an FBI informant, and the KGB was
also concerne over(o contacts with AMTORG per-

sonnel in New York_City. NOSKOV, the case officer at the
time, "felt" that was not an FBI informant and
recruited him in or after he was arrested for
blackmarketeering, while visiting the Soviet Union.
cooperation was secured against KGB promises that
Inturist would refer business to the agent's New York travel
agency- .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: task was to. screen visa applications of
prospective tourists to the Soviet Union for persons who
might be connected with American Intelligence. If he suspected .
such a person, he would make a signal by moving the photograph
on the visa application slightly, or making a small pin-prick Ke
or ' pencilled mark on the application form.

 

 

 

° - 292 : : i

: : TS No. 197124 |
a. 469 Seoret Copy — — r

Fe ee a eee ee eee meee

 

 
wan whi

nati,

__ - (SEVENTH DEPARTMENT ~ January 1962-January 1964)

The OSWALD CASE

NOSENKO's knowledge of the KGB's interest in. :
OSWALD stemmed from his claimed Tourist Department ~
assignments. He asserted that while Deputy Chief.
of the American Section in 1959 he participated in
the KGB determination that OSWALD was of no operational
interest. In September 1963, when NOSENKO was Deputy
Chief of the Tourist Department, he was informed of
OSWALD's visit to the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City to
apply to return to the USSR. Immediately following
President. Kennedy's assassination, NOSENKO, as
Deputy Chief of the Tourist Department, reviewed KGB
records of OSWALD'’s stay in the Soviet Union including
the Second Chief Directorate file on OSWALD.

For continuity of presentation, both periods of
--NOSENKO's alleged involvement with the OSWALD case
(1959-69 and 1963) are discussed here. -

_ The information NOSENKO provided on the OSWALD
case is significant if it substantiates. NOSENKO's a
claimed positions in the KGB and confirms the validity

of his claim that he knew the extent of KGB involvement
with OSWALD.

NOSENKO's Information
: Residence in the USSR

Prior” to OSWALD's arrival in the USSR, . he was
completely unknown to the KGB. Moreover, upon
receipt: of his visa application, the KGB Second Chief
Directorate determined that he was not of sufficient
importance to! justify any special interest by the
Seventh Department. Not until about October 1959,
when OSWALD expressed a desire to remain in the USSR
did he come to the ‘attention of NOSENKO,. who was, at
that time, Deputy Chief of the American Section of -
the Seventh Department. All available materials on .
him were. thereupon collected and. examined - the visa
application, Inturist reports, interpreters’ reports,
reports from hotel agents, and the results of a check
of KGB Archives. .NOSENKO's subordinate, KRUPNOV
interviewed the interpreter to whom OSWALD had stated
his wish to stay in the USSR...

, | S-Ne. 1.97124
2 303 . .
Oo 10h SSret  Gopy a

 

Nt ae APR re
