14-00000

i clos Se -

Security has not been received. Office of Security files have
been searched and pertinent information reviewed: Pending a
decision as to what form the response, if any, will take, it
is recommended that the Office of Security files containing
information pertinent to the request be retained in a readily
available status and no further action be taken at this time.

Lat.

Curtis R. Rivers

 

 
Cubela should be deferred to the Latin America
Division of the DDO, It should be. noted that
during their investigation, Senate Select
Committee staffers reviewed Cubela's raw files
from both the DDO and the office of Security.

i. Dade County Sheriff's Office repre-
sentatives requested the “names of the three
Cubans mentioned in the Roselli testimony."

It is believed that the response to this ques-
‘tion should be deferred to the Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence since the Office of
Security does not have access to the Roselli -
testimony. . -

3, Additionally, the Dade County Sheriff's Office repre-
sentatives ask for all Agency information pertaining to several
individuals of unknown citizenships, but believed to be U.S. ~ .
citizens. A review of the Office of Security indices in this
regard disclosed the following:

a. Fred Black--Office of Security records
revealed only newspaper clippings contained in
the Robert G. Baker subject file (260 273)
showing that Fred B. Black, Jr., a consultant
with North American Aviation, was a close
friend and business associate of ."Bobby" G.
Baker. Black was mentioned repeatedly in the ~
news media coverage of Senate investigations
of Baker in the early 1960's. While Black's
citizenship is undetermined, it is probable.
that he is a U. S. citizen. : :

b. Edward Morgan--A covert security file
- (46.394) was located“ regarding Edward Pierpont
Morgan, date and place of birth 28 May 1913,
_ St. Louis, Missouri. - Morgan, a U. S. citizen
-and former FBI agent from 1941-1945, was — .
granted a Covert Security Clearance on 2 Feb-
ruary 1951 for use as a “cut out in connection

with negotiations for the( |

=

 

 

 

 

pd
14-00000

‘in providing covert legal support for opera-

form

The Covert Security Clearance was amended and
approved in March 1951 to include Morgan's use

tions in the form of a “cut out", legal advice,
transmission of funds, and other assistance of _
a legal nature in connection with DDO projects. .
Since Subject may have been utilized by the DDO,

it is felt that any decision to release infor-
mation regarding Morgan should be deferred to

the DDO. a ; .

It is noted that while only the afore-
mentioned subject file exists regarding Morgan,
in his capacity .as Robert A._Maheu's personal
attorney, Morgan is mentioned sporadically in
the Maheu, Harvey, and Roselli files. In 1967
Maheu was interviewed and advised that he had °*

briefed Morgan regarding the details of his ~

involvement in the Agency~sponsored Castro
assassination plots. Morgan's current asso-
ciation with Maheu, professional and/or personal,
is unknown. Morgan is currently practicing law
in the District of Columbia law firm of Welch
and Morgan.

c. Joseph Shimon--No Office of Security
subject file exists regarding Joseph Shimon,
aka: Joseph Shiman. However, he is mentioned -
in the Johnny Roselli file as a personal friend
of Roselli. It is further noted in the Roselli
file that. Shimon knew Maheu, but the nature and

extent of their official/social relationship is

unknown. Shimon is described as a former

‘District of Columbia Metropolitan Police Depart~

‘ment (MPD) inspector who was discharged from the
D.C. MPD as a result of a conviction’ involving
wiretapping activities.

4. To date, no decision has been made as to the type and

of response to be made to the Dade County Sheriff's Office -

request. Additionally, a formal request to the Office of

 

 
74-0000

8 October 1976

 

   

APPROVES FOR RELEASE 199
CUA HISTORICAL REVIEW Prec

    

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Security

 

 

 

FROM . : Curtis R. Rivers

 

SUBJECT 7 : Dade County Request for Agency Assistance
: . Regarding the Death of Johnny Roselli

1. The following is provided for your information and :
pertains to an assessment of the- information Contained in ‘Ee
Office of Security files relevant to the request from the ;
Dade County Sheriff's Office pursuant to their investigation -
of the death of Johnny Roselli. : - . .

2. The Dade County Sheriff's representatives requested
all Agency information pertaining to several Cuban nationals.

A review of Office of Security indices in this regard dis-
closed the following: ; .

“a. Ramon Don Eestevez Dominquez--Office of , foe
Security records were negative. : Be

 

b. Rolando Masferrer Rojas--Covert..(36. 859)_ : j
and overt (352 772) security files were located :
regarding Rolando Arcadio Masferrer (Rojas), aka: .
Roland Rojas Masferrer, a Cuban citizen born ee
- 12 January 1918 in Holguin, Cuba. Although

limited national agency checks were conducted on

Subject in January 1950, there is no indication

that Masferrer was ever utilized by the Agency.

He is a former Cuban senator and Cuban Communist

_ Party member. (expelled in 1945), a former com-

mander for Batista's private army, and firmly

anti-Castro. The two files contain numerous FBI

reports regarding his activities in connection

with an attempt to invade Cuba in 1960 and a
' subsequent effort to invade Haiti in 1967.

Masferrer and 75 of his followers were arrested 7 . &
‘in January 1967 in Marathon, Florida, while . .
preparing for the invasion of Haiti.

 

 

- E2 IMPDET .
= ET oo CL BY 007472
id. .

 
ft

 

[toetorzacoars] 2 oo8

~ STING" AND. RECORD SHEET

Dade County Request for Agency Assistance
egdrding the Dedth of Johnny Roselli -

 

SUBZECT: (Optional) | *

os 8 October 1976.

FROM:

Curtis R. Rivers

TO: (Ofices designation, room number, ond

I
all
Sia

building} COMMENTS (Number each comment te show from whom
fo whom, Draw @ line cores column alter eoch comment}
i.
C/SAG ; ; Fr: . -

  
   
    

 

Ff
*

Cfo PSPS!

Na
rE
CEH

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

 
 

   

J.

 

   

ta

 

“z

610 “Estee J] SECRET “CONFIDENTIAL «=[] INFRUAL =] UNCLASSIFIED

O
 

Masferrer claimed that his Haiti invasion -
plot was approved by the U. S$. Government (varying
‘between the CIA and the FBI as the approving .
agency). . While the CIA approval claim was untrue, :
Agency concern, at the time, centered around the -
possibility of unfavorable publicity and the : i
compromise of sources and methods if the Agency i
_was forced to disprove Masferrer's charges in i

_. Court. <A handwritten note’ in Masferrer's-file eo. ar
revealed that he died in 1975 when his car was . |
‘blown apart by a bomb in-Florida. No further , '
details regarding his death were contained in i
his subject files. Since Masferrer has never . i
been ‘affiliated with the Agency, despite his i
claims, it is believed that Dade County officials |

. Should be referred to the FBI for information .. |
xegarding Masferrer. : . : . : '

i

{

|

|

1

!

c, Inciano Nieves--Office of Security files
contain oe information
regarding Luciano Nieves Mestre, date and place
of birth 6 October 1933, Santa Clara, Cuba.

Nieves was on 4 February 1966 in
Florida. It was developed that he was a Cuban:
national who had been arrested, tried, and |
sentenced to 20 years in Cube for allegedly !
being involved in an anti-Castro plot. He was . i
released in March 1965 after serving approxi- sO . I
mately. 16 months of his sentence and went to oO :
- in_hri ere he was of interest to the |
Ge _..in. August 1865 he entered the i
United States ‘and in November 1965 was contacted i
by Directorate of Operations (DDO) representatives,
From November’ 1965 until approximately January
1966 he was of operational interest -to the DDO.

 

 

It is noted that the DDO maintains a
201 £ile (201-788521) regarding Subject and it
is believed that the Office of Security would
have to defer any decision regarding the release
of information concerning Nieves to the DDO, -

  

 
74-0000

d, Jose de La Torriente--Security records
contain only sparse information provided by the
Domestic Contact Service in 1970 showing that
one Jose de La Torriente, not further identified,
claimed to have worked for the CIA for many ;

years. An attachment to a 1970 Domestic Contact
Service memorandum containing details of Torriente's
claimed association with the Agency was not con-
tained in Office of Security files. It is
believed that a decision to release information
“regarding Torriente would have to be deferred to
the DDO. ; : mo . :

e. Jose Quintana--Office of Security records
contain no information identifiable with Jose
Quintana. :

£. Jaoquin Antonio Cortizo--Office ‘of - : Oe
Security records.are négative.. :

g. _Manola Artimes--Security records contain
overt (611 523). and covert-.(210. 838).. files
_regarding Manuel Francisco Artime-Buesa. Artime-
Buesa is a former Agency operational asset
utilized by the DDO during the approximate
period 1959-1963. Any decision regarding the
release of information regarding Artime-Buesa or
his present whereabouts should be deferred to the
ppo. : : : :
- hh. AMLASH--Rolando Cubela (Secades), Agency
cryptonym--AMLASH, is the subject of the Office
‘of Security covert file 101 080... Cubela is a
rather celebrated Cuban national and operational
_ contact of the DDO mentioned throughout both of
the Senate Select Committee assassination reports.
Although Cubela is identified in the assassina-~-
tion reports as AMLASH and his identity has never
been revealed by the Agency, his true identity
has been surfaced in several recent news articles.
All information on Cubela in the possession of
the Office of Security would fall within the
_....*.. purview of the DDO, and it is believed -that any.
=" ""“|- “decision to release information pertaining to

“SECHET.

 
