74-0000

i6| pl

 

the Office of Security, which carried with it the inference that
he had been privy to all the repor 4(bgave to the FBI,
Roberts was told that I had dealt with Mr. Hogan's office, the
New York District Attorney, and Mr. Morgenthau, the United
States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, and had
talked with Herbert Itkin personally 03 was fully cooper-
ative during the entire debriefing and did not hesitate to discuss
any topics.

 

 
 
 
   

4, We concluded that has not been involved in any

of Itkin's illegal activities since has been an employee of
CIA, It is my opinion that individual with a strong
sense of dedication to principles’so long as they result in what he
considers a worthwhile sense of accomplishment. ,I think it is
significant to mention this assessment since| does not give
the impression of having been motivated solely by monetary rewards
in any of his activities. This lack of concern for money was dis-
turbing during certain phases of the debriefing because 03
was rather vague about the amount of income he received from the

 

 

 

 

 

law firm of | ig He stated that he used
a drawing account and only took what was needed for his living
expenses9? gives the impression of being a proud individual

who is not prone to admit to his personal deficiencies, The

02 (LEGLOBE files contain several references to admonitions given
by station representatives to for non-achievement in the
operational field. Although did not allude to these
admonitions voluntarily, hé did discuss them when asked.

. oO
5. It was our feeling that 4 did not discuss with
Herbert I[tkin his employment with CIA, nor did he discuss with

Itkin his earlier reporting activities to the FBI.03 was
not aware of Itkin's relationship to CIA and did not know of
Mario Brod's affiliation with CIA.

 

 

6. After the debriefing had been concluded, —" was
told of the possible exposure of his employment with CIA by
Itkin's defense counsel, F, Lee Bailey, should Itkin be tried in
the New York state court.?3 appeared to be genuinely
disturbed and expressed bitter feelings toward Itkin since he

 
 

[ig-t0107-10084

r

|e

93

 

V
RETURNTO CIA — OGC 69-0399
Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce 4 March 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

OF
suBsECT: (— |

 

 

os
l.. Messrs. Ward Greene, Office of Security, (Kenneth
Heinonen, (LBGLOBE Case Officer, and I arrived in Frankfurt,
Germany, at*1100 hours 9 February 1969, and were met by a

representative of the Mr, Greene and I then
were taken to a safehouse and Mr, (HeinddenDwaited for Mr.
to arrive from and then brought him to the

 

Q
Mr, einonen)did discuss general LDGLOBE matters and some

broad aspects of the Itkin problem with | on the afternoon

of 19 February. Mr. Greene and I went td%the (5-20
where we met with the Ghiet of Base) Mr. McManus, and Chief

of Security, Mr. Crawford. 27

safehouse,, It had been agreed upon earlier that the debriefing
of would not commence yntil Thursday morning; however,

 

o

2. It was decided to start the debriefing from
earliest contact with the FBI, which occurred in Boston some time
in 1950, and proceed chronologically coveniay subsequent
move to New York City, then aie his employment with the law

 

 

 

 

 

firm of which was followed in 1957 by
the formation of the law firm of |
Subsequently we discussed his employment with CIA, which
involved his disengagement from the New York law firm and

cover for his various trips to We repeatedly stressed
his contacts with Herbert Itkin over the years 1955 through 1967.

 

 

 

3, It was considered that Co haa a very difficult task
if he intended to conceal or deceive the Agency about his relation-
ships with Herbert Itkin. This conclusion was reached since

ould not anticipate what information was available to
the debriefers?3 was advised that Mr. Greene was from

 

 
74-00000

 

feels that such exposure could prevent him from performing
future operational assignments. He is enthusiastic about his
future assignment to and is hopeful that circumstances
will permit him to purstie'his operational tasks in the very

near future,

 

 

 

 

 

 

7. Mr. { left Frankfurt for the night of
21 February and was told to continue with his disengagement
plans as his departure from had already,been announced
to his local contacts. It was suggested that( take a boat oF
from [ to Marseille, After his arrival in Marseille,(_ |
was to proceed to Austria and take a ski vacation which is con-
sistent with earlier vacation plans when he traveled from
to Austria during the month of March for skiing in previous
years. Roberts has been instructed to remain in contact with

 

 

 

 

 

Q 27 BGLOBE so that further instructions can be furnished him when

i)

03

a firm estimate of future events with regard to the Itkin trial
can be decided,
7 (FH
8 On 24° Rebruary 1969, I discussed with Mr. David 3

 

 

Murphy, (Chief of Station, the possible exposure of

 

 

in the event Herbert. Itkin is tried in_th ew York state court.
I explained how had been a of Itkin but as a
result of our debriefing in Frankfurt we had concluded that

was not involved with illegal activities with Itkin since

has been employed by CIA. Mr. Murphy appreciated
being briefed on the complicated case but indicated that he was
anxious for to arrive inl ei his operational assign-
ment in view of the priority nee is services in penetrating
certain leftist organizations, Mr, Murphy felt that if Headquarters
was considering a cooling off. period for of approximately
three or four cant ak would hope that

 
  

spend this time in establishing himself with the target
community and not have any station contacts, Mr. Murphy
understands that this decision of necessity must be made at
Headquarters, but that he as Chiet of fel Btation) does not
feel that circumstances as they exist today represent a compromise

 

 

of such magnitude that would preclude| |  leperationa assignment
to
ry
DHN K
tant C eral 1
cc: C/EurDiv Stam ene re
CCS/LPGLOBE
D/Security

C/CI/R&A
