 

 

i

?

é
4
iF
:

2

 

HOE LARRY RRM eevee tecaunmare po

 

 

‘droresgion vas bani tue

‘a nasa deportation of

sue dnd ory:
ees bie Le sen:
nwa his oon
: \ arca avonnd is ne slected
nnd taat life must be extremely, hard,

£3. In addition to the universitv,there aro several

 
 
    

    

faa deerengt, thle

tceennieal ins titutes, bub Rene nad no onvortunity of visi-

tiny then. ia rene.vers that ho once oansed by a buildin:
vhich houses a military research institute / "vercnno-
miennyy ins titutn/, but without a map he was not able to
adesexvibe its location,

; #24, ‘ha ilinsk CVIR is located oovonite the school

no 25 or 42, It is housed in -the sare building «s "“militsiya"
and occunies several offices and rooms on the first floor,
poor nunbers 10911], It hes a very snail staff,7-3 male

~-anployecs and 2 females in the "“resistratsiya".

25, Rather large. military barrnclks are located on
the Grushevskays ulitsa, Yhey:can horse at least a division.

: 26, she Jewish community of iinsk is considered the
Larerest in the byolorussian gsi,dut is must have sarunk
considerably since ww TI. thero is still 1 very snall .
synagogue,which is open and attended py older people, . di
anti-senitisn is not felt by a visitor, but local Jows
told payeR that in the last years of stalin’ 3 life there

were serious excesses and that runors circulated about
the Jevish nonulation to ciberia,
/In 1958 kaae’ encountered a Jevish student in Leningrad
who told hia that even now certain carcers are closed to °
_ Jews such ag dinlonatic. service yullitary schools leading
to hinher ranks/.

27, amonz non-Jewish neople swe heard in 1959 .
some rather anising rumors : ho was esked repeatedly :
whether it was true that alsenhowor,ockereller,J.).
iorgan,Ford were. Jewish, ‘-hen ho deniod this,ho met

with considerable sceptisisa,

28. Kawieh «as asked if he had any Soviet litter =
still in his vossession,but the only thing that ne could
find was a tolley bus ticket /attached/. To his best re-
collection he has not seen any telephone directories in

any pablic place in idnsk.

Current sane 7 leads in Conenharen

ekqam™2°S current contacts vith forelen and
idents. are allevedly cuite Linited,besause he
reteravtioi) ules or oti
she thes amd
8.68 only con-

2a
vnnish stu
‘ win

avtoad

 
 

sane

 

slages vere ta

his riancee occuty his entire treo tine,
crete leaus of possible diaterest are:

SECM

 
 

von we ea Sete AONE NES EN of Rime Spe commen mmmenememns Fa eee
beg carte = Oe RN ET TO wn enaeae stn oof oe :

    

 

 

7° 1 o
, \
\ - 9 ¢ Oo
. = DS .
. . wot
rn 225 See S48 cn pebreent of aussion aid
\ nica mations hl ond ed ‘anys tuddeed da the wou ‘
/ Od Gn exelht @ stuoent naa cron her virn extendad wattle
stayin there until weeember 1960. Sho hnu been studvin? '
aestan Por at least S = 4 years and has now an ve rino ‘;
‘

: and of the lancuase. oho lives in Mllerga, a Joven +
: \ harncn suburb, preeise address unknown. jior future vlans
: : are, unigiown, /
1 r bree Seeker are 32-55, nossibly still in. oscow
but due be soon,probably at the end of the current

tera, «e ig also an ecchanne student and hed nis visa

also extended while ssill in the suk, Ne is a tencher.

tle has been in the Louk xrepeatcdly as 2 guide for n travel
orcainisation sTnter.ational wours?/, oe has been studying
yn fox a long tine, vanish national and citin a.

ef Fass seuke

 

        
   
 

 

 

2AG@ Rl-25,in genoval considered

. @ yount and activo va.uiiist or at least n pronounced
Yellov-teavoler, .paears to be an organizer and is vory : :
active in the sugsian-leasuage elub,"Sontnik", He has. .
becn in Leninwrad ani has sone rrienus thore,but hoe :
has not studied thera, .ddress unknown.

 

 

   
  

‘ “SYS e, cbwaegar are 40 plus,
toaches xussina lancndace courses cor besinners. Used to
i work * °¢ soho in Loscow,,iore information
is provadly vonbained in the Covenhagen University ca~
talons. ,

Of708S. Scurce ACH - 35-36, "eand,nag.", teaches
coursos oY sussian languave for lew andsor science stu-

dents,

 

T/ wwitR has no sosial contacts with the above
and knows thon oaly casually from the Slavic Institute.

Generrl renarks

SO, aavine deterained that the uy case vre-.

  

 

sents no current OPER AGIA L interest, tho only
p still valid lesson is that doatact vith gn7er shoulda :
wes aave been nrde alresdy in 1969,vhen it wan rirst broucht

? tothe attention of tae

 

_ é * aa?

° ethan od. saner

 
1400000
‘ ‘ . . - .
Coe . . Does :

Liana enstne tngmecionee CR PERES IE AEA. Sa descenmese ve ae be AT Ah ES NEM it no ac AETV PET OES © vores tid ote ft Hse weak yd

ba . 4

se one 9

pretend of sole us
yh om
» Awake orca
ia solouy
thet ore : Fun : . yout ured to .
nla ceca tlie.

ately lose to it

to unin sone

         

   
 

   

pope thet “ctor at unns th
fied his
ay On
-y weande, wis >

ile he vas not ce Latilyaen", ‘he wer
obvicusly used his father’s nosition

eos "+ yneerdal advaatares,

  
   
  

 

  

   

c/ oeverrl] other youns people, belon cin’ to tha
Sone APOUD, VRS Nas AdwP? Goes NOS Yeecollect and whose
nuin interests were jazz music,dancin«,rirls.

translator ct the suconobile a lant in vinsk,a pretty auburn
or neditn heitht non pawn TOs throuch tho other yous
peonle.in sumer Leo, ‘hey had a short-lived lovu i
ve which ended even before givti vas exuclled from the USc:,
since he discovered that she slent with several boys.
drina*s father must hive had a rood vesition,sirce the
family ovneé a nersonal car, iyina never rave wi hor
last nane but did not show much curios ty for his ner- :
sonal backnround either and eid not % to olicit any 1 I
information from hin,though she Gisslaved the usual curice :
sity for the life in the USA and Westorn-.urone. In her
work she trenslated snalish tecunical Jorrnals. she evoke
gn«lish fairly well but vreferred Aussion., she told Kare
that-she had been in Czechoslovakia und once mentioned
~ Te “that nerhays she would be sonetines able to cone to Den~ Se ee ee oo eee
mark as a tourist, ~zme met her rather freauently in dune : , _
and July 1959,at least once a veek,but vag invited to her
house only onee, when her parents were away.

of as with his relatives, «7k hardly ever
telxed politics with the above and did not make any arrante-
ments to keeo in touch by mail after his doparture fron

the USSR.

@/ Irina sloksandvovna atjace 28,Rnnlish len-esse . mos

 

 
  

   
    

 

 

 

  

 

’

Gereral inrormation on vlinsk in 1959 : : : '

19, As conpared with 1959, the bailing setdvitios rot
in 1929 "rere very intensive, pric marily bie blocks of hovsint soy
nrojects, the hotel "ins" vas comolcccd in Int 9. vevornl « '
heesias areas and some new buildians were auded to the :
university. . :

2G. In 1959 sone city Vistriets

trot

   

 

Pesan dioer vryit PEOMOPI OD, men

wt voc imint

rise ey Vheblities, woiletsraaniny Vatutute '
Sl. In 1889 there rere no serious short rcas, but

enite frecucnely neat dairy nroewuets yes Paste ham ad om oe

4a sort surdye

 
   

ars

  

 

   

3
2
t

 
 

i
i
;
i
4
Fs
f

 

 

 

- L —— ne

AeA BE ELE Parte Specie rasanenttet PEA STARS Der CEarOCer ERE atte eth a

 

,
PYG. Of Wir we Cocky, are 5b, Aware sy cousin, oldest
son or his Uncle, ss:

 

OLOAM Er, MaLried ton sussdan vonnn,
. chiltven,lives gouvhery in Lithtania ia tne vicinity of
“Aimius, Seen only once ty wwrk. oo is a varg lively
inaividual,net overly eanceted,but chrevd end apparently
ennable in his business. oli tion! in his viows.

b/ onan } CDSKY,are 40,arried to a Jewish
youan,algo to children. .- works in a photo *rapher” 8 studio
and carns thore about 1.6 rubles,but works also on the sly
and is vrobably cananod ulso in ninor black-muvket affairs.
his wife ls a tercher in a secondyry sehool and earna about
100% rubies ver nonth.-uhey veside in a new housing vroicet
in vinsk,orecise audress unknown. Houan B03 cou )ated
only tho “seniletka", ne was in military service a loares:
tine and resened tie rank of sexvgeant. sogpletely cooli-
tical in his vicwa. «e is an e:.cellent chess player.

! e/ Yevveniv .! CV are $0-40,husband oF
Ket” 3 ; aunt* 3. dauriver iron her forevious mirviarce, jud ce
in a criminal court,alle :cdly the only Jewish judge in the
encire byclorussian So2,but his salary is modest,only
1500 rubles in 1989, “e is probably a Conmunict and a
. _ party menber,but in 1956 or 1959 he was criticized in
i some byalorussian newsvaners for havine passed too lenient
senterices in some criminil cases. Yevgeniy .tccuikov was

 

 

 

extrenely careful in his rev contacts with «awer during —
the Jatter’s vicits in i.insk and never eugazed in any
political conversations. Pan

af Gricoriy REZUIKOV,brother of tho above,
age 26-28, dn 19209 vas in his Tast year of pzysics studios
at the univers ity of :.insk. mwrel hod only a few ensual
dontacts with hin,but ne jatroduced wwze to some other
young sovs in. AP Rene ov the above or any other relative
éxoccts to travel abroad. Kage’ docs not nmeintein any
corresvonuence with thorn.

Casual ecauaiuianees end contacts in the Us22 in 1937/89

  
  

o> VV, af Vladiniz, "Yolodyi"/ GUBZE lave Sf,
in . aan corked

  

entincerine= stusent av %.
viso nt an untinova Pacts
Yatner Ans the rare ul
Jevisn chaircen or kol:
yrs not a vo gnu cit not 20°

tiged ot 1 eee pe Te fee

SNR Te at

    
 
 

   

 

action or Y bein= one ot the few
:yetorussian 35.2. Vdlodva
any Laverest in noli~

       
 

Aes Savin eon
Sr the og. amt vs
Gad wos bevy of the . ins’ univer.

hererey

   

 

_ weno, em one

 
 

ene connor ate she PT ARS ate to tear NEI ARTI IF SA A RATT Tt WN IR A BEES NS i EE nO ORAS A Ar Cet A

’ . .

 

“pond

welioneons a hon cy abby a bo!

  

  

  

9. wares Pateer han his ousiness at say
af wee ill not be sblo to en? i
ediately after his return aone ane will
have to wort,it is vossitlo that he vill be helping his
father ia the, davter’s business.

lv. pera bus receive a lctver from his mother waco
inforas hin that sne is wehkias steos to brian out her brotaer
1 keine uncle ia alinsk/ offieinliy tornc @S. sbus kywige
is nut sure vhetaer she is thinkin’ of « teripornry visitor's
visa or ‘a versuuient Loudoration visa. .t any rate,she is
made out affidavits of suyvsort rer her brother.

. Al. kiwed veatTirued that he vas never a membor of

any orranization,excent ns a boy,when he joined the oca ; :
Cauets, In the district in which he srew un,most of the :
peovle wero of “nrocressive views" ,but his varonts took . :
ercat care to kcop hia out of this envircnment,send hin . ‘
to a Kebrew sciool,and in seneral took arent pains to - ;
educate him in traditional values. coth his varents and se

he hi:nself were considered and consider theaselvoes enti- i“
comnunists, rmnr § decision to study Russian was entirely !

his ovn and was vrinirily dictated by his desire to

learn nore about the countey of orisin of his paronts

and to enter a field which had nothin | to do with business,

He has never felt atorneted to business or money-nekiny

occunations,an attitude which has caused some conflicts - .
in the vast betveen hin and his father. |. Ca ee ee

   

 
 

    

   

Se AM Re re ee na Lem Gece age iemnencean

‘xevicw of motivaticn

: 12. wearer, reitcratea that in 1957 and 1958 he
2 did not consider his contacts with iLiYachXov as illicit
: or conflictin with his loyalty tovards'7¢> 745. ‘hough
KHYACLEOV told Rin to bs discreet abous thelr ‘contacts,
he alleredly told his fitands in Conennazon that ne vas
an neeting nin, ie vas vazucly aware of the diraction in which
: he vas boing pushed,but since he had'a stronz desire to
: ro to the USs2 and did not provide to MYACHKOV any "sub-
pt rsive information",he did not feelithat ne had over-
steover the boutaries of the nermissible. -urthernore, a
2RY..UiKOV presentea all nis revuests ror written state~-
sents and insormation sbout Kaet’s ranily, baextround,
ani rriends as vrerequisites ror the issusnce or a visitor's
- visa und Kare belicved that this toes cuite consistent
with what he had heard abeut tha sucviciovsness of tio
Feu is oS sisinens noohviay vor sue. a tes

      

 

 

 

    

     
 

 

. 13, In lettin: both NMiYACG IOV nad lnter salcnty
- J belleve that "he tas nee onvored to te crienus vita tho
LOVACUS parce Chouchs co be very clever cau silrull.

$LCK et

 
 

Le

we

ee eves eG Me noubr iene nen sce aan
SL Bye tasted tes . ae a OPC
vw |eteabiv

wees
avian wi. to Re een

           
  
 

 

ar cr are ama ecoresive to ninself,
come to keen the coop oven rer further

  
  
 
    

+ senmte
fiea sro tho bsot ne malntcd:
teet With iif. sKOV and later Ucorciy/:..ccU\Lov/ only
reluctantly snd onJy teetuse he din not wos co cause
any trouble ts nis relatives in the USSR,touch ,as

alte

visits te

his sertec d the cons

 

 

    

Aga7e2 Odnits,none of his sIS contacts ever onde any

clear or imliecé threnta that his relatives vould surfer
if he did not collaborate. In fact,the only Soviet who
attemoted a nisor presaure was Georeiy HOCHALOV. He told
MoawR Once thet if he did not collaborate,ne visa ror
hin vould be rertheenins.

° 14. gwax adaitted candidly that his desire
to study tre 2ussian lancunge wes so strons in 195° and
1989 that if at that tine tno Coviets had oftered hin

 

 

“an anoortunitr to attend a Soviet university, he would

 

Olas

have acceontec,even if he had been disconrared by tho

Us.
ho allezedly changed his view radically and just wanted
to be left alone. sith all that, gue could not vrovide
a losical ané anleusille exnlanution why he did not cone
to the w..5. authorities and renort evervthing. When
questioned -by-sanex. rather sharoly on this vojat, he.
becane croiotional and stated that "if he really wanted
to conceal anvoning end if ve thouvht that he was still
doing what the goviets told him to dco,he certainly would
have erabbec che oncortunity of Gestroving his gassport

   
 

and simply cgeny taat he had been in the USSR in 1959".

15. In retrospect, ie72 bolieves that ho while

he had been very naive in the berinnine of his contacts
with the Sovicts end the NIS,he did not really oncare in
any "subversive activit ty" did not sunoly any valuadle
inform mation to then,eane did not co:sit anything con-
flictins with his loyalty asa US. citizen, ue
expressed tae renret that he was now unable to vrove
his worth,

18. as stated above, <fer?2*s behavior and

  

reactions durin: those list meetinis yo3earcd to be an-te

consistent with nis character snd did not indicate any

existing 2xIS control, vo volunteered hinself the somewhat

sing « addition aL iter om his contict with Siiaats: and
rich was obviously a brate oe

an

  
 
 

 

haan! Rowe in si-

SkuUw et

1

al ter the reervitvens citeh ané arter

authorities. xowever,artcr his exoerience in 1959

: - aeereseeeelnmene A ANIA LG TES SAI TERI 8 SE CLONES

 

Neda SECRET

resnnesty

rey

 
 

me . .
| enn een re aC meted 2 PN hile Salt PERT TA, BASED TER EAID PD

Le erent ee 8 tere
SECRET

. ¥

CERIUM CRIMES TTAINATE DS DS en tle Masta monet

»ECRET

Poteet
Essipusss

Micrcriumeo |
AUN 4 1962

1. On 3 and 4 i.ny Kw vas arain con beer ste ae SER.
and debricfed by ..rthur J,.iarev in Covenhagen, Loth
neetinzs took alace da tho “srand sotel", wher | acney .
reeistered anain uader 4M ALAS Aine, ° ° “

: Be the ataitional debriefing shoved that
Kawire cannot hove,for the tire beinn,to obtain a third
vis itor® s visa for bravel to his rel: atives in ilinsk,
Yewke Visited the soviet snbassy on 17 april and was
clearly tole by a Soviet cousular orvicial that his . wee
ehances for sneha visa were practically non-existent. , ost
sé AUncuived also about study opportunities in the 7
USs2 but did nos reecive any encoura-enant in this
respect, oither, ve has hed no further contacts with
the xT3 re-resentatives in venenhagen and has had
no indicrtion,even arter his visit et tho soviet
Lmbassy,that the oovicts wish to revive contact with

him. mo
3. pees WALL conslote his last tern at
Copenharen University intho rirst wee: of June.
rinances nermitting,h? would like to svend the sumer
in Yuroslavia to imsrove his theoreticenl] knowledge .
of Serbo-Croatian, Le has mido a tentative rescrva-
tion on an american-.oirvesian liner for his return
tO ta ws, 3 on 9 soptenber, somewhere between now and -
this date his vlans to iarry his eirl-friend,Lis
PHGERSU,are 25,res,Conenharen,pstersprede 109/I,
but in view of their financial situation she will
probably not accondvany hin either on his projected
trip to Yuvoglavia or his hone travel but will join
hin later, she will continue her worl: at an architeot’s
ofice in i vovenharen and will nelp gjamk rinancially
if ais triv to Yusoslavin should maverislize, :
4. In view of the above cevelopments and
Awe? s vevsenal plan,there Js very liscle likelihood
that-any productive situation mi-viit aevelon in tre

  
 

. Sontnct reetines on 3 vund A yy

 
 
  

Gnerational

 

  

 

 

 

 
 

short tine resainins, wince waeces CPS “noteatdal

has evaporated and since th: al3 bis unde no Love to

renew theiv cestact tite Nin,evea after ais visit to in -é
iLf{-

  
  

the Coviet -nbassy on 1? april, both

 

  
 
 

     

ans 1 alte re few ee eee ee
Lhree yours,

 

tionsnip with tne: over tre iss

z t v4
2 enc’ ca

” © ssa} 0 #8 2, . “ts cop

DpH F79 Ve

 

 

 
 

104-10173-10075

 

Senate i nt pm ts eR at mw Re ne era

i
i

 

1

    
 
   

 

 

   
 

1. soe a a rr
1 daeretonitimantethan ie anon oowiesn ns dnersnh abrbabeareaendD X naOD scat eee ateatada ities te tanrcaseceeh
. . :
TRONUNUA LI DPD Oo
DISPATCH
Stay WAL
x inlevin: to bo
judged by guslifiad
DOS, MICE. SO be, lyse desk
A] 2 Unlef, “/3- 2 6-78/ -
. entop uate (rgps-76/4
. 7 an ‘ : ¥ <3
Fra 4. gntet of Station,
Subject : a :

Action Kequlred +

Reference — 4
he

AMtachnent:

3 May 1961

Distribution:
- 2 =.5 watt
1
2
2

 

Attoched herewith ja Arthur J. Ronoy's report of his contacts

. , .
2. Any field coments on this cave will come sony ty

with Weaclytin Copenhagen 3 and ¢ Hay 1961.

report, sa noted above . Lone .

~_$2 ¥fott y-G
wfat :
(4-3

    

dawoy Contact ‘end Lenriefing of AYRE

Yor infornstién
14-3

  

1949

Aco
DIN 37907

3B.

 
 

 

 

 

“while for pune to try,

—_ werent -

S. Under these cirvemistaoned the nraviously re-
nunnbed Peeled Meo vantion cacs nob unnoay necossory
eny Lonror,unless Headuuirters thinks that Mazes cone}
yo] vrathfulneas should be established, «0 svecifie
assicnmenta hava been riven or uro conteaplated for
Kane ab this susce ind no furthcr vrearrancenents havo
deen meade to sco Kama arain before he leaves conon=
haeen. Ho was nerely instructed to contact us azaln,

iusiny the previously sxrance: co:wnication lino /lotter
“4G CALIRS Nolte“) 10,0 ,urhean Unbansy,venennacen /,
\af af he should be contreteu aeiin by tho coviets in
Conenhanen or anywhere in «irone during this surmer,

b/ if he should cone serozs intercating contacts het-
weon the sovicts and tne voreica or sanish students in
ovenhizen, iv the R15 should seck to establish con-
tact with hin efter his return tof#eu.s nic 3tandin:
‘instruction is to get in touch vith tho «BI imiediatcly,

 

 

   

   

6. Lathe himself anneared very willinn to re<
deen his "previous mistakes" by any action we see rit.
A thoroucth revicyw of nis contacts with the 21S did not
briny out any contradictions with his confossion at the
first meetinns and shoved no indiiention of continued
HIS control over hin, sovertheless jis bons
not been clearly dete yained . vhis should “be Kk
FECORa TSS "tae event that at a later stare naregi minht
becone amain of gtewivii, interest or ir he should ever
apoly for a position with Meus Governaent.

  

 

 

Additional infovnstion on Kin R 3 v

 

at cov umbassy

 

BOSD APA

 

Ze for

nn, ’ visited the sovict snbas “SY “iret on
14 april, but was told that it was a holidav and that he
shoule return on 17 april. On 17 april he was received
by 3 soviet ofticial,whorn he had seen in the 1bassy
‘once before but whose name is rot kno.n to hin. vhis
official is a neavy-set nan,sce 35-40, aporoz, heisat
S°1C" athletic build,dari: blond or li~ht-brova hair,
round. seaty face, roll set of teeth,lond voice, +a
specks Gernan pat dees not know vanish. yaw? talked
with hin in aussian, when Kaewe inorired about his
vica, the officiel asked Ala when he aetually vould

    
 
 
 

  

like to visit his uncle. wea pate: nt he
thouen about cune or July,tho ofrteisl ans ercd that
such a visa matter could not bed

 

RB suah a
Fnort time and this ino ecnessh is + ‘

esr

owed

sbea ie ba. cet. hep ole v9 eNO
Loe wet : FOLK ve tardy

lee slole uned. che existing ‘conaittens. pcre $ racviT

that he find fuce been relenea a send rahin as a df Ss

road.

    

 
74-00000

errnca me aterm 8 1

 

 

 

—~at the "-etrorcl", se rerembered

,
:
» dat BALLAD
. cies} OO ALS LBW ne ae TS peruse ue A
. 8 EEE B6 NT

peste g teat nine Ban

   
  

 
 

it Rim

£0 cone
aude . sau to

whe n 7 “yreigentally,
Aja not sueat wall of yor au” f/f no
RRorosho o ver orm olava/, “hen ken? astzod " fron
where, fron ! ewe Sovket did not reict in any

vay and ais: igued keyed witnout, any exnvlanation of

his eryoticnl remark. In .nm's oninion,the soviet -
wes obvioy rmiliar vith mei’s dossier and ner-

hoops wanted to let hin know tho uctual reason vor
tarinine dovn his vis. apvlication. :

 

noo dite:

 
 
  
 

 

 

   

with .oviets in the 3
. Coattgan Toon.
8. xyaxe stated that at the mectines on 11
and 12 ..oril he had rorrotten to nention an episode
tha at had oecurred at his first crip to the Uss2 in
i9cs8. before he left, 2ACHKOVY save hin two unelish-
lunsuaze boeks t americin anecdotes and the
other unre ored oy KweRAS "Cll as tivo bottles of
vais yey ~@ asked <avin2 to tracncit the books and 1
ticle of whiskey to one /fnu/SHAZIf?,a menber or the
cearr of "loscow Hews", whom WwwaR Was to ecll up it
he came to lloscow, AI TL AIKOV rave Kwer the telessene
a RUAber™S 6-05-10 to cet in touch vith SHART#S. The
second bottle of whiskey was to be jiven to Kane's
uncle -8 a present. tn his return from.insk to -
Covenhasen weer spent three days in lioscov and stoyed
GENOVS request,
FP and was visited by the latter at

 

eM See aba Cye

  
  
  

 

  

 

 

 

ealled uo s.
the hotel. yxwp7e transmitted the books 2nd 1 bottle
of whisxey to si.aklvy, ¢ghe latter csked hia if e-rae
was inveresteda in writin a short arcicle for the
"Hoscov ues? about his i Sreceions in llinsk. guint
eaarecd anc wrote adout tro hanikt-ritten pares,statias
that he had been rather favorably inoressed by what
aooesred to be a very Tass erowth ant «cconstruction
or the city of i.insk. s.r accented the article,
Ve pete SCC 3 a g,and prozised to send

i ne article were to be
plished. gear Sienei a reeoint ror the aoney. se
nay cevy and docs not kaov wirther the
2? anncared to bea aS tat
ars old yng 2 short,éark nen
nin ov yalld. Kew. Delioves taat he
2 snore Jntlish
so several

 

   

 

    
    
  
 

 

  

D
did nit reeeive
erticals vos ever
tine abort Sve.
wita 2 moustache,
vas either a ueorciaa er
fluently ana inaie that ne ket

“lauer sian in x

 

   

    

    
  

   

SO err St ived
until this very day
navi ae wrons with

  

 

he docs not fe

te IG.

 

 
