 

- ted some technical’ ‘job » to be

Be waintained Rinself close to

‘publiely and in private conversations his approval. ¢ of Cast

   

who will sacrifice anything OR ANYBODY for these ambitions.
Mr. Adolfo Arenas has said that the people who wor-

ked with him durina the resistance against Batista say these

  
   
  
   
 
 
  
 
   
   
  
 

two instances show he will sacrifice people to obtain hie ams

bitions.-
He planned an assault on a gun shop in Havana in the

month of April 1958 knowing:

ist.~ That it was impossible to do because it was at

a time the auto traffic was at its peak.~-

 

2nd.~- There were not enough guna at the shop worth

while stealing.-
3rd.- Even though they would have been successful

 

their ultimate goal the attack on the Cabafia fortress would

only bring death to the attackera.-

 

Yet he sent those people to their death to have moré

martyrs but did not go himself.-

 

tro would not pass through a cabinet session for approva

  

law creating the Job he wanted During this time he

 

policies.=-

 
  
 

Although there is no proof o! him ever belong ig to
the “Communist Party, it is believed that he will deal and be-

come one if convenient to him either nationally or internatio- a

nally.-
 

* As BOCAL,=

Considers him a fanatie that will pursue an idea without

regard to tho welfare of his family, even though unimportant.~
Unpractical and bad manager to the extreme that he has

failed in three business enterprises he tried to develop.-

Extremely dangerous in the government due to the programs
he peieibes in, he says although he has no knowledge of communist
connection he follows the same principles as Fidel Castro and be-"
leives the measures taken by Castro are good.~-

Unmerciful, a deffect he showed when he was Secretary of

;

Public Works he through out hundreds of employces without due cause,

he destroyed every successful contractor that existed to that mo-

ment.-

  
 

 

h
h

fremenens

 

‘toa job of less importance he kept. visiting Pidel castro and

His brother was taken prisoner and kept in a room in the |

police stution.- In this room short arma revolvers and pistols -

   
  

were left at his reach. The wife of the brother and Nr. José =
Currais friend of both’ Manvel and the brother went to see Manuel
Ray to tell him that his brother was set up to make chin commit
suicide.- He was told by both that the emotional condition of
his brother was very bad because he Manuel had refused to talk
or visit him.- Although both persons in more than once visited

him in the hours that preceded the death of his brother Manuel

 

Ray said he would not visit his brother because he was Secreta~

   
 
  
  
  
 

ry of Public Works and if his brother was not guilty he woul

 

be judge and freed.-
After his brother committed suicide,during the burial,
ceremony Ray's father made a speech claiming that his son was

free from any guile ana the Cabinet members were to blame for

   

can not assure Ray's b

   

his son's death. ~ Te |

 

 

ned himself on ‘the $08 but was one of the most enthas Ls astd

llaborators of castro.

  

After Ray yee ousted from hig Cabinet job and assigned

accompanying him, occupying a prominent position, in all his
public appearances.- He expressed to friends that even though he
was not on a prominent position he thought the revolution was <

doing good to Cuba and had his whole support and should be sup-

ported by everybody,
 

104-10179-10099

 

 

 

 

 

AETUANTO CIA.
Background Use Only
_ Do Not Reproduce’
 

roy

 

a

pressed to the writer tha

. is the Urban Reform

 

  
   

ESENTMENT, =

 

mr. Manuel P. Cores who visited Ray in his home in Ki
expressed ‘that he found him to “think along the same lines as
tro.~ While he waited to talk to Ray, CORES had a ‘chance to hold
@ conversation with Ray's wife.- Hie impression is that Ray and
his family resent all businessmen and anybody who has any wealth
ATHEIST, - os

It has been expressed to the writer that Ray is an atheist
and has openly expressed so in several occasions.- It is interesting
to know that Raul Chibds, an important member of his organization
is also known as an atheist.-

OTHODOX PARTY. -

  
     
   
  
 

Ray was before Castro an active member of the Cuban Orth

 

wer.= oe

OPINION OF PEOPLE CLOSE 16 HIM,- © ep.
whee Desist” fs batdenp. we 4) mans pa

Lopez Lay, one of the members at his organ. zation has

 

be as radical as Pidel Castro, ‘and a 4 dictator .—

The following engineers ‘members of the Civil Engineers =

C19

FO Cantal

 

Association:

  

Antonio Tella — Pern dee

Hormes Chiong

Federico Leén ,

Abelardo Docal

Antonio BDocal Lee . te
. José Sust . ‘ Loe

Elizardo Martineg

Gutierrez Bolivar

F ‘) fe Broce Conn 9

 
  
       

 
 

 

ae 73a-

Anselmo Lastra
Reinaldo Chipi
Perfecto Arango —
Melquiades Pernfndez Monte
Jorge Garayta

. Armando Pérez Cobo
José A. Vil4 —

 

express thie opinions:

He ia a possible second communist front..
he * ea GRE
He is a radical pelsives in the same principlés as Castr

 
  

and the only differences between him and Castro is that Ray wants.

 

to be the head of the government inatead of Castro.

RAY_AS SECRETARY OF PUBLIC WORKS,-
During the first three months of Ray in 1959 as a Cabinet

member in his Department exams were given to new employees. — The
Vane -
person in charge of this exams was Personnel Chief EA LOpeE Lay, .to~day

    
  
  
  
  
 

a prominent member of Ray's Organization.- Among the questio

  

ked were the follow, ig
a) What do you think of Stalin?
b) What do. you think of ‘Lenin?

c) What do you think of Marti?

  
  
 
  

such ass

 

Slogans, Spee hes, ete. through the public’ addre

  

Btage plays ‘were held in the Patio during which, the comm nis

thinking was advocated ..

 

Employees were constantly fivited ‘to conferences

Militia was ‘organized.
Physical training programs were held for employees.

He named. President of the Comision de Pomento Nacional
Roberto Acosta former card carrying communist and to~day in char-

ge of the Cfa. Cubana de Electricidad.
