74-0000

~ SECRET
case osticer to sis former function, viieh by that tine vas. performed by
the SE Section of tha Eastern Department of the First Directorate of the
MGB. In September, 1951, sw ject transferred to the Anglo-Amerioan
Sevtion of the Goustarintelligense Department ef the First Direstarate,

coe 7?
. yo as : 7
MB. He became a Senior Operational Case Officer in Boverber 1961.

. Bb Joat contimed in this capectty through en MIB stractural reorgant-

gation in Decexber 1951, ani ves appointed Chief of the American’ Desk of
the Cousterintelligencse Department af the Chisf Intelligenes Directorate

(foreign directorate) of the MGB following another reorgenisation in

"+ December 1952. In April 1953, be was assigned as Deputy Chief of the

Eni gre Desk of the Counterintelligence Department of the Se cond Chief

Directorate (Foreten Birectarate) of the MVD, following still another

‘geerganization in abet April 1053 after the dasth af Jesegh Stalin. In

Octcher 1953, Subject was assigned to the State Security Yesidency in
Visnea, decontng an Gperational Case Officer in the Euigre Group, under
eover of Senior Raferent of the Information Department of the Eigh Com

rission an Austris. He was accompanied by his wifes In August 1954,

 
74-0000

; : _ . vmnenenensme ee FT
tes SUE CO ETRE TEA TN Set ATE AI

 

 

my SECRET a
: 6
be vas transferred in Vienna to the Eritish Sub-Group of the Anflo-
dmarican-French Group of the KGB Residency vhere he worked on counter-
intelligence matters, Subject returned to the USSR in August 1955 and
entered the Juridical Institute cf the four-year Higher School of the

KGB, where he stuiied counterintelligence work. Upon graduation in

Septexber 1959, Subject was assigned to the "Weatern Treaty Organi-

gations" Direction of the Information Department of the First Chief

“ ptrectarata (foreign Zirectarate) of the KIB, In April 1960, be was

‘tpansferred to the irsrican Section of the Counterintelligence Depart-

ment of the First Chief Direstarate, ani from there, sent to Heleink,

dm duly 1960. Subject vas a Kansomol member from May 1942 until April

| 1985, a candidate member of the Commmist Party of the Soviet Union from

April 1945 until April 1947, and a secber of the Commmist Party of the
Boriet Union from April 1947 until bis defection, Subject hss provided
@ considerable amount of information on Soviet State Security operations,

methods and yer_sonalities which has been accurate and consistent with

“the eatimated knovledgeability of an individual with his position end

=
___. SECRET.

 

mere ree ers es, toece mee eea EENE t ner ne St re ON Ya A EA 8 SOT

t
74-0000

 

See etmranat tens ae anne ene oerreremnye se ene See

 

:

 

~ SECRET ~

vith a CTA cecort fron Pintsat to Svadar and {tence to the Teited States
via Frankfurt an Main, Cermany, arriving on 18 Decenber 1962.

&. Subject tiret entered Soviet State Security vork im Auguet 1945,
at watch tina he was enrolled in the First Moscow Schoal, ORR/ AD EAH,

a vobocl fer couterintalliganes officers ta the Goviet armed forces.

Dyon greduation froa this school im June 1986, be was assigned to the

Basters Beotion of the 8X Department (security of Soviet eftisens abroad) _

of the Piret Chlef Directorate (foreign directorate of the MIB as an

Jeaiotant Pyarational pase otticer. When the Comalttee of information

(a) Was eoteblished im 1947, incorporating the intelligence functions of

Btate Security, Soviet military intelligence (on) and the Ministry of

Foreign Affaire, Bubject continued in his former eetivity in the nevly

forme! Mifth Department of the ‘Third ‘Dixectorate of the Ki. Buiveen

sue . .
September 1948 and drawer 1950, Subject attended the tro-year Eigher
Intelligence School of the KI (formarly and presuntly the State Security
Higher Intelligense School), Completing the Counterintelligence ourriewlum,

Upoa the conclusion of his schooling, Subject ‘ceturned as an operational

 

iz
i

+ tem emeemae ann ota

 

 

owed
74-0000

ae ~ SECRET ~ Ly

‘ . APTACmeNE * 4" i
' :
: Justification for ateissios of John 3tone (formerly i

Anataliy Mikhetlorich cours), ann : (formerly s¥etlana

HUxhallomma OOLITSYRA nee CHERWOVALOVA) ant.

(formerly Tatyana OOLIYEYEA) into the United States for permanent

Fesidence under the provisions of Section 7, PL. 110, as amended,

 

le Subject is a former senator Operational case officer, a major

West on 35 Deconber 195) with hie wife Svetlans and bis daughter Tatyana.
Prior to his defection, Subject ves stationed in the Soviet Enbsssy in

Beleinki unter the cover of third Searetary and under the naw of

 

ett re RN © Sette er

Anatoliy Mikhaflovich KLINOV. He had arrived et this post in July 1960,
soccmpanied by bis wife and duighter, end bed been engaged since that. |.
time in counterintelligence operations egningt fcaricta, Pritish, French,

Italien and Japanese targets. On 15 December 1961, Bvbject comtaciad the

"dn tha United States, On 16 Dosenber 1961, Subject and his fextly Siew :

=

|

t

1

in the Soviet Coumittes for state Security (UB), who defeated to the
t
4

CIA representative in Helainki at the latter's home and requsted asylum |

| |

;

e

SECRET

 
74-0000

oo ~ SECRET

 

La”. “ iy

ATTACHMENT “A”

Justification for Admission of sane (formerly , : .
Anatoly itikhatlovich corm), formrly s¥etlana ‘

 

 

Hihetlovna OOLTTETIA nee CHERNOVALOVA) and |

 

(formerly Tatyana GOLYESYHA) into the United States for permanent

yesideme under the proviatons of Section 7, Pele 110, as anended,

 

by Odbject 6 @ former senior operational case officer, @ major

. in the Soviet Committee for State Security (KUB), who defected to the
Wort on 25 December 196 vith Ma vite Srotian and Mis aught atv

“prior to his Gefection, Subject was stationed in the Soviet Exbasay in

Helsinki under the cover of third Secretary and unter the name of

 

eccompanied by his wife and Gcughter, and had been engaged since that. .

ee pe Neenah seinen etme Rep hk vin em

time in counterintelligense operetions egninst fmarican, British, French,
Italien and Japanese targets. On 15 December 1961, Subject contacted the

CIA representative in Helsinkt at the latter's home and requested asylum

 

i
anatoliy Mikhailovich KLIMOV. He hed arrived at this post in July 1960,

i

{
” dn the United States. On 16 December 1961, Subject ard his fanily flew “

‘

SECRET

7 F000 0 escems thse atime es Me steer E ce

 

 
74-0000

; op

 

i Re

Orig: DD/P/SR Divissoa/JMM-5SR/CLmr
Attachments:

“A" . Justification lor admissica of Joha ard Clome, bis
- . wife and dsaghter into the United states lor pes manent
: (pesidence under the provisioas of bection 7, Public Law
110, as mended.

 

“a e Biograpble data on vabjects. |
Distri pi we eee

-O&1- Addressee w/attachs,

8-DD/P* ae .
1-¢c/ca a 1» O8-Allen Affeira w/atachs,
i- coc ama :
Ro c/a e »

CONCUR:

 

 
 

6 physical Description: 3
Age - 6
" Apparent Age -'6
7 Beight and Weight ~ 4%" ~ 60 pounds
nS cuter of Kyes ; ssat
Tooth © Peor
Posters - Krect
Face « Oval
Complexica ~ - Fair.
Sears « None
Balld + Medium
General Appearance -
Prominent Foateres - Nene
General Physical Condition - Good

 

 

t-
!
(toe-eo- 1725

’

BOB & POR

 

~ SECRET aw

 

 

 

 

: Svetlana Mikbatlovna OOLITSTRA (nee CEXIROVALOVA)
t Svetlana Mikbailovna KLDOVA)
& 2 March 1929 te Seisk, Rostov Oblast, ESVER, USSR

t Amtolly Mikheflovioh GOLrISYy (born 25 Aug.1926 in Piryatin,
Poltave Oblast, Ucreinian S5A), mrried Moecov, 23 Aug. 1953.

=

 

 

 

1 Tatyana OOLITSYNA (barn 22 cme 1995 in Vienna, Austria)

t 3949-50 Moscow Plekhanov Institute of Boonomics, Course
pot ecepleted, :
4930-53 rol
(3955-57 Moceow Lomonosov State University, mjoring in
history, Graduated,

t Bove 1959-tuly 1960 Editor at Moscow MOSFILM film. stuiie

 

  

 

 

eee = secnenen amerennpernianessnitinsitite a ot ete aa mmm ete
eect 9 emanate a eR ~_

 

 
 

 

a, .. - cept ‘
Seti

. 28 March 1962

MEMORANDUM PUR : Director of Central Intelligence

VIA : Ceputy Lirector (Plans)

SUBJECT 3 Admission of Jona| ___beone (formerly

Anatoliy Mikhallovich Golitsyn); His Wife, —
ee Chernovolova);

 

 

.. Et
Loe and His Daughter,
* @ormerly Tatpana tsyna), Into thé r

United States for Permanent Residence
wader the Provisions of Section 7, Publis
Law 110, As Amended.

1, This memerandum contains a recommendation submitted
for the Director's anproval. such recommendation is contained in
paragraph 3,

2. Subject te a tormer senior operational cuse officer of the

. Beviet Committee nar state Security (<GH) with the rank of rsajor,~ ~~

who defected to the vet on 16 Decomber 1961 and requested polit-
ical asylum in the Uatted States. subject was accompanied by his
Wife and daughter, sanject has already made an outstanding contri-

' bution to the inteliteence and counterintelligence mission of the

United Stales Government by furnishing valuable information of
first pricrity comers to the National Security. This Agency and
the Federal Buroan af Investigation continue to exploit his
Kaowledgsatillty em soviet intelligence oparations in many parts
of the world. Atteryment "A" contains a detailed justification for

" usé Of the previatoma of Seetion 7, Publie Law 110, 22 amended,

_ to grant permauent residence in the United States to Subject, his
_ wife, and danghian,

8. I ineratore recommend that Subject, his wife, and
daughters be zranted yormanert residence in the United States
vader the proviedmne of Section 7, Public Law 110, as amended.

JOHN M, MAURY
Chief, SR Division

Tne en nae eae tema nit g mer ee

   

 
. . 2 . mo,
Orig: DD/P/SR Division/JMM-SR/Chmr

t
|
|
|

Attachments:

WA" « ‘jestification or admasion of Jena Howe, his
. wife and danghter into the United states for permanent
: pegidence under the provisions of bection 7, Public Law
110, as mended,

BE" . Biographies data en vebjects.

' Ol - Addressee w/attachs,
' B- DD/P no # coe ;
i-C/ci noe i» O8-Alion Affsira w/atachs,
i- coc os
8-C/m a &
CONCURn
Deputy Directer (Piana)

  

 

Serer

 
