14-00000

  
   
 
     
    
    
  
 
   

 

 

. | regarding him from Mexico Gity, on 25 April 1962, which mentioned

ae a as

 

- awas ‘when the Mexico Station requested traces onhim. Their request

was for the purpose of training Mexican Government agents in police

_entral American country.

i
\
ie

Be, “During : review of GAIN'S Security file, I noted 2 = message |

a "Willard ‘a ANDREWS, xeputable American businessman in Mexico," .-.
who obvidusly y had had.contact of some kind with CAIN; as well as with ;
a GIA representative in Mexico to whom ANDREWS had commented that —
CAIN claims to have been with OSS during W. WwW. If (Acopy of this Memo
xandum is attached). in answer to this mes sage which requested traces.
on CAIN, Headguarters,: in furnishing limited information obtained regard
ing him, advised that neither his claimed employment by OSS, - nor a claim
he made to have worked with Task Force W, could be substantiated. The.
Station was advised that he aia have (ox h had had) 2 + legitimate detective.
laboratory in Chicago. Patt

   
       
 
   

rd ees de os ee
5. “The ‘Brsttims camN came to the attention 2 of the e Security Office | . al :
stemmed from an unannounced visit he made to the Station, during which a
he stated that he had an investigative agency in Mexico with ‘branches in we 7 :
“Ghicago and Los Angeles. He had also stated that his agency in Mexico: >:

 

methods, in investigative techniques, ‘and in the use of the le detector; es _
and had added that he was investigating Communism in a certain wanamed '

 
 
    

%. ‘In June 1962, ‘the iintcs senttan advisea that CAIN 3 was being .
deported byt the Mexican Ministry (of) Gobernacion for these violations: . :

: a “Carsying a Joaded revolver ana brass Tomekles

 

be. "Impersonating a ‘Mexican’ “Government official
. (He-had identification as an investigator for the
_ Mexican Treasury Office. ) ;

 

rao ERO SS
 

104-10059-10047

    

, UNITED STATES Gov. AMENT —

MM emorandum

Ot Chief, SRS pare 9 October 1967 oo
- Thru : DC/SRS and c/eron/sas Ce

 

 

FROM > M. D. Stevens Ce fe

  
 
   
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
    
  
 
 
   
    
  
   

. _ suner: CAIN, “Richara Ss.
at #27 a

 

_. 1. Reference is made to the attached 5 June 1967 DCS memo~
‘[randum on Subject,. which in turn made reference to previous DCS .°.
| memoranda on him on 24 and 25 May 1967.and to an Office of Security
; Memorandum dated 29 May 1967, The 5 June 1967 memorandum |»...
4 ; enclosed copies of several 1963/1964 documents from the Chicago
} Field Office's file on CAIN, which ADC/PSD forwarded to SRS with ">
' {the comment that “It appears. DOS i is | cleaning: out their files re Lee -
lHarvey ose et al.” :

  
 
 
 
  
 

    
 

 

: “2. Subject, ‘ita is obvious, had been a source of information
: i regarding an alleged discussion of the assassination of President -
Kennedy at ‘a secret meeting of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee
| held in Chicago in February 1963 under the direction of Richard - .
_ + GRILEY (#346 116).:-He also was the source of information. regarding
| the alleged attempted xecruitment inte the Communist Party of young ©}
an} Cubans in the Ghicago area by one Guillermo ESCOBAR, who accord» f.
a i ing to the Chicago office was “one of (SAS) leads ~): 21
“-{ obtained from Ralph PEREZ." (Presumably Ralph PEREZ, #444260) ©
"| SPEED is 1199499. The documents also indicated -
wee that in February 1964 CAIN was the subject of a conversation initiated :
- + by Eldon S.. GOHEN, #38557 o/c, with a representative of the DCS .
Chicago office who believed his purpose was to learn whether or not
CAIN was in fact on a two-month's sick leave from the COOK County
cs Sheriff's office, as he was said to be, or was on a political under ~:
os, cover assignment which CGHEN inferred involved tapping the tele~ © ,
a4 ! phones of gubernatorial c candidate Charles I He PERCY and i other a 7
t. ‘political figures. a Pa coe Hote,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

b

 

 

 

 

 
14-00000

  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
    
    
   
  
  

Te. “Subject. was s subsequently of 3 interest to the DCS i in September | 1
1963 when an ad hoc clearance was requested to permit his being asked ;
to respond te general requirements regarding his knowledge of certain
|. § Cuban vefugees and their potential for foreign positive intelligence. On.
-.’ $10 September 1963, the DCS was sent a memorandurh which farnished
7 Zouch of the above information a on » GAIN.

wo “gs. “On 22 May 1967, the Director o of Security indicated that he.
“had received infor information from the FBI which ties Subject to the Mafi
in Chicago; |and he he directed that the DCS he contacted for information
". Jas to whether or not they ever established contact-with him ‘and, if so, |
or what purpose. The DCS was also to be advised that, if they were
contact with him, it was suggested that they break it off. On 25 _ .
ay 1967, the DCS advised that there had been no contact with CAIN:
ince 1963, and furnished copies of eight reports for which Subject had
een the source of information. | ‘These had to do with anti-Gastro Cuban
ctivities, Procurement of arms, ete.”

     
   
   
 
  
 

 

 

      

: 9 “On 292 May 1967, ‘Security advised the DCS that there is a
aa current FBI investigative interest in Subject and recommended that ;
Bo §there be no o further contact with him at this time. : o ;

“30, “the 1 1 Seplember 1967 «. copy of Life magazine ontains an :

; “article titlea "Brazen! Empire of Organized Crime," in.s hat is: .
stated that? Sam f CANA} Head of the Chicagg ‘Co! ‘Cox, 2 Nostra, is M still

. running thin : mtxal from a hide~out in México... where f

aNa.he poses 2s BiccaxdoiSC ALZETTIO The real SCALZETTI, GIANCANA's
rst while chauffeur dnd courier, is moxe familiar to Chicagoans as .

Richard CAIN, a well known former Chicago policeman and more zecenthy ,

(a private investigator." a wea
14-00000

. 15. “There is attached a copy r of the above referred to September

: articles in Life magazine, in one of which CAIN is described as the erst-
while’ chauffeur and.courier of Sam GIANCANA.. The second of these ~

articles makes reference to alleged friendly contacts of Jim GARRISON,

; we of the OSWALD Case, with henchmen of the Cosa Nostra in the Louisiana .

M. D. Stevens -

ms "Attachment: articles

MDs/ cer ;

 

 
