 

, : A/DDP/A : =
“e BC/WH/4: Aah I

 

money already in Cuba - dollars would be delivered an aucrersa: of the pesos who
are in Miami). I told him I would call him ‘n the sresmnctingg to Bet him know how
things stood. . :

 

4. Udiscussed our meeting with CISNEROS with Tracy Barnes on the
morning of 2 June, It was Tracy's opinion, in whick E keaxtily concur, that
we should put out no money whatsoever until we have Bad a chamce to examine

anolo's plan ax Fepercussions ar rannficztions there
would be, policy-wise and otherwise, to a decision ta aseist: the MRP _
inilaterally; tis, Outside the Council ard prestrazhiy without MIRO's
knowledge or consent. Since RAY has withdrawn his group fram the Council ©
with a great deal of fanfare, it is most unlikely that MIRO: wour look kindly
on any assistance to RAY, especially since he feels ne hax a rather firra
promise from the President to deal only through MIRG,

5. RAY, upon arrival in Washington, will presunabiy take his plan {along
with BETANCOURT) directly to Mr. Goodwin and I wmuld ziso presume that _ .
Goodwin will pass it downto Tracy and Tracy tous, Hay Dubsjs, who has —
been Manolo's case oifice standing by in the ever ke sinuld be needed... :

    

 

6. Ipersonally feel very strongly that we should dis unthimg to support the:
plan, whatever it is, until we have received from the Mbiite House and the .
Department clear-cut, unequivocal policy gvidance ox: the cxerail plan. I also-
feel that now is the time, if we are go ing to support te BEEP unilaterally, to
insert a non-official cut out into the operation,_ 1 woukt! recommend that con- _
sideration be given to using|[Mr. Harry Pieper fa WAVE euntract employee) _

on this job. Harry is tempermentally suited, a gud iuminess head, ia.
fuent in Spanish Qived 28 years in Cuba), is cleared, folinus: ‘directions,

  

 

 

eaay access to the White House and to the Department, are antawious for’ their
“planned leaks", will probably presume all the Department afficiall they deal
with are privy to the arrangement, and before we know it. the witinle exile > =. --
community will be well aware that we are providing fizancie andi material :

aupport to the RAY group.’ Iam not arguing against pravitfing : Support;
but am merely pointing out the real potential for embarras=nrrent tous if the

matter is not handled with the greatest of precautions. I feet they have become
too closely identified with U, S -officialdom, including mrymelf,. amd that the
plausible denial aspects, to date at least, are almost mn-exatent, . ;

 
‘(0g 10479-40007 een er none ena ak eee ne etna vane

 

new ;
a) SEGRE RETURN TO.CIA

. ; _ Background Use’Only

oe eee

 

;
j
:
§
é
:
3
i
:
t
5

- -" Lealled Eugenio and made a date for me and Ray DuBois (Ray Adame is th
- name he uses with Ray and Cienéros) to‘call, pon him. We called on

_.-would meet immediate needs-and: th

. : 2 June 1961” Do Not Reproduce

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD ‘

SUBJECT: Rel ations with Manolo RAY and the MRP

1. For background see my memorandum of 12 May 1961, reporting on
my long session with Manolo RAY, Rogelio CISNEROS (Eugenio) and Ernesto
BETANCOURT, As will be noted in that memorandum, Manolo promised to
come up with a prospectus within approximately ten days’ time, after con-
sulting with his leaders in Cuba,

2. Onl June 1961 Mr. Barnes called me to say that Mr. Goodwin had
been visited by Mr. Ernesto BETANCOURT who asked for immediate fine
support for certain activities ofthe MRP which would run around $io, ‘001
dollars, Mr, Barnes asked me'té contact | BETANCOURT for the purpo
ascertaining what the funds weré to be used for, exactly how much needed, ete,
I called BETANCOURT and he told meé'that I should get these details from,

CISNEROS (Eugenio), who was staying’ at room 549 at the Washington Hotel

 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
    

  

 

 

 

at approximately 1845 hours i Jurie) ‘and -he informed us that he had urgent .
need for pesos for use in support of his sabotage and underground activitie
in Cuba. He said his people were absolutely without funds, needed mone
living expenses, transportation, pur
couriers, and for assisting: ‘people
now. possible for people:to buy'the

 

 

to receive funde ~ 3 QO monthly’

pe

3. We made no commitment to'Eugenio other than to say that
pacs his plea along tothe interested people, ‘ reminded him ‘that’ we ha
him and Manolo to prepare a:plan for cons{déiation and that we were. “weil
waiting for that plan, I said I personally doubted that anything could’ be done .
until the plan was received from RAY. He eaid Manolo was planning. to come to
Washington on the afternoon of 2 June with the plan, but that he himself was
having to return to Miami immediately and it Was vital he be able to take the
money with him, arrange in Miami for purchase of the pesos (at rate of 4x] -

  

  

 

     

 

NP

FC Ne

 

 

 
