104-10173-10073 : Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

we

vel

Records Collection Act of 1992

Daca err ncemseanrrere mM ae etme ARE {Ausc2 2107 Note). ss ‘A leaitieted sinveemen ac wnctarnsnseceaenenmeea tem,

NW 53295 6715/17

   
  
 

PAC POT LO
awn 2 GR

  

culo iv, 1562

 

BOS, MICRO. SER,

after exchanging tie conventional small talk, I poked ubout the
visa, Vuc tole thit the question was a complicnuted one und not se
exsily solved, Asked, when I thought of going? Anawered, by the end :
of this semester, Dut not later than the last part of the sumaer, The
reply wus that the tine was much too short and that these matters can
not be decided in such a short apace of time, furthermore, he thought
it would be useless for me to apply now since I could only wait until
the end of July for an answer, After talking a little further I said
that it wag really not so important that I should stay with my uncle
for more than two weeks or at most one month, the main “thing that :
interests me is studying in the Soviet Union, Was told that ‘presently |
it is only open to students from the Enst, Middle East and Asia, besides,
of course, the official exchange progran. I asked how long he thought
an answer would take if I applied, His reply was,"I can not really say
vat I think it would be hopeless to apply", I then made mention of the .
fact that I was refused a scholarship in the U,S, and would greatly
appreciate it it I could get some definite information about the
possibility of athaying in the Soviet Union. since my main interest. was

 

the Russian language and other Russian and Soviet subjects. He again said

that he thought it would be hopeless if I applied. As he was accompanying

ne to the door I asked hin if he could give me any advice on, what I
‘carl do now as far as a visa or information about studying in the USSR

‘is: concerned, His answer was that he could not tell me anything, and then

“auch to my Burprise commented that, “rosapag Xpuaikoa Re xopomo oTanéatca

o Bac." I answered that I was sorry about the misunderstanding between vr...
Xrdachkov and ayself and that he was probably disappointed in sonething or

atiier that hanpened betrean ua, Upon that I left.

| ue

22 p> a. |
. vol,
eacales39
Cunalfy PL arg ge- be PE er a
