13-00000

INTERNAL USE ONLY

3. Our focus on Stipulation 3h is particularly timely,
since, in our processing of the DO and OLC material, we now have
arrived at the point where the final HSCA report, including
drafts, is being critiqued by the Agency. As far as possible, we
want to assure consistent treatment of this material. Although
much of the material involved, in my opinion, already falls within
the HSCA Equities exemption, some of it may be open to different
interpretations, My working paper of 27 November 1990 highlights
some of the more controversial cases,

4, It should be noted that the question of
HSCA Equities also spills over into stipulation 3g which instructs
the Agency to search for and treat; "All correspondence between
the CIA and HSCA."*

Here we have no difficulty whatever with
correspondence actually originating with the HSCA or other
elements of Congress, which material is exempt automatically. Our
problem lies with the large volume of internal CIA correspondence
and memoranda for the record, as well as Agency letters to HSCA,
which discuss the activities of HSCA, our meetings with HSCA
personnel, and other matters falling within the HSCA chairmans
injunction to the Agency. The key line in Chairman Stokes" letter
is, of course, “ - - - and related information in a form connected
with the Committee". This line is also the one that causes the
headaches. Its almost impossible to follow literally the
instructions we have received. Furthermore, which take priority,
the Court's Stipulations or the instructions from the House? Or,
do we continue our happy balancing act and, to the best of our
ability, try to do justice to both sets of instructions? After
all, treating FOIA material is more of an art than a science.

5 We have ived opinions from| rs
Asst. Gen. Counsel and | Executive Secretary, s
office and both support our fairly literal interpretation of the
line quoted above from Chairman Stokes’ letter. Russ Holmes
suggested that we also consult the Inspector General, Fred Hitz,
who formerly headed up the Office of Congressional Affairs and was
directly involved with the HSCA investigation. I believe that Mr.
Hitz's opinion on this matter would be very valuable.

 

 

 

FOIA Consultant

2

INTERNAL USE ONLY
104-10428-10007

 

INTERNAL USE ONLY

10 December 1990

WORKING PAPER:

SUBJECT : F81-0351~ HSCA Equities

1. This is to discuss our handling of one of the more
difficult and controversial areas involved in the processing of
the HSCA material in the Allen litigation (F81-0351). Our area of
concern involves the interpretation and treatment of the
Congressional exemption, or, as usually referred to - the HSCA
Equities exemption. The basic problem is the apparent
contradiction between the court ordered Stipulation (C.A.
No.81-2543), dated 10 June 1988, and instructions from the House
of Representatives. In particular this pertains to Stipulation
3h, which enjoins the Agency to search for:

"Any records relating to any assignment by the CIA to an
employee of the CIA to review, evaluate or assess any
final or interim report by the HSCA."*

2. Stipulation 3h would appear to be in direct conflict
with instructions from the House of Representatives, as quoted in
part from the following 2 documents:

Rules of the House Select Committee on Assassinations,
adopted 7 March 1977, as amended, Rule 10.8 : “The chief
counsel and deputy chief counsels shall have authority to
designate materials and documents as sensitive. The
contents of all such materials and documents, in addition
to any materials or documents already classified or
marked confidential by any agency or devartment of the
U.S. Government, shall not be released or divulged in any
way, form, shape or manner without the approval of the
select committee or one of its subcommittees.*

Letter from HSCA Chairman Stokes to the DCI, dated 26
March 1979, paragraph 2, which reads in part: "The
purpose of this letter is to request specifically that
this Congressional material and related information in a
form connected with the Committee not be disclosed
outside your Agency without the written concurrence of
the House of Representatives."

INTERNAL USE ONLY
