a ote .

reviewed. Their options may be: to rapidly scan all remaining material

so they can reflect in their final report that they had seen it all; to not finish

their review and remand the material to 30 years storage under our Memorandum
_of Understanding; to pass the material to the custody of the House Permanent

Select Committee on Intelligence for use in developing any needed future

legislation, i.e. anintelligence charter. Regardless, I believe we must

prepare all materials for 30 years retention and should be prepared to see

the material remanded to a safe storage out of our custody. If the material

remains. unreviewed by HSCA staff at the conclusion of their investigation,

then the future skeptics may still have a cause celebre. In the final analysis,

it works to both the CIA nad HSCA image to complete the job and I have attempted .

on repeated occasions to call this te G- Robert Blakey' s attention -

Rodger S#Gabrielson

Distribution: ~
1 ~ OLC Subject ,
1- OLC Chron ; :
OLC:RSG:jms (26 Apr 78) : . 7
Roe
6
TERRE
weet hla
14-00000

ven

(2) (S) Issues:

(a) The Agency did not provide any of the previous
investigations (Warren-Church) the depth of access to its files
as we now are to the HSCA. Nor do we provide the same degree of
access to either the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence or
the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (i.e. DDO
201 files and other sources and methods material). We must be
prepared to comment upon our relationship with this Committee.

_ (b) The Agency released to the public through the Warren
Commission Report a cropped version of the Mexico City .
“unidentified man" photograph. As this photograph was from
a photographic surveillance operation and as several other
photographs from the same operation have been cropped and
supplied to the Committee, are we prepared to release all
of these other photographs to the public if requested?

5. (S) The immediate future of the Committee as it involves the

Agency is: ; “8
Deryabin interview -~ 27 April .
af
Golitsyn interview -~4 May Deposition ~ 19 May
Nosenko interview -~ll May Executive Session Hearing - 31 May
. - 25, 26 May . :
, ~ 30 May
‘Bruce Solie interview - 9 May. Deposition - 22 May

June and July will see a flourish of executive session hearings in preparation
for August recess. September will see approximately 20 days of public
hearings on King and 20 days on Kennedy.

6. (S) Although the King Subcommittee has not been active with our
files, one memorandum of conversation with Office of Security, May 1965,

_ indicated "King might possibly be assassinated", and Security presumes that

this information was passed to FB] through normal liaison channels. HSCA
has not yet reviewed this file although it is available to them. There
do not appear to be any other preassassination items in the King file.

7. (S) At the conclusion of the HSCA's investigation, we may be left
with material gathered in response to HSCA requests which has not been
completely reviewed by HSCA staff investigators. -They are far behind at the
moment. The Committee has requested access to files on over 368 individuals.
DDO has 245 files ready for review of which 105 have been reviewed. Security
has 146 files and two polygraphs ready for review of which 50 files have been

 
14-00000

BEPRET
JUL

(b) Rameriz Ortiz's knowledge of Oswald's file in Cuban
DGI. Rameriz Ortiz, presently in Leavenworth Prison, wrote
of a file on Oswald in Cuba. LA Division has reviewed the
Rameriz Ortiz book and provided follow-up items to the Committee.
As. this is new material, it is likely to be aired and may require
a CIA spokesman. Rameriz Ortiz has given executive session
testimony already. : :

(c) Priscilla Johnson McMillan may be called to discuss
her contacts with Oswald in Moscow at which time her CIA "witting
source" affiliation may be exposed. She gave executive session
testimony last week, and staff indicated that they had follow-up
issues as a result but would not share their issues. If the CIA
relationship is presented, Gary Coit (retired, pep) may be
subpoenaed.

-Bixtss James Wilcott, former CIA finance officer inf _d

testified in executive session that Oswald had a :
CStation, test with the CLA, The press picked it up, and the HSCA
has been forced to pursue the issue. HSCA staff have interviewed
our , officers and are about to interview former -
Agency emp oyees stationed at the Atsugi U72 base. Oswald
served at Atsugi in 1958, although at an ventirely separate :
location from our activity. Though Wilcott may be recalled for
public hearings, the course of the staff interest is not firm
‘enough to predict. At the maximum we may be called to define
our, activities at. -Atsugi, 1957-60. A CIA spokesman may be.
required.

ain

(e) Serendipity may get Garbler/Kovich before the Committee. »
Garbler/Kovich may be called to exemplify the fallout from :
the Nosenko/Golitsyn issue. The most recent tip-off of this
possibility is that the Committee has asked to interview former

COS and DCOS of Moscow during the Garbler era. The Committee -
may provide the forum that both may revel in and, since the HSCA
is chartered to recommend legislation as a result of its efforts,

it may be a possible source of private-bills for them. Messrs.
Colby and Bush may also be called.

(2) (S) Issues:

(a) -HSCA has requested Nosenko's 1964, 1957 polygraph
charts. After reviewing these, they may/may not request to polygraph
Nosenko himself. What is our position?

(b) If documentary material is requested for Nosenko
hearings, should it be provided? (Transcripts of OS interviews, etc.) |

t
t
;
4
‘]

   
14-00000

(c) Should Nosenko'’s executive session hearing, scheduled
for 31 May, be video taped such that the tape could become the
basis for any future public hearing?

(d) If Nosenko requests counsel, who provides/pays?

(e) Should the Hart report be made available, as it appears
the HSCA is backing into its substance anyway? :

ORGANIZED CRIME TASK FORCE
After an initial surge of interest by the HSCA staff in CIA files last year

of Johnny Rosselli, William Mahen, et-al, no investigators have followed-up.
The scope and nature of any future hearings are difficult to predict. No issues ~

are pending.

CIA INVOLVEMENT/PERFORMANCE TASK FORCE

- Officially, this group is an adjunct service element to the other groups.
Its activities hop from issue to issye but some areas appear of specific
interest to them.

 

(ly (S) Possible To ies for Public Hearin

(a) Performance of Mexico City Station in. reporting on
Oswald. Anne Goodparture' s testimony in executive session may
be reviewed in public session. She may be called to comment
upon the Personalities of Win Scott and Station personnel. David
Phillips appeared in executive session, tooc Barbara and Herbert :

i Mannel) will be deposed in jieu of a hearing. Any public hearing
on Mexico City will ultimately hit upon sources and methods (Soviet/
Cuban Embassy tele-taps and photographic surveillance). One of the
issues being investigated is the Agency's management of those
operations. A CIA senior spokesman may be needed to testify to
protect sources and methods. _.

 

(b) David Christ was questioned about his activities on
22 November 1963. He resembled the “unidentified man" of Dallas.
Our records on his exact activities are vague. As this is a "flashy"
issue, the Committee may press for a public hearing. This would
jeopardize Christ and the others and would be tantamount to
having the U.S. Government admit publicly to an old CIA operation on
Cuban soil at a time when the Administration may be courting Cuba.

(c) E. Howard Hunt may be called to discuss a report of the
assassination which he purportedly wrote while at the Plumbers Unit.
HSCA has requested access to our files on Hunt/ Watergate. We have
no known records of any such report.

4

Scenery
[oa ee re aoe
14-00000

 

4, The attached projection does not deal with the $64, 00 question:
of the final Committee report on which drafting will start about October
1978. There we will face the inevitable of attempting to correct ;
mistakes of fact and perception which are bound to creep into a work
of this magnitude, no matter how objective and professional the drafters
are, and of determining what information is to be placed in the public
domain, We have anticipated this latter problem and have concluded what a
I believe is a very strong and, I hope, effective Memorandum of Under-
standing between the Director and the Committee.

 

5. Itis my recommendation that you personally review the

. attached paper. Further, that the paper be tabled in a working group
of representatives designated by you and from this office to develop
positions with respect to the various issues raised. Following adoption
within the Agency, time is needed te assure appropriate coordination
with appropriate elements of the Executive Branch. Please provide me
with the name of your task force representative. I would like to have
the task force meet on Thursday, 4 May, 2:00 p.m, in room 6D0120.

  

Attachment

Distribution:
Original - Multiple Addressee
1 - OLC Subj
. ' 1 - OLG Chrono sot
_ OLC/LLM:baa (27 Apr 78)
104-10067-10060

 

 

OLC 78-1544/1
27 April 1978

 

 

 

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations
Deputy Director for Administration
General Counsel :
Inspector General
Director of Public Affaixs for GIA

FROM: Acting Legislative Gounsel

SUBJECT: _ House Select Committee on Assassinations -
A Projection

l. Up to now the House Select Committee on Assassinations has
expended a great deal of their and our resources in reviewing documentary
information in our possession relating to the Kennedy assassination. The
next phase of the Committee's effort which we have just entered is to put
this material to use in hearings, investigations, interviewing of personnel,
etc.

%

2 The Committee's review of documentary material presented
us with basically a mechanical problem under approved security safe-
guards to protect against unauthorized disclosure, and our agreements
and modus operandi held up well... ~ ;

3. However, now that the Committee is embarking on the more

. intensive phase of its work, I wanted to be sure that each of you, as
managers, had before you our projection of the issues we see in store
‘over the next eight months. The attached projection may turn out to
be a worst case assessment, but I doubt it. Some of it is speculative.
However, dealing with the issues now on a comprehensive basis cannot
help but contribute to the orderly adoption of sound coordinated positions
as opposed to the position we would be in if we ad hoc it on a crisis basis.

  
14-00000

 

OLC 78-1544
26 April 1978
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinations - A Projection

1. (S) With less than eight months remaining until its final report to
Congress is due, the HSCA investigations have narrowed to a few key areas
which involve the Agency. Though the Committee mandate covers both
the King and Kennedy Assassinations, the majority of our contact has been
with the Kennedy investigators.

2. (S) The Kennedy Subcommittee is addressing four questions:

- Ae Who shot the President?
. ~~ >

B. Was it a lone assassin or a conspiracy?

C. How did the agencies perform: ‘

@) prior to the assassination;

(2) sprotecting the President;

(3) during the subsequent ‘investigations ?
D. Is any new legislation necessary?

3. (S) Initially, the Kennedy § Subcommittee had organized into four
functional groups: .

A. Cuban-Connection Task Force led by Bill Triplett i
B. Oswald Task Force led by Ken Klein
C. Organized Crime Task Force led by John Hornbeck

D. CIA Involvement in the Assassination and Performance ‘During
Subsequent Inquiries Task Force led by Mickey Goldsmith.

Most recent contact between OLC and HSCA staff has involved the Oswald and
CIA Involvement-Performance Task Forces. All groups have had access to
CIA files, principally from Personnel, Security and DDO.

 
14-00000

 

. 4. (S) Following are what now appear to be the possible topics for
public hearings which involve the Agency : and issues which may arise
with HSCA.

. CUBAN CONNECTION TASK FORCE

This grouphas reviewed post Bay of Pigs material including the
Cuban Counterrevolutionary Handbook, 1964, which details personalities
and operations of Miami-based groups. G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel
and Staff Director, has been to Havana. :

q@)  (S) Possible Topics for Public Hearings

(a) Results of the Havana visit which may include a Castro
sponsored interview with AlM/LASH. This may require a CA
spokesman to define the CIA ~- AM/LASH connection.

{b) Operations of anti~Castro Cubans, Miami-based, for
which CIA documents (Cuban Counterrevolutionary Handbook
- 1964) may be necessary-”

(c) Former DCI Colby discussions. with Claire Booth Luce:
regarding the Bayo-Pawley affair.

(ad) The scope and nature of CIA files regarding Marita Lorenz:
Castro-Sturgis - This may require CIA spokesman. —

(2) (S) Issues:

 

No major issues at tiie“moment.
OSWALD TASK FORCE

“This group has reviewed most of the Oswald file as well as many other “201s”
referenced therein. Though the Epstein book may drive the ‘majority of the public
hearings toward the Nosenko issue, the group is exploring other issues which may
be aired. ;

(i) (S) Possible Topics for Public Hearings

(a) Nosenko's knowledge of Oswald and his own credibility.
Nosenko can be expected to be called, possibly Golitsyn, too. Not
Deryabin ‘(too dated). This may require a CIA spokesman to
attest to the present CIA position on credibility. Others may be
ealled: Helms, Colby, Angleton, Bagley, Miler, Hart, Epstein

_ and possibly Len McCoy and Bruce Solie. ;
