 

. DISP

Toate timers wee eee

AT Cc H BM-A-10811

fotatunnanees nut ser

. joare

mM ave comer © OME)

WATE He want,
NO OME tee, BUD

Walt eres Fate RE BIOCED

Ot OL are a0 m2 OTM Cone

 

J. Relations with the Hoxican Goverment

On 1 August 1954 in regard to the cane of Sergio VAIOWA, who
was arrested by Gobernacion, AATK mada the following comments to
Perens CASUNO. ARTOS sald he bel thowht of PAVON (fu) (Possibly

Manuel PAVGH Bahaine, who is one of four members of the Migration
Commission of the Chamber of Senators. (see alno HHM-A-717/, 19
Juns 2957)) as the person vho can defend Cutann vio have entered -
Mexico as tourists but who are de facto exiles; PAVO could
peck exile status for them. Tete said that asylum had teen
requested for VENTURA and others and that it had ticen denied.

Only those vho come out of the M,xloan Embassy in Cuba are granted
asylum, she said; any requests mist be of a political nature and
must tbe dealt with by "El Coronel.” The Coronel could make a general
("poli tieal-type")} request for Cubans who cannot afford 1,000 pesos
to reoain in Mexico ag v-sitentes" for Hacienda to subsidize
Cubans vo stay as “visitantes,* but this would mean a gigentic

* subsidy. Gustavo said that fortunately many whose papre are aot

fin order are leaving.

8. Propaganda

In addition to the operational aspect of the rebel radios
in Mexico City, they also used to receive news reports from the
Sierra Meestra. These reporte from the scene, are then passed to
feresa “Tete” CASUGO vho brings them to Manuel CAMIN, Mexican
Berspaperman, who has them published in Exeelsior and ite evening
edition, Ultimas Noticias.

9. Meeting Place
The most popular mecthg end eating place of the 26 of July

“operating group" is "El Malecon," located on Venustiens Carranza
#9, Hexloo, D. Ps

y

 

 

TO Tra a Set

 

 

 

  

 
 

bi

ae

 

: DISPATCH | _ secret | FeM-aA-10811

 

fone
esr $3
one

 

 

ene nts ne 2eetw, Cat tes

one operated by Rafael Silvio FE"A Perez, the other by
‘"Virgirita {ele}).* These two riiios are heard fo
HMieal by the rebel station there. The rebels are
having rouble syncheonizing their two stations in
Mexico, that of “Virgirite” being in a lower frequency
than PENA;s. "Wirgirita" complained that PRIA wae not
calling kim at night. On & August 1955 Luis FEREZ
(see pare B) requested that an encoded message be

gent to “Alex” via one of the radios. (“Alex” 1s
believed to be Fidel Alejandro CASTRO Pur.) PENA to
dealing vith Ing. Guéllerm‘ZERTANDEZ Mendot of Roque
(sic) Internationa], a radio supply house, in omer to
get an antenna for his redio. The ratio installations
are designated by the term “Indio,” i.e., “Indio Apache,” -
*Indio Custe,” Indio Verdes”

Mail:
4

+ Most mail sent to the 26th of July “operating group? ~
fe sent to Manuel CHAO, 710 Tlalpan, Mexico, De Fe.
WACHADS 16 the owner Of Editorial MACHADD, located at 1
that address. ARCOS requested Luis PIES in Miami {
to send all money for the Movenent to this address.
Thie eddress ie being covered by the LiMUD operations

 

Telephone: .

The telephone ie sued pronlecuoualy by members of the
Both of July Movement. On occasions, open code ant
encoded weanages are pasand by phone. On & August

an encoded {nimber code) seanage win panaed by phone
from Hiaal to Hexico for further parsing by redio to
"Alex" (probably Fidel Alejandro CASTHO Ruz). On

5 August 1953, ARCH told Sergio VAROTA to use “guanted

language” on the phona.

b, Operations:

On 2 Avgust 1958, Gustavo ANCOS called Ricardo LORIE,
telephone FM-1-2247, in Miami. LORIE anavered to name

of “Luise FERFZ." ARCOS asked whether “Oscer” wos theres
UORIE seid no. ARCOG said that he had received word from
"frienis for avay” (probably Cuba) and thet the friends
would give a definite answer very acon. ANXK} wanted the
*yauffeur" (probably pilot) (Oscar) to come that day.’

4. regard to equipaent ARCOS seid that they have the things
most difficult to get: the "impermeables" for protection-@
not at hand but available and they would soon have them.
They Lave hed the “cther” for some time and have bought
the “shock absorbers” end are dust waiting for the right time
to bring then.

DORIE seid that “oscar” was not in town but that he would try
to find him or someone alse. ARCOS said he had received word
from the “president of the corporation" (probably CASTRO) that
he woul4 be able to guarentee vithin a few hours or 2 or 3 days

Te PRS tT : .
en ac 8 PENG ca
F me st 8 we . TRAE £
em eet Oe :
- - ann
‘ ee .
e * ¥

~- « -

 

 

 

 

WON ae Sane

tt henge i sinner oem a vam
 

104-10533-10012

 

BEAR en tettnaln EE ONIN e! nerteT ate Nae een Bn PlRtaipenentsamennmtaie ata = ves mer atin ne

    
    

10

eee

eet

Acie Ques

(or

 

Tiatiaw ole pe

DISPATCH i

SECRET MMeAR100220

 

 

Chief, WH Division 1 P-70
Chiefa of Stations, Esvann i 30-7 -1B-2
Tegucigalpa !
-_——-- es aa .
Chief of Station, Kaxico City ; '6 August 1958
Operational .
iL | aorta ene wot sae

Cuban Exils Activities (26 of July Movement) _

MO BADR Eee BEI

° j “YO aot rer, Caos 0 #10680
{x Or QUIN D HG OME OFAT
A. MPXT-2037
Be HLA 3229
Cy KEXI-2104
D. MPXI+2106
Be. MEXI-2108

2. On 29 July 195€, the LISTAT operation set forth in reference A,
waregraph 3, was established, The target ia Pansco 166, reaidence of
GustevodARCOS y Bermes, lesder of the 26th of July Movement in Mexico.
The results of this operation to date, 5 August, have been highly
gucceseful, providing the following information.

2. Personalities:

A. The 26th of July Movement in Mexico haa a small “operating
group” under the leadership of Gustave ARCOS y Bergnes and composed
of the following Cubsns:

-

; ( RectorGZTRICELAYA, left for Tegucigolpa 2 August 1958 et
tee . (\ Rafael Silvio PENA Peres (“£1 Oario”) {redfo operetor)4 tf fe tc 4D

Sy Orlando. VENTURA Reyes -.. 77 - belt ew
el FERIANDESZ Tors TO ee arene
Vaouel’ CARBCNELL

     

Re berto Run, a
Teresa (“Tete”) ‘CASUSO Morin
“Vigirita” (redio operator)

B. In addition to the above group, the following Cubans and
non-Cubans fare involved in Cuban (26 of July Movement) revolutionary
agtivities'in Mexico: ~ ~—

<
. Alonzo ‘ATUGARAT, Cuban from Honduras (staying at Hotel Arizona)
oat Antonio de] "CONDE, Mexican ams dealer
. t Julio (louy~ .
“ PICARD (fou)
Albertd-BAYO Giroud, Sosnierd
Helin CALVO, Dominican .
Sergia,VARONA, Cuban (staying at Hotel Anzures)
Kanuel CAMIN, Mexican nevecan
Gustavo RAMOS, Cuban. ad
Emilio, AROS : .
aa ~~ . “ys
oa a, Ce Another group of persons fa Kiomd ani New York is working
\ slosely with ARCOS and the 26th of July Movesent in Mexico:

ey

-» Ricardo LORIE (Luis PEREZ")(Hiemt) Tel: Et.1-22h7
Oscar (Inu) (Mien) - Believed to bee pilot
Maria GARCIA (Hionmi) Tel: WI-5-520%

VWilliem (1nu), (New York)
"El Gallo,” (Kew York)
HERO or REDO (Miami)

3. Commmications:
A. B dios: ; a

tee orrnene
eee Tea
Mg sae
wed aay

      

  

 
74-00000

 

 

ead
Be

ae,
wt.

 

 

   

“HO WOT RA HOUIRED
HOLKOG Com BF RIDGLO
By Gua ED HO OtSK ORLY

  
    
  
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
  

 

“3

that they (ANCOS and frienda) would be shie to neke the trip and not
suffer t:¢ elefortune tlet “Osear” and "Sinengua” (--wsibly refers to
trip of Fredro MUHET Prieto on 3 Mare? Lumet waen jlenc vas burned
after leading in Cuba) euffered when icy went. if tiey (the president,
ete.) should .ay yes, then the “alock absorbers” wild not be necesnory.
“Lute™ coald tharmake tie trip direst, vite the panrentee that ne could
a ald out all right. Orees est therefore cane to Ine eet the “en” .
pre

    

 

eer’
obebly plane) ARCUG reald, and reereviition ft. 1: would probably
take two or three dayn, Beenuse it wes ant conaplete.

 

5
TORIR said that he would try to Locate “Osear", but that liey Cin
Wied) ere in the saw position an APOC mid teat “Lsenr™ is working
on that now. LORIE vould try to solve t ¢ probles tr finding sonsone
else. ANCOG replicd that "Gsear" would te the bert ren te cone, since
he knows the "car", I'ficardo also said t they (in et Vinh) have what
ARCOS vas expecting to receive. (Possinly shock ebsorbers).

 

DORIE sess that “Osear bas already been soing, but to the ‘other placet,
the place of the ‘Little trother.!" (probably ares vrere Raul CASTRO is
located). UCRIE sald that they were weitirg for tie: on the”other side"
end on “thie side” too, LORIE repeated that he vould try to solve the

Problen. fp et Bag ae :
ie ree

  

In @ call fron ARCOS to Sra. MarieGancth, fn ident CE 5-saii) ve tenia ~°
her things are ready exept the shock pbearbere. He cays that he has been
din touch with “Alejandro” (probably Fidei Alejandro CASTHO Ruz) and he
would notify cometine after the next murs if Ge could make the same
trip es “Fouchet", mide without the cose alfficulties concerning the -
veliele. (frobably plane). Me is waiting for the crmrantee that the
vehicle could cet in and o:t safely. ACS explained that “Usear" wae
the best ren, but he (ACCS) wantet to er influence and put

pressure to cet either “sear” and the other person emild came, so

much the better, beeaune trey would have work to. do preparing the
vericle. Gus mentioned the good news in tne paper t.at a heavy~
,amored vericke bed folien into the hands of thelr pewle, and Shat

their control of sone “Jewer cones" would make it porstible for them

to make the trip. Gus said that all the “president” neeto is personnel
to operate the material, (Reat of conversstion unintelligible).

  
 

 

  

   

votes

Se Finance:

on 3 duly 1958, about ready to lenve for ‘ube bank, Manuel MACHADO
eeked ANCOS If he nestled nny money. Oa & Auguol, ATO told Ls TEHEZ
in Meni that he should rend any money far t af July Horenent to

Manuel HACTADO. It fa Uelieved that Manuel MAAR ts accoumt is used to
fund the 26th of July moverent in lexico. On 4 August ANCOS told PHA
that the financial situation was poor and requested PREZ to send some

money if possible.

     
  

 

       

te
“ - tor
se i
:
: ql
+ O88 Pats RON perso | oe 4
ay FRACS eres i
ent ;
2 . 7
a eo eect - 5 Seema emma d 4
’ Hi -
. |

18 Tis mE ROR tart emacs AE tet Bimini MNt Rite re cans tenaN EI igs erUe etter ite FO yt Ratstemite aes

 

  
74-0000

 

i
i
j

 

 

 

 

 

& Travel:

A. On 30 July an unknow Cuban toi4 Orlando VETTUPA Reyes
("EL Cheparro*) that be was leaving for Cuba sometine before 3
August 1958 and needed some money, The unknown person was told to
pick w $50 for the trip at ARCOS'a apartment on 3) July 1958.

B. On 30 July 1953, Melba de KIRET, vife of Pedro MIRET
Prieto, told ARCOG that she received a letter from z
who had arrived “there.“ This person wants ARCOG' aidresa 50
he can write to him. Melba tello AFCOG that he can write to
this unknown person at 66-09 Northero Building, Jsc).soa Heights,
Long Ieland. This is now the eddrese of Raquel erez de MINET, which
was formerly 4011 SOth Street, Jackson Heights, Lonz Ialand.
Pedro MIRET Prieto gave the latter address as his forearniing eddress
on his trip to the States last April. here ia poasibility that.
Pedro MIRETPrieto base left Cuba and is now in New York.

CG. On 2 August, Manuel (Fernandez Torro) seid he vas leaving

for the United States on 3 August. On & August Silvio PENA
Perez said FEFXANDEZ was expected to retum on 5 or 6 August.
The actual destination of FERWANDEZ ia not known.

CG. On 2 August 1958 Hector GEIRICELAYA (cee para 1) left
Mexico for Tegucignipa, Honduras, by TACA. (Airlists/LIFEAT).
He planned to leave for San Pedro Sula.on 3 August 1998.
OEIRICELAYA Planned to call the vife of Silvio FIA won
arrival in Tegucigeipe.

E. On 3 Awuet Helis CALVO, Dominican (see para 2) left
Mexico for Costa Rica, where she excpected to ald the family
of Julio Cesar MAHTINEZ, Dominican, who was recently exiled
to Penama from Costa Rica. CALVAO's expenses were paid by ARGOS,
he G2, 26 of July Movement.

6. -Material:
Arma end dommition
On 31 July 1953 one Julio (1nu) told AROOG that ke had d fair
emount of 60's and 60's that he needs. ARCOS insisted on
kpowning the price because if there vere more than one

hundred be should be able to get them at a discount.
(Julio may be bave been referring to mortars--6-cm, and 60-a.)

Reconiers: ae
Se

On 1. August 1958 Ing. Guillermo HERNANDEZ Mendoza of Roque
International (radio supplies) told Silvio PEXA that «
recorder would be shipped from Oklaboma to Nissi on the 6th
and woulé arrive in Fonduras about 15 August.

Frrccesar sce ng

SECRET

We Patents oN TNS

 

i
|
‘
|

 

 

ee ites

 
