74-0000

1
Chelle Lo.
little to add to General Gabbté’s reputation. Other references
throughout the manuscript may also produce provocative if not

alarming consequences when reviewed by those concerned or

described.

M2

 

 

CTLEOB

WFM/ark

 
A,review of the first few pages of the manuscript rather
cleabty show this to be the work of E. Howard Hunt (OS file #23500),
presently a staff employee assigned to the European Division of
DDP. The following items culo} from the manuscript were
compared with factual data in Mr. Hunt's security file:

a) Manuscript, page 6--''The air was cool on this second

day of December 1956..... - twenty of us were seated

AN

around the\spacious office of the fon. Arthur Gardner,

American Atpbassador to Cuba" (then in Havana)

Hunt's file--travel order dated 19 November 1956 authorized

Hunt to travel to‘end from Havana on TDY during the period

7-15 December 1956.

\

b)_Manuscript, pages, 9--'"In 1926, at the height of the

Florida boom, my father was practicing law in Miami Beach",

the manuscript goes on a indicate that Subject's father had a

serious problem with his business partner which related to

missing funds and the partnership was dissolved.

Hunt's file--Subject's personal history statement reveals that

Subject's father was an attorney. \A Dun and Bradstreet report

dated 16 January 1945 indicated that when Subject's father was

- with L. R. Steel Company as an storey in the 20's that the

company failed with disastrous results, however, Subject! s
father was exonerated after an investigation.
 

‘104-40120-10024

 

“¢

° e

5 February 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: C/SRS

6 CIA
FROM : C/LEOB RevuRNTe Only
Backgro' ce
Nant Feproduc
SUBJECT 7 : Manuscript: Give Us This Day Do Not Rep

Author: Edward J. Hamilton

A letter from Tom want of Holt, Rhinehart and Winston,

Inc. book publisher dated July 9, 1968 and addressed to Bill
\
Buckley of the National Review discusses the subject publication
and indicates that Holt, Rhinehart declined publication because the
manuscript by Hamilton was considered "far too controversial",
A note from Saroyan accompanying the manuscript indicated that
Buckley had sent this manuscript to Arlington House. A Henry
\

Durkin now publicity manager foe Walker and Company handled
this manuscript while he, Durkin, as working for Arlington House
some time ago. Walker and Company have just recently declined
to publish the manuscript apparently fox the same reason as Holt,
Rhinehart and Arlington House. It was noted that Arlington House
rejected the manuscript as controversial because they had no way of

checking out the facts.
14-00000

c) .Manuscri t, Page 10--"y, March of 1960 I was having

coffee with the newly -elected President of the country
(Uruguay) to which I was assigned when a station officer
was admitted. " The manuscript goes on to indicate that

Hunt had to report to Washington.

d) Manuscript, Page 19--"Baving Served several years in

Mexico"!

Hunt's file--Subject was assigned tg Mexico City under cover.
nn 4

e) SMBnuscript, page 23--"'Reporting my failure to Quarters

Eye I returned to Washington and conferred with Barnes, Jake
and Bender, They recommended, and I agreed, that I ought to

Visit Havana. to Savor the atmosphere and Minglewith the Cuban
74-0000

.

people. Our cover staff provided me with documentation
that would support the operational alias I was to live with
for the duration of the Project: Edward J. Hamilton. I
drew a travel advance and flew to Tampa where I boarded a
National ‘Airlines flight to Havana."

Hunt's file--On 27 September 1960 action was taken to pro-

~ %.

vide alias documentation to Howard Hunt in the name of

 

Edward J. Hamilton. This documentation included a bonafide
Q,

District of Columbia driver's permit in alias including back-
2 ce resideiie address. Later, in June of 1963 a post office
box in Washington, D.C. was established for Hunt under the
name,Edward J. Hamilton.

A rather casual review of the rest of the manuscript indicates

general similarity 4 the descriptive data.of the author's ( Edward ¥ Joi

: ee
Hamilton's) activities with regard to the Cuban situation wth these-of-

jo? meyorto na Hunt. Aes aa A andy,

It is quite clear that at least a number of minor compromises
of security are involved here. -Additionally, personal opinion regarding
a number of prominent and in some cases former Agency employees
could be considered controversial if not actually damaging. Beginning
i

on page 214, the manuscript describes General Cab s role in the

Cuban episode and it can be assumed that this presentation would do
