 

 

:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

3 hactons
Telegaci6n on «1 Exilio
vr. Angel Ron Escala ("Ral"), Coordinador General del je-
vo Nacional a¢1 Moviutento de Nevuperaetén xavoluctanarta. . ‘
70 (MERC) ne traslada al exilio temporalmente en misién :
dal. : : ;
Gio de le presente, firmande el Tjecutivo en pleno.y por
c undnime, dn y apoya en tod 5 sus partes, lag die.
ones cue el lr. Rus como Coordinndor General deba de tomir.
2° de Cuba, , no

, EB . ;
pa f x . ’
a fs eet Le f oa =

ae tt
coord. Genemi * : / Coors Rerr
: “ a a ;

 

AS .

Coord, Finanza.

Ly

. LIT Aewew :
ne : *
foord. Resistencia Civ’ Coord, #rofesionales — Gh

; “i

~~ C L624 _ — Vow elas

Coord, Cbrers Cogrd“s tudiantil

th
be . : . no oo
Coerdad, Farning . : :
. ,
74-0000

 

one eoaané ehensel for atl groups ether than to individual groupo.

At the oem tim, ho recognized that for security sake this would

‘have to be hendled on s compartemnted basis,
, aa

18, They were told that they must make en attampt to gst along
with Miro CARDONA and oven though they may not ifke his thay mot

try to cooperate with bia end work with his esd/er have him vork

for thea sathar then fight bis, They must not lock borne with bin,
kowovar, after attempting to work with him if they found it completely

: inpesotbla wo would sot dony thas support beesuse of this,

Calvin nthe *

| WH/8/PH

PRET ie Ee amb eet k tinge, pati elfuriacdmar, ase ttt someee

 
 

tt tna ae te nn ate te RSA NO ne tee RuSpeeA‘eys 8

 

   

*
. 7 : —™
_ From:  Nattonal Executive
Tor. “Exile Delaration

Mr. Angel Ros Escala’(Raul), General Sordinator of the National Exweutive
of the Yovinilento de Reeupéracion Zevoiw tonario Cutano ORR), is going

abroad tenporarily on a special atezton.

By means of this document, with the Zyncutive sisning in evsplete and

unanimous accord, it (the Executive) expports and indorses in all parta

the decisions which Ur. Ros as Gersral Sordinatar may make outside of Cubs.

af (ilecible) Jorre . sf (iltecthle)
vereral Coordinator Jerr, Coordinator

af Gervan (last lettar op letters flee.) af (illecibied :

 

Retion Coordinator ittary coonlinster
a/ Pedr Gonzalez : __5/ Rane
fn ene

ropaganda esordinator Finanes coord inater

sf Mayire s/(illysihe}
Civil Resistance Coontinator . Frorossional# (asm? inator
s/ Lutea {7} : sf Gonralee

Yator Cwnitnator Stidentsal Coarminater

s/ Varina
NODeN'S Loeriinator

3/ Rafael (?)
Sian

 
 

 

 

* Be

he “Feank" - public rolations.

a “Bod" - not 6 senber of the effictal executive committee

but attended all tho- mactings.

\

(true ‘name:
and "Ricardo" -(anothor man, true wena:
uR loader. -ineido: che Tealten Bodasay.)

4.

“Nota: .At a ‘later: mocting “Justo” eaid a men called "Ricardo".
Siorgo-FVENTRFRIA) was the so-called UR lesder on tha street
Ricardo RODRIGURZ-ESPADA) was che

 

“Cesar” was ‘the member: “of. ‘the ww that ‘the -W/T operator, AL MENDOZA,

Woing Signal Plan SULTAG, contacted. Luis aod BRITO aatd MENDOZA was 6
legasy boy. When they . saw bin they ‘got’ ‘panicky. : -

“Juste admitted getting ten thous snd pesoe froz Hire CARDONA, ”-

‘Rowover, firet BRITO oafd ha did ‘Bot gat tc until corracted by "Justo".

Although "Justo" lived. in tbe Italien Embassy bo said he did

_ Rot take asylua but rathor used that.as 4 safe operations base. and was
in and-out maiy ‘times conduating UR business. He finally edeiected,

howover ‘thet in cto eyes of. ths Cubsa people. thot was probably asylum,

?,

The folloving groupa- and their leadaro end the Embassies in

“which they took asylum vas. givea by BRITO:

a. WRRC « “quttin® + Italian Bebsssy. This is a different

tan then "Simone", "Simone wad tha men who wee the leader of tho MARC
until "Guilin" returned to Cuba (believed to be March, 1961) and again
took over. tha MARC,

b. MRP + Msrces Willtams = Iealisn Bbassy.
c. UR = "Juste" = Italian Rubeasy; (He eaid thie was sot

asylum for himself, but just a safe livieg area.)

d. MDC + "Lucas” = Italien Bebasey. (They doa't like "Lecas”}

want to vork with ANBLZSS-1 as leadex of 0.)

@. DRE ~ “Luciano” - Bubassy, if =y, not known, (VOITELL

cupposediy new lester of. DRE.)

f. RESCATS ~ "Darie” + Bubessy, if any, not known, (They

don't like hin.)

g. 3th of November - VILLAREAL (trua nano). (They say you

sover know who che real leader of tha. Oth of November is, for fe has
8 thousand groupe end @ thousand leodere.)

SET
 

10226-10034

 

 SEBRET

 

a a . - : , 3 Octobor 1961 |

, - MEMORANDUM FOR TI RECORD

SUBJECT:

.

Contact Report between “Justo” and Mr. Hicks (using name
Cal Hitch) on 22, 25, 27, 28 and 29 Saptomber 1961,

in addition to the subject names, Mr. Pekich (uoing name

Jin Bowdin) was at ali moatings and ons‘or sll of the following
individudis also attended these mestingss.

 

2.

a. Andreo ZAYAS ("Jus to")

-b. Luts SANCHBZ ("Piccolino")

Ge Tony HUKEZ (*Tony"y

4, Angel ROS ("Guilin")

@. Wilfredo BRITO ("Bebo") ~ using nome E. I, Harrison

£, Ferasade CABADA - using nae Fraak Dutton ,

For eiditional details alrondy reported by cable, see DIR 15356

(QUT 53207) dated 2 October 1961,

3.

‘According to BRITO tha leadership of the UR 29 of 17 April 1962

was aa followa: ("Hsafeel" bed been national coordinator until executed.)

a. “Juato" + civilian coordinator.

b. "Cesar" + action coordinator.

6. “Piecolino” - gencral coordinator,

é. “Piccolino” © righthand man ef "Rafeel" (aloo known as "Podro"),
@. “Arturo” « fatelligence,

2. “Bebo” (trues name; Wilfredo BRITO) ~ propagends.

Be "Bicarde" - security.

be “Hilario“ = cosmo.

i. “Marcial - transportation,
Je "Bebo" (mot tha came as the chove “Babe") = finsnce.

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

  

6. “Quilin” supposedly organized the MRA back in .1939; thea he
& falliag-ovt end his elexont, know as the RRC, eupposcdly broke

. with. tho MER several monchs bofore the invasion aod worked with the UR.
“Howeve

; all of-thom opoké. well of: "Francisco" and adateted thet his

 

‘ group -carrfed out moat. of the ection but always adding along with the

alec,

« Te soon became spparent that. with "Francisco" gone and the évident
confused loadership of ‘tho MRR, that “Guilin” thought thia wuld be
‘the opportune time to atteupt to ragain control of tha HRR. Since he

did pet feel “be. éould- claim tha Maa ee such, be attempted to do: it by ©

saying "All the good man‘ left ths MRM and now belong to bia",
9, ‘Morcoa Uillfams was-the sctica lester for the wae end lefe

becouse ha wasted action and couldn't got it with RAY. Ha had orders

‘from, RAY not ‘to uce explosives; ote., and not to expose themaelvea;
but, to just Iie low Gad let the othars teke tha risk, Marcos dida't.
agree with- this and folt thet the MRP as going to have to be active

10. They knew of AMPUG@1 using the warnema “Andrés" aad eleo.
knew tha truco identity, and thay denounced bia and "Cesar". (Howover,

“this was not “Justo telking, but was BRITO nd SANCHEZ; and, BRITO

freely admitrad that “Justo” did got feel tha’ same way about "Cosar"’
as he did.) SANCHEZ, tn addition to knoving AMPUG, knew of an
“Ernoato", but did net know bie true identity (this was ths varnemo

used by AMCOAN@1). _. :
: 11. Whee quarying about Gems of the names in tho sewspaper

article that announced the arrest of twolve people, TORREOLLA was-

am excellent man; PUJAL, who was a distant cousin of BRIT, was sn
excellent man, Although ‘thay didn’t Lika AMPUG-1 because they folt
hs was trying to oplit. ths UR in his attempt at unification with

“Cesar (again “Justo” did not soem to believe thia about “Cesar"),

they seid AMPUG would never calk, “Ceasar, BRITO folt, vas wouk and

indicated he might-telk, howiver, “Justo” was so violently opposed

‘to that, that BRITO finally edmitted: that Cesar" woulda't talk;

" 4€ was fut thee be dida'e itke bin and thought he was no good. Kost

of the other individuals they dida'e know or had ro opinion of,
However, one of them seensd to think: thet GARCIA-RUBIO might have
talked, but. this scemod to be based more on ths fact that ha knew
of many of thi events. and. was 8 loose talker and indiserete rather
than the fact that he way deliberately taformed for bio own benefit.

12. "Tony" wae bragging about knowing of "Brand", GARCIA-RUBIO,
and PEKLOK w/T messages. It was later learned through “Juste that
“Tony” got hie inforzation from AMPUC-1 end GAACLA-RUBIO actually
lived ia “Tony's house and may have operated bis radio fron there,

bend
 

 

 

 

 

 

4S. the following phone numbere and/or eddreesas were left to
enable ous of cur people to contact then tn Miami:

a. "Juste" ~ va 321306 ;

b. Angol ROS - 3451 BY 1Och Street, Apt. #9, HI 3-7097

14. A Poul Burns was aaned a9 ths aan Fepresedting tho outfit and
a@-menbar of tha American Esbasay in Havana until June, 1960, He
“Supposedly was ‘in Santiago in 1939. :

15. The following te a statement written by “Tony”;

  

' "I, Luta Antonto DIAZ Pina, gave t mar 1960,
"| Gt the U.S. Bubasay in Havana, Cuba, to Hr, a
*. ave lope with tho following contents; A phot copy oF

‘> Revolutionary. Unity original document, a leak of ‘paper of evs ie
‘with seme eddresges,.s half leaf of paper of about 6" x 44" cut in

 
 

+half, aad £6 ‘$100.00 doller bills; This anvelo, ‘waa addressed to
Frod coup at Miemi, 1 Haver got in toueh vith because vhon I
a en account of the

   

 

got to call hin at Miami, wo.

-Félation evpture betwcen the ue: ut } : hat

be ‘got the sinvolope he ol but be didn't afae. wm ated f
thing about it," . ar

Wife end sbo dida'¢. know ; ;
oo , Septendor 25, 1961+ (Signed)

 

16, -Attachment A ty a copy of 8 document, oalf-axplanatory, substi eted
by Ros. oo ;

17. No sowaltmasts ware nade to those pesple rather, it was a
ideas and feelinge aod getting them in 2

real business after being sent beck to

tho WAVE ares, They were told thay would des! with a Mr. Petare and

Support, but tdey did aoe want to go back to Cuba just: for cha sake

of returning and: they-did- not wont to viok the lives of thstr on
wnlese thay felt swt there was a defiates geal to be attained,
"daate” Gspectally, felt very Streagly thet support must cons through

 

 
