 

pi

a

SECRET

numerous new aatenn I gathered from Subject that he was a
bit too much in thisSdirection to suit gs his (Subject's) tastes,
but that he aduired| for the abibity to pull off these
stunts. Subject inférréd that beceus jis a short,

slight man, he felt obliged to act in. mer. His personality
is pleasant, however, and is apparently a good mixer on the
cocktail circuit. He speaks French, Spanish, ond English, all
very well, He is able still to return to Cuba for 06
should this be found desirable, Subject felt thac[ n fiteces
money at the present time, a factor to be consider

recruitment pitch, Whether or not his dissatisfaction with
Castro would be any incentive for his cooperating with KUBARK

is problimatical, probably negative. Money, and perhaps the
adventure of the proposition would be the strongest motivations.

The rest of the inform ded by Subject at this meeting
is already reflected i file.

(3)
4. NICARO MINING CO, AMWHIP/1 stated that he was
well acquainted wit ae “Lito") GONZALEZ,) who has been
involved with the Nicaro Mynes for a number of years and is

wm ob quite familiar with its physical lay-out and operations,

Paul

9

ee?

(GONZALEZ) is in New York°%rcquently and AMWHIP/L offered to
arrange a meeting with AGONZALEZ) any t ine the writer wished.

* Apernaps, feels GONZALEZ) bee some valuable information and
perhaps ideas which woul@’be useful to ODYOKE. Feeling that
such a well-known individual must already be in contact with
KUBARK, we did not press for details, but told AMWHIP/1 that
we would check the matter. (Upon consulting with EDE, it was
determined that no one is in contact wi th (GONZALEZ) and that

* such a meeting would perhaps be useful. is will be arranged,
Priro to AMWHIP/I coming trip to Europe ca. first two weeks in
September ‘63. Traces have been initiated and POA will be

requested,

5, AMWHIP/L's European Trip in September. ANWHIP/L
plans to depart for Europe somctime during the [Irst two weeks
of September. He will spend at least two or three weeks in Rose
looking after his new store in the Cavalicri-Hilton (sce 4 June
contact report).q3He will at this time again be in contact with
the Rome Stat toa] endl ing. He will undoubtedly be targeted
against meabers ban Diplomatic Corps stationed fa Roac,
He hopes to have more time’ for this activity than during his
previous visit, when difficulties with the store opening occupted
much of AMWHIP/I's ttme, We will be in touch with AMRHIP/]
before thin trip,

 

 

C/O, SAS ROK
 

 

‘04-10183-10024

Gp

“by having mete

SECRET

7 August 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD: Bo \

AMWHIP/1 Meeting, New York City,

SUBJECT :
24 July 1963

1. Meeting Time/Place. The meeting was arranged by-
telephone on 2 uly, schedule to take place on 47th Street. :
3 d at 1400 hours. Subject and under- |
signed then walked to Schraft's Restaurant located on W. 47th :
Street. The meeting terminated without incident at 1540.

2. Purpose of Meeting. The meeting was scheduled in
half during his

order to review Subject 5 activities on our

recent trip to Europe, and to request him te Jetsam.
ecessary for an introduction t

tly residing in ode Janeiro, Brazil.

a target presen
Nice job, too, see attachment.

equently was received.

Operational Interest.

Terre 6
3 ubject agr Oe irhont hesitation
to prepare a le er for oduction t It was so (See

Attachment) addressed and wor, ed so thi a C/O using same
ith ODYOKE

could do so without tly involving Subject Ww
Cuban operations in ind. (Implications, of course,
zed) In discussing

or § me time in
im a

   
 
  
 

 
 

annot—be avoided in such games, itd
of* Subject said that he had kn
“¢ but by implication, did not co articularly
c eo Person: friend. Subject stated that ad run
al type of business, located in ton Hotel
the revolution the breaking of relations

dh avant.
with Castro Governmen, by U.S.A., business suffered
to the point that 1 O¥s5 totally griteble, For this reason,

and perhaps others, does not hold any, ove for Castro or
hia regime. During B15 FeSidence in Havans, leveloped
a close friendship with the former Braziliao a ‘a 9°
Laitao DA CUNHA, who was tater instrumental in getting

to camigrate to Brazil, and also presumably in helping “am ge
his present job as a stecl salesman. Subject said hs B
good man but not without his foibles, and has the id
extrovert-type of personality which enables him te enter: any

scene and pobcompletely at ease, To titustrate this, Subject
related ho sed to put on bis “black-tie and titerally
crash very tes in Huvana, and favertably ended the evening
veryone at the affair, including haveing made

ee Le eS)
Segal ao Oe
—— Soro
Lae & RS ay
Se Gone
eee”
