 

 

 

. . ve

 

 

TOs Comiuissioner
Inniprcticn and Neturclization Service
Attention: Hr. Raymond P. Farrell

FPOMs Deputy Director, Plans

4 x
SUEJECT: Rolando Arseaio PaS?RRAR Y Rosas
File Bo. A TILT ICR SP ”

1, Reference is made to yrur request for a name cheek. dated
ay AAR AD Dy SOUP ILLS MEET A TLYTIOS-WNP, in which rot aczed
for any derorzatory informant contained fn tho fLles of this Agency

- concerning Rolando dreadio MASFRRGR Y £OJAS.

2. The folloving is a sumary of the rany resorts available
concerning ons Palanjo HiS?E2F=2, vho is vrobably identical with the
subject of your request. .

3. A esgelly reliable source revortxd:'on 15 Ialy 1949 that
. Rolande MASPURR=E, Cuban Congressman and-ragazine editer, was expelled
frog the lecal Commmist Party in 1045, Ee wus an ontstamiing figure
.4in the 1°47 attorst to cvorthreyv. the Dominican Goverment, tut took Le
: no part in a siailar atteet in 1°49, mainly because of vorecnal . oe
. : differences wiich arose fram the 1947 vonture. Ho retained greet
interest, however, in the overthrew of the Dominican ami Ricaraguan
Gverments. .

& Another uscaliy reliatie source revorted cn 7 aceust 1950
that Congressaan folendo MisFJSG5R, a former monter of the Cocenmist
Party, was kmowa to Lave exoressed creat adairation for the 7708

*s social lerislation, as it resulted im the improvement ©
of ths living conditicns of the working classes,

'  § & fairl~ relfeble source roported on 10 May 1°5] that
Rolando MASF=RRSR otta!ned movey f-om the PUROM! roverment, MASYIRRER
nade a trip to Argvation several] yesre ago, and sincs that tise has
' Wepported the P 203% cevernmeat in his publication, Tle—» en Cula. ...
. It wa: believed thet MAS7-RE R vas working for PLROW, with the view - -
copra mmo =" yy gortemding PEROSts schere of influence to Vonesucla and the Dominican
oo ‘Rerabiie, and evertually to the Central american ‘soamtziee.

ee SSS

ke be rehooog.-/ ,

veers

 
 

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in he “TO” column. Under each esmment a line shoud be drawn across sheet
and each comment nunibered to ceerespond with the nur ser in the “TO” estumn. Each cHicer should initia! (Check mark insufficeney,
before further routing. This Pewing and Record Shee: should be returned to Registry.

RI/stfiatt

Py

Poadaol.
~ PESTRACTL- INDEX
ia eet

 
 

  

ee
. 1
Security iniormztiea
: “2+ e

6. In Octobar 1951 a usually reliatle source recorted that
Rolando MaSS RR foucht in the Spnnish Ciyll War uncer the command
of Vjlentin GONLALZZ (72 Cemmesine), MA“? PRER defended GONZALIZ in
the controversy eoncerning the latter in the Cuban cress during
GMLAL:Z? wisit to Cute in 1951.

J. snother fairly reliable source reorted on 7 October 1952
that, accomling to informaticn obteined ty the Nati nel Zxecutive
Board of the Partide S:ciclista Pooler (2S?, Cubin Cornmist Party),
Rolamto H.\S?2R2IR, tovether with some Jeaders of the 2-ned forces
whe wished to is~se a nilitary iictaterchin in Cuba, had a foree of
abut two or three Irndred armed ren ulo, at a piven simal, wuld
attack the volice stctions, seize tho radio stati «, anc stage a
street rict araiast the rovermment. While carrying ort this operaticn
the revoluticnists would kill several policeman and eoomtt onto 7%
Rarmmnnt en ode HT ere ie “OVEEMETt to conde such acta,
and te deoree violert revrisals neains: the Pertide Bevolucionaric

Cubano (PRO, Autaxtics), the Partido dol Areblo Cuban (PPC, Ortodoxo), .
and particularly against the Commnista, :
' CS DEB-G805
PPE SkG:RS:dk : : Distribation:
24 June 1°53 RI ‘
TEH~L2£2 . RG
$5H-1418 : : sto
TYH-1562 . : STC/ICE -
THE-1782 ed :
WH/NID

WH/LII , . a, :

 

 
