8
Um re : . . . CONFIDENTIAL

sat

DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES
INTERVENTION IN VIETNAM

The Marine Corps recruiters, in the interest of
public safety, did not man the booth butawaited University
officials' attempts to disperse the demonstrators, The
demonstrators, however, ignored direct orders from school
officials to disperse | cand continued the demonstration,
Recruiters were never able to occupy the booth throughout
the day.

 
  

   
 
 

2a member of the Chicag ‘Area Draft

lesisters,--2 whith is in oppos eTéective

Service s-

(Robertfugas, the Chairman of the Chicago chapter, Congress
of iyl Equality, a civil rights organization, spoke to
the demonstrators extolling black student power, During his
talk, approximately 200 curious students congregated in the
area.

“art
The Chicago Police nelartment had representatives
on the'scene, butwould nof arrest demonstrators without_specific
-complaint from | University officials. No complaint was issued

 

.Bince school officials feared a riot would occur if arrests
were made. The studente ‘dispersed | at approximately 2345 ‘Be m.

Demonstrations in Opposition to the Selective Services

‘An article appearing in the January 13, 1968, issue

of "People's World," a west coast communist newspaper, stated
that David Harnis, upon reporting to the Oakland Induction
Center, Oakland, California, on Janugry 17, 1968, and refusing
induction, would be met with a Yar supporting demonstration
planned by the Committee for Dra Resistance, a group which
is in opposition “to Selective rxice laws, on January 17,

1968, at 6:30 a.m., a demonstration began at the Oakland.
Indugtion Center, Oakland, California. Approximately, 2

iduals participated, During the demonstration, ¢] id
iS, the former student body president of Stanford 8
: sity, Palo Alto, California, and a leader of Th
Resistance, a national organization devoted to draft oppo-
sition, arrived on a bus with other inductees, While other
inductees entered the center, Harris did not and became the
center of attention of those participating in the demonstration,

    

 

CONFIDENTIAL ze
-~2- *

 
 

Seek ‘7 FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION - FLISEF

“da “Reply, Pleiise Refer to
File No.

 
     

| oo DEMONSTRATIONS: PROTESTING ‘UNITED STATES:
INTERVENTION IN VIETNAM Bits

we
Ay a
The Communist Party and other organizations sxe
. continuing | their efforts to force the United States to
change its present policy toward Vietnam..” There is® ‘set
. forth below a ,Suamary of current and planned future | a
through which” they hope to accomplish this” end.”

 

ne ~

ivity —

 
 
  

Proposed Demonstration Against the. Vice Piesident ’
eee

a

  
   
   
    
   
   
   
   
 
   
  
  
    
  
  

A leaflet has been. distributed. in New York annown-
cing ar. anti-Vietnam demonstration during. the "Billionaires oy,
Diamond Ball" which is to be pend at the Plaza Hotel; . . . 4

  
      

           
   
 
  
  
 

    
  
  

  
  
 

- New York City, at 7 pom., on Jahuary ‘24511968. Am g Ahe Scép.4 b
sponsors\of/the demonstration! fre ‘thé! following: -" :
Against/Wawand Fascism,ythe- youth atti tate of the/ te

y a group
fre i North Vie na rand.
oft epre 5 rolent
aH prawnilizant—Ne, or
‘ _ Govimiento Pro- ndependene e nt Negro. OF 5a: ovement” ‘for’ .
ndénce of Piuérpe Risos ai _ =
* Revolutishary Action a group which has dGés¢r téelf as

f , dedicated {o violence during demonstrations./ According to —...

| the leaffiet Vice President Humphrey, Governor NeIson’. - co
i Rockefeller and Senator John Sherman. Cooper. are schedtiled wg
to attend the Ball which: is :to benefit the Institute of
International Education, ‘

'

Demonstrations Against Campus Recruitment

: On January 17, 1968, approximately 15: demonstrators
surrounded and occupied a United States. Marine Corps recruit----.--
ing booth located on the Circle Campus of the University: of
Illinois, Chicago, Illinois, from 10 a.m. to 2:40 p. Me

CONFIDENTIAL

—E Group 1 7 os
REVIEWE BY FRIAFK TASK FOR Excluded from automatic ._ . ; -
ON 2/%: downgrading and _ fe

4 RELEASE IN FULL decie, leation
RELEASE IN PART
“TOTAL DENIAL CA/ 4-2)

 
 

   

  
T0000

Cot : . CONFIDENTIAL

a

DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES
INTERVENTION IN VIETNAM

Harris spoke for approximately ten minutes

stating that today was the culmination of a whole year

in which his opposition to the draft had been known to
his draft board. He expressed his refusal to be inducted
and urged those present to consider him as an example and
“to refuse to cooperate with the draft, He asked people
not to enter the induction center and stated the only way
to stop the war in Vietnam would be to oppose the Govern-
ment’s attempt to draft persons into the armed services.

on January 17, 1968, The Resistance conducted a
demonstration at the Armed Forces Induction Station, 1031
South Bro away, Los Angeles, California, and approximately
100. indi jiduals participated, During the demonstration,

ppeared at the. induction station for induction,
o be processed, % .

   

“BE

On January 17, 1958, spt catesiter ne demonstrated
at the main gate, United States “Armed Forces Induction

Station, Fort Hamilton, eropate ork, This demonstra~
tion was held ip support @f, fPeter S { ctait wp has refused
induction,

. On January 16, 1968, appréxinately 150 individuals
demonstrated. in front of the Federal Building, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylyanta,in-progest t of the Selective Service and in
support Theodord/Marsh~who was refusing to be inducted
into the military s t the Federal Building that date,

 
    
 
  

Forty-four individuals demonstrated at the

entrance to the Old Federal Builfiing, Minneapolis, Minnesota,

on January 15, 1968 ote the scheduled induction into
the armed forces f Francis-R rt Shor), During the demon-
stration, Shor entered the indubfion Station located in the
Building, but after reporting as ordered, turned in a .
statement setting forth the basis for his refusal to continue
the process procedure. He was thereafter.escorted from the

Building by induction center personnel,

   
 
   

 

CONFIDENTIAL .
-~3-

 

 

ee Ne aan eels erences ae flava ag.
74-00000

Look . CONFIDEN (LAL

DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES
INTERVENTION IN VIETNAM

Other Demonstrations

; On January 16, 1968, three individuals attempted
to stop a munitions ruck on the county road immediately
in front of the Port Chicago gate of the United States Naval |
Weapons Station, Concord, California. A sheriff's deputy
went into the base to obtain additional help to effect the
arrest of these three individuals. While he was on the base,
several othdr individugls, who had apparently been delayed by -
the blocking of the truck, proceeded to hit the three .
individuals, stopping the truck, Subsequently, the three

| who had blosked the truck were arrested for blocking a

public highway and causing public nuisance,

On ~ ‘danuay 7 1968, a demonstraticn sponsored by
the Youth Against and Fascism, ‘consisting of approxi-
mately 30 individ ae was held, at Times*Square, New York,
New York, This demonstration vas Staged in support of

Private Andrew) tapys— ae

   

During ‘the demonstration, Deirdre Griswold Stapp,
the wife of Private Stapp, told newsmen in an interview that
her’ husband, who was stationed at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, had
received a court martial because of his stand againsts the
Vietnam war. She stated that the Youth Against War and
Fascism favored the establishment of a union for GIs to end
alleged injustices in the Army. :

‘ At a ews conference held in New York Cityyon
January - ‘12 N1968,.-under-.the. zeny) 4 grou Ym the Cley ey and

 
 
 

Layman Conce®yed_ “About Vietnan, a group {n,opfosi o
United States/p icy i in Vietnam,C Dr. Martin Bother King, IPs
announced a demonstration to be held in WashZngton, D. C.,

on February 5-6, 1968. He said that this demonstration would ,
be held to protest the war in Vietnam and that, while other
protesters would not be turned away, the demonstration would

be held primarily for church affiliated groups.

 

 

 

CONFIDENTIAL
~4-

 

 
