}s-10009

os ¥EUHET ws

the wator."” “Now they aro carrying on a canpaign about the érought .
to make these inboolles beltove that tho Lack of sone foods, auch
ae milk, is due to the Grought. A lie, In Cuda for many years
thore was @ drought, hut for that renson thore wae no lack of
milik, food, eto.. All this is lacking hecause of very bad adnin-.
fLatration because ovorything ts taken away which is worth having
for Russia, evon the earth being varricd via the dooks of Regla
in s Rugsian boat, It's.a shame alX that is happening in Cuba,
and if some day these poople luave here, they are not even going
to lnmave any round, hut I certainly boliove that thoy will reo
nain in the minds of the Cuban for all the life ag the very bad
thing that ts thie Communist regine and how mistaken were all
those who defended it,
Greotings to evoryono over thora, since I have no more for
today to tell you and send affoctionate greotinga,
: S/ Antonia
May 14, 1962

eS 2 8 ow

SEGRE

 

 
74-0000

woe
Seuacl
The Cabalio (Castro) talked to thon, These are the only Cubon

Mothers, the othorg who have their aons prisoners were denying
vor Cuba renal liberty are not Mothers, thoy are *"bitohes.” Thus
they aro told kuchilan, Conguclito Vidal, Copero Brito and
Blotea Alvarez Guodes (those aro keoping sonpany together with
M, Ortega, tho old grandfather of Patrifia, wiioh makes ono mad.)
The studente of Cuba have converted thonsclves exclusively inte
bribe takers for a plate of food. It ia shaneful, How, pot even
‘this olaes, which was the purest, exigts here. °

Friday night, thoy showed by television an operation on the
lung of a dog by an eminent Soviot wise man, with a marvelous
Russian instruments, only one in the world and what the Anerioan
aootors would havo done in four or five hours, these eminent
peoplo did in five minutes, Now they did not present the prop-
eration of the operation, nor did one see them give the stitohes,
nor have they told that the dog died, Afterward, they televised
an oxposition of unique Soviet medical products, Let them ask
Boro that four injeotions of anesthasia weren't sufficient to

your puor grandmother

extrast from him a molar and afterwards they Lott yeaa with the
whole mouth ulceratod, which single dose of Russian pentoillin
given by a dootor at the beginning of the year almost caused her ,
to be taken to the cametery., New all day long they are with
tho operntions, but ia it perhapg that tho Cubans cannot forged
of the many and great operations carried on by a Rodriguez Diaz,
a Vicente Ranot, thoy will forget or they will not know the ig=
norant ones of 1961 but the otherg no. ,

You know ¢haé what ¢hey eadd@ San Pedro (Saint Peter) said

to Kennedy, "You take care of the dinner and I will take care of

“Tet.

aeA

on
74-0000

~ Cenk]

"Around the World in Mirnty Days," thoy oome ont to & tablo fula
ot hoodies inportariet vieo) ana tho poople aout, "Abueera,

We are hungry.” Lae, Hero nothing is lacking, we ail eat

arejo (alike) (vo all aro hungry alike), The G=-2 (Secret Police)
had to enter the movie houses and arrest many. ‘In one show,
whieh presented *Pototo," they were presenting a change of scene
and kept on showing different Pictures with Photographa of

kept
. Presidents of the nperialist epoch and the hardest/aaying,

“throw it out tn tho trash." nen thoy show ono of Fidol, ho eaye,
"That one No, hang that one up." They arrested hin for the
shouting Which took place and now they say that ho ia in asyltun,
Right now the Government hag seen itself obliged to dtotate that

@ person who traitoriously abandons the country must leave hia
house 24 or 48 hours beforo taking the plane. That t¢ to say,
when they aome to oheck hin belongings, tho polive come and &
Rember of the Committee of tho Rock and when they are going to

neither before nor afterwards, What aad and vile task, that of
the persone who are on the Conmittes, Thia measure 4s duo, they
gay, to a triok of the "machazo* (guardiola), The day before
emberking, he broke tho furniture, the radio, the rofrigerator,
the television, eto., but a noighbor who heard hin denounced him
and, upon taking the plane they took nin oz and took hin te the
house, thus proving the otvic act earriod out by the neighboring
*ohivata," tho noishboring informer (chivata is a 6lang word for

informer), Now they do not let hin leave @gain until he has re=

~ & w

SECRET
 

CP pe
:

furnished tho house conplotolys “‘Vhint do you think of that? ‘awe
fut the constructive work of tho revolution oontinuos. What
brazon poople, Where everyone goes they arc fhutshing with every-

tring.

Now thoy aro yoing to leave only one movie houne por oity
Astrict. The rost will be dedloated to educative talke for the
poople. They did not know that the Caballo was fod up with
hearing, tho talks of tho Ont on Christmas Eve, Tis is what he
eaid in 6 talk in Mantanzgas: "Sut of what ature is that man
nade of 2°

Now thoy are prohibiting that:the dootors put on certifie
cates of doath that the death is due to oardiag sollapae, Don't
you see that this was a Yenkoo manouver with the medics wanting
to show that hero everybody diea ot heart attacks?

or the oontrol task books, thoy area going to take. away the
quote of rion for onildron and that of moat for porsons older
than 7 years and les than 65 yoara, To eat so much ie an ugly
Isperialist custom, Yoaterday your amt and I wont to the stores
md if you could see how funny the oaployess are making thoir
tears, it makee no difference to thea to have drunk before or
aftorvarda a glass of milk or juiee and say no, that they are
oarrying out. their duty of Socialist Morality. Tho stores aro |
terrible. Lineups are 600 to 1,000 persons, without exaggoration,
to get a pair of stockings at $2.80 without being wrapped up and
Rogar. For a fe. firdles that they took out, ao trom-rdous ruah
wae caused to sugh 22 extreme there were oven shots fired, To

those win receive scholarships, thoy are given tredendous homage,

a fiw

SEGRET

 

 

WS apps errs, oe Pe aet ge ewe
e

nenaey

recris
voluntary promise of not conducting nuclear teste" and now 1¢
Opposes tho inspection which 1s "anothor case of 8 sohono for
ospionage,” and at the sano timo protesta the Amerioan toste on
alse doos THE SOCIALIST CUNAN GOVELNHENT, "snoh a lover of lies®
wiloh congratulates the Soviet Unton when it conducts testa.
This, I repeat, is a charming place. Wo have ®guch abundanse*
that of what is loft over wo are sending to Russia and other
Sootaliata countries, Which aro such frionds of ours and 60 auch
havo assiatod and sacrificed for us, foods, grains, oandios, shoes,
and so forth, and thoy sond ug very much steel which secag to be
very food and at the sane time indicated that the hnaan organiem
may have muoh energy. ere we are all "so happy and contented”
that nobody has tho idea of writing in @ mageziae or newapaper or
talking by radio or tolovision sonctitng/vouhd indicate a oriticisen
or censor of the magnificent and unimprovable and without equal
regime, since there is “nothing to be the cause of 1t,*

This is a hunanies really and a very exemplary case for all
Anerioa, "since hunar rights aro fully rospeated with such an
exquisite and dolicate treatuent of the prisoners," tho relatives
botng able to evo thom frequontly although "they cannot take thes
foodstuffs" booousa "4% is not necessary in view of the abundances
which existe in all the country." The worker 16 better than he
hes"never secon, himself before,” sinoe now for love of the country
(not to maintain the initators of fuaala) they work earning lesa,
giving extra hours freo, sucrificing daya without pay, trying to
holp the production become Greater and the consumption less, be=
cause now it te really true that thoy eat"parejo® (parejo neang

en equal torms, just alike. This implios that everybody hag

SECRET

nothing)>

 

 
 

SECREL

\ Ql May 1062

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD No. .7/P
SULJECTs Two Letters from Cuba,

1. At my ueoting with Dr, Miro on 19 May, ho brought mo
copics of two lotters recently received from Cuba. The first

' ; Of these ig dated 29 April 196: written to
' him and Mra. Miro fron the Booause of
the Litter saroass in the 8 rather interesting,

Following ig a hasty translation’ of this lottert
eo eo GH OH ww
I write to you again for myself and for ay fanily wishing
you tho best of health and congratulations for the happy surgi@
cal operation to whioh was submitted El Chamaco presumably

| & relative or friend of theirs; oe ee eo ow It ia a pity thet
you cannot see the beautiful spooteacle whioh Havana offers now 4
all garlonded with innumerable Cuban flags. You might think at
1 was before 1050. I sean red flags, This is really something
that kindles the patriotic love, but patriotio Russian love,
The hyn of Perucheo appears not to sound woll and they are
revising it, sinoe almost nover is it played and ie boing re~

i placed by tho beautiful and heavy international hyam which is ;
the real hymn of all the ?workers of the world.” At all hours

conetantly it is heard. This is a marvel, "we are in the beat

 

| possible situation" with abundance of steel, much atcel, whioh

 

i : they are sending to us in @"generous and disinterested? manner,

 

a : the great Russian nation "champion of Peace,” whioh arms itsel? |
and conducts nuclear tests to proserve the world from war to

which it wants to oarry the "Yankee Imperialist,*

Therefore, Russia, at the end of last year, "broke the

!

SECRET
14-0000

 

a eee

Ido not understand how you eannot booome anthuetastio with
thia paradiso of Fidel and of the sonrades which havo succeeded
‘in making Cuba what could not be obtained in as many years of
Ropublionan life, Theso are “certainly a douooruey in whieh the
poople are the owners of ovorything and who are in tho powor and
command,” And all this ts dene oastiy in popular asseublies in
which Fidel says what and the others (doesn't mako any difference
what the number) raise the hand or the finger. In this way, 16
te very clear that/the wooplo + who are in charge and "desire,®
Naturally, everything hero is dono voluntarily in suoh way that
it cannot bo sald that they aro obliged to attond, sinoe we are
&@ free country of Amerion, It would be a calumny to say that
here the Ruestans are in command or the Cninoge or the Czechs and
that we are a “pox of the King," because they "live very badly
here in very bad houses with old cars, searce food, and while
they are sacrif joing, the Cuban poopie are enjoying enviable cane
fort and foods,” Naturally, tho Cuban People know how to reoog~
nizo the solf-denial and sacrifice of these"sood frionds of Cubas*

‘Now they say (in a very low voice) that there will be

another exchange of money. It must be that the current money
presents a danger of ean epidento for ite sturdiness and they are
coroorned for the good of tha people and will give other olean
monoy, Now, when there is suoh an abundance of soap, It also
Q@ppears that they aro very happy with the week between the 16th
and 22nd of this month aince there has been a demonstration of
athelan,

You are vary much remembored and sincerely loved by
 

 

El Nogrito, \ SECRET

ee ee eae ee

s 2, The other lotter in from a Cuban woman who i¢ @ rela-~
tive of the Miro family ond writes to hor daughter.

ee ete eee

You do not know how sorry I nm that you haven't boon here
on Mother's Vay tn ordor to havo boen able to sond you to ous -
sugar cane and conatder myself a happy mother, @ real Nartana
Grajales, who sonds her ehildren to aarry out their duty outting
oane, During thone éaya thoro oro nothing bat mottees and
watchwordsa and that fe ell you hear listoning on the radto and
teloviaion, I beliove that thore won't be a sinrle Cuban loft
who will not hear thia eall to his heart and carry out hia duty,
ha ha,

Tho GSuganerta (this Moons the Worn Pooplo, the anti-Castro
peophe) is stirring up diaturbanoos now-u-daya, You will say
thet tite Governsont ia making a point of its humanigm and dooan' 4
want to terminate with it, They havo committed terrific acts,
suoh as burning cane, farns, cooperatives, laboratorios, ras worke,
really a terrific amount; °°

In order to relax, they go to the novieo where pictures of
the fine tean are put on, such as the Czech film, "Muerto
Agaballo” (Death on Horsobaok), whore tho protaroniat auffers an
anotdent along with his horne, ho profare o horse, and in order
not to see him auffer decides to shoot him. Thon the publie,
Whioh goes for this purpose, slianta, "kiz} hin, give the caballo
(horse) 8 shot,” (Note: This ta a Joke among Cubans hocauae

the Dictator Castro is galled El Cahallo,) In another picture,

- 4 «

SECRET
