74-0000

CONTINUA ION OF SLABSIFIGATION DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
. T 3.
DISPATCH . | SECRET : UFGA-11375

 

 

   

querying WAVE.

 

15. 1 WAVE Station regrets that reference C has not been -
answered to date. In reply we can only state Hae ceed
was thoroughly briefed on the limitations of his alias documentation
when said documentation was issued to him. He was told that the
credit card documents could never be used for identification or
credit purposes. He had aleo been warned to avoid situations
where he would be asked for positive identification, such as

reMETAL | a car, and by attempting to procure & rental car in
RM g y an tions given to him

 
 

re AVI he was castigated for
his actions, ‘mn again briefed on the limitations of his aliag
documentation, In order to strengthen his alias documentation
an I.D. card document identifying him az an employeeeof “Charles
8. Wilson Assoniates" has been issued to him, as suggested by
(Chester D, DAINOLD tn conversations with AMLEO~-3 in ZRMBTAL.

In regard to points a and b in paragraph 2 of reference C, |

the KURIOT representative in WAVE Station states that the Florida :
drivers cense issué Oo Joseph A. Reese Is a valid, backstopped ‘
drivers license for actual use by the Subject and the address |
a legitimate safehouse with backstopped rental cover. Subject's '
cover story was that he recently moved to the Miami area from i
New Orleans, Louisiana (which city the Subject lived for !
geveral years and has relatives residing there). The Subpet's |
documentation is therefore correct for his cover story. The

spelling of "instalment" on the National Credit Card was correctly {
eepied from the original document reproduced by KURIOT and we must ra
point out that “instalment” is not only correct according to the “P|
dictionaries but is the spellingsof the word which is now frequently:

preferred. : (The Wall Street Journal iovariably prints the word oe
as” "instalment" with one "I") ~ It would be appreciated .

Headquarters would in the future coordinate with KURIOT in
Headquarters on questions which deal with AQUATIC matters prior to

Costs . !

16. AMLEO-3 continues to receive a flat salary of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) per month, and also is paid approximately
one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month for purchase of foodstuffs
since he is encouraged to eat his meals in the KUBARK
gafehouse and stay out of public places. We have also continued
to pay the wife of AHLEO-5 the amount of one hundred and twenty five
dollars ($125.00) per month for subsistance f6r herself and her
two children to supplement the $120.00 per month she receives
from the Cuban Refugee Center, The C/O has continued his efforts
to find part-tize employment for Mra. AMLEO-5 so that KUBARE

“could be relieved @& the necessity to support ber, but to date

we have been unsuccessful in our efforts primarily because Mrs.
AMLEO-5 has never worked in her life and has no work skills
whatsoever. No other financial expenditures of note were made
during the period, and no financial assistance is presently
contemplated for any other AMLECs.

INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION

“17. During the reporting period no positive intelligence
reports were disseminated by the AMLEO group since none of the

' active agents are located in the target area, nor do they

. circulate. in Cuban exile circles.

18. We are continuing to utilize AMLEO-3 as a consultant
on the MHAPRON program, and to this end are planning to have

. him expand his reporting of personality information on selected

FORM
5-60

Andividuals and to utilize him to explain interconnections
between various individuals and groups | as they take shape i
MHAPRON research, . . te

 

CLASSIFICATION PAGE NO.

58a USE PREVIOUS EDITION. SECRET ix
CONTINUED

 

5.
 
74-0000
74-00000

 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 

 

’ a ey : o 7 -

 

CLASSHFICATION DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBRLR

(CONTINUATION OF ;
DISPATCH | SECRET | UFGA-11375

  

 

 

code phrases for individuals) indicating that Identity B

has continued to be very helpful to her by supplying .
her with blackmarket food, leaning her her automobile, and other-
wise assisting her with her problems. Identity B may be

carrying out such actions on a genuine friendship basis,

(she has. even been denounced by the neighborhood defense
committee “as assisting gusanos") or she may be buying insurance
for the future, The possibility also exists that she is remaining
a confidunt of Mrs. AMLEO-3 on orders of AMTHUG~1 and is
reporting on all developments to AMTHUG-1. In early September
1963 Raul PRIMBLLES (201-327902) arrived at Identity B's

home for a visit while Mrs. AMLEO=-3 was present. Mx and Mrs.
PRIMELLES ignored the presence of Mra. A-3 and did not speak

to herewhile greeting Identity B. Because of this Identity B
promptly turned her back on her visitors and did not answer

them, continuing her conversation with Mrs, AMLEQ=3, Mr. and
Mre. PRIMELLES were thrown into some confusion by this reception
and departed from the arer,

12. Mrs. AMLEO-3 has also mentioned that @BSNAFU-12
was) most kind to her during her recent hone leave in Cuba,
and made it quite clear she was anxious to get in touch with
AMLEO-3. During the latter part of Auguset Mre. A~3 again
mentioned to her husband that QNSNAFU-12 had written Identity
B from Paris stating she was surprised at not having heard
from . AMLEO-3,

ATTITUDE, MORALE, AND PERFORMANCE OF AMLEO-3
13. During the reporting period AMLEO-3 has consistently

‘ been cooperative with his C/O and has maintained a good attitude

towards his work. During the latter part of Agust 1963 AMLEO-3
began to lose his patience with the slow progress in getting
his wife into asylum, and began requesting permission to return
to Cuba himself in order to exfiltrate hig wife black, AMLEO-3
became quite demanding in this regard and claimed that KUBARK‘a
time had run out, and since he had waited patiently for nine
months he now felt it was his turn to try his luck, AMLEO-3

is extremely confident of his own ability in action situations
and operations and extensive argumentation was needed to
persuade him that such a course of action would be suicidal

for his wife and children and that his wisest course of action f
would be to give us additional time to bring the asylum operation |
to a successful conclusion, Because of AMLEO=-3's faith in 4

higher authority, COS JMWAVE, Andrew K. REUTEMAN visited AMLEO-3 4

on & September 1963 for the purpose of convincing him that any
ubilateral action on his part would only be counterproductive
and playing right into AMTHUG-1's hands. KUBARK's limited

commitments to AMLEG-3 were also reviewed along with the history
of our actions to help his wife and children leave Cuba legaluiy.

After some frank exchanges of facts AMLEO-3 was finally convinced |

that the only productive course of action left to him was to
continue to sweat out the asylum proposition and hope for the
best. Absolutely no further commitments were made to AMLKO-3
during these discussions and alternate courses of action if

the asylum attempts fail were not discussed but instead left in
abeyance. ‘

OPERATIONAL SUPPORT AND PLANNING

14, As previously mentioned in paragraph 13 of reference A,
AMLEO.3 went to ZRMETAL during the period 26-30 July 1960 for
the purpose of obtaining a French visa for his alias
documentation. AMLEO-3 successfully obtained the French visa
during this trip, and his alias passport now contains valid y
for travel to Spain and - assis as elt’

 
  
      
    

 

  
 
  
 

  
74-0000

a.
us os Lag 5 -
Na oe - ro) oo 4
~ so Pon
CLASSIFICATION DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

SECRET | UFGA-1L1375

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

 

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
  

. To this end steps were initiated in on 24 July 1963 .
to put tie AMLEO-3 family and AMLEO-2 into asylum in the Mexican
Embassy in Havana. The AMLEO-3 family and AMLEO-2 were advised

AMGER@% OWVL channel on 4 August 1963 to prepare
themselves for asylum and to await further orders via the same
channel, KUSARK Station in Mexico City, meanwhile, took urgent
action through its Mexican Bigigeh channels to have the Mexican
Foreign Ministry obtain visas for the AMLEO-3 family and
AMLEOQ-2; and then send word to the Mexican Embassy in Havana,
Cuba that the AMLEO-3 family and AMLEO-2 should be granted asylum
when they appeared at the Mexican Consulate under cover of
obtaining their visas. The visa portion of the operation was
satisfactorily completed and notification of same was sent into
the Mexican Embassy in Havana; but word re asylum for the
AMLEO-3 family and AMLEO-2 was not sent to the Mexican embassy
due to insecure commo channels and lack of trusted couriers, and
to date no secure method has yet been found to notify the Mexican
Embassy in Havana that asylum should be granted to the AMLEOs,

 

4, As a’result of the above, word was sent to SMWEESI.
via OWL on 11 September requesting he detemine whether or not
Identity A’ would be willing to act as intermediary to receive
the AMLEO-3 family and AMLEOQ-2 into asylum at a specific tine
and date at the. Mexican consulate. & mh asked for
clarification on the manner of approaching Identity A on the case
on 13 September via pouch, and more detailed guidance on the
matter was sent to him via CWVL on 14 September. A final reply
re possibilities for action via this channel is expected from

=D momentarily. If the 4M#WEE=1 reply ia fnvorgble, then
he will be told to arrange the meeting at the Mexican consulate
between the AMLEOs and Identity A so that they can be taken into
asylum by the Mexicans.

 

 

5, As noted in reference B, if the AMWEBeD report is a
negative one, then consideration will be given to having the
AMLEOs take asylum in the Uruguayan Embassy in Havana, The
. test case utilizing AMCANOE-3, mentioned in paragraph 5 A of
reference B, is to be attempted on or about 21 August 1963, and
if this attempt at asylum is successful then arrangements will
be made to have the AMLEOs enter the Uruguayan Embassy in the
Same manner,

6. As noted in paragraph 1 of reference B, the wife
of AMLEG-3 finally made a direct contact with ANTHUG-1 on 7
September 1963, while he was at his Santa Maria beach house, ‘
and appealed toc him for permission to leave Cuba with her
childrefi and rejoin her husband AMLEO-3 in the United States,
On 14 September 1963 AMLEO-3 received a letter from his wife
giving more details on the above mecting. The wife of AMLEO-3
had been visiting the beach home of a family friend, situated
next to that of AMTHUG~-1 on Santa Maria beach, on a daily basis
hoping to see AMTHUG-1, Finally, on 7 September 1963, she saw
him swimming alone in the ocean and promptly went into the water,
introduced herself , and requested prmission to talk to hin.
AMTHUG-1 granted ths permiasion, and during their conversation
_AMTHUG-1 made it clear he would not grant Mrs, AMLEO-3 permission
to depart Cuba at this time, stating that the tine was not
propitious due to the attacks and raids being carried out
against Cuba, and that Mrs, AMLEO-3 would just have to wait.
Mrs, AMLEO-3 then told him she did not see why he was holding her

feared her husband might forget her and their children completely
Af the separation continued, and that if AMLEQ-3 was left much»
longer alone he would find a woman to replace her. ANTHUG-1.
replied by asking her "Do you consider yourself a burden to your }
husband?" The wife replied "It is possible", and AMTHUG-1 then

asked "But he calls you every day."

 

 

| “ELASSIFICATION

JASE PREVIOUS EDITION. . | Lx |
| SECRET [Lad conrmuee

 

 

 

 

and her children respofsible for what her husband did; that she of
 

ig <A gip

a 2 e

fo Geer by
 

 

ny tod.

 
 

‘0g 10108-10349

.

  

DiS

  
 
  
  

: Chief
J ™"«cr Operational/TYPIC/ANLEO

 

4 PROCESSING
SE CRE Ty)
ob. _
Oe

ATCH |

werdtional Progress Report AMLUO-3 Am bf*

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES ot

~~—:

 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
    
    
   

- Attachment: © ,USC

B. | WAVE-4034, 8 September 1963
_ C. UFGW-2379, 6 August 1963
-D. UPGA-7858, 25 Fepruary 1963

: : . . a "
"ACTION REQUIRED: None; FYI : att
REFERENCES: A, UFGA-10496, 6 August 196 iM .

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS .
1. This report will cover the period 3U July 1965 through

“18 September 1963 and is a follow-up report to reference 4.

EFFORTS TO LEGALLY EXFILTRATE AMLEO-3 FAMILY FIQi CUBA

2. BSince transmission of reference A to Headquarters several

"developments occurred which effectively eliminated several alternate

solutions to the problem of the AMLEO-3 family in Cuba. The

'* alternate solutions that. were eliminated, as found in paragraph

3 of reference A, were (a) “Maintain Status Quo as a Family
attempting Leave Cuba via Offices of Swiss Embassy as Part of the
‘American Repatriation Program"; (b) “Have AMLEO=3 Family

‘Withdraw Papers From the Swiss Embassy and American Repatriation
‘Program and Attempt Leave Cuba. as Normal Refugees via Mexico

Or Spain"; and (e) “Have the AMLEGS Family Case Taken up With the
GOC Through the ‘Donovan’ Channel for Possible Legal Exfiltration".

- Elimination of the above alternates left only two solutions

that were at all feasible; (c) "Have the AMLEO-3 Family Take
Asylum in either the Uruguayan or Mexban Embassies in Havana",
or (d)."Have the AMLEO-3 Family Exfiltrated black in a Maritime

- Operation by either a KUBARK or Independent Maritime Tean."

Because of the inherent risk involved in a black oxfiltration,
it was decided that the AMLEO-3 family should be put into —
asylum in either the Uruguayan or Mexican embassies with all
possible speed. : : .

(CONTINUED)
Distribution:
3-Headquarters w/att USC

Identities

     
    
     
   

CRON ott
atek Wag 288
A

oon gota

[eso [serio ise |
|__| marieo ror wooing |
|X| no inoesins requnen |

GHLY QUALEFIED ©
yor| (eee |
“GB yk | Cu
OF vk ISS

 
  
74-0000

eee nee,

 
    

CONTINUATION OF
_ DISPATCH

Te Later during the conversation AMTHUG-1. asked .
_ Mire. ANLEO<3 if her husband still had the presentation Soviet
pistol that he had given him in 1961, and Mra. AWLEO<3
informed hisi that her husband had taken it with him when he
defected and asked AMTHUG-1 if he wanted it returned to him,
AMTHUG-] did not reply to the question. Later on, while
' discussing her conversation with AMTHUG-l.with Identity B,
Identity B suggested to Mre, AMLEQ-3 that she request AMLEQ-3
-to send the pistol back to AMTHUG-1 via Ambassador LECHUGA
at the United Nations, NYC. Identity 8 added that the return
of the pistol might help matters since the loss of the pistol had
been one of the things that bothered AMNTHUG-1 most when
. AMLEO-3 defected, (i.e. AMLZO-3 has noted that these special
presentation Soviet pistols were given by AMTHUG-1 to probably.
less. than ten people in Cuba, and their presentation had a very
special meaning for AMTHUG~1 since the recipients were supposed
‘te be his very personal and clese friends, AMLEO-3 claims
that not even AHLOUT-1 had received one of these special
. ‘presentation pistols from AMTHUG-1.) Consideration is being
' given to AMTHUG-1's request, if it would assist Hrs. AMLEO=-3
in her efforts to leave Cuba, but for the time being the pistol
will be held by KUBARK,

; 8. - AMTHUG-1 also told Mrs. AMLEQ-3 that her hugband had
gtelen a light plane when he fled and implied (although she
does not go state directly) that he would like to see it
returned, -The balance of Ure. AKLEO-3's letter concerned her
desire to leave Cuba, mentioned the necessily for a@lmness by both
she and her husband with no rash actions, and without giving
‘any additional facts stated that her conversation with ANTHUG-1
had been a long one but that she could not get him to make
any promises re her departure,

DEVELOPMENT OF OPERATIONAL LEADS TO DISRFFECTED CUBANS

 

9. During the operational period one of AMLEO-3's
operational leads, whom he had written a report on for the
AMTRUNK. PM operation::!, was recruited via the recently successful
AUTRUNK infiltration operation and given the crypt of AMTRUNK-10.

.| AMLEO-3 also screened additional AMTRUNK leads and KUTUBE
militaxyy leads during the period and was able to submit ;
reports on geome four individuals for these operations, All such
leads were fed to him mixed in with many other Cuban names.
AMLEQ-3 is presently preparing reporta on PHS target studies.
Major Fer ips GUERRA Matos and. Hajor Jorge SEGUERA, Cuba pn .
aémbasandor to » Algeria.

10, AMLEO~3 also sasisted in the handling of AHLEO-5's
wife during the period when she established direct telephonic
communication with her husband in Cube, and tried to cdénvince
him that she wanted to return to Cuba with her children,
. but stipulated te A-5 that he would have to meet her in a third
country first and resolve their personal family problems.
AMLEG=3 baby sat for the wife during these calls, since we
. Only knew. what day the calls would be coming in and never the
‘pour. He nilso assisted Mrs. AMLEO-5 im recording the last telephone
. conversation she had with her husband. In thig same operation,
| -AMLEO-3 algo assisted the Case Officer in the conversations i
held with the mother of AMLEO-5 while she was in the United
States, although he was never allowed to establish direct \
‘-gontact with the mother. We had hoped that the mother of :
“AULEO-5 would attempt to establish contact on her own with
‘AMLEO<3, but to. WAVE Station knowledge she never attempted to do
se. If she had, we would have allowed AMLEOQ-3 to respond to her
contact efforts (uaintaining his cover as being disassociated
with. ODYOKE) . . .

a

il. “During ‘the period fragmentary information has been
‘received from the wife of AMLEO-3 (utilizing nicknames or other
. GLASSIFICATION |
FORM

550 59a‘ use previous EDITION, . BECRET | |

PAGE NO,

 

”
 

  

 
