14-00000

SECRET

include lav, real estate, construction, and
private investigations. y virtue ef their
former federal investigative backgrounds, these

dictate. Each Confidential Correspondent is
carefully selected and security approves before
any investigative tasks are assigned.

primarily the use of confidential
Correspondents has been Limited to their con-
ducting background investigations with an Agency
assued U.S. Government credential, although in
scr agnn covrnrouete a OTE

a ae

L a ear Tiusis. in

a 1imited umber ef instances, dividuals working
jndependently ag private investigators have been
employed 8s Confidentisl Correspondents. in view
of theit private investigative positions, they
have been aliowed to use their own “natural cover™

“eo conduct covert investigations on behalf of the

Agency.

This latter type ef situation hes been
extremely linited during the twent -five year
history of the Confidential Correspondent Program.
In all such cases Headquarters approval was
required pefore peraitting the individual to use
his own cover. Further s this type of Confidential
Correspondent was generally not issued any U.S.
Government credential, in orjer to prevent the
possibility that @ Confidential Correspondent
might misuse such @ credential in the conduct
of his own business activities. Our research
indicates that the last {instance where & private
investigator was 8 Confidential correspondent
and ntilized his own matureal cover" to conduct
Agency jnvestigations occurred circa 1969.

SECRET
 

‘hoa t0tze-t0182

‘ -

whe

DO NOT REPRODUCE
SECRET RETURN TO CIA

20 JUN 1975
MEMORANDUM FOR: Inspector General
VIA : Deputy Director for Administration
SUBJECT : Senate Select Committees on Intelligence

Operations
(Anti-Pinkerton Act)

1. Reference is made to 4 menorandun dated 28 May 1975
captioned “Alleged Illegal Domestic Activities (Private
Investigating Firms), which was prepared in response to the
Director's testimony before the Senate Select Committee on -
23 May 1975 concerning specific instances where the Agency
has utilized private investigative firms, attached hereto 45

A.

2. In conducting the original research inte those
instances where private investigative firms have been utilized
by the Agency, specific attention was directed at the use of
private investigative “giyms" and did not include the Agency's
use of individual private investigators. In view of the above
additional research has now been conducted. It would be
appreciated 4f the following information could be considered
as an addendum to referenced penorandun:

a. Since 1956 the Office of Security has
engaged in a program whereby a number of qualified
individuals throughout the United States nave been
employed as independent contractors to conduct
background investigations on behalf of the Agency.
This program, known within the Office of Security
as the Confidential Correspondent Progra, is
almost totally couprised of retired U.S. Govern-
nent investigators. The majority of these indi-
viduals have entered secondary professions following
their retirement covering @ broad spectrum to

£2 IMPDET

-SEGRET cL by gazons

oun ay
G3 vabl!
SECRET

b. It should also be noted that Robert A.
Maheu, who has elready been the subject of
extensive reporting to the Senate Select Con-
mittee, was in 1954 operating his own private
investigative company known as Robert A. Maheu
Associates. As has been reported, Mr. Naheu
had been utilized by the Office of Security in
connection with several sensitive assignments
during the period 1954 through 1962.

While the review of Mr. Maheu's Office
of Security file docs not disclose specific data
regarding any background investigative activities
which he may have conducted on pehalf of the
Agency, it would appear probable from available
information that Mr. Maheu had on occasion con-
ducted such investigations. Mr. Maheu’s file
does reflect that from approximately February
through July 1954, the Office of Security paid a
monthly retainer of $500.00 per month to Robert A.
Maheu and that following July 1954 he was to be
reimbursed on a “case-by-case” basis.

3. As evidenced herein and in the referenced memorandun,
instances where the Office of Security has contracted with
private investigative firms and/or private investigators to
conduct investigations on our behalf has been quite _—

 

Primarily ,f_

 

| Further, your attention is

AVited to a menorancum 10;Tr Director dated 4 June 1975
{attached hereto as Tab B) which advises that the Office of
Security has researched the future need for the Agency to

retain the lepal authority to hire private investigators and/

or firms to conduct investigations on our behalf. As indi-

cated in Tab B, the Office of Security interpeses no objections
should the Director decide that in pas future she use of private of

 

 

 

investigators will be restricted to ires and/or the
use ef private investigative firms _ san
3

SECRET
14-00000

"SECRET

5. In view of the above, no further research into this

‘matter by the Office of Security will be undertaken unless

advised to the contrary.

Charles ¥. xine
Director of Security

Atts

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - DDA
1 - D/Security
1 - OS Registry, w/o atts
1 - SSCIO File
1 - SAG

1_- oO
osresi/sue| TE jan (18June75)

SECRET

ca
