#2
5. Briefly, this is what he has:

a. 61 clubs (in almost every state) of which he is the
national head.

b. on underground in Cuba (but he refuses to estimate its
strength. )

e. communications channels to and from Cube, mostly vie
Mexico, end also, in emergency, thru the Uruguayan
diplomatic pouch to his sister who is still in Cuba.

6. Mail is received and sent, on the Cuban endl, by

who covers Savana and its nearby provinces,
is aaii to be a person with good credentials in the
Gastro regime and a specialist in food production. In Cuba
he is regarded as a staunch supporter of the government.

[wt covers Oriente and nearby provinces.
fe is a former dimer |
[el

and is believed, within Cuba, to be a steunch
friend of Castro.

 

 

 

 

i
7. Mail comes out via Mexico one Gonselo Chirinc, an
official of the OAS, Apartado Postal 7458, Mexico, DF. Wail is
routed to Cube through Mexico but Marquez Sterling aid not offer to
ddentify the live drop, except to say it 4a @ different person.
Frequency of mail. exchange is about fifteen days.

8. It could be derived fror the conversation with Marquez Sterling
shat he would like Ager:y support in the form of money ené emas, to
equip the younger members of his groups who would encamp cuteide the US.
His nction is to keep them in a atate of readiness for such time as the
GAS deciéea to move an invasion force against Cuba.

3. Marquez 3ter-: has sent a memorandum on the activities of his
group to Thomes Mann whom he claias to know). A copy will be made
available to us soon. He has also promised to make copies of his recent
correspondence with Cuba evoilable to us in the near future.

20. We assured Marques Sterling that we would faichfully report his

cause +o Washington and gave him o iine of communieetion to us. He
seemed highly pleased with the interview.

WH (FOS

ralgha) :mac
‘o4-10069-10432]

  
 

!
t
“
»

Yee OLLI

Office Memorandum + onrrep states GOVERNMENT

TO | Ghtef, Contact Division : DATE: ‘7 -May 196%

MOM + Chief, Hew York Office

a“
suagact: Carlos Guillerm Marques SterLing-Operational Opportunity

1. Garlos Marques Sterling, who lives at 355 Bast Tend Street,

UC, New York, New York, indicated to the local FBI that he

would like to talk to someone from the ey and we arranged to
duterviev him at his home on 24 April 1964.

2. Marquez Sterling’ describes hinsel? as a member of a Cuban

family with a distinguished recoré cf public service (nis father was
Asbessedor to the US during the Frecklin D. Roosevelt terms and he,
himself ,opposed Batista's nominee for president in 1958. He sala he
ie now general delegate (top official) of a Cuban exile organization
tmown aa the Free Cubs Patristic Movement (Movimiento Patriotico Cuba
Libr). ‘This sovement conziste cf 62 clubs ecattered throughout the
US with an estimated five thousand adherents.

3. Marquez Sterling vanted to talk to the Agemcy because of the

following cirewastances: ; :

>

ra 4
Humberto Quinones, whe 18. Secretary General of the Cuban’
Patriotic Movement in Miami, had recently received
telephone call from one Francisco Alebau Trellis, identified
‘by Marquez Sterling es a former. nenber of the Supreme Court
in Cube and now very close to, if not an actual reciplent
of support from, the Agency. Alabex suagested to quiliines
that the Agency might 11 be interested in the Free
Cuba Patriotic Moyement“if it were made conscious of its
size end influence vithin the exile community. Quifénes
brought this to Merquez Sterling's ettention and also made
an effort to commumicate with apmeone in the Agency through
one Miguel Cw pay an officiel cof the Pen American Union. ,
At the same time, ez Sterling received a phone cali
from Manuel Artime sougiit hia support and backing for
leadership in o military capacity, suggesting possibly that —
Marques Sterling might be interested in the civilian lemler-
ship of a unified exile movement.

4. Against this background Marquez Sterling believes he should

speak with someone in the Agency sufficiently highly placed to make
@ comnitment if the progrem he plane to“lay out is of interest.

ly, hg pHi eR. bey, ,
hile 0 yy

opae

% ’

Rs os bh - fee Ss

 

\ Tag,
