    
   

Secret

Tus inepiration to come to Hanila to cook help hac caze froa "several Jesuit
Erken2s? whoa be busy tere from their former conteets in China. Ha had been in
China fren 1946 to 1gk%s50, whan be bad bsen forced to leave for Teiuan. He fa
vemained thero until 1952, when he had had a haart attacls and vaa forced to o: ¥
go to kaze for a rest. He had had many fricnda on faiuan and hed "spent somes 4.
tina? WICRYCLANO Kaiqshok oxplaining hig idsos for using Taivan oo a bass gor ‘
fea ddsalegical conguaat of the mainland" to reaoh the millions of Chinsse whoa

tho Commmists had not yot wone

 

Ea e2id bio information indicated that a aillion gueerilles wore active through-
oot Chins eo late ag 1952653, but now dt vao top late. CLAM ha described as
a ghovt, a ohadcw, a legend cho wes camplotely out of touch even with things

im foivan. Tha Gimo'o cen, (EiMANO Chingelmo, controlled overything: ho was
treiecd in Acaccy, ao fornorly a Camnuniot, but was not ond Dov. Eowavery he
wag a ruthloos, cynical’ tyrant who would soon dominate completely. He referred
So the idea of the Nationalicts returning to the mainland as “the wildeat

folly => uttorly absurd. and fantastic." this tine we were seated at the
teblo fer dinner, Aro. ARANKTA let slip) oo

sbgost went on to dosoribs the techniques and pattarus of Comannist cenqusst
poldey. Hs explaincd that he had been a partisan lcader An Yugealavia and
went on to explain the Tita position at length, decrying the acosptanss of
Saitetom? aa a break froa iesccy when it was merely an accomodation. Ho epelo
of his travele in the USSR after the ond of World War iI end of his determination
to go to the Far East to work against Conmunisn. Ho aduitted, in response to @
\qucstica, that be held an paaoport: "Tito did not want ma to leave.”

fhe disoussion vont on to a lengthy examination by Subjeot of Sovict plans and
perpessa, a3 he perceived thea froa his own porsonal exposure to Sovist ailitarists
duping tho var and to thelr political somaiscara and cadros af hans end abread
and o% oll levels for yoara. His reviow vas sometines incloive, somatinss
cangerously ovoreinplificd. ‘They could tee Buraa or Thailand tonight by
tolephons, and Formosa taxorroy night, the sane way, But thay won'te® He
cxplaincd the Soviet policy ag calculated to build up HEHKD as o world figure, .
whieh wea ovcoceding, oinos ho vas corving their purposes abroad beautifully, MN
elthsegh ho do losing vory fout at home. Tha Congress Party is shot through °
with Camunistse It is only a matter of time until it 1s cempletely a Conmuniot
organs ° . .
»

fhe USSR did not vant a shooting wars they will continue a polisy of prosoting
UAstds vasa to bled US strength ond buy time. They are building atoaio strength.

. Ea 19h?) he bad told Genoral GROVE that ho know that ovory losding eaotern
European etcalo coicntist was at work in ths USSR and thet it mast be esgunad
that thoy bad tho bexbs TRUHAN did not admit this umtd) Septeabsr 1949. He
favercd (this polnt waa chooked by questions) some teken atomic beabing by the
U3 of Geviot comtsra of industry to dator Wiom fren their inmsdiate aad leng
range purposes cad to shoe tho regina fren within, Paranilitary (sic) or other

(ype ection, through vhatevar vehlole, would be Gisoipated to the winds == would
eahiove nothing bot buy o minute of tice <= unless it vas ecordinated on a world
ozele. Tho June 1953 East Gorman riots wore our opportunity; the Nest wissed
4¢ by uot pouring in machineguns instead of wellwishes by redio.

Dod

 

cored
tate ste teks beeen celine vars meee wets ve ete ee
an —-.  Seeret C7 BY
. see ° 22 cote , .

Asked what he wanted fran us (or hopad to get, or neéded uost, or vould gottle
"jGox) ho oadd ho would Like to bo able to print Literatuts for diotribution dn °
[ fadphongeHanoi immediately. "Wo have until the end of April." He thought his

 

° gamaste and friends could handle 300,000 copies == thio figure took several
: t seconde to come out. Ho knew there was sone capability for this in the usis
Q . -gachanism here, which had eexe regional) responsibility. Ha doubted that tha
typefaces for Viotnamese @inleets vere available here (thie point wea raised
_ to dissover if posoible what inquirics he had mado). Ha hag a "planelead®
(a quantity, he admitted on queationing ) of books and pamphlets collected far
him in Belgiua and France for distribution in Indo-China.

 

R

"
£
rd
ti

Ho asked if it would be possible for him to cee MIDWATCH pefore he (Subject)
left for Saigon. Ho realised that Chief OMGID had had very little time while
be wap here and thus had no hops of seeing hin, Ha would wait until ape

progimately 7-8 Harcn to sae 1111 WATCH if possible. No promises of an appoint=
gent were made. . :

Ho gave ons copy of tha French-language publication as an example of what bo
had in mind for circulation. it was explainad to him (and to the Scoretary)

that vo ware in no position to make any sort of commitsent, but that wo would
bring bis otery to the attention of tha propor people at ORACID, oventusly

including, if pozaible, Chief O:AIb, by normal channels to headquarters city.
fhis was very gratifying to both men, They thanked us profusely.

z When wo ware leaving, the Sooretary £olloved ro to the elevator, Ha ane
“ ininsd that this man waa, in fact, a had acked for

. 9 onable jila to carry oa thie work. Ho ace pied

. Subdjest’s bona fides a8 a reault of the assurances of Ha (the
] seatetary) hoped we could arrange some assistange for this cause .06Parting was

 

 

 

vary cordial,

Subject makes a very strong Lapreosion for his tremendous spirit of dedication
to his task. Ho is a strong personality with considerable intelligensa, but his
manaor is vory roserved and rathar chy. His shynses ray derive in cemo measure
fron the Linguistic barrier; his English ia quite limited, and ceveral times he
used French words or axpresoions without appazently being aware ef thiss
Subject deas not appear to be well physically, 48 extremely norvous, end ate
vory Little at dinnsr. Hs was not at ease in this aocieal situation.

be]

 

partons

ane

sRERROD

Nea artttnt ee

ao
BED.

o

2

eS

scserel 20)- 2Y0 BS

   
  

Ne

 
14-00000

  
   

gf
/ bea 0"

 

zz
pst tno (Cepsagaatgd

DATEs 11 March 1955

TOs Chief, FS a!
FROA:, Senior Representative, =?
SUBJECT: GEWERAL-- Intelliyence | 22 *

tz, SFECIFIC-~ Moating with "Professor LAURA® (Subject of GHand) 7 33 i )
REF: (GMANID9S39, DIR-39952

1. Attached are two copies of a memprandum for the record on the Subject of a
contact batween Robert F. CHATHAM and "Professor LAURA® to whoa referenca was
nade in both(SMANID2539 and DIR-39952. This contact wea rade at the request
of the deputy chief to MIDWATCH. A saniticed copy of the mamerandum has
been transaitted to the MIDWATCH offices Any action in furthoranse of the
@iscusaions described in the memorandum would necessarily be taken by the
lecal CDACID establishment.

2. No plans are presently known for extending OMACID support to Subjoct; howe
over, if ony such support were to be given by private parsons (such as
Secretary ARANETA) this probably would not becans known to ODYOXE circles.

3. It appoared from his remarks that Subject had not*contacted KUBARK channels
dn tho course of hio current Asian tour -- either in Infia or Tadeshinas
Discrvet questioning revealed that the 2 March naeting under ARANSTA's
gpongorehip was evidently Subject's first direct appeal, in the courses of
hig current tour, to OLIOKE for assistance. However, Subject may hava been
withholding details of other contacts with ODYOKE represontativags This
_woald appear a valid agsunption in view of the fact that he denied (in
responsa to a question) that he had contacted ODIOKE. representatives recant-
dy in Hong Kong (per paragraph five of GHANTE-95 39)»

2

he] With reference to tho potential for KUBARK purposes of Subject's organisation,
4t became manifestly apparent in the course of his remarks that no cohesive
vehicle exists for the purposes he described (however laudatory his purposes,
porticulorly in ths Hanoi-laiphong aroas); that Subject hao given only
limited attention to the types of materials to be disseminated by his
‘friends; and that Subject appeared to bo far too unoyotcaatic to be

H emtrugted with anything but the finished product in quantity (rather than
| funds to arrange for its publication).

fr Clarence T. Couthat
Attactnont:
Pwe-coptes
Ca VF

f .

of memorandum ag indicated above

 

 

 

 
 

AOHOO7HNO2) we

 
   
 
    

 
 

aint Aumbared to Cdivsanadid wile G
ng | hla K ting and Resoed gheet shogld te caturael ‘ esi

 

 

 

 

ZSY OOTAINABLE

Hi
FROM APERTURE GARD SUBMITTED

 
 
 
    
  
  

   

eae SMDER *

 

  

sepeaecacersne te aowinnnews ed ae pRB nag siarR ten ame mn ns A tn ONES OO TE IAS EAH,

 
   

  
14-00000

Bey oS . .

 

 

a
Carprar: wer ™~ .
Seeret (exs 3yat

[
é { J 3 Mareh 1955

 
  
  
 
   

HONORANDUM FOR THE BECORD:
SUBJECT: Heoting with (irososeo) Kava

On tho evening of 2 March 1955, CHATHAM preceeded to the apartment of Agriculture
Salvad6rgaRowETA with a wenber of the OLACID political section and an

ODCHOP staff member. In brief convereation with the ODCHOP officer prior to

resehing the ARANETA hone, CHATHAN explained that he hed beon instrected not to

 epsedfieally identify hinself as anything but OLACID (that is, not to clain

UBIA eonnections:; and that sozething was known of the “Profescor'a"

activities elacvhsre, which though apparently well intentioned, were aubject to

acse question from the OLYOKE polioy viewpointe The ODCHOP officer explained

that his only interest was in complying with the wishes of ARANETA (with when

he had close liaison relationship which he di. not wish to jeopardise in any way)

thst he bring somes representative of OLACIL by to meet hie guest.

We were ushered into tho ARANETA penthouses at 61:15 p.m. and were immediately
grected by ARANETA himself and his wife who ovidently bad been converging on
tho baleeny with the man they introduced es “professor LAURA" ee somowhat care-
felly enphacising the titlo and the naza; the latter was pronounesd "100 (ag

dn loud) BA® giving equal stress to bota syliablco.

ee

Subject wan effusively friendly although quite shy in his greetings. His accent
is extrensly strong, bearing somo resqiblange to ary Slavic group but with scene
cothar inf2uence ao voll. He io approximately fifty (both in eppsarance and in
agtual age), woors horn=rimmed glasces, oummerevoight eivilien clothes, and
with a groat shook of very white hair, worn longs

Wo oat An a cirele (except for Nro. ARANETA, who withdrew imacdistely). The

QUSHOP man aloo departed very voon efter cur errival with spolegica and aie.
pleuntions of anothor engagessnt. Subjsct epread a suall map.on the fleor. and

--begen pednting out the ercas of Cemmunigt {nfluenee and contre) (alk ef ubich ‘\\ s
were marked in chades ef red) end ths potential victias of the next Camunlat
dnsurolezs against tho Kest. He focussed his attention (and oura) on Indice

Chima and India. :

      
  
   
 
 
 

Mn bis Anns asta ie dnl SGN Ne LEME a eA a ok Act re HOME ie ose

Evbgecd clroulatcd a quantity of pamphlets end brochures or magesinss in various
Renguagese Ee céplained that be hed porscankly pleked thesa up dn {he course of
a sary fos Coys cpomt recently ia Indie, thero ha had been visiting villages
end tallzing wlth poeple. Ue pelated cut that alecst all tho pubdlicatiens wore
produced dn Nosocw ard tho rosalnder in Pelpings Ea caontimmed by saying that
the Comenists (Russian cr Chicssa) have a complete monopoly in books end cll
ty ef printed matter in lemia today, particularly in ths enallor touns and
eos, Mest ef these publicationa are circulated fyoo; saxo ef thea ecat

se or threo or four cansho; cous evo in Englisch, others are in tho varisng

. Siaheatye > fhey are on every conseiveble subject and are designed for all ages.

hors

e

e

  

22 : “ wy
Ene! a / a oD) 34 IF 9?

 
secre’ ae

   

SioZesd exploinad that in India (ond in Inde-China) these publicatacnus are being
puarad into tho eaallest haalote libs a flced fron Negscow and Bad) oe Tha
pugple don’t have to cael roading natorials, nor do thay have to go far for an
cuplamstdon of what theso pamphlets contain. “Leaders or “oadres" are ovary
where ¢o explain tha material, particularly in the schools and snong youths and
oCudsntso ,

Ya. coid (4a amsuer to a question) that he bad ecen sone Uepreduccd materials
in these areas, but that thoy were eles? impospible to find in the outlying
exrats. Ho pointcd:out that the Coxzaunis’ materiale wore cleverly dono and in
cczg easco, beautiful oxamples of printing ond propaganda presentation.
Senject otated that he io now most imtercoted in tho Haipheng and Hanoi areso
of inde<China becausa these will bo turnsd over to the Gamunists very soon
fer their control. Es otatcd that hig idea is to fleod thoao eritical places
ubich fece the Connunist tide momontariiy with og auca antieazaterlalistic, . pro=
Chrigtian roading caterial as pecaiblo. He hopes thereby to Simaunise® the
ninds of tho cimple pengants ond massca of people against the appeals of |
athetotioe Camunion and materialiotde deotrines which they toach which turn
‘eon against weatern ideas and civiiisation. Ke displayed several oxcuples of
vnat Re hed in mind, Ha podnted out that these publicaticra (eno ef these vas
a thin, maktdecoler French magasine cntiticd "Biou Emioste” (Thora to a Ged")
whieh bo hed cequired in Paris, and which ho had givon to "sons friends" in
Gzigesn to tranelate into North Vietramesa dialects as soon as posoible, along
with a fow othar itens of a sinilar nature. .

, - Eo thea exploinad that in these critical vorder areas of Indo-China thore are
esty Cotholico who will soon ba completoly isolated fron the West by the
Comunistsa, It io hie igea to reach these poopie before it. is too late “through
cur frionts thoro* whoa Ro desoribed os Catholic laymon and pricete or just
pleda pseple who ware vidlice to agailet in thio Wirke Tho tack io simple, and
narely dnvelwes possing along reading materials to other known friends for
further circulation es breadly as peaziblo. these pacple have the capability
to handle SLarge quantitica® of this material, ha claimed, "Ths leaders® ore
exezg (hoa to tell thom how, He did not explain who had instreated the
Rea@ara, or what they Ensw, or who they ware, in fact. Hs etated that this
wes, im effcet, “underground activity” and es such could not be described in
exp ¢stadl to enyona vho was not "on the ground," He compared it to an ico»
barg Ghats, ecaitting that he wey the prinolpal leader and motivating forese

Vie

Ha explained that ha bas "holpful friends" in Paris aad Roza and Delgiua and
éShar pleses who had bean avare of big ectivities since he began in 1953. He
etated Ghat in this pericd, they had assisted hio efferts working froa Roms
principally into Foland end Bacchoalovalkia ond to a lessor extent, Yugeslavia,
Uurgery end Remania. In fact, ho sought to introduce "nsteriale" whorever ho
coslda behind tho Irayfuxtain, by ubatdver means. He oxplained that bis work
tag imowa to(CarMcaN Wissenal? (whoa be idantified only vaguoly as "scascas

uhese astivitics wo certainly know abous") esd to sana Ficana ag well, Ey
dnoieting our Gm Ashaseador to itely,\Uro} Clare BoothiS8CB. Ho had just. -
ravcited fraa Esmee Ho bad gone to Saigon in October 193 te begin his efforts :
ingest country. He toured the cutlying oreas for equa weeks before proceeding EH
' $o Bane via Indin. On returning, he had again stopped in India and thon Feb

precssdad to Saigon, : :

om

1

‘Nar neues tay

  

 

 
