74-00000 o

oe CONFIDENTIAL

DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES
INTERVENTION IN VIETNAM

It has been developed that Martin Luther King, Jr.,
and Senator Eugene McCarthy will be speakers during this
demonstration, An invitation has been sent to former .
Vice-President Richard Nixon to speak, but.he has not accepted
or rejected the invitation,

The current schedule for the demonstration calls”
for registration on February 5 and a "state by state strategy
session" atthe New York Avenue Presbyterian Church,
Washingtof, D. C., until noon, From 1:00 P,M, to 2:15 P.M, a
‘“processiom of.agony" will be held followed by "Congressional
visits" from 2:15 P,M, until 5:15 P.M, On February 6, two
plenary sessions will be held devoted to the draft and "Politics,
1968," :

Leaders ‘of the demoiistration L lude ‘well-known
clergymen from various faiths ‘throughout the United States,
One of these is the Reverénd‘Wlliam Ss ne Coffin, Ir), who
was recently indicted by a Fedéral Grefa Jury for counseling
against Selective Service.,

. 4 1 a +

It is anticipated that several thousand elergymen

from all parts of the country will participate. ‘

Pa

Other Demonstrations

°

 

Approximately 30 persons participated ina demon~
stration at the Armed ‘Forces Induction Center, 640 Chapel
Street, New Haven, Connecticut, on January 18, 1968, in protest 1
of the war in Vietnam, the draft, and in support of Willian
_Sloane Coffin, Jr., and Dr. Benjamin Spock, who was indicted
along with Coffin,

Es

 

On January 18, 1968, approximately 25 students
picketed on the Wright State University campus, Dayton, Ohio,
in protest of Dow Chemical Company recruiters who were on the
campus at that time. The pickets carried signs stating "Dow
shall not kill," "Napalm is malignant, cut it out," and "Stop
the war in Vietnam." ;

 

CONFIDENTIAL —™ /
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 

   

AON 1067 Bevo se | FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION |.

“WASHINGTON, D.C.
da Reply, Please Refer to earn
File No.- : ne re
January 23

 

DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED ‘STAT
"INTERVENTION IN VIETNAM

an .
\; one

The Communist Party and other organizations. ‘al
continuing their efforts te force the United’ States -to’
change its present policy toward Vietnam.’ There: i8 set

forth below a‘ summary, of current and planned: future, activity io 7
through which they hope to accomplish this end. .

  

"Demonstration Against the ‘Vice-President -

 

On January 19, 1968,. approximately 150 individuals
demonstrated near the entrance to the Hotel Lowry, ‘Saint Paul,
Minnesota, betweén 7:30 P.M.“and 9:20 P,M., in protest of the.
War in Vietnam. During this «time Vice-President Humphréy :
was present at the hotel, Seyeral.members of the Minnesota
Dakotas District of the ’Cofimunist Party as well: as members :
of the Twin Cities Branch, Socialist Workers partys participated
in this demogstration. 4

 

The Socialist Yorkers party has been cited | as
subversive by the Attorney, General pursuant to Executive
Order 10450.

 

*

Demonstrators carried signs bearing antiwar slogans
and distributed literature against the Vietnam wars a Se

Demonstration at Washington, D..C., February 5-6, 1968"

Previous information has been supp ied’ c concerning a
demonstration to be held in Washington. D.\G7, on February &
and 6, 1968, sponsored by the“Clergy and ymen Concerned
About Vigtnam, a group which opposes U.S, golicy in Vietnam. :
the -anno neement for this demonstration was Made. by } Martin Lither
‘King, ord ; - —_ wa .

CONFIDENTIAL

Group 1 , ; ; {
REVIEWED BY FBIJJFK TASK FORCE | Group Fo , oh
ON downgrading and

declassification

C) RELEASE IN FULL
[RELEASE IN PART

te “TOTAL DENIAL (Wee)

 
a oe - a . . ; |

CONFIDENTIAL yo

DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES
INTERVENTION IN VIETNAM

On January 18, 1968, approximately 35 individuals : __
demonstrated in front of the Syria Mosque,. Pittsburgh,.
Pennsylvania,. where j,Governor Ronald Reagan was scheduled
to speak before a Republican fund-raising luncheon, The
demonstration concluded prior to the arrival of Governor Reagan..

The demonstrators carried signs protesting the war in Vietnam.

 

 

Approximately 50 individuals participated in a
demonstration at the main gate of the United States Armed  < a
Forces Induction Station, Fort Hamilton, Brooklyn, New York,

'. on January “18, 1968, ‘Pla ards indicated the demonstration
_ Was sponsored by THe” Resis Ance), a group which opposes the. — —
_ draft, and was being hélg7in support of Resistance member
Leonard Brody who was scheduled for induction that day but
whose induction hdd been canceled by. Selective Service officials.

   

 

The Young Socialist +a pained!” the youth. group of the
Socialist Workers Party ;" thie-Univergity of Illinois Circle
_ Campus Committee to End the War in i

 
 

jetnam, a group in
opposition to, the Vietnan-War; and the Chicago area Draft
Resisters, a group in ‘olybosition tg the draft, set-up a protest
desk at the Student Union Center on the University of Illinois
Circle Campus, Chicago, Illinois, on January 18, 1968, This
action was' taken to protest the presence on campus of Marine
Corps recruiters on January 16 and 17, 1968. .

‘During this.period a debate among students occurred,
As a result of the debate, an altercation occurred.among the
students which resulted in the arrest 6f. Jake Moro itz, 2 .,
.President..of the Circle Campus Chapter of the Students or
Democratic Society,, Morowitz was charged with disordér
conduct on a°tolipldint signed by University police. The
Students faoraDemocratic Society has been described by Gus Hall,
General Secretary, Communist Party, USA, as a part of the
"responsible left" which the Party has "going for us,"

   

On January 20, 1968, 20 individuals demonstrated in
front of the Cincinnati Workhouse, Cincinnati, Ohio, in.
protest of the war in Vietnam and in sympathy for individuals
who were arrested on December 7, 1967, for their antidraft
activities in Cincinnati. ‘

 

CONFIDENTIAL

2

 
14-00000

a _ CONFIDENTIAL

. DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES
INTERVENTION IN VIETNAM

; Approximately 50 individuals under sponsorship of
the Long Beach Are “Community for New Politics, -a group which
opposes U.S. policy Li, Vietnam, demonstrated in Long.Beach,
California, on January 20, 1968,.in protest of Federal
indictment of Dr. Benjamin Spock and his codefendants for
counseling evasion of the draft. During the demonstration
participants carried signs, protesting U.S. commitments in the
war in Vietnam, ° _ oe

. . . ; .

: On January 20, 1968, New York State Assenblyman
Joseph Resnick, was the featured speaker at the Middletown
Junior Chambe? of Commerce dinner, Middletown, New York...

_ During. the dinner approximately 45 persons under the sponsorship
of the Middletown Committee for Peace Education picketed outside
the building where the dinner was being. held. The demonstration
was held protesting Resnick’s stan] in suppUrt of preseht

national policy regarding ‘the war in Vietham,
Ce Ae we . .

co The Student Mobilization Committee to End the War
in Vietnam has galled a conference, to be held January 27-29,
1968, at the University of. Chicago, Chicago, Illinois. The
purpose of this conference will be to discuss an international
student strike for the Spring of 1968. s

The Student Mobilization Connittee to End the War
ein Vietnam is a. broad coalition of student and youth groups
docated on over 600 campuses throvghout the country, which
has organized student participation in such activities as the
October 21-22, 1967, demonstration in Washington, D. C., and
the Stop the Draft Week held December 4-8, 1967.

In connection with this forthcoming meeting at the
University of Chicago, Mike Zagarell,’ Chairman of the Communist
Party, USA, National Youth CommissiOn, has sent out a directive
to all Party youth urging them to help build this conference
and to organize as many students aS possible to attend.

Zagarell pointed out that the W.E.B. DuBois Clubs

-of America, a Marxist youth group, had called a meeting of
interested young people to aiscuss different approaches. to

this conference. .
CONFIDENTIAL \/

- aoc : /\ / a

 
