 

 

 

 

SUBJECT: |

 

 
 
 

A, said she did not identify herself as
being with A did not make any attempts to draw out
Mrs, Sherwood for further information. tie foes
not have the name of the alleged ex-CIA co the
first name of Mrs. Sherwood. She identified Mrs. Sherwood

as being number 33E on the Republican ballot in the
Maryland primary of 19 May 1964,

5. If you desire further information from
she may be contacted on extension 9180,

 

 

FE EC]
DD/S&T

Attachment:
Excerpt from Washington Post-20 May 64
 

104-10300-10093

 

DD/S&T 1543/64
18 May 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director Security

 

SUBJECT

 

1. Subject is a staff employee of OEL. She advised
the undersigned on the morning of 18 May 1964 of statements
made to her on Thursday evening 14 May, which associated
the CIA with the assassination of President Kennedy. She
wanted a report of the conversation made known to the Office
of Security.

2-| emey ery nasented that she resided in Prince
Georges 3 land, and several months previously had

registered as a Republican in order to vote in the up-coming
primary electi is past Thursday night a Mrs. Sherwood

eet telephoned Me] ndieating she was one of the Delegates

Sake on the Republican barrot and was supporting Senator Barry
Goldwater, MERA aramre ot’ Mrs, Sherwood that she had not
decided which canaraaté to support, and that although she had
registered Republican she held a deep respect for the late
President Kennedy. Mrs, Sherwood then made some disparaging
remarks about the late President Kennedy. She also furnished
specific information regarding what she described as a
reliable prediction, made prior to November 1963, that
President Kennedy would be assassinated.

3. Mrs. Sherwood indicated that an acquaintance in West
Virginia, who said he was a former CIA courier, had told her
prior to the assassination of President: Kennedy that President
Kennedy would be assassinated and that the assassin in turn
would illed. Mrs. Sherwood further advised, according
to Ness". that her attempts to locate this person in
West Virginia, after the assassination, were not successful.
Apparently, in Mrs, Sherwood's words, this person "just dis-
appeared from sight", following the assassination of President
Kennedy.

Document Number 1280 - 466 B

for FOIA Review on FEB 1977

 

 
