Neue”

“AA E 2b YO9
€ropped in an efrort to disguise the place where the
phdéto had been taken. The photo became somewhat of an
issue when the Warren Commission decided it belonged °
in the Report as part of the exhibits since it had been
shown to the OSWALDs. The Agency finally allowed the
picture to appear in the report with the background
completely blocked out and with the agreement that no :
mention would be made about where it had been taken. .
As far as can be determined, the Agency has never
admitted publicly that the photo was taken in Mexico,
even though there has been a great deal of speculation
to that effect by several authors and journalists. As

Peay

-a matter of fact, one of the lawyers who worked with the

Commission later leaked information to an author regarding
the photo, but erroneously. said it had been taken in-:

‘front of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico by CIA. Still,

the Agency has not revealed the actual location, only-
saying it was taken somewhere outside the U.S. All

mention of the photo has therefore been marked to be

withheld, because of. sensitive sources and methods
involved. ;

a Gilberto. ALVARADO ‘Uparte. “ALVARADO, a a
Nicaraguan citizen; walked in to the v, S. Embassy in ;
Mexico, claiming’ to have knowledge re Kennedy's assasination.
It was learned that ALVARADO was an agent for the Nicaraguan

Intelligence Service (NIS), however his story re the

assassination was separate from his work for the NIS.‘ After
lengthy interrogation, including a polygraph, it was

determined that ALVARADO. had been fabricating a story claiming

he. had seen OSWALD receive money from a Cuban official at

the Cuban Embassy in’ Mexico. The ALVARADO story: appears

in the Warren Report.but it does not reveal his identity... In
ordér to continue to protect ALVARADO and the Nicaraguan

‘government from possible embarrassment all mention: of.

BLVARADO has been marked for Ron-release.

2.. 8B ‘list ‘and copies ‘of douments ‘from the OSWALD file
-have ‘been forwarded to your office for review by other LA |
branches and possibly other- Divisions. The documents are marked
according to which volume they belong in. the 201 file. (there.

are. 57 volumes plus frany) bulky atachments. )

3. During the review, it was necessary several times to
refer to the Warren Report and the exhibits to ascertain
exactly what was already known about the Mexican aspect of the

case, It is doubtful that the other branches will find this

necessary, but in case they do, the Warren Report is held
in the Library.

BN

Jack. Mathews
' C/LA/Mexico

20m ODF NG

 

 
 

104-40406-10411

 

ey

wy

noe oe ore x Mhe- 36Y04 |

31 July 1975

Troy

Jequiny yuewnsog

MEMORANDUM FOR: LA/EICO ~ |
Mr. William Sturbitts :

SUBJECT : Oneview of Lee Harvey OSWALD 201 File

for Freedom of Information Request

 

.REFERENCE : Request Number 75 105, 2 June 1975 ©

96h AON vo Malnay VIO

V666-7B\|

“4a. A review. of the Lee Harvey OSWALD file (201-289248)
has been completed by the Mexican Branch in connection with |
reference Freedom of Information request. Most of the i
information contained in the file that pertains to Mexico
came from sensiti methods, such as photo }
surveillance, nd mail intercept : , |
Operations, Although the mail intercept and photo {
surveillance a |

j

 

vities have Onty ;

   
 
 
  

 

i Mes r) |_|
€onsidered sensitive. (ine is till
active; erefore, is sensitive] ~~

{
2. The ‘Mexican information reviewed covered hy ee
-areas;: : . :

 

 

‘a. Sylvia DURAN Tirado. A Mexican female
employed by the Cuban Embassy in Mexico who provided} “ss
“assistance to OSWALD in his attempts to obtain a Cub
visa. Information regarding DURAN appears in the Warren _ |
Report, however, it is not attributed to the Agency. | . ; 7
The Government. of Mexico (GOM).did arrest and- interrogate | :
DURAN re her connection with OSWALD, and a copy of the.

GOM deposition appears in the Report. The deposition was
turned over to the Commission. by the GOM via State Department.
‘Since. Knowledge of DURAN's. contact with OSWALD originally

GOM's and Agency's attention @wia—thed
all mention of. Agency knowledge or
z DURAN's arrest and subsequent interrogation

chas been marked for non- release.

 

 

 

/ be Photo of | ‘unidentified man taken in front of 3

the Soviet Embassy in Wexic. INYS photo was taken
_ Station Nextco photos Surveillance of the Soviet Embassy
during the month of October 1963, When news cf the
sarres t of OSWALD as Kennedy's. assassin became known, ..

he Station. immediately ferwarded: copies of the photo
“to ‘the FBI in: the mistaken assunption that the photo.
“was of OSWALD taken while he was:.in-Mexico that: fall.
It was. later determined that the photo was not of OSWALD
cand in fact whad been taken after he had departed Mexico.
“OSWALD was in Mexico from. 26. Sentember ‘thru 3 October 1963, QD
Even thoujth- the photo was not of. OSWALD it. had been shown
to OSWALD'S wile anc mottior, with, the background partially

aol CSI ING

=e COPY

 

 

 
