everyone. He is categorical in saying that neither he nor

his wife ever saw a photograph of Lee Oswald. While neither

he nor His wife reviewed all the photography (a responsibility

of Anne Goodpasture) he would have seen it had it existed.

He feels that Oswald's appearance was so distinctive that

it would have made an impression on him. He said that in

: his meetings with the HSCA he had told them his personal

: convictions, which he still holds, that there was "no
conspiracy at the Station."" He worked the Soviet target

i 6 nd uld more than likely have seen all pictures. In sum,

and wife are convinced that the Station had no

: photographs of Oswald; and that the Mexican photo LP

| operators are probably alone responsible for not having

i ; taken pictures of Oswald's entries or exists of the Soviet
Embassy.

Q + Following the assassination of President Kennedy,

: recalls a number of Agency personnel listening to

{ adio~broadcasts. When the name of Oswald occurred, his
first reaction was, "My God, that's the man I reported on."

“4 Someone else may have responded similarly but he recalls
i that as his reaction. This led to a cable to Headquarters.

 

 

6. Speaking in a rather all-inclusive way he said
that there were no photographs of Oswald there then, so
there were none to burn or destroy afterwards.

L?) .

7. mentioned the fact that the HSCA people
pressed him on why Tom Karamessines had signed off on a
communication for a name trace. He could not understand
it. Holmes told him that the Division Chief had signed
the cable, which required the next highest person's
release®(“___|clearly had not thought of that, and in
our discussion We observed that the HSCA investigators
were asking him (in the field at the time) what had
happened at Headquarters at the time.

8. He repeated that there was no conspiracy and he

told the, HSCA people that they were "barking up the wrong
tree."yy “Tsai that at the time he testified he did
not know about the statement in Win Scott's memoire so
there was no occasion to comment on it.

9. Mr. ) said that he would speak with his
wife to see 1f she had anything to add to what he stated

 

|
i
4
i
a
|
Hy
|
|
3
7
E
i
i

{

gins
 

 

 

 

seamen nse tt tee ann tt tie aematcy

coh omni samteia bo

 

‘[rostotasctotat]

2

ee

[oe g 73/30 |
pole # ix Bie)
7 November 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 2
LA

 

SUBJECT : Meeting with Mr.

 

 

 

2.

1. Yesterday afternoon I met with Mr] in the
company of Messrs. Shepanek and Holmes,, Thé purpose of the
meeting was to ascertain Mr Recollection of cer-
tain events in Mexico City in connection with the visit of

 

 

 

 

Lee Harvey Oswald there. I told Mr: the question
that had arisen over the memoires in Scott.
2. While Mr. has not read the Scott memoires,

he said that he colld offer speculation on how Scott came
to write such a thing.,>Mr. Scott at times was “prone to
exaggeration." said that Oswald's visit came at

the end of the summer. The summer was a period when lots

of "kooks" came to Mexico and contacted the Soviet Embassy.
ot psaid that this proved to be very time consuming

rom the Station's point of view as the Station was obliged
to report to Headquarters and appropriate Embassy components
on these people when they were identified. He considered
this function to be one of "no profit" operationally,
although it was of course a necessary CI responsibility.

3. When Oswald identified*hims in a telephone call
to the Soviets it was viewed-b as being a meaning-
less instance of one more probable useless contact to

eport; . for the Station had no record or file on Oswald.
of )wite, a part-time employee, ended up writing a

: oO one thought much of Oswald, and Win Scott signed
off on the cable without question. .

4. On the question of photographic coverage he said
there is a practical explanation of why there were no
photographs of Oswald. He said the work was very boring.
He believes that the Mexicans were simply not photographing

22405

[a MPDET CL ovLaLEe|

 
 

i}
{
g
a
;
t

 

Uy.

above. He reported later that his wife had nothing addi-

tional to offer. I told him that I would prepare a draft

memo of the conversation and show it to him before putting
it into final form, which was done.

“2 SD BA Le

S. D. Breckinridge

Distribution:
1 - OLC/Subject
1 - OLC/Chrono
1 - Shepanek/Holmes
1 - Mr.

OF

7
