 

Administrative - Internal Use Only

be reviewed by the ARRB staff, the issue will. be
discussed with the Executive Director of the Board
and/or the Chairman.

b. If HRG concludes that the history is not
related to the assassination story, Mr. Gunn will be
asked to refine his request or drop that particular
history from his list. A certification by the Agency
that the history contains no JFK assassination-related
information may be required.

2. After review by the appropriate Agency component,
the Directorate Focal Point will advise HRG of the approved
level of access.

3. HRG will then advise Mr. Gunn of the level of
access and make arrangements for him or a member of his
staff to review the history in designated Agency offices as
appropriate.

4. Notes taken by any ARRB member are subject to
review by the responsible Agency component. If the ARRB
member identifies a history or any part of it as having
relevancy to the JFK assassination story, HRG will again
review it to confirm the relevancy. The identification of
relevant information in a history does not automatically
make the history an assassination record under the JFK Act.
Further discussion with the ARRB staff would be required to
determine how that information will be dealt with and its
possible release.

cS. If you Have any questions regarding this request,
please egll me on extension 31825 or Gary Breneman,
extension 31839. a.
/s|

Jd. Barry Harrelson

Attachment:
ARRB Request No. CIA-7

* If the history or a part of any history involves DO
equities, HRG will advise the DO Focal. Point and refer the
history directly to the DO JFK team working with CSI/HRG.

. Administrative - Internal Use Only
104-0334-10151

 

Baby

Administrative - Internal Use Only

3 March 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR: (Directorate Focal Points for JFK Board)

FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
DCI/CSI/HRG/JFK Project Officer

SUBJECT: ARRB Request for Access to Selected
Agency Histories

REFERENCE: ARRB Request for Additional Information
and Records No. CIA-7, dtd 8 Nov 1995

I. Background

In August 1996 with the concurrence of the Directorate
Focal Points for the JFK Board, Jeremy Gunn, ARRB General —
Counsel, was given access to an inventory of Agency
histories (item # 6 of reference) held by the CSI History
Staff. He made a list of 61 histories which might possibly
contain information of interest. to the Board in its search

for additional records relevant to the JFK assassination.

II. Request

The ARRB's request is for access to the selected:
histories to determine their relevancy or non-relevancy to

the JFK assassination story. It is not a request to review

the material for release. Access by the Board's staff will
be limited to one or two members with appropriate
clearances. Access to particularly sensitive material will
be limited to Mr. Gunn and/or Mr. David: Marwell, Executive
Director of ARRB. The Board, Mr. Marwell, Mr. Gunn and
théir State “CIA’ team” have TS/SCI clearances. .

III. Procedures

ei. An HRG reviewer will screen the 61 selected
histories to determine if they have some substantive

' relationship. or connection to the JFK assassination story

(Tocations, time-frames, events, individuals, etc.).

a. If so, HRG will contact the Directorate Focal
“Point for the JFK Board* and request that a responsible
component official: review the selected history to

‘determine the level of access that may be given the
ARRB: (1) access to the table of contents; (2) access
to selected pages/chapters, or, (3)access to the full
history. If the history is viewed as too sensitive to

Administrative - Internal Use Only

(°
13-00000

Aooe : . ~ _ Administrative - Internal Use Only

DCI/CSI/HRG/JBHarrelson:bkh (3Mar97)

Distribution:
Orig - Each adse (see below) w/att
1 - HRG File
1 - ARRB Request File w/atts
A - Barry
1 - Gary
Addressees:

Fred Wickham
DO-JFK Focal Point

 

DI-JFK Focal Point

 

 

 

DS&T-JFK Focal Point

Lee Strickland
DA-JFK Focal Point

Kathryn Dyer
DCI Area-JFK Focal Point

- Administrative ~- Internal Use Only

 
