@

MATERIAL REVIEWED BY HSCA STAFFERS 4
~

Folder Subject: Review at Headquarters - Individuals of Interest

_ 7) _to the HSCA (Tab B - Sanitized) on John Roselli, Sam Giancana
(Santos Trafficante) - 77-0076/2 :

 

ee _ DATE NOTES TRANSMITTED ’
DATE starrers (Signature) Filled in by OLC

 
14-00000

 
74-0000

 

a or
. Masferrer claimed that his Haiti invasion
plot was approved by the U. S. Government (varying
‘between the CIA and the FBI as the approving oot
agency). While the CIA approval claim was untrue, :
Agency concern, at the time, centered around the >
possibility of unfavorable publicity and the :
compromise of sources and methods if the Agency
_Was forced to disprove Masferrer's charges in .. . en
_ court.” A handwritten note in Masferrer's file 9° 7 fe OE
revealed that he died in 1975 when his car was: wo
’-blown apart by a bomb in Florida. No further . . :
details regarding his death were contained in . SG
his subject files. Since Masferrer. has never . mT
been ‘affiliated: with the Agency, despite his
claims, it is believed that Dade County officials i
. Should be referred to the FBI for information ..
regarding Masferrer. a . : 4

c. Luciano Nieves--Office of Security files

contain oo ; _ .:| information
regarding Luciano Nieves Mestre, date and place
of birth 6 October 1933, Santa Clara, Cuba.
Nieves was on 4 February 1966 in
Plorida. It was developed that he was a Cuban:
national who had been arrested, tried, and
sentenced to 20 years in Cuba for allegedly
being involved in an anti-Castro plot. He was | : “4
released in March 1965 after serving approxi- yO !
mately. 16 months 6f his sentence and went to uO
-. , Spain briefly where he was of intérest to the - : : |

62 (| .In August 1965 he entered the |

- “United States and in November 1965 was contacted i
by Directorate of Operations (DDO) representatives, ' :
From November 1965 until approximately January
1966 he was of operational interest to the DDO,

 

 

It is noted that the DDO maintains a
201 file (201-788521) regarding Subject and it
' is believed that the Office of Security would
have to defer any decision regarding the release
of information concerning Nieves to the DDO,  .

   
 

(toe torsa-t0ze]

~ SECRET - Cu

TAB B - Material Requiring Other Agency Component Coordination

1.

Memo For: Dir of Security/Subject: Dade County Request
for Agency Assistance Regarding the Death of Johnny
Rosel1i/10-8-76

P 2 - PARA 2c--COPY ATTACHED; SOURCE STILL DELETED

P 3, 4 - PARA 2h--DDO DELETED
P 4, 5 - PARA 3b--DDO DELETED

Memo For: Legislative Counsel/Subject: SSCI Request
(Death of Johnny Roselli)/9-20-76

BDO DELETIONS

Memo For: Inspector General/Subject: SSCI Operation
(Maheu/Roselli, et al Matter)/6-12-75/p 2

DDO DELETIONS

Memo For: Chief, SAG/Subject: Resorts International,
Inc. /8-18-76 .

DDO DELETIONS
Memo For: C, SRS/Subject: Cain, Richard S./10-9-67
P 2 - COPY ATTACHED

P 3 - COPY ATTACHED
P 4 - PERSONAL/THIRD PARTY/UNRELATED INFO

3

SECRET
74-00000

   

a, 7 FO, tas @ #5
3. During-review of CAIN's-Secuity file, I noted a message :
regarding him from Mexico Gity, on 25 April 1962, which mentioned
a "Willard ANDREWS, reputable American businessman in Mexico,"

i who obviously had had contact of some kind with CAIN; as well as with

;a CIA representative in Mexico to whom ANDREWS had commented that
CAIN claims to have been with OSS during W. W. Il (Acopy of this memo-

{xandum is attached). In answer to this message which requested traces

;on CAIN, Headquarters, in furnishing limited information obtained regard-

_ fing him, advised that neither his claimed employment by OSS, nor a claim
the made to have worked with Task Force W, could be substantiated. The

' Station was advised that he did have {or had had) a legitimate detective .
‘laboratory, in Chicago, : we ee

3
5
i
j
t

4
é
‘

 

ee eer

 

4, With’teferchce to Willard ANDREWS, Security indices contain
no record._I_believe {He-individual referred to.is-Wyllys ANDREWS,
(Edward) Wyllys AN QREWS IV~#2769, ‘a. former OSS/CIA employee who
has lived in Mexico formany yéars ard has continued to have social con-
tacts with represe itatives. ofthis Agency iitMexico as well as with Agency
employees from H adqudfters who visit him frozrtime to time. - ANDREWS,
like CAIN, was bétn in Chicago of parents who also were-born in
area of Chicago. oO eee
eee ence . vfpek, Qe b

: 5. The first time CAIN came to the attention of the Security Office
: was when the Mexico Station requested traces on him. Their request

‘ : sternmed from an unannounced visit he made to the Station, during which
ihe stated that he had an investigative agency in Mexico with branches in
i Chicago and Los Angeles. He had also stated that his agency in Mexico
j was for the purpose of training Mexican Government agents in police
imethods, in investigative techniques, and in the use of the lie detector;
‘and had added that he was investigating Communism in a certain unnamed
| Central American country. ;

the general

at AG HN

Aa adate me eansetnein Laedttant

6. In June 1962, the Mexico Station advised that CAIN was being
' deported by the Mexican Ministry (of) Gobernacion for these violations:

a. Carrying a loaded revolver and brass knuckles

b. Impersonating a Mexican Government official
(He had identification as an investigator for the
Mexican Treasury Office. ) :

c. Violating his tourist permit by working at his
detective office and at the Mexican Treasury

 

 
74-0000

: ; ( TAB BFS
7. Subject was subsequently of interest to the OCS in peptember
1963 when an ad hoc clearance was requested to permit his being aske
ito respond to general requirements regarding his knowledge of certain
j Cuban refugees and their potential for foreign positive intelligence. On
10 September 1963, the DCS was sent a memorandum which furnished
much of the above information on CAIN.

 
   

8. On 22 May 1967, the Director of Security indicated that he

‘had received information from the FBI which ties Subject to the Mafia
in Chicago; land he directed that the DCS be contacted for information ee
sas to whether: ‘or not they ever. established: contact with him and, ifso, } 9°"
for what purpose: The DCS was also to be advised that, if they were -

; in contact with him, it was suggested that they break it off. On 25

: May 1967, the DCS advised that there had been no contact with CAIN
jsince 1963, and furnished copies of eight reports for which Subject had
been the source of information, These had to do with anti~Castro Cuban
activities, procurement of arms, etc. ct en naninemgamamccte

 

pane eren oem
;

i; o-* 9, On 29 May 1967, Security advised the DCS that there is a |
\ current FBI investigative interest in Subject and recommended that i
\there be no further contact with him at this time. 4

ed

 

, 1. The 1 September 1967 copy of Life magazine gontains an
article titled | Brazen Empire of Organized Crime,"! in syhich it is
stated that Sam | Gi ANCANA? Head of the Chicago, ae tray is “still
running things-by- te-contxol f from a hide~out in Mexico. . . where
aka he poses as Riccardo: SC ALZET TICs The real SCALZETTI, GIANCANA's
‘erst while chauffeur and courier, is more familiar to Chicagoans as
Richard CAIN, a well known former Chicago policeman and more recently

a private investigator. r

   

i. “Eldon S. COHEN who is mentioned in paragraph 2 of this’
memorandum as having evidenced an interest in CAIN during the“guber-
natorial cainpaign of the now Senator (from Illinois) Charles“H. PERCY,
#178329 and £EE= =Alq73, is now PERCY's Executive AsSistant. COHEN,
who became employed by, PERGY in January 19647"following his resigna-
tion from CIA which was effective 31 December 1963, at the time he con~
tacted a representative of the Chica .o Office of DCS regarding CAIN on

10 February 1964, did not indicate that he was employed by PERCY. He
said, rather, that he'd beeh asked by the “PERGY for Governor" people

to inquire as to CAIN'S status. : a

sabia

 

 
