 

~ orefey 7

(It is the basic reaction p “those” trying to grenple with ths
problea that the Agency nore appropriately should be cooperating with
with the Fd and the S&CT, organizations bound to adhere to certain
handling procedures in dealijz with classified inforzation, end vhose °
interests are more compatible with the Linitations irnosed on CIA ia
relation to domestic matters involving lav enforversnt.. It is felt
entirely appropriete that Ssnator Hert be reninied of the cifficulties
that CIA has in reviewing’ and processing its dosments for transmittal
outside the Agency to other goverrnont. agencies, in classified forn, and
how this iis conmimdéed when an agency such as the Dads Couty police are
involved Having become involved in reviewing the problen, ani now

appreciating the nature of the problem, it is proposed that the ensvers-

"that can bs nade to Section € of paragraph 3 of the request te offered

as noted, zDapending on the OGC opinion on release of the nares of
Americans, if pernissible, this infornation a}so could ba proviced,
However, the intent should be to direct the Dede County police to the
Far for assistancs from the federal goverment.

SD. Breccinridga ~
e . .

o :

 
 

outside the contre_2 and agree.cents that obtsin ics ease of the SHI
and the FBI. The problen is not senitized release in classified fora, but
cerassittntio fgg sishatg st te Pleo sy eme fo me of ths
. 4e Yost of the infornation is in files ‘of the DIO and DA, with
tere naterials in 0iG. Infornation on the persons identified in Section &
of pexszramh 3 of the requ4st is contained in ov-r 50 tolumes of file °
folders in the 20 file system. ‘The review of the neper would ba a
major task, predictably resulting in e collectios af inforzation that
could not for the large part be released in useful form to the police;
they are seeking investigative leads, which will require nanes and
associations. Tae Dade County police camiot ba given free access to ,
: Coasilevotcac
these files, becacte of the sources~ani-nethais semaies involved, a :
° Froblen that does not exist to the sane extent vith the FBI 3 ths Purean ~ :
has b-en given eccess to Office of Security files in connection with its ‘
Snguiry into the Roselli meder. ‘The consensus af thoso holiing the files
4s that the security preblea rs CA eniticant, end ths volims of natezial
such, that in cochination this pertion of the request should not be
: ‘ approved. bs : ;
5. Section B of parograph 3 of the request Msts three Jinerican
citizens. While what ve hold is niniral, there is e avestion of release ;

© wer the new rules applying to the agency.

i
6. Qn tho mestions in Section © of the perzgrenh 3 of the request,
1
|

the following ansvers can be considered now, with raecmenZations o1 how

to treat thens
te Q, Who is the Cuban yho rrovided the sreedtoat nantioned in
the Senate Select Committse Report?

. i
& CIA does not have this information. Fran navspaper reports |

\ At is umerstood that this is conteinsd in tastinony by Roselli

S given the SSC, uhich nay be able to srovide it. |

 

 
 

 

.,

-le The request of the Rade County, Florida, lav enforcenant officers,
investigating tha Roselli murdxr, presents frodless not encountered in
sindler requests from the SSCI and the Far. At a neoting yesterday

. afternoon it vas agreed that the Problens shold be summarized to you,
which this untertakes to des
. 2. The attached nenoranium Fresents the first requsat, received
orally froa the Dads County officers.
nine items, seeking “vhatever® information there tay be ont
listed (one in psevtonyn), ami the identity of thres others ( uho are
ientified in a classified nemorariua), Section B requests information an
Section ¢ lists a number of questions for on
which Agency replies are “abaflable, although ve belteve sone cennot .

three Anerican citizens.

3. OGG has undertaken to provide a written gPinion that it 4s
Propar to provide support to local, law enforcensnt agencies in ceses
such as this, and that It also is Ar ike informtion oa
4nsrican citizens,

Deputy Director of Cents val Intelligence

S. D. Breciinriags
Deputy Inspector General

Request Fron Doig County, Florida, Low
Enforcement Officers

occ Manorandia of 25 august 1976 (Attached)

Section A of paragraph 3 lists

 

vhere orn ase Gecisions as

Beyond this TP

tg what can be released in Providing that support, Snvolving as it does
the identities of pers ors with whon the Agency had operational relation~
ships,anmi basic questions of sources erd nathods, a3 well. a3 simple

Glassifications. Whatever is released to Date Colnty palice vill be

 
 

: ( :
. ~ fercecp 7
eon - 7

44. Q tho is "3-14 and what ds the nana of tha anti-Castro group
both of which are nentionsd on n2ge 89 of the (SSC) Reporte

Ae This is Manuel Artics, and his group wes lmown as the |
'_Denceratic Revolutionzry Front, : ee |
— “@

i (Coment. Artine ani his group were suosported by CIA. Fe, .

‘ also Was used by the Iaffa in the Castro operation, -Tais-:
‘ infor=stion should nat b2 released) ee,

444. Qi’ Did -arvay actually pay Roselli $2,700 to defrey the
expenses as mentioned on page 64 of the Report?

be YeSe
(Connent. This can be rejeased). ; : .
ive Q thy was Roselli approached instead of Giancana or sonsons else?

Ae Because Haheu, to whoa the agency went for kelp, hapsened ta
Imow Roselli, whose help vas sought in establiting the contact.

(Comment. This can be rejeased). .

ve Q. Did::the Agency do a backgrouwxd check on Roeslili and Gianeana
ami, if so, could they (the Dade Comty police) have access to it?

A. There was no backzrount chee co In fact, the identity of these
persons was not known for’so:s tire.

Comrert. ‘this can be retsased).
vis Glhy was all contact with Roselli stopped in 19657

& Cohtact was broken in 1963 because the operation was
terminated and the case officer left the country.

(Coment. .This can be regeased). °

wid. Q. Would it bespossible for thea (the Dade County Folics), to
talk to the ran or nen who served as Chief of Station in Hiani
during 1960 to 1965? 7
f &e This question rests with Agency comin? levels, It is notes |
\_the Present ADDO was one of then, ———

.

ene

ViiieQ. Qould they (the Dade County pélice) talk to the cirreht
CAief of Station in Hiani?

& See vii, This is for Agency comand decision.

: > terpenes
% tepid

. -~3-
. :

 
 

 

ix.2,Vould it ba possible for the d:tectives to talk te Jones Py
O'Connell, a retered senior O"fice of Security cnaployzas?

A. This reported)i-: has been dons Already, so prasimbly
has bzen conplied vith already. It is noted that until now
there has ben no official confipmation of O'Conell's
dnvolvenent, although his noma has been leaked to che press.
Eou this interview was arranged is not Nouns .
x» &. Does the GIA have any evidence that tho Cubsn Intelligenca
Service nay have been involved in Posellits dkath or that
Cuban agents were in the Mari erea at the tine of his death?

. Ae Iby to the first part of ths question, Walle it is assumed
that the DGT hes agents in the Mand erga their identity is not
known’, . : :
(Comment. This answer should be releasable).

4. Paragrapy 4 of ths 0GC mezorandua reports Senator Cary Hartta
staff assistant, lr. Inderfurth, urging early declassification of certain
Agoncy mencrandx. These reveal the names of Persons whose identity should.
be protected, If they are sanitized for release — by renova of the
fates — they becoms reaningless, so far as the Dede Cougty police use
of ther! is converned.

3- Those of us who have net to consider the proble=s presonted by tha
Yequest, have sone concern over the propriety of a menber of the Us Ss Senate
attenpting to use his influence to not only press for CYA support to a local
lew enforcenent agency, but to inclute classified infornetion to en agansy

pared

not bout to observe the restrictions usually associated vith such infor

nation, There is soma feeling that wiinhibited Fublication{of nanes of
those involved in the Castro operations ney have bien 2 facte> in sexe
of ths deaths that have occurred to date, and that a furtherance of this
Practice raises grave questions, In any event, in ad@izioz to these
security questions, it is noted that the current mnerous reguests that

are being received are disrupting other high priority research baing

dona on related matters Gre et

coer erm mebe He SSG

er ee

same oe a ~

seme

 
