  
 

    
  
 

re ws we kn
a NS
j- » »

- “NICOLE SZULC |.

 

“4. We would be grateful £ for’ ‘braces: ‘on Nicole SZULC, American - Le fe
freelance journalist, age 27/29. She sopesenty also ‘works for ce
a group which carries out. research CE) imerican security and plahewal a
in’ tellizence Operations. — “Her fa father: ‘was New York Times Bureau - gtudide |
; ef in HAVANA in- 1959. SZULC is.a strong sympathiser of the .
Cuban regime: by her. owh account she has come to Cuba for ohne

.tonth at Cuban invitation to gather material on CIA operations ;
in Cuba, past and present, and to “assist” the Cubans in uncovering ©
new leads to current CIA intelligence activity (particularly among

‘ the foreign community). She was last in Cuba in 1971. S2ZULC made
her first approach to the Cuban Embassy..in MEXICO CITY several eo,
months ago with a request for Cuban material on CIA operations. .
Toe Cubans responded by inviting her to a clahdestine-type meeting . .°
in NEW YORE where she met Cuban officials accredited to the UN-in |
acar. At that meeting no material was provided but she was asked -
to come to Cuba as- soon: as possible in order to carry out "joint |
research". SZULC spent. the month’ of October in Brazil..where she |

has family (she is half Brazilian)’ and arrived in HAVANA.on a2 7}.

“o. flight from LIMA on 9 November. .She had appointments with MINREX...-"

on 13 November. to discuss her. “programme” ‘for. the next, four weeks.”

2... ~L met ‘SZULC- ‘first. on 12 Novenber’ at REGIN' s ' Reuter),
appartment where. she. called to see him while. I was paying him a.
“brief, unheralded call, ‘I met her again ‘by chance on 13 November. a
. in the lobby of the Riviera Hotel where she‘and British busineseaon ~
-. /whon T was visiting are staying. .The sympathetic curiosity.shown- ~~
--. by REGIN and me ‘on the respective occasions. was ‘sufficient to get
‘her talking about the purpose of her visit. At the same time BEGIN |
and I both made favourable comments on certain aspects of Cuban’ 5
 develooment and this seemed. to win her confidence. . Her evident.
. -capacity for. self-delusion appears to enable her to suppose that
“other observers of the Cuban scene (except those: possibly working
- for the CIA whom: she hopes to uricover) share her partiality towards ae
the Cuban system.’ I did not, of course, disillusion her in ny CAaSe, |
. and, although challenging some of her more outrageous remarks,’ .
“left her with ‘the impression’ of a favourable view of Cuba. .-She is,
- however, self-opinionated, intellectually obstinate and quite |.
‘incapable of objectivity when discussing Cuba.’ She seems Keen’ for .
_a further meeting (no doubt as a stepping stone to the foreim —
community. she wishes to penetrate) and I: “Suspect, is 5. Prepared tor
a use ‘her feminine charms along. the’ way. : i ad,

     

. “3. ‘Apart ‘from ‘traces I ‘should: welcome ‘your coments. “gince she :

_ will presumably be meeting DSE and DGI officials I would obviously -
have to be circumspect about any further encounter with her, but ©... -
you may consider this a good opportunity to try and pick up - =| Gad ows
whatever details she may reveal unguardedly about. Cuban counter~ Ph 7 Ares

telligence operations.

 
 

  

rs (ere.

“ay Movenber 197%. -

  

Be  , “rooms szuLe. ss
. . boo : sot |. gpertmammennenenesncmvemcnsmretie : pees we .
| Me attach a note which we have received from(FETCH Jand ae
“co ‘whieh will be of interest to youe “We would be grateful for any.

|, traces and. your comments. - ne \wee un ee
: eS Fours sincerely, a) ea rr at

 
 

   

epee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

wes oe

a a Do Not Reprodtice

 

    
