 

 

 

 

TOP Seer

November 6, 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr, Cline, DD (I)

SUBJECT: Castro as a Threat to the Americas.

I think that in analyzing Castro's potential in the Western
Hemisphere as covered by paragraphs 9 through and including 21,
we should consider his posture and potential under various alternatives
of possible United States decisions and probable Soviet policies,

Let us assume for the moment that the United States meets
the exact letter of the Kennedy-Khrushchev exchange and no more.
This would mean the withdrawal of IL 28s, the halting of. the establish-
ment of a submarine base, and some acceptable form of inspection
verifying the removal and assuring against the reintroduction of
offensive devices, U.S. commits not to invade, At this point U.S.
commitment on propaganda, sabotage » guerrilla activities and other
actions designed to overthrow Castro is not very clear, but I think
that we can assume that such activities if attempted would be no
more successful in the future than they have been in the past, which is

about zero,

 
 

 

 

 

 

TOP SECRET

Having reached this point, the Soviets have at least three
alternatives:

One, they can abandon Castro, reduce military and economic
aid, cut their losses, and in such event Castro would soon collapse.
Current intelligence does not support such a probable Soviet course
of action, otherwise they would not be disposed to leave such quantities
of extremely valuable modern military hardware, including the SAM
sites, communications equipment, and extensive Naval.and ground
equipment and a large number of technicians.

Second, they could maintain about the same level of economic
and military support as in the past, although I would feel this could not
be a very reasonable assumption from the standpoint of military support
as the presence of large amounts of additional military equipment, in-
cluding those mentioned above, would necessitate a higher level of
military support than before in order to provide operational readiness,
training, maintenance, spare parts, replacements, etc, This does not
mean more economic supporthlthough I think Castro could insist upon
it-on the grounds that Soviet equipment is a burden to him and of course

Dorticos alluded to this in statements in New York.

 
13-00000

 

SECRET-EVES Gili

connection had ever been admitted, publicity would implicate the

- Administration and CLA in the negotiation because of recent press

stories (most particularly the Herald Tribune articles). identifying
Administration and CIA. activities and citing the.exact amount of

{7 million! dollars as representing the Government. cost of the drugs.

r pointed “out that certain elements of competition between the members
of the drug industry | made it almost a certainty that “leaks'' would
come from industry sources as long ae the letter of credit were —
outstanding, regardless of Mr. Donovan's denials.

Furthermore, consummation of the transaction seemed
tetally unrealistic in view of current difficulties with Castro and if
an article appeared indicating we were etill pursuing this transaction,
the American public and a great many others would be confused and
disenchanted,

For the above reasons, and feeling that damaging publicity
undoubtedly would appear, I strongly recommended that we arrange
for the. bank to withdraw the. Letters of Credit,. and for the withdrawal

: of-a substantial part of the money frem the (Ban! Also

advise Mr. Donovan that the pursuit ef this effort must await a better
climate although our interest remained constant. I urged that
action be commenced today.

The Attorney General, after some discussion involving an
exploration of possible alternativec, agreed with the course of
action.

We agreed that we should carefully explain to the Families
Gonunittee and possibly te Miro Cardona that we were in no way
abandoning our intention to secure the release of the prisoners but
were forced because of circumstances beyond our control to set the
negotiation aside pending further developments on other important
problems involving our Guban relationship.

- MeCone discussed the above with Mr. Bundy who personally
approved the action and, in turn, received approval from higher
authority. The latter was communicated toe the DCI by telephone
at 145 p.m

Copy to General Carter w/
covering memo - JOHN A. McCONE |

Director

 
13-00000

 

14 November 1962

MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION WITH THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
CONCERNING THE NEGOTIATION FOR THE RELEASE OF THE CUBAN
PRISONERS.

The meeting teok place at the residence of the Attorney
General at 10:30 a.m., on n Thureday, Mavember 14, at the DCI's

request.

, McCone explained that he had had dinner the evening before
with Mr. Edward Foley (former Under Secretary of the Treasury,.
legal representative and a Director of the Drag Industry. Association).

Mr. Foley had questioned DCI concerning the negotistions ©
for release of Cuban prisoners in exchange for some $0 millicn —
dollars in drugs, and stated that Mr. Denovan had been in touch with
members of the industry (presumably Pliser and Merck) in the past
few days, that indications were that the transaction was to be worked
out promptly, and the subject would undoubtedly be discussed at
length at the Industry's Beard of Trustees meeting in New York on
November 16th.

Mr. Foley stated that the Industry had no clear understanding
af the Government's position, most particularly in view of Cuban

developments of the last three weeks.

“After explaining to Foley the background of the transaction

I told him that Mr. Donovan had been told to do absolutely nothing

in this matter and expressed great surprise that the subject was a
topic of current discussion ameng members of the Industry.

In the meeting with the Attorney General I expressed. grave

 
   
 
 

concern over the situation, pointing out nae _praittion
dollars on covert deposit in the;Ban t Letters
. of: Credit on issued by'the Bauk, one in amount of![0 1 itlion 4

dollare and one for \evenimillion dollars
long as this money was on deposit and ‘the letters outs > there >
was a danger of publicity emanating from either Donovan or the drug
industry, or both. Despite the fact that’no official government
ee ~ SECRET

The above has been communicated to you by telephone. This
memorandum serves to confirm decisions which require implementa-
tion by you. :

  
 

JQHN A. McCONE

 

 

 

 

   
1 3-00090

 

 

 

   

revs ONLY

November 14, 1962
MEMORANDUM FOR: General Carter, DDCI

Attached is a copy of a memorandum for my file outlining
policy decision in connection with the Cuban prisoner transaction.
In your absence this memorandum was discussed with Messrs.
Helms, Heuston, Miskovaky and McManus, and upon receiving
fina] appreval from higher authority at 1:45, Mr. Houston was
instracted by me to initiate sppropriate actions.'

it je exceedingly important thet great cafe be exercised
te minimize the publicity and to emphasize humanitarian interest
on the part of the United States Government in securing the release
of the prisoners. Both the President and the Attorney General are
- anxious that the explanations giventhe Cuban Families Committee
‘be handled with great care. I agree with thia and urge that extreme
caution be taken to avoid attribution or CIA implication in this matter.

John A. McGone
Director

Attachment

JAM:at
1 cc - DCI Chrono
tcc - DCI Memoranda
1 cc_- Memo for the Record _..

 
13-00000 ;° >

re nn 2

ad ae

ma SECRET

URGENT

30 October 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR: General Marshall S. Carter

. = At the Executive Committee meeting this morning, the President
Th? directed as follows:

1, CIA do everything possible to insure no refugee or
emigre provocative actions against Cuba are undertaken with or
without our knowledge during the next several days. ‘The Miami
station and the MONGOOSE Task Force should be alerted to exercize
every precaution to see that no unauthorized attempts are made.

This should be done without discussion or disclosure to the refugee groups.

2. CIA should attempt to estop Alpha 66 actions during the
next several days. The President was informed by DCI we have no
contact with or control over Alpha 66. DCI was instructed to attempt
through every resource available to influence Alpha 66 to stand down
operations during the next several days.

  

a 3. The activities of Operation MONGOOSE are to be stopped
aes during the next several days and therefore all prior approvals for
a sabotage, infiltrations, guerrilla activities, caching of arms are to be
temporarily suspended. The direction of Operation MONGOOSE will be
reconsidered after current negotiations are completed.
NOTE: After the meeting McCone, Bundy and the AG
discussed the approved plan of sabotaging Cuban ships
or shipping (Item 2-B of Lansdale's memorandum of 10/26)
and it was the opinion of Bundy, DCI and the AG that these
operations should be suspended for the next several days.
NOTE: General Lansdale was informed by DCI by grey
phone of 1, 2 and 3 above - 10/30 at 11:00 A.M.

 

 

 

4, The President requested that all the principals who are

attending Executive Committee meetings and those in the Departments

who were in intimate contact with the Committee's procedures and
_ decisions not contact anyone of the Press for the next several days.

Press contacts are to be made by Salinger and Sylvester and a

representative of State. Any necessary Press contacts by CIA, and

these must be kept at a very minimum, perhaps should be made by Col. Grogan.
(This was not mentioned in the Executive Committee meeting.)

 

 

 
 

104-10306-10020

hs be
_¢ 4
; .

 

‘ ¥

. ~ Lenn “AS pow wrillen
ibaa age : Q have taken ko at howe,

10180 /e& ~~ Hye

Wkld_—

 

 
13-00000

 

 

SECRET.

30 Cetober 1962

GRGENT

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: General Marshall 8. Carter

At the Executive Committse meeting this morning, the President
direeted as follows: ; ;

1. GIA de everything possible to insure ne refugee or
emigre provocative actions ageinet Cuba are undertaken with or
without cur knowledge during the next several days. The Miami
station and the MONGOOSE Task Force should be alerted to exercize
every precantion to see that no ungutherized attempts are made.
This should be done withost dleeussion oF disclosure te the refugee groups.

2. GIA should attempt to estep Alpha 66 actions during the
nent several days. The President wae ieformed by DCI we have no
contact with or control ever Alphas 64. DCI was instructed to attempt
through every resource available to influence Alpha 66 to stand down
operations during the next several days.

3. The activities of Operation MONGOOSE ara to be stopped
éaring the next several days and therefore all prior approvals for
sabotage, infiltrations, guerrilla activities, caching ef arms are to be
temporarily suspended. The direction of Operation MONGOOGE will be

ships
or shipping (item 2-B ef Lanadale's memorandaxa of 10/26)
and it was the opinion ef Bundy, DCI and the AG that these
operations should be suspended fer the neat several days.
NOTE: Generel Lansdale wae infermed by DCI by grey
phone of 1, 2 and 3 above - 10/36 af 11:60 A.M,

4. ‘The Presi¢ent requested that all the principals who are

representative ef State. Any meceseary Prese contgets by CIA, and
theee must be hept at a very minimuun, perhaps should be made by Col. Grogan.
(This was net mentioned in the Executive Committee meeting.) _
 

 

i SECRET
. _ ‘The above has been communicated to you by telephone. This
i _ memorandum serves to confirm decisions which require implementa-
oa ‘Hea by you.
|
is| ,
JOHN A. McCONE
! Director
i
i
|
JAM/mfb J
Orig & 3c to addressee
lee - DCI chrono

 

DCI #5 file

 
