epablic, bess

dafiuencs @ ch thr governnen

a. Pathay Georges will be the jeader of the Haitian “iasurrec-

& ." Es

aid that in view of ehoa arrest ef hio cmiscary da

favs Republia he wae yeturming %° Bow ,

éays watil ali was ealm again He

end osrtain other rriends in the Deaiaican Republic va
gal of the Balaguer gevorament .

 

%. Ga 2 Gstebsr 1966 Eugene b Harimilien » fan
paid that athar Gcorges' gieit tO Miami was to make
paterials end voosels parehas
Face

war
4en said ghat Father eserges hed dived

Brasidaat eg Haiti, about two weeks
Manimilien said he aid not

Gousca of the jngormation ds paragraphs e- 0: A menbor of a
gesup og emi gras grained 4s ghe eeghniquss of Ingormation
eoilostion- ho group has provided ugeful Foperts eines 1962.

eo Henaol Qica, Cubsa emigre
nad peampon Names, Yoan eo Cag Parte a a

against tho Haitian wogime. eiea sal

 

ha thought pething definite was
re hed daaidsd <hat he would not
gked Haoterrer for eens
‘e@fored pis sons pifies bat had
ay nis own pulless. Ha adgéed.

    

ehat asst of the gund Has ferrar had wore aooless.
@ica enid, ned noticed © he knew Only aa Papite
wr and aise worked for ¢ghe

ees w
wag thinking of erancferring his
he had (raediately obtained & ie Gndean visa.

SUBMITTED

$T eBra
LE

8. ' Qlea complained chat Masferrer hed given ia
ang beard for ninsel?

and thet he hed spont apout 9950 for FooR

and three others. Ho added that ho nad had an argument wh

Hes ferrer pecause the plan vas not & gorLeus garter. Two of a

Gica’s party had returned to Rew York and did not pian to Come 2

pack to aml. @
aS
8
a &
BS

CONFIDENT LAL
CONTROLLED DISSE
HO FOREIGN DISSER

 
14-00000 ,

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM
NO PORE IGN DISsEM

WEg-6509
1. Faiere Ceament. In January 1968 Masferrer told & group of 3
an FOO dn Hiemi that Father Georges wae ons

°
¢ghess eontributing finaneial gupport to 4 pian for invading
Haiti. See TDCSDB-315/00225-66-

2. soures Comment Masferrer was probably exaggerating + Ha
may have equipment for 250 men.

Field Comments

3, Maeferrer has previouely elaimed that he nad the eupport
of the Deminican Government.

4. Another source hae reported on plans for making a fila
purportine to show efforts of Haitians to overthrov Prasident
valier. 82° UFG-0580. ‘ :

 

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEN
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

 
 

[rod-to07t-10205] ey

ocvda BHaey
manMao Ven smonRIG

jo. HERING AgGUINED
OPO BATA AGPGATAG CAPARATELY

 

 

PPL CRIB TAL cata

DYVOUR JMPALM PBRUMEN

 

GOURCE: Peras. 1 - 5: C_AMBER-6, who obtained the information in
. 1 fvom Francisco (Cueo) AVILA, Cuban enigra identified by
amse 69 a friend of hia and Rolando MASFERRER's. He got parad.
Qo Srom HasJorrer, and para. § fom Eugene L. MAXIMILIEN. Paras.

 

6-8: AMOT Sdurce | “~) from OLEA.

 

| RED: Pleasd index fur field:
, Mame: [P CALLIEGRO, Angelmito

fan ef Anselmo ALLIEGRO, former Cuban senator. Rs Subj's
volvement in plans for action againet cove of Ha

i Ceeee reference to:

H . 201-042669 (Rolando MASFERRLR Rojas)
2012289206 (Manuel RAY Rivero)
201-270855 (Jean Baptiste GEORGES)
201-320655 (Antonio IMBERT Barreras)

 

Group 4: Excluded from
| Automatic Downgrading
and Deolasaification

 

yaa §8G7 fc

Porviews
gpyviogs

 

ee . . vase one Incense career camemenertenet te
F . cin seston
= Pee

GOSS

  

@
e
14-00000

* “ot

Pd

ure-2600

ce. One of Hasferrer’s Baa gho want to the Dsaiaiesa Ropeblic
euman lt besa

earry eras ab joa had

a mended by Deaiaican authorities doopits the feat that
ga for cale to ghe

ail . gaatiags Bo Porna, Cuban aaigve in wha Deminiean

Repeblic, had besa Pots intarecde eines ho has Jest nis

{nflesnse with the governnent eg President Jeaquin Balagust-

 

d. Petre Gaorges will be the jeader of the Haitian "ineurreo-
TAGAs Ok

Hastesrar oald ¢hat in vicw of the arrest ef nis calacary ia
¢he Denlaiean Republic he was retuming to Hew York for & fou
éays enti ali was gaim again.

an ain other grieonds ia tas Beainaleaa Republics wag peing
given wighout the approval of the Balaguer goverment -

Oa 2 Catobsr 4968 Eugene bL. Haxindifen, Haitian Consul General
(a Faead, oaid ghat Yather eeorgos' vieit to Hiemi vas to make
a payesat for var nate sais and yosoels parohased by Hasforrer-
Mor inilien paid that Father Goorges had raceived 97,000 from
Paul Kagiolrs > former president of Haiti, about tvo weeks
carign end 07,000 fren Canaéa. Naxiaillen said he did not
know Wao cent the eeney froa €anada.

esurae of the information in paragraphs 6-3: ARS of a
group of Guban caigres erained in the tachniques of ingerpation
eslicetion. fhe group has previded yceful Feports pines 1962.

       
 

”

6. Im late gopranker Hamuel leas Cuban emigre > said that Mas ferrer
ahe him fos Hew York to take part in oa eperaticn
against the Haitian regiss. eiea caid that im Bow York Haoferrer os
had teld bia that ne (Glea) weuld bo ehieg of operations - hesord~ zZ
fing to Olea, faorican newspapers) vere ita thea fom ghe cise =
they left Hew York uat gi they arpived in Mieal, gaking netios
pieturss ali the tims.” He wonarked Fe)
he had found Hasferrer’s gotivitics wry etrangs. He gaded that
ba thought nethiag Ga?inite was going to gake placd, and that
would not t part ia eh

UTED.

aUBMETT!

i APEBTUBR pany

wag elecoly aosestiated with Hasgerrsr and alco worked fep ths
paieden Csasas io Wiemi. When wpapizo” had 1 emmed that Mas ferrer
eas thinking of transferring nis geoup tO the Doninicen

he had demodiately ebvained a ma VEGA. :

 

Hesferrer becauss ¢he plan was pet gorieus matter.
Se aataraad to Baw Tork and did not” plan to cone
