con r and returned to th the According to
Mre tL has recently_In her land Is not now
t is working @s secretary to ;

 

Director, Domestic Contact Service 28 December 1966
Attn.? Operational Support Staff

Chief, New Grlesns office

a
Possible Opportunl wt + 4

1, On Tuesday, 20 Bec 66 received a_call from Lo
former fab anc te is an allen but

we have FB! approval to contact dated TA Apr Gl. | Is the source of
five reports on Cuba and we, as wali as the Fei, have been In frequent contact
with hig. .

 

 

 

 

2, He called on me primarily to tel] me that his mother had
arrived from Cubs and would be willing to talk to Bend ¢

   

3. tn the course ef our conversation
had a_cousin still liv fi) a named

 

 

 

associated with t ‘Cuba and also @
walle Comaunist. says t t a Communist
and he and his family la contact with
4, s who ts ssut( "peace of age, was ons of the
group of Cuban lch recently made 8 tour of Europe. A group

of these Cubans fected while the was Paris, end this recotved wide
publicity In our newspapers. nist
he

 

std

5. nee[ pee me that he had planned to meet
in Parts and that 5 agreed to meet him In Paris, but Mr.
not heve the money to make the trip nor did he think that he would be able

to obtain the necessary visa for the trip to Parts because of his status
as @ Cuban refuges. ;

 

  
   

6 .

that [Miss has traveled all over the
yorld with the Cuban and has vis wost of the Communist
countries Including Ina.
make another tour and that he will be advised tn advance of the date and
itinerary. feels quite certain that he will be able te arrange @ meeting
with Hiss rovided the group visits @ nist country. He
claims that S always been very close to Miss whom he considers
almost a3 a siste7. He feels quite certain that she wou be willing to
heip the US Sf she were approeched In the proper manner, and he feels that
the approach should be made through hia because of his relationship and
former closeness to her.

7. We says that he belleves nis foes not at
SECRET, SO"

 
 
 

‘tog t0110-10280

 

 

6 Sorta ret ot Rome peboee ty ‘
v oe eee wa PON ted
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT /
Memorandum 317/44
. oO : Chief, Personnel Security Division, OS DATE: 11 January 1967
arr oo; Mr. Leland Bunn
FROM : Director, Domestic Contact Service RETURN TO Gif
(Chief, Services Division) 24 Background Use Obly
— Do
SUBJECT: -- Possible Opportunity Not Reproduce
i == NO-300-66

 

1. ‘The enclosed copy of_memorandum from our, New Orleans Office
concerning Subject’s cousin | who is living in
Cuba, and who. . he believes would be willing to help the United States,
if approached in the proper manner, is forwarded as of possible interest.

 

 

2. A copy of the enclosure has also been forwarded to WH/C/CA.

3. Any questions pertaining to this memorandum should be directed
to Mrs. Virginia Thorne, Ext. 2738.

Enclosure: As stated above

SEGEET / SENSITIVE ice

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

 
74-0000

| SECRET

Director, Domestic Contact Service . HO~ 380-66
Attn.: Operational Support staff 2° 2 bec 66

leave Cuba because of the fact thet her fanlly Is there and that she would
not leave unless she could also get her fasliy out. He belleves that,
despite the risk involved, she would be willing to act as an agent in
place.

8. Hy relations with Hr. heve been very good, and | am
inclined to belleve what he says. er, this whole matter, of course,
would have to be evaluated by the Clandestine Services,

5. ere Is one other matter | would Hike to mention In connec
tion with Mr. that Is that he served for tuo and a half months
with a group of Cuban filers In the Congo, as he holds a pliot’s license.
He did not tell ae and § did not ask who the sponsors of this were or
what thele duties were. He did, however, mention a Colones! land @
fr. t strongly suspect, of course, that this was an agency
operation , if so, the Clandest. Services will already have & good
des] of Information about ir.

10. 1 pass this on for whatever it Is worth and, If there Is say
further Information which | can provide, # shal? be glad to do so.

Lioyd A. Ray

LARay 399

 

cm
