 

A tenoranchea of 8 Hovenber 1955, reported that Subject had approached -
a KODAK vepresentative on 30 September. 1955, at which time ha requested
guidmce and possible financial assigtance for a proposed business :
arrangenont with Peter HIAALUINEC, former Yugoslav Assistant Military
Attache in Washington, and now Chief of the Foreign livision of PUTUIK,

a travel and tourist agency. The proposed business partnership was

for the purpose af opening a PUT'IK travel agency in Now York City.
Subject had not tue iwwetsuns on participating in the travel ami
‘tourist agency in New York City but had suggested to the fugoslavs

that be would act as thelr public relations expert and publicise
Yugoslaviats tourist attractions throughout the 0.5. Subject stated b¢ had
initially contacted KUSARK for the purpose of obtaining financial backing
in exchange for any information that he might be able to obtain through
his contacts with the Yugoslavs, Subject wes informed by KURARK
repreomtative that KUBARK would neither give him financial assistance
nor influence in any way kis personal decision in the matter,

da. Also the files reflect that Subject has had contacts with other
purchasing agente for foreign countries: In MANA 2217, 19 March 1957,
Subject and Isaac Cohen, Israeli purchasing agent in New York, visited
Nicaragua ostensibly to discuss the purchase of Isracli corvettes by
the lAcaraguan Government. An QUNVI report dated 32 March 1958, fron.
a confidential source, stated one San Cummings, a international arms
dealer, presently has a quantity of cuns in bond in the "free trade
gone", Hew York City, and Subject and James Farrisa had ben attempting
to locate buyers for these guna. An ODENVY report.dated 31 March 1953, :.
Stated that Abdul Rachman SURTOKUSINO, djakarta, Inaonesia, connected
With the Indonesian Police Force, had been in ths U.S, in the early
part of 1956 secking arms for Indonesia, Due to BeSe regulations, he
Wee unable to obtain arms. At this time Subject interested SUTTOXUSRg
in purchasing ares from the Dominican Republic, According to source,
Subject and SURIOXUSLMO made a trip to the Dominican Republic in Juns
1956 accom-anied by a U.S. arms expert and Xorique Garcia, Jn, who
had claimed to be a personal friend of Gen, Rafael L. Trujille of
the Dominican Republic and who is registered with the Foreign Agents
Registration Section, listing his foreign principal aa the Daminican
Republic. It was reported in HMA 0923, 6 Angust 1956, that Subject
had written a letter to the U.S. Ambassador to Nicaragua in which
he etated the purpose of his recent trip and informed the Ambassador
that "other reds" were attempting to undercut the ams price as quoted
by the coainican Repub: «48 réported in ODACID on 6 May 1958, ~
Subject, as representative af the Government of Nicaragua, last year
purchased 73 Staghound armored cars from Israel for the GON and also
negotiated the subsequent sale of 30 of these vehicles te Cuba,
Recently Subject approached U.S. officials in Mearagua re disposal
of 20 of these vehicles to the Guatamalan Government,

@. The only reference to reflected in this name check
was a KUJUMP report dated 22 April 1957 which stated that a let
found by a law enforcement officer in February 1957 wong
personal effects, seemed to imply that a joint effort was being made
by

 

jand the late Nicaraguan president SOVWOZA to open @ casing
in Wcaragua, This letter dated 27 August 1956 was written on the
letterhead of the Nicaraguan dovernment Agency, Suite 122), Wyatt
Building, ¥ashin D.C., I. Irving Davidson, 0.5. representative
and atateds ineloosd are’ ix-Ia bank particulars you aoked for.
Sam Waugh will cooperate with us 100%. Be sure that Pres. Somosa and
only Pres. Somosa designates you 50% partmer in the casino. You don't
meer any partner for the hotel end of the weal at all, You don't
want one either, I am sure Pres, Somoza won't care about this, Don't

hesitate to ask Somosa Seen about ah oie I already talked with -
his and told him that pe you w over this project

 

AS,
S338. 31-204 AND $1.27
Wel APE OBSOLETE,

 
 

DISPATCH

10 «Chief of Station, Manila
ao

 

Feora Chief, Far ast Mvision

Dis Atco Stab AnD NO

PRHSSUS

 

 

 

 

Ree RE: 433" ~ (CHECK “x” ONE)
I. IRVING DAVIDSON MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO PNDEXING REQUIRED
Ae REED INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED
Hone BY QUAUFIED HG. DESK ONLY
REFEREES)

 

Prig—470, 13 May 1958, Transzittad

 

i] nn p>)

1. The information obtained in the nane check of DAVIDSON reveals that
Subject is an argreasive intemationsl businessman who Would possibly
participate in any business proposition for a comission; however, when

negotiating with representatives of o
hisself by reporting the business pro]

ther countries, Subject usually protects
pos tion to a U.S. Goverment agency

or official, ‘the reveals that tho relationship betzcen
Drew Pearson and have resulted from Subject's personal contest
with both gen. The information re may have reached Pearson

through Subject's office associates.
2. The following are the details

af the check on Subjects

&. Subject, a U.S. citizen, born 19 Jamary 1921, 1s married and
maintains his residence and office in Washington, D.C. As reported by
XUJUSP, 8 Hovesber 1955, Subject chired his office suite in the Byatt
Building with James Farriss, a former ODACID exployea, and Jack

Northan Anderson and Frederick G.
of PARAIR magazine, Frederick G.

Blumenthal, Vashington representatives
Blumenthal is a former rey Pearjon

leg-can wiile Anderson continues to work for Pearson,

b. An ODENVY report dated 6 November 1957, stated that Subject

filed a registration statement,

Ko. 836, 18 April 1955, with the

Foreign Asents Registration Section, Department of Justice, Subject
listed as his foreign principal President A. Somosa, Republic of
Nicaragua, The nature and purpose of his representing the foreign

principal was given as purchasing

agent for various bureaus of the

Republic of Nicaragua, including the military forces. He also stated
that he dealt in general public relations and was self-employed,
Another ODENVY report of 18 June 1957 stated that Subject listed his
eccupation as a Publis Relations Comsel and Business Consultant in

& report to a lecal credit burcan,

The report indicated that Subject’

previously spent some time in Cuba, Mexico, Nicaragua, and the
Dominican Republic and is well acquainted with various business and
government officials in the above-mentioned locations.

Ce Om several oceasions in thse past Subject volunteered information
to various goverment agencies and offered his assistance to the
U.S. Government. In an ODENVY report dated 15 September 1950, Subject

advised that through a friend, Hax

Henriques, who Subject claimed to be

@ representative for the Joninican Republic te the United Natime,
Subject had becoma acquainted with Vincente Toledano, and was
sufficimtly close to him to obtain important information c:
activities of the Commmist Party in Hexico. Subject offered his

assistance to the U.S. Government in this matter,

According to a

KUSU@P report, submitted by the Office of International Trade, dated
1953, Subject furnished infornation regarding travel in 1950 betamen
Mexice and the USSR and information on trans-shipments through Mexico, .

foes SEE PeENOUS EOMON.
we $3 S28 53-228 AND 51-29
~ WORN ARE OASORETE.

 

(~WISE 7
{x] CONTINUED L J

cre (ed pI OR fronted! On ISRO" GAO Ne RSE DNTEpR err amps onentagiagag

 

 

z

 
 

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

With your group and experience. I will then Inow that Hicaragua will
have the nicest, beat operated facility in the hemisphere. Give wy
best regerds to Pres. Sonoza when you s¢o him, If you don't see hin
for any reason, you don't have a daal

or whoever elsa you may

of people. He has also

Your boy, Irv Davideson,*

3+ This information has not been clsared for passage to our Matson

a

services,

 

 

USE PREVIOUS EOTDON,
REPLACES FORMS

‘31-22, 51-284 AND 51-29
WHICH ARE OBSOLETE

 
