74-00000

   
   
     
   
     
   
     
   
     
    
 
  

SECRET

Everyone breathed easier, and the Chief, WH
Division, described the operation as “one of the
most tightly held of our Cuban activities." Two
years later the hold was not so tight, for on 26 March
1965 the New York Times front-paged a reasonably com-
plete and accurate account of the great sugar-sabotage
operation under the headline:

PRESIDENT KENNEDY BALKED
CIA PLOT ON RUSSIAN SUGAR

Press services picked up the story. United
Press International doffed its cap to "enterprising
_U.S. agents," but added that "White House interven-

tion foiled the Central Intelligence Agency's Carib-
; 283/

 

  

the early 1960's the Mexico City Station was tops.
Reporting on the Cuban Embassy, the COS said in Feb-
ruary 1963:

_ We intercept their mail, photograph
all the people who go in and out of the
Embassy, cover their télephones completely,
and within a few hours of the conversa-
tions have resumes of all. the phone calls.
We cover their trash, and this has been
found to be useful. And included in the
usefulness was the discovery of a man who
‘was doublecrossing us, who we thought was
a good penetration of the Embassy.

~ 252 -

SECRET

 
1-00009,

CIA had seven different microphones in the
Cuban Embassy, one hidden in a leg of the coffee
table in the Ambassador's office. Like most audio

operations, this one produced a lot of chaff, but

 

it also yielded bits of operational information

 

showing connections between the Embassy and local

 

Communists and students. At the airport the station
was getting photographs of all travellers to Cuba,
plus about 300 photos per day of their passports
and documents. y , I

[inciudea in’ the take from the Cuban Embassy |
were the serial numbers of weapons bought by Commu-
nists for smuggling into Guatemala, plus the names
and positions of the sellers. Complicating the ex-, i
ploitation of this information was the fact that the

ene

weapons had been sold by Mexican officials, and while
. _

the station wanted to stop the smuggling and appre-
hend the Communist smugglers it had no desire to
upset sensitive relations with the Mexican Government +] —

g [Two high-level officers of the. Cuban Embassy,

 

were recruited CIA

 

 

penetrations. The station had sent three agents into

 

Cuba and was getting reports from them by secret

- 253 -

| SECRET Got
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a

ee

 

277/
the WH Division budget. ‘

SEES eR

 

 

es SSS

aw aS >
—o Probably Castro! s “attempt to export his revo-

lution reached its peak in 1962. The first Castro-
inspired guerrilla action in Latin America occurred
in March of that year, when Indians in the interior
of Peru attacked the towns of Huampani and Satipo.
A Lima Station penetration agent identified their

leader as Cuban-trained and reported that radios and

: weapons had been smuggled in from Cuba to start the

278/
attack.

At year's end the US Government planned to
assemble for the Organization of American States a
white paper on Cuban subversion in Latin America,
and in February 1963 WH Division chiefs of station
met in Panama to discuss their contributions with -
the DCI. From this meeting came a picture of Castro's

campaign of subversion.

reported that left-wing Peronists

were an attractive target for Cuba; police had cap-

 

tured a group of terrorists organized and directed
by John William Cooke, an ex-Peronist then in Cuba.

knew of 217 activists trained in Cuba within

nine months and was looking forward to debriefing

 

- 245 -

SECRET

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
SECRET

parent WH Division. In that_year total obligations

  
   
 

or almost

 

for Cuban oper
four times the spent in the rest of

Latin America. Except for Cuba 1961 was a repre-

sentative year, and these were the obligations for

 

 

Until the nearly 1,200 prisoners taken at the
Bay of Pigs could be ransomed with shipments of phar-
maceuticals, CIA regularly supported their dependents
in the United States. In the opinion of the General

Counsel, if a dependent had sued, courts would probably

have found that Cuban Brigade members were entitled to

the benefits of the Federal Employees' Compensation
Act. Thus by mid-1962 CIA was disbursing $311,500
per month to the dependents, plus bonuses and medical
care for invaders who managed to return. These ex-

penses, however, were paid from special funds outside

- 244 -

SECRET

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
perme
_ of assets commencing with a close per-
: sonal relationship between the station
= chief and the President of Mexico, high-
: level telephone taps, photographic sur-
‘ veillance, unilateral intelligence as-
sets and a broad scale of covert action
ca capabilities.

Within a week of the inspector's visit

 

 

 

was relieved as chief of station 1

ay in partly because of comments made by Ambas -

sador a former labor attache who had

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

not worked closely with CIA. cos, ‘

left WH Division (perhaps coincidentally)

a few months after the Inspector General had described

 

 

 

him thus:

The chief of station is a GS-18 who

i
has served in many different posts in
the Agency. He has been for
F

 

about five years. A wide gap in human ‘

relations exists between the chief of

station and his staff. He is coldly

aloof and is reputed to brook no dif- '
ference of opinion even on questions
of operational procedures. He is a
hard-driving administrator. His tal-
ents along this line are granted even
by the Ambassador, who bluntly dis-
credits his ability as an intelligence
officer. 275/

 

Although the separate Task Force W (TFW) was

not officially established until 8 March 1962, the

planning and execution of the Bay of Pigs operation

- 242 -

- | SECRET

 
 

SECRET

were for all practical purposes conducted indepen-
dently of WH Division and therefore are not covered
in this history. There was an informal but under-
stood shortcut in the chain of command; basic deci-
sions were made at the DDP, DCI, or Presidential
level. Although some of the key personnel were de-
tailed from WH Division, the Cuban Headquarters unit
was in another building and no one pretended that

J. C. King was running the show.

Jacob D. Esterline, a veteran WH Division
officer who later became deputy chief of the divi-
Sion, was chief of the Cuban unit during the buildup
and invasion attempt, and took his orders from the
DDP. When the Cuban unit was made officially autono-
mous as TFW and later as the Special Affairs Staff
(SAS), it was headed first by William K. Harvey and
then by Desmond FitzGerald, Bruce B. Cheever and
John L. Hart, none of whom had previous service in
WH Division. It was not until 1965 that the Cuban
unit really lost its autonomy and again came firmly
under WH Division.

Actual expenditures in FY 1961 illustrate

the disparity between Cuban operations and the

- 243 -

SECRET

 
 

SECRET

‘Latin American officers in Panama, and also supplied

material for the US Army Intelligence School to use
in training foreign students on Communism. Nine CIA

officers lectured at a Fort Holabird course for senior

 

Latin American officers in 1961, capping their presenta-

tion by producing a Soviet defector who spoke on the
267/ ;

+ RARE IR aetna oS

Soviet intelligence service.
scatter: AR cman

NITE sn

 

CIA maintained a station in Havana throughout
1960 but faced increasing operational difficulties--
some of CIA's own making. Probably the outstanding .
flap was the capture of three TSD technicians, caught
in the act of planting a microphone in the New China
News Agency office. An analysis of this operation,
made when the technicians were released 18 months later,
showed that they had ignored many of the basic rules
of tradecraft. On the other hand, the Cubans had given

268/
them only perfunctory interrogations. “5

In 1960 the Havana Station consisted of, |
| __Janies of station; Arthur Avignon, deputy;

about six case officers and as many secretaries. Life
was unpleasant; Castro agents shadowed American Em-
bassy personnel, monitored their telephone conversa-

tions, and tried to pump their children about what

- 233 -

 

RERGRIRIGR Ea

 

SECRET Vp

 
 

SECRET

CIA Internal Uae Only
Acceas Controlled by DDO

HISTORICAL STAFF

 

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

- WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION
| 1946 - 1965

DDO HP 324

 

. I
Py Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
i Directorate of Operations
December 1973

I. ) VoLume I

Copy No. 4: O/DDO -

| : Copy No. 1: WH
' SECRET

 
: i

 

 
 

SERERER RE SETEES

 

SECRET

daddy was doing. As relations between the United
States and Cuba deteriorated the station concentrated
on support for the Cuban invasion then being planned,
and on developing stay-behind assets. Frank Belsito
and later Ralph Seehafer were designated as "stay-

behind officers" and regularly reported on a dozen

or so agents and nets, a few of which survived the

station's closing.*

The break in-diplomatic relations with Cuba _
was predictable, and during the fall of 1960 Embassy
dependents were moving themselves and their house-
hold effects back to the United States. Avignon
made a special trip on the Havana-Key West ferry
to take out his personal car, Silverware, and a
$1,500 violin. Station files not absolutely essen-
tial were crated and shipped back to Headquarters,
Case officers were working 15-hour days, seven-day
weeks.

When the break came, the Embassy had three
days' notice that it would close on 4 January 1961.

The CIA station had just installed a new incinerator

 

* One stay-behind agent, AMFOX-1, was still report-

_ing in 1973 but WH Division believed he had been

doubled.
- 234 -

SECRET
 

 

PEEERTEEE EEE

 

SECRET

and managed to burn what files it could not ship to
Key West on the attache aircraft. When they were
not burning papers or smashing technical equipment,
case officers were caching radios or making advance
payments to agents left behind.

On 4 January station personnel met at the
Embassy, rode in convoy to the ferry, and sailed to
the States. A few, like William J. Murray, had main-
tained houses until the end and lost everything in

269/
them. *

This was the period when Fidel Castro, as yet
unrestrained by his more cautious and practical Soviet
advisors, was busily stirring up trouble in the
Western Hemisphere and popularizing the phrase
"exporting the revolution." A typical target was
Honduras, the poorest and most primitive country in
Central America. CIA's reaction was also typical
of the "nation-building" and "institution-building"
approach to countering subversion.

When Castro began his propaganda campaign in
* Two years later Congress authorized the Department
of State to reimburse its employees the depreciated

value of furnishings left in Cuba. Payments fell
far short of replacement costs.

- 235 -

SECRET

 

 

 
