74-00000

Hines oe hein Ie ON PS eee ealN he fee mis euevede we unes une

i

 

 

5.

“eighs inckes tall, having brown hair, at

 
     
  
   
     
  

ECRET
xO FOREIGN DISSE: :

 

drown mustache, -
and being obese. This same source in a fepart dated

4 July 1962, added the following” information: POSADA also
has jurisciction over Isla Nuheres' where (fau) MONES, an. -
gla tine G-2 member, is stationed. > POSADA weighs about

  

 

ean

180 pounds, has a white complexion, and: is very careless’
in his dress. .

A report from a usually reliable course aster 27 July 4962;:
stated that the Cuban Consul in Vera Cruz, Mexico,” te”

Jose Luis POSADA.

Information dated July 1962" revealed, the ‘following “Anfor tt ‘on
on Jose L. POSADA Torres: . Cot

Assigned to Vera Cruz in Decexber 1960, POSADA .
is reportedly also engaged in'’the distribution of — :
propaganda and ‘the supervision of * Caubar espionage’ :
“service in México. Ke has-been. ‘identified ‘by a source. ~

-of un sdeternined- reliability” Bs eit er a member of

the Communist Party or a party adh
‘to have been in contact. with General -Eeriberto Jara. - ;
Coroza, formes president of the Méxican Peace Movemerit;
a’ Comnunist-front: organization. POSADA. reportedly © . a.
spent two years training in Moscow. > ~ a

 

 

  

It was reported on 14 June 1963 that’ Jose Luis’ POSADA, ~~. ope
the Cuban Consul at Vera Cruz, Mexico, was departing a Tore
for Cuba on 28 June 1963.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
 

 

104-10185-10122

SECRET
xo -FORSIGN DISSEM

CENTRAL - INTELLIGENCE AGENCY -

4 crormettea eaccting-the Nationa: Defense of the Chin states whtnin the meaning of the Esplosace Rawa, Tite ™s
and Bik bg trabesilicion of tevelata-of wien In any manter to em uneuttoried person 1 pronibned By law css

  
     
   
 

 

   
 
   
  
  

 

 
     

coun OHDa JS Ot . REPORT NO.

. sussect Jose PosaDa Torres’ Se a DATE DISTR

€S CI~316/0CS5¢-64

+4 August 1934"

 

oy Noy Fages” 2
REFERENCES,
oe a  fensanto cis
ous or 1804 , -{°. Background Use Only”
- 4 _ Bo Not Reproduce

 
  

i
i
4

 

ot h9 Oe

  
 

 

“souRcEA former Cuban: 1s officer: who served with the cubed
oe Intelligence’ Service juntil- April. 1964.- : in

 

_isio HerORr. No.

  
 

 

   

Headquarters Comments:
— eee °

‘The following report is one of a . series containing personality
informatioa. provided by the source and includes supplemental

_inforzatioa from she records of this Agency |

It is requested that the addressees’ take no ‘action on any
of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports
without first checking with this Agency. ~

Jose POSADA Torres, pseudoayn “Calixto," is the Cuban
Consul at Tampico, Mexico, He 1s an officer of the Dirceeson
General de Inteligencia (Generali Directorate of Intelligence -
DGI). POSADA was originally, agszeged to Vera Cruz, but
was reassigned to Tampico, 3,459

Headeuarters Comments.

1. When the source of the above information was queried
concerning proof of POSADA's association with the DGI
anc the Cuban Intelligence Service, source said he had
n. documentary proof. However, he said he knew of
POSADA's affiliation from his own trip to Mexico, from
observations. at the DGI Headquarters, and fron general.

“shootalk,

2. A fairly reliable source in a report dated 20 June 1962
providec .ssitive identificatioa of Cuban G-2 agents
abroad. Included on the list for agents in Mexico was
one (int) POSADA, the Cuban Consul in Vera Cruz, POSADA
was described as having been born about 1936, five feet

= : sere
SECRET toetraue nom moment

NO FOREIGN DISSE soese ca

CINCSO # TENS

 

 

-CSCI~ eres
srt)

 

* i ; wa ni

 

   

 
