 

 

AEE FV ER Or at erent er RINE

2p aed rate Sean aes RRR eRe mm mpm parInS mame

eee

a

Seppe

‘Se saxt nigh), sien wt ths FUP * Cated eld kewied te Re ageatis
pepenion a feokage ef sinay er weddag a center ef 100 Seles frase
needs Lh wre bee soocklg Georrartvn chea b's emeachen hed plese
Cerrdeait adearenced that the 16 7of. of epics. repephed the wight
Befare veald be daLiwersds Pre agate eter acoder aeaticg with
Gabriollé wee bold ie the ane plage, Oe the next night in Si 5?
the agmt ent bid cage wen two Boodercn <0 came the agent
does wot reaclle The Sperdests tal4 the agest?s ecapanten that thoy
a34 aot mred anything hosange Uier odd bax a apply on bant,

be Aaconllag to Ue agents there are threes grome af dealers
4m nepeotice fn eentect wie te hiners twhassy at Berar (a) the
Preach grow at Lausanne, (b) the Ttalfan ,-oap st Gamera, and (Ww)
thé Spantal growp at Garsva, flsn, anearding te the ageat, the.
Pronch eal Bowish greepa eperate in South Pronce end gant their
aarectics to Anerdca via Hareeflis, The Yteltan group.aa fer as
pregibts deals in narevtica fn Italy and ales axports te the south
probably te hovth Afrita, The grew in Sadicrg apparently had
erperteread dtPetwiifes in thelr traffic act therefore at Jeans
for the prea’ have pat Crete voix anide,

So The agen’ ateted that he nat Gam at loatt 10 wood eet
Rened of epSare da the gellar ef the Cotnena Febaaay bul ld as
Kalshegqueg ia forme Ya oath rr a brexiiah ecopadt mee ©!
cpims wag exyrfear-d te abust 50 F,. per boa, shies bares have.
the game dimensions ng an L3-Liter eet on! seemire apont ICMR O
tt, Lack bur bad 9 rownt hele fn tha tes ant a st @rreut eaalle

Ta Dis optzttan the bares woa' bo Sroneyerte: by ose ria the Chinese
ry .

Stree te a gees! tare eh :
iL. also inforsed this Agmey that &
‘ Wad PRED ‘eettewt by a Pouceh catieral to dela.
ice in Large srouate Sie tha Caiasso

@ sing Alea Mbt roivieg 73!
Casmaiats te be amugled te tne ositeal states, The Lxeboargss
aia willingness ta fnllow tate uz £0 he ecnid have the

expregpol
direatioa ef the Anwrtsante\\ Tas [Laxenonerg willisg fhroaga
© pat pour rvpoenmalative os

ecetnct with the Laveourger fev whetersy wie pou may baat to Bare
hte,

ef

To alas infomwi tila Ageary thet
they are @ver thelr agrat te this Agucy for
Patare es Re activities nce ne longer of fesedfate
Snrevest te’ Comuraty. Altkesgs this sgwscy hes serhous

a

SECRET

 

i
i
i
Fi
i
1
|
{
§

Y/R
 

‘04: 40178-10072

..

 

 

| po@ally tafwwel kic that rauberg Serie lee mowctés (cpige,

os SECRET re
CENTRAL IN FELLIGENCE AGENCY |
WASHING TON 68. OG. .
Puy 199) RETURNTO cI
Background Use O ly

700 Canmfssioner af Sareotics . 7 Do Not Reproduc

Forty Depety Brester, Fis

GMT, TAtscae Conewmlet Garowth- detavity
in Xarops vo
. ZY
Shrougs B89 pacatioably wica ©
Seis Agensy B40 Learsad ef @ Tw é lee Wte (Rives ap
ssestie assinity dn Tarezs a¢ bee~. fs the Shivsee Copmaist
Pbeser te Rove, Oritenrlan’s Por pens teu oo besa, se
& Coubls agent fn seatast with pewerecl in toe Cnmmniat
fm Berm, Gusti) Paorusry 124), thon agent repected no eeatast ~-
WILLA nerwothe astivitys Ravewer, tr. Fiicwry be allegaily wea fafesned
by bie Cgeess eectecs thet hi sterile sould ye hei ling the Cleese
Commeriet sarvetic buslnwe fn Smo: “Be essing. ‘tp otolest gap

 

 

6st geaains vere mer ened) tradcd, 62 toe tr diat Clee, obo sapere,
Swateselea! baxiles traftie to the Fase Sart mad Uorth Africae

@e Ta Sha Rarely 1999, tht agrod acates Bit Ale G stands enctags .
frem tsa Sere Badaray, Roe erctaa be wee infeed dust be wuld be .
over the hanéifcg of Colerge Cuwucds¢ nareetds actdvivdes -
reletive te ons ring operating tn Press, ow 84 Italy, cot in pila,
gavt (he ses So Corwin. He woeld be tae esertasd non psivecn the-riag

lesdere em! the Sars Mabeeay, ani da cals sapecity he soaks kare. aa
Bdeswy eorvics at Cinlaatie sar ent m Lilagel wits we Cecndet
Service pastport at Ale dilesriale

ene eet tee eater Hite batbunbit ae hemes

2, Wile is Gritecrlad, te ageat clitsm to Mews bam teken

te @ terres coer te ralhrogd eration fr Loomante thors he at Teo a
Prehace mast Jam ed Fiore (abut $2.04 poarg oltl, we Eopee - a?
eathy weeo emecctad with the Pravk riage The cert wemdag the :
agent repertetiy ws inireiorsi at ts wage 58° 40 Gaoeva to @ ;
aortada Gxbeialidy vio aased foc LN el, ef? ontaa Irse the egeatie :
eonpanion (agesi"e extort ie Claws Corussiat Firat Saurvtary)s ~

The tpliostica wae left that Gabe$alls beesibe! to Ttaular Pings

SECRET

CK2

 
74-00000

ee

-je
> : ’
\ . \
revervations ebout the reliability of when avi bis story '
of Chincee Communist narectic activity, acthcugh this agency would
bot nomally be interested in takiny over the case, if your Srems has °
mfficient in the cave watter, thie Agency would be willing
7° to approach the arranging @ transfer of the agent to a Meld
agent of your .

@. An indlostion at your earliest convenience of your Dureauta
interest in this matter ax? advise as tu this Agmney’a course of.
aetion would be very auch eppreciated. _. -

 

 

CSI = 3/754,698

Distributions 5 May 1959
Orig and 1 - Addrosese Preparal bys
1 = RI/AN

 

 

se

 
