 

 

In summary, the Station Case Officers responsible for established FI
- and CI/CE progrems feel that LIENVOY has made a very necessary intelligence
‘support contribution. It should be noted that LIENVOY facilities during the
project year produced about three times the volume of raw audio take as that
produced by LIFEAT over the seme length of time at approximately one half the .
cost. This is possibly due to the Icentralized|tapping and transcribing facilities
of LIENVOY as ared with the widely scattered ones of LIFEAT. LIENVOY(as a 24
is able to tap any phone desired whereas LIFEAT, (as a 2Y
mast take greater security precautions. The Chief of
Station Mexico feels that the success of Station Mexico's operational program
ageinst the Cuban, Soviet and Soviet Satellite installations and personnel in
Mexico is largely attributable to the continuous and thorough coverage of these
targets provided by LIENVOY. COS recommends that. the project be renewed for
another year as an essential collection and support (operation for the Mexi.co ;
Station.

    
 
 

 

E. FPROSLEMS

. There have been no significant security, cover, control, ‘or Haison 1 probllens
during the project year.

ott blot Co ae -

 

 

 

F.

 

 

This Project continues to encompass

 

 

 

Some examples are:

a). iy ey 1964 ons met sentenhes to discuss Communist China and
| was told by (LETENSOR) thet H

 

 

 

 

Tr

a creas gos had several meetings with rma cls aurtng April 196% when .
(UTELEGANT vided information from GaTENs08) on Communist agitation ‘throughout
Mexico.

c). In August 1964 CURTIS so et with (athe discuss the
continuation of the LIENVOY Project.

a). In September 1964 CURTIS at the request of Chie, PRSWING, env to -

deliver an invitation to visit the home of GPLOGIC.-:-: ‘Several other neetings were. Steed

   

held between CURTIS’ and (LIRAHA) prior to this trip.

 

e). On 7 November 1964 Chester D. DAINOLD and :Cedric B, PAPATE accompanied
CURTIS to a meeting with where DAINOLD and PAPATE gave briefings on the
Cuban situation and on Latin America. Full details of these briefings were
reported to Headquarters in HMMA-24700 RYBAT dated 9 November 1964.

  

 
14-00000

 

£). On 9 December 1964 Garth) astea CURTIS for assistance
LIRAMA |
r 4

Headquarters KURIOT fulfilled this request |
: ° . ;

g). On 16 December 1964 CURTIS met with Gr8hMa) ana provided him with
information on Cuban Embassy activities and association with members of Mexican
universities, Personalities in the S.N.T.E. and pro-Cuban associations, Capture
of guerrillas, arms and documents in Guatemala, Chinese Communists in Mexico, and
Communist Activities in Chihuahua. Copies of information given to ) were
pouched to Headquarters. oo of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

G. INTER-AGENCY COORDINATION,

“ No formal coordination is required in ‘this Project. Chief, PBSWING, Mexico,
is the only ODYOKE official in Mexico Se TAMA who is aware of this project

end its provision for a Special briefings are cleared —
with PRSWING before representatives meet with i CURTIS advises Chief,

PRESWING of significant and pertinent subjects which are discussed in meetings
between CURTIS and(LIRAMA)

 

 

a
“H. PLANS.

fhe Station plans to continue the intercept°lprogram without change for the
next project year. As previously noted, (LIRAM} has asked that the project
continue without a change in personnel or in the manner of operation.

I. FUNDS.

1. For the past period.

The cost of the LIENVOY Project (paid by Mexico Station exclusive
of Headquarters costs) from 1 February 1964 through 30 June 1964 was
US $19,415.22 and from 1 July 1964. through 31 December 1964 $23, 677. 68
and for January 1965 $5,000.00 is estimated.

2. During the next project year. : |

During the period 1 February’ 1965 through 31 January 1966, an
estimated amount of US $47,468.00 will be required with US $19,010 to.
be spent from 1 February 1965 through 30 June 1965 and $28, ase. 00 to be
spent from 1 saly. 1965 through 3. January 1966. — vce a

         

  
14-00000

 

 

In June 1964 the SR Division. made. available personnel for temporary.
duty in Mexico to analyze and collate personality and background
data collected by LIENVOY but which had accumulated in Station
files on Soviet officials. These Soviet Personality Reports (SPR)

. Should be useful on a world-wide basis as Soviet officials are
transferred from post to post, in providing the KUBARK representative
with a summary of the Soviet's past work pattern, intelligence
activities as far as known, physical description, weaknesses, and
vulnerability toward recruitment by a Western service. Not. all but
a@ large percentage of this data’ is received from LIENVOY. :

3. Czech Embassy. ‘Two lines in the Chancery (45-30-91 and 45-30-12)
are covered by LIENVOY. Reels from these targets are delivered .
deily by AREHART to RIGGS who delivers them to the EE Case Officer
who arranges for transcription and translations to be done by David
B. SCHLAGHTER, field contract agent. This agent also prepares a
monthly summary of information on the activities of Czech officials
in Mexico. During September 1964} LIENVOY revealed important informa-
tion on the establishment of a factory equipped with Czech machinery
to produce dyes in Mexico (ANYL MEX). In addition to the significance
of this information in assessing Czech economic activities in Mexico,
there was operational benefit in dealing with BER, a Czech —
official on temporary duty in Mexico in connection with the opening
of this factory. .

4, Polish Enbassy. LIENVOY covers one line (11 25 49) in the main
Chancery which produces data on the activities of Polish officials
stationed in Mexico. The second line (25 82 38) is the private line
of Polish Commercial Counselor, Czeslaw SLOW. ,
Mexico Station has e definite operational interest uf
Reels (without transcripts) from these targets are delivered
daily AREHART to RIGGS who delivers them to the EE Case Officer
who arranges for translations and transcriptions to be done by Norma
Q. RYMINSKY, a contract employee.

 

5. Xugoslev Embassy. During part of the project : year LIEWOY a
covered two lines in this Bubassy. The lines were disconnected by
LIENVOY in April 1964 and transferred to LIFEAT,,, The reason for

this terminetion was to conceal interest in (OMPETAL, an(agent recruited).
as a result of a follow-up of a lead supplied through LIENVOY coverage.
During the time this target was covered, LIENVOY transcribers provided
transcriptions of the Spanish conversations. The reels were then :
delivered to Victor W. OBOLD, a career agent who provided translations.

l
.. .. .., $+, Commnist Chins’ News NCNA). On 18 December 1964 Willerd
won “C, CURTIS briefed =a presence “in: Mexico: of: representatives”

   

 

 

“ol ft ist China using. journalist ‘cover: ‘for an intelligence mission. -
egreed to install LIENVOY coverage of gs line
This will be a and 24

 

 

 

ae The Station hopes to use
e

this information to influence ie oor clare these persons persona -
non grata, LIFEAT has been taken off” ve this target. . oo

 

   
 

_Gelivered daily with the reels from which an outside. translator -.

 

 

. : i . -
15 6055 Soviet Consulate and Chancery. This line is used by
‘fifteen (15) known or suspect KGB officers. It is also
used by foreigners in Mexico attempting to make contact with»
the Soviets. When contacts suggest clandestine meetings, the
Station arranges for unilateral surveillance and has had :
some success in identifying contacts.

15 61 55 Soviet Chancery. ‘This line is used primarily by the Ambassador
and provides more: information on protocol contacts than leads
of intelligence interest. However, it gives the Station a
picture of the personalities being cultivated by Soviet
diplomats and of Mexicans ‘ who are seeking contacts with the
Soviets. j :

15 61 O7 Soviet Comercial. Office. pour (4) known « or , muspact ‘ORY ;

; officers use this:number. They are Military intelligence
officers using Commercial Office cover and in some instances
actually perform commercial functions of trade negotiations
but the volume of trade between Mexico and the USSR does
not justify a Commercial Office staff of eight (8) Soviets.
This produces some information useful to check on double .
agent operations run by the Station against the GRU officers.
In addition, the LIENVOY product usually identifies the
GRU officers as escorts for trade, sclentific, commercial,
and tourist delegations who now are constantly on trips ;
from the USSR to Mexico. LIENVOY also provides details of .
the itineraries of these groups once they arrive in Mexico.

15 le 64 Soviet Films Office. This leads into the residence and
office of Vladimir Petrovich OBRUBOV, a suspect GRU officer,
who distributes Soviet Commercial Films in Mexico. There
have been several calls from what appear to be Central
Americans but the Station has not been successful in identify-
ing the callers or determining the nature of the calls.

15 69 87 Soviet Military Attache. This is the least productive of
the coverage simply because the Soviet Military officers
either won't answer the telephone or spend very little time
where it rings. Nevertheless, U.S. AWOL servicemen try
this number to make contact. There are three GRU colonels

_ end six (6) civilian GRU officers who use this line.

The Soviet information is transcribed by the LIENVOY transcribers in
the same way as the Cuban traffic except that the transcripts are

 

(Douglas J, FEINGLASS) transcribes the Russian conversations into.
English. These Russian conversations are of considerable value and
it is apparent that the Soviets are not aware that these conversations
are being overheard and understood. There have been conversations ..
identifying code room personnel; one conversation between two Soviet
children revealed the entire layout of the Soviet Commercial Office;
personality clashes and grievances are also aired.

 
14-00000

 

 

 

 

 

(| O£ the targets listed above, 15 were covered simltaneously depending —~.
apon (-Sinterest in the individual at the time; however, lines to all the
above run into the intercept center and can be connected as machines become | -
avellable when other lines are out of order or disconnected for one reason or
another, : i .

: -
The reels from the above targets are not ‘pranscribea completely, BEY a
monitors extract significant conversations and include them in the
the original of which is read daily by (LERAMA)and a copy of which is aettvebea
daily to the Mexico Station. The reels are retained usually for ten for

fuller transcripts if 5 x by
the Mexico Station. [fis typed in four copies at the end of each
day (covering couversatl: which occurred that day).; On the following morning

by by 0800 hours, one copy 1s hand=carried by Y¥-2 to LIRAMA,) At the same tine,
Arnold F, AREHART delivers a copy to Robert RIGGS for delivery to Willard C.
CURTIS, A third copy is delivered to (LTELEGANT by LIENVOY-2) The fourth copy is
retained in a chronological file in the intercept center, aol .

 

 

 

(b) KUBARK Targets, The Mexico Station cr/cE requirement is partially
fulfilled by LIENVOY which during the past project year covered the telephone
lines of the Cuban Embassy, Soviet Embassy, Czech Embassy, Polish Embassy, Yugoslav
Embassy, and made preliminary installation for the Commmist Chinese News Agency
(NCNA). ‘There follows selected significant examples of the LIENVOY product from
each of these targets with a Station appraisal of its effectiveness.

1. Cuban Embassy. The six. ‘ines covered are:

ws he 37

25 07 95

1413 26 The Chancery :

2509 14 The Commercial Office
11 28.47 The Consulate

25 OT TT Elena Vasquez Gomez

The Anbassedor" 8s private telephone

3

95 The Chancery |
2

1

The Chancery and Consulate Lines regularly taentity foreigners in
Mexico who contact the Cuban Embassy. Expeditious processing. of

_ the transcripts frequently. permits the, Station to. arrange for _
willateral survefTlence: an® identification of other~ contacts. ~ The:
Commercial Office coverage provides information on Cuben Commercial
activities in Mexico and identification of firms dealing with Cuba.

 

The Elena Vasquez Gomez ‘target has been of interest in connection
with the AMROD operation, The AMROD Headquarters Case Officer, Thomas .

 
14-00000

to.
|
i
1

 

 

- G. URQUHART (ps), presently. in Mexico on temporary duty has ©
provided the Station with the following evaluation of the LIENVOY
product: "The LIENVOY production on the Cuban Enbassy traffic in
Mexico City has been one of, the basic elements contributing to the
success of the AMROD operation, directed against the CUIS for CA
purposes. The LIENVOY operation has been of value. in two general
senses: a, The documentary material derived from the texts has
formed some of the basis for reconstruction of historical facts
needed for the operation. b.. The day to day coverage has enabled ~
the case officer on the AMROD operation to sense the climate inside
the target, to keep track of the movements of key opposition personnel,
to check on the bona fides of certain egents, to check the work of
others for veracity end to live monitor portions of the reactions
to the AMROD operation itself. Being able to keep track of the
shifts and movements of the: opposition and their personal relations
has been of vital importance to this operation. On two occasions
the AMROD Case Officer also used the LIENVOY base as his command —.
post when engineering personal contacts between a KUBARK staffer |
end the opposition, This type of close support did much to determine
the success of those meetings and contributed greatly to the success
of the operation. These transcripts provide one of the best sounding
boards for the AMROD operation and are regularly : forwarded to me at
Headquarters,"

The six lines above are “fully transcribed by LIENVOY transcribers
and delivered by AREHART to RIGGS each morning. Lengthy conversa-
tions sometimes require an additional day for transcription. A
carbon copy is pouched weekly to Headquarters for WH/SA use. The
original is retained by the Mexico Station. A third copy is retained
in the intercept center chronological files?\ A does not read
these transcripts unless some significant item appedrs in the

which causes him to ask for a fuller transcript or | listen
to e tape. .

The coverage of this target also yields &@ good picture of daily
activities, residences, personal habits and weaknesses of Cuban
official personnel in Mexico. This is used by Station Case Officers
in selection of targets for recruitment and in checking on activities
of agents already recruited and either working for or in contact

-with Enbassy officials.
2, Soviet. Enbessy. The Soviet Government. has ‘over + titty officials
permanently stationed in Mexico (the largest foreign embassy except -
a. .... for the U.S. ). . Toirty-four of these Soviets (almost. TO percent of
- “the staff) are-lmown or suspect intelligence officers, Phe-five”
lines under LIENVOY provide details on the activities of most of"
these Soviets. The lines are: — -

  

   
 

 

   

 

  

 

The tap unit provides
direct support necessary to cover targets and operational programs levied on the
Mexico Station via the RMD as well as spot requests from Headquarters and other
Stations. This Project alao produces positive intelligence,

 

 

B. CHANGES :
(1) Operational Mechanism A:

i LIENVOY Project ; was? lreated 4 in late(1958. and put into operation in
earty (1955). at the request of(LITENSOR) who appointed ANT as bis special 7!, aed
assistent\ to work with Willard C. CURTIS in the supervision and administration of
the project. In mid-1964 it became evident that would replace LITENSOR) in® 4

cember 1964. (LIRAMA was then LITEMPO-2 and a with
Willard C, CURTIS under the LITEMPO | a bn
1S/LIELEGANT/LITENSOR relationship in Project LIENVOY.) On 10 August 19
O1Ol (LITEMPO-2))asked CURTIS and IELECAND for a soctingl reported to Head-

quarters in MEXT-0521 dated 10 August 1964). Vat this meeting. advised that
ol (LITENSOR) had briefed him on the LIENVOY Project in detail and that it should be 5!
continued with the same personnel and manner of operation. °l CTELEGANT) and Ym
ave been given nominal positions which provide cover for daily reports to LIRAMA|
3 c are also being provided for Staff Agent Arnold F. AREHART
and, the local agents working in the LP.” ‘Gzgana) has requested that the LP remain
in its present location and has provid lor the inside of the front
doorway which prohibits entry to anyone! zu

 

 

 

 

 

(2) Agents

During the last project year there have been no changes in the agent
personnel. For the information of reviewing officials there is enclosed ‘as
Attachment-1, a chart listing current LIENVOY targets as well as functions of
LIENVOY agents. Arnold F. AREHART, StaffiAgent, has been responsible for mainten- .
ance of the technical equipment for the past five years. His work continues to
be outstanding and accounts for the fact that after almost six years' use, the
equipment is in good working order and has sustained a minimum of loss through
negligent breakage or theft (both very common in Mexico), There has been no major

. . mechanical breakdown since. AREHART has been supervising the maintenance of the

 

Ce. INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION

While telephone tap operations are - commonly classified as “support operations",
the LIENVOY Project by nature of some of its targets, has produced considerable

 

 

  
 

141005240208]. ws w.

 

 

 

 

1
!
i
4
1
|
|
|
t
"PROJECT: LIENVOY = | CASE OFFICER:
t

 

STATION: Mexico Clty :

Willard C, CURTIS

 

| , CHOU T

am ' eget

 

setae

  

SA fan Ar

aly

ay hams “Avig) S047 | LSD earn “pe £e: 6 - ile,

 

  
 

 

 

"exclusively for KUBARK, The remaining targets’ are selected“ by (LTRAMA) but’ are
‘ usually of interest to KUBARK as sources of positive intelligence. The (Mexican)

 

positive intelligence. It has been reviewed both at Headquarters and in the
Mexico Station as one of the most productive telephone tap Projects in KUBARK
of both FI and CL/cE information.

(1) FI information. From 1 February, 1964 through 31. December 1964, this
project was the source of 240 positive reports. The general subject categories
within which these reports fall.as related to objectives of the most recent RMD
(HMMS-3190 dated 21 October 1963) are:

Priority A. 1, 2, 3,° and Priority B 1, 2, ana Ay
Cuban Embassy Activities in Mexico . _
Soviet Embassy Activities in Mexico . - 24

 

 

 

 

Communist Party of Mexico (PCM) Activities in Mexico

Commnist Front Activities (Movimiento Liberacton Nacional - MLN) in
Mexico

Activities of Communist, Leftist, by
figures) {

Activities of Communist China representatives in exLco

 

 

(2) CI/cE information. In addition to the general subject categories of
FI interest, the LIENVOY Project fulfills a standing requirement to provide
CI/CE data on the following selected targets: Cuban Embassy ~ six lines; Soviet
Embassy = five lines; Czech Embassy - two lines; Polish Evbassy = 2 lines;
Yugoslav Embassy - two lines (disconnected in April 1964); and the Commnist
Chinese News Agency (NCNA) = one line (being installed as of January 1965).

D. EFFECTIVENESS

 

(1) From 1 February 1964 through December 1964 (eleven months) the LIENVOY
Project covered a total of 30 (thirty) targets simultaneously which provided
7,462 reels of raw take, This was processed into 21,564 pages of transcripts
(of this amount actual count by LIENVOY processors was 17,064 pages, an estimate
by the outside Czech translator was 1,500 pages, Russian translator 2,000 pages,
and Polish translator 1,000). Enclosed as Attachment-2 is a copy of the work
load log and list of targets which Arnold F, AREHART provides the Station on a
monthly basis. This log, of course, includes only the work done inside the LP
and variance of monthly figures is accounted for by additional work done v other
Station trenslators, = ,

! Py

(2) (a) (Nexicas) targets. Of the 30 ‘lines covered, 45 of oben are always

targets covered during the past project year were:

 

  

 
 
