 

 

concern that since Pawiley had been such @ staunch supporter of
the Agency and of any Govermmental activities regardless of
party lines, he might net be the preper man to use as a cutout.

. Please see that this item ig placed on next week's Special Group

($412) agenda and that Mr. McGene has formulated his views.

5. Financial euppert for the Institute for Political Education
in Gas Jose, Costa Rica, wae approved without comment.

6. The minutes of the 15 August meeting were approved and
I informed them that the sidewinder miesile for the defenaive
armament far GROSBEAK aircraft had already been compromieed
se there wae ne problem there..

7. The only diecussion on the covert action program tn fuaty
for FY '64 was Me. Bundy's comment that for the firet time the
President had not queationed the magnitude of the expenditures.

8. Mz. Cheever reported on the twe approved sabotage
sperations and Jehnsen questioned whether the leaving behind af
equipment might be a form of subversion. Cheever assured him

‘that lota of peeple leave behind equipment, particularly when they

are getting shat at and he did not think there waa a. security problem
here.

9. The Greup agreed that the Agency should prepare a memo
or @ report as te what reactions es to type, magnitude, and timing
we might expect from Castro ag these sabotage operations continue.
There wae some thought that he might make seme covert moves to
embarrass us in Guantanamo, perhaps in cannection with our water
supply. Please have such a memorandum prepared.

10. The meeting broke up in goed order;

 

Marehell 5. Carter
Lieutenant General, USA
Acting Director
Original - DCE 1 - DDGI | v | peocutice rector 1- ER

1 - DD/SsT =DD/P 1+ DD/E 1 + CA/SGO
 

AO410310-10010)

a
e
’

i

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Special Group (5412) Meeting, Situation Reom at the
White House, 29 August 1963, 1430

1. In attendance were Mr. MeGeorge Bundy, Mr. Gilpatric,
Mz. Alexis Johnsen, Mr. Tom Parrott and, for appropriate items,
Celenel Steakley of JRC and Mr. Bruce Cheever of CIA.

2. The monthly reconnaissance forecasts for both NRO and
DOD were approved in teto, although Secretary Johnson withheld

. replenishing the Lacs bank (since we still have a credit of one)
until he had been briefed by Lundabl ae to just how effective this
photography was. He appears to have some doubt that we are getting
anything that's worthwhile.

3. On the problem of negotiations for an Indian base it was

the consensus that we should aot approach Sarit at the present time

: fer use of Takhli unless there were overriding intelligence require-
ments approved by USIB at the next meeting. Gipatric showed me
& memorandum from General Carroll urging that we get the photes
and after the meeting I noted a somewhat less enthusiastic urging
fvem Sheldon. While the Special Group did not aeem to be enthusi-
astic about making the flights, they agreed to withheld judgment
pending a USIB reaction from the mesting next Thursday. Please
have it placed en the agenda for discussion. -

4 There was same discussion on the support of autonomous
anti-Castro groupe and some concern ag to what reactions we
might expect from Castre. Mr. Bundy asked that thie item be held
ever fer the meeting next week at which time he would want to
ebtain Mr. McCone's views since Mr. McCone had stated that he
wanted te take another look at the matter. The Group (particularly
Johnsen) did net seem to be enthusiastic about using a British-owned
island without telling the British. There were warm remarke made
about Mr. Pawley's capabilities although Bundy expressed some

 
