 

@)

(5)
(6)

teva

 

: cs /55 853

1176) the MRP bad a good civilian ant military organizations
the arrest. af Hyinol Gonzalez, the national eo-crdinater, the
all the mebers 41 the province sought asylum.

to reorganize the movement. There are still
fran the 26 af ily Mevenont, but they have to

PRP, Wot) or tebe:
ber lavely after
Joeal cometinater ani alscet
The new co-criinatar ia trying
enough :ren cf action, coming .
reeestabLish contactde

Rescate: Kkeccete has no mexbers in this areas, :
DRE. Tho DRE ws completely broken by the wmguccossul uprising of Alberto Muller
» provincial co“udinater, The DEB

end ty the arrest in October of *%) Fiere®
still bas great prestige in the area, ani there are many vho wuld follow its

directions
be Farthern Ortunte Province
(2) MRR. the MER is practically non-existent in northern Oriente Province,
with the exception of a few personal contacts of Hino Dias.

(2) MOC. Tho WC ts poorly organized ani inactive.

(3) 30 de Noviesbre. 3% has a mediocre organization, fsw mambers, and 4s
inactive. .

Qs) MRP. Even before the dedscle cf Cotobor the MRP had a very poor
organization in this area. Fito dons3 (*Risardo"), the co-ordinator,
wag arrested in the roundup at that tine, but escaped ani took amyl
in tho Ecuadorean Exbassy. Hla successor acd the military ani civilian

persomel are relatively capable.
(S) Roscate. It dose not exist in this area.
(6) DWE. It does not exist in this arene
a .

&. Camaguey Province.

cee A = . .

(1) PRR. at the beginning of April 1961 Caballero (fra), the co-aiinator,
whoso nicknamo ins "Zl Viejo®, was arrested ani conemed’ to 30 years
om the Isle of Pines. Arango (frm), who was nased co-ordinator in
August, hag been forced to geek asylum in Habana. Ths novenont has

been iestroynd» ; :

(2) WoC. The MOC has an excellent co-crdinator, Blanco (fru), wo is
reeonsiblo, discreet, with good counsctions. The MOC has & vory good
eiviltan organization amd at ‘present is concerned sbout its military
orgarization, for which they already have sous personnel. They, work
effectively and are trying to carry out some military antLons o-

@) 30 do Noviesbre. ‘The civilian organization is relatively goods It has
: @ small but effective military furce. - oe :

(i) MRP. * Caraguey Is practically the only province in which the MAP wis not

affected by the arrests of October. It has a good oivilian organisation

. and military forces of importance, which are under the casiand of former
officers of the Rebel Arvy. Arquinides Ceballero (ateban"), its

former co-ordinator, took asylum in the Brazilian Exbassy3 *Ricanio®, ~~

his replacement, ia very young (21 years ol4) but is considered very good.

(S) Raseate. It has @ poor organisetion. There are gnough men, but they
are inactive. : ° ° ’

(6) | ‘D&e, Few nombers of the DRE remain, and *etponco® and Rafael Angol Quevedo,
its directors, are known by G-2. The movement has been dastroyed.

SECRET
ROPORN/COUTINUED CONTROL

 
 

(04-10171-10075]

 

 

CENTRAL, INTELLIG ENCE AGENCY

Ths eeveriel orotwins tntormeuce Bferlicg Us Naurea: Defense of tbe Uaiied Aiaces within whe manning of the Rorianage Lave Tue
1k CBO. Bere 7a end "WHA the Wanauians o rerwsiia of Ghub Mo S07 Meioe w as ERaUtbaried perms w probitited by We.

ed .
; ee eee | [HE pets?
CEPorn foot a COMPROL te

mroRT NO. CS -3/505;853

 

ao UNTIV = ~Cubs

 

suMecT = Status af the Anti-Castro Movement  . -OATE DISTR. «=. 29 March 1962
/ In Cuba, December 1961 oan :
; ; NO. PAGES G&S
foo : SEFERENCES RD W-2107
are of ein ee :

   

INFO. 20 Decexber 1962

MACE& Argentina, Buenos Aires (18 Samaary 1962 52): : ws
DATE Aca. HELD REPORT NO.

THIS (3 ~UNEVALUATED inroemanom souNcd Seabees AST DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 19 TinTATIVE

 

 

1. Anti-castro activities in Cuba include those of the nation-wide organised
movemonts and those of local frente where intependent guerrillas are grouped
in small unite. The penetration of the Cuban armed forces is insignificant.

 

2. he national movements which have been active in Cuba are: ‘the Koviniento de
Recuperscion Revolucionaria (Mm), Movimiento Dasocrata.Cristiano (MIC),
Moviciento Revolucionario 30 de Keviambre, Movimiento Revolucionario del
Pueblo. (MRP) Rescate Revolucionario, and Directario Revolucionario |
Estutiantsl (DRR). Other groups with ‘Limited ‘organizations are the Unidad
Revoluclonaria 2d the ska. (favciaeiion. de atigoa “de Aureliano Sanches
wen Arango). The strength of the groups by province is as follow:

8. Southern Oriente Province (Santiago de Ctba)

(2) MRR. ‘The MRR, af Nino Dias, has members from tha ranks of the
26 of July Movement and, especially, fron the former regular Arsy._
Its civilian organization is poor, almost non-existent... The nen

. Wenain inactive, waiting for 4 a 2 serious military | sotion ef a local
or national character. ; RETURN TO CIA .
Background Use Only

(2) MOC. The MOC has an adequate eivilien organisations. froa the
founding af tha soverent Santiago de Cuba has been ons af its Do Not Reproduce
strongholds. . The military organization is extremely poor. Many
of its leaders have gone into exile or are trying to do so. .

They remain totally inactive in hope of an invasion whioh will resolve
‘the situation, and only concern thomelves about a future political
life, at the tins when the present government falls. ..

G) 30 de Noviembre, There are fev sexbers of the 30 de Noviexbre in
Santiago de Cuba, ani they lack contact with thoir national leaders.

They have practically no resources.

S-ECo2£-F i
NOPGRN/CONTINGED CONTROL

 
