13-00000

oy

7 , Sy

SUBJECT : Review of Agency Holdings Regarding Photograph of
Unidentified Individual in the Warren Commission
Report

"REFERENCE: Memorandum from David W. Belin to E. Henry Knoche,

dated 15 April 1975

1. In accordance with reference request, we have examined

‘and summarized the record concerning a cropped photograph that was

considered by the Warren Commission in the course of its investi-
gation. The photograph (together with others of the same

individual) originated from an intelligence operation conducted

“in October 1963. The photograph is of an individual who to this

day remains unidentified. Intelligence did not ‘provide a photo-

graph of Lee Harvey’ Oswald — ‘during his brief stay in Mexico city,

that ‘rionth.

2.. Under the extraordinary press of effort to develop infor-

_mation on the assassin and the assassination, copies of the photo-

_ graph were made available by CIA's Mexico representative on the

afternoon of. 22 November to the local FBI representative, Later
that day, assertedly on. the decision of the Ambassador, copies

were conveyed by an FBI representative on a special U. S. Naval

“Attache flight to the Dallas office of the FBI for possible use

in the ongoing investigation. - One photograph, cropped by the -
FBI, was. shown to Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD (Lee Harvey OSWALD's
mother). in Dallas on the evening of 23 November 1963 by an FBI
agent.

3. The Warren Commission's report describes the sequence of

events that ultimately resulted in Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD's
13-00000

os oo C
allegation that she had been shown a cropped photo of Jack RUBY
the day before he murdered her son. A further complication
compounding this erroneous conclusion was the fact that, when
she had been shown a copy of the same photograph in her appearance
before the Commission, it had been cropped by the FBI in Washing-
ton in -a slightly different manner.

4. Although in no way ‘related to. Lee Harvey OSWALD or his
stay in Mexicd City from the morning of 27 September 1963 to the

3. morning of 2 October 1963, at least one set of photographs of the
unidentified man originated. during OSWALD's stay there. It is
important, therefore, to an understanding of.the acquisition and
handling of the photographs by the CIA's Mexico representative

' to review what he ascertained and did with the information
developed | about OSWALD in Mexico City, together with CIA Head-
quarters ‘action on that. information.

5. From all credible evidence known to this time (none,
incidentally, added since the exhaustive work of the Warren Con-
mission), Lee Harvey OSWALD spent four (4) full days and two (2)
partial days -- about 116 hours in all -- in Mexicd City Fron

- about 10:00 a.m. 27 September 1963 to about 8:30 a.m. 2 October
1963. His place of residence was a small commercial traveler
hotel, not frequented by "gringos" -- the Hotel Commercio -- where
he. was registered under alias. Exhaustive and detailed interviews
and interrogation by the Mexican authorities and the FBI after the
assassination established that, in the recollection of all hotel

personnel, he left and returned late each day of his stay.
13-00000

 

be ed /

{

a fF SE

"Pp. S. Photographs dated 15 October 1963 were
inserted after typing of dispatch. These were
taken as [the] person enteredfan} Embassy."

18. The "Unidentified Individual" remains to this day
unidentified. There is still no credible evidence, as far as
CIA is aware, that the individual in the photograph had any
connection with Lee Harvey OSWALD or the assassination of

President Kennedy.
13-00000

 

“15. On 22 November 1963 the Mexico Station cabled Head-
quarters at 2229Z time after learning of the arrest of Lee H.
OSWALD, age 24, possibly in connection with the assassination,

and referenced its earlier messages of 8-9 and 15 October and
Headquarters’ reply of 10 October. The Station requested by:
: “priority pouch a photo of OSWALD so that Station
‘can check all recent coverage for OSWALD. Forward-
ing soonest copies of only visitor on 1 October who
i _ could be identical with OSWALD."
) 16. This obviously was for comparison at the Station
which had estimated the age of the unidentified male whose
photograph it had selected as having the "apparent age of 35.'"
' : 47... The Station meanwhile had begun an exhaustive and
accelerated review of all its technical and photographic intel-
ligence. A dispatch was prepared in accordance with the:
indication given in the cable of 22 November. The dispatch
_ noted that photo coverage of the unidentified individual had
turned up on 4 and 15 October. The text of the 22 November 1963
pouched dispatch read: |
"1. Attached are copies of the only photographs
obtained, . .on 1 October 1963 which appeared to be
an American. This same man visited {an] Embassy on
.4 October 1963,
"2. Copies of these photographs were shown to the
U. S. Ambassador on 22 November 1963 and a copy of
each of the two photographs was given to Chief FBI,.

_ Mexico, on that date. ...
13-00000

me SEE)

Le ‘

 

9, It must be stressed that what technical information. the
Station had was not (and normally is not) processed in “real
‘time. The means of acquisition and the volume of the infor-
mation preclude anything. but the spot reporting of items judged
to be of more than ordinary interest and, therefore, noted in
summary logs. Full texts of selected items require consultation
of the tape and either a full transcription or full translation
or both. Photo coverage tends to become available in quantity
lots which requires scanning and selection on a rapid and
accelerated basis in four or five day "peaks." One of the
"triggers" that normally operates to focus and accelerate more
speedy review and reporting of this kind of raw intelligence is
the mention of a name. This was precisely what occurred in the
second of two conversations on 1 October, during which the
speaker said he was "Lee OSWALD." It was this information.
reported by the Station to Headquarters in its first indication
on OSWALD on 8 October 1963.

10. The Mexico Station did one more thing in its 8 October
report on Lee OSWALD based on the 1 October information: it
coupled the data with descriptive information it had acquired
from a sensitive source -- a photograph of a male individual,
apparently an American, who was observed entering an Embassy
on 1 October. The Station reported this detail on the 8th as
amatter of coincident fact. The Station did not assert or
suggest that the data led to any deduction that the photo was in

fact OSWALD or, indeed, was in any way related to OSWALD.
13-00000

a [ge

11. One additional element of background must be
stipulated now as the final precondition to understanding the
relevance (or irrelevance) of the photo of the unknown |
individual placed in the chain of evidence on 23 November in
Dallas by the FBI agent: what was the totality of CIA Mexico's
coverage of OSWALD's activity as of the afternoon of the 23rd
when all available coverage had been checked?

12. The totality of Mexico Station coverage on or reasonably

inferable to be OSWALD consisted of five (5) voice intercepts.

ee

Each of these items, including the text of the raw intercepts,
were read by, discussed with, and examined by Warren Commission
staffers, in Headquarters and at the Mexico Station during a stay
a from 8-13 April 1964, All-were made available promptly to
the FBI.
13. At about mid-day on 1 October, the camera registered
the entry into an Embassy of a white-shirted individual. In the
opinion of the Station, among all the persons photographed that
‘day, he appeared to be the only non-Latin and possibly American
who entered. On the chance that there could be an association
between the identification data derived. from the voice inter-
cept and the descriptive data derived from the photograph, the
Station reported the two elements as separate facts in its cable
to Headquarters on 8 October.
14. The Station's action was not unusual and really amounted
to an analytic "quantum leap," in terms of the primitive status
; of the OSWALD identification. Many examples of a similar kind of

thing can be found in the day-to-day record of Station-Headquarters.

J
13-00000

12 May 1975

SUBJECT : Review of Agency Holdings Regarding Photograph of
Unidentified Individual in the Warren Commission
Report se

REFERENCE: Memorandum from David W. Belin to E. Henry Knoche,
dated 15 April 1975

1. In accordance with reference request, we have examined
and summarized the record concerning a cropped photograph that was
considered by the Warren Commission in the course of its investi-
gation. The photograph (together with others of the same

individual) originated from an intelligence operation conducted

 

in October 1963 by the CIA and the Mexican security authorities:

 

2. Under the extraordinary press of effort to develop infor-

‘

mation on the assassin and the assassination, copies of the photo-

graph were made available by CIA's Mexico Station Chief on the
afternoon of 22 November to the local FBI representative. Later ~
that day, assertedly on the decision of the Ambassador, copies
were conveyed by an FBI representative on a special U. S. Naval

Attache flight to the Dallas office of the FBI for possible use

‘in the ongoing investigation. One photograph, cropped by the

FBI, was shown to Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD (Lee Harvey OSWALD's

mother) in Dallas on the evening of 23 November 1963 by an FBI
agent. . . ;

3. The Warren Commission's report: describes the sequence of
events that ultimately resulted in Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD’ s
allegation that she had been shown a cropped photo of Jack RUBY

the day before he murdered her son. A further complication

 
104-10428-10173

 

 

 

ade -  eseeeit Sirstuig . eB Agency we bg ltl
| Orstce or THE Dinecron | L_-
'
Mr. David W. Belin . - LB RAY ag75

Executive Director ~
Commission on CIA Activities
. Within the United States

Dear Mr. Belin:

Tam attaching, per your request of 15 April,
background materials relating to certain questions
relating ts Oswald and the Warren Commission.

: Tab Ais a classified Secret memorandum
rasponsive to your request. Tab B is an unclassi-
1ied version, . which you can use as you see fit

_in whatever report you are preparing on the subject.

Additional details are available in the Office
of the Inspector General should you wish to pursue
. this in greater depth. .

, Faithfully yours, .
Lettlrets—
‘BE. H. Knoche oy
Assistant to the Director -,

Attachment: a/s ; , =

 

‘uxnéchewrh: 15/18/73. a
Nistribution: _ re

rig - Mr. Belin: what
- oGc «wo/att . -
_-IG 0°. wo/att

_ - Knoche Chrorio. wo/att ,

- "Comm Correspondence wo/att

De Belin Letter Request 15 April. w/att . .
t - Warren Commission Bary
, ) : "3 .
. \. : . : . . ae fi

 

by
13-00000

 

compounding this erroneous conclusion was the fact that, when

' she had been shown a copy of the same photograph in her appearance

before the Commission, it had been cropped by the FBI in Washing-

“ton in a slightly different manner.

4. Although in no way related to Lee Harvey OSWALD or his
stay in Mexico City from the morning of 27 September 1963 to the
morning of 2 October 1963, at least one set of photographs of the
unidentified man originated during OSWALD's. stay there. It is
important, therefore, to an understanding of the acquisition and
handling of the photographs by the Mexico Station to review what.
the Station ascertained and did with the information it developed
about OSWALD in Mexico City, together with Headquarters action on
that information. —

S. From all credible evidence known to this time (none,
incidentally, added since the exhaustive work of the Warren Com-
mission), Lee Harvey OSWALD spent four. (4) full days and two (2)
partial days -- about 116 hours in all -- in Mexico City from about
10:00 a.m. 27 September 1963 to about 8:30 a.m. 2 October 1963.
His place of residence was a small commercial traveler hotel, not
frequented by “gringos" -- the Hotel Commercio -- where he was
registered under alias. Exhaustive and detailed interviews and
interrogation by the Mexican authorities and the FBI after the
assassination established that, in the recollection of all hotel
personnel, he left and returned late each day of his stay.

6. Allowing for the fact of late arrival and early departure,
and assuming that he slept one-third of the time of his stay

(38 or 39 hours), there remain some 78 hours of activity to be
13-00000

‘we

Ko Segre ;

X. Wo.

accounted for. Overall, CIA's information can account only for
very brief periods during 28, 29 September and 1 October. All
coverage by CIA during the entire period was technical. The
Station had no live’ source (living agent) coverage.

7. It should be noted that OSWALD was in no sense "under
investigation." None of the facts of his defection and stay in
the USSR and return to the U. S., 1959 -- 1962, were known to the
Mexico. Station or in its files before 10 October 1963. On that
date, the bare bones of his biography were forwarded by Head-
quarters in response to a Station cabled report of 8 October
which had forwarded, on a routine basis, what appeared to be a
contact by an American for a visa to Cuba in transit to the USSR.
This was indicated and deduced from technically acquired infor-
mation on 1 October, which was the first and only occasion on that
visit in which OSWALD was recorded as identifying himself ,
(partially) by true name.

8. At no time during his stay in Mexico City did the CIA
acquire a photo of OSWALD. “A careful review of all coverage -- -
technical as well.as .photographic -- was conducted by the Station
on, 22 and. 23 November 1963 after the assassination, including
materials back to August 1963. This confirmed that there was no
CIA photo coverage of OSWALD at any time during his Mexico trip
or stay in Mexico City. Moreover, although it had made a cabled
request: on 15 October, the Mexico Station had no photo of OSWALD
in its records, nor did it receive one from Headquarters -- which

did not have one either.-- before 22 November 1963.
