    
   

 

PAMLEY's lowg sarviee in the U.S; goverment and tnore position
gemtified cenfidence iu bin. Se'far ae wag aenre, he be-
Adawed. thet. de gave no cause far Br PARREZ te Lets} bim ed thar fer,

  

SEE = fer VE ane alr we hme er ,
mnye of Palliat * cee ee ee wo :

 

 

 

 
 

 
   

 

v . Be The resent diffiealty with tha Govurama of the
. Dexinicen Seguilis has sot terminated the usefulness ef .. So
It nas impaired bis officiel liste a relstians bub on

‘Ree Go the extend of requiring bis removal ob tmis fins . .
which the Doulnisan Governmess ia apparently trying te -

Sate; 4
paren.” Jets

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
74-0000

 

         

te hie country, emeing the Sonimiags Government te geestden wheather
tha presences in the Dowinicm Repsblie ef STEPEEMS exnd[ wa, dew
sirable. The Poreig Rinisier farther trfarued ths smbassadar t hatin
S08 cme * er CarUeNay eet | AY phate Ma ae te a end 5, 3,08 eo. : Ree eas « oleae ness: eas. DBS Bare:
BSFsonps po ae but if Shey paretsted ta‘ their wttiitedes of ®hee
+Liy* he would be -ccapelled to make furthar representations in the
oremises.

 

 

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 diaptitehss to
. diomted that.be did not: ‘share tha views of the Foreign Minister. .
. The dispatches, however, reveal. the extent to" whieh the Desdisloan

 
   
  

 

   
 

Bitexpt hy.
Dominisan Repablisia Intelid gence Serviaee & year
_8@0_ aml since the disappeareace of Jesus Hariz da GALI «as
alleged Baoqoe Intelligence agent, & narind coalnees ine developed
ia Liaison relaticna with ths Dasiniearze. Hevapaper and ;
ane repertg in the United States on tle palitica) stmoephare ‘4s.
the Dominican Zepublia (such ag those shows iz the atieskmazis) and
on. the syste rence of 2.0.3. citisen, Gezald MUSPE,
teuplad wi: participation in thab case, appesr further to...

 
 

 

  
   
   
 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

   

creet-ag alloyed, the falloving officers o

 

  
 

 

 
      
 
 
 
 
   
     

omrd ue STx7iS, Senced Secretary for Boonande Affadz
Commauder Ralph ¢ EeCGK, PeSq Haval, Attaging

       

18 ' These offiesrs withost qmeptien epem highly
of his.integrity, loyalty, cooperation and beoniery rend Thay Fated - Z
thet he wes energyiie, be Ind extensive contacts and saivesa, oad he
maintained a wide coverage of the local scons. Zoro of ths ona
interviewed recallad any imeideat which would indiaste that fs
was indiserest. Several effisera mutica ‘not | ag da ise
Ceasanh talior end that he bes emnoyed seople with sosulagly Ina
henatable aecowate of ‘Batary ead goaded sclesocas Cte orey | of

 
 

[roa-t0139-10024). .

 

 

    
         
    

© 25. Jabraary 1957, Hr, Willian PALEY, forusr 0.3."

", Dassador to-Brasil, in sonvarsation with the Directer had stated
“La-peart, thet _ WBS Sceek basybody end an oxtremsly. 2
ecocaited: boy. ..he wente to be in the alddile of evurytiing end ke
40 ewerybedy inthe world...ha is elsays trying to wilk mm

  

 

   
  

   

 

  

eg a
Axbessador PYSIFFER! a ecryersation with Tergi sn

« In addition to Mr. PANIZY's statemsat, the FH Diviaian has.
copies of Zabasay dispatches. He. h6l and 145 of 9 end 11 Pobruery |
1957- entitled, "The MURPHY and de la KAZA cassa* which report Am |
basssdor W.T. PHBIFYER's conversatim with tre Dosim oan Reyodliots: ee
Foreign Ministar, HERRERA.. Ths Foreign Minister, in conversation at et
with the Anbassador, tad informilly complained of the "disrespat and.
impadence™ of U.S. Charge a! Affnira, Richard H, STEPHENS and tha = J °
alleged "inmuendses" of Kr. questiqning the veracity of official
Dominican statemanta poartaiming tothe dasth of a Doxtatcan astional,

de la MiZa..: From his conversation with the Forstga Minister, the .. |
Ambassador reported that the Foreig Minister vent on te eay thet we
the attitudes of STEPERYS wad | Sndssated they harbored hostility —

    

    

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

  

    
BggaNaASo.

 

 

 

CSTEESS. wh aasaddy aid de coas

he, Us conversations with|

 

yt.
_ associates. -Thay- felt tnt in
Dentuisangs be wae discreet.

ile. The dubasceder wis perhiedlarly high tm hia praise of
stated that[ | wea en agset te the Exbasay and that

he (the Axbassedor) really usei( le a Special Assistes3 in

both social and, efficial fumghiaes. Es staten thet “4f Alisa --
DULLES gave me the piek ef his shop, I wold choose Heuer! i

 

 

 

 

: of Ambas e 95 rs fed enutns ne terse
13+ Pollaming the above ixterriewy the Azhassedar

 

 
 

 

   
   
  

 

informed that all of his officers bed stated tiat| | appesred to
be toe secretive in act revealiag his ssarces of infomation, Tha -
Anoaegader Qemmerted thet he blame? ded wre nae hee: nated, TREE OE:
setwsde cocusiond, Jor ROUSE SAtANED. oxy oeEeEade-: Be Gd this withe
Sat empertationwef Jaamdiug the

 

 
     
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ceminicang for business reasume Yoo ef these. frequently mantiicaad
uring the Goarss af this inquiry wore a ry. Bebors GEXIET a
a Zormer Foreiga Service affisar, and Er. Willien PEE, a former
U.30 dmbasendor, — - 39 partioulezig smere of the latiar’s elace. -
sees te Genaral TRIVILLO. Rated teh bo bed diewusend with |.
PAMLEE on ® member si eseasions sums ef the implications af reve> an
intiomg ja latin Aceries, Tade was. dere peecame believed thet .

   

 

   

 
