14-00000

 

BD. should bo examined together with ail the other
available reports so that we may

(1) clarify our own objectives and wishes with
ose to all the ANLASH group (and this includes
AMWHIP

(2) sort out which people, if any, are worth our
time in the future;

(3) take eppropriate measures, including inter-
rogation and polygraphing, to clarify doubts and
then, when necessary, terminate those who are
working for us but are not worthwhile;

(4) tighten up our own operational and security
procedures in connection with the AMLASH group.

 

3. ean Analysis: As pointed out in a preliminary
analysis 0: c ex, made in March 1965 when I was
proparing for travel to in connection with the QUHOPS-1
case: "...There is no convincing evidence that the group is

working either for or against the regixe of Fidel CASTRO.
Reports om their contacts with us and their discussions among
themselves are at variance. In 1962 Fidel CASTRO, reportedly
knowing that they were plotting against him, talked to AMLASH-1
and seven members of his group to enlist their support against
Anibal KSCALANTE Dellunde and the communists in Cuba. Possibly
they are playing both ends against the middle. They certainly .
have been and are in contact with the two ends." The following
conwments are keyed to matters raised by ESPINOSA:

A. The AMLASH conspiracy - As detailed by[ _/3716
(IN 28634) on 6 April 1965, QUSPORT-1 reporting on a meeting

of the AMLASH group, including AMWHIP-1 mentioned the following

significant points:

(1) KUBARK was criticized for "fooling around tor
years” without helping and for jeopardizing the operation;

: (2) the group was to be prepared to denounce
ODYORER as responsible if the operation fails and believed that
the resulting scandal would make the EBay of Pigs seem insigni-
ficant; and id

(3) AMLASH-3 was in touch with Cuban Intelligence
as established by ceded messages which he exhibited.

 

As reported by[ +1532 (IN 82939) on 4 June_1965, based on
meetings with ESPINOSA, the problem seen by [jis that

 
 

    

ah

GofRE ey

 

 

 
 

104-10054-10018

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WHD for Cuba
SUBJECT ; Espinosa Allegations

1. Sensitivity: Regardless of accuracy, they

A. present a problem because of their haying been
presented to other government agencies;

B. in view of matters touching on U.S. security,

are delicate and could have unfavorable repercussions -
Af repeated to newsmen by the complainant or his

associates (whose independent, previous threats were

of greater potential embarrassment);

Cc. affect the reputations and the security of our
personnel at and

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. Action: in view of the foregoing, the allegations

_A, should be put im proper perspective - i.e., not
ignored because of the potential embarrassment but —
considered in the light of what we already know {. .
(Almost all of them are repetitions of previous
charges and reports, known well to both the
dates ee | RE stations and to Headquarters officers. .=:.-
: ' concerned with the AMLASH group, whose members‘
reliability, reputations and good faith are guestion~-
able. Two of the charges - about and "Tota"
and about AMWHIP-1 and CARRILLO - are new.);

 

 

 

 

 

 

B. should be treated so as to protect us against any

charge of laxity and so as to establish the facts but,

at the same time, treated so as to avoid attributing
we to them more importance than they deserve;

Cc. should be kept in mind as examples of other ce
charges which may belandied about and reported by the
AMLASH group to other governmental agencies or to

other governments or to news media (In the last
connection recall the implied threat of publishing
ODYOKE responsibility, as reported previously by
BT IN 38634. ;

- & Ss aay
SECRET

 

OS 2360
seragris

 

“the AMLASH circle is wide and each new friend of whom we learn
seems to have knowledge of the plan." I believe that the
‘problem is a more serious and bagic one. As indicated in
paragraph 3 of the present memorandum, Fidel CASTRO himselz
reportedly knew as far back as 1962 that the group was plotting
against him and, knowing it, enlisted ite support. Hence ve —
cannot rule out the possibility of provocation. Assassination,
obviously, is a dangerous game, not merely to the plotters in
@ physical sense, but to a sponsoring government which may
suffer severs political repercussions at home and abroad if ite
involvement is made known. in the instant case, the risks of
exposure of the ODYOKE hand would appear high, whether there is
& provocation or not. Considering the individuais who are

involved directly, their contacta with KUBARK officers,and their

reported plan to expose ODYOKE, persisting in the plan could

-be highly embarrassing to KUBARK. (This is cven more the case

now that ESPINOSA has talked to ODENVY and ODURGE, althcugh
fortunately the tenor of his complaint was that KUBARK had not
given adequate support to the plan.)

: . The contacts at and the matters affecting
veel Beaton. ~ The "recruitment’ of Maureen had been the
subj an exchange of cables between and Headquarters
and of discussions at Headquarters between * and WE (See
("+1871 (CIN 66557) and DIR-10955). The annoying thing in
this connection now is that ESPINOSA has talked about it to
ODENVY and ODURGE and the danger that, if he is indiscrest,

 

 

 

 

 

_ his story avout this (and the other matters) could reach sone

curious newspaperman. (In this connection, it appears that the
questionable decision to put Maureen in touch with the AMLASH
group was made without the knowledge of STOCKVOOD. ESPINOSA
did not report any criticism of the KUBARKers at bat it
is evident that the AMLASH group knows more about am than

we might wish, What ig new and of concern from ESPINOSA about
matters in is his story of AMWHIP.1 and UNSNAFU-19
deslings. @ questions raised about AMWHIP-1 are of mutual
concern also to Headquarters which has been running him and
which he has visited often. (Om the occasion of my

 

 

 

; areviohe trip to on the QUHOPS-1 case, GHOWERY had voiced

 

bis doubts about @ whole group and specifically about AMWHIP-1
and his connection with UNSNAFU-19.) At issue are two basic
points, the knowledge on the part of UNSNAFU-19 about EUBARK's
connection with AMVHIP-13 and the charge that AMVHIP-1 has been
defrauding KURARK in the jewelry transaction. Also to be kept
in mind is the fact that ODENVY has an office in which
well might have been informed of the allegations and Which might
have been asked for comments - although ODENYY policy always
has been to stay away from any investigation of other government
agencies unless specifically directed by the Attorney General
to ilavestigate.

 

 

 
 

notified KUBANK at New York that AMLASH-2 had telephoned

‘to obtain PRO information and to obtain clarification of the

|
|
|

 

 

Cc, Criticism of the Station - Criticism of
the Station by the AM group is not new. AMLASH~2
and were in and wanted direct contact, but the
Station has had reservations about seeing them. The Station has
been involved indirectly because of reporting by its sources
about and involvement of Station targets with both the AMLASH .
and AMWORLD operations (both led from Headquarters).
(See[ +-2982 (IN 72256) and -2998 (1N 73094) (both RYBAT)..). ......
Meetings among QUSPORT, QUSWIYT-1, AMWHIP-~1 and AMLASH figures .
conflicting reports which previously. were discussed at
and at Headquarters. Insofar as GROWERY himself is
concerned, Lt must be kept in mind that he is a natural target
on whom the AMLASH group would be inclined to focus its com-
plaints. With xregard to the specific complaint about "Tota",
GROWERY has identified her as QUSWIFT-7 and hag reported that
no staifer from the Station ever had contact with her.

 

   

 

4. Further involvement of ESPINOSA: On 10 June ODERVY —

ESPINOSA to ask whether he had sueceeded in contacting “the
proper people" - i.e., responsible KRUBARK representatives -~- and
to request notice of the resulting arrangements.

5. AWMWHIP-1: Our plan calls for meeting him next week

roles played by those involved with him in the AMLASH operation.
Hig dealings vith UNSNAYU-19 alse will be covered. Following
this, an LCFLUTTER examination is planned. This may help to
determine whether he has been truthful in his reporting.

Harold ¥. Swenson
WH/C/SP
