74-0000

‘UNITED STATES DEPARTMEAT UF suUd.tiuH
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

fe WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535 -

 

In Reply, Please Refer ta
FileNo.  - .,
an o oe Coe nos January 5, 1968

DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES
INTERVENTSON IN VIETNAM .

i

et The Communist Party and other organizations are
oo + continuing their efforts to force the United States to
- Change its present policy toward Vietnam, -There is, set

“.  £orth below a summary of current and planned future activity.

through whith ‘they hope to accomplish this end,
Jeannette Rankin Brigade

: : It was previously reported that the Jeannette
Rankin Brigade, a nationwide group of women who are opposed
to the war in Vietnam, will sponsor a demonstration in
Washington, D. Ce, on January 15, 1968, abo petition Congress

to end the war in Vietnan, yap - a

A source who Has“furnished reliable information in|

the past has advised that the nembers of the Brigade from

San Francisco. had tentatively. chartered a plane to transport

its members to this deménstration, These plans have been

canceled as the San Francisco group was unable to obtain

enough individuals to attend the demonstration to justify a
¢ ‘chartered, flight. :

wo LR tee eeeee HT
‘Ciena, Druckman’.and Hazel Grossman, ‘both residents

of the Sai Francisco’area and wao aave been identified as

Communist Party members in the past, have made arrangements -

to participate in this demonstration. » ‘Vivian Hallinan, also

a resident of the San Francisco arey and.Executive™ ‘Secretary |

of the Brigade, Will participate in/ the demonstration.
/ ference Hallinan, the gon of ViviaA Hallinan who is a menber
“of the Communist Party, Northern Agtrict of California,
; stated in October, 1962, that his/mother would be willing to
“2. Join the Communist Party if her husband would also join,

Le

REVIEWED BY FBIAFK TASK FORCE CONFIDENTIAL

ON : . Group 1
_.... Exeluded from automatic
* RELEA ; a downgrading and
SE IN FULL declassification

” RELEASE IN PART

a TOTAL DENIAL (ie)

 

 

 

 
hog t0t25-A0t88]-.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2097 0G
74-0000

   

eM Lidia ais

__ 7 mesonsrsani0%s PROTESTING UNITED STATES te
NTERVENTION IN VIETNAM an y

This source further stated that. the demonstrators
would present a petition to the Speaker of the House of
Representatives. and request that he present the petition to
.the House of Representatives as the first order of business
when the Congress reconvenes, :

Mrs (/ Nandy’. Ss. Dendergract} /the Atlanta, Georgia,

coordinator for’the-Brigddé;“has advised that the Brigade ;
will hold a workshop on the evening of January 15, 1968, in
Washington, D. C., at which time they will make plans for
the next day's activities which will include contact of
their Cangressmen,

pone gretita, King >the wife of, Reverend Martin

wuther Kink “I rsqg-and~a~national sponsor of“the Brigade;
™is” ‘expected “to join Jeannette Rankin as part of a 50-woman
national delegation to attend the. opening day of Congress. .

a
ao, “y . . ; . y

st.
sa.

A San Antonio Natitnal-Security Seminar is
scheduled to be held at Trinity University, San Antonio, | ;
Texas, between January 8-19, 1968, conducted by the : y
Industrial College of ‘the Armed Forces, Washington, D. C, soe ,
Military sponsors for the Seminar’ are the Fourth Air Force
Reserve Region, Fourth United States Army, and the Fighth
* Naval District. Governox John Connally of Texas is
scheduled to give the keynote speech at the opening day ‘of:
~- the Seminar. ;

Other Demonstrations

   
 
 

——.
ittee-to-Stop..the,] War, in
«<virétnan, at ‘a*meeting” held Décember 28, 1967, agreed “to
~~—-picket-the Seminar on a daily Basis to voice opposition

to present United States policy in Vietnam, Pickets will

not demonstrate on University property for fear of arrest’

but will conduct their demonstrations near the University.

 

i ie

The San Antonio Committee to Stop the War in
Vietnam is a group in opposition to United States ‘Policy in
Vietnam,

CONFIDENTIAL
La Qa

 
a Lee > CONFIDENTIAL

Coes DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES oo
* .. INTERVENTION IN VIETNAM

On January 3, 1968, approximately 40 individuals

gathered in front of the United States Courthouse, Foley

' Square, New York, New York, carrying signs and placards
protesting the war in Vietnam and announcing “April 3--
the next day of draft card turn-in." The demonstration
was sponsored by; The Resistance, a group which opposes the
draft. During the demonstration, several participants _
burned papers which were alleged to be Selective Service ©
documents. |..." .

  

 

one may ee ty, .

. CC ieonara Brody, ia member of thd R starice and ao"
_spokegman_ ‘for the group, announced that thedenonStration
. Was held in support of Alan Haifley who he sthted was going
’ on trial in Denver, Colorado, . for refusing induction into
the armed forces.

- On January 3; 1968, 10. youths demonstrated in H

front of the Federal Courts ‘Buildingy: Minneapolis, Minnesota. . . |
This group carried placards reading ‘End the Draft" and

"We Support Alan Haifley.' - During .the demonstration, two

. “Ot the participants entered the building and presented

~ Assistant United States Attorney J, Earl Cudd with a statement
which supported Haifkey. One of the signers of this document

/ Was: Frank Verrall, _Jr., Who before his resignation in | o
‘1 March, “1967; "was a member of the District Board, Hinnesota— ;
‘Dakotas District, Communist Party, USA. . ; .

 

CONFIDENTIAL — Oo A:
me Bim oe Cet

 
