14-0000

   

a0 ~ “ 3
A
t
wd |
4 Proposed address for receipt of incoming s/u . pot
4 Ernestina ACOSTA's address at 25th and H :
{

ae Proposed address for receipt of outgoing sw re coi re : obs a
The address in Paris of the parents-in-law of UNSNAFU/9

| Our friend will normally write to UNSNAFU/9 at the office of the

H latter; when he sends a letter to the address of the parents-in-law, i

t UNSNAFU/@ knows that it chould be delivered to KUBARK, normally i

via UNSNAFU/5. Ll

_ NOTEs Our friend clearly needs a review on how to prepare an S/W messages so

 

  
      

ee anarotanes

Ia Dae SRE tee MeN Mane

 
  
   
     
  

 

=

  

 

” Hey sssren

 

  

 

 

   

an
‘
2

 

 

F

6. Maj Enrique Borbonet Gomez, deputy to Maj Fernandes

ne hai Chief. of Training Rebel Army and
‘aa “Soug Pern: Fernandez Alvares hinself

, “ee “Paure Chonan, vcdtayilla, Mintater of Commmications
fr

P-A}LASH/1 opinicn on: ae Soo, ;

Rene Rodrigues de los Santos
Oscar Pernandes Mel ; ; '
Jose Ponce Diaz

“hres

  

 

siolenemrgteon vermin snag
Ne

a
t
ad

 
 

 

 

 

ro

 
 

: Proposed address for delivery of s/w material
Va - Residence of Ernestina ("Ene") ACOSTA

   

Located at top floor, modern apartment buildin: at corner off

streets in Havana. See sketche i

 

Friend said that it is a “casa de huespedées"# "Ene" thus is one of
several young women who live in the apartment. Everybody is "de
confianza" according to our friend but he doesn't seem to know the
names of the other inhabitants and cannot say whether or nct there
are any other apartments on the["]floore He, does not know whether
or not there is an elevators

he telephone at the apartment id ____] Anyone may answer, including
FEne*

The address is al ff the Univ. of Havana.

‘Ene® is a pharmacists

 

" Proposed time of delivery of S/W material
During the first two weeks of January. ,

Proposed method of delivery. . ?
. 5
Person to deliver (or obviously someone working with that person) calls

preferably about 0800 hours, and asks for "Ene", The

conversation should then go approximately as followss
our per: SLlamo a gaber si conseguistes la medicina - :
evil’ ante i088) Lanna or

 

para mama.”

(*Ene® (af conditions are right for delivery)
. . #54, pasa por qqui para entregartela.®
(iff conditions are not right for delivery)
@No, no la tengo todavis. Vuelve a llamar eoccccoe™

If the answer is affirmative, our person goes immediately to the buildings

It seems best that our person gO to the apartment where "Ene" is and for

her to be waiting there at the door. An alternative, which can be

‘hi. established by the person telephi , can be to make delivery in the i
’ entrance to the building. However, that entrance is visible clearly 4

from the streeto

On delivering the S/W material, our person simply hands the envelope :
(preferably one with the name of a medical lab or the medical faculty) :

“to “Bne"e

 

 

 

 

    
   

  

 

 

 

 
 

    
 
 

 

SNR eee

4 d. Capt. Juan Nuiry Sanchez who is a close friend and
ean influence stand of Capt. Felipe Guerra Matos.

} Once coup appears successful, AMLASH/1 feels the following officers
will fall in line:

i a. Gmdte. Juan Alm@djia Bosque . ” . eis gla
po b. Cmdte, Faure Chomon Mediavilla (must check :
! Chomon thoroughly to determine extent and depth
|
1
i
i

 

of his ideological feelings toward Marxism, AMLASH/1 :
is not completely sure of him at this point).
¢c. Gustavo Arcos Berghes, Amb. to Belgium.
d. Enrique Rodriguez- Loech&,” “AmB. to. Morocco
e. Cmdte. Antonio Castell ; :
Although it has never been confirmed to AMLASH/1 that KUBARK is uo ;
in contact with AMTRUNK/10, AMLASH/1 again mentioned as he had Do
several times in the past mantdened his concern for the security 3 ot
of EMTRUNK/10, and his feeling if AMICE/14 continueg to contact - oy be a
hinfineide Cuba we rtin the risk of losing him. :
4. AMLASH/1 asked for the following items to be included in ! ‘
! a cache inside Cuba: 20 hand grenades, 2 2 high power rifles j a i :

with scopes and approximately 20 lbs. C C-4 and related equipment. i |

| AMLASH/1 suggested best place for cache was finea managed by : i
AMTRUNK/1O.
. 5. Since he was returning via Prague AMLASH/1 did not - 3

. . désire to carry any incriminating material with him, In order to
ep provide him time to establish his normal pattern once he returned
to Havana, it was agreed his S/W material would not be sent to

 

i a
' him until sometime between 5-15 January 1964, AMLASH/1 suggested |
i and C/O agreed he should not engage in any activity which may : ;

draw suspicion to him for at least a month. During December he i i

7 - planned attending the various anniversary functions coming due
during this month and again speaking in Santa Clara as he has done
each year in the past on the anniversary date of the battle of .
Santa Clara. He also felt this would give him an opportunity to
check the pulse of his friends in that city. Don Roberto (Bob Owen)
arranged the attached plan for the S/W delivery which if needed j as

 

 

 
  

 

 

onrecnmmanstaiana steatieesisioiaNgia slab RSs eRe DE al 2S Sindee deat he “Olt hs du EE

Ss bern BT ert Ce ut ee ah Te Ey de

 
 

 

104 0205-10227 Bes

 

 

1 er se ae

ae . 25 November 1963

CONTACT REPORT:

PERSONS PRESENT: AMLASH/1, Matthew H, ONTRICH, (alias

Nicholas Sansen) feof

TIME & PLACE: 22 November 1963, Charlie Gray's Apt.,

Paris, France

1. AMLASH/1 planned return,and held reservations on Cubana
from Prague to Havana on 28 November 1963. He planned depart Paris
on 25 or 27 November for Prague on Czech Airlines but still did
not have reservations. He was asked to inform Mr. Roberto (Bob
Owen) when reservations confirmed, . :

2. AMLASH/1 stated he was returning to Cuba fully determined

pleased to read a copy of President Kennedy's 18 November speech

to pursue his plans to initiate a coup against AMTHUG, Subject was \

in Miami and was even more pleased to hear that Mr. Clark (DAINOLD)
had helped prepare the President's speech. ONTRICH reiterated

the assurances given by DAINOLD of full U.S. support if a real
coup against the AMTHUG regime is successful.
3. AMLASH/L continued to insist that as long as AMTHUG is

around the number of individuals knowledgeable of a coup against
the regime must be kept to an absolute minimum. The individuals in
whom AMLASH/1 has the most confidence and whom he believes can be

trusted in the initial Stages of the operation if it is necessary
fo cut other individuals in are:

a.
b,

AMLASH/1 feels that once AMTHUG is removed, the following officers
can be counted on to Support the coup:

a.
b.
c.

Capt. Fausto Lopez Miranda

PRGA Beta tha hint

Cmdte. Efigenio Amajeiras Delgado

AMTRUNK/10

Jose Naranjo Morales, Mayor of Havana.

Jose Assef, former sub-Sec. Ministry of Interior and
presently Assistant to Naranjo, Municipality of Havana, |

Cmdte. Raul Diaz-Arguelles Garcia
Nieves Brothers

 

 

Sp Rig Rte ha NO hai sheeted?

LTO camer inet pe

a ee Cae ee

 

  

 
 

 

eu nun nconen es serine ee OH

 

 

 

 

 

ean still be used, but CSTRTG

 

rrenged the follor .
sing the delivery does aot desire
mab contact with Nesting ACISTA.

ess for delivery of S/o material # £6638
time ard cates of delivery the serc,

   

   
 
 

 

. b. Alternate hod of delivery:
“A letter containing the 4/s acteric:l is
mailbox in the build

mailbor, the pevson

 
 
 
 

giving the name "Luis", i
for her mother over to Fer, "Ya te sonde la cedicina pera tu
mama", The envelope should preferably have on it the nese
of a medical lab. and the S/W pille should be
envelope, also containing the name of the med
(One in Mexico is fine}.
The letter to "Ene" should simply state "enclosed is
the medicine you requested I get for you, signed "Luis".
Letters signed "Luis" will be written on the S/W carbon,
and indicate resupply of 3/x materiel.
Letters sisned "Tepe" will contain en S/N message,
ANLASH/L hesitated when asked if he was sure there were mail-
boxes in the buildins, but then answered he was sure there were,
If by any chance there are no mailboxes in the building, the
indivicuel making delivery should sisply call "Ene" and tell her
he has the medicine for her and tell her where to pick lt up.
: _€. AMLASH/1's Ops thinking appeared much less fogsy than before.
He is now also including in his planning the necessity fer taking
over the Havana radio station in the early stages in order to broad-
cast his appeal for support.
7. “hen coming out of the meeting the C/O and AMLASH/1 were
informed of the assassination of President Kennedy. ANLASH/1 was

   

 

      

visibly moved over the news. He asked the question "why do such things

happen to good people?"
Ln AMLASH/1 was given $250.00 for personal expenses. |

 

 

   

 

'
i
|

 

Goan tan neem ce

 

 

 
 

     

1, Coumunications problen and training: ao ;
AMLASH sensitive this point but believe” he will see need 20d, rapid
como if we to provide support he needs, :
Bost wolution to comme problem would ber.
& Give AMIASH two weeks of intensive CORO. training on RANE | so that.
he will be knowledgeable enough to train hig ox’ comme operator inside PBRUMEN.
(We realize AMLASH personally will not maintain a saticiectory comme link, therefore, :
we feel best solution {s for him to tind. a trusted person to do it for him. Best
poustbility appears to be his foraer secretary whom he claims to trust. )
b, AMLASH already trained in S/W but wrote only two letters in one year,
One letter was never received, Extra carbong and developer pills are in brom . 4 5
envelope in safe marked "AMLASII/1 SW Carbons and Pills." {AMLASH/1 may also be |
able to train the above radio communicator and use her or him as case may be to

" wpite his S/W messages.) : : | 7
|

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

0, Xf and when the training can be given a trainer will come to do
the Job. oe . , : a
2. If the opportunity presents itself it would be helpful to have more
of the following information before cur final period of briefings and discussions
with AMLASI/1:
‘a, Info on individuals who close friends and AMLASH may use in his i
operation, such as: |
1, Maj Raul Diaz-Arguelles Garcia
2. Maj Antonio Cestelis . : |
apt Pauste Lopez Miranda re j
Capt Juan Nutry Sanches : i |
Maj Efigenio Ameijeiras Delgado

 
 
 
 
 
 
  

b. How can the following reyortedly anti-Communist officers be used:
: 2, Maj Juan Almedia Bosque
oo" 2, Capt Felipe Guerra Mategy who 1s now Chief of the Milite and
reportedly & Glose friend of Jéan Ruiry chez * :
Maj Pedro Miret Prietofieneral Staff, Chief of artillery
- Haj Jose Que¥edo, director de le escuela superior del ejéreite
Capt Manuel Carbonell Duque, direoter officer's school Matanzas

 

Semin sei neat ent Oat a Re Ba Ee Ta A RUD We

 

   
