 

tt : . , . ; ; ge

. . loge have never discussed about people Ercan
Mantea,

   
    
  
  
 

 

 

ol Because © we had no idea how to contact then,

) Yes, and also, because this was supposed to be a small meeting, ?
) Now it's sualler than small.

) Yes. :

There is a possibilit to have ; a representative of the austria Centre
P y

 

 

“So :'8 B's

Vrpanizations of Trade Unions, I have friends from Austria and L think ....

 

   
   
  
  
   
  
    
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
 

De adeaeebdeeecheeeseesetseceeedl nd" exchange several comment s--co:
a 0554 - -od )leaves for Parliament, : A. 7 - |

ae “ob eee (something about Hungaty, DDR). +4 why do you resist every idea i

. yg Nos but this has to be. agreed upon if they send you. I have never ev

a imagined. that somebody would be available froa Austria,

 

Coe em arescaccaseccsesavaseass

4 For instance, here you mention HAROLD (or Hal or Al??) GIBBONS (ph),
cst ernational Teamsters-- As far as 7 “know, this is JIM HOFFA's trade union.

ce, “i A real gangster trade union. a an
. ob I don't think so, 0s ee Oo
~ . ol Well, it is. Haven't you seen that film *On the Waterfront"? it's ai

_ | up with the Mafia. |

 

 

“9 No, they are very decent people. oo / . . : *
2 Perhaps ‘this, HAROLD G2 BBONS (ph)--al though I think Tve seen that nane

7 somewhere and not on our side--because. this is the most gangsteric trade unic

in the U.S. — aa

. Ob I like gangsters. (Back ‘and for on this. Then on a more serious lc
j etting fed up with hearing that wants, {_ pexade unionist to

send out personal inviations to this Prep Meeting.)

 

 

 

 

 

06 CURTIS HCLEAN,

 

_ob Well, anybody fro the ILWU (International Longshorenen's 4,4 Warehous.

"Union, although your Big BORIS (AVERYANOV) didn't believe for a minute that

somebody fron there would cone.

But here CURTIS MCLEAN, did he participate in the Sixth Conference?

 

 

Yes,
ob Why didn't he come for the special ....--eeeceuccoecee?
ob Because your Big BORIS said that this is exactly the trade union--their

peopie--who are building the ships for Vietnan and if the war stops they will
be unemployed end “SE | IN im period said nothing about Indochina.
. iat

 
   

104 10073-10109] 2

 

See yo eee.
7" PROCESSING ACTION,

Forwarded. herewith are transcribed portions of : @LARVA &
78

 

      

 

Internal Distribution

2 - CI/SO 3
cS Chron

Ac (TNA

: a 7
1- chief, Efsc).

 

  
  
 

   
 

  

C

OFFKE SYMBOL Te . A <
Pitk Schilling

C/E/SC

    
  

Fou saggy

fw 53 use previous eviion.

ap
