   
  
  

Assassination Records Review
600 E Street NW « 2nd Floor « Washington, D 3
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-

 

   

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO °.

    

Barry Harrelso DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR
if 5 RELEASE OF GIA INFORMATION
Historical Review Group IeTie Po es

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

‘Washington, D.C. 20505

Re: Status of Assassination Records Review Board Requests to CIA for
: Additional Information and Records

‘am writing to memorialize our conversation of October 1 regarding the status of
Assassination Records Review Board requests for information and records from the
CIA.

We discussed the following formal requests:

   

CIA4 (Organization materials)

CIA has niade records available to the Review Board. The Review Board _
staff will continue its review and make recommendations to the Board »
and will request further information, if necessary, from CIA. CIA needs to.
do nothing further at this time.

~ CIA-2-5 Complete -

 

CIA-6 (Cables and dispatches)

_ CIA originally informed the Review Board staff that these materials could
be made available by December, 1995. CIA now agrees to make the
records available (or to have a response) by the first of November, 1996.

CIA-7 (Histories)
Mexico City. CIA has shown the Mexico City history to Gunn. CIA will -
compile the portion of the history that was shown to G. Robert Blakey,

7 Boaan Memsers: John R. Tunheim, Chair « Henry F. Graff » Kermit L. Hall « William L. Joyce * Anna K. Nelson
Executive Diaector: David G. Marwell

A
Mr, Barry Harrelson
October 7, 1996

Page 2

 

   

. which will be processed as an assassination record. Gunn will then

" determine whether there are any additional portions of the history tha
should be added to the Blakey version. CIA will compile the “Blakey
version” as soon as possible and Gunn will promptly thereafter review the
documents.

Index. CIA has made an index available to Review Board staff and the ~

- staff has identified certain histories that may be appropriate for review.
CIA will make available those histories that are of obvious relevance, and
will raise with Review Board staff any questions regarding the requests
where the basis for the request is unclear. CIA will begin to make’
histories available on a rolling basis. Review Board has.agreed to review '
histories promptly once they are made available. Although it was not ~
discussed at our meeting, we would very much appreciate it if you would,
within the next two weeks, identify which histories you are prepared to

make available and those that CLA believes should be subject to further
discussions.

Cram’s multi-volume counterintelligence history. Although Cram’ BS

history was not specifically discussed at our meeting, the Review. Board-—-——--~
staff understatids that the history has been located and the Review Board

staff awaits its being made available.

 
 

CIA-8 (Intelligence community staff)
CIA will provide a report to the Review w Board staff within two weeks.
CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials) =
The Review Board staff provided CIA with a list of certain publications as
they appear in an LBJ Library finding aid. CIA will report back on
_ Tecommended action to the Review Board promptly.

CIA-10 (Interagency source register)

CIA has compiled information responsive to the request. CIA will make
records available within two weeks.

CIA-11 (Duran’s original statement)
  
  
 

 
 
  

‘CIA HAS NO OBIE
DECLASSIFICATIO
RELEASE OF CiA||
IN THIS DocuienT ”

 

 

CIA has been unable to identify to date Duran’s original statement. CIA ©
will make some further attempts to locate it. ,

7 CIA-12 (MWAVE inaterials)
_ CIA will begin to make materials available on a rolling basis.
With respect to the informal requests, it is our understanding that:

. CIA is inquiring into matteis related to Spas Raikin. The Review Board staff will
- discuss i issues with CIA: orice the pending research is completed.

. : ‘CIA: is locating a cable numbér IN 24738 (7 July 62), which is identified in record
number 1993.07.20. 10. 18: 29: 650630 Box 34, F 22), p. 2.

ClAis inquiring ‘into matters related to. Marilyn D. Murrett. The Review Board
staff will discuss issues with CIA once the pending research is completed.

 

” Please let me know if you have any: ‘supplements or corrections. We would very! much -
like to ensure that these matters are handled expeditiously.

As always, thanks for your cooperation and assistance.

   

Nan Associate Director for Research

 
13-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: John Pereira
Ch, Historical Review Group

FROM: Kathryn Dyer
DCI/IRO —

SUBJECT: Response to Request No. CIA-8 from
JFK ‘Board

1. In response to subject request and your Memorandum
of 11 March 1996, CSI-0311/96, this is to advise that the
IMO of CMS conducted a search for JFK related materials
with negative results.

2. You may want to pass the following organizational
structure on to the ARRB, as related to the Intelligence
Community Staff, to correct their records and references:

Title ; Effective Date

Deputy to the DCI for 9 Sep 63
National INtelligence Programs . ;
Evaluation (NIPES

Deputy to the DCI for the 1.Mar 72

Intelligence Communit . -3?
eputy to the DCI- - ---- - apereedanan: YL see vera ®

for Resource Director, Intelligence Comm- 12 Mar 81
Management unity Staff (ICS)

Community Management Staff : - Present

Note to ER File Copy

stated that they searched all shelf lists

nly one hit related to subject matter, recalled
Box 2, fld 7, Job 82R 00370R, with negative results. I advised
him to recheck with ARCINS search, if their older job numbers

have been entered into ARCINS - - he wilt follow thru. Jim P
 

, Assassination Records: Review. Board ;
600 E Street NW « 2nd Floor Washington,’ DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 - Fax: (202) 724-0457

 

March 1, 1996 . - CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

- DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR ©
Mr. John Pereira - RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
Director IN THIS DOCUMENT -
Historical Review Group
Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 20505

. Re: ARRB Request for Additional Information and Record Ss No. Cc TA-8
Dear John: .

Barry Harrelson has asked that we request in writing your assistance in helping us
obtain access to records from the Intelligence Community Staff for the period from June
1963 through December 1964. Although our ultimate interest will be determining
whether there are any assassination records included among ICS holdings, we would at
this time appreciate obtaining a more general idea of its indices and holdings,
particularly with respect to: (a) identifiable assassination records; (b) staff activities’ -

during the month following the assassination, (e) Cuba; (a): Mexico; ancr(e) the Soviets 5 Biel

Union, |.

' We would be pleased to discuss with you ways in which | we might better refine this

request.
Thank you for your assistance. |
Sincerely, oO

Die

David G: Marwell
Executive Director

 

Board Memaers: John R. Tuaheim, Chair « * Henry F. Graff ¢ Kermit L. Hall + William L. Joyce + Aana K. Nelson
7 Executive Director: David G. Marwell
13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE “INTERNAL USE ONLY

NOTE FOR: Becky Rant @ DCI

FROM: J. Barry Harrelson

DATE: 08/26/96 05:48:35 PM

SUBJECT: Status of JFK Board request No. CIA-8
Beckyt,

In March we forwarded to you a request from the Assassination Records Review Board re records fram the intelligence
Community Staff for the period from June 1963 through December 1964. As | recalled as able to identifyilocate? the
relevent files. if so, we need to set a time for the ARRB staff to review or, if there is a problem, prepare a response for the Board .
Please give me the staus of the request as soon as possible (s 30292); | would like to close the book on this request in September.

Barry

ct: John F, Pereira @ DCI

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
13-00000 oe J

CiR-8

10: J. Barry Harrelson
FROM: Becky L.Rant
DATE: 03/07/96 03:17:09 PM

SUBJECT: [ Re: ARRB Request to Access to Indices to CIA Histories

 

DCI Area agrees with the proposal to allow ARRB access to the CIA History index with the following provisions:

4wo CSL -
1, Limited to pat’ staff member at HdatrS, notes to be reviewed, no non-JFK related notes (Same as DO). dereu~ $ Mery)

2. Satisfactory response to Lee Stricktand’s concerns re this action setting a precedent. “\  . yy \\ ecWh Lee_
3. Access to this document does not make it an “assassination record”. Ape mrs WW age al SS wo Gann
Becky Rant

ce:

Dol , | (
ne Asccusged! o\gou 2. worl Recky

she a caes woth The Chomees | Sh.
IS SLL comrcermeG oborh” mecedank” s
WAL ben Le wool dewcuss woth Lee.
We. ahkeo cles cused. ARR Request
CILKR-& Calel CXL SAL tre cards). Sha
cerQ bs sord re gaest Le hee .

AGNINISTRATVE-ANTERNALUSE-ONLY
104-10335-10007

 

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW + 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
{202} 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

 

  

/ “ey so”

Cia BH t are)

March 1, 1996 . © DESL /OR
RELEASE OF C14 INFORMATION

Mr. John Pereira INTHIS DOCUMENT. -

Director ;

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 20505

Re: ARRB Request for Additional Information and Records No. CIA-8
Dear John: .

Barry Harrelson has asked that we request in writing your assistance in helping us
obtain access to records from the Intelligence Community Staff for the period from June
1963 through December 1964. Although our ultimate interest will be determining
whether there are any assassination records included among ICS holdings, we would at
this time appreciate obtaining a more general idea of its indices and holdings,
particularly with respect to: (a) identifiable assassination records; (b) staff activities
during the month following the assassination, (c) Cuba, (d) Mexico, and e) the Soviet

- Union.

We would be pleased to discuss with you ways in which we might better refine this

_ Tequest.

Thank you for your assistance.
Sincerely,

Qi (V__£

David G. Marwell
Executive Director

 

 

Boaro Memeers: Join R. Tunheim, Chair - Henry F. Graff + Kermit L. Hall « William L. Joyce » Anna K. Nelson
Executive Director: David G. Marwell
__-POR-OPFEGEAL-USE-ONLY

‘

CSI-0311/96
11 March 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR: Becky Rant
Deputy Executive Secretary

FROM: dohn F. Pereira
Chief, Historical Review Group

. SUBJECT: Request No. CIA-8 from JFK Board

1. The attached request from the Assassination Records
Review Board is forwarded to you for appropriate action.
The Board asks for assistance in gaining access to certain
records from the Intelligence Community Staff. The request,
dated 1 March 1996, is part of the Board’s effort to
identify records related to the assassination of President
Kennedy, or to the investigation of that assassination.

2. I suggest that we discuss the request after you
have had a chance to consider it. If you would like further
background on the Board‘s activities as they relate to the
Agency, please contact Barry Harrelson (x30292) or me. :

a” Ka - bon,
A ee ee
ce ened

“John F. Pereira

Attachment

Sule
SUBJECT: Request No. CIA-8 from JFK Board

DCI/CSI/HRG/JFPereira:bas/x30373) (11 Mar 96)

Distribution: ;
Original - Addressee
1 - C/HRG

1 - B. Harrelson
1 - HRG file
