ea aes | (S963).

we te ee en ‘all material | and documents .
which the CIA had in its possession. at the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination
of President Kennedy and the investigation of that assassination Py
the Warren Commission.

copy: of every: é :
runidentified man" in Mexico, ‘by himself

All agency ) records relating to the . unidentified
man". including but not limited to attempts. to-
reach. a positive identification; ee

A ‘record of ‘the dates upon which each such
shotograph was Shought, ‘to have: been taken;

aH
Elagency ihe as. Felating to _the- cag,

absence: of: ‘such: oY Stoceashs. ‘in ‘view of: :
Oswald's. several. alleged: visits: to both ee

ery: photograph ‘taken of Lee =~
Harvey’ ‘Oswald, ‘by himself or with others, | -
in New Orleans-in 1963, including 1 but not .
limited to Jackson Square; Bt) Ss : : *.

A. record of the dates” upon which each such |
- photograph was thought. to have been taken
“and the. location within New Orleans Lf
‘knowns and conn . Lo.

“ALL “agency records relating to. such r Photo
graphs. . : :

io to ‘avoid any problem of ‘Laentification, ‘there is attached
; hereto Mr. Belin's correspondence, as well as certain of the
-- pleadings in Civil No. 861-72..:; Additionally, there is also attacied
. certainyiy pages from Philip Agee's book Inside the Company, in
:: which he publicly details t the surveillance facilities at the Soviet —

 
   
 
 
   

 

LT / avid We Belin | (5963)
uu... all material and documents =
which ‘the CIA had in its possession. ‘at the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination
of President Kennedy and the investigation of that assassination by .
the Warren Coumission. .

 

 

 

 

 

py: ery. photograph taken of. the:
runidenti fied man” in Mexico, ‘by. himself z

  
 

 

-. ALL: agency EO valeting t to “the. unidentified
man™,.. including but not limited to attempts to.
reach: positive. identification; _

   

 

 
   
 
 

‘ ‘dates upon which each such =
hhotograph was. enousht. to have been taken;

   
   

   

 
 

in New. Orleans ‘in t963., including but not:
limited to. Jackson . Squares x

   

 

- Al agency records relating to. such photon
: graphs ~ con Coe . .

    
   
   
    

  

ee To. ‘avoid any’ problem of identification, ‘there is attached
“ hereto Mr.’ Belin's correspondence, as well as certain of the

| pleadingsin Civil No. 861-72... Additionally, there is also attacted |
certains:sy: ‘pages from Philip Agee' s book Inside the Company, in :
which he. publicly details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet |
and Cuban. ‘installations in. Mexico city at- the approximate time in -
question... .

  
   
     

 
  
 
 

 
 
    
   
    
  
   
     
     
     
     
    
     
     
   
 
  
 
    

L.. avid w. patin | (5963) -

 

: ene ‘all ‘material and. documents - .
which the CIA had in its possession. at the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination
of President Kennedy | and the investigation of that assassination by
the Warren Commission : .

 

 

 
 

: tz

z.4 copy: of every:

unidentified man”: in Mexico, by. himsel£.

x. with - h others, regardless of date or place
hos ; S

  

ALL agency records relating to 6 the.” wunidentifiea
man",. including but not limited to attempts to
‘reach : positive identification; -

   

A copy of every. photograph taken of Lee |
Harvey: Oswald,.. by himself ox * with others,

   

 

dates upon which each such .
to have been taken; a

taking

Oswald's. several. ‘alleged visits ‘to. both: the
sies> and/or. Consulates

 

rey New: ‘Oowald in tees, including but not
limited to- Jackson Square; 1D. a i”

   

    

on record of ‘the dates upon ‘Which each such
photograph was thought.to have been taken
‘fnowna Location within New Orleans if

    
 
 
  

. ALL gency ‘records relating to such | Photo-
. graphs... : 7

  

i To ‘avoid any’ Sroblem of. identification, ‘there is attached
’. hereto Mr. Belin's correspondence, as well as certain of the
- pleadings in Civil No. 861-72.: Additionally, there is also attacied |
oo certainiiy: ‘pages from Philip Agee‘s book Inside the Company, in .
= which he publicly details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet ©
“and Cuban-installations in. Mexico City at. the approximate time in

 
    
   
    
  

J ivan. nents (S963)

 

 

‘all m material and documents _ sO
which the CIA had in its possession ‘at’ the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination |
of President Kennedy | and the davestigation of that assassination by
the, ,Warzen Commission. ;

 

 

 
 
   
 
 
 
 
      
   
 
 

, copy: of every: iP
“unidentified | man” in Mexico, by’: himself :

 
 
   

coxd: of ‘the ‘dates upon which each such .
photograph 3 thought to have been taken;

a 3) ‘AL agency records relating to the
: man", including but not limited to attempts . to"
: reach a ositive i identification

    

    
 

 

 
 
   
 
   
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
     
   
       
  

A ‘eopy of every. photograph taken ‘of Lee -
Harvey. Oswald, by himsel£ or with others, .

 
  

£ "photographs 3£ . Lee. jating * Oswald: in-
x if: no:‘such: yating to the

 

iswald’s.: ‘several. alleged ‘visits: ‘to both the
and/or. Consulates:

 

      
  

ery: photograph. ‘taken of Lee.
‘Harvey ‘Oswald,. ‘by: himself.or with others, |
‘in New Orleans:in 1963,. including but not
“Limited to Jackson Square; Qo. :

      

 

 

 
 

A xecord of the. dates’ upon ‘which each such
; : photograph was thought. to have been taken

and the location within New Orleans af :
“known: and | es

 

    
    
 
  
 

AL ‘agency records relating to such photo-
graphs- Ck

2

    

: “to ‘avoid any problem of  Sdentification, ‘there is attached
. hereto Mr. Belin's correspondence, as well as certain of the

. pleadings in Civil No. 861-72. .; Additionally, there is also attacked |

i. certaingiz.pages from Philip Agee's book Inside the Company, in a
which he publicly details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet
sand Cuban. installations in Mexico City at the approximate | Sime in Ss

- -question.. SFy a, 2 i,

 

  

 
14;00000.

 

TL vianrnein (5963)

a _. vee meeecee ‘all ‘material ar and documents .
which the CIA had in. in its ‘possession. at the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination
of President Kennedy and the investigation of that assassination » by .
the, Warren Commission. ew tes

A copy: “Of every p
"unidentified man" in Mexico, ‘by himself. -
or with others, egardless. of date or place;

 

A record of the dates upon “which each such.
photograph | was thought. to. have been taken;

   

: ALL. ‘agency records relating to ‘the. wunidenti fied
man", including but not limited to attempts to oe
, reach a positive identification; oo

A eopy of every photograph taken of Lee |
Harvey. Oswald, by himself or with others,

‘A record of ‘the dates upon which each such.
‘photo ‘aph as~ thought to have been taken;

 

 

cy records. relating to tha: Seeing

swala''s ‘several ‘alleged visits to both ‘the
oviet. and Cuban Embassiies> and/or Consulates

 

 

 

copy’ of every: photograph ‘taken Of Lee =:
Harvey ‘Oswald, : ‘by: himself or with others, |
jin New Orleans in 1963, including but not
aa limited to Jackson Square; a

 

A yecord of the dates upon which each such
- photograph was thought to have been taken
“and the location within New Orleans if
“known; and . Be .

ALL agency records relating to such photo-
graphs ~ re

 

 

: : Po avoid any e eblem of ‘identification, ‘there is attached
; hereto Mr. Belin's correspondence, as well as certain of the
pleadings in Civil No. 861-72... Additionally, there is also attacied
i ceértainsi}‘ pages from Philip Agee' s book Inside the Company, in “ey
"which he publicty details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet ;
- in

 
“David Wo Bein - | (5463) -

fees

. ae ‘all ‘material ar and documents *
which the CIA haa i in its" possession. lat the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination

of President Kennedy and the investigation of that assassination a by

the, Warren Commission. .

 

 

ry: Oo”: ph taken of the
“unidentified me Mexico, by himsel£.:

‘of th ‘dates upon which each: such
: thought to have been taken;

ALL agency records relating to the. “unidentified ;
man",. including but not. limited to attempts | to
"reach. a positive identification; Ls

A ‘Copy ‘of every photograph taken of 1 Lee
: Harvey: Oswald... by himseli or with others,
+

copy of every ‘photograph ‘taken ‘of Lee ‘
“Harvey Oswald, :by himself or with others,’ |
iin New: Orleans: in 1963,. including but not. a
“limited to. Jackson Square; 9

‘A record of the dates upon which each such’ _
: photograph was thought to have been taken
and the: location within New Orleans if :

ALL agency records relating to such photo~
graphs - — a :

; 2 Bo. ‘avoid any problem £ identification, ‘there is attached
ce hereto Mr.’ Belin's correspondence, as well as certain of the
‘pleadings in Civil No. 861-72.:; Additionally, there is also attacked _
certainzii* pages from Philip Agee’ s book Inside the Company, in eg
which he publicly details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet —
and Cuban: installations in. Mexico city” at the ap roximate time in :

 
  
   
       
  

[,  ivia'w. notin’ | (5963)

ce ‘all ‘material and documents
which ‘the CIA ‘haa in its” possession. at the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination
of President Kennedy and the investigation of that assassination by

the Warren ¢ Commission. ;

 

   
  
   
    

“A copy: of every. ee taken of the .
‘unidentified man" in Mexico, by himself ~
x with others, regardless | of. Gate or place

 
       
 

LA of 4 he aates upon which ‘each such
‘Photograph 3: thought. to, have been taken;

AlL agency records ‘relating to. ‘the. wunidentified ,
. man", including but not limited to attempts to
“ yeach a positive identification; :

    
     
   
  
    
     
   
    
   
     

 

 

 
 

A ae of “every | photograph taken of Lee.
Harvey: Qswald,. by himself or - with others,
in Mexico. City?..: . vs

 

 

ALL agency ‘records ‘Sisting ¢ ‘to ‘the eakcing
Of: photogesene of. Lee. Harvey’ Oswald in.

 
 

‘absence. of: “uch: tnotographs ‘in view of”

Oswald’s:.’several. alleged visits |'to both the
Soviet: and. Cuban Embassies; and/or Consulates.

‘in 7 :

     

A copy of every” photograph taken ‘of Lee a
Harvey’ ‘Oswald,., ‘by himself or with others, .
‘in New Orleans-in 1963, including } but not Oo
. limited te Jackson Square; eyo: : _

      
    
    
 
    
  
    
   
  

     

A. ¥ecord of the dates upon which each such
_... photegraph was thought to have been taken
“and the location within New Orleans if

 

7 All agency records relating to. such photo-
graphs. a

 

'o avoid any’ problem’ of : identification, there is attached
hereto Mr. Belin's correspondence, as well as certain of the
pleadings in Civil No. 861-72..; Additionally, there is also attacted |

coe certainsiiy: pages from Philip Agee's book Inside the Company, in -

--: which he publicly details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet —

cand Cuban. installations in co City at the approximate time in |
;question.. Shag tts cae oe

 
  

 

 

 

   
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C1 secret

 

“EXTENSION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

—_|__ :

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  

Herewith are 15 copies o:
he two':compelling FOTIA: requests...
f the Jmoment, Belin asking for
erything while Fensterwald has’
een very specific.
ounsel to the Rockefeller Commiss
and has-been of
in our Slowmess to respond as an”
“Agency «. ’ ‘Bensterwald has both .
entered an appeal on‘our failure
“to respond wit
as already gone to litigation.

 

 
 
 
 
  

 

The. request of Mark Lane, a
opy of which I passed out. to al.
eems moot. at this point inasmuch’
s he! has: not responded | to our .

 

.search fee. I ‘have not been able
to get’.an answer from OGC as to
‘whether this is stili an open case
“However, if it is stall open, th
-work for Belin as applicable to,
| Lanes .

. .There. is, at least one request,
Harold Weisberg, 75-765) which-
is in the form of documents sent
from National Archives for revie

| and now within the CI Staff for a;
‘ action =~ original;
now Ethel Mendoaa, undérstand.

Several of the remaining casé

|.-have been completed, or at least,

‘require no further search at ‘this
_time. Completion of the machine -
run should make available what wil
be needed in the future for’
handling those and other requests.

   

  

Belin was "|.

concern to the DcI

 
 

in FOIA limits, and}

   
 
 
  

reguifement of .a. check for $608.00] +4

 

we

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

If questions arise, I can be

‘reached at home on 941-L61h. fire},

 

 

 

610 “res

[_] SECRET

 

 

O CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL
“USE ONLY

Cc (] UNCLASSI

 

 

  
    
   
     
    

 

L. “pavia'w: We Belin” + (5963)

 

ves . a ‘all ‘material ar and documents
which. ‘the CIA haa in its possession. at: the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination
of President Kennedy and the investigation of that assassination » by ,
the, , Warren Commission.

 

 
 
 
    
 
 

A See avery.
“unidentified man” in Mexico, by himsel£ a
or with others, ¢ egardless of. date or plac

      
 
 
 
   
  
 

A record of the ‘dates upon “which ‘each such
photograph was: thought to. have been taken;

  

 

 

“ALL a agency records relating to ‘the. unidentified
_..man", including but not limited to attempts, to .
= reach a Positive identification; . ae

 
      
    

 

 

a

A ‘copy ‘of every. ‘photograph ‘taken of Lee .
- Harvey. Oswald, by himself or with others,
aL ;

  
      
   

 

rt record of. the dates upon which each uch ,
‘photograph was thought, to have: been taken;

   

    
    
       
     
     
   

py . ry: ,
‘Harvey Oswald,. ‘by himself or with others, |
in New. Orleans in 1963,. including but not
“Limited to, Jackson Square; oo

   

A. record of ‘the dates upon which each such

.. photograph was thought to have been taken
“and the location within New Orleans if
“known; and | a .

°

 

All ‘agency recoras relating to. such photo-
graphs. wok

 

- “To ‘avoid any" problem of  daentification, ‘there is attached
ae hereto Mr. Belin's correspondence, as well as certain of the .
:.: pleadings in Civil No. 861-72... Additionally, there is also attachsd —
>, cértaingis|¥ pages from Philip Agee’ s book Inside the Company, in ;
i which he publicly details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet

and Cuban. installations in Mexico city at the approximate - time in
_: question.. . boue Y . . _.

   
  
- a a all ‘material and. “documents
which the CIA ‘had 1 in its possession. ‘at! the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate ‘to the assassination |

of President Kennedy and — the investigation of that assassination by
the, Warren Commission.

 

A copy Se every. photograph
Sunidentified 1 man" in Mexico, ‘by himself -

All agency records relating to the "unidentified
_ man", including but not Limited to attempts to
- reach 2 _positivi identification; .

A copy of every | photograph taken of Lee.
Harvey. Qswald,. by hi self or with others,

swald's several. ‘alleged visits “to both the
oviet: ‘and. Cuban Embassies’ and/or Consulates

A copy of every: photograph. ‘taken of Lee oo
Harvey Oswald, :by himself or with others,
“in New Orleans-in 1963, including but not
“limited to. Jackson Square; a a.

A. record of the dates upon “which each such
photograph was thought.to have been taken
‘and the- location within New Orleans Lf

- ALL agency records relating to. such  Photo-
. graphs. fo Q

 

wy * To avoid any problem of ‘dentification, “there is attached
ae hereto Mr. Belin's: correspondence, as well as certain of the
/‘pleadingsin Civil No. 861-72. :; Additionally, there is also attacied
a _ certain pages from Philip Agee's book Inside the Company, in
“which he publicly: details: the surveillance facilities at the Soviet —
cand Cuban install tions xico City at the approximate - time ine

    

 

  

 
