74-0000

 

 

 

 

‘ CE

31 August 1973

 

Aide Memoire

SUBJECT : Issues in Pending HSCA Subpoenas

1. CIA has restricted access by HSCA representatives to
two sets of documents, which led to the Committee's voting a sub-
poena shortly prior to the recess by the House. Two other items
of information that were included in the subpoena had been reviewed
by HSCA representatives prior to voting the subpoena. So far
as we know no action has yet been taken to serve the subpoena

‘ formally. Its reported date of return is 6 September.

2. The two files on which we have restricted access deal
with two separate subjects, as follows:

a. An operational file involving a sensitive Covert
Action program, in which a person of interest to the
HSCA was one of a number of targets. . The HSCA has
reviewed the 201 file of the person in question for the period
January 1973 through May 1964, but the separate operational
file has not been shown. The nature of the operation has
been outlined to Mr. Blakey and his deputy, Mr. Cornwell.
The presentation emphasized the sensitivity of the operation
and its lack of relevance to the HSCA inquiry. .

- 04 b. The history of the Mexico City Station for the period

1969. It covers all activities of the Station over a period
of time almost entirely irrelevant to the purpose of the
HSCA investigation. Only a few references in the Mexico
City Station history can be considered relevant to the issue -
of President Kennedy's assassination, and these have been
seen by HSCA representatives. Substantial sections of other.
portions of the history have been shown the HSCA Chief
Counsel and Staff Director, Mr. Blakey, and to his deputy,
Mr. Cornwell. -,

3. The grounds offered for withholding these documents

‘are a mix of sensitivity and relevance. Traditionally the -

Agency claims the sensitivity of subject matter as a basis for
giving special handling to materials shown external investigators,
while Mr. Blakey asserts that the Congress reserves the

right to judge relevance. There is something of an anomaly in
these positions, because the evolution of the working agree-
ments with HSCA has to a degree compromised the basic position
of both parties.

 

4A
 

[to-tore-tooat]”

 

 

 

C- UUM os i OAL oe —_
oe 7 mo ( i fo te:

| ae

 

31 August 1978 [ ote #IRASIOY)

  

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Scott D. Breckinridge
Principal Coordinator,
House Select Committee on Assassinations
Office of Legislative Counsel

 

FROM. : Norbert A. Shepanek
Policy and Coordination Staff
Liaison and Oversight Control

SUBJECT : Referenced Request for DDO Reaction to
HSCA Suggestion Concerning Public
Testimony on CIA Files

REFERENCE : OLC 78-2598, 25 August 1978

1. The injunction against trusting Greeks bearing
gifts might find suitable application in evaluating the
motivation of prosecuting attorneys trying to bolster a
publicity-hungry, bankrupt Cong~essional Committee on
the eve of elections by offering alleged PR benefits: to
the CIA. The only advantage from public exposure of our ‘
filing system and procedures, which we can envision,
would accrue to hostile intelligence services and
terrorist organizations. It would provide them with an
insight into our records system and methodology and the
inherent limitations of the system. Obviously, any
records system will have inherent weaknesses and limita-
tions. Knowledge of, the specific-system used by the CIA
could render us ang,*Sécurity of the nation more vulnerable.

2. I have discussed reference offer with Chief,
IMS and DC/PCS. Our collective and individual reaction
is that Mr. Cornwell's "kind" offer be firmly and flatly
rejected on the grounds that any meaningful discussion
of our records procedures and system would inevitably
lead to the revelation of classified intelligence methods

which the DCI must protect.
en P ese
° orbert A. epa
att . Sana
: Jobn H. Stein es
CONCUR: xD _ RETURN TO CIA

DDO ; Background Use Only
CONFIDENTIAL Or Not Reproduce

 
74-0000

 

 

 

 

4. The original Memorandum of Understanding, executed in
August 1977, commits the Agency to provide access to material
"that bears upon the study and investigation authorized by
H. Res. 222," which we see as referring to relevance. It
also recognized the limitations placed on access depending on
"the responsibility of the DCI to protect sensitive intelligence
sources and methods." An amendment to the original agreement
was negotiated in January 1978, the language of which throws
into question the unqualified right of the DCI to withhold material
because of sources~and-methods considerations , but leaves in-
tact the original position on relevance. , .

5. Our practice, under these provisions, has been to agree
to requested access to material we feel probably irrelevant, if
it is not judged sensitive. When considerations of relevance
and sensitivity combine we have opposed unqualified actess. In
the face of the HSCA representatives’ assertion of the need to
verify our statements about relevancy, etc., we have tried to
employ the original commitment to the DCI by Mr. Blakey to
not disclose anything shown him personally, when the matter
becomes an issue, letting him review the material personally.
This serves to demonstrate good faith, at the same time that
it has permitted verification by a selected HSCA person.

6. If the HSCA decides to force the present issue, for whatever
purposes, there would be some confusion in outlining just what
the Agency's position is. The agreements can be presented as
compromising the legislated responsibility of the DCI to protect
sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure. This considera-
tion has led us to follow the practice of tying relevance (preserved
in the original agreement) to sensitivity, avoiding assertion of the
right to protect material on the grounds of sensitivity alone. As
an example we have given extensive access to intelligence sources
and methods as employed in Mexico City, where it was relevant
because it explained CIA coverage of the Oswald visit in September-
October 1963.

7. Discussions with Chairman Stokes, assuming there will
be an opportunity to have such an exchange, should be reasonable |
rather than technical. While we believe our grounds sound (the
material at issue is not relevant to the inquiry, and is sensitive) the
arguments in support of it may prove confusing in public controversy.

 
