14-00000

ya language other than Spanish or English were taken to another location

__-was a backlog because the photographs aN

for translation and typing. Mr. Boris Tarasoff did the Russian transla-
tions but because of the volume of Russian conversations, the translations
usually ran about a week behind the date of the conversation.

As soon, ‘as. the Station learned that an American identifying hin-—
self as Lee Oswald phoned the Soviet Embassy, Miss Ann 0, : of the.
Station started screening av] photographs. However 5 there

<n times a week

but those picked up were usually gw fe days before since the

technician who was proc did so on a night- time basis.
Further, photographs wi t made initially until a complete roll of

- film was used. Later this was changed and the operator cleared the camera

at the-end of each day regardless of amount of unused film remaining.
The instructions were. to cover the entire work day (office hours) and to
photograph all Soviets, their families, all foreigners, and cars with
foreign license plates. Human error did occur but generally the agents’
were conscientious. The Cuban Embassy coverage had more ‘sophisticated
equipment using a pulse camera which frequently developed mechanical dif-
ficulties.

Oswald came to the attention of the listening post operators

from a tap of the Soviet line. . It was picked up and taken to Mr. Boris
00L0162

VW
 

Tarasoff for translation because the caller was trying to speak in Russian.
There was some delay because Station personnel waited to compare the

photographs with the typed transcript. All transcripts were made in

either Spanish or English since the Chief of Station could read only

these two languages and because he personally screened the transcripts

for operational leads.
14-00000 ‘

‘ Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double laned
street on the southeast corner of that. block. (See attached diagram).
LIMITED was the first photo base and operated strictly on an experimental —
basis in the early stages. This base, however, was closed when the Sta-
tion received word that the photograph of the “unidentified man" was
being released by the Warren Commission. LILYRIC was an. alternate Pphoto-~

; graphic base. It was located in an upper story of an aD nt building

on the same side of the street as the LIMITED s middie of |

3 “the block south. It had a planted vig “<u of the Soviet

Embassy. LICALLA, the on

  
  
 

; site, was located in one of a

row of four houses Side of the Soviet Embassy compound.
This site ne \ back garden of the Soviet Embassy compound. The

. purpose of this operation was to get good identification photographs of

Soviet personnel. The three photographic sites were managed by a re-

 

cruited agent who was a Mexican citizen, the son of an American mother
and Mexican father (deceased). This agent collected the film from the
LIMITED and LILYRIC sites three times a week. The film was then de- .
veloped and printed into 8 x 10 contact print strips. “LICALLA film was
originally processed in the Station but in early 1959, due to the resig-
nation of a technician, this film like that of LIMITED. and LILYRIC was

processed on the outside by a recruited agent.

2

0600159

 
 

104-10054-10285 ‘ ; ;

' Mexico Station Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies 1963).

1. Coverage: -

From the time the Mexico Station was opened in April 1947 unt

 

o the arrival of Mr. Win Scott as Chief of. Station in 1955, the Station had
developed a support apparatus to exploit leads from the < AN) Embassy in
- Mexico City. This umbrella type project (LIP ws W., ul tiTine

: phone taps, three photographic sites, ALN aa ance team and a

. , mail intercept operation.
“ Telephone t qu placed byl

vet ae was handled by a Station case officer. The number

 

 

 

 

 

of lines tapped was limited only by the availability of a Vistening post
nearby and the availability, of langauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,
) Czech, etc.) transcribers. Generally, these were Mexican or Mexican-
American recruited agents.
"Three photographic sites were handled by a Station case officer’
- assisted by technicians on TDY from Headquarters who advised the Station
on the best types of cameras, films, -and conceaTment devices. These
operations had sub-crypts under project LIPSTICK (namely: LIMITED, LILYRIC
and LICALLA). LIMITED was a fixed site directly opposite the Soviet Em-
bassy (across the street) which had both a vehicle and a pedestrian en-

trance. The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the nor tyiggingasarr of the

E2, IMPDET
CUT CL BY 004645
‘as i

242 392 [ --
14-00000

 

 

Mobile surveillance was conducted by two American staff officers.

These two officers organized a surveillance team of six recruited agents

_ which used late model cars and a panel truck for surveillance. The team —

could be activated by radio from ‘the LIMITED site whenever. someone of

interest left the gate of the Soviet Embassy. These agents were aware of

‘the LIMITED site since they had been issued LIMITED photog ww for

identification purposes.

   

The Station also conducted a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from a subagent emp] + |

coverage was unreliable and insecure as characterized by

the nature of the at that time. The Mexican Direction

of Federal Security (DFS),| | was a hip--

   

 

 

 

pocket group run out of the Mexican Ministry of Government. This-Ministry

was principally occupied with political investigations and control of

foreigners. Their agents were weeds, and corrupt.

 

 

 

 

 

OC.-0460

 
ora A SABHA /SENOHIe -

 

 

        

The Vistening post had 30 lines
connected at one time. The transcription room was staffed by

In 1961,
|__| the Station chief, himself, became the project case officer. A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Station officer assisted him in the daily supervision of the listening
post, and in picking up the transcripts and the tapes. There was also
an American technician inside the listening post.

3. Oswald feverage: : gt
In mid-1962, "

ban and Satellite Em-

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

     

- post for the telephone numbers of J

 

bassies — The Station immediately |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

soon thereafter connected five Cuban lines, five

 

 

' Soviet lines, three Czech lines, two Polish lines, and one Yugoslav
line. “At the Yistening post, a live monitor made short Summaries of
conversations of interest which were then included in a daily resume
for the Chief of Station. Later, when a reel was completely recorded,
full transcripts were typed and passed to the Station; however, there

was usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels which contained Russian

Seon L/SCSTVE Cr. 018%
