 

    
 

: «RETURN TO oo ~
“Background Use Only -

. . QO Not Reproduce .

. Col. Ramm Barquin Lopes wae born in Las Villes privince, Cuba, on
32 Mey 1914. He graduated from the Cuban Military Academy in 1940. He

“~ attended the U. S. arny Strategic. Intelligence School in 1948. In 1945

he served as technical advisor to the Cuban delegetion te the Chapultapee
Conference and in 1946 was named director of the Superior War College

of the Cuban Army. In 1948 he became Chief of the Intelligence Sectian
of the army Genersl Staff. In 1949 he was assigned to the Inter-American
Defense Board in washington. He subsequently became Cuban Military
attache in Washington and served in this poaltion until april 1956 when
he was arrested by the Batista government as the leader of a military
plot and seatenced to six ysars imrisonment, In January 1959 Barquin,
released from prisun by the revolutionary forces, asswaed temporary
command of the Cuban armed Forces. He was replaced in this post by
Fidel and subsequently by Raul Castro Ruz, and was relegated to unim-
portant military duties, probably because of the 26th of July Movenent's
fear of his independence and wilitary following. In May 1959 ho was
virtually exiled by appointment as roving ambassador in Zurope, based in
France. Because.of his connections with the Montecristi group, his
popularity, and influence with the military, it is believed that should the
Montecristi group enter the political arana, Barquin would play an
izportant and influential role.
 

¢ RETURN TO GIA

Background Use Only
NDo Not Reproduce a
C. astivities Destened to Gunter Gastro Policies

Since Castro's assumption of power in Cuba,tthe Montecristé
group has followed a policy of participating in the government for
the purpose of exerelaing a restraining influence on Castro. Even
before the fall of Batista, the group did nct think that Castro and
bis radical ideas were the solution to Cuba's problems. But any -
Plans to sabotage Castro's program, the group felt, would serve no
‘useful purpose and would cnly make a bad situation worse. So it was
decided instead to attempt to influence government policies and to
serve as 4 brake on somes of the more radical policies of the Castro
gcvernment, although Carrillo criticized Castro's methods in
June 1959, he did not consider 4t feasible at that time nor was the
group prepared upenly to oppose Castro. .

The Montecristi group became alarmed in august at the situatien,
particularly with regard to Cuba's presént economic problems and the —
growth of Communism, By October the group abandoned hope it
could exercise a moderating influence on Castro and repartedly began
@ clandestine resistance movement, while its menbers in the government
carefully maintained an appearance of complete loyalty to Castro.-

Resistance plans included the following:

1. Col. Barquin's acceptance of leadership of resistance
movement.

2. 4nti-Commmist propaganda campaign from outside Cuba,

3. Withdrawal of Montecristi members from government at
opportune time.

4. Ultimately, a coup or revolt by anti-Commmist sectors
of armed forces.
 

104-10174-10062

 

; RETURN TS Ci , di
Background Use Only oe Mote 4h.
\ Do Not&igproduce . “™ f Pekhow 4
V, HONTECRISTI GROUP
(agrupacion Moatecriet1)
4. General

ypd

 
 

 

" Phe agrupacton “Montecristi {6 a small group composed of wealthy
Cuban profesaional and businessmen, predominantly lawyers and econanista,
Established about 1952 shortly after Batista's coup d'etat, it ia me -
of the oldest cf the anti-Batista groups and was isvolved in the April -
1956 abortive Army revolt led by Colonel Ramon Barquin.

On 20 July 1958, the agrupacion Montecristi signed the Caracas
Unity Pact (the umification agreement signed by representatives of all
tho groups in opposition to Batista), and formed a part of the Civic
Revolutionary Front (Frente Civico Revolucionario - FCR). During the
Batista regime, it served as a support mechanism for revSlutioary
activity inside Cuba, Its main functions as a support mechanism were
to collect funds to finance the revolution and to provide econame
and political guidance to the FRC, About one millicn pesos (one
million US dollars) were collected to support the fight against Batista,
Because of the economic, professional, and soclal position which the
group represents in Cuban society, it exerted considerable influence an
the political and econemic decisions of the FCR. It also sent military
observers to the Sierra Masstra and to the Sierra del Escambray during the

fighting.

In 1957, Justo Carrillo Hernandez became the group's representative
iu Miami where he cooperated with the 26 of July Movement under the
terms of the Caracas Pact. In late 1953, the group, while still co-~
operating with the 26 of July Movement, began planning independent
military activity against Batista in conjimctim with the military group
headed by Barquin, then imprisoned on the Isle of Pines as a result of
his participation in the abariive coup of 1956.

In January 1959, Barquin, released from prison by the revolutionary
forces, assumed temporsry command of the Cuben drmed Forces. He was

replaced in this post by Fidel Castro and subsequently by Raul Castro Rus, -

and was relegated to umimpcrtant military duties, probably because of
the 26 of July Movement's fear of his independence and military following.

Wee

he

§: BR

. & BSI
Boia
*
-
 

* RETURN TO CIA
Background Lise Only
re, Bo Not Reproduce

In 1939 Marques Sterling was elected as a delegate to the Constitutional

Convention from Sabana Province. Following Dr. Grau San Martin's with-

draval from the presidercy of the Conventim, Marquez Sterling was elected -.
to £111 the positicn. Thus he prealded over the drafting of the Gonstitu-

tion of 1940 which is in force today.

dhen Batista sssuned the Presidency in 1940, he appointed Marques
Sterling Minister cf Labor. In 1943 he was designated Minister of Educa-
ticn but resigned within twenty days due to what he describes as his
inability to obtain escroval of his program. He then withdrew fram
active politics mtii jcining with Eduardo Chibas in the fcrmation of

the Qrtodexe Party.

Beyond the ststemant of the PPL party program the Embassy is not .

familiar with the p-litical views of Marquez Sterling. 4 blographic
repcrt dated Janusry 1940 indicates thet he Holds rightist ideas and is
frienily toward tha United States. Files for the period 1945 to the
present show that his nama has been associated with several commmist

or communist front activities. The FPL party platform dated August 21,
1957 may be described as moderately liberal. It dencunces commmia,
together with nazist, fascias and other totalitarian dectrines, ani paints
to the need for streagthening diplomatic ties with the United States, as
well as the bonds ef friendship between the two countries.

Marquez Sterlins: is a tall, thin, and distinguished looking gentle-
man. He is described as a very intelligent, cultured and well-read
“person. He reads English well, but claims he has difficulty in speaking
it. He is married to Silvia Domingues and has two children. His
religious affilisticn is not Imam,

He claims he does ‘not drink or amoke, The Embassy's bicgraphis
le indicates that be has suffered from tuberculosis. Following Castro's
victory, he went ints exile.

een ene mne ee nena
 

   

Ah

oy
i) Gray

¢ RETURN
Backgrounc Use Oniy
Bo Not Reproduce

CG. Sasesmment of Current Strength and Influence

Sanches describes. the Triple A as a civic association to be
converted into a political party as soon as the ccistitutional -
provision for this type of organization is put into effect. His
Group is small, well-organized, but has little mass folloving. It
does not represent a really important or significant political force.
Some reports have indicated the possibility that he may return to the >
Autentico Party. . Sanchez, hovever, claims he kas plans to increase
the score and strength of the Triple A by incorporating other groups
into his organisation.

According to Sanchez, the Triple A currently is expanding through-

out the ccuntry and is getting recruits from the old sutenticos, from
pvople who first started political life in the 26 of July, some few

from the Ortodexos, and also from the ranks of these who are completely

new to political activity. His group hss act attracted the suppart of
former followers. of B:tista who joined the 26 of July in considerable
numbers. These he describes as people who had no positions of public
‘responcibility under Batista, but because they essentially favored a
strong-man government, they supported Batista end now suppart Castro
for the sams reason.

According to Elier Roiidrigues Amaro, assistant Publicity Director,
and Sr. Gonzales, Secretary of Acts, the Triple A has been extending
its activities throughout the island and has established local groups
4n towns and cities in most of the provinces, It has also established
a labor commission and claims some influence in the labor movement,

particularly in the censtructian and gastronamic trade union federations.
Sanchez emphasizes, however, that as long as the Castro government remains
2m power, no political group which is not with the government can win a

majority in the labor ma exent.

although the Triple a has little mass following, it possesses a
cadre ‘of intellectuals and bas the capability of providing a smell
opposition, The grcup has made efforts to organize and extend its
activities, has published a few pamphlets to date, and has requested
US assistance in developing its opposition capahility.

ene tee Lee

t
1
q
i

 
