Dr. Durbin proposed a collaborative effort with two of Dr. Moskalev's
colleagues. They have collected data on human skeleton weights, but
now do not have the time or interest towrite up their material. Dr,
Durbin has collected all of the 19th century and early 20th century
human bone weight data and would like to add the modern Russian material
‘to the set. ete, Moskalev v_agreed to propose a joint article with his
colleagues looking towards. publication in an international journal. He
sus ‘ested that the original data would be forwarded in any case as soon
as it cculd be copied.

In the late afternoon the visitors toured (briefly) the Bevatron guided
by Ralph Thomas; the californium separation facility guided by Francis
McCarty; and the Hi-lac guided by Al Ghiorso. Dr. Moiseev, who is a
physicist, was very much intrigued by the proposal to make an advanced
scientific instrument by joining the Bevatron and the Hi-lac.  D

lev was not interested in how the machines worked, "physics was not. his.
“fheldthe said, but asked what he as a biclogist might do in the nature
of radicbiology experiments with such machines.

rt. tioskalev regretted that it had not been possible to visit with Dr.
“Tobias. “(We ¢ could probably have fit in a few minutes or made arrange-
ments for the following day, but I had run them ragged with sight-seeing
the day before, Monday was very full, and frankly they were exhausted
and needed rest. pwd), They would also have liked to visit the Medical
Services group. Mrs. Low-Beer tried to fill them in on the duties and
routine of that group.

Comments on money, budgets, problems of communication, demands on time,
such as committees, etc. ran thpough all of the conversations. Dr. Nénot
and Dr. Moiseev spcke English and understood it well. Dr. Mo&kalev and |
Dr. Masse understood more English than they could speak. All four are \
chiefly odGiipied with radiation protection and especially with problems
raised by internal emitters. Dr. Moskalev is his country's representa>
tive on the ICRP internal dose committee. They all forsee the develops.
[rent of nuélear power in their countries et a fast pace, This obvisusiy
includes, as they were csrefvl to point out, Pu fest breeders, hence

‘the overriding interest in Pu and its transplutonium conteérinants.

The Russian visitors will te puests of the AEC Division of Biclogy and
Medicine in Washinyton. (I feel certain we will roceive cpood marks as
hosts and as scientists. pwd).

One further pgint needs to be added. Although nuclear medicine is not

a cuurent specialty in either country, and the use of nuclear medical
techniques, especially as diagnostic tools, is very limited, the two
physicians indicated thay they personally were much interested, and there
was a definite trend in both countries towards more and more use of

such tools. “It is coming", they said.

 

 

 

pal
 

i
0d-10428-10013 ; [e--otence iSencerr PUN?
eT ee REPORT ON VISIT OF FOREIGN SCIENTISTS, OCTOBER 4, 19712, JGLh
There were four guests in the group:
Dr.(Prof) Yuri I, Moskalev; eae of Biophysics, Ministry. of Public
Health, Moscow,” 004547

Dr. Alexei A. Moiseev; Central Inst. for Advanced Medical Studies, Moscow

Dr. Jean-Claude Nénot; CEA, Centre D'Etudes Nuclaires, Fontenay-aux~
Roses, France.

Dr. R. Nasse,; CEA as above,

 

Mrs. Ann@ Low-Beer picked up the four guests in Sm Francisco and brought
them to the Donner Laboratory where they were greeted by Dr. John Lawrence,
Drs. Donald Van Dyke, James MaRae, and Howard Parker took them on a short
tour of the Anger camera facility and whole-body counting and scanning
equipment, The current uses and potential in medical diagnosis were dis-
cussed. Major questions concerned the use of these instruments in monit-
oring and assessing the extent of persons contaminated with radionuclides
in industrial accidents.

Lunch was attended by Dr. Hardin Jones, the four guests, Drs. Van Dyke and
Parker, and Dr, Patricia Durbin, who acted as hostess and guide thrcugh
the day. Topics discussed at lunch were centered about the Transuranium
symposium. The efficacy of two new techniques to remove lung contamina-
tion by alpha-emitting isotopes yas considered. The two techniques are
lung lavage and aerosolized ch ing agents, particularly DTPA.

A tour of Bldg. 7h followéd” lunch, Three of the visitors are biologists--
_Drs. Moskalev and Nénot are physicians, and Dr. Masse is a veterinarian --

ith animal experiments or the interpretation of the results
of animal experiments. They were much interested in how one achieved

and managed a "biologically clean" rodent colony, in the minimum mainte-
D nance rabbit rooms, and the cage-washing facilities. There was some

 

discussion about the 90-Sr-injected monkeys, ther@ exposure levels, years
of follow-up, and the essential absence of biological effects at the
dose levels in the study.

¢
A two-hour general discussion between and among the four guests and Dr.
Durbin followed the building tour, The chief topics discussed were how
to explain the observed differences in the metabolism of the transuranic
elements among species, The usefulness and verifiability of models of
human Pu metabolism were considered at great length. New areas of re~
search in internal emitters problems were considered including the influ-
ence of age on local dose and ultimate biological end-points; the useful-
ness of common experiments with various species particularly those with
known variations in iron metabolism, bone formation rates and liver func-
tion.
