14-0000

 

nye
{

 

 

yo * RETURATO ©
SECRET Background Use Only

De Not Reproduce

4, Those employees referred to are a Mr. Herman
Edward KIMSEY who was released 20 September, x his
ces were declared no longer required and
ho was terminated on 12 July 1962 for the same

 

reason.

5, In seeking the assistance of your office, you will
also find attached in individually named envelopes available -
handwriting specimens of Mr. KIMSEY and Mr It
would be appreciated if these persons handwriting would be?F ©
compared with the handwritten notation addressed to Mr. HELMS.
it is of course realized that such an analysis based on the little
comparative material available will prove to be difficult but your
efforts and evaluations will be appreciated. SS ~

6. Since the attached handwriting specimens are origi- |
nals from Security and Personnel files, we would appreciate upon

completion of your need for them that they be returned to this
Oifice. .

Paul F. Gaynor

IRM/ px

-2-

 

~ SECRET...

 
 

104-10250-10088

 

SECRET : - RETUANTO CIA
iu | Background Use Only

» Do Net Reproducs
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, TSD/DD/P 3 Auguat 1965
ATTENTION : Authentication Branch

Mr. Jan Beck

VIA : Security Officer
FROM : Ghief, Security Research Staff/OS \¢ ms
SUBJECT : Unknown Subject

Author of Anonymous Letter

1. Recently the attached anonymous letter was received

lost. Mr. HELMS' secretary who has had occasion to observe
other such questionable correspondence directed to Mr. HELMS

in the past, thought it a matter for the Office of Security to investi-
gate and if possible through specialized personnel of the Technical
Services Division, attempt to analyse the handwriting as a means
of possibly identifying the author.

2. This suggestion is of course quite valid, consequently
after conducting certain research and discussing the matter with
the Special Activities Stafi/Office of Personnel, two “Surplus
Employees” (701's) were considered aa possibilities as the author
of the aforementioned anonymous lIetter.

3, However, in all fairness it ia to be emphasized that
such tentative consideration is at this time based on purely cir-
cumstantial and coincidental factors--namely in the first instance
that one individual was, according to the Special Activities Staff,
an applicant for the Peace Corps about a year ago, and in the
second instance that the other individual had in August 1964 used
the game identifying title as that appearing on the bottom of the
attachment, ,

GROUP 4
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
éeclassifiestion

SECRET.

 

Sy

ra

oud F
ef}

~: by: the Deputy Director; Mr.. HELMS.--Unfortunately the envelope, > ---:
‘which presumably the letter was delivered in waa destroyed or

 
