SECRET
we *
Electronic take from surveillance operations is an area
that TSG does not get involved in. TSG's function is to
assist the station with the mounting of a techni
operation, maintain the equipment, train station
personnel on the use of the equipment, and remove the
equipment when the operation is terminated. Once an a
eperation is in-place, up and running, the.gtation” is
responsible for handling the take, including transcription,
production or reports, erasing of tapes for re-use, or
destruction of tapes (once they are too older for re-use).

3. How can be verify that what exists in the Sequestered
Collection represents all records of the technical
production of the Mexico City Station during the period 6f
Oswald's visit that was available at the time of the

assassination?

nad

Again, TSG would have no idea as to the amount of
production from an operation. Due to compartmentation
reasons, TSG officers are usually not in the
production/intelligence dissemination chain.

4. What records of technical and electronic (including
photographic) surveillance activities would have been sent
to TSG? Are all technical and surveillance activity logs.
referred to TSG? If not, then what organization element
would be responsible for storing these logs?

TSG maintains its own record of operational activity,
as monitored by cable traffic originated by TSG officers in
the field. This cable traffic only covers the big picture
though: who, what, when, where, how as related to the
overall operation. They day-to-day specifics of operational ©
activity is not something that the TSG officer becomes
involved in. Those day-to-day records are kept for the.
benefit of the station and the officers producing the
intelligence reports. They would have resided with the
station. : :

5. Who other than TSD would have had access to the raw
traffic collected from the surveillance targeting the Cuban
and Soviet installations in Mexico City in the 1963-1964
time frame?

TSG would probably not have had access to the raw
traffic collected form one of these operations, unless the
station had asked that one of our officers assist in manning
the surveillance equipment on a temporary basis, due to the
importance of the intelligence being collected. Even so,
once the information is collected, ‘either photo or audio
tape, the station immediately takes possession of the raw
traffic and processes it for intelligence. Those elements
that then might have access to the raw traffic, would be

SECRET
SECRET

e* :
station transcribers, case officers, and reports officers,

as well as their counterparts at Headquarters.
HTLINGUAL

1. What kinds of records might the DS&T maintain on the,
HTLINGUAL project? How could those records be queried?

If DS&T were to have records on the HTLINGUAL project,
they would search the appropriate offices in the DS&T under
that term. : :

Castro Assassination Plots

 

e

1. What kinds of records would TSD or other offices of DS&T
have maintained on the various Castro assassination plots?
How might a search query be framed to isolate these Fecords?
“ i

In the case of TSG, they only maintain records on their
operational activities, that of audio, visual, and telephone
surveillance. The existence of records, as stated in the
answer to question 1 under Surveillance Records, would be
the same for this response. If the records of this nature
exist, according to the previous criteria, then they would
also be retired to the Records Center. A search query would
be created using terms, such as, “Castro,” or
“assassination,” or any other related operational term.
This same search criteria would more than likely be used to
search in other DS&T offices that would maintain such

records.

SECRET
13-00000

1.. What kinds of records might the DS&T maintain on the HTLINGUAL project? How
could these records be queried?
Castro Assassination Plots

1. What kinds of records would TSD or other offices of DS&T have maintained on the
‘various Castro assassination plots? How might.a search query be framed to isolate.
these records?

-
104-10333-10007

 

CLASSIFIED FAX
TRANSMISSION -

 

202-724-0088

To: Barry Harrelson Date; March 31, 1997

Fax#: 703-613-3060 Pages: 17, including this Cover sheet,
From: Michelle Combs :

Subject: DS&T and DO Briefing Questions

COMMENTS:

Barry, ~

Attached are the final versions of the DS&T and DO briefing questions, There are no changes in .
the DS&T questions. Questions have been added to the DO list to reflect our conversation
March 19 and 20. You, of course, already have our detailed explanations for the earlier DO
questions. If you have any questions or if there are any problems, please give me acall. I should
be in all day. See you tomorrow.

Michelle

 
SECRET

DS&T Briefing - 1 April 1997.
for : r
JFK Commission

U-2

1. What records still exist of the early U-2 project which
have not yet been declassified?

At the Agency Records Center, we have approximately

1,407 folders that we can identify as having the term U-2.
‘ i

2. In the attached excerpt from the book Skunkworks, the
authors Ben Rich and Leo Janos refer to Lockheed's
preparation of four sets of falsified U-2 technical manuals
at the direction of Richard Bigsell of the CIA. Is there
any record of what happened to the manuals? If an operation
was designed around the false manuals, which office would
have run the operation? - What records might exist in the
DS&T of what happened to the false manuals?

There is no record that I am aware of. that would tell
us what happened to the manuals.

The Office of Special Projects was the office in the
DS&T responsible for the U-2 Program. Since this office no
longer exists, all those records are under my purview and
fall organizationally under the O/DS&T front office.

To answer the last question under number 2, I will
first give you a little background on our recordkeeping
practices..in the DS&T. When records serve their useful

    

CL BY: (05245
CL REASON: 1. Bic)
. DECL ON: X1
DRV FROM: Multiple Sources

purpose, they are retired to the Agency Records Center as
either permanent or temporary records as dictated by our
DS&T Records Control Schedule. This control schedule, which
has been approved by the National Archives and Records
Administration and had its last major update in 1984,
identifies record series in the DS&T and determines how long
they need to be kept. Component records custodians with the

SECRET
SECRET

eo!
approval of the Information Management Officer will retire
those records under the appropriate schedule item. We
currently have a system that identifies all folders
contained in a box that is retired to the Records Center.

It is an inventory, if you will, of the folders contained in

‘the box. Unfortunately, over the years, we have not done a

good job of labeling the folders to properly describe the
contents of the folder. We are also restricted to 140
characters for the folder description. For example, if we
were to look for specific records pertaining to the U-2
falsified manuals, we in all probability would not be
successful in finding a folder that clearly reflected this
information. To definitively find out if such manuals
existed, we would literally have to request from the Records
Center all the folders identified as U-2 and do an “eyeball”
search of every record contained in each of the 1,407
folders. roo

Surveillance Records

1. We have been working to identify all technical and
surveillance operations in and on the Cuban and Soviet
consulates and embassies in Mexico City between September 1
and December 1, 1963. How can we- frame a search query to
determine if we have a comprehensive and complete list of
all operations at that time? . .

The Technical Surveillance Group (TSG) of CITO
(Clandestine Information Technology Office), formerly of OTS
(Office of Technical Services), has an electronic database
of summarized records of operations conducted by TSG
officers, but it only dates back to circa 1970. Other than
that, TSG keeps a hardcopy file records of operations that
are either still active, or that are no longer active.but
still have technical equipmentsin:place. For example, if
TSG concealed a device in awa but was unable to retrieve
theywwottld rétain.a record
of that device for accountability purposes. Other than
that, TSG would not have any records of operations from that
timeframe. If records of this nature exist, according to
the above criteria, they would have been sent to the Records
Center... The process to retrieve these records would be the
same as I have described under the U-2 topic.

    
 

2. How can a search query be framed to document all
electronic take produced by the Mexico City Station in the
immediate wake of the assassination (the first month) and
during the period of Oswald's visit? If additional records
or original production still exists, where would it be
stored or filed? What searches could be conducted to
retrieve any additional records? If such electronic take
has been destroyed, do records exist of the destruction?

SECRET
