 

 

  
  
   
    
       
   
 
   
 
     
    
 
   
    
    
 
    
   
 
    
   
 
   
   
    
 
    
    
     
 

    

_.3 January 1962
"- SR/CT 12 Report #11

   

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

 

o SUBJECT: . Statement Prepared by AELADLE

Tha following statement was dictated by AELADLE on 27 December
1961. Due to technical difficulties, the trenecription of his
statemant ie incomplete. . :

 

"As it is known to you, my decision to go over to the
et waa made by me practically since back in 1955. There-
fore, since that time I have studied the entire activity
‘of ail the Soviet (intelligence) organs, life in the Soviet
‘Union from thia standpoint or from this angle. I try to
think of hov, in the future, when. I would go over to the West,
“bow I cculd help the West ip the organizing of the cold war
‘Sgninst the Soviet Union, against the regime that exists in
the Soviet Union and the other countries behind the Iron
‘Curtain. Therefore all these queetions vere thought out by me
very carefully in @ histerical plane, a political plane, an

ntelligence plane, and a counterintelligence plane. Now
hat this step has already been taken by me, I have been ex-
pecting thet your important people, people of authority in
your authoritative organizations, the most authoritative in
the country, will give du: consideration to my proposals and

‘myself. { have been expecting that right from the beginning
‘this whole thing will. be considered political haste. The
Jeaders of your country, after they become convinced that I
made thie atep on the basie of most aincere convictions and
‘this I have proven by, for example, by giving all the information
concerning Finland,--I thovght that after that it will be
of great interest to leaders of your country to hear me out
on the basic questions concerning things that are taking
_ Place in the Soviet Union, on questions which represent the
threat to the Western Gountries from the Soviet Union cad
other countries behind the Iron Curtain. On these subjects
.wWhich 7 peraonaily may be of help ia the future, I thought
that this case would be of great interest to the President.

  

 
 

 

 

   

 

           

 

 

 
 

1160-10146 . 3

 

Fal UNCLASSIFIED =) IHTERNAL OD CONFIDENTIAL, «= Secret i
LI CONFIDENT!

2QUTING AND RECORD SHEE)

    

       
 

    

    

bea atin istnatie”

 

 

5
4

  
   

 
 

inTERHAL

Ty CONFIDENTIAL Owe eat

 

   

 
 

‘Sloe sai,

  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
  
 

LZ Report #11 Continued Page 2 : «

j
i
4
i
i

thought that the most serious attention will be given to this
whole affair. I thought that right after the step that I took,
they would hold a seeting of the National Security Council,
during whieh I would te able to report to the members of this
Council on all the political and other activities. I expected
that I would be given the possibility of appearing before :he
Hational Security Council, and to report to the organ which is
concerned with the security of the U. S. A., what 1a being done
along the line of intelligence, at least of intelligence against a
the United States and other democrasic ‘countries, in order that
the people responsible for the security of the United States
would at last understand what a great danger the Soviet Union
represents; the great danger that the Soviet Union represents
to the United States and to the West as a whole because T oa
certain, that vha. I imov, what T could report is of great

| Guterest as far as the organization, the measures that have to
be token and the struggle against this danger are concerned.

’ Secomily, I thought that ay defection to the West, uy plans

’ eoncerning sy help to the West in organizing 4 struggle agsins*

the Soviet systea, against Soviet Intelligence, against the

Boviet Police, would be of great interest tu other democratic

eountries such as England, France, West Germany and Others. I

thought that the President would find it possible to invite

for a short counsel, the heads of governments of other demo-...

eratic countries, so tiat I vould also be able to report to all

| Of them on what is being done by the Soviet Union against these

countries, as well as against the West as a whole, because I

_. know that on the basia of my report, it would be pogaible to

aa take more effective and important counter-measure

 

 

   
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
      
     

   

 
 

. BD ree : —-
~ \WO riginal (Record Copy }-7D File #74-6-496/4 (LZ Report Chrono)
he Chief, SR
OL + Chief, Cr
2 - be/cz

1 - cr/oo/ss
:L + Chief, WE SS —

1 = Chief, SR/CT oe
1 © RID File #74-6-496/3 (AELADLE Operations ) reD

1.» 202-294,855 (AELADLE) pr bet?

REPORT BASED ON: AELADLE Tepe #6, Part II, 27 December 1961.

: sone -AVRAT.

 

     
