 

 

 

ae TARRY was. |
hed amole cppertity to do so because of'tha vey in witch the Trudovaks

a Bish Ses ae

3 te ‘the. are tastasd of te Greece Ptoet zeh dad ‘feet
c y agadriat LAZAR, ant also.

apa $3 me noceabary
pak cverd ey eerie cits i

| Eee Oey be menld}enace tsi

Party.

 

cipposed 6 %o » deliver hd ilovales to tha ‘police, he certainty

wasdsred abort... The manna’ fia whic); the Ploviiv police handled the KILCLOY
brothers te quagtdouahle, since ths polios had not only eapiciong but
evidence eautuat them, Rover, iby Cid-mot help the police catch the
deserters een thoagh they @epdd have cine go easily, The trudoraxs and

"the PELTINCY teotbare could aardiy by seapented of any Fock lars:
  

oe

 

        

uring: tha: aight of 8 tay Peter % 801 ‘hdd tive daserters in a. hiding -

place ‘near. the ‘village - of Markeve., Ke cave then rifles, amemition. :

(ailegediy. obteined-from sympatt: etic sol idfjers in Plowiiv), and sowe food.
The Colds dey, 9 May? ‘enous : ‘weahor of “underground in tne village of

- Markovophi vay Todoror “stofavows! ‘irrsited them and showed. taer how to operate,
the weepons they hed received. Tne sams dey the Tradovaks ware taken by

Petar KIKGLOV te a place ealled Qola dogile which fe in tne mountains avout

twenty Kilometers gouth of Markova: Waiting for shen there were Vasil

: LAZARGY axet : ‘hig wife, Marta. ola vogtla was mrposed to te the fineh-

‘hiding vlece Until their-devarture to Oreede, Until his arrest, ial -

“ NIRCLOV wae providing tne grogp witn food. Aten WIKGLCY ts errest, the
“Etoup was given food, very irroculacly, wy Boris PELISKOW,

 
 
 
 
  

      

Vasil LAZAKOV and bie wife trie! alk dey 10 kay to persuade te trutevare
to join the. Gorgant beeaues there was no fuide avaliable wo take then to
Oresca. The Trudovaks ratusad the aagzeation auphatioally and insisted .
that they wanted to flee to dreote caly. LAZAROC Lait thea with tho

. prowise thet he would find a way 16 argantee the Seeape ant that he and
Ms wife would join thats . .

. "42. Bor several days the frudovaks were Lott at dole Yogtla withcut ant
“4 contact arvi without food, Thay lost confidunce in LAMRCT and decided
oe te g0 ‘te Markovo and Plowiiv to Sind Stevan PELTCROV's ‘father and uncle.
“'"". Qa Lh May they mat Borde PElTcx0V in Plowliv..’ PELTSKCY. told: them to

“ . yeturn iemedfately to.Gala Nogile sa} he would bring then soze food the

next dey. ‘The following dey Boris brought then food. ;

On 8d ty fven NIRCLOY brought a guide,’ Cater nirovFite Sola a Mogtte

whe was eupposed to take the Trujovaka ths following nigh: ta urbe

, Corjani. The Trudovake, now having a guide to. tace thar te jreeeu and.

8 ‘being uosble to remein alone in Cola Uoyile, agrewd to join tne Carjaai.
+... The next night ne exide casa, and tha Trudovaks later learned that be

. had been arrested, The Trudevaks ware now desperete, and they wanterad

 

 

 

 

 

ap nemo payer roman re 1 metre PIP tern eT
be
we
°

 
  

BSG
SSN

 

ARE +

eer ee

sep

 

 

Ue

 

 

“4s.

 

 

 

It

 

MW.

a ELiser GITELY Bad Petar WIXGLLY wes a natural omanqrence. of the tererropt

 
 
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
   

 

wey cor, ge te %
about between Gols Rothe pov: ond Narkeve ‘Li

walt fora guide. 7
wife was arrested. .
PELTALOV who’ ‘wias ted toen et ‘Ge, a
tien assed the tak of Firing 6 cope: te: take ts
drewce or we the Gor jane

 

 

    

PELTEVOY cane end told ‘thea, thet ner sould: hide *
a while. Toay thes wont. to Iva NRG S thosig’ 43

 

| ternad 4 Tanedi otaly: to Goda Vogila, whi
Branipole te alert Petur anf Boris i hth ‘

‘hs 0 result of their ainlese yandering about ,: -eareleasly exfsetne ‘then~
pelven to the sight of many persond, orvans wi thou? A.
in Plovd4y would have became rasnfigous.
probably received a requset free the ‘Trudotak wast
Tneretord thy arrest 6f Varil LAZAROY. was very netur:

tion of LAZANCY. Ca 22 May Ivan RLEOLOV was arrdéated because of tha

Trudevaks tt ne was able to free himself the sane day. After two days .
in jel, Petar WIKGLOY atsitted his samsection with the Trudovaxa ae bo!
agreed: to turn the Thudcvels over to the poriee.
th hie the ti,

“Of tas plot / .
ta 8 dune Ivan smd Pobur KIAGLOT Joined’ the tredevake at Sola Mgila 2 and
decided to thee to Orerce thaaeelsa, sincs there was.ne suide to take
these to Gorgand. Phoy told tho trudoveke: that. they. ad, varned. Anza |
HRISTOZOY and other sentars of the organtsation, Gut that thay hed
refused to flees, hoping thet they conid put: the Glane for: ovary thing. -
os the HIKGLG¥ teoteers. The NIKULOT brothers felt’ ‘that dt was now tine
to pareusde Petur and Borie PELTEKCY, who vane aleo under auapieton, to
Join tae esonpee © .

 
  

  

     

 

On 9 Sime Borla PELYEKC? brought food” to dole Megila and stated that-Petur
PELTAEOW did not ccasidar the satier too serious. Therefore, Stevan
PELTEROY decided te go for his fatrer the sane day, but ho was unable

to reach him because of tho kilitia. Tha next day, 1C Jume, Sorts weat
to Brenipole and browght his brother back to Gola Moglla. |

 

Ca li Fone the atole grows, consisting of the three Prudevass, the tro
Cie

   

WLRULC? brotnars, and ube two PELTOMOV beethera, warts) sorart or
They peeead tmwaugh the vilieges of Chepelare, Stoikits, aud saclea.
“After they, left Cheoelare: they did not knew toe terrain very well, and
Shap lost much tine because of this. 1 19 Jame they creased the border
inte Greson, and oa a ane, wosy surrendered tea Greek suthordties.

 

  
Mal

tat

‘Aitchest = Kecape of Seven

bulgarian Refugess

 

 

   

 
 
  

“teeta
   
 
 
 

CLASSIFICATION |

  
 
 

 

+ chief, FDP 27, 5-16
hief af Station, Athens

Background Use Only
. Do Not Reprod

   

     
  
 

   
 

SUBJECT: Genera. Operational
sracime- Escape of Seven -Fuigerian ieeftigves

Reference -frifuom. 5 se, SRL, 5309, 308

   
    

.. Attached herewith ie the combined explanation EP -schrects! activi es.
ol Se pea to their es te Gresce. The. ten were intivicwally interzocat
by (vase) and 13] lorder.to get an -organised resort oc their activi
heir individual stetewents against eae: cther if an effo
to ted oe 4f ony of the, dirdividuals say be. Selgarian agent. They
wera also interrcegated to ascertain their faturme ogagible esératianal oo

use. The report waa prepared bv: mazaen. Their todivi tual” reoarte wtil

. be pouched shortly.

2. Tt should be noticed thet there avvear to be several diiegal rows in
the sounteina arown! the Plovdiv area,ineluding’a so-<s.ie! Sorwar
Group"; hewover, none of this information has Seen cucfirmed teus Car.

    
  

 
 
 
 
   
 
 

     
    

3. While several arrests have ‘resulted from mubtectat escape, it.har aot
', been ascertained whether any of the arrested sergors Rave been Srisarlan
3.3. aeenta, nor has it been ascertained as vat etether any al tne, above

men are also Bulgarian 1.3. ayents.

 

 

  

ts The three Paltwkov bedies and the two Nikoley bodies *ave eqimusc! a. :
willingness to undertake inissions into Fuigarda. Shetr Pia ve on, Se
forwarded to headquartera for wnat reason. In orwer to properly avaluate 5

; I , their operational potentials, and to formulate crerstioaal lana, plus
- a ‘ prevunting them frogs getting contazinsted in te layrion Cann, it °3 :
wo 7 requeated that thay be put in cafehouses where Sher can be proper.y }
= hantled, bearing in aind the views presented in tre sreceding cara Taphs. 24
7 In the aantine the bodies will be Individually evalvated al avery an

effort will ba mada to plok : up any additional informerton tearine un’:
tne security factor. . :

 

RAPOK

CLASSIFICATION . . os

news, are

aries 91-28

oe

 

Gf
    

  

 

   
 

.

Siete ae acaba ent

 

   

“he

+ SUED:

 

Secape of Seven Pulgarian Refugees

   

‘the’ f Mewtog seven Pulgirtan refugees arrived iin Jreece a cuna- sue

& Potur jermcer Se. ve Stevan PaLTEKOY
veh NIRCION Gd. e Zdtravko DAUSANOR CL”

™ peter PRLTEMDV $2 ‘Spas ;
“Rorke PTO

fter st the Greek report and the ‘report’ of © oar xavalna ‘sub-station
Maa-b78), it-wes decided. to {ntarrogate all “seven of the refuzess

 

 

 

nike the etaty easter to underetant, the ofr pernenn mar be atid
ate thres greupay . ,

* ‘hres trudovska. who wanted to escape to. drosoe Stafen PRLZKO7,
adravko DALIAN, and Suas RATSIN.

 

eran

_ be, Iwan NIKCLO¥ and Petar Wiolov, mezbere of an alleged anti-—Coomntat

group iy the Mlovdiv area which helped the Trudovaks to eacae.

és Petar PELTEXOV and Roris -fLTEXOV, the father and unle resvectively

ef Stevan PELTIY OY, who servel ag interseliaries between the Trud: Vane
and the anti-Communist organisation in order te arrange: the oseacs

bad to feo theaselves in orttar to avoid arrest.

 

RALEIN and DAZJANOV, two close ettends from the Plovdiv area servins, an

- the same Trudovak unit in Eeaner. ‘decided. to desert and escape to Turkey,

the nezrost non-Commmiat country. In March 1951 tae to Trudi vaca wore
transferred to a Trudovak unti im Baleik, where they Secame friendly witr

ane tier Tredovak, Stevan PSITSAOV. PeLTEROVY wanted to’ ascane to irasce,.

   

 

Y was sure that ha could get the asaistance of his father, vst.r
Vy a farmar in Branipule, andv¥asil LAZAROVpLoLs Qrother-in-las,
whe WES & NoN~cawissioned officer in the ¥ Infantry Regisent bn rlovaty.

“nee RATKTN snd DAISANOY were unable to organize a eafe escape to Turkey,

they decided to Join PELTEAGY in his Plight to Greece.

Sinoe the winter of LOK) Stavan PZLTEXOY had been urging his father te
help nin to escape to drascte. cetur PLL TP<OV then
& nonecomalegtored officer whose wife isfRarla PELTENOW, the stater of

Stevan, LAZARCY agroad to {19 amt made contact with Stevan in order *.

 
 

   

KAPOK .

"REFERENCE: POA~A-S310j My $309, vm . .

again "padi vidua Lay with the help of JASP and OASP/B to check their aturivs,
analyze thedr accusations, end to dateralne their operational posathiiities, .

 

tie Trodovaka, fsey Yecase 80 involved arranging the Sligh? that ite

Pogshad Vasil tata sf.

   
   
 
   
       
       
   
  
      
         
      
   
  
 

 

 

 

 
   
   

Meter eros 7 kar Ws a

 
 

athe three Tradkevats: B
wvit. ‘They traveled-on foot t. 4 ;
ney arrived in Heriiv on Th gr without iacalont..

tw Bev th Re

 
 
 

  
       
 

fore. on e ay the. Trudovaks wnt to Plovdiv te see TATARS
trip the Prudoveks net Boris ..LTeRCY, Stevan PELTEKOT+a uncl
rafovans, accompanied by [ACACV, -his wife, Matia, and Zoris
left Plowdiv immediately and iront toward a. safer biding placa
villece of Uerkovo. This’ sam: day they cane “in contact wi!
anti-Coummniat.crganisation, asd from the contact many xi eurieratasds
arcua which led to nunergus: arreotey ant to many chanzee in the pacave

plan. . Bo,

According to statements of Pett and Tyan NIYCLov, there’ is at seast 4
miuifoentary antl-Comudist on antgation in axtetence tr the blawiv ares. at
fhe UICOIOV brothers sere initfated Into the organieation in i
by onesAngel KRISTIE Cle Larner, to is allegediy the neat of
orgarnt ‘pation in tae village of Karkovo, Plovéiy district. There ware
‘otatler erovups to othur-villaxes. The villaze | groups received .the ir
ordars from the distriet hesdc.eartars in Plovdly. | Onetbghe ¢
apparently plays en important roze in the! ‘Plovdiv. organizati

ig authority extended over tho Markovo’ village group. caatedt!
the Pievaly headquarters and Larkavo eas. natntatned Ay Angel o
Angal UPfSTCE6T. Vasll DAGANCY was also‘a sember of tre Plewdiv
apite of ats proCoramnist pact. LAZANY was probably to jest:
anti-Communist orgentsation in tha § Infantry depiment, if that un . .
an organization. The organization is allegedly in comtact with coz -
furkis: service, ; . Ss . . :

 
 
    
 

 
       
    
   

   
 
 

  
 
   
  

 
 
   

     

 
 
  
 
 
 
   
  

   

 

In the nountains in the Plowltv aes there ware several crouse of rebels -
called Gorjani. There are smposed to be £1 to 306 Gorfsant in tie woe
Lestensko Yountains. They allecedly fiad acsiash with recine foreaa we mo,
daria, the alyht of 29-20 Ber 2-51, Another croup of four 4 : ‘
a cisgh with pelico in tis rercinundovo viliace area. In &
there wert casveitiea on both cides. Those *corjani® Bru wilecmdty i
ase under the anti-Comaurist orgeniastion (whicn may te cal Nove
Republika). Gontact with tie group in the mentains is maintained ty
Hrietosoy and#iliey Jouaow Linu), a sccdeutter from the villece cf Taver,
Fiovéiv diatrist. a . : aa

  

      

. ARK
