13-00000

<txt>It was probably at that time that everything was put in

Place. If you look at Oswald’s apartment from the street, then
it is obvious that the balcony of the apartment one story higher
is many times smaller than the balcony of Oswald’s apartment.
Consequently even a child could climb down into the American’s
home, much less the KGB. So most likely everything. that Oswald
said and did in his leisure time was recorded or at least
carefully listened to. -

<txtdIn addition to the surveillance, the bugging and agents’
reports, the KGB made good use of various “plants,” as
counterintelligence agents call them.

<txt>For example, judging from certain hints, the dossier
contains a large number of documents filed in the course of work
on the scenario that Oswald was possibly seeking contacts with
people who had access to classified information. It is likely
that he was repeatedly put in contact with people who allegedly
possessed confidential information and was observed.to gauge his
reaction. On another occasion someone tried to engage him in:

‘anti-Soviet conversations. But according to his acquaintances

Oswald rarely made that sort of disclosure. All in all he
remained very aloof while living in the USSR, and his friends
generally tried not to take any interest in the American’s past
or his plans for the future.

<txt>Simultaneously the KGB attempted to determine Oswald’s
attitude toward works by the founders of Marxism. According to
some sources it was noted that the American not only had no
interest in political self-improvement, but also generally
shirked things like the frequent trade union meetings and mass
cultural events. That evidently aroused further suspicion,
because when he requested citizenship Oswald claimed that he was
a communist to the core... ;

<txt>Naturally the KGB attempted to carry out all these
undertakings as unnoticed as possible. Yet Oswald’s friends and
acquaintances are convinced that he was well aware that he was
under surveillance.

<txt>The American’s upstairs neighbors -- Semen Samuilovich and

‘Mayya Abramovna Gertsovich -- recall that Lee Harvey (Alik, as

they called him) and his wife Marina Prusakova warned them and
asked them to be more careful.

<txt)> "Marina once said to me something like ‘don’t socialize
with us -- that could cause unpleasantness’," recalls Mayya
Gertsovich. .

<txtoErnst Titovets, a close friend of Oswald’s in Minsk who is
today a professor and a department head at the Belarusan
Scientific Research Institute for Neurology, Neurosurgery and
Physical Therapy, says that Lee Harvey clearly sensed (and
perhaps actually knew?) that every step he took in the USSR and
his life after his return to the United States would be
carefully scrutinized later. For example, there is a curious
detail in the Soviet diary allegedly kept by Oswald in the USSR
and later published in the West, a diary that he is presumed to
have written after his return to the United States. The American

é
13-00000

describes Titovets as an active Komsomol member. The professor
Says that may well be, but that he was never particularly noted
for his Komsomol activism, and that Oswald was well aware of
that. Most likely, Titovets feels, that sentence was written in
erder to protect his friend in Minsk (if the fact that he kept a
diary became known in the USSR), who could have been-compromised
in the eyes of the Soviet authorities by his friendship with a
foreigner.

(txt But the most interesting thing is that Oswald was not
actually overly fond of those authorities, despite all his
claims to the contrary. In any event, when he left for America
in June 1962 he handed his neighbor Mayya Gertsovich the
following text in the stairwell of their building:

<txt>"Build communism by yourselves! You do not even know how to
smile Like human beings here!” :

<txXt>The real builders of communism were in fact not smiling,
but~rather trying very seriously to determine for what purposes
the American Lee Harvey Oswald came to the USSR.

‘<txt>Today one can draw the following conclusions:

<txt>1. The "Likhoy" described in the dossier did not carry out
any intelligence assignments for foreign intelligence agencies
and was not of any interest to the KGB.

<txt>2. Likewise, KGB representatives flatly deny that he was
ever recruited to work for Soviet intelligence. Since there is -
absolutely no way to confirm that at the present time, there is

only one fact in support of that statement: the relatively large’

size of the dossier compiled on Oswald. According to experts six
volumes is too much for a person who had been recruited by the
KGB. In such cases all that would be compiled would. be one thin,
top secret: folder...

<txt>But in order to arrive at the first conclusion the KGB
spent years watching relentlessly. Day after day the committee
shadowed every step by the American, who incidentally led a very
socialist life style... . ;

¢h3> (11 Aug p 3) ¢/h3> ;

<txt> [Text] -

€h3>III. A Metalworker’s Job for a Metalworker(/h3)> -
<txtWhile the KGB was filling its fat folders Oswald led a
normal Soviet life.

<txtdIn January 1960 the American citizen, after receiving
permission to reside in Minsk, got his first job -- helping to
build the first workers’ and peasants’ state in the world. In
view of his past -- as a U.S. Marine he was stationed at various
bases and serviced communications equipment -- the authorities
assigned Oswald to the Gorizont Radio Plant as a metalworker
with the lowest salary of all -- R761 [rubles] per month (Cin
very old rubles). Plus a 40-percent progressive piece-rate wage.
<txt>Researchers have always been puzzled by the choice of that
Particular job. The problem is that Shop Number 25, where Oswald
was handed a file, hammer, nails and other tools, was called an
“experimental” shop and until just recently was considered a
restricted area. By no means everybody who worked at the plant

7
13-00000

(apparently a plan on the name Lee Harvey) and set to work on
his case painstakingly and diligently. According to a
high-ranking counterintelligence officer, only one or two people
in the republic KGB had full information about the operation.
Several teams were set up, with none of them knowing what the
others were doing. According to some sources the Oswald case
involved up to 20 agents recruited by the KGB.

<txt>You can get an idea of how those agents were hired from the
recollections of one of Oswald’s closest friends in the USSR:
Pavel Golovachev. He worked with the American in an experimental
shop at the Gorizont Radio Plant in Minsk, where Oswald had been
assigned to work as a metalworker at the lowest skills level.
<txt>In January 1960, literally about two weeks after Golovachev
made the acquaintance of the foreigner who had unexpectedly
appeared in his shop, he met a man in street clothes outside his
building who showed identification as KGB agent Aleksandr
FedSrovich Kostyukov. At his home 18-year-old Pasha Gelovachev
was shown photographs of some people that the agent called —
criminals and was told that it was not good to deal on the black
market since he was the son of the pilot Pavel Golovachev, who
had been twice awarded the Hero of the Soviet Union medal.
Obviously the KGB was counting on the sheer mass of the
information to intimidate Pasha and make an informer out of him
by “clipping his wings." Finally it was proposed that Golovachev
meet with certain people several times a week and tell them
everything about Oswald.

<txt>Pavel Golovachev will not say whether he agreed to work for
the KGB, but judging by what he say it is clear that he has no
great love for that organization today, to put it mildly. In
1963, when Oswald was killed while being transferred to jail,
Golovachev wrote a letter to Lee Harvey’s widow in America ~~
Marina Prusakova -- expressing his condolences. Subsequently he
was visited at home by KGB agents, who seized-all photographs of
Oswald and his wife, along with letters that Oswald sent to
Minsk after returning to the United States. Then Golovachev was
taken to KGB headquarters, where according to him he -was first
threatened with prison and then advised to keep a low-profile
and not say too much. Before, they let him go they for some
reason forced him to write a request to the Main Post Office
asking for his letter back, even though it was long since in the
hands of the KGB.

<txt>Then Pavel Golovachev was allowed to go home. He assumes
that all letters from Oswald addressed to him as well as the
negatives of the photographs which have become famous around the
world and were.included in the Warren Commission’s report are
still in the KGB archives.

<txt>Judging by what other friends of Oswald have said, the KGB
dossier must contain stacks of transcripts from the bugging of
Lee Harvey’s apartment in Minsk. It has been suggested that the
apartment was absolutely full of bugging equipment. Some sources
in Minsk claim that once the KGB “asked” Oswald’s neighbors who
lived in the apartment directly above him to leave for two days.

5
13-00000

USSR on 21 October.
<txt>On 21 October, at 2:45 pm, U.S. citizen Lee Harvey Oswald

opened the veins in his left arm as a sign of protest against

his treatment by Soviet authorities. He was taken to Botkinskaya
Hospital and his arm sewn up. A note written in English was
found on the table in his hotel room. It read: "Did EF come here
just to find death? I love life."

<txt>This life-loving foreigner was so peculiar that he
petitioned the USSR Supreme Soviet several more times, asking
that it grant him political asylum, would under no circumstances
leave the USSR, and on 31 October 1959 made a scene at the U.S.
Embassy, where he allegedly publicly renounced his American
citizenship and went so far. as to toss his passport onto the
ambassador ’s desk.

<txtdOne would assume that if American intelligence services
encountered a Soviet citizen in the same situation they would
definitely.resort‘to either a concealed or a direct...
interrogation. The KGB claims we did not do so. Why not? We —

probably had our own methods. The request by Oswald, who was

clever enough to attempt suicide to gain the attention of the
USSR’s leaders, was finally granted. Anastas Mikoyan personally
gave orders to consider very carefully the American’s request
for political asylum in a country for which, to all appearances,
he felt a great love.

<txtIn November 1959 this troublesome individual was granted
the right to live in the USSR temporarily, with a. residence in
Minsk, a city where the KGB was obviously counting on being able
to observe the American in calm surroundings. At least it was a
long way from the embassy, and he would associate mainly with
Soviets. If he did make any espionage contacts they would be
more obvious. in Minsk.

<txtdAccording to information from Belarusan counterintelligence
personnel, that was in fact the main suspicion in regard to the
American -~ that he was working for foreign intelligence .
agencies. The KGB’s main effort to answer this question focused
on the dossier, which subsequently grew quite fat. The -dossier
was marked “Case for agent processing." It is said that that is
a term previously used in counter intelligence to mean that the
client in. question was being “felt out" with the help of a
network of agents...

Ctxt>...In January 1960 Oswald moved to the capital of
Belorussia and Moscow handed the case over to Minsk, leaving in
the file applications from Oswald received by the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs and the USSR Supreme Soviet, a transcript of a
conservation with the doctor at Botkinskaya Hospital who sewed
up Oswald’s slashed arm and who reported to the KGB that in his
opinion the American was capable of irrational acts, reports
from the external surveillance service in which Oswald is given
the code name "“Nalim," and apparently some other initial
documents as well.

<txt>In Belorussia intelligence agents gave the new client
another code name ~~ Likhoy [Russian: “valiant” or "“dashing"]

4
13-00000

assassination was approaching, and once again the world was
talking about Oswald

<txt>On orders from Bakatin the dossier was retrieved from the
archives. And then the new KGB chief, who subsequently admitted
that he did not fully comprehend the secret might of the machine
he was directing, attempted to make the documents public. He
wanted to do so because, as he put it, he had not found anything
in the "Oswald file" that was fundamentally secret, and nothing
that the KGB would have any point in keeping a secret any more.
Of course, the names of the agents who conducted surveillance of
Oswald in the USSR should not be named. Naturally the contents
of purely personal phone calls tapped by the committee or

“intercepted personal letters should not be disclosed.

<txt>The rest of the dossier, Vadim Bakatin asserts, simply
consists of interesting historical documents which, even if they
could reveal methods of Soviet counterintelligence operations,
can only reveal methods from 30 years ago. 7
<txt>Nevertheless Bakatin’s efforts provoked incredible
resistance on the part of Lubyanka’s professionals: the KGB had
never before disclosed information on the activities of any of
its agents. A commission established within the KGB to study the
matter was virtually beyond the control of its own chief. After
several weeks of work the experts selected from the dossier only
12 insignificant documents from the dossier; these they proposed
that Bakatin make public. Judging by information in our
possession, he was extremely displeased with the results and
ordered them to go over the dossier again. This time new players
unexpectedly entered the game.

<txt>Bakatin got a call from. Belarus KGB chairman Eduard
Shirkovskiy. He requested that the “Oswald file” be sent to
Minsk for a few days so that his agency could reach-a decision:
on it.

<txt>Shirkovskiy’s claim had some justification, because there
was no question that the bulk of the dossier had been collected
by Belorussian counterintelligence agents -- Oswald spent
virtually all his time ir the USSR in Minsk. Yet aftér leaving
Moscow for only a few days the dossier did not return:..
<txt>sVery shortly thereafter Bakatin was relieved of his
position, and a majority of KGB personnel categorized all of his
reforms as treason.

<(txt>The Oswald file was re-registered. Assigned the number 226
and a stamp on each file folder stating "Not to be released
without permission of the division chief," it was put in a light
brown safe in an office in the Belarus KGB building. Now the
only people who have access to the papers are Eduard Shirkovskiy
and a few of his subordinates.

<txt>The chairman of the Belarus KGB, to give him his due, is
now making very firm statements about the possibility that the
dossier will be declassified and is not leaving any illusions on
the part of those interested in it. He has already been offered
$50 million for the "Oswald file,” yet Shirkovskiy refused
because he sees his position as a matter of principle: he will

2
13-00000

not transfer the case file anywhere outside of Minsk, and he
will make the documents public only if the Belarus Supreme
Soviet passes a special decree declassifying all KGB archival
materials on which the statute of limitations has expired.
<txt>The Oswald file, which incidentally according to
Shirkovskiy does not contain anything particularly secret, has
thus probably now become something of a symbol to the Belarusan
leadership, a symbol of new governmental thinking independent of
Moscow.

<txt>No one knows how long this will go on.

<txtHowever, what Eduard Shirkovskiy did permit during an

interview with IZVESTIYA was definitely progress. While
categorically refusing to allow interviews with KGB agents who
worked on the Oswald case, the chief of Belarusan state security
nonetheless did have the file brought out of the safe and also
agfeed.to interviews with some of his subordinates who are
thoroughly familiar with the documents. So we can thank the
chief of the Belarus KGB for his help with this investigation.
Thanks to the assistance of his subordinates we now have at
least a general idea of why Soviet intelligence services were
interested in Oswald and just how his "case" was handled.

€h3>[8 Aug p 7] <¢/h3>

<txt> [Text]

¢h3o1II. Red Trackers¢/h3>

<txt>The system for surveillance of Oswald in the USSR was to :
all appearances maintained in the spirit of the latest advances ~
in early 1960’s Soviet counterintelligence. Present-day experts
who have gone over the dossier note that at that time everything
was done very painstakingly and, most importantly, cleverly.
According to Eduard Shirkovskiy, chief of the Belarus KGB,
Oswald was under such tight surveillance that he was watched 24
hours a day. Virtually every method of gathering intelligence
information except for chemical substances and psychotropic
drugs were employed.

<txt> “Well, maybe they did drop a few tablets in his glass, but
just the kind to make him let down his guard and be a little
more talkative,” said the chief of the Belarus KGB. -

<txt>The dossier has anothey notable feature. The KGB claims
that there is not a single indication in the case file that
Oswald was ever interrogated by Soviet intelligence agents. On
the one hand that is strange because the circumstances of
Oswald’s appearance in the USSR and his subsequent behavior
should have prompted (and did in fact prompt!) the greatest
suspicion on the part of the KGB: in 1959 it was not just every
day that a tourist from America so stubbornly insisted on
political asylum.

{txt)Oswald arrived in Moscow as a tourist on 15 October 1959,
staying in Room 320 of the Berlin Hotel. The very next day he
went to the authorities to request political asylum and Soviet
citizenship -- and was almost immediately refused. It was
reported to Oswald via the hotel’s service bureau for foreigners
that his request had been denied, and that he must leave the

3
13-00000

SECRET

f. CIA IR-33 _
. Request: 1.) What.idges“FBIS do-with this citation
“EBIS-USR-92-112"? = Isird éd.and if so, .under what filing

 
 

SECRET

     

Rate tedeset
104-10336-10032

 

MEMORANDUM FOR:
FROM:
SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

CIA R -38

SECRET

9 January 1997

J. Barry Harrelson, JFK Project Officer
DS&T Information Management Officer
JFK Records

Assassination Records Review Board
Letter dtd 18 December 1997

1. This is in response to the latest inquiry from the
Assassination Records Review Board. Specifically, DS&T was.
tasked with the following items:

ch: (0524507)

CL Reason: 1.5(c)

DECL On: Sources marked OADR

Date of Sources: Oct-Dec 1963; 7 April 1975
DRV FROM: Intel Reports and Memo

SECRET
13-00000

SECRET

   
 
 

name# 2.) Is,it, recorded ina databa earch On. . d

isIE ROE NESS ae 1. Sar ¥
Oswald references? If either available i “in:
the’ ‘public domain? 3.) Are. there any current files: on

Oswald?

Results: 1.) Citation “FBIS-USR-92-112” would be
incorporated into an appropriate FBIS publication (JPRS or
FBIS Report). This particular citation also would be in
microfiche. 2.) The AFS (Automated FBIS System) would
also contain a copy of this citation; and thus, a keyword
search on “OSWALD” would be feasible. Effective June 1997,
microfiche was eliminated and replaced with a “soft” copy
contained in the AFS system. All unclassified FBIS products
are available to the public via NTIS (National Technical
Information Service.) 3.) FBIS does not keep any past or
current files on OSWALD. :

2. If you need additional explanations -on any of these
items, please call me on secure 76297.

 

 

 

 

SECRET
13-00000

 

«article num=14)
<pub>FBIS-USR-92-112
<bktype>
<region>FBIS Report: Central Eurasia

 

. <dated)2 September 1992¢/date>

<dv>RUSSIA
<sv>POLITICAL AFFAIRS
<h1>KGB Case No. 31451 on Lee Harvey Oswald</hi>

<s1)924C2102A Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 7, 8, 11, 13 Aug 92
Morning Edition, 11 Aug 92 Evening Edition

<afsnum>924C2102A

<citysre> Moscow IZVESTIYA

<lang>Russian

<sb) [Article by Sergey Mostovshchikov, IZVESTIYA correspondent:

“Case No. 31451: What Information Does the KGB Dossier on the

Man Known as the Murderer of U.S. President John Kenriedy
Contain?"]

<h3> (7 Aug p 7) </h3>

<txt> [Text] Four years before the assassination of U.S.
President Kennedy the Soviet KGB began collecting information on
an American named Lee Harvey Oswald, a young man who on 22
November 1963 was indicted for the murder that has become the
most mysterious crime of the century. The dossier compiled by
thé KGB consists of five thick volumes and a small file folder
tied together with shoelaces. The documents appear to-contain
detailed information on some rather strange years in Oswald’s~
life (October 1959 through June 1962), the period when he lived
in the USSR after requesting political asylum for reasons
unknown.

<txt>The dossier, which has lain in Soviet intelligence archives
for the past 30 years marked “No..31451," remains top secret,
with access to it virtually impossible. Howevér, state security
officers have agreed to answer some questions about the files
preserved in the archives. Furthermore, friends and
acquaintances of Oswald who are still in the former USSR.
remember many details from the life of the man whose named is
linked to the assassination.-of John Fitzgerald Kennedy.

<h3>1. Surfacing to Periscope Depth¢/h3>

<txt>The history of the Soviet dossier on Oswald is somewhat
reminiscent of the maneuver of surfacing to periscope depth, in
which a submarine approaches the surface so that it can raise
its periscope and take a look around. In November 1991 the
Oswald case almost surfaced from the depths of the KGB. At that
time the whole: world just missed by a matter of weeks finding
out virtually everything the six mysterious case files contained.
<{txtoIt was Vadim Bakatin, after taking over the chairman’s
office at Lubyanka in. the wake of the coup, who attempted that
experiment with top secret KGB information. The “Oswald file"
was hardly of fundamental importance to Bakatin; during his
slightly more than four months as KGB chairman he had many more
serious problems to deal with as he attempted to reform the
structure of the Lubyanka empire. File No. 31451 most likely
occurred to him by chance: the latest anniversary of the Kennedy
