 

DISPATCH = scant 2

  
   
 

  

wos : a ee Co oe
a .

 

   

av

:
"ReDCAF/Anatoliy Nikhaylovich NIMOY (216.4 SZ)

 

      

 

     
   
  
 
 
   

    

MARLED ROE NORA
NO ADEN RRS #tD
DDLIING CAN GE ROGED

BY QuaseD wa Desa ORT

 

  

 

1. On about 20 Lecember 1900, William L, Costille attended a$Consular Corps
function aa part of his normal cover Muties. Also attending was tre new Soviet
Viee Consul, anatoliy Nikhaylovich ALLWV. KLIMOV's naze first cane to the Station!

O2attention theoughfARIOLLY/92 who reported in 632, 2y august 1¥o0, that SLIMY

DZ Anterviewed (Ayy2 raonally at the Joviet asbassy prior to issuing him a Soviet
wisa. This the firet time know that there have been two officers at the Jovilet
Consulate, a Consul and a Vice Consul, Theré have bean consular clerks, tut
functioning as an actual Vice consul, Costille recalls trat om of “irigoriy Ye.
GOLUB's chief complaints when ho was Consul was that he was overworxed as the
only officer in the Consulate. Cn two cceasions during tne £411 of 1900 KLUWV
phoned Costille on official consular business, He was very friendly on tie. paces
and stated that he hoped Costille and he could mest soon. :

 

4+}

2. At the 20 Decembar function, Costille and KLGnOV were part of about 40
Consular Corps manbers touring the AGA factory in Helsinci, a Finnish subsidiary |
of a Swedish company making beacon Lights, television sets, etc, after a short
while Costille was introduced to KLIMOV, and later cuite by coincidence the two
sat next to one another at lunch, folowing the luncu costille offered to drive

- KLINOV back to the Joviet ambasay, Cn the trip to the Sabassy Coatille sugyested

the two stop for coffee and cognie at a nearbe restaurant, to which KLINOV readily
agreed, . . a

 

_3e Bhographio information: KLINOY appears to be in tha neighborhood of 35-
years old, speske alow but goo! Guxlish. tie is approximately 5'9 tall, stocky
but not stout, has a brosd face and brow sair, (He does not presantly have a
Boustache, althouch the REDCAP Notebook picture shows him with one.) He has a
pleasant face with a natural smile, le is friendly, polite, soft spoken, bub
Rives ‘the impression of Leing qcite sure of himself, His personality ssens to be
just the opposite from hia superior in the Consulate, vonsul Ivan Yerimovich .
SZRGEYEV, SERGGYaV was not present at this particular function, but vCostille
has met him onee cr twloe at previous Consular Corps functions, SSNGSY<V is
polite but has never shown any signa of friendliness. He is someiat pompous
and frankly a cold fish, KLINOV stated that he (KLIMOV) was from Noscow, (Coss
tilde ds not scért.dn if he was born there.) He was educated at tie University
of Moscew and ko stated that ols major subject was the United Stales, KLINOY
is married-eand he made a point of telling costille that he is quite happily
married<-and has one daurhter about eight years old. The dsughter is in sbiivok
dn the Soviet Union; howsver, she occasionally visits Helsinki, At the Consular
Corps luncheon KL1ii0V appeared to enjoy himself, was friendly to everyona, and
made a point of shaking everyone's hand upon his departura,

 

4. When Costille and KLINOV were alone in the bar, KLIMOV fairly quickly
purned the conversation to a Comparison of soviet and Western systems. tlowever,
at all times he romained polite and listened olosely to vostille's side of the
discussion. KLINUV sturted the converaution by shating that he thought "niche
Life® (i.e. nigut oluba, dancing, cto.) wae. waste of tine and tiat te parsonaliy
preferred reading and the arta, lle atited that in the United States thers sumed
to be too much umplagie on ®night Life", which has a partioularly bad Influenve
on young people, tle compared the current state of the United statea to the oman
Eaplre which he atated fell as a renult of its ow decadunoe and laek of purpose.
Costille asked tilin were he revelvei hie improsaion of the United dtatea and it

 

during his studlas io nad trea asoses te Western Literature. He anawared only
that hie major in ine Univeraity wae the United citates

on his nooesa to Weatern Literature,
auch ag why the United Utates

refused to acknowlwdye

and skipped the questlog
ALIGGV talked on the usual propaganda Line,
inaleted upon supporting dictutoralitpa, ate, tle
biab hie ow: country was a dictutorship or that the Joviet

% VERE ATON “" Fae RY
gpeigien

AAC HL Ha . hike qe
pean FEA conn

AER TOA PLE DEER BA eae nerves eto Se " ven ra

 

Pere

Bote

 

Pole DULL
 

 

‘O4t0169-10305] — _ we ee
TO me . ROUTING AND REEORD SHEET

  

 

        
     
     

 

 

 

~ TO: ACTION Bi “BRANCH he.
, i. Fili in Sect. 2. on back. Dotach | back 3
_) flap and fortard to RID. If file no. and title shown are not .
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless °° proper; insert proper file no. belcw
nw records significant, action taken or asd forward doctnment, to RID/AN. “
coszents requiring preservation. Oo .
FROM: .
“a : “
RID/ P
i Seep
2 | A Se lUEN FO oy
a a) : pot gouna Use oN. ~ :
° Not Reproduce : :
mn 4 .
Room DATS } oreiceny : : ;
To No. [ecawee ronwanpeo| ‘rriaua ; ; mM Eo °
oy. ,
i -
Ce nt SRA | ai.
o |
gy wel les tj
Jee Assrste 1 zt
we. : © i ;
Pry 5 ‘
Das
i

 

 

aw :
ft
oa,
a
ey
fs Ne .
of
a _
wt
ota .
wae

 

VOCUMENT NUMBER

[corn 04901

   
   

ey 6100 US PREVIOUS

BDITIONS , SECRET ae

 
74-00000

 

  
  
  
  
    
     
     

catneaves aE LTER BTGSSC TSE SS ;
CONTINUATION OF : a . a
‘DISPATCH ” : Secast (2? Ce a
er en RE

 

Union had any control over tne satellite countkies. KLULY criticized amrican
Jjasz, movies, juvenile delingiency, ete. aituougi suite dafinite in ais om
beliers, rLin’V listened attentively to wnat Costiile haa to say and took criticiszs
of his ow country in striua., aa tne two were leaving the restaurant, KLLOV

told Costille that in answer to Uostille's earlier question on the availability

of Nestern Literature in tna Soviet Union he could only state that ne did not

have as xucn access during nis studies as sie wuld have iiked.

5. Costille received the impression that Helsinki was <linov's first post
and probably the first time ne iad bean out of tue Joviet union. He repeated
a number. of cimes during the conversation his fondness for -oscow and that he
feund Helsinki to be lacking in cultural life. He appeared to be apreciative |
for tne ride back to the cmbassy and upon departing told Costille how much he .
enjoyed the ufternoon and hoped that they right meet again, about two days :
before Chtistmas .LIMOV sent via a Soviet imbassy chauffeur two bottles of soviet
vedka to Cestille's apartment with a New Year's card attached, :

     
   
        
      
        
 
   

6. Nothing further was heard from KLIMOV until 3 arch. at thio time he
phoned Coatille to ask if Costille could obtain two tickets to the pramiere of

"Ben Hur® for him and hia wife. This was impossible and Costille told him he
would try for tickets at a later date, :

 

7. Yr. Amon REN-YOHANAN, Vice Consul at the Israeli Legation, told Costille
that shortly after the first of the year KLIMOV pioned him and asked him to have
@ drink and dinner some evening after work, BEN-YOHANAN had also met KULNOV at
the same Consular Corps function. During the evening nLINOV told BSN-YOHANAN .
that although not. Jewish himself, he had a number of Jewish friends in Hoscow, |
KLIMOV’ tated that he greatly aduired Jewish people for their intellect. ‘The
two had dinner at @ local night club, the Klaus Kurki, which caters to young
Finnish girls who come alone on the prowh. HaN-JOHANAN suggested that he and
KLINOV spot two likely prospects and ask them to dance. KLINOV became quite |
embarrassed and said that he had rather not as his wife was quite jealous.
BG YOHANAN remarked that his wife would never rind out if KLINOY just danced
with the girl, However, KLINOV still refused stating that his wife somenow
could juat "feel when he had even danced witn another girl,"

       
     
    
    

   

            
      
 

 

8, It will be noted that KLINOV is listed on the latest Diplomatic Corps
list as an attache. However, he was introduced at the Consular Corps as the
Distribution:

"new Soviet Vice Consul®,
an, Baala DOU: .
O&2- We ee ; pene,

 
   
   
 

 

 
