74-00000

wr - wa

whan

4. Should Subject's CIA connection become known, it would not
only affect his future usefullness but might also serve to tie him
and the Agency into PBSUCCESS.

S. In reaching a decision as to whether or not the Security Office
should issue Subject a limited badge we should be governed by two
factors; a. DD/P policy as reflected in CSN #10-12, b. Basic Security
Office policy. As to the former, Mr. Wisner's memorandum of 14 July 195)
may be considered as a waiver of the restrictions contained in CSN
#10-12. Sound.security reasoning would normally result in a request
of this nature being denied. However, due to Mr. Wisner's personal
interest in this case and his apparent willingness to assume the risks
involved and to deviate from usual DD/P policy, the Security Office
could not very well refuse to issue the badge without precipitating an
argument between Mr. Wisner's office and the Security Office. In
granting the badge however, the Security Office should go on record
that this is an exception to the general rule and should point out
the specific hazards involved. Furthermore the badge should be issedd
with certain restrictions designed to protect the security of the
individual and his proposed covert assignment.

ACTION:
it is recommended:

a. That the limited badge be issued to the Subject as
requested.

b. That the badge be isstied in pseudo, such pseudo
to be used for this purpose only.

c. That Subject not be identified by his true name
during his tour of duty in Agency buildings.

d, That Subject be instructed to confine his activities
and contacts within the Agency to those persons with whom he is
required to associate in connection with his duties.

e. That the hazards involved in Subject's working in
Agency buildings be pointed out to PP Staff and that they be
advised that this case represents an exception to the general
rule.

f. That it be recommended to PP Staff that they arrange
through Cover Division for a non-official cover for the Subject
in order that he might be able to offer a plausible excuseg to
outsiders for his presence Washington during the following year.

 

 

 

Bhs 15 Septy a, . ate |

Closed

yPd
roe t0z8-10111

rey st . : --
* se ’

 

‘6 September 195)

TOs Chief, Special Security Division
FROM: - Chief, Cover Branch
SUBJECT s PHILLIPS, David Atlee

#40696 - SSD

REFERENCE: Memo from Chief, Projects Desk to Chief, SSD dated
8 September 195 ~ same subject

—=*" Referenced memorandum reflects that a limited badge was requested
by PP Staff for the Subject in order that he might enter overt Agency
buildings for a period.of one year for indoctrination purposes. Subject
will be a covert associate during this period and will subsequently be
assigned to the field under non-official cover. The Cover Branch was
requested to study the problem and make recommendations. ~

DETAILS: . .
TI: By memorandum dated 1 September 195 from Acting Chief,
Psychological and Paramilitary Operations Staff, a limited badge was
requested for Subject to permit him to enter the Administration
Building, 2210 E Street, I, J, K and L Buildings for a period of one
year. In support of this memorandum Mr. Frank Wisner, DD/P in a
memorandum dated 1, July 195, indicated his approval of Subject's
/ preliminary training at Headquarters in preparation for his future
assignment to the field under non-official cover. The request for
a limited badge was concurred in by. Staff C purely on the basis of
Mr. Wisner's memorandun.

   

2. It is noted that Subject has been of interest to this Agency
since 1950 and that an operational clearance was granted him on ly
January 1952 to enable his use as a cutout and other Agency functions
in connection with specific OPC projects in contemplation. It is
further indicated that Subject was in some wise connectéd with PBSUCCESS
andmde outstanding contributions to this operation. Nowhere does it
appear that Subject has ever been openly identified with CIA or any
other U. S. Governmental organization.

3. he hazards involved in Subject's working in Agency buildings
are obvious. Not only will he become known to other Agency employees
but any outsider interested in checking on Subject's activities and
associations could easily trace him to these buildings by means of
physical surveillance.

RETURN To CIA

round Use Oni
Do Not Reproduce Y

 
