 

SECRET

own invention, but were the results of talk sessions held in
the FI Branch of my Station by our Branch Chief and my fellow
case officers. Many other "angles" and questions about Cuban
links to the murder were assigned to specific agents, but I
do not recall them all.

13. Some weeks after the Kennedy murder I went to Mexico
for a meeting with my chief inside Cuba agent, AMWEE-1. Before
I left Station I went to the Reports Office Requirements Offi-
cer and read through some pertinent lists of requirements for
on-island assets. I recall the questions included observations
on-island assets may have made about the activities of leader-

' ship personnel in the Cuban government in the days prior to

and immediately following theKennedy murder. I recall that in
Mexico AMWEE-1 described to m day. subse-

 

 

 

quent to the murder with.

 

 

about what had trans-

 

piréd in the Ministry when the news of Kennedy's death was
received by wireless. I recall that the night of the day

that Kennedy was murdered AMWEE-1 saw Osmani Cienfuegos, a
Cuban leader, drive up to the house across the street from
AMWEE-1's house at about 0100 hours =He stayed.in that-house
for several hours. The house was occupied by an American
expatriate technician who built audio=surveillance gear for
the Cuban intelligence service. I recall that AMWEE-1 opined -
that Cienfuegos visited the American that night because he

was one of the few American sources the Cuban government could
talk to in Cuba about what was going on in the USA as a result
of Kennedy's murder. :

14, In closing I should point’ out that my involvement
in seeking Cuban leads to the Kennedy murder was slight. Other
officers would have been more involved than I. I would assume
Mr. Shackley has the clearest recollection of tasks the Station
may have been given to support investigation of the Kennedy
murder, One final remark about Miami Station investigation of
the Kennedy murder, violations of the Neutrality Act and
other developments: All of us were very well informed about
the limitations on CIA's right to conduct investigations of
persons residing in the USA, whether they were alien residents
or US citizens. I do not recall anyone ever seeking information
on security matters in the USA which was not related to Cuban
exiles and their activities with respect to Cuba. On occasion
I would come across information indicating action by US citizens
to a) aid in violating the Neutrality Act or b) conduct es-
pionage on behalf of a foreign power. In such instances I
wrote up what I discovered and sent it through Station channels
to the appropriate US Agency concerned with the particular
type of violation that was suspected and then withdrew from
further attempts to acquire information

 

 

 

 

 

Rm 3D02 Red 1597

SECRET

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. SECRET

operations officers through contacts in the Cuban community in
Florida. These investigations are discussed below. The SITREPS
had a Headquarters file category classification number on: them;
for I saw them in 1973 in folders in the office of David McLean,
a Latin American Division historian. I believe these SITREPS can
be retrieved with the help of document and file retrieval.
specialists at IP/CFS, Rooom GC 52. I believe the SITREPS for
November .1963 through March 1964 will contain information about
efforts of the Miami Station to investigate Cuban links to the
murder of President Kennedy.

4. Obviously the Miami Station SITREPS would have made only
cursory mention of Station efforts to investigate a Cuban role
in the Kennedy affair. Sensitive and detailed reports by the
Station concerning the investigation may have gone to Hqs via
special cable channels. However, on the chance that some reports
of investigation were sent by routine cable and dispatch I would
suggest a check with Chief, Information Management and Planning
Group, Room 1D27 , Phone Red 9407 about the possibility of using
the "SPIN" search system to find record of Miami Station efforts
to investigate the Cuban role in the Kennedy affair. This system .
permits. querying computerised records for textual keywords: com-
bined with area codes and other key factors to locate documents ~~
containing complex types of information.

5. Finally, I suggest IP/CFS may be able to help locate
the archival copies of Miami Station memoranda to the Miami.
field agencies of the FBI and Secret Service for the period
commencing with the President's assassination. .

Miami Station Operation Procedures. for Crash Investigations

6. Soon after his arrival at the Miami Station Mr. Shackley

organized several fast reaction procedures for coping with
rapid developments in Cuba.or in the Cuban exile community in’
Florida which requiredspeedy and augmented reporting. The fast _
reaction procedures involved alerting officers of the Station
to: :

a. Query resident agents in Cuba who had W/T

commo with our Station or a combination of W/T

to the agent and telephonic response from the

agent to a cutout in the Miami Cuban community.

b. Use of singleton Cuban exile support agents
and the AMOT intelligence service in Miami to
communicate with lists of on-island contacts by
phone or with lists of Cuban. exilesin the US who
were irregular sources of information.

7... I believe the first time I recall seeing the Station's
fast reaction investigative systems employed was in late -
April 1962 when word was received from another US Agency
that Cuban exile paramilitary activist Rolando Masferrer

“SECRET
104-10423-10226),

 

 
 
 

acrrri7 oe |

22 March 1977

    
 

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: ' 1963-1964 Miami Station Action to Aid

USG Investigation of the Murder of John
_F, Kennedy

Basis for My Knowledge About This Topic

1. I served from 29 March 1962 to 20 August 1966 in
the Foreign Intelligence Branch of the Miami Station. Duties.
included handling a certain number of Cuban exiles resident
in Miami used to support FI operations into Cuba. I also kept

_up loose contact with other Cuban exiles who were considered

informants on specialized aspects of Cuban affairs and Cuban
exile affairs. My duties also included working very closely
with the Station Covert Action Branch and less closely with.
the Counterintelligence and Paramilitary Branches. I had

irregular contact with the Station Security Office.

Locating Agency Records:of Miami Station Action to Hel
Investigate the John F. Kennedy Murder .

2. - During March 1962 to mid-1964 communications security
between Hqs. and the Miami Station was not always good. Hqs.
Cuban Task Force senior and middle grade officers often used |
the telephone to communicate requests to-the Miami Station or
to check on developing’ operations. The feeling at Headquarters
was that the double-talked conversations were fairly safe be-
cause they were flowing by land. lines and-were therefore not
subject to ELINT/COMINT collection.In 1964-there was a crack-
down on telecons between Hqs and the Miami Station. I believe
this was at Station Chief Theodore G. Shackley's request. One
reason for reducing telecons was security and the other reason
was that Headquarers officers were not always careful to fol-
low their telecons with a cable or dispatch for the record. I
describe this communication situation because it is quite pos-
sible that immediately following the Kennedy murder Headquarters
may have phoned requiredments to COS, Miami and Miami Station's
Office of Security to conduct investigations and then failed
to follow up with cables for the record.

3. From mid-April 1962 until shortly after Mr. Shackley's
departure PCS in.the spring of 1965 the Miami Station sent Has.
a situation report by cable at the end of each work day. Each
operating and administrative component of the Station contributed
to this SITREP, which was produced with specific topical sections
about developments at the Station, in Cuba, in intelligence
reporting and in operations under way.Occasionally the-SITREP
would report results of investigations conducted by Station

SECRET
13-00000

 

 

 

 

 

 

0 SRB GRET

had left his base in New Jersey and was believed to be headed
to Florida with a band of men for an operation against Cuba in
vidlation of the Neutrality Act. I recall that a number of of-
ficers in our FI Branch, the Paramilitary Branch and the CA
Branch were asked to "hit-the streets" (of Miami) to query
Cuban exile contacts about the possible location, plans and
armaments of Masferrer. The AMOT service was, of course; the
principal mechanism for checking on Cuban exile actions in
violation of the Neutrality Act.

8. The late spring and early summer of 1962 saw extensive
use of the Station's fast investigation capability. Refugees
arriving at Opa-Locka Airbase refugee processing center began
in late May to report that some kind of major counterrevolutionary
action was afoot in Cuba, that an invasion of Cuba was antici-
pated by Castro and that there was unusual military movement
inside Cuba. I recall being one of many case officers directed
by Mr. Shackley through my Branch Chief to alert my particular
string of Cuban exile informants to phone relatives inside

‘Cuba and try to get supportive information through double-

talk. I remember during the first two weeks of June I was
given lists of persons debriefed at Opa Locka, told to seek

them out and question them again. Other case officers had
similar assignments. ost

9. During the period following the Cuban missile crisis
(fall 1962) to the time of the Kennedy murder I believe I recall
perhaps five major incidents where Mr. Shackley called on
officers throughout the large Station to set in motion the .
procedures for checking through Cuban agents and informants on
some rapidly developing problem of national security interest.
On two occasion in late 1962 and early 1963 I believe we
scrambled to activate our sources because President Kennedy:
was travelling about in the USA.z.¢ Headquarters and internal .
USG security agencies wanted to be alerted to the presence of
known dangerous Cuban exile activists in the area the President
was to visit and wished to learn of any conspiracies being
hatched in the Cuban exile community or in Cuba to exploit
or interfere with the President's movement.During 1964-65
I recall being alerted by my Station superiors on a number
occasions to have my sources collect fast information on
such topics as:

a. Cuban exile or Castro Cuban conspiratorital |
acts to exploit the visit of the Pope to New
York.

b. Plans of Cuban exile groups to carry out .
attacks on or infiltrations into Cuba in vio-
lation of the Neutrality Act.

c. Location of automatic weapons, explosives
and sea craft being assembled by Cuban exile
groups in suspected violation of the Neutrality
Act.

SECRET ( continued }
13-00000

. SECRET

Procedures Employed By Miami Station to Aid Investigation
of the Kennedy Murder oo

10. At the time of the Kénnedy murder I was on sus-
pension from active duty because I had let my finance ac-
countings fall behind. I was, however, present in the FI
Branch at the Miami Station when my chief, Mr. Warren Frank,
issued orders to all case officers (there were about 12 of
us in the Branch at that time) to contact our. agents inside
Cuba and our support agents in Miami for leads possibly linking
Castro Cuba or the Cuban exile community to the murder. I do
not recall whether Mr. Shackley was on Station that day, but
I recall that Mr. Anthony Sforza, AMOT case officer, told me
later that. he had received specific instructions from Shackley
about R@W the AMOT service was to goabout aiding in the investi-
gation. I also recall quite clearly that there was communi-
cation from Hqs. to our Station about the need to query our
assets, 2.2 There was also some communication from the FBI
and other agencies to our Station asking for information
about possible Cuban involevment in the Kennedy murder.

 

ll. . Although I was not released from my finance backlog
to join ‘the investigation until the fourth day after Kennedy's
death, I recall making phone calls to agents of mine in Miami
and I recall sending a W/T message to my chief agent, (AMWEE-T),
in Cuba with questions about possible Castro Cuban involvement
in the murder of Kennedy.When I was released to meet with my
agents in Miami I recall levying requirements on agents. AMGABE- 1-
and AMPAN-22 related to the Kennedy murder. Later I asked
political contact and Cuban exile leader AMING-3 and agent »
AMBLEAK- 1 the same questions:

 

a. Get me all possible data on any Cuban exile
- you know who disappeared just before or right after
the Kennedy murder and has since been missing from
Miami under suspicious circumstances. .

b. (To AMING-3 and AMGABE-1) Get me data on Cuban |
exiles who approached you or your associates during
the fall of 1963 for asssistance in getting sizeable
amounts of funds, weapons or cars.

 

 

c. To AMING-3 and AMBLEAK-1: Give me a list of all
Cuban exiles or Cubano-Americans you consider to be
capable of orchestrating the murder of President
Kennedy in order to precipitate an armed conflict
between Cuba and the USA.

d. To AMBLEAK-1, AMGABE-1 and AMING-3: Give me a

- list of the ¥ichest Cubans in exile, Cubans posessing
sufficient personal wealth and the possible inclination
to bankroll the murder of President Kennedy.

12. The above questions levied on my agents were not my

 

“SECRET
