14-00000 - ore one MOK th OS.

BIE EOI SIREN OM

   

. SUBJECT: rranifGaney - we

. Subject. seems to be confused as to the actual duties which he will
undertake while in Nicaragua, which is not unusual, when one considers that
it is necessary to make one's own job after getting in general what the
‘government has in mind. He apparently ia in the same position that the writer

, was on arriving, and spends most of his time waiting to see either the Pres-
ident or Col OMOZA, who, unless you know the ropes, and push people aside,
‘are almost impossible to corner at any given moment.

 

_ Subject. stated that he would: be working with this Office and would
: “be in charge of thé Presidential protection. group.—The first step that he

 

wants to take is to separate the Presidential force from the intelligence
end of the organization. He states that he would like this group to remain
a part: of the Office of National Security, but that it should operate .
separately with a separate budget. This Office has as yet received no
ocmmunication from the powers that be that BARRY is assigned to this Office
or that his specific ‘job is' Presidential protection, nor have the President_
or.Col.. SOMOZA’ as much admitted that such a person exists in my. presence.

. BARRY states that he had a talk with the President on his arrival
‘and that he approached the security problem from the following angle?
Since it can be assumed that no country in the Western Hemisphere can exist or
progress without the American dollar, and it is a cinch that the average
——-----fusinessman passing through Managua and seeing the amount of military force
. . and weapons would never consider investing anything, the military has to™-
be cut dow, and a large plain-clothes security force must be trained. —
BARRY stated that the President agreed with this in rincipae,

On 16 January 1957, the writer had the o euntt of talking with
the subject informakly over some drinks. The we (oee stated in effect as

follows: He. has a contract with the Government for six months, but that if
he doesn't get more cooperation than he has gotten to date, he is not .
going to stay. That the security thing was secondary with him, and that he
and/Davidson (Irving) were “in™ on a deal to build a hotel in Nicaragua, .
‘and that they already had @0% subscription from a US firm. All that is necessary
will be 202 locally, which he believes will not be difficult to raise. He
stated that he was also connected indirectly with a real estate firm in |
: Washington who had-commissioned him to investigate the mortgage set-up
‘ oS in Nicaragua with an eye to the building of low priced housing around Managua. |
: . He stated that Clint Murchison would be here on Sunday to close negotiations.

on a fertilizer plant to Ebe built in N,caragua, under the supervision and

' managément of on CHAUND, who is apparently in that line in El, Salvador.
( The Murchison mentioned above i§ KXXBX the son of the old man.)

. , The writer gets the impression that BARRY 4s. strictly out for the:
buck, and.when he found that the Government already had plain-clothes.
. protection for the President, he was slightly at a loss as to what his job-
_ was to be. He has not told‘me of any definite plans for improving Presidential
wo. . security, except that he plans to ask the President to use motorcycles in”. ~
ot . the convoy, and to purchase four convertable sedans with running~boards .
, for transpottation of the bodyguard. me:

 

 

 

Dn : 4
104-10073-10042

 

   

 

; 22
vin __AIR

; . 7 . mt, al : .
—Bpeeily Air or Sea Pouch) : . : a DISPATCH Hor Gongs? 1g

 

qo Chief, WaD (y-22 . paTE __22 ‘January 1957

FROM Chief of Station| ;

ran ; i

 

 

 

“GENERAL —_Cperations]
SUB! wr
| SPECIFIC Cegpro-anta

1. Forwarded under separate cover .is copy of a report which RASSKILL
wrote up on subleot

2. Cageroca TA told the “ODACID Chief that he thought RANSEILL had done
a splendid jeb here.

Ba

a Quant nll

wee Denis R. SORRELL

wep ee

Enclosures: a a :

l. As stated above, USC Pe P RETURN To

‘ : CIA

7 - : a
22 Januery 1957 Sbomsted Use Only
: ©Not Reproduce
Distribution: .

3 = Headquarters w/l encl. USC’ : we, a

2+ Files w/l encl. ; oo v

+
Get). FRPM NN a An” *

 

CN at OFS
