MEMORANDUGL FOR: MR. aoe ALLLEK | Lee ee tm
-Attached are two copies of our Task Force

a Report ,"Comments on Book V." Believe “=,

_ ?°Sedtt talked to you about passing them to

the House_and Senate Committeess-—q: 7

Wish to emphasize that they are not
IG Reports but product¢ of a representative

Agency Task Force. ;
soph sider
GAtafet

13 Dec. 77

oy aed
#101 tbiows

Date

 

 

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 199
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGR
 

[ioetoreatooa)- oe, OLUN

ee ae
ty

9 August 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Penal F. Massey 6
. Mr. Rs 9>

FROM > S. D. Breckinridge
: Principal Coordinator/HSCA

fi

SUBJECT : 1977 Task Force Report on Book V of
Church Committee Report

1. Attached is one copy each, with copy of correspondence

from me to the Legislative Counsel, concerning release of a
sanitized copy of the 1977 Task Force Report, commenting on
Book V of the Church Committee Final Report. It had been

felt in the past more desirable.to not make this available

to our two oversight committees, primarily because the SSCI

is somewhat of a lineal descendant of the Church Committee.

It is noted that HSCA has seen the Report in both sanitized

and unsanitized versions; it may well be cited in the final
HSCA Report.

2. Given the present environment, with pending criticisms
of CIA's performance in the investigation of the assassination
of President Kennedy, many of the lines of discussion in the
1977 Task Force Report have current releyance. Although portions
of the 1977 Task Force Report haye been sanitized, much of the
discussion should be meaningful to our oversight committees,
which may soon be hearing some rather strong assertions of
past derelictions by the Agency in this same field. To the
extent that past criticisms are suspect, it may have a tempering
influence on reactions to current criticisms of a similar nature.

3. It is requested that you review the report for
transmittal to your respective oversight committees (SSCI and
HPSCI). Please note Fred Hitz's reaction to my proposal. I
did not convey to him past reservations on the point, and you

may wish to do so.
a |

S. D. Breckinridg

      

chedula of E.O. 11652
n avhadule 52 (11, ¢2)> (3)
Automatically duclassilied on
Bato Impassibie to Detennine

exempl

 

Attachments:

As stated 2oa 3 0

U pd
=

“pre: I am hesitant to say pass this

- this on to the,eommittees until mahagenient ~~~
knows what the bottom line is. Is there a .
synopsis or precise, Let Blake, DCI, etc.,
know what all this means. ©

LLM 13 Dec

_ _ APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
