 

        
    

      
    

DOC. MICRO. SER.

LCA
mae Dee” DEC 18 1873

REPORT NO. O0-A(S)-322° 391747-73

 

. MICROFILMED DATE 26 October 1973
COUNTRY — USSR NO. PAGES 2
sussect © soviat Young Peoples’ Surprieing REFERENCES

 

Avarensas of Soviet vy Activities Arainst
Yoreianera /Williemess of the Toang People To

Relate buch Inforsation to a Visit z US Student

 

OPERATIONAL INFORMATION REPORT

This report hos been prepared by the DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE, DDI. The operctional informotion contoined
herein may not be disclosed to personnel outside of the CLANDESTINE SERVICE, CIA, without the prior permission
of the Domestic Contact Service.

 

 

 

 

i, US citizen. Educator.

1. AUS educator vhe spent several months in the USSR during the summer
of 1973 reported that his college-age child, who accomsaniead his, had
become well acquainted with sone Soviet young people im Moscow and .
had learned that they (the young people) hed an omazing avarenesa of
Soviet security-type activities agsinet foreigners. They were willing
to discuss these activities quite openly with the young US visitor.
They seemed to know the identities of foreieners who vera under sus-
picion, the reasons they were under suspicion and the eature of sur-
weillance activities that were being carried mut againet them.

pReawene we

2. The young US visitor, who speaks pasate fisextly, mentioned two cases
in point: one had to do with Leo Cryliow, a correspondent for the
Christian Science Monitor. He is apparently under suspicion because,
first of all, hie ssrents were (or are) Russian. Sreeadly, he was

_ with Guaker War Relfaf in the USS2 during World War LI. These circun-
stances, and perhaps others, have reportedly caused the Seviets to
fegard him as some Lind of spy, and he is watched wousually closely.
There eas convincing evidence of this when Gruliow was entertained by

’. the visiting US educator for dinner one evening in thé restaurant of
the hotel where the US visiter was staying. As soon as the party vas
over and the US group left, the drunken husband of the vaitress who
had served the group ia the restaurant was reportedly su=xmoned outside
by two Soviets who vere waiting In a car, and he vas questioned in
great detail as to what the foreigners had said. The young US visitor
heard this from a young Soviet acquaintance who either had a friend
working for the Soviet authorities or who was working fer the anthorin,

ties hinself. @“£ $2336 ee
ait ae irnallon fon N6

3. Another instance which seemed te demonstrate Ahe young peoples’

awareness of the-Gsviet officials’ close scrutiny of foreigners had
- te do with a US defector named Yartin whois believed te be Living A
: fm Moscow. During the US educator's visit to the USSR he (the edu-
eator) received a letter from fricnds in the JS asking if, he could
find out about Martin's present situation -- Nis health, ete. The
educator mentioned the letter to his child (the US student) and eaid
he did vot want to hawe anythine te do with the request that was gsde. —
By coincidence the US etudent had already been filled -in on information
about “Martin, however,’ by-one of the younr Soviets. The report was
that Martin was living in an anertment at the end of Leningradekiy

~ RECORD COPY

 

wee tee

 

 

      

  

. | : | a3,
Braala CF 76 7 oe rel 252 555"

iprtgg ny 8 ne eer antl

   
‘Hd 10219-10005

 

(J secrer

   

    

  

‘DO Gnegssteren NEN - CO ccNpentiat
: _ROUTING AND-RECORD SHEET

 

sey (phone)
Soviet Young People's Surprising Awareness of Soviet Security
—Activitics Against Foreigner
FROM: DOMESTIC COLLIOTI ae I ‘
Support Brancn/cpsrat fc. tal sipport/ bho ion
Room 900, Key Building = ext. a See

peal ee Nida wal al

 

COMMENTS (Humber each comnent te show from whee

DAME
[ ascenen [cewascen | INITIALS "| t0 whom. Brow © line sores colemn otter each comment | i i

1 SB/X/FR The attached is for your :
5 B Ol Has. information and possible
interest. a
; ft tl

 

SEA-O0-A(S) -322/31747~73

 

SB/SI/E
4D 30 Hgs.

 

 

 

  

610“Ease* (] secret [() CONFIDENTIAL © (7. INTFRMAL, «= ]_sUNCLASSIFIED

 

es Seca nienni rgeeamte ee

         
 
 

Prospekt, that he was Living oe a pension and he was sufferiag frou
extreme borodon because he apparently wag ast. doing anythiog, bat
that he was in good health. Additionally, i¢ was wentioned” that
Martin appeared to be in his fifties (while be is actually much
younger). There ws, of course, ne way to verify any of thie infor-
metion, but it hed been volunteered freely to the US student by
soeningly intelligent young Soviets, and there seemed no reason to
doubt its authenticity. .

    
   
    
    
    
    
     

  

AER AS UARY myfrt eb 9 Wasi nde eve naa was
