74-0000

ew fupcne azae !

sr aheeetee poole hte at oh

Att. to Be/er
age Memo to 6
td. 13 eet. 61

(Continuation of
Extracts)

dim Bast Germany. Gne of the stipulstions of the job ia that she have no close
essociation with foreigners; and; ae a regult, will bave to quit her job when he
arrives in Stockholm. Re volumteured thot he might be able to gat additional
wsterial for a Soport, for the Bevists ty eliciting fron Wonne tes Getaiia of her
elsas. a Evediah job. 1 aaked him whether ne could eiieit this infcrmation
fren har without revealing an. undue. ioterest.: Be.eaid,. "yes, it vould: be:no:-
probleas she tells as ererhng. ° I made no coment about not clearing this
kind of reporc for passage to the Goviets, preferring to decide that question
when ond if be got the information fros Yvonne. I asked him == if he intended
to seg his former pertners in DDC vhen he errived in Gveden. He said °
he dia not, hie affairs vith DOCS had all been settled through his lavyer in
Qveden and bs is entirely out of it now. Ho had bean able to obtain ¢5,400 from
the firm, which opomer omounted only to a payment for the time —
he had invested in the company. I asked him how his financial status ves now, and
he said it vas good. (Loudvein hed said that the PBI did not consider the cage
worth ths expense of finencing him on another trip abrood.) Witn re,
4p with us abroad, I gave bin te contact plan cabled by tho |

which he wrote dowa and promised to memoraize and than destroy the notes.
I tol4 him tint what we hoped te do with the operation vhile he was abroad wos
to prorake sone eontegts vith the RIS, other’ then in Berlin and explained to
him tuat we thought be hed a good chance to do this because of the govcent intere
national: situstions The big: problem 13 one-ofscommmicntion with then, .end- --
getting then to come cut and make a meeting with-him. I explained that since
tee Geath of his mother, the como plan that they had for vriting to hin vas
disrupted and thst this in itself would be sufficient ground for hie seeking
@ renewed contact.vith thas. . In test reports he’ ve discussed the fect that.

" gubdstantial use to them. scccescesnecessscreccenss

4? be had brought eny additional reports to the meeting,
vhich vould have to be aleared for passage to the Soviets. He said, "no",
of his mother and the probles of settling her estate, he had
to & exything elee. I then vent with him over the report

East Loe Angeles, Californis, who is presently « physics teacher at Los Angeles
State University. SUMAN bed kmown MARTIN quite well in Tokyo in 1953-190

ané had corresponded vith him a great deal since that time. Ihe regort is attached
Discussion of this report concluded all the business of the meeting, and I
shook hands again with 4/2, wished his good link an hie trip, and he departed.

ececeee

 

 

   
   
   
 
    
  
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
    
   
 
  
   
 
 
    
 
  
  
 

 

 

 
 

104-40219-10130

a .- a So ec . ts

 

  
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 

EXRIOTS FROM

- 6 Beptenter 1961
MBGRAGAM FOR (SE RECORD:

SUBIEIA Yeoting with ARWUSYCAL/1

(Consists of Contact Report yrepared by Lealie Raty, C/WE/l -
covering his trip to Esy York on 28 August 1961. and contact at 10.4.8. with
Hanhattan Iqs. of FEI at 201 E. 69th Street, to eee Mr. Gohmiét for take over
from the FEL of Agent AEMUBICAL. ooseee

@riginal includes details of Aiscussion vith Fat ropresentatives,
ené preparations far actual meeting.

coos PeRoeeoe Buring the Qiscussicn vith Loudwein ond PARKER (of the FRI),
Parker coked we, strictly off the record, what we thought of the operation.
Z replied tat we hed been about ready to teminate {t when ve turned 44 over
to the VBI in August 1960. He seid that. personally he felt the sexe about its

 

 

 

 

eoacesee

i

i

|

i

{

|

|

|

i "he 2130. y.m.-T left PEE Wes. with Lovdwein and Porker, Parker drove: ws

{ te the Hote), dropped Loudvein and me off, and vant out to pick up A/l.

| sosovs ly fifet impression of A/L ve that be vas soncvhat pale and von and

nervous. Lovdvein related later that it probably vas dus to the fact that a/1

| hs@ eoléom eaten vogularly lately. I vee introduced to A/1 as Mr. Rywen fre”

| another gcverument agency in Washington, who would be taking over the casa mow

7 thet A/i was going abroad fer an extended period, Although A/1 a@idm't aak, I

| have little doubt that he knew vho the other goverment agency was. I tald bis

Rae ee ears SORRY to meee Shout “ho Goath of bio mother...» man after. a
short exchenge I asked him what his pless vare for travel abroad. —

| Bo eaté he vos lesving Thursday morning, gi August on BAS Fit. suxber 912 for

Copanhagen, expected to arrive there at 8:45 on Friday, 1 September. In Copan-

| agen, be vao going to woot with « Mr. fiiney GLASIER, an ‘meriesa

j wip is serving ae Director of the Eleanor Roosevelt Concer Foundation and who

: is go: to put up moet of the money for the production of the film "Henlet” ~~

‘ which A/l expects to meke while in Denmark. A/l, GLASIER and Robert BREW (mot. ¢

4 - dahay to back tho Bus, dhe articuse of tae corporation mae neti: rove up is

j taoney to back the file. The articles of the corporation are being drevn up ip

4 ~ Svitzerlan’. the film is actually going to be produced by e Bane named Mogens ‘.

‘ SEPD-RAREET Nhe oun Beane Tatar Film, gadreca: Sct. Jorgenselle 10, Copenbagen.

| After conferring with GLASIER and SKDT-HANGER, A/l intends to go to Stockhala aw

E vhers his girl-friend, Yvorme AMDERSOH, ice arranging en apartwent for him. Ee .

eee eae tee eet, ene ad time of production of the film beging a

in Bovenber, or st the latest, carly Decener. = o

“aay states that Yvonne ARUEREQH is nov working in the Swedish Foreign
Ministery at © classified job dealing with the case of svedes vho have been trapped

 
        
 
   
 

 

 

* Xo the mosuvhile, I've turned up an interesting piece of information ubich - ~
eould te veluadle a6 a report. Hovever, instead of vriting the final repart,
I'l. give you all the details herein. ‘his is because it may not be possible
te wae the date from 8 security standpoint and it mignt save up time to cheek
thot aspect. out first. The material cons sll from 4 single source, my close:

You will recall that MARTIN an MIICHELL, later exployed as statisticians with
HBA, fle8 to tho Boviet Union in Juns of 1960 and in September of 1960 epprared

an Koseow to denounce the U.S. A considerable amownt of publicity attended their
Gefestion. SUMAN was recontly sontacte’ by OME and interviewed soveral times by
their agents regarding his knowledge of MARTYN and MISCEELL, le hae confided to ms
severai interesting fasts regarding theen interviews. CY séaitted to him that
theiy msin interest in contimuing to investigate the ange wae to uncover possible
contests with the Soviets or others in the U.G. before they Plead to Russia. they

: heave been uwvable to determine whether or not the muon had pasesd esserets to

Goviet sgentos in the U.S. vhile they vere still emiocyed by HSA end Go not Imev
exetlyriere or how they arranged for tasir escaps from tha U.8., other than
that thay made « olenéestines trip to Mexico uring the winter of 1959 at which

tine tke arrangements msy beve been meds through intarmeGlarias.therey.. Furthare. ..

were, they had vo proo® that either of the mean vere agtunlly -commumiat-- ~
synpathinera or hososamais aa charged in the proes. ONT explained to SUA
that thwy believed MITCHELL to have been primarily involved ond that MARTYN hed
been éruwwn elong vith hin becsuse of his close aseogiation and perhaps blscke
wail. G21. took s surics: of letters vhich: SUMAN hed received from MARTIN and~
eventwiliy retumed.then after study. 7

"Rip inforantion, although Limited, has certain implications which could
be of interest to the Boviats.qceess purtioulerly the. statusef the current~
investigation and vhat hss been uncovered and what is still unexplained in the
Cae,

drt wepeeee

|
i

 

     

fo
i |
: {
} |

 

eo

     
 

 
