 

SECRET

report in the public record, either as textual
material or as footnotes. backing up general .com~
ments. This required explicit permission from the
DDP, and the rewriting or declassification of some
material previously submitted to the commission.

In August 1964 Warren Commission Assistant Counsel
W. David Slawson requested permission to publish

in the commission report some memorandums submitted
to the commission by SR/CI/Research via CI Staff.
Since some of the material submitted to the commis-

sion earlier was intended for background use only

' ox contained operational information, the reports

in question were resubmitted to the commission in

sanitized versions modeled on the originals. The

. revisions were identified as coming from CIA and

_- appeared primarily in textual and footnote material

on pages 258 to 280 of the commission's report. *

K. National Intelligence Survey on.
USSR Intelligence’ and Security —

 

 

An important, recurring document written in

* Report. of the President's Commission -on the

  
Up/

 

SECRET

Appendix C

Source References*

 

i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10. ~ Memo of Conversation, 16 Jan 64; sub: CIA
‘Work in Support of the Warren Commission;
by Tennant H. Bagley.

ll. XAAZ-22407, 21 Jan 64, sub: Questions to be

submitted to the Soviet Government, filed
in 201-288248 (Lee Harvey Oswald).

* Unless otherwise indicated, all source references
may be considered classified SECRET.

- 375 -
SECRET

 
13-00000

 

SECRET

 

Palace of Culture, Central Square, Minsk, USSR

(Oswald is the young man on the right)

Figure 1.

-77- ot

SECRET
 

 

y* me, SECRET

a photograph of Oswald in Graphics Register in
| : March 1964. Brasko was seeking photographs of
buildings in Minsk, USSR, where Oswald was resettled.
| - by the Soviet Government after 1959. Brasko found
| a copy of a color transparency which showed in a
casual setting a young man who bore a remarkable
| facial resemblance to Oswald and was. wearing a
shirt identical in pattern and color to a shirt
- Oswald was wearing in photographs found in his ef~
fects following the Kennedy assassination. (Figure 1,
F page 77). The photograph was taken by an American
: tourist in Minsk's Central Square in August 1961 at
the Palace of Culture. Copies of the photograph \
were also furnished to the FBI. The Bureau inter-
viewed the photographer and her companions who could
contribute little to their original statements when
first interviewed by Agency representatives following
their Soviet tour in 1961 (not about Oswald, however,
- whom they did not recall). A copy of this photograph |
: was published on page 268 of the Warren Commission's
report.
Some of the reports prepared by SR/CI/Research

were deemed suitable for publication in the Commission's

- %6-

SECRET

 
 

SECRET

sought to assess Oswald's. use of and dependence on
weapons. He had owned a shotgun in the USSR and
had joined a hunting organization there. The
third series of questions sought to complete Warren
Commission documentation of Oswald's background and
career in the USSR. Those items particularly .
sought were his correspondence with the Soviet Gov-
ernment, Soviet Government documents issued to him
concerning his request for asylum and permission
to reside in the USSR, documents and registrations
of his residence and employment in the USSR, and
documents concerning his departure from the USSR.
The final question asked whether Oswald had a police
record in the USSR and requested information and
, documents if so

A comprehensive SR/CI/Research paper on the
Oswald case went to the commission on 25 January
1964. This was a detailed chronology of Oswald's
sojourn in the USSR together with an alphabetical |
listing of persons in the USSR whom the Oswalds —
knew or mentioned. Identifying information was in-
cluded whenever available. This chronology was in

preliminary formbut the commission urgently required

- 74 ~ ; >

SECRET
SECRET

collated material to support the taking of direct
testimony. The source material for the chronology
included personal documents , interviews, and official
and private correspondence. Traces were based on
CIA files and the Moscow and Minsk telephone direc-
tories. “These preliminary name traces were also
sent to the commission on the same day as the chron-_ .,
ology The final version of the name traces based. -
on a review of the Oswald papers came to over 150
names; the results were furnished to the commission
in late March 1964. oe
SR/CI/Research prepared for the commission at
its request a paper survey of known data on Soviet
"use of assassination. This study was intended only
for background information of commission members
with the caveat that CIA as an organization did not
believe that the Kennedy assassination was a Soviet-
sponsored operation. Much of the material in the
assassination study had been published previously
within the agency.
A fortuitous aspect of the SR/CI/Research
concerning the Oswald case occurred when fMr. Alex-

2 _ ;
ander W. Brasko of the branch discovered by accident
- 75 «

SECRET —

 

 
13-00000 ee ee : —_——O

Boo “SECRET

      

ee,
“available to SR/CI/Research on that particular sub- i

ject. Some of these studies were sterilized sub- - |

 

sequently for passage to a-wider list of recipients
‘than the sensitivity of the original production
permitted. Some studies were translated and given
to foreign liaison services.* Many of these studies
were the result of suggestions for research topics |
from other SR Division offices, CIA-wide components,
and organizations outside the CIA.

Throughout the period of this history, SR/-
Reports, in coordination with Chief,SR/CI, had re-
sponsibility for the dissemination of timely general ~
CI reports on the RIS. The area division concerned

disseminated CI reports on the RIS which were clearly, |

gy

of only local significance.

 

J, Warren Commission Studies
The President's Commission on the Assassina~-
tion of President Kennedy, also known as the Warren

‘Commission, through its General Counsel, Mr. J. Lee

.* Attachment C lists the more important studies
disseminated by SR/CI/Research and its predecessor
organizations.

- 71- -

 

SECRET |
1041030110002].

a Coe . SECRET
nn CIA Internal Use Only

- Aecess Controlled by DDP

HISTORICAL STAFF
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

THE CLANDESTINE SERVICE HISTORICAL SERIES

CS HP 334

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS
SOVIET RUSSIA DIVISION
1946-1965

by

August 1972

 

 

Feud 4 Ree
David H. Blee
Chief, SB Division

‘Copy Wo. 1: SB
Copy No. 2: O/DDP

SECRET

m

sal a

g oS Votume |
nt

 

 

 

 

 

ae

 
SECRET

in 1964. SR/CI/Research Branch responded to many
of these requests for information working through ©
CI Staff which assumed managerial control for CIA
communications with the commission. ‘The branch
furnished information to the commission on a wide
variety of topics concerning the RIS, Lee Harvey
Oswald, and Oswald's associates in the USSR.*

In a meeting between CIA representatives and
Messrs. Allen Dulles and Rankin of the Warren Com-
mission on 14 January 1964, Rankin asked that CIA
draft questions to be included in a letter to the
Soviet Government concerning the Oswald case. The
questions were to be "not too technical," should
be sent soon, and were to be phrased in generalities
in order to allow the Soviets more flexibility than
would a longer, more pointed letter based on con-
crete US Government findings. These questions con-
stituted the first direct involvement of Wigren and
his Research Branch in the commission's work.

The commission wished to account in detail

 

- 72 -

SECRET
 

 

 

 

SECRET

States. Bagley, Chief, SR/CI, subsequently di-
rected Wigren to begin a chronological tabulation
of Oswald's activities in the USSR as collated —
from various sources. The commission made avail-
able to Wigren documents and reports already ac-
quired. from other US Government investigative
agencies, The commission agreed in principle to
honor CIA sensitivity classifications to documents
originated in the Agency for use of the commission.
The Agency's role was limited to written communica-
tions to the commission.~—
By 21 January 1964 Wigren and his colleages
had prepared and transmitted the questions to the
commission for relay to the Soviet Government.

Soviet defector Petr Deryabin had contributed to

this endeavor. The questionnaire had four basic

parts. The first series of questions sought to
; make an assessment of Oswald's mental and physical —

-eondition. ‘The Soviets were requested to furnish |

information on his medical treatment in the USSR
while in the hospital following his suicide at-
tempt in 1959 as well as any psychological -evalua-

tions of him. The second series of questions

- 73 - ; -

SECRET
