104-10179-10061

~ _—s ey

 

the sake of expediency (f.e., they wioh to cet rid of ao albatross);
others, hovever, genuinoly aim: that Ray de Nowientelly antarontetic *
to what they Lelieve in. - Sicce pemmle thus cepose lin on principle, ae
now that they have learned ccre ebout the cotaiie of iis charucter and :
h‘e progen. In any eveut, Orice necis perfectly villicg to co along.
Tho amily trouble, 80 I m toll, is tuat neiticr Mee nor Beruct have any
cersanal folliving: inside Culsa. Fmustino Ares does have a personal
follovicg there, Lut he covers Tay ond not cess. lew, Barqufa is very
uuch interested in Delio & Ochoa, the old "canandante"” during the
Castro rebellion avminct 2. §, Gad novia Jail in the Dorinican
Republic. uarqufn feets (es co sony others) thet Delio nicht vell serve
as a cohenive force within tne “AP, to nall tocetier the “rishtasts”
(Beruff and Pazos) and tze “lesticts" (Mny and Pérez), because seryone
holds him in such hich estea:. Of course, the only trouble fe that Delfo |
ie not currently “availodle™. | - -

fn affairs in Orieate Province, ©
there feel pretty much the same |

 

     

  

   

3. Onc of my Cuban fricncs, vuo io well-versed
has inforned ne that the “eclonce"” end othe
about the MP situation as J heve ceceribed sicve. Thins, the conflicts
outside of Cuba within the IMP ere serrered wside Ours, or at lenst cre oo

mirrored inaide Oricute Trovince.

enés

ROFORIT = WO DISSI ACKA‘D

 
104-10179-1 0061

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy acsaseinatigaNTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGE:

Records Collestiaa wa 5 eanena! Defense of he United Sem witha the mecnng
Seca 243 ond 704, oo eneoenan sevelation of which mt ony mm nner On wouihertied pares le protubited by low. | =

REPORT NO. 00-~

 

COUNTRY ote

SUUECT Poird Camiona to Depart for Puerto Rico And DATE DISTR. 22 hewhiy (q6o
Withdrey Fras Political Activity/Conflicts 4
Within the iP NO PAGES 2 . 0

    

 
   
 

FURS UFC; GIR, REFERENCES
aa Backoud Use Only
ut = Dex 60 » Tie Not Reproduce

rat ‘@ © © Cot = Deo
ss 5 tos 1s UNEVAL OATES ae DEMATSH
SF
US citizen, free-lence vriter and pert tine eugar broker.

. Bounce eveste Crentshy baa resided et sntervale in Ciba wince youth, hae had
contacts for many years axong Cibena in the suger business, eof nove
| Personally many present ond former Cuban political and administrative = =~
" personalities. Source lived in Havane during the entire calendar yeer 1959,
Working vith the Sucar Stabilization Institute and collecting mitertal for. -
on enalysis of Cevelopente in Cuba since Fidel Cestro's victory. 2 2” %
’
2. L have. recently learned that Mird Cardona has accepted, ctteting tn mary
Si G1, a teaching yosition at © university in Puerto Rico sod thet he $0,
; » St least for the foresceeble future, fron all political. activit
| Hin anti-certre ecutinate feain as strong ea evore Dut he te Gisieted
i .. «7° te dDickering emong enti-Castro,Cubuns and has made up bis rind to eit-on
the sidalines for a tine. has a particular dislize for, distrust of,

~ . Manuel Rey and for bie HRP crow. Ee feels that Day's progran
. 4n much too callectivist, werxist, |

"ent opportunist. Te also recente wnat ne texxs Rey's affection for Casamien

 

  
   
   

 

. - Qdout all thie end told hin to his face vhat he thought ©; hin. Miro is

Geterrined not to te tarred with the brush of association vith Ray in any
forms, which is enother icportant reason for his decision to vithirey to
Pusrte Rico. Be docs not vant to carpranise hia wn possible political future -
also... ;

 

a
§
E
&
8
k
§
5
S
é
iE
$
E
1
i
g

uy Ciben frisads bee just bed 0 long talk vith 2

ae
ae
- i
3
tL
ie
ely
R
ui
ne
Ee
ial

§
i
E
i
E
&
:
iy
E
:
.
E

also elientte popular
end offictal UJ opinion. ‘therefore, they reason, Ray rust go and sust be

Feplaced by smelcdy like Paros, who, they fool, does not have Ray's
diabilitieas. Gaze of the asti-Ray elements in the MPP hold this a.poaiiion for

 

ae Put 408 ad
OT TREE TN frat ed Det rae 66 tee te Ane COE ee

tod 15 eeleg nth, dared at

A Ba Bea eet atone = tee >

 
 

arly Bete ke tr mete
See eran TE

    

 

 
