SECRET

SUBJECT: (U) Status of Outstanding JFK Issues

the documents from the interest file would have been
transferred to the 201 according to standard procedure.

b. (U) Angelton Files.

The files that Kalaris mentioned in Mangold’s book were
incorporated with the files of the CI staff. Per memorandum
dated 1976-1979, the CI files were reviewed and incorporated
into the DO record system. Items that were duplicates or
not worthy of retention were destroyed. The memos describe
the file collection and the process that was followed.
Because the files that were once known as Angleton’s. have
been dispersed within the DO records, they are no longer

_ identifiable as a collection.

ec. (S) Contact with Journalists.

Memo prepared by| _responds to the difficulty with
searching for all connections with journalist. The second
memo defines certain crypts. These are both classified and

still sensitive, but we can work on an unclassified version
for the collection.

d. (S) Why did the Pawley 201 file abruptly stop in
1962?

There is an associated OPS file that contains the continuing
information. The record system design was based upon the.
notion that operational activity would be recorded in files
separate from the 201. Many officers over the years have
included the operational information in the 201 to simplify
their record-keeping. When the next officer is assigned the
case they may return to using the OPS file. It is common to
find 201 files that have the same situation.
1041033110186

 

Dee
ay

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

SECRET 20 Aug te

Chief, JFK Declassification Project /

HRP/OIM/DA
Fredrick Cc. Wickham, dr.
Chief, Information Management Staff,

External Support Group

(U) Status of Outstanding JFK Issues

(U) The following represents the current status of several
outstanding requests. The referenced matérial is in hard copy
form so it will be delivered with the printed copy of this note.
Michelle viewed this information, while she was here today, and
thinks it will meet the needs.

a. (U) Oswald’s files prior to the assassination.

(1).

operation,
We destroyed all of the HTLINGUAL files under

file.

Given that Oswald was a subject of the HTLINGUAL

it is reasonable to believe that there was a

“court order, and no record was made of what files

existed. References and individual. document .mentioning
Oswald and HTLINGUAL may be discovered during reviews
of other files within the JFK assassination records.

(2).. The 201 on Oswald represents all the information
we had ‘prior to the assassination. Some of this
information appears to have been received prior to the.
opening of the 201 file. Prior to opening the 201, any
documents received would have been placed in an
operational interest file, and it may not have been
registered in the central index. Upon opening the 201,

‘cu BY {0524343
REASON 1.5 (c)
DECL X21

DRV HUM 2-82
“SECRET

SUBJECT: - (U). Status of Outstanding JFK Issues

e. (U) File searches.

In addition to the EB, we sent more focused requests to LA,
CE, CIC and NROC: CIC has finished their searches and
produced a response: LA and CE have finished their searches
but are waiting until Monday when their focal point officer
returns from leave. NROC is still working,: but believe they
will not find anything. Many of their records are
‘duplicated within the files maintained by the divisions.

£. (8) appeal.

We have a draft of additional arguments under review
and I will forward it to you by the end of the week.

  
    

 

 

 

Fredrick Cc. Wickham, Jr.
Attachments:

A - As Stated ' ;

B - Processing of Documents by the Analysis Unit in ‘CI Staff |
Cc - CI Staff Records Study
SECRET

SUBJECT: (U) Status of Outstanding JFK Issues

IMS/ESG Fredrick C. Wickham x44448:mjk (20 August 1998)
Fredrick C. Wickham x44448:mjk (20 August 1998)

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - IMS/ESH/HCS
1 - IMS/ESG Chrono

“aRPeDon

(IMS/ESG
