13-00000,

oy SECRET
. ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

we I

appeals within 7 days of receiving Notification Letter

4. CIA has never before presented an appeal to the
President; FBI presented an appeal last year but the White House
told the parties to work out their difficulties.

ae

III. February 8th Appeal

1. In November and December of 1995, the JFK Board vas
notified DCI of the release of documents that would:

 

 

 

   
 
     

 

 

- implicate high-ranking officials in a jYoint
tel- tap operation against foreign embassies -| |
(December 7) me

- reveal station in (December 27) “7 *
y sensitive unilatéral source in the
(November 28)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. On February 8, DCI submitted an appeal to the President
on these issues.

a. Admittedly, CIA did have problems getting appeal
out on time. The JFK staff was very understanding of our time
problems and arranged to give us more time. They too have
recognized that the time periods set out in the Act are too short
to bring an appeal.

b. The reason for CIA's delay was simply because the
decision to appeal a Board determination to the President of the
US is very difficult one to make, both on a procedural anda
substantive level. As CIA never did an appeal before, it did not
have an efficient systém worked out.

c. Today, the procedure is as follows: Once HRG.is
notified of Board decisions, they immediately pass this on to OGC
and the DO. The appropriate components within DO are asked
whether the release would cause currerit damage to the national
security or intelligence operations or sources. - If so, they are
tasked to provide a written assessment of that damage.

d. An appeal package is then prepared by OGC and the
DO. This package must then be approved by GC, DDO, EXDIR, DDCI
and DCI.

e. Although CIA's turn around time is improving, it
can take several. weeks to task the appropriate people, have them
gather the information needed to prepare an appeal and then get
this up to the DCI.

3. Despite our time problems, the JFK Staff was
cooperative in the process of bringing this appeal to the

President: ‘ap ~
SECRET
ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
104-10331-10106

 

: Cor
‘ . . . C SECRE

ADNMASTRATIE. INTERNAL USE ONLY

Ca
From the Desk ff
a
NOTE FOR: John F. Pereira
J. Barry Harrelson
FROM:
DATE: 04/09/96 01:51:24 PM . . ;
SUBJECT: HPSCI talking points a

Thought you may be interested in seeing in advance an outline of what | plan to say at the HPSCI briefing. Of course, | will be ready to
alter this according to the circumstances of the meeting!

; , . ot
Talking Points ” }
I. Statutory Authorities of the JFK Board
1. The JFK: Act states that all government records relating

to the JFK assassination should carry a presumption of immediate
disclosure and that all records will eventually be disclosed.
Although the. Act allows for the postponement of release of
certain information, all records will be disclosed in full by
2017 unless the President certifies that protection is still
necessary.

2. Under the JFK Act, the JFK Board determines what is an
"assassination record" and whether an assassination record
qualifies for postponement. The Board has the power to direct a
government agency to make available to it, not only assassination
records, but additional information which it believes is
necessary to fullfill its duties under the Act. It has has the
power to request the Attorney General to subpoena private
persons, records and other information relevant to its
responsibilities under the Act. °

II. Appeal Procedures set out in JFK Act

1. Once Board has determined whether a record shall be
released or postponed, it must send a "Notification Letter" to
the head of the agency (DCI)

2. Only recourse for an agency that disagrees with Board
determination is-to appeal to the President.

3. The President has 30 days from the date of the
Notification Letter to reply to appeal

a.. White House asks that agencies submit any

SECRET

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
13-00000

 

oes SECRET

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

a. Before submitting appeal to the President, I faxed
copy of appeal to JFK Board's General Counsel with the idea that
if it presented new and convincing evidence, he would present it
to the Board during its session. ;

ae

b. Shortly after submitting the appeal to the
President, I spoke with White House Counsel and Counsel to ‘JFK
Board. We agreed to put the appeal on hold until the Board could
review CIA's submission to the White House and possibly
reconsider its determinations in light of additional information
presented in the appeal.

c. I talked with JFK Board's Counsel and Executive
Director regularly about the best way to handle the appeal. I
arranged with them to have the General Counsel of CIA to come to
the Board's February meeting and present new information ©
regarding the issues on appeal. ; a

a. On February 29, the General Counsel of CIA and I

 

met with the JFK Board and their staff. We discussed_i s on
appeal as well _ as 3 other stations recently released cP

 

e. Based on the information presented by CIA at this
meeting, the Board reconsidered and agreed to protect all of the
issues on appeal as.well as 3 other stations.

IV. Future appeal procedures

1. Both JFK Board and CIA agree that we should never have
to appeal something to the President and we should try to work
out difficult issues on our own.

2. In the last 2 months, when CIA believed that a release
would damage the national security, the Board has invited us to
their meetings to present additional evidence on the issue. In
some cases, they have reconsidered their decision and protected
the information.

3. The Board also recently released __ station - we are
arranging to meet with them at the end of this month to present
stronger arguments for protecting this station.

4. The Board is now considering the release of names of
CIA employees who retired under cover. It is very important for
CIA's mission that the names of its employees, especially those
who remain covert, be protected even after retirement. In the

' spirit of cooperation and in the hopes of getting the Board to

understand this, CIA helped arrange a meeting between the JFK
Board's General Counsel and a retired CIA covert employee

SECRET

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
woe SECRET

. ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

5
©
currently living in Europe. CIA hopes that after hearing from
the employee about his objections to having his name released and’
the harm that may come to him, the Board will agree to protect
his name, and others like him, from release.

ce: . , “Se

 

SECRET

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
