74-0000

(2) Mazes and biographis data on subject's parents
were submitted to the Bureau fo. tracing in
thelr files. The Bureau reported that these
individuals were not identified in Burean files.

(3) Green-Lists on Subject's parents were subuitted
to FI/D. Reaults were negative.

(hk) An atteapt vas nade to procura copies of the news-
paper (Hoy, 1939) which might have carried the
etory of Subject's iathar's exoulsion from the
Party. It was determined taat no Cuban newspapers
are kept on file in the Agency. (Library Acquisi-
Slos Dieuih, O20/2ole, FDTD, aud may ay ceUp aoe
queried.) Because of time limitations, no attempt
was made to procure the papers from another Agency
or from the Library of Congress.

b. Actual Dates of the Alleged Secret MILA Meeting.

Bo . (1). As indicated above, back issues of Cuban newspapers
: : '" ere not available within the Agency. It was there-
fore iaposeible to check Subject's story about the
meeting against news stories in contemporary isscaa
of Revolucion, which he said vas given a news release

on The second day of the meeting.

_ (2) A review of FBID Dally Summaries for October 1959 uss
, requested of FBID for the ourpose of unearthing any
overt broadcast reporting on the meeting. FSID,
Latin american branch, Mr. iodney Levine, acvised
that it was not possible for that office to conduct
fo such a review at this tines. These sumaries"are’ -
P . . available for review at 1717 H Street, and will be
a i . screened if the time and effort involved. are con-
eidered worthuhile. : . :

i . .
i. ae (3) «B/L/7I (Barbara Edmunds) advised that no reporting
Poo, i on this October INZA meeting had been received other
Bo, than that from ANTES, :

(kh) Xt 1s noted that Saturdeys and Sundays in October 1959
i a . feli on 3, 10-11, 17-18, and 2-25 Oeteber, and 21
H .. . Qotober - 1 WOverber. Therefore at least ons of
Subject's accounts of the dates invelved is Velese. facil”

 
 

‘04-10462-10102}

wager

 

é

MEMORANDUM FPO2: Chief, WH/k

SUBJECT

1.

1 February 1961
s Marmel AxTIME Buesa -

Review of File Initiaced on seceipt of
Derogatory Information on Subject from Pedro DIAZ Lanz

Because of the coments made by Pedro Luis DIAZ Lanz on 13 Jamary

1961 to the effect that Manuel ARTIME Buesa may be a Communist agent, AcTIKE's
file wes reviewed for the purpose of uncovering any information which might
support DIAZ’ allegation.

fe

bb

3.

AfbGS Open Lo Question ace ine aliasing:

Commnist Party Affiliation of Subtect's Father: As noted by Martha
aufrA, subject s uring his polygraph examination that his
father "nad belonged to the Commmist Party during the Spanish Civil War,
had gone to spain during the war, but had not bean a nezber of the
Communist Party since 1939. ‘this subject was not pursued by the poly~
greph operator. Subject gave somewhat varying accounts for the reasons
for his fathe-'s quitting the Party: during the polygraph examination,
he explained that the Party had intended to send his father to tussle
for training, and also had ordered hig fatuer to inform on his friends;
when Ris father refesed, the Party sapslled him. Later, in an auto-
biography, subject stated that his father had left the Party because
of the “treason which they committed acainst his intimate friend, |
FEGHANDS2 Martinex. ‘This "treason" was not further detailed. subject

Stated that hie fethertg expalsion {er resignation) was reported in

Hoy at the tine.

 

semen a

‘RETURN TO oA

Background On

Report on the October 1959 Isls Meeting: Subject reported that the Not Repi
open acuissions of Comamisn 8 del ot al during a closed-door Do

 'THRA meeting in October 1959 precipiated his defection. Subject could

not, however, remember the dates of the meeting. At first he reported
that it took place dmring the last week in october 1959. (His letter
te Fidel stating his reasons for defection, which was widely circulated
after his exfiltration, was dated 25 October.) He later corrected this.
te 7-8 Ccteder, During the polygraph examination, he stated he could
not rezenber the dates. but thet it was a two-day meeting, on a Saturday
and Sunday, some time in mid-Cctodar.

the following aetions were taken im an attest te sescive. doubts vatised

by these points:

Communist ageuiation of mitiee, :

" (1) Hames of parents were traced in iID, with negative results.

-.. (2) Bames and/

   

 
 

;
i

 

 

h. Conclusions,

Results of this review of Subject's file do not support the
allegations made by DIAZ Lanz. Although the two major areas-of doubt
resain somewhat unresolved, the weight of evidence would seen to be.
in the Subject's favor.

@. Agency and Bureau files contain no identifiable record
of Subject's father. |

bo ARTIME himself volunteered inforration concerning beth
the cited areas open to possible question. the Subject
hed every reason to believe that the information he
voelunteared (i.e, that hin father's emminion troa the -
Party was reported in Hoy, and that the DiiA meeting
was covered by a reporter from devolucton) could be
easily verified.)

e. The record of AXTIMG's polygraph examination stated
that strong polygraph evidence had been obtained that’
Subject was a bona side anti~castre and anti-Comamist
defector; that Iza had held a meeting around the .
middle of October at which Subject was prerent; aad -
that the letter of resignation addressed to Fidel was.
written by hin and that it was cenerally accurate in

reporting the IN:A mesting.

ad. There has been no evidence in FI/D that AXTINE is
other than what he clains to be.

5. Corment.

Dave Morales, JMdAVE/CI, has additionally commented that there
is no love lest between AXTIME and DIAZ Lans and that the latter's

 

. @llegations against; the former are probably falee. In view of 2142 =>

Lars’ feelings against ARTING, it is not unlixely that he ig endeavor-
ing:

aRTDR.
os
Bistribtion: ’ or
Orig * 1 Acareenee
- i:  ayl/Pa

a

ane

SecnET

to baila hinself up in the eyes of his case afficer by discrediting

 
