 

2.

he Thad taken With me a PRY Part 1 form and obtained the
necessary data.
5S. If his statenents Soncerning previous erolcynent are correct,

Pepe
wd for taking Of risks and sxitching

his working history shous a,
employment frequently. He apzears to be basically a promoter in the
Public Relations ang Advertising “field. In 197, the fim Mitchell

YER BELL, Inc., Atlanta, Geergia, engaged in public relations and
advertising, went tnroighbenkruptey. fe has since been self-erplo;ed
primarily as a consultant in the public relations and advertising field,
He is also connected with a firm called World wide Information Services,
660 Ist Ave., New York. dudging from the address, I quest ton the
strength of this firmyeat Ai though Subject clains to be a Vice President
of it, he adnitted that he is employed on a comaissionef basis and has
had no earnings Since January 1959, we said the reasca for his failure
to make Xx money during this period {s that he hes been involved in the
transact tons/nenttoned in ay earlier menorandus) fe the exchange of Cuban
pesos, which were largely unsucceas ful.

6. I had asked Subject to write out in detail 23 much as possible
of the story he had given me on 6 duly, but he had failed to do so, He
wanted to know whether the United States Covernment was going to do any~
thing about what he called the serious Commmnist erisis in Cube. I
told him that the United Stctes could handle the matter in its own way

and 3x ovn time and thet for obvious reasons of security T could not ga

into any detail on any of these matters with hia unless he were specifically

to be charged with a given aetion.
 

 

104-10182-10133

MEMOKANDIM OF CONVESSATION

fy

“SUBJECT

eT aup
arranged to armemge another meeting with hin. I told him that it would

only take about an hour,or an hour and & half and then he would be free

4
to return to his home.

2. when I arrivéd I told him that after looking over the situation
ZF wal 224.
and consulting with’ ny superiors isoSastihammataie ‘for obvious reasons

the United States would not support any revolutionary activities by Gen.

\

eg

8 duly 1959

\
PARTICIPANTS: Mitchell L. }ER BELL and

¢ . 4, I phoned Sublect at his hotel on 8 Jaly at 1100 as we had pre-

 

4

RETURN TO CIA
. Background Use Only
. ' Do Not Reproduce

Pedraza, I also said that the United States will observe its international

obligationt concerning Cuba and Pedraza, and that the United States would

not overlook any violations by Pedraza or nis followers of the neutrality

laws.

3. T said that we had some interest in the possibility of his

working for us ag an intelligence gatherer under terms to be negotiated

after we obtained a current security clearance on him. I pointed out

that we were not attempting to limit his action in connection with the

nor were we agsuming any responsibility for those

matters he carries out in his own behalf.

security and discipline should he work for us, pointing out thot he may

I stressed the need for

be asked to do things which we cannct fully explain to him because of

the need for security. He said he understood this perfectly.

the attached Secrecy Agreenent to him and had him sign it.

I dictated
 

Nw . en

Te Subject said that he had Galled the head of World Mde Information
Services, Richard «. Hzbell, since he was in Washington anyway and proposed
to go to New York to see him. He said while He was in New York he would
attenst to contact Loos. (See my mencrandun of 7 July) and learn more of the
‘alleged 1,00 availabie Cerzans,. I told-him that I neither approved or
disappreved his taking this action at this time but if he did, I would
appreciate hearing the results of it. oF

&. Subject said that he feels he should return to the Dominican
Republic as soon as possible and asked if we vere willing to finance such
atrip. I told him it would be necessary to get hie clearance before
doing so, and that he would hear fron us in a week to 10 days.

9. My secand interview with Subject gave me a more unfavorable
epinion than before. While obviously capable, I get the inpression that
Subject is such a big “wheeler and dealertgthat he has failed in business
despite considersbla ability, initiative and energy. I recomend that
ne use be wade of him until such time that a very cara fil covert. inveatin
gation of his background and activities have been mades that if security
aporoval is obtained, he ‘{nitiatly be hired under a short term contract

” gor testing purvosesy and only after careful testing and evaluation should

he be considered for long term contract employment. (07

 

[26

 
