 

SUBJECT: Release of JFK Assassination Records

--On the subject of cable, dispatch and file numbers, there
is no objection to the release of this information as it :
pertains to Mexico City, to include 201 numbers of key players
in the JFK story. All hqs cable numbers can be released as can
dispatch numbers to Mexico City. The release of cable/dispatch
numbers from other Stations can only be done if there has been
prior public identification of a Station in that location. The
release of file numbers pe se, however, would reveal the
methodology by which we file/store and retrieve information
which is still in practice today and thus we cannot approve it
on a blanket basis. Blanket release of 201 numbers reveals
similar information as well as targeting/acquistion .
methodologies which we similarly need to continue to protect. .

2. I realize that the above guidelines continue to mean

that much information will be “blacked out.” As bad as it may

appear, none of this information is substantive and its
omission does not detract from the “story.” Its release,
however, could permit detailed analyses of our commo,
methodology, contacts and staffing which we cannot accept.

New Subject: Release of William Pawley’s name

3. It is agreed that an attempt will be made to locate
Pawley's next of kin to request their permission to release
information pertaining to his relationship with CIA. If the
next of kin cannot be indentified or located, the subject can
be revisited. (Note: the information in the Congressional
record or in the book “Deadly Secrets" notes that there was
contact and even support between Pawley and the CIA but does
not identify the full extent of that relationship.)

a

 

SECRET

 
 

 

104-10334-10068).

 

 

‘
tA
tH
a
ye)
fr]
y

 

25 June 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Historical Review Group
Chief, Information Management Service
Director, Center for the Study of Intelligence

FROM: ‘John Berg
: Special Assistant to the Associate Deputy
Director for Operations

SUBJECT: Release of JFK Assassination Records

REFERENCE: A. Memorandum from DDO dated 9 June 1993:
Subject: Release of JFK Assassination
Records -- Differences;

B. Memorandum by Dave Gries of 22 June 1993:
Subject: JFK Assassination Records-—- Proposal
for discussion :

1. Regarding the items discussed in the referenced memos,
it appears that a further interpretation is required.

--On the subject of cryptonyms, we cannot give wholesale
approval’ for their release, but if the crypts have been
previously blown or exposed they can be released. There may be
cases in which, if the crypt has been retired, does not relate
to existing or another project and does not contain a valid
digraph, it may also be released. Note, however, that crypts
which are related to a series (ZZBOAT/1, ZZBOAT/2 etc:), would,
when exposed, link operations or assets to one another or which
refer to other operations or projects cannot be released.

--On the subject of pseudonyms, if the pseudonym has been
previously blown, there is no objection to its release. Note
that release of pseudonyms serves to link officers with
assets/operations and this “guilt by association” could lead to
futher, undesireable, exposures. Care’must also be taken so
that the release of pseudonyms is not done in such a manner so
as to enable a researcher to accummulate through an inspection
of numerous documents the approximate size of a given station.
(The sense of this is to mean that only a small number of
pseudonyms would be considered for release.)

 
