Faoovoo |g

~

f
|

5]pl

 

: . pe meee Py 5 BAY! a ia ° ~
Mt 7s Ly : ole
: 4 a ined ... _¢ “yt . - .
the Bites and uad no clain to such rank or position. Jwass

later given ajob in the "Banco de Seguros Sociales" (A=S" Hot

Sure Of job or the exact name of the bank) where he worked for a
short time until he became involved in sone trouble involving
funds at the bank, and as a result was fired from this position,
The word went out that. he was not ever again to hold any official
pesition in the Cuban government .0 was or still is an
American citizen since he was in thé U.S. armed forces during

WW II, He was very active in the American veterans groups in
Habana in the late 1940's. A-3 considers him to be a politica
opportunist with no real political beliefs, but not a is .
He speaks perfect English and Spanish. A~3 considers t
be a porfoct "con" man type who has a winning persona could
convince a person of. anything after a 15 minute conversation, is

a tremendous bluff, but who can-be extremely convincing when argui

“ @ point. He is an oyer perfect dresser, never wearing clothes or

ties with mismatche@eolors, and is always ‘correct’ in dress.
A-3 feels that jcould never ke trusted in anything involving

money or opportunities for versonal gain his part. He once’
worked for a lawyer named ia Habana in 1945,
A-3 last saw him in mid 1 av a bar in Habana, but has no idea |

 

‘what he is doing now, or where he works.

: D. _Commandante Ramon GUIN - Commandante Ramon GUIN is
a neighbor of A-3's in Wajay, Habang. province and lives some
200 yards down the road from A-3's home in ajay. The AMLEOs
and the GUINS were and are and got together
socially from.time-to time but were not extremely close. GUIN is

about 37 or 38 years of age, is married, and has two sons about
1} and 3 years of age. A-3 believes that GUIN is definitely ro aa
J :

- Communist but probably still pro "Fidel', His wife is Anti-¢
.and anti-Fidel. GUIN is an agronomist and the manager of a large

GOC farm called "Unidad" located at "Guira de Melena", near San.
Antusio air base in Habana Province. A~3 believes that GUIN's
life is the farm, and that he has little other contact or access

to people in high government office, although A-3 is not positive
of this. A-3 considers GUIN to be a good friend, a good person,

a family man, and one who kept his hands clean in the aftermath of
the Castro victory not. participating in "war crimes" trials,
persecutions, and had no contact with the G-2. GUIN served with
A-3 in the hills in the group of Camillo CIENFUEGOS and is a ‘combs
buddy. © - ;

”

 
=
«

 

(toe-torna-tozat] ©

«

 

. - ~ Ts ae rh 6-8) ~ > eee
: D) : : ‘° sAtT™ A a7
rae |
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD . ‘Date: “19 February 1963
TO : Chief, PN Branch 0
: RETURN TO CIA -

ATIN : Irving N.. PEGGINS Background Use Only

: _ \ Bo Not Reproduce
“FROM 3 Chief, FI Branch we P
CASE OFFICER: A.B. WELDRAKE #@/ :

SUBJECT ; 3 Debriefin of AMLEO-3 on target personalities in
MATRON Speree oR — =_— ™

1. On 15 February 1963 the-case officer was asked by

‘Irving N. Peggins of the PM Branch to interview AMLEO-3 re certain

_AMTRUNK target personalities. These names were to be mixed into
other groups or persons that are currently being discussed with
AMLEO-3. On the night of 15 February AMLEO-3 was questioned re

- various individuals including the ANTRUNK targets. The following

- information was obtained from AMLEO-3 on the AMTRUNKS:

"a, (()- a=3 first heard of a he
was a Captain in tae pepe? army serving with Rolando ia :

the Escambry ared*fighting against Batista. A~3 did not work
direct igiritn J dursne this period. After the Castro

 

- victory returned to his studies in the niversity of “"~
4g Habana and became active in student affairs and —
Oo Cone

6 While in this position he once invited A= to
the University and g to a student group which 4-3 did.
A-3 does not believe ofS 4 Communist, but he should
definitely be considered a pro "Pidelista’ 9? graduated
from the University in Ostober of 1962, was s n Habana when
A-3 left, but A-3 is not knowledgeable of REVELLON's current
activities in Cuba since his graduation. A~-3 does not consider
him to be very important in Cuban official circles.

 

B. - A~-3 does not know this individu:

 
 

c. MLEO-3 knows quite a bit about this
individual al sOhot consider him to be a personal
friend. A-~3 stated that(DUARTE]was once arrested in Maroneck,
N.J. for arms ssuggling for anti-Batista groups in the early
1950's (he does not remember what year), but because of his war
record and U.S. citizenship he was able to talk himself out of 2

jail sentence. He was later involved in a very shady deal somewhes

in the SW United States (Texas) involving anti-~Batista groups

collecting funds for their work. One Candido De La Torre was

involved and some $200,000.00 disappeared somewhere in the deal,
- This occurred sometime in 1955 or 1956. (A-3 is not sure of the

January 2959

‘Gate put the cas@lyas given wide publicity in the U.S. press.) Ina
(7 _)snowed up in Havana at t. ime_of the Castro
victory?2and before Castro came ipto Habana, commissicned

 

 

 

 

  
  

 

himself and appointed himself

° F[ district of Habana.gb On tho arrival of
Camillg, CIENFUEGOS in Habgnenba mires aysorj his self appointe.
post. Japparently adi wid! Niled Tess rg ne R,bel army in

  

o6

ie r2aeey

 
