 

T3000 nae a tn cm tA a ea ma ama wae

 

 

 

 

SE ;

-5-

LIENVOY Project for the period 1 February 1964 through 31 January
1965 for a total of $47.068; $20,530 for FY 1964 and $26,538 for
FY 1965. No additional funds are required for FY 1964. since.
‘sufficient funds remain from the past approval to cover the

$20, 530 required under this renewal request.

. 11. Recommendations: WH Division ‘recommends renewal of this
Project based upon the above memorandum and the attached. field

request .
NW Meatert 7

J. C. KING
C/WHD

— Sigal
 

 

 

SRT

om Qan

- A, Intelligence production: | LIENVOY is one of. the most
productive telephone tap projects in KUBARK of both FI and CE
type information. From 1 Fébruary 1963 through 15 January 1964,

_ this project has been the source of 309 positive.reports, 56 of
which: were not disseminated. LIENVOY-2 was the source of 16
“reports, and. the tap intercept program accounted for the remain-
-ing 293. No customer evaluations were requested, but WH/3 .
evaluates the product as being valuable and covering a wide range
of topics difficult. to cover through other sources. The types of
reports originating from this Project include such matters as:

LIENVOY-2: Communist and leftist activity in Mexico
i . Communist publications:

International congresses

Mexican political activities

LIENVOY: Communist and leftist personalities and
: '" activities in Mexico .
Travel

' Soviet and satellite Activities in Mexico.
‘Cuban activities in Mexico and developments
in Cuba
International conferences and delegates
: Communist Chinese activities in Mexico

5. Effectiveness: In addition to the positive intelligence
. production this Project is the source of valuable CE information
and operational leads. The intercept center covers 30 lines, all
of which are of interest to KUBARK and approximately one-half of
them are exclusively for KUBARK. These 30 lines include Mexican
Communist and leftist leaders, Prensa Latina, the Local Security
Service (Direccion. Federal de Seguridad-DFS), 5 lines on the Soviet
Embassy, 3 on the Cuban Embassy, 2 on the Czech Embassy, and since

September 1963 there have been 3 on the Yugoslav Embassy. This

‘center records an average of 525 reels per month, from which the
tap center monitors prepare daily summaries of significant items
gleaned from all the lines. These daily resumes total between 100
to 150 pages per month. The tap center monitors prepare full
transcripts in Spanish for the Cuban, Yugoslav, and Soviet Embassy
lines. The reels for the Soviet and Satellite coverage are given

pe

St sake
   
 

foet0443-t0034] “~~

 

SECRET

4
a

21 January 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Plans

 

SUBJECT | —«:~. Request for Renewal of the LIENVOY Project

‘The “LEENVOY Project is submitted for renewal for the’ period
1 February 1964 through 31 January 1965, for a total of $47,068;
$20,530 for FY 1964 and $26,538 for FY 1965. No additional funds
are required for FY 1964; however, as the equipment. approved in an
amendment submitted in June 1963 for $23,000 will not be ordered
during the remainder of the present Fiscal Year.

 

: 1. Objectives: ' The LIENVOY Project provides for a joint CIA/
. Mexican Government Sponsored telephone tap unit, and for a non-
Me provides access to the

 

 

 

 

2.. Agents: There have been no changes in agent personnel
during the past year, and none are proposed during the coming year.
Arnold F, AREHART, Staff Agent, continues to do an outstanding job
in managing the top center and in keeping all technical equipment
in repair.

 

3. Changes: During the past year, Headquarters approved the
Station's plan to move the LIENVOY intercept center for security
reasons, and to replace the older equipment with new and more mobile
equipment. This move has been held in abeyance until this opera-
tion can be discussed with LITENSOR's successor and a mutual
decision is made about the future operational pattern of the tap
phase of LIENVOY. LITENSOR's successor will not officially replace
him until December 1964. Meantime, the security of the intercept
premises has been tightened and it is believed that LITENSOR or
LIELEGANT could handle any problems which might arise.

 
 

 

 

 

‘SECRE

3

‘the Station for passage to ‘Station assets who translate the
Soviet, Czech and Yugoslav portions,

Coverage of the Cuban, Czech, Yugoslav and Soviet Embassies .
. provide details of their personnel, their contacts, travel and

other useful CE data. Information gai is source has
led to a successful recruitment in the mbassy during
the past year. . - .

Examples of some important. non-disseminable information

. obtained through LIENVOY during ‘the ‘past year are;

 

 

 

~ @. During. May, through ° LIENVOY, the Station uncovered
a harrassment operation directed against the U.S. Embassy by the
use of forged routine forms to embarrass the Embassy and known
anti- Communists.

b. Several contacts made by U.S. citizens with the.
Cuban and Soviet Embassies, and with Mexican Communists were .
recorded. This information ‘is given special dissemination to the
¥BI for their action, ‘The most significant of these contacts was -
that by Lee OSWALD with the Cuban and Soviet Embassies in Mexico
prior to the assassination of the late President KENNEDY. OSWALD's
contact was cabled to Headquarters on 8 October 1963 and this
information was immediately disseminated to the appropriate ODYOKE
offices.

Cc. During August LIENVOY contributed support to the
REDWOOD AEJUMBO operation by providing information on contacts
between principals involved in this sensitive SR operation.

6. Problems: There have been no significant security, cover, -
control, or Tiaison problems during the past year.

qT. This Project encompasses an unofficial liaison
relationship w which

contributes to the friendly attitude of that Government toward
ODYOKE. On 23 November, the day after the assassination of the

 

 

 

 

. | | SHEET
 

 

 

 

 

 

~ SecReT

' late President Kennedy, the Chief of Station alerted Mexican
officials to selected LIENVOY coverage of the Cuban Embassy which
concerned Lee OSWALD. As a result they took immediate action
favorable to PBPRIME by making appropriate arrests, conducting
interrogations, rejecting a Cuban Embassy protest note, and .
killing a Soviet propaganda effort to place the blame-on minority

groups in PBPRIME. . .

In December 1963, a KUBARK official traveled to Mexico 1 with a
visual presentation concerning’ the Cuban arms cache in Venezuela. _
_ There he gave a special briefing to LITENSOR, pointing out the
authenticity of the Cuban origin of these arms, and thus contri-._
buting significantly to a reaction by the Mexican Government on
this important inter-American matter favorable to ODYOKE.

. In connection with a trip: made by LITENSOR to several East
and West European countries in March and April 1963, the Station
was provided several briefing papers on these countries, prepared
by KUMONK and KUWOLF, for passage to LITENSOR. LITENSOR's

was also provided contact with a KUBARK official
ft 6ac é uropean city so that he might send classified

messages to certain trusted Mexican through KUBARK
channels if he so wished. Oo >

 

 

 

 

8. Inter-Agency Coordination: No formal inter-Agency co-
ordination is required in this Project. The Chief, PBSWING, Mexico,
is the only ODYOKE representative in Mexico outside KUBARK who is

‘aware of this project and its provision for a special channel to
LITENSOR. Such matters as the special briefing on the arms cache
in Venezuela were discussed in detail with hin. |

: 9. Plans: No significant operational changes are planned
during the coming Project year. In December 1964 LITENSOR will
probably be replaced by LITEMPO-2. This should cause no major
adjustments since’ the Station is already on good terms with
LITEMPO-2 under. the LITEMPO Project. It is anticipated that
LITEMPO-2 will continue the intercept program without change.

10. Funds: Approval is requested for the renewal of the

Sivacl
