74-00000

 

 

 

rey

forestall any further discusetons in this PPeard,. Sut ject then
Stated that "sr you are thinkin: that T cord have worked for the
KGB et thig time, then YOu are right because I haz the tire to

do enything including engeging in intelligence activities>,
Eovever, Subject then proceeced to deny thas ke had theg or at any

¥. In July 10% Subject's rether ana father come 5 soscow,
this specifically fo- the purnese of getting Subsect to return to
the Usa. They stayed in Boscew fae ote oon wan cig SEALE Sime the
Pathan certs ieliers tc IGPBESy,
aS

 
   
 
 
 

Soviet estatiisn.

 
 

ct's wife, A
1952, while vacationing in Socks. Subject ves cought out by the

Subject and his eon Fermission to leave the tes, Upon Eis return to

advis -d that he hea uct teen Gated an extt rica by the cortets.
45 a result, Subject erplied for irieretion te the USA twiee, once
in the tapacity of a Soviet eiticen using his Soviet Passport, and

the second time in the Capacity of an " mericen eitizen*,

,
Without waiting to receive approvel to travel under his claiz of
being an “American citizen", Sut ject left the 2552 ang entered the

1962 via Idlewild. pen Ade arrival ir the (S21, sunjece iimedi ately

Soviet aational elections, Rovever, he then retained an attorrey
who appealed the case; the original “decision vas then reversed and
both Sub‘ect and his son rad their is citizenship restored to then

- in the sumer of 1963, the reversal wag based ca Subject's clan

that ke sa¢ had no choice and vas, sherefore, compelle’ to vote tn
the USSR national elections,

Xs Upom his arrival in the “SA, Subject imediately epalied
lege"at the Sime. He then accepted = position vith Stelling, Lord.

Wood, and van Suetendals,” 26th Street, vorking on Site-planniag,
Fis supervisor, one Frank MeCowan, then recommenied Subject to the

  

 

SCREVA, to ADZRUTEr,

/ for a position with the UN, hovever, he was rejected as he was "state:

cctenen ababrebecuin ye os
 

 

Blauvelt engineering firm for whom he vorked from January 1963
through Culy 1964. In 1964 Subject foumd work with Earold J.
ScLDEM, 60 Erosd Street, Red Bank, Yew Jersey, as an engineer
working on the planning and designing of sub-divisions, = .
ecastructicn developments, etc. Fis immediate superviscr is the
township ervineer of Maritoro Township, New Jersey. Eis present
salary is ¢/00.00 per month.

y- In April 1963 subject rarried

a Polish Jew who had came to the USA from Poland in 1945. she has
toon cone br her rrevriecs cerrtacefs). dublect and bie soa nov Live .

in the Lose of his present wife.

4, ‘Comments and Assessment:

8. Subject speaks native English and passes for a middle class
American. Eis Russian is likewise native.

b. According to Subject, his objective in life row is to work
for the US Goverment. EH states that he has sutaitted forms S57 to
@ mueber of the US Government agencies (be Gad sot elaborate}. in
applying for the position under ASETSTCRR, Subject asked for £29,000.06

. per anmm vhich is his asking price for a position with the US Goverumest.

ce. According to Subject, tis present position is excellent with
great potential for going into partnership as soon as he berones &
licensed ecgineer. However, he states that he is not interested ia
See aie

making money (despite his request for a $10,000.00 salary) but in “Sigzt-
ing Commmism" as an employee of the 0S Coverment.

a. Subject aditted that he was a firm and strong believer of
Comamiss which, incidentaliy, was the reason way be resained behind

‘Gn the USSR vhen his parents returned to the USA in 1937. Ee states
‘that he continued to be a firm beltever of Commmisz until approxcinately

1058/59 when he became “disenchasted with Cormsunism”, Subtect

denies that he was a mnenber of the Konsomol or that he ted to }vin the
Communist Party, this despite the fact that he became en officer of
the Sorfet Jrmy and despite the fact that he was accepted to stuiy

at the Institute of Marxism-Leniniss. Despite his alleged “disenchent—

_ went” with Commmisa, Subject spoke in flattering terms about lite

in the USSR, about the “democracy”, about equal opportimities, ebsut
the excellent “educational system", et cetera. Subject einitted thas

 

i
1

 

 

toons Nts Dasha Qo

 

—
eet ncetnatie tvetin Maneae nomen cae

sae cet erememetnenne Nees beatin wus Rees Space setae css one a cee PACS ener mermnernemenrnne tnt os ne tts Mas anton manein Pamc i
 

 

 

SiGe

Vawe

Te

must kave been otherwise as, had he actually been disnissed for
“political unreliability", ke would uot have been able to continue
his studies at the Institute cf Mercisn-Leninim.

8. Because Subject had cormmicated to his father, using
“hidden phrases" in their letters ts each other, about his wish to
leave the USSR, Subject's father arrived in the USSR in 1957 in
order, Subject states, "to estebliss at first hand for hizsel’”
whether Subject really wisned to “Cefect to the USA". Subject's
feather remained in tae USSR for e total of 10 days. As a result
of his father's visit, Subject ctanzed his tactics and tezan to
aubett applications for “immigration” to the USA. As earlier, these |

ta5 om pares

p ow fecs states Laat be
coatimied resubmitt. ten several ines each year.

   

 

t After he left the Bauman District place of exzlorment in
February 1955, Subject foune work as a "free lance trenslater for
the Moscew Torgovaya Palate. Se carced ca ‘io rubles ver Lonoth
translating Sngliso lersuase material related to the iron and steel

Plant witch was being designed ty the SSP for erection in India. i

In January 1956 Subject found vork as chie? cf the translations
bureau of the Hauchno-Isslez Menisterstva Mashinoe
Stroyeniya; bis functicas cczs: Bistec of supervising the
translation of English lensvece manmoels on technical equinment.
Again, Sibject admitted that his work was’ “umusual™ as, in actual
fact, he spent 1-2 days at work, spemt the rest of his tine at ham,
and devoted most of his time end exergy to the studies at the
Institute of Marciem-Leniniss. Sis salary continued at 1200 rubles
per nonth.

  

 

uw In August 1958 his work came to an end. Generally he
provided a cont@rdictory acccurt in this respect. Initially he .
stated that the position had a been elininated but then changed this

to begin ‘devoting his full tise to the work. In any case, his
resignation generally coinc*ded with his completion of stud‘es at

the Institute of Marxism-leninisa. Thereafter, snd wil his
izmigration to the USA in. 1962, Subject held no full tice jod.
Ronetheless, he states that be succeeded in earning no less then
about LLCO rubles per mouth by working as a free lance trenslator

for the Torgovaya Palata of Moscow. fe turned cver to the vadersigned
& sample of his translation efforts--see the attached bocs. In
response to.my query, Subject ednitted that his vork again vas of
such e nature that he was a free agent, came and went as he pleased,

 

and generally vas responsible to no one. Apparently in order to

SEGET. 4
 

 

 

ace,

“4

 

engineer with the Becwan District Road Department where he vorked
until February 1955.

q. After be lost his job in 1949 with the Moscow Sovet, he states
that bis relations vith his vife went fram tad to worse end ultimately
cultinated first in a separation and latter in a divorce in 1950. In
the meantime, he was already living with

Eugenia VOLSOVA

en empolyee and a teacher of Zorsenic medicine of the Moscow Medical
Institute where she vas studying for her PhD and where she was

Re lea nee ber tithes tn

 

1950 or 1951. Hoverer, within less than one month of their carriage,
Subject divorced her as he found out that she vas a “tad person" and
because he "had felies blindly in love" with her. (EQTE: This aspect
of Sutject's story ¢isturbed him very much. Se was wisure of kimselt,
wes vegue on dates, cetails, specifics, names, etc. It was again
obvious that Subject was less than frenk exc open aboct this aspect
of his beckgrouné. is narratvicn afd not sound comvincing to Sudject
hinsot? vhen he began talking about "falling blindly in Love", ete.)
In 1952 he begen living with encther womar, .

Bose MINKINA,

whoa he married only in Late 1954 when their son was already vell on
the way. MIRKINA's parents exd faxily were very etrongly opposed ta
the marriage because the parents held responsiocle party positions and
because MINKINA’s brother beld a sensitive position with the Soviet
electronics and aviavion industries. A som ves born to Subject and
MDNKINA on 5 April 1555.

re In ca 1954 (dates vazue) Subject entered the Institute of
Morxisn-Leninism an’ continued his studies for three or more yearse
Though be registered fer the evening sessions, he deveted a good
portion of his days to study. As @ resalt, Subject egain admitted
te the undersigned that he actually was in 3 unique position of being
able to do alxost as te “wished and desired” although ostensibly he
was a full-time exployee of the Bauman District Road Department. While
a student at the Institute of Marxisn-Leninism, Sudject end his wite
began susmitting applications for a visa to visit Sudject's parents
in the USA. In actual fact, Subject states, his real purpose in
applying for the viss vas to “defect” upoa his arrival in the USA.
Im February 1955 Subject states that be wes “fired” from his job
with the Bauman District because of “political unreliability”. Hevever,
Subject adaitted to the undersigned that the real reason for dismissal

 

  

 

 
 

because, as a mewber of the MVD, this was considered as equivalent

to military service. Nonetheless, in response to my’ query, Subject :
admitted that this vas musual as his activities were .° a kind vhich
were performed by old woren particularly ecince during thts period,
from October 1941 to September 1942, all able-bodied Soviet males
vere drafted into the Soviet army. During this period Subject lived
in comparative ease, being assigned to Suzdal and Klin, and other
towns, According to Subject, te vore an M/D uniform but wore no
insignia. He admitted that “fevored treateent” was bestowed upon

him end his fenily when the MD assisted him in evacuating his first
wife amd son from Moscow in Augist 1941 to beyond the Urals. (His
son by his first wite reportedly died on 12 October 1943 of diabetes.)

Kk. In September 1942, Subject received an appceimtment to tke
Moscow Ond Militery Irfentry Institute fron which he graduated in Jue
YONI ent men vhich te wos gavon tho graie of: Sr Li is she Sovies
Infentry. In response to my cuery, Subject again admitted that this
appointment was highly unusual as his backeround did not lend itsel?
to this, as appointzents were rede out of the various military
branches, and as this implied that, as a foreier (American), he was
fully and corpletel; trusted ty the Soviet punitive organs who had
clearet him both for this training and the institute end for promotion
to officer status in the Soviet Amy. !

- 1. Initially he ves sent to Alatev on the Volga, then to Orel
Wire tx was assigned to the front lines in August 1942. He was given a
Platoon of infantry troops in the 415th Infantry Division of the
Soviet Central Front. Hovever, in October 1943 he was woumded; he was

-hit in the left forehead by e German bullet. Ee was operated on in
a@ field hospital ana then transferred to a Moscow hospital after he
bed recovered sufficiently. Ee was reclassified after kis recovery
and found suitable to continue in military service wita the limitation
thet ke should not serve on the front Lines (goden vtorel stepeni).

tm Because the wound faiied to keal completely (he bas a very
obvious scar, with arproximately a 1" depression, on his forehead), -
he “asked” to be assigned to a warmer clirate. The Soviet authorities,
he states, complied and in January 1944 dispatched him to Thilist
where be was placed in a specisi officer's camp; he ves hospitalized
again, bed osteonyelitis complications, and ultimately discharged frou
the Soviet military forces. Eowever, Subject provided several
contradictory stories as to the date of discharge which at various

| times be indicated occurred in Nay 194K, then in July 1554, and even

fn Augest 1044, (NOTE: This aspect of Subject's story bothered him =;
es it was obvious to the undersimed that Subject had somewhere becone 5
confused in this aspect of his tackground. } 5

tes

ScOLET,

|
4

 

oe

: ; pomerereanerenroperetnrcn ketetetcant nen Stn fee cece re Wen eatmeere AE) pare gmrerenetmand AO Otro raneens ermine be emaeRD 6 : ah
rte Sona nampa gmat AE TTT IE TIT ten Rirenentertne ter
 

 

?

nm. Upon hie discharge, he vas returned to the Moscow area where
he was placed in a rest han« (although Subject admitted thet there
reslly existed mo need for this as he bat recovered already prior
to his discharge), In continuing his narration, Subject indicated
that the rest of his story “sowids very strange and wbelievable"
but then averred thet it was true. He states that, strange as it
appears and despite the shortage of Soviet men at the time (1944)
be could not “find" himself a fob. Ee went to the MyD which did
offer kin a job in Veliki Liki on the higkvays with the ScyuzDo:

mwoyekt ; hovever, he was not given the job by the officiais

responsible for this. As ea result, he appealed directly to the
Minister of the MVD who “tried to intercede” in Subiject's behalf.
Allegedly atter he was given a full physical examination, he was told
that he could not be essigned to the highwey units for reasons
which were not spel sd out Wo Suaject.

o. Subject then "sought out" work with the Nauchniy Sovet with
no luck, Ee ultimately obtained a job with the Moscow Sovet 22 in the
Moscow Soviet Senicr Library (sic). in Novenber 19:4, at 8 salary
of GOO rubles, Subject began working in the field of “information
on municipal works--highway construction, architecture, sazitation,
etc. Fis imuediate supervisor vas (fuu) LIZEZ0SV, the bead of
information department of the Ppire-2 Suerey Project. Subject aanitied,
in reply to the undersigned‘s Guery, that his work Was “unusuai”

for several reasons. First, he was paid a salary which wes unusually. .

high end cut of line with his qualifications. Secondly, though

pate a salary for a full-time jcd and position, he actusily worked an
& part-time basis and was eble to come and oo alrost as he vished.
His work also incluted working on abstracts and translations from
English to Russian, primarily in the Zield of dams, dam construction,
and hydraulics. .

pe In Jume 1949 subject states that be was dismissed from the
foregoing position after he was given the explanation that the flow of
Aiterature from the USA, which Subject was translating, hsd decreased.
In actual fact, Subject states, he was being “purged” becanse he vas
adJev. Ee then found a jod as a laboratory assistant in a concrete
plant vhere be worked fron July 19:9 to 2} February 1950. Secause
be did not like that job, Subject states he wrote to Stalin personally
as a result of vhich, vithin less than 4 weeks, he was offered 4-5 _
different jobs. The positicas vere offered to him by the Moscow
Comittee of the CP to whos “Stalin hsd forwarded the letter". In
reply to my query, Subject ecmitted that he was not concerned that,
by writing to Stalin, be would come to the attention of the Soviet
punitive organs, KVD/MGB, which would undertake to investigate his
ease. Accordingly, on 1 April 1950 Subject was given a job as an

i
7
:
}
3

ane

SEU. siody

 

 

 

a?

_
 

erfofac ~ 6h - 22
22 October 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Irving AMRON

1. Subject responded to the AEZXPLORZ ad for a position as a
Russian lenguage linguist. As was requested of hin, he provided the
Porma 44, 89, autodiography, and photograph.

2. “he undersigned established contact with Subject by phone on
2 Septerber and arrangements were rade to interview him on the following
day. Ee vas interviewed in the Undersigned'’s Philacelphia hotel rocm
on 3 Septexber 1964.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. The following was obtained from AMRON during the interview:

a. Subject, of Jewish descent, vas born in 1917 in the USA. .
Subdect's father, whose original name had been :

Philip AMROMIM

care to the USA in 1905/06 at the ase of approximetely 15. Philip
AVROMIM's parents stemmed from the GOMEL area. At the time of his
exigration to the USA, he vas accompanied by his xother (his father
died sometime prior thereto), and by the following brothers and sisters:
levis, Willy, Ave (who has since died), Moris, Minnie (now married

to LAIXEN), Pearl, and Max. All of Subject's father's brothers

except for Max, are butchers by occupation, including Subject's

fether. Max graduated from CCUY and Lecame a structural engineer;

he has an office on 43rd Street and his fim is called the Amron
Associates.

vb. | Subject'a mother, also of Jewish descent, cane to the USA
dn 1912 (or 1913). Her older sister, Pannie, is married to {fou)
COHEN who is presently retired and living in Florida. Ser sister, -
Ruth, married Max AMRON. Her brother, Hyman HORLIK, who arrived ‘
dn tke USA only in 1922, owns a liquor store in Baycane, New Jersey.
Subject's mother has another sister (nu) who is presently living in .
Florida. Subject's mother has one brother vho is still living in :
the USSR. . “a. ae

Satire

  
 

 

+g ENTERMAL
(OU unctassirien —[: MINTERMAL

3 :
Coe tpenrias fe! SECRET

| ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

 

 

 

 

TO: Otce demguamer, scam menoer, cod
edong |

 

 

 

 

er (60S SECRET ©] CONFIDENTIAL

a

 

 

: COMMENTS ‘Peenber each comment to show from whom
Grow @ tne ocress Cotsen after eech Bech command }

: Tf your tims percits, this is
; the secon ci the two cases

i I discussed vith you (spotted
| through cy a:SePLiee progran)e

; Zwonld be icterested in your
‘ views as to his possible IS
| Anvolverent (and whether I my

be all wet in feeling he is
Soviet dispetchsd)e

! Po you see an Liseal Support ©
; aspects to this case? 2

P hap usta

 

MTERNAL EJ} CUUNCLASSIFIED

fe headieitpa etn eee:

 
 

anh

 

wu

c. At the time of Subject's birth, Subject's father vas
employed in the Brooklyn shipyards. However, he changed jobs
frequently and was subsequently emplored on a farm near Kew
Brunswick, then in a shoe factory as a cutter, then as a butcher,
end finally beceme active in a Jewish cocperative organization.
As Subject's father became convinced that the future of the Jevs
ves in Russia uider Soviet Comnmism, in 1931 Subject's fenily
left the USA for the USSR for Birobidzhen where Subject's father
vorked as en agronemist (he had sometime. prior thereto preduated
from the Kational Farm School in Bucks County, Pennsylvania).

ad. Accorting to Subject, his family returned to the USA
in 1933; the motivating reascn therefor was the 112 health--
aetnally + sores of Cut joct’s broluer, Zugene.
Subject elleges that, because they had retained their US citizen-
ship, they experienced no problems either in leaving the USSR or -
in obtaining permission to return to the USA. Moreover, Subject's
father ellegedly did not like life in the USSR; hovever, Subject{s
mother and sister insisted that they return to the USSR after
only a brief stay in the USA. .

 

 

eo As a result, later in 1933 the entire AMON femily once

again returned to the USSR. Again, Subjec. states that they kad no
problems in obtaining autnorizstion from the Soviet governnent
for this trip to the USSR. bon their xeturn to the SSR, they
estebdlished themselves in Moscow where ote Noah LONDON, a friend
of the family and a construction engineer, took Subject's father
“into his employ". Subject's father worked in this capacity, in
the construction industry, from 1933 to 1936. Socetine atter the
1936 purges begen, Subject's father worked for Komsomolsk, a Mosccw
"panel board construction” outfit. In 1936 Subject's father also
worked for the Paris Commme as a shoeraker. Subject's mother

. Worked during this entire veriod as chief of a dining establisiment
in the school of foreign languages in Moscow. a

f. Subject bezan his elementary education at the Dewitt Clinton
School in the USA where he studied untii 1931; he then studied in
the Soviet secondary school in Khabarovsk, Birobidzhan, util 1933.
In 1933 he again returned for one semester to the Dewitt Clintan
School. Later in 1933 and 1934 he attended the Anglo-American School
in Moscow where be completed his 8th grade of school. He then :
continued his studies from 1933 to 1936 in Public School 2327 in the 2uth
Bauman Rayon. In 1936 he entered the Moscow Avtodorozhniy Institut
where be studied on the civil engineering facuity, to be a highway
engines, He graduated in 1961 at vhich time he was sent to assist

ScOET,

 

 

1 hing Rielgeinptache Deny nas ch etal eet tees:

 

a ee

=
a eee

te

cece center 8 nearer OE atettetrtentemt
 

   

in the construction of an aimirane in Minsk, tatfer to the Polish
station of Janov.

In 1937 Sudject's mother vas Aismissed from her positica

and both she and Subjecs's fatcer begen to feel the preasure of tue
purges. Subject's father, aclegedly by appealing to the then President
KALININ, succeeced in again acquiring exit visas for them to the

US4. Subject, woo admits thst be had become a “good Commmist” ty
then had gotton “thoroughly steeped” in the Cammumist philosopay,
elected to remain behind in the USSR. An important consideratica,

he states, vas his desire to complete his education which he vas
certain he would not be able to do in the USA for eccnomic reasons.

Bb. According to Subject, his feather never lost his Americas
citizenship. Subject's mother, hovever, in 1936 spplied for aad
obtained Soviet citizensiipe pocording Ww cuuJsct, = atu:
“tread Soviet citizenship “by default” although he never applied
his in person; he alleges that although he was 16 years of age
na time, he was “granted” Soviet citizenship by virtue of his

v's application for ber own citizensh!v.

  
 
  

4. Subject remained in Moscow price to World Var II. In 4pril
1940 he married .

ina WOISSYIVA
a bookkeeper by profession,

who was the step-daughter of the well-known Major SS0GOLEV of the
“soviet Proleteriat Regiment". A son was born to them in cume i941.
gned to the construction of
gerodrames to support froat line troops, he succeesed in pulling
strings and in arranging & ™rpY trip’ to Moscow, ostensibly to visit
the Geodetic Institute. Sarcute back from Moscow to the front iines,
Subject's train gct bombed in Brest Litovsk on 22 une 1941 and as
a result he was returned to Moscow on the save train via Baranovichie
Recording to Subject, he vas then assigned to the Moscow Military
District, to the Ctdel herecyomot Sluzhby, where he was placed ia
charge of a brigade of engineers, technicians and laborers who were
engaged in building dumay air sites for camouflage purposese

gj. In August 1941 Subject states that he was permitted to return

to school in order to receive his dipl
Osteber 1941. Ee was then assigned to the 22nd Yorenno-Dororhaiy
which was formed in Mnitrov but which was tren 48s vo
Gurdal'. Subject states that he was not inducted into the Soviet
military service sllegecly because “engineers were needed” and

 

 

seatiibhieeigeiebean diate y eae

ee gets a co a a :
a ag

ritchie ne ee

ae
eh crentantng te

ee ae A.

“a .
sane A an EEE gre setter panama a A

 
