 

 

which obviously was not a true statement. VOLSKY -
became ‘a naturalized U.S. citizen on 10 April 1969.

c. FBI - An FBI report of January 1974 re Orlando
BOSCH Avila, indicates that VOLSKY, of the New York
Times, was collecting money from Cuban doctors on
behalf of BOSCH. On 14 August 1974, the Miami Station
provided the Miami FBI Office comprehensive traces on
VOLSKY, in response to a July 1974 FBI request, for
any action the Bureau deemed necessary. Miami Station
advised the FBI that the Agency had not conducted any
investigation, and that the information included in the
trace was in Agency files because at the time of
collection it was considered foreign intelligence.

9. Attached is a comprehensive cI study of VOLSKY pre-
pared by a JMWAVE Station analyst in 1964, from which the
information in this memorandum was taken. The analyst specu-
lated that VOLSKY's knowledge of clandestine methods of opera-
tions, together with his Russian prison . background and. his
ingenuity as a middleman in U.S. Government/CIA activities,
made him an excellent candidate for a Communist penetration
agent, and that the possibility existed that he might be a
singleton, sleeper, or stringer. for the RIS. Further,- that if
that theory proved false, VOLSKY violated his USIA position by *
reporting to JURE and damaging the U.S. and CIA by his propa-

ganda programs.

03
LAD/JFG Task Force 1977f{__ ie .
Copy filed: 201-352252 5

Attachment: UFGA-17410, 24 AGE IDB4
 

allowed to leave Cuba because he had a valid U.S. visa-in.

his passport.

3. Upon arrival in Miami on 22 May 1961, VOLSKY visited
Paul BETHEL, a friend and former Press Attache of the U.S.
Embassy in Cuba, who was a suspected informant for the CASTRO
regime. At that time BETHEL was in charge of the Miami Office
of USIA and contracted VOLSKY to edit a VOA program. (BETHEL
was employed by JMWAVE Station from October through December
1961 as a writer-analyst for a detailed analysis of the overt
Cuban press, on a trial basis, but was terminated following
a Headquarters assessment that his reports contained nothing
not already available through regular established sources.)

4. As the result of VOLSKY's cultivation in Cuba of
American journalists, in particular Tad SZULC, VOLSKY had
influence with certain elements of the American press, especially
‘the New York Times and The Washington Post. VOLSKY and SZULC
had a close relationship in Washington and Miami, were in
touch periodically by phone and personally, and conversed in
Polish. VOLSKY was a source of information for SZULC and
evidenty”"influenced his thinking, , manifested in a book written:
Disaster, which was particularly critical of CIA, not only
concerning its failure at Playa Giron (Bay of Pigs), but details
of many other aspects of CIA. ) ;

5. In August 1962 SZULC arranged an interview in Washington
for VOLSKY with Richard N. GOODWIN, advisor to President KENNEDY.

SZULC claimed that he had had a standing invitation for direct

 
‘ina t002-t022

 

 
 

 

a

14 February 1977
MEMORANDUM
SUBJECT: Jorge Ajbuszyc VOLSKY (AMTRUNK-1) (201-352252)
aka George VOLSKY, Zeray VOLSKI, "Chico":

1. VOLSKY, a Cuban citizen of Polish origin, reads,
speaks, and understand Spanish, English, Polish, German,
Russian and French. He resided in Poland from birth in 1921
to 1939 following studies at Krakow University. He then
reportedly. served in the Royal Air Force Polish Group, spent
time in a Russian prison in the 1940's then enlisted in the
Polish Air Force Service under the British oferational Command.
(VOLSKY provided conflicting information concerning this aspect
of his background.)

2. While in London at the end of WW II VOLSKY developed a
pen pal relationshipwith a Cuban girl residing in Cuba. He
allegedly was discharged from the Polish Air Force Service in
1947 at his own request. Unable to obtain a visa for Cuba, he
obtained one for Ecuador. ‘In transit to Ecuador he stopped off

in Cuba, obtained permission through friends to remain in Cuba

and within a year married his pen pal girl friend. He reportedly

owned his own business in Havana, described as a publicity
office named, Dekora Studio S.A., from 1947 until he came to
the U.S. in May 1961. During residence in Cuba he travelled
frequently to the U.S. and Jamaica. He was avidly pro-CASTRO
and publicly said that the future of the world is socialistic.
He allegedly was arrested and imprisoned for a few weeks

following the Bay of Pigs invasion, but was released and

 
aeccnat Seaanms nef

 

=) gerntt . ED)

contact with, President KENNEDY and others in the White House

on Cuban matters since November 1961. During the missile
crisis, in October 1962, VOLSKY had.contact with Major Manuel
PINEIRO Losada, Chief of the DGI, the Cuban external service.
6. In late 1962 VOLSKY devised a plan to split the
CASTRO regime. SZULC got the State Department and the White

“House to buy it, and it was. referred to CIA for consideration.

Because SZULC's opinions carried weight with the Administration
he sat in on State/CIA meetings concerning the plan. His.
influence is believed to be the primary reason the plan was so
quickly adopted by CIA. ‘In 1963, a State Department official
in Miami was a frequent visitor of VOLSKY and kept him informed
of State Department affairs.

.7. VOLSKY's contacts in Miami included a Raul CHIBAS.
Rivas, member of the executive committee of JURE (Junta
Revolucionaria Cubana - Cuban Revolutionary Junta) a Cuban exile
organization. (CHIBAS, an early idol of Fidel CASTRO, defected
to. the U.S. in 1960 and was suspected by the FBI of being a
CASTRO plant in the U.S.) In March 1963 JURE created an intelli-
gence group to infiltrate agencies of the U.S. Government. A
JURE official, named Jose AGUIAR, was making a list of CIA
agents and their assigned tasks for JURE files and VOLSKY
assisted him. On 6 June 1963 the head of JURE arrived in Miami
from Puerto Rico, contacted CISNEROS of the executive board

of JURE, and ordered that no further attacks be made on the

(U.S. Government as he was to talk to Robert KENNEDY in Washington

 

 
 

the following day. On 27 June 1963 RAY returned to Miami

from Washington, went directly to JURE offices, held a meeting,

and said that he had gained more fron his Washington contacts
in the last month than he had in the two previous years. He
later had a conversation with VOLSKY that lasted over a half
hour. On 18 July 1963 RAY said that CIA agents are more
dangerous than the KENNEDY Administration as the Administration
will end but CIA agents always stayed and their memory is.
longer than that of elephants; they never forget or forgive.
In January 1964 JURE completed plans to send youths to all
Latin American universities to lecture concerning CIA betrayal
of U.S. policy. On 8 January 1964 a source reported that
VOLSKY diverted refugees from contacting or reporting any
information to CIA by informing them that CIA was the enemy
of the Cubans who wanted to fight CASTRO. In 1964 VOLSKY was
a stringer for the Washington Bureau of The Times which is
believed to have been a special SZULC-engineered deal.

8. Other Government Agencies’ Knowledge of VOLSKY:

a. USIA - VOLSKY was cleared in December 1961 for
"unlimited purchase order. use" as a writer. (This is the
category of a stringer.) ‘He apparently had no access to
classified information.

b. IGNS - In 1965 I§NS requested name checks on
VOLKSY and his son. A SPECIAL - PRIVATE BILL had been

submitted to grant VOLSKY U.S. citizenship. Unfortunately

the CIA response on VOLSKY senior was "N.D." (no derogatory)

4
WANE

 
