MEMORANDUM .
| | A HAS NO OBJECTION 1
CE CLASSIFICATION AND/OR
March 3, 1998 . RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT
To: Jeremy Gunn

Executive Director

ce: Bob Skwirot
CIA Team Leader

From: Michelle Combs Pidle Cre Lo

Special Assistant for Research and Review
Subject: CIA-IR-21 DRE Case Officer for December 1962 - April 1964

In response to ARRB’s informal request for additional information and records,
CIA-IR-21, CIA provided access to the Office of Personnel file for Mr. George E.
Joannides. I have examined the personnel file for Mr. Joannides for the period 1961-64
and 1978-79. Mr. Joannides appears in documents in the CIA Sequestered Collection
under his pseudonym Walter D. Newby.

During the period December 1962 to April 1964, Mr. Joannides was assigned as a covert

action officer at JMWAVE, serving as deputy and then chief of the station’s covert

' action branch. During this time period, Mr. Joannides was the case officer for the

Cuban exile group Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE). The descriptions of his
duties and accomplishments in the personnel file are very general and contain no
specific reference to his relationship with the DRE. There is no mention of the
assassination of President John F. Kennedy in the file and no information relevant to the
assassination in the file. There is also no indication that Mr. Joannides may have used .
or been known by the name “Howard” during his contacts with the DRE, although
personnel files typically would not reveal this information. one way or another.

During the period mid-May 1978-January 1979, Mr. Joannides was assigned to work for
Scott Breckinridge, the CIA’s principal coordinator to the House Select Committee on

Assassination (HSCA) as a focal person to keep track of the status of HSCA requests,

particularly to the Directorate of Operations. In this role, Mr. Joannides developed and
maintained a log and records of HSCA requests and CIA’ responses and handled the
day-to-day follow up to HSCA requests.

Several performance evaluation reports from the 1962-64 time period and a memoranda

from Scott Breckinridge on Mr. Joannides’ duties during the 1978-1979 time frame were
designated assassination records and are being processed for release.

e:\combs\cia-ir21.wpd
File 4.20.1 and 4.20.4
"SECRET '

26 March 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Joannides' Fitness Reports, ARRB Request,
CIA-IR-21, Relating to DRE

1. Request number CIA-IR-21 from the ARRB is for
information on the Directorio Revolucionario Estudianti
(DRE), its monthly operational reports and its handlers.

2. Significant information has been provided for
review by ARRB staff and the staff has written a memorandum,
dated 3 March 1998, concerning its review. In addition, an
HRP memorandum has been prepared for the Board concerning
most of subject request. These two memoranda have been
reviewed by the DO and approved for release. .

3. (S) There remained however, the question of who
within the Directorate of Operations served as the case
officer for the DRE during the period before and after the
Kennedy assassination. That person was George Joannides and
he is identified generally within the DRE materials by his
pseudonym, Walter D. NEWBY.

4. (S) The ARRB staff requested access to his personnel
file and the same was provided for their review. From that
review, they selected five fitness reports which have been
designated assassination records. The DO has reviewed the
five fitness reports and made suggested redactions to the
fitness reports, primarily to protect such things as size of
station resources, etc. Joannides’ name is released.
However, they redacted the pseudonym, NEWBY. Note that
items blacked out on the fitness reports reflect their exact
condition within the personnel file. The five fitness
reports have been added to assassination materials awaiting
indexing and review by the ARRB.

5S. The inclusion of the five fitness reports within
the JFK collection for future processing completes HRP
action on subject request.

J. Barry Harrelson

3he [92

date

 

SECRET
DRE messages. The phrase, “To Howard” was used as the
addressee of several DRE prepared memoranda. We first
attempted to identify if, in fact, “Howard” was an actual
person. The name was not found to be a pseudonym. It also
was not found to be a registered alias. It also is not the
true name of any case officer associated with the DRE
operation at the time the DRE documents were written.
Following review of those data bases, knowledgeable case
officers were queried suggested that. the use of “To Howard’
might have been nothing more than a routing indicator to
ensure that the documents got to the correct CIA
office/officer or that the sender was someone known to the
recipient.

5. If you have any further questions in this regard,
please advise.

 
     
 

“COTIONS
20 January 1998

.

Memorandum For: T. Jeremy Gunn
Executive Director
Assassination Records Review Board

. From: J. Barry Harrelson

Senior Reviewer
JFK Project

Subject: ‘CIA~IR-21, Monthly Operational Reports
For the DRE

1. Reference is made to your request for subject
information as further refined in your 18 December 1997
letter to Chief, Historical Review Group. Specifically, you
asked about missing DRE monthly operational reports and the

' identity of “Howard,” the name to which the DRE appears to

have sent correspondence.

2. The Agency has searched appropriate data bases and
files for the “missing” reports. In addition, the
responsible offices have researched the questions contained
within your request. Based on these rather extensive
efforts, we can advise you as follows.

3. Missing operational monthly reports. The searches
conducted by the Agency failed to locate any of the reports
that appear to be “missing” -- December 1962 through April
1964, in general, and those for August and November 1963 in
particular. It should be noted that during the period in
question, major policy differences between the Agency and
DRE developed. This was particularly true of the latter
years of association because the DRE would not take
directions or instructions about a number of operational
matters, insisting on engaging in activities the Agency did
not sanction. These differences caused the Agency to reduce
the level of funding for the DRE. It also replaced the
officer designated to deal with the DRE. Then, about the
same time, the monthly operational reports trailed off. It
seems probable these events are linked and that reporting in
the form of such monthly reports simply stopped. The DRE
files we did find are also within the sequestered JFK
collection and they have previously been made available to
ARRB staff member Manuel Legaspi.

4. The identity of “Howard.” With reference to your
request for information on “Howard,” we, like you, have no

' clear understanding about the use of this particular name on
 
 
 

 

Mr. John Pereira
December 18, 1997
Page 11

 
 

 

a |

 
 
   
 

 
 

"| 14, Ed Butler ARRB awaits documentation. HRG will check for files.

 

15. INCA (Information ‘ARRB awaits documentation. HRG will check for files.
Council of the Americas)

16. Permindex ARRB awaits documentation. HRG will check for files.

CIA-IR-20 Monster Plot.
This request is complete.
“SQIA-IR-21 Monthly Operational Reports for DRE..

In March 1997, the Review Board requested that the CIA search for monthly
operational reports for the Cuban exile group Directorio Revolucionario
Estudiantil (DRE) records for the period 1960-1964 with particular emphasis on
the reports for August and November 1963. While some of the reports for this
period already exist in the JFK Collection, others, including the reports for
December 1962-April 1964, are missing. We understand that the CIA has done
some research on the missing reports. We request a comprehensive memo on the
creation and disposition of DRE records be provided for the Board. In addition,
we request that the CIA work to discover the identity of “Howard,” the CIA
officer mentioned in the DRE files. We request his full name and Office of
Personnel file be provided to the Board.
 

 

2 SECRET

The DO has checked Headquarters records for files referenced in
HMMW 12454 and for files on the crypts cited in this document and
searched for HMMA 20307 and other cables or dispatches cited in this
document. As previously explained, the crypts in HMMW 12454 have been
researched. The dispatch was apparently written in haste and in ,
truncated language without correct knowledge of the operational crypts
for the specific operations in Mexico City. The crypts in the dispatch
are the more generic crypts for teltap operations, not for the then-

current operations in Mexico City. (S)

**CIJA-IR-21 Monthly Operational Reports for DRE

The gap in the Directoria Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) records
has been researched. The explanation is that the reporting lagged
because the DRE apparently would not take CIA directions or instructions
for their operations and CIA funding was reduced. Further complicating
the situation was the personality clash of the DRE official and the CIA
case officer. DRE records identified in a search have been located in
the CIA's JFK microfilm files and have been discussed with Manuel
Legaspi of the ARRB staff. (S)

The CIA has not been able to identify “Howard” as “mentioned in
the DRE files.” Knowledgeable case officers from other regions have
explained the name could be a routing indicator from a covert officer
for ensuring that something gets to the CIA. The name does not track as
a pseudonym, registered alias, nor true ndme of any case officer
involved in the DRE operation at the time of the dates on the documents

so marked. (S)

4 SECRET

CL Reason: 1.5(c)
Deci On: X1
Drv From: Multiple

CLBY: 503956]
 
  

arrels CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
Mr parry Harrelson DECLASSIFICETION AND/OR
October 27, 1996 = ANTS PMATION
Page 3
will discuss issues with CIA.

HTLINGUAL. It is the Review Board staff’s understanding that CIA continues
its search for HTLINGUAL records and will provide an oral briefing on the
subject. It is also our understanding that some HTLINGUAL records have been
located, but that they have not yet been made available to the Review Board.

Recent and additional informal requests that we have discussed with you:

Operational Reports for Cuban Exile Groups. The Review Board staff has been
unable to locate in the collection monthly operational reports for the DRE, CRC,
‘or MRR for the period between March 1963 and March 1964. Please advise
whether these récords exist and when we may review them.

Moscow. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding
Mosco as discussed with Michelle Combs on October 24, 1996.

Tape. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding a tape
as discussed with Irene Marr on October 24, 1996.

‘ Please let me know of any inaccuracies in this letter or any suggestions that you have.
Thank you for your help and cooperation.

   

and Associate Director for Research
 

104-10336-10020

AUPE OU AA A a ee bee euenenns yp UU
1s

MEMORANDUM

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
| October 17, 1996 _ RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
| IN THIS DOCUMENT

To: Barry Harrleson, CIA/HRG
From: Manuel E. Legaspi, ARRB Staff _

Subject: Operational Reports, Cuban Exile Groups

In recent weeks members of the ARRB staff have attempted to locate and/or ascertain
the disposition of monthly operational reports for certain Cuban exile groups which (in
‘some cases, allegedly) worked with the Central Intelligence Agency during the years
1963 and 1964. :

Our initial survey of the JFK Segregated Collection and the Microfilm reels indicates
that monthly operational reports do exist for one group in particular (the Directorio
Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE)), but that reports for the time frame immediately:
surrounding the assassination of President Kennedy are not present in the collection.

To the extent that it is possible, could you and your staff please assist us in identifying,
if they should exist, monthly operational reports for the time frame March 1963 - March
1964 for the following exile groups:

e The Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE)
® Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC)
¢ Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario (MRR)

Thanks for your help.
13-00000

- .
a?
°

FAX TRANSMISSION

ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD
600 E STREET, NW, Surre 200
WASHINGTON, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 x26 CiA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
Fax: DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
AN THIS DOCUMENT

To: | Barry Harrleson, CIA/DCVHRG Date: May 16, 1997
Fax #: 703 613-3063 Pages: 1, including this cover sheet.
From:

 

Subject:
COMMENTS: »

The Op reports reside in the following DRE folders in the JFK Microfilm:
Ree] 25, Folders 25, 26, 27,
Reel 26, Folders 2, 3, 5,

The following is a breakdown of the Op reports Iwas able to find:
Already in collection:

1962: May, Tone, September through gh November // /o/” / by
1963: None.

22/1964; May through December.

“1965: January through March, May, July through December
1966: January through July, October through December.

We would like to make this a complete series, but have a particular interest in the reports f for
Deember 1962 through April 1964.

Thanks!
V kul 25, PHY 27 luFeh 627/)

ja) ek 25, $e 27 CUEGA~ 665?)
Y Reiki2 b, PRA 2 CuUEGA -70°9)

> Fem hel a5 lt 25 Cyf6A 1b, 1bF)

eV
 

; Re C14 ZK-R/

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW « 2nd Floor « Washington, DC 20530
(202] 724-0088 « Fax: (202) 724-0457

December 18, 1997

Mr. John Pereira

Chief

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 02505

 

Re: Status of CLA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board’s Requests for
Additional Information and rds

Dear John:

Iam writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious
concern about the status of CIA’s responses to the Review Board's requests for
additional information and records. Although CIA has completed its responses to
several requests, and many others have been answered in part, a significant number of

. requests have not been answered — including some that were made more than two

years ago. On many occasions we have been assured that responses would be
forthcoming, only to have promised dates come and go without answers. It is now
extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct
a proper follow-up if necessary. The issues that we can now identify as being of the
highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**)' and we request
that they be answered within the next month. We request that the remaining requests
be answered by April-1, 1998.

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts: first, a listing of the formal
requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for
information and records. Please let me know if your understanding of any of the’
following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

‘As identified more fully below, the issues are: CLA-1 Organizational Material,
CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CIA-13 Backchannel Communications, CIA-IR-03
HTLINGUAL Documents, CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CIA-IR-07 Claude
Barnes Capehart, CIA-IR-15 Electronic “take” from Mexico City, CLA-IR-21 DRE
Monthly Operational Reports, CIA-IR-22 “A” Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

 

 

@oaro Memecears: John R. Tunheim, Chair « Henry F. Graff + Kermit 1. Hall « William L. Joyce + Anna K. Nelson
