 

 

 

 

 

 

ATTACHMENT

A. Breakfast Meeting - 12 March 1976

- 41. Mr. MeCoy (C/CI/RGA) and Mr. Wigren (C/CI/R§A/B)
met with PDDONOR for breakfast at a restaurant near his
motel. Mr. McCoy began by mentioning What we had learned
through less than friendly channels of PDDONOR's contacts
in early March with John Barron and others and of a tape
recorded interview made at that time by a Mr. Epstein. He
stressed the threat to PDDONOR's safety and privacy posed
by contacts of this sort which were not known to us in
advance,

2.  PDDONOR briefly outlined his activities during
the 2-5 March visit. These included participating in the
filming of an interview for Dutch TV ; and a taped conference
with Edward Epstein who is Preparing a Readers' Digest
sponsored book on the assassination of President Kennedy.
He also mentioned a meeting at the Smithsonian with a
professor who is planning a symposium for jotirnals on the
problems of working in the USSR. “

3. Mr. McCoy emphasized the dangers inherent in the
taped interview. PDDONOR said he was certain that Barron
would handle it securely but volunteered to call Barron
to check on progress on the transcribing of the tape. He
Seemed to accept Mr. McCoy's suggestion that we provide
him a local post office box to which Barron could send
the completed transcript.

4. Throughout the breakfast meeting, efforts. were
made to convince PDDONOR gE the need to tighten his security
: in general and to fully inform of all proposed centacts
' before they take place. In conclusion, it was agreed that
Mr. Wigren and Mr. of CI/R&GA/E would meet later in oF
the morning with NOR.” At that time, PDDONOR's 2-5 March
contacts would be covered systematically.

B. Second Meeting - 12 March 1976

1. Mr. Wigren (C/CI/R§A/E) and wef corresayay
met with PDDONOR in his motel room fron 3 am to 12:00
noon on 12 March. The purpose of this meeting was to obtain
a detailed account of PDDONOR's visit to the Washington area

on 2-5 March. The following paragraphs contain the informa-
tion acquired.

 

ZR
74-0000

 

 

 

 

¢ Cc

cPRET . O¢ SUBJ: NOSENKO, Yuri

{ &EFRODUCE

 

16 March 1976
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT : Meetings with PDBONOR on 12 March 1976

REFERENCE: C/CI/R&A/B Memo dated 8 January 1976

1. Ci Staff representatives met with PDDONOR in the

POBONOS Sn area on 12 March 1976 to obtéin details of
Pp

ONOR's contacts with John Barron and‘others which tock
place during the first week of March. In the course of
discussions with PDDONOR, we learned that, in addition to
a short list of Agency and FBI personnel (see Ref}, two
other individuals know his current legal name, address
and telephone number. They are John Barron of Readers'
Digest and Donald Jameson, a retired CIA staffer.

2. Two meetings were held with PDDONOR: a breakfast
meeting attended by C/CI/R&A and the undersigned and a

-_ follow-up discussion later in the morning attended by
Socesteme mle’ CI/RGA/E and the undersigned. At both

sessions PDDONOR was warned of the dangers to his safety
and privacy posed by contacts which we did not know about
and clear in advance. lle was asked for details of his
contacts with Barron and others on 2-5 March. He was told

_ that we would obtain a lecal post office box for his use.
' Substantive details of the conversations with PDDONOR are

set forth in the attachment to this memorandum,

3. Throughout the meetings, PDDONOR seemed largely
unconcerned about the dangers of exposure and indicated
that he had complete confidence in Barron and Jameson.

Lee H. Wigren
C/CI/RGA/E

Attachment:
As stated

  
 

‘od-f0r06-10128

  
 
 

 
 

 

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
GA HISTORICAL REN! IEW PRO

    
   

FORE Ko. R
PLA
1FEB 55 241 ae a ‘USED.

 

   

 
   
 

satelite

 

 

 

-2-

2. PDDONOR said that the purpose of his trip was to
assist John Barron of Readers' Digest with a T.V. interview
to be made by a Dutch camera crew and to meet with a man
who was writing a book on President Kennedy's assassination
to be published by the Readers' Digest. PDDONOK said that
arrangements for this trip had been made by Mr. Donald
Jameson, an Agency retiree, and that he received no money
from anyone for his services during this trip. The trip was
made on his own time while he was on leave.

3. PDDONOR and his wife arrived in the Washington area
late in the afternoon of 2 March. After checking into a
motel they drove to Barron's neighborhood to be sure they
could locate his house. Harly the next day PDDONOR's wife
drove him to Barron's house when he met Barron and members
of a 5 or 6 man Dutch TV crew that was to film an interview
with Barron. PDBDONOR had known in advance of this interview
and agreed to participate in it if his face was not photo-
graphed. The filming was done in Barron's house and in
his backyard.

4. In the late afternoon of 3 March PDDONOR took a
taxi from his motel to the Washington offices of Readers'
Digest where he arrived at 4:00 pm and met with Barron.
Barron, whom he had previously met in 1970, stated that
Readers' Digest was planning a new book on President
Kennedy's assassination and that he would appreciate any
information that PDDONOR might be able to contribute to
it. He said that Readers' Digest had contracted with
Edward Epstein to write this ESok which was to be published
in about a year. Fulton Ousler aka Tony was also present
at this meeting. PDDONOR had previously met jusler, through

' Kenneth Gilmore, a senior Readers’ Digest officer. Barron

asked if PDDONOR would object to having his comments taped.
He agreed with the proviso that he must review the transcript
for accuracy. Barron left and Edward Epstein arrived shortly
thereafter.

5. PDDONOR described Epstein as a bright young man--
probably a professor at a University~-who had written several
books. As part of the interview PDDONOR explained how the
KGB First and Second Chief Directorates worked. During the
interview PDDONOR learned that Epstein hoped to visit the
Soviet Union to gather additional information on his book
on President Kennedy. He also learned that Epstein had
visited the Soviet Union as a tourist in 1959. As part
 

 

 

 

 

of his efforts to "educate" Epstein he pointed out that
undoubtedly Epstein's name would appear on the Soviet
computers and that he would not be able to interview any
sources in connection with his forthcoming book who where
not KGB controlled. The interview lasted until 7:30 pa
after which time PDDONOR, Ousler, and Epstein went to
dinner. Following dinner PDDONOR took a taxi and returned
to his motel.

6. On 4 March PDDONOR met with Donald Jameson at the
Marriot Motel near the 14th Street Bridge. Jameson took
him to the Smithsonian and introduced him té,Star, head of
the George Kennah Institute¢é) Star asked PDDONOR to prepare
a paper on Soviet activities against foreign correspondents
in the Soviet Union which would be presented to a symposium
of journalists who had previously served in Moscow. He ‘
Wanted PDDONOR's comments some time in April so that he
would be able te present them ahead of time to Harrison
Salisbury, of the New York Times who would summarize then
for a meeting of journalists Sometime in June or July 1976.
Mr. Wigren asked if we might see these comments first and
PDDONOR readily agreed. The meeting with Mr. Star lasted
about 40 minutes after which PDDONOR took a taxi and .
returned to his motel.

7. As requested, PDDONOR telephoned Barron to inquire
about progress in transcribing the tapes. Barron said
that the transcribing had only just gotten under way and
was being done by his secretary. In response to the direct
question whether anybody other than Barron, Ousler and
Epstein had seen it,, Barron said, "No, only Epstein, Tony
and me." After completing the call, PDDONOR admitted that
Barron had his current name, address and telephone number
and that he had obtained this information from Jameson.

8. PDDONOR also added that Barron knew about his (PDDONOR' s)
manuscript book in which the British are interested. Barron
wanted to show the manuscript to Robert Conquest, a noted
authority on Soviet Intelligence, in the hope that he might
write an introduction to it. PDDONOR commented that he was
determined to sée that his book was published even if he had
to pay for it himself. He added, "If the Soviet publish our
hames why shouldn't we publish theirs?"

 
