yeann0a +

(Cuba

Plans to Ageagsiza te ‘

\Widel Castro Bus bowew ies og 30 July 1965 .
3

‘8 to 14 duly 1968
| United States, Miami oF :
* @ to 18 July 1968). WrG-7416

t,
i

i

i
if
i

|

1

{

|

|
i.
1

   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
  
 
    
   
  
      
      
 

 

4 Cuban exile with excellent contacts 1a the Moviaients ~~~
Bevolucie=sio del : ueblo. (H22,. Revolutionary Hovement of tho
People). He has been on accurate reporter on this organizatioa

* aad on general exile political developments mince about mid-1982,

 

meni eee

 

3. On 2 July 1963 Joze Princé, aka "Jose Antonio,"). said that a

: captain in the Cuban Rebel Army (not identified) bad arrived in
Biani from Cuba about mid-June to get spacial equipment to take t
to Cuba for an "act of great importance." Prince said that he. : :
had known the captain in Cuba and had confidence in hin. He said. _ f tO

. that he also kney several.of tho men im the small group in Cuba, . og

and that he hed confidence im the success of the plan. Though -

' Prince disclosed no further details relative to thie "act," he

'., Weacted visibly when asked specifically whether the "act" involved
'. the assassination of Fidel Castro Bus.

 

 

  

 

Prince set with Antonio Veciana Blanch, a leader of Aipha-@6, and.
"Tito" Pelaes.“ on 20 July. ic anid that besides the tiree of then,.
the only people who knew of the plan to assasminate Castro were |
the captain of the Rebel Ariuy who had arrived-im Miumi, and ona i
pe*eon in Cuba (not identified) whe knew no details, but would 5
inforaed by the captain chen he returned te Cube, :

According to Prince, 95,000 (U.5.) will be meedad te buy the i
necessary equipmeat for the mission, He had planned to go to Caracas,
Venozuola, to solicit money, but encountered diffiaul tiga Am fa
getting permigsion to re-enter the Unitod States, therefore, he
plans to finance @ trip for another peraon to go to Caracas to
@olicit the funds,

Oa 14 July Veciana spoke of his own plans for agsassinating Castro.9
One plan would be to infiltrate into Cubn three trained ran vac

Muat bo aware that they will be on a guicide .sineion,... The. enly :
hale. mentioned in connection with the misuion was: Julic: Crum, aa |
action member of the Segundo Frent® Nacional del Escambray (SFNE, |
‘Beaond National Front of the Kucambray). Veciana’s recond plaa i
would consiat of aa attempt to assagsinate Cantre when he :
visited tho United Nations, or some other place ip .
the Free World. . . : :

 

   
  

 

  
 

    

COMP rpenfiaL
CONTROLLED DIGSIAi
 

104-40169-10091)

 

 

    
  

SECRET

“Roy Ve Wa ar 380 gusy 65
John C. TA ee > aaa

:
SMWAVE  ypgerane ox
/ + PhAlap G. ELMARD

  
  
    
     
      
     
   
      
        
      
        
      
     
     

1 ey. each to Miami reps, of;
2a State, F.B.l., Customs,

2 COMEWESTFOR) TQNs, Border Patrol, U.8.0.d.

ee (fer CENCSO)

   
    
 
  

 

 

  

Bource: sURAZZ-2, im reports dated 3, 15, and 21 July 1985, The |
information in the Field Comments on Prince and Pelaez wan taken :
from information on file at JHWAVE, Julic Cruz, mentioned in Para, 4,
may: be Julio Marco Cruz Perez, 201-725868, who is a somber of the ~
SFHE; however, thie [centification is mot definite,” a

RID: Please card the folicving tor the field = ---> =

: @PRERCE, Jose, aka Jose Antonio .
- Mor of Social Information Center, branch of chrintian
Bocial Movement, Former coordinator of MBP in Cuba,
Involvement in plans to assassinate Fidel Castro,

 CPELAES Leyva, Eduarde Franciaco
- Prob iden w/Polaes (fnu), aka “Tito,” who involves in plan
to agnagainate Fidel Castro. Yorner mbr of MEP in Canaguey,
. Gaba, Arr in US 1962, . ‘

’ @VECEARA Blanch, antonio |
.. » Meader of Alpha-66, Tavolvement ia plan to aesasninate
Fidel Castro,

Grow 1: RBucluded from
Automatic Downgrading
apg Declagsification

 
 

   

 
 

ete

     

HrSé.

1. Source Comment: Prince ip a mesber of the Ccoatro de Informa-
; elon Social (C18, Social Information Center), the information

. branch of tha Movimiento Social Cristiano Gc, Christian
Social Movemeni), In about 1962 he was a coordinator of tha

MRP im Cuba, He is a ssriousemindad person tho is not prong
to promote wild Schemes or missions,

at seme

Field Comment; Prince is Probably identical with Jose Prince

1a, Who according to information available, was bora Th"
Camaguey, Cuba, on 23 September 1940,.. He was Provincial :
Coordinator «f% the HRP in Camaguey before -becoming National
Coordinator in Cuba in July 2962, . R2 wae granted asylua in
the Brazilian kabasity in Havana. in January 1963, and arrived —
in’ Puerto Rico in February of that yoar, —

  
     
   
 
  
     
  
         
     
    
    
  
  

2, Source Commnt: Pelaen was formerly a member of the MRP in ute
” Canaguey. a arrived in the United States in 2962, after having
been in asylum in the Brazilian Embassy in Anvana,. He is snid

RB be in touch with membera (not identified) of the Cuban Rubel
BLY © an

Field Comment: Paeleez may be. identical with Eduardo Francisco
, ez Leyva, the according to available information, was bora 4
‘Zn Cataguey, Cuba, on 11 January 1939. He arrived in the -F
Gaited States on & September 1962 after having been in asylun
. 4m the Uruguayan Embassy in Ravana. 7

 

- Field Comment: Veciana’s plans are apparently not connected
2 ose OF Prince, . - ;

 
 

    
  
   
  

cow Wial -
Cour b DISSEM
