13-00000

 Gaw's rst of Logics epuacks

Intel community Staff

Watch Committee—National Indications Center (abolished 1975)
Calendar Year 1963

See Cynthia M. Grabo, “The Watch Committee . . .” Intemational Journal of

intelligence and Counterintelligence, Vol. 3 No. 3 (1977).

a

Fabian
Libraries
JFK
LBJ ; .
Histories : oe
esp JMWAVE; Mexico City, Anti-Castro Cubans :
“Cuba Book" r
pursuing tapes .
i H eS an
indices to the segregated collection; ryeutnes , mos
1967 IG report Reel 48; zz 49 B; es 3
.ZR crypts; | ;
CIA-no. 8 (New Orleans);

searches for Oswald, Bishop;

CIA-1 organization

CIA-6 cables -

CIA-7 histories

New Orleans base

Geneva Diplomat
published by Pahzerky/Perzerki
mimeographed newsletter

‘Goodpasture and tape

antenatal ebro ee
13-00000

SECRET

a
Ae . .
“Cuba Book” - Cuban Counterrevolutionary Handbook (Gunn will
obtain copy released to NARA.

Pursuing tapes: Does the (Mexican Government) have any
records or tapes from the(join ap Operation\ in 1963? The
ARRB wishes to contact the (Mexican rnmen ut is
concerned about the protection of the (joint tap Would the

Agency be willing to facilitate?

This issue came up before, and, as I recall, the DO.was
not, inclined to get involved. However, if the Board
is determined to pursue on their own, they will ;
probably be raising the subject with unwitting Mexican
officials. :

indices to the segregated collection; inventories:

Gunn said this was one of their priorities; Mary remembers _
the various inventories and indices from her‘days in the i
History Staff.

The is no complete index or inventory to the
collections; there are a number of list/inventories
prepared by various people including Russ Holmes over
the years. We found them incomplete and did not use
them in our review. We can make them available with
the understanding that they may not reflect what is in
any give file or folder. These inventories will raise
the visibility of the Working Files (Russ Holmes) so we
should be ready to address that issue.

1967 IG report Reel 48; 22 49 B: Priority; would like to

present to the Board in the near future.
We can start a “re-review” next week.

ZR crypt; has a document with “ZR” in red over Oswald name.
What does it mean?

Ellie working.

Searches for Oswald, Bishop: The Oswald-Bishop-CIA story is
a favorite among conspiracies; one theory has Dave Phillips
as Bishop. . Can the Agency certify that all files have been.
checked and that there are no records of Oswald connection
with “Bishop” or CIA?

This theory was well researched during the HSCA
investigation; suggest that we revisit the question
after the ARRB staff has reviewed the documents in the
JFK records. I will discuss with Gunn.

CIA-1 organization request (dated 7 July 1995): Gunn will
review the material’ we have collected. No action required
for the present . ‘ :

SECRET
104-10331-10329

 

 

SECRET

1 February 1996
JFK Working Notes
Subject: ARRB Requests
References: J. Gunn's List of topics/requests (attached) -
Meeting with J. Gunn, ARRB Staff, 6°
Meeting with C/HGR, Fred Wickham, :
31 January, 1996
Intel Community Staff records for 1963:

HRG has identified records; will ask for written
request@ from ARRB

Watch Committee--National Indications Center -records, “1963:

Have ' requested copy of the article he cites; will
discuss with Patten, etc. If we have the records, will
ask for written request; if not, will direct to
appropriate organization.

Fabian Escalante's 201 file:

Gunn has reviewed the file; has some questions. Ellie
is handling. . .

’ Presidential Libraries

JFK: Requested a joint trip in Feb/early Mar (apparently
members of the Board member have a special interest in JFK
library; Gunn has visited the library and feels a joint
effort would be the most effective way to approach the
records.)

I suggested a visit 27/28 Feb or first week in Mar ~

to scope the collection and determine what will be

required to review the records. We would send a review
. team later in the year. ;

LBJ: According to Gunn, the LBJ Library's assassination
records collection is rather small. The ARRB has requested
that the library copy the records and send them to
Washington. Gunn does not think the LBJ Library reviewed’
the “Cuban” records when they identified the assassination
records.

If LBJ sends the records to the ARRB, we will
review the records at the ARRB offices. As for the
“Cuban records,” we can address them later.

  

Histories (see CIA-7 below.) CL BY:

SECRET
SECRET

wf

‘CIA-6 cables request (dated 11 September 1995): What is the

status?

DO action; Fred W. to follow-up.
CIA-7 histories (dated 8 November 1995): What is the status?
(HRG/DO agreed that the Mexico City and JMWAVE were
reasonable requests, however, the rest of the request was:
too broad; Pereria letter to Marwell dated 5 December
proposed discussions on the possibility of so
modifying/refining the request.) Gunn said that he,
Marwell, and Mary were willing to meet we us to discuss the
request.

Mexico City Station - ready for Gunn's review; .

JMWave - DO searching for; Ellie has. action; COO

Others - Recommend that we set up meeting in near 3}
‘future, to discuss CIA-7. :

New Orleans base: Will the organization material from CIA-1
contain information on New Orleans?

Probably not; I will contact DI/IRO re records on the
OO office in New Orleans.

Geneva Diplomat, etc.: According to a letter received by the
ARRB, this was a limited distribution “spook” newsletter

‘circulated in Geneva in 1963; it is supposed to-have

predicted the assassination of JFK.

Told Gunn I would pass on the request but doubted that
we would find anything. It is not the type of item
that would be in our files even if such a: newsletter
existed. Maybe run a check on the name of newsletter
and/or individual (Pahzerky/Perzerki).

Goodpasture and tape: Goodpasture says that a “working

-tape” was made of Oswald's phone conversation(s) in Mexico

City; a copy was with the transcript. As for what happened

‘to it, she thinks it may have been sent to Dallas by FBI.

The ARRB is very interested in pursuing this lead; Marwell
had previously asked me if there were records that would
show that such “working tapes” were made. Gunn wants to
know what the Bob Shaw, and others in Mexico City
at the time knéw about the Oswald working tape. Also ask
about the Angleton inventory of Win Scott's Safe

 

I have asked to see the relevant parts of Goodpasture's
deposition; will request except relevant to the.
request. We may consider having someone talk with
Goodpasture to see how sure she was that there was a
tape.

SECRET
an ; : SECRET

Re{ Bob Shaw, etc., if we don't follow up, I
suspect the Board will.

. Win Scott's inventory: HRG will check JFK collection
and with FOIA/OGC re his son's request.

 

New Request: that the Agency facilitate a meeting with Jack
Whitten. Gunn said the Board is sympathetic to Whitten's
situation and concerns, but given his key role in the story,
they want to talk with him.
DO action - Fred W. .
Gunn acknowledged that Whitten would probably not be
receptive to a direct request from the Board for an
interview.
Gunn's Priorities:
1) trip to JFK Presidential Library
2) indices/inventories to collection
3) 1967 IG Report
4) CIA - 7 histories

5) CIA - 6 cables

 

Attachment: as stated

Cc - C/HRG
peo JENS Leow

SECRET
