74-0000

Taabeate

SBOCRaY

the Miogreptie register. Clastanbury found Dliacy retuer écll, waiaagisati wo,
Wadi gioeatie, ani ceserving cf some cf tie prctably bits wot at tines Lippert
renarag cf Vlastonbery, £1 1m0Y le UncoUltedl y @ cOhelLced and cAMeunitg .og-aem
Cparstive. Cigstanbury @2)] méoutted.y neve to recippoeate wits a.ctner luncesce
erties be Sores to aaam ae >risef em4 ee peiriees as fdesitie. 413 future contest.
wath Klisow will be hope to the bares? ninigum oc as act to iavelve tie Station'a
time a6 effort CH what now appears to Le a useless Vargote

a tt a

/ °

WELL Clo T hayes
 BALPER Be CLATONBURY -
Booted butions
O63 = 88
H Co. :

_ ey

|
|
|
|
|

 
74-00000

 

 

: , ~ ——— geen ctoretnmnatnn. cones seis is emt ena
- ~ : -
~ : . . . .
eee nen cute tee ee mec mem eee tend epee - = :

‘DISPATCH = ae

 

 

‘9 ser, Sa
neg ORAL, BE

 

 

2012 238555
2
Os : = Rn + oe
. < i .
mag ett State) =
¢ RE O0D/REDCAP/ REC cre areas
&

AEN re BRD

rm

 

weabers of the 6
Glastonbury prval
poeition te be of
rn ars)

| Brio led a die
“Glastonbury ments
thé Criness were:
Per month. Chaat
gountry that bad

that now the Guia
facilitiea, to wi
they are miltipiyy
wane figures).

. 4 Mue
that vere in need

searching out Cla
hed served in the

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 

the vessel on tha
that they ride in
agreed, then pros

tional ae it wan,
& green newoonep

Klinov also

remark, Klimov be:

with forka and ay,

    

“TL 10966, 14 dugeat ages

  

  

Of the group advard tre weesel.

- OF the Helsink’s wen fer the fine Italien ze
Jet on as to thie eas im the trus tradition of the #00 and tne Italian apirtt,

Someone would have hinaalf a go

Kimov served. He repited in the Artillery and was quite aware of the work involved
an polishing shel! casita,

him for lunch. in view of ¢
end since it waa lunoh time and
agreed to accept Aiisavis invitation. Klinoy
could enjoy sone erayfieh (or as he stated 1t "orabs") CLastonbury requested

that they not dadulwe in this since he had so
were too time-ooheuming,

which was supposed to he ni

the reataurant ginos he had ne

5. Ab the restaurant Klimov insiated that Clastonbury ohoose the
course since he wan not too faniliar with Chinese food; Cleatanbury obliged.
nainted that they havd a martiniik, and then he ordered beer while
“Glastonbury orderad tea with his Chinese food:
on the table, fautting than,
Qlaatonbury stated

weabed that Kiisov'e government might have a tromendous fork

  
     

 

? (tet $C CCAP OD
Rastondury!® Meeting with Anatoliy kikhaViowich KLIRCW te" 5 neem EGU, i -

OnCaae > CAR GE ROGED
OT xeoED bk Cree

ob KLILEV, KIS type in Holsiaki, vas net by Clastonbary
! Corpe'@visit to the Italien veese!, Monteouceolt, -
duguat 1461, 7

Bo After the initial perfunctory greetings and introductions to various

eed Sleatonbury introduced hiaself to kisaov, Misgev requested

"ereetings be transmitted to his former eoileague, Coatilie.

ted @ do 90 and then etarted to mingle e1ta other asebsre

Klimov definitely maneuvered himeelf inte a
wee to Clastonbury 60 as to envege bie la Gunveraati om,

le Neurthg the vessel Klimov revarked adout the avat lability
adore of the erew, Chastonbury:

‘@veeion regurding the increase in world population, to witch
wed the tremendous population of China, Kidmoy veaarked that —
Wrvoreating at an unbelievable rate of some Geo hundred thousand
vabury retorted that this waa not unusual for » poor backward

fee outiuts for other types of recreation, Klimov then gugguated
eee are able to avatl themselves of the new peoples’ recreation
Aol Uleatonbury retorted tiat thio wae quite apparent since

(ha at the rate of txo hundred thousand pes month (KO daov's

  
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
  
  
   
    
  
  
     
 
   
 
  
   
    
        

tying to vieit the upper decks we cane scrosa sone ahell oases

of poliahing. Clastonbury pointed to thea and renarked that

od job to perform. Kiimov immediately started
atontupy's military experience, by pointedly asking if Clastonbury
Navy. ‘Clastonbury replied in the affirnative and asked where -

Klimov then asked Clastonbury if he cared to join
he fect that a luncheon would probably be inevitable,
ne meals were teing served aboard ship. Claetonbury
first suggested a place where ong

me but » few nights ago and they
Klimov then suggested a Russian restaurant, Bellevue,
earby. Clastonbury agreed; however, upon departing
way to lunch, Klimov suggested that they walk in search of a
ver been there. Clastonbury agreed but inajeted Clagt-
hia oar since he did not wish to leave it on the dookas: Kiimoyxort ry
ested to get lost in some of Helsinkits downtom traffic. Unintene

it way have led Klimov to believe that Clestontury was indeed
fo this area,

the waiter placed sexs chopstioks

-and with what he must have thoudit to be a olever

aulucly atated to Clastonbury that “thease are for barbarlane™..
‘lint he understood the EXE Chinese were now learning to eat

     

     

    
    

  

 

    

  

Rarxet in EEX hitia fur their excess steel production. Kimov became rather
“gifs tranaad ond winted Sst, after all, diCferent quetons ed $n —_
‘ i ° Wet) ven bps : recital fi shies tht yntite. &
i Ae ee eM
Oe SUUCROTY CLASSRCA TON, . :
Pera a a SECRET reve i

Freweree
 

104-1069-10825]

el

 

i

age PEA AEE

c G 6 6 0 0.0.0.0.

cc «€

 

€

 

- Destroy frozt cover sheet, unless it

| Comments. requiring preservation.

Cc

ECRET

 

 

. is te

‘oceans aaa eee. icreeeneerenermmanat I rr

: . ROUTING AND RECORD fHEET : ©
NTE ree

 

“TO: ACTION BRANCH

 

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on rack. Detach bace “a

flap acd forward to RID. @ so. and title shown are rot
. insert preper file no. below

records significant action taxen or tward document to RID/AN. ™

~ WO ALL ADDRESSES
Pts. thd SECTION ¢ ON Back AF APPROPRIATE

OCUMERL HUM
ZAIOPHALE 05219

+ a aneereeerereeeentte etn sen te ac

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

roam
we 53a
at

Eller comtries.

6. .iisow teen pointes cut Wat S.gstontury’s true use ecamted bussian

axé ascot if Clastcesury was Susslem. Clestceoury rep.tet uc, te eas rot Riselam, -

but om America. of are trad eitrestion. if.lace ued eteted Maat taey vere
Wen see. yar) (sentenen) 0.200 Le toe Ms @ -srernian sD ia foltave, Sree tonbury >

‘Let co teat te coe cf ri. tas eicce tat wee care Feter tie Grcat beat toe

Sweteo. nowever, -.eetoeeury eviided indicating tial Be unseretord tre tussien —
wurde eee LF L1ie.V. Ailey liek proceeded to eapiaie tras Semi yar} Py ty
poeple from te Gant FOGiah, GS Ob106 [OF B41 Aanzican versicn. vlastanbury
stated toes there 028 BS GUOR Precied eeeng im O4F Country and that we eure
ell Americans firet tron jceelbsy Gita ai identification from wich etate ve |
OS50 TeGibiag Od tat OF Lad AO Ballenglity prodlens as €14 tne coviet Unease
Elamoy tacn agreed tuat tag Uode Gas @ welling pot of moet auropean eleaentes

_ Ve Potntediy Kiinov suggested tat he and Ciastendury were cf the
gene eee, Ciastonbary Wea stated tuat, 20, Likaov was auom cider, a) ous
eotvebury bed sany more gray haire Wan he, pointing to bie eraying teapies.
Eliace thes joint bians asseg how ol6 are you, te mien Clastunbury ateted thirty
and bog c14 are you? Liisce stated Uustyelive, a4 appeared aansed or locked
wibeltovingiy at Clastommryes

| Sy Bissey shen rotumséd to ale carties eupersonse stating that he

ven only oi giteen in 1444 when he spoat trree months on the Bulgarian frunt
ia tue abillery an? participated ta the liberation of some of the Bulgarien
foarte wtaee, Clastiabury eteted you did driuk 44 thea, to wich Kiimoy renaried
nis singe 16 vas sort of @ vicéury trophy, After ao jul) ia tne ocauversatinns
Jémov etated brat ne eae Feading the sachange of Jettere Letecen Hooeevels ©
ang Btalin, and felt they were of significance to the present-day ei tuation

ia Cereanye when asked if he too had read tiie exuhange of Jattere, Clastonbury-~
etated that he had read an interesting book covering tne asae uaterial entitled
“Chupehijl, Koosevelt ang Gtalin" by Yeie. Klisov appeared interested in the
book aad vented to now Bf 3t containes the personal goaments of the author,
Father than @ presentation of the faste. “Ulaatonbury ret it be known tiat the
Pook eas factual, but aa in al) booke the author’s cosrente vore to be socepteds
46 thie junction Kifmov etated tnat Berlin would be a test of our relationshi ge
Claatcabury atated that he eaw no reason for auch atest. Kiinov atated that

all Ghe troubles in Germany would be settled by @ eigning of the Xast Cernan
Peace Treaty. Tule would enable the Coreans to solve their own question of
unifieation shich would come one way or another, Ubéatonbiiry auggested to Kiimov
that the Soviet Governnent vas ehirking ite responsibilities in thie situation
by attempting to wash ite hands of the German question. “Clastonbury stated that
the signing of the peace treaty was nothing elee tnan placing the match in the
Kast Ooraan hands with which they could imite the "tinder box". Mlimov protested
that the tinder hox hed existed for many years and that their aiming the peace
treaty was “only signing a Pl plece of paper" and not passing the watch to the
Kast Germano. Klimov then suggested that Cleetonbury'e government join hands
with the Soviets and eign the treaty. Clastonbury replied that he did not believe
that Bie governrent reuld ever sign such an agreement. Clastonbury suggested
that the Soviet Government in lieu of signing the treaty pursue a course of
honest negotiztion to rescive the question. Klimov stated that Khrushchey in
hie speeches had indicated the Soviet Governnent's willingness to inolude the
U.S. in negotiating the final version of the pesce treaty with East Germany.

Claatonbury suggested that Klimov attempt to let it be known to Khrushchev, altho igh

he underatood that Klimov was in no euch position as to be able to tell Khrushchev
whet to do, that Ehruehchev etcop engeging in public appeches and etart. nesotiating
$f he really desires peace. Aiimov stated t at Khruehchev's speeches were indeed

negotiation and asked Clestonbury what he thought negotiation should be. ClLastonbury}>

retorted that, as he understood it, negotiation took into account the viewpoint
‘of both sides and was not amtter where a fait accompli was prosented in a public
epeech with a request that the other elde merely concur. -Clastonbury pointed -
out that sinos-the end of the war the United States had presented many proposals
for the settlement of the German question and that time and time again it was
Klinov'a governnent that refused even to nexotiate on the prinsiples of those
proposale. Clastenbury wes surpriaed to see Khrushohev pull @ solution out
of his hat and expect another roverntent. to merely sign on the dotted lines
Kidmov did not counter any of these atatenenta but suggested that the U.S. had

  
 
  
 

8 PEEVIOUS SEDITION.
nemaces forms
11-38, 31-04 AND $129

pisrebrsries

B8RORKT

 

  

    
 

  

 

  
 

 

 
74-0000

 

Yoy

ee
PAPAL eam ETE EE APE ERAT te eee rere |e + vce pene Aa tA ASA sein Se

 

 

 

  
      

G-ed & SC arele peace whl te lapanewe, ‘ s
fer its poreerssoes. + ast: bon
S@a bees, invites 25% only t:

  
     
 
  
     
     
       
        
       
            
    
     
            
     
    
     
       
          
       
           
    
       
        
 
     
  

tonewers® 66 keg & start ter bag Bb akh ang
BI0R ed fences is Cbeheee waren 8. Swestunpary f.9rteeg Guo geeted Liat tig
Sepenmee jeece treaty une @ ree.dt a€ @ Attfarect oe8 of clraste cea tat Scene
sPweasiing in 6 divices Sareacy .

8. A¢ the ecmel-sien of tas eval Rlinoy tasieted an paying the bad)
Blew be 456, and siuasisy possctes tae bs

+h Sndioaticg tat 6239 060 86 orounal
lunches, Klimov then eugasetes Saad ther atom te daverg’e fer suse atlee,
Be Wied Cidetuabusy acreed. ver Gung Ocho e@ Dikaow Wen peed Ue g.09tlinag
fe wet oprte Ciast.anury wee @ Stay 38 Beleinas,
Clestuabury Chi pyentsy rosarses “artansag*,

wines, He recalled thet Ceatiite bréterred Ge:
Cuich he Rimeelf enjoyed; alimoy then Gugewat
Soviet Union, after hie leave, he eld dria,
Gogmes for Clastcabury to try. Klines Yen

Sigiing of the pease treaty with Govset snaspaune, CYestcabury stated he would
hever drink to the peace Sreaty a@ sion point Elimoy Suenooted that they morely
drink to friendship and peace, Mile Criastonbury suggested they eerely drink

4d, Olestcnbury then asked hie when be van soing on Jeave, Kiinoy tndioated

40 would probably be after tne touriet Season in Vetcber, He also stated that

he would bring hie 56 year old daucnter back to Finiand at that time. 2} tnov

thon presented « Ploture of hie daughter, “Claatenbury remarked how pretty she

Wee and hoped that she wes doing well in School. Klimov stated thes she vas

ne’ iu echocl but vieiting with her etandparonta in Moscow. Aldmov then gaked

4f Ciastcabury had any children, to thish Clastenbury stated that he had two

fine eons. Clastonbury alec atited that since he had errived he hed sone diffoulty
in obtaining a maid and asked Kidmor it he had @ maid. Klimov replied that he
had none and that he and hie wife lived alone,

organ brenty to tat free Armenia
od that upen Bis return from the
a@ back seas aisapagne ond drmenier
otated thet they could drink to the

9. Occasionally during the conversation Klimov injected some Russian,
German and French words, to which Claeton

20. Uson leaving the coffee honse Clastonbury volunteered to drive
Kilwev back to the Soviet Lebass:

¥s Klimov acoepted but upon arriving at the
Sabaaay Kiinov rejeoted Clastonbury's proposal to drive right up to the door
of the Bebassy and requested to be let out norcas the atrees. As Glastonbury .
drove away after the cordial thank you for the mesl and the company he noted

an hide rear view mirror that Klinov Started te walk back from where they hed
dat been and not towarde the tubasay,

Ul. Clastonbury's assessment of Klimov at this time is that although
he may be a knowledgeable RIS type he waa extremely crude -in attempting to elioit
the basio PRQ Part 1 information on Glastonbury that will eventually eppear in

  

  
  
    
   
 

    

UM PREVIOUL EDITION,
BEPLACES FOEMA
51-28, S1-20A AND 91-29

 
