Page 113

fash
Voiwiiiv.

Re the "intriguing" case of a man crossing the
Mexican border on 23 Nov. then flying to Cuba.

This case was investigated and pertained to
Gilbert Lopez, a U.S. citizen who had secured a
fifteen day Mexican tourist card at Tampa, Florida,
on 20 November 1963. He entered Mexico on this
document at Nuevo Laredo on 23 November 1963 - the
day President Kennedy was asSa@ssinated. He checked
into the Roosevelt Hotel on 25 November 1963. On
27 November he checked out of the hotel and
departed for Havana aboard a regularly scheduled
Cubana Flight # 465. He happened to be, according
to the manifest, the only passenger. The flight
had a crew of 9 Cubans, which is normal. He had a
courtesy visa to visit Cuba.

On the general question of identifying Kostikov as
a KGB officer in Mexico City and his relationship
to Department 13 of the KGB, this was checked with
appropriate office and feeling is that nothing will
be lost by this identification.

 
Page 10

‘Page 14

Page 53

Page 79

OF PONE Mores
aneee bens :

"Oswald contacted a known KGB agent" with the
Soviet Embassy in Mexico. While it is known

that Oswald contacted the Vice Consul at the
Soviet Embassy in Mexico City, to the best of
our knowledge it was for the purpose of

obtaining a visa for the Soviet Union. The fact
that the Vice Consul happened to be a KGB officer
complicates the matter but there is no evidence
that Oswald knew this Soviet was KGB. Therefore,
recommend this sentence be modified accordingly.

We are not aware of any requests by CIA's investi-
gators for files on the AMLASH operation. It
would appear that when the Kennedy assassination
was being investigated whomsoever held the AMLASH
files did not associate the AMLASH case with the
assassination or discern any connection.

Believe the word "technical" should be removed
when referring to CIA collection capability in
Mexico City.

Alvarado or "D" claimed that he saw Oswald being paid
by Cubans to assassinate Kennedy. He volunteered this
to CIA and was interrogated. At the request of the
FBI Washington, Alvarado was turned over to the Mexican
authorities for interrogation. Later Alvarado was
polygraphed by CIA with the FBI providing the interpre-
ter. Therefore comment that the FBI was denied access
to Alvarado is untrue.

  

St roe Sinead! ty
13-00000

7

é

FACTUAL OBJECTIONS

Page 12 -- States that "Hoover and other senior officials
first learned of plots to assassinate Castro in July 1964".

NOTE: While this is clearly incorrect, Mr. Johnston
indicated that the above sentence should read that
the officials first learned of the ''AMLASH"” operation
in July 1964. ,

Page SS -- paragraph three --- Concerning an Agency cable
outlining an unknown passenger in the cockpit of an air-
craft to Havana, the following sentence appears: "The -
cable was received in Mexico City since it may be found

in the station's files". This sentence is apparently in-
complete, and does not make sense as it is presently written.

Page 56 and 57 -- Discusses the 8 December 1963 cable to
JMWAVE to halt all operations pending a high level/Cuban
policy review. In this regard, the paper flatly states

that one of the operations to be halted was the delivery

'of the rifles and telescopic sites in connection with

AMLASH. I don't believe that the cable, nor other related
documents, specify which operations were to be halted.

Page 120 -- In discussing the various Cuban exile groups,

and the interest in these groups by the military, FBI, and
CIA, the paper does not make it clear that the Agency did not
have any operational interest in either SNFE or Alpha 66.

“£D

ay
Cn ( Tot

SECURITY OBJECTIONS

Page 76 -- paragraph one --- Identifies the source of an
allegation that Oswald had received money in Mexico City
as a "Nicaraguan". The country should be deleted. :

Page 78 -- paragraph two --- Identifies the above source
by the name "Alvarado", which should be deleted.

NOTE: All other references to this fabricated
story refer to the source as "D". .

Page 144 -- middle of page --- Quotes from the polygraph
report on AMWHIP. Ali references to the polygraph, to-
gether with the quote should be deleted... If this infor-
mation is absolutely necessary, then it should be para-
phrased so as not to indicate that it was obtained through

polygraph.

: . a ; - .
[Page 177 -- top of page pea rines information which the
Agency provided to the Warrefi Commission on a suspected
KGB agent in the Soviet Embassy, Mexico City (Kostikov).-
Believe this should be deleted on the\ basis of sources and
, methods. ; 4 ee
13-00000

3. The attached comments are provided for your
information, and it is understood that the draft report
is also being reviewed by appropriate representatives
of the IG, DDO, and DDA.

‘

 

 

 

( Reveey Staff

Attachments:
Tabs A-C
 

(4-0429-10002] -

WANALM Cdar MiSs Te

Review Staff: 76-0450

.4 June 1976
MEMORANDUM FOR: Inspector General
ATTENTION : Mr. Scott D. Breckinridge, Jr.
VIA : Chief, Review Staff —
SUBJECT : Comments Concerning SSC Draft Report

(The Performance of the Intelligence
Agencies with Respect to the Inves-
tigation of President Kennedy)

1. Attached hereto as Tabs A through C are the
undersigned’s comments regarding the above-noted SSC

Draft Report from a security, factual, and editorial
‘standpoint.

2. It should be noted that the SSC intends to
add to this draft report two additional sections, a
Conclusions and Recommendations Section and a Chronology.
These two sections have almost been completed by the SSC,
and will be made available for review by the Agency. As
indicated in the attached, the report as written is re-
petitive, and makes two main points:

a. U.S. Intelligence Agencies were in
error by not fully advising the Warren Com-
mission of U.S. involvement with Cuban Exile
groups, with specific emphasis on any attempts
by the Agency to assassinate Castro.

b. The Agency's involvement with AMLASH
became known to Castro, and because of his
knowledge of the AMLASH operation Castro re-
taliated by assassinating President Kennedy.

condtr e03toy4

eo:
13-00000

( ee ae Les \ ef

EDITORIAL COMMENTS ‘

General --- The paper begins by emphasizing that it did
not uncover any evidence that the Kennedy assassination
was the result of a conspiracy, but that they did dis-
cover evidence that various intelligence agencies were
not forthcoming with the Warren Commission. The paper
then goes on to leave the impression that the JFK assas-

sination was the result of a conspiracy by Castro in re-
taliation for our AMLASH operation.

The entire paper is highly repetitive, and begins A
with a summary, followed by a slightly mcre detailed ; )
version, followed by a more detailed version, etc.
etc..... The paper relies heavily on the testimony of Jor,
current/former Agency employees, with specific emphzsis..
on the individual within CI Staff-who stated-that he would
have altered the manner in which he conducted the investi-
gation of the Kennedy assassination if he had known of the

AMLASH operation. The paper hammers away again and again
that we were meeting with AMLASH when JFK was killed.

As a saving factor, the paper is far more derogatory
to the FBI than it is to the Agency, and in short asks why
no one in the Executive branch thought to bring the AMLASH
and other Castro operations to the attention of the Warren
Commission, while admitting that the Agency did an excel-
lent job of reporting and assembling information on Oswald
and in immediately reporting our information to the FBI and
the Warren Commission.

Specific --- ( NY

Page 44 -- Outlines a discrepancy between the testi- uw ye
mony of the "desk officer" (not further identified) and CoE
Mr. Karamessines regarding a cable concerning Sylvia Duran’
and Cuban involvement in the assassination. I think this
portion should be closely reviewed by those familiar with
this cable.
13-00000

Throughout Report -- The paper spends a great deal of time re-
hashing the story that Oswald received money from the Cubans |
in Mexico City, while at the same time clearly demonstrating |
that this allegation was a fabrication. Since it was a :

fabrication, and this does not seem to be of question either
to the SSC, Warren Commission, FBI, or CIA, there seems to

be little justification for such repetitive treatment of

\

this story. . —

Paces 106 and 107 -- This section criticizes the Agency for
not having interrogated AMLASH concerning the Kennedy assas-
ination, in the context that both we and the FBI should have
begun extensive interviews with our various Cuban sources to
determine if Castro was involved,

Pages 113 and 114 -- Deals with a lead developed concerning.

a Cuban/American who mysteriously left Mexico City on a twin
engine aircraft for Havana shortly before (after ?) the
assassination. The paper criticizes us for not thoroughly
following up on this lead, despite the fact that we immediately
turned the lead over to the FBI to investigace further.

Pages 126 and 127 -- After having spent some time explaining
the Agency's and the FBI's mistakes in not informing the
Warren Commission about plots to assassinate Castro, the re-
port finally points out that with respect to the "underworld"
plots, Robert Kennedy, Allen Dulles, and many other senior
officials were already aware of these plots. The report
then states "there would have been no clear reason to connect

ve Oeen Ne © eet oe
these underworld plots to the President's assassination".

NOTE: Page 128 then goes on to explain that the AMLASH ©
operation was different. since it was made clear to AMLASH |
that the CIA and the U.S. Government approved of his plans Ve
to assassinate Castro.

 
