 

se ok -. . oS i : “BoBoCaRyS-T 2 . . an ee

eo ge
. . . wy : rea °

_ + :many of the DTI persennel were sent to the “Batallon de - -
qian! *"Cambate™ a pick and shovel work batalion where persons .
-_ falling in disgface are sent for Punishment." te Pe

  
   
  
   
 
   
   
  
    
  
    
  
  
    
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
    

oe *¢, Another source, whose roliability is not: known,
stated that Subjoct had fallen ints disgrace in Cuba,

and that while some porsgns clairced that he was assigned | .-

to Kanagua Camp, others were sure that he was sent to :

‘ prison. we

=

: g., One source states subject was a gezber of the

. . “13th of March™ Revolut#onary Directory. He was assigned

: ‘to the G-5 and was'later put in charg @ of the Isle of Pines
* forces. - ~ woe

. h. Another source of unknown reliability reported that
Mrs. DIAZ is very well known in Havana, beizg p-eviously-
active in the Little Theater, and active socially: -She.is
Well known to the members of the G=2 at the airport. She
ia also friendly with the Panamanian AzSassador and his
wife. “Raul DIAZ is poorly regarded although ke has a*

: position of great influence in the DTZ. He is reported?
working with former U.S. gangsters who werd deported from

éeU.s. at he is Lated= the narcotics
racket, . : . "
eh 4° .
2. The files of this office xeflect the foliowing  - .
information on one Raul DIAZ: Sn 3

.
°

ay. Raul DIAZ ds reported § to ‘be a rerber of. the G-2 in|
se ‘Pinar del Rio. : 4 Sos

dated 20 April 1961 stating that one Raul DIAZ wag among
_& group of Cubans who were to-enter Cuba from Canada .
iMexico or possibly Miami via air. It was reported they - ‘
would have U.S, dollars hidden and that they were traitors, |
black marketeers and “Yankee spies. os
“8. The files of this” office reflect no information re
carding. Subject's. wife Mariana. RAMIREZ: Corvia.

. 4... All other ‘information reported “to this office was . ':
received from The Pederal Bureau of, Investigation ang .: a 7
Iemigration and Naturalization Service. It is suggested that - a
you check further with . the above for additional’ information. .

. bs eo other reports received by this office were: American. .
. Bab asay | Dispatch #1078 datad @ March 1960 aod OSI Report # 133-57 /
* dated 29 duguat 1987. _ Both reports originated in Havana, Cubz.

 

b. ° On 29 Aprii- “1962 ‘thie office intercepted & report -

.
 

104-10308-10143 . ¥ mens? Pie etn helt ens GSE a

ey

 

 

Ca i LO et OCIA. | .
‘ a! one A - boa bin ft Only”: Vid wo
. ; . . . : : _ Do Not. Repro .
> Pa we : — - . on
oo, cj]. °° ES Wobrudxy lo62
— = a . aot a . . 2 oe . — : . a:
Jo“ (exoRaNput FOR: Tho Secret Service - 4. ° “see , r: et
“PP.  supyect. Raul Jaino DIZ tegiites y y Garcia (201~269892)
on \ . Raul DIAZ Argueyes . vo SOS
7 . . : “. . : on tg

les of thls ottico reflect the following carmary

  

report cated 26 Decorder 1959 stated Bubjoct®
was born/about 1933, json of Raul and Mazina, resided.at ~ _-

. Calle 194 No. 1148 beteeon ll and 12, Biltmore, Havanz,
-. Cuba. Subject is sarried to the formar Mariana. RAMIREZ

After his stuceat days he was employed as a ,
typis echanical engineer, chauffeur and a cleris ..
‘ §ubjecs: was discharged from the revolutionary army "(este -

_ ¢ aniknow3;) in vhich he held the rant of Major and on 12

.

 

oe ettaaathaage steal ad hba nha nae

. re an

November 1959 he entered the services of the National . -_

ad Rovalutionary Police. Subject was appointed as Chiof we
, y, of the Technical Dopartnent of Investigations Tl): on . To

at Novenber 1359.

 \emats Major William GALVEZ, Inspector General of
223 AIEy,s oa the latter's extended trip to Europe.

 

‘of the “DTT was given a 2 Souths leavo o¥ absence and was
“to Jeave on a tour of several Latin Amorican countries
possibly. to inspect Cuban foreign intelligence operations.

. '. Sebject waa issued a U,8. visa valid from. 22 August 1950 :
. ot through, 30 Septexzter 1960 for tha: purpose of accompanying =,
om the Cuban delegation to the United Zations. .
. *, a. Yt was reported in March 1939 that Raul" CASTRO
. . was @lanning to obtain control of the Drf and suphacs nes

. >
; Subject with. Manuel PINEIRG a Cosmainist. ~ . “wt

®. On 31 Auctst 1962 a source of unknorn reliability
_ weported the folleving information: "Raul DIAZ Arguelies,
co -,. bBigh level xomber of the 26th of July Hovenaen’ C)
. oof resistance and later head of thé Departzent of Technicai

; Investigations (Ott) was discharged trem bia position in
7. daly 193i and eas scpiaced br Nectar ALDAVA. a well moza

Commnigt sullatto from Grighte. Aiter DIAZ was fisaiscod, £

b. Id Decenber 1959 Subject was believed to bé: te

“tn ‘Sune 1960 4% was reported ‘¢hat Subject, Chier - , a

 

Parone

 

Vee
et gre ten ph yess tng ka itis

 

‘Sanviee is le

 

we » have received infor=ittea to thé attack that the above -

subject ‘is prasént ly in refuse in tha Sragilian Sctassy in‘Kavena .

Apossidly the Scucdoriaa’ Tehissy}. Aesording to the information

~ this ection by Diez apytars to be a coms UP tn order to get cut
ef Cuba to cerry on a passe of fart ivity. Slag epparently

_ ds the head of intelligence (ecknicel) } se oelee Sa of Tavestigstéons I
‘amd dn his capacity he could leave Cuba at any tin binant %, BENAAE

ae to Foaesy "gate conducy" through an wahasS76

a “tT
- Raul Diaz Arguell-s is téMered to. be in cccplete ‘charce of

seay! astivity as ccnt~mplated be Aldo F Margollss-duenas, which

involves 8 plot to assassinst othe resident of the United States |

The sidject is ceseribed a3 Rad, Jaice Dias Arguslics-Cerdia;
“whites males: Cuban; DOB G-14-57, Havena, Cuba; 5-113 1953 trown -

. hater; brean eyes; ight: conplextons F2t So. 382952-3; Said Noe 0 7

ALO 185 192. E : Fe

. Inforzation received, inclectes tha _ subsect is peszonsibie 8
‘for assassinations during the ZaSista regiza; is a know ‘errorist;
“and ds.capeble in the use of explesive bobs and persis LWRAPONG.

Be is also believed to have direct-d assesbinaticn in the pest” _
fron sommhiers, ia Kaxicos, To
: 2eeHTO" i

“Arguelles is presently the subsect ef &.Z20 lootort ‘phrolgheut .
| aii strat egic points of eeerys as en as Alto iB Petco Fargoll ieantuenas. t

: It is requested you use” r= facktitd ieg in assist ng this
edrning the current merearets, of Base os subject o3e
. of Entersss to your Departs at at this tice ray ‘be ‘the information i
received which indicates that Ch. Suevarra is gavently dx the ree .
£ infiltrating the police derart=ents én Seth Anerisc:

* countries. Available inforssiion indicetes ©. wevares already wares

gems control over th a Jy tice in Kextco bate

 

 
