 

dammeocened acerunh eet neing om mame tine elt ett tetin mite heinee ‘ie May Ny Le pate aa matananannmerrs wb Means oF

pret

~ — ; SEGRET ~

-~2-

* recently publicized narcotics traff{fe in Miami;

4. Subject's general background and activities in Cuba,

Subject stated that she had given the Subcommitree certain papers she had
concerning the book, and had given then what (nforzation she had concerning
the author and the publisher.. She inforned the Subcommittee that she was
not a mesber of the Fair Play Comittee, but was in contact with Richard
GISSON and other nenbers of the Comzittee. Subject told the Subcommittee
that she she was not aware of any connection between the Cuban CP and the
‘nareoties entering Miami, She gave thea her general background and toid
then of aur Work An wuva = auc Gute Sho undersigacs that ter ccrtercest
record apparently so confused the Subcocuittee that they did not press

for additional details, and she was thus able to avoid’ any direct questions
which might have proved embarrassing regarding her connections with us.

4, C033 informed the undersigned that she has written letters to
Burbert: H, HUMPHERY, Uelesseps MORPISGS, and Richard GOODWIN, concerning
“the paragraphs about President KENNEDY vhich were deleted by Lyle STUART
from The Shirk & The Sardines (preface), Subject also said she had called
Richard GOODKIN after the appearance of the White Paper on Cuba, and “called
to his attention to the fact that the preface to CASTRO'S History Will
Absolve Be, attributed to Luis CONTS Aguirre, did not appear in the original
Spanish edition, but was written for the later English translation (apparently
after CONTE changed his views), it

- 5. COBB stated that after the hearings, two reporters fsb: the Journal
_ American, Don PRASCA and John MITCHELL, approached her for srtew‘n: 1s 08

c. “TRO, the Cuban invasion, and the importation into Plorida of narec‘ies

rcs Cuba, They dia refer ‘to cla in a rather oblique fashion in ooking it

we SECRET |

Fhncce mene Geetire se me at ctuttenpewmn teers + cee ee ee
‘oa t0175-10145

 

 

 

net

  

2 April 1962
MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD:

SUBJECT: June COPE. f201-279, 341)

l. Friday afternoon, March 30th, the undersigned received a call on a
sterile phone from Subject, who advised that she was in gashington to appear
before the Senate Sutosmittee on Internal Security. The hearing had been
held that morning, I arranged to meet Subject at the Willard Hotel,

room had been arranced by Mr. Jerry MULANE, T¥é/Security, in the name of

Joan PRICE, Before meeting Subject, the undersigned inforred Lt.Col, DAVIES,

C/TPUSINGSH,, and discussed Subiect’s debriefing with |

 

C/sH/POA, Operational funds in the amount of $25 were obtained from TFW/PIN,

2, The meeting took place in Room 6C5, Willard Hotel at 1830 PM.

Subject was in good spirits and expressed her pleasure at seeing the under-

signed again, saying she had carefully memorized the (sterile) phone number
in the hope that she could recontact me through it. She was not aware that
She number was reactivated-when we heard of her pending arrival, Subject

looked tired and colorless despite her animated conversational tone and

usual rapidity of speech, She is staying at the Hotel Continental, Room an2,,

QU 8-1672), until today at the expense of the Subcommittee.

3. The Subcommittee hearings, according to Subject lasted approximately |

& hours, The members appeared to be interested in four cain points:

a, AREVALO'S book, The Shark & The Sardines, and particularly in

j

whether it was financed from Cuba; and, s*.-t Subiect knew about the _

publisher, Lyle STUART;

b. Her connections with the Fair Play Por ;..ba Committee;

¢. What Subj :+ knows of any connection between the Cuban CP and

SEOREI

Pot 27hiy

wwe ecient soon

| ene
 

FPS eee

~ SECRET ~

~3-

any other Governzent agencies such as the PBI, Narcotics Bureau or CIA, had -

been im touch with her concerning these ratters.
. (rte cpeot)

6, Tad S2ULC of the New York Times/and Drew PEARSON'S assistant, ANDESSCe,

also contacted her. (She had dinner on Saturday night with SZULC et Trader Vic's,

and on Sunday, ANDERSON ‘provided her ceal, Both were interested in her personal

views on CAST2O = SZULC particularly discussed an interpretation he had done

of CASTRO’s latest harangue, in which he expressed the opinion that CASTRO

is changing his position.

ANDERSON was interested in persuading Subject to

write an article for Parade, kashington Post Sunday supplement, based on her

personal experiences. He had a photographer take pictures to be used i€ she

 

Senet

subcitted such an article, (awe ancesigece =

 

eeleod hee that if she did in

fact prepare such an article, ve would want to review it befere she subaitted

ft.). Subject also stated that SZULC was not in Eavor of the planned visit
(hinigatharixasriatemccentereeamEOS TSS) , )

7. Subject discussed at some length her association with Carlos Manuel”

of Guatemalan president, YDIGCRAS.

PELLECER, She feels.that basically be is not 2 devout Communist but that

v- : :
. his value te the Party is such that aany of his indiscreticas, are overlooked.

She named as friends of PELLECER, a Carles POLAKCO (roommate), 2 (Emu) VITERRI;

she also referred to his sister Aagusta MOLLINEDO, who resides in Guatemala,
and vhoa Subject contacted on her trip. COBB mentioned one Neftali MURCIA,

@ Raul Nestor FUENTES, a Salvadorian, as a friend of PELLECER, I inquired

whether there had been any mentido of Cuban subversive activities in Mexico,

and she replied that Carles PAZ Tejada, Guatemalan Minister of Defense, had

reportedly recieved soce funds froa Cuba. ‘a believe the Neftali MURCIA

_ mentioned above was the source of this.) ,

8, COBB showed the unders!pned snapshots and Life articles with pictures

of PELLECER, She also «;piained that PBLLECER didn't want her to carry he

- SECRET

caer arene

stele meleme tn wae

a D0 temena see e meteepene ose:
74-00000

bbe

ne NEN NE CENT EE ROR ERLE Nn i Bahan MEISE ee IIE Ramerd Hat a ete

t
i

~ SECRET “

whe

Soviet propaganda which she was carrying when she was arrested in Guatemala,
and suggested that she clear herself with the press, He apparently suggested
that ehe write to Tice in reply to the article which appeared about her,

9. Other individuals mentioned by CO3B included an Argentine, Dr.VORTHEIR,
Who, according to PELLECER, is still in the hills of ORIENTE with a oabile
health unit despite soce differences with the CASTRO regine, and who night
be of possible interest to us, She also mentioned Edelberto TORRES, whon ;
she bes wet, and his son Humberto TORRES Pinero, presently a guerrilla in ;
the Guateralan hills. : ‘

16, Subject. requested that the undersigned return certain letters which
she hed previously given me from AREVALO, Cesar RODRIGUEZ, and’ Sara GUASH.

She also requested that a copy of Communism in Lat 1 America by Schneider,

written under State Department grant, The neeting ended at approximately :

10:30 PH, I arranged us meet her on Saterday morning with the letters. I” '
Was to call her at her hotel at 2 hoon, however, I was unable to rake : .

. - - - hee : co a
contact with her until 3:30 since she had gone to see Ambassador De Lessups
MORRISG!. Her mission with him, ae with s2uic, was to get before the press
AREVALO'S desire to clarify the deletions made fron his book and ‘its preface.
Be “hes 3 urged COBB te contact as many individuals as possible and ‘express his

real views on the book,

41, Contact with Subject was finally made at &:CO on Saturday and th

letters Subject requested werereturned to her, Subject returned to her
hotel at 4:40 to reet S2ue. for the dinner wentioned in paragraph 6. She‘ ’
had been invited to meet Amb, MORRISON after a reception which he was to

: ~
. - pe
. (Et ff tbs

cee halen ais eatin

attend, 1 told Subject I would contact her on Sunday, |
. Pie t

Jean T, Plerson

SECRET. . TEH/INTEL/x8904

   

ee setininfaenn

oe ene
