 

 

Gey

Page Two

. §. Upon learning of Eabassy cable number 1082, 2
phoned Major Carela to bring it to his attention, he said.
i had just learned of it himself because of a query
Cleveland which had apparently beea ‘alerted “because

     
  
 
  

; ? ght be carrying out
faak-upon requirements of CIA which kad not
th them. Major Carels was assured. ‘posie
Gch “was not the case, and to the best of our

ébster had not been briefed by and vas:
her DDP or 00 offices, of

6.. A check was made with[Mr, Thomas Mills/es to

whether he ha@ personally enc tered Hr, Webster during the
course of the Sokolniki Fair?o| Mr, Willg}had met Mr, Webster
on-a feu social occasions and on one or two occasions when
Mr. Webster wag soliciting Chrysler Corporation comaisaions
for Rand act as Chrysler's agent in liquidating Chrysler
Hr. Milig)said that Chrysler rejected Rand's ger

; cFEt is fir. MillsjoGimpression that Mr. Webster was ex-
tremely frustrated in his attempts to deal with Soviet rep-
reseatatives in gales transactions and vas an outspoken critica
of 13g conditiogs and relationships within Noscov, tebeter

. strus. é

 

 
  

. Mills)aa ‘siogt unlikely to defect to the Soviets,
but qualified view with the thoucht that Webster was an
unbappy and maladjusted personality whose lack of success in
his aseigued aission and whose personal problems were evident.
To develop cur pictu: I er more fully, « HAllay}o6
_Will consult with’ Nr, Aa Hr. Rayles to Produce,
perhaps, a more informed an composite picture of Hr. Webster.
According to Hr. Crowley 00, and Major Carela, each from hia
own sources, Mr. Webster hag beea laboring under marital and
Zinancial difficulties and ie reported to have had a past
record of employseat instability. .

03

“BR/COP/¥F 1

 
 

104-10181-10128

 

8 October 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

. . 9 °
SUBJECT! Robert Edvard webster, Project [tonasrerng}

‘. The attached cable from Embassy Hoscow is golf .

explanatory. It was brought to my attention this morning
by Mr. Robert Crowley of Contact Division/soo,

2. Mr. fobater was employed ty Rand Corporation last ;

data about him from our files have dram a blank, It appears

033. Abo September Hr, Crowley of COCD informed me
nt ead enter East West Contacts 00 had received
a

© through the Soviet Babassy Washington for information about

Er. Webster, At this Point I relayed this daformation to
Yajor Carels, UBAF/ACSI, who phoned me a day later to say
that the Soviet Eubassy had
ur, Febster was on a two weeks tour arranged by Intourist,
Since Webater was about te conclude his assignment for Rand
in Moscow and return home this information was considered

quite Satisfactory,

4. During our conversation on 28 September with
General Dougher and other ATIC representatives, a question

waa believed to be enroute to the U. 8. it was algo statod
that he was a temporary employee and was not intended to be

the Moscow office manager,

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
