 

 

 

oe

sated that he had given this information to, he believed,
both "Nick" and to Growery in Europe.- He knew the man who
had Atuc@d Blanco in Cuba as being a notorious DSI ,
operator. He could not recall the azz but stated he had
provided it before | on @ previous occasion, He did not
know any of the details of AMLASH 3's activation in Madrid
or of. his contact With Luis Manuel CANTILLO Todoic. AMWHIP
said he was aware He only of the fact that AMLASH’3 had
been in the company ‘of tats Manuel", AMWHEP Ql, however,
offered to elicit as much information as possible about the
AMLASH ‘3 ‘CANTILLO relationship, He asked for a briefing or
a list of questions prior to his next meeting with AMLASH’3
in Europe. ;

In discussing the loyalties of AMLASH 3 and the re-
sultant security implications for the AMLASH operation,
AMWHIP stated (see above) that he was absolutely certain
that AMLASH 3 would never intentionally reveal any thing
to anyone which would jeopardize ANLASH 1. (Case Officer
Comment: In discussing Security ramifications of AMLASH ‘3's
knowledge of the AMLASH ‘1 “AMBIDDY relationship, beh in the
light of his DSI assoc&tions, it could be concluded that since
AMBIDDY is now tied closely to AMLASH 1, AMLASH 3 will also
protect AMBIDDY, )

During the discussion of AMLASH 3, AMWHIP 1 expressed
mild amazement over the fact that we continued to doubt A 3's
bonafides when AMLASH 1, who had kes head ox Conteck, tad
enough confidence in the man to include him irom sone ‘ot his

most compromising activities, To summartze our position tu

 
 

  

ae pegsiaistic’ vtew point with: rgeara to all of

“ Rtg scleel Sched ee tna reqhechiog
anny Saiaie T ba shhoted not

 
  

 

associates .

  
   
 

 

5. AMWHIP ‘L was , leaving on the X£¥xe 15th £

  
  
  

Juan, Puerto} Rico and will return to N. Y¥. the |

for further astructions .

 

6. ‘the: wi ersigned checked with N, Sanches 5

: bse:
to ascertain whether xe there was any further ‘requirements

 

for AMWHIP or additional developments in the operation ‘which’
igned

  

could be serviced in N. Y¥..: There were none,. the’

returned to Washington, D. C. the evening of the i4th of Jan,
tener .

 

  

a Seourity: There Wes no incidents of a écur

 

    

" nature to. report during this meeting, |

 

 

 

 

cipy

a RE PORE, earner gmrne enemys eee rem ot Retest ett ow emma net oo

 

 

 

 
 
 

104-40247-10119

 

about bis role from the meetings between AULASH’} and.
” AMBIDDY “2. He was first of all concerned about whether the

 

necessary but hhighty wenn A jew of the many probleas
undersigned took the position with AMWHIP Y that he was not

ANWHE ‘ee

tothe understomed. We, however, anintained the, ttetton that

    

 

     
 

2. Details af the Neeting:’ .AMWHIP’2 was concerned

 
 
   
 

  
 
 
 
   

-

aware of the detafls ef the ort! inal. meeting end was inter-. ;

 

‘AMsaEP “2 ctated « tha

    

 

 
74-0000

3

oy
AMBHIP/1 stated further that AMLASH had decided that he should
like to have the meeting in Rome and that it should take place
sometime before the. ‘end of January, (since it is now known that —
AMBIDDY intends to go to Europe during’ the first part of the
week of the 18th, its quite possible the meeting will take
Place during ‘the week of the 18th} AMWHIP said that he would
not have an unlimited amount of time this time to be in Evrope,.
We-said. we understood this and told AMWHIP that "Nick" (N,
Sanchez) likewise ‘could only devote 3 or 4 days to European
meetings, It was agreed, ‘therefore, that for the best
utilization of both men's time, they should coordinate their
travels to Europe, .

3. Silencer: AMWHIP opened this subject by saying that
he. wanted to get something off his mind even though he was
aware that we were always reluctant to discuss this subject,
He stated that he would be able to get a silencer for a
“M-3 rifle" for $125, 00, We suggested that he discuss this,

Gand obre thet”
subject with "Nick" jiiowauare the silencer should, be a subject
for discussion between AMLASH and AMBIDDY, AMWHIP/1 stated
that he understood our Position on this point, We then pro-
ceeded on eke other subjects, -

4. “AMLASH ‘3: In response to a request from WH’SA/‘CI
(Tansing) we brought up the subject of AMLASH ‘3, In summary,
AMWHIP did not have anything to add to his picture of AMLASH 3
that he has not already discussed previously with N. Sanchez,
However, for the record we will include a summary of our con-

versations concerning AMLASH ‘3, AMRHIP 1 wated he had known

 
14-00000

ip

AMLASH ‘3 for many years, (since school days) but did aot
consider him to be a Close friend. He knew AMLASH ‘3's
family as he had sold Jewelry to then from time to time
during, the Batista era in Havana, ASWHIP ‘1 believed
Auasns had been associated with the University but had
not actually been a bonafied Student, He knew nothing
else about AMLASH ‘3's educational background, AMLASH /3

4%

Baa known Susy for 10 or 12 years, It was the opinion
LAS pot va

of AMWHIP ‘1 that AMLASH ‘3 was “100% loyal to Rage 7

i further stated that aside from his rather strong interest
in liquor and attendant belligerency when drunk, AMLASH 3
was not open to corruption through financial inducement

or other material rewards, He stated that AMLASH 3 was al-
having

TA
ready rather involved with 1 and his Plotting, zna-

; i be NO.
acted as driver the Secent caching of arms by aucasn fa in

arehouse outside Havana, according
AMEAS HY

to AMWHIP ‘1, £XORXAMEASHXEY jhas become extremely nervous as

 

result of his participation in the AMLASH planning and has, in
He

 

fact, recently resigned his position as

 

wants to return to the Study of medicine and to complete his
work for an M.D, degree, We Pointed out to AMWHIP L and he
agreed with us, that such action would not particularly serve
to add any protection to Position, but Possibly would
nerely call more attention to ikktatisain , )

We attempted to explore the detalis of AMLASH 3's re.

cruitment for subsequent dispatch to Spain by the DSI, AXMWHIP

 
