14-00000

ee © Sepeey
Of ce Memorandun - UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

30 arch 1945"
“LE?

5 of “
nel A

To : Chief, Secretariat : DATE:

Faom : Lt. E, He Hunt, Ire,

         

y we ¢ nr
4 teen Cpad:

 

subject: West Coast Training ( Center”

ae ‘las. The memorandum -covers. transportation ‘to and from the- te a
; word, the ‘curriculug at Santa Catalina (Detachment. Wad, and
. general comments, soncerning the Detachment. . :

Me Azansportation.. © 2
. he There séemis-to be a. lack of coordination con=
‘eorniiig the arrival and departure of officers and EM at. Los pot
Angeles, Newport Beach, and WA. Navy enlisted men (5 in number) , ye :
“were flown to Los Angeles from Washington while the majority of ~- po
Prig ana Navy officers ‘made the trip by slow train (Honday=
riday)a . -

2) “Upon ‘arrival in Los Angeles on Friday; it is
SOP. to. travel in the. early afternoon by Army truck to Newport
Beach, where arriving students are barracked in standard EN
quartérs without regard.to rank,

3) Clothes and equipment are issued Saturday
morning: from 0700 until departure of the boat at approximately
0900, causing crowding: and confusion at a difficult time. Friday
severing” would perhaps be a better pertod for such issue.

 

   

 

 
 
  

a . 4) -Al though. classes are not. ‘scheduled to begin |
ant il Yonday , studefit groups spend the weekend on Catalina. under.
erowded ‘conditions, ‘because previous student groups. do not. leave
until Monday. ‘this. situation is brought: about by abserica’ of
“boat transportation to and ftom the Astand- on Sunday « :

* : 5) Upén return. to the mainland Monday afternoons,
“Calthough. academics end. on Saturdays) it is ‘necessary to spend .
an additional 24 hours in Los -Afigeles ‘waiting for schedulgd: train .
departures Tuesdays. By: scheduling @ boat.:on. Suidays, an .
- estimated 6 days of. student: tine might be ‘saved ‘the governinent

Be Currteulum: coe o I ee
1) Based: on ny “axpertence with the “1g day" ‘basic.
course, it appears that a re-examination of the student schedule, ~ woe
aimed at a more concentrated schooling and a decrease in the over- . .
lapping nature of subjects taught, could cut the basic ‘bartod by. :
several days. ; . :

 

 

bbe oe

  

   

 
 

 

 

 

| of ‘training ‘hours ‘scheduled. on: paper.)

“with little ate

“lectursrs from aiming at a definite level of conprehenston, oj! g

presentation, while EN bécane restless from lack of under-
“Work at will, without interference by the civilian: instructors.

‘WD Movies only ‘three nights 4 wee, a thorcughly inadequate PX

 

o>

i

a 2) The Detachment (WA) was totally unprepared to.
handle my particular class (#26) which numbered 42, ‘the maximum
number of students handled and anticipated had in ths past been 18,

3) . This resulted in a splitting of the class into ge
sections, and conftision of schedules among the instructors, cause -
ing their non-appearance at ‘scheduled hours ~ not. an infrequent

occurrence, . Lk oo
. ee . . \ . . 7 . 7 €
4) On several: occasions; instructors spoxe for as “vo. :

little as 10 minutes of a scheduled hour, dismissing the class’

for .the rehainder of the hour, (fhis lecture. material might be
coordinated with other lectures, thus cutting down en the number

 

5). Training films, show eaéh evening, broke up

student leisure time to such an extent that many stucents exe

pressed a desire to attend classes in the evenings as well, -

~ perhaps from .1990~2100 or even: later.

a 6) “the Physical hardening program game abruptly
and then was abandoned for as much as ‘two days, only to be under= Yo
taken again with greater vigor. Many ‘students suggested that an

"the hardening phase be- administered every day in the form of a: :
: scheduled hike or climb, . od * : - oo

_. 9) Specifically, the courses in Demolitions,
Weapons, Foreign Background, and Fieldcraft. were. the most come.
petently handle:
Cipher, Orgah

   
 
 

   
 

-and officers prevented 4. ¢°

Officers were. bored: * elenéntary methods: of Cs ot

y
Le

vs 9) This restlessness ‘calised -a @iséiplinary pfedle:
in. the classrooms where Ev. cursed, shouted, copfed each other's . .

By

“Ce General Coninentg .

“1). Redreational factiities were at a mininua with

ai.
’

 

B

  

a

  

  

and’a lack of reading facilities for both EM and officers. .
. . . LL Nes

2) Barracks tere maintained. by students and 4
instructors at an absolute minimus of sanitation, physical~ we ‘

appearance and comfort,
ey 2T .
wats ids
 

 

7 erin rome Sal a4

2 2 SECRET

Office Memorandum « “UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

FROM :

SUBJECT:

 

= Ahor tly. for .Coina where ne ALL ast as Reports officer. :

: : an
General Donovan. * Dats: 3 April 1945

Secretariat °

Report on. West Coast Training Center

  

J. 7 think. ou may “be interested in the attacked: réport.
on the West. Coast training centet® which was. prepared by
Lt. Howard Hunt, oné of our: Secretariat -mén who will leave |

  
   
 
 
 
 

and

contains his observations based upon the
Which he recently took at Santa Catalina.

Itis suzgested, 4f you approve.,that the aport

- should be forwarded to Colonel Robinson after ‘Ou have
hed an opportunity, to.read ite - “ oa

Comrnenend
inten <f sh aad

H
te Bee |
+ Aad...

 

aM ass.

  

: Sulloway -

 

 

Attachment ~~

     
 

 
 

SECHET

. .

\ (2) It ts not felt that tne geheol was unprepared to re#
elve and nowtle Lie Sune’e cloete Tt hed previfusly handled _ class of
7 in o-patiefactory tanner and no congzlasints were received on this score
‘ron ary other menber of his clases | an a :

 

3
f

(3) Tt is true that on two occasions’ instructors failed to =~ .

: meet. thelr clagses beeanse of a mix-up caused hy splitting the class into :
“ _. two sections. Steps have been taken to prevent a repetition of this . mo,

rn _ oeectirrences ~ se ~ os gs oe ce ve . cose ~ 7

oo (hb) on: checking rith enother: nedber of the ‘game class; it, was -

   

     

, -ascertainéd hat no classes were ‘disnissed after ten minutes. The shortest
“2. vperlod give a8 abent, LS on we ne .
: pO a "(SY It ta 'not clear just what Lt. Hunt means by this paraes .
: . igraph. He complains that training films broke up leisure tine in the. on :

r - oo. teveniny and then says cthat- becauge of this many students wanted, evening
7 classes, In any event, pecause.of the concentrated schedule, the evening |

} so hours after the showing of the films must ba used for study, not leisuree

Bo (6) Physical tretning fs now given regularly every day. a : .

: (TY. The eipher course has been much inproved ‘py the advent of :
: - two new inatrictoras. Organization takes only for hours out.of one hundred
3 "and four, and is at best a dry: though necessary subject. —~ i

   
 
    

. (8) % (9) It is necessary to have both of ficers ‘and enlisted ©
men in the same class’ and it -is obviously impossible to design a. course to°
uneet all intellectua] levels. 2verz -effort hag been made to strike a happy
sediun that will do ‘the greatest good to the createst number, Ye feel
the School to say that’ Lt. Hunt” has detionstrated hinsel: .
nsélous. in these and otner coments in his réoort. It. should ...
“that in this.class there were 2 nuabér. of vedburghs (both: ~.
d nei) who had: Lived -together“at: satiool and 4n the (¥eld for *-.
ameraderie anong officers, and men,

also been reported’ -

      
       
   
    
 
  
    
 

   

 
   
 

week INV steongere a

 

 
    

     

 
 

nenbers of
the ‘conduct of 6

      
 
 

 

but ‘there is not much. time
_. “used to the. best advantage.
s - ++ 3 tunate in-being able to establish {
a . Army Hotion Picture Servicé at 7

3 in large caxips where, attendance 4
: this service is only available three riights pe
and not -to any arrangement. on our parte

SECRET

   
   
 

 
74-00000

SECRET

Dee --. + The PX can hardly be called such. Every effort has been made

; : to “obtain a regular branch Post Exchan-e on the islan! but so far without —
success. Tha result {s that a small store As maintained of whatever” :
necessities can be purchased in the markets”

There are ample reading facilities: for ‘all Personnel with 3.
uffietent ‘supply of newspapers and magazines. . .

, : - (2) ‘The situation with reference to the condition of the barracks © i
hiss ‘been remediéd by daily inspections, e fenders are _ Peaiiired to climb ‘the +

      

- 3) This -parectaph- again ¥eflecta Lt. ‘aunt's ‘rank conséicusness ;
his lack’ ‘of lunderstanding of the relationship of. officers snd men who have
” been on ‘operations tozether, and his disconfort at the "kidding" he received. :

; (i) Tt 4s ‘the policy of: the school that there be no saluting whth=
in : the- area. The area is small and too crowded for any benefit to accrue
froa_the continuous arm waving whieh would be: necessary if saluting: were

required. we Sia

: (s) ‘this. complaint is definitely just. Steps have ‘been ‘taken to
insure the privacy of mail in the future. : °

 

7 3 “In conélusion ba wish to state that the Schools. & & Training. Branch
welcomes any constructive criticism and regularly receives reports from other
branches - >prepared by their students. te then sit down: with the branch repre-
jentatives and-endeavor to iron-out difficulties and improve. courses and
conditions at the school in Line with constructive: suggestions. .

“I would. like: to ‘suzgest that: in the.’ ‘case of. ay Ritire | ‘reports,
ure Sulloway take’ then. up, first with tlie ‘Sei ols and Training. Branch | as “is.

- the custon’ of the other ‘branches

  
   

  

7 is RO :
CéloneY, Fe te
Ghtefy Schools and Tratnirg.

   

 

 

 

    
 
      
 
74-00000

    
    

      
  

  
     
    
    
 
  
 
   

: frarion 4 va ao . ;
_ gt atte : EET
ack per ary - Du D
"SS RECORD MATERIAL. ~
1; .THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED To YoU. 2 Eps Oe
‘ 2. RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO IF/ARCHIVES & . eae
_DISPUSITIUN SECTIQN, Rol Ge-S8, CN OR BEFORE _———__———
. DATE INDICATED. — _ , —_—
. 3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER - —_——

L EXTENSION —————- —_——_—

  
  

   
 

rs 610 Meee” secre.) conrioeniat we OM UNCLASSIFIED

 
 

10d40173-10128 8}.

 

 

¥ ~ “~* MATERIAL ne VEENED at Ch ne AIQUAPTERS RY

HOUSE SELEC CT ca rer Th ox ASSASS INAT TONS STAFE FIIRERS

bE TITLE : NUNRE P/VOLUIE: ; E. Heuled Her Huu

Gerese bec de CUMEMT )

DELETIONS, UF ANY:__

Fo 3/10). ‘| anore | bese Wrzelman

NO RGCUMENTS SIAY ‘RE COPEL GR REMOVED FRYE THOS FELT,

“FP PROVED FO REESE 1994
C95 HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

 

 
74-0000

 

   

i 058 Forn a001 “ oo, oF
; "OSS SECRETARIAT = ROUTE Sup.

  

 

   

Date:

   

-P..F. Pugiteso “_°: .
Le puczell, Jr. ;

Ac W. Sullowa -

          
  

     

Lig ortiee oe

 
 

 

_ the west coast training. has. been analyzed: a

 

 

“pega ible’ to runa boat. on Sumiaya. It hay. be pessible to seni. departing,

“courses This ‘would necessitate getting rooms ‘for them for Saturday night ©

- great enough; ‘the © ‘Crowding is cansed by‘ the’ fact that the schocl is - manning ©
at full edpactty and because shortage of: station ‘coniplenerit’ personnel
ithe allocation of, f quarters: to. new arrivals diffieults ag

 

; several dns gives no specific récommendations. An examination: ‘of the *

Be prefer to accept the judgment of the treitiing officers of the -vartous’

 

 

OFFICE, OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

Schools and Training Beanch —
2324 F Steet, N.W,
Washingina, D.C. - 23 april 1945
. - .
SUBJECT: Peport of hte Hunt on West Coast Tratntng / * :
; ; fia Lal ee a

-_ the Birectir, oss.

 

Hunt, Irs, ACs, of, the Secretariat, ¢ on.

Ve The” report: of. lite E.. z.
id the, atatenents mate. therein

 

 
     

. thoroughly investigated. : _ :
_ 2s The report will be digecussed by oragraphes : oo . ;

‘he Ww: The complaint of lack of coordination in artivals at
the west. coast cannot be laid at the door of Schools & Training. Branches,
are notified wien and where personnel must- report and arrangements fer Lo
transportation are undde by. them. :

  

(2) & (3) At the thie of Lte $ netival at the ‘west coast.
there was a certain amount: of confueion, This has now’ been corrected and
elothing is issued to students: on Friday, night if they arrive in time for, a
thio to be done. wee Fe!

(4) fe (5) The situation peered to in these trio paragrépha”
isa aiericutt one. With the boat ‘crews presently ‘available, it 1s fiot-

 

studenta’ to the mainland on Seturday ‘afternoons after: they: conplete their. - ° . te

  
   

os Angeles” (Offi

  
 

-in: Los. Angeles, which is complicated by the. fact: that th
closes: at. three ofelock. on Saturday -2fternoons ..- f

 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
  
 

ditions’ over the’ week-end referred’ to by Lt .
that departi dents do not leave un'.il Vonday, “as the tuFnover is not -

 

 

 

3, a) Tits ‘dant’ tg ‘pugzesthen’ that the ‘baste: course. could be cut by

 

 

achedule of thé course stows that the training ‘is ag concentrated. ag possible, ne

branches on tnis point rather than a general’ statement _ by one, 2, Junior officer.
of a nomoperat ional branch. :

  
