 

earcy
ote
. 1

the ALABAU Lawyors' group in proclaiming Julio CARCE RAN (ono

of the chief justicos in oxile) as "President of Cuba at War." He ox-
prossed his indignation at this unilateral "political" move by ALABAU
and his adherents among the exiled lawyers and Judges, Ho added hie
best wishes to se and reminded me that ho would probably ge to New
York on October 11th or 12th for the SIP (Sociodad Interamericana deo
Prensa) meeting. I repited that I would appreciate if he would contact
Clark after his arrival to give hia location in New York City, and that
Clark might have a request from me for an appointment with him, of
this seemed dasirable. I suggested that in future phono convereatione
I would bs known ap JUANITO, He agroed with pleasure that this would
be a good procedure. I wished him Godspeed and he replied Hkewise

to me.
16. Comment

During these first two mectings I endeavored to establish
myself favorably with Dr, MIRO and thorefre refrained from bringing
up details of budget or opposition to any of his specific proposals,

I listened, asked various questions, and he talked at length.

In future meetings, after Ihave gained further background and
havo more policy guidance, I shall be able to discuss with him epecifie
issues and endeavor to reach agresments or compromises, as may be

required.
 

 

€ .
eiuiad

nounced PRiO's activities againot the Council and ite efforts to unify
the anti-Castro elements. He said that the people should be given an
opportunity to elect their chiof of atate after Castro's overthrow and

reestablishment of order in the island:

13, Cifices of Council (Consejo Revolucionario)

When questioned about hia business and private telephones,
MIRO eaid, “The business phone is also in my house. Ihave no office
except in my house, but that phone ia always busy (JEfforson 2-4680),
Yo uae the other prone (JEffargon 4-2751) whan you wish to call me, "

 

"Yt need to have a small office somewhere away from my home
because all the activities there are driving my wile crasy. I want to
find something modest so that no accusation can be made of ostentation ~
merely a room for myself, one for my secretary, and one for meetinga,
of the Council, ete. The FRD had a place but at that piace also waa the
proas, the refugee centar, ste, Is would not be satisfactory, The FRD
je now practically dead. It was the forerunner of the Consejo as the
unifying agency of the anti-Castro resistance, " :

14, MIRO's Views on Goordinating the Activities of Cther Exile

Groups

After Dr, MIRO reiterated his view that he should be the
channel for funds and cocrdinating the activities of groupa outside the
Consejo such os tho Students, FOKD (Labor), etc., tsaid that Lunder- —
atood that some of these slementa were unwilling ty function under the
Consejo; and that in view of that situation, did he considor that an
Activity Committees might be organized with a delegate fram each of
theae groups and under the chairmanship of a member of the Consejo,
This would serve to coordinate their activities, give thera a tie-in with
the Consejo, yet not make them subservient to it, Dr. MIRO replied.
that this would merely set up ancther Consejo outside of and paraliol to
tha existing Consejo. I did not pursue this further, not having enough
background of these organiaations to be able to discasa the matter

effectively.

15, Telophone Conversation with MIRO on 7 Cctobor

3
Before my departure from Miami for ¥ashington on 7 October,
I telephoned to Dr, MIRO ivom the airport. Ho appreciated the call and
eeked if I had seen in the morning paper the action takea yeaterday by

aes
 

( 2T

Boaake bbe +

from a Spaniard (Nicanor FERNANDEZ) in Buenos Airea, urging MIRO

. to go to Buenos Alrea to arouse anti-Caatro sentiment of the poopla,

inasmuch ag somé Argentine action againot Cuba appearod imminent.
{FERNANDEZ said he had alroady written MIRC a fetter.) MIRO oays,
“Gf course, Ieannot go. Ihave the Consejo meeting on the 10th,
Furthermore, Iam goiag to Now York on October 11th or 12th for the
SIP (Socieded Interamoricana de Prensa) mecting and have beon allotted

12 minutos to addréas the meoting. "

10, MIRO to attend Homage to LACE RDA {Brazilian who
Precipitated QUADRU.' rogiynation) on Cctober 15

Dy. MIRO paid ho planned to remain in New York City (after
11] and 12 Cetober SIP meeting) unti} October 15th to attend the homaga
for LACERDA, the Governor of Guanabsara province in Brasil, MIRO
probably will stay at the Park Chambers Hotel, but will advise Clark

of hie location. :

I commented that I would probably romain in Washington noxt
week in view of his plans, but that I might yo to New York City to meet
with him; if so, I would get in touch with him and arrange a meeting

timo and place through Clark,

1. Propayanda Commission

Tasked Dr, MIAO about his ideas on the future organization

and atructura of the Propaganda Commission. He stated that it ta out-
side the Consejo and not under his direct control, although the Councli

accountant has been passing funds to it. He said CAR RILLG had roolgned

as head of Propaganda and that he would like CONTE AGUERO to handle
it. He claimed that MESTRE had not done anything with propaganda,

12. MIRO's Views Relative to Supreme Court Justice or PRIO
sy

being Recognized ag Head of a Provisional Government

Tasked Dr, MIRC if he believed that thers were many anti-
Castro Cubans (both in and out of Cuba) who favored PRIO, or the head

of the Supreme Court to be the provisional president if a government were

to be established on Cuban soil, Dr. MIRO declared that the revolution

ia a fact, and that practically nobody. wants to go back to any former
Fogime. The people in Cuba would resist any such possibility. He de-
74-00000

 

Before such an action fa unde rtaxen, the enemy must be
softened by propayanda, sebotage, raids, underground action, and the
mags of the peaple of Cuba must be prepared to accept the provisional
government through-propayanda, increased knowledge of the Council
and its unifying efforts.

Dr, 1'LRO asked ave what thought of this project; did I think
that Castro could be overthrown in any uther way. ladmitted that
strong military action appeared nocesgary. I stated further that
of course hia plan would have to be studied at the highest povernment
levela, He preposed that he inicht elaborate a pian with hia militar y
collaborators,and I suzy ested that he do thiz so that it might be examined

and considerad.

Dr, MYAO declared that he was coaviaced that this Counmuntat
dagger in the gide of the Statea could only be eradicated by such action,
that the U.s, ja and will be blarned for al! anti-Castro propazanda,
sabotage, etc. and that enemy states will dancaace it for intervention
in Cuba, but that if the U.S. yoes to the ald af a friendly revolutionary
regizae established in the country and helza it defeat the Soviet-backed
Communist regime, ail friendly gevernments will applaud,

“Ehave no personal polities! arnbitioas, ” declared MiIRC,
“Lroerely am trying ta chair the Coureil, whose cisston ia to unify the
anti-Cagtro elements inside and outaide of Cuba, Ef the team isn't con
sidered effective, then changes the pitcher, But I believe the Counc!l must
eatablish itself Cuban auil, and soon, Tine is acainst us.""The unta
del Eete agreeinont will backfire ayninat the U, 5. if Castro is allowed
to remain fn Cuba. Ina year, after the politicos of tho countries ree
colving U. 3. sid have gotten their hands on U. & gold, they will say,
‘fhanks te Gastro, we got thia,' And they will spead it as in the past
with s0 benefits to the sucial and economic welfare of the paople.”

7. Views about the Judges and lawyers

T queried Dr. MIRC ao to his views relative to the judges and
lawyers and their future status, He said he hoved that they could all
reunite and that they could be given assigtance og in the past. He de-
clared that Dr, ALABAU was not qualified to be a justice and that he was
doing nothing but meking politics and trying to discredit the Council
and MIRC an'l VARCNA. Dr, MIRO declared that he, ag Prime Mintoter
in the early days of the Castro geverument, had named -LABAU to the

 
 

 

Schull

Supreme Court, but that now he considered ALABAU unfit to hold any

judicial position,

@. Members of the Revolutionary Council

Dr. MIRO remarked that he had a meeting of the Council oa

10 October, I asked what elements now composed it and what he pre-
posed to add. He named the following as presently in the Consejo:

Rescate

30 de Noviembre

MRR

Accion Democratica

20 de Mayo .

AAA Independiente

MDC

Montecristi

He gaid he had invited te Join:

MRP
Unidad Revolucionaria

and awalted their reply.

Ho would alse like to have the Workers, Students, and the

Professionals (Doctors, Lawyers, otc.) come into the Council. He be-
lieves Batistianos and Comunistas and elements unwilling to cooperate
should be excluded, bet that all other groups should be brought together

wader the Council.

He contends that all anti-~Castro activities, except clandestine
and military, should be coordinated by members of the Council, but that
the excepted activities should be known only to him (ARO),

9. Probabic Argentine Rupture of Relations with Cubs

Dr. MIRO declared taat he believed imminent the Argentine
rupture of relations with Cuba. He said the Argentine Ambassador to
Cuba (Jullo AMCEDU) was ordered to return to Havana fhe had beon
vacationing in the U. S, after FRONDIZI's visit); that VILLANUEVA, 4
Secretary of the Argentine Embassy in Cuba was coming to see MIRO
today; and further that he {MIRO) had received a phone call last aight

 
14-00000

10 Cetodor 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Mesting with Dr, MIRO Cardona on 6 Cctober
1, Dr, MIRC arrived sbout 9:50 a,m, for the meeting we had

set at 20:60; avain ho waa driven by his aecrotary whom he intvoduced,
As during the {iret meeting, cha remained outside in the car. Cur

° meeting lasted until 12: 09 noon.

2. Fizet, De, MIAC handed me a note fn tonghand Heting the
topics discussed with mo on 5 Cctober, These points ara:

a. Groups conductlag propayanda, ete. with Agency support
should racsive their support and be courdinated through the Council.

b. A propayands campaiyn should be waged by the Council
alined ats

(1). Cuba, via a long wave radio station in Kay Weet,
12) Cubans ja Miami and other U, 5, areas by:

(a) Subsidizing Diario de las Americas.

tb) Contracting for time on radio stations.

(3) Latin America, with a plan such as the Operaciaa
Grieta,"'

cs, Underground Activities.

(1) Provision of monthly funds to Counctl for precuring
Cuban pesos to send to the seven-odd resistance
groups in Cuba through rellable channels (such as

previously sent through

 

 

 
“

o4-1032-10019

v

 

   
  

   
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 

 
 
 

A ABCATION:

SECRET PROCESSING

   

BARRED FOah IntA 71885
RO tubExinG MI epiiRED
ONLY QUALITEL

MEADQUARTORS te tw
can rug Rs,

  
 

 

   
   
  

  

FROM

Chief, WH Division
“S""JMZIP/Operational - Contact with Dr, MIRO Cardona

 

  

    
 
  

ACTION RD REPLRENCED:

  
 

For your information, transmitted herewith is a report of contact with
subject written by Theodorg F, PASSAVOY, and a memoof WH/4 comments.

  
   

{END OF DISPATCH}

Copy +e Anart thy
‘ hae

  
    
  

    
 

DATE TYPED

19 Oct 61

SYWAIOH SYMBOL AND NUMDER

UFGW-606

Atrachment - 1

   
 

 

(choss 3 ReFtRtN 1 ~~ TT

  
 
 
  
  

i
'
4

i HEADQUARTERS FILE MUMBER

  

CLASEINICATION

SECRET -

  

19-124-25

  

 
afecocas

 

(2) Commando action as outlined in plan presented
to ine on 6 Cetober,

3. Commando Plan

Thon Dr, MIRO handed me a plan (in English) for clandestine
action prepared by hia military collaborators, whom he named as
Colonel Manuel VARELA Castro, an officer of the Academy, Captain
Enrique DESPAIGNE, and Colonel (fnu) MONTEAGUDO, Ha stated
that they were of the BARQUIN group and had been prisoners,

With respect to the pian for clandostine operations in Cuba,
he stated that 300 men could be counted upon for coramando action, part
of thom here, part in Cuba, Ho reiterated that a commande operation
was essential to bolater morale arnung the anti-Castro elements in Cuba
and in exile ag well as to conduct sabotage that would further weaken

Cuban economy and the Communist regime, He aaid that for thia operation

U. 5. help would be necoavary in providing woapons, ammo, demolitions,
equipment, and funds. He proposed that if this plan was considered to
have merit, that larrange to have sornsone mect with his military men —
to work out the detaile, Alter all proparations had been made and
materiol provided, otc. the operation would be purely a Cuban affair,
(NOTE: Pian turned over to Thompacn at our ue cting at 15:39 on

6 October for transmission, }

4. Request for Armas, stc. to send to Escambray

Dy. MIRO remarked that over a month ago he had made a requost
to Clark for ayme for the anti-Caotre inaurgenta in the Eacambray, but
to date had heard nothing rolative to the request, He commented wryly,
“Task but never hear an answer," He said that the fightera there should
be oupported, Dr. MINO stated that he had a boat (provided by us) and
@ means for delivery of the arms, Cavaldo RAMIREZ is chief of the

Eecambray group, |
COMMENT: Hae anything Leen done about thie request?

3. Information on Arms Received by Castro Regime

Dr, MIR© handed me a long report which he said wae brought
to him by the Argentina Av:bassador to Cuba when the latter came to the
U.S. at the time of Freaident FRONDIZI's visit.* He said the Ambassador
would not divulge the sourca of the information but commented, “You will
know. ''
* Report turned over to Thompson on 6 October.

2
74-0000

 

woul

Dr, MIRO sald there was no way to determing the accuracy
of the figures given of planes, gung, ete, received {rem tha Soviot bloe
(and Italy and Canada) but even if.the figuros were exaggerated 100 por
cont, they would still ba impressive, ,

He addod that Castro is dally bocoming stranger militarily
with weapons and with a largo militia of close to 300, 060 being trained
to use them while the econumy coutinues to detericrate. Perhaps only
half the militia would be effective. But that is aiseable. Thus, he said,
the langer the delay in positive military action to overthrow Castro, the
greater will be the task, “We muet act soon, vigorously and effectivaly,
ta insure victory. Another defeat would be digagtroua and would make
Cubane, Latin Americana and others believe Castro to be Invincible,
Thea would come accommodations and even worse, the impisating of
Castro-backed reytines in the hemisphere. And the U, S. would anffer
worst of all, being discredited for defeat and “guilt of interference, "
"In tha UN no nation would stand beside the U. 5,"

& Proposal! that Council ¢o to Cuba with Commando Group and
Establish a Goverumeat on Cuvan Soil :

Dr. MIRO then declared that he was convinced that Castro
would never be ‘overthrown by all the Propagands, the sabota,s, commando
raids, guerrilla activities, rupture of diplomatic relations and deteriorating
Sconomy, and that it was inconceivable to establish a Rove rnime at-lye exile
for nothing would c: me of it, that the only solution for defeating the

. Castro regime waa fer the Revolutionary Council to go to Cuba and estab-

High @ yovernment on Cuban soll, aak recegnitiea by all iriendly countties
and milltary agsistance of ita primipal ally, the U. 5., and that the U.8.
be veady to intervene immediately with ita Forces, ‘This would all have
to take place in a rauiter of 48 huurs, otherwise ft would fall, 1 recognise
that this ia a bold plan, but boldness is necessary, Thore will be many
Fiske, many may be killed. As for myself, I don't care it ldie. Lhave
loat all my personal possessions and my Son is & prisoner, He reiterated
that all neust be well prepared in advanca, there must be no vacillation,
everything must proceed rapidly, First, a commando raid in forea to
ceiso a piece of Cuban territory, preferably near Cusntanamo, and tranmee
diately the members of the Counct} go ashore, proclalin a provisional
government, broadcast by radio to all nations an appeal for recognition
{and cables prepared in advance wrald algo be sent out}, request U, 3,
asalistance, and the U. 8, should furnish euch assistance at once in ade-

quate atrength to ensure victory.

 
