104-10175-10063

a woe

 

 

 

ANNEX 1. .

For the rescue. of moral and spir‘tual values, -.

For the exaltation of civic and political virtues,

 

“For a true. nationalism without demagogy,:
For the absolute purity in the democratic process,
_ Fora limited government with participation of all the people. oo
For the union of all Mexicans, aliminatiag frictions and hate,
For law and order in all uuman relations. .
For economic, religious, educational, civic, and political liberty.
: For the moderation of tae tax policy,

For the repudiation of exotic ideas and doctrines. -

or the conservation of patristic tradizioa,

i i.
: For the integration of Mexican famlly,. : : ; ;
’ For administrative cleanliness and honesty. E i
For the purification of justice and its administration, . . : a

For the establishment of just laws,

 

For an economic policy at the service of the Mexican consumer.

a

UNION NACIONAL INDEPENDIENTE DEMOCRATICA,

Saw tite os

*
§
:

ea ii

 
Dial tOdi TORS.

 

fe ea ee ee

2 ANNEX 2.

i
i
i
i
:
:

« THE MEXICAN WOMAN WILL SHOW HER PATRIOTISM,

Ever since the Mexican woman was incorporated in the country's.
civic and political life, the men have asked themselves very curiously
just how the woman is going.to accomplish her democratic task. :

We want to know how our wives, our sisters, and our SAaEMEES
are going to react to the electoral process.

Speculators are of the opinion that women - especially Mexican zt
women - "are not made for such things", and thar they should continue
doing their hard and complicated work at home, as they used to do be-  -
fore, :

- We Mexicans are not so "ciyilized™ that we can imagine and’
quickly accept some female friend or relative as Mrs, Congresswoman,
Senator or Governor. But we should start getting used to it and no
doubt the marvellous intuirion of those feminine minds will help men
find what we have not yet found the way to an authentic and pure reali-
zation of Mexican democracy.

Women invade all fields. Her intelligence is equal to man’s =
although for generations she has chosen other duties. Continually there ‘
are examples of feminine capacity for tasks previously considered-for -
men, and these examples are multiplied when women join political life. &
Thelr number wiii de an important and decisive factor in the electoral
forces and they will probably refuse to‘accept "spent' politicians,- men
whose Invegrity is doubtful, and old style politicians, wearing a ‘Texas
hat, a leather jacket and carrying a gun. .

Mexican women will also repudiate the tampering of the electoral :
urns and above all, they will request a reform of the electoral laws,
which give to those elected the faculties to judge the validity of the
electoral process. Also, Mexican women will request the intervention
of another independent power, the Judicial, to act as guard and restorer
of the electoral process if it is violated. | :

Women will also serve admirably for the integration of civic or
political groups that will come to renew modern Mexican atmosphere
with new ideas and new and beuer ideals, Undoubtedly women will also

Phe Riaan tamer

 

 

 

 

 
 

104-10175-10063

   

Wend ee sale ee tes

i

be i
“ t

. |

i

:

Seated wempnentr,

. The full. annual budget to be deposited in a bank and zn authorized
person be allowed to draw against this account, — i

There will be no restrictions placed against this group other than
this money will be used according to the heretofore~mentioned plan..,

ud

_ Inspection of finance and progress can be made at any time by an
authorized person from the sponsoring group, however, at no time will
a written report be submitted. ll transactions will be verbal and -
-confidential.

At the end of nine months a reappraisal will be made of the progress
and operations of this group. If at this time the sponsoring group finds
the operations of the local group satisfactory it will announce its
intentions to continue sponsoring this local group either in a more
@Ugmeuled ur reaiwliied wamic’. if at the end of nine cconths the
sponsoring group finds progress, etc., unsatisfactory it will then
announce its intentions to discontinue sponsoring the local group.

I believe the above condi-:ons are natural requirements for the :
successful operation of this type of organization. 7

 

bk

 

  
104-10175-10063

»

an

 

*

and which tend toward state intervention. We will fight for social
justice, for the defenseless, clean and democratic government, etc.

As has been mentioned before, this association is already formed
and is now working but ite efforts have been intermittent namely due
to lack of funds to carry un a continuous effort. Its efforts have been
effectively proved through its attack against Communisr:-in the .
School of Economics in the National University. It has constanily
attacked state socialism and exposed Communists in key posts in the
government. It has proved its willingness to establish true friendship
to the United States through a spirit of true nationalism.

At the present time the Communist organizations through Lazaro -
Cardenas and othere are exploiting the distentent of the macces against
the government and for the Communist cause. There is no other
refuge for these people to turn who would like to see the ineptitude,
graft and moral corruption terminated. The local government is
divorced from its people and the common knowledge -£ social injustices
forms an excellent resounding wall for the Communist false promises.
This discontent and energy must now be channeled toward a democratic
Christian national block which is compatible with the natural tendency
of the Mexican people.

 

t
It is urgent that this organization begin to function NOW, continuously,

and in all fronts. Manpower, brains, experience, knowledge, ideals,
will power and determination are available. Our only lack is operating
funds for. such a noble and imperative cause.

A minimum operating budget of $5,000 dollars per month is-
required or a total of $60,000 dollars annual requirement. This budget
includes minimum operational overhead, salaries.for administrative

-personnel and legal action as well as funds to carry on a small news~

paper and publications in all newspapers. «

As mentioned above, this is a minimum budget and it is expected.
that in time more funds will be available through private subscribers
and other groups.

This group can be-committed to a sponsorship only under the
following conditions:

i

Hiei BS 2 Ea

i

 

 
104-10175-10063

' of Mexico, sponsored by Governors Francisco Martinez de la Vega 4

 

 

“Avail ourselves of:the resources, ideale, training,.experience
and techniques of the Instituto de Investigaciones Sociales y=
Economicos. Correlate all efforts toward a free market economy !
where private initiative and free enterprise may flourish under a
Christian doctrine: and. without state intervention . Re

Defend those members of free enterprise and private initiative i
who are now being attacked, namely the small land owner, the ‘
small manufacturer, the. small store owner ané taxi.cab.drivers _
and owners. This group may not be important individually but as ~
a group they are extremely important in our defense of the free
enterprise system as a bulwark against Communism through their ;
individual efforts, public opinion, civic pressure and voting. :

a 5

There is a concezted effort on the part of the government to eliminate |
this section of free enterprise because it represents a tremendous a
obstacle (as it did in Russia) towards state socialism. At ine present :
time the government is slowly but surely attacking and eliminating this
group one at a time since individually they are defenseless against the |
state and Communist agitators.

 

 

At present Communism in Mexico is attacking small property owners,
both private as well as collective. Such cases have come up very q
frequently in the States of: Zacatecas, Jalisco, Guanajuato, Michoacan,’
Nayarit, Colima, Sinaloa, Sonora, Morelos, Guerrero, and the State _
and Juan Gil Preciado, as-well as.by ex~Governors Braulio Maldanado: a
of Baja California, and Margarito Ramirez of Quintana. Roo. ;

  

When invading private and collective lands, the Communisi Farty < |
uses Jacinto Lopez, Arturo Orond, and Ruben Jaramillo, all zgrarian;
leaders and Communists. The Asociacién Nacionalista Mexicana will: ...
be able to defend and attack what is considered one of the strongest
Communist attacks.directed at the very heart and soul of Mexico. If :
they plant the seed of distrust in the Mexican farm program against the
‘small land owner, it will produce great agitation which will only benefit

the Communist plan in Mexico. . L

For this purpose another office will be formed with two lawyers,
two undergraduate law students. and one secretary, to defend all the ;

 

 
104-10175-10063 2s) ws

. '
“
se gt ,

 

;

}
j
j
A
oe
he {
i
1
+

: persons. in the city who lack an organized defense of their rights, such. _-
ls as taxi drivers, street vendors, etc. i
That means that Asociacién Nacionalista Mexicana will have an i
cpproximate 3,000 members from the cab drivers who wish to join i
the Asociacion for the purpose of having some legal protection. i 4 . .

The second simultaneous attack will be to establish civic some
whose prime purpose will be to estzblish true patriotism and true .
nationaliem.

This group considers that political planning in Mexico is not opportune -
because public opinion is still holding on to that very old concept of .
“politica del Campadario", and it prefers to lead a civic struggle, thatis,. * |.
it will fight to make the democratic vote effective and stimulate the. 7 :
Mexican people to exercise their rights. . : i!

. : ‘It will also encourage a more active part of the woman in civic
. life without taking sides. It will work toward the realization of the ideal
of the Mexican government, limited and respectful of its own constitution,
of the division of power which constitutes one of the best controls to limit
the always growing power of a modern State.

5 . Since this group will only interfere in civic matters, it will be-easy: i
: to present obiectively its points of view, more so since i: wants te make

-an intense campaign for the respect of the rights of citizens and for.the |; - f
accomplishment of civic ideals such as: the rescue of moraland -. - i

spiritual values; the exaltation of political and civic virtues; the absolute- |

purity in the democratic process; a limited government with participation
of all the peopie; law and order in all human relations; economic, religious, .
educational, civic and political liberty; divorce from exotic ideas and. i.
doctrines; moderation in the policy of taxes; administrative honesty, etc.

i

Attached are declarations of principles which have already been published.
These are attached as Annexes 1, 2, 3 and 4. :

The third simultaneous attack will be political action, the natural .
results of the first two programs. Action will be taken through political i 5
channels to fight Communist infiltration in the government. We will .
oppose laws that are detrimental to private initiative and free enterprise } , .

we

 

 
  

104-10175-10063

   

i

MEMORANDUM: '

A determined effort is being made.to create in Mexico'a trouble spot
similar t6 Cuba. The Russian and Cuban Embassies, ex-President
Lazaro Cardenas, the Popular Party, which was recently emboldened
to call itself the Socialist party, and a small group of Communist agitators
and sympathizers (unimportant in number: but influential) are strategically!
located in labor unions, such as the railroad, oil, electrical, telephone H - 53
and teachers unions, in the National University, the National Polytechnical ‘
Institute and the Normal Schools, and in government posts. These are :
the agents of this movement, which should be a matter of the deepest :
concern, not only to all Mexicans desirous of preserving freedom in our -
country, but to the United States of America in view of the struggle for
survival in which it is engaged against Russia and China, Itstriumph = §
in Mexico would be disastrous because of this country's large population
(35 million compared to Cuba's 7). Its long border with the United States.
and extensive coastlines in the Pacific Ocean, the Gulf of Mexico and the -
C>rihbean Sea, and especially the prestige and leader ship it enjoys in other
Latin American countries, where 1s exampie would Uc Cocisive. :

“ swoen ce one e,

- Unfortunately, conditions in Mexico have deteriorated notably since the
last 2 years of the Ruiz Cortines administration, which ended in the midst
of dangerous strixes and widespead agitation. The administration in -
power since December 1958 has repressed violent outbursts and jailed . -
some of the more notorious leaders (lixe Vallejo, Campa and Alfaro :

Siqueiros), but it has publicly supported ti e-Castro regime and has been: |
iess than lukewarm te efforts.on the part of other governments to deal ~ : '
with this menace. President Lopez Meteos has proclaimed that thie 4
government is on “the extreme leit" and has followed up this statement
with several steps apparently aimed at the complete socialization of
economic life. In a country where the government already engages in
practically every economic activity and exercises virtual control over
mining, agriculture, industry, trade and banking, the steps to which
reference is made, namely the extension of the oil monopoly to the heavy
chemical industry, the acquisition of the third steel mill in importance to
(the largest one was already owned by the government, while the second. __ _ ¢
one is in private hands), and the nationalization of the electric power ~
industry by forcing the two most important companies to sell to the
government, have spelled out a clear pattern for a socialist organization

- of the national life, in which private enterprise will be permitted to engage
in activities of secondary importance under the over-all direction of the’ -

government, .
j

 

at

Exgp Mu p63)

 
       
  
   
 

104-10175-10063 : :
: Released under'the Jon f FI Kennedy Assassination

TDSPAICH S22 AND to

: i iinmiatavan (44 usci2107 Tne}
!

6A sfa7

Reqauvet for Financial Help of Group
Represented by GPAZURE. ,
ACTION RSQUFIS >

. See paragraph. 1 below: .

 

1. Attached ene the original and two copies of-a paper which © ~
Identity A asks we get to. GPAZURE. :
‘ 2 This paper bas been prepared as a result of tale Identity A .
0 had 'with GPAZURE daring his. visit.to-Mezico.

5. Identity A plans to go to New Orleans.on or about 9 January 1963
and would like to meet GPAZURE in-the USA at that time to discuss _
; the possibility of: financing (and arrangomenta for euch) by the group
| represented by GPAZURE.

 

!
4 COS recommends Headquartere- Cooperate with Identity A in thia a | ,
: uaiier--v:ace Le dove Set wish to pat this docament In the regular’ .

mails and the Station looxs with favor on this effort.

Willard C. Cortis i.
19 December 1941
Distribution:

3 -Hae w/ats.

be 3 Files -

Atessdwaanse secnritetns

SUTS SITKA AND $1.29
WIAD ARE DESCLETE

 
104-10175-10063

 

if
1
J adeno steams Sot

i
i

is due to sympathy for the Cuban revolution and to socialist convictions
on the part of the President and his principal advisers, or, as it has
been widely believed, to fear of Cardenae and the supposedly progressive j +
elements who surround him. It is said that by his leftist pronouncements ;. :
and socialistic measures, Lopez Mateos hopes to steal their banner and .
thus forestall the peril of a revolution aimed at substituting him with a
more radical ‘and anti-American figure. : qo
: i

So far the present social, economic and political trend has not aroused i
an opposition comparable to that which met the previous effort to communize
Mexico, conducted from 1934 to 1940 when Cardenas was President. Many; -
years of propaganda have confused intellectual leaders, the business
community is afraid to protest, while many people admire or fear Russia! i ‘
or believe that socialism is an inevitable development, which it would be }
foolish to resist. Also, the present movement is sxillfally combined with;
appeals to nationalism and to the envy and resentment towara those wn: |:
are more deserving or have been "luckier" than the majority.

it is difficult to say whether the policy of the present administration
1
Ly

In Mexico, as throughout the world, the Catholic Church has condemned
Communism with clearness aad energy.. However, many of its elements {
speak of capitalism and Communism as though they were twin evils and i
proclaim that the aim of true christians should be, not to eliminate the
abuses and-corrc-ct the imperfections of the former, ‘but to substitute in’ bow. . ‘
its place a third system which they vaguely designate as “social justice" |
or the "social doctrine of the Church." Since the existing social order inj
Mexico as in the rest of Latin America with the exception of Cuba, is
‘etill based on the institutions of private property, freedom of enterprise | .
and competition which are described as capitalism, in spite of extensive {
goverment interventionism and-invasion of many economic fields, this - |

 

attitude amounts in effect to a collaboration with the Communist and-other,
elements who are engaged in destroying it. This possibility does not

seem to frighten the more vehement enemies of the existing organization, ;
who go so far as to welcome the destruction of capitalism by Communism,
and who claim that since this iniquitous system will be unable to. survive, }
on the ruins, of both, Catholicism will prevail and inaugurate a new speck

Since the weakness of these arguments is so obvious, we shail merely
point out, granting as we do, that capitalism, a free of market or con-.
sumer's economy, is far from perfect, just as historically every great | .
- social system has been, it is surely not necessary to destroy it in order j
to reform it, justasa physician does not kill a patient before curing Hilen

  

 
104-10175-10063

  

a
* ” .
me

Moreover, it seems the height of folly to exchange a system under which
the Church can. exist.and perform ite appointed functions, for another :. :
which is professedly atheisticyand which tolerates religious practices i
: and ceremonies for tactical reasons, while it can suppress them completely.
= E Finally, there is not the least assurance that the expectations of the people
3 to whom we refer will be realized and that Com:aunism will be unable;
to perpetuate itself. The Turks who captured Constantinople in 1453 still. “3
retain it, and while those responsible for the fall of the Byzantine Empire
committed many blunders and even crimes, at least they did not incur in
: the supreme folly of welcoming the barbarians who were to substitute ;
. the sign of Islam ‘for that of the Cross.

In view of the offensive to which we refer at the beginning of this
document, aimed at establishing in Mexico a second beachhead for.
international Communism, we consider that it is not only convenient but.
urgent and indispensable, that all those who are opposed to it should |
emphzsize what they have in common instead of what divides us. Only
by uniting our efforts and by working in.ciligently, cetermuinedly and -
tirelessly can we hope to defeat this implacable enemy, whose victory
will mean, the end not only of capitalism but of civilization and religion.
As for the means and procedure for achieving the unioa to which we refer,
we are not competent to give an opinion, and therefore limit ourselves
to stating that we are willing to cooperate sincerely and wholeheartedly .
with those whom we consider our friends and allies, in spite of differ~ :
ences which are undoubtedly secondary when compared with the danger::--~-) ---- 4+
in which we find ourselves. :
. - i
However, we do believe that positive action is absolutely vital and
in the absence of a united effort to fight Communism, we have formed a °
group called Asociacion Nacionalista Mexicana. i
4
This association has clearly defined its “Modus Operandi" for the!
purpose of attacking Communism on three fronts which are: Economic,
Civic and Political, At the same time create a climate in Mexico: =:
unsuitable for further Communist aggression. 7
. a
The following is a brief outline describing the plan to attack the
Communists on the economic front: ;

 
