SECRET

~4.-

 

f. With regard to KGB training facilities in Minsk,
I stated that the KGB has schools for training internal
counterintelligence officers in a number of provincial
cities, including Minsk, but these are for staff officers
assigned to duty in these areas and not for agents being
dispatched abroad, Such agent training is conducted on a
tutorial basis in safehouses and no foreign KGB agent would
ever be allowed to enter a KGB official installation. Mr.
Kline suggested that Oswald was sent to Minsk so that he
could be trained by the experts available there, even
though his own training was carried out in a safehouse.
I said that the type of training given at a basic school
for staff internal counterintelligence officers is of a
totally different nature from that given to an agent for
dispatch abroad and this connection seemed unlikely, —
Oswald could have been trained in Minsk, or, for that
matter, anywhere in the Soviet Union, but I did not
believe that the presence of a KGB training facility
in Minsk relates to this one way or the other.

g. Mr. Kline raised a number of questions relative
to the general question of KGB competence, e.g., whether
Nosenko, if dispatched, would have been sufficiently
drilled on questions he would be asked as to establish
a false legend concerning himself and not be tripped up
by questions from persons such as Deryabin. I said that
although KGB competence varies widely, their counterintel-
ligence capabilities are formidable and, in an important
case, they are capable of a very high degree of sophisti-
cation, I could not comment on how well they would
prepare a man to live a false legend corresponding to
Nosenko's story, but pointed out that clairvoyance as
to what questions will be put, etc., exists only in
fiction. The KGB would, however, carefully study
damage assessments from previous defections, etc., to
ensure that information supplied would fit in with what
earlier defectors are assumed to have reported.

 

3. At the conclusion of our meeting, Mr. Kline said that
some of my comments had been helpful. He made no specific
requests for further information, but said he might contact
me if any should occur to him later.f 103 .

 

 

 

SECRET "gh
74-00000

 

SECRET -

(Memo for the Record, 12 May 1978, subj: Meeting with House
Select Committee on Assassinations Staffer Ken Kline, 10 May
1978, continued)

Distribution:
Orig - Acting Chief, Coordination and Review Staff,
Office of Legislative Council

1 - O0/SA/DO/O - Mr, Shepanek
1 - C/CI via DC/CI

1 - C/SE/OR/I

1 - C/SE

1 - C/SE/ORP

SECRET
74-0000

SECRET

| ove #78. kif

ays 12 May 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

o>
FROM: [~
Chief, SE/OR/1

 

 

SUBJECT: Meeting with House Select Committee on Assassinations
Staffer Ken Kline, 10 May 1978

1. This meeting was in response to Mr. Kline's request
to Ben Pepper on 26 April 1978 for a briefing on KGB Second
Chief Directorate Operations against Americans to give him a
context in which to place both Nosenko's reporting and Oswald's
sojourn in the Soviet Union. The meeting lasted approximately
one hour. No one other than Mr. Kline and I was present.

2. At the outset, I gave Mr. Kline a brief presentation
on the functions and organization of the KGB, showing where
Nosenko fit in and identifying the various operational elements
of both the First and Second Chief Directorates which are in-
volved in operations against the United States. I also ex-
plained the relationship of the various Republic and Regional
KGB's, e.g., the Belorussian KGB in Minsk, to the All-Union KGB
and gave a short rundown on KGB m.o. against foreign tourists.
I emphasized that most of this information came from Nosenko,
but that bits and pieces acquired from subsequent sources by
and large confirmed his information.

 

3. Mr. Kline asked my comments on a number of points:

a. He asked ff the KGB "talked to" all American
tourists and I replied they did not, but that any Ameri-
can expressing a desire to remain permanently in the
USSR would most definitely be interviewed, both to de-
termine the individual's bona fides and to ascertain
whether he was of any operational or positive intelli-
gence interest. I said I could provide no detailed

WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED.
E2 IMPDET CL BY 056479

SECRET naa.)
d-10146-10066

O UNCLASSIEIED INTERNAL - ] CONFIDENTIAL (SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
Meeting with House Select Committee on Assassinations Staffer
Ken Kline, 10 May 1978

a3

—_ SE/OR/T J

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building) OFFICER'S | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
INITIALS to whom. Draw a tine across column after each comment.)

 

 

 

FROM:

 

 

 

 

12 MAY 1978
C/SE/ORP .

 

 

AC/C&R Staff
Office of Legislative Council

 

 

 

:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
. Do Not Reproduce

 

 

 

 

 

 

nee ee — — «larremarat —;
74-0000

SECRET

-2-

information on KGB handling of American defectors, re-
ferring him to CI Staff, which I understood was assembling
files for him on American re-defectors, and the FBI, which
would most certainly have interviewed any re-defectors.

b. Mr. Kline asked how the KGB, if it wanted to con-
vince us, truthfully or not, that Oswald was not a Soviet
agent would prepare an operation to do this. I said that
any answer on my part would be pure speculation, since
we have no data base in this regard. I noted that, al-
though much has been said and written about KGB disin-
formation operations, there was no documented case in
the past 20 years or so in which the KGB was known to
have used a controlled agent for the purpose of passing
information designed to deceive us on a substantive
issue, as opposed to simply convincing us of the bona
fides of a false defector dispatched for espionage pur-
poses. He asked if there had been many such false de-
fectors, to which I replied there had been some who had
the mission of attaching themselves in some fashion to
the U.S. Intelligence Services, but none of these was —
or claimed to be 4 KGB officer. The purpose of these
operations, all of which took place quite a number of
years ago, was penetration of U.S. Intelligence, not
strategic or political deception.

 

 

c. He inquired as to whether anyone other than
Nosenko, or someone in roughly the same position, would
have been in a position effectively to convince us that
Oswald was not a Soviet agent. I conceded that it would
take a KGB officer to make a credible negative state-
ment along these lines and that Nosenko, whose position
put him in a position to review Oswald's KGB file, was
obviously one of the very few who could make an authori-
tative statement based on first hand knowledge. I also
noted, however, that if Oswald had been recruited and
trained for so sensitive a mission as assassinating the
president of the United States, such an operation would
have been authorized at highest levels of the Soviet
government, would have been kept compartmented to the
most extreme degree, and would not have been run by the
Foreign Tourist Department. Nosenko almost certainly
would have had no knowledge of it.

d. Mr. Kline asked me how I would go about setting
up an operation designed to convince the U.S. that

SECRET
74-0000

 

SECRET.

-3.

Oswald was not a Soviet agent, I said that this, again,
was highly speculative and would not necessarily have
any relation to what the KGB would do. I did say, how-
ever, that one of the things I would take into consider-
ation was keeping the cost of the operation, in terms

of the counterintelligence information which would have
to be divulged to establish the agent's credibility,
within reasonable bounds. Although it might be necessary
to use an intelligence officer who could have plausible
access to such information, I would not use an intelli-
gence officer who acknowledged. having been deeply in-
volved in operations against the American target over a
period of ten years. Neither would I have such an of-
ficer defect. It would be much simpler and less costly
in the long run to have an officer stationed abroad
volunteer his services, work in place for a short time
during which he could pass the desired disinformation,
and then: return on plausible grounds to the USSR, never
to be seen abroad again, While an officer stationed
abroad probably could not claim, as Nosenko did, to have
personally seen Oswald's file, it would not be difficult
to construct a plausible story as to how he obtained this
information (from friends in SCD,etc.) as to make his
information convincing.

e. As to whether the KGB would be likely to recruit
an individual like Oswald, I said I rather doubted it.
Any re-defector is automatically suspect to scrutiny by
his own counterintelligence service and most certainly
will never be allowed in a position involving access to
sensitive information. Recruitment of a man like Oswald
to assassinate the president seemed even more implausible,
given the man's obvious personal weaknesses and insta-
bility. and the fact that, as a re-defector, he would
certainly (I would have assumed) be on the list of
persons to be watched by those with responsibility for
the President's security. The fact that this did not
occur in Oswald's case does not alter the fact that,
if the KGB were looking for someone to perform this
task, it would probably seek someone with the lowest
profile possible rather than an individual who could be
expected to attract security attention. I noted that
the KGB had conducted some assassinations in the post-
war years, but these had all been carried out by Soviet,
not foreign, agents, and had been directed against former
Soviet citizens.

SECRET
