13-00000

e

Page 036. Sceélso teally didn't know the nature of the AMLASH
operation, yet nevertheless is prepared to speak broadly about it. An
indication of his gratuitous wisdom is his saying that he would have
AMLASH polygraphed. He knew so little about the AMLASH operation that
he. did not know that AMLASH had refused the polygraph earlier. He also.
clearly knew practically nothing about the nature of CIA's relationship
with him; it had no substance prior to the death of President Kennedy. (C)

Page 039. Scelso receives unusual space in the report. This is not
because he knew anything, but must be because he was. prepared to speak about
things that he did not know. He was.in the overall investigetion a month —
and a half, and speaks. inaccurately about it. He was not in on the AMLASH

' operation, but speaks of it. He would never qualify as a competent witness
in court. (U) ; ;

Page 040. Title for Section II. The word "Sanctity” should be
‘replaced by the word "protection." (U) :

Page 041. Delete reference to CIA surveillance operation in
Mexico City. (C)

 

Same page. Delete surveillance references in Mexico. The statement
in the paragraph ending five lines above the bottom of the page about ©
limitation of access te "original source materials,"-reflects the difficulty.
the Committee has with intelligence reporting. No distinction is drawn between
the providing of substantive information, with evaluation of the sources and the
reliability of the information, and protection of the actual identity of the
sources. It is correct. to say that initially CIA limited access to the source,
but it is incorrect to leave that without balancing it with a statement that
the substance of the. reports was conveyed. Intelligence reporting traditionally
does not reveal its sources. Perhaps this should always be done for a Con— .
gressional investigation, but it is doubtful that such an unqualified practice
will be accepted. In any event, ‘the presentation. of the draft is not accurate
or even-handed. (S).. .

-Page 042. References to telephone and photograph operations in
Mexico City wild have to be deleted. (5)

Same page. Scelso (speaking about telephone operat ions--which will
have to be deleted) was. doing his best to explain reporting procedures
(protecting the sources) although he doesn't do this very well either. (S)

Page 043. The FOIA document was reviewed but denied. Delete
reference. (C) : oe
13-00000

wey

 

Same page. Reférences to Mexico City and telephone operations should
be deleted. (5S) : : ;

- Same page. The word "State" instead of "ODACID." (C)
Same page. Again, O'Neal and telephone operations. (S)
Page 044. Delete reference to O'Neal and telephone operations. “(e)
Page 045. O'Neal. (C)
Same page. The discussion of Helms' desire to protect. sources makes
it sound.as though this was uniqué during the Warren Commission period. . It
was merely a continuing application of established practice, however unfamiliar
‘to the uninitiated. (U)
Page 046. Delete Mexico City Station. (C)

. Page 047. Delete references to telephone and photograph operations ine
Mexico City. and liaison relationships. (Ss)

 

; - Same ‘page." The 31 January memo ‘laid it all out. “additionally, the
covering memo makes it appear that the sources had been discussed with Rankin.
Rankin's letter of 10 February is viewed by the HSCA as demonstrating: that

he did not know about the telephone operations. Yet we know that Sam Papich
‘had. already told the Committee in December that there were telephone operations
by one of the American agencies. (5)

: Page 049. The statement at top of page is incorrect. Substantive
knowledge had been. given (31 January report and Calderon debriefing). (C)

Same page. Reference to telephone operations must be deleted. (S)

‘Page 050. Section. Title--references to telephone operations there
as well as in the text. Delete. (S)

, Page 051. Win Scott, telephone operations, and Mexico Station.
Delete. (C) : ; :

: ‘Same page. The paragraph is wrong as well as referring to an intel-
ligence operation. It says “it appears doubtful that the Commission had been
given even partial access to the written material." The author knows that is
not true. It does reflect accurately the misunderstanding that initiated his
line of treatment. The fact is that the Commission had the substance in detail

-. with emphatic positive affirmation of the reliability of the information. Beyond
that, while the preceding statement says the Warren Commission didn't see it until

4
13-00000

Page 015. References to the Netherlands, United Kingdom, and
Australia should be deleted. (C)

Page 018. The references to Win Scott and WH, in connect ion with

‘Mexico, should be modified. (C)

Page 024. References to Hall, Hartman, Dooley, and Murphy should |

“be removed. (C)

‘Page 025. References to Bagely and Hall should be removed. (C)
Page 026. _ References to Murphy and O'Neal should be removed. (Cc)
Page 030. The handwritten note in the middle of the page is literally

correct, but so phrased as to leave a distorted inference CIA did not give
the Warren Commission everything. For instance, if we had reports on why

‘the monkeys lost their tails in Zamboango, it would net be provided as it

had nothing to. do with the Kennedy assassination (although some HSCA
investigators might think it so). ‘What the ‘Agency did was to supply material
that. was’ deemed relevant. (u)

‘Page 031. The first word in the 6th line of the quoted testimony

- should be "instructions" and not "indications." (u)

; Page 033-034. Helms' testimony giving his recollection.on that CIA
took no initiative vis-a-vis the Warren Commssion, but was only responsive,
is incorrect. . The record reveals various CIA initiatives. The arrangements
at the time have a contribution to. make to understending. The FBI had
primary responsibility. for conducting the investigetion; it alone had: the
manpower. CIA provided all kinds of reports to the FBI, in the context of
its primary investigative responsibility. It also responded. to Warren
Lommission’ requests, as well as providing other materials on its own as
judged appropriate. (U)

The comments of the draft about the "unfortunate. consequence" of
the Warren Commission's reliance on CIA. seems to relate to the subsequent
revelations about the anti-Castro. plotting. While it is wished that-
someone at the time perceived a.possible tie between those activities
arid the assassination of the President, the simple fact is that it was
not perceived. The draft HSCA report, which we reviewed at-your offices,

‘makes the point rather strongly that the concept did not emerge until

the later 1960's, well after the Warren Commission inquiry. While CIA

accepts its failure to see what others did not (despite wide-spread

knowledge of the provocative nature of U.S. policies and activities

- against Castro), the categorical condemnation of this presentation is
unbalanced. Even now, the relevance of the Castro plots are as much

hypothesis as fact. (U)

 
13-00000

 

.

Page 007. The author of the HSCA draft report seems to have
a problem in viewing the entire working arrangement end the understandings
at the time of the.Warren Commission. It therefore is.worth some comment
at this point. However well or poorly conceived those arrangements,
the fact is that the FBI had. responsiblity for primary investigative work.

CIA reported to it in detail. CIA also responded to all Warren Commission

requests, as well as taking the initiative in reporting materials that
seemed relevant and significant. However, reporting to the FBI was, in

_effect, appropriate reporting to the arm of the government that would in

turn report to the Warren Commission. It is doubted that there was any
real misunderstanding at the time that this is the way it was being done,
or that it was appropriate.. It would be an interesting line of inquiry to
consider. how current. investigators, who have different views of how things
were or should have been, would ask questions in interviews on the subject.
There is much room for inadequate communications on this. In any event,
the one-dimensional description of what Warren Commission people "believed"
is too simplistic to serve the public's right to really have it told in
clear and accurate terms. (U)

Page 008. I can't identify. CIA page 2000517 so cannot comment at
this time. (U)

Page 010. It would be more appropriate to describe this as Helms
designating WH Division to handle the matter, when initially it seemed
that the Agency's role would focus ori Mexico., Scelso happened to be desk
chief at the time, so got the assignment within WH Division. (WU)

Page 011. Delete reference to CIA surveillance in Mexico. (€)
Page 012. Delete Birch O'Neal's name, ment ioned four times. (c)

‘ Page 013. Scelso's recollection that the Mexico ‘City Station (it
should not be mentioned in the unclassified paper) was the only Station
directly involved in the investigation during his tenure is wrong, as ten |
Stations were tasked four days after the assassination, and all of them
were tasked immediately after the assassination. (C)

Same page. Delete O'Neal's name. (C)

Page 014. The thirteenth of December is the first half not the
latter half of December. (Uy -

Same page. The characterization of Scelso'’s "report" is incorrect,

* when given the description of stating a "position." It is a factual

presentation of what was then known. (U)

X

 
13-00000.

 

(2) An erroneous working summary by a Warren Commission
investigator (Mr. Slawson) is seized by the author of the draft
report as the basis for arguing that CIA did not provide information
from telephone intercepts -to the Warren Commission until early
April 1964. Depicting this as a "delay," the assertion is
then made that in some way it prejudiced the Warren Commission's —
investigation (in the face of testimony to the contrary by
Warren Commission. people about the cooperation of the Agency).

The assertions of the author, substituting his conclusions
for fact, must be doubted. (S)_

When the present HSCA draft was first reviewed some. time ago, the

author's attention was drawn to a 31 January 1964 memorandum from Mr.
Helms to Mr. Rankin, indicating that the nature of it had been discussed
some two weeks earlier between the two men. It is even indicated that
the sensitivity of the sources was discussed in the earlier exchange
between the two men. Your draft makes it clear that the FBI had told
the Warren Commission about the sources, and it is. quite possible that
Rankin--if not. Slawson--knew....That Rankin signed a letter on the
subject can be likened to letters that you and I have.-signed to one
another, and that have not always been read carefully (as I know: fram
one or two discussions with you). (C) >

The point is that the 31 January 1964 letter reported in
extensive detail what CIA then knew about Oswald's activities in
Mexico City. This included the very material that the author of the
report said was not provided the Warren Commission until April 1964,
While the sources were not specified in the letter, their reliability
was endorsed emphatically in a strikingly unequivocal manner. There
has been no significant addition to that information since then. (C)

It is not useful at this point to try and reconstruct the
failure of the Warren Commission investigator to focus on and react to
the facts in the 31 January letter. That the information had been
available to him is a matter of record, if the draft report can be

‘trusted. That he did err in this regard is the unavoidable fact.

Your investigator, having built his argument originally on an erroneous
description of this fact, nevertheless seeks to preserve the criginal
argument even after the initial basis for it essentially has been
destroyed. He is determined to perpetuate the error of the Warren

Commission investigator, and displays far less objectivity and flexibility

than did that gentleman. (U)

In the confused but categorical treatment of the subjects, the

‘author betrays his unfamiliarity with intelligence reporting procedures.

eee
13-00000 ae

One may take issue with the practice, but understanding it
should restrain the sweeping statements made in the draft. It is
standard procedure to report the facts, with an evaluation of the
souree, but not a specification of the source. That practice was
followed in the written.report, although it appears that oral
elaboration probebly was provided as well. As a result, the HSCA
draft report is badly confused in its treatment of facts and sources,
and has sought to salvage the argument by referring to “original source
material" as a handwritten editorial insert. This transparent effort
to preserve the false presentation merely emphasizes ite tendent ious
nature. (u) .

(3) Having: sought to establish a non-reporting by

CIA in the Calderon case, and of the material available from -
telephone taps, the. author reached down into his bag of ready
assertions and claims that this was due to CIA's concern for: _
sources and methods. It should be most clear that CIA thas no _
problem reporting the facts, or in protecting its sources in doing
so. Well established practice makes this clear. The gratuitous
observation that the FBI failed to report out of respect for CIA's
_ sensitivities, without a shred of evidence, serves merely to
emphasize the aberrant quality of the author's analysis. (5). -

 

Having introduced this unsupported assertion as a statement
of fact, the author tries to use it to reinforce his earlier
aasértions. ‘He ascribes practices to the Agency in forms that.
either are incorrect completely or that are unrecognizable as
described by him. It is clear that he is extensively uninformed
about the way the Agency functions in the reporting field. (U)

The detailed comments follow. | (U)
Fourth page. Handwritten notes. Substitute A-1 for Donald Bensen. (S)

Page 003. The two references to IGR in the second paragraph should
be TFR. (U) . ;

Page 005. Reference is made to "the Agency's sophisticated document
retrieval system." This is a reflection of the inexperience and lack of
knowledge on the part of the writer. The ADP systems are not all that
unusual, in addition to which there are a number of manual systems that
cannot be called "sophisticated." The author has been told this, but-
persists in the description. While it is a minor point, it nevertheless
is an imprecise description. (U)

Page 006. The footnote indicates the intention to use the symbol
A-1 in lieu of the cryptonym AMMUG. Please do so in all places. I note
pages 78, 81-85, 90, 94, and 95. (S)
13-00000 -

 

i
i
|

 
  
  

  

Executtys dagisiry |

FG- GIT |

     

) MEMORANDUM FOR: Sa/DDCI

 

DeLoresy;

   
  

  
 

“the attached. isa lengthy epistile to HSGA on a

draft we formerly were told was to be held.as a

classified amex; Now we are told they want to

publish} -

Spe if the HSCa staffiihas persuaied itself that its
criticiams-are to strong that they must seek publi-
cation, the attached strongly worded . letter is meant
to point out 1ts ridisulously extensive errors, which
destpoy the criticisms the. treatment has to offextt
Beyond that, 1+ details security considerations?

It is..tactical, persnal. from me to Blakey, but
| makeing it clear ve are prepared. to go past the staff
to the -Comittee- members, in.order.to make our points;
I hope: you. do not feel. it too strongly Wordeds'
' but I sense that something strong is necessary to get
a.
Blakey g. attend oe

Be: Dis Breckinriigs

        
     
   
   
   
     
 
 

  
 
   
       
   
        
  

| og ‘Date 46 February 1978
BR 101 esha .

  
 

104-10322-10089

 

    
   
 
  
   
   
      
 
 

(2. UIGLASSIFIED Oey (7) CONFIDENTIAL [J SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

| ee .

SUBJECT: (Optienal)

  

 

 

   
 
 
 
   
  

 

   
  

EXTENSION i NO.

OLC 79-0113/d
Date ~ .
\ 16 February 1979

FROM:
S.D. Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator, ‘HSCA

; DATE © OFFICER'S
: Pe [mi we
. FORWARDED

' (Dolores Tuohy? SA/DDCI | Poa eee

  

 

          
     

  

TO: {Officer designation, Toom. number, and -

building) COMMENTS. (Number each comment to show from whom

tu whom. Drow g line across column after each comment.)

 
   
 

 

PEA2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

aieeomive Ot ‘
we aS

 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

fom’ BT etomist’’ (] secret — [] CGNFIDENTIAL Use ONLY WNCLASSISIED

 

 

 

 
13-00000

 

THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20505
OLC 79-0113/d
: » 15 Februarv.1979: -
Olfice of Legislative Counsel . :

’ Mr. G. Robert: Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director .
Select Committee: on Assassinations
House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Mr. Blakey: c

It had been indicated earlier, in discussions with members of
your staff, that the section discussing Luisa Calderon and other
topies was not intended for unclassified publication. Mr. Gabrielson
understands from your recent comments that it now is your desire that
it be published in unclassified form. (U)—

If Mr. Gabrielson's understanding is correct, it comes as’ something
of a surprise, as you undoubtedly realize that the draft treats in
explicit detail a number of sensitive intelligence activities and
arrangements that we are obliged to protect. It is doubtful that
the subjects treated, without reference to the quality of that
treatment, could properly be discussed at all in published materials.

As written, analysis and views are so closely interwoven with sensitive.
materials that it does not lend itself to sanitization. After you
have reviewed these comments, it might be useful for us to consider
them together. We have classified it Secret in its present form and

" request that -you handle it accordingly. (U)

 

: There are two areas of comment on the draft. The first, as”
noted above, has to do with the detailed treatment of highly sensitive
subject matter. The second has to do with the extensively incorrect
treatment of the substance. An advance summary of the latter might
be useful, as the separate comments may. be fragmented. The following
comments are therefore offered at this point: (U)

(1) A telephone conversation by Calderon is assigned
an inference--—quite tenuous and. therefore debatable-~based on
an early mistranslation of what she said. That inference
was then used as the basis for critical treatment of the
Agency's not reporting it to the Warren Commission. When. the
correct translation was brought to the attention of your
investigator--quite frankly, seriously further weakening the
basis for the original inference--your investigator held to

13190
t _ Eeb..1985———

  
13-00000

 

his original thesis, continuing to use the incorrect
‘translation, blandly preserving the original rationale, although
discussing the correction in a way that seems to deliberately
confuse it. That the author was wed to the treatment he had
already contrived seems to be the kindest explanation. (S)

Having asserted significance for Calderon, based on the
mistranslation (the assertion continuing after the translation |
showed it to be in error), the author then seizes on a suspicion
ofa DGI defector. that Calderon might have been a CIA~-or
American--agent. Without reference to what the defector
knew (which was nothing), the fact is that CIA did know. -

‘Calderon was.not a CIA agent. That is quite clear. And given

the Inter-Agency. Source Register, ‘it was further clear that she vias }
not registered to any other American intelligencé organization. ~~

To cap it, local operating conditions were such that CIA had
_ further reason: to know that Calderon was not an agent. Why |

CIA should report to the Warren Commission the suspicions of

“an uninformed defector, known to be incorrect, presents a ~~~

major question as to the > thought processes of the author of the

draft report. (C) .

 

 

The draft next asserts that Calderon's possible connections
with the DGI, and similar possible contacts with Oswald during
his visit to. Mexico City, were withheld from the Warren Commission
by CIA. It is noted that. this is in error. The 19 June 1964
memorandum cited at page 0000085 of the draft report makes it
clear that this information was made available to Mr. Willens
of the Warren Commission. It was reviewed by your investigator
in June and August 1978. (U). .

The assertions by the draft about a possible connection.
between Calderon. and American. intelligence are simply in error..
The assertion of withholding information about the possibility
of ties between Calderon. and the DGI, and about possible contacts
with Oswald, are gross error. That leaves the telephone ~
conversation to. stand by itself, so far as any shred of
significance is concerned. (C)

The overall Calderon discussion is better fiction than
professional fact and analysis. Having decided to assign to
her some significance, the treatment twisted and turned to keep
the conclusion alive as each assertion proffered in support
collapsed. And in doing so, left intact the mistranslation
that seems to have sown the seed from which it germinated in the
first place. (U)
