74-0000

 

Pe

or

fae Flich
Fobruary 16, 4965
Page 2

r acpreetate your suczietion about srchituctural drafting. I fool th.t 4
Ras Casligh ds a) gr.dt Cay that he will not probitly do any better there than
ho would in yout clata. ‘Tho t-ste givea at. tho University of tlend, wiish
weeo Siven both fa tslish and ia Spantoh, intieatad that tre acon hed.

     

rt iat

 

‘aptitude for fechanical or architectural drafting, advortiolng layo.t work,

   

pattern caking, destin! oc, oteh: ongr.ving and variona bench ona erate
werk. Alsa,.on the Rovised Dota. xcnination he scored a rating of 93 which
ia everage to ‘elisntty sudmaveragese: It do folt that he sbiJity end sxills
ero hold back iderably by hia dloavility and that othorwiaas he would

bo porhapa above averages

    

If 4b 4s noecs. soy to drop hin “from the clnas, of Gourd, this 1a aoacthing

which ig up ta you, but we think that he should be given every oppertualty
eoneideriag his interdst in tho work and hic trying to make @ go at thise

Tnanke you: tor any courtesy oxtondod tide Rattore

Sincerely yours,

 

 

Gordon De Soith, Counselor
Vocational Rehabilitation .

GDSeeab * soe
603 Mra, Marta Svana

Dre Ae thceo

Ky, Carvin killer

 

 

 

t

 
“
on
vs

 

(oet0z29-10423]

 

Yotruary 26, 1965

Mr. John D. Fitch, Inatructor
Grate Tecining . .
Lintecey Hopi:ino Education Center

1410 Nei. 2nd Avenue : ; 6%
Wiacl, Florida . :

 

Ros

 

ae ; . ani, Florida
Lear Hr, Fitehs ’
~~~ @nie is in ‘reply to your comaonta on the last grading choot regarding
* the above captioned individual. I approciate your passing along thoze
scanentee : ; .
; ono in to see me today and foola that he would like to
Contisue-on in the mochsnical drafting o9 well og in tho basic prolini

waxy wor% which he has beea-taking in draving. There are acoso things
_ Wiles T would liko to pass along to you of wiich you may not be’ avera.*

Up ust22 a yoor age wax. a severe opileptic and had many
ecizerese At that , ho had a cran€al ozeration which hea helped hia
consitercbly. More recently in the last efcht menths, ho atates that he:
has ke4 11 selzureo, one of wich wos in your class. Tuis ia liable to
hapzen on occasion, but dot very froqvontiys and, of course, if the cloaca
genoa Lt end you are avare of 4t, thore 4s no keuson to be disturbed by ite
No&e cericus io probably the fact that he io under modicaticn — barbitue
Lote of one kind or another = under Preeeriptica of a doctor to prevent
hie frou buvins sclcures, ond thie tenda to make hin operate clowly and,:
of ecursce, to bo drowsy. Mowever, he states that ho has novor fallon

asleep in tho clanse

Previozs to t day he had takon ono yoar of electrical ongincering in.
Hayara. io ia vory serious about learning mach'ne desicn and 15 interested
in thie area. Ilo statea that hoe has never copicd a otnglo drawing and haa
dons everything on his own, I also questioned hin ax to whethor ho ungore
» etee’ your icctures and what you put on the blacxboard, an' hoe stctes that
ho. écca but that he works alowlye I thought that if ho could ap.ly core

. + thine, that ho probably would bo able to keep up caster boin: ono who works

slesly. and drafting boing a courao based primarily on the amount of tine
G@pplied. Ne gaid that he thought that he could come in about 15 minutea
early end do a littlo work before the class started, but that he eculd not
wore at houe for lack of inatrumenta and that the room wag dlosed to him

excezt for this 15 minute period. : :

e
