104-10331-10269

 

at ?

. , ADMINISTRATIVE 2 a/| at RF
: . INTERNAL USE ONLY : oe

13 April 1992
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

FROM: , John Carver

SUBJECT: Problem of the Oswald 201 Files

John Pereira asked me last Friday to go ahead and order Up

the fi 8 of the Oswald 201 files from IMS. I
called who told me he'd have.to talk it over with ~
Fred Wickham and get back to me. Fred Wickham, C/IMS/MPG, had
earlier told me that OCA is custodian for these fil d that

  
 

he would need a go-ahead from OCA. I have calle
several times a day recently about this, but he's ;
to catch. pos

3;

This horning || ven menor’ IMS called to tell me that
DO will require a ndum from OCA authorizing any
transfer of any part of the Kennedy Assassination Files. The
addressee for this memo:

Fred Wickham
Chief, IMS/MPG
ID4107 OHB

He also said that DO would really not relish sending us any
original files. He reminded me that DO has made copies of the
whole, and he could specifically offer me the redacted copy of:
any file, plus a copy of the original, so we could immediately
see what DO had determined in its own review. (This would:
undoubtedly give us a leg up, letting us pretty well ignore
anything DO hadn't deleted and concentrate on judging their
deletions in light of the new rules. It would also hide any
document in the original files DO doesn't want us to see.)
further invited us to come over to his shap and

ake a Took at the files there. (It does appear that DO is
nervous about letting any of this material leave DO control,
for reasons which are not yet clear.)

tl called me at 0812 today, just before I got
in. en GaTiéd back about 0822, he had already gone into a
meeting, so I'll have to keep trying.

 

Finally got him at 0850. Told him about the requirement
for a memo from OCA. Also about DO's preference for handling
our review in their quarters, with their copies of the
originals. He told me that this is apparently part of a
“larger problem." He'll have to get in touch with Ken McDonald

‘and John Pereira about this and will get back to me, probably.

tomorrow. Was glad we're gearing,up to start this project.

 

 
