 

 

ore

ee ee ee tee

fe hich .
February 16, 195 : ‘
Page 2 \ . : ,

 

 

I acpreciate your suscoction absut archit-ctural drafting. I feel th.t if
his Caslich fs a pr.dlea, that ho will not pribibly do any better there than
ho vould in ycut’clata. The t.cto given at the University of tlend, which
wove siven botu in slick and in S,antch, inieated that tire Mercecdoz hed.

‘aptitude for ecchkanical or architectural crafting, advortising lnyo.t work,

Pattern maiing, dealin. ce otching, oncr.ving and various bench end eraft
work. Also, .on tho. Rsvised Bate wnination he scored a rating of $3 which
ia everase to ‘alichtly aud-nvorage.: It do folt that Mo ability and sills
ero hold back conskiurably by Mia dioavility and that otherwise, he would
bo porhapa above averagoe oo

   

 

‘Ef 4t 4a nocescary to drop,hta fvon the claaz, of Oourad, this 14. soscthing .

which ig up to you, Sut wo think that he vhould be given evory opportunity
conelderiag his interést in the vor* and hic trying to make g go at thise

ag

Thank you ‘for any courtesy extended tia nattor.

Sincerely yours,

 

Gordon De Saith, Counselor
Vocational Achabilitation — :

 

GDSseab . : soos

oc: Nera, Marfa Svane . yt
Dre As Maceo :
¥y, Garvin ‘iller "

 

 

 
fOUOSH0-40123]

 

 

Se eee mae

3\nJ

“—“$nte 4s in ‘roply to your comonts on tho

Vovruary 16, 1965

Mr. John D. Fitch, Instructor
Tro46 Training

Lintecy Hopi:ing Education Center
2410 HeE. 2nd Avenue. -

Miazd, Florida
i Ros

 

 

Lear Hr. Fitchy ;
last ernding choot rogarding

~ the above captioned individual. I appreciate your passing along those

 

“_ eencentee :
fano 4n to ace me today and foolg that he would like to
the mochenleal drafting a2 well ag in tho baie prelinie

ng in drawing. There are come things

o

nary wort which he bas bee. takL

_ hice T would like to pasa along to you of witich you may not be avare.

 
   
 

 

Up untt2 a year ago, a3. & aovere epileptic and had many
ceizres. At that tino, He Rad a éranVal ogeration which hea holped hin
ebly. Moro recently in tho last efcht contha, he atates that he:
haa bod 11 godzurea, one of wich was in your cless. Tuis is liable to -
harzen on occasion, but fot vory froqventlys and, of course, if the class
enos if end you aro avare of it, thore 4s no feuson to be disturbed by ite
Mofo sericua 40 probably the fact that he io under aodicaticn «= barbitue
rotes of one Xind or another « under Freecription of a doctor to prevent
hig fren buving acizurea, and this tenda to make hin oporate slowly and,-
of ecurse, to be drawcy. Iowover, he states that hoe has novor fallen

agleep in the clcos.

 

 

Previzes to t 4a, he had takon one yoar of olectrical ongincoring in
Havorae ie 1a very cericus about learning machine design and is intercated
in thie area. Ile atatea that ho hag nevor copicd a oinglo drawing and has
dons everything on his own. 1 algo questioned hin aa to whettor ho undore
dectures and what you put on the blackboard, on! ho states that
ut tact he works slowly. I thought that 4f he could aplly core
+ tine, that ho probably vould be able to keep up casier boin: ono who worka
olewly ond drafting boing a courae based primarily on the amount of tise
applied. No gaid that he thought that he could come in about 15 minutes
early acd do a little work before the class started, but that he eculd not
wore at Loue for lack ef instruments and that the rooa was élosed to hia

except for thig 15 minute period. . .

  
