    
      

. SEGUAITY INF NFORMATION
SECRET. GOUTROL
© Ss OFFICIALS OLY

  

Distribution:
By copy to: fagh 23 Orally to:
Chrea ol
VIRGO (D)=1
— .
“Vid
Reseece Cryptcayn: (OVEREULS. Beferescon:

a °
Goeurece, Operational Data, snd Comments:
Woeh Gly 2. on 15 cd 10 usr 19594(DMINrelatod th, Lforentia tn the
. attached report ggetinge hold ia Veniss and Pieris.
~ 2, %% 4e dovdtfal that Kaliede would have mado the comcnte reported
horesa if ho had eny isa that thoy would rete official Asopisan
channels. Fho fest thst Katieds epshs co frankly toOWRELS fo
an indication of his regard fer

a2
| Tt ie requosted that the attashed reper bo given lisited dic-

 

tribution to protect tho idemtity of (OWZRFULE.
RD

Ee . /

on

SEGRET CONTROL / i

eee. US. OFCULS ONLY ae |
RICO | v2. 1h

Fag 1000 Of. 88

 
SPB RL ig ata 0 ela et

| RUSTESETIGHS: Offioor cosignationa should bo used Ia the "TO" column. Undor exch ecmment a fine should bo drawa

ecroas ein

and cach commant numbered to corrocpond with the sumber(n tha "TO" eoluma, Each officer should Initial (choek mash ineul-ictest)
| before further routing. This Routing and Rocord ‘hoot shouid bo returned to Registry. 23 .

f mn ” Cet rh uf 96 |
ae en aca

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
BGA attains a Hise Did tied ant Grantee g Teckel ace

 
   

SECRET CauTROL
Ye ii 23.
U.S, OFFIGIALS 0 a

Bubject: Rewarko by Yugodlav Official Report Ho: >)
on Ageriean=-fugedl av Relations
Dato of Information: 25 February 1953

Placo Acquired: fricote Dete Acquired: 15, 10 Baroh 1953
Bvaluation: p/6 Date of Report: 68 April 1993

. Bource: An Agerican who Lo on friendly terms with Yugoslav officiole in
Paris.

1. Remarks mods by Sorgiey Hakisdo, acting Charga d'affaires of the Yugoslav
Eshassy, Paris, ere cumarised bolow. .

2. Forciga, and in particuler, Acorican businsosaen have little prospsot of
dsing businses in Yugodlavia at tho procent tice besausa of the lcels of
Gellar exohangs im Yugoslavia, Tho drought dn Yugodlevia in 1952 wag far r
worsa than had first been eatinateds as a result, oxpenditurcs for importa —
of goods other than necessitice have bsen drastically curtailed, .

3. Yegoolav leadera are cost anzious to obtain privates erodits froa abroad
and to attract capital investesnts to Tagoslavia, "What Yugoolavia nseds
40 money and God forbid if the Unitsd Statea doco mot give it te uot,
Yugoslavia ic in a bed epost, end can do buoiness abroad ealy 1f moans aro
found to finance couch trade,

kh. Yegoolav lecdors aro concerzcd over tha prospects of outa in Ualted Btatcs
aid to Yugoslavia since clashes in foreign aid eppoar to be an aspsot of
tha polacy of tho Eiconbowor cdninistration, fhe United States will not,
however, curd sid to Italy now that tho influential mre. Claire Boothfausa
49 espaseador to that country.

5. Tho Bicanhowr Administration io composed of millionaires and reactionarios.
Whon Kakiedo wae told that a forzar labor loader is now a mombor of tho
Eiesnnowor cabinet, hs roplisd that influential leaders of the reastionary
American Federation of Labor havo ticd up with a roestionary edeinictratiea.
It ic most unfortanate, Kakicdo deolared,that tho sav adainictration 19
not a pr 178 Ons, .

6 GSrdjon Prica, Yugoslav Ackacsador to Pranse, io now convalecsing after.
undergoing an operation, Halriede implied that during the opsration
it wao discovered that Prica had traces of saz female organs.

Ei woot of whorl & fale.

 

Classification:

 

Soinnks withd

Lode 23
Fee; oe (GO-%-?7 —$Ab

 
