 

 

‘oeeOte7-0258]

 

 

COUPMTEY Cxba/Brezil REFLET INS -

S-S/ECT Reported Porthecning Support ty Preeident , DATELSR 2)
Retoe Pao pamel Rey oc une Me/irerte of Zavt care
cutbds to Ging the Fee Politically to the Bicars MO PECE!
Fepart that New Aligmme=t Acong Hire Cerdoca, Pufo
Teoez FPresquet, exl Antonio de Vareca is a “Ortal UFO?
Eaitoon”

CATE OF

TEC.

PLACE
Tate al

2.

3.

. perscnalt
> working with the A

re

CoOeS-P-I-D-BeI-Te la hal

  

 

Feb 61
oot Pet 61

 

 

0S citizen, free-lence writer and part tice sucar broker. :

 

Source speaks Speniah, has resi¢eé at istervals in Coba since yocth, hag had
contacts for macy cters scenes Clhene fn the
persorally meay present and forcer Cuban po.
ties. Ecorce Lived in Ervena curins the entire calenizr year, 1959,
cCllecting material for

    

   

 

  
 
 

 

&n analysis of ceVtioments in Oe sizce 2221

I herve just learned fra: One of ny Cuban esscelates that the nev Presitent of
Braxil, Quadree, is definttely ening to summert Mexoel Rey acd the MRP, eong
the organizetia.s ovposed tc Fite) Castro, end will keve sothing to
do with sextomic de Vercne end the iecocretie Sevelutiouery Prect. Qustros
hes cyparently decited to let the US Imoy this. sat les teen fofiverce! in-his
decision by tae foxser Dresiltan exbesssier to Cactre’s Cuba. ‘his letter
pereea has been recalied to Erezil and vill siortiy resume an fooertact post
4a ths govermucct there. This former ectessedcr is sefd to be very moth in
(Sympathy with Rey end the }?, bececee his versone? political idecs emi those
of Ray beve much ‘in cama. “he former ambesssdor epverently exercises much —
inriusnes over Cosdros end is a bitter exeny of Verona and the Democratic
Frost. :

 

  

|

Baill Chinée is very depressed these days, tecesce be fs convinced that the tS
wilh never give any excouranment to Rey end the MP. Many of his Coben
friends have toli bin this ead heve excpissized cust the MRP is too leftewlag
end radical to suit the US. Consequently, Chiles /s beginning te atterpt to
the MAP may fron mdicelimn, to the richt, policically. Jurt nov: he.

to do this, ay Cuben friecds are at present wmable to say.

Ry Coban friends think that the reported rew aligt= =< Gneng Miro Curnions, ©
Bufo Ldpez Presguct, end Antonio de Verona, in whic Mird would o¢ 3 “ene
tor” and nedister between the “left-wing” Psto and bis follocersi and
| the “right~ving" Verona end bis edherents, ie cothicg sore than 8 “trthl
Dalioon” lmumched far the purpose of reeing vhat the reaction emang Cibans
would be to such a reslicnmest. It is still too eecly to assess the effect
of Chis report, trial balloon or not. 3

cende

_OnDel Palo D-E-B-ToInaeL

 

 

 

 

Led geet lites

ee Tee ene

inant lara atacs Useitale nadie hie

  
