 
  
         

 

ar

“SECURITY. INFORMATIO

  

 

ee eae

 
 

‘Tanaannag VOUT BL,
(ioe) ss SECURITY INFORMATION L
, ¢ RETURN TO C14 / SE 7 2
Background Use Only
UNDO Not Reproduce
Chief, Security Division : 3 Hovenber 1953

a

Chief, Physical Security Branch

Security Violation - Exposed Classified Material

Le On 27 October 1953 at 7:10 P.M., during a pecurity inspection of
Boom 2426, "Quarters Eye", Guard T.F. Bryant found a TOP SECR:T docu
gent on the dosk as-igned to Mr. Arthur 8, Turner. The materfal was iden-
tified as "Progress Kaport," £3 Document £75160. It was on top of several
unclassified technical magazines and ite folder bore no classification
marking, Wight Security Officer Ray 6, Colton responded t& the telephone
call from the Guard O*fice and secured the material in his safe at 8:15
P.M., after leaving an explanatory note in the area.

2. On 28 October 1953 we ccc teh this Franch, accon-
panied by Mr. Bernard F. Doran, Security Officer, /TS3, investigated
the violation, During the courses of the investigation Hr. Arthar &,

furner, Project Engincer, Mr. David L. Christ, Deputy Division Chief, and :
Mr, Walter G, Driscoll, Division Chief, all of” pop/TsS, were interview-4,

 

3. Mr. Turner advised that he was custodian of the document on the
date in question. He etated that, after placing all classified material
in a safe at about 510) P.M., he had occasion to search for another docu-
ment and that apparently he had placed the instant document on the pile
ef magasines while making such searches He stated that the room was va-
cant when he departed at about 5:10 Pi.

be Er. Christ advised that he was responsible for conducting the
Start Duty Officer inspection of Room 24,26 on the date im question, He
stated that be had conducted his inspection but that apparently he had
overloxked the instant document, explaining that a considerable amount
ef unclassified material was in the rozm and on the desk. He stated that
the room was vacant when he departed at about 5:35 P.Me

5. Mr. Driscoll advised that the docunent wos overclassified and
that, in bie opinion, its exposure would jeopardise no personnel, plans
or operations, He explained that the material had not becn
by or for the Agency, but that it was a copy of a private industry re-
port containing information in which CIA was interested.

AEE

gry 7
