 

 

Saheb Rebate tr ke

 

DARIAGL ADOLOOMENE KEVOKE

 

FRANSMI TTAL DOCUMENT
Review Staff Number: Date:
Classification

 

DOCUMENT ASSESSED
Number: Date: 22.9.75 Classification: SECRET

Subject: OIG Survey of OS, Annex IT SGLATERAL/HGLINGUAL

 

Component Performing Assessment: CI Staff
Analysts Name: ; R. B. Holmes
Date Assessment Completed: 21.1..77
Coordination with Other Components: none

 

GENERAL STATEMENT/SUMMARY OF DAMAGE:

Project SGLATERAL/HGLINGUAL was a sensitive mail intercept pro-
gram which, until 22 December 1974, was highly compartmented
within the Asency. The operation was first described in the
New York Times of 22.12.74. It was covered by the Rockefeller
Commission in its report of June 1975 and: by the Senate Select
Committee in volume III of its final report (April 1976),

pages 559-677.

 

DETAILS OF DAMAGE: None

 

ACTION TAKEN OR PLANNED: None

 

ct nee ce ett
* DAMAGE ASSLOOMENT KEVUKE

     

TRANSNLLTAL DOCUMENT oe
Review Staff Number: Date:
Classification :

 

DOCUMENT ASSESSED ; ; ;
Number <> Date: ? Classification: SECRET ?
Subject: "List of HSC [sic - CIA] material reviewed at Hqs'

  

| Component Performing Assessment: CI Staff
Analysts Name: R.B.flolmes
: Date Assessment Completed: 21.1.77
Coordination with Other Components: None

 

GENERAL STATEMENT/SUMMARY OF DAMAGE: ©

: This document is a list of. material reviewed by HSC representa-
; tives at Headquarters. The only set of files pertaining to a :
CI operation is (ENDONORTH/ENGAGH)O| The Village Voice of 16.2.76

 

et

i gives a general description of this operation on page 89.

DETAILS OF DAMAGE:

Although this operation has been terminated, detailed knowledge
po : of CIA's involvement in the training of foreign police services
under the auspices of Public Safety, AID, could, even now, be
i damaging to the Agency's present and future relations with ~
4 police services of friendly countries to the point that the U.S.
ar Government might lose their support in maintaining a united front
“4 against the common enemy. .
According to the Village Voice (citing the"Pike Report") "As many
as 5,090 foreign police officers from over 100 countries, many of
whom have become high officials, unwittingly received training fror
the A. t ositaon of these foreign police officers may have
actiOR Tken Ule MOSNEI? OF damaged when, in 1973, IPS (Internatio-
nal Police Services), was revealed as a CIA front." Presumably
the files on Projec NDOHORPA would contain the identities of
those police officialS trained under IPS auspices.
NB:. The (ENDOMORPI files were reviewed by HSC representatives
here in headquarters. No CIA officer was present to supervise
the situation. The Agency has no idea what notes were taken
by HSC staff menbérs..

ACTION TAKEN OR PLANNED: None

 

 

2 Anime eects oem oom Be
‘
r
f
&
enn
al pl

HIGHLY SENSITIVE ACTIVITIES

 

Page 11: Project SIESTA - not a Gy Stats operation. .

Project PARAGON _ [reine King) a Latin American
revolutionary, and her asso€iates were under surveillance
by the Office of Security from May to September 1971 at
the request gf CI Staff.

Damage :0' King) identified as the objective in an illegal
surveillance operation set up by Security in the United
States, thus providing more evidence to the "enemy" that
CIA operated in the U.S.

. ol
Page 13: Project 6uranr)- not a CI Staff operation.
Project SRPOINTER - mail intercept program; became
HTLINGUAL under CI Staff. Well documented in overt publica-
tions. : ;

Project AELADLE - "based on false documentation,
the Office of Security obtained passports for Golitsyn, his -

_ wife, and daughter by documenting them as U.S. citizens."

Damage: CIA use of false documentation to obtain an American
passport, a violation of the law.

Page 14: Project REDFACE I - does not appear to be a CI Staff
operation, although the Staff may have had an interest in the

defector. ,

Damage: Surreptitious entry into an office in Silver Spring,

Md., by Agency employees. Another example of illegal activity
carried out by the Agency in the United States.

Page 16: Project ANTLERS - movement of defector out of a
European country and into U.S. without leaving any trace of

his true identity. Used false passport of another country.
Damage: Although defector not identified the fact he brought
into U.S. under false identification a violation of American law.

Page 19: Audio-surveillance - not sponsored by the CI Staff,
although the Staff may have been aware of it.

Page 20: Project MHDOZEN - Technical surveillance of new
Soviet Embassy. Although this operation may not be active -
the new Soviet Embassy has not yet been built - the fact that
CIA and the FBI were cooperating in planning a surveillance
operation against the new Embassy, could cause the Soviets

to increase their own attacks against the American Embassy in
Moscow. ,
DAMAGI ASOLSSMENT REPORT

erase

TRANSMITTAL DOCUMENT
Review Staff Number: Date:
Classification

DOCUMENT ASSESSED .
“Number: ~~ Date: 21.5.73 Classification: SECRET
Subject: Potential Flap Activities

 

: Component Performing Assessment: CI Staff
i Analysts Name: R.B.Holmes
: Date Assessment Completed: 21.1.77

Coordination with Other Components :None

 

s aeeenectnmbepremnee erainian ee

GENERAL STATEMENT / SUMMARY OF DAMAGE: >

In the IG's Memorandum to Mr. Colby of 21 May 1973, the IG
identifies those “activities that are or might be illegal or
that could cause the Agency embarrassment if they were exposed".-
The information contained in the attachment to the IG's memoran-
dum was summarized from a longer listing of questionable activi-
ties known as the "Jewels Report" or the "693 pases".
Although those remarks pertaining to activities involving ‘the

' CI Staff no longer apply to active operations or present:@I
Staff officers, public knowledge could be detrimental to the
Agency.

 

 

DETAILS OF DAMAGE:

For specific comments see attached sheet.

ACTION TAKEN OR PLANNED:

soe eelera hin Ane4 1A tri teenie | REARS cee che eR ate en sated ese cegsiatleenanee

 

 

whem iain. sivas ai eet e wanes,
 

SUPPORT

Group operated Project (ENDOMORPH.)a] Project now termi-
nated. <A more detailed “description than- appears here
was given in the Village Voice of 16 February 1976.
Damage: Although this operation has been terminated,
detaifed knowledge of CIA's involvement in the training
(in the United States) of foreign police services under
the auspices of Public Safety, AID, could, even now, be
damaging to the Agency's present and future relations
with police services of friendly countries to the point
that the U.S. Government might lose their support in
maintaining a united front against the common enemy.

‘Pape 6: Police rorect (io - CI Staff's former Police
T

DETAILED PERSONNEL

Page 15: John HART - was detailed to the Secretary of
the Treasury, along with four other Agency employees.
Damage: Probably little - HART is. now retired as a

CIA employee. of

for over[~ years was Director
Safe of AID.

  
 
 
    
  

of the Of

Damage: Although is now retired, he re-
tired under cover. d3Exposure at this time could cause

him considerable embarrassment.

NB: In the Village Voice of 16.2.76 appears the state-

ment that the Director of OPS (the Agency for Interna-

tional Development's Office of Public Safety)

IPS' CIA status. Should it become public that 3

wno was the Director of OPS, was in actual fact a 2H

employee, he could find himself the object of attack.

 

 

a se

7
|
|

Gin
 

degree of protection afforded to classified Executive Branch

information by the HSC Staff. This testimony clearly demon-
strated that the HSC Staff failed to provide adequate storage

and control over classified documents, to include little or

no control over the copies made or access to classified
material, Further, the magnitude of this situation cannot be
determined through an inventory of the sealed cartons stored
at. the Agency attendant to the "missing documents" allegation,
since there is no way of knowing how many copies have been
made of these documents nor to whom any such copies may have
been provided.

In view of the inadequate security practices employed
by the HSC Staff, it would seem to be a fair assumption that
much, if not all, of the classified information provided to
them by the Executive Branch has been compromised. The allega-
tions and disclosures related to the documents and information
provided to the IISC continue to surface at regular intervals,
and with each such occurrence the Agency is required to react
and prepare a damage assessment on a case-by-case basis,

_I feel strongly that the Agency, and perhaps the entire
Intelligence Community, should initiate an overall review of
the classified information provided to the HSC with a view
towards preparing a comprehensive damage assessment. Admittedly,
this is. an overwhelming task. It could, however, be reduced
somewhat by limiting our review to that classified data supplied
to the HSC the disclosure of which would compromise sensitive

Agency sources and/or current Agency projects or operations. |

The above review could best be accomplished through
the creation of a task force comprised of representatives from
all Agency directorates and preferably of those individuals who
were previously involved in preparing Agency information for
transmittal to the HSC. As the Review Staff Registry has been
kept intact, it would be possible to determine precisely what
classified Agency information was provided to the HSC. From a
community standpoint, it is suggested that the Intelligence
Community Staff initiate a similar review by all other Executive
Branch agencies which provided sensitive and classified infor-
mation to the HSC.

The resulting study would be of value in terms of. our
commitment to protect the identity and. safety of Agency sources
and in our future assessments of various programs and projects

 
 

cera c emma tre tent tmnt

 

 

so bw tach eft cane ESM RIADRIae  cok cen AMER LONE ep ERP see eben Iba s ane nent

ot ; LL

ATT A.

29 SEP 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

FROM : Robert W. Gambino °

- Director of Security
VIA . : Acting Deputy Director for Administration
SUBJECT : Probable Compromise of Information Furnished

to the House Select Committee on Intelligence

_ 1. Action Requested: Your approval is requested to
assemble an Agency-wide task force to conduct an overall
damage assessment of the classificd documents and/or information
previously furnished by the Agency to the now defunct House

Select Committee on Intelligence (HSC).

2. Basic Data: I have been concerned for some time with
respect to the improper manner in which classified information
supplied to the HSC by the Executive Branch was handled from a
security standpoint and which culminated in the leak of the
HSC's draft report to Daniel Schorr. As you know, leaks of
classified information to the news media by the HSC began
shortly after its creation and continued throughout the life
of that Committee.

In addition to the news leaks, there have been several

‘allegations (both substantiated and unsubstantiated) concerning

classified Agency and Intelligence Community documents which

have found their way from the HSC into the hands of unauthorized

persons, Two of these allegations have been referred to the.
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and in at least one
instance (the classified Agency documents found on the West :
Coast by R&D Associates) the FBI is conducting an active investi-
gation,

The -House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct
inquiry into the circumstances surrounding the leak of the
HSC's draft report to Daniel Schorr generated substantial
testimony by former members and staff of the HSC regarding the

fy

COMABENT] | : E2 IMPDET

CL BY 063344
v5 64274

iF

 
 

ij
i
{

nee siddeatent seein sides shun nine a elebek WASHES en

DISAPPROVED:

with regard to their success and/or failure, In short, the
Agency must be prepared, in advance, to. deal with the problems
that arise through these unauthorized disclosures of classified

information.

3. Recommendation: It is recommended that you approve
the creation of a task force, chaired by the Office of Security,
comprised of representatives from all Agency directorates to
conduct a damage assessment of the classified information and/or
documents provided to the now defunct House Select Committee on
Intelligence.

. - , Vaanon Ww. Gambino
APPROVED: ERB tha

FOet WE

 

 

Distribution:

Orig ~ Return to OS via DDA
- DDCI

~ ER

~ DDA

Asst to the DDCI

et et et

 

 
 

 

i
i
{
$
‘

ne Om ERR Hm ae ne

DAMAGE ASSESSMENT REPORT

TRANSMITTAL DOCUMENT
: Review Staff Number: Date:

Classification

DOCUMENT ASSESSED
Number : Date: - Classification:

Subject:

Component Performing Assessment:
Analysts Name:

Date Assessment Completed:
Coordination with Other Components:

 

GENERAL STATEMENT/ SUMMARY OF DAMAGE: |

DETAILS OF DAMAGE:

ACTION TAKEN OR PLANNED:

 

 
