 

 

CONFIDENTIAL =

h. On 5 April 1965, James Wileott advised a representative of EAB
that while visiting with members of an integration movement, he had cane
in contact with an individual vho professed to be @ member of the Commnist
Party. Although the reasons for his contacts with these individuals are
not entirely clear, a review of Subject'’s statements reflects the follow-
ing: On 10 April 1965, James Wilcott, hereafter referred to as Subject,
vas in contact with one Ray Robinson Junior (3R-08 Indices), a representa-
tive of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Gomnittee. Robingon asked
Subject to come to 1618 Corcoran Street, Washington, D. ©. to meet a number
of integration movement people. According to Subject's atatements ». when
he arrived at thie address a group of about eight people were sitting around -
“drinking and smoking marijuana." Among these was one Alex Fagsikloff :
(WR-08 Indices), o self-admitted Communist. sO

de After various discussion vith members of the group, Subject agreed
to drive Passikioff and one Alfred Gmith, a student at Howard University,

| to New York Gity., They arrived in Kew York City about 9:00 a. Me on WL Aprit
~~~ 39655" and went to the apartment ‘of friends oF Pass ikloff, identified ag

Joseph A, and Betty Rotandi (NR-O8 Indices). The Rotandi's are alse de-
seribed as dedicated Communist Party members. During this day, Subject, .
Peasikloff and the others visited an indlvidua: identified as Blyden Jackson
(WR-OS Indices) who is the head of a nev o: ation called Coumeil for —
Jobs and Freedom of New York (HR-OS Indices), Subject and others also
“ended up" at the West Side W. B. B. Dubois Club in Nev York City. (the

W. E. B. Duboie Clubs are well identified as a nev National Marxist organi-
gation, ayeaea by J. Edgar Hoover as “spawned by the Communist Farty,

6. There are a number of questions currently unansvered in the ease
of the Subject persons. Among these are: How long has James Wileott
been involved in the SNCe movement?; Where was Elsie Wilcott during the
trip to New York Gity; and Why did James Wilcott allow himself to becone
involved in this mtter to the extent of going to New York Gity with these
persens and visiting other individuals who are allegedly self-admitted
Camuniste

T. Gubject hae apparently reported to his stetion at JMNAVE. How-
ever, it°le belleved ‘thet his involvement with the eforementianed {individuals

 

 
 

[ose],

- ‘papery

. ) GORHESTAL. | j
. . : 3 . : . ) :

!

Cufe?, Appraisal Section i 44 JUL 1958

Ward K. Greene
Appraisal Section

{
Lo WILCOTT, Jawes Bernard, Jr. #109301 ; |
| "  WILCOPP, ElsLe Louise #109300 oO, .

. |

; . 1. The Subject persons are man and vife. James Wilcott is currently i
7 assigned es a Staff Age to DDP/AW at JNVAVE, His wi

i ployed by this Agency]
during 1960 end has -held past sta i : : : i

 
 

 

  
 

_ currently employed. The Chief, PSD b bas requested thats on overall revley ; .
of the Subject persona’ ‘records be made in Lizht of information whieh hea oo
recently teen developed... Such information indicates that James Vileott

: has had contacts vith-poasible. known Comaunists end with individuals In-

vee volved-in-the integration movement. 2-2 a —— _

 

2. A review of the flle. of James Wilcott reflects that he is 353 years
of age, warried, and native-born of. native-borm parents. He graduated
4 from high school in 1958 ond from 1948 to 1952 served in the United States
i Arny. Fron 1953-to 1957 he attended college, being privately employed during
i ‘the sane veriod. On 4.March 1957, James Wiicott entered on duty vith this
: Agency. During polygraph interview.at that time, ;
. . : a . _ and vas
favorably re-polygrapzed. in 1958. His security file reflects no deresstory
information from 1958 to the present, with the exception of Amy ned
records reviewed in 1956 which indicated that he “complained continually
of backache, but that medical examination revealed no organic cause.
Conference with his Company Commander revealed en ‘extremely poor adjuat-
nent’ to milltary Life and {ndicated that he continually used his alleged
medical disability in order to get out of work and built such a wall sround
himself that his Company Commander felt that he was of no use to his outfit.”

3. A review of Elsie Wilcott’s file reflects that she Is 30 years
of age, merried, and native-born of native-born parents. She attended
college until 1954 and from 1954 to 1956 vas privately employed- Ia March
of 1957 she entered on duty with this Agency as a Clerx~Typist, GS-ok,
having been favorably palygrephed. In September of 1953 she resizned to
continue her education. In 1960, Elsie Wilcott was issued security 22-
proval for Contract Type A employment et the Toxyo Station. (She ene
Janes Wilcott were married in September of 195%.)

 
CONFIDENTIAL

that the Security Officer, JMVAVE be briefed on this case and asked to
conduct @ comprehensive interview of Subject.

Ward K. Greene
Appraisal Section

Wiid3 5

 

 

 

CONFIDENTIAL
