 

 

 

LIONION-1 isa young PBRUMEN lawyer in exile, He left PBRUMEN in 1960,
Planning to continue on via Mexico to the United States where he resided in
his. early years, His two brothers are American citizens » One a desk officer
in the Department of Commerce in Washington, the other g Police official in
Tampa, Florida, While in- Mexico LIONION-1 was recruited, as LILILY-1, to
Perform PBRUMEN Operational Support services for the Station and, once having

 

Rubassy. at this Same time LIONION-1 also Phased into LIFEAT/LIERODE work and
the two. worked, together 88 8 team. In 1962 LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 worked

known as LIOMEN. At this time their eryptonyms were changea from LILILY-1 and
2 to LIFEUD-22 and 23, respectively, . In the lattep Part of 1962 the two agents
began the Present Photographic surveillance operation,

LIONION-1 was Sranted an OA on 18 May 1962 by HMMI-1066K, He was
LCFLUITERED on 8 October 1963, HMMW-12064..

LIONION-2 was &ranted an OA qn 16 May 1962 by HMMYW~10660,

“LIONION-1 is the mainstay of the operation, LIONION-2 acts as his assistant

in at such times as he is absent fron the observation Post. Both serve
Principally 8S observers and Photographers, LIONION-2 also acts as a dispatcher
for the LIEMBRACE surveillance tean from which he is compartmented, Dispatching
is done by radio using pre-arranged innocuous code terminology; the team does not
know LIONION-1, or his precise location, LIONION-1. also Processes on the Premises
all Photographie coverage of the main Embassy gate through final Printing, croppin:
and mounting, Photographic coverage of the Consulate Bate is Processed through the

of line. Motivation is a combination of financial necessity and Violent aversion

be monotonous work, Psychologically, they are ideally suited to this sort cf work,

Both agents realize that they are Working for PRPRIME intellicence; LICUION~1

@ppears to bé_aware is Working for KUBARK, The ¢ iliged by LIONION-2
is that of LIONION-1 Passes as q who can afford
to dabble Ho ved berom prea! uecess becaus mily landholdings in

Tampa, Florida (inherited ai his deceased father), Which enable him to lives ES
a “rentista," one who lives on income from Sources other than Sainful emplo: ment.
His rentista status is registered with the Mexican Government. Th October 106k
this cover successfully withstood intensive investigation by Mexican authorities
‘checking on Persons of questionable status fa tax collection Purposes, The
a Tages to bolster the cover with Supporting documents from a

 

agent} in New York City? these will be requested in Separate correspondence,

 
104-10414-10380

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EL RQJECE LIONTON

Identification. This is a technical (primarily photographic) surveillance
operation against the PBRUMEN Embassy in Mexico City.

Objectives. The operation is designed to (1) furnish photographic coverage
during daylight hours.of the entrances of the target installation, (2)
dispatch physical surveillance teams against persons associated with the
‘target, and (3) keep in readiness a listening post for the monitoring and .
recording of eventual technical penetration operations of the target.

The target installation is the PBRUMEN Embassy compound (including
Consulate) in Mexico City. The above-listed objectives are accomplished by
‘two trained, full-time surveillance agents who live across the street from
the target.

The project is in consonance.with Priority A, Objective 1, of the
current Related Mission. Directive| for Mexico.

Background. This project. herewith presented for appro’ wed for the first Lie ,.

does not represent a new operation. LIONION activity has been going on since
Os: re been charsed to PBRUMEN FI funds. The

operation produces photographs of, persons associated with the PBRUMEN Embassy,
both staff and visitors. These photographs are normally reviewed for identi-
fications by the PBRUMEN section at the Station, then shown separately to
(GEETAMEEZQ, and (EITAMIEE@ who are PenetPationnagents worming sinside "CHS ae ey
They are subsequently forwarded to the CI section of WH/SA where they are own
to PBRUMEN intelligence defectors! AMNIP-1 and AMMUG-1. Of those assets to whom
they are routinely shown, (LITAMILS9 has to date made the largest number of
identifications. The photos have!proven of great value. Within hours of the
arrival of a new lmbassy staff member his photograph is in the hands of the
Station, .In addition to the identification of staff and visitors, the photos
{accompanied by a log kept by the | LIONION agents) reveal patterns of action
(arrivals and departures) and details of personal associations (who associates
with whom) which are of great value to the Station in mounting operations against
the target. ; |

 

 

 

 

   

{

In addition to photography, LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 are often called won
to do visual surveillance of the farget installation and LIONION-1 is essential
to the dispatching of the LIEMBRACE surveillance team against individuals
associated with the target. Becawse of the presence of police patrol cars in
the.vicinity, the Station's mobile surveillance assets cannot come close to the
target, hence the need for LIONION-1's dispatching services.

The presence of LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 also insures continued occupancy of
a valued piece of real estate which will be used.as a listening post when the
Station succeeds in installing additional technical surveillance devices in ine
target in the form of concealed radio transmitters. -

 
13-00000

 

| Be

 

 

 

 

Communication is primarily with LIONION-1; with LIONION-2 only in his
absence. Meetings, pre-arranged or signalled by innocuous phone calls (calls
from LIONION-1 go through a telephone cut-out), are usually held at the

-LIONION-1 safe apartment. This apartment, which would appear to be a LIONION-1
love nest, is in another area of town. The Station KURIO? technician,

Hugh T. FRANCOITE, meets with LIONION-1 at least once a week. The Case Officer,
Lawrence F. BARKER, meets with him less frequently. Whereas LIONION-1 knows
the true name of the Case Officer, he does not know FRANCOITE's true identity.

Security Hvaluation. If either of the LIONION agents are uncovered by Mexican
authorities as engaged in operations against the target, they have been briefed
to indicate that they are working for an exile organization based in the ‘SMWAVE
area on a voluntary, non-paid, patriotic basis and to stick to the story covering
their income. This would probably hold up unless they were caught in flagrante
with the KURIO? automatic pulse camera on the premises. This camera is of such
refinement and complexity as to be difficult to ascribe to an. exile organization.
In any event, LIONION-1 has a close relationship with an official of the Mexican
president's office. This conection, developed by LIONION-1 for his own protectio
enabled him to weather the tax investigation and can be used by him to overcome an
future difficulties with Mexican authorities. —

Under Mexican ‘lav, the principal (photographic) activity of the project is
not illegal, therefore uncovering of the photographic operation would not: of
itself result in arrest or prosecution. It is usually possible to stave off
investigation or house search for a period of time sufficient to remove compromis-
ing material from the premises. The LIONION base house was once cleaned completel)
in one evening and could again be cleaned, probably in less time, if circumstances
should warrant.

The target installation is aware that photo surveillance is a probability.
On one occasion AMKNOB-1, a JMWAVE ‘asset, was shown a nearby building (not the
LIONION base) by a -PBRUMEN Embassy ; ,officer and told that it was a _KUBARK Photo
pase. —

LIONION-1 is Imown “by sight to some PBRUMEN Embassy staff personnel who have

observed him in the neighborhood. ‘Presumably they believe he is a Mexican. To

avoid operational compromise, he cannot renew his expired passport at the
PBRUMEN Consulate. For this reason the Station will request -KURIOT in separate
correspondence to prepare new passports for both LIONION agents so that they may
travel outside Mexico. ‘

Security measures employed in this operation are designed to make it virtuall:
impossible for any opposition service to link LIONION personnel with the Station.

Coordination. Coordination with other PBPRIME elements or the Mexican government

is not necessary at this time and none is envisaged.

 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
    

The tobel annual ce oh

G. .
hewn below:

   

LICNIGN-L salary |
-13 months © 3320 ~ . ; yeaa hoaho

 

LIONION-2 salery
‘13 months @ $150 500 1059 1950

Real estate rentals:

’ LIGNIOW Easehouse . 690 600. | Laon
LIOWICH Safehouse 26): 26h gan

on both houses 159 150 Ran

 

Supplies Loe 3179 117o aah
(Fhoetosraphic film, paper, ,
chemicals, and wiscellaneous )

 

 

 

 

totals " $500h | geheyh

Galeries for LIOHIGN-1 and -2 include
bonus of one wonth's calary. LICNICH-L's schry
3220 nonthly> in 1964 to compensate in part Tor
tien in order that he might devot
‘operation. -LIONION-2's salary has retained. at ,
roorvitzent in 1961. To salary changes are conti

project year.

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ated during

 
