 

 

TRARSATION

   

* 25 August 196i)

(received by. ANREP “ees
2 August, vat ‘Rew Tork

  
 
  

 

Dear friend Céploes- : of

Iglesias sive =e weir froa you; I shared it with(Bareo.) Tove
ead te. have- evs: ‘of yea, because I have not had any answer to ag letter, ssa
T know you received. Par - _ ,
, Now, I would - Make’ to “agk you to help ae “galve a problen ~ onethatts :
very iuiportant to me, The léth National Ascenbly of Surgeons will be held in -

: in which I work at.
Hexioo from 15-21 November. A group. of doctors in the department/mf the Comandante
Fajardo Hospital have been invited to attend this Assewubly. I should also Like to
tee ind I really need to. I have been informally iveited by a Mexican surgeon
who visits our hospital two or three times a year, but he hasnt send me Passage —
(the fare). In- sAdition, Idontt think it would be very easy for me to get a
viea, If, with the help of your "frients"™ you could 1) get me invited 2)send me
passage money and 3) send me a visa ~ aul three via the Mexican ‘Imbasey in Cuba,
so ee I can go. ,

Well, hope to see you in Hexdco in November, so until then,

48 soon as you receive-this, write ne go that I shall imow you have this
letter - or, call no and said "Yes" or "No about this matter.— whether it can be
solved from there. i can try to arrange things here - but there is no certainty
that I uhould be able to eet a Mexican visa, Besides, I would have to take care
of soee of theses “doings” in the Ministry (Cobernacion?), and that's never easy.

oG

, abrazo,
H Ho Greve ART IME Veo, Rolando ‘
ows o ~ 4 at - foe [; .
PS ~ fron{tarsoy Barer (Pal abe

Carlos, when you can, pick up a szall package that I send you via your
 

104-10183-10196

 

 

2(P

 

 

fo © SECRET 3
foe i DATE__26 ug -64———_———

O38 REPORT ON DEV ELOPMENT OF AN INCOMING sw MESSAGE

 

wo Division or Branch: _-smyfsafsa—_—_——
. Fidd Units Use Pseudo)

From —AMLASH/1__ (Agent Crypto)

 

Report on the Development of SW Message #

Date Letter

1. It is requested that the Case Officer examine the visible correspondence for content and appedt-
ance, in order to assess its effectiveness as a cover for the SW message.

 

2. Results of the Techutcal Examination:

a. Did the envelope
b. Was any evidence of the SW visible prior to development?__.__"ta =

3. Technical Comments:_____No-S¥_present—————

 

4& Technical Suggestions To Be Relayed to the Agent: <_<

 

 

Submitted by:

 

(Field Units Sign in Pseudo)

Photocopies of the letter and envelope and a photocopy or transcript of the developed -SW message

are transmitted herewith.

Form 60-1 (IN) ‘ . (aeiSee.|
SECRET

Revised Feb. 1963

appear to have been opened in transit?__Not_recetved ———————— ~
 

Up

cousin Ivan tor oan aan

Senora Kabel Arango
305 SW. 9th Terrace, Apt. #2
Mint; Florida
; ao
PP. S. = fren (tarsa}(0120)¢ Cc
Iglesias says that it would help a lot to settle the things youte
both talied about 6 Ventura cane to Cube for a week or two, There are
several items that he would have te see personally, ard talking of then is
net the sans a6 teaing then,
bal he cones, he could return when he wants to ~ that has already
been decided on here,
I received Pepin's fare some tims ago.

Abrazos Gu
 

SPARIGH Te -T

Queridg sxigo Carloe 3

-Recibi ‘por. via de Iglesias wi regalo tuyo, «1 cual compart 1, lin ik :
Mucho me alegre el tener noti¢ias tuyas pies no he tenido aun respuesta a +
que si se que recibiste en Paris.

wes -phora’ tiie Sntyea en: que me ayida a resolver wi problea que tiene’ para
mi gran. Amportane: “yes OL eiguiete: Del 15 al Ade Novienbre.so celebrara ea

Hexkts bad XVI dcanblea Nacional de Cirujanos.

: Ea ol. Dapartabits del Hospital Cate. Fajardo donde yo trabajo hait-wido, :

f cos- los’ cuales ‘acistiran y yo tengo gran interes y 1 nacesidad'

z : . tado inferdalnente por un elrujano Hejicano que nes

eee eae Sl ana, poro ol nome manda pevaje y adenes la visa no creo sea .
muy faci) que me la-consiga’ Si-es ge em eon tus axigos resuelve que 1) sa re invite,
2) we envien pasaje 3).=@ envion la ‘visa, y taio esto atraves de da Eunbe jade de Mexiee
en Cuba pars asi realisar ni viaje, ~

 

 

  
 
    

Bueno, espero verte en Hejico en Noviembre asi es que haste e

‘Tai pronto recihf esta pscribene para yo sube si la recibiste o llanane
por telefono y me dice SI or NO se resuelve porque yo puedo trater de resolverlo
aqui pero no tengo seguridad por’ la visa Mejicana y ademas tengo que correr algunee
tramites en el Ministerio que siempre no son faciles.

Un abrazo,
Rolando

F. 0. aaCierse) -

Carlitos, cuando puedas pasa a recoger un paquetito que te
envie por encargo de tu primo Ivan, y que se halla en la
direccion siguiente:
rn Sra. Mabel. Arange
OT : 305 S, W. 9th Terrace, Apt. #2
Miami, Plorids

cs)

P. D. de Karzo)
ice Iglesias que seria de muche utilidad que Ventura viniese a

pasarse una semana o dos, pues, asi resolveria mucho de lo que
conversaron Uds. dado que existen varios renglones que teniria
el que verlos personalmente, puss, no es lo mismo verlos que
hablar de ellos.

Si ¢1 viniese podra regresar cuando le deses, pues, eso y esta
resualto por esta parte.

Recibi pasaje de Pepin hace tiempo.

 
