 

 

   

Subject: Alleged Anti-CIA Comments made by Priests at Seattle University
7

*
°

4. If it is determined that there is any truth to the allegations
we will be advised, We suspect, however, that Miss Fanning is fabri-
cating in order to cover up her poor academic progress.

a z Legend

(AYNE“H,. RICHARDSON

WHR:ks
cc: Chief, Denver Office (Attn: D. S. Jordan)

Attachments

 

 
 

 

= on Sad ged : P
SPE TMAL FD . Z rr cs a or)
- TON se . E) a
GP tak (ay Crm OLMIS :

USITED STATES GOVERNMENT “ . .
a ~
Miemorandum
SEA-57-68
Xe) : Director, DCS . DATE: 7 February 1968

John W. McConnell

ROM ! Chief, Sedttle Office

UBJECT: Alleged Anti-CIA Comments made by Priests at Seattle University

‘OF : Denver memorandum DEN-51-68, dated 1 February 1968, with attachment

1, You will find attached a copy of a Memorandum for the Record
dated 31 January 1968 and written by Don Jordan of the Denver Office.
The text of the memorandum needs no further explanation,

2. I made a cursory check with local sources who were unable to
confirm or deny the allegations made by Mrs. Margaret Fanning, mother
of Miss Clare Louise Fanning who is currently a student at Seattle
University. Since the matter is not exactly in our ken and might be
of interest to the FBI I made a digest of the original memorandum and
gave a copy to the Seattle FBI Office. A copy of the digest was also

Ys given to Mr. CIA 0/S, Seattle Resident Agent. A copy
of the digest is attached. Seattle FBI Office said that they probably
will not take any action but would pass the information along to their
“headquarters in Washington DC. In all probability the information
‘will be attributed to the Seattle Field Office.

3, I made a further check with Colonel Michael J. Dolan, Place-
ment Officer, Seattle University, to determine if he had heard anything
about the subject matter on the campus. Colonel Dolan works with Mr.
Thomas L. Culhane, CIA, OP/RD. Mr. Culhane says that Colonel Dolan

_ can be trusted to be discreet in any dealings that we might have with

him. Colonel Dolan was unable to give me any information of a sub-
stantive nature regarding Subject but stated that Miss Fanning is
having academic problems and her grade point has gone down steadily
since enrollment at Seattle University. . Her present courses are all
taught by. laymen so if she has any contact with the Jesuit priests the
contact would be outside of the classroom. It was Colonel Dolan's
opinion that the university administration would be very interested in
running down information of the nature outlined by Mrs. Fanning.
Colonel Dolan has stated he will make some discreet inquiries without
implicating either Mrs. or Miss Fanning.

ABTURN TO CIA

a oo
iebipauce

: . Oo Not R
Li By US. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan’ im

21D =tOd

fe

“ CO a Baeground Use Only
74-0000

 

’ 31 January 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Call from Mrs. Margaret Fanning Regarding Anti-CIA Activity
at the University of Seattlé

1. On 18 January 1968, 1100 hours, the Denver Office received a
call-on the listed number from a woman who identified herself as 4
Mrs. Margaret Fanning. Mrs. Fanning stated that she lives in Pueblo ”
and that at the time’ of the call she was at Stapleton Airport -enroute
to Texas. Mrs.. Fanning's reason for calling us.was her great concern
“4 about what her daughter, Clare, is being taught about the CIA and the

. Kennedy assassination at the University of Seattle where Clare is a
_ student. . :
2. Mrs. Fanning has_ received several telephone calls recently
from Clare in which Clare informed her mother that some of the priests
at the University of Seattle (a Jesuit school) had convinced the students
_ that Garrison's theories about the assassination are correct and that the
“> charges about the Agency's implication are also correct.

3, Mrs. Fanning stated that her daughter is actually afraid of the’
CIA and considers that the CIA is comparable to the Gestapo. Mrs. Fanning
stated that she tried to persuade Clare that what she (the daughter) had
heard is totally untrue but Mrs. Fanning had no success whatsoever in
changing her daughter's viewpoint.

 

&. Mrs. Fanning also stated that Clare asked her to be sure not
to repeat to anyone any of the foregoing information and that the priests
TH at Seattle University had instructed their students not to discuss these
matters with their parents. Mra. Fanning was obviously most upset that
‘a faculty member at a university, particularly a priest, had instructed
students not to discuss matters presented to them at the school with their
_parents. In this connection, I suggested to Mrs. Fanning that she poseibly
had legitimate grievance against the school and that she might write a
letter to the president on this particular item. 7

 

5. I also pointed out to her that if there is in progress at the
University of Seattle activity which could be construed as a threat to
the US internal security, the FBI would be interested, TI expressed

_ appreciation for Mré. Fanning's concern about the misinformation on the
CIA which is apparently being disseminated at the University of Seattle
but pointed out that there is very little we can do about such matters.

 

tee
ee te . co nee et

wees . boo. 7 . 1 oo ue e
