 

a

 

rs

 

 

‘ihremy tyes te deal with, We ape dealing Ravengh _

LPR ae merece em mse ee Sher

A? and fe thie bunt. This group bre not iclned tha CRO,

 

r

 
  

ao Ravohutcnsrio del Pushios MEP

eaer peoples are lagging bahind ctheay groupe, We don't have e qualified

 

 

‘1 Uaand to gat fowr pecgle ef their's by L3th of Daterrtor, Wa did asgvort

aay upevation where eur roquisesuents 79 reception points ote. would permit.

  

CSIGNUBATZUSEIEN We tarned tham down Inst reok because they kad -

3 bea boa,

 

Tale grosy preposed to prt im a tein to establish eantacs with internal assets.

Ceomy without goracaunications te leside and have opsratore who valuee to go in

Shue

wd, This group hae not been. effective ehice ALADIP-3 ioft, This operation
could go withia six weeks if wo had cage alficar tims.

AMMAZE Cresp

‘AVE 0639 « Petlowieg thia we are planning ons ta the Santa Clara region - copper
Cee

ming éhase sxtrame woet exd af Island, Critical comamrrenicationg.

bteyondest Evelia OVQUE
Train (ive mea tor group lich Novetmbsr. Tratniag ef operntory will proceed

equrtantly. btorscted fa GW and revise plane to mest presant polley require ae nts,

Fire? garee rasa of this group inte Siarva Crista: oa or abou 20 December,
 

 

 

 

fs
e
Fi

 

.
i
2
¥
5
i
}
i

 

 

Shs 6 eaten enn err quan isey

 

Fi Cperations,

Four operations were gubsnlited by the AMOTS -. COCHBE, APACHE,
CHAAIMO and ous additional without 1 name, Favat thre e are all in prograas
and will be lenpiemaated wishia giz aveva, Pourty plan dy baing studied aad.

693 alas be truplemented withn ain meek. _SHOCHESE ts oparasions whers team
going fa i’ rth coast and thoy are to net vp tha tapered aad reception painte,
Higqe, haa detalles ice COCHISE, AF, ACHE, AND G GERAMIMG, The ponding
ope zation which eon go ln abe waoks te & tena: of shout throe poopls and they
will pe ta 45 ratlvs eaat of tha CKOCIUE pot,
Prepagacda !

| BAUTA ;

< Sehotage plas eubo.tted by the YORD es the Bgyes radio statica sent

up norts already, Soest one mun te WIC ABMICE «10 fer coltection of the nee esa ry
iafovicsicn on the areca. Flan ot ill in offect, -

Pian submitted by the DNE - Assault BOMIATO prisaod.. Caly o> natda red ray

srithla
pesatble uistin geoeral plan of overall Nboratica but otdil wler conside ration.

Not tmplamesied, ‘

e :
Pleas for aappovi af clandestine gusraiiis forcas bn volume within the arcs

siimitted Nerth, FAVE bad t no taddeat toa from tp north re approval ay act.
Pisa which wa dust ap tort tao dofectian of throe aaval ute of Saniiseu

ds Cubs with mais adbective af continued action “sieng reget be lure retreating tc

nectral past guaenitied b DAL Lave pot coostlared it and hava not seat up acer’

ava by

Censblsred M begeo ia yaaenremgamm geacral terns, bet con etart over ays!

 

 

eughtls,

rohan sha weede, hars ta lova tte fe mare”
14-00000

 

Sarteacoarth » Ply

imaute de Recuparacion Pavoluciozario » MAR
7 I ”
1, RICARDO - reMected In WAVE 9E9

 

WAVE 9947 whieh ta ochaduled for 15th. _

1
»

3. WAVE 8987 ~ operation BRAZIL

4. Operation VILLA AMOUR - WAVE 8637

MT wee See

With this group we are plasning operations fov Pinar, Matansas aud Laas Villeo
within nent ois woohs, Leaders of this WYSKRENAZEX AMJAVA-4 and LAZARD
; . We are tralaiag

wilt be Inliltrated within next ein weeks .| THAAMMe three radio cperators for
thie gvoup plas two instyuctors wospens asd sabotage, This training wil! bogin

bg the flret of Deco:mber,

7 Pe pena mer tone itigeneeneis prs ten

  

30th uf November Group :

Tile covered in WAVE 8743 should ell take place by 3&th of November, Fclowing

that the group eill coatings in organization and operations, Tralaing of psracnael

 

fg the eame for this group as previous! group and apcllae te all groups.

Unided RevetectexartaY ”

: Plan establishment of three mangreve caching otathics. WAVE 6855, Raticns

: will be placed on off-shore eaves and receive supplisa wheusver wih athss permits.
: Weather turaleg bad so mmst be aple te send baats whea waather good without

b reqairer-set tor recoption gommittee set op, First ene ia Camagusy by (iret

" of Decembey, Tratning applies to this group also sams 3a provicus, UR boat:

fs Te jana has a €, 900 mile caps Sility and can be msds eperstitenal withia ons month

With give a leag range dust wich eharactsristica and epeod we peed, We feel wa shuld

 
74-0000

TEMAS ened tendMandtie Wt and Cea tna oN,

 

_ Above io sampling of operations in this categery, All above

heave training W/T, other support faellitise, provided or elovely

eupervlesd wy CRA, a :

POORLY CONCEIVED pur MAaviEs a

A Restate = 2 > This group Fpeposed to pst is: 2 taam te ostablish

: eoatnet with isternal aesete. Groep witha? eomaunieattons
to inside aad have opavatsrs whe rofest to go in blind, —

B. MBP eo ~ Good fateations tet shale direct proposals, as eppoaed
to those under our direct oupervisleo, repeatedly turned dows
“yy ws beenase of bad beste, ao W{/T, ote.

- eimos .

G. MDG eo Good placa, geod tmentizns, fall avosta outoide, Jack
militant grep toldas ,

POO. RLY CONCEIVED BUT LETHAL

Ae ORLANDO SpUTO » Prepossd to karrsee a CTC vally in
Casoqutio Stedium tm Miramss teat ht by tiring 75 mm bighe

" guploatves into atndianh forse off shore, Told him ue dlée. ,

8 PRE oo Plan so agent BORIATS prises. ie specifica.

Would bo of general bstarect aly enter plan of overall Lora

; ; _

é

ad White Cress 2° Asarshiatte appronch. Propare teAshe asy
asmagh and gvab operctics. High rish factor, Aigh losses.

 
74-0000

 

‘ : nbs

woe . . .
apparently referring to thetr ow: external groups, ov te The Cubs -
Sevolutionary Counctl (CRC). ‘This attempe to form an internal ‘werge:
1 . . . :
, has created cons {derable confusion in the crganizations Lavotved.

idee bese estimates of the groups’ atrength {a that they could mister —

‘1690 - 700 action agents throughout the island.

ee s

   

 

meee} sore:

Tre

   

  
 

A.

4 wale ef

pol wy ke 056s Ue

paper

i WELb CONCEIVED.

ea-polisteal Group -- infiltrate soven men. Recruit, . davelep
and orgunise reoistance, intelligenco nets, ets. Underway

by rald-Novembes,

’ Sarso non-polities! Group -- Team as above, infilizste five,

: operation will be underway subject te weather conditions.

MRR es Infiterstion operation. Deliver 350 pounds demolition,
Sdlilsvate political leadaz, axfiltrate two others. Undereay
gubjoct to weather conditiens,

UR os Team composed of intersa) leader of group. plas
intelligence coordinates to be tafirrated by 1 December.
Indopondent group heeded by EVELIO DUQUE oo Train five’

ry for group 15th Nowamber. Trafaing of operator will

proceed currently. First three mea af this growp will go inte

Siorva Cristal an or about 20 Decomber,.

Anothar indspsndast group elaime centact with OSVALDO
RAMIREZ ia Zeeambsay, whe desires support. We have

given guidelines for operations, Callms bas $-10 men with

training aed have infierated goneral ocadt,

| MRP eo hntend got four people of this group inelide by 19 Deceinber.

AMHAZERs - Ex MAR - Man with exporienrs along Camagesy
gonst bse feaaihle plan fer vetablishing mangrove caching

flag Liny.

 

 

 
 

 

SRT er eet NTR FIT OMNIS RNaTEEE CE i588

b. Hovimtento Reyoluctonario gal pueblo (MAP) : the prinary :
strength of this Soup Ifes-in the Havana end Les Villas areas. Ite
a{litant menberahip to approximately 150. We ro longer have W/T

Communications, but.cust rely on courlers for cosmuntcation with this

“group. The group 1s not yet reorganized internally to an extent ’

suffletene to irrvolve iteelf in operations of nota. The group's
repreasntative hes recently come to the United stetes, and the current
internal leader is one ANTORIO. Manols Ray vas formerly the external -
repreaentativa of this group. Externally ite princtpal representa-
tives are Rogelio CISNEROS, Ignacio MENDOZA, and Marcos WILLTAHS,

Ray and his former chief assectate col. Barquin, Pazos, Chibas are

not closely associated with’ the present active elements of one MRP

with whom we are in contact.”

meee a! Revoluctonaria cm This group is couposed of °

some thirty emall factions vith the primery strengch resident in the

 

provinces of Ortenta, Matanzas, Ravana, and Pinar del Rio with che
possibility of sons few peuple Yessining in the Escanbray Mountains
of Las Villes. We ap lenger have W/T: communications with this group;
tha former radto operator wae captured. In ‘August of 1961, of its
leaders, CESAR wae reported to be: raptured and JUS{O took asylum and
is Presently in tha Qnitad States. Present toteraai leadership is

RICAADO, Commmtcations with this internal group will have to be re-

. established vie the use of &.courler as soon 4s feasible. Externally

ae thee oe ee al

 

aetict <<

 

 
04 10226-1004

Fo a teetree, gti Sow eae Prd

| _ pet)d po Ob/0
iD petel - ce

Informstton on Seven Cuban Internal Resistance Groups “Bs

. Information provided us by our {ntornal. assete and Cobar ex-

filtrees indicate chat saven. groups oppoeing Castro are faking efforts

“£6 consolidate into one unified resistance. A brief deacription of

the groups follows:

'@, Moyimtento de Recuperacton Revoluctonarlo (MRR); The

primary strength of thie group'lies in the Havane acea, the Santa

_ Clara aroa, and certain ‘areas of Pinar del Rio. Its militent member-

ship nusbers 173. Coumunteation with this group ia maintained threugh

one W/T etreute and sy commuhicationa. © The loader of this group, one

OMAR, te Presently in the United Statearand is -about to return to

Cuba. In his absence, ‘eSTEday ts the aceing leader. Although in zhe
past we provided this group with equipment, monéy, radio operators
and trained ‘opectaiists, we have recently only been able to get 1500 -
‘pounds of material dato thes, However, we are presently attempting

a:
to infiltreta two radio'sets zo this group and backs topping their pros

’ surement of operational funds. locally through deposits made to donor

aecounta in the United States. This group givea the most promise for
effective operations and has a perential for aabotaga, propaganda and.
intelligence activity. Externally, the principal representatives are
Rafeel Aurelio QUINTERO (the ena) end Juan Manuel GUILLOT, The MARL
faction of the: origins] MRR contains as external leaders Ricardo

LORIE and Hino DIAZ.

PR a et
 

Same

 

 

 

 

grincipal _vepresentatives are Alberto PEANANDEZ, Bchavarrts,

% 8

 

Zayas, and Cesar Brito. ‘

dl. Movimiento Democratico Cristiano (MDC): The primary
strength of this group. resides in the Orlence and Matanzas areas,
‘Saithough they have some represencation in Ravana and Pinar de RLo
provinces, _ This group eup loys sound security practices in its activity:
te a greater degres than. any of the other opposicion elements in Cuba.
The former group leader’ ‘Lucas PERNANDEZ Badue ia presontly in the
United Staces; the current internal leader is Albarto del _suNco MESA.
Contact 18 maintained’ with this group via. sw means. Although its
activity has been limited, thie element has the potential for the
conduct of resistance, sabotage and intelligence activities. The MOC”
is a Catholis labor organization numbering approximately 100 meabers
within Cuba. FERNANDEZ, thef{r present external coordinator, is:

au rrently undergoing Fratning. - The former external leader of the MDC

“aias Jose Ignacio RASGO. 7 . i

a. 30th of Kovender Group: This is a emall labor group number-
ing approximately fifty. The organizer of this group, one DAVID
SALVADOR, hae been in prison in Havana for some time. The current

internal leader is one BENITO. We have courier conmunicattons with

‘ this element which ta Dotteved to have a good potential for sabotage

operationa. externally, the Teadershtp ‘of thie group te in doubt

. “°

ae --

  
  

F4-D0000. Sen te ar hems aa cane Sami

ft

 

t
EF
ee obs
: ““eie three individsals are competing for control: JESUS FERNANDEZ,
Fy TAFLOS RGDRIGVEZ QUESADA, ‘and ANDRES CARRILLO MEXDOZA.
fe f.. Rescate Democratico Reve luctonarte {RD}: One cf the
E Bris forming the Democratic Revolt Lonory Front - “(F80) and the 8ub-

  

sequent Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC). They are believed co
nunber twenty-five, and have, a Matted capability for paramilitary
ang Propaganda activittes. The only comaunications existent aith
this group ia by means of courfer. The true external representation

ot this group is somewhat confused since ALBERTO CRUZ, exfiltrated oa

co pmeen ee nnpaneeamim arnt ce

by the CNR to represent the elemeng was replaced by MENDEZ FEREZ at
the direction of ANTONIO VARONA of the FRD in Miect. “ VARONA te the
ttular head of the Rescate." ,

@.. Directarto Revolyc Lonarto Estudtantel (DRE): This stu-

‘dent group, which engages in bemtspherte Propaganda activity. from

eyeing cegencie series

   

Miami under agency: direction, also retat ins Strengch inside even though
a.

ita former leaders have been captured and imprisoned: In view of. the

 

Latin student's traditional characteristic of resistance to state controis
we.expect that the DRE can revive quite a few assets for action inside.

Tes external ldadership is presently Manuel SALVAT Roque.

“Representatives of these groups say they have formed a Natfonal

 

Revolutionary Council (cRR) in Cuba, and many of thetr ‘representatives |

have insisted they owe no allegiance to ary exile organizations,

    
