 

 

sie dt Se on "
REL ellie ;

‘Si. Rolando Masferrer Rojas (deceased by bombing) - born f
12 January 1918, :

; Sii. Lucieno Nieves (deceased by shooting).
iv. Jose De La Torriente (deceased by shooting).

v. Jose Quintana - born 3 October 1945; reportedly a nephew by
marriage te Rosselli,

vi. Jaoquin Antonio Cortizo - born 10 January 1945.

vii. Manola Artimes (the detectives

specifically asked where he is
now). , :

viii. AM/LASH ~ his identity and preser.t whereabouts.

ix, What are the names of the three Cubans mentioned in the
Rosselli testimony? (Two of the three names are in the
9 December 1970 memorandum discussed in paragraph 4 of
this memorandum.)

B. Secondly, they asked for whatever information the Agency could

provide on the following individuals whose citizenship is unknown but who
. are probably U.S. citizens.

. 4. Fred Black ~ identified as a lobbyist involved with Bobby Baker;
he reportedly lives In the Watergate Aparhrents and Is 2 friend
of Maheu, Rosselli and Shimon. They wanted to know if he had t
any connection with the Castro assassination plots. .

fi, Edward Morgan - a D.C. attorney who has reportedly represented
Black, Shimon, Rosselli and Maheu.

. tii. Joseph Shimon ~ {dentified in the Senate Select Committee Report
on Alleged Assassination Plots at page 81 as "a friend of Rosselli

and Giancana." They wanted to know if he had any CIA rela-~
tionship. .

G. Third, they ask a number of general questions which are as
follows: : .

i. Who is the Cuban who provided the speedboat mentioned in the
t Senate Select Committce Report? .

SEGRIT GSnnEs
. ok ek on BF as

-2-

Lo

 

 
 

14.10213-10283 $0 we

 

7
‘ t ? were s ie Z
_. *
et (cannrenenyp | :
ay lige . enna: SS SIELULN ~ , 1
3 Lott . :
z _ . 25 August 1976 _ 4

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

, FROM: Gary M. Breneman
: Assistant General Counsel

 

SUBJECT: Request for Agency Assistance in the Death of John Rosselli

|
i

1. Senator Gary W. Hart (D-Colo.) hzs involved the Senate Select . |
Committee on Intelligence in the investigation of the murder of John Rosselli
(Washir.ctoen Post, 25 August 1976, p. 425, copy attached). In addition, the
Director has met with Hart and stated that the Agency would cooperate in the
investigation of Rosselli's death within the bounds of its charter and its
statutory charge to protect intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized
disclosure.

  

See re tile

2. At the request of the Committee, Mr. Tom White, OLC, and the under-
signed met with two homicide detectives from the Dade County sheriff's office
at 12:30 p.m., 24 August, in the offices of the Committee in the Dirksen
Building. The two detectives were Julio O. Ojeda and Charles Zatrepalek.
‘ Also present at the meeting were the following individuals: Paul Daly and
: Carlton Burrell of the FBI and Mike Madigan, Rick Inderfurth and Mike Epstien
of the Committee Staff. Present for paz: of the meeting were Bill Miller, Staff

Director of the Committee, and Charles Kirkow of the Committee Staff. t

3. The Agency officers explained that they were there to determine how,
“ within the Agency's charter, they could provide assistance to the detectives
i in their investigation and to receive their questions end then pursue the answers
within the Agency. The detectives asked for help in the following areas and
_their questions break down into three basic categories.

tas tts OEP IENES  EE ENTE EE

A. First, they would like to know whatever the Agency knows
about certain Cuban nationals, some deceased and some still alive.

2 May 1936 or 5 February 1936; reportedly a boat manufacturer
who was able to go in and out of Cuba on a regular basis.

s

Pewee ot wh 3774, .

   

 

{
| They are as follows:
: i. Ramon Don Eestevez Dominquez (deceased by shooting) - born

 
14-00000

ae f

_ =~ . _.

ii, Who is "B-1" and whatis the name of the anti-Castro group
both of which are mentioned on page 59 of the Report?

ii. Did Harvey actually pay Rosselli $2,700 to defray the Cuban
expenses as mentioned on page 84 of the Report?

iv. Why was Rosselli approached ingtead ‘of Giancena or someone
else?

v. Did the Agency do a background check on Rosselli or Giancana
and, if so, could they have access to it?

vi. Why was all contact with Rosselli stopped ip 19652 - 0. ew

. e
vii. Would it be possible for them to talk to the man or wen who
served as Chief of Station in Miami ducing 1960 to 1965?

viii. Could they talk to the current Chief of Station |

ix. Wovld it be possible for the detectives to talk to James P.
O'Convell, a retired senior Office of Security employee?

x. Does CIA have any evidence that the Cuban Intelligence Service
an may have been involved in Rosselli's death or thet Cuban agents -
were in the Miami area et the time of his death?

4, Rick Inderfurth presented the undersigned with twa classified memo-
yanda and stated he thought they shou“d be declassified and made available to
the detectives. One is a 9 December 1970 memorandum to the DCI from the

- Director of Security, Subj: "ROSSELLI, J ohnny." The second is a blind memo~y

randum dated 9 August 1976, Subj: "Johnny Rosselli." Copies of both are o
attached. “

5. The undersigned made absolutely no. commitments with respect fo any
of the requests except to the one relating to interviewing the current COS

and I said no to it. ‘The detectives will be in town until Seturday and can be
yeached 2! their motel, Tel. 521-1900, Room 610. Following that they can be
reached at the sheriff's office in Miami at (305) 547-7456.

<LOER —-

 

 
 

~ Gary M. Breneman .
Atts. SS
ay SADT OTN
mo SEGRET SSH

”

ory ene soot

NEES TSO TL ARAL PETE TE

poesia)

bog Nabe ne

RIN P EERE STS NL

1 phe woe RESTORE HE Meth OT,

 

4
