 

 

 

 

  

in hoppier days, Diaz Lanz (¢.) ond Castro discuss ai search fe

  

 

 

Raul Castro.

‘I shall come back to my homeland’

. down. “You-go home and wait,” he

gowled. “IT! see what I am going to
do with you later.”

If I was to escape, I had to put them
off balance, if oniy for a few hours.
With an indifferent shrug I told Al-

| meida I would write 2 letter of resig-
_ mation. All I wanted from life. f said,

was to go back tn my old airline job. I
said, “Tell Fidel I won't cause him any
trouble-and I den’t want him to cause
me any.” Then I added as an after-

thought: “Don’t put any guards on my

ome or follow me around, interfering

"with iny private Life.”

My ruse worked. For the ‘next few
boure I was unguarded. 1 got in touch
with Sergio, prepared my resignation,
and signed it. Then, with my wife
Tania, I burried ta the dock Fidel’:

. men were watching the airports, but’

apparently it never occurred to them
that I might go to Miami by baat
‘Yet in my heart I knew I would come

_ back. I could not rest antit the demoe-

racy ¥ had fought zo bring to Cabs had

-* been realized.

In the U.S. 1 decided not to speak
cut immediately but to wait until events
showed others that Castro was simply

_ exchanging one form of dictatorship

for another. But £ was subpoenacd to
testify before the Senate Internal Se-
surity Subcommittee. about my know!
edge of communism in Cuba. As a guest

it your country, 1 was obliged to tell

what I knew of this matter.

“For the neat few weeks | avoided
publicity as more and more people got
8 glimpse behind the heerd at the real
Castro, Then I tried to reach my people.
Because Castro had denounced me as @
tralter, I wrote a ceply and seat it to
every Cuban newspaper, Not a single
one dared print it.

‘This was the reason I decided to be
my own mailman. | had 200,000 cop
Ses of my better printed and arranged to

’

deliver them by air. Frank Fiorini, the
American who had been with me
through much of the revolution, owned
a B-26 that had been converted to a
civilian plane. The gun openings had
been permanently sealed and the bomb
bay fashioned into a makeshife luggage
cn partment.

On the afternoon of October 21,
Frank and f roared off for Havana. The
winds were af peace in the sky. Except
for come vibration in-the left engine,
nothing happened to av’ fur the interna
tional storm our fight: was to stir’ up.
We swooped low over the country,
stufing our leaflets through the baggage
opening. :

I learned afterward that Castro him-
self was caught in the leaflet blirzard.
Qze copy Cottered right ints his face.
‘When he’ read the message, his whisk-
ers trembled with rage.

My Message for Castro

After we were safety on oar way back
to Florida, Castro's saldiers shot one of
their own B-26s full of holes. A light
plane also was fired upon and its
Chilean pilot wounded. Throughout
Havana the falling ‘shrapnel caused
tragic casualties for which Castro chose
to blame me rather than his own men.

beannoe tell how I know abeat events
inside Cubs today. There are patriots
whe risk their lives to keep ine in-
formed. I-have e final word for you

 

. whe reed this newspaper, whose demo

erotic ideals and institutions are my
inspiration. Whatever must do in the
fature, 1 will take cere net to violute
any ef your laws or your hospitality.
Thank Cod, freedsm of expression ie
we evime here. .

If Fidel Castro should cead thin, [
here @ word, ton, for hice: I demon-
strated te you many times that I wae
willing to die to restore democracy to
Cuba. Be scoured, | have net changed.

 

  

ce cn tae wae

i

 

 

  

 

 

 
 

 

    

 
  
 
  
 

a:
s

  
 
 

 
  

PATE PRB AND WO

 

CASS CATON

_ SBeCoR-E-T

 
 
 

i
f
i

DISPATCH

 

 

TQ WHD Representative, Miami ‘
° ore Havana, 7 , oo

  
 

 
   
  
  

 

 

   
  
   

 

    

 

C/T arte Tharperers

 

   

    
       
           
 

'
|
. ‘
a oo HE. “ABS — (CHECK “I ONE)
© Heeting of Fitel CASTRO with Gustero MECHADO
in Caracas es reported by Fedro Inia AZ lana
See paragraph 3 “SY QUAUFIED HG DESK ONLY .
ERFEREMCES; “ : é
1. In an article by Pedro lais DIAZ Lanz, former Chief, Cuban Air Force,
which appeared in PARADE of the Kas on Post on 3 January 1960 entitled .
“Why I Fight Fidel ®caStRo* (2orgTHe - the following statement is made: | .
“My doubts grew when I aecompanied him on his official visit
to Venezuela. He put on a big act of not vanting to meet Venezuela's . |
top Comcunist, Gustavo MACHADO. Yet ba locked himself in a bathroom \
with MACHADO for two hours. It vas the longest talk he held with . 1 oo
-anyone in Venezuela.” 4

2. Qes*avo MACHADO bas for some years been well-known as an overt top
Comuniat leader in Venezuela, but the meeting with CASTRO, tf it did in fact
occur, a6 presucably it did, could have much more sicnificerce in Light of
the following information previously received from a source proven to be
reliable in the past end known to have been in a position to have knowledge
of RIS activities during world War II. . : ,

    
        
 
    

“Gustavo MACEADO Morales, born 1898 in Caracas, Venerucla, was. -
recruited in the summer of 1944 by tha KKGB in Bogota, Colombia, for .
political intelligence work ia his native Venezuela. HACHADO was
initieily controlled vy RIS through bis vife, Maria Lucas MACHADO,
who maintained contact with Soviet Consular officials during the.
middle forties." : .

    
    
     

3. In view of the above, it is requested that KARNIEZY interview Pedro
inis DIAZ ienz in the rost minute detail concerning bis knowledge of errange- -
ments made for this contact with MACHADO in Venesuela, the reactions of CASTRO: . ~
to the arrangenents, and any indicated reactions in the days following that oan i
meeting. The interview should incinde specifics as to the location, identities ;
of others who vere knowledgeable of the contact, the length of the meeting,
and other circumstances surrounding it. ne :

 

Although our efforts at this time and in this connection gry not in.
any way establish that CASTRO is a Soviet agent, it is believed that as
mach detail ss possible should be acquired concerning this meeting, since
it may be of considerable value at sous future tine. 7

“3
¢
1

 

GLIVER G, GALBGND. |

Distribution: - oo, . jo - - |
|
{
{

 

3-Kiest
2 ~ Havana
os
26 Jenuary 1960 :

sed cn mewo from Chief, CI/SID to Chief CI/ops, dated 12 Jan. 1960.)
mo, : i
 

‘iog-10168-10007

*
_ R’ AEE —_
“ami ee comuenrs _

Sate
=
74
j

  

a

Please Coordinate

 

Q
?

F
_
Cy
|

Ken

Wiliaukism

          

NBecwesSiFIED |

RI/#3 | PC} :

LN

mx
=

  

    
 

(sat | | Tol rec eppias |
os a De ee
Pe

3,
rN
RR
Bs Z

COORDINATING OFFICERS

 

. OFRKE Zed
oy Ae sean ora
yy ora, |
of nie

“ 201-259, 120

t
:

 

        
  
  
 

    
      
 
 

Fike mumecr

 
     

DOCUMENT DATE, CocuMENT numEcR
comes : ¥
. Many. {

?
ene : 7 een :
 

 

: DLAMI, FLA.

‘NE YEAR ACO this week, Fidel Castre riamphantly
entered Havana and took over the Government
ef Cuba. One of his first moves was te appoint me chief

+ of the Cuban Air Force. Today, 12 short months Later,
~>,- [asa opposing Castro’s revolution with all the strength

“ Pence nsed to help bring it chert.

Foe the vecond time in my. life, | em an outlaw an-
able to retura to my native Isnd except at the risk of
being ehot, Yet I have committed pe crime unless it
és a crime to fight for freedom-—abe kind of freedom
all Americans enjoy and all true Cabans long to share.

Most men become revolutionaries because of .an
appetite for adventure, greed for power, or zeal for

+ weform. A few like myself become revolutionaries bv

accident. Looking back, ii hardly seems possible that
oaly eight years ago I was a gay young pilot for Q Air-
ways, commuting between Cuba and Florida, without
& rebellious thought in my head. .

My years since have been crowded with bloodshed,
death, glory, terror, and bitterness. There were escapes

, that stilt make my merves ¢wang like violin strings.

Then came our moment of triumph. And finally 1
faced Fidel Castro, a man to whom [ had been devoted,

- with a cocked pistol ready to kill him.

Bat iam rashing ehead of my story. Let me go back

” ge early-1952, when Dr. Carlos Prio was President of

Cube. Accidentally I earned that his rival, Fulgencie
Betise, planned to take over the government, | passed
em this information through my father, a career gos
erament emplore. And on March 10, 1952, as I had

. warmed, Hatista seized the presidency.

+ When, later, I met Prio, hz seemed genuinely pent
teat about the corruption in his administration and
swore he would win back freedom for the Cuban
people. He was so fervent that # left the interview a
gevolutionary dedicated to the same cause af Liberty.

‘Once they were comrades. Then this man stood
“ready to kill the Cuban Premier. Now he fells.

In those days it was common for airline pilots wo
smuggle nylons and Scotch iat Cuba—sormeching I

- mever did. Now, however, I started bringing m rifes.

After a year, someone whispered to Batista's secret
police. The tortured and humiliated my father. Then
they seized me for 10 days of cross-examination.
They lacked evidence to betd ase, but it was only a
matter of time until they would come after me again.
fn a makeshift disguise. 1 sipped off to Camaruey.
registered at a hotel under a false name, and planned

" muy eseape to Haiti with a pilet friend who was going

there to dust crops. One marky morming ¥ hid ect ia
the grass at the end of the beavily guarded airstrip,
leaped aboard the plane as it wastaxiing, and eft my
homeland behind.

.Now a revolutionary, | west from Port au Prince
to Miami. For the next two vears, { worked as besbov
and dishwasher. In those days. Fidel Cast:o was oaly
a name to me. He had attacked the Army barracks at
Santiago de Cuba on July 26, 1953. For his pains, he
was languishing in 2 prison cell.

Staughter of the tanecents
"When Batista granted amnesty to all political of-

"fenders in, 1955, Castro wae freed and I hurried boove.

I wanted nothing more than to resume my peaceful
profession as a pilot.

But try as I might, ( could wet close my eres te
Batiste’s terror. For my own eves witnessed Batieta’s
Police shoot down innocent virtis Personal freemds
were tortured and murdered. f myself wes faleety ac-
cused of barning sugar cane eod threatened with
death. Anges boiled up inside me until at last 1 jeened
Castro’s 26th of July movemens and volunteered for
mndercover work.

My first orders were to sneak out of Cuba and ferry —

weapons to Castro's hide-out ia the Sierra Macstra

 

Mountains. No one with my sock ouna neni

to walk into a Cuban airport and catch a flight out of
the country. 1 had to create a new personality.

First I borrowed a passport from Carlos Bastida, 2-
sympathetic newspaperman from Ecuador. ! bad never
visited Ecuador, but f became an expert on that coun-
iry. Deven Fearned to tak
and to forge Bastida’s signature. Finally 1 donned a
Panama hat, dark glasses, and a sports coat that seemed
appropriate for a South American reporter, Then with
Frank Fiorini, an American friend of the movement,
I set out from Santiago m Camaguey.

“What Are You Doing Here?”

- To give the trip the appearance of an cuting,.we
brought along a couple in the back seat. Batista ‘patrols
stopped us 15 times and frisked us for weapons. But
they politely left the gurl alone; they never suspected
that this giggling teenager carried a pistol strapped
under her skirt.

At Camaguey, Frank and [ made our ways separately -
to the airport. There I realised my dark glasses were
arousing the suspicions ef airport plaiaclothesmen. If
T kept theat.on, [ would invite an interrogation. If I
took them off, I woald risk recognition for | was

“known at every airport ia Cabs. E could imegine some
friend booming ont to me. “Pedro Luis, whet are you

doing here?? :

The plainclothesmen stacted to approach. With cal-
culated casualness althorgh my heart was peanding, 1
removed the glasses, palled off my hat for good meae-
ure, and strolled innocently around. The pelice lost
interest. But right up to the moment the plane doors
shut, f expected to he recegnized.

From that time on, my work for the revohation was
one narrow escape after another. From Mizsei L went

to Costa Rica, where I picked up « C-46 lowled with

Paves ban. 2, 1960

ad

with an Ecuadorean acctat -

é
 

 

 

 

Premier Fidel Castro

    

 

8 Brought the big cargo plane dowa on a dirt road

at Gizneguilla, not far from Castro's headquarters,
where guerrillas were waiting to unload. Some actually
‘wept jorful tears at the sizht of the ammunition arriv-
‘ing in the nick of time.

The road was so nartww that one prop whacked a

“fence post. I could neither repair the damage nor take
j of again before Batista’s patrols spotted the plane.
‘Regretfully, E splashed gasoline over the C-46 and set

 
 
     

 

 

pen His personality bad the glow of a torch.
(- - & Miracutous Escape .
4 Weeryed im the mountains six weeks, fighting with
the eround troops. Onee f was cought in the open by @
\, Batine F-47 fighter, Bullets hicked up the dust all
" around me, but nticacolousty [wasn't even ecratched,
‘When Fidel learned I wae risking myself on the
Groand. be sent urgent orders that I should stay out
of the Sighting. He bad lew trouble recruiting soldiers,
_ be complained, thas finding trained pilets whe could

* We cannot condemn the Chureh right sway. That is s

eapons inte the rugged mountain: of the islands.
eee out forces in the north capaured a veal, beat
up plane. Its single engine 42s underpowere a ‘
badly in need of averhaul. The coly navigation?!
equipment was a compas, which rumed out 8
degrees off. But this pitiful plac made up the entre
rebel Air Force for some months uool, for $5.
down, I bought a little Cessna 159 in Miami. ch
This plane served as our arms airbit. Once, sit
only 300 pounds load limit to spare. i crammed at
1,000 pounds of rifles and amrouzision. We were a
sitting duck for patrols, but the cals plane we bral
overlooked us. Another time, after taking off out uf a
mountain canyon, | had 2 near-miss with a Batista
frigate with antiaircraft guns. Scill another time
was forced to make a storm emergency landing in
cs.
uh tay missions was te fly weapons to Calabaze
where Fidel’s brother Raul was in ebarge of the serond
front, From the Grst, be impressed me as wild and
eereliable. When be grambled that Fidel was getting
most of the arms, I retorted sharply: “I am not bring:
ing weapons to you as an individual i om bringing
weapons to Cubans who are Gghting dictators! am
Later s friend, who has my complete confidence, tol
me «submarine brought in a big baci of weapons for
Rast. Ky the uaiforms and barese of the crew, my
iend judged the vessel was Rossian.
Shee were roany flights in overloaded planes,
many Landings in the mountains 2t night without
lighis. But perhaps my narrowest escape came after I
» delivered the arms for Ernesto (Che) Guevara, whos
1 later found out was preCommunist, to lead the

“mous attack oa Santa Clara. I was Saree te tamed im .

 

Ty area that Batista’s patrols had under constant

watch. A hundred waiting guerrillas grabbed the am-
munition whiw [ hurriedly poured g2s into the wing
tanks from Sve-gallsn cans. Suddenly a Batisea B-26
spotted us and dived down with guns blazing.

“Liberty or Death”

My helpers scattered into the jungle, leaving ‘me
alone in a hail of bullets. T stand on the wing ecrear-
ing “Cowards!” until Faustino Perez. now in charge
of confiscating Batista Property, emerged with tro
others to help me camouflage the plane. Later { dis-
covered 2 bullet had pierced the nese tank. One spark
and the plane would have gone up hike a bomb. Since
we had to assume Batista troops would soon be on
their way, f struck a match and once more watched
@ precious aircraft go up in Aames. .

Ou August 24. 1958, Fidel appointed me head of the
rebel Air Force. My friends had the date inscribed on
a watch thar I atill wear. Thea. oa New Year's Day
1959, just one year ago. tame cer triumph. Batiste
handed over the government and ded the country, §
was in Costa Rica, picking up another load of weapons,
when the exciting news came through When Castro
appainted me chief of the Cuban Air Force, he did se
in a letter that ended with “Libertad O Muerte"
Liberty of Death -

My faith in Castro wan fire jolted after ble trium
phant entry inte Havana, Throughout the fong march.
dering Catholic women had pinned boly medals on
him. I overheard Che Guevara tease bim about the
“derocations” he was weering: “Listen,” Fidel said,
we have to go slow. Most of our preple are Cathe

 

Pewer we cannot destroy so easily.” It was the firs

anticchurch statement Thad heard frem him.
Me doubts grew when € accompanied him on his

oficial visit to Venezuela, He put oa a big act of not

 

 

 

: t
wanting to mect Venezuela's tup Communist, Gustavo
Mechedo. Yee be lacked hiseif in a bathroom with
Machade for nro hours. It ha che longest talk he
i sone in Venexue’
ar ceed to Fidel that his brother Raul-had
named Corsmaunists, who hado’t fired a shot in the
revolution, 2s army commanders. Fidel replied ear-
nesaly: “I ara going to hase to dismiss Raul. bam aoe
ing to let the Communists over.
Poe Fidel did not dismiss Baal. Instead be pot him
in charge of the armed forces and gave Che Goevaras
control of agrarian reform. My faith in Fidel was
shaken, Having fought for free speech, I decided to
put it to the test. But 1 was wise enough in the ways of
revolations to arrange with my brother Sergio Dias
Brail ie have a boat ready for a anick getaway. Tien
Lissued @ ststement that I was ready to fight any die-
tatership—Batita, Trajille, er “the worst dictatorship
in the world. communism.”

The Cocked Pistol

This was the showdown. Juzn Almeida, commander
of a tank regiment, came wath a message that Fidel
wanted to see me at his home. I strapped on my pistol,
slipped in a clip of 14 bullets, and removed the safety
catch. When I faced Castro he erupted like a vokano.

shoeld you make a statement against com-
aeees he demanded. “You will only confuse the
people. You are not supposed t do anything without
my consent | am the one «ho tells you what to do
when” .
ae seieer T asked whether he had not become a dic
tator himself. Why should I mot have freedom to ex:

ce renteteed Fee

em ny wpm. 2 was agate commun and

stood br my convictions, I declared. “Remember,” I

said, “you did not win the revolution alone. You ad s

rey help and the help of other friends.”

1 warned fiercely that I would not accept arrest or
g0 to jail for saving what I beeved. To silence me he
would have to kill me. “You will have to carry my |
body om vour shoulders and explain what has hap-
pened,” I said. “You will have to explain to the Caban
people shr ! have been killed after speaking against
communism.” an

My hand «2s on my pistol, and I was ready to use
it. Castro looked at me—and at ay pistol—bard for
@ moment. He was far from sare whether the Cuban
people would support him in any action against his
Air Force chief for being anti-Communist. He backed ©

; . Continued on pege7

With his wite Tone, Major Dias Lenz umiles for photo. Now le
domi, his Teaitet bombing’ of Hewana was intemotional incident,

  
