 

oatoaragg] oo

  
 

OLC 77-1971
16 May 1977
- BRooten/

    

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Telephone Conversation with Mr. Kenneth Brooten, Former
Assistant Counsel, House Select Committee on Assassinations

(HSCA)

1. On 11 May 1977, the Office of Legislative Counsel received a
telephone call from the office of Representative Henry Gonzalez
(D., Texas) asking that this office contact Mr. Brooten, who is now
practicing law in Florida. It was stated that he had information of
interest about the House Select Committee on Assassinations. The
undersigned responded to this request but was unable to reach Mr.
Brooten until this date, since he was out of town.

2. I reached Mr. Brooten in his office in Florida and identified
myself to him as representing the Office of Legislative Counsel of the
CIA. I reminded him of the last time we had met in December 1976 when he
was still a member of the HSCA staff. He said that he recalled that
meeting. Mr. Brooten stated that he had been receiving "dribbles of
information'', which he termed as third hand and hearsay, indicating to him
that someone who purported to represent CIA was making general inquiries
about the modus operandi of Mr. Richard A. Sprague, the former Chief
Counsel of the HSCA. When I learned the intent of his call, I asked

_ Mr. Brooten for his permission to have my secretary monitor the conver-
sation so that we could have an accurate transcript. He agreed to this.
The purpose of his contacting us was to offer his views on how Sprague
and his people had operated in the past and would operate in the future.
I declined his offer. When I mentioned that Mr. Sprague was no longer
with the Committee, Brooten answered most emphatically by saying Sprague

“hired most of the people on that staff except me." I responded that
the HSCA was George Cary's and my account and that I knew nothing about
any such inquiries nor would I even know why such questions would be
asked.

 

3. We ended the conversation on a pleasant note and I tried to
leave the impression with him that we would not be contacting him further
on this matter.

u
Chief, Coord7

y xl A Us casuet
as T. Cummins
ation and Review Staff

Distribution: ' iesecce vt bigner
\riginal - OLC Subject 1 - OLC Chrono - t. to DDCI(how Laphaniy
1 - OGC (Morrison) 1 - SA/DO/O 1- 1G (Leader)
1 - Dir/OS = 22/23
OLC:DIC:hms (16 May 1977) (CONFIREN TAL

PTh VL gy

 
