74-0000

 

 

HERS

SECRET

1 ‘Tt must be stressed that the voice intercept and photographic
coverage was not (and normally {2 not) processed in “real time.” The

means of acquisition and the volume of the information precludes anything

 

but the spot reporting of items judged by the monitor. to be of more than
ordinary interest ‘and. therefare, noted | tn surmary logs. Full texts of

selected items require consultation of the tape and either a full tran- |

: scription or full trans lation or both. " Photo. : coverage tends to becane

 

available in quantity lots which requires scanning and: selection ona
rapid and accelerated: basis in four or. five day “peaks.” One of the

"triggers" that norma ly: operates. to focus and accelerate more speedy

""Peview and reporting of, this ‘kind of raw intelligence is- the “mention of

‘a name. This wis precisely what occurred in the second of two conversa-
tions on 1 October with the Soviet Embas sj». during which the- speaker. ‘said
he was “Lee oswAip. “tt was this” information reported by the Staton to
Headquarters in its oe rst indication on OSWALD cn & ‘October 1963.

13. The Mexico Station did one more thing in its 8 October report
on Lee OSWALD based on its 1 October voi ce intercepts: #t coupled the

data with descriptive information ft had acquired from a sensitive

- collateral source--a photograph of a male individual, apparently an

- Anerican, who was observed entering the Soviet Embassy on 1 October.

The Station reported this detail on the 8th as a matter of coincident
fact. The Station did not assert or suggest that the data deduced fran
the photo was in fact OSWALD, or indeed, was in any way related to OSWALD.

SECRET

 

 
74-00000

 

 

SCCREE

 

Lee se Harvey 0! WALD » CIA Coverage 0 of. i

As, One additional element of background must be stipulated now as
the final precondition tovunderstanding the relevance (or irrelevance)
of ‘the photo of the unknown individual placed in the chain of evidence

on 23 November in Dallas by FBI Agent ‘Bardwell coum: what was the ,

totality of CIA Mexico’ s coverage ‘of OSWALD! $ activity-as of the after.

noon of the. tri when an “available. ‘coverage had been checked?

15. The totality of Mexico Stat ton coverage on, or reasonably

inferable to be OSWALD, consisted of five (5) voice intercepts: as. Foltows:

a. 27 7 Septenber 1963 (Friday), 1605 hours Mexico city | time.

“Silvia DURAN, a Mexican national, a local employee of the Cuban
Embassy, Consular’ section, a receptionist, speaks with an unknown
male at the Soviet Embassy. Silvia DURAN tells the.man that the
American citizen was theré, the one who wants a visa for Cuba on.
his way to the Soviet Union, and he wants to know with whon he was

. talking there because she (Silvia DURAN) had. ‘sent him to the. Soviet:
Embassy saying that if they accepted him and gave him a visa, then
the Cubans (Enbassy} would also give him a visa without further
paper work, only advising Immigration in Cuba. The American, she
says, wants to know with whan he had talked there because he says
he was told there would be no problem. The man in the Soviet

Embassy says to wait a moment. A different Soviet speaks, and

SECRET

 

 

 
 

10, “At no tice during his stay In Mesico City did the CIA acquire
a photo of QSWALO. A careful review of all coverage, voice intercept,
as well as photographic, of both the Seviet and Cuban Embassies was
conducted by the Station on 22 and 23 November 1963 after the assassina-
“tion, going back to materials from August 1963. It is, therefore, firm
that there was no CIA photo coverage of OSWALD at anv time during his,

Mexico trip or stay in Mexico City. Moreover, although it had made a

, cabled request .on 15 October, the Mexico Station had no photo of OSWALD © -

in its records, nor did it receive one from Headquarters --which did not

have oné either--before 22 November 1963.

MW. Parte This intensive review of voice intercept transcripts”
by the monitor and other personnel on the basis of the 1 October inter-
cept--which had been repor ted to Headquarters and disseminated to the
interested members of the intelligence community (as an ex-Marine OSWALD
was a Navy and FBI case under the Delimitations Agreement, and potentially
of interest to the Department of State)--turned up matches based on _
content with materials intercepted on.27 and 28 Septenber 1963. These
matches were reperted to Headquarters on 23 November 1963. Analysis ,
based on voice comparison. (except for what could be recalled by the
monitor--and this was not an insignificant element because of the
fhemorably poor ‘Russian spoke by OSWALD) could not be made because the

tapes, in accordance with the normal practice, had been erased and re-used.

SECRET

 
 

 

SECRET

-1S83 to about 8:30 a.m. 2 Uctober 1963, His place of residence was a
seall comercial traveler hotel, not frequented by "gringos"--the
Hotel Commercio--where he was registered under alfas., Exhaustive and

jews and interrajation by ‘the Mextcan authorities and i

 

detailed Inte
the FBI after the assassination, established that fn the recollection of

. all hotel personnél-he left early and returned late each day of his stay.

_ 8. _ ASsumtng ,. and al lowing for the fact of late arrival and early
departure, that he Slept one-third of the time of his stay (38 or 39
. hours), ‘there remain some 78 hours of activity to be accounted for.
“Overall, CIA's’ inf ormati on.can account sole ly for very brief periods
during 27, 22 September and 1 October. All coverage by CIA during the

“entire period was technical.. The Station had no live source (living

agent) coverage efther |

“9. It should be noted that OSWALD was in no-sense “under Thvest{-

 

“gation.” Hone of ‘the facts. of his defection and stay in the USSR and’
return tothe U.S., 1959 - 1962, were known to Mexico Station files. ,

_ Before 10 October 1963, when the bare bonés of his biography were
forwarded by Headquarters in response to a Station cabled report of

8 October which had forwarded, on @ routine basis, what appeared to be

a contact by an American for a visa to Cuba in transit to the USSR. This
was indicated and deduced from technically acquired information on .
T October, which was the first and only occasion in which OSWALD |

identified himself (partially) by true name.

; SECRET

 

 

 
14-00000

re

- Babassies in Mexico City.

Sensitive intelligence operation being conducted in October 1963 by the

CIA | against the Soviet arid Cuban

+

 

3. Under the extraordinary press of effort to develop infornatfon

">on the assassin and’ the assassination, copies of the photograph were
made avai lable by CIA's Mexico Station chtet on the afternoon of ye

_ 22 November to the local FBI representative, and later that’ day,

asserted ly on the decision. of the Anbassador, copies were conveyed by”

an FBI representative by a special flight. carried out by the U.S. Haval

_ Attache to the Dallas office of the F8I for possible use in the ongoing.
Anvestigation. . One photograph, cropped by the FBI, was shown to.
‘Mrs. Marguérite OSWALD (Lee Harvey OSWALD's mother) in Dallas: on the:

1

evening of 23 November 1963 by FBI Agent Bardwell D. OOUM.

- 4. The Warren Commission's report describes the sequence of events
at op. 364-365. and 667 (Attachment B) which ultimately resulted in
Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD 's allegation that she had been shown a cropped
photo of Jack RUBY the day before he murdered her son. (A further
complication compounding this erroneous conclusion was the fact that
when she had been shown a copy of the same photograph in her appearance
before the Commission, it had been cropped by: the FBI in Washington in

a slightly different manner.)

5. No detail in the Warren Commission report illustrates more

vividly than this one the difficulties that beset simple truth in the

SECRET

 

 

 
14-0000

” Lee Harvey. OSWALD > Reporting on Nevico City Stay

Boliticfred, rigidly deterministic intercretive climaty tfat has been

   

rurtured by the media over the past decade about the te ay Assassina-

_ tion, The photograph, acknowledced maw net to be RUS*, hus continued to

preoccupy "specialists" and has becare the centersiae of another
“hypothiésis that holds OSWALD to have been “framed” by zAe’ use of a”

double in his activity inMenica city?

   

 

   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
    
  
 
 
   
  

6. Although inno way related to Lee: Harvey’ OSKRE or his stay in _
Mexico City from the morning of 27 Septender 1963 to the morning. of .
2 October 1963, at least one set of photographs of the unidentified man
originated during OSWALD's, stay there: It is important, therefore, to
an understanding of .the acquisition. and handTing of the Photographs by
the Nexico Station to review what the Station ascertained and: did: with
the information it deve oped about OSWALO in Mexico tity. together. with .

Headquarters action on that information.

'

7. From alt credible evidence known to this time (none, incidentally, ,

 

added since the exhaustively unique work of the Warren Commission),
Lee Harvey OSWALD spent four (4) full days and two (2) cartial days--
about 116 hours in all--in Mexico City from about 10:0° a.m. 27 September

@ This ts the thrust of the article "Tre CIA and the Maz who Was Not ,
Oswald" by Bernard Fensterwald and Gearge O'Toole in tte New York Review
of Books, a copy of which is attached to reference (Aitacnment

  

3
SECRET
 

 

 

ae et

consideration should be given now to "whether or not the

oto. facilitate reference to individual items.  [NB: There

_ ds. only one copy of this collection; this is itz}

. Warren Commission public record. However, it was intro-

SECRET

3. The attached repo port ig not intended to be an

answer to the Fensterwald/o" Toole article which Mr. Belin

attaches to his men worandum. (I have prepared a paragrap Sha
by- paragraph réfutation and comment on that article,

which. I. believe is more cline and fiandled by a sepas Ne
me

rate memorandum to Mr. Belin, and I will Prepare this’ 4s

a niemorandim if that is desired, ),

‘4. The point of the referenced ‘memorandum is that

 

entire atter can be Fully disclosed at this time." This
on is designed, to make. it possible for you, the
IG and 6thers whom you may desire to consult to make this:

 

. décision.. The narrative= interpretive. summary has been:
put-together in’ such a way that it discloses no cyptonyms. .

pseudonyms. or other CIA jargon. ‘However, “its contents co
well beyond what has been released to the public thus far
in the Warren Commission doGumentation. This point must
be borne’ in mind in making a decision on Mr. Belin's
‘question. To remove any question in anybody! s mind about
our good faith-in this matter, the narrative is backed up
by ‘copies of actual documentation from our files. It
scéms to’ me nécessary, in reply to Mr. Belin, that he or
his representative review the documentation that backs up
the narrative. The documentation has not been keyed into
the narrative presentation, but it follaws the chronologi-
cal order of' presentation from 9 October into the latest’
developments in; the matter, and there is an overall index -

5; As noted above, . oné. of. the photographs | taken in
Mexico City on. 4 October 1963 was introduced into the —

duced. into that record in two cropped versions. The
Warren Commission ‘and its staff were made fully aware in
the course of their inquiry at Headquarters and in:
Mexico City of the origins of the photograph, the fact
that we had additional photographs of the same individual
taken at differént times in Mexico City and on the basis
of full knowledge of these facts reached their own con-
clusions regarding the irrelevance of the photograph to
OSWALD and the assassination. |

6. In fact, we actually hold twelve different photo-

-graphs of the Unidentified Individual. Each of these are+—

reproduced in the collected documentation backing up the
narrative report (see Items 25 - 27). Chief, LA Division,

2

SECRET

 

  

 
 

104-10196-10000]

 

ee a

1OUR JOl9b — 10000
FAZ

Tee

2 May 1975

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Chief, Operations Staff

SUBJECT -4 Review of Agency Holdings regarding~

Photograph of Unidentified Individual
in Mexico City published by the
Warren Comission .

Letter. dated 15 april’ ‘1975 by
Mr. David W. Belin, Executive Director
ef the Commission on cia Activities

. within the United States, to
Mr. EL, Henry Knoche (copy attached to
accompanying report)

.

REFERENCE

l. This. is further to, and in completion of, ny
interim memorandum of a few weeks ago.

‘2. The attachment is a detailed review in narrative,
chronological order - together with appropriate comment:
ary - of our extensive holdings-on the OSWALD case that.
have a bearing on the matter of photographs taken by
Mexico City Station on(h, jd-and 25 October 1583 of an
Unidentified Individual. “As a consequence of a combina
tion of analytical error, misjudgement and under the
stress of an-urgent desire to contribute to the develop-
ment of the investigation of the assassinaticn, a
cropped version of one of the photographs of the
Unidentified Individual was introduced into the chain of
evidence in the OSWALD case on 23 November 1963 by an
FBI representative in Dallas. The successive vicissi-
tudes which have now made this event a cause celebre:
right down to the present moment are detailed in the

narrative.
. SECRET

et wer ear ST

 
 

SECRET

. had. indicated in writing to Chief, CIOPs, that he has no
objection for Mr. Belin to do whatever is desired with
these photographs at this time. It should be noted that
Mr. Fensterwald in 1971 - 1972 was actually shown, by

- Mr. Houston during.a visit to the Agency, two of the °

‘ twelve® ‘photographs, other than the one already publ ished
in the ‘Warren Cofmissicn report. (It is these two that
he has published in The Néw York Review of Books article
which Mr. Belin attaches to his memorandum, )

“9. «Ite seems to me that whoever hakes’ a decision on
. “whether the entire matter can be fully disclosed at this.
time’ should bear“ in mind that a subsidiary. décision must
oy i to crop or otherwise fuzz up
nd of the “photographs or,. alternatively, to
‘entire run of the photographs for the first
gout “the background. Obviously, none

   

 
  
 
 
 

 

   
 
 

 

   

   

-Belin ‘an
‘they . should. see the entire documentation as (ie
Se Perhaps after that, ‘the question’ of what could
s¢lissed and the: question of “how??- and. "how 'much?"
could be ‘taken up. with Mr. Belin himself. My personal
recommendation is’ that the more we can say about this
matter in a fully open and final manner, the better off
we will be as.an Agency. But it is my understanding
that, there are still sensitive aspects deriving: ‘from the

- fact that the operation which produced thé photographs ;
“was [ fara. as a consequence

publication at this time would create additional problems
at that level in México. Also, it should be noted that
‘the Ambassaddf, according to Win Scott's memorandum to
B : J.C: King on 22.November 1963 (see Item 8 in the backup
ae” documentation)*,” allegedly played a direct role in the
: tdecision to put the photographs into the hands of the PBI
in Dallas laterally from the Field. As far as I know,
there has not been anything published about this aspect
at any time in the past nor have wé had any discussions
with the State Department about that aspect of the matter.

© te Mee

 

 

Raymond G. Rocca

Attachments:
as stated

SECRET

 
 

2 May 1975

SUBJECT :° The Photo of ah-Unidentified- Individual in the Warren
Comission Report: A Factual Chronological Survey’

REFERENCE: Memorandum by David W. Belin to Nr. E. Harry Knoche,
, > 15 April 1975 (Attachment A) ee

1 Refereice memorandum suggests’ it would be ‘appropriate to
reconsider full disclosure at this timé of the circumstances and factual
data relative to the Subject. The purpdse of this survey. is to permit a
realistic evaluation of. the suggestion. : se

Background ;
2. This examination and summary of the record concérns “a crooped

photograph considered by ‘the President's Commission on the’ Assassination

of President Kennedy (hereinafter cited as the Warren Commission) and

introduced into ‘evidence as Qdum Exhibit No. 1 The photograph

(together with othérs of. the same individual) originated fran a highly

1 See Hearings Before the President's Comission on the Assassination
of President Kennedy (hereinafter cited as Hearings), Vol. XX. p. 697.

 

SECRET

 

 

 

 
