yon . . . : >. : ° . ‘
ep SRGRET

Page 2
03 :

identify the Subject, the undersigned contacted

(469-6389) after a check with SDO showed he was an Agency aa yee.
Mr. Lassin was provided a description of the Subject and the y4/..
nities Guano ne identified the Subject as (Emilio RODRIGUEZ )and
recommended that the Chiet/wH, Mr. William Brok, be notified.

Mr. Bro® was contacted, advised of the tenative identification of
the Subject, and requested that someone who knew the Subject be

. dispatched immediately to view the remains and make a legal
identification. Mr. Bro® stated that this would be done. He was
also informed that Richard Hanna/ s0/wH was enroute to the Hospital
to assist and had alerted JMWAVE of the Subject's death. -

ee

5. Capt. Greer, Fairf Police’ bepartment was advised that
Subject's true identity was (Bnf'lio Rodriguez) and that we would
have someone view the remains and make a legal identification. He
was requested to allow Subject's fellow workers to notify the
family, in which action he concurred. Capt. Greer stated that an
autopsy would be performed and as soon as the coroner determined
the cause of death, the body could be claimed by relatives.

6. Mrs. Nancy Hackley, Registrar, Fairfax Hospital, was -
: requested to change all records to reflect the Subject's true
: name, since he had originally been admitted as Cordova. Mrs.
Hackley, who had been extremely cooperative, stated she could
Poo. change all records except the form which reflected that the
' Subject had been pronounced dead upon arrival at the Hospital.
This form had been signed by a doctor who had gone off duty.
She suggested that Mr. Foster, Hospital Adinistrator, be contacted
as he was the only one who could destroy this form. She stated
. that upon legal identification of Mr. (Rodriguez ») she would release
all of the Subject's personal effects togfne undersigned.

  
 
 
  

Att tr tnaremttrsata

Geneceds
tRsoNaL

Stat Ina
RaRige ew

Ae ad

cai
“oF
mi
-
so
rr
of

 

wpe
 

2 SEGRET.

13 November 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: THE RECORD

of
SUBJECT : \ RODRIGUEZ, Emilio Anerico)
Uke

1. On Thursday evening, 9 November 1967, at approximately
8:45 p.m. y the SDO reported that they had received a phone call
from Dr. Cassidy (an OMS Contract employee) who was on duty at
the Emergency Ward, Fairfax Hospital reporting that one David
Francisco CORDOVA had been admitted as a DOA from Dulles Airport.
Dr. Cassidy had reported ‘that he recognized several names found
among Mr. Cordova's personal papers which led him to believe
that Cordova was an Agency employee. An SO Indices search of the
name CORDOVA failed to confirm Cordova's Agency affiliation.

2. The undersigned proceeded to the Fairfax Hospital Emergency
Ward, arriving at approximately 9:15 p.m. Capt. Greer of the
Fairfax County Police Department was contacted and he stated that
although the Subject's papers identified him as Mr. CO OVA, his
wedding ring and school ring contained the initials (ear After
examining the Subject's identification, it became apparent that
the Subject was indeed associated with the Agency in some manner,
but his true name could not be determined. The SDO was contacted
and requested to alert the CS duty officer and request that he
try to identify the alias from CS records. Richard Hanna, WH
Security Officer, was also alerted because Subject was obivously
a Latin type and was destined for Miami, Florida.

3. Capt. Greer advised that the Subject had been at Dulles
International “Airport and went to the First Aid room complaining
of severe chest pains. He was placed in an ambulance and was still
conscious when the ambulance left the airport. However, on his
arrival at Fairfax Hospital at 8:30 p-m. he-was pronounced dead.

4. After several fruitless phone calls in attempting to

SROUF §

SECRET | “enemstet
74-0000

vi Pj

-, SECRET

Page 3

8. During the attempt to identify the Subject, a member of
the press called the hospital to inquire about the DOA. Fortunately,
the undersigned had received trememdous cooperation from the staff
of the Energency Ward and the reporter was told that nothing
unusual was occuring. In view of this inquiry by the ‘Press, the
SDO was told to alert Jake Goodwin, Public Affairs Office.

9. Richard Hanna, WH/SO called JMWAVE at about 1:00 a.m. and
notified them of the identification of the Subject, JMWAVE stated
they would wait until the morning and notify Mrs. otriguen| Hay ob
Hanna also notified the Chief/WH Division of the positive identification
of the Subject. .

10. Mr. Foster, Fairfax Hospital Administrator, was contacted
on 10 November 1967 regarding the possibility of having all traces
of the name Cordova removed from the Hospital records. He stated

that it would not be possible to destroy or change a form which
was signed by a hospital physician in which he pronounced the

‘Subject dead on arrival. Foster stated that this form in effect

was a legal document that he did not feel he could tamper with.

However, he stated that such records are confidential and would

not be released without consent of the deceased's relatives or a
court order.

ll. Detective Sanders, Homicide Squad, Fairfax County Police
Department contacted the undersigned on 10 November 1967 and stated
that the autopsy which he witnessed disclosed that the Subject
had died from an “acute coronary thrombosis." He stated a death
certificate would be issued showing death from natural causes and
that the coronor had released the body. This information was
Passed to Hanna who stated he would call JMWAVE and advise that
arrangements could be made to have the Subject's body returned
to Florida.

12. An inventory, copy attached, was made of the Subject's
effects and all of his belongings were given to Richard Hanna,
S0/WH.

~ ro
Vy ok ow Bb mo
ETA, Da Re eae
John A. Biddiscombe
/ Special Assistant
Personnel Security Division

Attachment:
As Stated

JAB/sjt

SECRET
