 

 

er. and I lost the document “ppointing me as
Liaisoa Officers
a 4s 4¢ became impossible for | me to retura to the Escambray,
I remained in Havana until Feb 61 at which tine I arrived at Miamt.
2. The above report is respectfully submitted for your 1aforsation

 

 

and proper proceedings.
Respectfully yours,

   

alison Officer, Escambray Hgs

 

 

 
 

 

 
  
  
 

[t-toteatoren

 

  
  
  
    
  
    
 
  
   
  
  
     
  
  
  
   
    
 
 

" Ydas, 17 June 61

SUBJECT: My mission to travel to the U.S. to request arms for the’
Escambray, and why 1 did aot carry ‘out this eissioa,

Te Chief of Staff of the: Zscambray aray :
Major Evelio Duque Miyar : : :

FROK: ‘Liaison Officer with igs
Captain Carmelo Gattorno

Dear Sirs i ;
3. With reference to your letter dated 16 June ordering me to-

  
    
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
     

_ Feport the. ‘Reason for my incompliance with your order dated 18 Nov, 60
; concerning ny trip. to the 0.8 in order to obtain arms and ammo for
- the Escambray, I have. the honor to report the followings. . - |
, @ On the very same day on which I received the order ve “— .
went te Havana where I saw Mr who was working in: |

the underground for the Escambray, and he advised me that my trip to

 

 

 

he U.S. was not necessary as he had already received the necessary:

quipment @irectly from outside Cul As I was aware that this was.
precisely the mission of aia considering that my . :
services might be needed for another important mission, I accepted
this ¢ gentlenan's statement. : ad

 

“Be, “the next day he gave me n He3 sub-machine gins ; 4% Garand}.
ifles, and Two THOUSAND PESOS, which I delivered tc Captain/Baen “25
, Lorenzo| at a place near Trinidad in the Escambray. After this I again
turned to Havana for another meéting with Xe \iho

as to furnish two radio-telegraphy sets to our Hqs, but ‘which I was
unable to take back as Mr did not deliver them to G9!
_ - @e With regards to the photographs taken in the zone of

 

 

 

 

; b.
: @perations,; which: would: serve me ag: oredentials outside Cubay “together ~~~

 

"with the document which you gave me appointing me as Liaison Ofricer :
of the Escambray Hqs and giving. me full powers to represent you outside
Cuba, ag my mission had been canceled I left the photographs with
