 

 

|
|

 

-2-

4. It was planned that Roque DALTON, “MONTENEGRO, ”

" the principal agent in the Zapote Operation, was te do the letter

writirg. the cther two agents were to pasa their information to
him, The first letter received at DGI (Cuban Intelligence Service)
headquarters was picked up at the accommedation address in
Mexice and forwarded to Havana, where through sume confusion
it was misrouted to the Dlegal Department, From there it waa -
eventually forwarded to LN, The Salvador Desk officer sent the
letter in tts envelope to LQ requesting processing and identifying
the letter as belunging to the Zapote case, from SARAVIA (the”

“second agent), and ashing notification as to whether the letter

contained secret writing. The LQ analysts, examining the letter,
equated Zapote and "MONTENEGRO" (although SARAVIA was

also part of the Zapote Operation) but checked with the desk
officer and with him agreed to develop the secret writing with the
SARAVLA developer, They belheved that the letter contained :
secret.writing because lt wag folded with the legal text outside
and the blank side inside as if to protect a secret text. When

the letter was tested with the SARAVIA deyeleper, however, no
secret writing appeared, The technicians then tried it with the
"MONTENEGRO" developer, but by this time any secret wriling
the letter contained had been destroyed by the incorrect procesa
They identified the handwriting as that of SARAVIA, and the

text indicated thar there was ans ® enclosure, Mearwhile,
"MAURICIO" had reported from Mexicc that DALTON had been
arrested and deported from El] Salvador,

3 A second letter from SARAVIA was also received and
tested with the SARAVIA developer, Although there were in-
dications that it contained a/w, nothing could be recovered,
There was 70 $/w on the envelope, which had net been opened. A
third letter from SARAVIA, folded tn the form to contain s/w,
was also developed and showed signs of s/w but so faint that tt
could net be read. The desk officer thought that perbaps when
DALTON was arrested SARAVIA had taken over his a/w and was
USINg A instead of his own, The LQ analysts cmamented that
SARAVLA was using for commurucation with DGI headquarters a2
system that he had been taught for use only in internal com-
murscations tn El Salwador ard that he should be toid to use the
Proper system for beadquarters, The desk cfficer, however,
had co means of communteating with tne agent since the 8 Ww
messages could not be read, A system of recogaition for

 

gceney
Chea cane

 
[og 10030-10023

 

. .. 1 March 1955
. WH. C # 65-91
. LX-2500

AC : u - oF

, . MEMORANDUM FOR: FI/D Staff
: an ; Wall /Salvador

/ SUBJECT General: AMMUG/1 Debriefing Report. #285
. : : Specific: Agent Cormmunicatioris :

 

REFERENCE ‘: WH/C Memorancims #65-86 and ¢65-87 |
: ’ (Not sent WH/2/Saivador)

1. The LN Department hes no means of direct radio
communication with its own agents, Lf it wishes to send a message
to an agent, it passes the message to the Miegal Department, and
that office eends the message for LN, elther ‘to the LN agent
directly if he has radio facilities for receiving it, .or to an Wlegal
i Department agent (with whom thare ts dtrect radio communication)

for passaye to ihe LN agent, The LN Department, when in
> 1963, for example, it wished to send a message to YON Sosa,
passed the: message to the Dlegal Departme-t, which sect it to
an agent with radio communication In Guatemala to relay to him,

 

2, The Diegal Department has its own radio atation for
‘ communication with its agents, The stativa is not in any of the
headquarters’ bulidings; its actual location is nct known, Even
when the Illegal Department red the LN Departmert were com~
bined in the MA Section and shared offices, the members of the
section handling Wegal agents were very unwilling to talk about
| communications in any way,

a

3. Inthe Zapote Operation, agent commun!caticn broke
down because of several factors, As planned, the three agents
in the operation were to uge the same post office bax as a cover
‘ address, bet each agent was taught a separale a/w system. The
Chemicat Laboratory (LQ) had a recurd of each system against
‘the agent's pseudonym, as well a5 examples of his hasdwritt.g, all
under the heading of the Zapote Operation,

Mey [desert :
74-0000

 

3-0

Personal meetings with the agenta in El) Salvador was included in
the operational program for Zapote, but that meant an. intermediary
or the case officer going to El Salvador for the contact. since”

DALTON was out of El Salvador and‘other niedns of ‘communtéation :

was lost, DALTON was ordered to. Mexico and the desk officer
arranged a trip there to.get explanations Of -what had- happened. and
reestablish niail communication, When the desk officer went to
Mexico for the meeting in March 1964, however, DALTON and
the other Salvadorana he wanted to see did not show-up. The case
officer also wrote a stiff memorandum to PINEIRO complaining
about the quality-of the s/w aystems and training. His letter

was returned with an endorsement by PINEIRO saying that the
matter was being looked into and resulta could be expected. Up
to April 1964, however, nothing concrete had been achioved, as
far as the deak officer knew; he heard nothing from LQ and waa
unable to resolve the matter directly with the agent in Mexico

". because the agent never appeared for the scheduled meeting,

6. All agent gornmunications from the field to accom-
modation addresdes in Mexico or clsewhere are picked up and
forwarded through the field station to headquarters without beiag
opened, In the Sonia Operation, for example, when the agent
wanted a meeting in Mexico, she sent a letter to her accom-
modation addresa there; the lettee was picked up and forwarded
to headquarters; when tt had been developed at headquartera,
the desk officer informed the case officer in Mexico of the time,
date, and place set by iha agent for the meeting. In no case
does the field etation cpen and read wny agent correspondence,

7, In the Zapote Operation, all agent personal documests
were picked up during the training period acd were photographed for
the agent's file. When the agent left Cuba to return to his opera-
tional area, the personal documents auch as the cedula de
identidad were returned to him.

— ="

 

 

shag

 

Sb aati SEN

 

Ps
Ei
3
€
:
