74-00000

Connente:
Ona could probably and perhsrs preperly IVFER that Jose is
a Castro agent, bus aside from the episode dealing with his release,
at the behest of Thelma King, and the rerort that he carried
with hin,after his release fron prisen, 150 scholarshipef which
arpecrs to have sone sicnificance, there is no conclusive evidence
pointing toward Jose's involvenent,ia yast or present, with Castro's
security apparat. :
___There 19, however, considerably nore evidence that he is not
an agent of Castros, For examples
° 1. He has fought against Castro and was imprisoned by hin.
- 2 ait e has revortedly denounced Thelma King openly.
3. Bawe je does not get along with nis brother Jorge, who
is tied in with Piniero. ,
bh. He has broadcasted anti-Castro and anti-Batista
propaganda fron Radio CIENMIL, a pananantan station.
5. eet nevi anti-Castre, Anvi-Communist and pro-
democratic and thst his actions, according to Jose,
since 1953 should speak for thenselves, including
his actions and propaganda wore against Castro since

his arrival in the United 3t-tes.

I don't b--Llieve I'm that naive to think that Jose's
actions to date coule not be part of a pre-arranged plan, but
the evidence availahle points in the other direction.
I do surest 285m txo possible alternatives, the first of which
I prefer: :
1. Apprise Ray of this inforraticn and let him deterrine

Puente's bona fides; caution him to be ciscreet with his future plars

 

—

 

ane avoid telling FIT
—_—
2. tetus determine PLIUTE's boan fides by re=tracing,

incldding screw checks ana J20/T files, Deternine his relationship

with Jorpe in Oma and atte-nt te astertain wether ne is

ara niausdble
corresponding with tin. If vesirec fre coula gen begin a rail
intercert. In iin: with your tho-gats re net being an inteil

unit for 20, i yeamencthe suggest we Somer nroposal.
 

104-10180-10066

 

Jose V:N°* Blanco “

 

curing his university days. Joe, who is now RAL's vecretary for
Stadent Youth, was a well anowr Cutan studen® leater, “hs wig ister te

deaww the frst president of the FSU after Castro care to powers

As a student leader tn 1653 PUENTE was elected rreaident of the
Hava Vniveralty Student ‘nion, At tnat time he and his brother, Aoberto
got into trouvle with Satista, so in 19ss, when Batista closed the
university, PUNNTE continued to conspire againat Batista and eventually
had to epeape to Venesuela in order to save his neck. ‘le subsequently

 

cane w the U.S, In $3 he left the US and found his way into the
Escanbray mountains vhere he joined anti-Uatista forces, not necessarily
castro forces, for there were rany & anti-Satista ¢ro.ps in the mountain
at that time. He did, however, Join Castro forces as the campaign
wee neared its clinax.

After the successful revoit, FULNTE SESE returned
to Nava University to continue his law studies. He was elected the

FEU president in a close eiection against studenis backed by Castro.

After graduation PUENTE worked with INIT, a Cuban Tourist vommission,

but in late L9f9 he became convinced that the Castro mo erent
was "not for hin” and scen bezan t~ conspire apainst Castros

Tn early 196C FULNTE went uncerpround and rerortedly stayed sub
rosa .ntil the Say of Figs invasion ag which tine he came out to assist
an the, vorksing., Hovever, in the encring smimmay roundur of oprosition
rre:ps, Jose and iis brother, dorerto, were caught ond imprisoned.
Aecerdimy to PNT, he tried to escare twice and was caight both
tir-s.

after nercly nine menths cn ; risen, Jose and his brether,
aotert: .ace released by vastro as the res.it of direct intervention

nota ional .ssembly anc

 

oy “selma simp, lepucy to te
extracmo.narily proecastro, who was approached bo A.entets rotaer in
Fora .t- a ealed to sire to try to ,et hear cons freas, in March
Lstl, GBB lca boys vere releaseu am fe ore. cet ced ee with

aT t+ Pansca.

  
