 

CONFIDENTIAL

DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES
INTERVENTION IN VIETNAM : Co

   
   
   

war in Vietnam. Speakers demanded an end to the ware :

Telegrams are being sent by the demonstrators to Government .-

leaders in. the United States, Canada, and England as a

protest against the ware Members of the Communist Party,

the Socialist Workers Party, the progressive Labor Party,
ois Clubs of America, and tHe Students fom

the W. E. B. ,DuB |
: “participated in the demonstrations.

. Other demonstrations were held at Laguna Beach |
‘and Fresno, California; Colorado Springs, Colorado;. ..-
Indianapolis, Indiana; Louisville, Kentucky; New Orleans,
- Louisiana; Bostor and Roxbury, Massachusetts; Kansas City
‘and St. Louis, Missouri; Camden, New Jersey; Dayton, Ohio;
and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. © ee oe an
: . ny 2p .

s
7

a

‘GONFIDENTIAL
-T- : : . i

 

 
74-0000

“CONFIDENTIAL

INTERVENTION IN VIETNAM

of Racial Equality, a civil

  

poth
to.

the two other speakers,
Socialist Workers Party,

of the Communist Party and the Socialist
were observed participating”

. 3
o7 Melvin Me: i
of the Communist’ Pa y of Eastern

jeader of a parade and rally

       
  
  
    
 

   

Approximately 300 individuals
addressed_b aul” Bou elle;
Against the War in

nm orficia} o
and”

to equate

with aggression against. Negroes.

the United States w

 

sponsored a parade and ra

aeh

DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES

rights group{_ivanhoe

), Chairman of thé Student —

afured’speaker.

> 4o7__Sidney, Pecky a
introduced Carmichae and
‘of whom are members of the
the crowd, . Numerous members ©
‘Workers Party
in the demonstration.

yar, ‘Bt . ,
a.member of the District Board

: was the
held in Philadelphia,

Ston-agains
All of the speakers charged

ith “imperialist ageression."

  
  
 

     

gainst the War in Vietnam

Stix, Texas... A repre-

; ; y at Aus
- gentative of the demonstrators contacted the city editor

‘of the "Austin-American Daily"
each week expressing the views of the

publish a column
demonstrators.
KTBC-TV where they

on television to express their views.
to the State Capitel where

proceeded

They then marched to television
asked that they be given. a

and asked that the paper

station

half hour
"the marchers then

they held a yally.

Three members of the Communist Party were among the 719

demonstrators.

Approximately 1,200 individuals participated in t

‘a meeting at Blaine, Washington,

as a protest against the

CONFIDENTIAL

~6-

onaldson, ~~
a representative of ‘the Student Non-Violent eee orld a

Committee; # d Ma¢@-Mallory, » member of the workers World /
Party.) —— me os cane

—_— — Stokely aymich

“‘Von-violent Coordinating Committee was_the fe
“Hon-Viol ent oo yon at cleveland, Ob

former Communist Party member

Pennsylvania.

attended the rally which was
e leader of Afro-American: aA
rk, Citys Broo Di

 
 

‘

CONFIDENTIAL -

DENONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES
INTERVENTION IN VIETNAM So,

«National Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy, a pacifist
grou nd Howardl Ho: an Atlanta attorney, who represents
fhecStudent Non-

 

OFS,
olenty Coordinating Committees Included

 

 

 

' among the demonstrators was a former leader of the Communist -

Party in Georgia. .

‘The Federal Building, Chicago, Illinois, was__
picketell by 275 indiyiduals-who-represented the“Women's —,

International League” for-Pence-and Fredo, Chicago Weites-
for Peaceyyand the-Chicago ‘Peace Council; all of which are
p st groups. Placards ‘carried by the pickets read
"Victory for the Viet Cong," "Crush LBJ Imperialism in
Vietnam, Congo, .and Domingo," ard “God Is With Us." After
the picketing, a teach-out was held‘onsthe plaza behind the
Federal Building. Speakers cbndemned United States policy
in Vietnam, demanded infnediate withdrawal of United States
troops, and insisted on immediate negotiation with the
National Liberation Fron{t of South Vietnam,

. 4. i

 

. ay
Numerous members of the Communist Party and the
Socialist Workers Party participated in a car caravam and
rally at Detroit, Michigan. One of the demonstrators carried
a Viet Cong flag and as a result was assaulted by a spectator.
The Detroit Police Department arrested eleven demonstrators:
for disturbing the peace. . ; . .

Three members of the Socialist Workers Party led _
240 marchers from Minneapolis,‘ Minnesota, to the State Capitol
Building at St. Paul, Minnesota, At the State Capitol Building,
it was announced that there would be an evening meeting at
the University of Minnesota.

. Approximately 300 individuals attended the meeting
at Mayo Auditorium, University of, Minnesota, Minneapolis. ©
The_mee gwas_directed by-Laurel taker? a member of the

“Bocialist’Workers Party, Numerous members of the Communist
Party and the Socialist Workers Party attended the meeting,

CONFIDENTIAL
4. ua

 

 

Pe. |

 

 
CONFIDENTIAL

DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES
INTERVENTION IN VIETNAM .

Literature of the Socialist Workers Party, the Communist |
Party, the W. E. B, DuBois Clubs of America, and the
‘Students toma Dendcratic Society, a militant youth group
which has received support fromthe Communist Party, was
_@isplayed at the site of the meeting, SO

The Committee for Non=Violent A 778 pacifist.
group, sponsored a demonstration at Buffalo, New York,
Included among the small group of demonstrators were

members of, the Workers World Party, a communist splinter
group, and several former members of the Communist Party.

A member of Studerts for a Democratic Society was arrested
for obstructing the sidewalk, ~ ; :

Demonstrators from, yarious, areas of New York City
converged on Times Square prior to a march through
New York City. Upon the @onclusion of the march, the
5,000 demonstrators held a rally at 48th Street between
Park and Madison Avenues, Some of the marchers carried
Viet Cong flags and United States, flags with skulls and
dollar signs instead of stars. Literature of the Sogialist
Workers Party; the Communist Party; and the Progressive
Labor Party, a pro-Chinese Marxist group, was distributed
during the march, The demonstrators included members of ;
the Communist Party, the Workers World Party, the W. E. B..
DuBois Clubs of America, the Young Socialist Alliance, and

the Progressive Labor Party.
candidates! Herbert Apthekers—»
‘Party, USA, National Committe

Progressive Labor Party were

FS

_ Speakers, all of wh
policy toward Vietnam, includ
pacifist; David REET h

During the rally, “peace
member of the Communist
€, and two members of the
introduced to the crowd.

on were,critical of United States
ed acd musta prominent
o has described himself as a

communist ;-“Lincoln, Lynch, Associate Director of the Congress

CONFIDENTIAL
~5 =

 

 

 

 

 
’ UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

“FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

in Reply, Please Refer to
P

 

 

 

REVIEWED BY FBIJIEK TasK
7

  

 

j 5 RELEASE IN FULL .
Cl RELEASE In PART. acclassification

TOTAL DENIAL: (Adz. )

‘August 8, 1966

DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES
. ANTERVENTION IN VIETNAM.

i

The Communist Party and other organizations are
continuing their efforts to force the United States to
change its present policy toward Vietnam. There is set
forth beléw a summary of current activity through which
they hope to accomplish this end.

International Days of Protest

It was previously reported that the Fifth Avenue,
Peace Parade Committee, New York City, the membership of -
which includes members of the Communist,Party and the
Socialist Workers Party, bothtof whigh have been designated
as subversive by the Attorney . General pursuant to Executive
Order 10450, is sponsoring International Days of Protest
August 6 - 8, 1966, throyghout . the world in memory of the
victins of the atom bomb in Japan and as a protest against
United States policy toward Vietnam. The following activity —
took place on August 6, 1966, as a part of International
Days of Protest. w

A rally was held at Los Angeles, California, attended
by 2,500 pani duals « The principal speaker was United States
Senator Ernes ruening>who calied for additional demonstrations
until United States policy is changed and for negotiations with
the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam, Numerous
members of the ‘Communist Party‘participated in the rally.

Upon the conclusion of the rally, 1,000 of the demonstrators.
marched to the Armed Forces Induction Station at Los Angeles.
Signs carried by the demonstrators read "Johnson's War Stinks,‘
“Fight Poverty - Not People," and "Negotiate With the NLF."

Four hundred individuals participated ina
demonstration at Balboa Park, San’Diego, California, After
several speakers hod criticized United States policy toward
Vietnam, 259 of the demonstrators marched through the park,

CONFIDENTIAL

FORCE . 1p
—"eRouP 1 BON iad
Sxeluded from automatia ‘.
downgrading and :

  
 

 

ernment nA AT OS

ew
eee eel

 

we

hoe.
Hoa teA0160)

J 1@

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

|
i

 

202973
i000

CONFIDENTIAL

DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES
INTERVENTION IN VIETNAM

The march was led by an official of the Socialist Yorkers
Party. Numerous members of the Communist Party and the
Socialist Workers Party participated in the demonstration,

Co Twenty-five hundred people marched through.
San Francisco, California, to the San Francisco Civic

Center Plaza... The marchers carried signs critical of

United States policy... When the marchers arrived at the Plaza,
they were addressed by several individuals, all of whom

demanded_gn_en e war in Vietnam. Four members of
the<American azii Party.p cketed the demonstrators. :

_ °°" Five individuals conducted a “vigil at. the an
United States Naval Weapons*Station, Concord, ‘California,
‘They carried signs condemning},the. use of bombs in Vietnam,
These demonstrators attempted. to, place a sign on a train
carrying munitions but tree unsuccessful. .

   
 
 

TaecDenver Stop the War Committee; Denver, Colorado,
sponsored a march throte Denver wto the ‘State Capitol: Building.
A rally was held in front of the Capitol Building upon the
conclusion of the march. . Two hundred and, fifty demonstrators
heard.speakers, including Walter Crandon; 3, Repubdicon
candidate for the United. States Senate;“Ste Reni eischaret
‘a member of the W..E. B. DuBois Clubs of Ameriga, a_communist—
inspixved Marxist-—oriented youth group; Joseph osephyJopnsony’a .

Socialist Workers Party candidate for “th e=-United_Sta es Senate
from Minnesota; gnd-erartoy WHEE Ley a. Mississipay
“Freedom Democratic Party 2 Saat tley soins» a tississi nny Unite a - :

Senate, criticize United States policy toward Vietnam. ~ The
march was led by a former Communist Party member and two
members of the Socialist Workers Party, During the rally,
copies of "The Worker," an east coast communist newspaper,
and the "Militant," a publication of the Socialist Workers
Party, were distributed,

 

 

 

 

Resistors ben of “which are pacifist organizations, began .

CONFIDENTIAL
o 2m

ae

 
 

CONFIDENTIAL,

DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING unrrep STATES
INTERVENTION IN VIETNAM

vigil at the White House, Washington, D.C. They
carried signs reading " "Hiroshima Day I Fast" and “Vigil
for Peace," . : oe

: On the morning of August 6, 40 individuals
demonstrated near the Shrine of the immaculate Conception .

at Washington, D, C.- The demonstrators were led by William be
alee eat for the Student Non-Violent Coor x
civil rights group. o members of the Young

Socialist Alliance, the youth group of the Socialist Workers
Party, participated in the demonstration, . Higgs announced
that the wedding of the President's daughter on August 6 -
was in very poor taste as all Americans should be mourning.
the dead at Hirdshima, He also announced that a rally wauld
take place at Dupont Circle during the’ “afternoon.

; : Approximately. 200 “individuals attended the rally

at ‘Dupont CEs eaaaeegecawend the leader of the Washington
Chapter of the Young SocialisAlliance>was in charge of it,
Speakers includé ofessor_ Dav erman-9f, American University
and Willian Martin, Republican Gan idate for the United States
House 6 préséntatives from Maryland. All of the speakers
condemned ‘fpited States policy toward Vietnam, Upon the
conclusion of the rally, Cawood and Higgs led the demonstrators
in a march to thé White House, Many of the marchers carried
Viet Corg flags, Upon arrival in the vicinity of the.

White House, the marchers formed a picket line on the north
side of Pennsylvania Avenue opposite the White House. The
marchers carried signs reading: "Children Die While Profits

Go Up," "Condemn United States Imperialism in Vietnam," and
"Hiroshima - 60,000. .Vietnam ~ 1 million plus." © Several
former members of the Communist Party participated in the
picket line,

A (ieoshine Day Peace Walk ‘and RELLY vas held
at ‘Atlanta, Georgia. The déionstrators picketed the Old |
Post Office Building and then marched to pe—Ebenezer Ba: st
Church where a rally was held, . Reveren Martin | Luther ine. top

opened the rally, Speakers included’ Sanfor Gottliei ot the

CONFIDENTIAL ™~ \ [7

as
73e

 

 

 

 

 
