104-10220-10235

:

qd

if . .

! . coe es, . wee .

. se no f * . : . 4
ate . . .
0 CONTINUATION OF > Cis a FOTO ee NS

| ONTIN . —

. | , pisrareai | “SECAST OPA = 64 263
<2 ° :

 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  

  
   
   
  
  
    

Cudan Rabassy*s propagends affert, TuNEST/. will offer then cose. asalatanoe thilo
-atréssing | that he ig not interested fo lesal propagands activity per se. Tues /2
will, stress. ‘frog the autset that this-fo a trial progres and that Bhould they lose
sight. of the prover ohjectives, he will ccase supporting tho publication of their
bulletin, ‘he Etation fealo that’ ‘TREST/A%n past intelligenee becksroud, journalist
a experience, and knowledge of Spanish Bakes: his a geod shotoe for this assignaait.
‘Tha: Statios also feela. that he will be ehle ta guide, direct and onteol IDSN A and

: on target, Purtherware Pitts role. in tits sotivity will

   

 

  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  

t piipadic amie oceupy. the
ate ro T/L when sn.be fo fn Paria,

D Rirediyy beth have tide gaversl ealls ga the Ud.
7) Exbaaay in aris, athoopting to ext muppart or Gerepatratio ear tar thoir local
‘effort. ‘They have also eppreavhed ANPAPIST/1 and. Subject: Of reference for sexe
fora of erxsistance in publishing their monthly bulletin, - Bath hnvo also expended
considerable efforts in trying to rouso up’ stident interest for local eantfesatations
agains? the -Cuben Dabosay. ‘They, have aleo.deveted: such time attexpting to cenvart
"nen camitted” CQaian students te thely come, rather trin develop thss.as possible
fsture- resident type eszata. ‘Tn short, botn INN A and IDSN B appoar to have tlie
encruy, the iolerest, and the ability to carry on the presran outlined in parsaraph
| 2 above, but will need essd streng guidances end soon, to prevent thotr mgssing in
counterpierinstive wort,
» 6s recirsereis: Hextganrters’ action is requested on tho following:

 
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
   

 

(a) Request Heodguertern cable commate en their interest ia
the diatiai's prepenals:

(b) Expedite FOA on Subject of refsronee and easigh a crypto-
nyey s

(e} Ferserd traece end procesy FOA's on IDEN A and IDEN BD fer
thelr o:3 in the agtivities cutlined in parograph 2? above, Also

: . assign eryptenges in the seme ‘series es Subject of refaranes.
where are mo Station trasea en either Lu A ar IDEN 3,

 

 

ROBERT B, OLIEDOR

 

inne inn arin a

  
104-10220-10235

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination-
oo . , Records Collection Act of 1992
aa : (44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53217 6/20/17

tal for Looal anti-Castro ort ative Oa fosceding to a

 

 

Cubexi stutimts, THEN A and THEN B separ to be te moot prasiakig candidates fer
sloniéstine exploitation.

2. STATION “PROPOSAL: Tho Station fa currently thinking of. ‘entgnii'stng a ‘pase
‘Ter Cuban operdtions utiliaing the caublned talents and ‘services of spat A and IDEN
3 The ebjestives of this tase would be as followa:

 

(a) Carry on tzvestigations of Cuban Intelligence parsonalitics
ond thor activities in Paris;

(>) Spot, n23083 sd recruit reniéent anit dese traveler candidates;

i

;

;

|, “ANSOX/7, Subject of reference, and cther Station-ecntects w
|

i

| {o) Contact and debrief Cubana evriving in Paris Mirus Cuba or
J

fra bles caartries;

i | (a) Attenpt to defect Cutan officials olther atatioasd in Paris
{ cx trensitting Paria froa bleo asl other countriés;

{

: (o) Provide cantimiing CE infereation and persenality assseomente |
aa all operations? aignificent Cubans in Paris, , ; |
1

 

3. CRYATION oF THIS BASS: “the Statien plans to usg TUNSYT/1 23 an cutside
Principal Agmt, to-est im Chia: base, aml direct it. ruMEsT/1 will eoaa to Paris,
reat an epartizent uniter his nesa- ‘(like be did in the past.en the TUGRAVEN Opasa-
t4ea) ert with, Station assistenas, establish euntect with IDEN A and IDEN a
TomsT/l will request their. cocperatien ta a clandestine anti-Castro prograa as
eutlined in paragraph 2 ‘above. Singe both IDEH A and INSN B have been atteupting
intepeadentiy and‘ separately to engage 10 ‘verious Isosk antiviti6s against the
Cuban Sabassy snd attespt to publiah:a monthly bulletin. designed to counteract the |

Dale HED GAtE GINFATORED.

1

      
  

     
    

    

atéooleent: ml
TOSNS, u.s.e. MAR 24 1962
Motribution: MoiaS Sotkatee YT TT TTT OATH SYMBGL AND NOMEER
RHE, u/ate ' OPPA = aL 3
Z-8Hi, w/att i nn
1 HEADMIARTTRS FRE UNDER
Sure 2. alee “

 
104-10220-10235

a “i , tot - 0 7 ‘
we. Pe . . . in
: .

 

-rg

   

 

: a Wee
IDEN Ae ‘Pedro®AUtz Quintero, born 1937.4n Lag Villas, Cubay
/- 32/194 medical student in Paris, Ho to currently the Prost
2 Gente tha ube. louse: ent-geceealiy emiatdered “4
to. staunohly anti-Castro,

 

 

 

f i

‘DaN Be. Rinaldo #LAGO Carbonell, born 1930. in Kevan, “Cra,
law stuient in Paria, He olains to be the offtotal,

» the Miro CARDONA group in -Parig, °

  

ae Popresentative .

 

 

ele " Gurtently Mving at the Cubs House th Paria and’ ene:

: oe xs! . ove ia hoon. entieCagtro eotivitios, . : i
} :
i i
5 : i
.
} ‘ }
a . :

'
:
f |
7 :
: '

1
4 }

i

 
