‘tog t0219-40080

ee eee

ee

 

to

 rertpcommrneanya may eer empemmemmeingememarremren -nyrmmremamre anwar tor = tenes onan mente, arammemanns am +

 

. s HR ok
Fi gt ie 4, HOR
Ee r dows Be i 1s MARSES Ful 54
cong MARE RE
H

   
       
   
   
   
  
  
    
    
     
   
     
 
 
      
   
   

° Chief of Station, Rone

PRO BCLENG ERED

 

 

 

FO 1 OMY QUALIFED O56
, tan ah Letcuenptel
~ chtet
Chief, = pL msonor eas

 

 

sarcoetete] juss fl a . ——— ne

foscoe WilTE
ACTION Rigas TAFERE CES

See parae i, 2.

 

1. Attached for your information and use is a copy | of a etatenent by
Dr. George PENNIEGER concerning bis and Dr. White's contacts with Willian
Banilton MAREIN et the Lebedev Institute in Moscow. (Ags you imow, MARTIH
4a identical with the MARIIn vno with MITCHELL defected to the goviet Union
in September 1960.) ODEHVY and ODINCH are interested in having Ds. WHIT?
interviewed for complete and detailed information concerning hia contacts
with MARTIN axd the girl secretary nemed Alle at the Institute. You may
infors Dr. WHITE that ODENVY bse requested that he be interviewed in this
matter in connaction with a catter of official interest te them.

2 Xnfernation available to Headquarters indicates that Dr. Roscos WHITE
de listed on the teaching etaff of UCARVYIL located in Trieste. Another
Headquarters component has an interest in UCANVIL and has asked that the
person vho interviews Dr. WHITE provide a general assesament report concerning
hin. It ie cuggested thet tuis be accomplished without Dr. WHITE's becoming
avare of @ possible operational interest in hin. The assessment should be
forwarded as # sepsrate attacinent to your reporte

3e It 16 requested that Rome Station decide how this matter should be
handled. It has been pending for some tine since 1t appeared that Dr. WHS
might return to the Gtates. It now appears he will remain abroad for another
year. @harefore, it would be appreciated if his interview could be handicd
as expeditiously ss possible end your eommmication marked for the attention

PE. x; taeuigh
miei nat

 

sg Bel—2EA 532

 

 

 

  

: C ee Z uA S$ 7 oft es
* . DISPATCH
