74-0800

Oe)

5. Tt was clearly explained tof casas t we would pay his travel
expenses and compensate his well for and effort. Although he
professed little interest in the psyment, it was evident that the idea
of some extra money, a6 well as @ trip to Mexico City (where he hea
Felatives) appealed greatly to him. Re left ue for a few mimtes to
oonmult with hiv wife, She apparently left ths decision entirely to

Ne)
6, As to[CASAS*\ exployera, he felt that he could probebly get

a few days off, Was instructed to, five sone exmuse wich os fanily

Sliness, rather than tell his of that be wee 2,205 doa job f 6
U-8, Government. (In reply to el that 03 O
his chief was a retired colons: Tye a dnsoribed alias 0 06

thuss “a businessman < you imow » he likes to make money.”

om the outocme of his request for a couple days! Tsbve of abeenoey AS) 05
finally agreed to go to Kexioo, although he again said that. he ¢

feel that he was fit for thig sort of job.

a at our + rene, Gad ered to try to gét off the following
FS if, and fly to Washington in order to go
the necesrary steps with IANS, Tf he could not leave his job

try for Thursday. He the sterile Hos
x sneer instructed to ask i for fet (Tai had of 03

been arranged at HQS oall before 05
$190 boots on Wetneeany, advising us of the t: of his arrival in
Washington and hie flight, so that he could te act. If for some reagoa
he was unable to get through to us, we would call him after 1130 hours

; at bis place of work. . 05
, a Cans [CASAS |about 2200 hours,

Be pack eed At racate atten titi A ae hala AS ee Ate baa nee eee

  
 
   

wien bra cont aves

 

 

on casesttanae doe

ft Pore33 4089 ue

 

9s Eaina kcplrs oa enc er NRRL TEE RAIN LEON etn rimming pret Gena pencenapmanmesiene te permanente i Hiatt a ite tote ntmamas fee

 

UTA eeblactinmtnins ve

sae een MRR rage at inct te ES noe Sinetg tarmanee mae ne

 
 

flees}.

. ~ so September 196) - :
- 85 :

6nd edviesed tha’ would like to visit him and w 0%
Qrrive et(Casas' case betwen and 2100 that evening. (GasA3] 9)
* I previously visited casas May 196342

20 accordance vith é phone conversation, ecompanied
by @ Kr, Frived oe icasast house shortly afte: By
40 Sep Pe 03 ° 05

at his place of work (Engineoring firm: [Gannett, Fl Corddry and 7%
; «Inde, 600 By Ra Pay Tels (38-0051) vy @ Hee DY :

. 3. During the initial gree 3, in response to the general query = _
. Show's the work getting along?*, (CASAS replied that he wes very busy now 05
i because of « espacial assignnent in which he was dealing with a Costa
i _. Rican engineor viaiting. Zarristurg in connection with an ring _
Frosect an whieh (CASAS firm was involved with the Costa Rican goverrment. O05 i
& aaatgraent was to continue until the engineer left at the end of i
the Bonthe ASAT adm in fact, just returned from having « few sootal aE:
}
é

 

re with Coota Rican,
06

‘ : &, Pollowisy the consluaics ty aneni.ties ai aivrareel i 4
ef various of the six offspring, tined to[CASAS |the purpose : i
S5ef our visit. [CASAS lecnceded tha A2CUB wall the would ft
t -  Yike to help beth 27 and qurselves, but that ko was not the aan for - £ :
i this sort of activity, It wae clearly end repeatedly explained to (casas) 4° j “tg
| that hie tek wae siaple and without danger. He would be watched by our ! ot
= people at all tines, then surveillance determined that AZCUE was physically i
: © approachable, (CASAS simply greet him as an old friend, and most :
t Adkely a no: friendly eonversstion would ensva, During ths course ef 4
i general talk, [SicaTjoould perhaps reesei) @{GUE's forner statements in :
i which ho praised Americans, although, perhaps because of his. official : .
i position, castogated the Pontagene (cissS)oould then perhaps ack acoue az OS | ‘
i vas really aware of the mess awaiting hin in Cuba, If was _
: .  anterented in helping both the Cuban people and himself, (CASAS jcould help 0s :
: AZCUE vy arranging on inteeduetion with an American who could by) grezt. 4
| aaslstance, Lf sZCUE seid no, that would be the of ite AS Joouwld ae 5
| play it by ear. Very simple end no rigk to(CASAS] The only er vould oS i f
i be to AZCUR shold the Cutan lua of approach; therefore aa « aS i
| eA tection ta, ALCUE, sbsciate secrecy met maintained by dithough )S
soa AS ednitted the winphicity of his-part.of the job, he atated that Cubane :
| . Were hot capeble of keeping their trapa shut, and that unfortunately he Jt
was no exceptions, evan though he realined that the safety of his friend j I
i .
| :
if

nt . A . Soe a
hoot
{
i

. depended én his keeping silenvs

a , 9012334082 8
poe . , lean

 
