 

z.

 

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

= 5.

acquired by source through personal correspondence received
from Cuba).

PEREZ Friman personally accused source of presiding an anti-
Castro meeting, and source was arrested cn 26 Noverber 1959.
The prosecutor asked for a 24 year imprisonment sentence

during the trial held in Way 1960, but source was acquitted.

PEREZ. Friman also accused source Ss daughters in January 1960
of “lack of respect.” He made'one of these accusations in
Gibara and the other its Holguin so that there vould be a

- double order of arrest against them.

. The second source said that Earle PEREZ Friman was }nown by

the nickname “El Bonitillo” /something like “Pretty Boy'7 in

Gibara and an the Holguin InStatute of Secondary Education,

One day PEREZ Friman went to source's home in Gibara, Oriente
Province, commandeerec a station wagon and took it to the
Rebel Army Post. saying that he (PEREZ Friman) vas the one
who gave orders. Tnis Station wagon was gradually diszantled

in this Rebel Arny Post.

According to source, a5 of the time of his departure from
Cuba, PEREZ Friman «as a supporter of the regime.

Source has news that PZREZ Friman was given a scholarship to
take a diplomatic course and that he was studying English.

It was reported in a docucent dated 11 October 1962 that Earle

PEREZ Friman, Cuban iateLligence chief in Montevideo, vill be

leaving Montevideo for Cuha soon although he has not yet received
his passage fare; he is, novever, no longer working. Eduardo

HERNANDEZ Gispert, Cuban Cultural Attache, has taken over’ PEREZ*

functions in the Embassy -

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

wee
 

 

    

 

   

: ae -SAeaece

ree cuit, ell desk.

oS

NO FORLIGN DISSE!

order that a éconase asses: saent could

that PERIZ had probably identified sil
be niorm: BeLoR pose}

3 co.cerming all that he had besos “coins,

officers at the Cuban intelligence dervice

C*..34cs5 pore cigpended in
° be Lacs. rt was concluded

   

 

     

 

po tcodguarters should be informed co that precaution’ could be taken

&
oe 2
oboe

Yor the future.

pe
z

On 17 April 1064 a neetiag of ali renpousible
€.s: officers in the DGI was called to discuss the foregoing
case and othor allied matters,

Be. At the aforencntioned meeting, the following topics were ‘discussed:
The comzunication system and the securaty ef every officer
assigned abroad. .

b. The noed for suspending shipment of ares and explosives until

further notice (this was dond at once).

er. +

 

Specifteally, the sending of a shipment of explosives to
Lexico was suspended. .

Orders were issued that, aside fron messages, only funds
necessary $0 conduct operations should be sent abroad. -

3. Just prior to 21 April 1964 the suspension of operations, as
mentioned above, was lifted and connunications and operations

continued io a normal fashion.

4. PEREZ continued to reamin in asylum and the DGI concluded that
fs Urusyayap government prior
oS,

the noylum had been authorized by
to PEREZ’ having left the country.

Headquarters Connents,

In a document dated 15 February 1963 it was reported that one*
Earl PERLZ Freicuan, presumably identical with Earle BEREZ

Frinan, a Cuban, arrived in Hontevideo about 16 January 1963.
Ea was working at the Cuban Esbassy and'was reported to possibly
bo the replacement for Isaac ORRANTIA, chief of the G-2 section.

to
et
:

fi

 

cece mene et ten eit SR, Om

E “

4& roport dated 7 May 1963 stated that Earle PEREZ Friman was an

attache at the Cuban Embassy in Montevideo. ue Feportedly
 

104-10185-10150

 

 

 

 

CouNTSY
cunsct

CATE OF
nO,
" PAGE

DAT ACQ. June _Eoo4

 

CENTRAL INTALUGINCE AGENCY

ao trformation electias te Katiscal Defense of the Unites Gtates within the moaning of ibe Te wesc Laws, Tte
Tad, the truneniaton of qersation of wiloh Im any manaer to an unauthorieed person te prubitited by lew,

aoe SECRET
: NOQ FOREIGN DISSE
Cuba . ; RePOaT NO, CSI ~316/00009~64
Tarle PoRZ Frinan ) DATE DISTR. 7 July 1964"
yooudosya “GUAL ”
a ; NO. PAGES 5 RETURN TO A rf :
Background Use/Only
REFERENCES Do Not Reprod produce

2954

Washington, D.C.
FIELD REPORT NO.

<THE 1S UNZVALUATED - INFCSMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 18 TENTATIVE

source, *

oo COREA

ToraLe

 

wu/si.7,Q.), WE 1 (2),

A forner ‘Cuban ts officer who served with the Cuban :
' Tatelligence Service until April 1964,

Headquarters Coznnent. The following report is one of

@ oeripo Contalainug porsonality information provided by : ¥

the ccurce and includes supplemental information from. the
records of this Agency.

1. Earle PEREZ Frinan, pseudonym "GUALTERIO," was, until F
recently, the chief of the Dircccion Gencral de Inteligencia ae
(GI = General Directorate of Intelligence) in Uruguay. On

his roturn ta Cuba, PEREZ was suspected by Cuban intelligence ,
of having been recruited by the United States or the ’
Usuguayans and while the investigation was being concucted

DIREZ vecided at the Hotel Presidente in Habana. Doubts
concerning him were caused in part by the fact that he

eppearod to'be living beyond his salary both in Uruguay and

in -his previous post (unknown). This led to a discreet
idavestigation on the part of the Cuban intelligence community

- and aftar the files had been reviewed and o partial

investigation conducted, the Cuban intelligence service
dociced to interview PEREZ, It was discovered, however, that
ha had alrendy left the hotel aad had received asylum in the
Uruguayan Babassy; this was about li April 1964. As a result
of the discovery of PEREZ’ asylum, all communications from the
haadquartors of the Cuban intelligence service to field

2
SECRET 5
NO FOREIGN DISSEN — 4
Lace .

  
  

   

TENS

 

REP LREDANT CINCSO #

   

 

 
 
  
 
 

CAESEUG=1)

" : oe
pao LY
REA

 

 

 

  

Cl 4, RID 1
. 201~726325

L239 155 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS sot Teese

 
 

 

 

Po Pree ee eee

i

° ae + Oe oy mee EU owns ome tte

2 een ae

4

3.

4.

5.

SECRET © .
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

~3-

arrived in Montevideo in January 1963 and carried Cuban diplomatic
passport number 63/4; he was deseribed as being single and
residing at Boulevard Artigas 1591,, apartment 602.

In a document dated 15 May 1963 Earle PEREZ Friman was reported
to be either the chief or deputy chief of the Cuban intelligence
Bervice section of the Cuban Embassy in Montevideo.

The following biographic information on Earle PEREZ Friman, dated:
3 June 1962, was given to a representative of this Agency by a -

Cuban defector:

Earle PEREZ Friman, Cuban intelligence service chief at
the Cuban Embassy in Montevideo, was born approximately
1940 in Oriente, Cuba. He is single, imrature, full of
Communist theory, does not drink, likes girls and goes

with an unknown Uruguayan blonde, He is jovial and very
popular, “PEREZ is short, chubby, young looking and has
‘a medium: complexion. He has a limited education and is
not cultured, but is smooth. PEREZ is the only officer

* at. the Embassy. who deals directly with the Uruguayan

Foreign Ministry.
Tue following information, dated 27 June 1963, was received by a
J

ropresentative of this Agency fron a group of Cuban emigre's
trained in the techniques of information collection and who have

‘ previded useful reports for two years: .

In 1960, Earle PEREZ Frinan was employed delivering milk”

a
‘ for a dairy which was owned by his father, (fnu) PEREZ
Uartanez, in Gibara, Oriente Province, Cuba. PEREZ was
a great supporter of the Castro regime, a member of the
militia, and a Communist indoctrinator (sic).
b.° PEREZ’ nother, Josefa FRIMAN Exposito, aka "Pepa," was a

staunch supporter of Marxist theories, a Communist
indoctrinator (sic), a member of the militia and the chief
of a defense committee. She resides in Gibara. | She was born
about 1923, is five feet five inches tall, weighs about 140
pounds, has light brown hair‘and is attractive.

e. Other members of PEREZ' family include the following: his
maternal grandfather, Ruperto FRIMAN Sarayaldi, an individual

SECRET
NO. FOREIGN DISSEM
 

ty

 

SZCRE T
NO FOREIGN DISSEX

-~4-

wha enjoys benefits fron the Connunist regine. A maternal
uncle, Rurerto FRINAN Exposito, who was-1dninistrator of the
Gibara custoxus house in 1959 and since tia has operated
his own printing shop in Gibara. A matercal uncle, Jose
FRINAN Exposito, wno worked as an accountant for the Gibara

pepoes, <i

municipal’ government prior to the advent of the Castro
regine,

6, The following information was received from the same group which

re

ried the information in paragraph 5 above, they received the

invornation fron two untested Cuban sources wio arrived in the

United States in 1961. .

Re

The first source said that PEREZ Friman used to live on
J. Aguero St. corner of Carlos M. de Cespedes St., Gibara,
Oriente Province. His parents are Regiza PEREZ (mat. unk.)

“and Josefa FRIMAN Exposito, both of whor were born in

approximately 1918. Josefa FRIMAN Exposico was the
President of a Defense Committee and a militiawoman.

PEREZ Frinan was born in approximately ISL, is white, has

‘a rosy conplexion, is approximately five feet five inches

tall, with light brown hair and eyes, a szrong, athletic
build, and his movements are fast.

He went to grammar school in the "Jose Marti" private school,
and up to 4th year of high school in the Eolguin Institute
of Secondary Education, Ordente vrovince. In April 1962 he
was given a schclarship to study the diplomatic career in
Habana (source acquired this infornation iz a letter from
Cuba from one of his daughters who is now is Cuba).

To the best of source's recollection, PERS= Frinan'’s best
friends vho share his political ideas are: Captain Luis
PINEDA Perez, now a Rebel Aruy Major assigzed to the DTI in-
Eabang; Enilio GONZALEZ Sablon, a G~2 member, teacher, and.
leader of the 26th of July House; Pablo Juan FERNANDEZ (mat.
uhz.), who made a trip to the USSR together with a fev
Cuban artists, including Odalis FUENTES (ant. unk.).

PFREZ Friman is the person who used to sigz the I.D. Cards
of militiamen from Gibara until 14 April 62 (information

B
