1 |

GOH:
BALGON:

FALCON:

fore cte

PALCOHT:

Ge

FRANQUI

‘FALCON:

co fess

 

FALCON:

GQisa:
FALCON:
GQEZ:
FALCON: -

FRANQUI?

€ . ‘SECRET €

Ain134, 1° Jul v2, Carlos BLANCO (cont.)

Do you imow this instrun nt?

Yos, it is a stano for false driver's licensis.

That is, for the forgery of this type of driver's license. And this type
ef driver's licenses which you used, where was it made, here or in the U.S?

In the U.S.

“It vas scnt to you by the Central Intslligenee Ageney?

YosSe
You have mentioned a series of activitics regarding cxplosives, assistanec,
communications, you also said that the plans had to iv discussed by the C.I.A..

training of dircctives, and you also mentioned the poisoning of livestock.

‘Could you give us an cplanation?

You know that there is a noat shortage and that this is a »vroblem now faced
by the 2evolution. ‘then we tried to coopcrate to that. That is, it is a

sort of a plan to systenatically destroy the econony.

That is preciscly what I wanted to come to, because no one paid any attention

to Reinold. Then everyone thought that up to a certain point sxcinold had not
been sincere. ‘hat is, that he had come here cocrecd by the Department of
Security of the State to make that apnearanc:.

Do you allow me a question? Do you have a different opinion nov?

Completely different?

Why?

in view of the treatment which I have reecived in the Department of security
of the State and in view of the methods which I have scen them use. .ieinold
said that he had been under surveillance for six months, and no one bclicved
it. No one believed that a national coordinator of the movement would be
kept six months on the streets undcr surveillance. I can affirm that I have
been under surveillance for nine months. In the Department of Security of the
State they proved my life since nine months ago. They have told me things,
such as the brand of cigarettes which I smoted up to the movic theater which

I usually visited.

I want to say something to you, because maybe now another counterrevolutionary
deceived as you say or believe, is going to thin: about you the same which you
thought about fcinold. ‘Then we are going to leave the evidence for the next
time when you come here, because little by little everyone has scen how all
counterrevolutionary organizations are being liquidated by the revolution.
That is, in the end what matters is not the appreciation of what you said or

did not say, what matters are the presentations.

a
Sue.
13-00000;

 

FRAaNQur:

FALCON:

GOMES:
FALCON:

aN

Cc “sg sok 2. C

© Afel3!t, 1u dul 62, Carlos BLANCO (cont.)

I belicve, Live PxANQui, nat when they sec these two cases people will pay
more attention to us.
But it isn't two cases. There are many moree They tricd to rise in the

“seaabray and they were crushed. They cam: to Playa Giron and they were

_erushed. Thuy attempted sabotagss in "21 Eneanto" sterc, ote. and they were

‘liquidated. ieinold came and he was liquidated. ‘Thcy have attempted to

infiltrate through different parts of the country and have been liquidated.
So it isn't two eases, but many morc.

But look, the problem ef the individual who is now conspiring in the streets
is that ‘he cainot turn back. That is, uc has only two ways out: leave the

country or try to continuc fighting to sec if he wins.

You believe that they nave another way out in addition to those two?

I an-sure they do. ‘The Department of Soeurity of the State is not interestcd

in conducting a massiv: repression or nothing like that. ‘What they want is

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

VIVO:

FALCON:
Vivo:

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FALCON: -

- FRANQUI:

FALCON:

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

that the individual stop conspiring, and if they don't bother them, they
won't bother the individuals.

In addition to that I believe that there is another way out for them, that
of being captured by the Department of Security of the State.

Well, if they continuc conspiring.

You witnessed the TV appearance of heinold GONZALES. Tie mentioned tho
effectiveness of the Defense Committees. Can you also say this?
Absolutely. They proved my activities 9 months back.

You saw Reinold GONZALEZ on television. After that appearance have you seen
Reinold Since you have been under arrest?

Yos, I have had opportunities to talk to him.

You have become convinced that he came here spontaneously and that he really
declared what he wished to declare?

Well, it isn't that I am convinced, I have also come here spontancously to
declare. ,

Well, you also say that a great part of that difficulty has been created by
the Defense Committess?

Yes.

Would you like to ‘give me a practical example?

Well, I can't really give you a practical cxample.e What I can say is that
they proved activities of mine nine months ago. They have told mo when I
arrived there from the brand of cigarettes which I smoked up to the movic
theater where Iwually went. That is, not only about me, but about all the

v “9-

aes : gees pT
13-00000

 

 

8 E Cx £T ; : C

"AAK13BH, 15 Jul 62, Carlos BLANCO (cont.)

Vivo:

FALCON:

FRANQUI

FALCON:

FRANQUI
FALCON:
VIVO:

FALCON:

FRANQUI

FALCON:
FRANQUI
FALOON:
*RANQUI
FALCON:
VIVO:

FALCON:

Of course, it isn't necessary to say that us comrades here belicve in

‘the candor of the mmbers of that counterrevolutionary organization as much

as we believe in the disinterest of the Central Intclligence Agency. In
order to avoid entering into an unnecessary debate we want to specify that

you have spoken of assassinations, of sabotages against popular cconony.

‘What participation have you had in the assistance of bands of insurgents

who made the Escambray a knifee...of the country?

Well, practically the samc participation as the other organizations. That is,
if we could give a basically financial assistance, because we had nothing
else, we would give it to them, if we were able.

But you mentioned here that the collections which you obtained from internal
counterrevolutionary groups had greatly decreasca, because you had to resort

more cach time to the help which you received from the United States. In what

form did you reecive that assistance?

2
3

The assistance was received on the basis of changes, that is, change
operations. They would place "X" dollars over there to a private individual
over there and we received the equivalcnt here from another individual.
They! Whom? :
The Americans.
How did the change of currency affect these operations?
Well, at that time it didn't affect us very much. We changed practically
all the money which the Movement hades We put all the militants of the Movemen

’ to change money.

In llavana, did [the doercase of/ your collections have anything to do with
the fact that the elements of the rich and bourgeois class left for the U.S?
Io think that in a large part. ,

That is, you reccived money from rich peoplo?

Yes.

And when those people left you had less collections?

Practically, yes.

Do you want to say something about psychological warfarc, about the problcn
of the rumors?

Yes. I am going to say something about tho propaganda of that affair of
‘parental authority over children. In gencral we had a big participation
in that affair because we sincerely Launched a vropaqanda campaign trying
to make them desperate with that rumor which had been started regarding

‘

Age

SzcraitT

parental authority. 4
 

re

|

 

>

. . s8Ccnrut Cc
VAde13¢, 10 dul 02, Carl. BLANCO (cont)

forcign powcr to-whom in the future we would again have to surrender the
nation to thom. ‘this help which they would promise to give us and which

they gave us gradually, was being conditioned. That is, it may be said

_that we naively thought they would give it to us with disinterest, that is,

without asking anything in return. But later we rcalized that it wasn't so,

‘ that they vere giving us this help in exchange for something, in exchange

“ FRANQUI:
FALCON:

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

GOMEZ 3

_ FALCON:

that in the future we would surrender our sovereignty and our nation to them.
For this reason arose a sort of discouragement among the ranks of the Hovement
until about the end of last year we even thought of dissolving the Novement
completely.

But the Playa Giron failure wasn't also a determining factor?

Yes, Playa Giron was one of the determining causes. ‘That is, the destiny

of North Amcrican Imperialism was also scen in vlaya Giron.

Although it was also scen how popular it is to fight against the evolution.

Yes, exachl y+ oat was an Invasion which was crushod in less than 12 hours..

ui arrive :
And when/geuxarrived at the conclusion that you were serving as instrument

of the United States and of North American Imperialism?

Well, already quitc some time ago. The problem is that one becomes aware of
it but it secms that it is too late to turn back. I would lise to stress
this. Basically that is one of the reasons why I askcd to come here. The

Majority of the conspirators. who are now on the streets, the rank members

of our Novenent who are still on the strects, nave a diffcrent idea about the

“fight. That is, they think that we are not really what we are, a branch of

the North American Central Intelligence Agencye. ‘Then they think that and.

continue in the fight. However, those of us who are in the direction,
and I say that for my case specifically, when I was a rank member of the

Hovenent and engaged in distributing propaganda, when I would spend the

entire day distributing propaganda from morning till night, and when I

finished I believed that I had done a great deal for Cuba, I believed that

I had worked terribly lard for Cuba and that I had done the best which I
could and had becn working for a just cause. ‘ien I became a directive of
the Novenent I realized that it wasn't so, and now I realize that we were
completely subjectcd to North American Imperialism and that.we were not going
to attain any of the ideas, any of the objectives for which we ware fighting.

SaCcnaT
13-0000

 

ANAS
“PALCOM:

FRANQUI
FALCON:

VALDES:

FALCON:

FRANQUI

 

SECRET €
13 Jul 62, Carlos BLANCO (cont.) :

Well, in some cases by members of the Hovement, and in other cases by

- North Americans. _o

.
:

You mentioned communications. What type of cquipment did the C.I.A. give you?
A telegraphy equipment of the ones which they use for their cspionage
‘activities in other countries. It is a non commercial tclegraphy cquipment.
A small equipment which can operate practically anywhere. We used this

to communicate with over there on the basis of a telegraphy system in code
directly to a CeI.A.. base. ; .

And what about the assassination plot against Major itaul CASTiNO with the
participation of Guantanamo Naval Base?

Well, that was the 26th of July of last year. That wasn't specifically a plan
of ours. It.was a plan inventcd by the C.I.A. with the participation of some
organizations, ours wasn't the only onc. The plan contemplated various parts.
That is, it contemplated an assassination attempt against Fidel and the
Cabinet which was going te gather in the Civic Plaza on the 26th of July of

. last year. On the other part it included an assassination attempt against

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FALCON:

GOHEZ:
PALCON:

VIVO:
- FALCON:
VIVO:
FALCON:

Raul CASTRO in Santiago de Cuba and nother series of sabotages correlated to
this, such as paralyzing the ulectric Company, a self-aggression in
Guantanamo Naval Base, and a few other smaller scale things.

And there was no participation in the plans to burn the "Petroquimico" of
Cotorro?

Yes, that was done by our organization.

Could you give me an explanation about the sabotage of the "Petroquimica"
of Cotorro?

Well, there we used materials manufactured by us. Practically no materials
received from abroad, that is from the U.S., were used there. A chemical
preparation of some capsules which burned immediately was made.

What other sabotage plans did you have?

That of destroying some "Compania de Omnibus Aliados" bus company plants.
We have the plan for the systcomatie destruction of the cconomy, which
contemplated, among other things as I already told you, poisoning cattle
with potasium cyanide.

And how did you burn buses?

With incendiary cigarctte cases.

Simulating cigarette packs?

Yes, more or less.

 
 

(SEC Rg T €

* AAq13#, 18 Jul 62, Carlos BLAICO (cont.)

FAANQUI: You have nentioned a series of countorrevolutionary actions performed by

 

you. You have mentioned that you had a certain success in that of Cotorro.

j You failed in the assassination attempt of Crrlos 2afacl and could not
accomplish the assassination attempts of the leading figures of the evolution

7 Which causes prevented you from accomplishing them?
FALCON: Ve didn't have time. The Department of Security of the State arrested
practically all of us.

FRANQUI: But those assassination plots happened in different times.

se?

i FALCON: No, we were planning that now.

a FRANQUI: But, for example, that assassination attenmt with the participation of
organization by the C.I.eA., and in which various counterrevolutionary organ-
izations participated, such as the one of the 26th of July. What prevented.
its accomplishment?

FALCON: _The same reason. ‘The Department of Sccurity of the State arrested all key

e

individuals a few days earlier.

GOHEZ + That is, in various cases and in various sabotage plans which you had, the
Department of Security of the State anticipated you and arrested those who
were in conplicity to accomplish then?

FALCON: In many of thome

FAANQUI: You used to face many difficultics. regarding the accomplishment of these

, ‘plans. . How did you feel? Wasn't it ditficult for you to accomplish these

 

actions?
FALCON: Well, a plan must be studicd and an attompt must be made to carry it out.
That is, a surveillance of the individual must be set up and see what is the
most appropriate place to carry it out, and see whether it is possible or not.
FAANQUI: Yes, that is natural in any type of action of that nature. fut I was referrin:
- to the fact that the percentage of actions which you have accomplished is very
small, and het you attemptcd many, and you say that one of the causcs is that
the Department of Sccurity of the State intervened in time. But is there any
other cause which prevented you from accomplishing counterrevolutionary
activitics?
FALCON: ‘Well, in gencral a scries of difficultics, such as the discouragement among
the ranks of the movement.
FiVANQUI: Caused by what?
FALCON: Caused by the subjection to the North Anerican Central Intelligence Agency.
Undoubtedly, we weré fighting not with the idea of being subjected to a

 
13-00000. /4

co
‘

. € - we E ee oY : . C€ y d
No. AAw134

: No chats — Lu July 1902

reare) PLO! geen ANG SR phen Aun

SUBJECT: Interview of Juan FALCON Tamar, under arrest in Cuba, alleged National

Coordinator of the "Movimiento de Recuperacion Revolucionaria" (MeR. Re)
in Cuba.

SOURCE: Cuban "RADIO REBELDE" station, 17 July 1962, 8:00 PN. .
' The prisoner is introduced by Luis GOMES. Wanguemert, and the panel of

   

nowspapermen is conposed by: Carlos FRANQUI, Director of "REVOLUCION" newspaper,

and aul VALDES Vivo, Gub-Director of "HOY" newspaper. : .

GOMEZ: You are here before newspapermen to answer questions out of your own free

. will, or have been coerced in any vay to come tonight?

FALCON: Completely voluntarily. ,

GOMEZ:: Then would you like to make us a narration of your activities in the Hoke.

FALCON: The MeRele was founded in late 1959 by Hanuel ARTINE and a scries of other
“elements. In those days I began as a rank member, working in the propaganda
field. I used to write a bit in the newspaper of the Movement, and also
distributed the newspaper and other things, and more or less in that way.
Of that period I have little to say because ‘I was a rank member and had
no access to the plans of the Movement. After Giron, after the 17th of
April Playa Giron Invasion, most of the members of the exccutive of the

Movement went into asylum or left Cuba. Then those of us who were rank

 

members passed to occupy the positions of the directive to try to reorganize
‘ite In this case I entered the directive of the Movement. It is then that
I can talk with more details about the directive of the Movement. I think
that. you should ask ne about something specifically.

FRANQUI: After Playa Giron you entered the direction of the N.R.R., and what position

did you first occupy in that direction?

PALCON: First I was Organization Secretary and latcr I became the National Director
of the Movement.

FRANQUI: What main oounterrevolutionary activitics did you fplural/ accomplish after
Playa Giron?

    
  
 
 

We engaged in performing a series of sabotages, such as burning the "Petro-
quimica™ of Cotorro. A plan to destroy national transport in general.

We destroyed 3 buses of Route 33. We also had a plan for the systematic
destruction of the economy which included, among other things, the poisoning

of cattle.

 
104-10308-10157

(C]_ UNCLASSIFIED 5) Pastis op = CD AONB ENTIAL ‘e — ) SECRET

 

“ROUTING 2 AND RECORD SHEE

SYBJECT:. (Optional) Background cs Use ¢ Onl
. 9 Not Reproduce

 

FROM: —_ .
oe TRW/ET/SLD

TO: (Officer “esignation, room’ number, ond
building) OFFICER'S COMMENTS {Number eoch comment to show from whom

a INI ee) to whom. Draw a line across column offer each comment.)

Please send to

apprepriate
file.

_ 19-120-18...

Hf RR pte

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SE 610 ane Co SECRET) CONFIDENTIAL) (NEENAL——]_ UNCLASSIFIED

GPO 1961 - o—$93666

up)
13-00000

“AA-134,
Goria:

FALCON:

 

VALDES:

sect _ FALCON:

GOMEZ:

 

FALCON:

co

SEChET.

 

18 Jul 62, Carlos BLANCO (cont.)

What can you toll.us about tho assassination attempt against Carlos utafael

- RODRIGUEZ?

We learned through the newspapers that Carlos ttafacl was going to give a
lecture in the "Fausto" theater of Matanzas. We surmised that he was going
to go by the Via Blanca highway and we set up a surveillance. ‘hen Carlos
Rafael left an automobile of ours was traveling ahead of him and made a sign
to an individual whom we had posted on the highway, indicating that Carlos
Rafacl's automobile was coming behind. Then the individual tricd to
intercept the automobile and he was shot. at, with the known results that the
individual whom we had posted there was killed. ;

You. have said something in rclation to countcrrevolutionary activities.

\iho organized these activities? Was there sone conneetion between the Heiel.
_and the Central Intelligesnec Agency?

At first during a stage we thought... Let me explain a bit in detail.

Ve thought that we could carry out this fight alone, but little by Little

"we became aware that we were falling into the hands of the North American

Government and that they helped us, not with disinterest but with the
interest of again controlling the Republic as they had controlled it until
1 January 1959.

And how far did the intervention of the Central Intclligcnee Agency reach
in the Movement which you directed?

‘Well, it reached quite a high degree. Tor example, to appoint a directive

in recent days, or the chief of a national secretariat of the Movement, we

“had to make a consultation over there to sec if they approved or disaparoved

the individual. Another cxample waich I could give you so that you might
realize the degree of subjection which we have reached with regard to then,
is that in the problem of communications we had always been concerned with
being able to communicate with the Movement abroad, that is, with tho Nete.ie
in exile. For this objective once we thought of buying radio and radio
telegraphy equipment to communicate dircctly with them over there. Mowcver,
we could not do it because the pcople from over there told us that if the
Americans would learn that we were communicating with them directly without
counting on tic C.I-Ae that we were going to have a big problum and that
they would cut off all assistance. To communicate over there we had a
telegraphy plant, radio-telegraphy, which communicated directly with a C.I.A.
226
13-00000

re " BECCA. ¢
jA-134, LU Jul 02, Carlos BLANCO (cont.)

 

base. ‘Then through this base we would pass the mossages which we wanted

to send to the Movement. Out of that message the Americans would tcll what
they wanted to the members of the Movement, and keep to themselves what they
did not want to say.» And if they wanted our people could not send a message
to us from over theree In view of this we tried to cstablish direct
communications without ColeAs intermcdiation. However, it was not possible
for us to do this. Apparently they did not permit it.

FRANQUI: you said that you had become organized because you were going to fight against

the revolution of the people.

FALCON: Yes.» oO

FRANQUI: And then you referred to the intervention of imperialisn's CeleAe When did

, that happen? “Before Playa Giron or after? :

FALCON: Well, an exact date cannot be determined. It was rather a gradual process
which grew more and more. And lately we were practicallyse.. Well, later
they convinced us that the Revolution was practically invincible.

GOMEZ: And to what do you attribute the invineibility of the Revolution?

FALCON: To a very large popular support.

VALDES: You speak of the connection with the Central Intelligence Agency. What
resources was the C.I.A. facilitating to you? —

FALCON: Well, in the first place it gave us money. Part of the money with which we

 

functioned we raised here, and part canc from over there at first. By this
' time practically everything was coming from over there.

FRANQUI: Did the collections which you have over here decrcase?

FALCON: Yes. For example, another connection is a telegraphy plant, the one which ©
I mentioned previously and which we used to communicate with them over there.
Pacilities to exfiltrate persons from Cuba, that is, clandestine elcnents,
individuals who were "burned". ‘This was on the basis of ships which came to
pick them upand many promises of arms, sabotage matcrials, and another
scries of things.

GOMEZ: You mentioncd ships. What kind of ships?

FALCON: Well, some boats which come here.

GOHWEZ: Did they come here to the coasts of Cuba?

FALCON: Yes. 7

GOBLEZ s Where did they come from?

FALCON: From Miami.

GOHEZ: | Manned by whom?

al

SBC WET
:
