 

S.3006—9

(3) The Senate shall vote on each nominee to confirm or reject
‘within 14 days in which the Senate is in session after reported
by the Committee on Governmental Affairs. -

(e) VACANCY.—A vacancy on the Review Board shall be filled
in the same manner as specified for original appointment within
30 days of the occurrence of the vacancy.

(f) CHAIRPERSON.—The Members of the Review Board shall
elect one of its members as chairperson at its initial meeting.

(g) REMOVAL oF. REVIEW BoARD MEMBER.—(1) No member of
the Review Board shall be removed from office, other than—

(A) by impeachment and conviction; or

(B) by the action of the President for inefficiency, neglect
of duty, malfeasance in office, physical disability, mental
incapacity, or any other condition that substantially impairs

the performance of the member's duties. .

(2A) If a member of the Review Board is removed from office, .

and that removal is by the President, not later than 10 days
after the removal the President shall submit to the Committee
on Government ‘Operations of the Héuse of Representatives and
the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report
specifying the facts found and the grounds for the removal.

(B) The President shall publish in the Federal Register a report

‘submitted under paragraph (2\A), except that the President may, -

if necessary to protect the rights of a person named in the report
or to prevent undue interference with any aprndine prosecution,
postpone or refrain from publishing any or all of the report, until
the completion of such pending cases or pursuant to privacy protec-
tion requirements in law.

(3A) A member of the Review Board removed from office
may obtain judicial review of the removal in a civil action com-
menced in the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia. :

(B) The member may be_reinstated or granted other appropriate
relief by order of the court.

(h) COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.—(1) A member of the Review
Board shall be compensated at a rate equal to the daily equivalent
of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level IV of the
Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States
Code, for each day (including travel time) during which the member
is engaged in the performance of the duties of the Review Board.

(2) A member of the Review Board shall be allowed reasonable
travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates
for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of
title 5, United States Code, while away from the tfember’s home
or regular place of business in the performance of services for
the Review Board.

(i) DUTIES OF THE REVIEW BoaRD.—{1) The Review Board shall
consider and render decisions on a determination by a Government
office to seek to postpone the disclosure of assassination records.

(2) In carrying out paragraph (1), the Review Board shall
consider and render decisions— .

a whether a record constitutes an assassination record;

an .
- (B) whether an assassination record ér particular informa-
tion in a record qualifies for postponement of disclosure under
this Act.

an
we
 

S. 3006—10

(j) Powers.—(1) The Review Board shall have the authority
to act in a manner prescribed under this Act including authority
“to—

(A) direct Government offices to complete identification
aids and organize assassination records; .

(B) direct Government offices to transmit to the Archivist
assassination records as required under this Act, including
segregable portions of assassination records, and substitutes
and summaries of assassination records that can be publicly
disclosed to the fullest extent;

(Ci) obtain access to assassination records that have been
identified and organized by a Government office;

(ii) direct a Government office to make available to the
Review Board, and if necessary investigate the facts surround-
ing, additional information, records, or testimony from individ-
uals, which the Review Board has reason to believe is required
to fulfill its fiunctions‘and responsibilities under this Act; and

(iii) request the Attorney General to subpoena private per-
sons to compel testimony, records, and other information rel-

‘evant to its responsibilities under this Act; oe

(D) require any Government office to account in writing
for the destruction of any records relating to the ‘assassination
of President John F. Kennedy;

"+ (EY) receive information from the public regarding the
identification and public disclosure of assassination records;

. (F) hold hearings, administer oaths, and subpoena’ wit-

nesses and documents. .

(2) A subpoena issued under paragraph (1XC\iii) may be
enforced by any appropriate Federal court acting pursuant to a
lawful request of the Review Board.

(k) Witness IMMUNITY.—The Review Board shall be considered
to be an agency of the United States for purposes of section 6001
of title 18, United States Code.

(1) OVERSIGHT.—(1) The Committee on Government Operations
of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Govern-
mental Affairs of the Senate shall have continuing oversight juris-
diction with respect to the official conduct of. the Review Board
and the disposition of postponed records after termination of the
Review Board, and shall have access to any records held or created
by the Review Board. an

(2) The Review Board shall have the duty to cooperate with
the exercise of such oversight jurisdiction.

(m) Suprporr SERvICES.—The Administrator of the General
Services Administration shall provide administrative services for
the Review Board on a reimbursable basis.

(n) INTERPRETIVE REGULATIONS.—The Review Board may issue

- interpretive regulations. - oe

(0) TERMINATION AND Winninc Up.—{1) The Review Board
and the terms of its members shall terminate not later than 2
years after the date of enactment of this Act, except that the
Review Board may, by majority vote, extend its term for an addi-
tional 1-year period if it has not completed its work within that
2-year period. ’ :

(2) Upon its termination, the Review Board shall submit reports
to the President and the Congress including a complete and accurate

a

Py
 

S. 3006—8

affiliation, 5 citizens to serve as members of the Review Board
to ensure and facilitate the review, transmission to the Archivist,
* and public disclosure of Government records related to the assas-
sination of President John F. Kennedy.

(2) The President ghall make nominations to the Review Board
not later than 90 calendar days after the date of enactment of
this Act.

(3) If the Senate votes not to confirm a nomination to the
Review Board, the President. shall make an additional nomination
not later than 30 days thereafter.

(4).A) The President shall make nominations to the Review
Board after considering persons recommended by the American
Historical Association, the Organization of American Historians,

the Society of American Archivists, and the American Bar Associa- .

tion.

(B) If an organization described in subparagraph (A) does not
recommend at least 2 nominees meeting the qualifications stated
in paragraph (5) by the date that.is 45 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Presidenttshall consider for nomination
the persons recommended by the other organizations described in
‘subparagraph (A).

The President may request an organization described in
- subparagraph.(A) to submit additional nominations. . .
(5) Persons nominated to the Review Board—

(A) shall be impartial private citizens, none of whom is .
presently employed by any branch of the Government, and

none of whom shall have had any previous involvement with

any official investigation or inquiry conducted by a Federal,

State, or local government, relating to the assassination of

President John F. Kennedy;

(B) shall be distinguished persons of high national profes-
sional reputation in their respective fields who are capable
of exercising the independent and objective judgment necessary
to the fulfillment of their role in ensuring and facilitating
the review, transmission to the public, and public disclosure
of records related to the assassination‘ of President John F.
Kennedy and who possess an appreciation.of the value of such
material to the public, scholars, and government; and

(C) shall include at least 1 professional historian and 1
attorney.

(c) SEcuRITY CLEARANCES.—(1) All Review Board nominees
shall be granted the necessary security clearances in an accelerated
manner subject to the standard procedures for granting such clear-
ances.

(2) All nominees shall qualify for the necessary security clear-
ance prior to being considered for confirmation by the Committee
on Governmental Affairs of the Senate.

(d) CONFIRMATION HEARINGS.—(1) The Committee on Govern-
mental Affairs of the Senate shall hold confirmation hearings within
30 days in which the Senate is in session afler the nomination
of 3 Review Board members.

(2) The Committee on Governmental Affairs ‘shall vote on the
nominations within 14 days in which the Senate is in session
after the confirmation hearings, and shall report its results to
the full Senate immediately.
 

S. 3006—7

(ii) the identifiable harm is of such gravity that it outweighs
the public interest in disclosure. ;
(h) Fess ror Copyinc.—Executive branch agencies shall—

(1) charge fees for co ying assassination records;and

(2) grant waivers of such fees pursuant to the standards
established by section 552(a)(4) of title 5, United States Code.

SEC. 6. GROUNDS FOR POSTPONEMENT OF PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF
RECORDS.

Disclosure of assassination records or particular information
in assassination records to the public may be postponed subject
to the limitations of this Act if there is clear and convincing evidence
that— .

(1) the threat to the military defense, intelligence oper-
ations, or conduct of foreign relations of the United States
posed by the public disclosure of the assassination is of such

avity that it outweighs the public intérest, and such public
isclosure would reveal— :

(A) an intelligence agent whose identity currently
requires protection; ‘

(B) an intelligence source or method which is currently
utilized, or reasonably expected to be utilized, by the United
States Government and which has not been officially dis-
closed, the disclosure of which would interfere with the
conduct of intelligence activities; or

(C) any other matter currently relating to the military
defense, intelligence operations or conduct of foreign rela-
tions of the United States, the disclosure of which would
demonstrably impair the national security of the United

tates; . .

(2) the public disclosure of the assassination record would
reveal the name or identity of a living person who provided
confidential information to the United States and would pose

~ a substantial risk of harm to that person

(3) the public disclosure of the assassination record could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy is so substan-
tial that it outweighs the public interest;

(4) the public disclosure of the assassination record would
compromise the existence of an understanding of confidentiality
currently requiring protection between a ernment agent
and a cooperating individual or a foreign government, and
public disclosure would be so harmful that it outweighs the
public interest; or

(5) the public disclosure of the assassination record would
reveal a security or protective procedure currently utilized,
or reasonably expected to be utilized, by the Secret Service
or another Government agency responsible for protecting Gov-
ernment officials, and public disclosure would be so harmful
that it outweighs the public interest.

SEC. 7. ESTABLISHMENT AND POWERS OF THE ASSASSINATION
RECORDS REVIEW BOARD.

(a) EsTaBLISHMENT.—There is established as-an independent
” agency a board to be known as the Assassinations Records Review
Board. 1?

(b) APPOINTMENT.—{1) The President, by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate, shall appoint, without regard to political

wat
a
74-0000

S.3006—5

(c) REVIEW.—({1) Not later than 300 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, each Government office shall review, identify

- and organize each assassination record in its custody or possession

for disclosure to the public, review by the Review Board, and
transmission to the Archivist. .
(2) In carrying out paragraph (1), a Government office shall—
determine which of its records are assassination
records; . .

(B) determine which of its assassination records have been
officially disclosed or publicly available in a complete and
unredacted form;

(CXi) determine which of its assassination records, or par-
ticular information contained in such a record, was created
by a third agency or by another Government office; and

(ii) transmit te a third agency or other Government office
those records, or particular information contained in those
records, or complete and accurate copies thereof; .

(D)i) determine whether its assassination records or par-
ticular information in assassination records are covered by
the standards for postponement af public disclosure under this

t; an

Gi) specify on the identification aid requited by subsection
(d) the applicable postponement provision contained in section
&:

_  {E) organize and make available to the Review Board all
assassination records identified under subparagraph (D) the

- public disclosure-of which in whole or in -part may be postponed
under this Act; :

(F) organize and make available to the Review Board any
record concerning which the office has any uncertainty as to
whether the record is an assassination record governed by
this Act;

(G) give priority to—

(i) the identification, review, and transmission of all
assassination records publicly available or disclosed as o!
the date of enactment of this Act in a redacted or edited
form; and ‘ ,

Gii) the identification, review, and transmission, under
the standards for postponement set forth in this Act, of
assassination records that on the date of enactment of
this Act are the subject of litigation under section 552
of title 5, United States Code; and ~~
(H) make available to the Review Board any additional

information and records that the Review Board has reason

to believe it requires for conducting a review under this Act.

(3) The Director of each archival depository established under
section 2112 of title 44, United States Code, shall have as a priority
the expedited review for public disclosure of assassination records
in the possession and custody of the depository, and shall make
guch records available to the Review Board as required by this

ct.

(d) IDENTIFICATION AIDS.—(1)(A) Not later than 45 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Archivist, in consultation
with the appropriate Government offices, shall prepare and make
available to all Government offices a standard form of identification
or finding aid for use with each assassination record subject to
review under this Act.

Eva
74-00000

S.3006—6
(B) The Archivist shall ensure that the identification aid pro-

. gram is established in such a manner as to result in the creation

of a uniform system of electronic records by Government offices
that are compatible with each other. .
(2) Upon completion of an identification aid, a Government
office shall—
(A) attach a printed copy to the record it describes;
(B) transmit to the Review Board a printed copy; and
(C) attach a printed copy to each assassination record it
describes when it is transmitted to the Archivist.

(3) Assassination records which are in the possession of the
National Archives on the date of enactment of this Act, and which
have been publicly available in their entirety without redaction,
shall be made ‘available in the Collection without any additional
review by the Review Board or another authorized office under
this Act, and shall not be required to havé such an identification
aid unless required by the Archivist. :

(e) TRANSMISSION TO THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES.—Each Govern-
ment office shall— “ ry

(1) transmit to the Archivist, and make immediately avail-
able to the public, all assassination records that can be publicly
disclosed, including those that are publicly available on the

date of enactment, of this Act, without any redaction, adjust-
ment, or withholding under the standards of this Act; and

(2) transmit to the Archivist upon approval for postpone-
ment by -the Review-Board or upon completion. of ather action

-authorized by this Act, all assassination records the public

disclosure of which has been postponed, in whole or in part,

under the standards of this Act, to become part of the protected

Collection.

() Cusropy oF POSTPONED ASSASSINATION Recorps.—An
assassination record the public disclosure of which has been post-
poned shall, pending transmission to the Archivist, be held for
reasons of security and preservation by the originating body until
such time as the information security program has been established
at the National Archives as required in section 4(e)(2).

(g) PERIODIC REVIEW OF POSTPONED ASSASSINATION RECORDS.—
(1) All postponed or redacted records shall be reviewed periodically
by the originating agency and the Archivist consistent with the
recommendations of the Review Board under section 9(cX3XB).

(24) A periodic review shall address the public disclosure
of additional assassination records in the Collection under the
standards of this Act.

(B) All postponed assassination records determined to require
continued postponement shall require an_ unclassified written
description of the reason for such continued postponement. Such
description shall be provided to the Archivist and published in
the Federal Register upon determination.

(C) The periodic review of postponed assassination records shall
serve to downgrade and declassify security classified information.

(D) Each assassination record shall be publicly disclosed in

full, and available in the Collection no Jater than the date that

is 25 years after the date of enactment of this Act, unless the
President certifies, as required by this Act, that—
- (i) continued postponement is made nécessary by an identi-
fiable harm to the military defense, intelligence operations,
law enforcement, or conduct of foreign relations; and

oat
74-00000

5S. 3006—2

SEC, 3. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act: :
(1) “Archivist” means the Archivist of the United States.
(2) “Assassination record” means a record that is related
to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, that was
created or made available for use by, obtained by, or otherwise
came into the possession of-—— . .

(A) the Commission to Investigate the Assassination
of President John F. Kennedy (the “Warren Commission”);

(B) the Commission on Central Intelligence Agency
Actives Within the United States (the “Rockefeller Com-
mission”); :

(C) the Senate Select Committee to Study Govern-
mental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities
(the “Church Committee”);

(D) the Select Committee on Intelligence (the “Pike
Committee”) ef the House of Representatives; ‘

{E) the Select Committee on Assassinations (the
“House Assassinations Committee”) of the House of Rep-
resentatives; . v'

(F) the Library of Congress;

* (G)'the National Archives and Records Administration;

(H) any Presidential library;

- (any Executive agency;
(J) any independent agency;
(K) any-other office of ihe Federal Government, and
-  {L} any State or: locat law enforcement office that pro-
vided support or assistance or performed work in corinec-
tion with a Federal inquiry into the assassination of Presi-
dent John F. Kennedy,
but does not include the autopsy records donated by the Ken-
nedy family to the National Archives pursuant to a deed of
gift regulating access to those records, or copies and reproduc-
tions made from such records. mo,

(3) “Collection” means the President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection established under section 4.

(4) “Executive agency” means an.Executive agency as
defined in subsection 552(f) of title 5, United States Code,
and includes any Executive department, military department,
Government corporation, Government controlled corporation,
or other establishment in the executive branch of the Govern-
ment, including the Executive Office of the President, or any

‘independent regulatory agency.

(5) “Government office” means any office of the Federal
Government that has possession or control of assassination
records, including—

(A) the House Committee on Administration with
regard to.the Select Committee on Assassinations of the
records of the House of Representatives;

(B) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate
with regard to records of the Senate Select Committee
to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intel-
ligence Activities and other assassination records; -

(C) the Library of Congress;

; (D) the National Archives as custpdian of assassination
records that it has obtained or possesses, including the

Commission to Investigate the Assassination of President

UR
 

04-1033-10010

OPS FTG ar

 

 

One Wundred Second Congress of the Wnited States of America

AT THE SECOND SESSION

Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
\ one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two

An Act

To provide for the expeditious disclosure of records relevant to the assassination
of President John F. Kennedy.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled,

{ SECTION 1, SHORT TITLE, “

This Act may be cited as the “President John F. Kennedy
-Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992”.

SEC. 2, FINDINGS, DECLARATIONS, AND PURPOSES.

. . (a) FINDINGS AND DECLARATIONS.—The Congress finds and Bs
: declares that— ; : :

, : - €1) all Government records related to: the assassination
an of President John F. Kennedy should be preserved for historical

: and governmental purposes;

v (2) all Government records concerning the assassination
of President John F. Kennedy should carry a presumption
of immediate disclosure, and all records should be eventually
disclosed to enable the public to become fully informed about
the history surrounding the assassination;

(3) legislation is necessary to create an enforceable,
independent, and accountable process for the public disclosure
of such records; ‘

(4) legislation is necessary because congressional records
related to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy
would not otherwise be subject to public disclosure until at
least the year 2029; = - --

(5) legislation is necessary because the Freedom of Informa-
tion Act, as implemented by the executive branch, has pre-
vented the timely public disclosure of records relating to the
assassination of President John F. Kennedy;

(6) legistation is necessary because Executive Order No.
12356, entitled “National Security Information” has eliminated
the declassification and downgrading schedules relating to
classified information across government and has prevented
the timely public disclosure of records relating to the assassina-

_ tion of President John F. Kennedy; and

(7) most of the records related to the assassination of
President John F. Kennedy are almost 30 years old, and only
in the rarest cases is there any legitimate need for continued
protection of such record; *

{b) Purposes.—The purposes of this Act are—

(1) to provide for the creation of the President John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records Collection at the National
Archives and Records Administration; and

(2) to require the expeditious public transmission to the
Archivist and public disclosure of such records.

 
74-0000

§.3006—3

John F. Kennedy and the Commission on Central Intel-
ligence Agency Activities in the United States; and
(E) any other executive branch office or agency, and

any independent agency. .

(6) “Identification aid” means the written description pre-
pared for each record as required in section 4.

(7) “National Archives” means the National Archives and
Records Administration and all components thereof, including
Presidential archival depositories established under section
2112 of title 44, United States Code.

(8) “Official investigation” means the reviews of the assas-
sination of President John F. Kennedy conducted by any Presi-
dential commission, any authorized congressional committee,
and any Government agency ‘either independently, at the
request of any Presidential commission or congressional com-
mittee, or at the request of any Government official. 7

(9) “Originating body” means the Executive agency, govern-
ment. commission, congressional committee, or other govern-
mental entity that created a reéord or particular information
within a record.

. (10) “Public interest” means the compelling interest in the
prompt public disclosure of assassination records for historical
and governmental purposes and for the purpose of fully inform-
ing the American people about the history surrounding the
assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

. . (1) “Record”. includes a book, paper, map, photograph,
sound or video recording, machine readable material, computer-
ized, digitized, or electronic information, regardless of the
medium on which it is stored, or other documentary material,
regardless of its physical form or characteristics.

(12) “Review Board” means the Assassination Records
Review Board established by section 7.

(13) “Third agency” means a Government agency that origi-
nated an assassination record that is in the possession of
another agency.

SEC. 4. PRESIDENT JOHIN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS COL-
LECTION AT THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS
ADMINISTRATION, .

(a) IN GENERAL.—(1) Not later than 60 days after the date
of enactment of this Act, the National Archives and Records
Administration shall commence establishment of a collection of
records to be known as the President John F. Kennedy Assassina-
tion Records Collection. In so doing, the Archivist shall ensure
the physical integrity and original provenance of all records. The
Collection shall consist of record copies of all Government records
relating to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, which
shall be transmitted to the National Archives in accordance with
section 2107 of title 44, United States Code. The Archivist shall
prepare and publish a subject idebook and index to the collection.

(2) The Collection shall include—

(A) all assassination records—

(i) that have been transmitted to the National Archives
or disclosed to the public in an unredacted form prior
to the date of enactment of this Act; #

(ii) that are required to be transmitted to the National
Archives; or
14-00000

5. 3006—4
(iii) the disclosure of which is postponed under this

ct;

(B) a central directory comprised of identification aids cre-

ated for each record transinitted to the Archivist under section
7 an * .
(C) all Review Board records as required by this Act.

(b) DiscLusuRE oF Recorns.—All assassination records
transmitted to the National Archives for disclosure to the public
shall be included in the Collection and shall be available to the
public for inspection and copying at the National Archives within
30 days after their transmission to the National Archives.

. (c) FEES For Copyinc.—The Archivist shall—
(1) charge fees for copying assassination records; and
(2) grant waivers of such fees pursuant to the standards
established by section 552(a)(4) of title 5, United States Code.

(d) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.—(1) The Collection shall be
preserved, protected, archived, and made available to the public
at the National Archives using appropriations authorized, specified,
and restricted for use under the terms of this Act.

(2) The National Archives, in consultation with the Information
Security Oversight Office, shall ensure the security of the postponed
assassination records in the Collection. :

(e) OVERSIGHT.—The Committee on Government Operations of
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Governmental
Affairs of the Senate shall have continuing oversight jurisdiction
with respect to the Collection. Fee .

SEC. 5. REVIEW, IDENTIFICATION, TRANSMISSION TO THE NATIONAL
ARCHIVES; AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF ASSASSINATION
RECORDS BY GOVERNMENT OFFICES.

(a) IN GENERAL.—{1) As soon as practicable after the date
of enactment of this Act, each Government office shall identify
and organize its records relating to the assassination of President
John F. Kennedy and prepare them for transmission to the Archivist
for inclusion in the Collection.

(2) No assassination record shall be destrayed, altered, or muti-
lated in any way.

(3) No assassination record made available or disclosed to the
public prior to the date of enactment of this Act may be withheld,
redacted, postponed for public disclosure, or reclassified.

(4) No assassination record created by a person or entity outside
government (excluding names or identities consistent with the
requirements of section 6) shall be withheld, redacted, postponed
for public disclosure, or reclassified. .

(b) CUSTODY OF ASSASSINATION RECORDS PENDING REVIEW.—
During the review by Government offices and pending review activ-
ity by the Review Board, each Government office shall retain cus-
tody of its assassination records for purposes of preservation, secu-
rity, and efficiency, unless—

(1) the Review Board requires the physical transfer of
records for purposes of conducting an independent and impar-

tial review; .

(2) transfer is necessary for an administrative hearing or

other Review Board function; or P

“(3) it is a third agency record ‘described in subsection

(eX2C).
