14-00000

 

\ Give os

5. In view of the above, it would appear that a-separate
file did exist prior to November 1974, the contents of which
would appear to have now been consolidated within the above
noted official Office of Security file on ROSELLI. Further,
presuming that the heretofore missing "Project Johnny" file is
now an official file, the conclusion‘may be drawn that all
Office of Security files relating to the MAHEU/ROSELLI matter
have been reviewed, and that the pertinent information contained
‘therein has been forwarded to the Inspector General for review.

6. It should be noted that in 1967 the Inspector General
conducted an investigation into the MAHEU/ROSELLI matter, and
in so-doing collected numerous memoranda from the various
Agency components directly involved. As a result, additional
memoranda which may have previously been held separately by
the Director of Security, may be in the possession of the
Inspector General.

x

O03

Ley aratyers-ce ,
shelssrey alysis oup

 

 
 

[ioetorsst0a7] ey, ( - { A
| wa foe of ae er . “
fh _ \ on
‘ . ' 24 June 1975
RETURN TO.CIA’
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group
SUBJECT : Robert A. MAHEU/Johnny ROSELLI Matter

1. The following is provided for your information.

2. Reference is made to previous memoranda, same subject,.
which have been provided to the Inspector General regarding
information contained in Office of Security files concerning
Johnny ROSELLI and Robert A.. MAHEU. Specific reference is made
to certain questions which have been raised concerning the >
existence of a separate file entitled "Project Johnny", which
was alleged to have been kept in the safe of the Director o
Security. :

3. All attempts to locate a file maintained separately by
the Director of Security entitled "Project Johnny", or any other
separate unofficial file concerning the MAHBU/ROSELLI matter
within the Office of Security, have met with negative results.
However, in conducting the research into this matter, a search of
the Office of Security's Top Secret Registry disclosed a Top
Secret. document control card concerning a 14 May 1962 memorandun
from the Director of Security to the U.S. Attorney General. The
Top Secret control card indicated that a copy of this memorandum
was: being retained in the Director of Security's personal safe
‘under Project Johnny".

4. The Office of Security file relating to- Johnny ROSELLI
has a file number of 667 270. Memoranda contained within that
file include the above mentioned 14 May 1962 Top Secret memo-
randum from the Director of Security, as well as the originals of
numerous other memoranda dating back to 1966, which ‘concern
various aspects of the entire MAHEU/ROSELLI matter. According to

_the Chief, Security Records Division, the above official file on
Johnny ROSELLI, using the 667 270 file number, was not established
until November 1974. Further, one such memorandum contained in that
official Office of Security file relating to Johnny ROSELLI has
the original “buck slip", which forwarded that memorandum to the
Director of Security. On the buck slip, which is dated 6 June
1968, the following handwritten notation from the. Director of
Security appears: ‘Kathy, Johnny file".
