 

   
  

    
  

       

‘acceded to. the Soviet official's

s invitation to’ come by

-and give’ then ‘the address.

   
      
    

‘In mid-morning. an unidentified individua

   

_ a. October...

  

 

. Attache in Mexico City. “ie said he had beon to othe 5 Em *

~

  
  
  

; bassy the previous Saturday (za ‘Septenbery and“had talked

wi a Consul who had said : ey wou a send FY eLegraa

     
       
      
 

en a reply: He was

cat in Mexico city was Sonsular ‘Attache! ‘Valeriy

  

“4
KOSTIKOY, born on" “ascow, 1 March’ 1933.

 

“In “his ‘Netter of 9 9 oven

   

 
 
 

pas Kove

oe — parece KOSTIXOY. das. the senior officer of five Soviet Consular j

 

    
   
  

: — Tepresentatives whe. dealt with visas. and related matters. There 7

 
 

ian eae ae ia iki ebaae a :

- 4. Sassinat ion. ._ Its. Its_headduarters .acsording’t

 

 

 

formation conducts int interviews 5 OF as “approveiate,, ‘fie, reviews ‘on “3

   

ers

bes a : every foreign ailitary defector to the "USSR to study’ “and to ‘deter

  
74-0000 4 . =

   

i ., “ . ae . rts . . .
‘ " "|. imine the possibility of utilisi
' . i . .
. lorigin. . . . Te ee vote
ee, {Comment: OSNALD's contact with a mop officers. particularly
cers: BB ole

 

 
  

Moy tet”

an officer of the 13th Departnent, <3 faeietrereroreos rest ‘

m0r

robEaTa travel aocanenes allowia apa to pass througs

un vetoed!

 

fete tes

mation in _an]-

lattempt 20. “determine. ‘the. exact nature of his, contacts with ‘the Cu- -

ban Consulate. in "Mexico city. The Agency was equally unsuccessful”

ae

peer canes

lin uncovering. any evidence that OSWALD's contacts with personnel -

es .. i “naan cer

 

 
 

'
'

and give “them ‘the address.

 

d. 1 October.. In mid-morning an unidentified individua

_ Attache in Mexico Citys He said he Aad been to the

b

nr HASHING CON: Had there been a reply? He was

heat in Mexico Cit} , was “Gonsular “Attache” “Valeriy , Viadinirovich

KOSTIROV, | born on’ “Moscow, 17 March’ 1933. ‘In “his “letter ‘Of 9 9 oven”

ete Tf ae = .

: = wepresentatives who dealt with visas. and related matters. There .

 

Cia ne no
dessAnagione.. Its he head Marters . according to

 

 
  
    

 

KOSTIKOY. Was. the senior officer oF five ‘Soviet Consular 7

van

   

2 ee pee

     
 

-£-

” ,
: - the Cuban Consulate could grant him a visa and arrange ie |

immigration details if the concession of a Soviet visa were”

b. 27 Septenber. Pursuant to her inquiry, Silvia DURAN

NT

received a confirmation from the Soviet Enbassy that the

i
assured, , ;
i
American had been to the USSR installation. He had shown

them a letter from the Soviet Consulate in Washington indi-

cating that he had been long awaiting a visa for himself

 

and his wife to go to the USSR. No answer had come froa

Washington; however, the waiting period was sometimes four

or five months. The American also had a letter attesting -
that he was a member of a pro-Cuban organization but he had,
claimed that the Cubans would not give him a visa unless he.

we had already received a Russian visa. - se ce
Although the American was still at the Cuban Consulate;
Silvia DURAN repeated that she could not give himaa transit.
visa unless a Soviet visa was forthcoming, notwithstanding
the American's wish to go to Cuba to wait there for his
Soviet visa. According to DURAN, the American knew no one
in Cuba and she intended to make an appropriate annotation

on the American!s card. The Soviet official echoed her

Statement that the American was not known. ‘
¢. 28 September. Silvia DURAN was again visited at
the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City by the American seeking a -

Cuban transit visa. Mrs. DURAN contacted at least two |
bers of the Soviet Enbassy and facilitated a ‘direct con- 3

Versation between | one of the “Soviets and the Anerican. te

Speaking in poor Russian, the American ‘stated that he ‘ales

i
dress. The Soviet official replied that he was aware of :

: Loe : - : a of
that. The American suggested that he had not known his
address then, and he had gone to the Cuban Embassy to ask

for the address, because they hid it. The American then

'
J

i

1

\

; ready had been to the Soviet Consulate and had left an ad-

t
u

 
 

      

from the description, “of OSWALD, she - was sure it ‘was the’ sane man.
i .
j OSWALD was denied a Cuban transit visa because he did not yet have.
nn ja Soviet visa, and he was told to get the Soviet visa first, but itl

iwas noted that this would require about four months. She had asked

.

a : the ta an Consul ninself, Eusebio AZCUE, to talk to OSFATD and. they

 

- (Slivia D DURAN by. the Nexican’ a authorities. The Cuban Government “also:

 

ween the Mexican Government a stiff note’ ‘of. Protest, which the: Mexi=

5 "nt + te

     
 

eu Septenber.” In- mid-afternoon, Silvia “DURAN infor

     
yapovo9

  
  

   

Smead the Soviet Enbassy that

   
 

requested a visa to transit”

  

Union. _ She desired to imnow +

   

    
 

 

“spoke at the Soviet Consulate. “Kiso sne indicate
74-0000

   

OBYEDKOV had attengted to establish the ‘identity of the Consul

\ with when OSWALD nad talked: if it had. been a dark person, then

 

60 O< tober 1963. : AW ‘file check on 19 Qcseber_ Eby is ency

Ti eres cS nad been est

 

P that ‘Lee OSWALD § was, 5. probably dential with ‘the forner marine who ad
’

had defected ‘to ‘the Soviet Union in 1959. “‘TComment: - For’ ‘some. “un ;

- | ‘explained reason, OSWALD's Statement that he had been to the Soviet|

| 4 Eabassy § two days. before on 28 September 1963 had not, been included i

me eee eae diae vt Veal WE ie | mee tie shes ones et As NaS in A nh a

=
to ats ae mel
 

 

04-10213-10022

 

 

 

o-TINESQDUGT BON rn

: wae ei kee .
Lee Harvey CSWALD first came ta > attention :

upon receipt of AERGRAN no. 1301, dated 31 October 1959, from the
United States Embassy in Moscow, in which it was stated that
OSWALD had appeared at the Embassy on 31 October to renounce his
American citizenship. He stated that he had applied in Moscow
for Soviet citizenship after his arrival in the Soviet Union on
15 October. The first public reference to OSWALD appeared in the
Washington Post of 1 Novenber 1959. ehot

On 2 November 1959, the FBI liaison officer requestedga ._.
et

trace be run on Lee Harvey OSWALD in the squmeees central hold- |
T

ings. @g response on 4 November was negative.

Because of the counterintelligence implications of

OSWALD's action, the Counter Intelligence Staff opened an offi-

cial file on Lee Harvey OSWALD to accommodate biographic infor-

State inquiry, dated 25 October 1960, on a list of American “de-
fectors in Soviet Bloc countries. OSWALD! s name was “one ‘of. those

appearing on the list. CIA forwarded an interim reply on 3

‘November 1960; a final reply on 21 Novenber 1960. Until early

mation developed by the Agency in response to a Department of i

“October 1963, the contents of the OSWALD file held by CIA consis-:

ted entirely of press clippings and “reports disseminated by the’

‘Department of State, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the:
i

Department of the Navy.
12 were is)

On & October 1965, the CIA Station in Mexico City
wreilivath hat - a
infornation Svor-T-Terrovte-sousee, to the-effect—that "an Ameri-
can named Lee OSWALD had contacted the Soviet Embassy in Mexico
City on Tuesday, 1 October 1963. He had spoken in halting Russ _
sian to the Soviet Embassy guard, Ivan Ivanovich OBYEDKOV, to:
whom he said he had visited the Embassy two days earlier, on _
Saturday, 28 September. He asked whether there hdd been a reply | 4 |
to a telegram that the Consuly with whom he had spoken, but whose’ |

mane he could not recall, had promised to send to Washington.

 

TT Jou 10a13- a

t

 
 

ter of the Conubar-Sections-in-order-to~teanett-th e “so. ovie

 

aan _ According to Agency files, the Cates of tation addressed’

 

8 ‘a menorandun on 16 Cctober 1263 to the Andassader in which it das”

hl | stated that “On 1 October 1963, an American male contacted the

  
  
 
    
  
  
    
      
 
  

[ovis Eqbassy and identified himselz as Lee OSWALD. Tais, “oifice

 

   

Seas

 

us “chat /OSWALD above is. ‘probably identical with Lee ‘Henry! tsief -

 

OSWALD, bernon| 13° October 1939 in New, Orleans, Louisiana, va “former.

gm ey ba

| Tadar operator in the ue Ss. Marine Corps, who defected to. the Soviet :

Legal Attache in Mexico city.” This. cablegran, fur]

    

     
 

| nis shed information from. CIA classified "SECRET - ‘Not to ‘be, Eurther: |

“ye | Disseminated", 1 reporting that Lee OSWALD had contacted “Soviet “Vice |
on | Consul Valeriy QR.KOSTIKOV of the Soviet Embassy, Mexico citys oss
a = . | Mexico, on September 28, 1963, The Legal Attache indicated that, hej

 

| vas following | this matter with CIA and was “atteapting to. establish,

‘| OSWALD's entry ‘into Mexico aad Bis “current whereabouts. ~ [eonnissiox .

 
   
 
 

74-0000 -

   

& : j
&- + se toe ete, etn 2
President's Commission “on the “assassination “of President Kennedy. b.

TS wo vtcnnt.

Between 10 October and 22 ‘ovenber 1963 there ee

  

 

      

A ‘ A hice n ep Zan n

ban. onsul ate 7 MEXICO nal T, and ad a. Ke

 

7B, i ve T After giving’ Sone ‘of the details of her own personal back-

  
 

ground - she was an admitted leftist sympathizer and had formerly

 

: worked for the Mexican- Cuban Institute of Cultural Relations - $il-]

   

       
  

 

hea she Tearned he was “agsoclared, wit zl e

did no be: reve 5 °

beer ry mani aC

        

E Tay or cuba roRBTE eee sne

  
