v000d3

| ee

6. In the moon hours of 21 March the first prese story (UPT) on

the creation of the Revolutionary Council eppeared an the
fe attached),

GERARD DROLLER
C/Aut fo fea

oO
oes |

vires (a copy

 
 

[rod t0ag7 10114

“awe
21 Warch 196)

MFMORAKDUM POR TH® RECORD
SUBJECT: Plana for the Establishment of a Provisional Goverment -
REP: Paragreph 3, 20 Horch 1968 Meno for the Recent, Subject as Above

2. Os 80 March 1961 at 1730 houre Mr. Rut telephonically advised Mr,
Hapoli that Hire Cardona bad been Unanimously elected Proviaiqnal President,
The NAP, vith Ray in attendance, votel in tha election,

2. At 2315 hours 20 March{ formed the untoratgned telephonically
from Miant that Kir - Som members of the Assenbly vould proceed
to He. York end tha ould also fly to New York in order te be on
bend. The underoignel inferme{ __—faloug the lines of Bell 300 (our 7728)

atteched, _.

- 3. Oa 2) March Mr. Enpoli vas diepateched to Rev York hed bean
briefed slong tha lines of Ball 300k in order to oasie in every
possible vay. By 1600 hours we had been informed that folloving 19
Cubans, including Miro Cardonn, vere proceeding to Nev York: Mire, Pasos,
Rey, Chibes, Artime, Verona, Carrillo, Alvares Diag, Vargns Gooes, Carbo,
Fernantes Traviosa, Olleda, Orlando Rodrigues, Hevia, Miguel Gonznles-.
interpreter vbe 19 coming at the request of Miro--Barquin, Boruff. Bornie
Barker ie going aleng og general banty man, : :

4. In Bev York, ag matters nov Stanl., tho Cubana will firet meet in
private ia anter to finalise their joint daslaration and their progres,
The entire Assembly will then call a press conference at -hich tims they
will ennounes their unity im electing Miro Carona as the Chairman of the
Revolutionary Council ant in having agreed on a progrem, After thie Mire
vill noke bie scceptance speech, In thie connection it should be noted

thet 1¢ ie hoped to have the publicity end handled by both Beichknan, a

 

' wamber ef the “Christian Science Konitor” staff and an acquaintance of Schlesinger, |

and Lem Jones.

3. A% woon of March 21 the undersigned vas in telephonic contact with
Mr. Bradock of the State Deperteent and the untersigned saked Mr, Bredook
vhether or not the Department of State vas in agreement to the relesse--
by the Cubane--of their platform, a resum of -hich had been made avellable
: Berle) on 7 March. Mr. Bradock advised
the undersigned at 2400 hours that the Department ves in fll agreement
with the platform and had no objections to ita release,
