SECRET

The following Agency members will attend the meeting
with the ARRB on Thursday, 18 May 1995:

Eleanor Neiman ; ;
Senior Coordinator, Directorate of Operations

 

Latin America Division, Directorate of Operations

oN

Robert Eatinger
Office of General Counsel

William McNair
Information Review Officer, Directorate of Operations

tacin nmerrca Division, Directorate of Operations

John Pereira
Historical Review Group

Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group

SECRET
 

104-10331-10066)

aca ~ . .
a . . 5 .

. ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

CSI-0333/95
26 May 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director, Center for the Study
. of Intelligence

FROM: John Pereira
; Chief, Historical Review Group

' SUBJECT: Meeting with JFK Assassination
Records Review Board

This memorandum is for your information. ~-

o

1. On 18 May 1995, members of the Directorate ‘of
Operations and the Historical Review Group met with the
JFK Assassination Records Review Board to discuss the
declassification of CIA records. The Board had requested
the meeting for purposes of educating its members as. to the
categories of information that probably will require
continued protection, i.e. by deleting words or inserting

substitute language.

2. The discussion focused on some 30 documents that
describe CIA operations in Mexico City at the time of the
assassination. Among the categories of information
discussed were: locations of stations, surveillance methods,
intelligence liaison relationships, names of agents and

staff officers, and pseudonyms and cryptonyms.

In a number

of instances we suggested alternative ways of describing
sensitive information, which the Board seemed to find a

reasonable approach.

3. No decisions were made by the Board during the three
and half hour meeting, but the session was highly productive
in terms of providing the Board a basis for. understanding
material in documents related to sensitive sources and
methods. Board Chairman John Tunheim told me that the Board
found the discussion very helpful in helping them fulfill
their responsibility for approving or disapproving all
recommendations to withhold information. The Board's
‘Executive Director, David Marwell said it was a valuable
meeting, and he complimented the Agency representatives for
being willing to engage in an open-minded discussion: that

was “not scripted.”

 

ohn Pereira

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
