[0g 10435-10009

 

Cpl

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only ~
Do Not Reproduce = INTERNAL USE ONLY

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel Page 8 ~

Monday - 9 January 1978 Aen.

36. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Took a call from Mickey
Goldsmith, Counsel, House Select Committee on Assassinations, who
requested that we attempt to expedite our search of all materials

/ relating to Alexis Davison who is identified as a Doctor at the U.S, Embassy

in Moscow who had occasion to examine Marina Oswald. This. request
was transmitted to us on 22 December 1977, I indicated we would do the

_ best we could to expedite This priority;—————

37. (Unclassified - RLB) LEGISLATION Spoke with Elliot Maxwell, |
on the staff of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and arranged to
“meet with him and Mike O'Neil, on the staff of the House Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence, on Wednesday, 11 January, to discuss the SSCI
redraft of Title I of the charter legislation, a copy of which is to be available
on the morning of 10 January. Representatives from OGC also will be
attending, and possibly IC Staff.

s

38. (Unclassified - RLB) LEGISLATION Called Mike O'Neil, on
the staff of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, to_
inform him of our meeting with Elliot Maxwell, on the staff of the Senate :
Select Committee on Intelligence, on ‘Wednesday, li January, to discuss
charter legislation. I also confirmed that Mr. O'Neil had received a copy
of the DCI's 13 December 1977 draft Title I.

_. 39. (Unclassified - JEC) LEGISLATION Called Tracey Cole, OMB,
to tell her that we would send her a copy of the Director's prepared statement
on electronic surveillance legislation to be given before the House Permanent
Select Committee on Intelligence Subcommittee on Legislation on 10 January.
ITassured her that we were not saying anything controversial.

40. (Unclassified - PLC) LIAISON Met with Gary Cornwell, Deputy
Staff Director, House Select Committee on Assassinations, and discussed
with him classification of a number of items requesting a check of Agency
records listed in G. Robert Blakey's, Chief Counsel and Director of the
Committee, letter of 6 January 1978. 1 explained to Cornwell the
reaction of Agenty officers that it was necessary to provide more detail
in these requests. Cornwell said he would ch with Blakey on the
points we raised and let me know.

03

GEORGE L,. CAR'
Legislative Counsel

ecr O/DDCI Mr.(——~} Ex. Sec. DDA DDS&T Mr. Lapham Mr. Hetu
SA/DO/O IC Staff NFAC
)7f7°

 

rere d
