x,

e

document an OO interest in Oswald upon his return from the Soviet Union. While OO was
interested in interviewing tourists to the Soviet Union for general information in the 1950's, by
1962 only travelers with special access, knowledge, or skills were of intelligence interest. OO
had no specific policy covering contacts with returning defectors although a local field office
could initiate a contact if justified by a particular situation. According to the records located,

_OO only made contact with three of twenty-three defectors in the 1954-1962 time period. No
records or reporting showing any OO contact with Oswald could be located. The Office of
Operations did interview re-defector Robert Edward Webster in June 1962 on his work at the
Plastics Institute of Leningrad.

While a DCD “A” file on Oswald does exist.in the CIA’s sequestered collection, most of the
documents in the file are from the mid-1970's, none predate the assassination, and the file

- appears to have been created as DCD personnel attempted to locate any evidence of contacts

with Oswald in response to various congressional investigative bodies. This file has been

processed for inclusion in the JFK Collection at the National Archives.

File 4.50 (Wrap Up Memos)

 
104-10330-10130
——

a

4

ee
Sa
Ps

‘ MEMORANDUM

September 25, 1998

To: Laura Denk
Executive Director
cc: Bob Skwirot
‘CIA Team Leader
From: Michelle Combs

Associate Director for Research and Review

Subject: No Evidence of Contact Between Lee Harvey Oswald and the CIA’s Office of
Operations

One of the enigmas that has surrounded Lee Harvey Oswald’s defection and re-defection is the
question of whether the CIA’s Office of Operations (later the Domestic Contacts Division)

. interviewed or took note of Oswald either before his trip or upon his return from the Soviet

Union. The available evidence is somewhat contradictory. The CIA has long claimed that
Oswald was never a source, asset, or employee of the CIA. Yet, a November 25, 1963
memorandum discusses the recollections of a CIA staff officer that the Agency considered
interviewing Oswald. Further, another former CIA officer as stated that
he recalls reading an OQ debriefing report in the summer 0 ‘om a former ine re-
defector who had worked at the Minsk Radio Factory. The Review Board could not correborate
the recollections of the two former CIA officers with additional records or information.

 

In an effort to clarify the mystery, the Review Board searched for records that might confirm or °
deny any contact between Oswald and the CIA before or after his time in the Soviet Union. In
the early 1960's, the Office of Operations (OO) was a part of the Directorate of Intelligence.

This office, which interviews American citizens who might have come into contact with
information or individuals of intelligence interest overseas, later became the Domestic Contacts
Division (DCD) of the Directorate of Operations. - This office normally only contacts individuals -
after receiving questions or requirements from intelligence community customers looking for
particular types of information. ;

The Review Board staff examined OO records and operational histories to gain an understanding
of OO practices in the late 1950's and early 1960's. The Review Board staff could find no
evidence of contact between Oswald and OO either before or after his time in the Soviet Union.
Had Oswald departed for his trip.to the Soviet Union through New York City, as did most
travelers, he possibly might have-come to the attention of OO. The Review Board staff did not
locate any reference or record to Oswald’s departure from New Orleans via freighter that
predates the assassination. The Review Board staff also could not locate any information to
