 

 

 

the proofs, he will review and edit them. Around 15 April we can_ -
expect to receive the formal submission for Agency approval or
expression of security reservations within the agreed five-day period.

6. I, personally, expect my work in the current phase to end
with the comments which we will submit on these last three draft sections
of the report. I am not sure when my contract.expires, but I think that
it must be about the time that the five-day countdown commences. I would
wish to prepare final comments on the final report for such use as the
Agency may care to make of them. This should not take long to do so.

Mr. Holmes and I should be through with our work on everything but the
last bit either the end of this week or early next week. i

J ig Chee bissid ee eyy.

S. D. Breckinridge
Principal Coordinator, HSCA

Distribution:
Orig - OLC/Subj
1} - OLC/Chrono
1 - Russ Holmes
OLC/SDB/ksn

 
104-10067-10133

 

Tee

 

dhe 79-Lu3fag
20 March 1979

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Discussions with G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and
Director, HSCA

1. Messrs. William Sturbitts, DDO/LA; Dale Sumption, DDO/SE;
Julian Fox, CI Staff; Jack Sullivan, OS; Russ Holines , and I met with
Mr. Blakey this morning to discuss substantive issues in the final

HSCA Committee Report.

2. I don't think we made many points although Mr. Blakey
acknowledged our presentation in some instances. It is clear that Mr.
Blakey intends to cite the testimony of former employee Wilcott about

‘what he did in Japan (we had discussed this previously and achieved

some compromises from a security point of view, but clearly did not

prevail in obtaining deletions about Wilcott's distribution of funding
operations in Japan; there is no mention off Beatie. We also
appeared to have no success in persuading Mrs“BTakey to delete a summary
of what the Cubans told the Committee about CIA photographic surveillance

in Mexico City in 1963.

3. We have already received and: commented on two drafts of
sections of the report that have been received after we had been told that

we have seen all the drafts. We now have yet an additional two drafts, with

yet another on the way. It is hoped that these will affect the Agency but
marginally and that the reviews can be completed without a major effort.
If there are no more than these three last sections, this phase should

be over, so far as CIA is concerned.

4. We discussed with Mr. Blakey whether the Agency should make a
comment on the Nosenko paper. The paper is a sort of rambling, on-one-hand-
but-on-the-other-hand type of discussion. It may prove useful for the
Agency to write a memorandum to the Committee summarizina what it considers
to be the key issues on the subject.

5. Blakey described his production problem. He will have page

_ Proofs of the report printed at GPO. He states that he has met every
~ request of ours on Security matters and considers the drafts to be

unclassified. They will be handled in that way by GPO. When he receives

 
