 

[rod-t0‘et 0037}

 

‘Chief, Domestic Collection Livision (DIRECT)
ATIN : ieputy Chief of Operations (Ed watts) w/attach. |
IFO =: Office of Ceneral Counsel (John Creaney) w/attach.
} Chief, Dallas Field attics
(Hew Grloans Resident Cffice)

Request for Caidance in Responding to News Madia Inquiries

 

1. As is apparent in the attached copy of o Jew Orleans maga
xine article, former District Attorney Jim Garrisea and his Keunedy
assassins‘ion theories are enjoying o revival of interest by local
news wedia. It is posaible that the New Orleans 8.0. may be con
_tacted dy tevenen for comments on Garrison's charges, especially in

*" Vight of the recent disclosures of facts which were not rade availe |

me, able to the warren Comission. In the absence of more specific

i Headquirters guiddies, we intend to respond to any such inquiries

{ by saying that Mr. Garrison's chargea of CIA involvexent in the

; Kennedy asasssination were felse when he first made them in 1966,

i and they are still absurd today, and wé prefer not to coment

i further. You cay be able to suggest a better response than that,

and if so we hope you will share your thoughts with us.

4 . t
: 2, We are somewhat nore concerned about how we should respond

to any direct questions concerning the Agency's relationship with

. Clay Shaw, whe as you khow was unsuccessfully prosecuted by Garrison
for conspiring to assassinate President Kenedy. Shaw, whom Garrison
refera to ag a CIA employee and who dled about two yeara ago, was an
active contact of Hunter Leake's during the period 19491955, pre-
sunably aa a routine source of FPI, Despite the 32 sane-aid con=
tacta recorded cn Shaw's contact card, however, his local file
contains only three plecea of imecuous correapomlence.

 

3. Since we ennnot deternina the nature of DCD's relationship

with Shay fros our files, we vould appreciate your summarizing 1 |
for us. we’ vould also, of course, welcome your guidance in responding
to any newa salia questions about our relations with Shaw, should they |

I
; materialize.

0.

(JF

Attach, ag stated

3 : J. KALTOR MOORE
ire

 

E2 DMPOeT CL BY 033029

CONFIDENTIAL

 

 
