14-00000

 

ate my

oe ; ge anh

obvious difficulty would appear to be that the aisatles
could be counted ‘twice, and as osveral people ‘were ren
porting on the ulssiles, each could have reported a
missile of a different size, ‘Rooha agreed | this was ‘a

probles but stated they had asked their sources to eatio

mate the length of the missiles they reported, and thet

these estimates vary between 36 and 40 feet. Rocha be~
jieves their sources are reporting valid tatormation sa
they are the sams sources who reported what he considers
accurate information on missiles 1-2 months aged “Rooba
then quoted from the 12 October 1962 iague of "Tae Cuban ;
Report", a newsletter published by the pak. ,

"Duting the sonthe of June, yuly and Auguet, more
then eighty seven Soviet ships docked at Cuban porte

carrying son and war material, that included ground-to-~ -

air rockets, and guided missiles with a range of over
1,000 miles." | o .
Rocha added that as the information was correct in the past, ; :
he believed the information was correct at tho present time.
Rocha oxplained that tke reporta were honest, were not ine
flated, and are not basing used for propaganda purposes.

3. Inarder to take advantage of Rochs'a presence in

Washington, Mr. Helas suggested that Rocha take the rest

 

ir: bi
  
  

 

‘104-10470-10024) : !

3 NOT REPRODUCE.

  

 

eo Peles' Croversat fom with Lats’ Fernande t: Rocka ‘and,
2 Maris Lasa of the DRE 0 20. i,

    

ter Rachaq Bre Jaa! :
TERPS EES

“ertive

  
 

LO PSRSGSS FRESEATI OPS Belmes Mr dale Fart
. i” ; Maria lacs, Nestor Sanche

 

“TIME AND FLACES «= 90 hours, 13 Nowazter %

= oF
eivised Mr. Rocha that Ee wal! like fo jivide the

  

two parte. ‘The first part which he wanted $7 discuss

 

dc the . ring vas the mubtect of the DRE reperte on the atorege of -
aissties (2 caveo and wubterracean sites Lo Oats. ts tke afterneon wee
Reins stated he would Like to discuss the DAK CLA OY peiatioesh tp.
Helms first eaket Wr. Rocha egut the sources of his.

Rocha replied that thetr. sources included DRE penetrations

    

of the Orban Goveroment, the Cuban, Geseral Statt, farsers acd vorterse

 

 

Rovha ale? dfeclcae?d # report which be hal-receivret frm Cuba on il
. ; . te .

Bovesber by telephone from ac eyewitness @gmm Sagsa. The source reported
that the afostilas belay diemantied st Zona de Saga (Sitlecitos) Sagua

La Grands are being moved to the airpert et Halessa. Mr. Eelas asked :
Hiceha inn he hat arrived at the Mgure 87 for the maeber cf paw asd

. ke tye |

Brdiwe-wurme MAW eleailes vitetvere in Cubs. Roche replied tame this
Migire vas a Pouch evtiwete ty the ORE of the uisslles reported by their

Bare,
wources wos eens in Cute. Rocha cle éha information vag gathered

 

By pevple who counted the wisetice as they passed given y yoints oo the
. ica its
‘Lighseys te the direction of the celasile sitar. Teed confine” Weds

 

<< tron IRS sourcee tz the Cuban ports, Mre Halas etated the

 

Up

     

 

 

 

   
 
  
  
 
 
14-0000

 

. . en
of the morning with two specialists and pinpoint on a sap

the underground missile sites which they have been reporting.

Rocha ansyvered be would be glad to do this, ‘but that he wag

not the best msn for the job as it wag Angel Logano, who is

_prewently in Miami, who had previously worked on theese res -

ports and pinpoilated the locations with Ris Agency contacts
in Wiant, -

4, Mr. Helms then made arrangements for Colonel
Albort Diayiea acd Hr, Fillixa Tidwell to met and discuss
the subjsct safur with Mr. Rocha and Rr. Lass, During
this peeting is Br. Helus' conference room, Rocha plotted
the locations on a wap of Cuba and gave Colonel Davies
copies of tke information which he had caried with hia.
Colonel Davies stated he would check tke information and
would forvard any further quastions about this information
to Mimi to be discussed with them there. ir. Rocha egain

apologixved for not being able to provide sore datailn but

again stated that wr, Loseno in Miaal was wach more familiar

with the details of these reports.

2D, SANCHEE
TFW/PA-PROP

  
