13-00000

 

SECRET

if desired, a textual explanation of the cryptonym in the
nature of a factual description of the source (e.g.,: “a
valued American intelligence source who was a senior, but
not general rank, official in the intelligence service
(KGB) of the former USSR; specifically, he served in the
Second Chief Directorate which was responsible for
internal counter~intelligence efforts.”

As the Board is aware, the relevant document has been released
almost in its entirety. :

‘The released version reports that a Soviet official
(Boris ZHURAVLEV) had provided information to the effect
that OSWALD was a KGB source.

It continues by stating that CIA did not believe
ZHURAVLEV to be a credible source.

It continues by stating that this CIA assessment—is ——
supported by reporting from another source (identity |
\ \ redacted but, in fact, TIDECANTER} .

It concludes by stating that this source (FIDECANTER) has
had his "... bona fides ... fully establish@éd [by CTIA}.

It is this final fact which is critical.

By having released this substantive information ~- "bona
fides ... established" ~~ AND by otherwise having
IJDECANTER known to the public in true name and crypt,
“THEN WE MUST PROTECT the eryptonym here so that the key
intelligence judgment of CIA is not compromised.

I would appreciate a few moments to explain, with I hope some
degree of specificity, why identifiable damage would come from
this disclosure -- the disclosure of the crypt in this

_ particular instance along with this key intelligence judgment.

2

SECRET
13-00000

. SECRET

 
   
   
   
   
 
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
     
 

The practice of counterintelligence (CI) -- and hence the
issue of damage to national security -- proceeds from four
‘basic questions:

e what information was compromised?

e what foreign intelligence service(s) received the
information?

e what understanding of the information did the receiving
intelligence service(s) have? :

e what information did the receiving intelligence
service(s) believe and thus act on to its benefit and
to the detriment of the other party?

The first two questions are largely factual and can be
acquired through a combination of confessions, polygraph
interviews, and/or assumptions based on access.

 

* Questions three and four, however, are the most difficult and
the most important for both the acquiring intelligence service
and the target intelligence service.

k * Question 3 is important (e.g., Boyce Lee case) but is not
Ge really an issue here since the US fully understood the
‘. information presented.

 

; e Question 4, however, is the quintessential factor for
exploitation.

° If the receiving intelligence service believes its asset
(e.g., a defector), they act on the information to the

   

SECRET
13-00000

Olfice of

tion manate™

SECRET

CIA TALKING POINTS

re Protection of [ “IJDECANTER” Cryptonym
Before the Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB)

26 Aucust 1998

e The ADDO -- Jim Pavitt -- has asked that I address the Board
on an issue of extreme importance to the Directorate of
Operations and the CIA.

e We request the postponement of certain very limited.
information in one document -- specifically, the actual
eryptonym of a CIA source (EIDECANTER) .

e It is our considered judgment that the release of this
cryptonym, in the particular context of the given
document (SX-59777 of 15 December 1991), and juxtaposed
with the Los Angeles Times article of 29 December 1997,
would:

e provide an identifiable benefit to the Russian counter-
intelligence effort,

e result in concomitant damage to US counter- intelligence
interests, and,

e¢ have a chilling impact on cooperation of current and
prospective intelligence sources given this disclosure which
could be viewed as an official betrayal of confidence.

« Mindful, however, of the Board’s statutory purpose and
objectives, we propose however:

* a substitution of a fictitious cryptonym (e.g.,
“TRUSTED”) for the actual cryptonym | IGDECANTER /in this or
any other document where it appears and would otherwise
be releasable, and/or,

CL BY: ‘0619849 C/IRG/OIM_ j
~ CL Reason: 1.5{c)
Dect On: X1
Drv From: HUM 4-82

SECRET
13-00000

SECRET
SUBJECT: (S) Protection of (fIDECANTER /Cryptonym
13. (U) I would be pleased to appear before the Board in

person to respond to any particular questions and am hopeful that
this important information can be postponed from public release.

CAS

Lee S.7Strickland

5

SECRET
13-00000

SECRET ‘

DECANTER/Cryptonym

SUBJECT: ~ (8) Protection of (Ig

 

 

 

 

8. (S) With further respect to question four, we have the
quintessential factor for exploitation. If the foreign service
believes its asset, they act on the information to the detriment
of the United States; if they do not, the United States may
escape damage fully or to some degree. This is the critical
question that a foreign country must answer and it is the

critical information that we must protect vis-a-vis defectors in
our fold.

 

 

 

 

 

 

oa

\ Soviet Union and our entire CI program for a substantial period

10. (C) Indeed, as a reference point for this discussion,
we can look briefly to the NOSENKO story. Here, also, the
Russians knew the first three parts of the puzzle. What they did
not know was whether we had accepted his story or not. Indeed,
the CIA did not know the answer for a long period of time and
this lack of knowledge was crippling to our FI effort against the

fo + ~ sree —l

3

SECRET

 
SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Protection of |IJDECANTER/Cryptonym

   

1g 11. (S) In sum, question 4 -- bona fides -- is the CI key. °\\
The CIA to date has released all of the substantive information
But we must

/ Y

fit

, velating to IJDECANTER in this particular document.
in this particular document, if we I

| protect his cryptonym here,
: are to preclude a substantial CI benefit to the Russian Federal
Security Service when they assess this new information in light
‘7 of their previous knowledge and acquired information, including,
of course, information on the public record via the media. oe ,

\

\
Mee _ . - es we ee i
- “12. (S) While the foregoing showing of intelligence damage
there are

is the most critical and legally compelling issue,
three additional points of relevance vis-a-vis harm:

e First, is foreign relations. -In our judgment, the

, Russians are fully expect that, after Aldrich Ames,

/-- United States is considering avenues of reprisal.
specific release might well be viewed as a public move /

fy
i to embarrass them and it would serve only to exacerbate

tensions. ~

the ~~ \
This Y,

 

e Second, is another potential intelligence benefit to

the Russian service.
|

 

 

 

 

 

 

!
ee —

 

 

 

e And third, there is an equitable issue.
\

 

 

 

 

 

[: But I would

c

 

 

N\
urge caution hére Since the information at issue is
not critical to the public understanding, and

minimal,
arguably harmful to living persons.

SECRET
13-00000_,

MEMORANDUM

 

September 12, 1998

To: Laura Denk
Executive Director
cc: Bob Skwirot
CIA Team Leader

From: Michelle Combs thle lobe

Associate Director for Research and Review
Subject: CIA-IR-35 Source Identified in RIF 104-10151-10206

In CIA Informal Request for Additional Records and Information CIA-IR-35, the
Review Board requested additional information on a source identified-in RIF number
104-10151-10206 as having given the CIA additional information on Lee and Marina
Oswald and their time in the Soviet Union. At the request of the Review Board, the CIA
searched its compartmented files and databases for additional information on this
source and the raw intelligence information given by this source to the CIA. CIA
provided the source’s 201 file which was examined by the Review Board staff. No
assassination records were designated from this 201 file. CIA also provided sections of
briefing reports, an audiotape, and portions of transcripts of conversations between the
source and interviewers on Lee Harvey Oswald. A final memorandum from this source
was also found to be located in the post-1978 volume of Oswald’s 201 file. All of these
materials were designated as assassination records and will be included in the JFK
Collection at the National Archives.

Given the recentness of the information and the sensitivity of the source, the Review
Board agreed to protect the source’s true name and cryptonym. Documents from this
source are identified as the product of “a yalued American intelligence source who was
a senior, but not general rank, official in the intelligence service (KGB) of the former
USSR; specifically, he served in the Second Chief Directorate which was responsible for
internal counter-intelligence efforts.”

e:\combs\cia-ir35.wpd
File 4.20.1 and 4.20.4
104-10336-10034

 

A

7

17 September 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Ms. Laura Denk
Executive Director, ARRB

FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer, HRP/OIM

SUBJECT: CIA-IR-35, Source Identified in RIF Number
104-10151-1-206

1. The following is in response to subject request.

2. Searches were made for information responsive to
subject request and materials were provided for examination
by the ARRB staff. From that examination, staff members
selected a number of documents. Those documents have now
been included within the Lee Harvey Oswald 201 file to be
processed and released to NARA.

3. This concludes the Agency’s action on this request.
If you have any questions, please advise.

Fa

car,

j

J. Barry Ha son
13-00000

SECRET

OIM-98-0084
06 August 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: (U) Executive Director
Assassination Records Review Board

FROM: ({U) Lee S. Strickland
Chief, Information Review Group
Central Intelligence Agency

SUBJECT: (S) Protection of |IJDECANTER /Cryptonym

1. (S) The CIA Deputy Executive Director has asked that I
respond to the Assassination Records Review Board (“ARRB” or
“Board”) regarding their current deliberations as to postponement.
of certain very limited information in one document -- . ....
specifically, the actual cryptonym of a CIA source ({IJDECANTER) .
It is our considered judgment that the release of this’ cryptonym,
in the particular context of the given document (SX-59777 of
15 December 1991), and juxtaposed with the Los Angeles Times
article of 29 December 1997, would provide an identifiable
benefit to the Russian counterintelligence effort and concomitant
damage to US intelligence interests.

2. (8S) Mindful, however, of the Board’s statutory purpose
and objectives, this memorandum also proposes a substitution of a
fictitious cryptonym (e.g., “TRUSTED”) for the actual cryptonym

: IJDECANTER in this or any other document where it appears and
“would otherwise be releasable.

3. (U) As a preliminary matter, I would respectfully ask
the Board and staff to note the classified nature of this
memorandum, to limit access to those individuals properly
cleared, and to return it to Agency representatives at the
conclusion of your deliberations.

4, (S) As the Board is aware, the relevant document has
been released almost in its entirety. The released version
reports that a Soviet official (Boris ZHURAVLEV) had provided

;

CL BY:,0619843 C/IRG/OIM ©
~~ CL Reason: 1.5{c)
Dect On: X1
Drv From: HUM 4-82

SECRET
13-00000

 

 

 

 

SUBJECT: (S)

(Gidentity redacted but,

- "5. (CC)

SECRET.

Protection of TJDECANTER )Cryptonym

information to the effect that OSWALD was a KGB source. It
continues by stating that CIA did not believe ZHURAVLEV to be a
credible source. It continues by stating that this CIA
assessment. _is supported by reporting from another source

in fact, TJDECANTER)>: It concludes by
“Stating that this source (LODECANTERY’ has had his
fully established [by CIA]." It is this final fact which is
By having released this substantive
established" -- and by otherwise

critical to our request.

information ~7_ "bona fides
having /IJDECANTER/ known to the public in true name and crypt, we

must protect the cryptonym here so that the key intelligence
judgment of CIA is not _compromised. ee

The practice of counterintélligenté (CI) -- and
hence the issue of damage to national security -- proceeds from

four basic questions:
e what information was compromised?

e® what foreign intelligence service(s) received the

information?
what understanding of the information did the
service(s) have?

what information did the intelligence service(s)
believe and thus act on to its benefit and to the

detriment of the United States?

6. (C)
be acquired through a combination of confessions, polygraph )
interviews, and/or assumptions based on access. Questions three i]
i i

and four, however,
for both the acquiring intelligence service and the target

intelligence service.

7. (S) With further respect to question three, if a
(i.e., the

foreign government fully understands the substance

import), y
A perfect

the damage will be far beyond the ostensible value
The information

example of this is the Boyce/Lee espionage case.
compromised was a Seemingly innocuous operational manual for a

SECRET

",,.. bona fides

The first two questions are largely factual and can

are the most difficult and the most important

they will be able to exploit the information fully and

Af

aed
