 

 

 

” previously related.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
fa RISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

+ : . € .
8b Sas ex a8

1. 1 -as the — ntenti ‘ of the uncersigned to attend every session conducted
by the dzcter in hope to ga:n sonethi:g new and useful for our future
interrogations, .During these sessions, I kunaged only te refresh ny

Eenory of things MOSEIO had ;,revieusly aaid, Keth.ng new or significant
developed during these sessions except fer a few miner facts vhich have ne
great vulus. It should be rentiozed that rany ef the facts that MCSSNKG
stated about his past life vere rere rixed up than the stery he had

 

2. It is not the :ntent of ths caper te criticize the vork uhich the

. Sector hus dona bacause the sessions have alreadly taken paace and

the work is completed, Hy main objection to this type ef interrogatien
is thet the dector tried te réintain a neutrsl attitude ang never

By opinion that
challanged any ef NOSENKOts staterents. It is/the dector rade a mistake
dm the last session when he teld N.SELEU "¥ ou are MCSENEOe’ This leads
HUSBUKO te believe we accepted his life story and fanily background, and
it veuld be vory bard te questien him again en this subject. It is my
epini-n that ve did not have eneugh :nfernation to mike a éefinite
© nclusi-n that he is IXSEMKO, What HSEIXO teld us could bo ebtained
or learned by snother persen very well wrtegon these rat ers, Mes of
the inforcation that HCSENXO gave te us sbout his parents is stilinst
C.nvine/ng te make cerclusions . Mast ef the questi ns during the recent

sessicns were ef a Leading nature and N-SEREO's ansverms appoared te

bo of the type that the doctor uanted.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
  
  
 

 

33 In cy opinion, MSEUKC aid not say mere about his father,and in many
ingtance less, than the newspsper Pravda said in 19566 .

3. In the doctor's epinion, NCSBHIC rentioned to us quite a few fanily
frienis whe vere \iround the ROSENKO fanily and at the first leek it is
enly names whe logically weuld be maisaaded with NCSENXO er HCSENES's

revsaling
rather, and nothing S34 about their actipities or private lives.

© nvineing that iy .SENKO. In ny epinion, NSKEKO gave te us

aS
Significantly, Hest ef the inforraticn ICSENKO has given us is abeut

pseple who are the either dead or ne longer in authority. Fer exazple,
MALYSHEY, (forzer keputy chairran ef the Ceuncil ef Ministers, died);

Kinttier WO

BULGAMIN, ( ns }: vey" KUZNET6OV, xo (shet)s SECiERBAKOV,

‘

VAREUSHEY, “pipes (ne longer a TGP) KABULOV, (shot) sp yl RK.

   
  
 

(die); others \ ,

he BHeantsonet a\fow nates whe are ViPs new , but did not Bay anything

raterest. ng about aaa Por exarnle, he rentioned SHVERNIK whe livesen
wicha asi the -

Serifirevsiaga Street a a fect known te everyone, oF er/fanily friendship

with ELSYGIN . ( |
a any
Lately he mentioned chal 1 ZHGKO's ca ghter whe he knew" ‘we/have

 

 

a geed picture ef Rina \pnsoia tren one of eur erpleyees as well as & goed

description ef ZHUKCV's apurtoent.
5, The my c.nelusion ve can cere te frva the foregsing is that FOSHEZO

- ——has been aklovad to-cay Little or nothing about the lives of ixpertant

Soviet officialer,atth.s nan is net BCVEEZO and ail he knovs is the

 

 

 

 

i
74-00000

 

 

 

 

4
. a °
‘ Seviet governrent alse vere living there (KAGANOVICH, etce). If NCSEDLO is © :
the person he clains te be he chevld be able freely te nave and discuss rany
persens MAMIQIGM from aneng the first-rankzing efficials whe lived en
_ Serafinevich Streets net just SHVERMIE (these address, incidentally, already
has been published in The Secret Vorld). .
7
r
;
| . :
is ;
{ .
feo.
\ |
fi :
|: :
ee Se _ . . _. ce ee :
. F
; ae i
“ft '
' :
Bidar erntemnnen arm

 

 

saan Seenenenmereataiitee western eater
   

“Stet = : d

slightly, saying that his fanily moved te Leningrad in March-April 1935,

 

: yhera he started the first grade (in Spetenber 1935). NOSENAO could net,

how-ver, describe the schol er name even one ef his teachers. When the

ricknams, "Shturm,” but failed te give the bey's trus nam he alze Kiea
Even if

. ft
dacter insisted this tire that NOSENKO nace sone friends, he gave the . |
gave the name, Oleg MUEELEE SAFROWOV. ESgee accept as a fact that NOSENKO

wemsi2iu really cannet rorerber any ef his friends AGMOMRMA fren
childheed, ve cannet believe that he alse has cempletecly fergetten abou t
the naval scheel. and the tekmnikin,

j
|
a |
20. General. During these latest sessi.ns, ICSENEO has been trying |
very hard te put the recerd of bis schoeling in proper erder. But in
view of what has been stated in the past/ imgmamm and his present |
' errers, it must be sald that he is finding it impossible and he is sams |
f
net at all convincing. In ry e:dnien everything he has teld us about !
this, starting fren the 1941 peried, has been a lies It is pessible thet
he really vas 4n Kuybyshev and Buku for ene reason cr another, but EAM his
fim description of the circumstances ani situations is unbelievable tn and
fits ne Seviet pattern of life. ;
21. On 4 May NOSENEO said that while he attended the 585th High Scheele.
in Mescev, he had two friends — Vladimir KABANOV and Anateliy TIMAKDV, But
these were net frierds vhe alse lived on Serafinevich Street, nor.were they
t

children ef Soviet high officials, NOSENKO failed te name any friends vhe
were children of high efficials, except, SABUROV. : , ok |
22. HOSEIAG's description ef his life en Serafirevich street could ; :

Living on Serafirovich Street, HOSENKO mentioned rena SHVERNIE fische 5 Th fe

|
1
H
| never corvince. me that he ever really aaved theres Arong the nee efficials
| According te my knowledge, prior te Wi II” = rany ether renbers ef the “"y ~y ie

 

é

 
 

ome ne Ease ene

gor
a

grp77 rd
f ; Fee ia

jail, the rele this played when KSEHZO entercd the KGB, the manner in ubich
it was recerded in HOSLUXO's file, MOSENAO's questienirg in Persennel (identi-
ties of Persennal enzleyees included) abeut thisg NMOSENKO speke with sene
happiness and gratitude ef the finaneial assistance given hia family by the
grerdfather — the XGB weuld have been mest unhapzy te learn of this/,

15. If ECSENKO were really the persen he claire te be he would have’
spéxen mere precisely ef his father's rank (rank given and dats received) /.
Accerding te Pravia, in 1944 NOSEMAO's father get the rank of Engineer-Rear

ser

Admirel. NUSHOEROS2 The real BOSEnKO alse should be able te tell us more
decarations :

precisely of the 2Goimememta given bis father. According te Pravda, he was

avarded three Orders of Lenin, Order ef Hakhinev First Class, three Orders ef

Red Banner (Labor), Order of Red Star, Order ef "Medal of Hener (Znak Pechata),"

16. Further, in order te be certain that we have the real MOSENEC, we
sheuld questien hin in detail abeut his father's death and funeral, starthg
With the illness and the decters in attendance through the precession fren the |
Hall of Celums te the Kremlin wall. I de net wish te include such detailed ,
questions in this mere, but can dumm preduce thea usen request /rbametees
especially these on the funeral precession, having tuice been in such precession é
uyself.

17. According te Pravia (5 sug 56), He I. BOBROVNINOV was a nenber ef psn
thd itera cormission and epened the funeral cerenony en Red Square. BOBROVMIAOY
at Anat tine was Chairma/ ef the Mescow City Council. During the 13 May 1965
interview, ROSELZO wentiened a girl friend, Marina, whe once verked as secretary

to BOEROVNZKOV, If this was fen e tree statenent, then HCSEHYO shonld be able 9 - - --—— __

te tell us mich about BOPROVNIAOVg furtherrere, when talxing shout Marina,
BUSEHKO sheuld probab_y have alse velunteered the infermation that "this was the

bane BOSROVELLOV -who was en the ceccission for my father's funeralecceo®

 

 

 
 

a

os

“~

 

4M 18, 3 May 1965 Intervicwe Even new we-are net certain of the date when
the NOSE family neved te Leningrad; NWSENKO saya it vas in 1B, . ‘but Bravia
reperts the reve as having been in 1935. It is possible te believe that ~
HOSENKO might have fergetten the date, but ve mist remenber that he asseciates
the meve with his level ef scheoling. That is, NOSEEKO says that he moved from
ths O=lass in Mikelayev in 1934, when hs was 6 years eld; he says that in

Leningrad he was in the first grade@e
renerber

a. NOSEWKC could macukh none ef his friends frem Hikelayev. It is
pessible te believe that NOSERKO night have forgetten these friends if he had:~~
had ne contact with them in later yeaxsg Yet NCSENSO hizself says that he
visited Mikeluyev twice after the fanily hed moved fren there. Certainly he

must have met with sons of those friends, and mum it is certain alse that be

 

 

 

 

« would renenber those meetings.
be Although NOSENKO could remenber none of his friends from likelayev,
; it 4s interesting te neto, he repozbered very well that when his fanily reved
te Leningrad in 1934 they vere mot by his father with 2 “GAB autensbile.s
B. MOSEHKO remecberé alse that while in Leningred his fanily lived
, (1) Pleshchaa! Stachek,
(2) Griboyedevfa Kanal, end ;
(3) tennsgcemnoaal ulitsa Gorkege. Ol But HOSENID could mare
ne friends er neighbers then he Imew well while in Leningrad.
: d, KOSENKO never rentions visiting fercer frionds when visiting former
plsces of residence :
| @. The psychelogists ray 7 accept ‘these “lapses of resery” as being
* Just humn,? but I cannot. Pacey,
; | . 4 May Interview, During this interview, MLSENAO changed his stery
ae em etc cee cee iman mint AMO PE ee ee nee ie ae en eat a ames AEE
i

 

i
1
i
i
 

 

greener
4

 

 

have backgrounds rere sintlar te that of ROSENAO and experience vith persens
ef MOSELXO's type. This becenes mero and rere ebvious te me as I bearkhne the
psychelegist Bay, "Well, he is probably telling the truth," when St I have
seen clearly that HOSEN<O hae been lying. There have been many such cases in
this KM latest phase of the interrogation. ,

5 As a result of such instances — instances of “soft interregation,"
where ROSENKO's obvious liey have nst been challenged — Loser can new enly
be getting the imreasion that there still is a way eut fer hin, We mst
rempenber that HOSENKO care te us prepared only fer corplete success er
failure; he expected that in ths care ef failure he would be subjected te
1464N4 hard interregation, harsh treatment, streng punishment. Yet he new
finds himself in the peculiar position of having omensannennss200M outwardly
failed in his prinsry assignment, yet being faithy well treated ani allowed te

‘contime with his lies and dezinferratsiya despite his detention, Hse can new

enly be thinking that there still is seme hepe for hin and for his missions .
6. In his repert on the 3 May session (first sessinn), the decter
wrete: “seo After apelogizing fer having sterach trouble he became rest

receptive ani even eager to cooperate, In general his manner during the \ Saree.

interview remained relaxed, srentanseus and relevant.see. AS the interview
progressed it wos azparent te re that he wes getting considerable psychelogical
relief frem the nterview. At the tims he left, he actually told me geodbyesceo”
This is typical of many such statenents ani incddahts which are sy reasons fer
asking — do we really need this kind of interrogation? ISQIGRD 00820
BRODY A ANS AN SEL PYRO YP RIOR ANEMONES Asice

a4 oe .
frez congidef* , the report itself ve aust ask if we really necd to concern
ou-eelyes with giving NOSEWKO "psychelegical relief." If not — and since it
is ebvious we are getting nothing oise, out ef it. — then this type of

[ eee

 

 

 

‘

 
  

40211-10002

+ owe

 

~ CULHISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

L

 

14 Vay 1965

_ MEMORANDUM FoR: Chief, sr/or

sueJect 2 3-13 May Interrogation of NOSEUKO

4e Although I have attended all nine ($) sessions in the current
phate ef HOSENKO's interrogation, I as yet have been unable te determine
the reasons fer the interregatex}') conduct and canner and the true purpese
ef the phase itself.
_ 2. As the interrogater neted in the beginning, he is te be concerned
enly with “certain persenal matters." The inturregation of HOSENKO alcng

such Lines and WSENKO's responses — heithor have preduced any change in

my opinien ef NOSENKO ner have appeared to have opened up any neWs veeful

er valuable information to use

3. Perbaps, frem the psychelegists! point ef view, this interrogation
has beon ef sone values but, even if this is se, I cannet seo it froma
review of his reperts. These reperts all contain basic errers arising frez
the psychelegist!s lack of knewlédge of Soviet vaality and his lack ef
experience with the trus nature ef Soviet wan. The psychelegist is net ©
prepared te preporly deal with ami evaluate NOSEKKO because ROSELNAO is

first, a Russian; second, @ Geviet; third, a Communists and, in adéitien te

all of this, a highly trained intelligence agente

 

4e ROSENKO is one of a ‘kind. It ds quite Likely that the psychelégist:
never has experierced such @ personality beforee Then, with the wide
@ifference in their backgrounds ani the psychelegist's resulting inability

t9 ucderstund NOSENSO's churacter, it dis uncerstandable that he cannet

 

“properly juice “ROSENKO ‘and His conduct. The-most-we can tzmmnfismmina ge on in

BOSENAOfs cass imstmohmon are the carefully ‘c nsidered epiniens of these whe .

TAT

rope ee)

R RELEASE 1908 ————— eee

 

 

 

 
74-00000

‘ t

 

 

: interregation sheuld be ebaridened

%], Elsevhere the fsycbelegist writes that "the picutee that BOSENKO
painted ef his father var that ef a hard working matesoe Accredited an a
worker at 13 or. theese Re graduated fren the institute the year after

 

WOSENZO vas bern in 19282 BOSEMKO tells ef being teld that his father
would werk at heme on his studies while helding ROSEHEO asress his ‘imees te
quiet hin wien he weuld ery.” We knew all of this — except the fact that
esEno held his sen acress his knsws -- fren the Soviet newspaper, Pravda,
3 August 1956; and vbat father has net held bis crying child acress his

 

knecs to confert hin?
8. It 4s certain that HORM eur MOSENKO did have a father,and thmk

 

it is quite likely that this father held him acress his xreex. Yet this
dees net ansver the real queation — 4s our HOSSNKO's father Ivan Isiderevich ‘

BCSENKO?
9. HOSEHKO teld us in this first sessien that his father studied in

Tke decter vas quite * smpressed with HOSELKO's statements en this. Yet Pravig
tedenly the studies ef
(again on 3 vhugost 1956, in ROSENKO's obituary) ani tom Y/*SENAO, Ivan
baad
Jeiderevich;faraski0t2a! WOSENKO, Svan Isiderevich, alse/been werking at the ex.
tine he ues studying, Pravda veuld have nentiened this witheut fail, because

the Rabfak and the institute while working fulletims curing the years 1923-28. |
4t was that mech more te KOSENSO's credit. Further, the 3 August 1956.Pravda > i
IE t

1

clesrly stated that after graduation from the institute, IWSESZO, I. I., vas

sent te EMM a ship-building plant.

: - 40, In the sane sessien, HOSENKD stated that at sexe point in 1922 his

| G oA 56)

‘ _ father was admitted te the Party. evdasstates that ROSENKO I. I. entered the
Party in 1925. Accerding te KOSENAO his family meved to Leningrad early in 19346

Pravda (3 Aug 56) states that they reved in 1935.

 

 

re
 

eo

 

 

“44.0 If EOSENAO dees not renorter what bis father did.-- how be torked and

' gtudied, when the family meved, when he was admitted te the CPSU — why dees ne

net say se? Why is he apparently guessing at these things? Alee, why can’t he
rezexber these things vhen he can rezerber being held acress his father's knees?
12. The psychelegists repert incluies and assessmsnt ef HOSENKO's rethers

®gn hypothesis that could be rade based en the description of the mther, vould

‘be that she wild have dif-:iculty adjusting away frou Nixelayew where she had

been bern and where she could depend on ker rether." Of whem is this net tree?
Who dees net experience seze difficulty in neving avay fren faciliar neighberhoods
and friends? De ve really teed this asseasrent ef NOSENKO's nethers eretions ef
35 years age? De wa need it badly encugh te srend this much tine and effort
getting 1t7

13. The psychelogist's repert continuest “eos His (iCSENKO's) ether
continued ta get supvert froz her father, snd they appare:-tly Lived better
{er beyond their weans) im Leningrad." So what? Is the point that ve sbeuld
thanx KOSENSCEs grandnether fer helping IOSENKO grew and cons to us? pf
If net, then egain what is the peint? Why de we need this?

44. It is my opinion that the type MGM and line ef questioning used ae
4M 9 precent in this phase ef MOSSN-0's interreg.tion should be abandoned;
we must drep this oclicy of lething HOSENAO racble en freely and uninterruntedly:.-
about the unimortant details ef his youth. Instead, ve sheuld begin new
te press NISENAO ami question him in detail abeut such. things ast

a His father's Life (ve still cannet be certain that HOSENSO's
father was the 1. I. NOS:XKO); fer exarple, HOSENKOts father's service ia______
Chow (& what eredit was given ROSENKO for this while he was working in State -
Securif); vas it even mentioned in his file?)3 .
b. His grancfather (ciuternal); for example, his arrest ani death in

Ete waetd

    

 

 
