 

ind t0a2-10136

 

 

27d

py ‘ |

 

JOURNAL

  
 

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

HS CAl

Friday - 3 December 1976 . J7-c0o 7 fle.

 

(Unclassified - BAA) LIAISON. Per.Mr. Cary's request,
sent via courier, a copy of DCID 1/14 to Charles Snodgrass, Defense
Subcommittee staff, House Appropriations Committee. ;

» ‘(Secret - GLC) ‘LIAISON Called Richard Sprague, Chief

; Counsel, “House Select Committee on Assassinations, at his: Philadelphia:

office; to follow up on our méeting on Wednesday and to tell him that

Mr. Bush and Mr. Knoche: would be very interested in meeting with
Chairman hornas Downing (D., Va. .) and Representative. ‘Henry Gonzalez :
(D.,:Texas). Sprague thought this was an- excellent idea. Sprague said
he would be speaking to the Democratic Caucus on Thursday and he would
mention the good cooperation the Agency is giving the Committee. I also
told him. that.I would to have Sid Stembridge, DD/OS, .come by and talk

’ to him about security matters, including physical security measures for '

Committee offices. Sprague was interested and suggested that we come

by on Monday at 10:00 a. m.- Mr. Stembridge has been notified.

 

Later in the afternoon, I again called Sprague about the cable in |
from Mexico City regar ding the contact of Kenneth Brooten and Jonathan
Blackmer, also of the’ Select Committee, with the Ambassador and the:
Sprague sdid he had no intention or desire to have the Agency

' involved in staff contact with the Cuban Embassy. He said he had
‘instructed them to make no contact with Cubans without the knowledge of

and the approval of the Ambassador. He said he contemplated the possibility
of the Ambassador making an inquiry through the Swiss on their behalf -but

_ did not want to involve the Agency in the Committee's investigation. We

. Committee st: aff, wanti

agreed completely on the matter,

3. (Secret - GLC) ‘LIAISON Called Bill Miller, Staff. Director,
Senate Select Comrnittee on Intelligence, and discussed several matters
with him,. including ‘Com Mocre's, also of the Committee staff, request
for information on George DeMorenschildt; the Reserve release Ictter
plorer; Elliot Maxwell's, also-of the
in touch with some of our people on
the West Coast and supple mental authorization appropriations, (See

Me morandum for the Recox d.)

on the storage of the Gl

   
 

GHA FH

 
