 

to Cons. con
Seu]
Page 3
IRD #72508
\ After this discussion the questicn read: "Ic it probablp that
your relatives (brothers) are working fur PBRUMEN intelli-
gence? Answer: Yea."
: c . Did you know your: ‘brother (IDEN D) was working with IDEN G
A : before we told you? Answer: No. But again had some
an -suspletons. : :

Bosides the. letters we asked you to send to your brothers have
‘you commiuntcated with anyone in PBRUMEN? Answer: Yeo..
His mother‘about two or three times a year and with an aunt
named IDEN H which was the person to whom he actually _
addressed the letter to his brother which WOFIRM asked him
towrite. This letter inc wae posted in 1967 (2 few
months before coming to meee 3966 ae noted in
Station files. Since arrival Subject bas written
his mother only once and had the letter posted from Miami to

. prevent anyone knowing his exact whereabouts. (In addition

to these contacts, Subject has sent one telegram to his mother
soon after the IDEN I just to let her know he was alright.) it

a . ' wae abcut this time that IDEN E wrote to him and criticized

ty _ bis participation in IDEN I.

 

  

 

 

 

/ Have you seen either of your brothers since 19617 Subject answered

i no. Last saw IDEN E at the airport in the distance but there

a . were employees from IDEN E's place of employment present

| and IDEN E was apparently reluctant to go near the plane. Since
4961 Subject has not seen any member of his family and as time
goes on dues not miss them as much, The persons he claims to
have been closast to were his aunt and grandmother and addressees
comments to them personally when he does write to hin mother,

| When further discussing his brothers on this question, Subject:

; was somewhat complimentary despite their differing political .

| views and generally cunsidered them as hard-working energetic

1

(

types with good schocl records,

Do you have a secret means of contacting anyone tn PBRUMEN?
Claims he knows of friends who have used teleyraras to transmit
coded meesages but he has never engaged in euch activity. These
mesoages were directed against the PBRUMEN. :

SEoRer
 

 

Pago 4

SECRET *

IRD 072501

> Have you ever been in Communiat Chins ? Angwer: No.

Have you ever worked for the intelligence service of any country

besides IDEN J and LNIIARP? Answer: Now

Have you ever received intelligence relning ta PBRUMEN?

Answer?’ ‘Ne.

Have you ever been.a member of any Commeaiet guerrilla group?

 

Auswer: No. Later explained sensitivity to the question ag
» ,@teapating from evurrent work with two former Communist —

- guerrillas named IDEN K and IDEN L beth cf whom are now
with IDEN B. .

Have you told anyone in PBRUMEN that you are working with

. WOFIRM? Answer: No. This question led to a discussica

of broadcasts from PBRUMEN which identified Subject ae &
member of WOFIRM. - These broadcasta occurred in Cetcher

1967 according to Subject andthe man fingering him was

IDEN M. The latter was not officially in Subject’s WOFIRM

grcup before his capture in PFBRUMEN hence Subject does Bot
know why i¢ was that_he was specifically samed. When it waa
later suggested shat this Announcement would probably have
ecme effect on hie family, Subject said be just didn’t know
what effect i¢ would have and has beard cf mone. He agreed
that it was quite ironic that'one side of the family was working
with an intelligence service which was diametrically opposed
te the side to which another member of the same family was
affiliated and in fact because of his present IDEN B employment
be was actually In the business of hunting them down. Subject
agreed that it wae indeed ironic but felt hie convictions differed
from his brothers’ and that was that.

_Have you told anyone in LOEN N that you are working for WOFIRM?

Noted that some knew of his past affiliatica hence the questioa
was qualified to mean hie present affiliation. Later after
reactions were recorded, Subject noted thet hie wife ia fully
witting of hia WOFIRM employment as is IDEN O. He also
mestioned that a PBRUMEN type, IDEN P, whom ac knows
from childhood has been kidding him constantly i

 

 

 

 

SECRET
14-00000

 

a a

Page 2

IRD $7250]

Have you used any name besides IDEN A? Anawer: No, except

for alcknames and aliases used with WOFIAM.

Have you ever travelled to Washington, D. C.% Answer: Yes.
_ Ouce geverel years ago. :

Have you ever been to the Soviet Union? ‘Answer! No.

_ Are ‘aby of your yelatives members of the Communist Party?

 

After some discussion Subject felt it probable that they were.
Those specifically mentioned were his two brothers IDEN D
asd IDEN’E and also possibly a sister named IDEN F who is
also in PBRUMEN and married to a Captain in the Militia.
When the question wae prefaced with the words: "Je it your

*- belief that any of your relatives are members, " Subject’s

answer was always yes. He based this belief on the fact that
both brothers hold highly responsible positions in key industries
in PBRUMEN and hence must be members. He also noted that
prior-to hia leaving PBRUMEN, he (Subject) and his two brothers
had many discussions about politics aad their views differed
from Subject's. As for his brother IDEN E, Subject regarded

" Bim ae the “brain” in the family and originally a very religious

Are

person who atrended Catholic services dally. He later evinced
distrust for the clergy in PBRUMEN and Llamed them for the
downfall of the church, When Castro made bis move, IDEN E
was in completé sympathy with him and remained with him
despite his apparent conversica to Communism, although
IDEN E never acknowledged that he had been a Communist and
would usually retort with a comment that he (IDEN E) was a
“humaniss, ' .

any of your relatives working for PBRUMEN Intelligence?

His anawer waa that he felt that at least one of them was accord-
ing to what KALBING inferred during his discussion with Subject
the day before the SCSWIRL test. This was hie brother IDEN D,

but be-also wondered about his brother IDEN E who might also be—

with PBRUMEN intelligence because according to what bis mother
mentioned fn a letter sume time ago, IDEN E bad been in the
USSR receiving traiuing of some sort. This training lacted for

a full year and cceurred in 1962 to the best of Subject’s memory.
Subject was reascnably sure of this date because cf the “A‘lasile
ertais" and Presidest Keanedy's death which occurred later.

SECRET

 
 

BACKGROUND:

- other questions are regarded as substantially truthful.

 

IX- Z521

To +: WH/COG T June 1968

FROM =: Interrogation Research Division
ey
SUBJECT : AMCLEVE/15 -- IDEN A
201-300983

IRD 072508

Sabject isa. 40-year-old PBRUMEN male who has been of continuing

WOFIRM interest since initiai-contact with JMWAVE and more recently

with the[ | Station as @ penetratica of the IDEN B organization,

PURPOSE/ PROCEDURE:

 

 

 

Subject wae SGSWIRLed at the request of the Station because
of several issues which tended to question Subject's bona fides, possible
affiliation with PBRUMEN intelligence through relatives, unreported associ-
ation with gangster elements, thefts from WOFIRM, plus other itemo specified
in questions listed below. The interview was conducted in the home of

 

~Osear C. KALBING if both English and Spanteh. (Subject's English le quite

good, however, during actual testing Spanish was used to avoid ambiguity of
misunderstanding of the question content.) KALBING did the translating.

RESULTS:

Subject remaine sensitive to one question which is related to his past
dealings with IDEN C but in fairness to Subject this sensitivity is believed
gesierated by genuine uncertainity over the amount of items which he had
been instrumental in getting for IDEN C. Sensitivity initially recorded in
other areas wae reoclved through post-test discussion and responses to all

Subject was most

‘Cooperative and candid throughout the entire interview.

DETAILS:

Because of the numerous iseues which were believed in need of clarifi-
cation, a three phase test was atructured prior to the interview and rehearsed
with Subject completely before any testing took place. Discussions, as noted,
wero in both English and Spanish. Specific cuestions asked of Subject and

answers given by him are as followe:

secret i
CS copy wher = Dou va se

 
 

s
}
5
a

 

 

 

 

 

 

reotentervute Llegade de Cuba ve NIAVT pox 408 Yueloo Ja
le siguiente informiaifar

que tonia 403 cradoa Je Tenteate ex el Mjereite Ret-
eVietica ba vecibir eurses vobre cohe teria, atil pass trea
» bosau llecada a Cana y ya experto on 2-503 Gsintca Sicko suet sto
4 uaa elt. vosieléa, que cs wlgo som
@o #1] eubano cox ma alta jerarqufa, Este elenzate ecatenfa mucia aaiac

y 80 aodieaba eatre otras cosas o ls belea x:3r5 ea Cuba, Souer=
binds cox art{eclos, que traian loz rusas do la Union Soviotics, Tacbsen inforsa
lesa dusaiecto a a. Gobierne y quo so podfe hablar de cusiquior

 

 

 

 
      
   
  
  

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* S era dosaiecto a @l gobierno, y le dude inform-ciones dy la Boas
i ‘at usa d@ ¢289@ informaciones oa que en el mes de Abrii Labia una gran rege
if. oc eomuustible cq limitaban los vuelos de los HIG.

 

 

JUN 28 1968

C3 CG.:

pdese Deotua™

ail, : :
-2 7+ eatigo do jum individse Nasnde (eIeslaDisEeT que oa Jofo
-¢visla de ios aviones MIG deo le Base serca do guin, Dicho individus wn» |

 

 
74-00000

te

75-6243/3

FROMe HVCA-18S19, 7 June 1968
SEGUSTY Operational Reporting for Kay 1968

SUBJECT s

times to provide valuable
CIRASH and CIVISTA-5.

Subject con
tion which

information on
He took an SGSWIRL e
‘successfully cleared up some points

that had been of concern to Headquarters.
 

DE: ~DISEATCH 7 ster |

[: eee

_ Chief, Western Hemisphere

 

on

: siiaed Poche

owe quawas one
io NUDGE sabe iG

_ PROCESSING ACTOR

AARNE FOR B69 eS

 

 

 

 

chow Recta Terns
\
a”

 

/

 

 

 

2... | spends most of his time because
he is *jirectine the installation of a thermoelectric plant.

in the area. A snapshot
enclosing a blow-up of

 

 

 

 

is suffering fron back tr

A

DISTRIBUTION
x - CH/WHD ‘(w/att, h/w)

9,
—_

ae
: Chief of Station
—

 

ye"

: 1. AMCLEVE-15 recently received a letter/from his :
thother in Cuba, in which she gave him news of

 

 

 

 

 

of{ _|was enclosed, and we are

 

3. is apparently in Havane
Cienfuegos), and the only comment about

ouble.

for your information.

at least not in
was that he

 

 

 

 

TTACHMENT :
As stated para 2 (2 copies)

3 fl

CROSS REFTRURE FO Cer AiGN SrasOL da vias
| HVCA-15572

SECRET

 
[td 0178-10154

 

 

NATERLAL REVIEBED AY GEA RUADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECE COMUETrEr ON ASSASSENATIONS STAPF MEMBERS

 

FILE TITLE/NUIWWER/VOLUME: |

INCLUSIVE DATES:
ne

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

 

 

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

NO. DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REXOVED FROM THIS FILS

  
  
  
 
 

“2 Se ee mete sae

  

 

 

 

  
|96T “TZ oune

 

 

 

 

rvernemapannmerrccmcnine nem nnn

 

 

 

 

 
~ ~ IP

DISPATCH [tte | ==

| |
|
' enter of Station, JHVAVE — .¢6 _
ao
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division cin soc morning
Chief of Station, _ eee
i
|
t
i
i
i
|

_PBRUMEN/AMCLEVE-15 ~ Report from Cuban Extie

acTGw CIGUIRIG - kiFEREICES

 

 

 

RBA 4

 

 

‘See below.
oe . Porverded herewith for your information is a report
“furntahod’ fea AACLEVES z

eervor ar meer ogee el Po a0!

   

 

 

 

 

. | dines id used to
i ES : . 1a fim thet
1 ere Were se ctions on the Uf
lair bese.which limited the MIG 7 ts.

3. aay nay wish to contact{ __—‘(|if it has not
one BOe

 

 

 

 

 

‘ ‘JMUAVE (w/att, 1 cy, b/w) — Povek
npn Ave, (w/t ty, byw) ) 7 eur
t$ 06.4 JUN 28 1965

fat

Corr) ° eaaraiGs Sreooe AND aan (rr
HVCA-15571 28 June 1968
| sens =

SECRET pder. Baoan

 
