 

 

SNIDER
ARUN

ie
(2 year old femsle) and the.mother out of Cura.

B.  Somao Channel with ANLASH. chen necessary to communicate :
securely with AMLACH, subjec s contact <n Ttaltan Svhagsy who takes
letter into Cuba, gives personally te a covsin of Subject, who in turn 7 4
eves it personall;, to AMLASH. I» thie mannor several monthe ago, Subject
atavec he told AMLASH to try azain to come out this sumer (42) and they.

"could meet in Europe for talks. In veoly, AMLASH sent pest card post~ 7

marred Vienna *4 June. The: posteard was mailed ‘n an envelore. The
Rersave “ala that MASH hoped things didn't zo as last yesr (no meeting) ae
and that he would -expect to. Subtect.in.Paric during: the last half'of., = oo EB

| Awmst. This posteard. and envelope are attache! heresith, t
: ol

96,

 
 
  
  

 

     

 

 

C. Other Jivente, .
. 7 -
Cutan Ottawa Nieaton (xdomency.>—mrorked tract Aa t trip ..
to Montreal that 5 new mempers had Leen assivned to the “uban Eccnon!e - .

Miaston (Phone '328/53) tut not sure of functions or actual offiee ia
. whieh thay working. (Trace shone nunter for anever J em
accord:n: to lubtect, can protabl: te hed. Piret, h ér, We pais

 
   
  
 

egiash 2 EE) NYS police charze ef ctealiny an auto. This was oo
used ne an aceceplice® K@ another Cuhan for a ride

tercause = VaEn mone, fro: zroap for guns in the fight
acainst Z2atista, anit then had ni The victim was not hurt,
acceriing to cubject, as he escane’ from the flat where he waa heli when

the vuards were asless. If this charse ta squashed, « can,

et eventuai anssylur here, this woult be tig incentive fo av pra06

vis recruitment in place or, defection according to subsect,

 

 

wy] ight te possible to zet in
the Suture, says Subtect 1 me,
 

 

 
  
  
 
    

: MEMORANOOM POR TH? ascend:

. arranzenents Were made to rneet Subject the same day,st 1°00 e)

- wee advansed $750.00 fer ticket amt travel expense,

  

ae

 

SUBJECT: AMHTP/1 mest’nzs, Yew Tork 22 ‘and ub oy 198

eetine Mres‘Locat‘on, . SutJect waa’ contacted.

ged Ti Rew tore a6 1330 on Friday

    
 

 

by’ the urd

   
 
 
  
 
 

Subject's office ts located on the third floor of 3t Jeet L7th Street,
New York, in the firm.of Corleta, Inc., vamfacturers end ‘wholesalers ‘of.
Sewelry. The meetinzs were held at this Iceation on Friday from ‘1700. to
1930, end on Saturddy frox 1039 until 1215. The Litter neoting ag
terminated with a luncheon in a nearby regtaurant, which lasted: antil
1345. The. account of both these meetings is condensed in the. sommary
below. ‘

 

 

2. Purvose of Meetincs, ubfect was ‘contacted in ‘New York
for the purpose of estatlierine a Atrect relationship wth a Headquartera
c/o, determining the chances for another attermt at defecting AMASH/1,
and if encouraging, eettinz mw arran: Terents with Subject fo: his trip
to Helsinki to aid tn the defection effort, It also previded an —
opportunity for the writer te maxe 1 preliminary asseasment of Subdeet
prior to vorking with him in Felsinx!.

3. ars and Financial Arranvementa. sublect agreed ta come
to Helzink! an elsewnare, Tf necersai, t6 aid in defection attenpt
azainst ATACH. “ye obteetet to an offer to nest his expenses in-full
‘ut, as he later confessed, business not Leiny what it wea 'n Havana,
agreed to accept the price cf his ticket and all hotel expenses durin: the
trip. Entertainment, oulsiie meals, ops costs, atc, he would abserk ©
himself. No salary or bonus was asked for ner offered. Ne will leave
New Tork City in order to arrive in Helsink! about 29 or 30 duly. Re

 

i Contact Arrancar. Por U_A, Subfect was given the
reigned's trie nace and élepnone Tunber for contact in-D. fc.

He. ean also reach us thru cur cover numer if an emergency dictates,
For Helsinki. Subsect was given the Rehassy number there, and told
Uy atx Tor sTllian Thozpson, Re ‘s to use hia firet name only, “Additional
arrangesents will be made there after the initial contact. Seourity. No
ineidents of 8 gecurity nature oceurre?, ‘There were some am
fevelry contact (Tuban refuree) in the pres! aeg when we eail
shown aroun? the lavout, but were not introduce! to the strer
form. Only a normal curios twas dispiave? or evidence: on tha countenances

 

  

ee RETURN TO cia
rc Background Use On}
lot Reproduce
   

 

“he Lead ‘us te believe that this infor:
_ Whom Sutject had contacted in Miam!.

 

      

 

 

 

     

  

pf
