 

- AG ae .

   
 

   

Whew fas 7

TF Lec /F6FG

Gun Shipment Figures
Played Dramatic Roles

By Bruce Galphin ‘the attorney general” (Ramsey an official for an American de-
Washington Post Staff Writer Clark). The federal attorney,| velopment corporation.

ATLANTA, Dec. 2—The two/ William A. Meadows Jr. said) At one point ‘during the

top officials of an Aflanta firm he could not make any further/ fighting, he said a few days

‘under investigation for receiv- ons being ee the charge afterward, ne, and some 200

< -Alng guns shipped from Viet-|. -WerBell commented wryly| up against a wall” by armed

_ mam through Eglin Air Force| that he was unbappy because) revolutionaries at a Santo

’ Base in Florida are no strang-|“T've lost my one claim to no-/omingo hotel. *- «4°

ers to controversy or dramatic toriety. He sald the rebels were

situations. “At the time of the indict-|jooking for Cuban nationalists,

- One was aetively involved in! ye"e WerBell was quoted bY/and that he managed to slip

. a euve’y jthe Atlanta Constitution as ad-| inside the hotel, where Ameri

> plans to set up an anti-Castro/ mitting an “extremely combat-|can embassy officials negoti-.

ase in Haiti, and both were| ant role" -in the anti-Castro| ated -safe conduct. ‘He was

in the Dominican Republic] base plans. - Jevacuated by helicopter. to a.

during the 1965 American ia- The federal indictment had|ys, warship. i

tervention to put down a rev. alleged i conspiracy to ship ’ “The Communist movement
"| guns and m1 ions from At-

olution. has actually defeated itself”

lanta and New York to Miami.
", Mitchell Livingston WerBell| But WerBell told a reporter y. Oop the vee ie

Sionics,|at the time of the indictment he ented at-the time.-
that he bad withdrawn his comm
‘a0 Atlanta weapons research) 217 ot trom the Haitian base| Both the Dominican fighting
. d manufacturing firm, was plan when it gppeared to be and the - Marathen—raid —oc-j
“indicted 2% years ago on|headed toward direct military gurred t before sean and
charges of violating a federallaction. © ~ oe a Fores officer at
__law forbidding preparation of] “If T'm called upon againtolp jin is under - investigation

"a military expedition against a en starsat Sa dniee be for his role in three shipments
friendly nation from American) 2434 «, ‘Anything I've done has|0f mall arms from Vietnam.

territory. served the best interest of the| WerBell denied reports that
The indictment against Wer-| United States.” the weapons were intended

te anti-Ne
Bell and six others was made| “I've been involved in anti- tor pt end said he himecll,

- after customs agents raided an) Fommunst aid. “Ive ‘helpng | while in Vietnam, had had the

island camp near Marathon,|tne | pominican gov nt
Fia., where they seized a small | fight the Communists.”
arsenal of weapons and found Aldea Newsman

75 battle-clad exiles and Amer, ;

  
   
  
 
 
     
 
   
   
    
      
     

   

 
  
 

    
 

  
   
    
   
 

   
  

  
  
  
 
   
   
    

  
     
  

 
   

   
 
 
 
    
         
 
    

  
   
    

“In the Dominican action two
4 -j¥Fears before, WerBell was
Not on Island - . : credited with pulling «a

wounded American newsman

WerBell himself was not 02|out of a bulletriddled car in
the island at the time of the/ganto Domingo. The newsman,
Miami Herald photographer
4, In February 1967 the Domestic Contact Service advised that
Subject frequently volunteered information to their Miami Office and
was going to be asked to respond to certain OSI requirements pertaining
to the Dominican Republic, Haiti, and other selected areas. However,
it is not known that Subject was approached in this regard, and the DCS
was provided with information relating to his dubious character,

5. In August 1967 Subject came to Agency attention when he
attempted to interest a group of military officers in a weapon silencer
he had supposedly developed for the M-16 rifle. One of these officers
was actually a representative of TSD servicing under cover who
reported that Subject had no reservations about imposing himself on
anyone in order to achieve his aims.

6. Subject was mentioned extensively in an article on independent
arms dealers appearing in the January 1968 issue of True magazine,
and he reportedly made statements that the CIA and the DIA would
protect him in case he got into difficulty, Based on Subject's statements,
the Munitions Control Board asked the Agency whether we had any
interest inhim. The case was summarized for the benefit of the
Deputy Director for Support on 11 January 1968, and the reply to the
Munitions Control Board was provided by the Office of Logistics.

7, Office of Security records reflect that 4 Department of
Defense representative reviewed Subject's security file in March 1968,
at which time we continued to receive reports that Subject was
representing himself as a CIA employee. ~In May 1969 information’ ——_—-
was received from an Air Force OSI representative in Miami, Florida,
that Subject was undergoing a security clearance check as a result of
his being employed by a company with a Government contract, At
about the same time Saigon Station requested a Headquarters "bona
fides" check on Subject, who was then employed by Sionics, Inc.; —
and he advised OSI that he was affiliated with CIA. The Station was
informed of Subject's background as an unscrupulous con-man,

8, On 26 May 1969 [—__|generate a cable with
extensive distribution in the Far East outlining Subject's activities
.
4

° - . . A ;

([toeoasect0or7)..

SUBJECT: Mitchell Livingston WerBell

1, Subject is a 52-year-old, native-born American who served
on military assignment with the Office of Strategic Services from
approximately July to December of 1945 with primary service in the
China-Burma-India theatre, Following his military /OSS service,
Subject entered into a variety of short-term business activities, most
of which were characterized by his unorthodox business practices.
There is no indication that he has ever been employed by the Agency.

2. There is considerable evidence in Subject's file that he was
looked upon with strong suspicion by several Government agencies,
including the Bureau of Customs and the Federal Bureau of Investigation
for alleged arms smuggling in a number of South American countries,
as well as his apparent involvement with several revolutionary groups
and Castro assassination schemes. Office of Security records disclose
that Subject is generally categorized as a con man, unscrupulous, a
wheeler-dealer and-a promoter.of grandiose schemes.

 

3. In July 1959 Subject apparently volunteered his services to
the Western Hemisphere Division and was seriously considered for_.
use as an informant on revolutionary activities in Cuba and the
Dominican Republic. During the period that Subject's Operational
Approval was being processed, he volunteered several pieces of
information, all of which were judged to have little value. In
October 1959, WH Division decided to drop all operational interest

_/ in the Subject since they became convinced that his real aim in working

for CIA was to use Agency funds to promote his personal interests.

ta nee
100

that had been plagued for some weeks by Subject, Vice
President and Director Research and Development for Sionics, Atlanta,
Georgia, Subject reportedly describes himself as a counter-insurgency
expert, has a variety of weapons to display and claims to be a retired
Colonel, He normally implies United States Government connections
and he presents a demonstration of a variety of exotic weapons that
never fails to impress. Reportedly Subject had visited Vietnam in

order to provide General Abrams with such-a demonstration of weapons,
and it was stated that he planned on setting up a sniper training program.

in a fad be as Chief of CIA in Thailand, It was mentioned

9. The Washington Post of 3 December 1969 contains an extensive
article on Subject, who was under Federal investigation for receiving
guns shipped from Vietnam through Eglin Air Force Base in Florida,
The article mentions that two years previously Subject was indicted
on charges of violating a Federal law forbidding the preparation of a
military expedition against a friendly nation from American territory.

10. The Washington Post of 22 February 1970 contains an article
which indicated that Lt. Colonel Paul A. Mariott of Eglin Air Force
Base was cleared of any illegal actions in connection with the shipment
of captured weapons from Vietnam, The Subject is quoted as having
said that his firm, Sionics, Inc., had arranged for the shipment to
the United States through Eglin Air Force Base, supposed for Air
Force_use_in museums, —- we ee

 

ll, The Washington Evening Star of 26 February 1970 contains a
story dealing with the charges that the Columbia. Broadcasting System
had contributed $80, 000.to a 1966 plot to invade-Haiti, - Subject was
identified as one of the "leading figures" in the deal, and he was
described as a munitions dealer linked to clandestine operations in
Latin America, He reportedly was hired by CBS as a consultant for
the invasion story, receiving $1, 500.00 as a down payment,

i

12, True magazine of April 1970 contains an article by Andrew.
St. George entitled, The Mafia vs the CIA", which alleges to be
the story of the struggle of two invisible governments for the control
of Haiti, Subject is mentioned in the article as a "munitions merchant"!
who cooperated with the investigation being conducted by the magazine.
 

 

suBsect

 

 

 

 

 

FORM

7-62 1954

——~Ho!

OFFECE AND 4

‘

b

;. « ment Jaboratory,”-He made no
} . ‘ 7 yi FROM AUTOM,
‘| may have gotten. WerBell has BERORADING Ante

  
 

‘Aide at Weapons Lab

ett

Cleared in AF Probe
WISH GEST 2-a ZI nies
Air Force officials said yes-‘the guns stayed at the Air
terday that they have cleared|Force base. —.
a Weutenant colonel at Eglin

Air Force Basé in Florida .of Peta euttnced foree tn:
“any illegal or wnauthorized|\ecber along with * —
actions” in connection witBlins: the weapons were tend
shipments to the base of We8P-|o4 for distribution to militant—.

 

ons ‘captured in Vietnam. ight.

The announcement was made right wing BrouPs. as atin
in a terse statement by Col.|caid that “no evidence had
Abner B. Martin. commander; been developed at that point
of the secret armament lab itin November) to substantiate
oratory at Eglin. the published allegations.” He

He made no mention of the) did not say what the evidence
reported role of an Atlanta/developed since then sug—.
firm, Sionics Inc., whoe_ offi-| gested.
ciats said they arranged the foe
shipments. . : er eereeeeenees

The firm's vice president,

. Mitchell L. WerBell Ili, said
in December that he had the™
‘guns “shipped back to this’ : .
country: to present to the: Air,
Force for use in museums. as: ~,
a presentation from Sionics.”

WerBell said he made the
arrangements while working
with the Air Force in‘evaluat-
ing Sionics’ new gun-silencing
equipment in South:Vietuam.

“air Force spokesmen in’ Wash

ington, showever. said the Air

Force fad no interest in si-

lencers; and Defense Depart-

ment officials said Sionics has

never had any contract. with

the Air Force. te as
In hig announcement, Col.

Martin -dwelt only om. the. in

 

---yolvement-of Lt, Col, oul : rrr ee:
. the armament labora-

Mariott, .
Ty's ef assistant for. 39

tems support, and this without
spelling out Mariott’s connee

 

) | rr rs ae
‘Col. Martin said simply that, = .
he ordered an imvestigation..0 000 0
last July when the arms, in-
eluding * Russian-designed AK-
13 submachine guns, “arrived —————————_________
at Eglin without apparent evi-
dence that applicable import
rules and regulations’ had
been complied with.”
After: a check by. the Air
Force Office of Special Inves-
tigations which “centered” on
Mariott, the -Heutenant: colo-
nel’s “activities in the incident
were found clear of any illegal
or unauthorized actions on hig———
part, and no disciplinary. or
jiminietratye sattions have ___
en or 0”. SIGN

peMertin said “the weapons at
Elgin” -would be used for
_ “evaluation, experiment and
‘) display purposes Inthe arma-

 

 

any’ that ‘Sionics cree TROUF |

some of

{40}

 

 
