 

4
fuvestigation of her relations:1; wits #US ToMis resulted in her
being Mined for sdullery in te, tesroer 1732. ine was diverced by
VLenELST ia Noverrocr 1 /$3 and Continvea living vita rt TL Man,
Spparectly a6 ¢con.man-law wife, until late iyod ur 1755.

{ Vasiliy Cawrilovich (aia savel) ..s3LNKw, allegedly
born of .$ ceptemver 1922 tn Tide, visti, Served in fae saviet
Vro:y in Vorld \.r DD beiove juicing tas Viaasuv forces in .
fighting against tae! ovicte. ‘fter tne war av lived ia Vern aay
end Hel,fun and was active in several anti-lormuaist nvasian
F evi, re of sanaations inciain, ine ! atiouzl.abvor *Maznce (iis).
fm 1950 DUSTLNG. wan identified as a soviet agent in clandestine
contact wita the Soviet 12: caasy in Urusselsa. ne was expelled
from. ine NTL in Febreary .957 and oa éy Suzvet 1357 ne left
Brussels for h.oscuw. Ina radio oroaacast irun. i aet Berlin
om i7 Lepten.ber 6357 spansored by tne soviet C wi: anittee for
Return te tne tiomeland, 6. S$Lobs-s Uiterly attacned t.ussian
emigre organizations in tne » est, ¢ rior to leaving Selgiun.
for the VELK buULIINY reportedly revealed toat he bad woraed
for Soviet intelligence since .342 and tat he was trained fa the
Soviet Uaiun for intelul,ence sora aad disjaiched to iae vest
ae @ Soviet agent. ]

 

b. On 27 June 1756, in laelles, @ euburd of Brussele, i ydia
married Favel LYMITHUL. ene wae born 2r February 1924 in ttarlye-
Dorehl, USSR [Stariye-Vorogi, Eelorussian $2 kj, and was was
described as a Selorussian student at tne .oiveralty of couvain ia
Balglum, 4t an cukacwn date, possibly tefore nls n arriage to «ydia,
Favel DYMITKUL immigrated to the Uaited states. i was reported
that im July 1957 he returned to Evigium to atten.»t to ex,-edite a visa
for Lydia to join him tn the Jalted States, 4 of 4ugeet 1957,
EYNITRUS's U.S. residence was listed as 15) cast Division Street,
Rockford, Michigan.

 

e€. Iman interview in February 1757 ln Antwerp, Belgiur,
concerning her appilcation for a viga to the ‘Jnited States, Lydia
DYMITRUK disclosed taat:

 

 

(i) Her father rangged a a.acaroal factory fa Rostov-Doa
during the war and did oot serve ia the arn.y. In 1945 ho was
arrested by the NKVD and neld for five or six conta on &

| feharge concerning his

aZa je-

SECRET bend

 
     
 
 

 

 

 

BEMOKANOUN FOk:

      
  
  

“SUBILGT

 
 
 
   
     
  
  
  
    
 
    
 
 
 
    
     

Po iaufes. elias, ‘Texas
eo, ” fhle conuneaication veveeted an interview by your office of k rkGeerge.
. "A. BU on | 23 November 5303 fn whica i cr. ESUML referred ton |

 

    

oo. a oe “The files of this gency contaia tae following pertinent
- ° information on one Lydia OYNITAUK who way be identical wits the
+ Ayla 5 DOCY TRUK. referred to above:

Be. Lydia (aeo GEE Nee DERDYARSHAYA aka a BERIANSESY*) orn: ITRUX
vas burn ou 3 April 1726 fo Kotter, “HER. hae renaiced fa Rostow

with her parents until ene was io, when she was degarted Sy the -
Germans toe work camp. in Germany, wnen the war ended ehe entered
-& Camp for displaced persons in Ocesselderf, Germacy, where she
met and married one. Nearel icduijk VERHELSTs a 28 Delgina citize:
“With her husband ene entered Lelgiom at an unanowa cate and resided
fn Antwerp. Reportedly she wae a member of tae Unica of Soviet
Fatriota in Selgivm fron 1948 to 3452. Sometiu.c in early 1952,
wiile still married to VERHELST, Lydia began living with/Vasiliy
Gavrilovich (aka Eavel) HUSTENKS in Ervsscle- ® Belgian kolice -

 

  

BM

  

 

  

 

      

 

1 investigation ‘of her
 

charge concerning his activities during the war (Lydia claimed -
4 that ¢he was unaware of the exact charges made a,ainet her
, father). He was also removed from his position as nm anager

of the macaroni factory.

(2) She wrote to her mother often and occasionally received”
_ Correspondence from her. Her mother is glad tiat Lydia is in
the West, .

(3) She had vcen associated with tne Union of Soviet + atriote
.for about two yeara but denied knowing that the Union of Soviet
iatriotes was politically motivated or wag in contact with the
Comuunist barty of belgium.

(4) ier viea application, waich she evomitted on 27 July
1956, was drawn up for her oy her hueband, iavel DYR.ITKUK,.
la filling out the application form her husband had indicated a
negative response to a question concerning association with a
Con:w:vaist i+arty or an organization affiliated wita a Communist
jlarty becauge she had not been ‘an actual member '' of the Union oo
of Soviet ratriots, and furthermore, it was her husband's belief
that ehe was not 3 Communist.

(5) She arrived in Brusseis fram Antwerp in February 1952

and Hved with her sister,jAnnia BUUCHAT, for several montha. ~

Her sister was in contact with one {fau) D-ARKACHUL, am officer

with the Soviet Repatriation Mission ia Brussels who had been :

attempting te have the sister repatriate to the Soviet Union. Shortly -

after her arrival at her sister's, a woman from Liege (not further

identified), gave hey an address to go to for aid in resettling in

Brussels, Lydia went to this address and waa surprised to find

that it was the Seviet Kepatriation hiiesion. There she met - .
“\MARKACHUK who tried to persuade her to return to the USSR. -

Asa result, ahe and her sister wrote to their mother for her

opinion on the matter and the mother advised them to atay in

the Weai.

ra

Eel baled e be ab ate se som cnet eameente n eenee e e e ee Gale ete

 

1
1
i
7 1(6) She Hved with . ;

ea?

hylan ce

noe
 

: (6) Eke lived with Vasily G. KOSTERNISG for two or three i
! years from: ‘*prit 1952 and left him because ‘he drank toa wuch :
vod“ che described RUD TLNEC ae aa active Autie( corm unist,

. . oof ' '
‘3. The‘file of tis Agency om Lydia UYR ITKUB. hae no entries . |
beyond 1757 vaen she was still Uving in bruseels, 1
1
. 4. Thia 4zency hae furcisned the forezuing infermation to the : |
+ resident's Con mission on the \ssassination of ; resident John F, 1
Yeanedy. i

FOR THE DEFUTY DIKRECTOA FOR © LANS: \

JAR BS ANGLETUON . i

CSCI = 3/780, 681

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 « Addressce
be C/CI
MWe CICUSIG
Le C/CYU/REA
PB -C/SR
= C/SR/CL
2 - C/SR/CI/R (hold cy & comeback cy)
1 + SR/O/UE/dl 3
1 = 201-289, 248
1 RUFI (2012159, 620)

. {
; SB/CI/Reccarcl leh 21 April 1964

ween be

 

4

SECRET

 

   
