 

   

) similarly bri
offices, and that

   
 

   

r.
given instructions to stand by his telephone througnout
the day cf 1 February 1974 in the even r urgis called,
Hr. Brew also stated that he hac brief a oAmca, ir
Tnhomes Shedd regarding the above speci ructions
For possi interest, dt is to be noted that

: w informed nm t . Sturgis had stated to ir.
oyner that his reasons for wanting to arrange an appoint-
rent with Agency represeniatives was to discuss maters
relating to Mexico and orth Korea

 

Cit ee ry ee
a ET A ted fe ;
i poe
Pe)
[td-#0130-10085] -

 

ae ear | i) Venda eairan ae

] February 1974

MENCGRANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Watergate Incident--Frank Anthony Sturgis!
Request to Contact CIA

1. At 2130 hours on 31 January 1974, the Director of
Security telephoned the undersigned at his residence,
instructing me to contact Mr. Arthur J. Brew, Special Agent
in Charge, Miami Field Office. The Director of Security
stated that the Director of Central Intelligence had
communicated with him and cirected him to insure that Mr,
Brew contact appropriate Agency personnel in the Miami,
Florida area and tell them that if Mr. Frank Anthony Sturgis
calls cone of their offices for purposes of meeting with
Agency representatives, that Mr. Sturgis should be told to
contact the Federal Bureau of Investigation or the Watergate
Prosecutor, Mr. Leon Jaworski. ;

2. The above information was relayed by telephone at

2155 hours, 37 January 1974, to Mr. Brew in Miami, Florida.

: My. Brew stated that earlier on 31 January 1974 at 1130 hours,

~~ Mr. doe Joyner, Spectat Agent im Charge, Department of State,
Security Office, Miami, Florida, had called him and told him
that Mr. Sturgis had called Nr. Joyner in an attempt to
arrange an appointment with Agency representatives. At that
time, Mr. Brew stated that he had told Mr. doyner that that
would not be possible. . .

3. Subsequent to my conversation with Mr. Brew, I
dictated a memorandum for the record to the Security Duty
Officer at 2202 hours on 31 January 1974.

4, On 1 February 1974, Mr. Brew-confirmed that he had
given Mr. Joyner the above instructions regarding referring
Mr. Sturgis to the Federal Bureau of Investigation cr the
Watergate Prosecutor, at 0725 hours that morning. In addition,
Mr. Brew stated that at 0835 and 0840 hours, respectively, he
had similarly briefed Mr. Lawrence Sternfield, Chief of
Station, Western Hemisphere, Miami, and Mr.¢

Chief, Domestic Collection Office, Miami. Both Messrs. Sterh
Tieid and sidied to Kr. Brew that tney had aireacy

7 HS
ant!

 

 

 

Spry te ° 1. fav fhoue?

“ mot ete i i
