74-00000

OLN s

with ex-Senator Rolando MASFERRER and Eduardo HERNANDEZ,
former Cuban Consul General in Miami in the Anti-Communist
League, which has made two attempts to fly arms to Pinar

.del Rio, Cuba. In each case men connected with the actual
flying of arms were arrested by U.S. officials.

Some time ago Piedra incurred the wrath of Trujillo and
he is not at all happy about the location of Pedraza’s ef-
forts. Na@ considers Pedraza a prisoner of Trujillo. 2 Late
in September 1959 Jose SUAREZ Nunez, a Cuban exile arrived
in Miami to deliver instructions from Batista to Piedra to
attempt to immediately consolidate the anti-Castro forces
into a viable movement to overthrow the Castro government. ~
Batista reminded Piedra that there should be no involvement
with the Dominican Government and advised him that to the
greatest extent possible groups should be cultivated which
are now or might be expegted to be looked upon with favor
by the U.S. Government. Enrique FERNANDEZ Parajon, former
Chief of the Secret Police under Batista was reported in
January 1960 as endeavoring to merge a group under the
jJeadership of Orlando PIEDRA with the ADC. He added that
the PIEDRA group has three planes which they would like to
use during the next 60 days to set fire to sugar cane
fields by dropping incendiaries. However, FERNANDEZ bemoaned
the fact that tight United States controls in Florida were
hampering their activities. Fernandez said that he is in
contact with Guatemalans and Nicaraguans and that he and
Piedra are responsible for military operations. It was his
opinion that Pedraza has only 80 men in the Dominican Republic. (4)

H. Brigadier General Martin. DIAZ Tamayo

General DIAZ Tamayo is a controversial figure, disliked
by many Cubans because he represents top military leadership
which in general wag unpopular among Civilians and Jower
military echelons, ) yet respected by his peers. 2)" He is held
in contempt by Chomat, former legal counsel of crac, (3) but
General Pedraza has indjgated that he would be willing to
work with DIAZ Tamayo. DIAZ has a moderate following of
Cuban ex-military men in Miami, where he now lives. He has

{ discussed with Nunez Portuondo and Marquez Sterling thes

possibility of forming a coalition in support of them. )

SECRET
74-0000

C SECRET

I. Rolando MASFERRER Rojas

 

Rolando MASFERRER Rojas, former Senator during the

‘ Batista regime has played an active but not significant

role among the exiles in the United States or in Mexico. -
His spectacular activities, unreliability and obvious op-
portunism have discredited him with the leadership and rank
and file of exiles as well as anti-Castro elements in Cuba.
He is anathema to Nunez Portyondo, General Pedraza and
Santiago Rey, in particular. 1

MASFERRER was accused by the Castro regime of having
committed 70 pyyders and of having absconded with 17 mil-
lion dollars. He is remembered unfavorably by many Cubans
as having been a member of the Communist Party from 1959-
1944; later he did an about-face and became an ardent and
"professional" anti-Communist. He also is unpopular becduse
of the activities indulged in by his own terrorisg "army,"
known as the "Tigers" during the Batista regime. ) He has
been described as a Jacohin, a demagogue, a tyrant and an
extremist. For several years Senator MASFERRER enjoyed
reviling the United States, its people and its policies.
When anti-Communism became popular about 1950-51 and
MASFERRER realized that this was a means of increasing bis
prestige with Americans he became a friend of the US.

J. Penetration of the Anti-Castro Movement

 

Castro has bragged that his capture in Cuba last August
of an arms-laden plane containing a group of anti-Castro - @)
militants was due to his having planted a spy in their midst.
Earlier the Chief Investigator of Cuban Army Intelligence
(Departamento de Investigaciones del Rjeroito Revolucionario
- DIER) had admitted to the FBI that the Castro regime had
sent a man to Miami with the express pyyPose of reporting on
the activities of anti-Castro exiles. (4) During the summer one
of the more active anti-Castro exiles in the Miami area was
enticed back to Cuba where he was immediately thrown in jail
by agents of Castro's Policg Intelligence (Departmento Teoniso
de Investigaciones - DTI). 3) The Cuban Revolutionary Air Force
also is atygsed to have had between 40 and 50 paid informants
in Miami. There have been numerous indications that Castro
probably has been able to plant agents among the followers
of most of the more prominent anti-Castro exiles in this
country.

9
SECRET

 
74-00000

but has for the most part different following.

SECRET

E: Fabio FREYRE

_ Fabio FREYRE, a wealthy Cuban now residing in Miami,
claims that he has organized the Accion Democratica Cubana

“(ADC), which (hes selected General Jose Pedraza as its mili-

tary leader. Freyre says the ADC and Pedraza have drawn .
up the principal points of an agreement for the liberation
of Cuba, which include the organization of commandos, seiz-
ing of the Isle of Pines to be used as an operational base
for the invading forces, sabotage and various psychological
warfare techniques. Freyre's following in the U.S. is esti-
mated at some 200, while those based in Cuba, under the
leadership of Juan Antonio RUBIO Padilla, number about 350,
including commandos, army pilots and young officers. Freyre
claims that the Cuban people have no confidence in General
Martin DIAZ Tamayo or Colonel BARQUIN.{2) Hence, it is as-
sumed that they are not among FREYRE's supporters.

F. Dr. Francisco RODRIGUEZ Couceiro

 

Dr. Francisco RODRIGUEZ Couceiro claims to be the founder
and leadgy of another ADC, former prior to Freyre's organi-
zation. He has similar plans for the reconqygst of Cuba

Among his
principal supporters are Orlando PIEDRA, Rolando ,-MASFERRER,
and Julio LAURENT, all of whom were Batistianes. Rodriguez
claims he asked Trujillo and General Pedraza for arms to
defend the Isle of. Pines once he had taken it but they
turned him down. (6) Recently, however, Rodriguez stated that
General Pedraza had signed an agreement ‘putting his men in
the Dominican’ Republic and the Dominican anti-Castro -radio
under the ADC. Rodrigyg2 also claims he has the promise
of support in Guatemala. ,

5

G. Orlando Eleno PIEDRA Negueruela

PIEDRA enjoys the distinction of being considered by the
Castro regime as one of the principal war criminals in the
United States. He served for 18 years in police work in
Cuba and attained the position of Chief of the Department
of Investigations until the fall of Batista. In the United
States he has openly aveygd his former connections with and
his loyalty to Batista. He has been associated for a time

7
SECRET
14-0000

OL Ui s

CRAC leaders asked him to accept the position of Presi-
dent of the government-in-exile but he was reluctant to do
so because he feared for the safety of his son, still in
Cuba. (2) Marquez has been in contact with most of the Cuban

_exile leaders in the United States and has had some discus-

sions with NUNEZ Portuondo, his chief rival for the presi-
dency. 3yome sources maintain that Pedraza prefers him over
Nunez. ¢ It is believed that Varquez still has the support
of the Ortrodoxo Party in Cuba.

D. Pedro Luis DIAZ-Lanz

fajor DIAZ-Lanz has gained considerable publicity for his
break with Castro, his appearance before the Eastland Com-
mittee and his spectacular leaflet dropping over Havana on

21 October 1959. His brother Marcos, who was Inspector General _

of the Revolutionary Air Force (FAR) joined him in Miami in
July and the two were until December closely associated with
Ricardo LORIE Valls, a former underground leader of the

26 July Movement. These three and a few other associates
have professed to have vigorous plans to overthrow Castro
but aside from the leaflet drop have not performed any par-

ticular actions of special importance. ( The Diaz-Lanz brothers

broke with Lorie, who appeared to have been the most mature 2
member of the group, for reasons which are not al all clear. (2)

The small group about Diaz-Lanz in conversation with U.S.
officials and private citizens has steadfastly refused to
have anything to do with former Batista officials while they

_ have stated their intention to take any. measures to insure

the downfall of Castro.

In July 1959 Pedro DIAZ-Lanz stated that there is no
connection whatsoever between the anti-Castro forces in Cuba
and those in the United States. He regarded the followers
of MASFERRER, Justo Luis PORO, former Mayor of Havana, Jose
Luis PUJOL, NUNEZ Portuondo“and others as remnants of former
dictatorships which yyete not be acceptable to the Counter-
Revolution in Cuba. ( At the end of the year, however, Pedro
DIAZ-Lanz was reported as being willing to support Nunez
Portuondo if the latter would break with Trujillo. At the
same time Diaz-Lanz is reported to have attempted to obtain
$50,000 from agents of Pedraza in Miami. J) If this attempt
actually was made, it seems to indicate at last a willingness
on the part of Diaz-Lanz to work with Pedraza, something he
had hitherto steadfastly refused to consider.

6

SECRET

 
74-0000

SbhUKEI

Cuba along with Castro, Batista, Masferrer.{9) Recent evi-
dence, however, indicates that there is a possibility that
the former Chief of the Revolutionary Air Force may be
reconsidering his previously inflexible attitude towards
Pedraza.

B. Emilio NUNEZ Portuondo

 

NUNEZ Portuonde, now residing in Washington, D.C., was
one of the first to declare his candidacy for the leadership
of an anti-Castro movement. A former politician, lawyer
and diplomat Nunez was Cuba's delegate to the United Nations
from 1952 until 1958. During this period he cooperated with
the US delegation and was outspokenly critical of the USSR.
Most Cubans in the United States, and.in those Latin American
countries where he and his followers have solicited support
for their anti-Castro activities are under the impression that
he has some type of commitment with the US Government. Al-
though he continues to be mentioned, along with Carlos
MARQUEZ Sterling, as the most likely candidate for provisional
president of a successor government to Castro, some sources
have alleged that he would not make an effective president. (1)

Nunez’ announced aim is the overthrow of the Castro re-
gime and its replacement by a civil government friendly to
the US and excluding individuals associated with Batista.

To this end he and his immediate followers have published a
newsletter and periodically dropped leaflets over Cuba at-
tacking Castro. They also have directed. the paramilitary.
training of a small number of Cubans in Miami, some of whom
subsequently participated in an abortive invasion of Cuba’

in August. ( ) In addition Nunez and his followers have been
in close contact with other leading exiles in the US. Dur-
ing the fall of 1959 he and his adherents travelled to Mexico,
Guatemala, Panama, Argentina and Peru to solicit support for
an anti-Castro movement. They also have attempted to organize
units in Venezuela.

There is no firm evidence that these efforts have suc-
ceeded. However, Santiago REY's group in Mexico has supported
Nunez for provisional Rygsident if the efforts to overthrow
Castro are successful. General Pedraza, in the Dominican
Republic, has supported Nunez for president and Nunez in turn

4

SECRET

 
74-0000

Weis

has promoted Pedraza as military leader since the ‘spring
of 1959. Nunez as recently as 14 December 1959 still
claimed to be the leader of Pedraza's group but the General

_ had previously asserted that he was disposed to work with

both Nunez and Carlos MARQUE} fterling but he preferred the
latter as interim president. 5 7

Another possible adherent of Nunez is Pedro DIAZ-Lanz,
who is reported to have declared that he, and other with
whom he is working, would consider Nunez acceptable if he
should divorce himself from Trujillo. A step in this direc-
tion was taken by Nunez at the end of December when,
irritated by Trujillo's reluctance to permit a Pedraza
invasion of Cuba from the Dominican Republic, he told
Trujillo that he would take matters in his own hands if the.
action they had planned was not taken by 7 January.

\

C. Carlos MARQUEZ Sterling

 

Carlos MARQUEZ Sterling comes from a family with.a dis-
tinguished record in Cuban History. He was born in 1899 in
Camaguay and received his education in Cuba, graduating
from the University of Havana with a law degree in 1920.
Three years later he became a professor at the University.

It was from the same Univeristy that he was removed in 1959
by Castro forces. MARQUEZ Sterling told American officials:
that Fidel Castro had been one of his students at the Univer-
sity of Havana 1945-1947, and that Fidel had been reared

in an atmosphere of hatred for the United States.

His political career began while he was still in his
teens and he was arrested and imprisoned for his activities
in the revolution of 1917. ‘During the thirties he lived in
Washington while his father was Ambassador. Later he re-
entered politics and became Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives. He had a hand in the establishment of the
Ortodoxo Party in 1946. Previously Marquez had presided
over the drafting of the Constitution of 1940. A former
Presidential candidate and a leader of the Partido del Pueblo

Libre (PPL) which he established in July 1957, Marquez Sterling

appears to enjoy the respect, if not necessarily the full
confidence, of many leading Cuban exiles in the United States.

5
SECRET

 
 

SECRET

I. ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES IN THE UNITED STATES

Efforts of Cuban exiles based in the United States since
the fall of Batista and the assumption of power by the Castro
regime on 1 January 1959 have been characterized by continu-
ally shifting alliances aimed at securing for their leaders
a paramount position in any successor government in their
homeland. Programs have been enunciated by individual leaders,
organization lists drawn up, and funds solicited. Consider-
able propaganda has been published, and leaflets attacking
Castro have been dropped over Cuba periodically. Some mili-

tary and paramilitary training has been undertaken, particularly

in the Dominican Republic where a force ranging from a clIaimed
80 men to several thousand has been training for the past

nine months. Some exiles claim to have armed followers in
Cuba as well as a larger number of sympathizers. There has
been one abortive invasion attempt.

These efforts have been weakened, however, by rivalries
between the more prominent exiles for leadership of any for-
mal anti-Castro movement established, and their failure to
agree on any program. Their activities also have been affected
by the fact that most of the exiles were connected either
actively or passively with the Batista regime. They recognize,
although they do not always admit this, that Batista's rule
is still too unpopular with the mass of Cubans for them to
engage in a successful effort to overthrow Castro unless they
are supported by a force far larger than any can command .at
present. .

These rivalries plus Castro's followers’ long training
in revolutionary methods appear to have enabled Castro to
learn the plans of most of the alliances formed thus far well
before they are put into action.

Nevertheless there has been, and continues to be, a general
recognition by most of the more prominent exiles that they
must unite if they are to succeed in removing the present re-
gime. The most important potential leaders of any such move-
ment to emerge so far are listed below under separate headings.

1.

SECRET

 
‘oa t0113-10158

 

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES IN THE UNITED STATES

(Summary)

 

1S January 1960

SECRET

Sar
74-00000

A. General Jose Eleuterio PEDRAZA y Cabrera

 

When mention is made of military measures to eliminate
the Castro regime attention inevitably focuses on General
Jose Eleuterio PEDRAZA y Cabrera. While opinions differ

“as to his suitability for the role of leader of a military
attack on the Castro forces, he is regarded by the most
prominent and most active exile leaders in the United States
as the only military leader in a position to take effective
action in the field against Castro.

The forces at his disposal in the Dominican Republic,
the loyalties he can command within Cuba, and the help he
can get from exiles in the United States have been variously :
estimated from a mere handful to several thousand. He, : i
himself, has stated in a memorandum to a prominent American :
businessman that he hoped he could count on a force of 2,000,
led by 100 former Officers and Non-Commissioned officers of
Cuban origin. The remainder of his force would be made up
of Spaniards, Yugoslavs, Germans, and perhaps a few Dominicans. (1) :
PEDRAZA has expressed his willingness to work with General i
Martin DIAZ Tamayo and Colonel Ramon BARQUIN and would wel-
come their cooperation but he has never hinted that he would
turn over leadership of his forces to either.

  

Former Castro supporter Francisco RODRIGUEZ Couceiro,
who claims to have been one of the prime organizers of two
anti-Castro groupings The Anti-Communist Crusade (CRAC) and
The Christian Democratic Action (ADC) has backed PEDRAZA as i
the military leader oF any expedition which should be launched ;
against Fidel Castro. ) “Rodriguez claims to have visited. the i
General late in October 1959 and to have reached an agreement !
whereby Pedraza committed himself to clean up his force of
men in the Dominican Republic and put them under the direc-
tion and control of the ADC. Rodriguez asserts that the
agreement provides for the elimination of all but Cuban
nationals from the forces in the Dominican Republic under
Pedraza.

Fabio FREYRE, a wealthy young Cuban--who also claims
to be the founder of the ADC--has made known his connections
with Pedraza and claims to have drawn up points of agreement
with him.(3) Freyre has stated that General PEDRAZA is the

SECRET
74-00000

only Cuban general whom the constitutional army would follow.

He adds that Pedraza was not closely identified with Batista's

coming to power but when the Dictator needed help Pedraza
_was made head of the army. FREYRE believes that the Cubans

do not hays confidence in Martin DIAZ Tamayo nor in Ramon

BARQUIN. ¢ :

Dr. Emilio NUNEZ Portuondé, now resident in Washington,
D.C., and one of the more prominent anti-Castro exiles, has
consistently tried to align the various anti-Castro elements
in the United States, Mexico, and Cuba behind General Pedraza. (5)
Carlos MARQUEZ Sterling, who at the’ moment appears to be
Pedraza's choice for provisional president, if efforts to
unseat Castro succeed has supported the military role of the
General. (6)

 

General Pedraza's service under Fulgencio Batista has
left a bad taste in the mouths of many Cubans who hated the
Batista dictatorship as vehemently as they now detest the
Castro regime. There seems to be reasonable doubt that Dr.
CUERVO-RUBIO, whom RODRIGUEZ Couceiro has claimed CRAC sup-
ports as a presidential candidate, would support Pedraza.
CUERVO-Rubio is reported to have stated that responsible
opposition to Castro inside Cuba would be reluctant to asso-
ciate with Pedraza and might join in the fight against him
should he attempt an invasion. Some of these people have
repeatedly expressed the fear that Castro might use such
an invasion as a pretext to suppress all opposition. (7) Prom-
inent Orthodox Party leader Antonio VARONA also is reported
to be worried about the possibility of an invasion of Cuba
by Pedraza, to whom he is bitterly opposed and has sworn
that he and his followers would join with the Castro brothers
in repelling any invasion led by Pedraza.(8) It is considered
a distinct possibility that a Pedraza led invasion would play
into Castro's hands, leaving internal opposition no alterna-
tive but to join Castrg in a national effort to repel a
Bastistiano invasion. (/)

It is known that FREYRE's ADC which supports Pedraza
for military leader would welcome the assistance and the
support of the former Chief of the Revolutionary Air Force
Major Pedro Luis DIAZ-Lanz. However, DIAZ-Lanz has made

| it very evident that he wants no part in military affairs
run by General Pedraza whom he categorizes as an enemy of

wa

SECRET
