SeGael

-- It is not completely clear but the SSC
ground rules in paragraph B-4, attached,
suggest that it will be the SSC's judgment.
as to what testimony given during category
3b interviews -- where a CIA escort is
excluded -- will be shown to CIA so that
special, adequately secure handling methods
can be agreed upon. oe ce,

In-House CIA System for Handling Interview Process

‘As it now stands no clear cut responsibility has .

been assigned for handling of DDO interviewees
and doing the necessary record collecting prior

to the interview. as specified by SSC. ground. rules...

It is my suggestion that witnesses, like paper,
be the IG's responsibility, recognizing it will

pass on much of the actual action to the directorate

involved.

 
4.

an
SEGRET

‘
nN
‘

Below are summarized the SSC procedures for

calling witnesses before it:

a.

5.

Prior to holding our interview with on-duty
employees or alumni, CIA should provide "all
information and materials on the subject",
indicating that which is "extraordinarily"
sensitive, so that it can get special handling.

Witnesses may consult with the Agency. before
the interview. (They may be shown relevant
documents to refresh their memories before

testifying.) :

If not present (under category 3b, above) at

an interview, an Agency representative should
be available nearby for consultation regarding
the handling of special security matters which
may arise. : :

Prior to an interview, CIA will check the
employee's file and advise the Committee of

any exceptionally sensitive aspects of subject's
employment which require special handling.

‘An Agency representative shall be available

nearby in case a witness feels hesitant ‘about
answering a particular question and wants
guidance "with respect to an appropriate response
which will facilitate the provision of pertinent
information and its protection", ; .

Issues which arise as DDO personnel are called for

interviews are discussed below:

a.

Protection of Identities

Not covered in the SSC "Outline for Inquiry Procedures"
is protection of true identities for personnel under
cover. : :

 
ona] ye

 

 

SUBJECT: Senate Select Committee Requests for Witnesses
on Operational Substance ~- Issues Raised

; 1. ‘the Senate Select Committee has not ‘yet actually
scheduled DDO staffers who are now on active duty, but a
specific request has been made to talk with James Kelly ;
of EA Division regarding the assassination plot against
Chou en Lai. The SSC has also expressed interest in
several DDO staffers, including Robert Owen and Nestor
Sanchez of LA Division, currently a Career
Associate, and Bronson Tweedy, who is on short-term contract
in Headquarters. We have been able to hold off actual
scheduling of substantive operational conversations pending
a resolution on how to handle covert action material. FR
Division is standing by to appear for a non- operational |
briefing covering organization,.. mission, etc.: :

 

2. Attached hereto is a Senate ‘Select Committee :
-document entitled “Outline for Inquiry Procedures" which _ .
represents the Committee's own. ground | rules. ra

3. According to this attachment, witnesses or
interviewees will fall into two categories: :

a. Those discussing information on the structure : . ;
and functions of CIA plus substantive work, Se
including the legal basis. of DDO activity and” os
the approval process; the capacities of CIA
and its responsibility to provide information
for other government entities. In this category,
a CIA representative may be present at the inter-
view. _ ; —
b. Those who will be asked questions regarding CIA
or Executive Branch abuses or other controversial,

specific matters where improprieties may. have
occurred. In this category, a CIA representative

may not be present unless an exception is negotiated.
9373

ee SEGET Se ——
74-0000

_ SEGRET

-- Officially covered personnel must be
permitted to appear in alias or anonymously
and the circumstances of the appearances
should permit such anonymity. At a minimum
their true identity should be kept out of the
record.

-- Non-officially covered personnel fall in an
even more sensitive category. The issues -
are (1) need to appear at all? If so, (2)
can their identity and cover be protected
and kept out of the record?

-- Foreign national agent personnel should not
- be called as witness out of deference to
their special security problem and to avoid
serious affect on their morale.

Legal Jeopardy of Interviewees

dn category 3b, above, (abuses and improprieties) ©

‘an important issue is: How can the legal rights

of the individual be best protected in cases where
U.S. law may have been violated. The problem of
criminal jeopardy probably will not arise in the

“case of overseas operations, but the SSC could
‘revive some of the domestic improprieties covered

by the Rockefeller report, such as the LSD
experiments or mail intercepts. The issues which
this could raise concern:

-- An employee's need to have prior consultation
with the OGC regarding his legal rights and
his legal jeopardy.

‘~- An employee! s right to. engage legal counsel if

he has reason to think U.S. law may have been -
broken. . . 7

_-- How can an “Agency officer get financial help.

in hiring private counsel if it is necessary?
 

‘C.

~- How can the Agency protect the security of
testimony given by a witness if a privately
hired lawyer is present? Can cleared lawyers
be found? Can uncleared lawyers quickly be
Cleared? If the lawyer takes notes of a |
classified nature, how can they be securely
handled and stored?

Legal guidance should be sought from the OGC and
clear and specific guidelines be available for
those who seek it.

Secure Handling of Testimony

In both categories 3a and 3b, above, of these ground
rules, documentary testimony must be protected from
unsecure handling and storage. Moreover, steps must

be taken to keep sensitive data out of any permanent
record, not under CIA control. According to the :
attached ground rules (under paragraph B,"Procedures")
the Committee assumes the responsibility for special
handling of sensitive material and its ultimate
disposition. The Committee also expresses its willing-
ness to receive Agency guidance on this subject. We
must be prepared to give it. Practically speaking,

a great deal, if not most material, in category 3b

and much of the substantive material in category 3a

will be considered sensitive by the DDO and thus
deserving of special handling.

Keeping Track of Testimony Given

Since the SSC, by its ground rules, intends to
interview personnel without a CIA monitor being
present in cases of abuses or improprieties, how
can CIA keep track of testimony given in such cases?

~~ Provision is made by the SSC for exceptions to
be made to the exclusion of a CIA monitor when
particularly sensitive matters require it. The
issue here raised is what should the DDO criteria
be for requesting an exception-so that an escort
may be provided. ae

os
