 

 

 

  
 
 
 
  
   
     

 

vs i jay: be ‘heeded to pring aEASPic-
be-us ‘enly ‘after discussion with Dexter
ankfurt, and:

‘thout: ‘eonsl erable danger inthis fashion . :

   

 

 

 

 

     

a at ia. : i
one th 5
: i ‘event ‘that it is needed -for, the ‘6 poril meeting -in Paris wi ‘
i | cables from ‘Headquarters | -Rostedt is- empowered to’ decide whether Subject” should i
i : be brought to Germany and if 30, it would save one extra trip to Paris if this
: “ document were carried by the undersigned, to the 6cApril meeting 30 that he_ :
! could ‘be brought directly to Germany. : }
i _4. Photographs have already been given to the MKTOPAZ officer. .
'
“fs
| : - :
“Approved: | ‘
: Deputy for Operations,” Cos { :
i
ie
. . Tat .
 

 

 

Av wathecnt-

‘Assessnent -

 

appear ‘ta front, of the “Gat ‘Georges. Voon the Champs" Bly:
on 6. VApril. He will wait. ‘for. five minutes) in front: of the: cafe but will hot.
enter. if we: ae not there hé- will return for the altérviate. ° In any event ° ;
dternate. contact will be made -through Annick. Subjeét was ‘instructed to. clear —
ap his affairs. in Ambert. and be prepared to depart for Germany ;: however, ith was.
also ‘explained to. Subjest that we were not authorized: ‘to-make a final commitment.
to Subject and that:much as wé wégretted this, this would “be-left “until 6 ‘April. .
Subject. was paid Francs 15,500 for: which no receipt .was: obtained since we were
in a hurry to catch: a plane for the Hague. If Subject has any difficulties he
will write’ Annick, ‘He will not return to Gap. He. expects to stay. with Josef.
Dassaud in Anbert_, until the ‘night of, 5 April when he will ‘travel to Paris by -
rain. It was further. agreed that. on ‘or about’ 4 or. 5. April Subject -will have ..
sent a letter to Annickfor "Mike" ‘in. which he will “conform his arrival and in -/
@ouble talk inform us. ‘if he has had any. trouble.

. We discussed with” ‘Platipodte of:-the ‘Paris station the need to send "Maurie? +
; ‘to Aanick on 4 or 5 Apri to see tf Subject: ‘had ‘written. .

 

Anthony H. Priganza
.Case Officer

  

 

 
SEGRE:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
   

2 th Georges" v
“subject had left and:

 

   

 

Restedt. “tmmediately - -hecog rized hin, ‘approached the’ tax!
-"Fe-entered,. Looked hard at Subject who caught the signtfleance: of fostedt's extra- «
: ordinary: attentions, ordered ‘the: tax! ‘arcund the corner, paid ‘him: his due fare, and
re- Joined Rostedt. Tt was at this moment that Friganza returnéd on intuition.

. The trio then went te lunch, taking a circultous route” by foot and tant. Cver
lunch from about: 153-15 néurs Rostedt had an oppertunit ty, tovacqualnt. himself with
. Subject and to put te Subject several questions ecnoerning willingness and the «Job. : ”

   
 

 

 

ter lunch Feiganza and Rusted’ decided that under the eircumstances it would 0
; '

able to keep. Subject in Faris rather thin risk his arrest ‘travelling between
ad Amber’: or returning to Gap to nh his earte d'identite, revalidated.~ :

Accordingly while Rost spent the next id hrs. or so with’ Subject, Friganza

reciurned te the Paris S fon where he askéd for the use of 15 rue Weber Safehouse.

Paris Station had commi itted the safehcuse vor the night of 6 and 7 April as weil

as the morning of 8 April but beginning late afverncon 83 april the nouse was

‘assigned for the use of IC. Arrangements wore mace to have Platipedis who
_. knows Subject to be at fehouse at i630 nours (alternate 2350 hrs -) on 8 April.

Subject was Instructed to go to the safetouse, ring - Bs longs, 2 short, whereupon

he would ‘be admitted by Piatipodis., He «as likewize given the name Jon Sandorvand
old that in ‘the event unavoidable .ngulry ne shculd claim that he nad been lent
apartment by ‘Tom Brown, a friend of John Zendor. He was Instructed net to
answer the phone and not immediately to answer the door. -If after persistent ringing
he felt obliged to answer the coor, he should pretend he had ‘drunk. tou.much wine,
was cleeping heavily, and should come te the ‘door,.appcaring groggy. Subject was |
further instructed to stay in the sarenouse during ‘daylight hour ang to venture out - 4
at night only if necessary to buy food, eat, etc. He was told that ould”
return for him sometime between 15 and 16, April. :

   
  

be ads
Paris

 

   

   

   

 

  

 
    

     

 

  

Antheny H. Friganza
Case Officer

(SECRE oa oo

 

  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
No promises. or commitmente pore -

other thar those axaresaly Stipulated
in| wri iting ints agreement or any. a: mend ment theFota shall be binding en
‘this organigation. :

 

 

: i4. Term. ‘ bis contract is , effective agof 1 Nave: saber ¢69, and shall
continue ther iter for a pericd of ‘two (2) years unleos.socrer terminated
by the Governirent either:

 

(a) By sixty (60) days' actual notice to you from the Governmant, or

{b) W.thout prior notice, in the event of a breach of this contract by
your violation of the security provisions: hereof. or by your otherwise.
rendering yourself: unavailable for. acceptable ‘service. :

Subject to the. avaitabiiity of Aaprepriationa, this @ agreanent ny be extended
‘upon notice from the Govorament. In the evert of voluntary termination on
your part or termination fcr cause by the Governi-ent srice to the expiration
: this agree-nant or any rencwa! therecf, you will not be vetitied to retura_
| ¢rave! expenses tu the United States. Termination or expiration of this agree’
ment will not release ycu fro:n the obligation of any security oath you may.
be required to take.

 

IN SUATLS TC VURNMENT

   

Kcatracting

 

ACCAPT ED:

 
    

Treat G. “‘Mayering

aac! 2 ok Rasta om GVEDa_

 

 

I

|

1
BS

- BY — |
|

|

I
   

 

 

     

oh Ses wat i te

Rar uke We etihede odd WA

Ry,

    
 

-  be1- 23 37 77
. . = el th tot foe
“ames [7] SECRET [[] CONFIDENTIAL a

         

URNA.) UNCLASSIFIED

S. GOVERNMENT PRINTONG OFFICE: 1956.0 + 47ers

es, 610

 
 

  
   

 

   

 

This Jfst is to.be de. erry yee afer ais are are returned to RD (Sites .

  

S-EL2-5-E-P
   

104-10182-10057

 
 
 

“DATE” [ DATE
ECELVED | RETURNED |:

 

 

 

xO DOCUMENTS MAY BE CO

   

PIED OR REMOVED. FROM THIS FILE

 
 

 

       

   

ma ene will now ‘be furaished you no oun ye
provided: bya ‘cover facility. without pelos amendment of this
. agreo-rient. : .

 

2.. Taxes. Monies paid you. directly, or guaranteed by-the Governaent:
under\ghis pasagraph constitute income for. Federal tax pu poses. You wilt
be advidgd ¢ fo a gsuch taxes.
“The mathog : jad by Nhip’or ganiudticate imples
ment ite Jas i . 3

 

 

   
  
 
   
 

   

enses tu” ‘and from your permanent post of duty- vowerseas,
and for authorised operational” ‘travel. You imay, ‘be. entitled to per diem in
lew of subsistence, during such, travel and,, when Suthorized, while on
temporary duty away from your permanent post of asaignment. Ail travel,
‘transportation and per diem provided ior under this para,zraph must. be ©
properly authorized, and expenses incurrad hereunder are aubject to: pay:
aient and acéounting in subsmatial compliance with Government: we gulations.

 

 

 
 

vill be advanced or ‘feimbu

 

4 Cperational Expenses. Vo

necetsary Sperational-expanses a séifically ajproved and £
ed by the: Government. Such funds Ube subject to payment and accounting |
in substantial conformance with applicable Govern: nant regulations.

  
 
 

 

5. B epay vient. It ie recugnized that your failure to account for or refund |.
_ b any monies advanced you hereunder shalt entitle the Covernment to withhold
7 the. total amount of-such incebtecness or any. portion theraof from aay monies |
due you under the terme ofthis contract in guch manner ag it deeme appro

.j Priate. - . : .
| OO ee Sb “fees SR2uRD

 

 
 

 

 

 

  

to an employee

9 2 undin

‘OF constructive, and yuu apres to vxecute whatever docugient
maybe required by this Organization tu evid :

You are. not an employee of the United States Governrent

agreement and are not entitled to

statua,

» HU necessary to protect the

monies dus you hereunder inay be junded in
is underatood and agreed that any mcnies so

-the Coveramen

. ne Cover. |
in ths course ¢
be approved by

€ in’satiafaction of ite obligations under th

(a) te is ariticipatea that you

the appropriates Government

any benefits normally ‘Incident

security of this arrange nent,
other than a direct manner. It
funded constitute payment by
agreament.

  

will undertake a cover venture

Tepresentative uversesing, your

activities: prior to itg initlation. Any and all ducuc-enta which you may

 

. Government wi

(b) To provide capltal lor yo
Miean you $4990

leory note, payable on de nand. saic toan w

in a fcreipn bank anda &

deposit. Thea

&psroval by the Gove fnment representative

dditionai $1999 will be releas

Gvorsceing your activities.

ur &pproved cover vontura the

be sccured by a hon - interest bearen, prom

ih be depssited te @n account

2992 letter of credit will be isaued you againat that

ed {vor said account, after

 

!

f your performance ‘ander this agree:nect. “Such venture: iuet

i
!
i
i
