13-00000

7. ‘The four volumes on David Christ covers his entire
career with the agency. In addition to details on the Cuban
operation and imprisonment, subjects include clearances,
cover, security violations and assignments. Many of the
memos on Christ are signed by a John C. Mertz. He is on our
release list, but there is no information on source for
release. We assume that name are at least checked with CCS.

 
 

a

om

104-10331-10035] . -
os

‘18 March 1994
Memo to: C/HRG

Subject: Walter E. Szuminski

1. Szuminski, David Christ and Thornton Anderson were
arrested and imprisoned in Cuba (1960)under the names of
Edmund Taransky, Danial Carswell and Eustace Danbrunt; their
true names were not blown at that time. In 1963 Christ's
pseudo (Carswell) was linked to the three tramps picked up
Dallas after the assassination. During investigation,
Christ was interviewed by HSCA staffers.

2. The initial approach (August 1993 release) was to
protect Szuminski and Anderson plus not link Christ and
Carswell. The result was a large number of DIFs in Christ's
Security File. In the DIF-Review, Carswell was acknowledged
as Christ's pseudo, and Anderson and Szuminski's true names
could be released as long as not linked with pseudos (see
Name List). .

4. Before names are listed as "release" on the Name
List, they are checked against a variety of sources: CCS,.
Security, retiree card file (HRG), CIRA list, personal
knowledge of HRG reviewers and coordinated with DO
reviewers. There was apparently a lot of discussion over the
release of true names. HRG's position was that given HSCA
interest in both Carswell in Dallas and the possible tie
time in Cuba and assassination, Christ can be considered a
JFK figure. Since he had been an was overt employee since
1963, retired overt and is now dead, most of the documents
on him are releasable. Anderson and Szuminski also retired
overt and are open members of CIRA.

5. There is no file on Szuminski in the JFK
collection. I located 9 items which mention Szuminski by
true name or pséudonym in the four volumes of David Christ's
file (Box 40, volumes 25):

1 hand written (true name) ;

1 cable reporting arrest (pseudonym)

3 memos discussing arrest (pseudonym)
'2 memos with reference to imprisonment (true name).

2 copies of a memo with both true name and pseudonym
(true name is deleted on 1 copy & left in on the other)

Copies of the items are attached.
6.. There are numerous memos on Agency contact with

Mrs. Christ during the imprisonment. I have attached one
for your information. :
Meeting with Walter Szuminski

 
 

18 March 2594/9. 1 |

I met with him in your office -- told him I did not have a
file or documents to show him today. We were searching the

. files and may be able to show him something next week. .He

offered to some background on the Cuban operation and the -
calls he had received.

First he gave me the story of the Cuban imprisonment and
their return. He said that D. Christ was interviewed by
HSCA in mid-1970s to see if there was any connection between
their time in Cuban and the assassination (Christ told him
about the interview). The story of their imprison was
public knowledge but only with pusedos. He mention the
classified article in the Studies which was with true name.

Last month he received a call from D Christ's window. & son -
- they had received a call from Allen J Weberman
{assassination author) who said Dave Christ's debriefing by
HSCA had been released and that true names were included. I
mentioned that we would not have releaselan HSCA document.

Two weeks ago Szuminski received a similar call ("was he the
Szuminski who was imprisoned in Cuba with Christ and —
released through Donovan's efforts). He told Weberman he
had wrong person. Yesterday he received another call asking
if he was aware that his name is in the national archives.
The callers referred to both the CIA JFK releases and a FOIA
release. My impression was that his name was also released
in-an FOIA but if the researcher was using Lesar's file he
may have confused the two.

I talked a little about the law and the balancing test for
disclosure (public vs national security, etc.). Also said

_ that the link of Carswell to 3 tramps in Dallas made Christ

part of the story. Since Christ became an overt employee in
1963, retired overt and was dead much of the information on
him was subject to release. Because of the Cuba
imprisonment there are documents on, or that mention,
Szuminski and Anderson in Christ's file.

Szumingski said he also retired overt. He mentioned Christ
son who has a firm in Reston that has. done work for the
Agency -- "negative publicity could hurt him".

He said he wanted to see what was out so he would know how
to deal with the calls. He also made a couple of comments
about suing but doubted he could.

Told him we would get back to him next week. He said we
h his wife (Elise S.,(OIT, 874-5256 or 7
| 39756. 2,

 

 

 

 

 
