13-00000

 

 

 

fo ae 6 FY 66

Vehicle Maintenance oa
MV 2608, » 228, ear9 a | 000. ,
vd

Reel, Estate 2 ona, uttiities) |

- GILYRIG - we : te -1,500
.Photo lab." So 200.

-  Meduxbenance. and replacement of Ba
: _Bhoto” oqutpments #ilm purchase ;
: t
an

(PO Bax rentals vebtele rental : a ne
oo i BRO 500 Fo

| TOEAL - . $45,300 £1,605 , $7,625

- (amREDE's Christmas poms, ‘the temporary ‘Goeehouss: keepers! salaries, and the .

Photo lab rent, are included in Project LIBWPIY for the first tine). -

“NII. BURGRICY CONDITTONS

*

 Buergency_ commnication. plans for. ‘oliver Gg. SCANTLING end ‘Raymond E. GERENDE
_ are on file in the Station and at Headquarters (See HMMA-15982 and HMMA-15981 of
23 November 1960). -In eavly 1964, a review was hold for the active agents in
. this project’ of their recontact instructions and verbal. recognition signals. In
- addition the emergency contact plans. ‘for the LIMITED, LILYRIC and LICALLA base-.
house keepers were expended and, wefined, during the "eriets" outlined in Para-

: graph. a TT, Section Bers Doo . ;

  

 

 
13-00000

 

 

 

" yeturn from Japan, he will assume operational duties and responsibilities in
an activity not connected with Project LIEMPTY. Therefore, salary and
operational expenses. for SCANTLING are programmed for six months only.

-F) Other than presented above, Yexteo City Station plans” no. other significant
project changes since it is felt: that this project is now operating at its.
. optima size, Justification forithe retention of three basehouses was.
.© presented in detail in HMMA-23343 (which is available at Headquarters). |
- Efforts. wlll be contimed, hovever, to refine and better utilize the existing
: Project organization. end. assets. | : . . .

VET. cogs | “(aun figures are dollars, Ue 6) on

a Past. Project Year = Station records | ‘indteate ‘that Project: LaEEMery expended
- $35,952.78: during the period 1 December 1963 through 30 September 1964, —
_ Approximately $9,000 will be expended during the renainder of the present
| ‘project year. It is estimated that approximately 20 hours. of case officer
: time per week is necessary to satisfactorily fulfill the operational,
' || edministrative end analytical requirements of this project. Bi-weekly —
’ / gecoutings with receipts and/or certifications are submitted by Raymond H.
.. GERENDE:and Oliver G. SCANILING to the Station Finance ofticer, via the
- Case officer for all. Project LEEMPEY expenditures.

a Ensuing Project Year - Project Limery wag programmed for * $60,000 for the
_ forthcoming project year. Due to the Station's economy measures, however,
only $45,300.18 requested for the ensuing year. Of this amount, $27,675 will
‘be expended in FY 1965 and $17,625 in FY 1966. A detailed breakdown of
Project expenditures follows: =|

  
  

 

Salaries (including Christmas | bons) F665 = _FY 66
Raymond Ee GERENDE ‘ _ $6,500
Oliver G. SCANILING for 6 months a Bs a
LIEMPTY-}, (ghoto Tab) . 2,400/

. LIEMPTY-5 (photo lab)assistent),. 1300

|“ LTENPTY-6 (LIMETED basehouse keeper) S700

LIEMPTY~7 - LIMITED assistant) | me '. no salary

'. LIEMPTY28 | “I ' Terminated 1 July 1964
LIEMPTY-9 (LICALLA bagehouse keeper). . 3,600

_ LIEMPTY-10 (LIENTRAP operator) . 4,400
LIEMPTY-11, (LIENTRAP assistant) © . 2,500
LIEMPTY-12 > Terminated 1 duly 1964
LIEMPTY-13 (LILYRIC basehouse keeper) 2,000 .
LIEMPTY~14, {uaLRTG assistant) ~~~ ~ 2,000 ~
LIEMPTY-19 (Typist) ; 2,000
Tari-2t (LICAIZA keeper ) ' 2,000

- LIEMPTY-24 (LICALLA assistent) |, no salary _.
~ 955,560 21,760 = H5,600

 

 

 
13-00000

 

 

TI. CHANGES

A) On 2h September 1964, ‘the Statioa was informed by Headquarters that a ;
.. LIEMPYY project photograph which was one of several supplied to the Warren. -
Commission in Novenber 1963, would be. yublished in that Comlssion's formal
overt report. Since LIMERICK officials would undoubtedly be able to |
- vecognize the. individual in the Photographs as a visitor to their .
‘installation. and with a view.towards the attendant possible security problems,
the LIITPED,. LILYRIC, ' and LICALLA operations were suspended on 26 and 27
Septeniber and .ali photographic and. other compromising equipment was evacuated -
' from these basehouses.e All basehouse personel were briefed in general on the
. situation and specifically on how to cope with any possible inquiries from
. Government officials. or LIMERICK inspired or prompted newamen. Complete _
. ghargericy commmnications.systems wére arranged for all basehouse personnel,
- Raymond .H, GEREMDE and Oliver G, SCANTLING. Upon receipt. by the Station of a
“,. copy of the photograph, it was. determined that the LIMEEED basehouse had
'. provided. the photograph in question. This consideration, linked with further
‘..-gnelysia of the Limitations upon any counteractions available to LIMERICK ;
officials,: allowed the Station to: re-activate the LILYRIC. and LICALLA bases
‘on a phased basis in early October 1964. However, because LIMITED wae the

’ opigingtor of the to-be-published photograph and due to the age and deterio-

' - rated, condition of the LIMITED preperty (owned by KUBARK), Station Mexico
City aia not reactivate LIMITED and presented to Headquarters a plan for the
demolition of the present LINITED structure with recommendations for the
construction of a new building complex. . (See MEXI: 1307 dated 20 October 1964
‘for additional details).

3B) In accordance. with paragraph 2 ¢ of ¢ masi-12297 dated 28 Jemary , 196, the

. value and productivity of all assets under Project LIEMPTY was closely
reviewed against the necessary security and efficiency requirements. It was

’ determined that LIEMPTY-12 and LIEMPTY-8 could be terminated without causing
intolerable gaps. in operational coverage or an unacceptable decrease in
efficiency.. Both LIEMPTY-12 and LIEMPTY-8 were. terminated on 30 June 1964;
at the same time, in keeping with the ODYOKE economy program, a further effort ©
was made to reduce the costs of this project by placing LIENPTY-19 on an
hourly rate ‘for work perforned for the Station.

 

c) On 50 Septeuber 1964, the field Case Officer responsibility for Project

_ ° LIEMPTY was transferred from Jeremy L. NIARCOS to Cornelius L, PEUVION: .
however, the analysis of the finished take from the photogrentte basehouses
continues to be performed by Rober’. Be. RIGGS.

oo L of

a Te ‘effectiveness: “of ‘the’ Loaery project” “mist be" Juagea ‘o on the , basis ‘of: ‘the - ~
reliable daily coverage provided rapidly. and securely for the Station and .
interested Headquarters’. components on the LIMERICK installation; the rapid
mobile coverage provided regularly by LIENTRAP; and the support. to these and
other operations provided by Raymond EH. GERENDE and Oliver G. SCANTLING.

_¢ (See Section I, Subsection c for Specific cocomphes of this effectiveness). _

 

 

 

 

 
13-00000

 

 

 

In the opinion of Station officers who use the LIEMPTY photographic product or
receive LIEMPTY operational support», this Project has responded most satisfactorily
to the ‘needs and ‘Tequirements. !
PROBLEMS . a4 ;
4) The only major operational /securtty problens which confronted project LIENPTY
during the period under review were the security implications stemming from the
_ velease of the overt Warren Commission report. (See paragraph II, Section A).
_ Tae precise damage occasioned locally by the report, cannot be measured until
the mid-November release of the report annex containing the ectual LIMITED
‘photograph. During the interim period, the emergency contact systems are
“being maintained in readiness, the cover stories of all personnel involved
have been reviewed and strengthened, and no undue concern has been displayed _
_ by any of the project personnel. ' Potential Station countermeasures to the
possible LIMERICK reaction to the publication of the subject Photograph were
outlined in. MEXL-1018 dated 25 Septenber 1964, -

B) No unusual per'sonnel problens have ariden end the overall performance of all
; agents comnected with this project has’ ‘been satisfactory.

. EIATSON AND TrERAGENGY LooRDRNARTON 7
‘Not suplicatle. rn
PLANS |

; 4) The fubure of ‘the LINTEED paschouse, ‘property and personnel wil. be determined

., Within the near future. (See Section 2, subsection a).Station hes acquired

‘ gnother apartment on a temporary basis in the LILYRIC complex to replace the

loss of LIMITED coverage and it will be activated after the acquisition and
clearance of basehouse ) keeperse :

3B) No basic changes are contemplated: in either the administration c or operation
of the LICALLA or LILYRIC bases. Station will again initiate motion picture.
‘coverage of selected LIMERICK personnel engaged in conversation in the —

| “garden area in an ettempt to obtain film vaich ¥ wi. Lend. itself to Mpreading

ws by Headquarters! specialists. :

 

” '@) “ghe Station plans to maintain the increased level: of LIENIRAP operational

aetivity, with this asset being targetted in the near future against the
Partido Popular Socialista (Ps) in muport ‘of the Station's new PFS _
. “penetration - program. : : Lo Lo

 

. >) _ Effective on 1 Septenber 1964, 1 Raymond H. GERENDE assumed the cutout. role

 

“end responsibility for the LIMITED basehouse in addition to his other
operational duties outlined: in Section I, No other basic operational or
sduinietrative Changes are. Planned . for GERENDE for the ensuing period.

) The: removal of: Oliver. a. SCANELING as the cutout to the LIMITED basehouse
“WEBB. result of the recent death of his wife, his pending trip. to
and the Station's desire to

He GERENDE, After SCANTLING' s

 

 

    
  

_ “wore operational responsibility to

 

 

   
13-00000

 

 

 

 

Ie CUNKENE OMTBCETVES AND RELATED ROVER ACoMPLASRNOS, ; ms

 

Ae

Be
. LILYRIC, end LICALLA fixed instellaticns, the LIENTRAP mobile unit, end the
. services of contract agents Raymond H. GERENDE and Oliver G. SCANTLING. These

Ce

tt-pmm baad. sO

 

 

 

The overall objective of the LIEMPTY project activity ‘is to collect

operational information on the LIMERICK installation and persomnel, as well
ag related targeta.of opportunity, through stationary and mobile photo-

graphic and physical surveillance coverage. Corollary objectives which are
to be fulfilled through the: use of the LIEMPTY installations and Personnel

‘ere as follows: : ,
») To provide operational information pertaining to the daily activities

‘and movements of LIMERICK personnel, particularly those individuals of
_ intelligence interest, as well ag information on the LIMERICK physical
: facilities and visitors to the Premises. :

2) To collect operational informatie pertaining to other targets of
opportunity, other official instelietions, and persons. of intelligence.
interest: operating in Mextoo. ve 4

3) To provide operational ‘support ena other protective services to ‘Station

. Personnel and operations Os. may be deemed necessary. ;
The above objectives are to. be: lea: through ‘the use of the LIMITED,

objectives are in consonance with and represent partial fulfillment of the

_ following. sections of thé. current Related } Mission Directive as approved for
: Mexico City Station: : et

| Priority A, Section 1, Subseetion: e
Priority A, Section 2, Subsection, c.

Throughout the period under: review, Project LIRPTY continuea to contribute
directly and significantly to the fulfillment of Station and Headquarters!

‘requests and: requirenents for coverage of various targets falling within the
. framework of the above cited objectivea and the Related Mission Directive.
” Specific examples of LIEMPTY progress, secompli.shments and contributions by
seach Project. component are as follows:

 

 

“maroughout the reporting period, urtil operational, activity w was 5 terminated
~ and the se toeek tt equipment evacuated from the LIMITED basehouse. on

26 September (because of security implications stemming from the

release of the Warren Commission report, see Section II, CHANGES), the ~ \

IMITED installation provided daily photographic coverage and physical - ,
surveillance of the main gate. -of LIMERICK installation during the afternoon.

and early evening, hours.’ ” The Station considers the LIMETED D Photographic :

  

    

onuuP 1
siatad fromeautomatle]
ctysagradisg and
~? deslassilicatiaa

   
   

 

 

   
 

104-10414-10395
ey .. aa .

Sey me

C

     

PROCESSING ACTION’

 

MARKED FOR INDEXING

 

Disa

Chief, WH Division 7 : . XX__| no INDEXING REQUIRED
, a . : . . ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

 

 

 

INFO.
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
FROM ———— ° a :
Chief. of Station, Mexico City [A wi ; MICROFILM,
SUBJECT ° ; . - ° : °

LIEMPTY Project Renewal

{ ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES .

1. Project LIEMPTY expires on 30 November 1964, Forwarded herewith and -
under separate cover. in split transmission is the Request. for Renewal of

° 2. rt ls requested that Project LIENPTY ba renewed for the period.
“1 December 1964 through 30 November 1965 for the amount of. $45,300. Of this
total, $27,675 should be alloted for FY 1965 and $17,625 for FY 1966.

: Willard C. CURTIS

    
  
  
  

; Gat
EY oad :
‘bs peo /
f RECORDS OFFICER srayp

The followin

 

L
Signoa 2

Attechment: od |

Left hand side h/w- ast
= Unit LY

Right hand side use

 

R.0. 2

 

Distribution:
C/WHD w/att _

 

 

: CROSS REFERENCE TO DATE

29 October 1964

as FILE NUMBER

  
 

  

 

 

thorized a .
___ = Xp, .

 
 

    

 
13-00000

 

 

 

 

coverage an essential ‘end reliable tool for. following the daily activities
of the target personnel. end the arrival. and departure of visitors, some of

wig have been PEPRIMErs. In addition, the LINITED installation provided

a fixed: radio dispatch base for the LIEMBRACE teem. Because of the

. eetrently tight. security measures instituted by the local security forces

“a in the limedtate vicinity of the LINERICK installation, stakeouts by the
; (unilateral survéillenae. team are precluded. However, with LIMITED

“Spergonnel dispatching! the team from positions removed from the protective

- segurityring, onto targets deperting t the installation, surveilience

coverage. is. made Pose bles.

    

We
LEEynre. he

   

The Linyrtc installation also provided photographic: and Pixea’ visual sur
‘velllance of the front of the: LIMERICK installation throughout the period

under review, during the morning and early afternoon hours. This photo-

‘ graphic coverege and the written logs of the movement of LIMERICK

personnel prepared by LILYRIC personnel, complements the LIMITED coverage

7 used by the Station in its KUDESK operations against the LIMERICK target .

3)

4)

and has been. judged to be of equal quality end value to the LIMITED
coverage.

 

The LICALLA installation continued to provide coverage of the back of

the LIMERICK installation, the garden, and patio area where many of the -
‘personnel and their families congregate. This coverage gives the Station
its real insight into the LIMERICK target and provides a large part of the
information on which the Station bases its identification of LIMERICK
staffers, their rank and positions, the staffing estimates, and the
intelligence comnections of the various officers. In addition some
information of LAURICLE interest is provided by LICALLA (see paregraph 2, -
section f of MalA-2h255 dated 2: Septeniber 196! for further details).

LIDERAE

OA greatly dnereased use of the LTENTRAP anit was evidenced ‘throughout

the period under review. . This. asset was employed extensively for photo-

. Braphic coverage of PCM Headquarters, the PCM Women's Congress, the hones

.of PCM members and the residences of foreign Commnist exiles in Mexico.
Much of this coverage was in support of past or planned recruitment —
attempts end was needed to provide identifications of other local. or

“ .wislting Commnists..: Specifically LIENTRAP coverage assisted in the,
“ Agertertcetioto and the verification of the address and contacts of

 

(EYOXIDE1., prior to the Station's successful recruitment of this high-
‘Leval PCM member. The section primarily responsible for the Station's
enti-PCM activity has classified the LIENTRAP coverage as a most

“valuable” part of their effort. ;

 
13-00000

 

 

5) PHOTO COVERAGE - GENERAL >
: - a : co ale .
During the 9 month period from 1 Noveuber, to 1 August 1964, ‘the LIEMPTY
7 project produced approximately 770 rolls of operational still photographs,
‘of which 595 rolls were directly concerned with the LIMERICK target. ‘This
coverage, linked with the daily logs kept by the basehouse keepers of the
activities of the LIMERICK personnel, while contimally contributing to .
the Station's regular CE effort, has been particularly effective during
crisis times. such as the GPFLOOR investigations, While the photographic
coverage is used almost. exclusively for Station operations in the LIMERICK
' area, LIEMPTY has also provided direct support to other operations such as
providing verification of a double-agent's visits to the LIMERICK.
. 6) Oliver G. SCANTLING ae
' During the period 1 December 1963 through 30 August 1964, long-term Station
asset, Oliver G. SCANTLING (ps) contimied as the cutout to the LIMITED
basehouse, and wade his regular contribution as. the alternate contact of
LICASA-1 in this. sensitive LAURICLE operation, SCANTLING also performed
mmerous pretext investigations, serviced actommodation addresses, and
prepared formal casing reports. Of particular significance were
_ SCANTLING's regular checks of the accommodation address used in the
sensitive (ARIMPULSE operation, the thorough investigation of a former -
(QOTH agent of interest to KUBARK, and detailed casings. of the Chinese
Commnist Fair. (See also Section VI, PLANS, for SCANTLING's future
operational assignment), . Ss ;
7) Raymond H. GERENDE
. During the period under review, GERENDE continued in his assigrment as -
the Station cutout to the LILYRIC and LICALLA -basehouses, the LIEVERAP
unit and as the processor of the raw photographic take, and with the
.. assistance of LIEMPTY-10, contimed to provide and service the najority
of the accommodation addresses used by the, Station. The contributions.
 . “made principally by GERENDE (and to a Limited extent by SCANTLING) to the
co" . sensitive AMROD operation can accurately be described as unique and
“2° essential to the success of that operation, Although this activity is
"necessarily a Headquarters. directed effort, the local contributions of

 

 

'. GERENDE and SCANTLING are integral ingredients of that operation.

_ Dy’ It will be noted from the above samples of LIEMPIY contributions to the
.-..., Station's progress towards. fulfillment. of the pertinent sections of the
/ "Related Mission Directive, that: notwithstanding their demonstrable value
and importance, these contributions actually represent only a portion of
|. the activity directed towards the fulfillment of each objective. - Therefore,
"any precise measurement: of project progress is precluded. However, “based
“. on the performance and overall contributions of the LIEMPTY project during
the past project year, the Station coneludes that this project is essential
to the fulfiliment of the Related Mission Directive and mst be continued 3
‘during the forthcoming project year oe :

eo

 

 
