74-00000

 

D, should be examined together with all the other
available reports so that we may

(1) clarify our own objectives and wishes with
respect to all the ANLASH group (and thig includes

DEPPET Ly. axe w
(2) sort |OUE|Phich peo my, are worth our

  

time in the Future;

PALTV OUATP EH
(3) take aot aoa By Hew. including inter-
rogation and'pdét > clarify doubts and

then, when necessary, terminate those who are
working for us but are not worthwhile;

(4) tighten up our own operational and security
procedures in connection with the ANLASH group,

3. Preliminary Analysis: As pointed out in a preliminary
analysis of the SLASH complex, made in March 1965 when I wag
preparing for travel to Madrid in connection with the GUMOPS-1
ease: "...There ig no convincing evidence that the grouse is
working either for or against the regine of Fidel CASTRO.
Reports on their contacts with us and theiy discussions anong
themselves are at variance. In 1962 Fidel CASTRO, rxeportedly
knowing that they were plotting against him, talked to AMLASH-1
and seven members of his group to enlist their support against
Anibal ESCALANTE Dellunde and the communists in Cuba. Possibly
they are playing both ends against the middle. They certainly
have been and are in contact with the two ends." The Zollowing
ccnments are keyed to matters raised by ESPINOSA:

A. The AMLASH conspiracy - As detailed by NADR-~3715
CIN 28634) on 6 April 1965, QUSPORT-2 reporting on a meeting
of the AMLASH group, including AMWHIP-1 mentioned the Zollowing
significant points: :

(i) KUBARK was criticized for “fooling around for
years” without helping and for jeopardizing the operation;

i MATRON
(2) the epee Caan to denounce
ODYOKE as responsible f Whe aberation Uatiaane believed that

the resulting scandal vwout make, the, Bay, of Pigs seem insi¢ni-
; TAT Tp el :

fieant; and OOF are
WUD | ICI .
(3) AMLASH-3 was in touch with Cuban Intelligence

as established by coded messages which he exhibited.

 

 

As reported by|__/1532 (1N 82939) on 4 June 1965, baged on
meetings with ESPINOSA, the problem seen by Paris ig that -

a zit

 

 

 
 

[ing 10148-10220

MEMCRANDUM FOR:

 

Chief, WHD for Cuba

: Espinosa Allegations

DEDDANMATHART
Sensitivity: Pye OO GN, they
Diestated to offi Create Gi seseas nee

B. in view of matters touching on U.S. security,

are delicate and could have unfavorable repercussions
iZ repeated to newsmen by the complainant or his
associates (rhose independent, previous threats were
of greater potential embarrassment);

C. affect the reputations and the security of our
personnel at Hadrid and Paris.

Action: In view of tha foregoing, the allegations

A. should be put in proper perspective . i.e., not

ignored because of the potential =smbarrasswent but
considered in the light of what we already know -

(Almost all of them are repetitions of previous

charges and reports, known well to both the Madrid

and Paris stations and to Headquarters officers ae
concerned with the AMLASH group, whose members'
reliability, reputations and good faith are question-
able. Two of the charges - about Earle and "Tota"
and about AMVHIP-1 and CARRILLO ~ are new.);

B. should be treated so as to protect us against any
charge of nd to establish the facts but,
at the sane FREE di x foalanih Rlavoid attributing
to thea more! Wigbrihndele! an they\deserve;

C. should be (Miva sasmexamples of other
charges which : fl ae t and reported by the
AMLASHA group to other 2 y al ayencles or to
other governments or to news media (In the last
connection recall the implied threat of publishing

ODYOXE responsibility, as revorted previously by
MADR~-3716,IN 38634.);

 

a ne ncn ee

 
74-0000

ae

pe Big gly | embarrass

defrauding KUBARK in the jewelry transaction. Also to be kept

‘have been asked for coments ~ although ODENVY policy always

 
  

   

G

ers

"the ANLASH circle is wide and each new friend of whom we Jeayn
seems to have kmowledge of the plan." I believe that the
problem is a more serious and basic one. As indicated in
paragraph 3 of the present memorandum, Fidel CASTRO hingelf
reportedly knew as far back as 1962 that the group was plotting
against him and, knowing it, enlisted its support. Nence ve
cannot rule out the possibility of provocation. Assassination,
obviously, is a dangerous game, not merely to the plotters in
& ohysical sense, but toa sponsoring government which may
suifer severs political repercussions at home and abroad if its
involvement is made known. In the instant case, the risks of
exposure of the ODYOKS hand would appear hizh, whether there is
@& provocation or not. Consldering the individuals who sre
involved directly, their contacts with UBARE officers,and their
reported plan to e 2 din the plan could

ui] (The ibleven more the cage
now that ESPINOSA ha. Tee pare | aa DURGE, although
fortunately the tenor of his. Neston was that KUBARK had not

given adequate support Pl ( ee HED
3S. The contacts a @ matters affecting

the Paris Station.- The alae Hal a of Mauyeen had been the
subject of an exchange of cables between Paris nnd Headquarters
and of discussions at Headquarters between sH/C and WE (See
PARI-1071 (IN 66557) and DIR-10955). The annoying thing in
this connection now is that ESPINOSA bas talked about it to
ODENVY and CDURGS and the danger that, i2 he is indisereet,

his story about this (and the other matters) could reach some
curious newspaperman, (In this connection, it aypears that the
questionable decision to put Maureen in touch wlth the AMLASH
group was made without the knowledge of STCCKYCOD.) ESPINOSA
did not report any criticism of the KUBARKers at Paris but it
is evident that the AMLASH croup knows more about them than

we might wish. What is new and of concern from ESPINOSA about
matters in Paris is his story of AMWHIP 1 and UNSNAYFU-19
dealings. The questions raised about AMWHIP-] are of mutual
concern also to Headquarters which has been running him and
Madrid which he has visited often. (On the occasion of my
previous trip to Madrid on the QUHOPS-1 case, GROWERY had voiced
his doubts about the whole group and specifically about AMVWHIP-J
and his connection with UNSNAFU-19.) At issue are two basic
points, the knowledges on the part of GNSNAFU-19 about KUBARK's
connection with AMWHIP~1 and the charge that AMWHIP-1 has been

  
  

Hh

in mind is the fact that ODENVY has an office in Paris which
well might have been informed of the allegations and which might

has been to stay away from any investigation of other government
agencies unless specifically directed by the Attorney General

to investigate. 7 Re Rome

  

ee -

es ce ae
NEES erst ors . one f nd Bs

w_
74-00000

 

C. Criticigm of the Madrid Station -— Criticism of
the Madrid Station by the AMLASH croup is not new. AMILASH-~-2
and -3 were in Madrid and wanted direct contact, but the
Station has had reservations about seeing them. The Station has
been involved indirectly because of reporting by ita sources
about and involvement of Station targets with both the ANLASH
and AMWORLD operations (both handled from Headquarters).
(See MADR-2982 (IN 72256) and BIADR-2998 (iN 73094) (both RYBAT).). ..--
Meetings among QUSPORT, QUSWIFT-1, AMWHIP-1 and AMLASH fig gures
produced conflicting reports which previously were discussed at
Madrid amd at Headquarters. Insofar aa GROWERY himself? ig
concerned, it must be kept ata mind that he is a natural targat
on whom the AMLASH ra fe[ the pRedtRaaeo focus its com

i

     

plaints, With regard it! id compiaint about "Tota",
GROWERY has identi2Zied ak Wasater le and-has reported that
no staifver from the ai Di eae AT with her.

By 4

4. Further involve i selon 16 June ODENVY -
notified £0 at New York chat [uLASH-2 nad telephoned
ZSPINOSA to ask whether he had succeeded in contacting “the
prover people” - i.s., responsible KUBARK representatives - and
to request notice of the resulting arrangements.

     

 

 

5. «HIP-1l: Our plan calls for meeting him next week
to obtain aan Aaformation and to obtain clarification of the
rolea played by those involved with him in the AMNLASH operation.
His dealings with UNSNAYU-19 also will be covered. Following
this, an LCFLUTTER examination ia planned. This may nely to
determine whether he has been truthful in his reporting.

Harold F. Swenson

5 Dy > ~ sian)
PRODUCTION

‘7 iy

PR Unis cu)

 

 

   
