_ SUBJECT: Release of Oswald Security. File Pursuant To

Request of Assassination Records.Review Board

OIM/IRG/LSS: blo0/31287 (2. April 1998)

Distribution:

- EXDIR/CIA w/atts 1-7

- D/EXDIR w/atts 1-7

- DDA w/o atts

- D/OIM w/o atts ’
- DD/OIM w/o atts . :
- OIM (Oliver) w/o atts

- OIM (Harrelson) w/atts
C/IRG

- C/L&SSD

~ Subject

‘- DO/IRO

- DO/IFK Focal Point w/atts

- DA/IRO w/atts ;

- D/OPS (info only)

BRU RB RR RR RE RB
a
13-00000

i Administrative - Internal Use Only

SUBJECT: Release of Oswald Security File Pursuant To
Request of Assassination Records Review Board

3. The Office of Security subject file on Lee Harvey Oswald
was established circa 1960. It appears this file was credted as
a separate repository for the numerous press clippings and
reports from other government agencies on Oswald’s defection to
the.USSR and his activities following his return to the United
States. Initially, references to Oswald had been placed in a so-
called “Defectors’ File”. Both the Oswald security file and the
Defectors File were maintained by the Security Research Staff ~-
the CI arm of the Office of Security at that time.?

a

4. Information to be Released: The Office of Personnel
Security in its response to the ARRB request of 28 January 1997
advised it had located six volumes of the Oswald Security file,
numbered 1-4 and 6-7; a search failed to. locate a volume 5. The
six volumes include over 400 documents and about 2,000 pages of
which 1,000 pages are newspaper clippings. All of these
documents are to be released in full or with minor redactions;
more specifically, the fully coordinated documents ready for
release include:

* Volume 1: Pre-assassination documents relative to Oswald’s
defection

« Volume 2: Miscellaneous memoranda on Oswald and copies of
. cables between.Mexico City and Headquarters

e Volume 3: Partial Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS)
file on Marina Oswald

* Volume 4: Newspaper clippings
Fy
® Volume 6: Newspaper clippings and memoranda (many related to
the Garrison Investigation)

2 This may explain why this Oswald file was not included in the sequestered
collection with several other security files which had been maintained
normally (i.e., with most other security records) by the Security Records
Division. ,

} Representative. samples of the documents to be released are attached for your
information; pleasé note that the “blackened” areas are not deletions but are the
result of red highlighting used in the original review by the then-Office of
Security. :

“-2-

Administrative - Internal Use Onty
 

104-10331-10143

Administrative - Internal Use Only ~

!

OIM 98-0036
3 April 1998.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Executive Director

VIA: Director of Information Management/DA

FROM: Lee S. Strickland
Chief, Information Review Group, OIM/DA

SUBJECT: Release of Oswald Security File Pursuant ‘To
Request of Assassination Records Review Board

1.. Action Required: None; this brief is for information
only regarding a required release pursuant to the request of the
Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB or JFK Board). This .
release has been coordinated with the DO JFK Focal Point Officer,
the DA Information Review Officer, the Office of General Counsel,
and required external bodies; it is scheduled for transfer to the
ARRB for release to the National Archives on or about 17 April.

2. Background: The Oswald Security File, maintained by the
then-Office of Security, surfaced in February 1997 as our JFK
records review personnel were responding to the ARRB’s “Request
for Additional Information and Records No. CIA-16 (Oswald Pre-
Assassination Files)”, dated 28 January 1997. Before this, the
file had been reviewed in 1978 by the House Special Committee on
Assassination (HSCA). Unfortunately, and probably by oversight,
the file was not included in the so-called JFK sequestered
collection’ and thus had not been included to date in our
releases to the ARRB. In any event, however, approximately 92%
of the documents therein are duplicative of documents previously
released elsewhere in the JFK collection by CIA.

‘ at the conclusion of its investigation, the House Select Committee on
Assassination (HSCA) sequestered all of the files that the HSCA staff had
requested or been granted access. This “sequestered collection” includes 63
boxes of hardcopy records and notes and“72 reels of microfilm.

Administrative - Internal Use Only
13-00000 ~.

w« ? : Administrative - Internal Use Only

SUBJECT: Release of Oswald Security File Pursuant To
. Request of Assassination Records Review Board

* Volume 7: A third agency (FBI) report and some HSCA related
documents.

5. Potential Media Reaction: There is potential for media

‘criticism on two counts: the unexplained missing volume 5 and the

delay in releasing the security file.

* The Office Of Security has been unable to locate a Volume 5.
It is possible that volumes were combined without changing numbers
(note the predominance of newspaper clippings in Volumes 4 and 6),
or that the filer simply skipped a number. The file was’ primarily
a repository for externally generated documents, and there do not
appear to be significant time gaps. °

® The delay in releasing the file is somewhat alleviated by the fact
that about 92% of the documents have been previously released in
the sequestered JFK Collection. Of the remaining 8% (35 documents}
all but six (6) documents will be released in full. The file
contains nothing of a controversial or politically sensitive nature.

6. As indicated by the signatures below, the. Directorate of
Administration, the Directorate of Operations, and the Office of
General Counsel concur in this release. In addition, all
necessary external. coordinations (i.e., FBI, INS, and the House
of Representatives) have been effected. .

    

Lee S. Strickland ;

Administrative - Internal Use Only
. : Administrative - Internal Use Only

SUBJECT: Release of Oswald Security File Pursuant To
Request of Assassination Records Review Board

| 1998

k DO JEK Focal Point Officer ate

| 2 GL V4
BA Information Review Officer . - Date

Cteocor + Fas } 2 Ace a

Office of General Counsel Date

CONCUR:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 -

Administrative - Internal Use Only
