104-10297-10211

cect een ete ce cae ne

 

MORI DocID: 349181

12, Some questions about views could be pat te Nusenke based on information

RCA Tourists Manual), ‘Phe

     

provided in the book,

rap t
aro
Yook is published by Forcign Tetnguagen Vubtication Mouse, Mascow.
Although there is ne date of publication in this buok, the information
provided in the book ‘strongly suggests Chat it was published no later

than 1962, The information states that “it shoald not take nore than

a week to receive onets: wisn. * ‘The applicant must filteln and oign an

application form. {sample enclosed) and enclose three photngespl of

passport size as well’ as a copy of the Intourist or Intourist contractor
firm voucher to the effect that the applicant has paid the full cout of the
tour. The tourist need not apply to the Soviet consulate in poreon,

as the tourist firns will tako care of the matter.

 

|
¢ .
‘
APPLICATION FORM * ‘ :
ns Who Wik to Obtain an Entry Visa a .
«in USSH of a Transtt Vise Through the USSR a 8 ey
* Mure clesry tn Ink or tape OM answers fa ful) . : - : F :

 

 

 

 

 

. _ —- nec Se L
' ipenone’ who he, Te poor one «
surname, of WHO bates pet name... .
must fixe them In full; married | oe "
women and mura ce :
their inaden name and their :
bard’. surname)
ere ee ee ;
2. Date and place of birth | . : : .
ome eee: re : i = .

3% Natlonelity | ‘
ee
ship. (If yun. weete furmet: .
‘ Hire: nin” or Bbpce of anther . .
country, indicate feoiies citizen: .
hip . fee

 

c eee
vase 2 peewn’ ; .
104-10297-10211 MORI DocID: 349181

eee

= ; !

G fawn for gers te the USSK,

   
 

en
Cd ytd leads |

FU einen utes bi years of aye
- ato accompanyens you, indicate
the surname, name and patrunyin-

. te Of cach child

x - 7

TT OW Wete cee ote on one USSR
defures « itiitete when,

purpyse of stay)

 

te

 

a 9. Surnames, names, patronymics /- o
ee os rand addresses of close selatives |
z, in the USS.R. . .

Foe al a a es oa,

10. Your pernane © atte. i Fs

 

i
ee ee

DOCUMENTS.
Visas

. To enter ant leave
. the U.S.S.R.. a far.
{ ciyn tourist «must
: have a valid national
3 Passport and Sovict
i catry and exit visas.
‘| Te should not_tike
i - . more than & week fo seceive one’s visa,
Citizens of foreisn countries are Issued “Scvict visas - :
thraugh Consulat: - of the S.R. In their own coun- * : Oo
try. The apglican: must fill in and sign an application { .! ey

form (see sampl:; and enclose three Photographs of : ,
Pissport size, a5 well a3 a copy of the tntoucist o¢ fn: ’
tourist contractor firm voucher to the effect that the
“applicant has pail the full cost of the tour. The tourist ' {
need not apply ta the Soviet Cunsulate In person, as the : |
j
'
t
!

 

 

 

tourist fem will take care of the matter,
Citizens of I 1, Hungary, the German Democrat: :
ie Republic, the D-aunratic Ki yublic of Viet-Nam, the
Chinese People's Republic, the Korean People's Demo- +
, ¢ cratic Republic, the People's Republic of Mongolia, Po-
: lund, Rumania and the Czechustavak Republic have the
i ght, according toa reciprocal agreement, to enter and
feave the Suu: ¢ Usion without applying for Susiet visus, +
: on the basis « their aationa’ vasspasts atone.

 

  

  
   

i . .
: v6 a
MORI DocID: 349181

104-10297-10211

.

 

QUESTION: 1 would like ta ore an acticle about
Fatouctt evcrlees, price, ote. Ch. 4, Keause,
Minneopolis, Minncentaz M. Saparag, Fechore,
Massachusctus and many ather renders)
ANSWHE fate uriet be gur stateaperated conmerssal
travel agency. It worke with smne 700 firs ond teane
port companies Ia pearly 18) ewunteiera including about
100 in the United Statee Mutennsiet arranges taura for
Soviet citirens abroad and for lutcigners in the Soviet
Union. We estimate that ZZ million foreign travelera |
will visit our countey Letwern 1976 awl 1980 and that!
18 millon Suviet peuple will abun. z
We will deal here onty with Intuuriet sweevives for

  

 

foreign teavelere. Thy inslude sighterring excutslons,

trips to muncurae and theaters, mectings with Soviet
workers al fectutica and fares ard with Soviet students,
round table disrusekns ond calor sflas 7

Intnutit offers alnnse 1) dileven
or indivadual feuse ened
Gshing, internathonal . orang
and symposiums, excursion. fur schoolchildren and
Youth, ceuises, art festivale and more,

+ Mony sisitors cuine for rs ed medical treatment
at spas in the Nuwth Caucasus (Fecratuki, Theles-
novos, Kackewodsh Poatgorks ar on the Black Sea
(Sorhi, Yalta, Uilreset. Sieh a tear sedate. 9 coum
al 8 panatoriom, eperial diet meels, medical care and
other services,

A new tuur called the Huseian Language Semloae te
tephdly gaining popularity. Hexides seeing the country,
the traveler hes a chance t brush up on Russian with
special courses,

Cat depres un the elaw and type of the tous. diss
tance, seavon and autabér of servicers, Intaurist offers a
discount on all seavon torure, frequently as low as ones ‘
fourth of the fall price, There are epectal ut rales for
youth and student groups, 2s well as for children.

   

tae ee tee Aste

 

 

 

> Entry viray ate lewued within 10 days of of

 

ante.
For instame, Geners! 4 -. 6, fas ve the at Ute tats
major US, partners, ether. the btlewing toure:
I) “Spothght wa Kussia and the Crimea”—-16 days,
Moscaw--Kies— ¥ alta—I eninerad, price 9) ta 1.423
dallars, depending on the «sy af departure by air to

 

the Sesiet Meme dan the wae (Ths includes
aie face, hotel ao caneudatietes ~ oe by ole, £ twa
than for one--three male a dav and guide servives.)

2) “Destination Black nd Cau aaus™. -16 days,
Veningrad - Sochi -Thiliu-~ Yerevan —Mascuw, 1,ts9
to 1488 dollars,

‘The American Express Company, annther major Tov
fouriet partner, offers a 22-day “The Complete USSR™

 

   

SOW) OE, May 14752 S

threath Meowaw, Meath, Fi ok, Tarbbent, Dobe *
Samurkaad, Habe ead Ueningrad, lor 12D te ~
2SHS doliare ot .

Encidentall;, if you de plan to caine, for more detalle a
at int touch with the Intourlt offeas

Vatatty bepashey, latoutiat Travel fatametion, 43. 4
Eat Fortr-nimh Street, New York, New York, 10017.
Telephme: (212) 371-6953,

   

.

ay

.

”

 
104-10297-10211 MORI DocID: 349181

  

helt Rue.,
Piy

 

Nw

 
  
   
      
    
  
   
   
 
 
   
    

os Vieet the Bullets s “7: .
wf Feonamic Uinevewat af the OSSE jce pe 6).
which will give 4 qanl ides of comtemjeuary Soviet. life .
“” eo the cultural or treme athicvenats of Moncww and the

“3 text af the Swat Union the excuse tales four teen In
the aflerninn, pay a the famous Pretvaber OP Gatheey
“ WY. the tecaser reef Russan hae at The execu .
ven there takes sumething Zier thece howes, 1 . oi. ~
Be your beat, tea te see! Mencun'e pi
fattest, . ,
tr you Rave a few mets days in Mencow, fish (oars te uit your
sete and inclinations.

 

 

   
 

   

    

‘ amtanue Your Trip

eam’ Mencow rea cam wake 3 tue of the, Soviet Univa—the
Anopics of the Black Sea coast and the Siberiae taiga, the
Aatinian teppetands, the’ uwuntains af the “Caucawuas, and the

vt avot Wowas of Russia and Central Avia,

ste is the lint of ceties where Intourist offers its servicers:
aingrad, cealle of the Renian tevelution. a city of magni.
at architecture:

‘ th Sea kevith ete of Batumi. Odessa, Sachi, Suthumt amd

   

im ated Bar Fustcen aitics:
. : * snibirsh—the Largest iedusteiat centre and city of: wctcare tn
stern Siberia: || co “oe

o. ®ioay soe ‘hk, a new Sthetian town belghbouring on the Reath Hydro

“¢ w+ ¢ Station oa:the Angara, which ic ane of the wweld’s
: Aye ot . E

; srhath, the city near the legendary Hake Baibal:

+heharemb, a major Soviet’ Far Eastern ity.

TO meee me we

 

 

t
i
A
i
nd

i
an

 
104-10297-10211 MORI DocID: 349181

x

DF Oe SPSS Rv capreneates
on. a ETS
Mens, p07,

 

. Ma saen:
to.
Lornltae

Seeiet Duet ae yee
mates the tare of s

 

     
       
 

Pan get pour sens youre te
Ve omalar alfves an every cuuntey five
te sists Che sina is vatidd foe the emir”
‘ Te ponents of exstey <
1 bage eadenng ton yoo :
cercot sour visit or alter the itinerary, apple
tm the errvive buicau at your betel, Uf fnteusist is able to pemite
the necereaey accummedation, your via will be altered aceord+
» mnedy Visas, anit subsequent alterations in them, are free of

far. ant
Vinee ane

wet fue teacelters by tonnes : \

   
     

a an

;
j ’

     

 

 

ao wharge = |e ;
+ Vieas fer teamit travel via the USSR. by allway or dear :
. ate ined if-you have the pertinent vita of the counter tieigh 1 . 3
laucing un the USSR. You need no Soviet visa if you ttaect { . : oa

q a
{
i
. \
\
te . Mataatiat tables ome of you i ‘

 

 

via USSR, by ais, provided you do not stay in Soviet transfer |
towns for mere than 24 hours. :
Intourkt docs not service travellers who cotae on rhite to elas |
tives in the Suvjet Union. Neither duct it offer services tn
towns where Intousint. agencies are unavailable In such eases,
apply fo » Suviet conwtate abroad. oar
Under tecipcocal agreementsbetween the Suvict Union and
seine athes countries, no visas are necenare for watlinale of - y
these countries for travel iti the USSR. and toa Soviet touriste e
visitng these countries, . . - Fi :
Medical Formalitics, Aq tatcreation tt amallen inmaolstion’ eesti. :

Keate iv seyuiced far cnisy to the Soviet Uniden fem Aftican, .

Adan and Swath American counteics, aud. in addition. a cholcea :
eettibicate fos catey front lodia and Eastern Mukisten. :
Crstome. Pessonal belngings—parments shies turd adel a i
sperte gear, perfumery and eosmetive ctr in quantities fecew “ = .
sary for the time of stay in the Swict Usiwn tipemling ow the

sereua, are duty-Sree, Desides, travellers aay bring duty-free _# . Lt
(per pervon} two cameran, onc amateur sie canera aad PP * :
feasonable (non-commercial) amount «f suuvenisn, Poeun coms” *

ing to the Suvict Union on a hunting Gur quovided they have “8 .
8 cestificate isyed by Enteurig ot a fase:sn travel Sim confirm:

ing this purpose of theit tip) muiy brene satin: after, '
To make sure pauage bume w unhindeul plone segivter the
fotcign currency you have hhieught with yew wath the customs.
which will Mauve you 2 pettine st austitiedte.

Feria prubshited to bring ta the USS EK. Nant cortamy. Suviet
government bends, anoulhd wausitie, ann. deat. aad hashish .
aad apgliscmes foe sobing the. aluone mut ib. ated broke .
bls. rceenle, ete. putitually and coumoninalle necjudisinan” ter
the USSR.

AU objects and activdee (ceccpt theme grok ee fee) oaay
be shipped cut of the USSR in any qu atevelad they
have been prurchaied with Smict mms os reed al the
Vaeshtorg Kank of the CASSK. at the oth - nuncio of the
State Bari of che USS [Genbank ae achaud with
foreign couveruble curecary. Eee the oplaen. P pavage of
wach gaode rake sure you have the yertin-at bank cestibeater
we shop's belle ‘

-?

 

 

 

Se ee ates ee te ents cameo be

    

 

  
  

 
104-10297-10211 MORI DocID: 349181

 

    
   
   
   
   
   
    
  
  
    
   
   
    
   
   
  
   
      
    
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
  

  
 
 
  
 
   

satiie at aff
ant cet futeis

 

  

es ARG eliasures of gh

 

apts ca a foreign

   

 

‘
teas ag utetes the head
v all types ol nubtary tecbindins, seaport
wager hydrates baieal ehjoot, saitway junctoun tune It, eailway .
Leidgcs, industeial cater an the Whe. Acsial photography .
vo aud serteatsial panordimic. qbetole ye and photayiinhe withie ,
the fetter “ate prohibited.
oteatiog batons say we Sour
Catosies, seecarch et the St stale te reason, . .
fea, that when you ents! Stet abun their

      

   
 
  

sion af the adm

 

 

 

coment i - ii

{F you stead te wake a ths ay. waacreial palrpecs (fet
etreyinnt showing at demi: television, vie.
Sowesquetilm (3. Maly 4 avoky  Perculeh, :
Wh 229-62 02 Bear an cnn Scuutive cotmar austerials (Bim,
WME. ate ee td » Eaten’ ate ada td: wily for

    

»  Mefaamtés
+ batuatint See
Every etch oe.

Mewhere in the Sane Union)
has an Tntunes- - co

HC is very nial to fuuitets |
al we atioe wn, vot ation arsival the service Lurcaus ]
ane Malfed with peop wha speak Goureign tanguages and you
wilt sore no diffieutes « smmrounn ating with thea, |
‘
t

 

 

Cine ot theie majut Lunetwns an ta exchange the vouchins isseed
fo sou by your travel agent fur Intourist culpons, and to
priveds all uther services, 4

 

———...

i, rr rs The service Curccu wit eclieve you.of all travel cares and book”

“ sg fickete for you om internal and internatineul railway and air-

Fines. Tt will help yeu extend Your visa and perform all other

! ts pertinent formalities .
ft The servive bureau books tickets to theatres, concerts, cinemas

: and specs conves. Make sure that yuu bok tickets well ko .

} advamee, foe os

  

iy Muwovite is an avid theatre-goer and sporte-
fav ond tishets ae scaree, :

: Tee price of 4 theater amd cuncet tibet i 2 ta 350 ruble, . -5
. ata of 4 etme tivket 40 te Ta kopehe. ‘ . .
fhe wesw bureau will tell yu what is Meewing af Mincew's . id
: . heattes commert halls aml cin,” * : :
: . "ME sour tour does ant caver couriogs and yun with tu ocdthe
tights of Muscow, the service lnsreau will he glad ta rrommeud

the heat sighteceing itiner aiee.
Wf you need a guide me batcan wilt be happy

ta provide sac. Inteutist guutes speak Enctivi, Bulgarian, Spauish

ftalian, Chinese, Hunzsisn German. Polish. Portuguese, Ruman-

fan, Scube-Craatian, Finnish. French, Cork, Swelish and Jap

ance The services uf a puide interpreter gent up te 3 heurn—s

tables, foc Cvery eulacquent hei rubles a Lepets, on ce
Vou cia hite a eat for a sichtocing tea af Moscow and et Tee
ervirons we wader a lengalistime feletene call though

- service funcau

= AE you ane wawslt. the sereice bureau will sunimen a hater +

: Fo. As yo keww, medical services iss the Soviet Caio are 6

ol chacge.

Appecach your hotet scevice lurcau
suterest oF tomuble wow The recep te glad ye
we aileion you und te sender oll the neawew anntance

  

   

   
 

   

Ae
FE You tee Pasig Vrach Maser

 

1 you ate pasung throuch Mencow ant hue ante a day +

fo what we trimmncmd you tm vce |

W. Eacastion by car we tnatint enech \ thive hour fous! wt .
wall gave yom a aemeeal dea ad ath ond are Sieacaw, Thee 1

 

ataete fewwe Motel Natmomal oe the taser ot ote cate ened bot
104-10297-10211

MORI DocID: 349181

     
    
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
   
    

4. In 1962 you stated thas while working with the KGB, you personally
recruited ten Americans. Please give us their nenes and how you

recruited them, .
ae 2
Nate: Nosenko was asked why he was chosen te go to Geneva in 1962
fnatead of an ofticer fram the Department (KGH) Delegation,
Annwering this question he mentioned the recrujtment of ten
Americans. , .

Excerpta from Mecting No. 2 with Nogenko

AL June 1962

Nosenko: Gribanov, | the chief of the whole counterintelligence. (itis name)
Oleg Mikhaylovich Gribanov. . . 80, Oleg Mikhaylovich Gribanov :
decided you go, that I must be here (in Geaawis I said, "Be my
guest, Oleg Mikhaylovich, Iam not saying no. . « " So Gritanoy
docided “You will go. That's alt" (Nosenko knocked on the desk). .
Well, what am I? . .. Who have I recruitted?_. . . Ten Americans,

no more than that... (and Gribanov said) "You will go! You must go!"

‘ IIL, _Sovict visas and other regulations for tourists traveling fo the USSR.

, ei Didn't you know or remember how Oswakt's visa was processed and
‘from what éouatey Oswald entered the USSR? Ie it possible that he
entered the USSR on a “podvisnaya" visa? *

VY 2. You previously said that you saw Oswald's visa application, but you could

not say from what countey Oswald came to the USSR. In your opinion, is

 

it possible that Oswald received his visa application in some othep European _ .
country, then went to Finland and through Finland entered the USSR without
contacting the Sovict consulate in Helsinki? Did you hear any talk about the
possibility that is described above? [Lf so, when did you hear it and from

whom? ne pT

v 3 On 3 July 1964 you stated that you have seen Oswald's anketa (visa
application), Do you remember what was in that ankcta? Did you read -
the anketa? What did you mean that you saw the anketa? Was it In the
naine Lee Harvey Oswald, or was there atiother name? Did you see the

name of the person who signed the anketa?

 

 
104-10297-10211 MORI DocID: 349181

  

«“

 

  
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination PCy " i
oe “ ¢ Records Collection Act of 1992 CIA HISTO! HCA ENVY ROGRAM
; (44 USC 2107 Note) RELEASE AS eS ANTIZED
NW 53217 6/20/17 *
; 1999

Esceepts fron Meeting, Ne. 2 with Nexenko,

 

Reel Neg ty LE dane 16d (he quality oC the tape le very poor.)

by Pode

  

(mt talks about surveillance af Soviet personne! in the United States.)

senha; Let me tell you - I (---) was also in the States, although under

Ne
another name. Thad a cectain business theres. 6

 

QO. This was (7) in Washington ej?
~ Nononkot Yes, Twas thero,

Qs: On TDY?

Nosenko: 19 days, 19 days only.

Q: Undor what name?

 

Nosenko: NIKOLAYEV.

Q: NIKOLAYEV?
- Nosenko: Iv England I was NIKOLAYEV and in your country I was NIKOLAYEY, -

 

Q: ---first and middle name?

Nosenko: Yes, Yuriy, Yurly, also Yurly.
; Q: And in England you also were for a short time?

 

u ;

" H Note: During the interrogation of Nosenko in 1964, he dented that he cver

i“ eaid that he was in the United States, . .
H '
t . .

2. You stated previously that while traveling to England and Cuba, you were

z

=

a

4) Nosenko: In England I wae for ten and fifteen days. .3- :* - an “s a
; ce

rad

5

=

=

eo

!
! Hi documented as Nikolayev. Under what cover did you travt'to those countries?
| What was your Legend- Biography?

:

Note: Any KGB officer going abroad under anothor name and under
cover prepares a Legond-Biography to cover up his real
identity, [f Nosenko travelled as Nikolayov, then his legend
omitted "the fact" that he was a son of a Minister because .
there was no Ministor of Shipbuilding Industry with the name
of Nikolayev, ote »¢tc.)

   

. 3. You stated previously that in Tanne 1960 you were pracessed to go to the
US with the Sovict Automotive Delegation. You obtained a passport in your
true name, Nosenko, bat the date was postponed, then cancelled, Who
selected your candidacy for the trip? What were you supposed to do in
the USA? Why waa the trip postponed? Why were you processed in your

truce name, Nosenko, and not under the name Nikolayev, ender which you

 

Dicome

Jratewingh cmc tan

f
104-10297-10211

MORI DocID: 349181

     
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   

Daa you have any information to the effect that Oswald might aot have

+
come to the Soviet consulate of ta the Saviet Buohanay in Hetsintd to
obtain his visa? Could he have qbtained a vina in Switxerland.or Sweden
.

then nave come to afetsinki and, without reporting to the Soviet consulate

jn Heluinki, have taken a teain te Lentupead and then lo Moscow?

\ 5. According to your previous Information, “any tourivt - he buys a tour

to the Soviet Union, makes out the ankela, and then comes to Moscow. L
wIn what msaney did Ouwald buy a tour to the USSR? In what country did
Oswald fill in the anketa? If the aaketh fa goes to Moscow, te what office
in Moscow does it go? To MID, KGB? Is {t possible that all the data on
Oswald from his ankels was sent to Moscow by a sable? Did you soe, and
read Oswald's anketa or a ‘telogram that Oswald is coming to Moscow?
If you did not read the anketa, who among the KGB officers of the Second

Chief Directorate or the First Chief Directorate read the anketa or had

access to it? Who would logically have access to the anketa?

 

v 6. According to your previous information, any person who wants to visit the
USSR has to buy a tour. in a forcign tourist firm in his home country or any

., other country, and thé tourist firm will make arrangements for hin stay in.
the USSR.

 

It is understood that he must fill in tho anketa, and in addition to
the general questions, the common tourist should make requests for the ot

cities he intends to visit and for the accommodations he wants. The tourist

 

 

_ would know in advance when he receives his visa his date of arrival in

Moscow, in what hotel he is going to stay, and what kind of scovmmpditione

he would be given. The question, then, is do you know when Intourist

received Oswald's request and application and when it answered him ‘that

his demands are met and that he is welcome In Moscow? Code SEP”

end. OS

/ 7 From your knowledge, when Oswald arrived in Moscow, was he handled by

the Intourist Agency or by Sputnik, the Youth Tourist Bureau of the USSR,

or by the Central Council for Tourism of the Soviet Trade Unions? *
Notez The Central Council for Touriem of the Soviet Trade Unions organizes
exchanges of tourists between trade unions of the USSR and other

countries. Sputnik was organized in Junc 1958 for the exchange of
of tourists (students and other youths).

 

 
104-10297-10211 ae MORI DocID: 349181

? ca

 

a8. What aos the peaocesture aftoc a louriat applies for a Soviet view? De you

know ot what tourint apency or in what foreign countey Oswald applied __.

 

BRoor bought a tour ty the, USsk 2 Whe was the
Re . @ a

4 i
Soviet Intourist representative in Chat country who took Oswald's visa

for a vena ‘te the US?

application to the Sevict Embassy?

SY You stated previcualy | thet Oswald wan not considered « “defector. [fhe

was nota lisfectar. then what was he? . -

— Note: If the KGB did not consider Oswald to be a defcetor, then {tis
. possible that Oswald was known to the KGB long before his arrival.
in the USSR as a tourist and Oswald was assured that when he -
~ -wrrived in the USSR he would be given Sovict Citizenship or .at—___...
least a permanent residence Permit. Although he would be, a defector
anyway, It could be that Oswald did not like the word defector
_and the KGB decided not to call him a defector but, Ict us say,.a
volunteer. The Soviet Constitution states thatthe USSR grants the . ‘
right of asylum to all foreign citizens “uto are persecuted for : .
safeguarding the interests of the working class or who are persecuted
for scientific activities, for national-liberation struggle." (Article
129 of the USSR Constitution of 1936.) i \ .

JY 10. You stated previously that "since about 1960, every Soviet ambassador-—--

’ can give a visa In threo to five days, If 60, what was ‘so special for the

 

i

Sovict government that the ambassador would be personally involved in

: {souing a visa to Oswald? au
. a : " Nate: ‘tt ‘te known that in ‘1957 the Seviak government adopted some measures ~

to improve travel for forcign tourists in the USSR, They mostly :
concerned currency exchange. The 1957 regulations said nothing .
i about visas, Nossnko should be questioned about the 1957 decision
: of the Soviet government to determine if he fs not mistaking the 1957 _
, : decision with that of 1960, : . .

vy ile ‘You stated previously that etnce about 1960, every Soviet ambassador
: ,

 

j
t
: : ae
H ean give visas.in from throe to five days. The available information
{ . : . :
i published by the Soviets unmistakenly states that a visa cannot be obtained

in less —- days (ins some cases it takes five to seven days). Following
are excerpts from a book entitled Moscow, A Tourists Companion, beblistinn ann
in Moscow in 1969, and from the magazine Sovict Life, May 1978, p. 59.

Soviet Life. stated that "visas are issued within 10, days of receipt of

application.at a Sovict consulate. “

 
