rodtnnaa- 10280)

 
  

 

| Wednesday -.20 Gcicber 1976 |

ay WeNSy, PEA De

¢ en ee
“cin trensiat Use ony SELCIRES,

Journal - Office of Legislative Couns em pe : . oe
6 COG me +13 " :

13. (Unclassified » LLM) LIAISON en Brodten, on the oo
ataff of the House Select Cornrnittee on Assassination, called requesting
any summary inf : ‘gency might have ou the Kennedy
assassination, I told Brooten that Lhad met with Richard Sprague,
also on the Gernmittee staff, yeaterday and Sprague had asked for
the same information and that J was in the process of determining

    

 

‘if it exists, Brooten was unaware that Sprague had requested this”

information. .

14, (Secret - PLC) BRIEFING Attended a pre-trip briefing of
George Murphy, Executive Director, Joint Atomic Energy Committee,
given by[_—ss—s«d|: NEE Division, and] sd, «Israeli Desk/DDO.
Murphy is accormpanying a group of Members from the Committee who will
be visiting Cairo, Israel and Iran. Certain material was requested which
| [ee pull together. See Memorandum for the Record prepared by

land oo .

 

 

15. (Secret - PLC} LIAISON Met with Frank Slatinshek, Chief
Counsel, House Armed Services Corcmittee staff, and gave him a copy each
of the classified and unclassified letters to the Agency from the House
Select Committee on Narcotics Abuse and Control and we discussed the
sensitivity of the information requested. Slatinshek said we should try
to respond without disclosing sensitive operations or sensitive liaison
relatiouships. He said he would assist if we have problems. I gave him
the letter from the Director expressing appreciation for his appearance
before the Intelligence Process Course. He asked for a rundown of past
members of the PFIAB and any history as to its creation. :

16. (Confidential - PLLC) LIAISON Met with Claudia Wrazel, in
the office of Senator Alan Cranston (D., Calif.}, and discussed the backgrcund
of the request from theix constituent Kamal Kapur, She said she felt :
assured that the Agency had not in any way investigated Kapur and will aa
‘advise him. She will cali me if anything further develops. .
° yihing fart PS DOF A

17. (Confidential - PLC) TRAVEL Met with Frank Sullivan, Senate
Armed Services Committee staff, and clarified an incoming cable from
in Bona stating that an cdvance itinerary from the Air Force
of- Senator Sam Nunr's (D., Ga.} upcoming trip included’a visit with the
"FRG Intelligence Chief.'{ | Bonn noted that there is:no such position in the
German government ds intelligence chiefs are only within the various services.
Sullivan said this was probably a slip-up by toe Air Force heres What is to be
scheduled is an intelligence briefing by the German Ministry of Defanse.
Sullivan will straighten the matter out.’ Sullivan said Senator Nunn will mst
bave enough time to.meect with{ __—~=«dwHe felt that{___ would probably
be the best station to visit, I said I would check and let Cir Jemoy :
S, Alled and will finslize arrangernents. Pepe

 

 

 
      

  

¥
