 

 

o/

SECRET
° 19 December 1978
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Special Action by the CIA's Miami Station to Investigate
Events Surrounding President Kennedy's Assassination

1. During the spring -summer of 1962 the Chief of our Miami Station,
Theodore Shackley, established procedures for mobilizing station personnel,
area agents and casual sources to cope with sudden emergencies where fast
and continuing collection and reporting were needed. For. example, during the
early summer of 1962 rumors began to circulate in the Cuban community in
Miami and reports were received from refugees arriving in Miami from Cuba
indicating the Cuban government expected an invasion of Cuba by the USA.In-
divigual staff officers in the station were charged with organizing their
Miami area agentsto comb through the Cuban community in Flogida for sources
who had received such rumors through contacts in Cuba. oufoeal exile Cuban
intelligence service was organized to develop a network of.Cuban exile
families who could phone in to Cuba long distance in relays and try to elicit
information on the invasion rumor from Cuban on-islandrelatives and friends.
When the presence of intermediate range ballistic missiles began to be suspected
in Cuba, this same station emergency collection network was set into motion
to acquire information augmenting reports by our on-island agents and from
tehcnical collection. Later, the emergency mobilization system was used to
help other Federal agencies search for armed exile groups violating the ie
Neutrality Act.

2. When President Kennedy was assassinated the Station was well organized

to mobilize a fairly massive search for information relating to the magnicide.

I recallbeing told to get into immediate contact with all my local agents

and to direct th em in the search for informational leads which might turn

up an exile Cuban conspiratorial group possibly involved in the assassination

and to seek any other information which might turn up evidence about the
murder. All other staff officers in the station were mobilized for this effort.
That is to say, all staff officers who had agents and informants. In addition

to our local search for information those of us with agents in Cuba sent

SW , OWVL and WI messages asking questions about possible Cuban government

ties to the assassination. I also recall making a trip to Mexico in late November
or early December 1963 specifically to meet wit ~ AMWEE-1
for the purpose of debriefing him on information he had heard in Cuban government,
diplomatic and public circles in Cuba about the assassination. :

 

 

 

3. My general recollection is that the Miami Station's search for
leads to the President's assassination continued well into 1964 and was
considered a high priority undertaking ordwred by thg.Chief _of Station —

Jonald Re Heath dr. \\
“TAD/CAS/Soviet Ops/ X - . :

 

 

SECRET
