 

1041017710244)

. ‘36, coripsred to other assessed Cubanse _

. oo) Pp eee RETURN TO CIA
SECRET - Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

REPORT OF COVERT ASSESGMENT
NOTES: ‘This Report of Covert Assessment is entrusted to C/SAS. It may be

retained in the operational personnel file. In the event further interpretation |
of the information provided on this individual 1s desired, please contact the

“Assessment and Evaluation Staff, MS, extension 3247.

 

Name: Ricardo MORALES Navarrete Date of Assessment: 3 June 1964
Date of Birth: 14 June 1939 Bducation:

 

MENTS s

de Hes Morales was given group intellectual tests and intervieved Urtefly

on 3 dime 39

2. Mee Morales is of average intellectual ability compared to other .
assessed Cubans. He often givés the impression of being brighter then he is,
and he is looked up to by others on the team as being highly intelligent. ©

3. Mr. Morales says that it is difficult being a leader because of the
need to get people working together. He seems to enjoy the responsibility, —
however, emi tries to run a democratic shop. His preferred method gor handling
disagreements is to talk them out. “We mst be humans end reason." Additionally,
Mr. Morales seems to be feirly understanding of people, and he tries to put
himself in ‘the. plece of others to understand their views. But he is not just
en caxbitrator, for his is a forceful personality capable of exerting a good
deal. of influence on those around him. Mr. Morales is a complex persons

. Within. a-generally- Adealtstic-and -~philosophical-nature-he often. functions. asa.
. practical, realistic, and frank young man. He identifies strongly with causes,

and when. Be was with Castro.he was entirely with him « in the G+2; now he ia

. entirely against him. Actually he first started in revolutionary activities

for the glamour and excitement, but his involvement quickly took on an ideological
basis. Necessity and lack of alternatives also serve to keep him involved. His
future, he ‘says realistically, is very uncertain, He hasn't any high level vocational.
skills, yet be mist support his family. Our organization provides him the best
outlet for Poth tile ideological and financial needs.

‘th all, Mr. Morales impresses us as an above average man for his

loe

Assesarent and Evaluation Staff
Medical Staff

 

 

 

 

 

 

SECRET
