~ ; wheeled

 

 

on 27 Noveraber, foxaishad |
lephone cA. EH appears
‘yon Curtain Coutries"*
rs for the assansination

 
  
 

 

  

 

o. ; wher. ea Fiatiaa) ale 30 furnished
a . Lot a
 gomplete estat on the anenys nots teleshone call of 23 Novernber 1962.

 

ad. On 29 November 2
supplied by its Canberra Station) to the White House, Ocpartzneat’.
(of State, and Federal Buranu of Investigation, with a copy te the
Secret Service. A copy of this dissemination in its exact text :
is attached to this memorandum. re . ee
(ae oe GLA Station In Canberra azvang ged for discussion sof the. =
Galle with the Awatrallan sesuvity service. In the opinion of the :
Australian authorises the eniloy waz a crank. In any evont, they
wera not able to teutily uny Polish employee of the Ceviet Embassy,
the automobile desert ed by the calley a5 the ona ho @rove, or tha
Ueense plate n minber g yeu by Nita. Ne ferthar information on this
call has been received. Available evidence would tend to show that
the cller was some t type cfervank. Thie » conclusion, however. cannot.

ba confirracd.

 

  

 

        

«3, Please note thet tha néfure of the infermation in this
raemorandum and its attachms crak requires 1 the use of sensitivity

 

~dadicator. | hoo
_ Richard Helms _
Deputy Director for Pleas
Attachment te tees

 

 
104-10422-10399

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

- weporting a telephone conver

  

 

RANDUM FOR: My. J. Les Rankin

SUBIECT: . Anonymous Telephone Calle to United States

Drabassy in Canberra, Australia, Relative ta
Planned Agsassination of Prosident Kennedy

i. te sofax again to paragraph two of your memorandam,

| dated 12 February 1964, relative to cisscrainatious to the fecret

Service mada by CIA.

2, On 24 November i943, Cla receives from the Department -

of the Navy a copy ofa cot aes 2N ‘ 2

éustralia (IN 67327, Top Secret, later downgraded to Scerct), |
veation the previous doy with an

anonymous individual wao bad degeribed himaself as a Polish

chauffcur for the Soviet Embacsy in that city. This individual,

waliy discussing several reatters of intelligence interect, touched

nt
aay
2
&

on the possibility thas the Soviet Government had finenced the

aggasoination of Pregident Kennedy. Reference was made in this -

_cablo to tha receipt of a similar anonyrnous telepaons call on

15 Gctobar 1962.

3. Upon receipt of this cabia from Navy CIA took the
following actloar

ae Cabled to Canbsrra asking full dctails of the Soe
telephone conversation of 23 Noveraber andthe callmade _
oa 15 October 1962. Te should be noted that CLA had not
previously known of the 1962 telephone call.

 

 
 

’
§ GATE. he
13-00000

~ ore oT

 

» Siled at 1117 hours,

“CUT Teletype No. 85591, dsted 29 November 1
: ral. Bureau of

te the White House, Separtment of fiate ond
investigation, with a copy to the Secret Service |

>
oF
> vo

   

1. Your attontion is called toa cevice of ancnymous telephone
‘calls voade to the office of the U.S. Naval Attache in Canberra, _
Australia, by a man claiming to have Kad knowledge sbout a Soviet
abo. _ | plot to aecsassinate the Inte President Kennedy. Cuz first record
7 ae of this matter ig a Naval Attache cable from Ganborra senton
ho 24 November 1983. :

 

- | 2. Itappears that the caller, whe professes to be the Polish
chauffeur of a Soviet Embassy car in Canberra, first phoned in
over a year aga, on 15 Octchar 1942 vepeat 1962. Atthattime he —-
told a story about five Soviet. aubmavines carrying 409 to 500 Soviet
soldiers on their way to Cuba. Cno purpose of this troop movement,
he said, was to support the Governor of Missiesippi. -He added that
thors wis a plot to pay one hondred thousand dollars to kill President
Rennsdy. Behind the plot, he eaid, were the “Tren Curtain Countrice,"
and “Communist men in Englind, Hong Kong and probably some other —
i countzice."

 

   

ne 2. Ca 23 November 1962 repeat 1963, the day afer the
i. assacaination of President Kennedy and aver a year alter the first
telephone call, aman believed te be the same person phoanod the
Embacey again and spoke to the assistant Naval Attache. The caller
referred to his call a year back and stated ho had said that the USSR
had put up 100,000 dollars for the assassination of President Kennedy.

4. Giving what he claimed were further details about the
assassinition, the caller said that about two weeks before (which
would have been in early November 1962) he was present when an
Australian man, 35 to 40 years old, and tall, was dispatched by
the Sovicts to the United States carrying a case about 35 to 49
centimetera long, 5G centimeters high, and 8.5 centizacters wide.
The namo Vasyl Two was used in some connection with this man.
He waa put ona plane in Sydusy and whilo the caller drove the two
Soviet escorts back to Ganberya, their shortwave radio in the car
was going conatantly. A shortwave radio was going in the Embassy

 

 
13-00000

   

ran

alco when they arrived thers. Cyer those radios, one of th gsa Sovicts
transsoittce murabers and "points." They remained in the Embassy, ana

that morniag (apparently 23 November 1952), a rasseage carne througa

and toasts were drunk in Russian Vodice and the Ruse tans present said, -

 

 

hg i have achieved what we want.!

 

‘. G.. Tho caller then gare *iztormation” about the Sovict role

ia cinking a U.S. Navy unclear submarine and oa Soviet evbversion in
indonesia. He would not ldentify himself, and when he described tha
car he drives (as a navy bluc 1952 Buick, license plate New South Wales
Co 01z2) he added they often change plates, have fitty. seta in reserve,
and can change them in five seconds. :

 

6. The caller added some vague information abouta woman
employes of the American Embassy ho things works for tho Soviets.

The conversation concluded with the caller promis sing to wr ite a letter :

to the Naval Attache at the American Embacsy.

 

   

7. The caller spoke good Saglish and his accent-and volca did
not change throughout the conversation, #9 if was assumed that he
was not disguising bis voice. |

8. Australian authorities working on this case consider tha -
caller to baa crank, They state that Sovict offices in Australia
¢o not use anything but Soviet chauffeurs; they heave no racord of .
theiy using a Polish cheufieur. Thoy are-continuing thelz investigation.

 

 

 

 
