 

[oetoranoogs] gk

er
EANAL USE ONLY (

    

4
| =
oT: QO OT!

 

 

‘Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel
Friday - WL February 1977

. “19. (Unclassified ~ LJK) ADMINISTRATIVE DELIVERIES
-Delivered to Charles Snodgrass, Hons Appropriations Committee
_ staff, phone nymbers of Chief of sealer, ; and Chief of
"_ Station, for passage to Representatives John J.
Flynt (D., Goa.) and J. Kenneth Robinson (R., Va.) for their
“use in an upcoming trip to the above locations.

 

 

20. ‘(Corfidential - LIK) LIAISON Met with James Fellenbaum,

Senate Appropriations Committee staff, to discuss the FY78 budget. :
Fellenbaum indicated that the Senate Appropriations Committee

- would have to treat the issue of intelligence-reiated costs due to -

“the fact that the House Appropriaticns Committee has shown

‘such interest in this matter. I informed him that the House .
Appropriations Committee is. scheduling a heari ing on intelligence- :
related costs on 8 March 1977. :
: Fellenbaum also said that it appears Sonator William W.
Proxmire (D., Wis.) and Senator Clifford P. Case (R., N.J.}
will join the Intelligence Subcommittee of Senate Appropriations
‘Committee. : .

 

21. (Unclassified ~ LLM) LIAISON Advised Art Kuhl,
‘Senate Foreign Relations Committee staff, of the number of Agency
employees covered by the upcoming foreign service list to be submitted
to the Senate, ‘The information was supplied by . (CoS,

a . 22. {Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Spoke with Paul Daly, FBI,
- on the present state of affairs with respect to the House Select Committee
_ on Assassinations, Daly advised that at the reqhést*ot Chair aian Ti Stixy
' Gonzalez (D., Texas) to the Attorney General the Committee staffers will

no longer be provided access to the unclassified material they have been

reviewing within the Department of Justice. : : : :

Daly is hopeful that Chairman Gonzalez will « approve the security
clearance standards and once this is in rnotion the first clearances should
start coming through in about 30 days. I asked Daly to keep us advised as
- to the progress on the clearances matter to pave the way for our nex
coordinated step within the lixecutive Branch to scek Chairman Gonz
muel lL, Devine's (R., Ohio) agreement on proc

ed umtormation, ,
aoll?

    

2
doe

 
 
    
 

and Representative §

 

w -

 
