 

 

 

 

 

a basically honest mane. .

. Union. KUNGY hozes to return to the Soviet Union next year for
a@ more extended period of studye-- - 3 ve

‘eon gaevenet ty ty preperty ota. Cormest ef.

 

 

     

 

aées not claim to know
eke centre for aporoxizazely 6
_ Prior to that he worked.
msultant in anotie> area Or’: “headeny of Sciences
. HARTI3 does much of his work at home.
jhe was not accepted by the
ussians in the Acadeny. He Also stated that he felt MARTIN was

   
 
 
 
    
     

 

‘months

 

 

 

oe KUNOV said his motives for trying to assist MARTIN
and MITCHELL are based on huninatarian grounds, only, as he feels
they are suffering under the Soviet system. He does not intend
to take any further action to assist them in leaving the Soviet

  
  
   
    

  

    

fear thts goths ow cecdiboe that his tar ss ICD
“fy “tte Lnteligenae coameclly cf De receistag Goverantel
_ he ADAM oct Be declassified mcbset Be. onpress pereislia
“ef ths Goueraoeat of Gansta, meeeie .

te pert Gavoset ast ba preind és. gocrereeoed. 1
Qeuds, Bo col ccomectad soos theere Cuihates Bar les
teats senlses Ga cemtelgaoents fy pumas. Custis -
at B ty couse ce sa cate. ee - setuid so: ed pee;
enhle ws Fmeisticn qurene és qesumemen seubea - -

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

  
     
    
   
    
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
  

 

 

 

 

   

. A number of sources were impressed frank-

a8 and his.willingness. to speak out, at social gatherings, |

om current problem areas: in- the Soviet. system. Por example

he discussed dissidents in Soviet society and commented on one
i éccasion that present day Soviet society allowed for far greater
H ~ Egeedom of expression.than had been ‘allowed previously. He
‘ said that things ‘were: being-said.in. Moscow e would never
I _ Rave heard in Stalin's era. Nevertheless, -argued that
i & Yeturn to “terror tactics" under Soviet rule was always poss=-
} fblé. He considered that such tactics were unlikely at this
time because of the personal philosophy of Premier’ Leonid BRESHNEV.
2 ‘ :

Poo

 

 

; . is reported to be the son of a scientist and party
E member and he himself is an admitted party member, He is:married

: with three childre He is considered to be one of the top ex-
; Tver the Soviet Union, He mentioned
! having. travelled to other Western countries two or. thise times.
: . He was very friendly towards dur
e foo. 8 is visit but it was observed that he did not associate with

arch students at the same institution. On
he was berated quite séverely by a Soviet

v 0
4 a fee to report periodically, as re-

t qaired, to’ the Embassy. later told a source that this Em-
; d be a dangerous man to your country".

 

 

 

 

Wis Greument bs Ge property of Ga Cavarmment ot
Guseds, ote providsd:: ea cecGithia tht ik te tor use: seteiy.
ty ha; fateigenes comaeeity: ct the. racainieg Goverssea
R ect be dextunsiied withoct Ga axpacs pared-tict
tf Ge tovemment of Cearda,
fog dsert dorrseat ast Ua grepiaé ty gentmeaett
- i, gaa, Best commatignd cers iserve Catiisation par, les
sl amd anes G2 rusegumels Gs qonemand dastcitle
<q DW covdtion un sa ols da” sizer a. salt pas

  
 

 

 

 

  

    

| ~ SECRET oo

Loe dati Mek eta ARRON

 
 

 

“URUHET “

-_

   

 

The collewiag cbourvation: wert made 9: Latwi8) f
Pa

z
%
-
k

i _.. fregarding MARTIN: : o Loe

=“ -

(a) Physical Descriotion
. 5°97" or 3" tall, fair hair, crewcut, balding at the
temples, pot beilied. | :

- may suffer from a nervous condition, and bears the
mark of a man who has exverienced rough times.
= always dressed with.a shirt, tie and jacket. oo

© spoke perfect, English with a slight Russian accent

on certain words. ; ote ,

 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

|
: [

(>). MARTIN provided KUNOV with the following home address
and telechone number, cauticning hin that his
_» %@lephone was bugged. :
= telephone number ~ 433-03-81 9...
117421 Obrucheva Street -

 

Building 4-1 - ;
Apt. 12
Moscow, USS:

(c) MARTIN stated that his friend MITCHELL lives in

. Leningrad and is married to the Dean of the Music
Conservatory in Leningrad. MITCHELL is very unhappy

and he has ovenly asked Soviet authorities for —
-pormiss ior to leave Russia and retwra to the USA.
Apparentiy he has naver been able to adjust to the

_ Soviet way of life and is now very desperate .
NITCHELL.is. willing to divorce his wife. and take any
risk.to get out of the USSR. To date however he has
been met with a wall of silence by the Soviets.

 

  
    
 
 
 
  
 
  

an FA ne Se Ne EN I a NTE cx meta ten A ts AD + womncomanene A , :
om r yaa et ye .

Ad). MARTIN is. unmarried. He claims to have.a confortable
"apartment and feels that he has adjusted.to the Soviet
“life and ig accezted in the USSR. He does not want to

return to the USA but would like to get -out of the USSR. -
- He said he would have quite a story to tell about his :
life in Pussia as well.as his past and that he wuld have .
= RO compunctions about telling all about the. Russians. i

‘MARTIN at one voint stated that he would not ‘consider
- - attempting to escape from the USSR. - we

i

- (e) MARTIN claims that he is constantly harrassed by Soviet |
: officials. His apartment has been broken into on 4
several occasions and he refused to use the Soviet mail !
“gystem. He: has also refused to: show up for work in the |
past as a form of protest. MARTIN also indicated that
- he has had several contacts with Americans in Moscow
. and that they have not. shown any aninosity towards hin.
oman for some time but.

je > gust knock on his ..

  
s00000 +

or URUaEE

 

 

“Ret -WoN, MERTIN and 3.7. MITCMILL
t Dr. Hans KUNOV professors University of Toronto, visited

Moscow from Seotember lel, 1975 to undertake research at the USSR

Academy of Sciences, under the J5SR/Caneia General Exchange

Agreenent. The research was carried out at ee
OnDt

ier Cent Tat tr

 

On Sevtember 3 while having a coffee break in the Computer
Centre KUNCY was apvroached by a man who identified himself as
William MARTTI, an American who défected.to the USSR in 1959. MARTIN
openly spoke about his past an hat he now lives in Moscow
and that he is a consultant to oup at the Computer
Centre. He said much of his work is done at home but he does drop
into the Centre weekly.

: It was at this tine that MARTI’ told KUNOV that he would
tke to get out of the USSR even if he has to run certain risks, He
also said that (Bernon) MITCHDLL reels the same and has voiced his
‘desire to the Soviet authorities.

MARTIN asked KUNCV if he might enquire with the Canadian
authorities on his behalf to see what his status would be in this
country or ££ there was any chance of- his being allowed in here as
@ political refugee. KUNOV arreed to contact the Canadian Embassy
in Moscow to see what the official view would be and notify MARTIN
at a later date. MARTIN seemed most pleased at this and: lore KUNCY
his home telephone number, cautioning hin not to say anything over

hone that would tiv off the Soviet authorities as to nis intentions.

first meeting lasted a little over one half hour and tcox place
in the coffee lounge area..of th » There were other Soviets
present in the Lounge, Pe iover| was.not among them. KUNOV does
not believe the others were aware of their conversation.

On ‘the 5 Sevtember 75 KUNOV called at the Canadian Embassy,
Moscow and spoke to a doorman asking him who he might svoeak to

t regarding sone Americans living in the USSR who would like to immigrate
i to Canada. “The doorman referred KUNOV to the office of a

1 “unger gecreene t i) a U/M{ who stated that he was the
i er secretary to KUNOV enquired about the Americans
... *ldving in the USSR and asked could they be alloved to: imaigrate to

Canada. The Embassy official would not commit himself and stated that,
KUNOV. should enouire officially with the nearest office of Manpower
and Immigration when he returned to Canada. KUNOV did not cive this

. official PARTE or MITCHSLL's names. -KUNOV telephoned MARTE after
the Embassy visit and stated that the revly from the =mbassy was
negative. “ARTIN seemed upset that KUNOY should phone him, “chen he
later stated that it would probably be all right.

MARTIN met KUNOV on et least two occasions after the

5 September, all at the Centre, usually in the coffee lounge and in
the general presence of. others. They spoke English at 211 “timess
MARTIN thanked KUNOY for his trouble in enquiring at the Enbassy and
cautioned KUNOY not to get personally involved with him in this
venture as it would be bad news. KUNOV oromised MARTIN that he would
. eheck. with Canadian Manpower and Immigration authorities en the

matter when he returned: to Canzis,

PERT.

= trate mnnee en ennenenensstummmarset mantic sty. we

 

a ae

 

 

    
    
 
    
   
  
    
   

 
i4oon09

 

 

 

 

bo et eae Lie ae

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A number; of. sources. were impressed Leraaener 72"
ness and his willingness to speak out, at social gatherings,
on current problez areas in the Soviet systes. For example
he discussed dissidents in Soviet society and commented on one

occasion that: present. day Soviet society: allowed for far. greater

freedow of expression than had been allowed previously. He
said that things were being said in Moscow that one would never
have heard in Stalin's era, Nevertheless, argued that
@ return to “terror tactics” under Soviet rule was always pess-

 

_dble. He considered that such tactics were unlikely at this
time because of the personal philosophy. of Premier Leonid BRESHHEV.

is reported to be the son of a scientist and party
member a aself£ is an admitted party member. He is married
with three children, He is considered to. be one of the top ex-

perts on his field] ecw in the Soviet Union. He mentioned
having ;travelled to other Western countries two or three times.

His English is good. He was very friendly towards[_ | dur~
ing his’ visit but it-.was observed that he did not associate with

three other So arch ‘students at the same institution. On
' ony eecdsion he was berated quite severely by a Soviet

Embassy official f6r 8 failure to report periodically, ‘as re-
quired, to the Exbassy,. later told a source that this En-
bassy- ‘Official "could be a- dangerous. man to your country"...

 

ct

 

to pact dexecst ef & prpiité & qerenenet & . ,
, Cure, 4B est comescigng mpm fitene Cotiiectica par ies
Seals cerckes. G2 ceascigeemmsts ds gsuversesect  destioctiire
+ 2 & condition gee sa cute de sécciité aa soll pas
sxcSGite seas Meviorisatoa exresse 2 goeversterct esurden,

 

 

 

j
i
“|

   
   
   
  
   
 
   
    
  
   
 
 
 
 
   

 
 

   

       
     
 
 
  
    
     
  
 
  
 

 

 

 

| a ; - _
i ate ~ The RCMP Liaison Office
poo ; . oN 2459 “asepchusgette tua.
: . \ Washington, D.C. Z508
j : . . .
: gy
| 08/75/5339 . <6 :
i 7S¥LO-118-36 © . 2 December 1975

7 BeCRET: Oo

“pear

Rar William Hamilton MARFIN, and
Bernon Ferguson MITCHELL

. Purther to your letter of 6 October 1975, wa have
identified and spoken to the Canadian professor, Dr; Hang
KUHOV, referred to in your letter aw Harry KERNOV, The
attachment outlines the contact batween KUNOV and MARTIN
‘@nd MITCHZLL, KUNOV has proven co-operative as a source
on previous occasions and we believe he will continue to
aseist us within Limits. | - ‘

i
:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Computer Centar. In addition to any comments you may

wish to make concerning MARTIN's approaches to KUNOV,
we would welcoaa an assessment of] {if available.

The F.B.1. has received the information con-
tained in the attachments,

Youra truly,

 

Assistant Liaison Officer,

 
   

 
yaov09 +

       
   
     
   
   
   
 
      
     
        
        
 
    
       
      
 
       
    
      
     
      
    
      

r LANs EURED 2 L>
oO oot Dr. He” “KUNOV professor, Univer. .y of Toronto, visited

Moscow from Septemoer 1-14, 1975 to undertake research at the USSR

Acadeay. of Sciences, under the USSR/Canada General Exchange

.. Agreement. The research was carried out at the Academ nces
. Comozter Centre, 40 Vaveoha Street. KUUST's host was
énd on wh rate

 

 

 

®
2
&

 

perionality sketch is attached.

On Sevtember 3 while having 2 coffee break in the Computer
‘Centre KUNOY was aporoached by a man who identified himself as —
William MARTI, an American who defected to the USSR in 1950, MARTIN
openly spoke about his past and_stated that he now lives in Moscow
and that he is a consultant to group at the Computer

Centre. He said much of his work is done at ‘home but he does drop
into the Centre weekly.

 

It was at this time that MARTIN told KUNOV that he would
tke to get out of the USSR even if he has to run certain risks, He
also said that (Bernon) MITCHELL feels the same and has voiced his.
desire to the Soviet authorities. .

a acter cure perm tenet NHC

ie : MARTIN asked KUNOV if he might enquire with the Canadian
|» -fauthorities on his behalf to see what his status would be in this

L country or if there was any chance of his being allowed in here as

j @ political refugee. KUNOV agreed to contact the Canadian Embassy
a in’Foscow to see what the official view would be and notify MARTI
ata later date. MARTIN seemed most pleased at this and left KUNOY
his heme telephones number, cautioning him not to say anything over
hone that would tivo off the Soviet authorities as to his intentions.
his first- meeting lasted a little over one half hour and took place
in the coffee lounge area of the_C e« There were other Sovicts
present in the lounge, however, [ias not among them. KUNOV does
not believe the others were. awaré 6. eir conversation.

On the 5 September 75 KUNOV called at the Canadian Embassy,
Moscow and spoxe to a doorman asking him who he might speak to

’ regarding sone Americans living in the USSR who would. lik
ada. The doorman referred KUNOY to the office of a
KUUOV then snoke to a U/l who stated that he was 7

er Secretary t KULOV enguired ebout the Americans

living in the USSR SHO asked Could they be allowed to immigrate to
Canada. The Embassy official would not ommit himself and stated that

_ “KUNOV should enquire officially with the nearest office of Manpower

- ahd Imnigration when he returned to Canada. KUNOV did not give this
official MARTI or KITCHELL's names, KUNOVY telephoned MARTIN after
the Enbassy visit and stated that the renly from the Embassy was
negative. MARTIN seemed upset that KUNOV should phone him, then he

| later stated that it would psrobably be all right.:

 

: FARTIN met. KUNOY on at least two occasions after the
5 September, all at the Centre, usually in the coffee lounge and in
the general. presence of others. They spoke English at all times.

' MARTIN thanked KUNCY for his trouble in enquiring at the Embassy and
cautioned KUNOV not to get personally involved with nim in this
venture 2s. it would be bad news. KUMOY oromised MARTIN that he would
check with Canadian lanpover and Immigration authorities on. the

“~ gatter when he returned to Canada .. eo

SEE

Dab — co ttt fe

        

 
    
 
  
     
    
    
   
  
  
 
   
      
   

40219-10158] :

 

 

   

 

o “SECREL | ra

 

HLEMOQANDUM FOR: Director
siational Security Aseacy

 

 

ATTENTION 3

 

 

 

Sef 8s B30
susJccT : O#iitian nasilten Martin aad bornon Ferguson
Kiteaallig,- wes 357

z

;

|

i

|

‘

|

i

| i

t : :

| uy an :

poe 1, Attached is » of a report recently received| '
3 onceraing a coaversatilon betwe

| ; essor DF. 2488 Auaov and Martin in Moscow. Tae :

i . :
| :

|

L

|

 

 

attachxent outlines the conversation kunoy nad with Nartin’ and.
dudicates: that. both. Martin. and Mitcnell are attempting. to. Toave
the Ussa.

Also attached is a report on Lee -0fb,2ay
a host at the UssR.Acadeny of séTences Coxputer Center. ;

2. Be
the infofeation contained in the actachaents.

 

he FBI has received

 

 

F02 THE DEPUTY DIRLCTOR POR OPERATIONS:

 

 

  

 

 

 

+ | Attachzents;
C nr re _ As stated

eRe COORDINATION:
wO7CI neta ————102/12/78)

 

 

Distribution:
Arig é 1 - Addze w/att.
; wl. - CéCl wfatt ©

 

 

 

       

watt 1 - pIvo/Te Al - 252 F357

SECRET paorne aaa

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   

 

 

 

“(b)

(c)

 

 

 

oN

- The folswing observations were ma.. by KUNOV
regarding MARTIN: a,

(a) Physical Descrintion
5'7' or 3" tall, fair hair, crevcut,
temples, pct bellied. .
~ my suffer from 2 nervous condition,
Ho has experienced rough tines.
with a shirt, tie and jacket.
Snglish with a slighy Russian accent
on certain words.

mark of a man ¥

~ always dressed
= spoke perfect

MARTIN provided KUNOV
and telephone number,
telephone was bugged.
» telephone number —-

117421 Obrucheva Street

Building kml
Apt. 12
Moscow, USSR

MARTIN stated that hi
Leningrad and is marr
Conservatory in Leningrad.
and he has openly as
permission to leave Russia and
pparently he hes never been
Soviet way of life and is now
WITCHELL is willing te divorce his
risk to get. out of
been met with a wa

MARTIN is unmarried.
apartment and feels that he
epted in the USSRe..

return'to the USA. but. would like to ce
He said he would have auit
Life in Russia as
about telli

‘life and is acc

no compunctions

MARTIN at one po

MARTIN claims that he is constantly
officials. His apartment has been broke
several occasions and he refused to use
.system. He has also refused
past as a form of protest.
he has had several contacts w
and that they have not shown any a
. He actually dated an American woman f
_ did not mention her name.

- authorities.
door and talk:

 

  
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 

 

palding at the

and bearg the

with the following home address
cautioning him that his ~ :

s friend MITCHELL lives in

fed to the Dean of the Music
MITCHELL is very unhappy
ked Soviet authorities for
return to the USA.
adjust to the
very desperate.

wife. and take any
To date naever
ll of silence by the Soviets.

 

He claims to have a confortable
has adjusted to the Soviet
He does not want to
% out of the USSR.
tell about his
past and that he vould nave
ng all abcut the Russianse
int stated that he would not consider

attempting to escape from the USSR.

e a story to
well as his

  
 

harrassed by Soviet  —
the Soviet mail ©
for work in the
MARTIN also indicated that
ith Americans in Hoscow.
ninosity towards hin. ;
or some time but |

  
 
 
 
 
  

 

American journalists |" ";
times, asking. for inter

mests have been. refused by.2ussian --
id he hoved some d2
ms fied ation Be t,o just

fligie@

HARTIN stated that in the past
have tried to conta
views but their rea

ct him many
v thatcne.oi ..

these journalists voul knock on his

   

sbeebs emma meme mer
   

    
         
       
   
   
   
    
       
    
     
     
  
    
   
   
    
 
   
    
     
  

 

 

   

 

 

 

_ - : |
Loy OPIN Has been at the centre for approximately —
months| ; Prior to that he worked as a
consultant in anocier area t-te —Acadeny of Sciencese
_ M2773. does much of his work at hones

he was not accepted by the
Ee also stated that. he felt NARTIN was

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Russians. in the Acadenys
a basically mnest mn.

. . -KUHOY said his motives for trying to assist MARTIN
and MITCHELL are: based. on huinatarian grounds, only, .as he feels
they are suffering under the Sovict- system. He does not. intend
to take any further action to assist them in leaving the Soviet
Union, KUNOV hopes to return to the Soviet Union next year for

a more extended period of study.

w

 

This docemest ty Ga“ preverty cf the Soverceest ef

* gaeee: Ne graded oa cocétion thal itis fr ect scle})

fe the latelligeme coasucity cf ts meeeitcg Ewrracest

42 WH oct bs Gettesitind withered tha eapitss pois
ef Ge:torempest ef Cende .

le géret dxvecet at Gs prepdié dorrerseael GW

Ganda, Bool resold sens titere Golsaticn par fee

gouty <aeinlses da nenselgeesucls te queesearet toute

Ao} fe cocites pe ca cule ds seatlib og. Sl Rs

goSGle: tans, Vratscteation..erpressa da. qesversesest axSea,

 
