3. -My next contact with Mr, Hunt was a letter from him

. , Gated April 5, 1971,. stating that on his retirement he had elected wo
"to take full annuity instead of reduced annuity with. survivor benefits ob!

Vand asked iffhe could now change his election. I replied in'the. -
- Negative and he wrote again on White House stationery asking if he -

“ gould change the election if he were re~employed and I wrote that |:
‘this could be done but t saw ao p-obability of re-ernployment at that.

, time. Cwopies'of this exchacge are attached. Some time during the __.
“period of this exchange and certainly after my first letter of 6 May
1971, I remember running into Mr. Hunt at the National Airport and
expressing regret that I had to turn him down. He. said he quite
understood and appreciated my interest and went on to say he was.
doing very well and recovering from his financial reverses resultin,
from the daughter's injuries and hospital care. : : -

4. My last contact with Mr. Hunt was a telephone call to

my home on 19 August 1972 in which he said he had iyed:a call
from a lawyer in Los Angeles named Who had
_ been called to appear before the Grand J ury in Alexandria and was

concerned as to whether he might be questioned about a confidential
rela fonehia ie had with the Agency in 1952. I told Mr. Hunt to have
Mr. call me and I would handle the matter. My memoranda
‘or the record on this episode are attached.- This is the last com-
munication I have had with Mr. Hunt. After his conviction and
sentencing I saw him standing ‘on a street corner as I drove by and

I waved but did not speak to him.

 

5. There appears to have been one indirect contact with Mr.
Hunt in connection with a law suit about which we have no direct
knowledge. ‘All we know is that the plaintiff requested some documents
and submitted a check which we returned as evidencea by the attached
copy of the documents invelved.

6. Mr. Lansdale has a vague recollection of some business
contact with Mr. Hunt when he was on the CA Staff, possibly in the
1950s or a little later. He has no recollection of seeing him in the
past eight to ten years.

LAWRENCE R. HOUSTON
General Counsel

Atts a/s

Orig - Adse.
- Watergate Case
- Chrono ~

OGC: LRH: mke .

 
. _ MEMORANDUM FOR: Inspector General. .

SUBJECT: © |" 2 © Office of General Counsel Contacts with o
me - E. Howard Hunt on te at

REFERENCE: Memorandum for All Employees from
. oe ES/CIA Mgt Com, dtd 23 May 73;
Subj: Agency Involvement in the
Watergate Case :

an 1. To the best of my recollection, I first met Mr. E. Howard
Hunt in Japan in 1954 at which time he was stationed in Tokyo and fF

was there for several weeks TDY.. I had no official business with Mr.

Hunt as I recall and the meetings were casual office or office party

meetings. I must have run into him casually from time to time there-

after in the office as some time in the middle 1960s when he had re- :

turned to Washington he invited me and my wife to a cocktail buffet.

I cannot remember the year let alone the month and day but.I remember

the house was out of town in a rather secluded area up the Potomac.

2, Ido not remember any further meetings with Mr. Hunt
although it is probable I saw him from time to time in or around the
office until 1969 when his daughter was in a very serious series of
automobile accidents. This involved Mr. Hunt.in a complicated series
of legal involvemegts in which the Offic: of General Counsel tried to
give him legal advice and assistance. Most of the work was done by
Mr. James B. Ueberhorst who left the Office of General Counsel in
1972 to become the Administrative Officer of the courts of the State
of Florida. We have queried Mr. Ueberhorst who said he has had no
contact with Mr. Hunt since working with him on these legal matters
except for a letter of appreciation from Mr.. Hunt for Mr. Ueberhorst's
efforts.

RETURN TO GIA |
Bacpround Yeo Caly
Do Rot Ropreduce

 
