14-00000

 

 

 

 

 

 

a
- . . ok _ ee - ue
- gee Bat a

 

 

, X» RUUAODD ;
po cower oe Ae" Identifying datas oe Bo : ~
i “3 (a). Hethonality: Us8e oitisen, bora
{ : ; EHadugstions igh svheoak and atte ing eolleze

() Cocupattons Sergeant in VeSe Air Forco during Vorld ier IT,

: : . and an erect of the “enna Station until esrdy 1949
(s Wettel statuss Luried : i

 

 

 

0) ‘Tino dovoted to our rork; Approximately 40% Ce i
Yow oontected: By Chief of Ststion ma

i Bs Theamodd ig a cutout far projests liugzer, Husantdind 2 sud 3, ond
t : . Tuneniste2z. fo0 > attacremn tty

~ 2a Prods motions a

-@ Denoription of info produced: Corwuntiet ponetention of iebor
Groups art stulont proupse :

©) Statisties on on Moparts racelved and dissoninateds
duly thru Desonbor 3 received 3

i _ . {e) Beadquarters evaluation ef info reseiveds Be

Se Cost of Projectt {69005 rar ronthe 2D ehors follaving paynanta
iL doy {Bhal2 Cotober 850039 :
}

    

   
  
 

 

fe Meer Merten

5 (a) Operational clearana grantede
(b) Ailotmont shoot up to date.

Se Osnerdl. Evaluations

- pied 12 conbtdered on exscllant agent in sll. respootes fio vatue $2
“Ymare then eccnensurate with Ms oalarye .

  
  
  

 

   

   

Qor-/6é FX F?

sorerde tse teaety <TR

 

   
14-0000

“s SECRET os
_PERSONAL RECORD QUEST IONWATRE

 

 

 

PART te = OPERATIONAL importation

 

fe VMSTROCT OMS TO CASE OFFICER: | . oe ae .

; ‘ Le Uf feasible, subject should S11h in Part fof PRO In hs oon hand,

i an

; Ze Part th of PRO Is clasat find, aust be fitted In by the Case Offleer and Is not to be ’

i “ghoen to subject. . i

i ’ . voy

i :
H Be Readquarters ffl not de able to provide.an Operations! Cieacance uniess It recelves

 
 
  
 
    
  
    
 

ansaore to ait questions on pagel of Part i {items L tok2), and to ail questions of
Part It (tteas 36 to58!.
&. tn emergency these answers, keyed to tteos] tol? by nueber, and wlth suamary of Part

Ul, may be cabled to Headquarters, follosed promptiy ty pouch with complete Gate. .

   

wily completed P80 aust be sont to Nesdquarters a6 soon as possibis, tao coples of
ti Cinetuding copy In subject's handariting, If posstbte! and ane copy of Part {t.

 

b. Date acquired tater ust de sent to Headquarters In PRO format ona continuing barls.

    

To Atl pages of doth parts will bear the PRO number, composed of (a! Station syada!
tb? PRO (cd number assignad consecutively by the fletd station; ego PGASPRO/IO.

       

vant Soho fue Be

   

etodis larva ia.

"36. Cryptonya Arthur G. VAIVADA

        
   
   
 

37. How, when and where was subject first contacted or developed?
Subject was first ted in Panama as HYDROPATHIC in November 1948"
and transferred t jin approved HUYANOID project. Subse-

     

. quently was transferred to BIRADIAL project, PESUCCESS and in 1954 to
ANPHODARCH project (Cuba) with which he 1s currently identified.

Could subject ve turned over quickly end in @ secure manner to

_ someone else for handlingr ‘es To whom? Record over the
past nine years shows that subject has easily been turned over to

different projects and case officers.

 

 

 

 

 

    
   
       
     

    

Best satimate of subject's notivation

' Subject is motivated by his interest in intelligence work, desire to-
.” advance in the organization asa R career, its remuneration and as Stoel
_U, S. citizen.

 

os  beybsras eolta

 

erg tak Teal sainisne

     

  

    
    
    
        

 
74-0000.

   

 

 

@ very satisfactory type of azent. He displays a certain acount

of initiative in voluntarily performin: tasks not specifically
Yewuested by the Chief of Station through the cut-out BUMANOID.
BUMAHOID-2 has deronstrated tho qalitiea of willingness, discretion, |
and cooperation.

(4) As te the principal acent of Project HUMANOID, the
following observations ere eubnitted, vhich will indicate
unmistaxeably the value of this project, and its contribution
to the successful activities of thef Station.

i - Ewalustion of services « As the principal azent
foe and station cut-out, HUMANOID is cherged with the direction

and cuidance of HUMAHOID-13 QUMANOID]-23; HUMANOID~33

BUMAHOID-h, Hic handling of these agents is carried out in
: . & professional ané efficient manner, and his personal coments
} : end corrections on their reperta, based on his long acquaintance ©
with local percunalitica and conditions, are of considerable
value. His attitude remains enthugiastic and willing.

 

io Evaluation of information » The information produced

: by the apente being handled by HUMANOID ia of great value

i to the station. In addition to his own production, this .
: agents operations are vell suited to checking on information

received fran other sources.

N COMENTS + Despite the fact that RUMANOID has becn working umer
} certain operational restrictions for a mumber of months, his valve to the
a . station continues to be of major importance. In addition to the tangible
“ and measureeble irformation produced by and through hin, EUMAROID has
proved to be the single nost valuable source of backsround and orientation
data far the Chief of Station. Hina knowledge of the history of
comamist activities and personalities, and hia crasp of the various
revolutionary movements and-fizures has been freely shared with the
Chief of Station. These “briefing neetings” represent an intangible —
contribution to the over-all performance of the Station. HUMANOID ts
eager to expand his operations and upon the removal of present operational
restrictions it is believed that he can be given further responsibilities,
particularly im the recruiting of additional sub-azents. The station is
preacntly interested {n accomplishing a parallel penetration of the .
Com=amist Party in expanding routine investigative coverage
end in developing additional sources on political movements. It ‘6
‘believed that HUMANOID can insure the success of these new ventures.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

“SERET

 

ceamarpnr

 
14-00000

aaa

 

ae  SEgPET

Security Infermation

 

HEISRAEDUM TOs | PLAHS
PROE: ; WED
SUBJECT; Project HUMANOID

 

 

 

 

} Project HUVANOID {fs the rost important single project of the

. Statian, and the basis far a. existing ani contemplated 080 activtttes

: in the area. It is rejuested that the restrictions imposed uson project

' HUVAHOID, as contained in TRO-W-635, copy attached, be Lifted at this tine,
and the Chief of Station be authorized to direct the activities of NUHANOID
into the folloving channels.

: , (a) Direct and close superyia! v fa,
: Grder to Utilize fully the agenta potentialities. HUMANOID-3

: is intelligent, has a vide knowledze of Commmist activities, pleas

. fo ent personalities and 1s desirauw of cooperatin; to the extent av hia
ability. After a thorough de-briefing of HUEAROIL-3 by EUMANOLD,

in order to as uaint hin, HUMANOID=-3 with the Station's apecific
interests and requirements, Plus the subse went close supervision vaich
will be exercised by SUMAHOID, and the continuing close supervision of
EGYANGID+3 by HUMAHOID, it is felt that the etation will then bo in

& position to provide intensive cuate coverage of tha objectives
assigned to it in a I : :

ae (b). Direct and close supervision of EUMAHOID—h, the ¢ u
m . - ‘penetration of the

: It ts fet Tormar cut-out HUCKCEBORS, who handled

23 -h urtil 1 June 1949, was somewhat inept ig his operational
Gealinis, which possibly may accoumt for what seers to be a lack of
. Breductivity in the HUMANOMD-4 Project. HUKAHCID.4 hes an intimate ;

“Felationship with active CP menbere in[) beth on @ low and
po '. Bish leval, and possesses @ definite potential for both smdepencont
cee reporting, and for spotting @ likely individual to be used.as a

7 7". " parallel to the HUKAHOID-3 project. HUMAROID, who will now handle

‘HUMAOID-+, 19 capa>le of directing this agents efforts into the
proper channels, and ‘capitalizing fully on the talents possessed by
the individual. It te felt that this is enother instance whereby
EUFAHOID, by vorking closely and directly with the imiividvel can sake
& substantial contribution to the efforts of the Station,

wou op te (ec) Direct and close supervis{on of EUFANOIDeL and BUMANOID-2,
‘. the mail intercept operations presently coverin: the
in[__]s The infarnation that HU-ANOID-1 accesa to
@ important end is of documentary reliability. His position is
', izpertant to the. operational structupe of the station. Erarorps ts

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

    

. Dot- (6 FFA

 

ipa
 

74-00000

 

 

, _30 de__._June...._____.__ de 19,49

    

 

A29-M=- 1

 

3

Lb

 

 

 

 

Mth of J

    

 

 

 

Cash

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

363 rendered

eee
N° 069
RECIBI de
la suma de
por _ services :
aca eer ae

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

" NA Pg torrent peel norm cr tancareee eo
——_—_—_>_————————

  

 

 

 

u ouania 1 ud, oBIogy.

: ipesoayuny 1

   

 

    

i eRe oe

I

H
: : t
TTT e reheat ete teem ee gee Mamita tine D

4

 

a

PM AR wie minh ae aN Pe arnt nts epg EE Foon a ele

  
 
 

 

Nites SSG WERE A get hon oea tan aemarersre nes WTR ese ee me

 

\
Pa
-
: i
:
i
“ 4
i

Qel-pe8 884

  

jo Lire Busg.

  

TREET

  

332 Prosurry Unni
1511 Bayax &
Datias, Texas

  

 

 
 

7 wane ea ttn serene

 

 
74-0000

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

 

 

 

ary—
January

Januar

 

BA de.
~

month of.

 

he

 

‘Cas
por _... Services rendered.

RECIB1 de
la suma de

OuaNiG Od o8!0a ay oay | |

[ |
: 1
TIES Aer te A mE te athe eed Np Rd

 

ia

   

      

 

 

 

 

 

s
be
Ors
&
ss
~~,
od
wm
j
4
i
t

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

i
|

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

oo

 

 

 

 

oct Dea Ineo femmes Nate

ESAS VR ENSSea grt tna pcm amee ce meaner cated enssniee orcas pion et tr er

 
 

 

104-10215-10215

 

 

a

RRs

Soest

ae eae seem ne An ate ne ing pn entrant AEC,

 

 

 

 

     

  

Mre, Argentina C, Crozier A-11 937 507
Admitted to the US. as an immigrant: March 12, 1960

Typer O-1 Ports SNA (San Ontanio, Tex.)
Date of Birth: Warch 15, 1915

Received FOREIGN.ADDRESS AND OCCUPATION INDEX CARD ..(Bustget Bureay, To, 43-2390)

and Dept of Justice ID card Form No. 1-151 - thru my home address at Longmont
Colorado about MazeH 12 April 1960,
Index Card filled and mailed on 19 April 1960,
 

 

 

 

 

 

069
Cash.

 

 

 

0
RECIBI de ...Ca
fa suma de

 

cy.

  

 

 

 

 
     

Sonn ee ee ere

    

 

 

 

 

 

O¥SNIC YoOd oginaY

 

 

TMPAREl Goresz * . 5

 

teal Si hd ee aa, clan oF

ES Vd ACK

nae

   

 

    

 

 

wena neg

    
  

 

ore /6 FE FY

SER da SOAS gy Rie ri tn HSH apetn en

 

 

 

 

7:

ae

PT mig 2

 

TPR ee

 

 

 

 

 

 
74-0000

 

  

BIOGRAPHICAL: Consuelo Felicia CORDERO Caldceron
en ee eNO Calceron

    

2
i
§
f
é
|
| From to Place : Employment Employer Address
: Kanicurist — .
| 2 Jan 57 20 May 57 San Jose, C.R. Salon BORDALLO Juan BORDALLO 62 entre Av 3 = 5
: 20 May 1. July 57 Havana, Cuba Unemployed.
2 July 13 April 58 San Jogze, C.R. Salon BORDALLO Juan BORDALLO 62 entre Av 3-5
14 Apr 58 July 58 160 Main St. Unemployed.
Quincy 69, Mase. : : ;
July 58 27 Dec 58 Mexico City Salon Moderno Esperanza HERRERA Br Abyarp, 114

27 Deo 58 Mar 59 180 Main St. Unemployed,
: '. Quincy 69, Mass,

Har 59 17 Mar 60 550 Riverside Dr.Student et Wilfrea Acadeny ~- 1657 Broadway 5let
. . New York 27, N.Y. .

- also employed at Glamour Cut, 353 E. 204.S8t., 9%
. Bronx, N.Y, .

also employed at Ciro's Coffiurg , Lexinzton av
‘ 9let and Gena,
also employed at Jacques Beauty Salon, Inc, a 1
160 West 55th Street, W.7. ; oy

21 Mar 60 to date 226 Burgess Ave Ten:orarily unemploged,
Alexandria, Va. :

 
