‘oa tort f-10066

 

read
eo ‘
°

SECRET
Daniel L. CARSWELL

1. ‘he following U.S. documentation was prepared by TSD/IB in elias as indicated:

New York Driver's License

Pennsylvania Birth Certificate

Social Security Card

Reserve Officers Association Membership Card.
American Association of Engineers Membership Card
United States Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance Card
International Certificate of Vaccination —

 

a. The residence, | . | New York, is a multiple
dwelling unit and was provided by Central Cover. This address is shown in the New
York Driver's License, Reserve Officers Association Membership Card, U.S. &

G. Insurance Card, and International Certificate of Vaccination.

b. The Reserve Officers Association Membership Card shows that CARSWELL
is a Captain in the USAFR. CARSWELL stated ‘to TSD/TB’ that his documents
should show that he is single. —

e. The American Association of Engineers Membership Card is an existing
Organization. The address of the Association is listed as 8 South Michigan
Avenue, Chicego, Illinois.

a. The International Certificate of Vaccination vas prepared by the
Agency Immunization Branch and shows that CARSWELL was vaccinated by Rolla
R. Wolcott, Medical Officer USPHS Outpatient Clinic, 67 Hudson St. New York
13, New York.

e. The place of employment which CARSWELL obtained from Central Cover
was not shown on any of the above documents. However, he was told by Central
Cover that he has worked for VACHUTA ASSOCIATES since May 1960 as a
production manager. ; .

2. TSD/IB provided CARSWELL with information-instruction briefs which
explained how he normally would have obtained his documentation.

3. When purchasing his ticket to Cuba, CARSWELL would have been required to fill
out two copies of a Cuban Identity/Disembarkation Cari (Tarjeta de Identidead). One
copy of the Tarjeta is picked up by Cuban Immigration Authorities upon landing in Cuba,
and the other copy is retained by him until he leaves Cuba at which time he has to ~
surrender it to Immigration officers. The Tarjeta contains the following infommtion on
the individual: :

Reme Occupation Address during stay in Cuba
Nationality Point of Enbarketion Tourist, Transient, Resident
Country of Birth Carrier -~ or Immigrant.

Age Flight Number

Sex Date of Arrival

Maritel Status Permanent Address

SECRET
