 

1 EEL GRCAR ASR eoUpR Ro ef ame RIOR TUR AE Mam EERO oO nee A RY Hrthnire Seven tinnienceeeeie ces cee cee te ace ee

 

3. The undersigned got in touch with Varona only after having ;

the go-shesd sign froa from C/vED end discussion the matter with
be/wa/s, cwz/4/Security, Martha Tharpe and Prank BERDER.

AZ

 

 

   

 

>
ra :
4 : '
3 !
4

:

RETURN TO CIA

4 Background Use Only
_4. Do Not Reproduce

i
=

~
 

‘4-f0167-40378 :

 

»

 

 

cin oye weber

anh

 

sete net Seat wigan,

i
F

MEMORAIIOM FOR TH2 RECORD
SUBISCT: Contact with Tony Yarona

1. The undersigned vas advised by WH/l/Security on the
morning of 7 July that Tony Varone had called asking to speak
| with Prenk BENDER. Verona is in Washing*on where ne is stay-
ing et the Roosevelt Hotel, Decatur 2-6800, room 707. He will
reerin in Washiogton for three or four days. .

2 The undersigned vas able to reach Varona by sterile
telezbene at about 16:15. ‘the undersigned gave his name as
Raynocd S. Clark - who is a friend of Frenk HENDER-end indicated
that Verona might teli the udersigned the seme things he would
tell Frank BENDER.

3- Varona brought up the following four points: a

a. He inquired es to the state of recruiting and as
to whet vas taxing place in connection with the Cuban
situation, presumably froa a military point of view.

be. He said that he wished to get in touch with General
fuylor, vnereupon the undersigned told him that tne metnod
of doing that vould be through Mr. Goodwin.

@. Ee referred to e rurported offer by the United :
States to take care of hinself and his fanily while he was °
in the United States ant tiAt‘he had not received payment, ~
the undersigned understood ,for WB last month. -

a. In general, he wondered whether the U.S. was going |

to do anything about Cuba or not, and he sald that he had ¢
talked with Goodwin and that nothing had been resolved.

a With the exception of answering as to the means of getting

in toech with General Taylor, the undersigned stated that he knew
wery little about the aatters vhich Varona brought up, but that he
would pass on the information to others. ‘

pesae
onal

 

men GACH, Sa aie

 

Es

 
