jane t

of President Kennedy, In particular 1 wonder if you would
comment on the disclosures dealing with CIA involvement in

‘the assassination as well as specifically the following

quote:

. ‘it is fair to say that not much in the way of Caribbean
intrigue went on in those days without the CIA, or at
least CIA operatives having a finger in it. Thus the
allegations of Gary Underhill, a weapons expert and some-
times CIA ‘unperson' may be quite plausible,.., Immediately
after the assassination, a distraught Underhill told
friends that a semi-autonomous CIA clique which had been
profiteering in narcotics and gun-running was implicated
in the assassination, Several months later, Underhill
was found dead of a bullet wound in the head; although
police decided it was self-inflicted, the circumstances
indicated otherwise."

The article, now on the newsstands, also retails a story
concerning a man presently in the Springfield, Mo., psyche
ward to the effect that CIA was in on the assassination,

"L vealize that you are no longer connected with the agency

and any comment which you might make to me would be in
confidence, I am most interested in whether you have heard
similar rumors or can verify these stories or others. 1 have
heard and seen documented stories dealing with former CIA .

- employees who retired in the field only to go into lucrative

business relations within the countries of former assignment,

‘similar to the way certain Generals and Admirals.are absorbed ,

into Large defense industries,.,but nothing as wild as the
RAMPARTS disclosures dealing with illegal activities of payro
employees, .

Ll appreciate greatly any help you might be able to give me
on the above, As I am seldom at the above phone number it is

probably best to send any communications you would care to make |

by letter, That way I will be sure to get it and in all
probablity it will be most convenient for both of us.

With warm regards,

Ay "0 .
Ninn tL Midagare
Thomas De Baggio

Lhe

‘
:
'
i
:
|
|
i
i
|
yaya

ORNL RETUANTO Cla

- Background) Use Only

. « Do Not itsproduce
combining the FBI with Santa Claus with the British East India Company
with Barnum & Bailey and the Ringling Bros. Circus. And before we
get lost in the derision that this implies, let's take pause on two
very positive possibilities. One, that this may not be such a bad
idea at that. It may take its form among the great diversions.”

WASHINGTON INDEPENDENT - #52440h (De BAGGIO, Thomas)

Thomes De BAGGIO, editor of the WASHINGTON INDEPENDENT, a newspaper
described as part of the Underground Press Syndicate, was brought to your
attention in May 1967 we CIA employee,. who resides in
the same apartment house Ase BAGGIO and who was concerned about
meeting De BAGGIO because of the nature of the paper published by De

BAGGIO. OS conducted inquiries on De BAGGIO and furnished the results to ,

Mr. GOODVIN's office who had had a request from De BAGGIO to verify
GOLENIEWSET's CIA employment. At the time De BAGGIO called GOODWIN's
office he mentioned he knew Herman KIMSEY but had not seen him recently.
GOODWIN's office gave De BAGGIO a "No comment" reply. Of interest is
Mr. SAYLE's memo for the record dtd 6 June. 1967 in which he speculates -
that Capital Hill editor for the WASHINGTON INDEPENDENT, Charles BOISE,
may be identical to Carl BLOISE, new Washington correspondent for

the PEOPLE's WORLD and reputed stringer for SUNDAY RAMPARTS.

Also, of note is the fact that De BAGGIO appeared on the sane
Barry FARBER show as noted above for Guy RICHARDS.

SPECTRUM

OS indices are negative on SPECTRUM. ‘(NOTE: Speculation would be
that SPECTRUM may be a new name for the WASHINGEON INDEPENDENT. This

could be verified.)
af Zz
Oy way tle Lx Le

Sarah K. Hall

Atts. as Stated

 
 

roasts] or, —

ia

REG

iat
peso
4

   

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, LEOB/SRS

SUBJECT: Ltr dtd 27 Jan 68 from Thomas De BAGGIO to Mr.
Herman KIMSEY .

KIMSEY, Herman - 12)

The Director of Security must be cognizant of the contents of
Herman KIMSEY's OS file as evidenced by memoranda over his signature
of recent date, the most recent being a claim for retroactive medical
compensation dated December 1967. File is attached.

. CGOLENTHYSKI, Michael)-.¢. #240003, Vols. I through X _.

  

 

Review of Vots. .IX and X of the OS file on Michael GOLENIEWSKI
reveals that the Director of Security is cognizant of latest develop-
ments in Subject's chaims against the Agency. The latest memorandum
in the file dated 3 August 1967 recommended that a final stand be taken.
with GOLENTEWSKI; that no further efforts be made to placate him and
observed that the news media is no longer listening to his pretension
to be the Crow Prince Alexi ROMANOFF. Vols. IX and X attached.

RICHARDS, Guy ~ #488

Se

Guy RICHARDS is the author of IMPERIAL AGENT: THE GOLENIEWSKI-
ROMANOV CASH~published in November 1966. Attached is a summary of
information on Guy RICHARDS prepared on 15 December 1965 at the tine
the Agency became aware of his forthcoming book on GOLENTEWSKT.
Attached also is a memo to the DCI dtd 10 November 1966 which is an
analysis of the book.

WASHINGTON INDEPENDENT - #52heh (RICHARDS, Guy)

Reference file contains a transcript of the Barry FARBER Show over
Station WOR-AM, New York, on 3 May 1967 entitled "Journalists Discuss
CIA NAD Espionage". RICHARDS was queried regarding his book on
GOLENIEWSXI and nis views on the CIA. RICHARDS? replies were critical
of the Agency. Quote RICHARDS: “Now, let's take a look, for example,
at the Central Intelligence Agency in the year 1967. If history vere
ever to be made of the great American bureaucracy, I think it quite
correct to say that they would pause end psy homage to a remarkeble
fact, namely, that in the form of the Central Intelligence Agency, there
hes suddenly been created and evolved a great idea, namely, the idea of

i

set

  

  
14-0000 fd

oe.

cOPY COPY copy COPY copy

 

 

 

20 March 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR : Office of Security
CI/DDP.

SUBJECT : Thomas De Baggio
"Washington Independent"

1. An individual identifying himself as Thomas
De Baggio of !The Washington Independent" telephone?
this office on 20 March in an effort to determine if
we could confirm that:

Se a. Col. Goleniewski had worked for the Agency
which now is holding some of his belongings without
which he cannot prove that he is a Romanov.

‘b. Herman Kinsey "former Chief of Research
and Analysis for CIA" is working with Goleniewski
because Kinsey knowa he is Romanov."

2. De Baggio said he knows Kinsey but has not seen
him recently.

3. Our answer to above was the explanation that we
neither confirm nor deny published statements concerning
us, whether true or false, favorable or derogatory, because
of our responsibilities under the National Security Act.

4. De Baggio gave hia telephone number as. 532-4499. An
individual of the same name and with the same phone number is
listed in the directory at 6100 - 26th N. Arlington, Virginia.

5. Neither this office nor the Library has any record
{ De Baggio or "The Washington Independent." Any information
known to ‘addressefwould be appreciated.

{ : Joseph C. Goodwin
| Assistant to the Director

 
vera00go 7 v

      
      
 

 

;SPELTRUM = ane

1047 31st Street NW

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

   

Washington, D.C. 20007 a. JANUARY 27, 1968
Washington, D.C. “— ;

seen

Mr. Herman Kimsey
Hotel Vivian

1723 "G" Street NW
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr, Kimsey:

On a recent trip to Washington, | and I

had the pleasure of discussing topics of mutual interest,
One of them was the Romanoff case and of course your name
was mentioned, .

It was | feeling that an article should be
written about Romanoff for Reader's Digest. But he .
cautioned that no material could be included which would
put CIA in a bad light. He said this was what kept Guy
Richards’ book, IMPERIAL AGENT, from being condensed by

.the magazine, |. said it was his belief that the

Digest would not print articles which were anti-government
in its view and any article which was critical of CIA was

seen to be anti-governmerc by Digest editor: He suggested
that with your backgrounc and contacts you: ...t be able
to aid me in tne preparation of such an art... :. the
extent of gurding me through the CiAwrough .... 22 of the
case,

I have not yet begun the preparation of such an article,
I do not believe that | _ . had your permission in
offering your advice, I would appreciate your comments
on the idea,

As L have only talked with you briefly during the t1.1e

that I edited and published the Washington INDEPIND=i.Tw=<
and woite several stories dealing with the Rome-. “I case--
perhat. it is not fair to ask any favors of you zc all, or
impinge on your valuable time with long letters requiring
lengthy replies. * Buc I wonder if you, with your intimate
knowledge of CIA functions, would care to comment on recent
disclosures made in RAMPARTS Magazine, These disclosures,

  

- which were much on my mind as well as: > deal

with Mc. Jim Garrison's investigation into the assassination

 

 
  
   

 
