 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
     
   
  
      

~ oo

DOMESTIC COLLECTION L. SION
Intelligence Information Report

This exowriot coatang hrentet oMectog the Nafcanl Selene of te Usted atv: witha
te warrirg of ta Smpcncgs town THe 12, OSC. Sete 772 ond 795, te eonemasee
or erveisnon of whit in cxy museer to on wovthoised perme is poweted by lew.

COUNTRY Hondorss.

BCD REPOAT NO.

 

 

SUBJECT Construction and Expansion of Sugar , DATE DISTR. 97 Sie
| Milis/activiries of Cuban Infiltrared 4
Guerrillas and Agivators. : NO. PAGES ba :
a ; | REFERENCES DCD Case 63307 i :
: . : i

 

 

 

1. The Govermment of Honduras (GOH) recently obtained a US$12 aillion loan
fron the Central 4cerican Bank of Econexic Integration for the expansion
of the Azucarera del Sur sugar mill located in Choluteca, Bouduras. In

addition, the GOH has purchased rvo sugar mills, one in Brazil and the
‘lether-ia .Puerto.Rico.. The mills, bought at a cost -f US$i5 million fede : . .
will be dismantled and shirred te Hoadures, where they will be reassendled ue ?
with the aid of foreign tectmicians. Also, another sugar mill is to be
builc. in the comtry at a cost of USS20 million; hovever, the Japanese
“Mitsobishi enterprise will be the major stockholder, while Honduran private
‘businessmen will bold a aincrity interest. This. is part-of an expansion~
and ucdernization rrogram by the GOH with hopes of obtaining a larger
share of the world's sugar market.

   

i
fo
i
|
i
i
i
i
a
H
i
Hi
:
i

“. 2. The GOH fs somewhat concerned with the infiltration through Mexico and
: Guatenala of Comenist agitators and guerrilla trainiag persemiel. These
Liss, mostly Cubans who recained in the country after they had
arrived allegedly to assist the GOH following Hurricane Fifi, are causing
growing concern as a result of sever2l uprisings and invasion of private
'.. Bands by peasants in several parts of the country. The Cubans, who stayed
$a the comrry folloving Hurricane Fifi and others who bave arrived i
‘elandestinely since that time, reportedly are training leftist nilitants
and syapathizers among the Horduran peasants. The agitators and guerrilla
» Gastructots are taxing advantage of growing unemployment and the overall
poor national economic situation to stir the peasants fato activity against .
- the severnment.

 

 

    

  

 

 

stipe veterans: ag) eaten aa
i ee,

 

 

; woe rr YES | [s = | " Gede Re P-E-D-E-N-T- I-A |
- 4. 2) €QNTROLLED DISSEM
D1? eaahivet we coments for Se dinwmmoton ond ore of Via inteigercg oid inteRijente theres im thin rapa The Bawunoeen :
_ Bin dovanart a Laved te Shan ond actos dity winery sericanel ~ithe te i'eigente compares of Se LES water ogeecion ons

Serene gc cluntonesbeie prireenieniags
on. oi epee oa Boe

     
 
   

  

   
14-0000

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Seer ee Bat hciaep nner as oma

 

ere

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

stews

 

 

ory

 

 

 

eed

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

ea et tn nn estan see Aste Senet TE tnt RI ROE IE NSF aA

LEATHER: Mane

fF Vile at rae, Suitland, td., (Cheek if sppliccble)

Tae passport file of SUBJECT in: ~f nares as shor chore; or Jf under)

 

 

 

the variation | : . was reviewed at
the ‘Passport GQifice, Deparnocent of State, with the following results: ;
BIST: Oa 5 —_ 35 eee 5 ' at cel ate . we

PASSPORTS ISSUZD: :
: ap. ne: oe - = ”
Host “recent~# he Peete. > issued oa 79) at

for (tire) ps Ft - travel to or residence in 7.7 - a

-_ . “- Pte tote te we

for. purpose of Kine

SPOUSE: Name 3 born «{ )

“C)- » Married ceavey) and

2

marrisge not terciaated; er terminated on _ eo °

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rever Married [7

 

 

 

 

Bora. «()

Z£ foreign born, U. S. citizen: fof Yes ff to fF 7  beceased

 

 

KOTHER: Kane

Born at

 

‘YE foreign born, U.S. citisen: f of Yes ff so ff Deceased

 

 

Qaoe - or 2 ae ae
PERMANENT RESIDE-CE: Ss fo. 7 Lea te
t

RAILING LOERESS =

 

: . s
teen dgectecasses ses seeMeseensress nests

Previoas - [ —/ Over ~ “ foe

seotiam en Rie f

       

ox in : iediegtes serif lente: aol Talyss

or variat

  
 

 

 

emma perenne TTT we eee mar aon
f.
1

a : _

a : ‘

Es -

    

\

 

 

 
‘04-t0i6s-10084, =
i}

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

seatmamapronaman ey 7 a real Sat ae Or oI seater mmm te Ce

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
