74-0000

   

TRDFH9405. , : ae
22 September 1965 : an . co
_ Page IX . :

    
      
  
 
  
 

5 into his own oversimplified exp
Questions on wh

        
 

    

  

  
 
 

1

) -  Bhere did no us B att culty during test preparation :
: _ with the Subject, however, Subject*s com and of-Engiish can not be- rated as- . st
: oficient, Ik is also possible that Subject might have been i
jore-than te language al permitted or failing to recog- :

 

Distribution;
Orig- Klipa, Coleman, Gaynor

1- Coleman
T- CL/OA
1- WH/C
1+ File

oS/IRD/DGA:dcr

 

\jpd
 

were

~

IRD 409405
22 September 1965
Page Vill

American Intelligence ? No.

Is ther : anything - important ia your: bac)
us abot that qould be used against you for bla
gevernment or intclligence service? No,

 

 

Arc you an ugent of the Castro Gover:

Does CUBELA have.contacts with Cuban Intelligence? Yes.

Is CUBELA an agent of Cuban Intelligence? Nos.

Have you told us the complete truth about your relationship with CUBELA? | a

Yes, :
. ; ; |

Have you evcr been asked to work for any intelligence service besides us? |

No, :

Have you ever worked for or cooperated with any intelligence service
besides American? No,

During two final tests including these questions, Subject reacted pro-
minently but inconsistently on most questions, and exhibited overall emotional
disturbance throughout the tests, An additional question which had been in-
cluded, "Is there a CUBELA-group?" wus not answered by the Subject during
testing. Before testing Subject had stated that he understooa the question and
had agreed to answer No to the question according to discussions on the topic,
Later, Subject explained that he could not answer the question, The question
was followed up by, "Does CUBELA have many friends who support him against
Castro?" on which Subject answered Yes, according to agreement, Regarding

the smuggling qucstion, Subject appeared quite concerned and asked for an explanation

of the question three times, whereupon he indicated that he understood the quest-
ion perfectly. There was only a slight disturbance on the question during test-
ing which cid not appear significant to the interrogator, Subject was not interr-
ogated on this question or asked any questions about smuggling,

It, During various post-test discussion periods, Subject was asked whether
he understood the questions asked or whether he had experienced any difficulties
in comprehension during testing, Subject generally retorted that he understood

’ the questions and knew just what they meant; in addition, Subject would sometimes

emeee

Py

 

enna!

    
 
 

 

arenes

‘but he did show reactions on the question, "Have you tol

 

 

 

IRD Food’ : .
22 September Wes .
Page VU ;

an agent of Cuban Intelligence or Cuban Security?" Subject said that he would
answer, "No," During testing, Subject reflected reactions, on the question.

9. Subject reflected reactions during tests on the question, “Huve you
told us the complete truth about your relationship with CUBELA?" and "Have

, you deliberately attempted to hide or keeep secret from us any information
about Rolundo CUBELA?" Subject did not show reactions on the question,

“hive you told us the complete truth about your relationship with CARRILLG?",
id CARRILLO about

your connection with American Intelligence?" Answer: “No! Subject was
interrogated on the basis of the reactions, but furnished no pertinent inform-
atiun, Subject insisted that he had not told CARRILLO about his connection
with us, and that he had told us everything about his relationship with CUBELA,
Subject stated that he considered CUBELA his friend, but he could not classify
CARRILLO as a friend. Subject was asked whether CARRILLO was friendly .to the —
Subject and whether they were both on amicable terms, and Subject replied ©

that these statements were truce

10, Ina final test, the following questions were asked:

Have you ever reported information about American Intelligence activi-
ties or represcatatives to anyone you have not told us about? No.

Have you told any intelligence service about your connection with us?
No.
Have you told the Castro Government about your connection with us?
No. . : .

Do you have any secret connection with the Castro Government? No.

Do you have any secret connection with any Cuban Intelligence or
Security organization? No.
Do you have any secret agreement with CUBELA that you have not told

us about? No.

Have you ever engaged in smuggling activities for any government or

intelligence service ? Now

Didany intelligence service instruct you to Work oF cooperate with .

 
 

qrrmow merpme ia

IRD #9405
22 September 1965
Page V

these sources.

—

4, Subject was interrogated on the basis of pronounced reactions on

the question, “Have you ever deliberat

ely reported false or misleading in-
2" Subject \stated that

formation to any American Intelligence representative

he had never reported false or misleading i

nformation on any assigninent or

task, including ‘hrs missions to Mexico and Switzerland, and concerning his

activity vis-a-vis CUBBLA,

5, Subject stated that he had not been approached to work for any other
intelligence service besides American, despite reactions on this question.

6, Regarding his name,

Subject stated that he has used the name Carlo
6, he used the name Carlos LOPEZ

TEPEDINO Gonzalez since 1946, Before 194
his true name from birth. During testing, there were no re

covering these two facts,

actions to questions

but there were reactions on the question, "Have you
Answer: "No," Subject

ever used another name to hide your true identity?"
stated that he had never used any name to hide his true identity and that he

under stoo

d the meaning of the question to refer to any secret or intelligence

use of another name that was unkuown to us,

“7, Subject reacted promi
During the pre-test discussion,
ing questions. Does CUBELA have a p
that there is no plan that he knows of,

nently en various questions dealing with CUBELA,
the interrogator had asked the Subject the follow-
lan to overthrow Castro? Subject replied
and he does not consider CUBELA's various
Asked how he might des-

activities as constituting a plan for such an objective,
cribe CUBELA's attitude toward Castro, Subject s
to the Castro government and that Subject felt that
overthrow Castro, rather than any plan. When Subjec

considered CUBELA's group to be a ge
group,
group he ever had, Aske
CUBELA as friends, or promised him sp)
be counted on for support if he were eve

BELA was opposed
CUBELA had a "desire" to

t was asked whether he
nuine anti-Castro and anti- Communist
have a group and that he knew of no
uals who supported.
port in any undertaking, or who might
"desire" to

aid that CU

Subject replied that CUBELA cid not
d how he would describe any individ

r to follow through with his
did not know what to call them,

overthrow Castro, Subject shrugged and said he

that he did not think CUBELA had any

control over all his friends or supporters,
crisis or that CUBELA

that he did not even think they would all help CUBELA in any

could depend on any of them in any und

ertaking. He said that a group as such was
8 following as a group of

no.i-existent and that he could not even regard CUBELA'

 

 
 

 

 

 

IRD #09405
22 September 1965
Page VE

” friends, an organization of any kind, a social circle, a band of sympath-
izers, ctc, Subject also stated that he had complete confidence in CUBELA
and would trust him in whatever he did, .

During testixig, Subject reacted on the question regarding CUBELA's
desire to overthrow Castro. Subject stated during interrogation that he had
no doubt at all regarding CUBELA's desire to overthrow Castro and he could
not understand the reason for his reaction on such a question. Subject re-
peuted that he hud complete confidence in CUBELA, .

.. ‘Subject was also interrogated 6n his reactions on the question, Do you
‘believe that CUBELA is anti-Castro and anti-Communist?" Answer: "Yes,".

. Subject said that.in his opinion, CUBELA was against the,-Castro government, -
but that hé felt that CUBELA.admired Castro, He said that in spite of CUBELA's
strong admiration for Castro, CUBELA was still opposed to him and to his

methods,

8, During discussion of questions before testing, Subject. was asked
thé question, "Docs CUBELA have any connection with Cuban Intelligence
or Cuban Security?" Subject replied, "yes," Asked to explain, Sabject stated
that CUBELA definitely had an “inside track" with Cuban intelligence and sec~
urity clements, knew quite a few intelligence people, worked with them closely,
had daily contacts with them, knew what was going on in intelligence circles,
etc, Subject was asked whether he meant that CUBELA was working for or
cooperating with Cuban Intelligence or Security elements, Subject replied that
CUBELA, of course, had strong connections with Cuban Intelligence and was
probably cooperating with them in.various ways, Subject added that he had
to in order to gain their confidence and to be able to know what Cuban Intelli-
gence was doing, He also added that even though he had these connections,
he was still opposed to the Castro Government and would probably take an
opportunity to work against it, Subject said that CUBELA would not be able
to exist in Cuba ug he does today if he did not have the confidence of the Castro
Government and intelligence services. Subject was asked how he knew so well
about CUBELA's connections with Cuban Intelligence; Subject replied that CUB-
ELA had told'everyone and had told me' and "everyone knew about CUBELA's

contacts with Cuban Intelligence."

he question would not be asked as proposed,

Subject was advised that th
"Is CUBELA

and was asked what his answer would be to the following question,

SECRET

a
 

 

IRD #69405
22 September 1965
Page

security connections, relationshipt with CUBELA and CARRILLO, report-"
ing of Agency assignments and CU SELLA activities, smuggling or illegal
activities in the United States or Europe, disclosure of CLA connection to
" any intelligence service or to the Castro Government, It was suggested
that the smuggling issue not be included or stressed during current testing,
and that it should be pressed if there was any indication that Subject might
be vulnerable to blackmail or might be using his CIA connection primarily
to protect or advance his ‘own business purposes. The issue was not entered
St, into during testing. It was agreed that merely an emotional question using
ce the word"'smuggling® be inserted to draw out Subject's comments or -work
ne : . as an ‘indicator or tater a wedge into any illegal activities or exploitation
- of CIA on the part of the Subject. It is noted that such a question was
reserved until the very last test administered to the Subject so that there
would be no. risk of emotionally disturbing the Subject prematurely or

clouding the relevant intelligence issues.

CONCLUSION -

Froma technical analysis, Subject's charts exhibit a combination
of nervous tension, ‘erratic patterns, reactions, and incensistencies through-
out three separate phases of testing. The charts also show a marked increase

in emotional disturbance and tension and progressively worse reactions as
of Subject's tension and sensitivity,

testing advanced, From the standpoint

it is possible that Subject is practicing deception during testing and that his .
unusual test performance is the result of attempts to withhold pertinent 20
information in one or more relevant areas. Overall testing could not

conclusively pinpoint the reactions on all questions pertiennt as deception
reactions, and Subject's reactions are unresolved at this point, Due to i”
certain other factors which may have influenced testing, it is necessary to term ‘
this case inconclusive and incomplete, To resolve the factors, it is recom- +
mended that Subject be re-interviewed at a later date and that the interview os
be conducted in the Spanish language. It is believed that only testing in
Spanish can conclusively confirm or eliminate any indications and significant
problem areas arising from current tests. In the meantime, Subject’s
admissions in certain areas and Subject's reactions on questions of specific 1
concern to the case officer are presented in this report, although the true .
significance of the cited reactions may not be conclusive until a test in z
Spanish can be administered.

 

 

 

preniree ears
ny
 

 

$04-10183-10440)_

Py

St ot

prmmerwemn  *

RETURN TO GIA

Background Use Onl a -
Do Not Repreriies Y. ~ f beh; /

 

Tro 2 WH/C/FI 22 September 1965

FROM 2: Interrogation Research Division

SUBJECT :FEPEDINO, Carlos a IRD #69405

Ss,

 

2 #211900

"tee

IDENTIFYING DATA

Subject is a forty year old married male whois a-citizen of Cuba,
He has been cooperating with the Agency since about 1959, without receiv-
ing salary and being paid only expenses incurred in operational assignments,
Subject has been residiag in the United States since March 1961, Subject is
being utilized in’@ Covert capacity as an Flasset, Subject's file number is
201-211900,

PROCEDURE _ ,
ae . : o3

Subject was given a polygraph interview at the request of Harry WEBSTER, )
case officer, WH/C/FI, The interview was held at a covert site in Washington,
D. C, on 27 August 1965, The interview was conductéd in the English lang-

:uage, in which Subject appears to have limited and seemingly adequate pro-

ficiency, Subject sometimes expressed difficulty in uaderstanding certain

words or phraseology i in revicwing test questions, but generally stated that

he understood definitions and meanings for testing purposes, Throughout

testing, Subject claimed that he understood the test questions; during a .
discussion at the end of the interview, Subject stated that he found himself

during tests translating the interrogator's questions into Spanish for himself ,
and then provicing his answers, ever though he had heard the questions before --
testing and had arrived at a judgment on them, =~

PURPOSE :

It was requested by the case officer that polygraph testing attempt to
determine the following: (1) Any connection with another intelligence service,

-eSpecially Cuban; (2) Whether Subject has told the truth about the nature of a

his relationship with Rolando CUBELA and has been reporting the truth to us fa
ubout CUBELA and CUBELA's activities; (3) Whether Subject has told the

truth sbout his relationship with CARRILLO, Cuban Ambaseador in Paris.

In addition, it was requested that testing include the specific issues requested an
for coverage in an attachment to a contact report dated 28 June 1965, These
issues include Subject's true name, Communist connections, intelligence or

i

 

 

 
es.

i ae

 

4
2
,

 

 

prance coe

ae

 

1iwD #69405
Page U1 Lo
22 September 1965

The factors present during this interview that might have affected
technical testing are as follows: .

(1) Subject claimed to be sick, to have been feeling ill since the pre-
vious evening and to have debated with himself whether to fly to
“Washington for the interview that same morning; co

{2) Subject claimed to be “in a hurry" because of “business problems"
and stipulated that the interview should not take too long so that
he could catch an early plane back to New York;
: - a

(3) Subject has a rather limited command of the English language and
there are indications that a language problem may have been en-
countered during testing. -

On the basis of these factors, Subject has been temporarily given the
benefit of the doubt in testing, but by no means has been given a clean bill
of health on the basis of current test performance; inasmuch as the case is
considered incomplete, arrangements should be made for a follow-up poly-
graph interview in the Spanish language at a later date,

DETAILS

1, Specifically, Subject did not reflect consistent reactions on the
general question of working for another intelligence service, but he did reflect
reactions on specific questions of having a secret connection with the Castro
Government, telling another intelligence service about his connection with us,
having a secret connection with any Cuban Intelligence or security organization,
reporting information about American Intelligence activities or representatives
to anyone unknown to us, giving false or misleading information to any American
Intelligence representative, and being approached to work for another intelligence

service,

Subject further reflected extreme emotional disturbances on many quest-
ions regarding his relationship with CUBELA and his knowledze of CUBELA's
activities or sentiments, He also reacted on questions dealing with his relat-
ionship with CARRILLO,

On questions that used the words such as “hiding,"' "concealing" (inform-

 

 

 

 
 

pertinent question was changed accordingly to, "Have you told anyon
“net know about about your connection with Ame

‘is obvious that.ice qualified question is vague ana technic

 

IRD Hu d4ey
20 September 10s
Raye IV ‘

ation trem us), “debe riety keep seceet fromus", "scurity” incidents
breaches, cte,, “viackm , “peessage" (by au inteiligence servicc}, Sub-
gost protessed ignerince € othe terms ard attempts a’ definition and clari-~

tivation Gl Uhe meuning of questiuas Gs, these words svemed to fail.

 

 

2. Duriag Ua pre-test disenssiou, Subject was askeé the question, -
“Bave you tuld av. one absut your connection watt. Ameri :an Intelligence ?™
Sabicet replied a7 ling his heed, that he definitely iia, That he had told
“many many pec, ce" As ued to identify these people, Subject stated that it
would be almos. irmpossible, because 50 many rew in New York, in Cuda,
in Europe, cic, it was puisted out to the Subject tha: the question referred to
American Litelligence and not to Americaa Gevernme:t, Subject stated that
he understood cumpletcly, Subj. ct was asked to make un effort to enumerate
some of the peuple whom he had toid about his intelligence connection, even
though he migl: iind it difacult to do, Subject then stated that he had told -
his wife, his father, anc other ret ttives about his connection withus, He
said that his uffice umpluyces in New York also xcow abeut hig connection.

He further stated rs knew, like Ricardo MADAN and Ricardo KIVAN.
He said that in Cuba there vere many people who knew, Hike Rolando CUBELA,
EL LOCO, El Mi.GO, Rab%ffo (RBElio 2), and others, He said that it was no,
seeret that he had told his f-rends about nis connection, and thar many others
simoly knew about his intelligence connection, Subject was asked whether
there was anyone he had told who should not know about his connection or whom
he had nut reported to us; capecially individuals with intelligence backgrounds,
Subject said that he assumed that Guban lstellizence may have found out or
guessed about his relationship with us, but thei he had not told them himself,

He ulso stated that he felt that the people he had told were known tous, The
e we do

rican Intelligence?" Subject

 

 

 

 

    
 

hat ot!

 

he question in this form, During
(Weiter's Commeat: It
ally unanswerable, but
in light of Subject's statements 4 need is indicated for the debriefing of the Sub-
ject on all people he has told about his intelligeace connection, Subject agreed
to provide names and details tu the case officer later in a morc lengthy meeting)

stated that he could answer in the negative on t
testing, Subject ritlected reactions on the question,

3, During later tests which included specific questions oa wheter Subject
tad told any intelligence service, the Castro Government, or CARRILLO about
his connection with us, Subject also reflected strong reactions on these questions

and was interrogated, Subject denied having revealed his conneccion to any of

 
