 

20.

SECKEEE
XQ EORN DISSEM

$- . » C5-311/00115-64

Cuba ix not, concerned wilh revolutions in European, Asian. or
African countries, it concentrates mostly on Latin American
governments. except those that maintain diplomatic relations
with Cuba. Although the department has no African interests.
Zanzibaris were’ trained tao Cuba; the arrangements were handled
outside the DGL by Fidel CASTRO himself, with the participation.

  

 

 

-of hanuel PINEERO, In addition to its guerrilla work, the
‘department. without the knowle tge of the Communint Parties or

. recruits and arranges training

groups with which it cooperates
Can-

of agents to collect information in the target countries.
didates for such intelligence agents are guerrilla warfare
trainees, or péersens proposed by the operational support depart-
ments (MO Department and the BC Suction of the SI Department --

see below). i

‘The LN Department is divided into three sections, one support’

and administrative, the other two geographical with country.
desks. \

a. Central Processing Section (Tramites), headed by Felix

+ Rafael (inu), pseudonym “Alberto,” 1s the administrative

5 office for the LN Department and the only office tn the DGI
handling travel arvangements, It plans and arranges travel
for DGI staff officers of all departments, agents, and
trainees, furnishes operational funds for travel, and makes
the actual travel reservations and provides plane tickets
for travelers. It also obtains passports in false names for
Cuban staff membeits, tssues Cuban passports in false names
to agents, and obtains visas from the Czechosluvakian Embassy,
In agent travel, it works closely with the Guban Institute
of Friendship with Peoples (Institute Cubano del Amistad con
Jos Pueblos - ICAP), which arranges some aspects of trave
for trainees. The section chief has his office in the LN
Department but works mainly frum the DGI headquarters in M
Building; his wife, Elva (tnu)}, pseudunym "Elisa," is a
typist in the LN Department, The section staff consists of
administration chief Eulogio PONS, pseudonym “Eloy"; his
assistant, pseudonym “Wenry"; an office clerk, Carmen
CARRACEDO, pseudonym "Mercedes"; two drivers, Juan PEREZ,
pseudonym "Raul," and pseudonym "Manuel"; and Felix Rafael's
secretary, pseudonym “Norma,"and assistant, Draco or Draque

ESCALANTE, pseudonym "Ciro

 

 

 

b. Central American Section (Scecion Central) is supervised by

Major Guillermo JIMENEZ, who is head oT the Department of
Information Services (SI) and acts as advisor to the entire

LN Department. The section organizes and directs guerrilla
activities in the Central American and Caribbean countries.
its case ofiicers frequently travel to taeir operational areas
to direct activities and arrange for funds, arms supplies,

and other support to agents; agent meetings are often held
ina third country, especaally Mexico. Operations are handled
on a case basis, each case being a scparate project starting
with selection and training of agents and continuing through
guerrilla warfare action in the target area. The section

has the tollowing area desks:

(1) Costa Rica, headed by Oscar GARCIA Manzano, pseudonym
“Orlando.”

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM
14-0000

@)

(3)

“@

(3)
(6)
(7)

-@)

 

-~ 2 - US-311/00315-64

Dominican Republic. headed by Reberto Lazaro
SANTIESTEBAN Casanova. pseudonym “Rafael.” who was
formerly at the United Nations in New York and was
arrested for attempting sabotage.

   

Guatemala. headed by Norberto HERNANDEZ. pseudonym
"Noel." assisted by an apprentice, (fnu) PENA. pseudonym
“Lorenzo,” _As noted above. the Guatemalan operations
are considered among the must successful in Central

America:

Haiti. headed by Andres ARMONA Ramos, pseudonym “Ernesto,”
formerly commercial attaché in Mexico but not Likely to ©
receive ancther field assignment because of problems
during his service there.

Honduras, headed by Felix SUAREZ, pseudonym “Santiestetan."

Nicaragua.
Panama, headed by Fernando RAVELO, pseudonym "Fermin."

El Salvador, “

South America Section (Seccion Sur) has no regular chief, but
the DGI deputy. CHAIN, directs its activities. It deals with
guerrilla activities in South American countries. There are

desks for:

Q)
(2)

(3)

(4)
(5)
(6)

(7)

Argentina. headed by Oreste VALERA.

British Guiana, headed by (fnu) GINES, pseudonym "Gil,"
assisted by two apprentices. pseudonyms “Jorge” and
“Rudy.”

Colombia. headed by Raul VIERA Linares, pseudonym "Gomez,"
formerly stationed in Bolivia, from which he returned

at the end of 1963, but unlikely to receive another for-
eign assignnent because of difficulties in the field.

Ecuador, headed by pseudonym “Julio.”
Paraguay. headed by pseudonym "Salvano."

Peru, headed by “(fnu) JOA. pseudonym “Jordan,” assisted
by an apprentice, pseudonym "Bernabe,"

Venezuela, headed by Alfredo ALMEIDA Garcia, pseudonym
"Aranja.” «no was in Venezuela when it broke relations
with Cuba and was later involved in an attempted re-
covery of documents from a plane crash in Peru, which
led to his expulsion from Chile. His assistants are
Benito (in pseudonym “Saul,” and pseudonym “Gary;
his secretary is pseudunym “Marcia.” The DGI considers
its Venezuelan operations the most successful in South
America.

  

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM
 

18,

19.

; NEUPET
. NG FORD DISSE

~ To» CS-342/00115-64

with him throughout his aetive Conure. t does not deal with
members ot Cornmunist Parties or leftist organizations. nor with
persons in contact with of fietal Cuban persenret abroad, who are
the responsibilities of other departments: the mechanics of com-
munication are also handled elsewhere, Agents are stationed in
all countries where Cuba is interested in collect ing information,
penctrating the government, or conducting subversive operations,
in Europe and. Central and South America, . The department has no
agents in Asian or African countries, and no agents are known in
the Untted States, 13 Agents once trained usually remain perma-
nently abroad, If they are in an area where there is a legal
field station, they do not normally have any. contact with its

-mombers., -

The [ltegalt Department is divided into three maih geographical

sections, cach subdivided into country desks, as follows:

a. Section A, Europe, chief unknown; under this section there

are desks for all countries.

b, Section B, Central America, chief Ramon Cesar CUENCA Montoto
(no pseudonym), who was formerly stationed in Mexico. His
deputy is pseudonym "Mike." Country desks include Costa
Rica, Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Haiti. Honduras, Mexico,
Nicaragua. Panama, and El Salvador. Section personnel in-
cluded officers Fernando PASCUAL Perez, pseudorym "Alejandro";
Saul GONZALEZ, pseudonym "Denis"; Gustavo (inu). pseudonym
"Lino"; Paulino (inu), pseudonym "Mauricio"; Rafael GUZMAN,
pseudonym whetandoni (fnu) RELOBA, pseudonym “Wilfredo”;
apprentices (practicantes) Miguel Angel (1nu), pseudoaym
"Miguel't; Omar (int), pseudonym "Oscar"; Raul GONZALEZ, ~
pseudonym “Olexis"; and Francisco (Inu), pseudonym “Tino.”
Their desk assignments were net known,

e. Section C, South America, chief unknown, Country desks in-
clude Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador,
Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay. Venezuela, and Sritish Guiana. Two
officers in the section were pseudonym “Ulises. formerly
perhaps in Chile, and pseudonym “Juan Carlos." possibly
formerly in Peru. Both were returned toa Cuba for discipli-+
nary reasons; they may have been assigned to the desks for
the countries where they had served

The National Liberation Department (Departamento de Liberacion

Nacional - SERS the department has no chief, officers Wishing

advice Consult Major Guillermo JIMENEZ, pseudonym “Javier," who

is head of the Central American Section of the department. or,
in his absence, po directly to Manuel PINEIRO or his deputy,

CHAIN, The department offices cecupy two two-story buildings at

6610 and 612 7th Avenue, between G6th and 7Oth Streets, in the

Ampliacion de Almendares section of the Miramar district of

Habana, The department, which is one of the largest in the DGI,

ds responsible for promotion and direction of revolutionary ac-

tivity, including guerrilla warfare. It acts mostly in coopéera~
tion with Communist Parties or organized leftist groups, but
conducts some operations untlaterally without local coordination.

Among its activities are the recruitment, arrdngement of travel

to and from Cub and training in Cuba, and the direction and

support of yuerrilla fighters in its target countries. Since

’
SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM
 

14,

15.

17...

 

CS-GLL-OOL1S-64 -

~6-

American countries usualiv goes first te Mexico and is ferwarded
Mexico is alse a meeting place for operations of
ficers from Cuba and agents from Central and South America;
Canada similarly serves as a mectiog place for agents from the
United States. Legal field stations “do net normally deal with
illegal ayents except in a great emergency.

from there./1

In all legal ficild stations, the DGh representative is charged
with keeping track of, checking. and reporting on the pelitical
activities of the other members of the misston to which he is
attached. DGI officers also assist with the political classes
and bectures held periodically for members of the mission, but
this is a task shared by all misstun members and is not assigned
to any officer specifically. Physical security, such as techni-
cal examination of Cuban premises for audio surveillance devices,
is not a DG! responsibility: it is perforacd by the DSE.

 

In countries with which Coba docs hot have diplomatic relations,
DG! activities are handled by agents stationed permanently in
the country as illegal agents or as members of Communist Parties
and leftist groups. Their assignments are sabotage. subversion,
selection and training of gucrriila warfare candidates and other
agents or groups in Latin America primarily. The OGL regards
Guatemala and Venezuela as the countries in which {its operations
have been most successful. Such field operations are run from
Cuba or From an adjacent country.

The Department of Legal Centers (Departamento Centros Lezales -
MS). The WS department is headed by Pedro FANINAS Diaz. pscu-
donym “Otoniel." and has a staff of .15 to 20 persons. Its
offices are not in the M Building compound, but in a building
at the corner of 3ist Avenue and 64th Street in the Marianao
suburb of Habana. The department is in charge of the field
stations, known as legal centers, in each country with which
Cuba has diplomatic relations or where she maintains commercial
missions. Its personnel are not assigned abroad as a rule:
they act as the service group at headquarters for field person-
nel drawn from any part of the DGI., Field station chiefs, as
noted above, report directly to PINEIRO; the MS Department takes
care of all paper work for the field stations, tncluding photo~
graphing incoming and outgoing documents; maintaining fales of
field correspondence; and handling coded radio communications,
Coded radio messages prepared by desk ofiicers are photographed
and sent to the field on microfilm and messages on microfila
received from the field are decoded and passed to the proper
department; MS does not do’ the decoding itself. The department
does not have its own radio station. [t dues not run any agents
abroad: it does, however, assign dead drops and explain their
use to field agents. mostly those of the [llegal Department,

  

The Ullegal Department (Departamento Ileval). The department is
headed by pseudonym “Lucio.” who directs operations rather than
dealing directly with agents: his deputy is Santiago PEREZ, pseu-
donym "Rolo." The staff of About 26 persons is responsible for
handling “illeyal" agents. that is. agents of all nationalities
whose activities and connections with Cuba are seceret. The de-
partment recruits the agent: arranges for his training, means

of clandestine communication. and travel to his assipned area:
and thereafter directs. supports, and maintains communication

 

SECRET
NO FORN DISSE
 

 

10.

il.

“who occupy offices ia N-Building.

‘with thom at any tine.

SFPCRET
NO FORN DISSES

~4« CS~311/00115-64-

The Inspection Department, headed by pseudenyrn “Dario,” which ig

responsible for cascipline in tho dlrectorate and for investiga=
tions of staff personnel, probably befora hiring, has 10 to 12
members, Both departnent chiefs are probably former members of

the DSE, and some of the office’ staff are also former DSE members.

Soviet Advisors.

Attached to the Doi headquarters is a group of Soviet advisors,
Their presence and identities
are kept as secret as possible, even amorg the officers who work
with them, and they are known only by peeudonyms. They have
especially close coatacts with Manuo] PINEIRO and CHAIN, and
with the Illegal Department, whoso officers can consult directly
‘Ordinary desk officers in other departe

monts. can consult the Saviet advisors only at their offices in

. “~—~—hi- Building, where ano special security precautions are observed,

but they de not see much of them except when visiting the
Illegal Department when tho advisors are working thern. The
Soviets can visit any department whenever they wish.

Information obtained by. NGI agents abroad can be passed to the

Soviet advisors.5 The five known are the following:

"Bl Frances" (The Frenchman), PINRIRO's personal advisor,
is apparently the chief Soviet advisor in Cuba, Ho has
an office in M Ruilding and frequently visits PINEIRO's
- house, He was born between 1909 and 1914; is about five
feet saven inches tall and of medium build; has very grey
. haar; has blue eyes with bags under then; and wears at all
““ taaos gold-franed glasses with small-to-medium round lenses.
His Spanish is fairly good, He has a car asSigned by the
Cuban governmeat and drives it-himself.

b. A Soviet man, nane-unknown, accompanies "El Frances." He
is five feet eight inches tall, is of medium to thin build,
waighing about 148 pounds, and is clean shaven, An officer
who saw hin frequontly at PGI headquarters hever heard him

Bpeak.

"Juan," who shares an M Building office with “El Frances"
but works principally “in the Illegal Department, is the
consultant on illegal operations, directs the recruitment
and handling of agents, arranges thoir entry and cover, and
maintains files, At one time he spent about six months in
France; the general impression is that he was ther? as an
illegal resident-rather than in the Soviet Embassy. He
speaks excellent Spanish with very little accent and ap-
parently has kaown the Innguage a lenge time. He too has a
car assigned by the Cuban government and drives it hiaself.
Ha was born between 1919 and 1924 and is an active, athletic
man, about six feet tali and weighing a ousky 200 pounds,
with blue eyes. ita looks younz, although his hair is grey,
as is the short-clipped mustache he wears lew on his lip.

ce

dad. 4A Soviet woran, cane unknown, works in the Department of
Technical Operational Suprert (27). She vas horn Latween
1929 and 1934, is fiva feat sever av eizht daches tall, is

stout but not fat, has blue eves ana rinast shcoulder-length

SECRET
NO FORN DISSE
14-00000

 

12,

13.

Var lous

SECRET
NO FORN DUSSEM
Ss : CS-3 Lb ROD ES Hd "

- Se

reddish brown haar. She is urly and dowdy, wearing low heels
and a Savietestyle dress. like a Peasant 's,

eA Soviet man. name unxnown, works on South American operas
tions im the Ullegal Department,

1
Speragionah Dopartacnts . . : .

Of the cight departments making up the headquarters. three are °
operational, four are concerned with operational support er
training, and one is administrative. The three operational de«
partments are Legal Centers (Centres Legales = MS). lllegal
(Licnak). and National Liberation (Liberacion Nacional + LN);

the Tast two were tormerly a single department. hnown as MA.
(Intelligence). ALL three departments handle operations abroad

for the purpose of collecting information on the -host country,
promoting Cuban political aims, and conducting subversive ac-
tivitios. Their operations are distinguished by two factors,

fogal connections and Communist Party-leftist group Liaison.

The Department of Legal Centers is responsible for operations
conducted through Cuban official missions in countries with which
Cuba has diplomatic relations and has normally nothing to do with ¢
illegal agents.” The other two departments handle illegal agents,
both in countries with which Cuba has relations and in these with
which she has none. The [Llogal Department has no connection

with Communist Parties or organized lettis! sroups abroad: the’
National Liberation Department deals mainly with such parties

and groups: the Department of Legal Centers may work with them
ov-euntiaterally, ALL three departments are organized in geo~
graphical divisions with area desks for each countyy within

their respective fields or responsibility; there is thus some
overlapping in desk coverage.

The DGL has two types of overseas intelligence operations fas
distinct from zuerrilla warfare operations covered below ina
paragraphs 19 and 20): legal field stations and illegal agents.
The lepal ld station exists in every country with which Cuba
has diplomatic relations: its personnel are members of the local
Cuban diplomatic. cansu » Ov trade mission. Officers are
selected from all Mrts of the DGI organization; ne distinetion
is made, for example. between officers from the Lllegal Depart-
invat and the National Liberation Department, but each person
assigned overseas performs whatever duties the local situation
requires, Field station chiefs report directly to PINEIRO. but
adminisiration gous through other channels. as explained below,
Field stations vary ia stze, depending on local objectives and
the quality of diplomatic relations. In Soviet Bloc countries,
for example, field stations are us awity smalt, with only one or
two officers, who have no intelligence collection or similar
responsibility but are charged Principally with aiding travelers
to Cuba and wtth liaison with the local intelligence service. 4
In’ countries outside the Suviet Bloc, legal field stations have
respoustbilities: in Latin America, their principal ac-
tivities: are promotion and direction of subversion and sabotage
and arrangements for guerrilla warfare, lO The largest field
station is in Mexieal which is important. because it is a major
transit pownt for beth personnel and materials. and because it
ts a contact poing for any Teftist organteation ot any country
which has representatives in Mexico, Material for other Latin

 

 

 

 

  

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM
74-00000

Hdgqrs Dissem .

WH/COPS
WH/PO/A
WH/PO/B
WH/RO
WH/SA/EOB
WH/SA/HOB
WH/SA/R
WH/SA/CL 2
WH/1.

WH/2
WH/3
WH/4
WH/5
WH/6
WH/R

CI Staff
cI Liaison
CI/R&A
RID/AN

AF/1
AF/2
AF/3
AF/4
AF/R
AF/CL

ll Daal ol ool ell ool el el - oel  l a

EE/K

EE/SA ~-
EE/BR
EE/YA

EE/H

EE/P

EE/C -
EE/ EIS
EE/CI

ast Ped pied fond pom freed rat pot foes det A) pee tet ee pe

i}

FE/PMI/I
FE/JKO/JO
FE/JKO/K
FE/VNC/VN
FE/R
FE/CI

Ce ll alll all ol

11

. SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM

- la =

NE/AA/L&S
NE/AA/AP
NE/AA/E
NE/AA/1I
NE/5/P
NE/6/C&E
NE/R
NE/CI

WE/1
WE/2
WE/3
_WE/4
WE/S
WE/BC
WE/R

/WAVE

oll all ll ool ol ald Oe ee

Field Dissem

WH/MEXI 19
WH/MNTY 1 /
WH/MRID A

 

 

 

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM

CS-311/00115-64

 

 

 

 

iaison Dissem

os

 

 

"]

le
([tos-totee-t0s2t]

 

me NS GO ob OF

   
  
 

   

‘ SUSE aRRE NS. wad
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

The matertl contains informatinn effecting the Nations! Defense of the United States wiinin the meaning of the Eapionage awa, THe
1 TRC. Seca 199 and Ted the trenaminson cr reveigtion of which in any Gaaser to an unauthorised perm te peobibited ty taw.

S-E-C-~R-E-T
NO FORFIGN DISSEM

 

countay Cuba : REPORT NO. CS -311/00115-64
SUMECT The Organization of the General ate ois = 8 July 1964
Directorate of Intelligence.

(Direccion General de NO. PAGES 19
Iateligencia - DGI)

REFERENCES RETURN TO CIA
DATE OF 1964 Background Use Only
INFO. . . Do Not Reproduce
PLACE & : ‘ :
DATE ACQ. June -1964 _ FELD REPORT NO.

THIS 1$ UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF- CONTENT [S TENTATIVE. *

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelli-
gence Service until April 1964,

Headquarters Comment. The following information, as reperted
by Source during a debriefing, includes a description of the
General Directorace of Intelligence (Direccion General de
Inteligencia - DGI), a break-down of each of its departments,
the functions of cach department, a diagram (Chart 4} of the
organization of the DGI, and a map (Chart B) of the DGI com-
pound in Habana, ,

Introduction.

1, The General Directorate cf Intelligence (Direccion General de
Intela cia ~ DGI) is the Cuban external inteiligence agency,
charge ith maintaining security, collecting information,
and promoting Cuban Government intelligence policies abroad.
It is part of the Ministry of Interior (Miniscerjo del tnte-
rior), and was established sometime in mid-toeTt Tt is con-
cerned only with operations abroad, The collection cf
intelligence within Cuba, counterintelligence, and security
are the responsibility of the Department of State Security
(Departamento de Seguridad del Estado - DSE). The two agencies
are independent but maintain 1iaison and coordination on cer-
tain matters. : .

 
 

 

2. The DOL, also known as "M," or "M Department,” is organized
under a director general and his deputy; its compunents are
a main headquarters with administrative and personnel offices,
eight departments, and the director's office (see organization
chart of page 14).2 ft is closely cennected with Ramiro Valdes
Menendez, the Minister of Interior,% and is also of continuing
interest te Fidel Castro, Raul Castre,.and Ernesto “Che”, Guevara.

 

S-E-C-R-E-T i CERT
NO FOREIGN DISSEM ae ames |

| Stale {pia + ARMY [wavy Ai Txsa i ek loca FBI 2
REPCINCLANT CEXCSO = f&NS - ~~ :
(Note: Field ditribution indicated by “3”.) a

bet ND OS oe an

 

  
 

 

 

 

_T T UN-132

TTT] NP Gvte-)

ached Page CS-311/00115-64
a

 
 

 

 

1
cr/Ls Oo? fer 32/03

ToTas

 

- tS : t
For a See At
. {

SY, ET, MSE, Ci, 94 (2 each) [| ssemernela

 

PRtaisay

 
74-0000

SECRET
XQ FORN DISSEM

-2- CS-311/00115-64

The Director's Office.

The director general of the DGI 1s Manuel PINESRO Losada, known
as “Red Beard” (Barba Roja). He is closely associated with
Raniro VALVES. to whom he has direct access at any time; he is
required to report regularly to Fidel CASTRO and to coordinate
with him all expenditures of large sumsi and he also has direct
contact with GUEVARA, Raul CASTRO often visits PINEIRO's office;
his principal interest appears to be the guerrilla schools (see
below), but he may have others in the DGI, PINEIRO also handled
the principal contacts with the Soviet advisors of the DGI. His
direction of the DGI is handled through a deputy, but he also
has direct contact as desired with department chiefs and lowere _
level personnel: chiefs of field stations report directly to hin,
although other field-station business is handled through the
departments responsible for. field work, PINEIRO himself has
trained some important agents in field work and has subsequently
acted aw. their handling officer.

PINEIRO has his office in his residence at dist Avenue and

18th Street in the Miramar district of Habana. There he keeps
funetional files of everything concerning the DGI: other files
from individual sections are brought to him for review and then
returned to the department or section that maintains them,
There is a daily courier service between his house and the DGI
headquarters. The house has at least two separate telephones,
one personal and one offieial, the latter proviaing direct com-
munication with all_government agencies. One of the telephone
numbers is 29-1257.9 The outside entrince of the house always
has two guards in olive-green uniforms; they are probably from
the DSE. In addition, PINEIRO has a bodyguard staff of six, also
protably from the DSE, Three of them are always with him on 24-
hour shifts: one acts as chautfeur when he goes out, while the
othee two follow in a second car, He keeps three cars, all 1961
Oldsmobiles, one blue, one beige, and one black.

In his home office PINEIRO has an aide, pseudonym “castor ,"6 who
handles the office work but does not attend private interviews,
In Cuba he stays in the office and does not accompany PINELIRO
outside the office. When PINEIRO travels abroad, “Castor" ac-
conpunies him, as for example on his visit to Moscow in April
1964, At the main DGI headquarters, PINEIRO also has a secre-
tary. psetdonym "Vidalina." and a clerk-typist. pseudonym

“Zoraida'; they occupy desks in the executive office of the DGI

deputy chief but work strictly for PINEIRO. "Vidalina” handles
all incoming and outgoing vorrespondence and cable traffic and
distributes it both within DCI headquarters and abroad.

DGI Main Headquarters.

The main headquarters of the directorate is known as "Department
MW" ot the Ministry of Interior. but very tew people know any-
thing about it or are even aware of its existence. It occupies

a house and grounds which were formerly the property of the GOMEZ
Mena family. It covers a whole city block bounded by 49th and
5ist Avenues and 78th and 30th Streets in the Larrazabal section
of the Marianao suburb of Habana. The block is a compound sur=
rounded by a concrete wall, with trees planted completely around
it inside. There are two eatrances: a main entrance with wooden

SECRET
NQ FORN DESSEM
 

SECRET
NO FORN DISSE

-3- CS-311/062 15-64

gates located near the center of the block on 80th Street and a
back entratice with steel doors located directly through the
block on 78th Street. The main entrance is manned by guards
armed with PPShA machineguns: the rear entrance is kept locked
and is used only in emergencies. No pass or ideaééfication is
required to enter the grouads. ~

The headquarters compound (sce diagram on page 15) contains all
the DGI offices except PINEIRO's home office, the three opera-
tional departrents. and the Special Schools Department. described
below... The main. building. callod M Building, is situated near
the center of the compound but off the main axis between the
gates. It houzes most of the offices in its two stories and also
contains a canteen, public telephones, and a police radio for the
city and the Ministry.of Interior. There are no large assembly
rooms; conferences are held in small rooms, Within the compound,
separated from MN Building by driveways and parking lots, are
several other structures?

a. A twgestory building housing the Personnel Department on the |
first tloor and the Inspection Department on the second,

b. Three one-story service buildings: a guard office with
sleeping quarters for 20 to 25 guards, a food-storage ware-
house, and a clothing-storage warehouse. The guard office
and the Personnel-Inspection building flank the main entrance

on 80th Street.

A two-story building, in the angie of the grounds formed by
78th Sureet and 49th Avenue, housing the Technical Operational
Support Department. Two of its sections, the Photographic
Laboratory and the Concealment Device Section, occupy indi-
vidual buildings in the compound.

G

General administration of the DGI is_handled from the M Building.
where PINEIRO's deputy, (fnu) CHAIN.? pseudonym "Agusto," has
his office. Besides acting as director general when PINEIRO is
away from Cuba, CHAIN is responsible specifically for management
of large expenditures, South American affairs, and the approval
of false passports for travelers. He signs, in pseudonym, all
notices and circulars issued to the directorate. His secretary
has the pseudonym. "Georgina." CHAIN's office, through "Vidalina,”
distributes cable traffic to the DGI departments, Incoming and
outgoing cable traffic and diplomatic pouch traffic are received
at this, office from the Central Ciphering Service (Servacio |
Central de Cifrados - SCC), which is a communal coding and de-
coding service operated by the DSE, CHAIN's office apparently
also acts as a receiving and distributing center for clandestine
radio traffic but dees not itself send or receive radio messages;
the actual transmission is possibly controlled by the Communist

Party.

Directly under the deputy director are two administrative depart-
ments for staff members, Personnel (Departamento de Personal) and .
inspection (Mepartamento de Inspeccion), which occupy 2 separate
building in the headquarters compound. The Personnel Department,
headed by pseudonym "Pelayo." which handles all maiters concerning.
staff member administration (selection, hiring, pay, promotion,
dismissal, social security, etce.), has about 14 or 15 members.

 

SECRET
XO FORN DISSEM
