 

 

[roar te) 4

     

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsél Page 2

Wednesday - 9 February 1977

 

4. (Unclassified - DFM) LIAISON Mike Madigan,
Minority Counsel, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, called -
- to inguire about the status of the Committee's reguest for information
on Panama. I told him I was atternpting to set up an interview with
the Ghief of Latin America. Division fox Friday. Madigan said that’

is what he wanted to request.

 

(Confidential ~ PLC) LIAISON Met with R. A. (Gus) an rds,

Administrative Assistant to Representative Paul S, Trible, Jr. Va.), :
and discussed arrangements for Mr. Trible to meet with
OTR Agency officer in charge ofl ko discuss the Agency's.

activities at the facility and to invite him down, Edwards had served
on the staff of former Representative Thomas N. Downing (D., Va.),
Mr. Trible's predecessor, and handled Agency matters concerning
Mr. Trible's schedule is very tight and Edwards will call.
The meeting will be a future Thursday, the day of the week that
Mx.[ _ Risits Headquarters. The visit to will probably
be ona Friday since Mr. Trible returns to his District each weekend.
Wes ‘Finer, OTR, was advised. :

 

6. (Confidential - PLC) BRIEFING Accompanied Doug. George,
OWI, at a briefing of Chairman Olin FE. Teague (D., Texas), House
Science and Technology Committee, which was conducted in his hospital
room at the Bethesda Naval Medical Center. Mr. George covered the

‘Soviet anti-satellite prograrn and recent Soviet space developments.

(See Memorandum for the Record prepared by Mr. George.) Mr.
was most appreciative of the efforts made for the briefing and expressed
@ very high regard and support for the Agency. He asked if we had any
iriformation as tg an energy shortage in the Soviet Union and if they have
any breeder reactors for energy use. Iteld him I would check and pet
the information to him. : wot :

 

 

; 7. (Unclassified - PLC) ADMINISTRAT WE DELIVERIES |
Delivered to Jacqueline Hess, House 3
staff, the latest package of Agency dic
assassination of President Kennedy which were released under court
exrder in the FOI case of Mr. Fensterwald. . ,

 
 
 

 
