13-00000

 

 
    

( = ~eppaey en
, _ SENSHivE SOURCES AND -

METHODS INV YCD

  

informal, ostaslonal contact with the De MOMRENSEE BUDT
nth the avtomn of 196L, He hag not seen thas ginga that tine,
although ha received o Christmas card from them Curing the
holidsy period foliewing the asvagsination.-

3. On the 23rd or 24i of November 1963, after the
agsaépination, our veprazeniative.in Dallas received a taig~
phone call iross coe of hig contacts whe teld bim that severah
wnembers of bia Zire had aitendad 4 gosial or 2 diseanolon
group in January 1963 and that Las Harvey OSWALD had also
barn there. Our reprebestative bomedistely azranged for the
FSI to couiact she amerailye. Tt was later as¢ertalaed from - -
the PE, ond froen ope of our Gwe sources, that George De

|“ MOBRENSCHILDT waa present at the meetiag nnd bad intro

anced OSV ALD i the group.

4. Aa GRA headeuatters tha apsveintion hetyeen. tho
Bs MOHRAENSCOILDTs and the OS ALDa was poted for the
Sirs’ tines in Dacem ber 19S] when it was deported fram Malti
that the De MCBARMSCHILDTs had eppsaved at the Embassy
and volustoured information shout theis relatlonyhip with the .
OSWALD. At phouk the sume time the dstadle of thele agso~
elation began to appear ib reposts made by other U.3. Govern
ment ogencios gagased im Investigating thy nasassination,

5. Daviag the contact with George De MOEREDSGILDT

lata in 1957 and eashy 1953, his backgronad wee Investigated. «07+ >

inguiries produeed & ceasiderable amount af information about. :
him ana hie ncthvities, ineluding alDoyvations that dexing World.
Var bs had eagaged in espionage activities om behalf of tha: |

Neuias that he was a niembey of the Cexrounist Pasty) and that .

after tha war ho waa sympatheiic toward Coxomuaism and tas
U.S.3.R, The investigates was outended to Baiginm where
Georga Do MIGQHBENSCHILOT clalsei te have lived frem 1930".

aniik 1925. His adseatlvaah backgronnd had hiv work ase 0 ot . ‘

journalist were conliemed theze. Ong rerord of arrast game
to lights om 4 November 193) he was sentenend by the Tribunal : -

Corerectloonal at Antwerp 26 elght days in & prison on chiss sgayol |

wae

ee"
13-00000

  

“Ze

 

 

WARNING NOTICE

° Ee . SEE ——— "| SeNsitive souRcES AND °

, be, . : “4. METHODS INVOLVED

   
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
   
   
    
  
   
 
  
  
  

reciating 4 polices oliicar and to eight days iuprigosnant Ors
ting of 12% feanes am charges of drvnkstmeas.and use of a Saige .
nama. Santenitea was Suspended pendicg camplotios of a thrae~
your prebstiosary gasiod. .

&. Fhrongbout bis adult iiis, Gaarge Do MOMRENSCSILDY
has uted varialiens of bia basis same. imeldding such varianta ga
Jasey de MOHRENSCHILDT; Javey yon MOBBRENSCHILDT George
vot MORMENSTSNLD: and Gaezge Saryins de MOHREQSCHILD..
ta like soaanes ha slup seamea to have yaried his former ethnic

ptighs vom Buuaian, to Polish, Swedish, Danish, nad German, .
Thave appasx te be we versione pe hla mothes's maiden nama:
| Alauandra LATOSKEY and Alsnaadze ZAPOLSEL, -

- %. FBESperial Agent, James F #, MORKISSRY., came te
CIA on i$ March 1964 aml reviewed this gore files om Dre f :
Da MOBRENSCHILOTs, . i aS
—" eo : ae
5. Ga Fed Marts 1954 tha BEE tae ikea te thie Ageasy a... ;
report dated 24 2 Pebraary 1964, The ei are provides detally | .
= = ap\- 40079) ,

 

| aboot saan
Fedor Alekssevled Cs SRANIN, whe WARD fovies atglomas bot:
Weshlagius, D.C, in 1925. In that report Yuri (Geerga} Da -
MOHRENSCHILD was dasecived as 3 petroleum saginser who

hod worked In the Toxaa off fields and in Venesusia.. Concarning _

GARANIN / GSS Secords show that Ri haw bese » member bf the, .
Sovies Stata Secuzity Sarvies nvobably slace the mid-i946's.. Ha
served in Cuba in 1933; altex Werld Wig Hf he also seuvad inthe ©.
B.S... Hamear yond Fintasd. Jcconding to our retorda, ine Sine.
formation phest GAILANIN and hie association with the Soviet | aa
State Sagwelty Sexvire has also heen hnewh to tas z ¥RI- .

 

9, You may alse wish to make inguixies ‘at the Office of”
Naval Intelligence; the Asslatant Chief of Sief, Intelliganas, a .
Department of the Army; the Depariment of State; and the Civit -
Sesyice Commission because thase departments also bave tafe
‘pnation about Georges De MOHRENSCHILDT.. -

 

 

Distribution: ; on hot e t e
Orig. & 1 - Addresses : | Cant tr: zz] i a
2-DDP : ; Richard Helna ~ re
L-C/CYU Rehr Deputy Dirertor fay Plans. a :
1- C/CI/SIG , i.

1- C/WH]3 .
x ~ CL/2&A/Bartinan . 6% . i
— CUREA/ZO1 pe p53] serper : 3 oo
rovfefeck fib Ma Toten 261-725 ¢234|
13-00000

      
  
 
 
 
 

sagetings tha CLA represeniaiivis obts

 

| ppyp a: 276:

seers ititete te

  
  
  

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND
METHODS INVOI VED,

  

(
___

MICROFE MED i

APR? 6B | me, (

icRO. SER

    
        

[737

  
    

KAAZ ~

 

poc. M

  

Who oa

6 CO :
. Cc lA : De Mehreusechi! Sum wiertoeat
anol sevt tT. Neavrren Commission oe
MEMORANDUM FOR : ads, J Lea & Rapin
: : ‘Ganeral Counsel
Prestdewal’s Comission on the

Asepasination of i Breshient Renney

SUBIZET 2 George and Segnne De SOURENSCHOT
L Reference ie made to your mannorandane at March

1964 requanting any information on George aad Jaanne De
MOMBENSCHILDT that ts pvalladle in CRA tiles. Our review
shows thai ths files contain repevis reselyed from other 0.5. _
Govermaant agencies, primarily the PBI, aa well ae some ine |
iatmation developed by thia Agency ip 1957 and 3958. The .
review aloo produced cafgrengss to information in the yecorda a
of the Cooniinater of information apd the Offer of Strategie 9000-0
Services. According to the reserds of theas agengies, George TE
De MOBRENSCHILDT had been consideted for employment in —- :

1242. but wan not hixed bacause he waa alleged to be a Nak 4°

seplonays agent. De information develebes by CIA lor its
preceeussors) bpofors the assausination of President Mesnedy
bad established any Link between the Da MOWRENSCAILD Es |
and Lee Harvey OSWALD or his fasaily. eR ed a ,

io

  

2, CIA's initial Interest in , Geozge Be W LOHRENSCHILDT.
ceveloped aun réselt of his sojoura in Yugoslavia £11957 on
behall of the Intermational Cooperation Ageney (ICA). “In that”.
commection CLA hesdguartoxys Sent a roulne advisory to its

Balloy rapreseatative who called on tha De MOPEENSCHILD Ts BO Se

in the early pact of Desamber i957. Inthe course of several |

ined forsign intelligence.
whith way nroraptly disseminated to other fodaral ogentiaa in’

ten genaraie coperta, The Dallas representathre eootinuad

SR

| 1201-725:439-

 
    

towazt adlog aad
egectassilicaiiaa

   
13-00000

 

  

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505 -

    
   
 

Eves ce ve Ragionny

°28 September 1976 -

Mr. G. de Mohrenschildt
2737 Kings Road
Apartment 142

Dallas, Texas 75219

Dear George:

Please forgive the delay in my reply to your September Sth letter.
It took time to explore thoroughly the matters. you raised. ~

Let me say first that I know it must have been. ‘difficult for you
to seek my help in the situation outlined in your letter. I belfeve I
can appreciate your state of mind in view of your daughter's tragic :
death a few years ago and the current poor state of your wife! s health. ¢
I was extremely sorry to hear of these circumstances. :

“In your situation, I can-well imagine how the attentions you
described in your letter affect both you and your wife. However, my.

- staff has been unable to find any indication of interest in your

activities on the part of Federal authorities in recent years. The.
flurry of interest that attended your testimony before the Warren
Commission has long since subsided.. I can only speculate that you

_ may have becone “newsworthy” again in view of the renewed interest

in the Kennedy assassination and, thus, may, be attracting the atten-
tion of people inthe media.

I hope this letter has been of some comfort to you, George,

although I realize I am unable to answer your question completely.

Thank you for your good wishes on my new job. As you can imagine,
I'm finding it interesting and challenging. : .

Very truly yours , >

aa SO

George Bush

Director
 

 

 

SECRET

5. Mr. Helms' 3 June 1964 memorandum for the Warren Commission on
the de Mohrenschildts fs attached at C. It describes the Agency's ‘
interest in obtaining reports from Mr. de Mohrenschildt in 1957 as a
result of his sojourn in Yugoslavia that year. Contact Division (now

‘Domestic Coliection Division - DCD) had its resident agent in Dallas,
‘Mir. d. Walton Moore, contact Mr. de Mohrenschiidt at that time. The

history of Mr. Moore's relationship with Mr. de Mohrenschildt from 1957

to 1961 is also attached at C. As a routine matter, Mr. Moore requested
traces.on Mr. de Mohrenschildt. The trace results (attached at D) con-
tained sufficient derogatory information to preclude further extensive -
contact with the de Mohrenschildts. (An OS summary on Mr. de Mohrenschildt
prepared in response to the current request is also attached at D.)

6. Our files show that a mail cover .was placed on Jetters addressed
to Mr. de Mohrenschildt c/o the U.S. Embassy in Haiti from about 1964 to
1966: - (This was probably not uncovered at the time of the external in-
vestigations.) This included opening and photographing the contents of

 

some letters by: the CLAtStation there. The results of this operation.

were shared with the FBI.

7. Mr. de Mohrenschildt came to the attention of this office during
the Rockefeller Commission investigations. We were asked to respond to a
memorandum submitted to the. Commission by Mr. Paul Hoch entitled "CIA

‘Activities and the Warren Commission Investigation." Mr. Hoch called for

an identification of Mr. J. Walton Moore's employment affiliation and
asked what Mr. Moore knew about Oswald and what he may have told Mr. de
Mohrenschildt about him. Our reply to the Rockefeller Commission is
attached at E. - .

8. The most recent information we have on Mr. de Mohrenschildt comes
from Mr.-d. Walton Moore wno was contacted in May and July 1976 by writers
connected with the Reader's Digest, and with the Dial Press and the Dell
Publishing Company. Both writers questioned Mr. Moore about Oswald and
Mr. de Mohrenschildt. Mr. Moore's reports on these contacts are attached
at F. :

Conciusions:

9. Mr. de Mohrenschildt appears to have lead an adventurous and
colorful life as a petroleum engineer and businessman. He is both weil

SECRET
13-00000

 

and poorly connected, and some of his associations in the past have

raised serious questions. Certainly his relationship with the
Oswalds has caused him considerable trouble and may have caused this
Agency and the FBI to spend more time and energy on him in the past

than was necessary.

10. Both the FBI and this Agency, however, had dropped their
interests in Mr. de Mohrenschildt's: activities by the mid-to-late
1960's.. We speculate that any attention he is now receiving could:
either-be from local authorities in Dallas or from media representa~
tives on the trail of a warmed over story concerning the ‘assassination
of. President Kennedy. wWe offer no proof of this conjecture beyond :
Mr. Moore's reports attached at F. What we can say ‘is that we have
found no indication that either CIA or the FBI has taken any active
interest in Mr. de Mohrenschildt in recent years.

ae: “Sohn ti Lede
LO .

 

: é.
Attachments: : >
A thru F a/s _ =
“I>
ey
2

 
13-00000

oRgE

 

 

   

  
   
       
       
      
 
 
    

The attached suggested draft to -
Mr. De Mohrenschildt was written without
knowledge,af the flavor of your personal
relationsh#p with him. The tone may not.
be appropriate, but the message boils
down to thé’ fact that neither CIA nor
the FBI appear to have been interested
in Mey De Mohrenschildt for a number of.
years. =

. This dete was coordinated with oGe
on 22 Sep. =>
John Waller

engl — do ‘

   

faRM KO ‘24 1 REPLACES FORM 36-8
FES 55 WHICH MAY BE USED,

 

 
104-10414-10150

 

AVENUE NRG

 

 

 

 

REL “ASE AS Sh ‘INTE D

1998

   

   
13-00000

   

[2] UNGLASSIFIED- u Cet Ly cong YENTIAL = |_| SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEF

 
 

SUBJECT: (Optional)

 
 
  

 

   
 

John H. Waller
Inspector General
2 E 24 Hqs. Bldg.

 
      
    
  
  
 

  

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building)

OFFICER'S. | Zones {Number each comment to show from whom
aa, whom. Drew a fine across column ofter each comment.)
RECEIVED | FORWARDED

This is the response to the
: letter from de Mohrenschildt

   
 

DCI
ROOM:

     

7E 12

i.

 

 

 

 

fom’ 610 “Eomere’s ] secrey «= (1) CONFIDENTIAL «=[[] (RTERNAL «= ]sUNCLASSIFIED
13-00000

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

FROM : John H. Waller
. _ Inspector General

SUBJECT : Mr. George de Mohrenschildt

REFERENCE : Mr. de Mohrenschildt's letter to you,
dated 5 September 1976

Action Required:

1. None. This memorandum is for your information. We have also
attached at A a suggested draft reply to Mr. de Mohrenschildt's letter.

Action Taken:

2. We have reviewed DDO and IG files on Mr. de Nohrenschildt: In .
addition, at our request, the CI Staff has run Agency traces on him and.
has been in touch with the FBI as well. ‘

Findings!

3. There is voluminous material on Mr..de: Mohrenschildt -in- CIA
files, most of it dating from the. post-Kennédy assassination period —
when he testified before the Warren Commission on his acquaintance —
with Mr. and Mrs. Lee Harvey Oswald. (A copy of the de Mohrenschildts'
testimony is attached-at B.) ‘

4. The bulk of the taterial ‘in our: files consists of FBI. reports,
the most recent of which is dated 1967. The FBI has informed CIA that
it has.no traces on Mr. de Mohrenschildt beyond that date; our files -
contain all of its previous material on him.

‘£2, IMPDET)
cSECRET CL BY 055636
