74-0000

 

O8 .
STATEMENT oF fl

First of al] I can't sit here and relate exactly what happened. .
Its been almost two years and the incident is very vague.

 

In my mind it appears a name was possibly deleted from SANCA.
There are a number of explanations.as to why the name appears to -have

been deleted but actually wasn't. SANCA could have failed--it was failing

 

quite regularly at that time.g2 I could have typed the name on SANCA
incorrectly--if ti entered into SANCA, it would
show 'No Hits'. It would show "No Hits' because in the middle name the
E and A are transposed. Its also entirely possible that, as a new
employee at the time, I didn't completely understand the situation and
jumped to an erroneous conclusion.

 

~ In SRD, from Mr: Tom Cole on down, they wouTd not be party to
anything irregular. There's absolutely no way Mr. Cole would stand for
anything irregular.

I believe there were three separate incidents:

1. A covert security file was returned inadvertently to SRD. The file
either made reference to Lee Harvey Oswald or was in one of his
AKA's. I don't remember. I say ‘returned inadvertently to SRD'
because the file was on a permanent ‘charge out' to OS/SAG. I
checked with SAG and they wanted it back. I believe I checked
SANCA to ascertain the correct name for the ‘charge out slip' also.
The name on the file was, possibly, WRIGHT and the name on the
‘charge out slip' was L. OSWALD. (This is possible and probable
because if L. OSWALD is entered on SANCA, the file number on WRIGHT
will appear because an ‘L. OSWALD' is referenced in WRIGHT's file.

2. A short time later Joyce (I don't recall her last name) from the
"Freedom of Information' staff asked me to do a name check for her.
(I was sitting at SANCA so I offered to do the name check for her.)
The name check was on OSWALD and his AKA's. (I had just recently
finished reading a book entitled "They've Killed the President"--

the names I checked on SANCA appeared in that book as AKA's for OSWALD.)

3. A short time later, and I don't recall why, I checked SANCA again
for that same file that referenced OSWALD. This time it wasn't
there. I checked it several times and asked the Chief/Indicies
about it. She said the name should be there. I asked Mr.

if he could check the original FOIA case. He di was
Fi

seb cent ee

cma nt athena ces

= Aetna ge nn

104-4 0132-10280

ake

«
.

@Y
=

>

) GSRHEENTIAL

 

we

31 May 1977
“MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Securit.
ec ecurity RETUANTO Cid
FROM : dohn H. Waller Background Use Only
Inspector General Do Not Reproduce

SUBJECT nl

REFERENCE : Your 29 March 1977 memorandum; Subject: Allegations
Regarding. Lee Harvey Oswald File

 

; 1. Pursuant to reference, -répresentatives of this office
interviewed Mr extensively on 30 and 31 March regarding
what he thought happened vis-a-vis the Oswald file. When the.....
incident happened in approximately May 1975 a

GS-4 file clerk, brand-new to the Agency and wor ing in the Security
Records Division of 0S. Further, during the time in question

Mr. was reading a popular book entitled “They Have Killed
the President” by Robert Sam Anson.

2. We reve af convinced us that he was confused and there is
no reason to believe that a name was erased from SANCA or that a file
was destroyed. It is quite possible that he became confused over the
reference to one L. Oswald in a covert file on Raymond E. Wright.

Mr. Wright was investigated by the Agency in 1955 and contained in
that file, as a part of a San Francisco Field Office investigation,
was a police report listing 66 persons who on January 6, 194] signed
a petition in Los Angeles protesting the prosecution of a left wing
labor leader. All 66 names, including L. Oswald were indexed. Since
Lee Harvey Oswald was 2 years old in 1941 they were obviously not one
and the same. However this may not have been apparent to a brand-new

GS-4 clerk. Attached to are copies of 3 separate statements
prepared by tr eich further explain how his confusion may

 

have been caused-

3. Representatives of this office have spoken_to_all
pants in the 22 March farewell dinner in which Mr.
the statements about the Oswald file. Finally, Mr.
convinced of the need in the future to report such concerns officially
rather than at a social gathering. The purpose of this memorandum is
to enable you to close your records on the matter and to advise that
no further action will be taken.

 
     

a.
Vo fe a
(Lia L6G
he AcOG
John H. Waller
Attachments:
a/s ‘ E2 IMPDET
CL BY: 055636

OS TISIEC1A

 
74-00000

with him) and he explained why I was wrong. I didn't really under-
stand but accepted it as I was a new employee. In retrospect, I
can see there are any number of explanations for what happened but .
as a new employee at that time, I just didn't understand them.
. COX £42 F . .
Mr. Tom Got has shown me a Covert Security file that's relatively
small, does make reference to an OSWALD, and is not in OSWALD's name.

.The name on the file is RAY EARL WRIGHT and the SFN is 116942. The name.
"RAY EARL' means nothing to me but the last name, WRIGHT, seems to

ring.a bell. This security file seems also to match the description of
the file I, at one time, couldn't locate; it's a Covert Subject file in

a name other than OSWALD's and does reference him. I believe this is the
file I couldn't locate two years ago. :

I have probably inconvienced quite a few people today as a result
of a misunderstood situation two years ago. At the time I did believe
something irregular had happened and the explanation I received didn't
completely satisfy me, This has bothered me for quite some time now
and I'm finally relieved to. get an explanation that clears my mind.

o3

 

 

 
