74-0000

20.

“geovernnenats,

“RED
DISSEM

-8- CS-311/001TL5-64

  

Cuba is not concerned with revolutions in European, Asian, or
African countries. it concentrates mostly on Latin American
except thuse that maintain diploratic relations
with Cuba. Although the department has no African interests,
Zarnzilaris were trained in Cuba; the arrangements were handled
outside the DGI by Fidel CASTRO himself, with the participation
of Manuel PINETRO. In addition to its guerrilla work, the
department, without the knowledge of the Communist Parties or
gteups with which it cooperates, recruits and arranges training
of agehts to collect information in the target countries, Cane
didates for such intelligence agents are guerrilla warfare
trainees. or persons proposed ty the operational support depart~
ments (MO Departiaent and the BC Section of the SI Department --

see below).

The LN Department is divided into three sections, one support
and administrative, the other two geographical with country

desks.

a.: Central Processing Section (Tramites). headed by Felix
Rafael (lnu), pseudonym “Alberto,” is the administrative
office for the LN Department and the only office in the DGI
handling travel arrangements. It plans and arranges travel
for DGI staff officers of all departments, agents, and
trainees, furnishes operational funds for travel, and makes
the actual travel reservations anid provides plane tickets
for travelers, It also obtains passports in false names for
Cuban staff mombers, issues Cuban passports in false names
to agents, and obtains visas from the Czechoslovakian Embassy.
In agent travel. it works closely with the Cuban Institute
of Friendship with Peoples Cinstituto Cubano del Amistad con
los Pueblos = ICAP), which arranges Some aspects of travel
for trainees. The section chief has his office in the LN
Department but works mainly from the DGI headquarters in M
Building; his wife. Elva (lnu), pseudonym "Elisa," te a
typist in the LN Department. The section staff consists of
administration chief Eulogio PONS, pseudonym "Eloy"; his .
assistant, pseudonym “Henry; an office clerk, Carmen _
CARRACEDO, pseudonym “Mercedes"; two drivers, Juan PEREZ,
pseudonym "Raul," and pseudonym "Manuel; and Felix Rafael's
Secretary, pseudonym "Norma,"and assistant, Draco or Praque
ESCALANTE, pseudonym "Ciro."

b. Central American Section (Seccton Central) is supervised by
Major Guillermo JIMENEZ, who is head of the Department of
Information Services (S1) and acts as advisor to the entire
LN Department. The section organizes and directs guerrilla
activities in the Central American and Caribbean countries.
Its case officers frequently trave? to their operational areas
to direct activities and arrange for funds, arms supplies,
and other support to agents; agent meetings are often held
in a third country, especaally Mexico, Operations are handled
or a case basis, cach case being a separate project starting
with selection and training of agents and continuing through .
guerrilla wavfare action in the target area. The section
has the following area desks: :

(1) Costa Rica, headed by Oscar GARCIA Manzano, pscudonym
“Orlando,"

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM
 

Go

NO FORN DISSEM

- 9- CS-331,'602 15-64

(2) Dominican Republic, headed by Roberto Lazare
SANTIESTEBAN Casanova, pseudonym “Rafacl," who was
formerly at the United Nations tn New York and was
arrested far attempting sabotage.

(3) Guatemala, headed by Norberto HERNANDEZ. pscudonym
"Noel," assisted by an apprentice. (fnu) PENA, pseudonym
“Lorenzo.” As neted above, the Guatemalan operations
are considered among the most successful in Central

America.

(4) Haiti, headed by Andres ARMONA Ramos, pseudonym "Ernesto,"

- + formerly commercial attaché in Mexico but not likely to
receive another field assignment because of problems
during his service there.

(5) Honduras, headed by Felix SUAREZ, pseudonym "Santiesteban."

(6) Nicaragua.
(7) Panama, headed by Fernando RAVELO, pseudonym Fermin."

(8) El Salvador.

South America Section (Seccion Sur) has no regular chief, t
the DGI deputy, CHAIN, directs Its activities, It deals with
guerrilla activities in South American countries. There are

desks for: :
(1) Argentina, headed by Oreste VALERA,

(2) British Guiana, headed by (fnu) GINES, pseudonym "Gil,"
assisted by two apprentices, pseudonyms “Jorge” and
"Rudy."

(3) Colombia, headed by Raul VIERA Linares, pseudonym "Gomez,"
formerly stationed in Bolivia, from which he returned

at the end of 1963, but unlikely to recoive another for-
eign assignment because of difficulties in the field.

(4) Ecuador, headed by pseudonym "Julio."
(5) Paraguay, headed by pseudonym "Salvano,"

(6) Peru, headed by (fnu) JOA, pseudonym "Jordan," assisted
by an apprentice, pseudonym "Bernabe."

(7) Venezuela. headed by Alfredo ALNEIDA Garcia, pseudonym
“Aranja," who was in Venezuela when it broke relations.
with Cuba and was later involved in an attempted re-
covery of documents from a plane crash in Peru, which
led to his expuision from Chile. His assistants are
Benito (Inu), pseudonym "Saul," and pseudonym “Gary";
his secretary is: pseudonym "Marcia." The DGI considers
its Venezuelan operations the most successful in South
America,

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM
 

18,

 

 

19,

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM

~7- CS-211 ‘00115-64

with him throughout his active tenure. [¢ does not deal with
members of Communist Parties or leftist organizations, nor with
persons in contact with official Cuban personnel abroad, who are
the responsibilities of other departments; the mechanics of com-
munication are also handled elsewhere, Agents are stationed in
alli comitrdies Waerme Cuoa as interested in collectiag information,
penetrating the puvernment, or conducting subversive operations,
in Europe and Central and South America. The department has ao
agents in Asian or African countries, and no agents are known in
the United Stafes:!43 Agents once trained usually remain perma-
nently abroad, -.If they are in an area where there ts a legal
field station, ‘they da not normally have any contact with its

members «

‘The Tegal Department is divided into three main geographical

sections, cach subdivided into country desks, as follows:

ae Section A, Europe, chief unknown; under this section there
are desks for all countries.

b. Section B, Central America, chief Ramon Cesar CUENCA Montoto

(no pseudonym), who was formerly stationed in Mexico. His

- deputy is pseudonym "Mike." Country desks include Costa
Rica, Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, .
Nicaragua, Panama, and El Salvador. Section personnel in-
cluded officers Fernando PASCUAL Perez, pseudonym “Alejandro";
Saul GONZALEZ, pseudonym "Denis"; Gustavo (lnu). pseudonym
“Lino”; Paulino (lnu), pseudonym "Mauricio"; Rafael GUZMAN,
pseudonym "Rolando"; (fnu) RELOBA, pseudonym "Wilfredo";
apprentices (practicantes) Miguel Angel (inu), pseudonym
"Miguel"; Omar (Inu), pseudonym "Oscar"; Raul GONZALEZ,
pscudonym "Olexis"; and Francisco (Llnu), pseudonym "Tino."
Their desk assignments were not known,

ec. Section C, South America, chief unknown. Country desks in-

clude Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador,
Paraguay,. Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela, and British Guiana. Two

officers in the section were pseudonym "Ulises," formerly
perhaps in Chile, and pseudonym "Juan Carlos," possibly
formerly in Peru, Both were returned to Cuba for discipli-
navy reasons; they may have been assigned to the desks for
the countries where they had served.

The National Liberation Department (Departamento de Liberacion
. he department has no chief; officers wishing
advice Gonsult “Major Guillermo JIMENEZ, pseudonym “Javier," who

is head of the Centrat American Section of the department. or,
in his absence, go directly to Manuel] PINEIRO or his deputy,
CHAIN, The department offices occupy two two-story buildings at
6610 and 6612 7th Avenue, between GG6th and 7Oth Streets, in the
Ampliacion de Almendares section of the Miramar district of
Habana. The department, which is one of the largest in the DGI,
is responsible for promotion and direction of revolutionary ac~
tivity, including guerrilla warfare. It acts mostly in coopera-
tion with Communist Parties or organized leftist groups. but
conducts some operations unilaterally without local coordination.
Among its activities are the recruitment, arrangement of travel
to and from Cuba and training in Cuba, and the direction and
support of guerrilla fighters in its target countries. Since

         

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM
74-00000

12,

13.

. : SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM

-~5- CS-341,00115-64

reddish brown hair. She is ugly and dowdy, wearing low heels
and a Seviet-style dress, Like a peasant's.

e. A Soviet man, name unknown, works on South American opera-
tions in the Illegal Department.

Operational Departments.

Of the eight departments miaking up the headquarters, three are
operational, four are concerned with operational support or
training, and one is administrative. The three operational de=-
partments are Legal Centers (Centros Legaies - MS), Illegal

- iegali), and Natiénal Liberation beracion Nacional = UN);

the Last two were formerly a single department, Known as MA
(intelligence). All three departments handle operations abroad
for the purpose of collecting information on the host’ country,
promoting Cuban political aims, and conducting subversive ac-
tivitfes. Their operations are distinguished by two factors,
legal connections and? "Communist Party-leftist group Liaison.

The Department of Legal Centers is responsible for operations
conducted through Cuban official missions in countries with which
Cuba has diplomatic relations and has normally nothing to do with
illegal agents. The other two departments handle illegal agents,
both in, countries with which Cuba has relations and in those with
which she has none. . The Illegal Department has no connection
with Communist Parties or organized leftist groups abroad; the
National Liberation Department deals mainly with such parties

and groups; the Department of Legal Centers may work with them

or unilaterally. All three departments are organized in geo-
graphical divisions with area desks for each country within

their respective fields or responsibility; there is thus some
overlapping in desk coverage. .

The DGI has two types of overseas intelligence operations (as
distinct from guerrilla warfare operations covered below in
paragraphs 19 and 20): legal field stations and illegal agents.
The legal field station exists in every country with which Cuba
has diplomatic relations; its personnel are members of the local
Cuban diplomatic, consular, or trade mission. Officers are
selected from all parts of the DGI organization; no distinction
is made, for exdmple, between officers from the Illegal Depart-
ment and the National Liberation Department, but each person
assigned overseas performs whatever duties the local situation
requires. Field station chiefs report directly to PINEIRO, but
administration gocs through other channels, as explained below.
Field stations vary in size, depending on local objectives and
the quality of diplomatic relations. In Soviet Bloc countries,
for example, field stations are usually small, with only one or
two officers, who have no intelligence collection or similar

" responsibility but are charged principally with aiding travelers

to Cuba and with liaison with the local intelligence service.
In countries outside the Soviet Bloc, legal field stations have
various responsibilities; in Latin America, their principal ac-
tivities are promotion and direction of subversion and sabotage
and arrangements for guerrilla warfare.29 The largest field
station is in Mexico, which is important because it ts a major
transit point fer beth personnel and materials, and because it
is a contact puint for any leftist organization of any country
which has representatives in Mexicd. Material for other Latin

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM
 

 

 

teten emdlaenpeeaen oe ener

10,

 

_b. A Soviet man, name unknown, accompanies "El Frances."

. SECRET
NO FORN DISSEX

~4e- CS-311/00115-64

The Inspection Department, héaded by pseudonym "Dsrio,” which is
responsible for discipline in the directorate and for investiga=
tions of staff personnel, probably kefora hiring, has 10 to 12
members. Both department.chiefs are probably former members of
the DSE, and some of the office staff are also former DSE menbers.

Soviet Advisors.

Attached to the DGi headquarters is a group of Soviet advisors,
who occupy offices ia M Building. Their presence and identities
are kept as secret as-possible, even anorng the officers who work

with them, and they are-khowa only by pseudonyms, They have ||

especially chose contacts with Manuel PINEIRO and CHAIN, ‘and
with the Illegal-Department, whose officers can consult directly.

-with them at any tine. Ordinary desk officers in other depart=-
“ments cah consult the Soviet Advisors only at their offices. in
“M Buld@ing, where nod.spectal security precautions are observed,

 

fut they do not see much of ‘them except when visiting the

_ Pllegal Department whéa the-advisors are working there. The
' Soviets can visit any department whenever they wish.

 

“an. + “¥8¥ornation obtained by DGI agents abroad can be passed to the’ -

Soviet advisors.® The five known are the following: -

‘a. “Sl Frances" (The Frenchman), PINEIRO's personal advisor.,
is apparently the chief Soviet advisor in Cuba. He has
an office in M Building and frequently visits PINEIRO's
house. He was born between 1909 and 1914; is about five
feet seven inches tall and of medium build; has very grey
hair; has blue eyes with bags under them; and wears at all
times gold-framed glasses with small-to-medium round. Lenses.
“His Spanish is fairly good. He hes a car assigned by the
;Cuban government and drives it hiuself.

He

is five feet eight inches tall, is of medium to thin build,
weighing about 145 pounds, and is clean shaven. An officer
who saw him frequently at DGI headquarters hever heard hin
speak.

ce. “Juan," who shares an M Building office with "El Frances"
“put works principally in the Illegal Department, is the
consultant on illegal operations, directs the recruitment
and handling of agents, arranges their entry and cover, and
maintains files. At one time he spent about six months in
France; the general impression is that be was there as an
illegal resident rather than in the Soviet Emrassy. He
speaks excellent Spanish with very little accent and ap-
parently has known the language a long tine. He too has a
ear assigned by the Cuban government and drives it hhinself.
Ho was born between 1919 and 1924 and is an active, athletic
man, about six feet tall and weighing a husky 200 pounds,
with biue eyes, He looks young, although his hair is grey,
as is the short-clipped mustache he wears low an his Lip.

a. A Soviet woman, name unknown, works in the Department of
Technical Operatiosal Supnort (47). She was horn tatween
1929 and 1934, is five feet seven or eight inches tall, is
stout but not fat, has blue eyes ana eaenst shoulder-length

| SECRET
XO FORN DISSEM
 

 

14.

15.

16,

17.

: SLCKET
NO FOPN DISSEM ~

-~ 6 - CS-311/00115-64

—_

American countries usually goes first to Mexico and is forwarded
from there,}l Mexico is also a meeting place for operations of-="
ficers from Cuba and agents trom Central and South America;
Canada similarly serves as a mecting place for agents from the
United States. Legal field stations do not normally deal with

 

_dllegal agents except in a great emergency.

In all legal field stations, the DGT representative is charged:
with keeping track of, checking, and reporting on the political
activities of the other members of the mission to which he is
attached. DGI officers also assist with the political classes
and lectures held periodically for membews.of the missien, but
this is a task shared by all mission members and is not assigned
to any officer specifically. Physical security, such as techni-
cal examination of Cuban premises for audio surveillance devices,
is not a DGI responsibility; it is performed by the DSE.

In countries with which Cuba does not have diplomatic relations,
DGI activities are handled by agents stationed permanently in
the country as illegal agents or as members of Communist Parties
and leftist groups. Their assignments are sabotage. subversion,
selection and training of guerrilla warfare candidates and other’
agents or groups in Latin America primarily. The DGI regards
Guatemala and Venezuela as the countries in which its operations
have been most successful. Such {geld operations are run from
Cuba or from an adjacent country. . : .

The Department of Legal Centers (Departamento Centros Legales -
NS)T "The MS department iS headed by Pedro FARINAS Olaz. pseu-
donym “Otoniel," and has a staff of 15 to 20 persons. Its
offices are not in the M Building compound, but in a building
at the corner of 3lst Avenue and 64th Street in the Marianao
suburb of Habana. The department is in charge of the field
stations, known as legal centers, in cach country with which
Cuba has diplomatic relations or where she maintains commercial
missions. Its personnel are not assigned abroad as a rule;
they act as the service group at headquarters for field person-
nel drawn from any part of the DGI. Ficld station chiefs, as
noted above, report directly to PINEIRO; the NS Department takes
care of all paper work for the field stations, including photo-
graphing incoming and outgoing documents; maintaining files of
field correspondence; and handling coded radio communications.
Coded radio messages prepared by desk officers are photographed
and sent to the field on microfilm and messages on microfilm
received from the field are decoded and passed to the proper
department; MS does not do the decoding itself. The department
does not have its own radio station. [It does not run any agents
abroad; it does, however, assign dead drops and explain their
use to ficld agents, mostly those of the Illegal Department.

 

The [llegal Department (Depart amento Illegal). The department is
headed by psecidonym “Lucic.* who directs Operations rather than
dealing directly with agents: his deputy is Santiago PEREZ, pseu-
donym “Rolo.” The staff of about 20 persons is responsible for
handling “illegal” agents, that is. agents of all nationalities
whose activities and connections with Cuba are secret. The de-
partment recruits the agent; arranges for his training. means

of clandestine communication, and travel to his assigned area;
and thereafter directs, supports, and maintains communication

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM
 

lHidgrs Dissem

7 WH/COPS
; Wu/PO/A
, WH/PO/B
WH/RO,
WH/SA/EOB
WH/SA/MOB
WH/SA/R
WH/SA/CL 2
WH/L
wH/2
¥H/3
WH/4
WE/5
WH/6
WH/R

cr Staff
CI Liaison
CI/REA
RID/AN

5 AF/1
a AF/2
AF/3
AF/4
AF/R
AF/CI

EE/K
EE/SA
EE/BR
EE/YA
EE/H
EE/P
EE/C
EE/ 11S
EE/CI

al od ol el aol ol ce Nl ol ol oe

A]

FE/PMI/I
FE/dKO/JO
FE/JKO/K
FE/VNC/VN
FE/R
FE/CI

ld Band

(2/Py

WE/5.

Lad lh sod ool ell oll ool ool ela jh ol eel el

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

=

NE/AA/L&S
NE/AA/AP
NE/AA/E
NE/AA/T
NE/5/P
NE/G/C&E
NE/R

NE/CI

WE/2 ~
WE/2
WE/3
WE/4

WE/BC
WE/R

latent askaalral Ba) mbt et ee

Field Dissem ~~

‘WH/MEXE
WH/MNTY
WH/MRID
WH/SDOM
WH/SNDR
WH/SJAN
WH/PIBO
WH/POSN
WH/KNGS -
WH/PRIN
WH/GORG
WH/PACY
WH/MNANA
WH/SJOS
WH/SALY
WH/TEGU
WH/GUAT
WH/LAPA
WH/BOGO
WH/QUIT
WH/GAYA
WH/LIMA
WH/CARA
WH/BUEN
WH/COBA
WH/MONT

Pao fet at fd at fed dpa eth eat feb a ind peat fd et ft Set pth ed eb ph pad ae

SECRET

WH ASUN
WH SAGO
WH/RIOD
WH; CURi
WHBRiL
WH/SAOP
WH/BHIA
WH/BEHO

WH/LGRE
WH/RECI
WH/BLEM
WH/WAVE

AF/ALGI
AF/ORNA
AF/RABA
AF/CASB
AF/ACCR
AF/CNRY ©
AF/BAKO"
AF/DARE

EE/VIEN
EE/SBUR
EE/CYRU
BE/ATRE
EE/KAVA
EE/SLON
EE/BERN
EE/GNVA
EE/ZURI
EE/SOFI
EE/BELG
EE/ZAGR
EE/BUDA
EE/POLE
EE/PRAG
EE/BCHA

FE/DJAK

FE/MEDN ~

FE/SURA
E/TORY)
FE/OKIE
FE/SEOU
FE/SAIG
FE/KOBE

NO FORN DISSEM

CS~311/00115-64

E,
NE/KUWA
NE/KAHI
NE/DACC
NE/LAHO
NE/RAWL
NE/BAGH
NE/REIR
NE/DAMA
NE/ALEP™
NE/JIDD
NE/DARA
NE/TAIZ
NE/CAIR -
NE/ALEX

rremennn [preennnncens

WE/BRUS

=

WE/ROME
WE/MILA

——HEZHAGU cd

 

” WE/MADR
WE/BAR

5
we
Pt pat od frat bet pt et at pt fd tt dp

 

WE/PARI™

I

eal all el al ool a ol ool coll oe el ol ool

“1

 

ed andl a
ww
w

o

=
rd

pat fb ped pat md pe fad pest fed acd esd Ded pond rad Pad pnd

q

24

etl at pe

14
 

 

104-10185-10149

 

. aan CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

,
‘This matectal contains tnformation afecting the National Defense o: tte Cuiced States etiam the meaning of the Replonace Lawn, Title
UR TAC. Seca, THF ana Te, the traaamiesiom of reveintion of which i say manonr to en Unaulhoriend person te prubibited oy law.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

 

coun = Cuba 4 : report NO. «= CS. -311/00115-64
suwect The Organization of the GeneraY . DATE DISTR 8 July 1964
Directorate of Intelligence

(Diréceion General de NQ, PAGES uy

Inteligencia - 0GI) mG
REFERENCES,

RETURN TO CIA
DATE OF = «1964 , \ . Background Use Only
PLACE : an \ Not!
“ “FIND REPORT NO, a

GATE ACQ. Tune 1984
~ THIS 1S UNEVALUATED @RTORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE OZANITIVE APPEAISAL OF CONTENT: m7 Tentayive,

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban tntetlt-
gence Service until April 1964,

. . Head. uarters Comment. The following information, as reported — ¢
by Source during a debriefing, includes a description of the
Gencral Dirccturate’ of Intelligence (Direccion General de
Inteligencia - DGI), a break-down of Gach of its departments,
the functions of each department, a diagram (Chart A) of the
organization of the DGI, and a nap (Chart B} of the DGI com-
pound in Habana,

introduction.

1. The General Directorate of Intelligence (Direccion General de
Intelligencia - DGI) is the Cuban external intelligence agency,
charged with maintaining security, collecting information,
and promoting Cuban Government intelligence policies abroad.
It is part of the Ministry of Interior (Minusterjo del Inte+
rior), and was established sometime in m1d-196T, t is con-
cerned only with operations abroad. The collection of
intelligence within Cuba, counterintelligence, and security
are the responsibility of the Department of State Security
(Departamento de Seguridad del Estado - DSB). The two agencies
are independent but maintain liaisen and coordination on cer=-
tain matters,

2, The DGI, also known as "M," or "MN Department," is organized
under a director general and his deputy; its components are
&@ main headquarters with administrative and personnel offices,,
eight departments, and the director's office (see organization
chart of page 14)? [t is closely cennected with Ramiro Valdes
Menendez, the Minister of Interior, and is also of continuing
interest to Fidel Castro, Raul Castro, and Ernesto "Che" Guavara,

S-E-C-R-E-T au
NO FOREIGN DISSEM te ettarceng one
peer

mS GS oe OH

STATE 1 ota : i NAVY
REPCINCLANT CIKCSO = I&NS
(Note: Feld siewidution indicated by “#™.) °

 

 

 

aa NP (AMMUG-1)

CS-311/00115-64

a Fe

 

 

 

Craiscer

 
 

- ne , SECRET
+ NO FORN DISSEM
-2- 5-311 00115-64

The Director's Office.

 

‘

3. The director general of the QGI is Manuel PINEIRO Lesada, known

as "Red Beard” itarba Hojaj.° He is closely associated with
Ramiro VALDES, to whem he has direct access at any time; he is
required to report regularly to Fidel CASTRO and to coordinate
‘with him all expenditures of large sums; and he also has direct
contact with GUEVARA, Raul CASTRO often visits PINEIRO's office;
his principal interest appears to be the guerrilla schouls (see
below), but he may have others in the DGI. PINEIRO also handled
the principal contacts with the Soviet advisors of the DGI, His
direction of the DGY is handled through a deputy. but he also
has direct contact as desired with department chiefs and lower-
level personnel]: chiefs of field stations report directly to him,
although other field-station business is handled through the-
departments’ responsible for field work. PINEIRO himself has
trained some important agents in field work and has subsequently"
acted as their handling officer...

4, PINEIRO has his office in his residence at 4ist Avenue and ...
18th Street in the Miramar district of Habana.. There he keeps -
functional files of everything concerning the DGI: other files
from individual sections are brought to him for review and then
returned to the department or section that maintains them,

There is a daily courier service between his house and the DGI
headquarters. The house has at least two separate telephones,
one personal and one official, the latter providing direct com-
munication with all government agencies. One of the telephone ---
numbers is 29-4257. fhe outside entrance of the house always
has two guards in olive-green uniforms; they are probably from
the DSE. In addition, PINEIRO has a bodyguard staff of six, also
probably from the DSE, Three of them are always with nim on 24-
hour shifts: one acts as chauffeur when he goes out. while the
other two follow in a second car, He keeps three cars, ali 1961
Oldsmobiles, one blue, one beige. and one black,

5. In his home office PINEIRO has an aide, pseudonyn "castor, "6 who
handles the office work but does not attend private interviews,
In Cuba he stays in the office and does not accompany PINEIRO
outside the office. When PINEIRO travels abroad, "Castor" ac~
companies him, as for example on his visit to Moscow in April
1964, At the main DGI headquarters. PINEIRO also has a secre~
tary, pscudonym “Vidalina," and a clerk-typist, pseudonym
"Zoraida"; they occupy desks in the executive office of the DGI
deputy chief but work strictly for PINEIRO. "“Vidalina™ handles
all incoming and outgoing correspondence and cable traffic and
distributes it both within DGI headquarters and abroad.

DGI Main Headquarters.

6. The main headquarters of the directorate is known as "Department
M" of the Ministry of Interior, but very few people know any-
thing about it or are even aware of its existence. It occuples
a house and grounds which were formerly the property of the GOMEZ
. Mena family. It covers a whole city block bounded by 49th and
i Sist Avenues and 78th and 80th Streets in the Lorrazabal section
of the Marianao suburb of Habana. The block is a compound sur-
. : rounded by a concrete wall, with trees planted completely around
! it inside, There are two entrances: a main entrance with wooden

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEN
14-00000

~3- CS-312/00115-64

gates located near the center of the block an 80th Street and a
back entrance with steel doors located directly through the
block on 78th Street. The main entrance is manned by guards
armed with PPShA machineguns; the rear entrance is kept locked
and is used only in emergencies. No pass or identification is
required to enter the grounds,

‘The headquarters compound (see diagram on page 15) contains all

the DGI offices excépt PINEIRO's home office, the three opera-
tional departments. and the Special Schools Department. described
below, The main building, called M Building, is situated near \
the center of the compound but off the main axis between the

gates. It houses most of-the offices in its two stories and alse
contains a canteen, public telephones, and a police radio for the
city and the Ministry of Interior. There are no large assembly
rooms; conferences are held in small rooms. Within the compound, \
separated from M Building by driveways and parking lots, are

several other structures: _ ' :

a. A two-story building housing the Personnel Department on the |
first floor and the Inspection Department on the second. i

b. Three one-story service buildings: a guard office with
sleeping quarters for 20 to 25 guards, a food-storage ware-
house, and a clothing-storage warehouse. The guard office
and” the Personnel-Inspection building flank the main entrance

on 80th Street. |

ce. A two-story building, in the angle of the grounds formed by |
78th Street and 49th Avenue, housing the Technical Operationat
Support Department. Two of its sections, the Photographic
Laboratory and the Concealment Device Section, occupy indi-
vidual buildings in the compound.

General administration of the DGI is handled from the M Building,
where PINEIRO's deputy, (fnu) CHAIN,7 pseudonym "Agusto," has

his office. Besides acting as director general when PINEIRO is
away from Cuba. CHAIN is responsible specifically for management
of large expenditures, South American affairs, and the approval
of false passports for travelers. He signs, in pseudonym, all
notices and circulars issued to the directorate. His secretary
has the pseudonym "Georgina." CHAIN's office, through “Vidalina,”
distributes cable traffic to the DGI departments. Incoming and
outgoing cable traffic and diplomatic pouch traffic are received
at this office from the Central Ciphering Service (Servicio
Central de Cifrados - SCC), which is a communal coding and de-
coding service operated by the DSE. CHAIN's office apparently
also acts as a receiving and distributing center for clandestine
radio traffic but does not itself send or receive radio messages;
the actual transmission is possibly controlled by the Communist

Party.

Directly under the deputy director are two administrative depart-
ments for staff members, Personnel (Departamento de Personai) and
Inspection (Departamento de Inspeccion), which occupy a separate
building in tne headquarters compound. The Personnel Department,
headed by pseudonym "Pelayo," which handles all matters concerning

‘staff member administration (selection, hiring, pay. promotion,

dismissal, social security, etc.), has about 14 or 15 members.

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM

 
