14-00000

basis."

wane
SeECE]

in New Orleans at the time of the Oswald-Bringuier

confrontations in August 1963. It was concluded that

‘Oswald was never a member of the DRE, which in fact

‘rejected him, and that the DRE was not involved in the
“assassination. —

In April 1967 the undersigned showed a copy of ~<—
aemrorardunx toMr—ss~*~*~—‘C*~sédi thems’ G/ WH/GOGG,, who con

that it reflected inadequate information and bias. It was agreed,
nevertheless, ‘that the charges which District Attorney James Garrison
was then beginning to level against anti-Castro Cubans and this ‘Agency
necessitated careful checking. a . .

   

™ he first ‘report in the CI/R&A series on Garrison, 26 April
1967, 1 ‘listed seven ‘Cuban refugees then linked to the case (Sergio

; ARCACHA Smith;. Carlos BRINGUIER, Julio BUZNEDO, Manuel GARCIA

Gonzalez, Pascual GONGORA, Miguel Silva TORRES, and Carloa -
QUIROGA.) It xequeated any additional WH/COG information about them

~ and about. the following groups: the Cuban Democratic Revolutionary
‘Front, the DRE, . the Information Gouncil of the Americas, and any other

anti-Castro groups active in the New Orleans area. The request added, .
"Information about CIA relationships with the above-named groups should
not be restricted to New Orleans but should also include Miami and other
areas to which Garrison's investigations may lead." Information was -
also requested on Edward S. BUTLER, Alberto FOWLER, Emilio
SANTANA, and.a paramilitary training site at Lake Pontchartrain. By

a memorandum forwarded on 8 May 1967 the then AG/WH/COG, Mr.
provided the requested information and added, "WH/

will continue to review all material that may contain information pertinent
to this subject and will forward such information to CI/R&A on a priority

 

. 6. ‘Since that date CI/R&A has s prepared a series of reports on

the Garrison case. All of these have been forwarded to WH/COG. In

turn, WH/COG hag provided additional information from its own files —

and those of the Miarni Station, to. which it has addressed several inquiries.

6. GI/R&A is currently compiling a separate list of all Cubans
(as well as other Latin Americans) whose names have been linked to the
Garrison investigation. This Hst will be forwarded to WH/COG witha
request for checks if it contains any identities not previously traced
against their files (including those of J MWAVE). ;

2 ~_:
Terme
teach |

 
404-10067-10084

 

SUBJECT:

 

28 February 1968

 

MEMORANDUM ©

 

 

. Garrison Investigation of Kennedy Assassination:
_ +. Allegations of Involvement, CLA and Cuban

 
 
 

 

a on of the SB Division wrote a memorandum
entitled. “Possible DRE Animus Toward President Kennedy" and dated
8 March 1967. At. that time Mr.[ had recently returned froma
tour of duty in( While there he had read about the Warren
Commission's Investigation and had noted the pre-assassination encounter
in New Orleans between Carlos Bringuier of the Student Revolutionary
Directorate (DRE) and Lee Harvey Oswald. He recalled his own dealings
in Miami with the DRE, a ClA-subsidized group. He considered the
DRE members whom he knew to be unpredictable and untrustworthy. He
speculated as to whether DRE elements could have been involved in the

 

 

 

‘Kennedy assassination. He recommended that CIA investigate this

 

possibility. if it had not already done so. was assigned to Miami
frorn July 1962 to August 1963. Neither CI/R&A nor SB has a retention
copy of the. memorandum, but Mr{ iis still at Headquarters.

2. “Mr. Arthur Dooley of CI/R&A discussed this: matter with the

following members’ of WH/COG: .--- . . a

7 * Mies Margaret Forsythe. She stated that CIA's
interest in the DRE had been made known to the office of the
Attorney General by letters of 9 January and 18 April 1963
addressed to J. Walter Yeagley. The earlier letter said, in
part, "The DRE is of interest to this Agency which sponsors
and supports its propaganda and intelligence collection activity

-in the Western Hemisphere ... as the DRE is not a group .

. under complete Agency control, the above does not insure that
they will not undertake isolated paramilitary operations without
prior notification. " . nn .

. »b “Messrs hen recently setornea
from a tour of the Miami Station, and Carl Trettin, DC of the
cr Branch, WH/COG, who knew Bringuier and was stationed

 

 
  

: “The: - proklem arising from Garrison's charges of Agency

involvement. in the assassination is compounded by the nature of *

some of our former Cuban operations, which resulted in a form of
indirect. association. For example, Garrison has sought without —
success to. ‘extradite Sergio ARCACHA Smith from Dallas. FBI reporting
of 28 March 1967 stated that according to Layton Patrick Martens,
Garrison will try to prove that Arcacha was the "second trigger man"
in the assassination. The checks run by WH/COG and CI/R&A have not

- shown any link between Arcacha and CIA. However, WH/COG has

reported that Arcacha was the delegate of the Frente Revolucionario
Democratico (FRD) in New Orleans before the Bay of Pigs, that he
maintained re gular postal contact with FRD headquarters in Miami,
that the FRD and the Cuban Revolutionary Council were supported by
CIA, and that funds were supplied to the head of these groups, Dr. Jose
MIRO Cardona. ‘Consequently Arcacha may have believed that his
activities in New Orleans were ClA-supported. This phenomenon of
indirect association appears in other cases as well and may well underlie —
some of Garrison's accusations. ' .

8 It is suggested that C/WH or his representative might

: profitably query Mr. about the allegations summarized in -

 

paragraph 1, above. Gugh the date for the trial of Clay Shaw has’

. not been set, it is plainly drawing closer. Once it starts, the newspapers

will carry a flood of accusations, old and new} and it would be @ judicious
to be prepared in’ advance.

 

  
