13-00000

so be it. But it was not started out as an assassination
operation. It was not meant to be an assassination operation
per se. The idea was to somehow change the government of
Cuba. Even as Lansdale's stupid memorandum talking about
assassination, or Ave: e not using the word,

‘ wv
Se A T heheve édale wsed ‘liguidatim of leaders oe
a A "assassination "*’--that was an afterthought. qrbat came much some.

Suek
later in the game. ; . Ghrase,

MSM: “In- August of '62,

SH: ves. And we'd been operating since October ‘61, for God's

sakes. So, for Buckley or anybody else to label MONGOOSE -a)
as a CIA operation and, b) as an attempt to assassinate 7
Castro,.is crazy. It's. just absolutely false. Let me go on
to the next. one he's got here. All of which he's trying to
prove that everything he's got in here, while it's fiction, is
based upon fact. It's not. He says: "The attempt to
assassinate Castro via a wet suit to be given to Fidel Castro
by James Donovan. without his knowledge was made." Not true.
The wet suit wasn't even bought. We never even had a wet

Kw sulty aera went ahead and did it on his own without
referring to anybody, as a-gift in terms of his negotiations
about freeing the Bay of Pigs prisoners. The business of a
wet suit was somebody's brainchild. The name of the man who
thought of the idea was George McManus. I don't think George

is alive anymore, but anyway, George came up with the idea,
13-00000

"nook let's give Jim a present to give to Castro." And the
idea was not to assassinate Castro via the wet suit, anyway.
It was to disable him, make him sick. But the thing never got
DP devt Yank
off the grounds, towioree ever bought the wet suit. Didn't
need to, because by the time we were thinking about it and
discussing it and wondering what the devil to put into the wet
suit to make him sick, Jim had already given him the wet
suit. So we dropped it. And that brings me to another point
that's in the beginning of the book here, by the way. Very
fortuitous. Buckley starts off the book, in an unnumbered
page right in the beginning, quoting from the Church Committee
Report, which says, "We have found concrete evidence of at
least eight plots involving the CIA to assassinate Fidel
Castro from 1960 to 1965." That's totally false. There were
no eight plots, because among the plots--them so-called
alleged eight plots--one is the wet suit, which never went off
the drawing board. Another one was Des FitzGerald's idea of
that exploding seashell. And that one never got off the
drawing board; it never even got on the drawing board. Des
came in one morning and said he had come up with an idea while

he was shaving. "Let's make up a fancy seashell, fill it with

. explosives, put it on the ground, on the seabed, and when

Castro sees it he's bound to go for it, and it will blow up in
his face." I looked at Des and I said, "you're crazy. It'll
never work." He says, "You're always negative. Go talk to

TSD." It's now called OTS. I said, "Okay, I‘'11 talk to them,
13-00000

And we never, never, never used MONGOOSE inside the Agency as

a cryptonym to refer to TFW. We had our own action indicator

for cables and dispatches, and we had our own info indicator,
and that's what we used. We never referred to it as
MONGOOSE. I had one rubber stamp made, just for fun and
games. I had one rubber stamp made--MONGOOSE. It never saw
an inkpad. To this day, it's as clean as a bell. It's never
been used. The reason I can say that is because I have it.
As a souvenir. So, people talking about MONGOOSE as a CIA
operation are just talking through their hat, they're dead
wrong. And even looking at the Church Committee reports, you
will f€ind that they don't refer to MONGOOSE as a CIA
operation. CIA was part of it, no question of that. But so
was the Army, so was the Navy, so was everybody else,
including the State’ Department. And that's where you get that.
reference to the Caribbean Survey Group. That's a State
Department, was a State Department-run coordination committee
of sorts. .It had a fancy title, that's all.. It was part of
the MONGOOSE activities, but that was State's share of the
operation. so, let me keep on going here. He [Buckley]
says: "MONGOOSE was a name given by CIA to the attempted
assassination of Castro." Not true. MONGOOSE was never an
operation designed to assassinate Castro per se. MONGOOSE was
an operation to change the government of Cuba, and there were
no holds barred, that's true. And if that meant

assassination, or if somebody felt that meant assassination,
13-00000

General of the United States, who we'll presume reported to
the President, his brother. Lansdale asked CIA--and I was the
officer involved--for a eryptonym he could use for this
national--I use the word, “national"--operation. All agencies
were involved. It was not a CIA operation. I went to the
eryptic reference officer--I forget her name, Mrs. Gilbert, I
think--at the time, and I said, "Give me a cryptonym with a
digraph on the other side of the world--away from WH Division
or Latin America." I said, “This is going to get all over the
building anyway, let's confuse them as much as we can for at
least five minutes. And when the cryptonym gets all over the
world, let's confuse the Russians for a while, because their

penetrations abroad will pick it up faster than we will."

 

But, being an old Far East hand, I said, "How about

 

 

 

See what they've got in the MO digraphs." She came up with a
whole list of digraphs, and I remember telling this to Fritz
Schwartz of the Church Committee Staff. He thought I..was

playing games. when I picked MONGOOSE, because of the old story

about the mongoose and the snake--an old Indian proverb or

legend. I said, “Nope, I'm not that smart. Totally

ignorant. The word MONGOOSE just sounded good." So I picked
MONGOOSE, and I gave it to Ed Lansdale. It was his cryptonym,
his operation. It was g across-the-board Army, Navy, Air
Force, State Department, Commerce Department, Treasury
Department--every agency in the government was involved in

this one. It was not just @emetieere simply a CIA operation.
13-00000

:

in Vienna or Chief in Rome, I'm not quite sure. I think Chief
in Rome. Again, Dick said, "Nope, can't spare him." I said,
"my fourth choice is Bill Harvey," who was then Chief, FI
Staff/Division D, and I thought he could be spared. Anyway,
Dick said, "I'll think about it." A few weeks later, still
January of 1962, Bill Harvey came over to a meeting we were
holding, Zog and I were holding, in terms of what do we do to
answer some of the pressure from the White House. How do we
write papers which in effect says to the President "You're
just full of it, it isn't going to work, you've got no assets,

you wanted it all done by mirrors, and we can't do it, but

-wefll try." Well, that is not a forward looking paper. And

Zog and I had to have some kind of help in terms of how do you
draft in the English language something which says: “It isn't
going to work, boss, but we'll try." And make it sound good!

Anyway, Bill came over one day to one of these meetings, and I

thought to myself then, “Whoops, maybe we're going to get Bill

to take over." Because this is a political operation inside

the bureaucracy of Washington, DC; it's got nothing to do
with Castro. Bill came over, and shortly after that
particular meeting, which was then in the old Quarters Eye

Building, where we were still stationed in the old Bay of Pigs

_offices--shortly after that, Bill became the Chief of what

later became Task Force W. And when Bill came over and Task
Force. W was created, it was quite clear that Bill could not be
subordinate to J. C. King, so Cuba was taken away from WH

3

SECRET
/
13-00000

MSM:

SH:

Division and made a completely separate task force all of its
own. So, from being Deputy Chief of Branch 4 in WH Division,
I became the Executive Assistant to the Chief of the Task
Force, TFW, in January ‘62. I presume that answers your

question.

Yes, very completely. Thank you. My next one will be a broad
sort of one. What, as an Agency historian, do you think I
should know about Operation MONGOOSE that I might not

know--that is not known or has been misrepresented?

Oh, that's easy. Let me start off--I happen to have this by

accident, sheer accident--Bill Buckley's new book, called

HONGOOSE, RIP. He says it's fiction, but he also says, on

pages 319 and 320, in something he calls "Booknotes," he says,
"This is a work of fiction. The most conspicuous historical
characters are obviously characters in history. And some of
the episodes are drawn from official and non-official, but
creditable sources." I'm still reading. I'll take this apart
bit by bit as we go and you'll understand why I'm doing it.
“Operation MONGOOSE was the name given by the CIA to the
attempt to assassinate Castro from 1961 to 1962 and to related
questions." Period. End of Quote. That is a bald-face lie
from beginning to end. The name MONGOOSE was not a name given
by CIA to any operations. Ed Lansdale, General Lansdale, as

the Chief of Operations for what became known as Operation

4
Saerr”
13-00000

2202 Popkins. Lane .
' Alexandria, VA. .22307
February 13, 1988

Dr. Mary S. McAuliffe
Staff. Historian
Central Intelligence Agency

Dear Dr. McAuliffe,

: Enclosed is the corrected transcript of my interview
of Janpary 15, 1988. I am sorry I was not able u to f#il in
all the several blanks. If I could hear the tape, I might

be able to decipher it. My compliments to the transcriber
for getting as mech as is there.

I did not realize I was being so earthy, for which
I apbhlogize, nor that I was talking in incomplete sentences.
Twtext would never pass muster as even.a draft of a term paper
in class, but it is what I said. I hope it is still helpfule

 

 

& fo if you haven't already received 2 copy, I suggest you

_ / ask -of HIC nt Oe a@ copy of some ten pages I put
avi, {{ together”on the SCoknotes" of Bill Buckley's Mongoose, RelePe

WX They are more compléte than my comments on that subject . in

ay my interview ahd should be appended to ite

; I enjoyed doing the intervisw and am available to do
more on subjects thought to be useful.

Sincerely yours,

 
 

104-10324-10003|--

  

Interview with Samuel Halpern
by Dr. Mary S. McAuliffe
15 January 1988

Alexandria, Virginia

ORIGINAL DRAFT with markings by Mr. Halpern
13-00000

Interview with Samuel Halpern
15 January 1988 Alexandria, Virginia
by Mary S. McAuliffe ,

MSM:

SH:

We'll go back to the beginning of MONGOOSE, we're talking 1961

the last part of 1961 through ‘63 to some extent.

MONGOOSE actually finished at the end of the Missile Crisis in
1962 and lasted exactly one year.. From October ‘61 to January
‘62 I was Deputy Chief of what was then called “Branch 4" of
the Western Hemisphere Division, ‘Branch 4 consisted of Cuba
and all. the Caribbean Islands. When we’ started into MONGOOSE,
by the time January came around it was quite clear that that
couldn't exist any. longer in that particular organizational

. . . eput
bureaucratic setup, and*Dick Helms, who was then the DYDDP, I

guess it was, or Chief of REET guess, decided to take
Cuba, at: least, out of WH4 and set it up aS a separate branch
within WH, still under the Division Chief, eq Col. Jd. C.

King. In January of ‘62, because things were getting hot and
heavy with the Kennedys. on our tail, and I kept screaming~-oh,
by the way, the man who was the Branch Chief was Ghosn Zogby
(of Lebanese extraction), who was.a long time Agency employee
(he's now dead, unfortunately) --he was Branch Chief, I was his
Deputy, ca so-called Branch 4. When Cuba was taken out and
made a separate branch under J. C. King, Zog (nickname)
continued ae 4bEanch Chief, and I continued as his Deputy until
I was screaming loud: and long to Dick Helms that this is
crazy. MONGOOSE, because it was called MONGOOSE as of

196 :
Octoberf=-and I'm the guy who came up with the name ,—T'1L give
MSM:

SH:

—SeRET

called MONGOOSE as of October 1961--and I'm the guy who came

up with the name--I'll give you that background later--which,

'by the way was never used in the Agency. It was never an

Agency crypt. It was an Agency~supplied cryptonym, but we

never used it.

What did you use in the Agency? Was that where “Caribbean
Survey Group" came in?

No. That was a bunch of nonsense. The Caribbean Survey Group
was something totally different. I'11 get into that later.
Anyway, I kept screaming to Helms that the likes of a Zogby
and a Halpern are not what this operation needs, because this
was not a CIA operation, it was a political operation, in, the
city of Washington, D.C. And, being a political operation,
you have to have a big name in charge, you have to have some
political power. And I started off with Helms, and he said,
"OK, who do you want, smart guy?" So I started off saying, "I
think we need Des Fitzgerald," who was then Chief of FE
Division (and I'd been his Executive Officer in FE years ago,
now called EA Division). But he said "No, he's fighting a war
in Vietnam, can't use him." I said, "OK, my second choice is
Al Ulmer," who was then Chief of Station in Paris. I had been
Al's Exec in FE Division when he was Chief of FE in '56 or
‘57, '58, I guess, And he said, "No, can't spare him." My
third choice was Tom Karamessines, who was then either Chief

2
SERET”
