    

1400000
B .

   

 

   

reliant

so

At the peeting trie seertey he sae: Carr Y FCK4 anc
tee sutileed Care tose. on formula rea
Rte? Sortee the New Yrrs amiitersttoce fo 6 tre satesee
Provisiahal Preerert acc ure rertecs ot)
. The felles .

   
  
    

   

 

ATS "PR hee enya oh eee

 

    

   

 

Vreller, Senedd ac cnet by Vp pee

ae The Henne gta! se teste 8 6G temettne of A hpnate cased
assartte af P25 Wy we ane etier curcer oF delepates .

Bl Te Ves tram the Teer tte a Te rterrape elresde on

  

Srey ur a Tpae te sty Sheet aces fp te rpeettency, | Exerthy |

 

   

Wesbecedtonevar

     
 
 
 
  

   

 

   
      
  
   

 

 

 

    

      
   
  

 
 

. . . how arreecestier thy woult te tece wha not nate slenr. -
S. 0 Mhe Utet af aacan esula te: te pats ha aeppaved by the,
Ay rectors af ean Ngent re” ane ye le apan te euledttad tn exile
greuns fas aronwals : ; oe
+ * * . re _—
7 oh Da, -
~ : pert whine tre list ats Z
. : os Corr artes of Siw Tey, : ME CASSILIO §
VASONAY would resefve a "naliet! wits the ay nameg ¢ x
: car iieates acresrieg thereon coat}: inieate bts -nreferer:
: troercer Of aretenercal Arthayeh Care tte ant ga! ar ,
: . supatiy + wef rotet evster eecld te uset FF
. , the viet: Vev pete the eleatton Sf the Prev
teri wags Vstec ty the Cast etme af Six ‘
* La

   

tire a Feeet stenal. Pres

   

   

entiore® fp care and a‘eewbere grt”
Mead) withip ire tareday pert s

 
 
    
 
   

 

seers yore

 

The 2eestoeart will ther blect. freely 2% a: &
Aleut orestpart wil. he eetactes af cree ard the ather ten

 

  

 

 

. : - Qhgnda sd Tl ne ce@-mcted ono tre Previatonal geverament. te a@% .
: . . MS de Cuba gen CASTRO da evertiree y -. a

A, TER SOMES. Trece weuld te tee <Letiret parts te the feounes toe

   

Part Al A Mest clattye Tbh ot eaerspat me DV ON TH tet atars |
AWeth Sate attoae win wt fone fread cetented he tee
. Treo sent “hese yale ancprentiy have beth executive

ant Leetelative frvetiar

Oe - SECRET

   

 
  

104-10179-10036

 

 

 

£

 

~,

baé other importen

‘went “Bp,

  

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECS
FIBECT 3 Plane for the Esvmolisusert of tae conan Previsiose) Governagat "Te

REFERENCE: Meworeniim for the Yecord oy C/Wd's, Fa, cata 25 Feorvary 1yCl,

Sano Sup ject

    

1. As indicated fio paragreps 5 of tbe refere::
kaye-ancoréing to toe undersvaccine reacaed Jurinng Les February 1951 Wasosngtoa
weting-ewire to proces? tc New Yore on or @ovut 25 ferruary. Tuere they met witr
Artime, Carrillo, Chibsas, and Paros and ret.reed ve Wasdiagton tne aftersoon of ;
5 March. A meeting setwoer fato.® ra, au. 42. wiliar? Jerr took pamce on ~
& March in the Sborenas Bote siinis Mektas wee trpesl.

2. For the record, tha crasence of Mr. Carr 6uacit be @xplnioeds verges Por
the longest ties 16 ban bean felt that-~et the iq.inniag of @ sew wecbanise agrh
4s @ revolutionary council--1t weuls 3* wiee te introduce & oe Suse WoAch wes
Lee committed thrown past ssencdastons tu @a, gives prulitdeal er orcanigational

sourse. In looking for 6 asitatl« individgua., if was fede toast Mr. Carr would fii:
@ “senior 5

 

 

<

teis bilig He wouad Sreserve the contiaecty cf tae Seodear Groug wb.
partner” be bad bees from tke turepeion of tie prc ject; ne would
face in ag much ag de bus not been very ective in tie project for
five eonths. Thus, Mr..Carr vas acsad by Chief, WD during ¢:
to assume the roll of priwary ovgctiatar 1s. the estaciisanect of 4

council. Mr. Oare agreed; he cave to Wasnings woere be wus £0:

brought ep to dete by Mr. Droiler 7 a oP os
3. Ou 6 February broiler en? Carr mat with Yarons an Rayj Droller: intr.

Carr to kay as the Beoter Group senior partaer vrose sony eeper tens. in-atis >

  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

   

After this latrojuction, Carr aad Jrolier brougn™
the 5 March 1961 “Baltimore fun" a.ory, Which gare » fairly accurate 1
the current negotations, Toe Cubans vere e4vised in rether strong terme ‘obtain

utmost security in the" fature.

“ee at ary potat. of the aveting, Droller excuse} bi
jinese to attend and withoreyv fro

  
  
 

5. The results of Carrs. Sisswesions witt. the Cupen
attackornt 4 RELA tracslatios of & tentative Cubar agreed

 

 

‘RETURNTOCIA =~ -
Background'Use.Only- 0
, GaNet Reproduce ~ -

 
74-00000

2.

 

 

 

  

    

 
  

“SECRET

eRe

    
 
 
  
  
    
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
   
   

Part 8. A technical cabinet comecses of from 6 to 10 ~esters
without portfialins® wre wtli he electad by the
various “sectors” and acu red ber the President,
These nexbers wld drax up orejacted lews, ote. for
subeiseten to the “Leefslative Cablrat® £

BR. MINISTER CF DRFENSS. A Minister of Sefense will =: selected
freely tw the President: Pricer to going inte Cuba.

I. MINISTFR OF FOORTGN RELATIONS. A Mivlater of Foreien Relati

wlll alss be selected frealy by the President prior to going
into Cube,

PROTRAM OR_PLATFORN

A four-pare Program or Platform which VAROKA and RAY said should —
only be considered “a rourh dreft® wes eiven to Carr for his informa
tion. A summary is attachad. :

Iteus of the program as a whole, on which agreement as yet has not
beor reached are the following: —

A, Netionali sation of. e:Uthlities. Not sarved as yet as
whether telephone actric compantes should be nationalized
Seneral agreement on need to nationalize "obras publicas" -
transportation and Commant cations facilities.

  
   
 

B. *Cubantzation® of the ‘Banks. VAROKA ie agsinst requiring sl) ~

deposit banks to be Cuban. RAY is in favor, RAY, however, not
* opposed to foreign banks having apencies in the country with ,
#1) the rights and privileges, except the right to sceept

     
 

RAY and VARONA, according to Carr, were united in their thinking ¢ or
the ailitary “eapects of the oparetion against CASTRO:

oe oo. : AY

~ SECRET

atte i eine ata tm

 
 

sie a tet)

nee te ene

Ls

Both feel wo have sent “undesirable® people to the camps and
that this cannot further be tolerstes.

 

Recruiting must de

 

dere dy Cubans under Frente personnel desiansted. by the Frente
®iimme* must stop recruiting, although he is free te indicate

what the needs are.
controlled by FRD.)

Both insiet that Col. Manuel VAREIA Castro be named as head of

(ony said will quit if recruiting not —

 

 

the camp and that Juen CONSUEORA be given work in @ militery —

capacity.

make up the "General Staff.*

RAY. complained that *nothing® is being done to supply the
fighters in the Escasbrays,

A *pablic statement® must be made that no Ratistianos ill be

taken in.

Certain recruiting personne] (Rapoli has the names) chould be
reneved from their positions.

& RAT made an "tupasstoned® Plea for positive help from the United
: Mentioned need of beat and an increase (vy

States fer his croup.

bie arcap) in psychological varfere etivities.

~ s.

es dete ei oa

 

 

RAY t:°d Carr he wants te get away on 7 March for Miami. Be said
he will give us 46 to 72 hours to put this matter “on a level of
final decision or resolution.® .

These two, plus the present camp commanders, should |

  
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
   

saat ois
