 

4
4

 

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

Vera peneremean 9 “ene,

Hew Vora an cacsina wily. ch tee Qese of het oprascall ce fet an antag
permit, she raade ea sw eciban if any wadding plene, Te atenicen
Geveramesg approves ber trip ve cuadttier saat cba Cegrete with (ag
Consulate @ 9,866 Poss bom, 66 a gaaTanias ci hee txtontion ta depage
Mexico epen expiration of hev towstst card, + asscas lLeccdy ration --
Biles corfais ne veeord of ber actual agrived is sravies ivtiewing
appsevel ef keg 6 July 1960 application, Ths :sat recent corvecpendo
eage oo thts case contaiond in Meccan filer in daisd 1b Veetuary 196k,
Peflenting thes Anestacte DAMASCU agale os yoesied 5 Deurist Card

ew of about the dase of the letter, at videh tive par address in tke
Valted Ctstee wan gives os e/o Mericea Couscl, ar. Astesls, Texas. -
ta gepty te bar secend appiicatias fog am catry peraits Meniean anthkorte
tlea ageta peplled wiih a request tast she post a bred in ihe amoend ef
88, O89 Poses, to guaranice deyartere from Meutce spon eapivatica od
hey fouvict wlaa, Gheve te no further Infsureadion curpeetly available
6a ber farther travel plane.

. . Go With eeferencs wa Ficolas Geeryes DAMAECOT, on asks
of Ga infocraation pagerted ta proctding paragr opty & recheck by ou
vaprivcutatives with officials of the Vetted fustea Erakesey te blaxiee
Chay Roveated thet Kiectes Qeorgsn VAM ASA CU, Born 16 Merch 19S
st Aleugedria, Egypt, Bolder af Creeh Fasepost 2963 Leaued fa
Alewundscls, Egypt. on 8 March £569 a@4 valid to 29 Agerth 1961, wits

- gédee0e of 8 Eidaaboth Kay Reed, Cugsbsth Bey, Spdacy, Aagiralia,

"eee the peeciplews of a Calied feates Vina os ¢9 Cctoser 1760, Os kde
opplbention, DAMASUCY tzdicated that be deceived to viels the Ualted

; _  @tates fep & pevled ef fouw months, described ae a pleseuge trip te olals

-.. Bde beter. Waa vies spptlection did not inelede asp destination adéresg

ig tea Ualied Saeted. if woo aloe rsied thal the visa card maintuized. ee

Micelse DAMASHOU is the Embaroy ta Monico City contains a notetioen
*$e683 ts omigeation and Hatarsiieeion Services Les Angclecs
hae bay 89 89G2.* a

va ” de Thsaagh o pellable confidential ecurce oer represcuiae -
tives ta Egyps hed learned im the irtevims thal Micoles DAMASCOU, who
be tenticsi with Gis ladividual described Ia preceding pasagrapht,
cuyreniiy costdes im Las Angelete Califareda, 02 1690 Nogsik Gardear,
_ Apevtenant 16, gad that te advises Rie mother aed younger brother,
' e@1§ weatiing ia Alexandria, thet fo olane ws scarey the dengise? ef ap
' Ameetcon officlal, who is uct farther identified, The seme course -
+. ghee edvioed that Georges DAMASCCU ake DAMASKOU, father of
Niselas ond Amastasie VAMASCOU aha DAMASCUS, dlad Guring the
oamanse of 19402 Fellowieg the de:nise of the faines, Angelika.
DAMASCGOS use GAVOURAS, widowed mother z of Nidelas od Asactaste

semen

 

 
    
 

 
 

 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
 
    
 
 

pen

  

seein nnamtyetitnangy a ty 1a BTA es

 
 

404-10219-10282]

ee eee

  

  
 
   
   
 
    
 
 
 
 
 

. YY
, ” te, a

Eos Pairoewen ern ; . 4

b Ang eat 6908 i 3
MEMORANDUM FOR: Federal Yareen of lnvestigation - }
SVB LCT Bersca Pogauroa MST Cathode
: Wiltiacs Maccihina MART SY, :

See ee oe on, Bphornsge © Bee

 

ao |, Raderence te made fe ong somoganducn of VY duly 1644, org

: etgiioned ba above, and alee te Levees lettes dated 43 Jens b9$ly =
edézeseed So tha Siveztog, Nathonal Secassiy Agency, etth copy te this
Agerez, Selgect? Legusos Tergucom MITCHELL, Williaa harniii
MATE Ip REG TEAM LOCUS @ EF OR MATA: GCNGTRNEGS".

 

. . & Whe fallewleg lncormathin cupple nents tke mategtal ez. . :
"| Wieelas Qeorges PAMASCOU ake DAMASHOU axe BAMASEC cha .

. BAMARCUR, gupnered ta paragregh & cf oat 37 sear 4563 Temovandtiite
ao: - Pedsrend od abe TOs

 

B Oar sepreesrtaiivar in Maibosrne advised

 

 

 

mi [bicclae Gectyd6 DAMASC OY aka
BAM ASTOR Aroch antianad bers 10 March A384 a8 Atauaairiay Seype.
apvived ia Gydawp, Anstvahim, tre permanent dornienes wn go Cxistear

 
 

5°) 8986 Bbeard Be £5 E; STRAT IIN AY EA teareling ca Geesk Passpeat
“7 1 Bi, BESEZL9SR lepaoa & Moreh 1909 22 Slenortzia, Egypt. 46 tho

. (ame of bie agrions tn Spdaey, DAMASCOU wae ba poseecnicn af .
: Apnagallon Vise No. 434, tesved in Calvo on 15 fely 1966. He wee-
éaecrterd as faltoway wingla, 6 Seat 20 lachoe taki, nopmed bali -
* Yopoens epae, blanch aig, eceupation “writer, Ma departed Australia
- 8 29 Way A069 aboard the By Fy CRLASAY, destination ast inéscased,
Ved aa of 88 Fety ad) hed wok resectered & Assiraiia, we ee

 
 
     
 
   
   
 
     
 

 
 

ty Oa ropuencatadves in Memies Cisy cavammbthe Le

a earned that Ansotasio Goergos DAMASCOU aka OAMASCES, aloiag of
. the akove, om 6 Jeby 1960 applied af Che dieatonn Consulate in Jan

’ Autoutc, Tamas, fp a Menieha Tustiet Cord to enter Menfea te wielt

hay Bevthed Nigcles Georges CALMASCUR, then poalding af the Motes

 
   
   
    
   

 

   
 

Sickel 3s Deon tase! wShataeones gah ote ofl oro
 

“t

    
 

 

| BAMASCOU, bo compare of a pousger soe not tdantified ty name, bad

. » @bytougly ts waable te travel, Mo fertbor talyr ation wae available on
' the posattle future exigeation plazg of Angeline DAMARCKY nag

. BAMAsCCU and ef Angstasie ODAMASCCU,

 

. Visa Section 22 well as tha tediees of the in.migeailun ead Natersilene

' Dealsed brates, ard alue the consent in the Usited Sistee ef Migoles

 

   
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
  

Teper
. MALE

parece pte toy palm

Dyed bie tia

 

placeed to casigrate [eer Egypt to {ste bar ser Nivelas Le the United
“Bistos, However, price {o the gasiigstica of theee pleas, Angelika
BAMAICOY suffaset a stzare, exoet datetle cuareeriug vaich age ao4
Basen, bet che te seporied ne of this wwiting atlif (2 be parciyzod and

BAVOURAS andfeg of the enidemtliivd pourg ag brovssy ef Nisetas

olla @e Ga becia of the reported fiitag of aa application foe &
‘Undid &iates View tw July 1936 at the Lf, Arbessy in Lntndon by
Amastasia DAMASCOU, cur topresentstives ia Leados wore requested
to initieto a checa ef fa the nomes af Micalas
DAISABCOT oad of Ansaieuis DAMASCOS, ae that as of
late Joly SGGk, they betd nu traces on Nisolan Geovgee DAMASCOU ep
DAMASACY ake RAM ACKCS gee GAMASCE, bat thas altboegh thoy bed
@o 6F62e0 Ge Asastante PAMASLC CU, thes care cotslnuing 69 chuck bag
posable resid igiedow ducing L354, based ce the reported wina
application tater t leauivea thea thoap bcid ve traces oo either
Mieeles Georges DAMASGOU aha NAMASELOV aka DAMASCUS a7 on
the oloter Acoeteste Gertyes DAMASBCOU,

 

 

 

3. Wie onggested thzt tha Indices of the Goparimant ef State,

them Garviae, Bogortizent of dyetice, miay contata fesibas Getaiied
infegmation on the cuggani innuigqraeticn states, eherecbosis ta tha

Georges BAM ASCOY ake DALUSCUS, of Anastasio Georges MAM ASCOW
sha GAMASIUS, end suy ctbar membcrs af (Ms larctly «ke may here
sppled fer eniop Viens tturs shroad. . .

.. . Ge Wh vegard.to Ivete CLLRRA Casasve, mentioned ta above
wedevorcad remerendum of \T Pxty bie] se 8 contact of Migolas
DAMASCLY she DAnAsCUS, Lt be suggested thes the indices of the

- Departasant ef Stete may roriais agditional iniaprmation oa bie activities
~ Gasing file oervies af tha Mexican Smbaees in. Waskingten, DeGe

 

. a Teo infos mation Fep° nated above jo far the iotarsal ese af
 

74-0000

 

   

* tro ee aa resaae

adtrescess @aly exd saey nce be isrthes disecontaaton withoes the priser
goreiceton e€ the originatet. . : .

 

 

raw FTI A ton

ee

Reet Netioaal Besuviry Aqousy
Atial Mig, 2. Yessy Keyuctds

 

   

 

 

 

 

Ri wraith noe ga. 2 *

 
