 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

  

  
  
  

 
   

ast any

SeE~C-R-

Tae eo Bred Ae

UFGA~4211

“CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

      

   

       
    
     
 

 

220 NE 26th Terrace; Miami. Subject was’ loyed-as..
-recept1onest_in. the. office_of her brother| ltt
a dentist Ss Vedado. ubject arrived

    

in Miami. on PAA Flight 422 on S May 1962.

      
    

     

on

      

2. Subjects'a and b are sisters and. ‘were questioned togethe
the topic of receptton of radio: programs in ‘Cuba, both, were agreed
the best reception was the "Vou de las Americas” which came ‘in str
and clear with rarely any interference Jamming. “Program content -
described ‘as: generally good, gave & morale boost to the audience and

- was’ becoming popular.’ .

 
   
 
 

  

  
   
   

    

   

r 3. In comment ing on Radio Las Amertcas, they: pointed out that
(; they. had not heard it or attenpte to” tune Tn ° ‘because: they ‘felt the
‘quality. was much” the same. as its pi sdecessor, “"Radio Swan” .which lost a
its prestige prior’ to ‘and iduring the April 1961 invasion attempt. Both] .
‘declared this was a ‘general, opinion “Among their acquaintances. z

    
  
 

    

 
      
 

4. Subjects commented very favorably on programs heard over:
station XEW, Mexico and WRUL,; New York, describing reception and -con=
tent as good and with ‘large audiences in. Cuba, :

 
     
   
 
  
 

    

 

5, In ‘referring to other prog ams, subjects reported that on
1 May, relatives in ‘the Matanzas arcéa-teleplioned them in Havana to tell
them that the "students" (DRE) were .on again (TV intrusion). Also,
later in the day, friends in ithe Weédado. area called to .tell. them to -
tune into Channel 2; that there was. ® program there (about. 2u15. hours
local)’, unfortunately, they had. ‘Already ‘ Sold their’ TV-set since they.
were leaving soon... Both agreed that..the system 0! announcing the TV"
intrusion broadcasts over CONTE Aguero's progrtam.on WRUL a few minutes
prior to the intrusion was the. ‘key to large. audiences . Almost alr -
GOC oppositionists upon hearing this announcement, Start. telephoning:
their friends to tune into: the TV channel asanounced. :

 
   
   
          
      
             
 
 
      

 

   

6. Conceraing the DRE tntern nad ‘organization,- subjects reported :
that they had not been- active recently and: not witting to clandestine’ —
operations. . They. were aware, however, that. the DRE ‘internal net was~
waiting for the infiltration of AMHINT-53 or AMHINT-2 to brief them on.
the situation in exile and what support would be forthcoming. “They.
reiterated the reports on two bombs set off. in the university. area by
the DRE and burning of cane ‘and henequen fields in Matanzas cand Lis
Villas. - - : ;

 
     
  

    
 
 
      
 
 
     

       

7. ‘When querted on- disturbances in Las Villas and/or Matanzas on
or about 3 May, they replied that they Neard the persistent rumor that
a unit (company or regiment unknown) or militia had bolted and gone
up into the Escambray Mountains. ‘No further details: were known,

    
   
       
 

7) 8. When’ questioned on written propaganda such as  flysheets Or”
; Clandestine newsheets, both declared. that the last propaganda seen was
the: clandestine issue on "Trinchera”™ (DRE organ), that no other pro-

A “paganda sheets ‘had been. seen since before thie April Anvasiton. |
i

    
 
      
    

   

9. ‘When asked their impression, on anti-CASTRO propag: anda dn’
general they felt that it was ‘too negative; that while the exiles and
opposition groups were busy tearing down the imaye of CASTRO, he was
before the people with some proposal that was ‘based either on truth,
had a ring of truth in it, or aE least appealed to the masses, That
some of the’ contacts with young girls who served as “brigadistas"
(rural tutors in the campaign for “literacy) turned up interesting |
remarks. . These girls claimed that. many of the country folk. would ‘throw
vA sheie hands in dismay when Communism was mentioned to them. and:

Soothing ta doe with communism, and yet |

    
 
      
   
   
 
      
 
 

(04-1017 140039

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

CLASSAKCATION
S-E-C-R-E-T

     

ee
a MANET 104 FROLAING
ff ao mocaing atquiete

    
   
 
 

= LGUAED Ses)

   

Action: FYI and files

   
    
   
 

     
 

  

. . . t _

a Ref j WAVE 3748 i “dun L. i 1862
vo t
: 1. Gu 45 May 1962, at about 1730 hours’ Youu: SDIWAVE, conducted

a PW aehrtering of the following legal travelers:

FF. vee
a PDOB: 12940, Havana.
[Narianao, _ __—~Mavana, ved as clerk i

Winisteria“fomercio Exter ior, pepar tment of “Empresas y_
Alimentos", Foreign Exchanze Section. Subject has been. =
militant in the DRE since late 19¢0, working a8, 8 wessénge:
and confidant” for r_contacts “in ‘their "Yer

     

       
      
     

 

 
 
  

 

 

 

 

   
   

  

   
  

 

apparat (not the
clandestine net). ‘Subject arrived instant on PAA Flight

. a 422 on 15 E192, .
we fol os Es ad
ws ps ra eo 1943 943, Havana.
; — o, Havana. employed . T"tudent
bject is sister‘0f a.

ade AT and has assisted her in a

 
 

’

 
 
      

 

   

 

  
  

similay capacity.

AA eegce 6
we PDOB* 37, Palma Soriano, Orien

Previnces, | jo, Havana, In Niami;

   

 
 
        
   
  

 

_ Distribution: |

Nana Acthams, Fla OytewsA .

As tiams, Fee ;

? Pe Pw debris ot Subircis 12
ry]

    

 

4 Re

   
  

OATE OVSPATCHED

ix

  

  
  
  
 

- UR

 
 

 

   

     
 
 
   
    
    
    
   
    
   
 

CONTINUATION OF chee = poe
DISPATCH Se B=CeR-E-T > UFGA-4271 _ a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

0, Subjects also felt that propaganda should be direc! pd. more
toward that Sector of Cubans * ‘that are not fanatic Fidelistas or
‘communists, and have not commited, themselves ‘to the opposition ovement!
“for such reasons as indolence;,. ‘lack of courage, or economic docibility:
‘Raquel remarked that our propaganda seemed to be divided -into two.
broad. categories, one directed at,or attacking the hard-core Fidelistas
and the: other for opposition movement consumption, |

 

 

ra

11. Subject c above. was debriefed for her report on: ‘reception of
- & FALCON broadcast in Havana on 1 May 1962, She stated that she was:

“€alled by a friend at about 2100 hours on 1 May and told that. the “DRE
Trinchera. program was being broadcast over Channel 2 at that ‘moment,’

Miriam turned on her. TV and does -not recall how high she had to turn. up
- the. volume, | but to Nercrecollection, not higher than normal. heard
very clearly, the monologue - rebuttal of the CASTRO’ speech ear! 4
- afternoon, She immediately called two of her friends and subsequent
' received’ calls from them and others ‘on reception of the program. Her
‘ account of parts of the program and the. times: stated agree. with (WAVE®

: file copies of the program script.

  

 

END OF DISPATCH

 

 

 
