by the way, met clendestinely with a Soviet "exchange student" from a

. Pennsylvania university during the school year 1962-63, which suggests thet
-the Soviet student is also a 13th Dept. officer or agent. Perhaps | :
“significantly, his course of studies ‘was 3 in food chemistry! -

   
   
   
    
   

 

ee 3.6 You will, note that Mr. Murphy 8 * conimentes come. without benefit of
the traces we pissed to you earlier today, showing that Oswald. had contact -
‘with a 13th, Dept.’ representative in Mexico City. Ss an

 

 

    

 

~h, “Another recently-arrived cable, peing sent: to the Director: tonight, .

‘suggests: that Oswald's business with the Soviet Consul was connected with his -

own visa.to the USSR and Cuba (in transit) and BBY therefore, have been an
really rather then ostensibly innocent. - oo

T. H. BAGLEY

 

 
fOAAOAS-1060]

 

 

 

 

Pocumeni Number 33-527

for FOIA Review on . APR 4975

 

To: : Assistant Deputy Director, Plans

‘Bubgect: EIS t,o nisi oe Nth be oR

  
 
 

‘

From: - Cates, sn/or
0 hee

 

 

a Slaying. S i
_e ‘the foliowing ‘ts the ‘text’ ‘of a cable ‘from Chief, “SR Division, | sent a

 

 

 

co vie! elosed channel from Frankfurt at 23162 on 23. November. for, the attention

of Mr. Angleton: | :

  

"Le I desire. that you 1 consider these reactions’ to ‘the e Kennedy
: assassination: cee Poe Ls

 

- . a. Within minutes of the first. news, ‘Moscow radio statements
.'. 0’: .. a8 heard in London attributed the assassination to "right-
oo Wing elements." Only as the true identity of the believed
_; agsagsin became known did Moscow begin to ‘complain that
“U 5. reactionaries, were using Oswald as a pawn.

». Should not ‘the assigunent of 13th Dept. officers to the | KGB
residency in the United. Nations in New York be considered
in &@ new light? .

 

e. I ‘discovered from arthur vartin (2 \auring our long
end exceptionally valuable discussions, that one of Harold
Wilson's principal scientific advisors is Captain Ian Maxwell,
who has a long Soviet intelligence background. This may
shed new light on ABLADLE's report Bee that Harold Wilson
may be @ Soviet. agent]. : .

2. Putting ‘it palaly, was Oswald; “Gand tingly or wittingly, part of
& plot to mrder President Kennedy in Dallas as an attempt to
further exacerbate sectional strife and render the U.S. Government -
less capable of dealing with Soviet initiatives over the next
year? If AELADLE’s views on Wilson and the information noted in
paragraph 1c above have any substance (end. they cannot be ignored),
this suggests that we can expect major Soviet pressures over the
next several months, for which the Soviets have made careful,
long-range preparations." oy .

2. The above reference to 13th ‘Dept. officers in New York refers to the

‘presence, reported by an FBI penetration of the KGB locally, in New York or
“Washington of one or two known officers of the 13th Department of the lst Chief

Directorate (Foreign Intelligence) of the KGB. This department is charged with
33 affairs," sabotage and assassination. One of the 13th De

CLASSIFICATION review

   
 
 

  

|

  

CONDUCTED ON.
CiaSanpvet ct av.2/2228

    
 

23 tw 6S
Qo,->$4a48

 
