13-00000

DB Memo $6585 - Page 2

a. The letter was posted from the Stockholm Ban post office,
which is located in the central railway terminal in Stockholm.
All mail deposited in street mifl boxes in this area or in the post
office would be processed through this station.

e. The cancellation eachet on the envelope is identical in
all respects (format, postmark, number style and length of killer
bars) to exemplars available in our office.

f. The postage is correct for Svedieh internal mail and the
postage stemp is of current issue.

g A possible irregularity is the time lag between the internai
date of the letter, the date of the postmark and the date of receipt
in the American Embassy. ‘The total time from the internal date of
the letter to the time of receipt is eight days, the time between
the date of posting and the date of receipt is more than three days.
This transit time of more than three days for intra-city mail appears
irregular when compared with the average transit time of only two-
three days for srrival between Stockholm and the United States.

3. The text of the letter warrants some comments because a number
of peculiarities were noted - aside from pure spelling or typing errors -
which seem to indicate a Swedish writer. _The following words represent
either Swedish spelling or modification: "reserv", “etablished", “murded",

"Krustjev" - Other exeuples of Swedish gremuar and syntax would. be:
"mst" (as past tense), “in Sowiet” (Swedish form but not. spelling),
“he was spy” (without indefinite article), "FBI, USA” (without definite
article), "should" (rather than "would"), "outemuggled” (Swedish past
participle form), and “whole the world” (pure Swedish form).

4, Another significant detail is the name given, “Ryo Liang Yuan".
"Ryo" 18 not a standard spelling in any known Romanization system used
for Chinese. “R" is seen in the new Chinese Commmist national system,
but never in combination with "yo". "Ryo" is a Japanese - spelling. In
the name given it ia not-lmowa whether the Chinese or Western presen-
tation is used, in other words, whether “Ryo” or. "Yum" is meant to be
the surname. Among Chinese syllables which could be represented by the
Japanese “Ryo” are Liao, Liang and lung. Of these Lung (1C:7893) and
Idang (10:2733) ere used as surnames. In either case, "Ryo" is hardly
& name by vhich a real Chinese would identify himself.

5. In summary, end based on the above information, 1t is concluded
that the letter was tranmnitted via normal Swedish postal channels. The
letter is probably a “erank letter", most likely written by a Swede,
using a Swedish-keyboard. typewriter and Swedish stationery.

 
104-10534-10101

oo
ree

 

an
tee

 

 

3 January 1964
BUBJECCT: Technical Analysis of Letter and Envelope -
DB CARE $4361
REFERENCE: WE/2 Memo dated 13 December 1963

1. In response to referenced request, an original typewritten
letter and envelope addressed to the American Embasay, Stockholm,
were examined in order to determine the origin of the letter and the
nationality of the writer.

2. The following conclusions were drawn concerning the letter
and envelope:

a. The typewriter in question ia equipped with an obsolete
atyle of German-made type which, according to our references, was
fitted on a mumber of typevriters made in Germany during the 1920s
ang early 1990s. The possible mekes would be Stoewer, Torpedo,
Mercedes, Rheinmetall, Urania, Orga, Fortuna, Continental, Keppel,
Groma, Triumph, Merz and possibly some others. Of these makes,
the Torpedo, Mercedes, Rheinmetell and Triumph were probably the
most widely distributed.

b. The machine in question is equipped with a black and red
ribbon. The keyboard is very probably Swedish, an shown by two
strike-overs: vumlaut-u for hyphen and "gz" for “a”. These
characters are adjacent on the standard Swedish keyboard, but not
on the German. The umleut-ea was not used in the street address,
"Strendvagen" (where the dota should have been placed over the
second "a"). Thia might be either a simple oversight or an attempt
to conceal the writer's familiarity with the correct spelling.

ce. wer of the letter is of the international standard
(DIM) size * “ which ig almost universally used in Sweden. The
linen-textured stationery seams to be rather common in Sweden.
The two smaller pieces of blank paper match the letter paper with
respect to width, thickness, color, texture and look-through, and
were probably cut from another sheet of the same type. The envelope
matches specimens of Swedish envelopes taken from pB/54Postal.
Intelligence files.
13-00000

   
   
  
   
    
   
  
  
  

DB Memo #6585 - Fage 3

6, For further information concerning the typewriter and paper
‘analyses, and the Svedish style of Jangusge usage, contact Mr. Jan
Beck on x2009. For further information on the spelling of the
ostensible writer's name, you mey contact Mr. Gerala@ Worth on x2608.
For further information regarding the Postal aspects of this case,
please contact Mr. Robert H. Banks on «2303.

Te The original letter and envelope ‘are being returned herewith.

‘ALBIN R. TRECIOKAS
Chief, TSD/DB

Attachment: (1)
As stated

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - TSD/GARB/A&R
1 - TSD/DB/3
1 - DB files
: - PI chrono:
- Case 4361.
150 /bn/5-Fx/aabanke /x2303/ery

  
