 

13-00000

 

 

 
13-00000

 

 

 
13-00000

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 
13-00000

 

   

 

 

 

 
13-00000

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   
    
 
 
    
 
     
    
 
 
 
    

continue to pose ° particular problens t ‘to ) the ppo, and
t=" - others whose activities support or co-exist with DDO
“> aetivities must share a common understanding of potential -
wu... .. problems. for.,liaison. services.as well.as agents that can...
. - result £rom official releases of information which tend to
_ iden ify station Tocations. or activities ONETEORS « ”.

       
   

3 3. ‘We have as “yet. no. comprehensive index to a retrievable
_ collection of documents already released in sanitized form |.
_» ($0 that we can know what we have already done, should the
.. game dociments: come for: release review in another request. -
or another context.: The Center for National Security Studies
“. mows; .. many individuals, detractors, newsmen: and others,
- pool..their receipts: from FOIA and Privacy | Act requests. ..
- gpey. have acknowledged doing so to us in. their appeals
..in which they allege that there seems.to. be different .:
“treatment for different: requesters).~ Much substantive
,information released is also available, commercially, from =.
_the Carrolton Press. — “There are many examples of what. appears.
to. the outsider. to be confusion, absence of sophistication or
professionalism--or what’ could be misinterpreted | as > arbitrary
and. capricio Ss. ction, contrary to the Law.:

 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
    
  

 

         
 
  

, Conclusion "some centralized overview, ‘to. assess the total
Agency impact of release of potentially sensitive or :
controversial information - is required to protect sources *
and methods as well as to ‘project a credible professional - :
image. There dre several organizational options, including
', expansion of the IRC role; establishment of a fairly large
-. @entralized office as the funnel for all releases as was.
. approved for mandatory declassification review; expansion -
. of the function of the Assistant to the DCI or of the OGC.er
IG. The option which. seems least. costly,. least disruptive, —
while organizationally located in the right-spot for policy -
awareness seems to be that of adding a senior DDO and a DDA. -
officer with clerical support, to the O/DDCI. .Their activity |
should be backstopped by a computer supported index. (or. ; Lo
indexes) , with input from the directorates, OLC, OGC et al,
in accord with their needs to support their’ own systems.
Certain common standards could evolve, aiming at.a single ~
_ system to the degree feasible; the DDO-system will operate
on ODP computers with an IBM Standard program and could .
‘+ serve as an Agency system if input were decentralized, :

‘Coordination: The principle of centralized policy review.
and of an index of released documents as described, has
       
 
   
       
      
    
     
    
   
     
 
   
    
 
     

4 April 1977.

   

_ MEMORANDUM FOR: | Executive Advisory Group |
: ‘Deputy Director for Operations r
Deputy Director for Administration ie

THROUGH

  

  

Charles A. Briggs, “DDO Information Review. ‘Officer.
Harold. 6G. Bean, DDA. Assistant- ‘for ‘Information.

    

Need ‘for an Agency- ~Level Central ‘Mechanisn
for Policy Review and Release of Potentially
Controversial and Publicit Generating - -

inf rmati n

   
  

 

“Issue: Toa “growing degree, newsmen ;- ‘scholars’ and others,
. Including particularly the Center’ for National Security
Studies, are better organized. than the Agency™~to coliat
and analyze information released from‘a multiplicity of
.- Agency release points. “A central poli cy overview is.
-.:required to assess the total Agency impact of information

release, and.to insure consistency and continuity. in our

"approach . to. release of ‘information, : .

  

   

     
  
  
 
  
 
  

ae Discussion:

ne oa External pressures ‘for’ ‘intelligence information
a Yelease have increased dramatically, and have resulted in...
. a £low external to the Intelligence Community unparalleled --
in the first 27 or 28 years of the Agency's existence... The.
Freedom of information and Privacy Acts, mandatory declassifi-
'. ation requests under E.0. 11652, Congressional and Department
of Justice investigations, individual and class action civil
suits--these, and more, .have been the vehicles. ‘ .

 

- 2. Within the Agency, there are at least. as identifi so

able points of release of information to the outside. :
Coordination with- involved components usually does occur
but generally not in accord with a common standard, except -

_in'the case of FOIA/PA and E.0. 11652 requests. And then,
standards for sanitizing differ, depending on whether the.
information is sought in response to civil. or criminal
litigation, FOIA initial requests or whatever. -Standards
for handling names of personnel and organizations differ
within the Agency. A new handbook soon will introduce ae
standards in othe FOIA/PA world; nevertheless, cover will ew

[rs-_zz-720 | oe cs cow oe wee, ae

 
 

   
   
   
      
  
    

. drawn favorable response from OGC, IRC Secretariat, ‘OLC,-
_ IG, O/Comptroller, and 0/DDCI representatives, and the
ae recent Assistant to. the DCI, Mr. Falkiewicz. oa,

; Recommendations:

   

. That. “the Office of the DDCI be expanded. to.
include the policy review of flap-potential
information: eleases described ab e

     
 

That. two professionals, ‘senior ‘Do and DDA |
. officers (the former ranking because of the

particular. problems of the DDO), be detailed
to the O/DDCI to undertake this expanded
function, with appropriate clerical Support.

 
 
  
 

   
 
    
  

to
“eelrosf

   

 

 

That: the ODP-supported DDO. “index to its released
documents be. considered a service of common |. -
concern anda model for an. eventual.-single Agency
system, to the degree feasible, with non-DDO. input
Preparation by: the using components

 
 
    
   
 
 
 

 

evolve into a single system meet retrieval ane is
consistent with the need for the 0/DDCI to provide
‘comp hensi d@ timely overview..:.:

    
   
  
  

    

“Charles ra Bria v

   

‘Distribution:
- Each EAG Mbr

- ER | : ;
~ Nr. Rettenberg

‘~ Mr... Clarke

~ Mr. Lapham —

- Mr. Meyer

~ Mr. Acree

- Compt —

 

peepee

of
13-00000

 

 

 

 

THE WASHINGTON POST 03 December 1992

pushing for Bill Clinton's
consideration for CIA director:
Nobody. :

The Democratic senator from New
York hinted at his choice in a report he
sent to the president-elect about
Bosnia, which he visited over
Thanksgiving. Yugoslavia is another

od at Moynihan has a candidate he is

_ former country that Moynihan thinks

the agency misread—- by completely
missing the ethnic ferocity that is
causing slaughter and famine.

He wants the agency shut down and
its functions folded into the State

- Department, not just because it was a

creation of the Cold War that has

‘outlived what little usefulness he thinks
_.it had. It is because on the central
“question of the Cold War era, the

spooks got it dead wrong and caused us

to misspend ourselves into bankruptcy

competing with a pauper nation.
Moynihan may have a better chance of

" eonwvincing Bill Clinton to trim CIA and

stuff it into State than he has of
convincing his colleagues in the Senate.
His recent attempt to give a semblance
of democracy to the secrets factory—he

_ wanted to publish its budget—lost badly.

Democrats have not yet cast out their
fear of seeming “soft” on national
security; and Republicans, who hate all

_ government with a great passion,

become passionately protective when
cloak and dagger are in danger. Clinton,
at least, is anxious to save money. “He
could get about $5 billion if he closed it
down,” says Moyhnihan, “and not a drop
of blood on the floor.”

Some senators, notably the current

chairman of the intelligence committee, _

are starry-eyed about “The Company.”
David L. Boren (D-Okia.) earnestly
believes that the CIA is serious about
“reform.” He lobbied vigorously for the
confirmation of the present director,
Robert M. Gates, from an almost
childlike conviction that Gates wished to
democratize the agency and would .
confide in his so-called overseers in

. “T know,” Boren would say to
doubters, “because he has told us so
much, even things he didn’t have to tell
us.

Recently, Boren has undergone a
conversion. Gates failed to share his
information about the Banca Nazionale
del Lavoro, the state-owned Italian
giant and its little Atlanta branch, that

- provided the funds for loans to Iraq, and

the burgeoning scandal about our
generous financing of Saddam Hussein’s

MARY McGRORY

Terminating the CIA

war machine. ‘As it happened, the CIA now—even when they're wrong.” a.

 

   

got it right about what was going on in
Rome, but when challenged by the
Justice Department, whichis ©
prosecuting on different theory, it
obligingly revised its information and
did not tell all it knew to a federal
judge. Boren has now joined in the hue -
and cry for an independent counsel.

But Moynihan does not discuss such
transgressions when he presses his idea
of eliminating “with extreme -
prejudice”—CIA’s phrase for offing
someone who thwarts its purpose. He
does not recite the catalogue of crimes
committed by the agency when it was
being identified in the late Sen. Frank
Church’s 1976 exposé as “a rogue ;
elephant.” The forbidden domestic spying
during Watergate, the infamous LSD
experiments on unwitting subjects, the
subversion of the Chilean government, |
the assassinations, to some Americans
hardly reflect our values, .

Moynihan, the most scholarly

_ Senator, is a social scientist, and he

knows about taking the measurements
that the agency got so wrong for so -
long. In 1979, without the aid of
satellites or any other sophisticated
intelligence-gathering equipment, he
figured out that the Soviet Union was
headed for extinction.

He credits a “modest” employee of the
Census Bureau, one Murray Feshbach,
who in a forest of statistics found the

: tree that mattered: the life expectancy

for Soviet males was dropping. This
should not be happening in a country
whose growth rate was routinely cited by
CIA as on a par with that of Italy and -
Japan. In one of their most egregious
bloopers, they figured that the per capita
income in East Germany was higher than
West Germany’s.

- “The agency was so wedded to the
notion of the Soviet Union as a
successful state, that they couldn’t
absorb other ideas or realities,”
Moynihan says.

Stansfield Turner, Jimmy Carter’s
CIA director, has admitted the hugely
wrong estimates; but Gates and the
others now in charge are incapable of
saying “Boy, did we ever get it wrong.”
Moynihan notes “revisionist rumblings”
from Langley to the effect that they had
it right all along. It has to have been
their best-kept secret.

Why does Congress put up with such
ruinously expensive incompetence and,
year after year, increase the CIA's
secret budget? ‘

Moynihan sighs, “It’s the cachet of.
knowing things that other people don’t

 
