 

aes

 

 

 

4

upd

 

 

* GDS sob

 

 

 

« Gallentonce :
Augua’ Zl, 1465 Ros

 

 

  

Wo would lie to eclow hia to YOU as onN Ving Wo Considers
Unablu to surthor train hin, wo aro ‘etelniag ain fron cus rc:
with tia recont olindnation Leo: thic gleun, to hos no vistsle
Gupporte Attached rad cortata yortinont Lacomntion 6o cusce
ab du ctated above. If it 45 woszivle uncer yoor rules and

cs x r visublo, in thie Lastasces to pat
ih the rolea of tho- Cuban Aotugeo Contor until Guth tice
dod or until 14¢ could. bo proven tiuat ae could cara

DVO; rise
Geang of
tantiata™

 

      

AS you provably know, wo aro workdrig aero with. gone 25 Coben rotucuea 7
in our grozram of renabslitation. 76 gy Gomory, this 4a the Sheat

tine one trom the Bay of Piga that hag boon roforread to your agency fron
Ude . ; -

I woule appraokato a call at FR 71531 or a lottor:to let us Know whea
You have Gade a dootusone : . ;

 

Sincoroly youra,

Gordon Dy Gatth, Counsolor
‘Vooathonsl, Rehabilitation

. t

f
 

 

101051040119

 

 

 

°

 

 

‘Saio da to coafiru-cy conversation with Ne Steveas 3,

mJ
monthly reports from Lindsoy Hopidina Gtating that they wished to eres

“urged: thea to cive hin every chance dus to his opile:
Finally, after a yoar, thoy have stated that to 24in
Gechanical carting would tale until 1059 ota 250 rate o2

* gourzo, Also, frou tala Counsoler's Pana Ning, this sears thst aven

 

August Jl, 1965

   

rirol T. Callanvonte
‘dold “Representative

Cusan Nofuzeo Coator :
€00 Edocayne Joulovard . : : a 4
Miazt, florida &. 4

 

 

 

 

Doar Mare Ballanfontos ‘ : : 4

   

45 it-ves
. tee% au.tng whith
Firs invasios 4n attorpte
OYCnt »

Pogarding the woove cuptionud Andividual.
inte nfrows I have beon working Zor the -

. icablad people from the Bay oF ¥
to.vacationally rehabilitate. thea into e2y

        
 

fe

 

. & so Sts .
Shove -captdoned 1. tividuel wos put in training. to Gene Enclts:
cubsajaeatly was in.a course at Minssey Nopuigs Méucatiosc.

Cuter to learn bacié cuatting to bo followd by nechantenl c:
progeesa hao boon slew, and for the Past Year, wo heve Soon estslng

 

 

 

 
 

 

   

  

ae Tues

 

8 283 of the rate of th
ae Cuter ve
2c condition.
a6G Course ot

hin cécause he waa only operating at abor
Os the -clasae In lotters to ‘Tdncsey Hopiias Uducats

     
  

 

   

 
     

end that taid-was not adr to people wio-arg waitin:

Soe

Zhe @id coaplete tho cource, he would not be able to conzete in con
tative exploymont duo to hia slowmoeas plus tho addit/as S22 9:
having ifs opllopsy undor vory good contra] fs forties
bein: referrad by Da. antonio Macco ond nysolz to tho Acti-Coavulsive
Clinie o? the Health Dopartaent for followny and modical care to control
hip opilepay if thie da poaalblos .

 

ao

   

   

F

 
