74-0000

Bd ete

geerel .

»Zo

$8. Regarding your paragraph 2,c, you may wish to remind him
of his conversation with CLARK and HANLEY in Baltimore where this .
was discussed, You may tell him that we aro as agreed endeavoring
to provide funds to the internal groups which he indicated should be

-aupported, Naturally the means are aecret, If he has a particilar

leader or group inside he wants us to try. to support he should tell us.
We could suggest some of his millton dollars could be utilized by him
alse for this purpose, As to commando action, the State Department, |
which sets policy, has not authorized any commando operations of any
kind and we are accordingly not in a position to organize or support any

for the present, -

6, Regarding your paragraph 3 on Commando Action, this plan
is not yet in Headquarters; however, we have no policy authorisation

from State for such an operation,

7 Regarding your item 4, you will recall and he will recall, he
took this up with GOODWIN and then with HURWITZ and thon with
CLARK and HANLEY. He waa unable then to say exactly how or even,
if he could develop a commo line to Ramirez much less how he would
get arms to RAMIREZ, or anybody else by air, and in either boat or
air operations there would have to be some assurance that he had the
capability to arrange a reception party in Cuba for the arms, assuming
we had the policy authorization to support this kind of operation. You
should tell him that as explained by HANLEY to him, it {s not enough
for him to just say he would like to support a given guerilla group. He
will have to have some capability for doing it before we can support him,
assuming we can get policy approval for same.

8, Regarding your item 6, although we sympathize with his view,
as Mr. HURWITZ and Mr. COERR, as well as Mp. GOODWIN, have
told. him, the U.S, Government has not and does. fot plan to commit
itself to him on the question of sending U.S. tropa to Cuba,

9. With regard to your item 7, I would suggest you remind him he
agreed in his conversation with HANLEY and CLARK that he would ©
arrange an amicable takeover of the jurists which he admittedly has
not done, We still hape he can exert enough influence over his people
to keep the. mess out of the press,
 

 

104-10232-10003

steer te

 

19 October 1961

Colonel Johnson

oo

MEMORANDUM FOR

VIA : Mr. Elie :
SUBJECT : Guidance re: Dr, Miro CARDONA — {
REFERENCE : Your Memorandum for the Record of

10 Octobor 1961, : :

1, In your discussion with State and MIRO it might be wise, for
security reasons, to assume they have little specific knowledge of
our operations and certainly of specifle {individuals who have some
connection with C,L.A. For example, when they speak of Conte
Aguero, it has gone too far for us to deny any relationship, but we
should firmly insist C,1,A, is not directly in touch with Conte,

2, Realizing the difficult handling problem you have, I am putting
down my own reactions to some of the parts fh your memo, which
may, Ihope, be of some assistance.

3, Regarding your paragraph 2, item a, Ido not believe we
should( for security reasons alone} reveal to Miro or State our
operations in this area. Much of the time when they raise {esues
ltke this they are simply guessing and "fishing. "" Frequently their
guesses on our assets are very eroneous, Usually, their forays
can be countered by saying we agree that the propaganda "lines"
should be discussed or they should tell us what they think the "line"
sbould be and we will comr-ent if we disagree. In short, we are
willing to covertly try to support them, but we are not obligated to
reveal to State or MIRO our specific operations and personnel,
which should be in a normal situation clandestine. Accordingly,

I would suggest that you encourage the CRC toward diverting some
of the million dollars the White House promised them into forming
a functioning propaganda commission and suggest they then tell us
what they are doing and plan to do, so that if we have assets and
approvals from our people we will be in a position to coordinate

our efforts with theirs,

4, Regarding your paragraph 2,b, these seem in general sound
enough, Tell him.to keep us advised as to what he proposes to do
with hia funds in this field. Surely he doesn't feel he is giving us |
orders as to what we should do here in our country,

SEGRET
 

6
3
Ld
'
a
>
1
?

 

wy

10, With regard to your item 1, wo too would like to see him exert
some leadorship and induce these groups to unite with him In one way
or another, but do not agree with him that in the long run much can be
accomplished by just saying "I control the money, and 1am THE channe}
to the U.S. Government." He must keep in mind that there are in
existence lots of channels to the U.S, Government and by that we do

not mean C.I.A,
li, Regarding your {tem ll, you probably should emphasize to him

again that he has taken over the FRD budget and personnel and {t ts
up to him to get them organized and doing something other than drawing

relief checks,

12, Regarding your item 14, I suggest you continue your coordination”

line with MIRO, pointing out these groups are not under complete

control of C,1,A., that they do many things on their own, that we

merely support them from time to time, usually indirectly, Accordingly,
we are not in a position to "turn them over" to him, even if we wanted

to, which we at this point, are not sure they would agree to in any case,
He will simply have to get into some working relationship with them,
using his million dollare or leadership, preferably the latter.

Diatribution:
Orig & 1 - Col, Johnson
1-Mr, Ellia
1 -DC/WH/4 !
1-C/WH/4 :
1 - C/WH/4/Plans

 
