14-00000

a oo, 0 CONFIDENTIAL

DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES
INTERVENTION IN VIETNAM

. This source further stated that the demonstrators
would present a petition to the Speaker of the House of
Representatives ahd request that he present the petition to
the House of Representatives as the first order of business
‘when the Congress reconvenes,. so. oO

eo. pe . i ;

Mrs. Nancy S. Pendergrast, the Atlanta, Georgia,
coordinator for the Brigade, has advised that the Brigade
Will hold a workshop on the evening of January 15, 1968, in
Washington, D. C., at which tine they will make plans for
the next day's activities which will include contact of
their Congressmen, oy oe sot : woe

Mré, Coretta King, ‘the wife»of Reverend Martin

ref,

Luther King, Jr.j~and a atibhal: spensor of the Brigade, .

. ds expected to join Jgannette Rankin as part of a 50-woman

national delegation to attend the opening day of Congress,
" ne ; . 2 . - s .
‘Other Demohstrations: “ .
ee oo ns —a——me, ad aan . .
; . A San Antonio National Security Seminar fs
scheduled to be held at-Trinity University, San Antonio,
Texas, between January 8-19, 1968, conducted by the —
Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Washington, D. C.
Militar; sponsors. for the Seminar are the Fourth Air Force
Reserve Region, Fourth United States Army, and the Eighth

* Naval District, Governor John Connally of Texas, is

scheduled to give the keynote speech at the opening day of
the Seminar. : : : oo . :

. . tne /san Antonio Committee to Stop the War in ~-.
Vietnam, at a meeting held December 28, 1967, agreed. to
‘picket the Seminar on a daily basis to voice opposition
to present United States policy in Vietnam, Pickets will
not demonstrate on University property for fear of. arrest’
but will conduct their demonstrations near the University.

The San Antonio Committee to Stop the War in

Vietnam is a group in opposition to United States policy in
Vietnam, ‘

. ; CONFIDENTIAL .
| Be «V0, 6&

  

 
RAFAT R BAMA SH SAE

Prod. t0tas-A016i

any

       
 
    
  

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION .

 

In Reply, Please Referto  ~ . : WASHINGTON, B.C. 20535 -
File No. - , u . a :
™ ~ : 0 : January 5, 1968

NTIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES’

DEMONS
_ .. ., INTERVENTION. IN VIETNAM

   

oe The Communist Party and other organizations are we
. ‘continuing ‘their efforts to force the United States to. ~
: change its present policy toward Vietnam. There is set. ;
~ forth below a summary of current and planned future activity -
through which they hope to accomplish this end. 0.

 

+

Jeannette Rankip Brigade ; an Wo Saas

It was previously reported that the Jeannette...
Rankin Brigade, a nationvigg group of women who are. opposed
to the war in Vietnam, wil "bponsot a demonstration in.
Washington, D. C., or January 15, 1968, to petition Congress
to end the war in Vietnam. ae er

 

« : A ee oe
; “A source Who has furnished reliable information in —
the past has advised that the members of the Brigade from. :
San Francisco had tentatively chartered a plane té& transport
its members to this demonstration. These plans have been
canceled as the San Francisco group was unable to obtain
enough individuals to attend the demonstration to justify a
* charteved flight.. . o errs we
Zena Druckman)and Hazel_Grossman, both residents
of the Sati Francisto area and who have bees identified as -
Communist Party members in the past, have made arrangements
to participate in this demonstration, ~~ Vivian Hallinan, also
a resident of the San Francisco area and Executive Secretary |
of the Brigade, will participate in the demonstration, ;
Terence Hallinan, the son of Vivian Hallinan who is. a member
of the Communist Party, Northern District of California,
stated in October, 1962, that his mother would be willing to
join the Communist Party if her husband would also join.

REVIEWED BY. FBI/JFK TASK FORCE CONFIDENTIAL

 
 
  

Group 1 : ;
ON G Excluded from automatic
' gowngrading and

a. RELEASE IN FULL . _ declassification
RELEASE IN PART eee
i TOTAL DENIAL G7 e)

 

 

 
wc. _ CONFIDENTIAL

DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES
INTERVENTION IN VLETNAM .

; ; On. January 3, 1968, approximately 40 individuals
gathered in front. of the United States Courthouse, Foley
Square, New York, “New York, carrying signs and placards
protesting the war in Vietnam and announcing "April Ben
the next day of draft card turn-in." The demonstration
was sponsored by The Resistance, a group which opposes. the
draft. ‘During thé demonstration, several participants
‘burned papers which were alleged to be Selective Service
documents... ; ; ,

. * See . :
: G Leonard Brody, 'a menber of thé Resistance and a
spokesman for the group, announced that the déndnstration .
was held in support of" Alan Haifley who he stated was going ~
on trial in Denver, Colorado; for refusing induction into
‘the armed forces. | Cr , mee
rf os : ; .
~ On January’3;°1968, 10 youths demonstrated in
‘front of the Federal Courts Building, Minneapolis, Minnesota. -
This group carried placards reading “End the Draft" and
‘We Support Alan Haifley." Duving the demonstration, two
of the participants entered the building and presented
Assistant. United States Attorney J. Earl Cudd with a statement
which supported Haifley. One of the signers of this document
_Jr., who pefore his resignation int
-,;March,~1967, was a member of the District Board, Minnesota
Dakotas District, Communist party, USA. ©. ue.

a

+

 

CONFIDENTIAL

7 . . S :
. : ; = 3 - . Y.-F —

 
