 

in Spain (which Espinosa entered illegaily), Espinosa was in-
formed. that there ig a plan to-overthrow the Castro regime

and to kill Castro and some of his main leaders, The plot is
led by Cubeleg and some of the March 13 Movement, plus (Z be-
lieve) some military officers, They must move very quickly
because: more and more people are. learning of the plot and
there-is growing risk of exposure, They are anxious to have
some coordination, or at leaet consultation, with responsible
Americans, .:They!are:not :confident that they could win an all-
out fight against the Castro forces, and are thinking more in
terms of taking control for a short time (perhaps only a few
hours), -killing Castro and his most effective men (thus
ruining the Castro movement forever), and then trying to held
out .for as long as feasible. . It-is essential that they know
what, if anything, the Americans might-do to help, now end/or
later, when the coup is. attempted, Also, they wished to alert
the United States Government..to what was. being planned, .

 

Meee foto one Lt vy tte BL ao
“ene The Cubans: might have turned t | the Cra
men in, : However, they’ belies is completely
unreliable... A Cuban girl.yas sent.to Madrid some time ago by
the Castro- people:,: ives fooled by her and, being
very fond of women, set her up in an apartment in Madrid, He
eiso arranged for her to-work with the Internationel Rescue
Committee, ~When the proper moment came; four months ago, she
flew back to Havana with some very-useful files, In these
circumstances. the-Cuban-plotters have no confidence whatever
a They urgently asked Espinosa to be their go-
between with teliable American officials, The “top security”
han returned to Havana, while one representative of the
plotters waited in Spain for an answer,

sine Espinoea ‘hurriedly returned ‘to New York City, He calle
O'Brien of the New York FBI to ask that the latter arrange £

hig to talk with some serious and reliable man frou CIA,

O'Brien did so, Espinosa then told the foregoing story, end
more, to a CIA men named "Hal", Hal impressed Espinosa as
being intelligent and reliable, Espinosa understands thet Hal
or someone else went to Spain to check on his story, At all
events, Espinosa wes assured CIA understood the urgency of the
métter and that he would be called within a few days. A week
hes paceed, However, no call has come and time is repidly
104-10102-10160

   
 

 

 

  

      

i - Z
/ fF
Loe
os ARA/CCA = Mr, Stavenson Sally 9, 4255
a RETURN Te CIA —
: Background Use ©
i ARA ~ George Lister Bo Not Reprod
if : .
| 7 Visit of Cuban Exile Victor Espinosa
\ : - .
| - In accordance with our conversation yesterday I have set
| forth.below a-report.on the visit.of Victor Espinosa. ...

.. & Venezuelan Christian. Democratic friend of mine, Valmor
Acevedo, called ma-.from New Yor. City yesterday morning to ask
as.a-personal favor-that.I receive a Cuban exile living there
who.bad something "amazing". to teil me. . When. I expressed mild
skepticism, Acevedo urgently repeated his request and I agreed,
Within.a surprisingly.short time the-Cudan,.Victor Zspinosa,. -
arrived at my office (he. said he had taken the plane immedi-...
ately}. Espinosa gave-his.addresa and telephone aumber as

; follows: 415 East 52nd Street, HA 1-7375, A summary of his

} statements. follows... = a oe ae in Tor bl

  

x feae an
‘ roy

feet Ey .

' -. Esapinosa.bas~been‘involved in Cuban. liberation, activities

\ for many -years,, .He opposed. Batista and opposes Uastro,,.. de is
not a-member of the March.13 Movement, but has long been very
close-to many of its.leaders, including Cubelas, Espinosa was
trained. by CIA, la both Louisiana and Guatemala, and was one

, o£ those who was sent-into Cuba prior to the Bay of Pigs, He
plans to become an American citizen in August of cais “year. .
He admires the United. States and American strength and compe=
tence in many fields. He asked a New York acquaiatenanca of:
nis for the name of someone in the Department iavolved in
Latin American affair3. . Ye.waa told Acevedo kmew such an
official. spinosa asked Acevedo (without, he claims, ra-
vealing his story), and the latrer called me,

A little earlier this year Espinosa received a fequest
from one of his reliable Cuban contacts in Suxope, asking that
he come there quickly. spinosa went to “Miami, obtained false
Cuban papers, and went to Paris, There, apparentiy in-che
presence of the Cuban Ambassador to France, he net one of th
“top security” men of the Castro vegiue, who had come to Paria
for that purpose, Turing various meetings, boctn ia France and

 

 

VIF
ye
4
H

 

-) SECRET

-~3-

running out. Espinosa's friends in Paris keep calling him,
ceutiously asking whether there has been some "responce",

but Espinosa has had to keep putting then off, Meanwiile,

the Cuban who was waiting in Spain for the answer has had to
return.” Espinosa keeps waiting to hear whether the Americans
WLLL play ball with the Cubeldg ‘group, The plot has lasted
for over 16 months, and the plotters plan to go ahead very
soon no matter whether the Americans “play ball" or net, One
reagon is that they almost haved to go ahead now, for the plot
will soon be discovered and then it will be entirely hopeless.

Espinosa also referred to @ jeweler by the name of
Teppeitino (spelling?), located at 47th Street, in New York
City, TeppesZino works for CIA and has frequent contact with
the Cuban Ambassador, in Paris, The Ambassador regularly dis~
poses of jewelry and other valuables made available from Cunha,
He does this through Teppéliino. However, the latter fools
CIA, , For example, the Ambassador agrees to sell for $80,000.
Teppeitino informs CIA the price is $110,000, and quietly
pockets the difference, On the other hand, Teppeliino and
CIA think the Cuban Ambassador does not know he is working for
CIA, but the Ambassador does know,

Espinosa is determined to bring the very dangerous
situation of the Cuban plot to the attention of some top level
official in the United States Government unless he receives
at least some reply from CIA.

Comment:

Espinosa was not overly tense and did not indulge in his-
trionics, but I felt he was quite determined to push this
matter further if he did not get some response within the very
near future, I cannot, and do not have to, judge his reli-
ability on the basis of this one conversation, However, if i
had to guess at this point I would be inclined to accept most
cE what he said about actual events. But of course there are
all sorts of cbvious possibilities, including provocation,

In accordance with what we agreed on, while Espinosa was

SECRET
74-00000

 

t rerurned and toid pim at some engin chat of course

waLtings

this was not the gore of ing we got into Yowever » J added
that ft would seé to it that gomeone alled hi 7 further
gaid chat, fficiallys 1 had en} yed talkin) with him.
Espinosa seemed gomewnat ified and temporarily _ reassured
py this However > 1 doubt very yp that the will wait Longer

CS:
or: three: days more vefore making

another attempt to

4
