  

been performed using only Agency personnel and with their full

knowledge.

Recommendation (27)

In accordance with its present guidelines, the CIA should not
again engage in the testing of drugs on unsuspecting persons.

Recommendation (28) 4
Testing of equipment for monitoring conservations should not
involve unsuspecting persons living within the United States.

B. Other Selected Activities of the Science and
Technology. Directorate

I. The Manufacture and Use of Documents

The Agency maintains a capability for producing and providing to
its agents and operatives a wide range of “alias” credentials. Most such
documents purport to be of foreign origin. Some, however, are docu-
ments ordinarily issued by other branches of the U.S. government or
by private United States businesses and organizations.

Amorig the United States “alias” documents furnished from time
to time to Agency personnel and operatives are Social Security cards,
bank cards, professional cards, club cards, alumni association cards
and library cards. The Agency has recently stopped producing alias
driver’s licenses, credit cards and birth certificates, unless needed in
a particularly sensitive operation and approved in advance by the
Deputy Director of Operations.

While the Agency does not produce false United. States passports,
it has in the past altered a few by the addition of entries to evidence
travel which had not actually occurred.

The purpose of alias documents is to facilitate cover during CIA
operations. These documents are not “backstopped,” i.e, manufac-
tured with the consent and knowledge of the company or organiza-
tion whose card ‘is being manufactured. They are useful only as flash
identification. Only the Social Security Administration has been told
that the Agency is manufacturing its cards.

The Commission found no evidence that any Agency employee has
ever used false documentation of this kind to his personal advantage.

Conclusions

Alias credentials are necessary to facilitate CIA covert operations:
overseas, but the strict, nt rol and accountability must be main-
SREY aR yo es

on

   

SIT-475 O = 75 ~ 16

   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  

 
 

.. . HM Alas Documenatran, pi

ete ‘. .
ars . : uy

®
wo , , : SECRET

OIM 98~-00044
13 April 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Executive Director

VIA: Director of Information Management
FROM: Lee S. Strickland
. Chief, Information Review Group/OIM
SUBJECT: Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues oe
“ i
\ . aan . : y
1. (AIUO) Per your request at our 1 April bi-weekly

meeting, we have summarized below the significant issues which
are under deliberation and negotiation with the JFK Board. Our
approach on.protecting Agency equities is multi-step:

e First, with the staff, we argue relevance although the statute and
implementing regulations define “assassination records” very
broadly as including

® any records related to the assassination or Oswald,

e any records concerning the various conspiracy theories, and

® any records within the scope of previous investigations
including the Church Committee, Pike Committee, Warren
Commission, or House Select Committee on Assassinations
(HSCA),

e Second, with the staff, we argue that release would cause current
_damage although the exemptions under the JFK statute are much
narrower than the corresponding exemptions under the FOIA, and

e Third, if we fail to convince the staff, we must proceed to a more
detailed and formal presentation to the Board.

) (aAIUO) It is the materials collected by the HSCA which are the most
numerous and often the most troublesome in terms of sensitive equities. They

are generally referred to as the “sequestered collection.”
NX
CL BY: 0219849
CL REASON: 1.5{c)

DECL ON: X1
DRV FROM: Multiple

SECRET
 

 

Q
Q
Q
Qo
oO

 

13-
ot oe SECRET

agreed to protect true name and 201 file numbers of assets not previously released. —

5) Mark Lane Item [extract from foreign document]:

postponed until 4 June meeting; board would like have a member or its staff confirm the existence of the

document and ensure that it contains no other JFK assassination related information.

6) Carlos Tepedino [CIA asset! key figure i in AMLASH-Cubela plot to kill Castroftrue name and role in story has.

been publicly known for years}:

voted to release his name in the 1967 1G Report on Plots Against Castro and other JFK collection documents

Teton issue was pulled from the agencd and will be addressed at the next meeting (4 June).

This was a very successful meeting from the Agency's perspective. The toss on Tepedine was not unexpected. Given what is.
in the public domain, the Agency has not been able to make a persuasive argument to protect his name in the three years Tepedino has

been at issue. Thanks to all who assisted in preparing for the meeting, and especially t

‘issue and talking point papers that carried the day.

ce:

SECRET

 

n{ te prepared the
13-00000

oShGRET?

SUBJECT: Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues

oe Attachment 2
13-00000

SECRET

cLey:0611637
‘CL REASOM: Section 1.5
‘pect om: X1
bev Fan: HUM 4-82
15 May 1998
MEMORANDUM FOR: Lee S. Strickland @ DA
Fredrick C. Wickham @ DO
William H. McNair @ DO
Becky L. Rant @ DA
q DST
\ .
FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer
OFFICE: OIM/HRP
SUBJECT: ARRB Meeting 13 May 1998 -- Results
REFERENCE: Lotus note dated 8 May -- ARRB Meeting 12-13 May 1998

oy The JFK Board addressed six Agency issues at the 13 May meeting. The Agency's proposals prevailed in four of the six issues
~-etr-ene-and one issue was tabled for further discussion. The Board made the following determinations:

1} Alias Documentation and Accommodation Addresses:

accepted our proposal to postpone release of specific information until 2017: and use generic substitute language.

 

ae LITAMIL-9 (CA penetration considered a “key player” in the Oswald-Mexico
City story}: Sows

 

agreed to continue to protect the full-crypt and delay the release of additional documents {201 file) until his death.
They set an annual review date on the documents; the Agency will need to advise NARA annually on his status.

3) Richard Gibson { member of Fair Py for Cuba Committee during early 60's/considered a “key player in
~! Oswald's story/Agency asse

 

 

 

 

4) AMTRUNK Assets [AMTRUNK was an early 1960's anti-Cuban operation; most of the details of the operation
including crypts have been previously released]: ;

SECRET
SECRET

SUBJECT: Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues

ISSUE 7 -- Certain Files of CIA Officials os
14. (S) This is a major request encompassing “a the

office files of the individual occupying the following positions
during the period.1959-1964.”

e The Office of Deputy Director of Central Intelligence
* General Charles Cabell, 1953-1962
® General Marshall Carter, 1962-1965
e The Office of the Deputy Director for Plans
® Richard Bissell, 1958-1965
® Richard Helms, 1962-1965 a a
| The chronological files of C. Tracy Barnes, 1959-1964
® Office of General Counsel, Lawrence Houston,’ 1959-1964
e® Operational Diaries of William Harvey, 1962-1963.

sy
aA

This request will by its very breadth require significant time on
the part of the directorate (and DCI) IROs. While it may appear
overly broad, we have developed a methodology with the ARRB staff
which provides the access required by the Board but guarantees
that their review is focused. In sum, we work from shelf lists
to narrow the selection and then conduct file review sessions
with the ARRB staff; if material requested is particularly
sensitive, access can be limited to the ARRB Executive Director
or members of the Board. This effort will continue for some
time. ,

Conclusion

15, (AIUO) At the present time, 32 persons are involved in
the JFK records review and we anticipate that this level of
effort will increase to 37 by May and to 40 thereafter as we near
the statutory end of the Board (30 September 1998). However,
even if the Board is not extended (and it has been extended
previously), there are statutory tasks for CIA which will extend
12-18 months beyond the end of the Board’s existence. Your
continued support is critical.

Lee S. Strickland

-6-

SECRET
104-10332-10000

“

 

\ Unfortunately, his identity was wie
inadvertently released in 1993 and, as a result

SECRET

SUBJECT: Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues

 

 

11. (S) (LITAMIL-9 was a CIA penetration }

 

 

 

 

 

|

_ As of 1993; ELPRHLL=9) was still alive and
living in 7 with family i . To date, the ARRB-
Board has agreed to protect his identity and crypt and delay the
release of his 201 file until the Agency could make some
_judgments about the potential damage created by the release on
additional documents with his name/crypt in them. That will now
occur at the May meeting of the Board. It is, however,~unlikely
that the Board would agree to delay release until 2017 although
there is precedent for delaying release of records on individuals
for shorter periods or until death.

 

 

ISSUE _6 -- Richard Gibson (CIA Asset) 7

I2. (8S) Rithard Gibson, who presently lives in England, is
eft wing journalist who_was ass associated with the Fair Play For
Cuba“ tee (FPFCC), an “an entity to which Oswald wrote letters JS

and claiméd to be a member. Gibson did not become a an Agency _ Lo

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sset until after the assassination; however, he had been of

interest to the FBI“when he headed the FPFCC. Unfortunately,
onbindtion of previous “releases led to press reports in

1994/1995 about his rélationship. ‘with the CIA. At that time, CIA

piticers, weré dispatched to advise him about the possible

compromise and promise him the avery. best attempt at protec
the relationship. 7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a

- 5 -

SECRET
13-00000

: ; i SECRET

SUBJECT: Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues

SECRET
13-00000

oseeneyr”

SUBJECT: Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues

| Attachment 1
