14-00000

 

WIROGUE/1 was being prepared for deep cover assignment to
arrive Leopoldvilie late November. Headquarters noted tia

-intent to use him as utility agent in‘order to“(a) organize

and conduct a surveillance team; (b) intercept packages;

(c) blow up bridges; and (4), execute other assignments
requiring. positive. action. His utilization is not to be.
restricted to Leopoldville. Indeed, he may be subject to
call by other African stations although it is éxpected for
‘him to be resident in Leopoldville." In ‘this cable WIROGUE/1
was described correctly as_an inventor, photographer, archi-
tect, forger and former bank robber. He was judged to be.
ingenuous, observant, shrewd, glib and one who relished

-intrigue and daring. He was assessed as able to "learn

quickly: and carry out any assignment without regard to :
danger." As he was in the United States black, the plan 7
was for him to depart black, documented as an a ter!
to surface in West#Germany: and from.there to proceed on

his own to Leopoldville. In November 1960 "to prevent his.

identification with the U.S. Government or BKHERALD and to |
preclude any unexpected recovery of his past which would = -°.. . see

‘associate him with his pre-BKHERALD life", WIROGUE/1 under-

went plastic surgery to change the shapévof his“nose? He
was provided a toupee for constant wear and documented as-
an: Who had never been to the United States. Cover

for"his présence in Leopoldville was to be as (wy asecsedl Oe:
' possibly that of a O6A rather lengthy assess=  -

alr!

only in SW.

‘who told the station that WIROGUE/1 looked like an intel-...

‘ment of his character Can be summed up by saying he was

able to rationalize any action if he had strong case offi-
cer direction. Training records. for WIROGUE/1, subsequent .. -
to his engagement by the Africa Division, indicate training ,

 

WIROGUE/1 arrived in Leopoldville ‘on 2 December 1960. . —
His case officer gave him the following instructions: 06 (a)
to build cover possibly by opening a and
(b}) to try to spot persons for a surveillance team, intel’
assets, particularly in Oriental province, and para~ military -
assets, Almost immediately upon arrival he ran into QIWING.

 

 

ligence agent. In attempting to recruit QJWIN® for his |.
“execution squad", WIROGUE/1 exceeded his instructions to ad
avoid making. approaches without checking with Leopoldvilte

 

station.
$04-10050-10238)

 

. RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD , 7 Do Not Reproduce
SUBJECT: WIROGUE/1 Mission to Kirishasa, December 1960

: On 13 March 1975 a search of available documents was
made to determine the reason for the comment in. paragraph 2
of a 17 December.1960 cable from Leopoldville indicating
_ that WIROGUE/1 had attempted to recruit a European to be a So.
— member of "an execution squad." The research did not clarify
this matter to any great extent, although some assumptions
can: be made on the basis of. circumstantial evidence.

 

 

; WIROGUE/1 was an ethnic ‘Géo'r b-recruited and trained
_for the old. REDSOGX$ program. Although born in the Soviet ..
“Union, he oved to Western. Europe when two years old.. He 0
_ fought in and as of 1960 was gee
“essentially stateless. Involved peripherally with the French a
Resistance,. he was sentenced to death by the Germans but.
. Liberated by the U.S. Army in ig PAs and returned to 10
By 1950 he had managed to rob! ank of a sizeable ;
sum of money, receive a-prison Sémténte and be released five .
years jater for good behavior. He was brought to the United
ates. originally for use as. one of two agents for Project
gL He spoke Giatiye) French and fluent Georgi:
German and English. :

 

 

 

 

 

 

By 1960 the. Agency was involved in a reasonably major’ :
effort to. resettle WIROGUE/1, possibly in Mexico, for.the
_ mission for which he had been brought to the United States
had. been canceled. WIROGUE/1's file indicates that as of
: 30 August steps were being taken to resettle him in Mexico. ;
“However, on-19 September. 1960. two members of Africa Division ©
met with him to discuss "an operational assignment in Africa.
Division." In.connection with this assignment, WIROGUE/1
was to be trained in demolition§ small arms and medical
‘immunization. Plans to resettle him in, Mexico were can-.° |
celed. He was provided a new pseudonym and immunization | ¢[ °/
. Shots.  In- October 1960 a cable to Leopoldville stated that

 

E2 IMPDET -
CL BY 018307 oe

a : case
a . SECRET = CATT 70 200+ youg)
14-00000

9.

 

—_ Obtain arms and. instructors in Western Europe.
' - April_1961 WIROGUE/1 was teaching the
ot although he himselfgchad learned only. several
months

-In January 1961 Leopolidville asked for authority to
‘permit WIROGUE/1 to take @ijangialesson§,so that the station .
a@meng: could be used for claridestine missions Cg ea mL
registered a ReAC LAM/1's name). Station acknowledged dis-
‘advantage of crossing WIROGUE/1 and* QULAM/1 operations

WOOQLAM/1 was never involved in any assassination schemes). .. ...
Heddquarters approved &lfing..lessons.. & By March 1961 WIROGUE/1

 

 

 

had obtained the position o fe) the[_
. with the nd was almost “imme
or_the purpose of gathering intelli encé on the

rat
- By April 1961 the bre attemp

 

 

|.
ely used
ing use . Lo
By woe,
ro .

‘arlier and was readin anuals at night .--
to stay ahead of his class. .In July 1961 WIROGUE/1 departed .. '

-. Leopoldville because he. had run into difficulty obtaining

“ities.

a residence permit. He was terminated in September 1961. :
In a summary of his activity in August 1961, Leopoldville . .
Station said WIROGUE/1 knew very little about station BCTAVE ces .

 

It is the writer's opinion that WIROGUE/1 was recruited
for his Congo™ assignment because of his third country national
background in order to establish a support mechanism in
Leopoldville. At the time the Congo was in chaos, BKHERALD |
had few assets and there was some likelihood that the polit-.: -.
ical situation would degenerate quickly. The Station possibly |
also wanted to have a latent para-military capability and

“WIROGUE/1's background and previous training for the REDSOSSE
_ program made him a suitable candidate. ‘This is, Of course,

conjecture. . . . -

; Perhaps pertinent is an October 1964 assessment of -
WIROGUE/1 who had been turned over tof or resettling
‘in ‘tt Resettling him had turned out to. be an enormous
'. probien. he October 1964 cable notes that WIROGUE/1 had

,- an intense desire for intelligence service and enjoyed the
.role of lower echelon action agent. Although he threatened .

“to go to work for the French I%S, it was not believed that he though

aipd

mak

-imeek— would be accepted. The assessment indicated there f.
was little flap potential’ with WIROGUE/1 since he knew little

 
 

about the Agency. In particular, in the Congo he was aware
only of the COS's contact with ‘contact , WIROGUE/1 spent

most of his time trying to develon contacts and was. not
directly involved in_any particular operation. ;
sn ne a ce ——————

 

 
