74-0000

     

wi th then, in uelsinicd, bat that y 18.0

   

in greater safety’ in stockchol im and Paris. ey agreed: LAST also said -

    
 
  

- that he felt - that he shovlda't see AMNHTP too mich more. in Helsines as he

; now ‘to take, some public, appearances; and nit owas now

   

established 50 everyone. ‘in ‘the city. Ticidentalty;; prio to airsday, i”
2 Angist; asi had ‘purposely. refrained fran making any: public ‘appearances
‘ . ‘at ‘the Festival because (2) he ‘and the. other Cubans, had heen. aware ‘of the .
. AMSPELL group and their announced intentions, and (2) ANA aaa, ‘not: fest

; very ai sposed , to play | the ° "Public. Relations" man from’ Qube : ‘and: ‘poise ‘the. :

  
 

"peace and fri endship nonsense", as he. ‘called: it. However, ANAS also ‘saic

 
 

that he felt that he had. better perforn this role te some extent, as it was
expected of him by Fidel, and: he did not wish to provide any unnecessary

ghane eS for unsatisfactory reports, to >be Sent. back home | concerning, ‘his, lack ,

 

of cooperation. with the Cuban delegation. . : Tn ntalcin the: arrangements for:

  

a Paris meeting and further: discussions . “ANLASH said,. in response to. the

 

‘question, that it. would be: quite: nornal for ‘hin to: be. in Paris, 3 as “he had ;

    

already cleared. this with Fi adel with whom, he: Fenarked i ally, one

  

op essed, th “haea that: he 7

 

, had to clear everything these: days. He then |

         

 

would Like Le fehurcn uw Pac is, via Siockioim,

 

spend a few days there just relaxing. “From ther

, a week ‘there: - He said. tha:

 

 
 

IP te old: us’ later th

 

interested in a Fan nerd can iiami-tased stevardess 2 whom ne would: have
come over to stay with hin, STP. suggested “to us that be thought the

stevardess mig aht ve: connected with: PBPRIME. based. his apparently. on

 

a “remark which | the stovardess made. conterning AMS ASH 5 polit sical ‘frame 4 of ,

 

mind last year. We answered that | as. far as we. knew there. owas: ino basis ‘for

 

    

AMNHZP' s thoughts along tis ‘Like. “REP wi sy Bee “the ‘stewardess

 

‘full name ‘for us.

Nesting arrangenents for ‘Stockholm and & strikt were, tata on at

 

“this meeting. _AMEASH felt he had to stay until, the and, of < the Festivel for

 

aly, run ‘into- ‘Several :

 

Since > AMAHIP had: already acel Gent;

 

 

“ ~~ peoate he: mew, ity was agreed that he should leave. town for Stockhoiin An
the near future, We would remain behing until, AYLASE, lett, serving as an
ener gency echtact in the event. of change in in AMLASE! s, plans j Tt ‘wes arranged.

“to méet ANLASH rr sbsclutaly necessary, “ab either 1200: or 00 ach Cas

 

   

  

. ‘at-a- given restaurant in, the, center of the ity, : mal. seturity measures -

 

 

‘anv Tangth nf. dda . other necttnge Lb wate

Abella abs |

 
14-00000

 

 

“ state his position concerning”

. Significant action agathst the castro regine.: “E ving’ di io}

   

avd that Fe
BO Uno Lor. tt.

ag telling Castro 0; and tins his fut ture would ‘end ageinst ‘the wall!

assured him that maxcimin sec LR would be ‘preeticed, as. far’ as ‘these pesple

were concerned. He also does net wish to trust or ‘be involved irith » any

 

negotiations to: > iosconoan/ om Ae TP has knew. for many yeats and is te :

 

quite friendty, ‘but whom. he does. not feel san keep’ a secret of this. nature, )

This meeting terminated at 0030 on: 2. august. the thr ée partic! ipants -

 

took a taxi together back to tom.’ ama? and 1 ANCASH stopped | oft at a local

 

of a security nature ¥ were observed, and it was ‘felt. that the necting was”

held without the knowledge or observation of the opposition.

“hh. Méeting of 2 &

    
  

   

‘We met with AMWHIP in » his. hotel room (No 12 atthe ‘Vadicuna) ato

 

 

1700 hours on 2 August. We discussed the events: allics of the; preceding.

 

‘ eventing for ‘some time. at approximately 1800, AMLASH xr ived, 8 ee sted

 

us affebly, and Joined. us for a drink. AVLASH. used this nesting

 

    
  
     
  
   

   

his desire or. varticina don i

  

i

that further e dis sussions and csoriefin es of AMLASH should't

 

 

a spanish-speaking o/o, we outiined: the’ idéa to" meet for ‘stich

Paria: “AMT. 4su aid nat. Tiles the, $den nt tan, mar - neanle haine-
o

 

 

 
74-00000

ul re to: discuss any plans, wh

    

wiles minds, is his « concern thet “the USA, with begin’ to

     
    

Hheeats from the Soviets, antougn LAS dia no say:

   
 
   
  
 

A) gub 1 without any outside support (ena by y ingerence,, ‘oblige one), but

pe ia a realist enough to concede: that any: siforts: to overthrew rCastrp.,

ther..debriefings -

    

 

     
  

 

iawernment..

   

RILASH stated many times

ie WAS afraid that PEER IDE ‘would contiine. to pursue, its present  pouree, - :

that of providing. money, and eoas, .

 

    
74-0000

 

     

 

    
 
 
  

   

£ the island), :

ov hers wt 20m ASH said he could trust, But Rivet mh sould, not: name. uo

 

AMLASH said he had had- plans, to blow aap. an. ‘oil Fefinery,. as he. felt that

the continuing | existence. of, a senblénco of ‘nor ral: ‘funotiontng: an. iba

 

 

depended upon: a. continuing’ supply of: petroleum, supplies of ah ch; as. we:

© Vino are at a ‘eritical stage today. “He. also wanted to -plan the: execution

q of Carlos Rodviguez ‘and the. Soviet Anbassador and aso, to eliminate Fidel,
uy execution if necessary’ - : ‘He feels that. ag Fidel: ts elininated, ‘at would”

  

"be mich easier. to effect a ‘cake-orer Cie Mstened for the ‘nost’ parts oat ;
- . _ oon 3

: be replaced by Moscow, and that the: willing of the Soviet Anbassador', would : ; i
have only the briefest effect, on the Soviet. ‘cont trol of Guba). AMLASH was,

“not too interested in iistening at this point, and contimaed by saying that

  

if he could achieve all these actions, plus: others, in on : mister stroke, ;

   

a take-over, during” the ensuing eonfusion, ‘would be much fi He

 

did not feel that Raul or Che would be able- to, rally, the people sufficient

    

time. to prevent, opposition forces: from focws : His arguments. and’ ‘plans had

    

 

many flaws, ‘but AMWHTP could not: help adnizing 6, inset) AMLASHs

 

to alter the situation in no. uncertain terms. while ‘we-were making, no -

committments or plans, >» we ® pointed out. to. “AMLASH. that schemes Tike he envision

      

; of such plans. “MASE mt mid:

how mich af this, arerim

 

va ee ME i oer aa

 
14-00000

 

 

 

/ J : — on, a hew deal for then. -AMLASH said. that  eAthouwt Be wad not been

   

native in. helping. the formation of a ‘beneficial Hew. Governnant, in: ‘Cuba,
“he was Egle prepared to work towards that end.” This. tines he said,. he-
a anted. t bo Look more towards the future 7 both: for., his” ‘own, interests’ and for’,

Guba's. ‘The last tine, he seid that he ‘thought only as “far as : the. > elimination

z the fighting was over. We felt that AMA ASH neant 4 th vate Was

 

“as -rich“toncerned about his, (ntbasi') position an the goverinent’ and.

 

 

 

“=“person “al stake in a new ce ed as he: was ‘about, an ate x lee : oT Aa our.

 

or power from the Gastro regine, in properties to’ his. contribution: against.

Batista. AMLASH is ‘a complicated Personality. ; Te ‘is difficult to fately,

. ree

 

 

 

 

cuba ‘in which he gets Just. Fecognition, this dows: ni

as
ee

neve essarili's méan’ “”

   
 

that AMLASH ‘wants high, political office, * but he. does want) “eredit “for his

afforts and the resultant Power, and pres! thee, among his countrymen.

   
74-00000

 

 

 

|

 

omen He-zeporbed 40. ANHIP the fact that we had not ‘Tovated AMLASH,

» at our hotel, the Karp, and proceeded to. the Bowel ‘Res

-He suggested that ANLASH liked’: nig cht. ‘clubs; and that” atte

aye an effore - 2 ja 4 ye ms3 : in = : : a “j- that. he a

  

he wished, and that we would: be. ‘in touch |

  

with Rim at inter vals during the sey. /

2. Events of 31. July 1962. ot,
our efforts to. Locate SASH ‘throw co 2 proved: to. te

(in vitless.. Theadore. T. antergbas by vwho, was ‘handLing{t (afonsna/2 ald. .

that she. latter. tried his best, bib had. not been, able to" do. us. any good,

b

rel vat) ion fal.so reported ‘that its. contacts had. béen unable: to aid us. oS

“and suggested

  
  
 

that we have. dinner together, to which he agreed. ie met AMNHIE = ; e

t

 

| Ange was’ obviously getting « on: ) pins ‘and neédles. because we had not “found

nis f viend. He suggested that. we call ap the Cuban - Festival. dclogation,

  
 
  
  

or try some hotels: that evening. We perouaded h

 

best idea yet by and: to give other people ‘more tiie.

 

 

‘agreed, bat. kept coming UP. with: ideas att ovenin gf 7 . Be

 

 

perhaps try several. We agreed, more to placate hin that we op thoughts

 

 

or success. We: tried. several, ee Bras xeon a

   

 

 

both of which were £

Finns, engaging in.

   
 

he thought this was a waste (of: vine. . we agréed, grabbed ‘a axd an

home. Daring the evening, s we s tend A

 
 

 

[toetorne-oo] we

 

 

tt
—
Summary of Contacts with !
AMIHIP/L and AMLASH/L Hs
I oe  (RETURNTO CIA _
. - Background Use Only ~
Do Mot Reproduce =

“HELSINKI: |

 

a. "Bvents’ of £30 July 1362:
ncaeP arrived in Helsinki on n 30 July, 1962. He. ‘allied ‘HBPINOH.
according to plan, and after his second call (due to his hotel porter's
abysimal understanding of English), Fallucet established contact, with
ANSE IP vithout further difficulty. ‘The necting took place i in ‘the .

restaurant of bis: hotel, The Yaakuna, and later in his: oom, We had

 

not at this time located AMLASH, so the time was. spent briefing AMNHIP

on the local scene, and on his conduct with AMLASH. when - they met. The

meeting lasted about one and a half hours.’ ooo . .
Later the sane. day we called AMETP at his! hot el to report

no progress in Locating AMLASH Feeling it. advisable to keep AMVHIP :

occupied, we took: “him out to dinner ‘at Fi isk tomer, ‘Located th the

 

; suburbs of ‘Hel sinki. The evening ‘ast ted untal "1200," terminating with a

   

arink at the Poor par or! ‘the iaacuna. “paring ‘the six hows 3

 

opportunity. to explain carefully to AME that in order : for" “us: “to, heap

his friend, ‘AMLASH mast be willing to > follow. our directions and: agree 1 ‘to

 
  
  

zed + that. this : was ecessazy, and agreed with ‘our ideas. However,

2d: A to AMLASH, and’ will ‘continue: te. ook: ‘upon. hin ain the most |

 

  

_ benevolent and ‘subjective manner. ‘this being: rather far renoved. fron. our’.
" intended approach” “to, and opinion of. AMLASH AMGHTP wilh. Fequire handling

of a close nature in order: “that he fully understands’ and: is aware of our

 

2954

  

 

elena ieee teat ae
 

 

2

 

fl> arrived ato our hotel at tb oshe 1 “hogust, “and w we: retired

. to our roon i telephone..’ Securing an outside ‘line, ‘our. friend began

te tn
LG TS

   
  

   

the newly ancy

the phone in 3

 

#5 important. “AMGTTP Taft, Ame

and that is, °

him to be’

  
 

. “listen:
OEE Fs

and that heart

  

 

 

 

“eS

“had decided 2t0p over and contact “h

, rate in Szaniez, AMLASH said ‘that he would be right ovar.te sas’

Ot wD, caution x fas abaiidoned, and he was. off.

da his . wwe 2,

and shows? 37

he could a+ -

 

® decided to try the local: "pink" hotels inst, ‘the: Kaas

send te Torni. ReaIP had } ho ‘luek with ‘the Klass Kor kes, but when :

sorni, he was: told. that Aas was. there,” and was’ ‘connected

A Spanish-speaking man (tho: was later. identities as

   
 
  

:ted Cuban Diplomatic’ Representative to Pihlanc L)* ancwered: a

 

 

722 and said that AMLASH, was in: the shower, and ¢ LL back:

  

carlos 3 would ‘call back:

cL on the telephone, and ¢ to ‘talk as if the opposition was _ ae

vag jusé, to be casual, - greet AMLASH, arrange to 2 ee ati, :

 
 

vas, ‘in Burdpe on ‘business in Scandinavia, a Fran e and. ‘Switeerlang,

< in Heleinis that, ANLASH | was attending. ‘the Festival, rn hh

 

. tee

“When “AMLASH sisrared t

  

  

 

 
  
    
  
 

‘a -repid

ae Vaakuna. We bri efed. AMIS vonee. more’ ‘On. ‘beta

> to thé door. We arranged to have. AVOTTE call , 8. whe

  
  

 

pure good fortune, as. he 3 was: just using, 4

 

bag“ nagiptagth Chub taengern oop

cd

    

 
74-00000

 

rosin ately” xe

 

caiied us at Vv 30, he prese ented us with the fact that he nad ‘convinced
snase to ‘talk with US; | and for this, purpose, ne. had arranged a. dinner
: neeti ing. that seme evening for approximately 1930+ We would have preteored
-to talk Longer with ‘RET? about. Amasi's: reactions,. ‘but ‘time aa not.
“permit. We arranged | a dinner for: 2100: at "the ibite Lady" , cs restaurant,
, some way from the center of town, and succeedéd in obtaining @ private
; dining room, & ‘practice not uncommon’ in this St setienfrecominded restaurant,
as it is often used by. businessinen te have private, éinners: and: afterwards, :

business discussions .

 

. We- arrived at the Ghite. Jtady first, arranged ! for the. dinner, and -
awaited AMWHIP and AMLASH, who arrived at ‘2ul9 by tax. -Hithough AMWHIP

had suggested to us that ‘the ciscussions should, be: inerely devoted to.

oat

getting acquainted the: first evening, >. AMLASH commenced alma st imediately ;

 
  

 

 

into a discussion of his feelings. cand, ‘his- posit: ‘on. concerning ube today. ; ,

 

As reported in our ‘cable, 1609) ANLASH was quite intense, and ‘showed .

the strain of his unexpected meeting with ANGIE _ALthough apviousty:

  
    
 

Miata ted" 5 aud Wao “giv cis" ww panache
was considering not going back to. Guba,: ut | att L c

\\ ext that if he could. do something really. significant for the. creation of

1

& new Cuba. he was interested in- » Fetuming to carry on the’ fight there.: oO

ee TR Ses

 

 

  
