 

 

 

POLICE (CRDSINAL AND ‘SUBVERSIVE RECORDS) -

At New Orleans, Towistana:

On 12 September 1960 the records of the New Orleans
Police Department ‘were checked in the name of SUBJECT with
negative 2 The records were also negative in the names
of Mary W. ----, Joseph A. OSTER, Vernon GERDES and Kent COURTNEY.

 

  
   

 

   

at: ‘ dena:

on 9 September 1960 Mr, Ray TAYIOR, | an employee at
Dun and Bradstreet, 2 Canal Street, made available a
report, dated 5 February 1960, which contained the follow-
ing information, about the SUBJECT: ;

Guy Boreenee ‘Associates > Tne. » Room 3h Balter Building,’
40 St. Charles, New Orleans, is a Louisiana corporation
chartered 21 January 1958. Authorized capital is 500 shares

  
yaann00 gt

 

 

on,a fee basis. nperetiane are conducted from quarters.
in a large brick: office ‘building, located:in ‘the’ dow.
town! commercial area. Recent attempts to contact the -
officers of the Corporation have been unsuccessful,

This Corporation has been in operation since January
1958 but in the opinion of authorities consulted, opera- —
tions, especially in recent months, have not been con-
ducted along successful lines. Altho detailed operating
figures have not ‘been available in outside quarters, the
opinion of authorities consulted is that the volume at
present is limited and the two officers who reportedly
own ali of the outstanding stock are credited with earning
a small living, at best, from the business. The Corpora=
tion has a few huridred dollars in fixtures and equipment.
Gash, if any, is limited and outside investigation reveals
that during recent months some NSF (not sufficient funds)
checks have been issued.

A check of Orleans Parish Court reveals that in 6
November 1959 the State of Louisiana filed a tax lien
against Guy B--~~ Associates, Inc, in the amount of $393.
The lien is still outstanding. The Corporation has a :
slow Paying record,

   
   
   
     
  
  
     
   
   
 

 

ed he did not know SUBJECT personally
putation-and-activities. when: he.had“be
4ntendent of the New Orleans Police De-.:...
reading about the incident at the Absinthe
tated he was of the opinion that this in- ‘

up cut of proportion by the public,

   
 

   

tment used this incident to suspend

“his posits t appeared that the.
L ng t00-close t0.the bosses of the police
‘and to the graft and corruption in the de~.

partment, and “consequently this incident wes an excuse for

his suspension, : ; oo

  

  

CREDIT:

At New Orleans, Louisiana:

i September 1960 Mrs, Betty ENGELBRACHT, secretary
at the New Qrleans Credit Bureau, 333 St. Charles, made
available a report, dated 1 April 1957, in the name of the
SUBJECT which contained the following information:

SUBJECT has been Imown to the files since February
1955. He was born on 7 March 1901, is married to Mary
and they have one daughter. As of 15 Jamuary 1955 he was
employed by the New Orleans Police Department as Assistant.
Superintendent of Police and earns approximately $750'a
month, He resides at 6161 Canal Boulevard, New Orleans.
He is well regarded as to character, habits and morals.

,

 
ee)

The majority of these witnesses stated SUBJECT had been
drinking and he appeared to be intoxicated. Testimony
also revealed SUBJECT grabbed the bartender by the jacket

‘and pushed him hard enough to. cause two buttons on the

jacket to break loose. Some witnesses stated SUBJECT
pulled out his gun and some denied it. There was also
sufficient testimony that SUBJECT had engaged in une
necessary altercations at the bar, °Any one of these
allegations would be sufficient grounds for suspension
from the Police Department.

On |) March ‘1957 Superintendent of Police DAYRIES
suspended the SUBJECT, but on 1 June 1957 SUBJECT was
re-instated in the Folice Department. His administrative
powers were deleted and he. was -given-the -job -of Planning
Officer and the duties of investigating Commmistic act-
ivities in the New Orleans area, SUBJECT kept this job
for about two days and was then discharged on the grounds
of insubordination, It appears that the SUBJECT had
failed to take orders from his superior, Superintendent
DAYRIES. ;

Ra stated that he personally had a great deal of
respect for the BUJBECT but he felt the SUBJECT had be-
come egotistical and domineering, and wanted the top
position in the New Orleans Folice Department and was not
interested in keeping the #2 job.

RY stated that since leaving the Police Department
SUBJECT had purchased and operated a newspaper in Gretna
but had been forced to sell it because of financial
difficulties. SUBJECT then started his own investigating
agency which he operates at the present time. When he
started this agency he hired Joseph OSTER, Jr, a former
New Orleans Folice Officer.

he
On 12 September 1960 Confidential Informant R-Y, in
charge of. an investigative agency, was interviewed,

R
RY stated he has known of the SUBJECT about five
years. When SUBJECT was Assistant Superintendent of
Police he had done a very commendable job. Apparently
SUBJECT was an honest person who did everything in his
power to clean up the graft and corruption in the New
Orleans Police Department. When his investigation came

he
1400000 e _ on ( ~

 

 

: ‘principal stockholders, ‘Lewis Je ROUSSEL. This ‘alleged
:. defamation agdinst—the SUBJECT .received.a great deal of :
% notoriety’ in‘the local newspapers. (See attached Exhibit “\«\
Liat a. “tiewspaper article from the Times-Picayune,. New Or-

leans, ,{LOulsiana, which reports the Sequittal of SuBsECT
Ton “this charge)... . :

    
    
 

: After running the i newspaper for over a year it was

’ believed SUBJECT had to sell it, because of financial’
difficulties, After selling the. paper he atarted his ~
own” “investigative agency which bore his name, ‘and at the
” present time it is believed he. is operating this agency. | .

. From newspaper articles LI-17 had the impression that this -
‘business, run. by SUBURCT » might not be completely succesful. ©

EH

ane “Ta recent years ‘SUBJECT has associated hingerr with. |
"Kent COURTNEY, editot of the Independent American, ‘a°~ ; |
national publication which represents States Rights and vedine. |
|

 

    
 

which is extremely right wing.in policy and appears to be
dedicated to the proposition of preserving white supremacy .
In the course of its prommlgation of extreme views it has
used many unethical means. LI~]? stated that the people
’ who have been connected with this Independent American.
have criticised the Supreme Court to the point of demanding i
that all of the Justices resign because they were unethical. . i
II-l7 advised that this organization, known as the Independent . ;
American Citizens' Council, is militantly against desegregation,
II-17 stated he did not know in what capacity SUBJECT was connected
with this organization. LI-17 had seen the SUBJECT at many of
their meetings and for all he knew SUBJECT might have been hired ee
by them to conduct investigations for them, . ate

 

I-17 stated ever since SUBJECT has had some connection
-with this extremely right-wing radical group people have be-
come concerned about whether or not he would use information, |
gained when he was with the N@w Orleans Police Department, to
further the cause of this right-wing element.

 

Another person SUBJECT has. associated himself with is
Leander PEREZ, District Attorney for the Plaquemine Parish.
This individual is extremely right wing in his. political
thinking and has sufficient power that he can dictate whether
or not a person can vote. It is a known fact that he has
denied the negroes in his parish the right to vote,

-2-

Lodi

ct tl eat oe a aE Sone
a ae tN =
 

Depa: tient he 7

instituted many. procédures which were beneficial to the
Departnenit. After SUBJECT had been in the Police Depart~_
ment about a year he apparently began to believe some of
the favorable newspaper publicity which he received and
it was common. knowledge that on many occasions he failed
to follow the orders from his superior, Provosty DAYRIES.
SUBJECT ‘began’ to question, or take opposite sides on -
policies set up by his superiors and to differ with the
views of Mayor. MORRISON.

 

On many occasions SUBJECT was invited to be a guest
speaker at various organizations, such as Young Business~ — ;
mens' Group and the American legion. Somg of his speeches i
made before these groups were critical of the city admin- . \
istration and the Police Department. These criticisms did — j
not help the SUBJECT and alienated many of his former friends. :

Sie

; roe stated when SUBJECT had the difficulty at the
Absinthe House Bar in March 1957 a complete investigation
was conducted, and statements were taken of over 50 wit- .
ent t the bar at the time of the Ancident

 

   
 

 

8 ‘directly across the street :
He left his Balter Building

rooms on the fourth ‘floor of .
“located in’a commercial section” ,
j. thé street from the Masonic Temple

many United States Government offices.
Tis general business reputation is good but it appears —
that his business is not very sound. His business was
incorporated on 21 January 1958. He is President and
owns 470 shares of stock and his wife is Vice-President,
owning 10 shares. The Secretary-Treasurer at the time
of incorporation was Joseph A. OSTER who owns 20 shares.
A Dun and Bradstreet report reflected that Guy B---=
hired one investigator, Vernon GERDES, and the company
was not a financial success.’ A lien has been placed.
on the company and NSF {not. sufficient funds) checks
have been returned, Four confidential informants were
interviewed, They advised Guy B---~ was. suspended from
his position as Assistant Superintendent of the New Or-
leans Police Department because he was involved in a
downtown bar incident. He was accused of being drunk
and of pulling a gun in public, There were many con-
flicting stories and favorable and derogatory newspaper

articles pertaining to the incident. Guy Bew-=mn=!g

~-continued==—
   

 

(toet0t0g-10379] | amg, CRU ry r
ee OO :

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

&

Los Angeles
{FIELD OFFICE)

LLBOS 5 ~ PLES

#222918 ~- G.W.B.A. Inc. ' 13 September 1960

PERIOD OF INVESTIGATION
C8 September 1960 and
(U2 September 1960

€£ OF ORIGIN
1
@és Angeles fice Creme

 

 

 

Bap Chict

ot

SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE,

WE 646 MeEoE

 

 

 

 
 

  

  

SUBJECT” company and other invostivathen firms. :
tail Credit Company files contained ‘additional back~ -

ground information on both Joseph OSTER and Vernon GERDES.

Police records were checked in the name of Quy Boo~~<
Joseph OSTER and Vernon GERDES with negative results.

Herewith attached are Exhibits 1 thru @ which contain
background information pertaining to Guy B--.-=,

The Re-

‘3
jy4o0000
m0

 
 

 

_ sued for defaming the Universal Drilling Company

  

 

. ‘The Po! Department conducted an investigation of this.
incident which received a great deal pf publicity in the news-
papers. Many conflicting stories were circulated about this |
incident. One was that the Police Department had framed, or :
railroaded, the SUBJECT in order to get rid of him because he
was getting too close to the top men who were responsible for
the graft and corruption in the New Orleans Police Department.
The New Orleans Crime Commission defended the SUBJECT as did.
many other prominent groups in the area. Newspaper articles
relating to the incident carried many ‘conflicting stories of
witnesses. One story was that the SUBJECT had been drinking
and had at least. been indiscreet in handling the incident i
which arose. ‘Since the SUBJECT was a prominent police official i
with a job requiring a great deal of tact and discretion, it :
was hard to believe that a person in his position, if he had :
been sober, would have caused the adverse publicity which he ,
received, ; OO Se .

: LI-17 stated that after SUBJECT was suspended from the
Police Department he purchased a newspaper, the Herald, a weekly
paper published in Gretna, Louisiana, which he ran for over a”
year. When he was its owner the newspaper and the SUBJECT were
avai ad one of its.

 

  

  
 
