13-00000
C/HRG

os, * _ CONFIDENTIAL

.

20 February 1997

Mr. T. Jeremy Gunn

General Counsel

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street, NW

Washington, D. C. 20530

Re: (U) ARRB Request for Additional Information and
Records No. CIA-10 (Interagency Source Register)

Dear Jeremy:

(U) This is in response to Mr. David Marwell's letter
of 17 June 1996 to Mr. John Pereira, in which he asked a
number of questions concerning the “Interagency Source
Register”; specifically,

a. What is the function of the register?
b. When did it begin?
c. What are the purposes of the register?

d. Which entity or entities are responsible for
operating the register?

e. Which entity or entities in the intelligence
community have made use of it?

£. To the extent it fell into disuse during the
period 1958-1965, what, if any, system replaced
it?

(C) Please find enclosed for your review DO Instruction
50-46 entitled, “The Interagency Source Register.” This
fhree-pagé instruction fully answers quéStions a, c,/and
above:With respect €o question e, at this time I” know o
no way of determining exactly which entities within the
intelligence community made use of the register. It can be
assumed that all such agencies knew about it and used it _to
gome extent. With respect to b and f, we will continue €0
séarch for data which will prowide answers _/ We request that
the enclosure be returned when the Staff completes its
deliberations on this issue.

 

 

 

   
 

 

   
  

 

 

 

CL BY: 611637
CL REASON: “‘Iv5(c)
DECL ON: X1

DRV FROM: PER 10-82

CONFIDENTIAL
8, . _ CONFIDENTIAL
. Y

(U) If you have any questions in this regard, please

o~\

call me at 613-1825.
n re ae

~~. Sincerely,

a

 
 

 

* a. Barry Harre

  

Enclosure:
As stated

CONFIDENTIAL
13-00000

Py

Mr. Barry Harrelson
October 27, 1996
Page 2

Other Histories. No response has been received to our agreement that
CIA identify within two weeks the histories that can be made available
and those that should be subject to further discussions.

CIA-8 (Intelligence community staff}

_ CIA had promised to provide a report to the Review Board within two
‘weeks. Nothing has been made available. .

CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials)
We have received no materials responsive to this request. Additionally,
no response has be received from CIA regarding the list of publications
that are identified in an LBJ Library finding aid that the Review Board
staff provided.

CIA-10 (Interagency source register)

CIA has not yet made available the records that it had agreed to provide
within two weeks. (wes Uswald om

CIA-11 (Duran’s original statement)

CIA has agreed to make some further attempts to locate Duran’s original ©
statement.

CIA-12 (MWAVE materials)
CIA has agreed to make materials available on a rolling basis.
Informal requests: .

Spas Rankin. CIA has made the Spas Rankin file available to the Review Board.
Review Board staff resear ntinues. When research is complete, staff wil
discuss issues with > Liles Gan es\ho cht An~ pe Woe [we ‘

IN 23738. CIA is searching for cable number IN 23738 (7 July 1962). ~ Cop 4 SO

Marilyn Murrett. CLA has made the Marilyn Murrett file available to the Review -
’ Board. Review Board staff research continues. When research is complete, staff
13-00000

Mr. Ba

rry Harrelson

October 7, 1996

Page 2

which will be processed as an assassination record. Gunn will then
determine whether there are any additional portions of the history that
should be added to the Blakey version. CIA will compile the “Blakey
version” as soon as possible and Gunn will promptly thereafter review the
documents.

Index. CIA has made an index available to Review Board staff and the
staff has identified certain histories that may be appropriate for review.
CIA will make available those histories that are of obvious relevance, and
will raise with Review Board staff any questions regarding the requests
where the basis for the request is unclear. CIA will begin to make
histories available on a rolling basis. Review Board has agreed to review
histories promptly once they are made available. Although it was not
discussed at oir meeting, we would very much appreciate it if you would,
within the next two weeks, identify which histories you are prepared to
make available and those that CIA believes should be subject to further
discussions.

Cram’s multi-volume counterintelligence history. Although Cram’s. _
~ history was not specifically discussed at our meeting, the Review Board
staff understands that the history has been located and the Review Board
staff awaits its being made available.
CIA-8 (Intelligence community staff)

CIA will provide a report to the Review Board staff within two weeks.

CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials)

The Review Board staff provided CIA with a list of certain publications as
they appear in an LBJ Library finding aid. CIA will report back on
recommended action to the Review Board promptly.

CIA-10 (Interagency source register)

CIA has compiled information responsive to the request. CIA will make
available within two weeks.

  

' CIA-11 (Duran’s original statement)
13-00000

TRAT. ENPERNAD USE ONLY

21. June. 1996

CIA SPECIAL COLI

   
 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Fred Wickham HO Soop
. DO Focal Point for
JFK Board Requests

/

FROM: John F. Pereira
Chief, Historical Review Group

SUBJECT: JFK Board Request No. CIA~-10
Interagency Source Register

1.. Attached is request No. CIA-10, dated June 17, 1996
from the Assassination Records Review Board. The request is
for information regarding the “Interagency Source Register”,
which is cited in an attached Gocument.

2. Please advise how you would like us to respond to
this request. .

  

John F. Pereira

Attachments
13-00000

21 June 1996 .
CIA SPECIAL COLI ECT! ONS /

_ RELEASE IN FULL /
MEMORANDUM FOR:. Fred Wickham - 2000 j .

 

- DO Focal Point for .
JFK Board Requests... anc. ad

FROM: John F. Pereira
Chief, Historical Review Group

SUBJECT: - JFK Board Request No. CIA-10
: Interagency Source Register

1. Attached is request No. CIA-10, dated June 17, 1996
from the Assassination Records Review Board. The request is
for information regarding the “Interagency Source Register”,
which is cited in an attached document.

2. Please advise how you would like us to respond to
this request.

  

Attachments

€

later ee
Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

 

June'17, 1996

Mr. John Pereira ----

Director CIA HAS NO OBJECTION To
Historical Review Group ; RECESS IFICATION ANDIOR
Center for the Study of Intelligence INTH ae CIA INFORMATION
Central Intelligence Agency . CUME NT

Washington, D.C. 20505

Re: ARRB Request for Additional Information and Records No. CIA-10

Dear John:

Pursuant to its authority under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992, the Assassination Records Review Board requests that you ~
provide us with descriptive information regarding the “Interagency Source Register”
cited in the attached document.

Would you-please-explain the principal function of the Interagency Source Register and------ ~~":
provide some basic background information, including when it began functioning, the
purpose for which was created, which-entity or entities in the intelligence community
were responsible for operating it, and which entity or entities in the intelligence
community made use of it. To the extent that the Register may have been discontinued
during the 1958-1965 period, we would like to know why and what type of system
replaced it (if any). -- ‘

In addition, would you please identify the documents to which you refer in drafting
your response.

This request should be interpreted in its broadest reasonable sense. To the extent that
you are not certain whether certain information comes under the scope of this request,
please let us know and we can advise you whether we seek to include it. Should this
request impose an unreasonable burden on you that we may have not anticipated,
please advise us so that we can work with you to modify or amend the request
accordingly. .

fa

 

Boaro Meters: John R. Tunheim, Chair + Henry F. Graff « Kermit L. Hall « William L. Joyce « Anna K. Netson
Executive Dinector: David G. Marweil
 

104-10335-10009

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor » Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 « Fax: (202) 724-0457

 

June'l7, 1996

Mr. ohn Pereira .

Dinestor CIA HAS NO OBJECTION To
Historical Review Group RE LASSIF (CATION AND/OR
Center for the Study of Intelligence NTH ne CIA INFORMATION
Central Intelligence Agency , CUMENT

Washington, D.C. 20505

Re: ARRB Request for Additional Information and Records No. CIA-10

Dear John:

Pursuant to its authority under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992, the Assassination Records Review Board requests that you
provide us with descriptive information regarding the “Interagency Source Register”
cited in the attached document.

Would you please. expiain the principal function of the Interagency Source Register and
provide some basic background information, including when it began functioning, the
purpose for which was created, which entity or entities in the intelligence community
were responsible for operating it, and which entity or entities in the intelligence
community made use of it. To the extent that the Register may have been discontinued
during the 1958-1965 period, we would like to know why and what type of system
replaced it (if any). :

In addition, would you please identify the documents to which you refer in drafting
your response.

This request should be interpreted in its broadest reasonable sense. To the extent that
you are not certain whether certain information comes under the scope of this request,
please let us know and we can advise you whether we seek to include it. Should this
request impose an unreasonable burden on you that we may have not anticipated,
please advise us so that we can work with you to modify or amend the request
accordingly. ,

 

Boaro Memsers: John A. Tunheim, Chair « Henry F. Graff » Kermit l. Hall « William L. Joyce - Anna K. Nelson
13-00000

Mr. John Pereira

June 17, 1996

Page 2

Thank you for your attention to this matter.
Sincerely yours,

SU (VL_L

David G. Marwell
Executive Director

Enclosure
 

SEGRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

CIA SPECIAL
pores
LSHORANDUM FOR: Assistant Chief of, 2685" N BULL ce

Department of the
Attention: Plans and Operations Branch

FROM: Interagency Source Register

SUBJECT: Burn Yotice ~ Hens Dieter KAMIISEL

1. Subject individual is suspected of being a mentelly
disturbed intelligence nuisance. It is requested that this office
be furnished any information your office can make availeble which
might support or deny this suspicion, plus any mown biographical
informetion not included in the attached report.

2. The attached information concerning Subject is forwarded
for purposes of identification.

3. Reply by 1 July 1966 would be appreciated. Negative reply
may be telephoned using the correspondence file number of this
memorandum for reference.

ISRH-23 ,279

. ; CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
Att: a/s para 2 Retease In Full 1996

(RY - J) AG

Kips, Zliploned Z Uae <4 Que

 

SPRRET
