 

 

 

   
    
   
  

tm,

Subject: Carlos John WHLON

78-1959
We-23 Prior 6 October 1952
Place Acquired: Santiago, Chile

'. Sidpeaber: 1952
Evaluation: B=} 7

‘Source: Person vith wide Contects in

1. Carlos Johri WILSOR, an Eng!
citizen, «as previous); :
Ox-RAF pilot and p
attention of tte’ Er! 4
being twice warned by the Chilean su

_or leave the country.

 
      
  

jorities

   
  

 
  
  

ploits *

  
 

ro hs tl age,

2. WILSON is violently anti-U/S and constantly condemns-Yankee inperialisny i
" Dlamify- the United States for the ils of the world.as velj as for his own

Personal set backs. \ILSON states that England and france wilt evéi thathy. -.

get together with Soviet R.ssia to form a pact aimed at the complete - oo: Se

destructin of the United States. He clains to be.an authority. on the Balisins, po .

and 4 great surporter of TETO whom she stetes is the only person’ cépable: of --"~ al '

maintaining pexce in that part of the world. TITO, »ILSON states, will 7

in time line up the entire Batkan area with England and France to assiet

Russia in crushing the United States.

 

 

3. WILSON evinces a great deal of interest tn the Yugoslav Colony in Santiazo and
recently droped in at the Club Ruso on a large celebration given by the
Serbo Ortodox: Society. He became quite drunk and so abusive of the U. S.
that he was told to quiet down or lesve. He confided to source on this
occasion that he wa: in an intellivence service, goply ing that it wa: tue
British Intellivence. WILSON has an office on Calie 4guctinas 1111, Office
418, telephone 83888, Casilla 863. On the door to this cffice appears the
following: "CINCR:, Commercial Informuticn™. It is said that his office ts
usualiy full of Chileans, all of whom appear to be rabid Ibaifiistas and that
the talk centers around the time when TBA‘ EZ wii] take office and throw out
tha U. 3. imperialists. wILSOX's principal business consiats in trading
in copper, lead and sulfur, a business which he states is impeded by United
States commercial espionage. According to wiLSCH, all requests for imports
and exports in Chile clear through the Yankee Gestapo Headquarters on the
aixth fleor of the Carrera Hotel. However, wILsON new has a secret deai
in Antofagasta wherein he plans to ship 15,00. tons of sulfur to Holland.

Classification

Pome we.
Few teas O88
 

 

Local File Ko:

     

Distribution: . .
By’ copy to: #2 sashineton Orally to:
‘2 Files
1 bzbassy .

 

Source, Operational Data, and Consents:

i. ‘Source Ghar is of thé opinion that YLSON is ‘ery probably an

26

 

=

intelligence arent and that he is under direction of some sorvices
There is no apparent reason for his vreat intersst in the Yuposlav
colony in Santiaro, nor can SARA? determine the source of .ULSONts
auparente ler ze income. Op

Despite the fact that much of what “A LSOK says ig patently rubbish an2
although it vas revorted in 703-1558 that, he was believed to be mentally
411, GU¢Ani-7 has teen instructed to maintain contact with WILSON! for the
purpose \of discoverin~ what his objectiv-s are and by whom he is cirected.

ow

 
  

  
 

 

Any traces of ..t a+ usrters would he of assistance to tris station .
in pursueine tris inrestiratio: Pci .
persue me i Mace oe LF
{ MAE mw ee
{ SOS. farce. Gree,

    

Classification Ri COPY;

poaw mo. 8t-89

Fan toa : ot . - "2 Dona - /
74-0000

 

 

- |. .
ye
.

wae
i
4
H

“j
Q
|
t

 

  
 
   

Documentation:

 

” Tes-1959

tified ag Heri be: nto.
Se. EINICSE is * .

r

   

     

     

 

om “Prag nso Fase ee
International police pads ai
hin to enter Los Cerrillos airport at
any time.

 

Mey Qe 397-0
