74-0000

 

A ‘Paks
ad absurdum) does not contribute plausibility to the unsupported statement
that the FBI withheld out of deference to CIA. (U)

I have proposed the following security changes:

1. New formula for referring to CIA in Mexico, in
the various places it occurs in the draft.
2. Rephrasing of pages 2-4, with suggested text.

New phrasing on age 5.
Deletion off Inane on page 5.
Deletion reference to Monterrey Base on page 6.
Deletion of “Barry Gibson" on page 6.
Deletions on page 11.
Deletions on page 12.

9. Delete LIFIRE. ( )
Footnotes. Corrections are below:

3/ Classified CIA Document IN 72615, 3 Dec 63.

5/ Classified CIA Document IN 72829, 3 Dec 63.

6/ Classified CIA Document DIR-86761, 4 Dec 63.

9/ Classified CIA Document IN 74227, 12/5/63.

1l/ Classified CIA Dispatch No. 22579, 12/5/63.

14/ Classified CIA Document DIR-87188, 5 Dec 63.

16/ Classified CIA Document IN 43194, 19 Mar 64.

22/ Classified CIA Document IN 43940, 20 Mar 64.

23/ Classified CIA Document, Personality File Action Request. (U)

ON Do SS Ww
. 8 8 © ee

 

After you have received these, I am ready to discuss their application,
where you encounter problems, with you, Gary Cornwell, or Mickey Goldsmith.
In any event, it would be useful for us to get together soon. I realize
you are very busy, but some personal exchanges may save time later. ( )

Sincerely,
SDB
ROT ae
OcURET
7

Val
74-0000

 

 

Ypd

 

Other items in this section:
Page 11. Lopez was not “surveilled" in Mexico. That

phrasing may give it an adventuresome quality, but the report

was some four months after Lopez departed Mexico. It

obviously not only did not come from an informed source,

but there could have been no first-hand observation of the

man. (U) :

Page 11. Agree with deletions at bottom of page. (U)
Page 12. Delete reference to DCOS |

source. (C)

Page 14. The alleged "sinister appearing events,” represent an HSCA
staff opinion, without supporting evidence. A man flew to Cuba, and no
one knows much about him. His only significance, if any, exists ina
coincidence in time. The FBI investigated him and reported to the
Warren Commission, judging from statements in the Church Committee report
and the HSCA drafts. (U)

Page 14. The Committee has no instances, documented or otherwise,
of CIA deciding “to forego passing information to the Warren Commission
out of a desire to not lay bare extremely sensitive sources and methods
of intelligence." I have tried to think what the HSCA staff may feel
constitutes material nonreporting, and have come up with the following:

a. Anti-Castro plotting. As your own draft final report
convincinaly demonstrates, the concept of any relevance for

that to the assassination investigation was not perceived

until the later 1960s, subsequent to the Warren Commission.

Failure to perceive, perhaps. To protect sources, etc.,

not shown. (U)

b. Failure to report on allegations of Calderon's DGI

ties and her. contact with Oswald during his visit to Mexico.

Contrary to the HSCA staff investigator, it was in fact

reported. (U)

c. Failure to report a suspicion of a DGI defector
that Calderon was a CIA or American agent. Every uninfoymdd

5

 

(U)
74-0000

 

 

 

 

suspicion is not reportable, especially when it is known to

be false, aS was the case here. Nothing to report, and

nothing to protect. (U)

d. Calderon's single remark, out of the context of the
conversation in which she made it. First, itis based ona
mistranslation, kept alive and unchanged even after having
been corrected. And she, herself, made it clear that this
isn't what it meant, if anyone has taken the time to read
it in context. (C)

e. Failure to report until April 1964 about Oswald's
contacts with Soviet and Cuban Consulates in Mexico City.

This is based on an error of.a Warren Commission investigation.

First, Mr. Helms told Mr. Rankin at least some of the story.

in mid-January 1964. The extensively detailed substance

of that information was provided the Warren Commission later

in January. This was reinforced by the Duran debriefinas.

That the Warren Commission investigator understood the

uncontradicted information in the Commission's possession

cannot be explained today, except that he erred. (U)

The staff investigators may have developed an interesting, however unfounded,
thesis that protective reflexes prevented reporting. The cases don't
support the thesis. Further, no one has told them that such was the case,
and nothing anywhere records such a view. It comes out of the imagination
of the investigators, uninhibited by objective facts. (U)

It is customary practice in intelligence reporting procedures to report
information, protecting at the same time the source or method by which it
was obtained. That may be difficult for someone outside the intelligence
world to grasp or retain, but procedures are well established for ensuring
reporting of such useful and valid information as is available, at the same
time protecting its origins. (U)

The presentation is contrary to well recognized practice, as well as
being unsupported by fact. If the basic statements of the draft are
inapplicable, it certainly follows that their logical extension (reduction
74-00000

 

SEGRET

Page 2. As a matter of interest, on this page and those following,
repeated reference to messages as being "classified;" this seems odd to
us. As you are aware there is very little, if any, traffic between the
field and headquarters that. is not classified. Both the means of communi=
cation and the content are classified. Persons unfamiliar with the use
of classifications may be impressed with it, but fs not substantively
significant at all. (C)

Page 2-4. The following rewrite is offered, as a way to avoid
unnecessary reference to the Mexico City Station: (S)

The first information on the travel of the Cuban-American
appeared in early December 1963. At that time CIA headquarters
received a message relaying a request for “urgent traces on
U.S. citizen Gilberto P. Lopez." Lopez was reported as arriving
in Mexico on November 23 en route to Havana and that Lopez had
disappeared with no record of his trip to Havana. According to
the message, Lopez had a tourist card, carrying number 24553,
which he obtained in Tampa on November 20, 1963 and his passport
number was 310162. The report stated that Lopez left Mexico for
Havana on November 27 via Cubana (Airline). There was no back-
ground information on Lopez in Mexico and headquarters was
requested to provide such information as it had. (U)

In another message the same date, the FBI office in Mexico
was reported as having been advised by Mexican authorities that
Lopez had entered Mexico on November 27 at Nuevo Laredo, (U)

On December 5, 1963 CIA Headquarters received a report that
Gilberto Lopez had crossed the Mexican border at Laredo, Texas
on November 23, 1963, and had registered in the Roosevelt Hotel
in Mexico City on November 25 at 1600 in Room 203. Lopez was
reported as departing on a Cubana flight for Havana on November 27,
The pepe that a good photograph had been obtained of ;
Lopez. (U

A dispatch the following day forwarded copies of the
photograph to CIA Headquarters, stating when the photograph
was taken. The photograph of Lopez, contained in his 201 file
at CIA, is dated 27 November 1963, and shows him wearing dark
glasses; the background is dark and indistinguishable. (U)

The dispatch forwarding the photograph contained previously
reported information on the number of Lopez's passport and
tourist card, and on his entry into Mexico. It contained
additional information--that he was the only passenger on
Cubana Flight #465 on November 27, 1963 to Havana; that the

SECRET
2
 

[td f0146-10003)]

Mr. G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

Select Committee on Assassinations
House of Representatives
Washington, D. C. 20515

 

Dear Bob,

This will complete our review of the drafts provided by you, also
completing comments on the package covered in other respects in my
letter to you of 13 February. . This treats the section entitled Cuban-
American. In its present form the draft on the "Cuban-American"
contains a variety of classified matters that should remain classified;
in this form we have classified the draft SECRET and request that it be
handled accordingly. (C) :

It is understood that this paper is intended for unclassified
publication. Comments here are intended to advance ways in which the
story can be told in unclassified form. (u)

First, as a generalization, you are familiar with the current extra
sensitivity on publicity of CIA activities and presence in Mexico.
Sensitive political relations between Mexico and the U.S. are real
considerations, and a rather highly orchestrated campaign against CIA
in Mexico at this time adds to the concern. I have mentioned in my
letter of 26 February the desirability of a formula that lets you make
your general references and comments, without further advertising a CIA
presence. The suggestion was to indicate that CIA personnel there were
something in the nature of visitors for the investigation; the formula
suggested was somewhat as follows - "CIA personnel assigned in Mexico for the
investigation." I have identified references to the Mexico City Station
on pages 2-6 and 12, and the Monterrey Base at 5, 6, and 11. I believe we
can develop a formula that will be mutually acceptable on this. (8)

I believe that earlier we furnished you an “errata sheet" on detailed
corrections you would wish to make. The comments in this letter will

 

 

address other items of interest. (U)

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce 22490

 
74-0000

 

avr

DRAFT.

SECRET

flight had a crew of nine Cubans; that Lopez used a U.S.
passport.and a Cuban courtesy visa. The dispatch contained
the following statement: "Source states the timing and
circumstances surrounding subject's travel through Mexico and
departure for Havana are suspicious." The dispatch "urgently"
requested all available data on Lopez. (U)

This treatment is intended to be suggestive as to how the story can be
told in its essentials, at the same time preserving the Agency's activities
from unnecessary exposure. For instance, it omits reference to LITEMPO
and LIFIRE as well as some of the more explicit statements. I would
suggest that you should check with the FBI to see if there is any
objection to the reference to information being received by it from
Mexican authorities. (C)

Page 5. Suggest following for first paragraph: (U)

On December 5, 1963 CIA headquarters cabled the field
that this Cuban-American was Gilberto Policarpo Lopez, who
was born on January 26, 1940. ‘

. It also stated that Lopez was not
identical with a Gilberto Lopez who had been identified as
active in pro-Castro groups in Los Angeles. (U)~

 

Pa Page 5. Second paragraph. The indicated deletions (Monterrey Station,
C and reference to theft Jeeat ng with

 

CIA) are appropriate. Thereafter, where name appears, it should
be "source," instead of the named person. (C)

Page 6. Agree with deletion of reference to Monterrey Base, {C)

Page 6. The cable is cited without comment; the portion selected for
quotation was in error as the information did not "jibe" with what was
already known. (U)

Page 6. The discussion of the 201 file indicates a misunderstanding
on the part of the author. In 1975 CIA conducted a review of all 201 files
involving U.S. citizens, to determine whether the files should be
destroyed, or whether they should be retained because of some counter-

 

intelligence interest. The administrative procedure for doing this
involved a form titled "Review of 201 file on U.S. Citizen." The file of
Lopez was categorized for retention because he was a subject of possible

 
74-00000

 

interest in the assassination investigation. The date 1975, apparently
questioned by the editor, is correct. (U) :

Page 6. In lieu of reference to LAM/FI, it might improve readability
to substitute the word "responsible." Also delete the name of “Barry
Gibson." (C)

Page 11-13. The HSCA draft labors at preserving the basis for a
criticism of CIA in the handling of a badly flawed report from Monterrey,
some four months after the assassination of the President. (C)

The report erred in so many ways that it clearly was misinformed
extensively. The DCOS did not recognize these errors at the time of its
receipt, which does not alter the basic flawed nature of the report; his
statements that it "jibed" with other information does not make it so. (U)

It is quite a familiar thing in the world of intelligence for reporting
to be evaluated, and discarded when it does not pass tests of reliability.

 

 

In the case of the Monterrey report, it erred in just about every detail,
on top of which it offers an opinion of the reporting source -- unsupported
by any of the facts offered -- that there was something "suspicious" about
the man. Not only was the report in error in just about every point. It
was some four months after the assassination, when pressures for information
were high, and reliable, timely, first-hand observation obviously was not
a part of the source's information. Te characterize it as “cryptic and
impressionistic" is polite -- it was essentially a worthless bit of
reporting. (U)
It not only was correct to discount the report; it still seems that
it should have been discarded. That it appeals to the sanguine
imanginations of a critically oriented staff investigator does not give it
merit. The HSCA draft is badly exaggerated and labored on this point. (U)
It was a simple statement of fact that CIA could not investigate Lopez.
And that report was, in any event, not a valid basis for taking anything
“more seriously." To give it some quality beyond its objective merit
must be judged as unprofessional. CIA did report to the primary investigative
authority, the FBI, which appears to have conducted a thorough inquiry. (U)

 
