” £9 prisow to return to the U.S. .
*Vuucto't GALAR pO - (information given t by Haruco). Galardo’
— we

was a rebel Licutenant; did not complete his ‘sentence. Has begn in ths
U.S. Usfore and wants to.come here very badly. He is RED, dangerous and
should be placed on WATCH LIS cording .

“=~ G@ONZALES (fau) ~~ hoard in Cuba that Gonzales is a Cuban |

 

supposedly sent by the U.S. to “goin the hangers in Bolivia to nant \down
che {Gusvara. There is repertedly a group Sn Cuba connectad with “ga group
in the U.S. to try to kidnap Gonzales and got tim back to Cuba. If

uasuccesaful they will Kill him hore, In Cuba they say Gonzales is working

 

 

~ ae .
for the GIN ba! cay bi i yore
VEvelLo PS NZALES = is a cougin o 7 GlozLa
_
HOLITNE T (resaxricd « don't know married

 

nena). Evelio ia the wife of one of the Cuban's involwad in the Watergate

 

Ceso. Evelio currently divas in Mien

 

[

 

“oetolG 0 fa 2 nN LE 9 ie currontly in Wkent end is 2nd in command
of Alpha 66 directly under Andon nozarlols A ARGEN. Ociol waa head of
the Cuban Fire Department in Havana. Went into exile in an embassy im Guba.
ALVAREZ ga/ HO44994
lie 16 a personal friend o€ Odeon /De La Campa ‘and 4a still in touch with hin.

Ociol haa a Mercedes b& “ne ond other care in Mianl and it is rumored that

   

bara

‘Ae

he is up to somaching vary big but Poyle deosn't know what it io. ES |
Vv K&B Wogan Vv, woe) Ee!
Billy4G OVANTE So -Let’Manole RAY woo has phone for outgoing =

mR,

long distance calle £rca Cuba to Miomi and from Miaal to Cuba yearod ago. |
; a

i]

iw Va
Billy’s brother is married to coucla of Cobia SANHCHE zo |

“rengto ‘Gursele UE ED Bb E 9) haa a niece in Chieago wro should bo

watched. | Guieddos waco a stool pigeon. a
: aA ANVedi
UGLIAT t 0 ° (see calling card attached)

 

 

 

C _ __
vs [ Gughioet
: . \po0s to make ) .

, dexagatory remarka about the Acericand and tio American Governassl « is
-y: Yo Cuban but soa of Leqhicng oy to Poca. 1j WateH “use. ceeneT

 

 

 
a worked €or tha Hebifa.

 

“u AD i ? tantly “ “ylivarto ° cndeloto = Toaas ae HABiVa had
J afeus 1Q 4 oo”
i. businsoa’ ‘leh Pidol; businesa with Geoaty c aragorg a5 business. with
a Loadon Rebs. fcox cut a fev aiblica fren Cuba ar and Sold all furniture
: aa Par cil Poud
Legally when thay loft Cuba. Toresite Lupek i, Polish, is BzD end

fu pak

oe {¢
ott imierau © ref Cup: ;
“Jose (Popa E RRER A = 6327 S.W. 15th St..,Miami., Tole: 665-6097.

 

| io supposed oo

 

be a nowopapor man ia Wieml. Talted cgaimat U.9.; pre=Avab; oaild Alpha 66
oxcup Mical gotcicg another group together to otart trouble with Cuba
to forca U.S. hand; Ctlat thoy aro plemaing cartaln actions agains¢ pecple
2a the U.S. Said Dengeracy lo, vorthloss + not worth + - © ©, Ssyo ha and
hia grcup aro in accord with mora bexbs to be throwa ia Micod and espestally
in Vashingwna, b.C. cgainst Red Eabasales and Diplenats end avo for
kicaepping3. lia is 166% in accord with - tha Arab Grcup “Dlock Scptcabar.”
Yyocehi g i’ iB } % A (Qichard) » currently im tha U.S. » coma to Hical by

beat; eccording to __ fs Gag of tha coot damgarous of all. Ia supposed

 

 

¢o be working on conotructica now. A trator.

 

 

 

 

lag said lioredila waa tha head of tha Microfacticn in Melona 32;

uscd to hold ccerot mootings ia Darracka ¢0 da Nelena with hio RED fricads

aad give cloodos im Haruidou-Leninioa., He called tho U.S. Govopumsnt every -

 

 

llehy namo thac existe. Decause of hia eceglvad

 

beatings, soarchao, ote. Horadia

 

 

 

J tore pot iT Ley
} coe the Ansitdcan Ld “scone loxodia had a lead o€ smsrican money with

 

 

tin. (Seo CLR 316/02055-73 dated ca, 17 Auguat 1973). Sohoaies rod. chae

aa

ioxedia to vary icgortant end vary clavar aad absuld boa VARGrIn

VA ge pO Zi]

 

Avail nOLT2 » currensly da Hiend cad charp de a tee In Cuba ‘hs waa
Hogs . ~
tho Lewyor for the Hotel copra for “guagpy’s shopard. kacw hia vagy. well

 

 

 

la CeSa.; Holts had

 

 

in 1959 Holez wag the fiat man to buy a fleet of,

 

 

“@ldausblles fa tho U.S. Cor che Fidel Gevernsant. Ya Cuba Roles had a
14-0900. + coe .

 

 

aad - pesuceun essremmsesetgeacrmagziensasmmnntnm mteanueernecitisdeas east . .
fat ogtated with ‘che Cuban Goverament. Hie name is "Hono" and ha was a |

Candido also has a cousin by the nema of

’
. {
in the Watergate Casc. Candide |

sargeant in‘ the Batista Aruy
GONZALEZ - one of tho 4 cubana jmpileate
en and | a be released

 

was always asking
froa prison to return to the U.S. :
n o 3 A \ on
Vuero%s ALAR b 0 - (information given to by Haruco) . Galardo

t; did not complete his sentence. fae been in the
2

wao a robel Lieutenant 5
U.S. bafore and wants Co.como here very badly. He is RED, dangerous end

 

ahould be placed ca WATCH List according t
hoard im Cuba that Gonzales is a Cuban

ES (gnu) ~
a to tune) down

~GOnHZAL
co join the Rangers in Bolivi

upposadly seat by cha U.S.
group in Cuba connected with “group

oup
Cha }Guavera. There do voportcadly a

in tha U.S. co try to kidnap Gonzales and get hin back
in Cuba they say Gonzales Lo working

to cuba. Le

Fa
2

unsuccessful they will Kili hia here.
for the_CiA. be i aed
gol : gyi he .

2 3 - ig a cougia of plozla

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Vetvelio A weak
HOLINET (vemarrlod - don’t know marricd .

nana). Evelio is tho wife of onc of the Cuban" a involvad in ¢ the Watergate ee 1
Cosa, Evalio currontly lives ia Heat, | Ej

&.

a 2

Fy A! =]

“octol! G On: 2 ‘hn LE 3 io currently in Micmi and is 2nd ia ecmaand ee

“ooo wovariors A ARGBEH. Geiel was head of al

a

a

o€ Alpha. 66 dixoctly wador
sat ia Havana. Weat into exile la aa exbacsy da Cuba.

‘the Cuban Five Bepartcs
RWVAREZ go/ GO% 4994 ;

personal friend of Oden /B0 La Campa cand Lo still ia touch with hin.

cher cara in Miami and it is

e lmow what it fo.

tk

ne

 

ia io a
Ccicl has a Mercedes bYag and o yumorad that

he ‘© up to somathing vary big but Poyie doson

Vos on ¥ 50
“ naniyl6 GOVANTES- let Manolo rw A 2 ‘aso his phone for outgoing
Miami and froa Niaal to Guba yaara ago.

ear WN

Leng distance callo from Cuba to
ied to cousla of olia SaANCH nae"

*- gadliy’s brother iu marr
4- 00000 . Coon
.G-3 in ‘Cuba, and waa! “eae of ¢ho poracne who turned i .

iN , u®pi 9 - - :
" ». Hina aw A *? DE Volonduala ~ do currently in Miami. Ha ido
. 201- at 184 ty

tho caly ond ovill alive Seca tho’Phillipe VIDAL Santiago casa. | Phillips

J
39 shot and kallod to La Cabanas in May 1964. [_ (pave Jullo PERnAKDZZ

io “a che U8. beeayse he wag a eteol piges’ im prison; because Julio's

 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

pod.

aclo’ io head og tho Commuaiot Party in"Cottorro”in Havana, and because
hig brother Yyoae renwal 3 A < 7 wz2uz LA was a opy in tha Ud. for Pidol.

¢ Josa Manuel was in the U.S. fea L9GL until 1964 vhen ha roturned to Cuba.
| : .

Ho currontly io ia Cuba. Jooe Manual do ould to have sade a lot of concy
coking people cut of Ceba, ouch ao tho prople from the cayo Anguilo casa. -

[a wag ageused of molesting a wlnor (a 13 year eid) and jumped bail 7 where?

   

Yhea Jooa Manual was in jail ia the U.S. he ad a lawycr y the noma of

paw Varin 334710 :
‘Fook Wet § Be. (informatiaa given to by Ivan GEDA) «
Ode: ia Miead
Y peso” fou? Se g¢rca cho ‘Pabulose Radio Statica/gnd telephgns j
ol aseeg Ib ” {
conpaay « “Lo curgontly corrospending with tudseypt AT 6S 4n the Principe '

Eicon im Cuba, clandeotinoly. FONTS eottol [Be te agaisst Matos

oo

1602: ; gel. eater ;

 

re ee

vPoary UENTES cid - fMtoieed Poyle ia

 

ios chavo ho 1a staying for 3 heare on 24 July 1973} fide father vont
Qe 3b Y fnSe G bus
co Cuba wih oron DONE ST VE 2 who proughe’Patriclo’ 8 “yA RE@

 

co the tha U.S. \ _ [eave SUARZZ io Red; he waa im the samo gallory with

iia La Cabana Prison.
~Famnesle aa
Renca’P UE WT ES Junco + tolophoned here ha 4s etayicg 22,
& pe ¥ 7 Hg G22 4 -

Hiden’ on 20 July 1973. Rassa cot] fp was opeaking to Mensad MOLLIGS

 

 

 

 

pie whoa ke de ogay ing, yecontly ia

 

a
the icaigration office in Miami, ¢orgot hie talophoas ausbor and wondered, i
wnecher tha wundoxr where Poyle is otayiag was Cendldo's pusber. Ramca said

bio hone phone Lo: 448-1096; and his office phona: 64222054. Candido |

 

 

told chat ha io a retixed major

of tha U.S. Avasd Forces, was ewiee ia Vietnam end 49 vatired now with ia
ivas

inecas of $1,000 a sonth ead the u.3. Gove/hie 19 year old daughter 9200. |

anitava a conch Ja addition. Candide kaa a brecha wha ia completely Pa

 
14-00000. pr JG AP OTE (fnu) ~ Was Le. Dr. dn Fidel Castro's Asay cand worked
oe ia the Nilicacy Hospital, in Havana. Was arrestad in Decexber 1964 along
4 a . ‘
‘uith 5 or 6 aale nurooo, Wav doctor fo mother of Sergio Del VALLE, current
‘Hindster of thé Interior. Was released frea prison after about 7 years,
Was bad to prisoners. Del VALLE raleasod him and got hia inte tho U.3.
quickly. Rumors in Cuba are that he died in U.S. of caneor, said
that ia not true; Capote io still in U.S. bue ho «doeon't mow tore, ;

cape“ OY OTE ~ was adjutcat to“Centlo CLE WNP vio ‘3 bofore
latCor wao killed, COYOTE did not finich priaca sentence im Cuba, Was
otcol pigcen and pimp in Guanabacoa, Was and io taking BRUGS, Worked in
night clias in Naw Jeraay, also as diamond cutter. Writes te pridaoner
Luis SANT AWA bad meuching che U.S. Saya he ia going to Puerto Rice.
is currently working on TV.

“ (Nga be :

Jean Pollpe da la C RU 2 = of 4440 Pala av. of tlaleah, Pla.
?Thora is a Let of talk about hia in ifkand. Recently died im Pranece whon
Gynealte oxploded in motel voom, Was membar of the Dixcetorie « or the

Studants group, whlch 1s group og ‘Alberto MUELLER, nunicvess¢ Q
“Reboriold a’t A = Curronely in Cuba but is trying to get inco tha
U.S... Was sentenced €o 30 years imprisonment in Cuba but oervad about 10
years. is currently head of the Clinic in Marlanao; waars a pistel;
isza welleknewn ag @ homesexual in prioca. Divorced - wife ead daughter
are da the U.S.
io Lela (fau) = Current residenca unknown, In 1966 was a manber of
Ge2 in Cuda and did great hara to people, In 1966 left Cuba with wife
and children from the Naueiee Club in Havana. Later skowad pictures of
biaself€ aboard "“Oxferd" da unigora, aA€ter that the Casto Governasate let
his sleter, name unknown, coma to the U.S. Siater dislikes him intonasly.
“ 21! IAS S6%VG
“Vilsa J, § P I N+ wife of Raul CASTRO has a cousia ead a God-Father
ia Wieai currently, Tho owner of Coffee Shep in the Cuban Commerddal

Miami pO
Center on 22nd Avenua/¢col 6m 6 August 1973 that Espin's cousin and

Godefathar axe roported to be buying up a great deal of land arewnd Miand

ead travolliag co and frou Puerto Riea €rcquently.
. RERBST 9 ‘

 

 

 
 

ee ee Paces en nme Eaters ee

‘ ; SEGHE
Ricardof? EO - cama to che U.S. with ooma infiltrators. Lege Cuba

   

 

 

 

eres Mariano Baach ono Sunday norning witheut worry. prondera ff
ta gol

Peo was gent to the U.S. by the Canadien “stancy/6 0 R DOH - currently

. G-t in cuba, and wea one of tha parsons who turned ae SC

asuQb:s
Vguliel? 2 RD A “i D EZ Valenzusla - is currently in Miami. He is
aie MD
the only one still alive froa tho’Phitlipe VIDAL Santiago case. Phillips

 

 

 

was ohet and killed in La Cabanas in May 1964. says julto FERMARDEZ~

is in the U.S. because ho waa a stool pigeod in prieon; because Julto's

uncie is mee of the Communist Party in“Cot¢orro"in Havana; and because i
his brother ove ssenuat”? 3 A * z NZUELA was a spy in tha U.3. for Pidel. q
» Jose Manuel was in the U.S. from 1961 until 1964 when he returned to Cuba. ;
Ho curreatly io. in Cuba. Jose Manuel is eid to have made a let of aonay
coking people cue of Cuba, cuch ao the prople from the Cayo Anguilo case.

fo waa accused of aslooting a ainor (a 13 year old) and quxped ball 7 where?

 

63% Ve eee
Seeks WEES S Gnforsacice given to ey “von VEBAL) »
Vv 2 fim Miemd
Renom a o u “e gs» fon tha Pabulcao Radio Scatica/ cad talephgas
oo 6h. I 266 JbO
ccupany. is currently corresponding wlth tuber, A. 6% in tho Primeipe

 

 

 

a
(
i
Vikea Joco Manual was in jail in the U.S. he had a Lawyor by the nao of |

Prieca in Cuba, clondestinaly. FOWRS tolls C _fe is against Hates

 

 

MGR ge QOKEP AT — , L
VPode(y URN TE 8 Cad “| _
[ : | Hs fathcr wane

 

 

Dur RET ITE WA asoli bes
co Cuba wih" Remon 3D ONE STEVE & uno brought Patricie 3 UARES

to tha U.S. pew SUARZZ Lo Red; he vas im the sama gallery with

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in La Cabana Prison.
Fe eo
Vaceea!P UE NTE 9 Junco » tolephoned hare ha da PECL fi
; 462 Adfoaa”
Hileal on 20 July 1973. Reson cold ha was epeakiag te a india MOLIEST ,
| vith whea he to atay{ng, gocently ia !

 

 

 

 
 

MGMORANUUM FOR: Federal Bureau of Investigation . 7
genre Section | 4 /

 

 

 

 

 

SUBJECT 3 * Cubana in’ eho U.S. -° Information Provided by
eae
2%, ee
fnootaied LIEGRO-> Born circa 1946, (Told to by Ivan

 

 

 

VIDA L on 25 July 1973). Aiiegro is roportadhy working gor"iecholt
“24 Dol OS 4119 jenn and
Livingstea WE R BELL. /Sozry, TRI c g “aro weportodly earnyang.

CEA Mdontifstentiea cards and calling Cebans is Mienl that “thoy are msmbera
hay aro also saying Wdbelll io a cember of CIA,
of CIA,/ Thay ‘reportedly had a business oa 8th Street in Mieni and sold

o¢ cell arma to public. They cay that the U.S. Gove allows tia to sell

“agaa ca the side te make profic im return for big things thoy do gor cha

. Gove. 4g yol- 00f4qay
“Oden! ALVA RE 2 Da La Caspa - currently in.the U.S. Living ta

California. \ /knew him very wall da Cuba whan “Alvarez had high

pdaleien bofore and after Castro take over. a Gaid ha mada derogatory

opocchas against the U.S. ia Cuba, Pe dm ccatect in the U.8. with Aldo
ta of the Amoricasfor U.S. Gove. ~sIae;
VERA and sheyld ba vatchad. [- \beard ho ia to make cpeoehed da vig¢ o
OZ |

By Johnng 7A RIMENDES © Curréatly in Miemt and como Johnny's
my ogo) a
Deca Bar in Miami, Was connected with Peonhp? IGHATORE in Cuba,

 

wag stool pigeon for Batista police and offieclal 60 der of drugs to Carlea
PRI O. to currently a stool pigeon for police 44 Hiawt end ia also
davolved in DRUG business in Miami.
“porehal AR RE TO + Yo tied im with the moder of the fanous
HUELLER brothers, Currently in Micali. and has collected thousands
o£ dollars from Cubana with the promise to get their femilios out of
priocn + connected with tha Committee of 100; has not gotten anyenc

—f, | koleaged,
Bi a” .
ARR US EVI O (fnu) - may now be in U.S. Was connected with

 
 

     
  

   

 

 

ie ae . 7 SECRET LX- 3¥ 7 |

“ . 28 January 1974

 

; oe UFA
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

supyect: O information on Personalities Obtained from REE}
and Passed to Station WH/Miami and Headquarters and

Miami FBI

 

 

 

1. The attached information was obtained from REL 1,

 

an American who returned to tho U.S. 30 June 1973 following
ijine ‘yoars imprisonment in Cuba, from porsonal debriefings on
7/8 July, 1/2 August and from subsequent letters from hin,
2.. A copy of the attached report was passed to Station WH/Miani
via the $1 poucm on 23 Auguat 1973 and a sterilized copy was
pouched along with it for passing to the FBI office in Minami, Also
ineluded for both (sterilized for FBI) were copies of CSCI 91G/02055-7.
CIR 31G6/08176-73; CIR 316/01809-73; and CIR 316/02041=73,
3. A copy of the attached and sterilized copies of the above
CSCI and CIR's were also passed to Mr, Schwartz, FBI liaison with
Ci Liaison, in the latter's office on 30 August 1973, Mr. Fig
_, Coleman introduced the undersigned to Mr. Schwartz and knows that
"the documents, were passed.
7)
0 -(
% : Chris Hopkin
[eee ‘WH/COG/OS

201-733547

ne
econ Com

“SECRET
 

a: J 5 o)- Bader ‘ : .
Yansolaite-k Lt & GRO- Born circa 1946 «Told ‘to by “Yvan

VIDA. & on 25 July 4973); AlLogro io reptrditiy working for'fiaechott
* g0t-9 5174/9 Allegro and
Livingston WE R DELL. fJortya ATRI Cc. & “ore reportedly carryoag.

 

 

GIA jdontigiention cards and tolling Cubans “ta Miami thae “thoy axe geabero
They are aloo saying Wdbolll io a member of CIA,
of CIA./ Tilay ‘reportedly had a business on 8th Streat im Miami and sold

or soll arma to public. They oay that the U.S. Govt allows tia to sell

ne
“ayaa oa the oide to make profie in return for big things they do for tho

. Govt. 4g yo 0044994 OG
“Oden ALVARE Z Bo La Campa = currently, in. the U.S. Liviag ia

 

California. know hia vory woll in Cubo whoa Alvarez had bilgh

 

péslelen before and aftcr Castro taire ovar. said he esdo darcgatery

opeechas against the U.S. ia €uba, Pia dn eoatact da the U.S. with Aldo

novtg of the Amoricasfor U.S. Gove.
VERA and should ba uacaned,, heard ha 1s to cake spcoched da “eae
annae:

 

i

Johnny7A RIHERD ES -CGFFenely in Miami and owns Jcnnay’ 3
pe al

ORL ia Cuba,

 
 

Droen Dar in Miami. Was connected wich V: feasky? IG RA
was stool pigeon for Batista polico and official solller of druga to Carles
PRIO. Ie currently a stool pigeen for police ini Hiemi end ia also
involved in DRUG business ia Miami.

” BODO!
“gorchalD ARR on 7 O = io ¢iod in with the moter of tha fancua

Ogee ee

MUELLER brothers. Currently in Miami and has collected thousands
of collars from Cubans with tha promise to got their families out of oN
priocn - connected with tha Cosmictec of 100; haa not gotten anyone
roloased,

ima BNSTVIO (fmu) - way now be in U.S. Waa connected with

a pepe ek . :
casa of Francisco BD L A NC 0 de loo Cuetos, Arengivio was a stool pigessy

 

in Cuba in the casa of Blanco and, for chat gained his freedca. )
fae ; : . a pa “ Co
“Lather DORGAS- formerly married co’Emnredt BUSTO Monzoa who

died 4m Venezuela after he was released fren Ciban jail abeut 3 yaara ago.

 

Sa do RED and anxicus to come to U.S. WATCH. , aagen “0

| t At) TS LX BEY / SERREL 2/— —933 54%
 

so eet tri

«spree rrsnnaceine Satan ai conoenrpat ition etiaacsssatime nee ‘
“Dyissotope APA WA S - In 1959 woo studying engineering in the U.8?

 

Whea Pidol Castro took over Cuba he returned to Cuba. He verved 6 years
in prison in Cuba, wag a stool pigoon in prison. Io currently ia tho U.S.
oe Fe APOTE (fu) « Waa Le. Dr. in Pidel Castro's Aruy and worked
in tho Milicary Hospital in Havana. Was arrested in Decenbor 1964 along
with 5 or 6 male nurses. Was doctor to mother of Sergio Del VALLE, current
Minister of the Interior. Was released from prison after about 7 years. .

Was bad to prisonars. Del VALLE roleased him and got hia into the U.S.

 

 

 

quickly. Rizors in Cuba are that he died in U.S. of caneer. said

 

that 4a not trua; Copote 10 etill in U.S. but he docon'’c iaow Wore, |

cape OYOTE = waa adjutant to “~Cemilo cLEWP vireo S before

Latter was killed. COYOTE did not finish prison sentence in Cuba. Was
steel pigeon end pica in Guanabacoa. Was and is taking DRUGS. worked da
night clus in Naw Jersey, alao as dicmond cutter, Writes to prisoner
Luis SANTA WA bad mouthing the U.S. Says he fe going to Puorto Rico.
Za currently working on TV.

“Su0n Polipe ‘de ‘ee RUZ» of 4440 Pala Av. of Hialeah, Pla.

'€here io a tot of talk about bia in Miami, Reeently dicd in France when
dynamite exploded in motel room, Was cembor of tho Directorio - or che
Students group, which is group of ‘Aiborgo MUELLER, Nultresse Q

" ‘Rebortol'b a‘wae « Currently ia Cuba bue lo trying co get into tha

U.8. Was seatenced to 30 yaara iupriaonmont in Cuda but served about 10
years, Ys currently hoad o€ the Clinte in Mayianao; waaro a piocel; .
ium walleknowa as a homosexual in pyioon. Divorced - wife ond daughtor

are in the U.S.

DIEZ (fnu) - Current residence unknown. In 1966 wao a member of

 

Ge2 im Cuba and did great harm to people. In 1966. loft Cuba with wife
and children froa tho Nautico Club in Havana. Later showed pictures of |
Iiasolf aboard "Oxford" in unifora., after that the Castro Governsent Lot
his oleter, nasa uninowa, coma to the U.S. Slater dioiites hia intensely.

I! JAZ S6VE >
Writes ff 8 SP IN « wige of Rowl CASTRO has a ccusia aad a God-Pather
