74-0000

Vey

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)

9. I have read and understand the contents of this agreement and voluntarily affix my signa-
ture hereto with the full knowledge that it was executed for the mutual benefit of myself
and the United States Government. I have read section 1001 of Title 18, United States Code
and am aware that the making of a false statement herein or otherwise may be punished as
a felony. With this understanding, I state that the information I have given is, to the best
of my knowledge and belief, correct and complete, and agree that it may be used by the
Government in carrying out its duty to protect the security of information that affects the
national defense of the United States.

10. I understand that this agreement will be retained in the files of the Central Intelligence
Agency for its future use or for reference by me at any time in the future that I may be

requested or ordered to testify or disclose any of the matters included within the scope of
this agreement.

Signature - Date

WITNESS:

 

 

 

Signature - Date

ot ae

CONFIDENTIAL
 

[og 40128-10055

. so ‘CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)

TERMINATION OF SECRECY AGREEMENT

LL David A. Phillips , am about to terminate my association with
the Central Intelligence Agency. I realize that, by virtue of my duties with that agency, I have
been the recipient of information and intelligence that concern the present and future se-
curity of the United States of America.

2. I have read and understand the provisions of the espionage laws (sections 793, 794, and
798 of Title 18, United States Code) and I am aware that unauthorized disclosure of classi-
fied information relating to the national defense may subject me to prosecution for violation of
those laws. Further, I am aware that the National Security Act of 1947 specifically requires the
protection of intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure.

3. I will never divulge, publish, or reveal by writing, word, conduct, or otherwise any clas-
sified information, or any information concerning intelligence or CIA that has not been made
public by CIA, to any unauthorized person including, but not limited to, any future govern-
mental or private employer or official without the express written consent of the Director of
Central Intelligence or his representative. :

weds

4. I do not now have in my possession, custody, or control, nor am I retaining or taking away
from CIA, any classified or unclassified documents or materials that are the property of CIA,
or the custodial responsibility of CIA, having come into my possession as a result of my duties
with CIA or otherwise.

5. I have been invited to submit in writing any monetary claims that I may have against CIA
or the United States Government that may in any way necessitate the disclosure of infor-
mation described herein. I have been advised that any such claims will receive full legal
consideration. In the event, however, that I am not satisfied with the decisions of CIA con-
cerning any present or future claims I may submit, I will not take any action to obtain
satisfaction without prior written notice to CIA, and then only in accordance with such se-
curity advice as CIA will furnish me.

6. During my exit processing and during my period of employment with the Central Intelli-
gence Agency, I have been given an opportunity to report all information about the Agency,
its personnel, and its operation that I consider should receive official cognizance. Therefore,
I am not aware of any information that it is my duty, in the national interest or otherwise, to
disclose to the Central Intelligence Agency, nor am I aware of any violations or breaches of
security that I have not officially reported, except as set forth on attachments to this sheet.

7. I will report without delay to the appropriate CIA officials, or the Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation, any incident wherein an attempt is made by any unauthorized person to solicit
classified information from me.

8. I have been advised that in the event I am called upon by the properly constituted
authorities to testify or provide information that I am pledged hereby not to disclose, I will
notify CIA immediately; I will also advise said authorities of my secrecy commitments to the
United States Government, and I will request. that my obligation to testify be established
before I am required to do so. RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only
OAM 305 OPOUSEERE"OVS CONFIDENTIAL —-(gfEZp] DO Not Reproduce
