(OOM) ;

_— . : UNCLASSIFIED

 

27 June 1994

MEMORANDUM FOR: Ce
a DA

FROM: Cb

SUBJECT: JFK Database Extract for NARA
REFERENCE:

fin June 15, we met with Mike Getsey and Gill Grover of NARA to discuss improvements te the JFK database extract . The following

issues were discussed and will require action.
f

ot HE will need to tall with Steva Tiley (Q1BH 13-662{tencerning the NARA requirement that testricted fields be released to them. — pel ice a
4GE

 

This could result in a madification te the application. eM Re?

Qe 2. HRG should alse discuss with Steve Tilley the new exemptiqn eudes and determine what effect they will have on the collection. This yi .
“ <, . 17 7 _sevtcscnt ect ceEREEREEE TO
could result in a modification te the application. Pr 6 Le ‘

A RG should print [B aids on white paper.
wot . . CRT Lee ;
» A NARA would like us te provide ar feast one keywordisubject} per document and any number of keywords per dacument, NARA will be )

cy . expanding their keyword field to 250 characters. Bath of these items require a modification to the application. {7 eed MD cs

  

 

ons NARA has preliminary plans to expand the title field from 60 characters to 80 characters; they do not want the field truncated. ( 2 sO ? )
However, the tite will still he truncated unless HAG modifies their data te 80 character. This will require a modification te the . ;
application. ; ; ~
_ cree (Lud ob been NARA fy
Qet SS a NARA wants the date time use? stampremaved from the iD aft This will require a modification te the application, 77 CG CWA AAA,

Awe Oy 7. NARA would like the Opening Criteria to say a true criterta gs opposed to the current canned statement, This will require a
he ”  medification to the application and data populates by HAG. ‘oh O i €
° een
|ARA would like the box aumber and folder information prefixed to the comments field. This will require a modification ta the
application. ,

NARA will be faxing their new formats and examples ta us this week. | will contact you te schedule a meeting to review the akeve
issues. Thank you and | can be reached an 364 17/8).

 

poo & Sheet

UNCLASSIFIED
