 

 

 

‘0d (026740421

 

 

  

le A neeting was held with(D-9yfroa 2000 te 7135 hours in Bla car

(parked dn Tacuba) on 26 Gctoder,
26 L-Dyreported as follows:

ie ) » A few days earlier Coty*SOLcRTANO, sister-in-lhw of General
"oe . Lazaro CA WENAS, told(L-% with a groan of disgust that it looks
| b.
t

The Ambassador is 9t111 using the wall safe built into _the chimay
ef his office (we have photos of this in our files). (L-9 thinks
that the Embassy payrdll is kept there es the other day when he
walked into the Ambassador's office he saw the Ambassador shut the
safe dor -- Dra, MACHADO was there, having just returned frou the
benk where she withdrew the payroll, Dra,X4iCiA00 handles the
payroll for the whole Enbassy. Mae Gor \pipéos

bi like DIAZ Ordes has been chosen as tha PHI presidential candidate,
va

ed

Exirtio Leprz. . :
“Ce Sareunfis Veaving PCS for Havana on .k Novenbder. ;

s See abet 1 meet

te. OS. iyel- nm LES- .
. ar iEGAs is ideaving quite sean, No replacement for hin has. arrived.

om]
Ad

£0n
apr eee is locking more and more like a "security type.” lie is a
ey ran ("lleva la batuta alli") and appears to be a convinced

NS had
yasiioF Comuiist, in the old days, before CASTRO, MIRADAL worked for

    

 

 

 

" Mamtt.
y. f£.° Dra, MACHIDO recently told(Lag)that 34 was discourteous to her
-o when she first arrived here but that he has softened up a bit re~

\ . cently and now seems to "accept" her, She thinks this may be
because she lest two sons in the Revolution (no detaila piven).
She complained that LIAGOSTERA stisl docantt accept her but JORRTN
seems to be canting aroun. (Thia may be the usual resentment caused
by a female in a respmosible executive position).

Exbassy staff meetings ars held evary Saturday morning from 0900 on
w~ usually lasting about two hours. They used to be held in the
“theater” out back uider the new construction bet are now being held
in the glassed-in terrace at the rear of the main building,
Feuk, MeGuce
he Three Marxist stuly grows are\be
: include averyone on the staff, Tikoa, Mugwn ag RCA to the
staffers, {s rasrod:iing this_effo: Thess groups aheuld be
organized within a week, (L=Pidreads the thowht of suitiing to

this indoctrination but realizes he must go along with it),

&

t up in the Enbassy to

  

 

 
