3. During review of CAIN's Security file, I noted a message
regarding him from Mexico City, on 25 April 1962 which mentioned
& “Willard ANDREWS, reputable American businessman in Mexico,"
whe obviously had had contact of eome kind with CAIN, as well as with
a CIA representative in Mexico to whom ANDREWS had eommented that
CAIN claims to have been with OSS during W. W. If (Acopy of this memo-
randum is attached). In answer to this message which requested traces
ou CAIN, Headquarters, in furnishing imited information obtained regard-
ing him, advised that neither his claimed employment by OSS, nor a claim
he made to have worked with Task Force W, could be substantiated. The
Station was advised thet he did have (or had had) a legitimate detective
laboratory in Chicago.

4. With reference to Willard ANDREWS, Security indices contain
mo record. I believe the individual referred to is Wyllys ANDREWS,
(Edward) Wylys ANDREWS IW, #2769, a former OSS/GIA employee who
has lived in Mexico for many years and has continued to have social con-
tacts with representatives of this Agency in Mexico as well as with Agency
employees from Headquarters who visit him from time to time. ANDREWS,
like CAIN, was born in Chicago of parents who also were born in the general
area ef Chicago.

5. The firdtime CAIN came to the attention of the Security Office
was when the Mexico Station requested traces on him. Their request
stermmed from an unannounced visit he made to the Station, during which
he stated that he had an investigative agency in Mexico with branches in

Chicago and Los Angeles. He had also stated that his agency in Mexico.

was for the purpose of training Mexican Government agents in police
methods, in investigative techniques, and in the use of the He detector}
and hed added that he was investigating Communism in a certain unnamed
Central American country.

6. In June 1962, the Mexico Station advised that CAIN was being

- deported by the Mexican Ministry (of) Gobernacion for these violations:

a. Carrying a loaded revolver and brass knuckles

b. Impersonating a Mexican Government official
(He had identification as an investigator for the
Mexican Treasury Office. }

c. Violating his tourist permit by working at bis
detective office and at the Mexican Treasury

2

SECRET

 
 

wae SECRET

Chief, SRS
Thra : DC/SRS and C/FIOB/SRS . 9 October 1967

M. D. Stevens

CAIN, Richard S.
$272 141

1. Reference is made to the attached § Jans 1967 DCS me,
randum on Subject, which in turn made reference to previous Des
memoranda on him on 24 and 25 May 1967 and to an Office of Security
memorandum dated 29 May 1967. The 5 June 1967 memorandum
enclosed copies of several 1963/1964 documents frem the Chicago
Field Office’s file on CAIN, which ADC/PSD forwarded to SRS with
the comment that "It appsare DCS is cleaning out their files re Lee
Harvey OSWALD, et al." ; :

 

2. Subject, it is obvious, had been a source of information |
regarding an alleged discussion of the assassination of President
Kennedy at a secret meeting of the Fair Play for -Guba Committee
held in Chicago in February 1963 under the direction of Richard
. CRILEY (#346 116). He also was the source of infermation regarding
i the alleged attempted recruitment into the Cormunist Party of young
: - ~-C@tbame im the Chicago area by one Guillermo ESCOBAR, who accord-___
i ing to the Chicago office was "one of (SAS) leads
obtained Ralph PEREZ." (Presumably Ralph PEREZ, #444260)
| SPEED is #499499. The documents also indicated
: : _ thet in Febraary as the subject of a conversation initiated’. ,
| by Eldon & COHEN, #38557 ofc, with a representative of the DCS a
Chicago office who believed hie purpose was to learn whéthev or not
i ; CAIN was in fact em 2 two-month's sick leave from the COOK Gounty
, Sheriff's office, as he was said to be, or was on 8 calunder’ 2
cQqver assignment which CHHEN inferred involved tapping the tele
D (mayhongs of gubernatorial candidate Charles H. PERCY and other
oT . tiga) figures. ;

 

   
  
 

SECRET

7. Subject was subsequently of interest to the DCS in September
1963 when an ed hoc clearance wags requested to permit his being asked
to respond to general requirements regarding his knowledge of certain
Guban refugees and their potential for foreign positive intelligence. On
10 September 1963, the DCS wes sent a memorandum which furnished
much of the above information on CAIN.

8. On 22 May 1967, the Director of Security indicated that he
had received information from the FBI which ties Subject to the Mafia
in Chicago; and he directed that the DCS be contacted for information
as to whether or not they ever established contact with him and, if so,
for what purpose. The DCS wae also to be advised that, if they were
in contact with him, it was suggested that they break it off. On 25
May 1967, the DCS advised that there had been no contact with CAIN
since 1963, and furnished copies of eight reports for which Subject had
been the source of information. These had te do with antieCastro Cuban
activities, procurement of arme, etc.

9. On 29 May 1967, Sceurity advieed the DCS that there is a
current FBI iavestigative interest in Subject and recommended that
there be no further contact with him at this time.

' 10. The 1 September 1967 copy of Life magazine contains an
article titled "Brazen Empire of Organized Crime," in which it is
stated thet Sam GIANCANA, Head of the Chicago Cosa Nostra, is " still
running things by remote control from a hide-out in Mexico. . . where

_he poses as Riccardo SCALZETTI. The real SCALZETTI, GIANCANA's
‘erst while chauffeur and courier, is more familiar to Chicagoans as

Richard CAIN, a well known former Chicago policeman and more recently
@ private investigator."

li. Eldon S. COHEN who is mentioned fm paragraph 2 of this
memorandum as having evidenced an interest in CAIN during the guber-
natorial campaign of the now Senator (from NHnois) Charlies H. PERCY,
#178329 and #EE~-21773, is now PERCY's Executive Assistant. COHEN,
who hecame employed by PERCY in January 1964, following his resigna-
tion from CIA which was effective 31 December 1963, at the time he con-
tacted a representative of the Chicago Office of DCS regarding CAIN on
10 February 1964, did not indicate that he was employed by PERCY. He
said, rather, that he'd been adked by the “PERCY for Governor" people
to inquire ae to CAIN's status.

SECRET
Mo ke WIE hee §

mony” a ; . . ( an | ae

a 0 . CO . : yt

, 7)
12. During the thme COHEN waé a CIA employee (1949-1963), he

 

\

. _/ It was then.
decided to put him on a job in FBI3 in which he would not be exposed to
highly sensitive material. At the time of his resignation, he was an

I. O. Contact, GS-14, in the Chicago Office of the DDI/O¥ Contact
Division, . ,

 

13. In January 1965, the DCS requested approval to contact .
COHEN on an ad hee basis to participate in the briefing and debriefing
of his employer, Senator PERCY, who planned an extensive tour of the
Far East. In June 1967, Mr. George CARY, Laogislative Counsel, .
‘requested a check on COHEN stating that there may be occasion to brief
him from tims to time. According to Mr. CARY, COHEN would be
briefed generally on the build up In Cuba but would not be expoac:d ta
cperational information or exotic material. ——

15, There is attached a copy of the above referred to September
articies in Life magazine, in one of which GAIN is described aa tha erst-
while chauffeur and courler of Sam GIANCANA. The second of these
articles makes reference to alleged friendly contacts of Jim GARRISON,
of the OSWALD Case, with henchmen of the Cosa Nostra in the Leuistana
area,

M. D. Stevens
attachments: articles
\ MDS/cer

4
\ civic! BG

 
