13-00000

 

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT * (A) (B) - RECIPIENT(S) -

 

"3. This office has no information on BEYMER.

"4. DURAN is the Mexican employee of the Cuban Embassy with whom Lee -H.
OSWALD was in touch regarding a visa for Cuba..

"Ss, This information is for your use only and may not be disseminated : - oo _

without permission from this Agency.” ; ; ; .
9 December 1963 DIR 87796 Subject: None given. — FBI; State, White
; ; ; House, Secret Servic
"1. The American Embassy in Stockholm, Swededi, has received a letter ; fWarren Commission]

4 mailed 25 November 1963 in Stockholm alleging . that the assassination of
4 President Kennedy was arranged by the Red Chinese. The letter purports
i to be from one Ryo Liang Yuan of the Red Chinese Embassy in Stockholm,
' but no such official is assigned there and there is. no record of Chinese
i official by this name anywhere abroad. : ; ; ..

"2. The letter is written in. broken English and stated that the Chinese
communists got in contact with OSWALD when he was in the Soviet Union.
’ When OSWALD returned to the U.S.A., the Red Chinese re-contacted him,
threatened to expose him if he did not cooperate. The Red Chinese ex-
pected that the U.S. would attack Cuba when it learned that the assassin
: : was a Cuban sympathizer. The Soviets would then attack the U.S.A., the
| : Red Chinese. would ask the Soviets for atomic weapons, the Communist Bloc
would win the war, the Chinese Reds would*then: assassinate _KHRUSHCHEV and oe , aa €

take over control.

 

ng, ‘The writer said-he worked for the ‘Department of ‘State Secret’, but
no department by this name is known in the Chinese Communist | ‘Government.
Our Station in Stockholm judges this to bé a crank. letter. The original
letter is being sent here for analysis." . : :

11 December 1963 -TDCSDB- 3/658, 408 Subject: ‘Comments of Soviet Official regarding : Full dissemination
: oscow Views on International Situation fol- r 2,
lowing Death of President Kennedy; 2.: -Resump- oo
tion of Disarmament. Talks.

"The Soviet official was recently on a trip home and returned from Moscow

ge:

 
13-00000

   

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT . (A) sD - RECIPIENT(S) -

 

i : to Geneva about the end of November. When source, who has previously dis- ; .
i cussed political topics with him, askéd about the. reaction in Moscow to’

; the death of President Kennedy the Soviet official immediately launched

into lengthy commentary. It may be that subsource's ready responses and

apparent spontaneity resulted from a repition of widely held views. How- o .

ever, considering his position it seems more likely that his comments were --
intended for western consumption." . . . -

 

i . 7 = a, ae .
|. 12 December 1963 CSCI-3/779,048 Subject: WILSON, Carlos John with aliases. _ FBI €

Compilation of information ‘from Agency files regarding Carlos John WILSON
also known: as John WILSON-HUDSON and John Hudson WILSON. -

 

12 December 1963 DIR 88643. Subject: Assassination of President Kennedy FBI, State, White

Allegedly Part of Plot against all Democratic House - [Warren Com-
Presidents. mission] ;

 

"1, An undated letter, sent to U.S. smbassador Raymon TELLES, U.S. Em-

bassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, refers to the assassination of President

Kennedy as part of a general pian to exterminate all the presidents of

: the democratic world. The writer of the letter, ‘Rodrigo C.", identifies

, : himself as a Costa Rican of Marxist-Leninist ideals, whose assignment is.

the assassination of President ORLICH of Costa Rica and Foreign Minister

ODUBER of Costa Rica. The anvelope in which the letter arrived is post- .

marked 28 November 1963, from Heredia, Costa Rica. ‘The letter is believed : €
to be the work of a crank. " Jo . . ,

 

16 December 1963

[CSCI-3/779,135 Subject: Peter -DERYABIN's. Comments. on ‘the: -: o . FBI

ennedy Assassination.

{
: "1, Attached for your perusal- are the written: comments of KGB defector
: Peter DERYABIN on some aspects of the assassination.:of President John. F. --
| Kennedy. As you know, DERYABIN defected from ‘the. KGB about ten years, ago,{ . .
and his personal knowledge is not up to date, but he: has stayed in touch :
with Soviet intelligence developments to the best of his ability. His
comments on how Lee OSWALD and his wife must have been handled by Soviet
ae intelligence authorities while they were inside the Soviet Union are par-

2 10 -
 

 

 

3 i e

 

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

'§ December 1963 DIR 87189 Subject: None given..

"1. We have learned that on 3 December 1963, a known Soviet intelligence
officer in New Delhi, India, working through Indian communists, attempted
to have a number of telegrams sent to President JOHNSON, Chief Justéce |

WARREN, and Attorney General KENNEDY from Indian youth, , legal, and other

groups, demanding a full probe into the assassination. of President John F.

Kennedy. Apparently the Soviet officer undertook to pay for all the tele-

grams; he said the whole scheme was based on ‘orders from Moscow'-

"2. . Note: To| check on this story and to detect similar activity from
other areas, this Agency would appreciate receiving data on any such tele-
grams which have been received. "

6 December 1963 DIR 87520 Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD.

"Reference is made to our OUT Telegram no. 86702 of 4 December 1963 which
gave information on the travel of Marina OSWALD (and presumably also Lee
Harvey OSWALD and their daughter) across West Germany on their return

from the Soviet Union. Information now available from Dutch authorities
seems to confirm this. On 3 June 1962 one M. OSVALD, listed as a male
Russian citizen entered the Netherlands by train at the Oldenzaal border
point. “Comment: It is believed that the lksting of this person as a male
instead of female was just. an error of the border officials. Note that
Olidenzaal is opposite Bentheim, the German border point where Marina
OSWALD @eft Germany." . .

9 December 1963 : DIR 87731 Subject: Richard BEYMER, American. Movie Actor,

n Touch with Cuban Embassy, Mexico City.

"]. The Mexico City News of 5 December 1963 carried a ‘picture of Richard
BEYMER, American movie actor, who was a delegate to the Film Festival be*:
ing held in Acapulco. .

 

"2, BEYMER was in touch with the Cuban Embassy in Mexico ‘City on 2 Decem-
ber, and a person believed to be BEYMER was in.touch with the Embassy on
30 November. He wanted to speak to Silvia DURAN, who was not at the. Em-
bassy. Another employee told him that no reply had been received from-
Cuba. a

. a

 

- RECIPIENT(S)

“EBI, State, White

House

FBI, State, White
House, Secret Service
[Warren Commission]

FBI
- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - as . (A) (B) : - RECIPIENT(S)

 

“4, Our information indicates that BURLEY had contact with [foreign]
persons whose activities seem to have been questionable. ... .
tenes "6, The above information is provided as a result of a preliminary check ©
. of our. records. The records of this office contain no additional informa-
tion which at this time can be identified as pertaining to the persons who :
might be identical with the men who placed the. newspaper ad, or to. ‘persons ; : OT
who might have been in contact with them.". -

 

3 December 1963 DIR 86496 Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD. oo ne sO FBI |

"On the question of why Lee OSWALD felt that he could ‘not get his Mexican
visa extended without using his real name, the following may be germane:
Mexican immigration records checked by the U.S. Consulate in Nuevo Laredo
and reported through the U.S. Embassy to both out office and yours, showed
that Lee OSWALD entered Mexico on 26 September 1963 using the name HARVEY :
a OSWALD LEE. It may be that OSWALD feared that any attempt to extend his oo
aegis visa would result in discovery that he was in the country under a false
: name; he might have had to show some identification to get the visa exten-
ded, and he probably had no documentation in the name of. HARVEY OSWALD
LEE."

 

 

2:

4 December 1963 DIR 86702 Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD. ; tS : , _ FBI, State, White

eaanes . ; SC 7 : . ; . House, Secret Service
— "Records of the Foreigners Records Office of the German Federal Republic. -| . : . {Warren Commission] €

in Cologne, Germany, show that Marina Nikolayevna PUSAKOVA OSWALD crossed |~ - : . : oy
es . West. Germany from East Germany to Holland on 3:June 1962. She traveled .

by rail. crossing into West Germany at Helmstedt on 3-June and entering |
Holland by rail at the Bentheim crossing ‘point. She had West German visa
694/62 issued at the West German Embassy in Moscow. She listéd.her final
destination as U.S.A. Comment: This confirms information from the U.S.°
Embassy in Moscow to the effect that the OSWALD family traveled ‘from Mes-
cow to Rotterdam by rail around 3 June 1962. Helmstedt and Bentheim are
on the main rail route from Russia to Rotterdam. While Lee OSWALD himself
and their infant daughter are not recorded in German records this probably =
because little attention is paid to U.S. citizens and to infants in keep-

‘ing travel records."

 

 

-7-
- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - So tay

(B) "+ RECIPIENT(S)

 

 

 

 

"2, According to our representative in Mexico City, PONOMAREV and POPKOV
left Mexico City for Cuba on 12 November via Cubana 465 and returned to
Mexico City on 18 November via Cubana.

"3, A-usually reliable and sensitive source reported that they probably
left Mexico City for New York on 23 November via Aeronaves Fit 451. The
same source reported that one 'ANANYEV' (phonetic) of the Soviet Consulate
in New York contacted the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City on. 23 November and
requested information on which flight the couriers were taking. Assistant
Consul Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV provided the information on behalf
of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico.City."”

29 November 1963 DIR 85691 Subject: None given. ; ;  *

"1. Your attention is called to a series of anonymous telephone calls
made to the Office of the U.S. Naval Attache in Canberra, Australia, by
a mand claiming to have had know%edge about a Soviet plot to assassinate
the late President Kennedy. Our first record of this matter is a Naval
Attache cable from Canberra sent on 24 November 1963. :

"8, Australian authorities working on this case consider the called to be
a crank, They state that Soviet offices in Australia do not use anything
but Soviet chauffeurs; they have no record of their using a Polish chau-
ffeur. They are continuing their investigation." " .

29 November 1963 DIR~85715 Subject: Travel of Lee Harvey OSWALD. ; 7 i *

Information gathered “from ‘various foreign sources regarding the travel
of Lee Harvey OSWALD and his wife in 1959 and 1962.

 

29 November 1963 DIR 85770 Subject: None given. . &

"2. On 4 November 1963, a U.S. Army. Pfc Eugene B. DINKIN, serial. number
RA 76710292, about 24 years old, went absent without leave from his. unit,
Headquarters Company, U.S. Army General Depot, Metz, France. He was’
scheduled for a psychiatric examination that same day. He apparently
entered Switzerland using a false Army identification card with forged
travel orders. .

- 5 -

Navy FBI, State, White
House» Secret Service

FBI, State, White €
House, Secret: Service

Army FBI, State, White
House, Secret Service
[Warren Commission]
13-00000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - © is (A) (B). | - RECIPLENT(S) -

 

"3. On 6 and 7 November 1963 he appeared: in the Press Room of United : : . -
Nations Office in.Geneva and told reporters he was being persecuted. He

also wished to alert the world to the U. S. Government ‘propaganda cam-

paign'. Army reports show that he voluntarily returned to his unit in

Metz on or about 11 November 1963. ; .

"4, Around 26 November 1963, after President Kennedy had been’ assassina-
ted, a Geneva journalist named Alex des FONTAINES, stringer for Time-Life
and correspondent for Radio Canada, was reported to be filing a story to
the Paris office of Time-Life recounting Private. DINKIN's visit to Geneva
and quoting DINKIN as having said that ‘they' were plotting against Presi-
dent Kennedy and that 'something' would happen in Texas. Des FONTAINES
had been prompted to do this by an unidentified female reporter who had
recalled such statements by DINKIN; des FONTAINES thought he recalled he
had heard DINKIN say something like that also, and although he did not
really believe that DINKIN had grounds for his statements when he made
them, he filed the story just to be sure. _.

 

 

"S. <All aspects of this story were known, as reported ‘above, by U.S.
military authorities and have been reported by military attache cable
through military channels."

 

30 November 1963 ~= CSCI-3/778,894 Subject: Lee H. OSWALD. . * FBI

"1. Attached is an article which appeared on page 2 of the 29 November
1963 issue of the Washington Daily News. The artécle contains. informa-

on which implies” that two persons might have been involved in the as-
shssination of President Kennedy. ... . .

ooo
ad

"2. The Washington Daily News article also states that the full-page
ad [placed in The Dallas Morning News on 22 November] which presumably
cost $1250.00 was placed by [Bernard] WEISSMAN, that he paid cash for
the ad, and that WEISSMAN resided in Dallas at a small apartment house.
The article indicates . .. that he roomed with one William BURLEY, .. .

_ "3, The records of this office contain information about one. Bill BURLEY,
a U.S. Air Force Tech Sergeant, stationed in Libia in 1958 who may have
been involved in nafarious activities. You are referred to the Office of
Special Investigations, USAF, for possible additional information.

 

a
13-00000

 

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - ae a a) (BY - RECIPIENT(S) -

27 November 1963 CSCI-3/778,881 Subject: Lee H. OSWALD/Soviet Activities in a FBI
' Mexico City, 18 - 24 November 1963. ; co.

"1, Forwarded. as Attachment A is a resume of the observed activities of
Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV and Ivan Gavrilovich ALFERIEV as reported | oe ~
by a reliable source in Mexico City. Attention was given to KOSTIKOV. ee . :
because of the indication that he is the consul who interviewed OSWALD

on 28 September 1963... . ALFERIEV travelled with KOSTIKOV to nor-

thern Mexico during the early part of September 1963. Source reported

that. during thd period under review the observed activities of KOSTIKOV

and ALFERIEV appeared to be normal, as did the activities of the entire |

Soviet Embassy complement.

 

"2. -Forwarded as Attachment B is a resume of telephone calls placed to
and from the Soviet Embassy on the afternoon of 22 November. Analysis of .
calls made the morning of 22 November and the morning and afternoon of 23 . --

ae : November revealed no pertinent information."
27 November 1963 DIR 85182 Subject: ‘Lee H. OSWALD. . : , * ; FBI, State, White
House, Secret Service
"2. on .23 November 1963, Richard Thomas GIBSON, who was acquainted with [Warren Commission]
Lee Harvey OSWALD, made the following statements to a close friend in
Bern, Switzerland:
a “OSWALD is ‘one of us'. Two years ago OSWALD. and GIBSON corresponded a €

. and OSWALD became a member of the Committee (presumably the Fair
\. Play for Cuba Committee). OSWALD is crazy: GIBSON burned all of his
. correspondence with OSWALD. GIBSON is glad that he (GIBSON) is not.
in New York now and he feels sorry for 'Lee' who is in New York and
'Tibor' ; :

 

"3. According to other information available to our representative in
: Bern, Richard Thomas GIBSON, born 13 May 1932 in Los Angeles, Ealifornia,
oo has resided in Lausanne, Switzerland, since April 1963. He is a negro
: . journalist and has been active in the Fair Play for Cuba Committee since
its organization in 1960.. In Switzerland he has. been’ involved in the
Publication La Revolution “Africaine. "

 

-2-

 
 

 

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - - acy (B) ~ RECIPIENT(S) -

 

26 November 1963 DIR 85069 Subject: Travel of Pro-Communist Costa Rican | FBI

Congressman to Texas on 26 November 1963.

"A usually reliable source reported on 26 November 1963, that Julio SUNOL
Leal, pro-communist, pro-Castro deputy to the Costa Rican National Assem-
bly, * planned to leave San Jose, Costa Rica,. for Poland 24 November to at-
tend the World Peace Conference in Warsaw, Poland. SUNOL delayed his de-
parture and now plans to leave San Jose 26 November.

 

“"Representativds of this Agency in Costa Rica suspect that SUNOL will try : ¢
to gather data in. Texas to use in pro-communist/Castro propaganda in con- ,
nection with the assassination of President Kennedy.

 

26 November 1963 DIR 85176 Subject: Marina Nikolaeva OSWALD. . FBI, State, White
; House; Secret Service
sate "The following information on Marina Nikolaeva OSWALD, wife of Lee Harvey
Pane OSWALD, was volunteered by Moroccan student Mohammed REGGAB: born on 3
January 1938 in Safi, Morocco. REGGAB is now living at Nuernbergerstr.
19, West Berlin. REGGAB was a student at the Moscow Institute of Cine-.
matography from September 1960 to April 1962. He came to Berlin in April
1963 as.a student and on 26 November colunteered the following informa-
tion on Mrs. OSWALD, who had been one of his girl friends in Mescow. He
identified her on the basis of a photo and the first name, Marina, which

 

seseee * appeared in the 25 November 1963 issue of Berliner Zeitung. ......- €
. "REGGAB makes a favorable impression and-is available for further ques- ; <
t oning. " . . , : oe
26 November 1963 DIR 85177 subject: Telecon between Cuban President FBI, State, White
S and Joaquin HERNANDEZ Armas. . House, Secret Service

"Following is account of telephone conversation between Cuban President
Osvaldo DORTICOS in Havana and Joaquin HERNANDEZ Armas, Cuban Ambassador
to Mexico in Mexico City at 0940 hours Mexico City Time on 26 November
1963 as reported from sensitive source.'' (See Chronological Summary on
Silvia Tirado de DURAN.) © ;

 
13-00 00000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(B)

RECIPIENT(S)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

26 November 1963 DIR 85246 Subject: Lee H. OSWALD.

"On 26 November, Dr. Jose Guillermo AGUIRRE of Mexico told the following
information to Peter MORAGA, United States Information Service officer in
Mexico. City:

"Maria Rodriguez de LOPEZ, said a son-in-law of hers, Arnesto
RODRIGUEZ, who lives in New Orleans was well acquainted with Lee OSWALD.
Son-in- law is a Cuban who lives at 212 Jefferson Parrish, New Orleans,
tel: Vernon 5-9658. Arnesto RODRIGUEZ runs a Spanish language ' school
and is anti-Castro. According to Maria Rodriqguez de LOPEZ her son-in-
law has a taped conversation with OSWALD."

27 November 1963 Blind Memorandum Subject: Yuriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV.

"After examining all our traces on KOSTIKOV, we are convinced beyond
reasonable doubt that he is a staff officer of the. KGB. Contributing
to this conclusion are his associates, his movements, his Mexican and
other contacts and his cover position, as well as his involvement in
the TUMBLEWEED operation.

"KOSTIKOV's involvement in TUMBLEWEED is: our only reason to believe that
he is connected with the 13th Department. KOSTIKOV was in clandestine
contact with TUMBLEWEED (as definitely. confirmed by TUMBLEWEED's. photo
identification) and arranged TUMBLEWEED 's contact in, the U.S. with a KGB
cétleague of KOSTIMOV's."

28 November 1963 DIR 85657 | Subject: None given.

"On 26 November 1963 a British journalist named John WILSON, and also.
Known as John WILSON-HUDSON, gave information to the American Embassy
in London which indicated that an ‘American gangster- type named RUGY' |
visited Cuba around 1959. WILSON himself was working in Cuba at the.
time and was jailed by Castro before he was deported.

"In prison in Cuba, WILSON says he met ancAterican gangster gambler
named SANTOS who could not return to the USA because there were several
' indictments outstanding against him. Instead he preferred to live in

-3-

USIS

USEMB -

London

FBI, State, White

House, Secret Service

FBI

FBI,

House

State, White

&”r
- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - — - (A) (B} - RECIPIENT(S)

relative luxury in a Cuban prison. While SANTOS was in prison, WILSON
says, SANTOS was visited frequently by an American gangster-type named
RUBY. His story is being followed up. WILSON says he had onee testi-
eee! fied about Castro activities before the Eastland Committee of the U.S.
i Senate, sometime in 1959 or 1960."

 

28 November 1963. DIR 85665 Subject: None given. : ke. FBI ; , State, White

. ; : House, Secret Service
"Our Station in The Hague has reported that on 23 November 1963, a local - (Warren Commission] g
Castroite named Maria SNETHLAGE talked to Third Secretary Ricardo SANTOS. €

of the Cuban Embassy in The Hague and said that she knew the 'Mr. LEE'

[sic] who murdered President Kennedy. She:characterized 'LEE' as a man

full of hate and violence, and speculated that he had been ‘misused by a

group’. She said she had written to GIBSON (undoubtedly Richard GIBSON,

U.S. citizen of Lausanne, Switzerland, born 13 May 1935, a Castro sympa-

thizer, who had visited the Netherlands recentky and was in contact both
deeind! with the Soviet Ambassador and the Cuban Embassy).

“Later on 23 November, Maria SNETHLAGE talked again to Third Secretary
SANTOS and said that ‘Mr. LEE of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee’ had
been slandered. It was another person, ‘named Lee OSWALD', who had done
it. SNE THLAGE is reported to have been in Cuba in January and again in
May 196

"Dutch authorities have informed us that on 7 November, in talking about : ; :

attacks by Cuban refugees against the Cuban mainland, SANTOS had replied €
‘just wait and you will see what we can do.. It will happen soon'. Asked :

tbh be more precise, SANTOS had replied ‘just wait. just wait'. SANTOS is

reported to have a pro-Castro brother in the U.S.A.

 

"A very sensitive source ‘reports that after: his conversations with SNETH-
LAGE, SANSOS was furious because she had not contacted him."

28 November 1963 DIR 85676 Subject: Travel of Soviet Diplomatic Couriers. | FBI FBI

 

Safes "1, Reference is made to your teletype of 8 November 1963 concerning the
\ : travel to Mexico of Soviet diplomatic couriers Valentin Germanovich
PONOMAREV and Aleksey. Nikolayevich’ POPKOV. —

'
>
1
