74-00000

 

 

ft eeepc

He added that he also’

Commianiot® groups in La
hie last visit to’

   
   
 
 
 

hich was 2h firet boat
Cuba. He added that he, iiew avery’

. i. He said that he was a close friend of “John Abbes
Garcia, Chief of the Dominican Republic Security. He said
‘that his lest visit to the Doxinican Republic was in 1959,

‘He said that he had acceag to pecple in the Dominican Republic.
"He did not identify further these assets nor did he identify
. the. means of comminication te thea. .

“hy At the conclusion of the interview with Mr. ROTHMAH,
Mr. McCOKNELL asked to see me privately. During this interview,
_ Wr. MeCONNELL again -espnasised that his interest in this case was
- gisply thet of ‘¢ good American whe was interested in fighting
Comunien . Mr. MeCONMELL said that, in his opinion, an individual
with Mr. ROTHMAN's character, and background certainly should be .
wseful in the gloree-off fight against Cosmuniaa. He felt that,
4t wight be to the national interest to make use of Mr. ROTHMAN
_ against CASTRO and against Commmism in the Western Hemisphere,
and give precederse to this use over any intent to prosecute
Mr. ROTHMAN for violations of Federal lawa. Again Mr, McCONNELL
named his ecquaintancea in the Department of Defense, in the .
Department of dustice and in the White Howse. He added, at this
time, that he wea entertaining the thought of entering the adminis-
tration in same official capacity.
 

 

 

Coipanti ‘ee ‘ROTDUN dd-not aatiefy se ths
cla those agent and‘paterial ‘assets to ihich:

.
VM Ae tee mie

   

    

4m

PEN eaten bias 6

 

cece obama tice allie
14-00000

   

 

MEMORANDOM ‘por: Deputy Chier, a Diviesan | a M a ce vo
SUBJECT ©: Neeting with Norman HOTHMAN | . Seed
ard Savid M. M©CONKELL . oe

 

REFERENCE 1 ‘Your Grai Directive of Thursday, 29 dune 1961:

 

   

. ~ 1. On Thursday, 29 June 1961,. 1 met with Norman RCTHMAN and
. David MeCONNELL in the office of the Deputy Attorney General to
evaluate, per your dtrective, Mr. ROTHMAN'S clain to cpevatd anal
assets inside Cuta and elsewhere in the Caribbean area. The -
neoting- bested fron Teor Fo 1530 hours. it was agreed by the”
participants of this meeting that Mr. ROTHMAN would return te .
Miami.on Friday, 30 June, and that Mr. McCCRKNELL would Selephane --- -
me at the office of the Lepity Attorney General an Wed. eeday. vas
S July, for our evaluation of Mr. RCTEMAS's operational potential |

in Cuban affaires. wf

2. Mr. McCONNELL requested to aeet with me privately ir the
conference room. He advised me that he was a leading political
figure in the Democratic Party machine in North Carolina, that he
vas acquainted with nymero.s Government figures in Washington
(including Robert Rew.ecy, General Taylor, ani Zeneral van Fleety,-
that, he was @ corporate *ax Lawyer who was doing very weil in his
home town of Charlotte, Scrth Carolina. and that ne was concerned
over the embarrasanent to tne Kenaedy adaioistration caused by
the Cuban "fiasco." Ke further advised me *hat-hra interest in
this case was that of an American anxious to fight Sommnism an
the Western Hemtephere and to ensure that the U.S. Guevernrent
made maxiarim use of cperatioral potential as represented in the
person and claims of Mr. ROTHMAN. Mr. McCONNELL noted that,
according to. RCTHMIN's story, ROTHMAN had asseta ard capabilities.
whien would enable hia (ROTHMAN) tc destroy the arms dunps on the
plantation of ¢x-President CARDENAS cf Mexicc, to set up operational
: bases in the Yucatan at a cost of $50 t> $1,000, te satotage targets
: in Cuba identified by the U.S, Government, and tc previde positive

. intelligence on thé activities of Chinese Commaniat groups in the

Weatern Hesisphere.

 

 

   

 

i+ fea
 

[to toteo-t0o

 

 

rm {eee
AT

 

  

 

£1 comptoreTial

. ROUTING AND RECORD SHest

zi SECRET

 

Teche HOE BF SECRET (] conrioentiat

a ”

“So June 1962

 

997-2-92.2.62.

INTERSAL
USE OHLY

E] UNCLASSIFIED

Fo wattecatint EE was
  

 

 

 

 

~2-

3. I used ‘the peints listed by Mr. McCONKELL to debrie!
Hr. ROTHMAN on hia claims of “assets which can be used agdinat :

- Guba and other targets in the West ar lent ar here. fir. ROTEMAN °°
+ told me tiat:he was ‘anamerican cf » born on 2% Decembe? 1924,
atcKew York City, ‘Ubat he runs the’ bar ta the’ Bel Air Hotel,

Miami, Florida, that he was formerly the owner of ‘Sans Souci,”

A Aightglua in Havana, agd that h Atved at 425 Surfside Boulevard -

in Miami ,. Florida: . During ‘the’ Li dew Mr, ROTEMAN, when. questioned ©
on those points of potential ated by we. MCCONNELL above, made

the following statements: us

a. He isa dedicated anti-Gommitat: and is particularly ©

. “interested in working against CASTRO who.xecuted three of
v= Ald eloae, dear friends .! When asked for the nanes of ‘these ©

  

 

 

 

 

 

* “7""" "" ertends, Mr. ROTEMAN was fot able to give these in full.

‘alter ten aimtes, he named these. friends as Rogelic GONZALEZ
(war: nano - *Francisco"); Sort RARIN} and Efigento FERNANDEZ.'

- b He has an operatipnal’ capability te destroy arms dumps
+ which he clains are located on the finca of ex-President
. CARDENAS of Mexico. He has contact with agent asseta located
_in Mexico through certain Mexican friends whom he refused
’ te identify. He added that he had made contact as recently
* ss four to five months ago with these Mexican friends.

_ @. He is very familiar with the terrain and pecpies cf

the Tucatan peninsula. when asked for the date of his last
vieit to the Tucatan, he said that he had been there for

two days at some time in 1959. He added that ‘he had constructed
an air strip at some point in the Tucatan which was capable

of taking’ two B-26's and two P«Slis. He eaid that no one

knews of the location or existence of this particular atr strip.
- When asked who had built the strip and when 4t was built,

Mir. ROTEMAN said thet the strip had bees built by Indfan

enn Ee Choi it zss-poinied-eout to hie that certainly these

Indian friends would know of its extatence, he said that they |
wer@ loyal to him and that no one in the provincial or national
governments of Mexico knew of this strip. when asked if a
plane had evar landed on thie strip, Mr. RUTHMAN said that

one B-26 had landed there. When asked how he managed to
provide fuel and maintenance for aircraft located at this

etzip, Me. ROTHMAN was not able, or chose noty to give an

exact reply.

|
a4
id
q
tot

 
 
74-0000

 

eed

good personal friend. when questioned, Mr. ROTOUN said.

. “d. Re 49 wel) acquainted with Sanchez ARAMIO.: He said”
tha} he meets frequently with ARLNIO and. coksiders hima

 

 

that he had last net Mr. ARAKIO six. weeks ago. He wag -
able to give the home address of Mr. ARAROO. Ee said tiiat .

 

‘Be would be able to produce Mr. AMARIO dW

. ospabilits sto attack or. r sabotage any target of our ch

ope lng.
i Gube.. He said that he had a basic plan for the assassina-
tion of Fidel CASTRO. ae seid that his plan called for an

  

eet

Prime Minister was addréssing one of his galt ore ‘Rgvana

‘He.eaid that he had one hundred pilots who had participated”

in the invasion of Cube and who were now asking eaploymeht a
‘aa flyers for the Congolese dir Force. He refused to identify
any of the pilots by name. When it was pointed out to hin .
\ . ose pilots asking employment in tHe Congo ~
i Boy LOCords he onid that those pilote
whoa he was particularly interested’ were not making
application for such exploymeat.

   
 

f. He aaid- that he had mary agents going in and out of
Ccbe. then asked how many agenta he controlled, Mr. ROTHMAN
waa not able to give an exact figure. When he was asked
how many agents he sent into Cuba during the last year, he
was not able to give an exact figure. When asked how aany
agenta he was in contact with this date, Mr. ROTHMAN gave the
figure of six. When I asked how these agenta were adle to.
travel back and forth in view of the diffioulties in making
frequent visits to Cuba, Mr. ROTHMAN said that his agente
were in the tourist travel bureaus or in export-import
businesses, and entered the States via third countries. When
asked et what date he had last had contact with these agents,

. Mr. ROTHNAH was wt dble to give ah exact date. Sr. ROTHMAN

said that with these. unnamed assets abore, he had the
eapability to make money exchanges between the United States
ard Cuba, and offered to be of service to the 0.5, Government

in any requirement along this line.

g- He eaid that he knew of many Chinese Cosmnists going
inte Canada fron Cuba. When saked to identify the source of
this information and the names ‘of these Chinese, Mr. RCTHMAN
said that he had not brought any record information with his
and did not feel he could be asked to produce his factual data

at this tine.

Bere

 
