+o} x: ee ie

en
ae

ty. "30 Apr:
‘from » Dallas, Texas reported that ‘Bubject ‘telephoned long distence from
‘Midland, Texas to 8 Chinese Tntelifgeance officer in Formosé claiming to -
eve been formerly employed by CIA. Subject offered to "help you with’ .
‘things Y know". Subject then called @ person in Lubbock, Texas believed to

be his wife. We told her he had talked with the Chief of Intelligence

for Chiang KAY-CHEK in Formosa end that she snf the beby will receive. =
§T00 « #500 per month “a tals thing goes through*. Bubject. was iden’

 
 

SEBEL

fn

Cantac,Sorvics Rah ge tes iit to use Bub ject fa
1967 teport: a not had a Grink in nine yesrs ‘On

 

 

 

» Security , Company who yag
ig; Peal BORER, Security Officer for Hmt O11, Compe Tux operstions
| for Jim GARRISGH, ‘nA who Feported thé visit to the Houston DCs Ofriee,
fe a former FSI agent. - Tn Fareh-1959 vhen the péssibility of opening ax
Fort Worth Field Office vas be considered, ROTEERMEL was on
fot.recruttnent 8s a

 

 
‘ Rie 2

_A review

 

6 s . a

 
 

 

104-40115-10090) |

“Memo for DCT ata 19 Jan 1968 from Agets,
. Goodwin) © Subjects Contacts with

 

 
 

- RETURNTOCIA|
Background Use Only..
. Do Not Reproduce’:

 

 
Sebi -

ppl
Agent in Saipan, Seoumey 19s
Retiimed to U. 8. for nervous Fe
breakdown, March 1952. Approved for
staff eaployment sith Of8 in October

“‘eoatiaued

‘Bub§ect"s overt. and covert gecurity” files presents | the*
folioving chronology of nis em Temples! history 3 bed the Agenys
es . * :

not used by O88. Of interest In his file at this time are menoranda. © *:"
‘recording @ visit he made to the Homolulu Office of 033 in February | 19h.
. 4g which he told the office how he hed been recruited OSS while»
_ attending infentry school at Fort Benning in October 1 3 that nis.
- services vere to be used in originating end conducting radio programs in
the CBI theater) that vhen he did not hear from OSS, he made certain -
> inqwiftes end found thet his record had been very carefully investigated
: by Dunn end Bradstreet that he then mde a long distance call to 088°
Persomel Procurement Offices He was told that temporarily ¢ the oss :

 
could be there. Instructions were given to the 08 Chicago Lake

_ by the Deputy Director of Security to have a representative contact ie oa ‘
Beylor Hospital st Dalles, Texas end advise him that Subject hed hed eccess::
to highly clessified information in which the Government bad an interests. .°.

 
