13-00000

_Faued eos

[6/97 “EP 16:)4 FAN 202 724 0457 ARRB lela,

 

 

[7 [¢)

Ques ES ede \K Wore
Re— a yoles weed Pram Wired €!

Mr. J. Barry Harrelson

April 16, 1997 - "

Page 10 (38. iS AAS apices aN Atecusswmn ot
SN D4 #eevren> SseRSot—_

CIA-IR-14 ‘Breckinridge files.

 

 

CIA will determine the disposition of the files of Scott D. Breckinridge.

*“CIA-IR-15 Electronic “take” from Mexico City Station.

The Review Board has for some time been attempting to determine whether it
has had access to all of CIA’s surveillance “take” from the Cuban and Soviet
facilities in Mexico City at the time of the Oswald visit and in the immediate
wake of the assassination. On numerous occasions, the Review Board has asked
whether there was any surveillance take in addition to what is currently in the

collection.

 
  
  

On March 18, 1997, the Review Board provided additional leads to CIA to assist 303?
e ee.

it in answering these questions. The DO has agreed f to check Headqua ‘
records for the file referenced in HMI IDE 5 fhe j-30 Sep &
this document, and to search for HMI 6p: pt

     

5 “offices for vossiblen recordson |
Mexico City and Cuba and for the present location of Staff D records. Regardless
of the outcome of these particular searches, the Review Board continues to seek a
full accounting for all surveillance conducted during the relevant time periods.

 

CIA-IR-17 DS& fords on Castro assassination plots. _

HERG will ish the 1967 IG Report to provide possible search query
suggestioyis for RS&T follow-up.

CIA-IR-18 DO Office.

The Review Board has requested orally information about a particular DO office.
We understand that you are collecting the relevant information.
Sheff

Openers ana SAT [ DeLee he
13-00000

were metre

22 January 1998

  

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, JFK Declassification
: Project/HRP/OIM/DA
FROM: (U) Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.
Chief, External Support Group/IMS/DO
Central Intelligence Agency : ah
SUBJECT: (U) DO Response to Informal Request CIA #15
. A
REFERENCE: (U) ARRB’s Memorandum dated 18 December 1997,

RE: Status of CIA Responses to
Assassination Records Review Board’s
Requests for Additional Information and
Records

(U) This memorandum is submitted in response to informal request
number 15 (CIA IR #15) from the Assassination Records Review Board
{ARRB) . +

**CIA-IR-15 Electronic “take” from Mexico City Station

 

(S) The Directorate of Operations has checked Headquarters records
for files referenced in HMMW 12454 and for files on the crypts cited in
this document and searched for HMMA 20307 and other cables or dispatches
cited in this document. As previously explained, the crypts in HMMW
12454 have been researched. The dispatch was apparently written in haste
and in truncated language without correct knowledge.of the operational...—.-..
crypts for the specific operations in Mexico City. The crypts in the
dispatch are the more generic crypts for teltap operations, not for the
then-current operations in Mexico City, which are in question.

(U) “Surveillance” is a term that is too broad for a
meaningful/productive search, because it is the. OL ef CIA’s charter

to conduct surveillance. .

eek Cc. Wicknam, or

    

     
   

DECL ON:

DRV FROM: MIS 82
13-00000

SECRET

i) January 1997

  
  

 

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: J. Barry Harrelson, JFK Project Officer

FROM:  DSseT Information Management Officer
SUBJECT: JFK Records ©
REFERENCE:. Assassination Records Review Board

Letter dtd 18 December 1997

> 1. “‘Phis is in response to the latest inquiry from the
Assassination Records Review Board. Specifically, DS&T was
tasked with the following items:'  — ;

a. CIA IR-07

Request: Information on Claude Capehart

Results: Medical Report on Capehart relevant to
GLOMAR Project (Status: Requested from AARC, 9 January
1998. Document will be sent to you.) :

X-ray of skull of Capehart dated 10
March 1974. Not relevant to JFK. timeframe but will be made

available to you upon request. : ZZ
b. CIA IR-15,

. Request: Electronic “take” from Mexico City 4

Station aa

Results: Operational Monthly Reports (3), dates:
1-30 September 1963; 1-31 October 1963; and 1-30 November
1963. (Enclosed)

cL: (0524507
CL Reason: 1.5(c)
DECL On: Sources marked OADR
Date of Sources: Oct-Dec 1963; 7 April 1975

DRV FROM: Intel Reports and Memo

SECRET
13-00000

Mr. John Pereira
January __, 1997
Page 4

In addition, we request reports in the project and related files that make reference to
activities during September and October 1963. In requesting these files, we are asking
the CIA to conduct new and comprehensive searches of Agency files which go beyond
what is contained in the Sequestered Collection. This request should be interpreted in
its broadest sense and extended to include any other surveillance operations that were
targeted against the Soviet and Cuban installations during the time of Oswald’s visit.
For example, if there were additional TSD operations, wiretapping, microphone
surveillance (bugs), or technical surveillance other than those listed above, we request
any files and/or logs that exist on such.

In the event that any file has been destroyed, we request that all information pertaining
to such destruction be provided. .We anticipate that the results of these searches and a
written explanation of missing material will be included in the Agency’s Final
Compliance Statement.

In requesting access to these materials, we are not designating them “assassination
records” as of yet. Nor are we, at this time, requesting that copies be given to the
Review Board.

We would appreciate your response by March 7, 1997. If this does not provide you
with sufficient time, please let us know, in writing, by what date you believe you will

_ be able to respond to this request.

Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Sincerely,

T. Jeremy Gunn
General Counsel and Associate Director
for Research and Analysis

camera coverage of the Cuban Embassy,” and that “All available negatives and five
packages of undeveloped film were sent to Headquarters by transmittal manifest
#252572. (See pp.20-21)
13-00000

Mr. John Pereira

January __,1997 ~ Yo

Page 2

xs
of Lee Harvey Oswald’s visit to Kico City: LIPSTICK; LIEMPTY; LILYRIC;
LICALLA; LIMITED; LIE] ONION; LIERODE; LIFEAT; and LIENVOY.
Did CIA have any ores surveillance erations that targeted Cuban or Soviet

facilities or personne. ty during September and October of 1963? If
so, please identify the operations.

Request No. 2: The Review Board has identified the following types of
documentation that appear to have been regularly prepared in the course of
conducting operations similar to those identified in the preceding paragraph.

Project Files

Monthly Operational Reports

Annual Reports

Requests for Project Renewal

Reviews of Project Renewal

Authorizations of Project Renewal/Project Action Reports
Quarterly Project Progress Reports

Project Charts

Photo technician monthly reports _

Resuma

Equipment Studies

Reports on testing of newly installed cameras as part of LIONION

Basehouse Agent Logs -

Technical Services Division (TSD) Logs
Negatives from photographic production
Transmittal Manifests*

Communications (cable, dispatch, backchannel).
In addition to the documentation identified above, were there any other forms of
documentation prepared with respect to the Surveillance Operations?

A

According to the Lopez report, in a 6/19/64 cable, MEXI 9440, Mexico City

Station alerted Headquarters that “they were sending up the negatives from the pulse
camera coverage of the Cuban Embassy,” and that “All available negatives and five
packages of undeveloped film were sent to Headquarters by transmittal manifest
#252572. (See pp.20-21)
13-00000

Mr. John Pereira
January __, 1997

Page 3

Request No. 3: Did CIA conduct any form of microphone or electronic
surveillance (other than telephone line intercepts) of Cuban or Soviet facilities or
officials in Mexico City during September through December 1963? If so, please
identify, with specificity, the operations.

Request No. 4: Please provide all original records and copies of records for the

Surveillance Operations as follows:

For the period July 1963 through December 19632
Project Files

’ Monthly Operational Reports .

Annual Reports

Requests-for Project Renewal

Reviews of Project Renewal

Authorizations of Project Renewal/Project Action Reports
Quarterly Project Progress Reports

Project Charts

For the period 1 September 1963 through December 1963

- Photo technician monthly reports

Resuma

Back Channel Communications

Equipment Studies

Reports on testing of newly installed cameras as part of LIONION

For the period 26 September - 3 October 1963

Basehouse Agent Logs

Technical Services Division (TSD) Logs
Negatives from photographic production
Transmittal Manifests*

3In order to clarify that time periods requested, let me provide the following

illustrations. For example, if hypothetical Operation “X” against a Soviet establishment
in Mexico City was in effect in October, 1963, we are requesting records for Operation
“X” from July through December of 1963. However, if a hypothetical surveillance
Operation “Y” was in effect from January through August (but not September through
December), we are not requesting any records related to Operation “Y.”

‘According to the Lopez report, in a 6/19/64 cable, MEXI 9440, Mexico City

Station alerted Headquarters that “they were sending up the negatives from the pulse
13-00000

Mr. John Pereira
December 18, 1997
Page 9

CIA-IR-12 Contacts with Journalists or Publishing Houses.

The Review Board seeks to determine to what extent, if any, CIA might have
attempted to influence any journalists or publishers regarding public discussion
of the assassination. This request, originally discussed in March 1997, was raised
at the DO follow-up briefing on April 1,1997. CIA has had no response and no
time frame for a response.

CIA-IR-13 Office or Person Dealing with Organized Crime and Cuba.

The Review Board requested that CIA make a particular personnel file available.
The file was made available by CIA for review. The Review Board seeks a full
and accurate formal response to this request detailing any and all searches made
and the results of those searches. Once a formal statement is provided, this
request will be complete.

CIA-IR-14 Breckinridge Files.

‘CIA (OGC) will determine the disposition of the files of Scott D. Breckinridge.
CIA has had no response and no time frame for a response.

“*CIA-IR-15 Electronic “take” from Mexico City Station.

The Review Board has for some time been attempting to determine whether it
has had access to all of CLA‘s surveillance “take” from the Cuban and Soviet
facilities in Mexico City at the time of the Oswald visit and in the immediate
wake of the assassination. On numerous occasions, the Review Board has asked
whether there was any surveillance take in addition to what i is currently in the
collection.

On March 18, 1997, the Review Board provided additional leads tg CIA to assist
it in answering these questions. The DO has agreed to check Headquarters
records for the file referenced in HMMW 12454, to search for the crypts cited in
this document, and to search for HMMA 20307 and other cables or dispatches
cited in this document.

In addition, the DS&T will query its offices for possible records on Mexico City
and Cuba and for the present location of Staff D records. Regardless of the
 

104-10336-10014

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW « 2nd Floor « Washington, DC 20530
ies (202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

 

ahs

+
& r
faw 90

December 18, 1997

Mr. John Pereira

Chief

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 02505

 

Re: Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board’s Requests for
Additional Information and Records

Dear John:

Iam writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious
concern about the status of CIA’s responses to the Review Board's requests for
additional information and records. Although CIA has completed its responses to
several requests, and many others have been answered in part, a significant number of
requests have not been answered — including some that were made more than two
years ago. On many occasions we have been assured that responses would be
forthcoming, only to have promised dates come and go without answers. It is now
extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct
a proper follow-up if necessary. The issues that we can now identify as being of the
highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**)' and we request
that they be answered within the next month. We request that the remaining requests
be answered by April 1, 1998.

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts: first, a listing of the formal
requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for
information and records. Please let me know if your understanding of any of the
following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

'As identified more fully below, the issues are: CLA-1 Organizational Material,
CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CIA-13 Backchannel Communications, CIA-IR-03
HTLINGUAL Documents, CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CLA-IR-07 Claude
Barnes Capehart, CIA-IR-15 Electronic “take” from Mexico City, CLA-IR-21 DRE
Monthly Operational Reports, CIA-IR-22 “A” Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

 

Boaro Memeers: John R. Tunheim, Chair « Heary F. Graff + Kermit t. Hail + William L. Joyce « Anna K. Nelson

a Lo Sa CAR TRIS
13-00000

Mr. John Pereira
December 18, 1997
Page 10

outcome of these particular searches, the Review Board continues to seek a full
- accounting for all surveillance conducted during the relevant time periods.

' CIA-IR-16 U-2 Files.

DS&T has provided a folder title printout of U-2 materials for Review Board
examination and has checked for records filed under Richard Bissell’s name. The
Review Board staff continues to review these indexes. The DS&T should
continue to search for OSP files.

CIA-IR-17 DS&T Records on Castro Assassination Plots.
The DS&T records should be searched for any records on Castro assassination
plots. The Review Board will provide possible search query suggestions from
the 1967 IG Report.

CIA-IR-18 DO Office.

The Review Board has requested orally information about a particular DO office.
Since January 1997, CIA has had no response and no time frame for a response.

CIA-IR-19 Computer Searches.

The Review Board has requested that full computer searches be conducted on all
of the following people and organizations. The results of the searches should be
documented. Once formal documentation of the completed searches has been
provided, the request is complete. :

 
13-00000

A & f Rocame CLA TRIS
NY §

\ a lochs Teo
Janyary __, 1997 a \\ee "
q7

 

Mr. John Pereira F Ay

Director

Historikal Review Group \eTA SPECI ALG OLLECTIONS
Center far the Study of Intelligence — As a ST EASE IN FULL
Central Intelligence Agency RELEASE L

Washingtop, DC 20505 2000

 

As you are aware, theré has been a great deal of interest surrounding the reported trip
of accused assassin Lée Harvey Oswald to Mexico City in September and October of

several surveillance operations targeting Cuban and Soviet facilities or personnel in
Mexico City. For more than one year, the Review Board staff has attempted to ascertain
to what extent CIA’s records\related to this surveillance are complete.

It is our goal to ensure, to the greatest extent possible, that we have identified and
reviewed al] documentation and dperational reports relating to all telephone, electronic,
and photographic surveillance the CLAYjad targeting the Soviet and Cuban establishments in
Mexico City from September 1963 through December 1963 (hereinafter “Surveillance
Operations”). Although we are aware\that the HSCA requested records on the
Surveillance Operations, the records in the Sequestered Collection now appear to us to
be somewhat incomplete and somewhat inconsistent. We would like to assemble as
complete a collection as possible of all types ef reporting vehicles used by the Mexico
City Station and Headquarters regarding the eillance Operations. We are also
trying to reconcile possible gaps in operational activity and operational reporting, and
in order to do so would like to review all logs pertaining to these operations and all
original negatives from the photo surveillance operations.’ Therefore, we wish to pose
a series of questions and request for records. ,

Request No. 1. It is the Review Board’s understandin that the following
operations targeted, in part, Cuban and Soviet facilitiés and personnel at the time

'For example, to our knowledge, photographic take from LICA LLA and
LILYRIC were never made available to any of the investigative commistions in the past.
