 

 

04-40147-10116
os

 

 

INT, ERNA}

L USE ony

   

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Page 2
Thursday - 17 March 1977 :

5. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Called Tom Moore, Senate
Select Committee on Intelligence staff, to ask about Committee action
on the House Select fommittes on Assassinations request for Senate
Select SUMmmMivee on ‘Intelligence’ maleristeSirSintos Crafficate. Moore
said the Cormmittee had met on this matter and had decided not to
provide the Agency materials to the House Committee. Moore said that
the more difficult problem concerned Committee materials not supplied
by the Agency but which related to Agency operations. Moore said he
would be reviewing this material and within the next ten days or so would
provide us copies of this material with a request that we make
recommendations on what should not be provided the House Committee:

 

6. (Internal Use Only - PLC) LIAISON Delivered to Ron McCluskey,
Staff Director, House Post Office and Civil Service Subcommittee on
Retirement and Employee Benefits, Agency pamphlets on the Agency's
cooperative and summer intern programs which he had requested for
certain of his associates who had expressed interest in Agency employment.
I told him he could call Robert Bell, Personnel Officer, if he had any
further questions.

7. (Internal Use Only - PLC) LIAISON Called Bob Hull, “Department
of State, and inquired as to whether reemployed Foreign Service annuitants
can have their annuity recomputed under the Foreign Service law. He said
that a Foreign Service annuitant who works in Government service after

_ retiring from State can have such a recomputation tc include all of his U.S.

employment provided he is then on recall as a Foreign Service re officer, The
question came up during Mr. Lyle Miller's meeting with Bill Jones,
Adininistrative Assistant to Representative Jack Brooks (D., Texas), whe
is looking into the eligibility of further retirement benefits for reernployed
annuitants in Government.

 

8. (Internal Use Only - PLC) LIAISON Met briefly with
a CIARDS retiree who is now employed on the House Government Operations
Committee staff, and gave him a copy of the paper explaining the eligibility
of further retirement benefits for CLARDS retirces recemployed in Government
which Ron McCluskey, Staff Director, House Post Otfice and Civil Service
Subs rement and Eraployce Benefits, hud requested. I
informed tim that the Civil Service Coramission had net yel made its decision

 

 
 
 

 

  

yromittec on R

 

  

as to ile review of ils policy rewarding the cligibilily of recmplayed CLARDS

Apes

annuitants for further relivemant beaeftts
