 

 

 

 

  
    
    
 
  
  
 
  
 
 

wey oF? eieumeate aud things of that nature. am
thet the responsibility for getting information surrey
Auerican Embassies in foreign countries who employ indige
falle vithin the confines of the KOB. He stated that th

about this is to work through the indigenous personnel ant
enter the enbassy ab special times during the nig the

 

area and (open up the safes. When he vas asked how thi 2 WA
stated, “ch, combinations to safes are not hard to aequiz
thab the inmportami and difficult part of this acbivity is
material out and photographing 1t and then placing 16 exac
was before they touched it.

DocId: 32373221 Page 9
 

 

 

z|
#262 622 ¢ SD/L #

SUBJECTS FATHER

 

  
   
   
  
   
 
   
 
  
  
  
   
   

meal, describing whi ag a very tall and extrenely welt bul 6 indi

and one who tas extremely intelligent and a self-made, seLf ducated
mage He learned the shipbullding trade mostly through his ow :
and study, and also from the SUBTECT's grandfather, who.
first shipbullders in Russia. The SUBJECT added that his :
died at the age of 94. He aleo steted that after the death of
father, a memorial was built in his memory since he wags coneide
a very capable director of the government shipping Industry. Thab-
was about the last time he saw his mother and brother and sister,
they all went to thia ceremony in honor of his father. He also
indicated that there was a periodical which gave a complete min-dow
on his family background, including that of his grandfather end hig
father, and it was well publicized; and this he believes had a :
to do with his being eble to get some special preference and move:
along as fast as he did in the KGB organization.

 

 

RGB PRESSURE ON FAMIEY

(4) On 87 February 196) during Lunch, the SUBJECT stated that:
hag been informed thet the KCB is putting pressure on his immediate
family, particularly his mobher. However, he sald he was not ove.
worried about her because she 1s well-off financially, and being up
in age there is not much they can do to her. However, what coneerne —
him most is the fact that they have already started te play on the
sympathies of his two children and his wife. The SUBJECT stated that.
he was anticipating this; however, he did not think that they w :
start so soon to pressure the family. Mowever, he docs have some hope.
that in due time he may be able to get his family out of Russia. | This :
hope he said was given te him by the Chief of SR Divisione :

 

 

 
   

LIBRARY OF CONGRESS PENIrRATTON

 

(x) On 25 February 1964 during a sightsceing tour of Washington
by vehicle, as we passed the Library of Congress, the SUBJECT pointed
to the building and stated that “we have people w rorking in there”, — u
Special Agent Stanley C. LACH said, "who is ‘we'?" and the SUBJECE - ie
answered, “KGB". He continued by stating that thie was a good place .
to place poople because they could readily learn by just wateliing e
what research was being done in the Library of Congress by the military ip

SEenET

Gu

DocId: 32373221 Page 6
 

  
 
 
     
   
 
 
   
     
  
  
   

 

 

e020 622° €  sp/i

the soprecr to get all the informtion available on ost
a summary to be furnished the top officials of the
The SUBIEG? then directed the KGB Agent in Minsk to
a stwmary of hig file on OSWALD and informed him that «
ntinutes a KOB agent would arrive by special military. plane
up the summary for return to Moscow. He sald this Was. 8
and within onc hour they were preparing a detailed repo
activity in Ruesia. This, concluded the SUBJECE, is the
OSVALD in Rusala. :

 

CG. Ps APPILIATION

(ft) ‘The SUBJECT also indicated that he did not Jol
Party wrtidl he was 27 years old, and he did thie out of
father, who at the time was on his death bed and asked hin
whether he vould do him one more favor before he died.
the SUBTEQ? stated he joined the Communist Party, Obvheryt
would not have been a mesther to this day.

DIPLOMATS AND INTREDIGNICK TYPES -

(g) he SUBJECT stated that the KGB are able to differs
botween Americans who are assigned to Moscow and are acbually
State Departuent type, fron those who have an imbelligence backe oil
by the fact that the intelligence type of people do not aseocia
the Russian girls, that is they will not go out with then. Lon
the State Depavimens type will. Also, over a period of a mont.
they invariably are able to find evidence thet the intelligenc
have been masturbating. This is usually detected through ¢
ination of the individual's towels and bed sheets.

RUSSIAN U-1, AIRCRAFT

  

(h) On 25 February 1964 during the evening meal, a discussion
had regarding the recent airplane crashes noted in the nevspape
TV in the United States. The SUBJECT commented thet hé has a lok of —
friends who are test pilots end who are now engaged in testing Aina he-
referred to as a U- type of atreraft that is faster then any othar
aiveraft in the world. He edded that these friends are eee ae
but they have very dangerous jobs.

SECRET 2 |

Be he

 

 

DocId: 32373221 Page 7
  

EE gen oT ND Bi ope ETOH EN oH BEE NT NE re non aR NET EONT

 

 

 
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
    
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
 

 

 

 

Fase Cea SSDI

to be with the Naval Intelligence. He Gleincd that there
military intelligence organizations at the time, the Ne
Ground Force military type. ; / :

LEE OSWALD IN RUSSIA

table tn the living - roont “had ¢ a picture ©. Of Varie OSWALD.
dam he hit the table with his fist and sald, "I feel th
have stopped OSWALD". AG this polmt Special Agent Stanley

sked him “how?". He proceeded to state that he (SUBJECT)
of the KCB Tourist and Visitors Section which keph contr
acbivities of OSWALD while he was In the Soviet Unton. —
the time, OSUALD was of no special concern or Interest to the
because he lacked intelligence background. Therefore, when h
fox peritiss sskon to leave Rus cin, 4 they (xen) under his ‘a

he cata. was all aone for ‘peopoganda ond show purpores. ‘He y
etate that if they really wanted to release OSWALD, £6 could he
done on the spur of the moment, but gince OSWALD had nothing and
nob worth anything, they decided that this was an opportunity
the American State Department thet they did nob mind releasing
uals if they applied for release through the appropriate channel,
Prior to this application for release of OSWALD, the SUBJECT etsted
that since he wag of no parbicular intercat to them and there wa
nothing in Moseow that they covld use him for or place him into
cecided that they vould send OSWALD to Minsk where he would be é
in a fectory working on radios in the hope that some training: in & oe
olectrical, and clectroaic field might result im his development into
an elecbronies engineer; however, he showed no capabilfty tn this field. —
fhe SUBJECT then stated that it vas just at thie period, before sending on
OSWALD to Minsk, that a very strange thing happened.

 

OSWALD was sipposed to have a nesting with a travel ceaat’ in veuard
to preparatd ons for his going to Minsk at 4 o'clock In the afternoon. ©
At 6 ofclock he still aid not report to the travel agent, so the travel
agen’ decided fo. &o to the hotel where OSWALD was etaying ‘bo see 4f he
eould Loeate him. When he got to the hotel he asked the elerk, 42 OSWALD

SECRET
ath

 

DocId: 32373221 Page 5
 
   

Bg a |

 

 

 

oo |
#262 622 G BD/L : s 5

was in his roon, the clerk nodded affirmatively, and the travel agent

proceeded to OSWALD's root. He tried the door, but the door was Lec’

He knocked, got no response, and then with the aseletance of the elec

they broke inte the room and found OSWALD lying acrosa the bed vith both

of bis weiets slashed. The travel agent and the clerk responded domodiately

by taking OSWALD to the near-by medical facility where he was give! blood -

fransivesers and afber a period of time regained his streugthe Durlag ‘the.
vastigation the following day the SUBJECT stated that the doctor indleated

inst had OSWALD not ‘been found for approximately ten more minutes, te vould

have been dead. It 1s here that the SUBJECT again pounded the table end.

said if the travel agent had not broken inte the room, bub had instead —

contacted the KGB office Like they are instructed to when they do nok

geb any response from people with whom they have appointments, that he

(SUBJECT) would have most likely directed the travel agent to forget

about hin, and on the following day or later that evening he would have

sent one of the KUB agerta to check on OSWALD, at which time he would. mee

have been found dead. This, he went on to state, is whet hurts him

when he realizes that he could have been instrumental indisposing of -

OSWALD without any special inquiry or serious investigation, OSWALD. -—

being nothing, and at the same time’ today the President of the United 9.

States, President KENNEDY, would be alive. The SUBTECE then went on oe

to state theb after OSWALD was senb ta Minck 16 was there that he meh

Korie. Like himself (OSWALD), Marie was a girl from a peasant family. -

with no special background and somewhat illiterate, It was because

of hey poor background that she was given pormission to marry OSWALD

and reburn to the United States as his wife.

  
 

  

The SUBJECT then went on to deaeribe what took place on the day
that President HMEDY was assassinated, He said that this was acbualiy
on Saturday in Moscow, the 22nd of November, He was home abt the tine
and happened to have the radio on, when he heard that the President of |
the United States had been assassinated. Approximately one hour later,
the radio informed him thet the assassin wis Lee OSWALD. ‘hie announcemoat,
he sald, really stunned him. He grabbed his cowt and dashed to his offied. |
Immediately wpon his arrival he searched for the OSWALD file. When he | 7
found the Plle he reviewed 16 and found that OSWALD had not been used
or even approached for use by the Russian Intelligence. He pub Ina /
long distance eal]. to the Chief of the KOB Section in Minsk and inquired i
whether they had used, trained or prepared OSWALD in any way for intellie
gence activist The Chief informed him that according to whab he could L
vecall, they had not mide any use of OSWALD... Just about this time, he |
(SUBJECT) stated that his superior walked into the office and directed i

 

DocId: 32373221 Page 6
 

 

Pra

GSE

ci .
DON

TO BE OPENED BY ADDRESSEE ONLY

District Field Office
LL March 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Headquarters

 

SUBJECT : | |
#262 622 GC SD/1L

 

my

1. Reference is made to Headquarters letter of anstgnnont in
this case dated & March 1964.

2. During the period 20-28 February 1964, wh nile SUBIECE vas
under the protective custody of Special Agents Stanley C. LACH,. ..
George R. BREWER and Alfred B. McGARRAGHY, SUBJECT voluntarily -°-
furnished information coneerning his background and activities, ~~
as well as other information’ of. operational interest, the substance
of which is set forth in the succeeding paragraphs. Tt is to be...
noted that at no time did any of the above-named agents solicit
any of this information or make inquiries of the SURJECT regarding
any of the matters discussed by him. SUBJECT spontaneously related
these incidents In casual conversation during leisure periods and
while enroute with the agents to and from places of entertainment ete,
In most cases newspapers, magazines and TV programs prompted the
SUBJECT to make comments relative to these matters. Following is
a summarization of this Information: : .

SPORTS, HOBBIES

(a) On 20 February 1964 SUBJECP disclosed that he enjoys the
following sports: football, hockey and billiards.

FOREIGN TRAVEL

(b) He also revealed that he has previously been in theUnited
States while enroute to Cuba, Venezuela and other Latin American
countries. He has at one time or another during his service with the
KGB visited and worked on operational projects for the Soviet Union
in practically all of the countries of Europe; however, he has never ©

SECRET

sicsistyo! ot - the ,

 

Doctld:32373221 Page 2

 

 
04-10300-10204

 

Date: 02/18/98
~ Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
, IDENTIFICATION: FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA
RECORD NUMBER : 104~-10300-10201
RECORD SERIES : JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA ~
FROM : NOBEL, JOHN D.

TO : HEADQUARTERS

TITLE WITHHELD
DATE 03/11/64
PAGES 14
SUBJECTS OSWALD, L.
DOCUMENT TYPE PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION SECRET
RESTRICTIONS 1A, 1B

CURRENT STATUS |:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW

RELEASED WITH: DELETIONS

01/27/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS OSW-SF:F6 1998.01.27.10:47:02:763092: THIS IS ORIGINAL OF THE

“PREVIOUSLY SANITIZED DOCUMENT" PROCESSED UNDER 104-10300-10199.

THERE
ARE 2 COPIES OF THE SAME 7 PAGE REPORT.

 

 

 

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

 

Docld:32373221 Page 1,
 

 

0 BE OPENED BY ADDRESSEE ONLY

 

District } and oftice oo
i March 1964 a

 
  
    
  
  
 
  

:
‘
:
/

4

   

MEMORANDUM FOR! Headquarters

 

SUBIECE $

 

 

I
7262 622°C Sb/L

eS EET

a

1. Reference is made to Headquarters letter of sosigne 6 in
this cage dated 4 March 1964, -

2. During the perlod 20-28 February 1964, while SUBINCE ss
under the protective custody of Special Agents Stanléy 6. LACH,
George R. BREWER and Alfred B. McGARRAGHY, SUBJECT voluntarily.
tureiched information concerning his background and activities,
ag welll as other Information. of operational interest, the substance
of which is set forth im the succeeding paragraphs. Tt is to be
noted that et no time did any of the above-named agents solicit
any of this information or mike inquiries of the SUBJECT regarding
any of the watters discussed by him. SUBJECT spontancously rel.
these incidents In casual conversation during leisure perlods ay
while enroute with the agents to and from places of entertainment «
Tn most cases newspapers, magazines and TV programs prompted the: —
SUBJECT to make comments relative to these matters. Following is
a suararlzation of this Information: ee

 

 

SPORTS, HOBBIES

(a) On 20 February 1964 SUBJECT disclosed that he enjoys the oe
felloving sports: foatball, hockey and billiards. ae

RETCM PRAVEL,
PORETON 7 sak ia a

{o} He aleo vevealed that he has previously been in the 2 United
States while enroute to Cuba, Venezucla and other Latin American
countries. He has at one time or another during his service vith the
KGB vicited and worked on opérational projects for the Soviet: Union
in practically all of the countries of Europe; however, he has never

jk
i

Li
be

DocId: 32373221 Page 3
 

 

 

 

 

 

fe62 622 °C SD/1

traveled to the Far East, except while handling en agent who wis
active against the Japanese. He (SUBJECT) steyed in the: RKurile
Islands vhich are within sight of Japan. ‘This was in 1OM9. He ©
said that he was active in the pleking up of agente by ‘plane and
ship in this area. Cees

FAMILY BACKGROUND

{c) In the latter part of the evening on this same date,
20 February 1964, the SUBJECT stated that his father was ‘a menber
of the Commniat Central Committee, one of the first menbers of
the Conmmist Paxty, and that he had great respect for his father
The SUBJECT also indicated that his father was a shipbuilder end
later became one of the first to organize and set up the Russie
Atomic Eneray Plant. Tt was during this latter activity thet.
(she SUBJECT's father) and three other officials came in contact
with radiabion, which affected his father's liver end a few years
later at the age of 54 his father dled of cancer. The SUBIECR |
went on ta state thet his father, being a very prominent Communist,
vas given treatment for this cancer in a special hospital which ts
located in the hills outside of the elty of Moscow, and during hts
tenure in this hospital the family resided with his father. Thay
had Pive room living quarters beside the room in vhiech his father —

   

    
  
 
   
  

  

 

 

  

was confined, This privilege, he said, is only given to the espa ly 7

prominent VIPs of the Communist Party, indicating that his fether vas.
one of the top men in the Commnist Party.

MILEPARY ACPIVITY

(4) The SUBJECT revealed that in 1919, at the age of 16, he wis
a Nayal Cadet. He was called into the service before graduating fren
vhat is our equivalent of a high school. He had taken part in the
fighting in the Black Sea Area where he described hand-to-hand conbat
with Cermine, claimed he was wounded, and beceuse of his bravery he
wag avarded the Soviet Order Medal and the Order of Sbalin. ‘The BUBTEC?
stated this was unusual for a person of his age and gained him great
respect. At the end of the war he had no more desire Por military lite
although his superiors tried to keep him ia the military. Tnebead, he
went for four years to the Institute of Foreign Relations and learned
the English languagee Upon graduation, a man came to him and told hin
thet he had a job lined up for him. He stated thet thie actually was
nore Like being ordered ta take this particular job which burned out

SECRET

= Dow

| DocTd: 32373221 Page 4
