74-0000

ACTION:

It is recommended this matter be referred to the Cover Branch
for an immediate study and a recommendation as to action.

Udi ble

G. K. Gentile

Attachments :
PP/Ops Request
DD/P Memo

ORIGINATOR: GENTILE :mjd
8 September 1954

coc eeni ae ©
Uhh
 

 

froa-t0ie-10112 toner:

8 September 1954

TO : Chief, Special Security Division
THROUGH: Chief, Operations Branch
FROM : Chief, Projects Desk

SUBJECT: PHILLIPS, David Atlee
#40696

GIST:

PP/Operations requests limited badge for one year for Subject
who is to be covert associate. Division claims badge is needed so
that PHILLIPS can enter buildings for "indoctrination", Subject
was utilized on PBSUCCESS and it is intended that he return to
South America in covert capacity. DD/P personally interested in
Subjeot. .

DETAILS :

1. Attached hereto is a limited badge request from Acting
Chief/PP/Ops. This request is to allow Subject to enter Agency
buildings for a period of one year, Also attached is a memorandum
from DD/P dated 14 July 1954, outlining the merits of the Subjeot
and his future covert use. Apparently the Subject performed valuable
services in connection with PBSUCCESS. According to this latter
memorandum, the Subject is interested in staff employment, After
serving one year at Headquarters, he would be able to accept a field
assignment in South America. pD/P expressed the opinion there were
no serious problems in this arrangement.

2. On 7 September 1954, the writer conteoted|
ecurity Officer, extension 8606, in regard to is badge request.

advised it is not contemplated that Subject will be made a

[ Employee. Instead Subject i Covert Associate, According
: ‘plans of PP/Ops, as known the Subject is to serve

RS a covert associate at Headquart ne year for "indoctrination"
fin Agency systems, procedures, etc. At the end of the year he is to

+t to South America as a Covert Agent,

 

 
 
  
  
  
  
  
    
 
 
  

f 3. The writer advised . Was, an unusual situation

ypand presented a serious oo problem, stated he was aware
Pot this situation and was not in agre such a procedure,
‘\{However, he advised there is considerable interest in this matter

by DD/P, Further, Subjeot is now on a leave, of absence and won't
need a badge for approximately 20 days. ould like this office
to render a decision in this matter as ossible in order that
any problems can be straightened out immediately.

 

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Re!
