14-00000

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

. Cuba people are not likely to want to risk thelr lives on the basis of

promises mace by tho preseat memberehip of the Council, He feels
that acceptance of the Council would be improved by cadding to ito -

 Rewbership. two or threa more people whose namos ‘would be signi-
~- fleant-aad | seaningtal to the Cubsa: people. He did not eame any

 

pecitic candidate oo

} dr, Ray: dot me read a 33 or 4 page report which he had
feived {rom the: MRP. coordinator in: ‘Cuba ‘(Reinol Gonasies) —

  
 
  
 

woe critical of the: inciuston of Batlstiagos ‘and “pings -

“bonitos" ‘in’ the invasion force; conveyed the strong feeling that the

strayed by the Americans; and indicated that while
the MRP ofganization | was oti! pretty inuch intact physically, morale

' was almost completely shattered, der, Kay "said he would provide me
of sanitised copy (thore were some operational and personal details)

of the report. for our information,

15,. In view of this report {rom within Cuba, Mr. Ray said that
be will wish to defer submitting his plan for our consideration until
he Is able to recelve word from Cuba concerning the capabilities,
willingness aud feasibility of carrying out some of the activities he
huio in mind, He said It i9 useless to submit a program of action if

the human. elements to carry it out are lacking or completely demoral-

ined, He thoiight be iilght bé able to present Ais prospects within

‘approximately ten days. ‘He said naturally he wil} not ylve the people

inaide any indication that he has been discussing a plan of action with
as,

18. lurged Kay-to consider submitting at least a prellininary and
admittedly tentative proapectus at-thia time based on the aseumption

that bis assets ave. still intact and will be willing to ccopwrate in order

that it may receive early consideration, However, he stuck to his.
belief that this would not be. practicable and reiterated tite need for

. prior evaluation of the ‘strength and morale of his’ following.

17. Ray asked concerning the detainees at McAllen, Texas, and
wondered if they have been released, He was told that as far aot
hnow they are atill under detection, He said tir, Goodwtri had taken

| their names and promised to look into the: matter, Mr. Betazcourt

  

 
 

   
    
 
   
   
     

i. ; EYES ECW
SEuwtT
_ be

"said he would choek directly with Mr. Goodwin re their status,.

opportunity to tak with Ma. Ray is private,

OF rr

 

 

 

 

JAN /dla

Distribution."
Original & 2 - A/DDP/A ; :
1 - C/WHD . ot
t-T- AC/WH/4 & circulate !
2 + Manuel Ray 201 :

 
 

 

 

 

te the proper people at the earliest possible time a carefully thought- .
out plan of action which would: set forth clearly the objectives «+ what
the project hopad to achieve: a statement of the problem; the streagtha

our

  
 

ipport fora

of the Castzo ‘Fegime following the ill-(sted invaeion; the status af the

1 its morale aiid capabdilicies; the extent of interaal
dfscontent with the regime, etc., ete, .

  

4. Lalso spoke of the naod for describing the kind of activities
which the Ray organization planned to engage in and the assets and
‘Capabilities which they have or Can. acquire to do the job. The need {sr
explaining the rajationahip and coordinatichy of the plan with the Revolise
MNonary Council was discussed at some length, . :

$. -Leuggested that he include in the

plan an Htemiéation of the kinds

of support which he would expect ua to supply immediately as well as the
kind and quantity of support which would be required of us as tha project

developed,

5. Taleo suggested that the plan include their views on how UL S.
liaisun and coordination could best be worked out; how funds wonld be
funneled-into:the project; what commo and other training would be ra-
quired; whether U, 5. "real estate" would be needed, ete,

7 Ray ontlined tome of his thoughts regarding his proposed plan
of action. According to him it contemplates action in thres broad fields:

(a) Underground activity -- principally sabotage -- in the
urbas areas,

{b) Gradua) buildup -- targely through clandestine inflitra-
tions of amall bodies of men -~ of averrilia forces in mountain-
ous and defensible areas, :

fe) A psychclocical warlare Campaign within Cuba and abroad
almed at discrediting Castro and at the same time providing the
people of Cuba something to fight for, ,

&. leis
tions for the

Ray's intention to dapend almost entirely on maritime opara-
infiltwation of personnel and imaterie! into Cuba. He also

rules out of his plan the creatioa of another invasion army but does con<

térnplate the

training of groups of perhaps Mp to 156 amen in other (riondly

 

 
 

(toatot9s-t0nat . ee

   

RETURN TO cra
Backgroun a Use Oy )
Oo Not Pepreduce |

 

 

Ua May 1961

 

“ ORANDUM. FOR THE, RECCRD ©

      

. SUBJECT : * Meeting ith I. ‘Manue! Ray”

 

PARTICIPANTS: ing. basse Ray.
Ernesto Betancourt |

03

  

 

¥. | Ray-did not eturii to. ‘Washington until early morning on Friday,
12 May 2961. He called me at.0700 from the airport. Ha was unable .
_to fix a definite hour fof uz. to get-together due to the fact that hs was ~
: expecting an appolatraent with & person he did not namé some time
during the moroing. He la called a anumber of times from the Hotel
Ambassador to ‘advise me tha! he still bad had nO word on his. appoint~
mient. As 2145, Bir. Betancourt: called to say that hé was with Ray
and “Eugenio” (Rogelio Cianerds): and could we get- together: « 1 sug-
gested they drive out to the Clatendon Hotel Court on Wilson Boulevard
_where [had taken a room for holding our meeting. They arrived in
Mr. Betancourt’s car at approximately 1250 noon time aad we Jizat ©
‘went to the naarby Hogate. Restaurant dn Wilson Boulevard for lunch
before wa got down to the business of the prospectua.

     

 

2 During funch we did not discuss the plas but I did take the op-
-portupity to streas in a most serious way the need for absolute secrecy
“concerning our discussions today and any. future discussions or devel-

opments which might take place ic the future with respect to our relation-
ship. All agreed vB B the need for tight security.

3. After lunch we drove te the Hotel Court and from approximately
1330 until 1730, we discussed the prospectus. Using Mr, Barnes’ oute
line Bd a general guide, t stressed the importance of being able to present

oS

      
 

ia

Pasian

. the

 

 

 

 

countries of South Arherica the mentioned Venezuela as a possibility)
and*said-he would explore the possiblity of basing maritime operations
ir nos-U. 5. porta,. : . .

  

Yoo Ray, some méans, other than Swan Island, must be found
{or reaching the Cuban population by radio broadcasts. ‘ He apoke of
‘the possibility of short wave droadcaste from Venenuela and utilisae
n.of a commercial station in Kilami which he unlerstands con bd

 

“elsarly heard in Cuba,

20, Ray Spoke of the desirsability of stimulating the orjanization

‘of “P¥oe-True ‘Cuban Revolutionary* student proups in many countries

of Latin America the said a sucecas{ul organisation hag been formed
in Puerto Rico) and.of sending cualified representatives to those Latia
American countriea where there 1s Soviet diplomatic representation to
contact atudent and labor groups and leaders in an effort to pregent to
them the true picture of the sorry state of students, workers, and
intellectuals in Castro's Cuba.

ib. Rey is aloo Interested in the poasibility of putting out a "News
Letter’ under MRP sponaorshia which would.discuss various aspects of
the Cuban.picture and set forth plane for Cuba after the fall of Castro,
He thought such a news letter could yo a long way towarda correcting
mistaken impressions among American university proféasors snd in
other circles as to the true aature of the Castro regime. He pointed
to, the recent Istter from 6) Harvard profeasora which was recently
published in the N. ¥. Times asa “horrible @xample"' as to haw mise
informed even univercity profassara are on present day Cuba.

12, Whan the discussions got around to the need Jor conducting
Operations at least “under the umbrella” of the Revolutionary Council,
and the need for obtaining Dr, Miro's concurrence before the U. S,
would. be able to support aay operation, if wae obvious that neither
Ing. Ray nor Mr, Betancourt hotds.a hish impression of the Council.
Both fee) that there is &@ stvong possibility that the clos» public
idantification of the Counc{l wita the recect invasion may wail have

‘discredited the Counci! to such az axtent that it commands no support

oF respect within Cuba, —

For the sake of argument they were eilling to concede that the |
poiltical advantages of maintainiay tne Council for the purpose of forcing

 
 

 

unity of the various exile groupe may well outweigh ite other obvious
shortcomin.s. However, both feel, and Mr, Betancourt was quite

_@mphati¢c on this point, thatthe Council aa a body is sot capable of
directing clandestine actions against Castro and a9 a matter of fact
is oppoaed, to any (urther efforts at overthrowing Castro by sabotage
and other subversive actions since they ara completely “sold” on
tie thesis that Cast¥o can only be removed by direct U. S. military

“-aetion and therefore a Continuation of Cuban underground activities
can only result {a necdless and futile loes of Ife. Inthe fact of thig”
attitudes, Ray said he. does not expect to receive much encouragement -
for hia plan from the Council, although he ls fairly confident that
Dr. .hire's approval can eventually be obtained.

Maw. Betancourt thought that a workable solution mi,ht be found
to their problern if the Council would ayree to concern itealf exclusively
with (a) the current task of unifylig tha opposition, and (b) planning for
ite future assumption of power as the provisloual goverament, Under
this arrangement, operations almed at the downfall of Castro could be
entrusted te those leaders and groups (such as the MHP, MRR, and
poseibly the MDC) which have both.the assets and the will to do the
Joo. hiv. Ray thought that it might be feasible to create an operations
planning bosrd or command amon, tho groups with demonstrated assets
and thus avoid unnocessary duplication and confusion and make possible
overall planning. It was obvious, however, that ha would prefer to act

autonomously in the execution of his program,

Mr, Ray was vary critical of Artime and claimed he was in possession
of auflicient "facts’* to convince him that Artima, ia collusion with ele-
menta of the camps, were planniag to aliminate the MRP and its leaders
from the picture, whea the invasion succeeded. Ta aaid hs "kaows"
that Artime was being {inancially sepported by wealthy ex-Batistianos”

of tha Miami area,

13. Ray hinted at various times that tha MRP may at some point
find itseif (aced with the necesaity of withdrawing from the Council and ©
going it alone, He says that the Council is composed of "7 good ren" but
they have no aseeta or significant (ollowings and “have nothing to offer
the people’ of Cuba" and aithough the proclamation of the Council, as
finally drafted, was a good one the ‘progressive’ aspects of the proclam-~
ation wore foreed on the Council by the Americans and do not represent
the true feelings of the majority of the Council members. He ‘agic the
