14-00000

 

 

 

 

c. The HSCA requests “all files and file

- references" to a person not named in the letter,

but who was William K. Harvey. The HSCA has seen.
the official personnel folder on Mr. Harvey for

_the period requested (1959-1966). The Office of

Security files were also reviewed, but these had

-- been sanitized to remove references to personal

difficulties experienced by him in a later part
of his career. No complaint had been made to the
Office of Security about the sanitization, and
they are ready to. show these sections to a senior
member, only, on the HSCA staff.

d. The HSCA request for "the three- volume
history and analysis" of the Mexico City Station
was a subject of the subpoena. It is inaccurate
to describe it as an analysis, and it is more a
compilation of terse summaries than a true history.
It covers aj period in the history |.

 

 

 

of the Station from[__}to 1969, with a wide range

of subject matter that by any normal reasoning is
irrelevant to the question of the assassination of
President Kennedy. The rationale offered up by
Mr. Blakey is that he must understand the history
of the Station to evaluate its performance during

‘the investigation of the assassination. While the

Agency's position has been that this is irrelevant
to the charter of the Committee, LA Division is:
prepared to let either Mr. Blakey or his deputy,
Mr. Cornwell, review this. We realize that both
gentlemen are very busy, but the total compilation
is too sensitive to let the. young men on the staff

‘have access to it.

e. The request for access to "all files .and
file references to a Cuban citizen" for the period
1 September 1963 through 31 January 1964 raises the
question of the Proenza case and a deception opera-
tion in which Miss Proenza was one of the targets.
Contrary to the statement in the letter, a House
investigator was shown the 201 file for the period

‘from January 1963 through May 1964. Access to

the operational file on the deception matter was
denied the Committee on the recommendation of the
DDO, approved by the DDCI. LA Division believes
this contains no reference to the subject of the
investigation, and is reviewing the files again

to verify this. The origin of the interest in this
104-10065-10030

 

 

| OG # 18Joru/ 7}

12 September. 1978

.MEMORANDUM FOR : Director of Central Intelligence

VIA... _.: Deputy Director of Central Intelligence
“FROM : S. D. Breckinridge .
SUBJECT : Letter of 11 Septémber 1978 from

Chairman Stokes, House: Select Comnittee
on Assassinations

' 1. Action Requested: A recommendation for your approval
is at paragraph 3. .

2. Background: The House Select Committee on Assassina-
tions (HSCA) has let:a subpoena lapse without execution, and
the 11 September letter from Chairman Stokes, a copy of which

: is attached, lists five items of interest to the Committee,
: some of which were the subject of the earlier request. The
five items are noted and commented on briefly below: . i

 

a. The letter specifies interest in "mug
books" shown to a Cuban defector, Having raised
the questions, the letter then goes on to say that
this "is no longer a matter in dispute." The -
‘material has been available for review by HSCA
personnel for some two weeks now.. : ;

b. The Committee is interested in “all -
debriefing memoranda" relating to a Cuban defector.
This was oné of the subjects in the subpoena and
relates to a debriefing memorandum (numbered 40)
-in a series of sequentially numbered documents.

In fact, we believe-that a debriefing memorandum
that is unnumbered, but that appears to have been
in the sequence of debriefings, has been reviewed
by the HSCA investigator. That investigator has
been briefed on this and a written summary has
been available for his review. Chairman Stokes
may not have been informed accurately on this
point and we think that the explanation available
is a valid one.

SECRET

 
was in Miss Proenza herself, and the relevant
period about her and any ties to her association
with the Agency would be reflected in her 201
file. The Committee's interest in the unrelated
sensitive operation seems unreasonable to us.

 

; - 3.. Recommendation: It is recommended that a meeting .
be arranged between either you or Mr. Carlucci and. Chairman.
Stokes to review our understanding of the status of the first
four items, which have already been satisfied or can be, and
to persuade the Chairman to not precipitate. a confrontation
on the sensitive operational file.

Ss. D. Breckinridge

Attachment:
As stated

OLD/sDBreckinridge: hfs (12 September 1978)
Distribution:
1 - Legislative Counsel
- DDCE
- SA/DDCI
- ER
- DDO
C/LA Division
Mr. Sturbitts (LA Division)
Mr. Shepanek (PCS/LOC)
OLC/Subject
‘OLC/Chrono

 

Fash ped ped feat ed ed bk ed fd
i

 

 
