74-00000

  

ne ct (omma)13860
. : . . : 3 October 1958
Pave Two

very little, if any, new information could ever be expected to
come out of her own recollection of incidents in the past. If the
project is approved, however, the (SYiWPATHI“ERs’ have promised to give:
full support to it in the form of suggestions?! briefings of her
on persons who should be contacted, background information, and
. guggestions. for likely subjects to be contacted outside of
: where appropriate.

 

| Dead 4 Jong

fact tT. Fagg

. “Distribution:

“1 October 1958shna

 

 
 

[toe-onzzt004g] - .
* OO) ney

: on no(uilia) 13869

Has. File No. opis .

haa : / | Pield File’ No. 20-21

 

Po CLASSIFICATION f
: chied, WE oe : _ DATE: A Ostober 1958

“TO 8:
SS - ° * Attn: Robert A. Winnett Spo
_ FROM: Chie of Station, Nee coe INFO: C08, (_)

   

 

 

   
  
 
 
 

 

Atins.

 

 

“( srsoron)

 

momen - ‘SUBJECT: GENERAL. ati

_ SPECIFIC Fede MASSING ©

RENRINGE 2 | (area 13764, 19 ‘September 1958

_ le Subject arrived with lavell, from Frankfurt on 1 sche. ule and |

_ contacted Fagg and Meppiel who arranged for a meeting with/(SYuPA- o of. we

* mHTZER/SO)on 25 September and a neeting menGneamna on!
26. September. :

 

a

Pe : ‘26 MASSING and eR outlined their’ plans for the research - :
‘;s- ° project which is mentioned in reference correspondence. and which ‘will
— oO : apparently be the subject of discussion in Headquarters when ls...
WASSING is in Washington in the near future. - The GYsdPATLIAER re
_Gussed in some detail fe possibilities of acquiring inforaation of
“interest to them in tli ‘(GuCHRONY) ‘project by using this research
* project as a vehicle for making contacts with persons in Ys oe
whom. they have not been able to contact directly with_any hope of.
success. Most of these individuals mentioned by the SYuPaTHI“ERs)o | fe.
-are-some of the well-known subjects of (SYNCHRONY)cased presently
living in ( Jlatthough a few prominent” ex-communists were added »
to assist Mrs. MASSING in.getting the interviewing started in
if her project is approved, .
: DK ;
oe : 3. Fagg and Méppie de at clear that this project would
ee appear, to them to be one which would have a scope beyond that of
ue present (GYuPATHIZER’ interest and that although the (SYMPATMIAERs of
. would be pleased to capitalize upon it for what success it would
bring within the somewhat limited number of individuals to whom
Bet it would give access, the whole project comprising interviewing
: done in other countries as well a as it appears to be
planned would have to be accepted by Washington as of interest to |
Washington in itself. Thus, although the project is of interest
to the (GTMPATHLAEN ES as: + be sold on that basis alonee
at “e aaa
ee 8/50 oi e the opportunity which they have
had to * speak to lirs. MASSING in person, although it is evident that

 

 

  

   

 

Roj- 4

 

pany ae) iy .

ra gen
: ce

CLASSIFICATION

ep, at BT ana, an

 

| ABB, 51-28 A
