 

©

6:
Gisaxtnces, Kuo) . : =?) . : July 8, 1934.

.. Byaantes

When this Patient was 12 years old, the neurolorteal aoagay that he
aaving for Years, beqeess avery Pad Dand bee andeuenms Fe made

a Centitess G2 tats piheek wie Shale aed

SMR ALS mother. Fo Nad. strony anbivalens feelinss tevserd here

_ Ske was loving and kind to- him, bue at tho sexe tite contineerins and

_ Over@profectives The first epileptic acizure of tho patient. took

“place after on arguoment with ‘Aio: mother who threatened to scold him. |

      
  

. 2. When the subject was 16 years old, ‘ho started treatment which was
‘ws +, Successful for olevon years, Unfortunatoly, when ho was 27 ycars old,
be >; “; .-.at a time that ho was fishting against Batista's dictatorship, he vas
ina identified as a conspiratoy.and! sont to Jail. Thero he was beaton ° -
: by tho police or guards dna veally savaga way and this was tha bee
-« '  ginains of. now stage in hie life in which ha froquontly suffered
‘“i.... from epileptic celeuras. It is Amportant to point out that this bee
- Ban when the pationt was the object of an unjust aggroséion by. auth=
rity fisuroa. . : 7 ao . .
. Among tho most importart Poychological conflicts of the ‘paticnt at.
the ‘prosont tina, ‘We notice the following: © . . i

oa

 

 

epllopsy.

. This problem was very. deeply folt by the patient since he
"Was @ child, because at that timo hia mother used to restrain
. hin from having a normal boy's Life ‘duo to the seicures. Ie’
oy oN. was considérod ae a boy with a very bad temper ard "seen

. oo somotises by hie neishbérs as some cort of a Gevil", This
‘os. . . Means that’ the patient daveloped very ctronr, aggressive tene
. _ denclos as a xeaction to this frustration, At present the

patient fools that. there are many goals in Life that he wilh

_ Naver be able to reach because of hia disease, For instance,
.. Concerning a profession and a superior education, . 1.

: @) The patient has had somo failures in. Love which wora very :
1 so frustrating for him. He haa never boon formally engaged and ~
i ©’ .. . When he approachas a girl he always hae in mind the idea chat
i. -- . ho cannot feel woll with a woman that would pity him for his -
3 -@aseasae © : Se . “§

 
 

104-10540-10125) -

 

 

- . | “CO . _ . e)
: , . Vocational Rehavilitation

State of Florida
July 8, 1964

HERNANDEZ, Raul

 

PSYCHOLOGICAL, EVALUATIO’

 

This subject hag beon seon three times at tae Psycholosical Servico
Centere On April 9, 1954, wa had a long interview with hin in which
he explained the history of hie seizures. On Juno LL, 1954, he
xacoivad the TAT and a Freo Association Test, ucing a List of words
that was acpecially prepared for him. Cn that date, he promised

to come back to bring a list that ha had made of all his seizures
aince September 1942 up to the presant tine, with an indication of
the emotional problems that he had on tho days he was sick. This

list was brought, by him, to our office on June 30, 1964. .

. Reason for Consultation os

To try to determina Af thore woro any paychological factors influ-
encing this subject's epileptic gelzuros. .

Results of Paysholon seal Invectiration

‘In a case such as this, it ia obvious that organic factors ara tho
main determinant of tho pationt's disase, but from the interview

and tho tests, we received the imprassion that the patient’s amotion=:

4l state has often played a cortain role in trizzering his eptleptic
selzures. Psychothorapcutle treatment that would enable this paw
tient to gain better control of hia emotions would obviously bs highe
ly beneficial for him,

eye

Intallicenca

This subject was not formlly tested in order to dateraine his 1.Q.,
tut from his conversation and from his responses to the personality
tastc, it is quite clear that he is a man endowed with a cuperior
Antallisgenca, althouzh somo impairment has necegsarily resulted be-
cause of his frequent epLloptic seizures, anc, recently, because of
his brain surgerys Ha was noc tested for intelLlinence because in waa

- -not feasible to do se since his operation had been dono just a few

weeks ago and the possibility of some transicnt effecats of the sure
gical procedure might still 4nfluence any results, However, from a
strictly clinical viewpoint, whon comparing, the eubjact's reaction
bofore and after the operation, tho amount of impairment produced

‘ by the operation does not saom to ba really considerable, and, on the

other hand, there is a remarkable docreaso in his anxietye
 

a
— ; Oo ; oO
HERUANDEZ, Rouk -3- July &, 1954
ji 3
bo. : : :
N 4). For several montha tha patient hash’ nd a comzon-Law wifa, here
Li in Miami, but Lt oacma that ha haa never been decply in love

with her. It 40 rather a mttar of sex and compantonzhtip.

 

| . ‘Hevertholesa, ho often argude with her because cho is a domle
oe noering person, who “"wante to bo a mothor for him", Sono of
rn _ the patient's recont epileptic golzuros took placa aftor an
ee. Grguement with here
oe @) Tho political situation in Cuba is another source of cuffere
... cing for the patlant, ac it lo for all Cuban oxlloa. Lt id,
~ w.. however, important to note that tho patient's reactionag to :
r _ Batiata and Castro's dictatorships wero not only tho rosult *

of hie patriotic feelings, but also tho expression of his
doeply rooted aggresaivenena against all forma of unjust
or unreasonable authoritarian behaviors

Joao Ie Lacaga, PheDe :
Clinkeal Peychologist
PSYCHOLOGICAL SERVIGE CENTER .

4 . ’

 

 

 

 
