13-00000

Distribution:

Orig - Addressee w/attachment
1 - C/HRG w/o att
1 - JFK Request File w/attachments
’- Tim w/o att
1 - Barry w/o att

 
13-00000
me oo. - SECRET CLA -$E4

~ 23 April 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR: Jim Hanrahan

 

CST

FROM:
DI/TRO Staff

SUBJECT: Documents Related to President Kennedy
Assassination

1. Per your request, OIR searched for the documents
related to the time period around the Kennedy
assassination.We are still searching for the PICL and the
World Reaction to President Kennedy's Assassination series.
Enclosed are the CIB's and the CIWR's for the dates you
requested. I will be in touch to let you know the results of
our ongoing search.

 

 

 

 

 

CL BY:

CL REASON:
DECL ON:
DRV FROM:

SECRET
13-00000

any concerns or restrictions on access to the mandatory
review documents. -Also please provide any additional
documents responsive to CIA-9 as soon as possible, and
advise us of the status of the search by CQB 21 February

1997.

(sl

Barry Harrelson

Attachments:
as stated

 
. Lo . « SECRET
10 February 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR:
oca, oint for JFK Board

FROM: : Barry Harrelson
DCI/CSI/HRG
JFK Project Officer
SUBJECT: ARRB Request No. CIA-9
REFERENCE: : “Compliance Letter” to DCI, fr. ARRB

ExDir, dtd. 27 Nov 1996, (attached)

1. The attached request was received from the
Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB) in March 1996. It
appears from our records that a copy was not sent to you.
(Our normal procedure is to provide the appropriate
Directorate Focal Point a copy of the request as soon as
received.) This is one of several requests placed on hold
while we worked on other ARRB priorities.

2. In the Agency's response to the 27 November
“Compliance” letter (see reference), we asked the ARRB to
prioritize their requests. The ARRB staff has identified
CIA-9 as a “priority” request.

3. The initial request is for access not release. We
usually limit access to sensitive material to Jeremy Gunn,
ARRB General Counsel, and one or two of his staff. If the
material is particularly sensitive, access is restricted to
Mr. Gunn and/or the Executive Director of the Board, Mr.
David Marwell. Gunn, Marwell and all members of the ARRB
Staff's CIA team are fully cleared (TS/SCI).

4. HRG reviewer Jim Hanrahan (31809) is the focal point
for this request. Many of the documents described in CIA-9
were part of eight Executive Order Mandatory Review requests
(see attachments) from 1994 and 1995. Jim has obtained from
IP&CRD full-text copies of the documents. He will be in
touch with you concerning access to these specific
documents. :

5S. Mr. Gunn will be at IP the week of February 24 to
review documents. Please advise HRG as soon as possible of

SECRET
THIS MEMORANDUM IS ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY
WHEN SEPARATED FROM CLASSIFIED ATTACHMENT
13-00000

ore

The Honorable John M. Deutch
November 27, 1996

Page 4

c. To the extent that any assassination-related records have been
destroyed by the agency or any agency official, a full and specific
explanation of the circumstances surrounding the destruction of
such records. ,

d. The status of remaining work that you can now identify that needs
to be completed by your agency in order to comply fully with the
JEK Act, including an identification of the categories of records
that must be processed and transmitted to the National Archives, a
description of any additional searches for files that must be done,
and the projected date(s) for completion of these tasks.

 

Shortly after the submission of the agency’ 8 written Statement of
Compliance, we ask that the Agency Compliance Official (as well as any
persons who helped prepare the agency’s initial Statement of
Compliance) be made available to the Review Board for an interview
regarding the location of agency assassination records. The interview will
be used as an opportunity to resolve any outstanding questions regarding
the agency’s search, including any follow-up tasks to be completed by the
agency. The Review Board anticipates that these interviews will be
conducted in January 1997.

 

i ing iance. By July 1, 1997,
Federal agencies are re expected ti to complete the process of identification,
location, and declassification of its assassination records at which time

they should submit to the Review Board a final declaration certifying,
under oath, their compliance with the provisions of the JFK Act (the “Final -
Declaration of Compliance”). Because of the volume of CIA records, such
a “final” statement may not be practicable at that time. However, we do
expect that CIA will provide a complete status appraisal by July 1, 1997.
This final declaration shall set forth all of the.information initially set forth
in the initial Statement of Compliance and shall also supplement the initial
Statement of Compliance by detailing any further steps that were
conducted by the agency in identifying and locating assassination records.
The agencies’ Final Declarations of Compliance will be included in our
final report to Congress.
13-00000

The Honorable John M. Deutch
_ November 27, 1996

Page 5

jtions. Starting on or about August 1, 1997, the Review
Board, pursuant to its statutory authority, may conduct depositions,
under oath, of the Agency Compliance Official along with any other
agency officials with responsibility for complying with the JFK Act. The
decision to take a compliance deposition of an agency will be made ona
case by case basis, taking into account the importance of the agency to the
work of the JFK Act and the sufficiency of the agency’s efforts to account
fully for its compliance with the JFK Act. In thé event that the Review
Board decides to commence a compliance deposition of an agency, the
responsible agency designee(s) will be expected to testify under oath with
respect to any and all issues relating to the. agency’s record search,
including the scope of the search, the identity of files searched, the
destruction of any relevant records, and any other matters set forth in the
Final Declaration of Compliance. Any person obligated to appear for a
deposition under oath shall be fully entitled to obtain legal representation.

We look forward to receiving your initial response, by December 9, that designates your
Agency Compliance Official and includes your statement regarding your position with
respect to the provisions outlined in this letter. To'the extent that you have any —
questions or suggestions regarding the Compliance Program, please do not hesitate to
contact our General Counsel, T. Jeremy Gunn, at (202) 724-0088.

Thank you for your cooperation with our work.

Sincerely,

David G. Marwell
Executive Director’

cc

The Honorable Nora Slatkin, Executive Director, Central Intelligence Agency
Michael O’Neil, General Counsel, Central Intelligence Agency .
John Pereira, Chief, Historical Review Group, Central Intelligence Agency
Barry Harrelson, Senior Review Officer, Historical Review Group, Central

Intelligence Agency
Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW + 2nd Floor « Washington, DC 20530

   

November 27, 1996
VIA FACSIMILE

The Honorable John M. Deutch : 1h.
Director of Central Intelligence

The Central Intelligence Agency
a Washington, D. C. 20505

. Re - The Ceritral Intelligence Agency’s Compliance with the JFK Assassination
Records Collection Act, 44U.S.C.§ 2107 0

Dear Mr.. Deutch:

Since 1994, the Assassination Records Review Board (“Review Board”) has been

working with a number of Federal agencies, including the Central Intelligence Agency,”

to locate and publicly release records related to the assassination of President Kennedy.
These actioris have been taken pursuant to The President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V 1994) (“JFK

. Act”). We have been working with Mr. John Pereira, Chief, Historical Review Group

and Mr. Barry Harrelson, Senior Review Officer, Historical Review Group of CIA and
have appreciated the cooperation we have received.

The purpose of this letter is to request your agency's cooperation in assisting the
Review Board in discharging its responsibility of assuring Congress and the American
people that the goals of the JFK Act have been accomplished to the greatest reasonable
extent. We want to assure the American people that the United States Government has
identified, located, and released all records relating to the assassination of President
Kennedy. Indeed, one of the paramount purposes of the JFK Act is to certify to the
public that the United States Government is not withholding relevant materials related
to the assassination. See, e.g., Assassination Materials Disclosure Act, H. R. Rep. No. 102-
625, Part 1, 102d Cong. 2d Sess. (1992) (“The Federal Government's failure to release

official materials has contributed to numerous conspiracy theories and fueled charges of ©

government complicity in the assassination . . .a salutary purpose is served in opening
these files [relating to the JFK assassination ] to allay the suspicion of government
cover-up.”).

 

Boaro Memeers: John AR. Tunheim, Chair « Henry F. Graff « Kermit l. Hall + William L. Joyce « Anna K. Nelson -
Executive Director: David G. Marwell

(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202] 724-0457 —
 

104-10335-10008

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW « 2nd Floor +» Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 « Fax: (202) 724-0457

 

March 6, 1996

 

Mr. John Pereira

Director

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency

Re: Assassination Records Review Board Request for Additional Information and
Records No. CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials

Dear John:

We would once again appreciate your assistance in obtaining access to CLA records of
possible pertinence to the John F. Kennedy assassination. We request that you locate
CIA or Intelligence Community serial publications for the dates immediately before and
after the assassination (November 20-30, 1963), including such publications as the
President’s Daily Brief, the President’s Checklist, or any serial publications related
specifically to Cuba or the Soviet Union. In addition to intelligence reports, we also
request that a search be undertaken for any analytical materials bearing upon the
assassination.

As with our previous requests, we would be pleased to discuss with you ways in which
we might better refine this request. ,

Thank you for your assistance.
Sincerely,

S24 6v

David G. Marwell
Executive Director

 

Boaro Memaers: John R. Tunheim, Chair « Henry F. Graff + Kermit L. Hall « William L. Joyce « Anna K. Nelson
€xecutive Director: David G. Marwell
13-00000

The Honorable John M. Deutch
November 27, 1996
Page 2

The Review Board has recently considered how it, along with the relevant federal
agencies, can best demonstrate to the American public that a thorough, good: faith, and
diligent effort has been made to locate and release all remaining assassination-related
records within the control of the United States Government (and that the Government is
not hiding any such materials from public disclosure). ‘Pursuant to the Congressional
mandate under the JFK Act to “create an enforceable, independent, and accountable -
process for the public disclosure of such records,” 44 U.S.C. § 2107(2)(a)(3),.:tiie Review
Board seeks to have the relevant federal agencies provide a complete and specifie
accounting of their efforts to locate and release assassination-related records including
a full explanation for any destruction of such records.

Accordingly, the Review Board requests that each relevant agency adhere to the formal -
compliance program (hereinafter “JFK Act Compliance Program”) outlined below and
devised by the Review Board pursuant to its powers under Section 7(j)(1)(A), (B), (C),
(D), and (F) of the JFK Act. We hereby request that you undertake the following
measures by the dates provided (these dates were set in view of the fact that the
Review Board’s operations currently are scheduled to expire on September 30, 1997):

 

intent to comply with the JFK Act. We request that » December 9, 1996,
your agency designate an Agency Compliance Official who ultimately will
be responsible for ensuring that the agency has complied with its
obligations under the JFK Act, including the identification, location, and
organization of assassination records and the transmission of those
records to the National Archives and Records Administration (“National
Archives”). Although the Review Board assumes that Mr. John Pereira or
Mr. Barry Harrelson will serve in this position, we nevertheless await
your formal confirmation. If necessary, your agency may. designate
additional persons with knowledge of the measures that have been
undertaken to locate assassination records. :

We also request that by December 9, 1996, the agency convey its
agreement to adhere to the compliance procedures outlined in this letter.
To the extent that any compliance procedure described below appears to
be unreasonable or to present difficulties that we may not have
anticipated, please explain why and make alternate suggestions to us.

2. Initial Statement of Compliance. We request that the Agency Compliance
Official prepare, by January 6, 1997, an initial written statement of the
13-00000

The Honorable John M. Deutch
November 27, 1996
Page 3

agency’s compliance with. the JFK Act (“Statement of Compliance”),
setting forth the steps that the agency has taken to locate and process
assassination records. The Review Board recognizes that many of the
. relevant federal agencies, including the Central Intelligence Agency, have
previously written letters to the Review Board apprising it of their
progress at various stages of ‘identifying and processing assassination,
records under the JFK Act. The Statement of. Campliance, while it may
include information previously reported to the Board, is to be the agency’s
comprehensive and final report to the American public of what it has
done to locate records relating to the assassination. This Statement of
. Compliance shall include, to the fullest reasonable extent, the following
: information:

a. A complete description of all steps that your agency took to
identify and locate assassination records including, but not limited
to, an identification of the major record collections and files that
were consulted in the agency’s search, any departmental file -
indices consulted, the names and titles of the persons who were
responsible for conducting the searches, the physical locations of
the records that were searched, the off-site storage facilities (e.g.,
Federal Records Centers) searched, the specific steps that were
taken to locate and retrieve materials in archives, and any other
criteria used by the agency to locate assassination records.

b. Adescription of the steps that the agency took in direct response to
specific requests of the Review Board to locate certain additional
records or information relating to the assassination. In particular,
we ask that the CIA describe what specific steps it has taken to
address the following requests: CIA-9, Publications and Analytical
Materials (See David G. Marwell letter dated March 6, 1996 to Mr.
John Pereira); CIA-11, Silvia Duran’s Original Statement (See David
G. Marwell letter dated May 3, 1996 to Mr. John Pereira); CIA-12,
JMWAVE Materials (See David G. Marwell letter dated May 22,
1996 to Mr. John Pereira); for HTLINGUAL records (See T. Jeremy
Gunn Memorandum dated October 1, 1996 to Mr. Barry Harrelson);
and for Monthly Operational Reports on Cuban Exile Groups (See
Manuel E. Legaspi Memorandum dated October 17, 1996 to Mr.
Barry Harrelson).
