13-00000

(b) Rameriz Ortiz's knowledge of Oswald's file in Cuban
’ DGI. Rameriz Ortiz, presently in Leavenworth Prison, wrote
of a file on Oswald in Cuba. LA Division has reviewed the.
Rameriz Ortiz book and provided follow-up items to the Committee. .
As this is new material, it is likely to be aired and may require —
a CIA spokesman. Rameriz Ortiz has given executive session
testimony already.

(c) Priscilla Johnson McMillan may be called to discuss
her contacts with Oswald in Moscow at which time her CIA "witting
source” affiliation may be exposed. She gave executive session

: testimony last week, and staff indicated that they had follow-up
issues as a result but would not share their issues. If the CIA
relationship is presented, Gary Coit (retired, pep) may be
subpoenaed.

) James Wilcott, former CIA finance officer i

(CL _ festitiea in executive session that Oswald had a
relationship with the CIA. The press picked it up, and the HSCA
has been forced to pursue the issue.. HSCA staff have interviewed
former| ___pificers and are about to interview former .
Agency employees stationed at the Atsugi U~2 base. Oswald
served at Atsugi in 1958, although at an entirely separate
location from our activity. Though Wilcott may be recalled for |
public hearings, the course of the staff interest is not firm
enough to predict. Atihe maximum we may be called to define
our activities at Atsugi, 1957-60. A CIA spokesman may be_
required. ;

 

_ {e) Serendipity may get Garbler/Kovich before the Committee.
’ Garbler/Kovich may be called to exemplify the fallout from
" the Nosenko/Golitsyn issue.. The most recent tip-off of this
possibility is that the Committee has asked to interview former
COS and DCOS of Moscow during the Garbler era. The Committee
may provide the forum that both may revel in and, since the HSCA
is chartered to recommend legislation as a result of its efforts,
.it may be a possible source of private-bills for them. Messrs.
Colby and Bush may also be called.

(2) (S) Issues:
(a) HSCA has requested Nosenko's 1964, 1967 polygraph.
charts. After reviewing these, they may/may not request to polygraph
i Nosenko himself. What is our position?

(b) If documentary material is requested for Nosenko
hearings, should it be provided? (Transcripts of OS interviews, etc.)

 
13-00000

(ce) Should Nosenko’ S executive session hearing, scheduled
for 31. May, be video taped such that the tape could become the
basis for any future public hearing?

(d) If Nosenko requests counsel, who provides/pays?

(e) Should the Hart report be made available, as it appears
the HSCA is backing into its substance anyway ? : ;

ORGANIZED CRIME TASK FORCE
After an initial surge of interest by the HSCA staff.in CIA files last year
of Johnny Rosselli, William Mahen, et.al, no investigators have followed-up.

The scope and nature of any future. hearings are difficult. to predict. No issues. .
are pending.

CIA INVOLVEMENT/PERFORMANCE TASK FORCE

 

Officially, this group is an adjunct service element to the other groups.
Its activities hop from issue to issue but some areas appear of specific
interest to them.

 

(1) (S) Possible Topics for Public Hearings

 

(a) Performance of Mexico City Station in reporting on

Oswald. Anne Goodparture's testimony in executive session may
be reviewed in public session. She may be called to comment
upon. the personalities of Win Scott and Station personnel. David
Phillips appeared in executive session, too.

_ Atiannell will be deposed in lieu of a hearing. Any public hearing

, on Mexico City will ultimately hit upon sources and methods (Soviet/
Cuban Embassy tele-taps and photographic: surveillance}. One of the
issues being investigated is the Agency's management of those
operations. A CIA senior spokesman may be needed to testify t to
protect sources and methods.

(b) David Christ was questioned about his activities on
22 November 1963. He resembled the "unidentified man" of Dallas.
Our records on his exact activities are vague. As this is a "flashy"
issue, the Committee may press for a public hearing. This would
jeopardize Christ and the others and would be tantamount to
having the U.S. Government admit publicly to an old CIA operation on
Cuban soil at a time when the Administration may be courting Cuba.

(c) E. Howard Hunt may be called to discuss a report ofthe ,
assassination which he purportedly wrote while at the Plumbers Unit.
HSCA has requested access to our files on Hunt/Watergate. We have
no known records of any such report.

4.

DprA

~

an 7
wed th |
13-00000

 

4. (8S) Following are what now appear to be the possible topics for
public hearings which involve the Agency and issues. which may arise
with HSCA.

cupan c CONNECTION TASK FORCE

‘This group has reviewed post Bay of Pigs material including the
Cuban Counterrevolutionary Handbook, 1964, which details personalities
and operations.of Miami-based groups. G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel ;
and Staff Director, has been to Havana. :

Q).. (s) Possible Topics for Public Hearings .

(a) Results of the Havana visit which may include a Castro
. Sponsored interview with AM/LASH. This may require a CIA :
' spokesman to define the CIA ~ AM/LASH connection.

: (b) Operations of anti-Castro Cuhans, Miami-based, for
. which CIA documents (Cuban Counterrevolutionary Handbook
-— 1964) may be necessary. a.
(ce) Former DCI Colby discussions with Claire Booth Luce
regarding the Bayo-Pawley affair.

(ad) The scope and nature of CIA files regarding Marita Lorenz-
Castro-Sturgis. This-may require CIA spokesman.

(2) (S) Issues:
No major issues at the moment.
OSWALD TASK FORCE

. This group has reviewed most of the Oswald file as well as many other "201s"
referenced therein. Though the Epstein book may drive the majority of the public
hearings toward the Nosenko issue, the group is exploring other issues which may
be aired.

q@) (8) Possible Topics for Public Hearings

(a) Nosenko's knowledge of Oswald and his own credibility.
Nosenko can be expected tobe called, possibly Golitsyn, too. Not
Deryabin (too dated).. This may require a CIA spokesman to
- attest to the present CIA position on credibility. Others may be
called: Helms, Colby, Angleton, Bagley, Miler, Hart, Epstein
and possibly Len McCoy and Bruce Solie.

 
13-00000 '

 

OLC 78-1544
26 April 1978
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinations - A Projection:

1. (S) With less than eight months remaining until its final report to
Congress is due, the HSCA investigations have narrowed to a few key areas’
which involve the Agency. Though the Committee mandate covers both
the King and Kennedy Assassinations, the majority of our contact has been
with the Kennedy investigators.

2- (8S) ‘The Kennedy Subcommittee is addressing four - questions:

A. Who shot the ‘President?
. B. Was it a lone assassin or a conspiracy?
C. How did the agencies perform:
(1) prior to the assassination;
2) protecting the President;
{3) during the subsequent investigations? :
'D. Is any new legislation necessary?

3. (S) Initially, the Kennedy Subcommittee had organized into four
functional groups:

A. Cuban-Connection Task Force led by Bill Triplett
B. Oswald Task Force led by Ken Klein
Cc. Organized Crime Task Force led by John Hornbeck

D. CIA Involvement in the Assassination and Performance During
Subsequent Inquiries Task Force led by Mickey Goldsmith. -

Most recent contact between OLC and HSCA staff has involved the Oswald and
CIA Involvement-Performance Task Forces. All groups have had access to
CIA files, principally from Personnel, Security and DDO.

   

 
13-00000

“TRANSMITTAL SLIP

   
      

 

FORM NO 94] REPLACES FORM 36-8
1 FEB SS WHICH MAY BE USED.

 
13-00000

 

4. The attached projection does not deal with the $64. 00 question
of the final Committee report on which drafting will start about October
1978. There we will face the inevitable of attempting to correct
mistakes of fact and perception which are bound to creep into a work
of this magnitude, no matter how objective and professional the drafters
are, and of determining what information is to be placed in the public
domain, We have anticipated this latter problem and have concluded what
I believe is a very strong and, I hope, effective Memorandum of Under-
standing between the Director and the Committee.

5. Itis my recommendation that you personally review the .
attached paper. Further, that the paper be tabled in a working roup
of representatives designated by you and from this office to develop
positions with respect to the various issues raised, Following adoption
within the Agency, time is needed to assure appropriate coordination
with appropriate elements of the Executive Branch, Please provide me
with the name of your task force representative, I would like to have
the task force meet on Thursday, 4 May, 2:00 p.m., in room 6D0120.

  

- Miller

Attachment
13-00000

that pursuant to an exchange of letters between the Chairman and the -
Director, coordinated with CIA offices of interest, revised procedures

- to allow a selected group of staff researchers access to CIA documents

with limited sanitization to facilitate the Committee's review of the
larger volumes of files involved. Sensitive viable Agency sources,
however, are excised and the staff must show relevancy to the
investigation if there is any question as to making material dyed
For example, the Committee's inquiry into the CLA
resisted until the staff disclosed to us that the purpise was-f61

CIA: employee James Wilcott's allegation that Oswald was a CIA agent,
Those staffers given this special access have executed special secrecy
agreements which run to the Director as opposed to the Committee as is the
case with the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence for example.

There also has been concerns expressed that the Committee has been’

given greater access than has evér been done before in a Congressional
investigation. Although we are getting into new unchartered waters

as a result of the Jay Epstein book, the Church Committee, for example,

  
 

; had wide access to the Oswald 201 file and personnel files.

4. Attached i is an agenda for the next Task Force meeting, You

; may wish to review some of the major issues pending. Positions on

these issues, of course, will be fully coordinated and appropriately
presented to the DDCI/DCI for determinatio

   

Lyle L. Miller -

  

Attachments

cc: Each Member of HSCA Task Force

 

 
104-10322-10199

 

os : . Executive Registry

 

R- SYS7/sc
Spee. Int. @
OLC 78-1641 . _ a0
8 Nay 78
12 May 1978 . :

MEMORANDUM FOR: . Deputy Director for Operations
Deputy Director for Administration

Inspector General
General Counsel
Deputy Director for Public Affairs

FROM: - Acting Legislative Counsel

SUBJECT: ' . House Select Committee on Assassinations

 

1. On 27 April 1978, I sent you a projection of issues requiring
the development of coordinated positions for consideration and decision
by top management. In response to my request, each of you designated
representatives to a Task Force assembled for this purpose and the Task
Force met on 4 May (Attachment A).

2. Attachment B contains memoranda on sessions with the senior
staff of the Assassinations Committee subsequent to the 4 May Task
Force meeting, covering Committee ¢dtmplaints and our pre-position
bargaining with them on certain key issues, e.g.,:

a. Nosenko: Has refused to be video taped;
the Committee staff is pondering this decision, .
The ''formal" session has been slipped from 31 May
to 21-22. June.

b. The question of whether the claim of
sources and methods can extend to information known .
to a defector before hé is recruited or defected.

3. Iunderstand there has been concern over the range of access
by Committee staffers to sensitive information. I think you should know

 
13-00000

SENDER with. CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

NAME AND ADDRESS [pare | iniviacs |
Mr. Haviland Smith, O/DDGI ae
xy

 

jaction PREPARE REPLY
APPROVAL RECOMMENDATION :
| {comments re
PCONCURRENCE
Remarks: -
Hav:

I thought you might be interested i in
the attached.

 

 

Lyle Miller

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO. [ pate |

7D45 "9208/6121 IMay 78
[arenes —[—T coxsresirt [|

roan “re 237 Use pravious editions

  

 

 
  

 

  
   

   

NAME AND ADDRESS

a
ct pet [as

ee
tie

~ |__| PREPARE REPLY |
[erent ———| — sarc} — freemen —
| |

[—feomment [True ero
[—Feoncurnence | —[wwronwarion [| sienarune |
=

Remarks:

 

nee

 
   
 
  

  
  

     
   
  

Hav:

   

I thought you might be interested «|
the attached.

 
 
 
 

  
 

Executive Registry

3 WN BIS

      

 

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.” "| pare |

(  -7D45° 9208/6121 iMay 78
er

FOR HO, 237 Use previous editions

   

 

    

1-67
somal . _
wot vay 48

yuk ce |

EM
