74-00000

  
 
  

. | Martin sald be took the namejand scffers from ‘asthma fa! Hie au 4
70 LUE IN RUSSIA f \Sonclovary partly because of! jLeningrad’s humid — clunate. jelined to identity, Je- a Boned we
. [vi } ifear that he would be traced: Dfarun caid his request hadimathematician and & corres :¢0
by, United States agents, Heibeen refused. tponding member of the Acad aa 1)
Jeeealied that after the Mescow| Rove. suthorities had kepticmy, Marva said, re
~- But Ex-U, 6. Aide Concede. dime ‘Nomon wan, quoted as'prosisaiai7 the lonme. slaty about Mitchell hs, fete ma | ol
: “ sue waa qv as. iy the same salary about Mitch: leliow 3 od
i Partial Disiltusionment having sald that Mertinandithat be recelved tn the Ualtes fector, but be disclosed that Bis) ied
rom jMitehell should be “snct” the/Ststes, Martin added He sald friend also was living in Lenin| 5
. -F - |defector, who ix blond andihe wus getting about 500 rutica'prad and was in good health: q \
. Ba By THRODORE SHABAD (wears = horn-rimmed glasses! ($555) a month, considerably and spirits. Martin said Mute! a
7 ‘Special to Tae Kee Yoru Tames, Hooked well-groomed. He seemed‘ more tz2n most Soviet mathe- chell, who also has beewme a ‘ oOo
: LENINGRAD, June 22—A generally satisfied witha his ma-|mauriers doing similar work. ‘soviet citizen, had not changed! WN
i United States defector from the. jlertal Ife in the Soviet Union| Marin appeared to have his name, {
bo: bighiy secret Nauonal Security {He sald he and hia wife, whomigained weignt in the last two) Soviet authorities sre suppty-! :
1. Agency in Washington has bee! jhe met and married in Novem-.yeara He was relaxed and ing ‘Martin with United Bitoni 3
ceone dimllusioned with same! ber, 1666, at the Black Sea Feejspoke wih a wry seme of \Rewspapers and magazines bo! .

’

 

   

» DRFECTOR iE

 

 

aspects of Boviet life since hia!
arrival two years ago.

fi
Speaking of hus Orapresstonal
in an accidental mecting In a,

 

tin said, however, that he was

i+ Heng comfortably end was will-

:
*
§

i

 

 
 
  

“shortly
Francis

ing to make the best cf his new
atuslion,

He eaid he bad married a
Russian gir} ang was continuing
atudies toward B ivgher degree

frimathematics, He has assumed) SLUGS. Hab AEptI,
the namte Bokoloveky and be- te the Soviet Calon

came a Goviet citizen.

‘The Si-yearod statistician
syoke ' wiliely |fter he had ap-!
preached this car GET,
whom he had recomized-as an
American, His wherenionts had;

been unknown outside the Sovict!

 

> Union since he and a friend,

Bernon F. Mitchell, appeared at,
& Moscow news confernace In

! September, 1989, more than two!

mosths after their disippeare

* ance from the United States.
At 6 news conference, which!

was organized by the press de

periment of the Soviet Foreign,
rdstiy, they said that they;
had left th

 
    

iy:
flights ever the Gor
Anbough the cefection came
after the U.2 plist:
Gary Powers

Gowned by the Russians Gunng
- such a flight, Martin
‘Bfitenell declared their decision|

hy to defect had been made earlier!

philasophy, |
B and had nothing to do with _the:the eqzivalent of a Ph.D. sare!

tivee years in the Nations! £4.
gurtty Agency, a unit of the
Detense Department

 

aited Siates be-|gene prac

header pS

 

 

   
   
   
   
  
  
   
    
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
    
 
 

    

eR (os ow rome to Mencow because of his “ator hi degre wt on “ererags
jiste, be ead. Sea's from the ssuthi grade.”

 

i

 

 

 

   

Isort of Gagra, had trey ewn'humer. thad requested and w:th hisuel
itwo-room apartment overlook |. He ccmmented that in his'conventences such aa an Amect-! 3
ling the Neva River in a south-,study of Communist doctrine can brand of mustard, to whieh}
jeastern istrict of Leningrad jhe bed found many fine pons. she seemed to altach much im-
ile complained that the Rus-!in Marcam that he had‘ portance.
isans bad refused to let him'difficony understanding, Martin aaid he was receiving
Ichange his piace of residence} Marun said he was Rowyoccanional mail from his par pares
jHe reealied that et the news!working en his dissertation, aents, Mr. and Mra, John HH:
conference he had said authori iproblem in the field of statia- Martin of Ellensburg, Weab. |
had assured him he could tea, at the Institute of Mathe-ithruugh Post Office Dox 4i4 at)
wherever wo chonss.” matics cf ths Soviet Acedemy! Moscow's central post office, ver
Renantty, he eal he had ap-lo? Betences. He cald ho had!deciined be give,
who ip.ind for o change of residence paseed the oral examinations! Leningrad

i

i

 

  
     

eet
DEFECTION A PROT ES? s [

 

 

aaa eee

(States cipher syatems and with;
ibrenkise Fund shalyting wi . .
secret coies,
j, At the mivting in the
[Murkn said his Visitusionmants
jwith fe an the Govier Uatog:
stemmed largely from the fact
Unat ke had come without knows ‘
ing mouch about what he exiled!
eSovedt realiry.” .
He mit he was not a Com-|
munst 22d had no intention of; . -
{Joning tne party. His defection!
{Was saAiniy an act of protest)
agaias2 Uniled States mtelit+|
tees, he paid.
He adéed that his im .
of the Soviet Union had bess : poet 7 -

 

jmagumse, USSR. Like all prop.
fogands journals, he said. sen
was 2pt to paint the situation . . .
in the Soviet Union in samen. a8 ane

  
 
     
 
 

 

Lun sacd he had discovered thet
reading .

 

Seapets

 

op meenee

 
 

BAe ae oer

 

 

"EMP. 3s00P

 

2222 a
R137 : At
NIGHTLEAD RARTIN

LENINGRAD, RUSSIA, JUNE O5<CREUTERS)-A VISITING HARVARD
PROFESSOR TODAY DENIED WE HAD BEEN. !% CONTACT WITH WILLIAM.
HARTIN, S1, AN AMERICAN CODE EXPERT WHO DEFECTED TO RUSSIA IN
“jseo-witH BERNOM MITCHELL, ANOTHER ERPLOYE OF THE SUPER}

SECRET NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY,

TE DENIAL CAME FROM DR, HAROLD BERMAN, HARVARD PROFESSOR
Of SOVIET LAY, ¥¥O SAID KE KAD NOT BEEN CONTACTED BY THE BLOND,
BESPECTACLED #ARTIN«

VISITING JAZZAAN BENW\’ GOODMAN TOLD A REUTERS CORRESPONDENT
LAST HIGHT THAT HE AND U.S. CULTURAL ATTACHE TERRENCE F.
CATHERRAW RET BARTIN’ BY ‘CHAKCE ON A LENINGRAD ETREET LAST
WEDRESDAY

GOODKAH, HERE ON A SOVIET CONCERT TCUR, SAID HARTIR CAHE
UP TO HIM AND CATHERHAN AND ASKED HOW HE COULD GET IN TOUCH
WITH PROF. BERR AW.

MARTIN “TOLD AE WE NEEDED A LAVYER BADLY,” GOODMAN REPORTED.
MARTIN DID NOT S&Y UHY.

CATHERMAN SAID HR AND GOODMAN WHO GAVE HIS FINAL CONCERT
HERE LAST HIGHT, ADVISED HAATIN--KNOWN AS “THE HOTTEST
DEFECTOR ARGUYD NERE*=-TO CONTACT BERMAN AT HIS HOTEL.

GOODMAN ADDED, “I TOLD TH® EAN (MARTIN) WHO T WAS AND
WE REPLIED! "CSE, "1 AM SORRY, BUT I JUST DOW'T HAPPEH TO
LIKE YOUR RUSTC.

HARTIN, VEO YORKS AT THE WATHEMATICS INSTITUTE HERE UNDER
THE HAE °S0xOLOVeYY,” TOLD @ CORRESPONDENT LAST EER WE
WAS “DISTLLUSIONED” WITH SOME ASPECTS OF SOVIET LIFE

OFFICIALS AY THE MATHERATICS INSTITUTE CONFIRHED TODAY THAT
y HARTIN VORKED: THERE, BUT THEY REFUSED TO GIVE HIS WORE

27715

 

 
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
      
 
    
 
    
 
   
   
 

 

|
|

ras ae ee et

 

Lo a _ Ataay
re Wari 27018

N\ XV C ¢ \n oW
WERTIS, illies Henilten ‘The following information is USCLASSIFIEDs ,
: SITCKELL, Bernea Pergusen
Defeeted June 1960 Wiliiem Rantlten YASTIO and Bernesn Ferguson KITCHELL
: of the Fetioml Security agonoy, Ft. Kosta, Yaryland,
left Lowel, tsrylond, where they were both residing

on 24 June 1960, ortenaibly te drive to the <est Coast
te eee th:iir families, ‘hon they felled to return te
their jebs at the end of their vacation peried (11
daly 1960), 2% was leammei thst thoy hed gone to
Yerkes and thense te Ouba where they had cbteined .
trenaportation te Use USM, On 6 Septenbsr 1960
; HARTIA end KLIVAKLL eppeared before a televised presa ¢
whe. nue wee oe conferenca in the fieuse ef dournaliste in Moscow, and |
a : in a scathing denouncenosnt of the United states, gave ©
their reasons fer leaving thelr country am! fer asaiing
Serict aitizenship, The tuo msn were hired ty the
Nationa, Seorrity Agency in 1957. both hed previously
served in tha United ‘tates Nevy where they hod tecens
Srienis, Shortly before hic flight from the United
States, FITCHELL had had three one-hour ecosiane vith
& psychiatrist. Ouring these cesalonp MITMALL roo
pertedly disoussed his “doulnsering® father, his
*evrarlyepratestivo" methar and hie effaire with beth
eon ond vomen, KANTIN was. bom in colusbus, Georgia
on 27 Fay 1931, Hie parents now reside ct Kiensturyh,

Co . | > Washingtem, MITCHELL vue born in Sea Prancieze,
’ Califermmie on 11 Mereh 1929, and his percents ac
reside at igreka, Califoribis |

 

ao aen 33

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
       

 

 
 

   
  
 

 

foeliies and | ile
having vacen it oe. Celectec
surfecine orese interview trat
& year or more befere) but night have ¢
Aintimicated by Lisenhover, Trosan, Loire, ete. statenznts tnet ne ard :dtehell
should se shot ... his impressions cf wrat it would te Like in USSR nad com
from Vit= and other Soviet orsvavarnaa narazines waier were overly rosy «oe
complained Sovs had oromiced se could live anywhere but wovicn't let hin leeve
seningrad, which he wanted to do becavee is scuthern wife cot agthna in the
dary climate there oe. Sovs Cid keep salary vromin2: ¢.500 rubles a month
($555), which ebout equal te ais US salary but cers ideravly mere than Soviets
‘got for doing Sane WOrK eee mot a commaist and ny intention of becoming one
eee Cccasional mail from parents.

dives pi:

 

  

  

  

: 25 dune 12. Reuters renorts on this date recounted an’ episode told to
their ceninprac correszonment by Senny Ceednan, vtho on tour in USSR with nig
band. freviovs evening whilct out strolling with Terrence Catherman, he had
been acproached by Martin ~ in ancther so-called chance encounter, Martin
looxed in the pink and asked £f£zthegrsez harriedly if the: vere lawrers, sr-ing
he needed one dagly, when Gocdman tols hin wio he was, ilartin said he was
sorry but didn'( like his music, ile aszed if they would contact visiting
Harvard professor (of Soviet law) Harelt Serman and make an azpointaent for
hin, wiich they declined to do but. gave Aim Eermxan's hotel and room maber..
The two Reuters revorts ere contradictery as to whether “artin contacted Lerzan;
in ene case, “erman reportediy said ‘artin did not contact hia, while in th
other ne revor’edly refced to say, (C2fisials at Steklov Institute confirned

 

 

 

\ that Hartin was employed there but refused to give his home address,

26 June 1962, The Fanzok Post carried the pist of the three-hour cafe

interview.

vo

Be wy fe ya

 
  

   

Spiene’m

fe Zeiten, in denen ein- ausyehthiter
Adsalz am Schuh und die Kalthlutigkest
eines Vertreters geniigten, um Spion rm

“werden, gchéren allmihlich é@ee Vergangen-
, heit an. Der kalte Krieg gebar cine ganz

neue Art Spicne: Manner, die tm gehvisten
3. Zimmer am Schreibliach mit Rechenschieber
und Elektronentirn arbeiten und fur fhre
: “alten Tage aus cine Swaappension rechnen
} darfen,

Hine hohe Schuio hir diesen neuen Trp |
des Spiers ist die amerikanische- National
Security Agency (NSA), che dem Verteidi-
Bungsmunisterium untersteh’t. Ihe Havpt- |
quartier liegt auf einem 40) Hektar grefen.
~ streng bewachten Grundstidk in Fort Mead,

  
 

 

adie, Tage
‘mit dem Kechenset ieber
. Psychalogen und Psychiator testen emarikanische Geheimdienstieute .

     

 

Maryland, etwa 36 Kilometer von Washing
ton entfemt. In den Maucrn exnes riesigen
Cebliudes sind dort die besten Ingenicure,
Physiker und Mathematiker der jungeren ,
Generation vercinigt, die die arerikanische
Reglerung aufireiben kann.

Trotz alter Geheimhaltung gibt es gee
wisse Vermutungen — sie gehen dahin. daG,
die NSA ale Haupteufgabe die Entechiilasert ,
‘Yung frerwler Gehvimeodes und die fate!
wicklung von redar- und funkiechnisdiem
Moglichke:ten zum Abfangen von Kashrich+
ten zugewiesen bekam — kurz, elektrente
sche Spicnage zum Ziel hat. .

Bie NSA, die unter den Eltercn ‘Seme-,
stern on. amerikanischen Universitéten
stindig Nachwuchs sucht, verzichtet bee
wut auf die Werbung mit dem in der
Bewerlung vielfaltig schilierndea Wort
Spionage. Im WetUauf mit der Private

  

* | industrie- um Leute, die in der Lage sind,

ganze Battcrien von Elektronengehirnen
nutzbringend elnzusetzen und kaum be-
kannte Sprachen zu sprechen und zu schrei~
ben, werden nur die Altersversorgung, line
gerer Urlaub, reichhaltige Sonalversiche-
Fung und andere Vorteile des modernen

- Splonageberufes genannt.

Heuptquelle fur das Wissen Gber die
NSA sind zwei. Ueberldufer. William HL

- Sdartin und Vernon F. Mitchell gingen im

Angust 1960 in die Sowjetunien und gaben -
dort auf einer Pressekonferenz e:nige Eln-
zefheiten bekanat, die ihnen angeblich als

‘. Code-Brecher ‘der NSA bekanst geworden

‘waren. Martin.und Mitchell berichteten, die
Vereinigten Staaten leBen absichilich Flug~
teuge an den Grenzen der Sowiesunion ente
Rangfliegen, die mit Hilfe feine> elextroni-
scher Gerite sfmtliche in Code sefunkten

* Meidungen sowjetischer Oriunasstationen
* und Flugzeuge aufnthmen. Irsccsamt seien

  

rund um den Erdball .mehr a
kanische Abhérstationen in Betrieb, mit de~
ren Hilfe stindig die in Gehewneedes uber-
mittelien internen Nachrichten von mehr
als 40 Nationen fberwacht wirden — dare
unter such die befreundeter Linder. Die
Obbirgerfte und die Auswertengsmetho-
dea wiirden von eigenen W:ssenschaftlern
@er NSA stindig vervolikammset.

+ Seit Martins und Mitchells Enthdllungen |
ist die NSA noch eifriger in hrer Geheim-
baltung als nivor. Jeder Bewerver um eine
Stelie in dem. élektronischen Spianagezen-
trum’ muB seither Verhére cuzch Psycho- ~
logen und Psschiater und ex _ Srundli~

 

    
    
       

§
 

 

 
  
 

 

o . ae

materiel with them "but not a0 iepertant and not mm very mush" os¢ usod

of their: resottlomants -- -

. US rebuttale of their previous statements, In reply to question about

, in FBIS presented letters of comeendation frou Migh NSA officials to
_ of their nentel fesultias.

 

 gafe, Martin approached Shabad, whor he said he recognized as. an Anerican,.

       
   
  

wath

te

a a \sEl. “ ~

more for political edvantage ive. propaganda? ... they didn't have wide
peseibilities so. "But of course they did a let of damaze oo. bit not se
mush ee. not an onormous amount." .Deryabin said that they apparently didn't
have mush inportant infernation, since they ware surfaced so soon, but this
was in a newspaper report and. mirht not have been his real opinions his
observationsiin tn saae newspaper article(see:Eay Grady'’s ISA fila)s Seve
will oxpleit.them for about tue years and then relegate to menial jebs Like
translating oe. if they keep hemesexuality maemg batween themselves they
probably won't be bethered by authorities, but if they approach any Russians
they sould pet 8 yours in Jail coe were probably proaised extra salary »

. taxefree, whieh they will got as leng as present intel] ehief is in power

‘ but no longer oo. little signifisanse to immediate pranting of citizenship,
eines it 15 just one way ef making sure they doen't leave. Deryabin intere
view published in Wash Daily News, 9 Sopt 60, .

 

29 wearaald
Osteter 1960, Martin married a/Soviet girl frem southern Rusela.in
Gagra, ascording te tho Washington Post and NYT for 25 and 2h Juno 1960.

iM Novoxber 1360 State tolegran #1Lh9 of this date, frem Hoseev,
Fepor ne been soen at a public cencert, at which tims the
Newsweck sorrespenient had learned that “artin had married a Seviet girl
ard was living in @ hotel, She was not along. at tho. soncerts. M and ¥
- left in.s chauffewed- car, Agcarding te AEDAZZLE, KOB waa- taking care

Hoverbor 1960, Hartin ant bride moved te Leningrad, Mitehell may have
wore ere toe at-the game tine, sine he was later reported te bo living

°19G0- ol. Macha (ited inn Keen ad Ware etieg Art tty Poe

"4 Docenbor 1960, FBIS reperted a brosdcast of « TASS interview wth
thon, re @ statononts from firat interview and rebu®ting tho .

theig impressions of Soviet life, they cabd stereotyped reolies about
Seviet culture, friendliness, ote. Hartin esid he amd Hitehell wanted
te do peaceful work in mathematics. “My wife is also going te do scientifie
work, She is a wonderful Soviet girl, an excallent hovsekeeper, and I am
very happy with her." A TASS broadcast reperted the next day (20 Dea)

Martin, in attenpt te refute charges that M ami M not in fell pessession
Dev.mcer 1%OO ove Jonwore 'Vel. dee oret ve

= 2) and 25 June 1962. NYT and. Kashington Post reported so-called :
chance encounter between Uartin and theodore shaoad of the NYT in a ieningrad

 

and talked to -him.for‘three hours; Said he had been Living in “eninsrad since
’ November 1968 = under the assumed name of Vladislav Antcrovich Jokolovskiy
(picked from phone book} since he acraid US agents would'ret him, Living
comfortably with 29-year-old wife in two-room apartament overlooking eva in
. a southeast district of the city, ax! vorking at Steklov “athenaties institute

SECRET

espa gipiet es vena me GRR IIMET BROT

   
100000 . . . .
. . 7

    
   
   
  

 

  

 

‘ fl . “3 oo . “

. ; “ wae a ' ; . :

: ¥® December {P40 _ . . .

} . ; eo. whee . oe : : j

i i cant ; ; 7 : Be ae?
_ | INCOMING TELEGRAM - Department of State may
f : ; 4

i CONFIDENTIAL .

i Classification Control: 5166 . i :
. Rec'd: January 11, 196% oe
i 9:08 a.m. Po
t FROM: Moscow - : :

1 t
i. TO: Seoretary of State ee epee ene Loe Bh sent ”
NO: 1608, January 11, 4 pom. ;

, . ;

: American exchange student returning from Léningrad reports

5 Tania Cezevska, American student at Leningrad University,

f OSD was shopping in Leningrad department store just before er

i ARMY Christmas, when she was approached by American defector : 7

i NAVY william H. Martin, likewise shopping. They had apparently

: AIR once shared Russian language course. Martin accompanied
Ree by "mousy" Russian whom he introduced as his wife.
' Exchanged few words, then wished merry Christmas.and . :
Fe - left. He is reportedly in Mathematics Institute Leningrad ,,
and Leningrad rumor places his companion Mitchell “sone~ :

where in South", | _ an . . i
i © The Kocerd as iy te folick, of Fifa, oa

h
i

i

aa 0 Aap 26.4.61 Memo ¥s , '

H Tb CHZEVSKA TS Fol e a ene A tncd eg rediadle ferergn THOMPSON

Ms; ettsi te, MB GAB EE wre
i 3

i

1

j

 

   
 
 

  

Sem hed sepeted that cat wha Mev ads
"ore tric doe She in wand - OA LC HAN ge Seeislerthy, 2d |
Motes ee .

    

 

y at Leningyed K-49 MylinsPa ya Wa bieizA nay a San Wife priuw at. ty Iiveg
eo Maee Wilh him» Abort 600 thadente bird There erg fact syn dychanye Arctiats,
D mecrally Vhaporme 2 2 Sure 2 nizegeners, Clr fourced ens in Seth, Joma flu);

    

     
 

        
   
   
         
 

fe
yea

sey SY Ka Grecdy't C154

ye my SECRET

 

AYa

 

      

, ye ,

y WARTIN Willies Zanilten, 201~282338- | A 2 778, ;
: 27 Hay 1931, Columbus, Ceorgia : . HBr AL Tike
H os Vathematician; eryptolecist at (SA. Resided Ellensburg, “ash., before noving Prheede

Information 4s frou Unewerican Activities C'ttee revort, 13.8.62, except as noted \
soe t

1951-65, Enlisted eryotolopist in US Navy. . i

195°-56. tray civilian cryptologist in Japan, upon discharge from Navy tovr.
1956-57. Returned to finish school at University of Wash., Seattlp. ES

' 8 March 1557. Interviewed by NSA recruiters

i vq: 8 duly 1957, Reported for duty at NSA, Tort Meade, Md., as GS-7 mathe- : wees
, maticlan, «(irec on basis of academic record, recommendation of an KSA supere :

\ visor who had known him aryi Mitchell in the “avy, and recruiter's recosnendation.
1
{
i
{
t
i
i

Soon after, National arency check; polygraph at ICA. NSA seevrity evale
vator found net ning deroratory, altnovgh backgreumd investigation had revealed
aveh comments as the followine:; insufferable evotist ... effeminate ... not

- wholly normal ...- rather irresnonsible ... misht be swayed by flattery os.
’ ferrer supervisors in Aray and ‘iavy were almozt unanimous in not wanting hia
to work for then again, bat with only one excentaon they sav no reason why ,
Poo. hw couldn't have access to clansified inform.tion, NSA security evaluator
H sO sew nothing risky in this personality, and the results of the investigation
ae were nol piven to the USA personnel office or to any other office concermd
: with his hiring.

i
\ Li Aveust 1957, Interim clearsme cranted.

| ; 28 Aupust 1957. NSA requested Navy run full field investigation.
i

| hl Septemter 1957. He took the Security Inoctrination Cath and was given
a badge crantinz him access up throurch Top Secrat.

  
    
     

22 April 1555. NSA. received Navy ts investigation report.

aa

   

  

   

   

O88 1952. Full clearance granted. 7 So . oy oes

e€ . 7 7

Ay .1959, He went to Itlinois University on an XSA fellowship to get an IA
: 8 in rath. FBI discovered he was associating with Communist Party members there,
‘ ° 2 but because ESA had teint net told thaa their tin. ‘lartin was poine to be in

Pn Illinois for a wnile, FSI cid not realize it was same man ani did not renort

po info to NSA. He Clee back te Wath m tue Spring of 1D pur Newt ance 1VhGs sothat he
23 —— ’ OVER D |
s

ce

accordine to tnesr statement at the Moscow vress conference which they were
surfaced, However, this statement may conflict with an AEDACCLE report that
os, 2, +, they were unger SOB develocment for some time before defection and defected
Sao because of some inpending danger that world have led to their detection, Five hast
~~) tig iets contacy ef Levi thesege ches Shee wee
* December 1959. Went to Cuba with. Mitchell, without NSA permission and
against its cirectives, Undated infcmation in CAC report, davbtless vertaine
' ” ing to this period if not before, said he was a masochist zm an agnostic; out-

,, Spoken against lS and for SJ, which latter knam to several dozen NSA eaplovees -

Sut not to KSA security office. ~ SECRET - 201 - 22 4% Z

ee a eS at

 
  

-- Prior September 1959. This world have been when they decided to defect,

   
  
  
 
 

 

em veate gee

         
 

(ftostnate-10072] Co ;

  
   
  
    
    
   
    
     

 

   

     

 

- . * rt ‘ane 2 .
% SECRET
boone
EX - 786 .
. 5 December 1966 ; :
: MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
bens ce <i! SUBJECT: American Defectors to the USSR" CO mes

i
i

t

i

i

! 1, The attached material was part of a soft file entitled

i "American Defectors to the USSR", which was sect up by SR/6

' (Support) around 1960 and maintained by varlous SR components
j untilca, 1963, The cornpilations were derived froma variety
; of sourccs, and contain both classificd and overt data,

|
f
i
i
j

— 2, Inthe fall of 1966, the files were turned over to Cl Co Se
Staff, In imost instances, basic information was then abstracted ° :
: for the US Defector Machine Program, Inall instances in which ; Cee OY
| s cae the material was unique, or represented a valuable collation effort,
i it has been incorporated into the appropriate 201 file, along with
i a copy of this memorandum,

 
    

3, it ie suggested that any disse:ination of this data should
be coordinated with SB Division and with CI.Staff (CI/MRO), in
view of the frequently inadequate sourcing and of the fact that
disseminations have already been made through the US Defector

_ Machine Program, “4 :

    
   
       
 

 

 

 

Orig - CI/MRO

1- RID/FI
~1- SB/RMO
1- CURKA
1-CURK&ASE

    
   
 

 

 
  

ono

   

 
      
 

 

8 aud Uebel ll costd go 22 on ap, Manes. Haag 04 in, Dheg) to ahend (ft % ay

Tes eel dansees" , Hager tenetars iat bed sat callaris eraes; Trees
“thay teed fred Selets aa Ci. They weet of Courts comatilhng A bear y
reece bat’ CSA nasty kis jay FAD oe ele,

3
i
i
|
{
‘
|

 

    

 

Semen Ae fleet rina baba ara Sa et

          

  
      

May ge dat te wey

 

    

  

Fey pee t

   
74-00000

oy ay

SECRET

" June 1960. Received MA from 4ilinots.
. ee

 

 

‘+ 2h Jones 1960. They left suppesedly en two weeke leave, ‘hey _
ox olf for ca, Cuba, and the USSR, bli etek op Lente tin.

~ & Avgust 1960. An Ameriean tourist who spet.. this peried at
ute main hetel reported in 00A=3169975. (24 Oatobsr 1960) that one
evening nehe and her tour companions were at dinner they noticed two
obviously rican men at the next table, one of them carrying on an
animated conversation in ‘ussian with a group of Soviets sccompanying
then, The tour leader understood Russian and was shocked to hoar tho Auerican
telling the Soviets that Gonditions are better in the SY than in US, Soviets
rr have more freedoz than feericans, ete, ‘hen the tour group later left the
Blee via Cecechoslovakia (in a few weeks) and saw their first bestern newse
paper, they read of the M ani HM defection and were anazed to recopnize thes
as the two man in Yalta, They had net scered to be under Yoviet escort
thore whoever could the rapt group of “oviet listeners have been??? and
when seen later in the evening in the hotel, they seemed te be by thone
selves, Thay ipnored the US tourists, whe alse avoided thom because of
the opisede in the dining roem, Ineidentally, Kurushehey was at the time
_, a& hig desha nearby.

 

: st_1960. Tra Defense Departwont announsed that they wero aissing,
had been traced to Mexice and Cuba, and vere probably behind the Curtain, = -

~ oo. 6 Sepkesher 122s The Soviets held a fulle@rese press conforenss to
. . eurface oe Ce details and text of atatemente. in Kay Grady's
-= MEA £43e5 Highlights: broke with US because of disillusioment ever US
spying on allins, deliberately violating borders with U«2, RB~li7, Cal,
Glint, ete. oes details on NSA ant cedes o., decided over o year ago te
dafect soo cafaoted beomse 1) US Gevt uakes false and deceptive states
: ments, panetratos fxiubm friondly embassios, etc., 2) "In the SU ovr main
yt - walues and interests appear te be shared by a greater mumber of people” —
: and we will hense be better accepted sockgliy. and better able carry out
profeagion, and 3) Sevict wonon's talents are more enswraged and they are
. more attrestive as mates, N newspaper acgount said they grinned at each
j _.) other when this part was read.so. HT of 7 Sept 60 said "It was only when
en ‘they . gpoke ef their probless of personal aciuetsent that they seemed less
pO " gure of themselves", ani fhey milled at each other when Mitchell reed
- pergonal resarks from thelr parting statemont: "Besides the disillusionent
and eomern which we have voiced ever eertain US policies other fsetere —
have strongly motivated us to go to the SU.ses Sov Govt has offered then
. @holee of living ares, opportunity of contiming education, and assistance
. , in finding mathematies jobs at similar salary te what they got in US se.
:. they recently toured SU. :

 
   
 
 
  

 

    
 
  
 
     
  
 

’ As to how much danage they did by defecting, and how much they
‘bensfited the Soviets, estimates range from ons extreme to the other via -
‘all in-between points. Rep.McCorussk and others said that thay could’ give
aay ge much esbout NSA methods snd aachiras and ete,-that the entire systen
ef codes and-elint monitoring and ecede-breskers and ete. would have te be
revamped. The official Defense Department sccount, of course, indicated ©
that they were just jonier code-breakers and couldn't give away anything
affecting the security ef the country, AEDAZZLE's remarks are almost —
worthless because not pinned down; he had heard they brought som useful

     
      
