 

pending

New Orleans, Hunter Leake, Clay Shaw, QKENCHANT,
and ZRCLIFF

Claude Bames Capehart

 
  
    

  
 

SOL C1 AR FR-0S

Assassination Records Review Board
‘600 E Street NW + 2nd Floor » Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

December 18, 1997

; CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
Mr. John Pereira QF
Chief RELEAS ED IN FULL
Historical Review Group 2060
Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

Re: Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board’s Requests for
Additional Information and Records

Dear John:

Iam writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious
concern about the status of CIA’s responses to the Review Board's requests for
additional information and records. Although CIA has completed its responses to
several requests, and many others have been answered in part, a significant number of
requests have not been answered — including some that were made more than two
years ago. On many occasions we have been assured that responses would be
forthcoming, only to have promised dates come and go without answers. It is now
extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct
a proper follow-up ifnecessary. The issues that we can now identify as being of the
highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**)' and we request
that they be answered within the next month. We request that the remaining requests
be answered by April 1, 1998.

The remainder of this letter is divided into two 0 parts: first, a listing of the formal
requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for
information and records. Please let me know if your understanding of any of the
following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

' ‘As identified more fully below, the issues are: CLA-1 Organizational Material,
CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CIA-13 Backchannel Communications, CIA-IR-03
HTLINGUAL Documents, CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CLA-IR-07 Claude
Barnes Capehart, CLA-IR-15 Electronic “take” from Mexico City, CIA-IR-21 DRE
Monthly Operational Reports, CIA-IR-22 “A” Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

Boaro Memeers: John &. Tunheim, Chair + Henry F. Graff + Kermit £. Hall + William L. Joyce « Anna K. Nelson
Iv

\. 5— August 30, 1971 memorandum to Depary Chief, Counterintel-
ligence re HTLINGUAL—Correspondence of members of the
Government... 2. oon nnn nnn eee ener e ence renee
December 22, 1971 memorandum for the record re handling of
items to and from elected or appointed U.6, officials
¢-—Chart prepared by by Senate Select mmenittet, showing notification
of B eneral concerning mail openings
April 33, 106 1965 memorandum for files from. GIA officer] re
with Assistant Deputy Director for plans concerning
HTLINGUAL operation and  congrewional subcommittee
gs concerning tampering with | the mil,
16, 1961 memorandum chard
dngortnallieencs re HTLINGUAL wemesenmen
kat 1971 memorandum for the record re DCI’s Meatii
HTLINGU.

196 memorandtim from Richard Helms to Deputy

No, 11 Brenipte rom fuae £370 Bec Report of oe Interagency Ga
fo. L— from June e ‘agensy Com-
mittee on Intelligence (Ad toc) the 8 ane mre en oat
No. 12—March 20, 1970 letter from Ri cinta. Hoover.
No. 13—February 1, 1962 memorandum ane De Countering
¥elligence to Director, Office of Security re Projact HTLINGUAL.
No. “ye biscnson 1970 memorandum for the record Richard. Helms
with Attorney General. Mitchell on Domestic

No. es 18, 1970 jmersorandam from John Dean to the Aworney’

No. 19-—Febraary
*Toluon Te the Long Commitece
No. 20--March 2, 1963 memorandum from J. “Ea,
Tolaon, Belmont, Gale, Roxen, Sullivan, De:
No. a1 Rebrary a 1975 memorandum for the reeord re Operational
SOURDOUGH, Sao Frensisco, Calif
No. no fiers 10, yon ye from D. E. Moore to A. H. Belmont
re Projeet Hunter, Ea)
No. 23-—August 24, 1966 from “Ee em lett to W. A. Branigen .
No. 24—-May 25, 1968 Airtel from SAC, San Francisco to F’

APPENDIX
October 24, 1975 ietter from J. Edward Day to the Senate Select Com-

 
   
     
          

CONTENTS
HEARING DaYs
day, October 21, 1975... .-..-.

Witeday, Oceober'22, 1975

Fridey, October 24, 1975__ -.-

LIST OY WITNESSES
‘“Eusspay, Ocronen 31, 1975

  

snvTaL OPERATIONS
EYVITIES

 

 

     
     
 
    
  

LR, Ja,, Tennessee

  

 
   

      
   
  
  

ER, Arizona . art, Gordon, former Inapector General, Central Intelligence Agency,
HAS. 33. sare and isccompanicd by Stanley Gaines, counsi ween nen enn n ween 3
USER, Penossivania bernathy, Thomae, former staff member, Inspector General’s staf,
. Central Intelligence Agency, accompanied by Mitchell Rogovin, counsel.
HGieonon, John, former staff member, Inspector General's staff, Central
a Intelligenca Agency..----~-.---------02--0-n--- 3e-- nnn gene n-ne
y

Wronespay, Ocronen 32, 1975

, Edword J., former Postmaster General, accompanied by Jemea F.
Reilly, Gr., counsel. ....-.------. 0-22 --- ae
nouski, Jolin A., former Postmaster General.

ant, Winton M., former Postmaster General, aceompani

ant, counsel. maaan n nn ceene----- oe

james, Sr., counsel for J. Edward Day. _
lenry, former Chief Inspeetor, Postal Inspec!

ster, William, former Chlef Inapector, Postal Inapes jon Service._ -
ims, Richard, Ambaseador to tran and former Director, Central Intel-

      
   
   
 
  

hell, John, former Attorney General, sccompanied by William G.
lundlay, counsel. .......--...-------------------e
all, WwW. Raymond, Assistant Director, Intelligence
of Investigation. «
higen, William, Section Chief of Counterlintelligence, Federal
investigetion..--..-«---- :
Donnid E., former FBI Inapector
Joho A., Asaigtant Dirvctor, Legal Counsel Division,
tu of Inveitigution....----

HEARINGS EXHIBITS!

nspector Generel’s Survey of the Office of Security-..._._..-- “45
s-November 21, 1955 memorandum to Chief of Operations re
Project HTLINGUAL......o-- ae. eee ee ee ee egeeeene eee 187
S—-Muy 4, 1950 memorandum from James Angleton to Dircetor of

7, Central Intelligence re Project HTLINGUAL. __...------.--.-
£—June 3, 1971 memorandum for the record re meeting at DCI’s

~ office concerning HILINGUAL....--..- aneeenneeee seer ewes

  
     
 
    
 
   

 
 

criteria determined by the committee, Im consultation with the Central Intel-
Agency and the Federal Bureac of Toveatigation, certaln materials have bean
H from these documents, gome of which were previously elavsified, to malatain the
ty of the foternal operating procedures of the agencics lavolved, and to protect

ce nources and mecthoda. ‘Butiver deletions were made witb respect to protecting

mivacy of cettaip Individuals and ups. ‘These deletionn do not change the macettal
of these exhibits, fr (re
$6

 
13-00000

CIA-15 (HTLINGUAL)
Dear John:

The Assassination Records Review Board requests access to all files, documents, and
records related to the project code-named HTLINGLIAL_ To the extent that :
HTLINGUAL may be known by any other name or cryptonym, records related to that .
other name or cryptonym are included within the request.

Without limitation, this request should be understood to include any operational
reports, lists of names, criteria, protocols, or other documents that explain the purpose,
‘activities, accomplishments, and rationale for HTLINGUAL.

This request should be interpreted in the broadest reasonable sense. To the extent that. _
you may be-uncertain as to whether a record may be included within the scope of our
request, you should consult with us to determine whether we seek to include it. To the
extent that some or all of this request may be unnecessarily burdensome or present
difficulties that we may not have foreseen, please consult with us so that we may -

_ consider revising the request accordingly.

Sincerely,
Gunn inlee Ls
X bre yo On rs vec _—
# Olea teaser UN Cover RA opeetiam

 

 
INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
SENATE RESOLUTION 21

HEARINGS

BEFORS

COMMITTEE TO STUDY
RNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH -
ECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

UNITED STATES SENATE
NINETY-FOURTH CONGRESS
, BIRST SESSION

VOLUME 4

MAIL OPENING
OCTOBER 21, 22, AND 24, 1975

as

d for the use of the Select Committee To Study Governmental
Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

U.S, GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
‘WASHINGTON : 1976

For.sele by the 1 Anperintondan of Document WB, Governmnnt Printing Office”

‘Woshingtos, D.C. 20408 - Prios 82.40

 
13-00000

 

Mr. Barry Harrelson
October 27, 1996
Page 2
Other Histories. No response has been received to our agreement that
CIA identify within two weeks the histories that can be made available
and those that should be subject to further discussions.
CIA-8 (Intelligence community staff)

CIA had promised to provide a report to the Review Board within two
weeks. Nothing has been made available:

CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials)
We have received no materials responsive to this request. “Additionally,
no response has be received from CIA regarding the list of publications

' that are identified in an LBJ Library finding aid that the Review Board
staff provided.

CIA-10 (interagency source register)

- CIA has not yet made available the records that it had agreed to provide
within two weeks. (wes Oswald ow

CIA-11 (Duran’s original statement)

CIA has agreed to make some further attempts to locate Duran’s original ~
statement.

CIA-12 JMWAVE materials)
CIA has agreed to make materials available on a rolling basis.

Informal requests:

Spas Rankin. CIA has made the Spas Rankin file available to the Review Board.
Review Board staff researc cpntinues. When research is complete, staff

ce meungy fs Ves Code celbectian petted Joes
AO 2trA>

IN 23738. CIA is searching for cable number IN 23738 (7 July 1962). ~ Copy sont

Marilyn Murrett. CLA has made the Marilyn Murrett file available to the Review -
Board. Review Board staff research continues. When research is complete, staff

 
 

104-10336-10002

ee

 

fi Wr co
Vy : soe
wa : yr

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW « 2nd Floor « Washington, DC 20530. .
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

: CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
October 27, 1996 DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
ae RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

‘ Historical Review Group
- Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 02505

"Re: — Status of Assassination Records Review Board Requests to CIA for
Additional Information and Records

Dear Barry:
Iam writing to follow-up on our letter of October 7, 1996, regarding the status of
Assassination Records Review Board requests for information and records from the
CIA.
Formal Requests:

CIA-1

Review Board staff review continues. No CIA action needed at this time.
CIA-6 (Cables and dispatches)

CIA has agreed to make records available (or to have a response ) by
November 1, 1996.

CIA-7 (Histories)

Counterintelligence. CIA has made material available and Review Board
staff examination is ongoing.

Mexico City. The Review Board awaits CIA’s compilation of the portion
of the Mexico Station history that was shown to G. Robert Blakey.

 

Boaro Memecrs: John R. Tunheim, Chair + Henry F. Graff Kermit b. Halt William Lo Joyce - Anna K Nelson

Exreurive Dinecron: Dave Go Merrivett
13-00000

 

 

Mr. Barry Harrelson
October 27, 1996
Page 3

will discuss issues with CIA.

HTLINGUAL. It is the Review Board staff's: understanding ‘that CIA continues

its search for HTLINGUAL records and will provide an oral briefing on the

subject. It is also our understanding that some HTLINGUAL records have been
: located, but that they have not yet been made available to the. Review Board.

Recent and additional informal requests that we have discussed with you:

Operational Reports for Cuban Exile Groups. The Review Board staff has been -
unable to locate in the collection monthly operational reports for the DRE, CRC,
or MRR for the period between March 1963 and March 1964. Please advise us
whether these records exist and when we may review them.

Moscow. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding
Mosco as discussed with Michelle Combs on October 24, 1996.

Tape. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding a tape
as discussed with Irene Marr on October 24, 1996.

Please let me know of any inaccuracies in this letter or any suggestions that you have.
Thank you for your urhelp and cooperation.

 
Lk-o3

8-27-96

Notes on ARRB Requests cIK15 (fr Gunn)

HTLINGUAL: per DO/OGC/Pereira, primary collection was
destroyed in response to court order; however, documents
may/do? exist in other files plus records on numerous FOIA /
and Privacy requests and litigation.

Pereira recommended a briefing on HTLINGUAL for Gunn

Per Ellie, two DO boxes of HTLINGUAL Records at Center;
individual who would be best briefer on leave -- will

follow-up with next week.

. A

Per] rane OGC, search is under way to locate OGC
file on AL has action) -- will contact
me when located; agreed tha riefing for Gunn was

appropriate once we had details of disposition of material.

Gunn - will be over Thr. a.m. to review responses to old
requests and discuss HTLINGUAL and other new requests

rab of Gunn = €/24/ 96
x will nok ‘sole CIK-\T as Crue. \
re ques’ Bom din, av e\ TaN
A 68 Cee

aw WAP ETWS OL
