74-00000

1

ora

tee le HKHA Yoas-
“Whey sa

Havana, Cuba
29 October 1957

“SUBJECT: Reassiguent - arthur G, Vadvada -
TO : Headquarters Desk
THROUGH: Chief of Station, Havana, Cuba

1. While at Headquarters in the early part of May 1957, it was verbally
agreed that I return to Cuba for about one year, security permitting,

contacts with subversive op-ositionist elements. ‘hen goverrrental persecution
inercesed during February 1957, two of my key agents were lost, one of then
by governmental assassination, so that I wag obliged to leave Cuba temporarily
pending clarification of tn security factors involved, During my three
months “absence in PEPRIVE the local situation deteriorated; and after ny
return my position wes less favorable than it had been as a newcomer sime I
had lost assets tut nad retained the cumlative security hazards of three years
of cultivation end reeruitrent efforts. The University was, and still is,
closed, Our commmist penetration efforts are continuously harrassed by
official persecuticn of the target group, | . : .
3e Since by June 1958 I shal have spent four years in Cuba, I believe
it appropriate to subnit this letter at this tine requesting that Headquarters
begin to study the vossibilities for reassignment about June 1958, or prior
to that date if necessery. As to future assignments, I have ne reservations
or special recuests. I an willing and vepared to travel to any area
consietent with ny qualifications, Generally speaking, and for obvious
security reasons, I am interested in getting out of the Central Ameriga-
Ceribtean area if sossible. It may be recalled that I was denied an
visa in 1953, for purely technical reasons “may be c!
and

 

 

 

 

posed to a tour in any of thei
In this matter, the waters or 7 new project or
Signment would take precedence with me over personal preferences as to

  
 
  

Ce
a

4

ele Dene cette Ge

:
2
:

 

|
|
 

 

 

ou ATR DISPATCH NO, _HI-A-19)

rer ees ere
SECRET KAS. baa vee ceed
CLASSIFICATION nd A VW -

TO : Chief, WHD [Mm DATE: _7 Novesber 1557

     

- FROM : Chief of Station, daban

SUBJECT: cencra.— Aduinistrative i WM
: a aN
secein- Arthur G. VAIVADA
— oe

~~ 1. Attached herewith is a memorendum prepared by the Subject, dated
29 October 1957, calling the attention of Headquarters to the fect that
his assignment in Habana terminates in June 1958 and setting out his wishes
as to reassignment thereafter,

2. While Vaivada did not include it in his memcrandum, in recent
conversations with the case officer he has ex-se rable i st
in the possibility of being assigned under ol
saying that both he and his wife would wel ¥ rs
Subject has also said in those conversations that he would not take it

amiss if an opsortunity for reassignment outside of the Central Arerica-
Caribbean area were to become open to him at any time mior to June 1958,

3. In the opinion of the Station, Vaivada has done a very good Job.
here, having been confronted with and overcome a number of difficult

problems and situations during his tour of over three years in Habana.
The Station is happy to reccmmend that his request for reassignment be

given every consideration.
( fame Re Pal inger4
Attachments:

Memorandum of Reassignment (h copies)

Distribution:
+f - Washington w/att.
2~ Piles w/att.
4 Kovember 1957

dRP/atn

  
 

62.3

 

bey _ 70, EY
eee : rr
SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

   

—_—

> ae.

  
 

 

Reassignment - érthoy G. Vaivada
29 October 1957, Pape 2

 

he Regarding my} @ Cuba in 195) under
and as it became inc¥éas
disturbances, Z completed a
course in the writing of free-lance fiction and am thrice published, This
writing has been used as a realistic, staxzapl leven after as
provided with a notional! cy Head-
quarters. I understand that journalism e-vorn
yet if it is worled at, and financially managed through a PBORIME
checking account, it not only satisfies local ss probes bat it does not
erent disadvantages involved in setting up a full-fledged

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I set this out as a ossible suggestion to Headcuarters, but have
0 insistence as nn The notional

pro me has proved. Satisfactory in a limited sense thus
‘Yar, "tad even utilized as[—~|for actdon occasionally, tat I would be

uncertein about introducing it in a less "Americanized country than Cuba,

 

Bh Evoke

 
