ee

is are
Dee

ms, :

"Pp. S. Photographs dated 15 ry 1963 were

inserted after typing ey Ooo were

taken as [the] person Qyy < assy."
ws

  

18. The eR DVL
unidentified. There is stMl < S aible » evidence, as far as
dua

CIA is aware, that the indivi in the photograph, had any

connection with Lee Harvey OSWALD or “the assassination of

|

, |
|

- President Kennedy. - CO - . :

142, 319

“PACE
“COPY yO.

 

t

   
ee

: pouched dispatch read:

 

"45. On 22 November 1963 the Mexico Station cabled Head-
quarters at 22292 time after learning of yrs of Lee H.
OSWALD, age 24, possibly in venga ota he assassination,

and referenced its: carlier messages a 1S October and

Headquarters’ reply of 10 "e OTE Wa requested by:
q y q Y
. AES © so that Station

 

“priority pouch a ph
can check all recent conta @ for OSWALD. Forward-
ing soonest copies of “See visitor on 1 October who
could be identical with OSWALD."
16. This obviously was for comparison at the Station
which had estimated the age of the unidentified male whose
photogra aph it had-selected as having the "apparent age of 35.8

47. .The Station meanwhile had begun an exhaustive and

accelerated review of all its technical and photographic intel-

ligence. A dispatch was prepared in accordance with the

indication given in the cable of 22 November. The dispatch

. noted that photo coverage of the unidentified individual had

turned up on 4 and 15 October. The ‘~ of the 22 November 1963

Ase

    
 

"1 . Attached are a RS” photographs.

obtained.’ . S< &

: es ich appeared to be —
an American. 4 ited {an} Embassy on

4 October » &

"2. Copies-of these CO" oe were shown to the
U. S. Ambassador on 22 November 1963 and a copy of
each of the two photographs was given to Chief FBI,

_ Mexico, on that date... ..

SEGHET = ~
(002?

yO
fond

a ce eit
a —y _ menreen:
74-0000

 

(

9. It must be stressed that rss wise information the
Se ga pcessed in, "real
time." The means of wie of the infor-_

reporting of items judged

 
  
 

 

mation preclude anything BX Nl

“to be of more than nanan in acest and, therefore, noted in
summary logs. Full texts ‘of selected items require consultation
of .the tape and either a full transcription er full translation’
“or both. Photo coverage tends to become available in quantity
lots which requires scanning and selection on @ vapid and
accelerated basis in four or five day "peaks." One of the - a .
“triggers” ‘that normally operates to focus and accelerate more :
speedy review and reporting of this kind of raw intelligence is

the mention of a name. This was precisely what occurred in the

second of two conversations on 1 October, during which the

speaker said he was "Lee OSWALD." It was this information
reported by the Station to Headquarters in its First indication
on OSWALD ‘on 8 October 1963.

‘320. The Mexico Station did meso bine in its 8 October. .
report on Lee OSWALD based on Qasr information: it
coupled the data with acsersghiv>
from a sensitive a
apparently an American, who HO

on 1 October. The Station reported this detail on the 8th as

| anor ~eeacinmtnrnae nrryemmaren Henman
cone oe

on it had acquired -

   
  

of a male individual,

SServed entering an Embassy ~~

a matter of coincident fact. The Station did not assert or

ee 2 cement gt ac eeee eee gee mceninn oneenens

suggest that the data led to any deduction that the photo was in

fact OSWALD or, indeed, was in any way related to OSWALD.

SECRET

ns

~~

gtk

roo

, pace 133... 313

COPY NO.
14-00000

Ss

21. One additional element of bac round must be

Sy
S)
stipulated now as “the final “wie to understanding the
SS

  
   

relevance (or irrelevance) of th e unknown

individual placed in the AS on 23 November in’
Dallas by the FBI agent: AD ee totality of CIA Mexico"s
coverage of OSWALD' s activity & the afternoon of the 23rd

when all available coverage had been chépked?

   

12. The totality of Mexico Station coverage on or _xeasonably

inferable to be OSWALD consisted of Five, (5). voice intercepts.

ee!

_ Each of these jtens, including the text. of the raw intercepts,
. were read by, discussed with, and examined by Warren Commission
‘staffers. in Headquarters and at the Mexico Station during a stay
- £rom 8-13 April 1964. All were made available promptly to
the FBI. oO
13. At about mid-day on 1 October, the camera registered
the entry into an Embassy of a white-shirted individual. In the -
opinion of the Station, among all the persons photographed that

day, he appeared te be the only noe®S and = possibly American
‘who entered. On the chance thew wre os be an association
ace m the voice inter-

between the identification a

 
 

14. The Station’ s action was not unusual and really amounted
to an analytic "quantum leap," in terms of the primitive status
of the OSWALD identification. Many examples of a similar Kind of

thing can be found in the day- to-day record of Station-Headquarters

Seeney ok

ne

 

 
74-0000

  
  

yarren Commission -
Repor t

REFERENCE: Memorandum from rf SS to E. Henry ‘Knoche,
dated 15 April “x9 ne

oN

1. In accordance with reference request, we have examined

 

and summarized the record concerning a cropped photograph ‘that was
considered by the Warren Commission in the course of its investi-
} gation. The photograph (together with others of the. same

individual) originated from an intelligence operation conducted

 

 

in October 1963 by the CIA .

 

2. Under the extraordinary press of effort to develop infor-
mation on the assassin and the assassination, copies of the photo-
graph were made available by CIA's Mexico Station Chief on the
afternoon of 22 No venber to the local FBI representative. Later
that day, assertedly on the decision of the Ambassador, copies
“were conveyed by. an FBI representative on a special U. S. Naval
Attache flight to the Dallas office of the FBI for possible use

aa the ongoing investigation. One pho aph, cropped by the

FBI, was shown to Mrs. Marguerite Ss Lee Harvey OSWALD’ s Jo

mother) in Dallas on the cvented ob Le 1963 by an FBI
agent. - ) eo oY >. . ;
3. The Warren comers re \Y describes the sequence of
events that ultimately result Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD’s
allegation that she had been shown a cropped photo of Jack RUBY

the day before he murdered her son. A further complication

. (
a —
| | | Shu 6
SUBJECT : Review of Agency HoldingsS ag Q Photograph of
id & a ¥
SY = .
|
|
i
|
1

 
 

[roa-tore-10038 ae t (

thee Cextaat ints “ 5 Acaxcy Ir

 

   

an

FFICE OF RECTOR ; oS, T
Orrice oF Tue Dir £C (ae: rare
(eA

‘ry. David W. Belin 23 RE us
xecufive Director ; AWS
. . - . one on SS

ommission on CIA Activities LEN SS

SAS WY
Within the United States . Se. 4

ear Mr, Belin: .
‘1 am attaching, per your request of Ve

ackground materials relating to certain. questions
slet ting ts Oswald and the Warren Commission.

Tab Aisa classified Secret memorandum
aspousive to your request. Tab Bis an unclassi-
ed version, . which you can use as you see fit

4 whatever report you are prepar ing on the subject.

Bree

. Additional details are ‘available in the Office
f the Inspector General should you wish to pursue

us in greater depth. ”
, Faithfally yours, -
Lo tft

“i. H. Knoche
Assistant to the Director"

Shakey SER ,» )
mocherrrn:5/13/75 “ Ce is

wthachment: a/s _

 

cibution: an a
3- Mr. Belin watt °
oGCc -  wrofatt 9 °° tt ; cr.
iG wo/fatt ; :
}oche Chrorio wo/fatt
" Comm Correspondence = WO Jatt ;
Belin Letter Request 15 Apri wiatt -

'
Warren Coramission . Beto,
‘t

ay
«.
.
Pu
: i
os

Be5bS

 
 

Ky that, when
‘she had been shown a copy of the: é sand ee ph in her appearance

before the Commission, “Et on oo . by the FBI in Mashing-

ton in a slightly different ann
4, Although “in no way mex to Lee Harvey OSWALD or his
stay in Mexico City from the morning: of ca ‘Septenber- 1963 to the
morning of 2 October 1963, at least one set of photographs of the
unidentified man originated during OSWALD's stay there. It is
‘important, therefore, to an understanding of the acquisition and
handling of the photographs by the Mexico Station to-review what.
‘the Station ascertained and did with the information it developed:
about OSWALD in Mexico City, together with Headquarters action on
that information.
5. From all credible evidence known to this sine an,
incidentally, added since the exhaustive work of the Warren Com-.

mission), Lee Harvey OSWALD spent four WL full days and ‘two: (2)

_partial days -- about 116 hours i ~ in Mexico City from about
oY ED" m. 2 October 1963.

Oo traveler hotel, not

10:00 a.m. 27 September 1963 to
IY

    
  

His place of residence w

frequented by “singe

registered under. alias. Exh?

Comnercio -- where he was:
@stive and detailed interviews and

interrogation by the Mexican authorities and the FBI after the

‘assassination established that, in the recollection of all hotel

personnel, he left and returned late each day of his stay.
6. Allowing for the fact of late arrival and early departure,

and assuming that he slept one-third of the time of his stay

(38 or 39 hours), there remain some 78 hours of activity to be
1 ; 3 : ,
SECRET

gon!

3
mace 137 of 319

COPY NO.

 
he

accounted for.
very brief periods during 28,
coverage by CIA during th
Station had no live’-sour

7. It should be no
investigation." ‘None of the facts of his defection and stay in
the USSR and return to the U. S., A959 -- 1962, were known: to the
Mexico. Station or in
date, the bare bones
quarters in response
which had forwarded,
contact by an American for a visa to Cuba in transit to the USSR.
This was indicated and deduced from technically acquired infor- _
mation on 1 October, which was the first and only occasion on that
visit in which OSWALD was recorded as. identifying himself ~
(partially) by true name.

8. At no time during his sta Qruco City did the CIA
acquire a photo of OSWALD. | YW reyiew of all coverage ---.
- on by the Station
on 22 and 23 November ig ,

materials back to AugusS

its files before 10 October 1963. On that —
of his biography were forwarded by. Head-
to a Station cabled report of 8 October |

On a routine basis, what appeared to be | a

 

(
(

“nal can account only for

Ps Yona 1: October. ALL

- was technical. The

\ ent) coverage.

WALD was in no sense “under

CIA photo coverage of “OSWALD at any time during his Mexico trip

or stay in Mexico City.

request’ on 15 October; the Mexico Station had no photo of OSWALD

in its records,

did not have.one either. -- before 22 November 1963,

 

Moreover, although it had made a cabled

nor did it receive one from Headquarters -~ which

 

 

 

PAGE GE OS et
cory No.

renee
