 

 

 

 

' against previously

D

 

<< ie- explained -he bad te have newscarde printed, «- TURNER Sg) ea:

2 SGHET

overseas. BAST, described as "unserupulous and untrust-

worthy", is known to have attempted to contract with another
private detective for planting a remote-cantrolied bomb in the
headquarters of the Haiti Secret Police, and has been reported
te have undertaken similar extreme eseigaments for extle
groups from Haiti and the Deminican Republic. (Based en .
derogatory information on file, Des, in Mareh 1967, decided

  
   

coutemplated of
aource af information on Asia, 1. [p<

BAST, REDEX, and Wilk G&RAMPARTS
CA Staff hac provided informatfie that during January 1967,
William W, TURNER, who identified himeelf aa a free-lance

writer, visited the offices af the hols
information for a magazine article
been asked by Sol Stern of New York te gether information for
an article in the New York Times, Duriag hie visit, hewaver,
it became obvious that TURNER was primed to ask questions
about the financing of the foundation, rather than ite actual
purpose or activities, When TURNER concluded the interview
he left a calling card with the firm name “REDEX. PAGIFIC".

 
  
 
  

reportedly dismissed from the FBI in 1961, is na’
authored an article tm the November 1966 issu¢ of 5
Magazine in which he deacribes alleged wiretappin
reptitious entry, ete., performed by him while w l the FBT.
Sel Stern, whom he claimed te represent, ts asstafan
managing editor of RAMPARTS Megesine.

Role of FURR and BAST in CIA Meeting of Exile

(The foregoing has attempted to detail the contact of NOVEL
with FURR, FURR's connection with BAST, and a pesejble
comnection between BAST's organization and RAMPARTS,
The following indicates the only CIA invelvement in the chain
which might be exploited in.subsequent attenrpts to link CIA

to the entire affair | in — a
. Q ,
On 29 April 1963, J then Chief, WE/3 and mu Fa

now of Paris. Station) dizratted-a ‘fnemorandum to the C

 

 
 

404-10300-10325

. : Sok .- : at 5
an , cone
A. NOVEL Is Polygraphed by Lisyd FURR on Garrison's Charges.

Gordon Dwane NOVEL, already a fugitive wituess in the
Garrison inquiry, ia reported in the Washington prese of 27
March 1967 as having been polygraphed the previous day on the
case under investigation by Garrison. According to the preas
reports, NOVEL eubmitted to a pelygraph examization -
‘eonducted at McLean, Virginia by Lloyd FURR. In statements
to the preas, FURR indicated there was no indication of ,
. deception to NOVEL's charges that Garrison's case is a
“traudy

   

and sound device specialist. He has received publicity in the
paet for planting sound devices for the late Fulton Lewis, Jr.
in the St, Mary's County vice case in 1953 and in 1958 when he
discovered Mstening devices being used againet Bernard Goldfine.
In 1964, information was received that a Washington, D. C
firm, REDEX, operated by FURR and Richard L. BAST, was
attempting ta aell electronic equipment te Communist Chine via
an agent in Hong Kong. (TSD had unclassified contact with
. . SURR is 1962 to see equipment offered for sale by EURR.).

pre eet

CG. Richard L. BAST and REDEX.

Richard L. BAST, a Washington, D.C. private detective, gained
noteriety in 1965 by tarning up a missing witness, previously
unlocated by the Department of Justice, in connection with the
Bobby Baker case. He ie known to operate at least four
enterprisea: 1) CAPITAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION, a

|, private detective agency; 2) REDEX VIETNAM, INC., a firm

¥ which importa a variety of commodities ranging from liquor to

‘ awtomobiles inte South Vietnam, including, of late, U.S. -recruited

   
 

   
  

_ “ge-ge" girls fer a Saigon nightclub he te 3 3) REDEX
K  _GORP., a firm which sells almost anything § yy abroad,.

other than South Vietnam; and 4). CONSOLIDATED
ING., @ firm which sells small heme-te-forel,
private individuals abroad. BAST also produtes and distributes
beth positive audio and counteraudio devices In the U.S. and

§ se] / .

   

te r
ser
 

 

|
|
|
|

WH/6 in which he documeated-e dorve

   

“27 Aprit 1963, with Raymon CASS GNOL) an anti-Duvalier

whom Owen had met through « neighbor, Lloyd FURR.

_ The memorandum relates CASSAGNOL's background, family,

political stence, «fc. Reported ae siguificant by Owen ie a
statement by HAST that the following week EAST would be
sending a shiplead of arms te a CASSAGNOL-affiliated group
in the Deminican Republic. Owen goted: “Ra

GASSAGNOL gives appearance of thinking well of Richard
BAST. According to CASGAGNOL, hie brothexs Jacdust:
aise knows BAST and respects him. Thus » in epite
certain personal shortcomings from the intelligence standpoint,
does represent an establiched channel to at least one segraent
of the Haitian oppesition te Duvalier. Since according to his
own statement, BAST is supplying arms te CASSAGNOL's
groups, further transactions af thia type via BAST presumably
would not be difficult to arrange." He alao provided g detailed
fuformation oa what he learned of BAST, noting that BAST had
teentionued Dominican distrust of State and AED and the fact that
"GIA double-crossed them" (the Dominicans).

 

"Feveign Service Reserve Officer, USDS" badd
vepested 16 May 1963 kis attendance at dinner at BAST‘s home
on 27 April 1963, Owen told of his mesting with CASSAGNOL,
BAST's betention to sell arme to the Dominican Republic and
Haitian exiles, ote, He also reports that on 7 May 1963, BAST
asked him to pezform some translation work, The tranelation,
he atated, related to BAST giving a power of atterney to one
Lais MORENO Martine: of the Dominican Republic te prepare
documentation for legal establishment of REDEX CORPORATION,
G POR A, a DB branch of BAST's firm. According to Owen,
40% of the stock was to be held by the head of the DR National
Security Agency, the head of the DR secret police, and an
individual well-connected with Dominican Republic police and
intelligence groups. BAST is algo noted to have teld Owen

of an offer BAST had made to “bug" the office of the Deminican

We

 

  

con]

 
 

 

of State for the Armed Forces on behalf of Juan
Besch, BAST did not indicate to Owen if had performed
(There is no record of a clearance having been issued for
utilisation of Richard L, BAST or REDEX, }

 

 
