74-00000

 

individual whose information can be judged by routine standards.

8. Throughout the notebook there is reference to our capability

‘to check on Nosenko'’s information. It is stated that there has been
‘an? "enormous flow to the West of detailed information on the Soviet

- intelligence and security services which resulted from the numerous

defections to the West of Soviet intelligence officers and the

- successful penetrations of the Soviet Intelligence since 1954."

The March 1964 DDP memo . goes so far as to say that “the West acquired
so much information on KGB personnel, organization and modus operandi

that there .was very little which the KGB would not consider con~

; promised in some way..." While it is true that we have had some

good defectors in the past, the latter statement strains credulity.

If we examine the KGB sources available to us who could have provided

- such information, we find that there were several UP to 1955 and then

none until December 1961. Since Popov and Penkovskiy were GRU
officers, they had little detail to contribute. on the KGB; Golentewski
was Polish, so his real knowledge of the KGB was accordingly and under-
standably limited. Therefore, as of January 1962, when Goliteyn

reluctantly began to give us “information, our enormous "flew of

’infcrmation" on ‘the ‘KGB had been interrupted since 1955, and by far

the larger part of it was at least eight years old, as it had come
from Rastvorov and Deryabin. Since Deryabin had left Moscow in
September 1953, and Rastvorov in: July 1950, our best stock of KGB

info predated late 1953. Therefore, to say that the KGB would

consider almost all of its organization, personnel, and modus operandi

 
74-00000

 

compromised to the West from January 1934 up to “Penkovskiy'’s arrest
in October 1962", is a considerable exaggeration. A more balanced
statement is made in the DCI memo of 9 September 1965, which limits
the "enormous" reference to 1954. The only defector or agent who

might have been in position to provide us any volume of information

on these subjects from 1954 to 1962 was Golitsyn. himself. A better

indication of the state of our knowledge on these subjects is |
Suggested in ‘the March 1964 DDP memo in the form. of a eriticien of

Nosenko' 8 performance: "but he has brought out not a fraction of

, what would have been easily available to him on such subjects as KGB

table of organization, which he knew from 1962 to be of interest to
us..." It-is very unlikely that the KGB would equate our 1954 fund

of information with Nosenko's 1964 knowledge; the genuinely relevant

‘question is whether they would equate Golitsyn's knowledge with

Nosenko's, and that is discussed below. In fact, the March 1964 némo

. Later contradicts itself on this point, stating that before the

Nosenko defection, we had no contact with KGB officials.over many
years. ,

9. It is not easy to compare Nosenko's information with

»

‘Golitsyn's because the latter broke off contact with us before he was

‘fully debriefed, but the comparison made in the notebook should be valid

to the extent that the two men reported on the same subject matter.

Most of Golitsyn's service in the KGB was spent in school. ‘His

actual intelligence experience consisted of two.years on the

 
74-00000

 

ere

amateur must step aside.

7. There are several phases or psychological. steps which the

Nosenko operation must be divided into. There is no direct relation-

ship between them, and it is fruitless to compare information from

them. The only thread through all of them is the psychiatrist's

' assertion that he has a disturbed personality inattentive to objective
fact. These primary phases are 1962 meetings, 1964 meetings, and

/post~-defection meetings. The character of the 1962 meeting is.

conditioned by whatever motivated him to make contact; the informa~

...tien he provided is probably couched in terms of his determination

to get what he could out of us, but he was not then thinking in terms

of a relationship which would make it possible for us to see through

‘his exaggerated self-importance. The 1964 meetings probably still

had some of this attitude behind them, but the positive and negative —
ramifications of the contact had been fomenting in his disturbed mind
for over a year and a half, and the factors which led him to actually
make the break would probably have disturbed the content and clarity
of his information as well. Once he had defected, the disturbed.

elements of his personality probably were at a crisis level, as he

“had added the need to compensate for committing treason agd to

‘establish himself in an alien environment; he had not. only to rebuild

his entire life, but his. self-respect, ethics, and other aspects of
his disturbed personality. When one adds to this the psychiatrist's
findings that he is “brutally egotistic", “with no concern for the

feelings and interests of others", “undisciplined, narcissistic,

and exhibitionistic," it becomes starkly clear that this is not an

 
 

 

wrong. _ The only argument attempted consists of a ‘grave insinuation

about an American: citizen and CIA euiployee, Winters, which was ‘Later

  
 

checked and found to be without foundation, the ‘analysis asserts

   

that the Soviet intelligence documents provided by KGB officer

we Chérepanov in late 1963 support Nosenko' s information about sur~_

_veillance of Popov. However, instead of reaching the logical and

normal conclusion that these two sources confirm one another, the

* notebook reaches the opposite conclusion--because’ they support one

 

“another, they are both” suspect.

if we have no evidence, as ‘4s the case here, what. grounds are
“there for contradicting Nosenko? "Presumably the same as those for.

, suspecting Winters. If we are proceeding on. “dntuttion at this ‘point,
“tt has more than a. touch, of genuine Paranoia in it. .

oo 6.° ‘Much is nade throughout the notebook about inconsistencies

 

and discrepancies in Nosenko' 8 ‘information. This is very importanty

 

, However, before an experienced interrogator reaches significant

 

conclusions about an agent" 8 bona fides, he must weigh: call of, the.

  

7: peychological factors involved. By the time Hosenko' 8 inexperienced

 

interrogators were. Finished with him, they were of course experienced,
Bo but by that time. they were also heavily committed to condemning
 Nosenko, and the details which ‘they were covering ‘were already 50°

_. trivial, antique, or repetitive that no useful results could be

expected. In any agent operation, the case officer must be an

‘i. amateur psychologist, but in dealing with a complex defector,

particularly when a professional diagnosis has been made, the

 
74-00000

5.
in Moscow in 1949-50 and that he left Moscow in 1950; his inforna-
tion that Kovshuk (alias KOMAROV) had gone to Washington to recontact
him in 1955-56 may or may not be true, but it gave the additional clue
that Kovshuk traveled alias KOMAROV. It is really surprising that
this much information did not lead CI analysts to the agent; the only
fact that Golitsyn added to Nosenko's information is that the agent
was located in Atlantic. city. .

The notebook analysis. concludes that there waS an agent ‘being

hidden by Nosenko’s information, ‘although most of ‘the evidence giver

for this is from Nosenko. The opposite conclusion should be reached

“by objective analysis of Nosenko's statements. - Nosenke calls the

agent ANDREY and Golitsyn calls him JACK. Obviously, the Soviets
had two agents and we have found only one so far: even the notebook

analysis agrees. Nosenko had no need-to-know on either of these two

cases, and it appears that both Nosenko and Golitsyn have mixed then

up because of similarities in the cases. Nosenko's confused version,
although less confused than Golitsyn's, is much more important than
Golitsyn's, because Nosenko states categorically that as of 1962 the
Soviet agent "working in the Pentagon at that time provided valuable
information on cipher machines and related matters." Instead of ©

hiding an agent, Nosenko is giving information on the agents, one of

whom is at large right now! Golitsyn indirectly gave the opinion

that the Soviets still have a code. “Clerk in. place when he disagreed

with Nosenko about a recruitment attempt in Moscow, but this may be

‘only a dispute about the recruitment time, not the fact.

 

 
74-00000

Nosenko's conclusive evidence that there were two cases is his
identification of Kovshuk as Komarov, which made it possible for us
to check visa lists and determine that "Komarov" visited Washington
in 1957. Golitsyn's JACK, on the other hand, confessed that the
Soviet had recontacted him in 1955. Although Golitsyn did not know
specifically why Kovshuk went to Washington, or his alias, he
identified "Zomarov's" photo as Kovshuk. The recontact TDY Y officer —

in Golitsyn' s story was Yuriy Novikov; the ‘notebook does: “not indicate

whether Novikov did come to Washington in 1955.

‘Nosenko was wrong in. one respect-—-he thought he was identifying
one important U.S. penetration, but he actually was telling us about

two! No more time should be wasted in the search for this Soviet

agent.
C. Surveillance -- The March 1964 DDP memo states that "Nosenko's

principal message to us in 1962 and again in 1964 was that the loss
of several of our most productive sources in the years 1958 through
1962 was solely the result of a comprehensive and technically ad- >
vanced system of surveillance in Moscow." Presumably this means

the loss of Popov in early 1959 (Nosenko 1962) and Penkovskty in late

' 1962 (Nosenko 19647). In my opinion this "message" is not nearly as

- dimportant as messages A and B above, although it is important.

Although all available sources in our experience testify to the

‘efficacy of Soviet surveillance in Moscow, with special emphasis on

Penkovskiy, the notebook chooses to take issue with this Nosenko

information. However, no evidence is presented to prove Nosenko

ee!

  

 
74-00000

usefulness of all KGB officers (perhaps all CI officers) is
“practically nil". Golitsyn’s was nil. This is apt to be par-
ticularly true if a requirements officer is not directly supporting +:
the case officer, as was true in the Nosenko case. Viewed in the
proper context, therefore, Nosenko's intelligence production cannot
be used in his defense, but neither can it be said honestly to cast
any doubt whatsoever on his bona fides, and the judgment. regarding
his bona fides must therefore be made on the basis of his counter-
intelligence information. .

3. Before commenting on the counterintelligence case against
him, tf feel there are some aspects of his personality analysis by the
psychiatrist which have a much stronger bearing on. the case than te

apparent in the notebook. The psychologist! s report is. only mentioned

Eh

. in passing in the notebook, but it too may shed Light on the validity
of evaluations of Nosenko's counterintelligence information which
bear on his bona fides. The psychiatrist is indirectly quoted
(presumably only in part) in the 11 May 1964 status report as follows:
"NOSENKO shows significant indications of a serious personality dis-
order." "The sociopathic aspect of his character apparently explains
his inattention to ‘objective fact’..." Once these conclusions
are reached by competent authority, the interrogator and Ci analyst
are out of their elements. It is hardly likely that a person with
a serious personality disorder, inattentive to objective fact, will

be able to provide the sort of substantial information which would

inspire faith in hin. Neither is it conceivable that he would be

 
‘[toe-10095-10151 December 1965 OT

 

Introduction: After examining the evidence of Nosenko's mala
fides in the notebook, which I assume to be the best evidence,
although not all of it, I am convinced that Nosenko is a bona fide ,
“defector. I believe the case against hin has arisen and: persisted .
because the facts have beed misconstrued, ignored, or interpreted

‘without sufficient consideration of his Psychological failings. je

 

‘recommend ‘that the case be reviewed by a new team of: cra officers.

1. There ate several references in the Nosenko ‘notebook to the ex

 

“tent and quality of the ‘intelligence he provided. In ‘the 25 March an
1964 memo to DDP, ‘ait is asserted that "A comparison of his ‘positive
intelligence with that of other Soviet ‘Bloc. intelligence officers cls _
with whom we have had an operational relationship shows that. all of .
‘them were cousistently better able to provide useful. positive intelli-
gence ‘than has been Nosenko.” Tab D of this same memo states "His
positive intelligence production is practically nil," and later:

"viewed overall, ‘however, NOSENKO's positive intelligence production

has been 80 meager for a man of his- background, training and position

as to cast doubts on his ‘bona fides, without reference ‘to ‘other |

‘

eriteria."” ALL ‘of these statementa ‘are incorrect. a

 

2. There are. three petsons: an the Clandestine Service with the

background and ‘experience to. make this judgment.” None. was ‘consulted |

 

“regarding these evaluations of Nosenko! ‘8 production ana access
agree that they are incorrect. No KGB officer has been. able to!

: Provide more useful intelligence than ‘Nosenko hass- Anteliigence

te a eee ees ee eee meting

OMEROT

   
74-00000

selected by the KGB to carry out even one of the several vital
missions which he is alleged to be on in the West. The substantive
evidence that he is not on any mission is given below. ,

4. The March 1964 memo to DDP concludes that "Those of us who
have worked with Nosenko cannot accept that he is other ‘than a KGB
plant.” This statement is also incorrect. The only officer who
worked with Nosenko who has any depth of experience with Soviet a
agents--Kisevalter--does not accept this. ‘Wo doubt. the . payehotogisr
and psychiatrist who worked with him would also dissent. Who, then,”
accepts this insidious conclusion? Only one of the officers who
worked with Nosenko had any prior experience with one of our Soviet

agents, and that was not An the field of counterintelligence. None

'of the officers was experienced ‘in counterintelligence against “the

USSR. The initial judgment that Nosenko was a plant was made by the
officer with the least Soviet experience, a bare two weeks after the

initial contact with Nosenko, on the basis of "careful comparison of

-NOSENKO's information with that provided by Anatoliy Golitsyn..." ‘

'.This is an incredible conjunction of inexperienced personnel and

crucial decision.

‘S. There are three most important items of information in

Nosenko's 1962 revelations to us. Only two \are discussed in the |

‘ notebook, so I shall begin. my comments on his CI information with .

‘the one which was omitted from discussion: oo ne ee

 
74-00000

A. Boris Belitskiy - Nosenko told us that this Soviet agent of
ours had been under Soviet control since our recruitment of hin. ‘
This was startling news to most persons who had worked on this case.
We recruited Belitskiy in 1958 and held our second series of meetings
with him in London in August 1961: At that time I worked very closely
with the case officer and polygraph operator in order to assess ~ .
Blitskiy' s bona fides, which had come under suspicion at Headquarters.
Upon our return from London, during discussion of the latest Penkovskiy
meetings, CSR informed DDP that Belitskiy was considered bona fide |
by everyone but me. Belitskiy came out to the u. s. in 1962, several
months after Hosenko compromised him, but he has not come out since
Nosenko's defection. It is inconceivable that the Soviets would
build up Belitskiy, get him past the polygraph, and then compromise
_ him. As I pointed out in my October 1964 paper on Soviet disinforma-
tion cases, Belitskiy was the first such sophisticated case run against
us, and would hardly be sacrificed needlessly just when it was ready
_ to bear fruit for the Soviets. . ~
_B. ANDREY - Nosenko stated that this was the. most important U.S.
penetration he had heard of in his entire career. "The analysis of
- this case in the notebook is very strange, to say the least. fhe com
parison of Nosenko's information with Golitsyn's shows very clearly
that Nosenko’s information was remarkably accurate and Golitsyn's
was entirely misleading! Golitsyn is said in the notebook to have
been desk officer for two years on this case! Nosenke stated quite

correctly that this agent was a cipher machine mechanic recruited

 

 
