 

 

ie .
. | SECRET

. INTERNAL USE ONLY
- ; ADDENDUM TO JOURNAL

 

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

Monday - 6 February 1978 ; f

1, (Confidential - RSG) LIAISON Kenneth Klein, House Select’
Committee on Assassinations staff, visited C&R Staff to review the
(Ortiz Ramirez file.
. 3 b :
2. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Mike Epstein, Senate Select
' Committee on Intelligence staff, called to request that we notify
Larry Devlin, former Agency employee now living in the Congo, that
~ the House Select Committee on Assassinations had requested to review
his testimony before the Church Committee.

3. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Received a call from Tom Moore,
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, who asked me questions
regarding the cables delivered on 3 February relating to the State/CIA
agreement on the role of the Ambassador. Moore asked me for the
releasing and authorizing level of the cables, and about part of one of
the cables which had been deleted from the copy provided the Committee.
I told Moore that the DCI had approved the first two cables, had initialed
one of the other two and we were confident that he was well aware of the
fourth cable. The section deleted was merely administrative instructions.

4. (Unclassified - DFM) LIAISON Called Bernard Fortman,

' printer, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, to request an additional
page of the transcript of Mr. Frank Carlucci's confirmation hearing.
Fortman said he would send it as soon as possible. It had been
inadvertently left out of the copy previously provided us.

‘
}
i
i

5. (Secret - DFM) LIAISON Received a call from Dave Bushong,
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, on the secure phone about
his investigation of narcotics trafficking by senior overnment
officials. Bushong asked me to provide another copy of a cablé previously
provided the Committee which could not be read in its entirety. He also
asked me for the references on this cable. .

 

2/330

SECRET

2 |nd . INTERHAL USE ONLY

 
