 

 

Barry,

Re-reviewing the 16 documents which the ARRB says
should be released in full led me to the following (see the
attached for my rationale):

Agree with Release in Full (RIF): 8
RIF if retiree over status is changeable: 2

RIF if ARRB will not accept substitute. code
for crypts: 5

Continue sanitized release, protecting
pseudonym: 1

The substitute suggestion for crypts applies to
documents #7, 17, 18, 19, and 21. The pseudo protection
argument applies to document #5; it also applies to #19
except that Bob Shaw has surfaced his CIA connection himself
although the DO insisted on his being our hold list. Bob
was a minor major player in the file and should be told that
his name needs to be released.

In this unique JFK law instance (and with the many
cryptonym identifications in the public domain, whether
official, inadvertent, by Agee or conspiracy buffs), the
‘best tactic to ensure credibility and ARRB cooperation in
protecting truly sensitive information would seem to be to
release Mexico City crypts if the ARRB is adamant.

a

o : ' Charles A. Briggs
1041033110371

coe *

june 14957 |
yy! , :

Note to: Brian

Subject: Status of ARRB decision on 16 documents

1. As of COB Friday, no official word if the DO is
going to appeal or not. Bill McNair called late Friday and
ask for set of the documents (apparently they did not keep a
set whe took them over). Told him OGC had a set; we
are preparing a set for him to pick-up this a.m.

2. The decision date to notify President of “appeal” is
COB Wed. If needed Bob Eatinger, OGC, will call Krislov,
White House Counsel's Office, and ask for more time. Either
way, we need Be package for the DCI ready no later then
early Tue.

: 3. Attached are notes on the 16 documents prepared by
Chuck Briggs. I basically agree with his comments, ,however,
the only “appeal issue” is. names. Inactive crypts that do.
not identity an agent/asset or a liaison relationship should
be released. Writing in substitutions or codes would be a
major undertaking. oo

4. The names in these 16 documents can probably be
released with no harm provided the individual are notified;
they are part of the story. However, this collections
contains hundreds of names of included who served/retired
under cover. Even if these 16 documents are released in
full the WH should be notified that we will be appealing |
future releases of names of such individuals.

 
