14-00000

 

   
 

   

 
    

 

: om i ‘ _ no
: . = ta
oe po
‘ ; . SOTO SSE |
“CONTINUATION OF | : - j
DISPATCH ' 8-R-C-R-B-T urcw 1201

 

 

3. We suggest that if you have not alreedy included the ANSTELL Saitinitens

"; im your planning for % July, you may wish to consider having ANSFRLL pare |
-and air a epecial proevam for that date. If technically feasible, it 4 be .
very effective to intrude ciring the day at the height of CASTRO's festivities, -
either on an unused channel or preferably on a channel being used at the tine
to broadcast the celebrations in Havana. :

 

&k. Please explore this subject with ANSPELL and, if feasible, have then
gponsor a program suitable to the occasion and the medium.

BHD OF DISPATCH

Distribution:
3 - COS, DATE

” Attachment (1)
‘Manila envelope
[:

 

[ftostorrt-o03a} ~

  

 
 

CLASSE ance

 
 
 

  
 
 
   
 

      

B-E-C-R-3-T
Tae
Chief, Task Force VW

. . : EAA URS ESE ,
. . cen ATE ULHRA
ac Oe i a ——
SF” Operational,GYROSE/AUWOLY

ACTON READ ROLES

 

- ACTION: At your discretion
_ BEF: -UFGA-b2R1 2 June 1962

1. A. D. Ring & Associates, consulting radio engineers in Usshington, D.t.,
have recently completed a study on the effectiveness of a apecial audio service to.
"the Havana area. The study is attached herewith. Its conclusions are that: 7 :

@. Operation vith tvo low-pover tranemitters and 35-fcot antennss vould
result in s. lintted audio service along the shore line and to the rising ground
dumedtately. inland. The signal would be very weak and subject to interference
frow televisicn stations on the adjacent channel and could be jamoed vith minimmn

effort.

b. A moderate tocrease in antenna height and a smnll increase in power
would increase the service only 4 small amourit and would not produce any
significant improvemsnt or render jJamaing particularly difficult.

¢. Transmission froma a height of soa 5000 feat, using only moderate
pover (100 watts to 1 kilowatt), would result in a aignificant laprovesent in ‘
service in all areas and produce « aignal requiring considerable effort to Jan. {

& Aa these conclusions gugegest, tranamissious from an airplane vould be the

moat effective, while transmissions fromthe surface with antennas of up to 35

~ feet have linited effectivenasa. Hevertheless, Reference and other debriefings
of persona coning cut of Cuba have given evidence of the apparent effectiveness
of the AMSPELL TV intruaicns in the Havana area and indicate that they are vorth
continuing until some more effective medium ie put into use. '

CONTIRUED

ve 2 Thad Or ALON

! "25 sul 1962

 

 

 

 
