   

 

 
 

| 04-10171-10043

 

 

    

 

rr NOONORANDUN FOR at RECORD
“SUBJECT: Anti-castro Cuban Activities at the Eighth World ‘toath Festival

.. oe This ‘mendrandun will out Line the activities of the anti-Castro’
- Cuban” delegation that CIA sent to Helsinki for the’ Beene World: Youth

: Featival, 2 duly - 6-August 1962.

fo 2, The delegation vas sponsored overtly by the Directorio Revolu
‘ ‘tionario. Estudiantil {DRE) and consisted of nine we wiles i
“was. to nullify the ‘effect of. the Castroite Cuban delegat “
; festival and to seek to persuade. Likely defectors trom

 
  
  
   
 

    

    

2 3s’. On the ‘opening day of ‘the festival, as delegat paraded through |
“the. at ats to the stadium, five DRE-delegates unt
_of the Cuban delegation demanding that Castro free ch po
_ical prisoners, (Reports vary on.the actual text ot the. “banner s) The.
-.Cubande gation broke ‘ranks from the. parade’ and’ attacked the DRE member's; a 7
pushing. them backward into a. ‘crowd of Finnish spectators. The Finns rallied ,
., to the aid of ‘the DRE wenbers. and a General Melee. folloved;:. :
‘later embarrassment of the Cuban ‘delegation and the festival spongora.

 

  
 
 

4, This incident was unrelated to the Finnish rioting ¢ that followed .
a for three days after the festival opened. But it is Aikely that the in-..-
- eident helped. to exacerbate the anti~communist tension that. caused the .
rioting. © Apparently" with this view, Finnish police picked up two of the
DRE members and questioned them.. After releasing them, the. police sought
"the ‘two ‘again. Unfortunstely, the’ two DRE members happened to be. riding
in & car that collided with a police ear on the night of 1 August. The
two were. jeiled overnight and released the next day with the suggestion
that they leave Finland as soon as they could. Accordingly, the whole DRE
delegation left on 2 August to go. to Germany to attend a Christian Deno-

cratic youth meeting. . co
Me - -

. 5. —— oo that the DRE group's

the festival was effective. -- 1

GABRIEL LOWS
 TPW/PBA-PROP

   

 

  
    

. SECRET

 

V6R
