74-00000

ce)

3. At the present time th®’New York District Attorney is
not contemplating prosecution of as the information
uncovered to date relates contacts with Itkin and
apparently there are no specific criminal charges against
Sergeant Graf stated that had corresponded
with Itkin, and it was assumed that itkin and have met
personally whe has been in this country. 93

 

 

 

 

 

S - [2-0
04 4. Mr. Newman stated that they had sent questions to
for via Interpol which have been answered. Mr. Newman
stated that the FBI had advised him that the FBI had previously
had an interest in 1y Mr. Newman did not state whether
the FBI had advise im of CIA's interest in 93 Mr. Newman
asked me whether we would be willing to question on other
items that they had uncovered. I stated that this posed a 4eal
problem and I was not able to give them an answer at that time.
I was concerned about certain conflicts in the event ee
answers involved information which could incriminate him. It
might be that would consider he had immunity from
prosecution when answering questions put forth by CIA,

5. I did not describe] relationship to CLA other than
to state he had in fact received some training from us and did
report to us. I intended to infer that was an informant
in a similar capacity to that which ItkinYenjoyed earlier.

6. It should be noted that all parties to the Itkin case are
talking to each other. Mr. Newman said two days before I called
on the phone the FBI advised him that CIA would discuss our
relationship with with him, Later that day in Mr.
Morgenthau's office, where I met Itkin, FBI Agent Donovan
commented that he heard I had a good meeting with Newman,

It is not beyond belief that the FBI told Itkin that I had seen

Newman about{
: jG -
HN

K, GREANE
istant General Counsel

 

 

 

 

 

 

ok! Te
ce: CCS ADCLOBE
C/CI/REA
 

[toe t0107-10134

a

off

 

OGC 69-0249

10 February 1969

 

 

 

RETuy
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD Background (oath,
Do Not Reproduce”
SUBJECT: Cc )
OF
. Qo
1. w@After meeting with Mr. Warner, Mr. and others

from the @PGLOBE staff, L telephoned Mr. Leonard Newman, Chief
of the Rackets Section, New York County District Attorney's office,
on Thursday, 6 February, and stated that I wanted to discuss a
matter not directly related to the Itkin case. I felt it was

necessary to explain to Mr. Newman that it was not the Itkin

case since we have been enjoined by the U.S. Attorney's office

from discussing the Itkin case with members of Mr. Hogan's office.
Mr. Newman's immediate question was, 'Does this involv 12
I said it did and would look forward to meeting with him at 10:30 °%3
on Friday provided the weather permitted an on-time arrival in

New York,

2. At 10:30 on Friday, 7 February, I met with Mr. Newman
and Sergeant William Graf, a police investigator assigned to the
District Attorney's office to work on the Itkin case. It appears
that Sergeant Graf, in the course of his ee ation of Itkin's
activities, came up with the information th was working
for CIA, When Sergeant Graf first talked to Mr. Newman about
this possibility, Mr. Newman thought he was jumping to conclusions
with insufficient evidence. However, Sergeant Graf, continued his
investigation and more and more evidence pointed CIA

| I specifically asked Sergeant Graf if Itkin was aware

 

of affiliation with CIA, and Sergeant Graf replied that
from evidence he had seen of the Itkin elationship
it was his opinion that Itkin does know “of affiliation with
CIA, Mr. Newman commented that if Itkin knew off —«daS
affiliation with CIA, we could be sure that this would be brought
out by Mr. F. Lee Bailey during the trial of Itkin.
