13-0

 

  

 

 
     
 

68 PANG
: cy PP
To: Assistant Deputy Director, Plans (< te
From: .

Subject: i

1. ‘The following is thef{text of a cable from Chief, SR Division, sent .

vis closed channel from at 23162) on 23 November, for the attention
"1. I desire that you consider these reactions to the Keunedy
sssassination: . . .

a. Within minutes of the first news, Moscow radio statements
fas heard in London pttributed the assassination ta "right~
ng elements." as the true identity of the believed
assassin became known 414 Moscow begin to complain that
U.S. reactionaries were using Oswald as 4@ pawn.

b. (Showa not the assignment of 13th Dept. officers to the KGB
esidency in United Nations in New York be considered
in a new light?

 
  

I discovered from@ | during our long
exceptionally valuable discussions, that one of Harold

Wilson's principal seientific advisors is Captain Ian Maxwell,

who has a long Soviet intelligence background. This may ——

shed new light on AELADIE's report. Li.e-, thet Herold Wilson ° ,
be # Soviet agent7 J. .

2. (putting it paldly, was Oswala, univi tingly or » wittingly, part of
‘a plot to murder President Kennedy in Dalles as an attempt to .
further exacerbate sectional strife and render tue U.S. Government
less ca one of dealing with Soviet initiatives over the next

ar?) (ff AELADLE's views on Wilson and the information noted in
paragraph le above have any substance (and they cannot be ignored)
this suggests that we can expect major Soviet pressures over the :
next seyeral months, for which the Soviets have made careful, .
ong-range preparations J : .

Be (fre above reference to 13th Dept. officers in New York refers tothe

presence, reported by an FBI penetration.of the KGB locally, in New York or
Washington of one or two known officers’6f the 13th Department of the 1st Chief |
Directorate (Foreign Intelligence) of the KGB. ‘This department is charged with
"liquid 33 aap oe sabotage and assassination. One of the 1)

Document Number Se -537

 

    

 
  

 

  
 
 
  

 

231 November 1968.

  
    
 

; os Disposition ~ - This document was denied: -The docament i isa memo oe .
.. Which recites the speculative thinking of an Agency officer on the assassinatio:”
of President Kennedy. The paper deals-with a possible explanation of the — ;
; assassination. He treats the problem experimentally with a thesis which i ig 0.0 fe
_... Not born out by faéts available then or later developed. The thinking .”
: ‘. expressed was imaginative but not definitive.. No decision was based on ;
: _. this paper: It appears clearly to be the type of documents contemplated for’ |
' exemption under subsection (b)(5). The document also relates information
received from : ervice. It contains information from and
‘ about a sensitive source.’ The document also identifies Agency officers and |
_ * components ani coatzins internal Agency tling instructions. This denial
i. ‘was made under the authority of exemptions (b)(1), (b) @), (b) (3) and
(b) 5). ‘

 
  

y the wey, met clandestinely with a Soviet "exchenge student" from a *
Pennsylvania university during the school year 1962-63, which suggests that .
the Soviet student is also a 13th Dept. officer or agent. Perhaps
significantly, his course of studies was in food chemistry!

3. \ you will note that Mr. Murphy's comments come without benefit of
e traces. we passed to you earlier teday, sho ‘that Oswald had contact
th a 13th Dept., representative im Mexico City.

h, Cancther recently-arrived cable, being sent to the Director tonight,
suggests that Oswald's business with the Soviet Consul was connected with his
own visa to the USSR and Cuba (in transit) and mays therefore, have been
really rather than ostensibly innocent.

- | | , 7 Ge vers) - -

 

 
