material. A copy of our schedule of fees is also enclosed.
Please note that since the FOIA neither authorizes nor
requires us to conduct research on behalf of a requester, it
will be your responsibility to examine the material to
determine if it contains information specific to your
particular concerns.

In addition, please be advised that this Agency’s
records on the assassination of President Kennedy have been
reviewed under the less restrictive disclosure provisions of
the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992. These re-reviewed records have been
transferred to the National Archives and Records
Administration (NARA) in compliance with the Act.

. x

These records are currently being re-reviewed by the
Presidentially-appointed Assassination Records Review Board
(ARRB) which, in accordance with the Records Collection Act,
has the authority to make new determinations regarding the
release of information. Following review by the Board, these
records are returned to NARA to be made available to the
public. Therefore, to obtain the most complete versions of

the records you want, you should submit your request to NARA
at the following address:

JFK Assassination Records Collection
National Archives at College Park
8601 Adelphi Road
College Park, Maryland 20740-6001

We hope we have been of assistance with your request.

_. Sincerely,
So ct

rey

et

    

pe a ie

“ wee S. Strickland ~77-—
Information and Privacy Coordinator

OIT/MSG/IP&CRD/RPM/b1lo/18APR96

Distribution:
Orig - Adse
1 - IP&CRD Chrono

1 - IP&CRD/F95-1533 GIF  (ORIS listing) .
4-- DCI/CSI/HRG Aten 404 Ames w/cdpy

incoming FYI (JF ;
1 - RPM

£reedom\RPM\06160.doc
 

 

0'7 MAY 1996 -

Ms. Patricia Lambert
5720 Owensmouth, Unit 168
Woodland Hills, California 91367

Reference: F95-1533

Dear Ms. Lambert:

This is to acknowledge receipt of your 6 September 1995
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request for ‘information on
Clay Shaw and in which you ask several questions regarding
Clay Shaw’s “association with the CIA, * and “a CIA project
named QKENCHANT (or QXENCHANT...).” Please accept our
apology for the length of time it has taken us to respond to
your 6 September letter.

Please be advised that the FOIA does not authorize or
require federal agencies to answer questions on behalf of
requesters, nor does the FOIA require us to perform research
or create records for a requester. Neither are we required
to study a body of material to see if it is related to a
specific event, activity, or incident or individual. The
FOIA provides for public access to reasonably described
records. Documents must be described sufficiently to enable
a professional employee familiar with the subject to locate
documents without an unreasonable amount of effort. This,
with few exceptions, means that the documents must be
locatable through the indexing to our various records
systems.

Notwithstanding the above, we conducted a search of our
database of previously released records and have enclosed
listings obtained under the title Shaw which may be of
interest to you. This material was located as a result of
previous thorough and diligent searches conducted in our
other records systems on behalf of earlier requesters in
response to FOIA requests and subsequent litigation for ~
information on the same subject. No records were located
under the titles QKENCHANT or QXENCHANT. As a requester in
the “commercial” category you are entitled to any pages
available at a cost of ten cents per page for copying fees.
I£ you want to order any of these items, please check tHec
items you want and return the listings to this office.
Please keep in mind that there may be duplicative documents
and inaccurate page counts. Therefore, we will advise you of
the total amount due, if any, when we send you the requested

,
