 

 

@e

bb

 

avn. Winetesa ateff agests were procesedd at
Koadquertero amd dispatchsd PCS te VAVS bringing
the totsh of PCS personnal te 23 at the eleso of
the parted. Tha rendvatiea of nay offices at RAVE
ie cexplete. ee io

RY. Sew hay vespmethility for relaying all
tratfle to and frea WAYS and erypro relay rosponaie
bility fer all BARR traffie. The office of Commumio
ations hug reestved theiz apyroved P/O for RIE ged

- have ecomeaiced pérsesassl actions on aporoxinately
, Sifey porsennel assigned at thin installation,

The tranafer of NVI to the Offtes of Legtostes

 

2) Be. WH/S/Legistiaa, to new at Jerid
for the purpece ef adjusting tha {nveatery

a.

pending erraagcneats te be sada to transfer ell
Wii uatestel held by EtPIG te Sepply Bivistoa,
‘Offies of Logistics,

2) The Plenatng itaff, Offics of Logistics, has
| aeted a3 coordinator in usttera portatoing ta
personnel, finances, cever and serurity, the
aajerity of which eve been or wlll be asteled ;
shertly. - .

3) Present plans contemplate the release af INYTO
. $8 the Office of Logistics an 1 Cesoder 1981,

All asteriel at JNTIDE bas bees inveaterted end pre=
pared for shigzent. Althosgh the iarendad ecarriiz,
the ship JOSAN, arcived at EIB eo U3 September,
loading was delayed dune te the presenes of foreign
shipping in tha area. It is anticipated that loading
will consenca on or abort 18 September and will be

eeuplated within four days,

 
}4-90009

Be

db.

Be

There is a. special intelligence aanex. to this. repere, "Counters
‘wevelotignary Activities {n Cuba," for the peried 1-15 septesber,
iseued separataly. . ; :

 

SHEAR. A draft of s lease egremeont for the RAI
progerty has been prepared und forwarded to ths emer
of the real eotate for final approval.

 

&. Elpanse

Mnevors hava been recsived fren various sources re«
garding our queries for new Cuban pesos. Two sources .

are in tha preceas of procuring poses in the escent of :

$10,000 0.8, dollira,

The funding for RINSE te in process, Bel |
‘WE/6/Pinance, 12 at UAVS te establish a eosnarctal
gat of recerda fox maintenance by the field offtco,

Tots FY 1962 obligations through 13 Septendes for
Ceban operations are $4,675,933.00. Of this total, —
$1,674,775.00 -reprosents payaceta for the mainiseance
of tho CBE and paycants for dependents of the atrike

feree threggh Septenber. .

 

J.C. RIBS
: Chie!,
Vesters Renisphore Bivisica

BOE Am /Panas¥,. Dinamo (27 Septenbar 1961)

Distribution:
@rig. EL « Addresaea

Le C/ops:

1 = A/opP/a

1 + cAnp

1 = W/Ccor3 -

Leo c/n/4 ; ‘
2 = @8/4/Placs
y-00000

Eyes bly : \
| SEERET |
282

‘Libértad) on 40 weter bsed Zrom L3G0 to 1313 local |
.tiva on Tuesdays, Thursdeys aad Saturdays. ea are
attempting te varify this elate, and an ermeuncemant -
will be sade over Yoles of Amarica as to the. exintence
of the broadcasta. . .

R. Srstotag .
1. nga trained by elese ef pariad JS septamtor
'- @e Total powder ef agenta trained: is” |
b. Total oucber of agents ia teratoing; 26
en ; a )
a. Agente crated jag: 2
be Agsate tratsod fe tradecvafe: a

“3, =FR
a. aAgects trained fe. agit/prop: 4

b, Agints in training tn agit/prop: -9 (includes two
fT wadops.)

| @. agante ready for training: 12
8. Rarentiterry a
a Agents in training: Az

db. Type of training: Small boat mandliag, reception,
yeeonnaisgence techniques. .

?. . Gomamisations » agent Type

1. Meszeces. Wi: 13 cotal - 12 reacivad, 3 sent by WAVE.

 

 
74-0000

 

2 Js

tepairs during tho period. The Principal activity
during the period revelved around pregaration and
Support of operation TEAgan, vo be imnlenented 16
Septonber. ;

_ be. The LCL, RARSARS.J, ia now ausieing add!ttonal

2.

engineering acd electrical work at the jan Juan -
| Arydock Company. Paley hos bean eatsed by: tho-lack
‘Of priority and tho daduction of saveral ‘Ravy ships
requiring. argent. répairs.- ee os

@. Captain TIRAD0 has spotted » coup Lave evew far ‘the
BAREARS J and erew nasas aed blogrsphie date have - -
‘bean submitted to Headquartere far ¢leavance,

d. Tie Cover ond Commercial scare fe engaged. tn sree -
viding fer the ships registration, nae ehsnge, and
Sover mtchanles te sllow for fatura funding and

_ Operation, = :

éamnt Agtivities ood pavelopmmts

@. ‘There waa a total of forty-tws 1% assats iavolved in

aetivities éaring the period, loside Cube there wre
- €8 agents, a@ principal egent eud @ radia cporator.

axternaily, there ware forty agent. assets cempesad of

thirty-five FM types snd five radia eperaters,

foreign diplomatic couriar,

&.° Approval waa granted fer the eooduce. of gperatica
SVIst, an exfiltrattes eparation go be izplesentes 21
cepteabar, a

@. Ca 3 depkexher seven aNAAZE agents wre terminated -
leaving @ total ef thisty tm che group.

@. The internal ra/w? eparater ERRIQUF acing signal plan”

WOTLOZ reports thet his gceep hae been epsrating a
elerdestine radio brondeast olece 12 Septaxber (Radio

eer

 
74-0000

ZAG Saar lied|

 
  

i,
PAROS Roig’ DERE y Uae tek Crcht . . a
Repent of Guu in oben oe ee ae “ay ° .

BewaeeT!
"hh, Bohesia Libre, weelily nagsazina of over 170, eco. NH

3.

6.

elrculation..
\

Jours end Trevol - cuben 6 Group Represantation

& DRE, Two tours covering Brasil, trugusy, Argentina,
and Chile,

“& CFC. Teo tours covertes chile, . Bolivia,. argentina,

Fera, Ecuador, Colowkia ‘and Fanana,
@. farigus MERA, To/mt0 nedival congreas.

é, Arvengenmnts are in ‘process to eend a owall veriety
” troupe te henico Zor propaganda valaa. The perfor
cance @211 be filued oa 14 um for oebasquent general
aoe througnout Latin: Anerica. : .

Qe Arrangosnats wera nada wtih the State Popartiene by
WR/4/secucicy. fer the facilitation of reentry fate
the Ualeed states of long-term Ceban assety diapatchsd
oa propagands. tours of Coutral gad South Amar tea.

Ceber Activities, Headquartere representative wer with:
Rojas Santawarina, and discussed his plan for PUNTO —
_ project, i.a,, satabliszent of phantom colle inaida

Ceba through mcdies ef propaganda chain letters, Yeade
quarters 19 studying tha idea with a view te posaible

trialeren on a sn0il -ssale.

polities) Action setivity

i.

cx. A geatieg was beld 9 septenbar with br. Miro Cardona
at waich tice be was ateisod by higher authority that our
Governaant regards the C20 ao the control poizt of contact
jm ies deallag with the Cuben exile and uncersroamd
activity. A basic edaiatatrative bedzet will bo allocated,
@aé ic will he is the ueighborhbeed of a ailiien dollars
por year, Ali other allocations of maney will be cn tha
basie of speelfic projecea aulraitted by the Counci! aad
approved by the Untted States, The Cutan Council will
continue te braaden its bese allowing entry of all sub-
stantial exile groups not identified with Batista or with

 

 
 

 

a6

Comminiom, Groupe wot willing co serk with the Cowecti
will be dealt with bilaterally (tha united states and
the group. ipewlyed), but iv, Mire will te kepe tnferced
of these ectivitles, Such information will be kept in-
the strictest gecrecy by Er. Miro and his specially
appeinted asaistant. 1f this arrangement should prove
ingecure, such centacts will terminate, All proslens  -
arising trea Council activities wtll. te @iscussed beeen

the C&C snd the Bureau ef AA of Stats Department. br.

|. Miro will maintain his: contact with the Ubits House for

2.

1,

‘Cases Wherein ba considexs euch centact to be urgently
fecassary, or

“agéltional Political pevelupnanta, Aftar Algh lewol

Unitad states comutuerstisa and decisies, Dr. Miro wns

inforeéd, at 2 meeting on 16 Septentior, that the respen-

aihility for the organization ead plas for eatle Cuban
jurists and Lawyers would be his, In addition, to hia
future funding “salaries” of the existing ALASAU erganio
sation, $5,660 per aonth would te previded iv. Miro or .
hig desicnee retreactive col August to suppdrt fr. Hiré's
fastion ef lawyers. to whos he bas a leng utscdink :
canpltaent., It wis sapluasteed thar thia tracafer of .
responathility mist he accosplished henuniously, without
adveras press regetion, or suport of this terk would be
withdrawn. Col. Veedeli Joimson was hired abd will be
piaced in contact with ir. Miro prior to 1 Cerober. Re
will fumerion asthe day-tceday contace hetwsen Or. Hire
and this Ageacy and the (mited States Covernuent. If waa
uada elesr te fr. Hire that hig desand tor reyponstbiliey
as ex¢lusivs sharmol te tne other profasstonal groups,
1.6., Stadante and Isher, was retected, He was told that
ary proposals he sdght wish te sake in the atedenc ang
labor fields wouljt La weleowed? as pranoting haragay and
eventuakh unliv of Cuban exile anti-Castro dlasents,

D. Paranilthayy scetvizy

Hetitice sctinity |

4. fight vessels, four Agency owned and four Cyten omed,
are available to suppore this accivity. S€ the eight

vessels, five sere oparational end three were endorgoing
74-0000

\ Cubana vie ILA act aa coordinatera for the operation,

Be

é.

&.

4.

 

tho grea. Clearances have baen obtained for: two

. AVCELT@1, ste teat, has. been recruited
‘end has agrésa fo aét as a courier for the intel see
‘in Ceba. The agent is currently on hie way to Cuba -

‘wie beat.

AHOT<34, the principal agent vz operater, using aignal
plan OQAELE, returned to Cuba via legal seana on 6
September and vas aice agaia in radio comamication
with ue as ef 1) Septeaber, fa io in ecntast with

AMVEBHL, the principal agent ef what tenains of our

intelligence cet tn Cuba.

Control ef tha CGARIZ W/T conoxinication Link waa
paseed te WAVE frem Naadunareors effactiva 14¢ Sep=
teubker - 4 :

AMWALY<4 was dispatehed. to Geneva to attexpt to ~ :
tecrule Baul CErERO Benilin, Minister of the Sational
Bank of Cuba, who ts presently attending ths sugar
conference in Switrerland, |

L | Coben airline pilot whe ta
isaftested with the Castro regime, 12 in contact
with the Madrid station and has agreed te cooperate
and reeain in place, .

 

 

Arrengoumts aro beizg made for a enclnical ‘eurvaile
lante of the charge offices ia the Cuban Eabasay,
Montevideo,

B. Tropaganda activity

l. Halter effares

 

Ge

Sperstion Pelivar, Lesigned to place sixty student/
agents of tha Lireotorio kevolacionario Rstudiaatil
(US) extle group te aplversities througheur the
“cetern Realsphere. Fregress: Tiree in place end
twenty-ene aré precasaing,

 

 

i
i
}
i
i
 

[oa-40207-10159

Ae ZEAEX vcetvity

 

25 Leprenbec 9st

eMCRARDOY POR: Deputy Dives ter (Plana)

“SRECE , Reporte on Caan Operations

for rerted. 1°15 septanber 62

rete 19 tho second RaMBaKY Tepore Of aetivirtes in’ Cabsn
Operations, ang Covers the peried lols Septerter 1942, This

tina to Sosdauartars, There was a tetel ef twantye

1. Ls
| @Lght renores Fetclved durlag the peried, (Gnd they

80 There wag 9 Sotal of fighters avears within Cube ag
: the begining of the Foportin: period tad tuentys feuy
by tha Poriod's elese, . .

b. Coment: o¢ the gevor 886nta cisparcned legally
éuring the Period, og O38at ues a rater: ee :

Castro group), tivities at the ‘alrport end peng
eatreee into. the diplomatic counml ty,

CG. Four agents gare recruited ang wo agenes Were tornio

a Ia Cceperation with the Corman Seek, ~> heve teitiatad
88 operation ko dabrie? Suber Sallors wp Pe24 turough

 

Couaisted of the following; Ning froe ez sources, fifteen,
oria a he [3 :
 

 

2e

b,

\!

@e

 

Spoxatlon Virgea del Cabea, pealgned. to explelt the
& septeabec eomiversary Of the Cuban patron gaint ag

attacke upon the church, reliaious freedos, and Crben
freedon, Lrogrese: ALL lecal and testezn Yestenbere
Sasets alerted for the ¢ septenier campaign. Zizty-
Rive ‘thousand pleses of Propagands were distributed
for mwailiag throuznoat Latin. America. The Cruzada
Foulaing Cebana (CFC) woraa's group sent eight eablos
and 100 letters in the Latin azerican area. Through

affiliate groups...

Breagoasta

Bes

Toe gyonea uewapeper sponsored tueaty-four thirty.

. widute progress over SHLE, Kinal, taxrvated against

Rerthern Ravana aod Watanzas provimeey en general entie
Castyo thomas, sven breadéasta ten. and ona kal? bours

‘daily over shert and acdius wave,

d.

Be

dé,

Ke support a Cuban eaile group preducing a waokly
thirty ainute taps for éLstribation te a number of .
Caxibbemn basin stations, and 8 weekly €ifreen utnate
tape for distriberica threugh 1AA8 channele to Central
ang South american stations, At Present cara seventy
stations participate in thig eporation,

WAVE hav assumed eentect vole with local offices ef
Swaa and radie broadcaster Luis COTE Aguete through
evtout, ;

Beginning UL septacber, Lute CONTE Agnero began short

_ wave broadcasts of rhirty sinutes éaily on five free

quencies beamed to all Cantral and south America and
Caribbean besin. :

 

Atlan Wee lumenes

er ee

SEM Wee eg
74-0000

ede

.@. Maritime broadsasts ware cancelled for pariod for

“3.

4.

vesecl waintenence,. An électrente engineer tag been
hired end construction of TV intrusion ‘equipesut has
begun. This equipsent will be used on the nari ting ;
broadcast and-be-tergeted agaiast: the Yavena area.

f, “Cuban Frecdon Committoo tuned ond directed tio:

hours. daily ovar WGB5, Miesi, and gfx hours daily
Gover WEF, Fey Yost, — ; ce :

Leaflote/Famphlets, Produstiun end distribution theeugh- —

| GUC the Hesterm NesLophore by. sources: :

1) par = 10,000
2) cre © 15,008
3) PORD © 26,000.

B. WAVE printed 4,000 Grandes nentizas (Big Lies) ao Stree :

_ 8 @ varies,
Lorisdioals .
Qe ‘Ayano, weekly newspaper: Two editions, 40,360 wy
Circulation, . : - : oO. :

>. Inforsation cewulettor, weskly: Two editions, 4,560

Clrevlatios, —
©. BAL Trinchera: Quo editicn, 2,500 im etreulation,
8. APJ Bulletiar Tso editions, 16,000 ws ctrealation,
©. IMG Bulletin: Ore edition, 5,000 WH circulations.
f. FOR Bulletin: Gus edizion, 5,000 WH circulation.

& $1 Mundo, vookly newspspar: 3,000 per weak in Mendnte
san Republie, ;

a)

  

ORC Yih ec hiblt ra BS tS wacieeaeea cou aware

FR

 

 

 
