A nest ti

   

   

invited © tne bss but ‘Rev. Feapn beh sana, spererten for S. wget,

        

‘+ refused to coment on the source of the invitation.

       
 

The above menorendua was fat information . contained in-
SuBjeatts very inconplete - .file. No attenpt was made to REKERIGEURY:
A OREOCAXEEARELIRETS |

BK a locate: or consolidate other Anformation Boncerninig
- Subject. © ee oe, . j

     
 

 

 

fa

  
 

L. at present there co not seen to be mary black nationalist (Anerican Negro)

writers residing in Paris, apart froa Williem Gardner Smith, long-time resident,
ho is now at work on a dock sbout his Siitimer trip to the USA and neatings

with black power and other civil rights activists there.

dat(, 19 January 1968 |

 

 

 

7,

6, Haynes is mentioned in Willem Gardner Smith's lest novel, "The Stone Facs*

. Els restaurant is a meeting place for all. American Negroes who visit France,His

gees% book contains the sigature of Stokely Carmichael, for whom Haynes gave a
Faruy during nis recent visit to Paris, of the Martin Iither King group which
vesiteé Paris earlier, et al. Like Smith, Haynes has a white French wife » and .

‘he is probably not cuch of a nationalist militant... .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

DISPATCH

 
   

 

FOR hase a
—

 

 

|x Isoene weouten: Z
cen CUAUFIED CESK |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1SS REFERENCE TO

 

 

_19 January 1968
HOS FIRE NUMBER

 

 

 

  
yang”

 

 

 

2. In Subjects any ectivities in ‘the c ri niet dow

  
 
  

following: a

 

Ae’ Bayard RUSET-Menter of the Young 0

Sele in 1962, etn: and orgahicer of the” Maret

   
 
  

‘Righte,, and former fiomber of the Labor r Youth: Le

front, oe,

 

Cc. “Stanley LBVISOIATetogieal Communist and _ 8aspet

. of the OPUSAs |

  

op Harry wicitieL-xccutave Vice Presi

 

cunt Leasue fron 1936 ta
. - 194, secretary. to Subject fron: 1956 to 1960, 3

v ; se
: Clarence Jowss-Genérat Counsel! to the Chand So

endint, vhe: has!

 

Secretary of the : a ;

mab ‘on Washinsianin 265 :

    

aren of the cPusa”

 

 

 

chety for Haan “9 a
| :
aguas a Comintst .

 

eted secret  senber

: . oy}
snt of “the Ghendi | Sectors for

 

a Hunan Righte;Miénber of the Xatdonel Lawye

front. an

   

 
yeann00 7 0

 

   

  
 

Ca.

Se Harry -peLAFO oite-tienber of the Yours ‘ os: srt | ea: ske wefers

Do ecning into proninence aS an | entertainer.
a La an : I. a

Be- According ‘to! a source who, ‘is. considered nroliabie, Subject not wath -

verdous: readers of dhe teeter Bima Party and of the rtelien Soctelizt party
_ 1A September 1964 in Pome; (Subject was in Rone on that date as part of a

tour of Western Eurbpe.) He allegedly didigssed with these Tealien
poll jcians the denonstrations against segregation ‘in the “Si which yere to
ue organks zed in ‘Taly aging the fortowing montha. |

he Thevctober 19682 issus of Vie tows, an Italian weedy magazine

coaned by the Italien Communist Party, (oD, carried : an article entitles’

\
4 a
‘

vghab ve Hero Ask of the President" whieh tie shore clais ned Subject wrote”

 

Por. “its exclusive piblication “the srtate » eer ‘the otra riches
question in the US and did not appear to bo directed speciticaliy to a

Pesmuntot andiences Despite, t ‘the date of ite, pubhication ths article appeared te
ns nave been wsttten« sone months before. “>

;
I.
‘

5. an ortdele sppeotng in the iaahtnaton Pest on ah Fotenber 1964 stated

 

that Subject + was 2 plang a visit to the Soviet Undone . _He weportedly

 

 

  
