 

4, Upon inquiry by me as to his affiliation with CIA he hedged
by answering that he had been with OSS and of course involved with
the Dominican Republic fracas. He had photos of himself he said
were taken in the Dominican Republic during the disturbance
picturing him with a Dominican General and also with some
American Army personnel, He stated that there are a large
number of weapons stored in the Dominican Republic. He really
stated nothing specific but played mostly on the listeners’
imagination,

5. WerBell's visit to the Pentagon to demonstrate his wares
was prompted by the fact that he had obtained information that the
Army had a requirement for a silencer for the M-16 rifle. WerBell
was looking for a contract and any help he could get.

6. He also demonstrated his silencers to some JCS military
personnel in the afternoon,

7. Ideclined WerBell's luncheon invitation and borrowed
his bag and guns during the period he was at lunch and rana
firing check and inspection of his equipment,

8. During a general discussion in the afternoon I informed
Wer Bell that the Navy had no existing requirement for silenced
handguns or the M-16-rifle. I advised him to contact Rock Island
Army Arsenal’as they had initiated the requirement for the silenced
M- 16,

9. I can best describe WerBell as a''tPEST". He has no
reservations about imposing himself on anyone in order to achieve
his end, e. g., he phoned my home at 10:00 P, M. on Friday,

11 August asking me to accompany him on Saturday morning to

see General Greene, Commandant of the Marine Corps with whom
he stated he had an appointment. I declined in a somewhat less

than gracious manner, I didn't believe he really had an appointment
but hoped he could use me to see the Marine General because I know
the General. He had obtained this information from a Marine
Colonel, I later verified the fact that he didn't see the General,

SECRET
 

[td 10256-10002]

“4

7 September 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, TSD/LSS

SUBJECT : Mitchell L. WerBell

1. On the morning of 10 August 1967 several Department
of Defense, ARPA (Advanced Research Projects Agency)
personnel and myself were assembled in a Pentagon office to’
witness a demonstration of some silenced handguns,

2 AMr, Mitchell L. WerBell entered the room
carrying a small black handbag. WerBell is a short, stocky,
flashy individual who sports a large handlebar mustache and
experiences no difficulty in letting people know he is around,

3, After introductions WerBell whipped two 22 cal,
handguns equipped with silencers from his bag and fired a
clip of live rounds from each gun into a telephone book he had
tossed on the floor. Both guns, one using 22 cal shorts the
other 22 long rifle cartridges, were well quieted, Although
Wer Bell passed the unloaded weapons around for inspection
he wouldn't permit anyone to disassemble the silencers stating
that the system was proprietary and he didn't want the tech-
nique for quieting disclosed before he had it patented. He
spared no words in extoling the superiority of his technique
stating that it was far better than anything CIA has, e. g. he
said the screen rubber-washer system that CIA used on the
22 cal, Hi Standard was much inferior to his,

Gague 4

 

SECRET
74-00000

 

 

10, The following week WerBell made numerous unsuccessful
attempts to contact me. He again phoned my home late one evening .
Il wasn't home and he left a message to call him at his office the
next day. I called his office in Atlanta, Georgia, the next day but
didn't contact him. I left a message for the secretary to pass to
him that I preferred to have no more calls made by WerBell to
my home and also that I could do nothing for him. WerBell called
back and apologized. He informed me that he had contacted Rock
Island Arsenal regarding the M-16 silencer. He stated he would
keep me informed which I said wasn't at all necessary.

ll, Ihave not heard from him since,

12, Iused my Navy cover: and was just another military
officer at his demonstrations.

Boy

TSD/MPS

 

Fi

 

 

 

SECRET oo,
