[og 40440-10009
a a — a SIGHET
an ‘INTERNAL USE ONLY -

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel
Friday - 11 November 1977

 

 

26, (Secret - RSG) BRIEFING Accompanied Pat Taylor, NFAC/CSS,
Hal Davidson and Doug George, NFAC/USSR, to a briefing of Senator.
Adlai Stevenson (D., Ill.) and several members of the Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence staff regarding Soviet anti-satellite capabilities.
(See Memo for the Record) ;

 
 
  
  

: 27, (Unclassified - - DTC) LIAISON Sidney Stembridge, pp/os,

: and L met with Professor G, Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director,
House Select Committee on Assassinations, on two security matters,

eee eee

  

a 28. (Confidential - PG) LIAISON ‘Received a follow up telephone
call from Michael Glennon, Legal Counsel, Senate. Foreign Relations

. Committee, who wished to pursue the matter of the secrecy oath former.

. DCI. Richard Helms has referred to in recent press reports. I pointed

out that George Cary had sent five sich oaths to Norvill Jones, Chief of

- Staff, and that the best way to settle on which oath Mr. Helms was referring
‘to would be to contact Mr. Helms orhis lawyer. .Mr. Glennon thanked me

and agreed that this was probably the best course of action.

 

. 29. (Internal Use Only - PG) LIAISON. “‘Telephoned Bill ‘Miller, :
Staff Director, Senate Select Committee on a to discuss

 

 

_ reimbursement to John H. Richardson, former
for Mr. Richardson's travel from Mexico to be interviewed by the
House Committee on Standards of Official’ Conduct and the Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence. I agreed to send Mr. Richardson's accounting
' for his travel to Mr. Miller immediately, in the hope that Mr. Richardson
could be reimbursed prior to his departure for Mexico
Miller referred me to Martha McDonald, of his staff, and I
contacted her, She made it clear it would not be possible te reimburse
Mr. Richardson before his departure on the return leg of his trip, but
agreed to make reimbursement as promptly as possible. We worked out
an arrangement whereby the funds could be sent to Mr. Richardson's bank
and I would advise Mr. Richardson of the deposit.

 

30, (Confidential - PG) LIAISON Received a telephone call from
Victor Kramer, Special Counsel, Senate Select Committee on Ethics, who
inquired into the status of security clearance. As I had done several times
earlier, advised Mr. Kramer that we were awaiting the requisite FBI.
action, which depended upon a document the FBlwas seeking to acquire
from the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and that I had urged FBI
representatives to accelerate the matter. Mr. Kramer thanked me for the

follow up action taken.
17052

 
