74-0000

   

 

 

 
74-00000

SECRET

- publicity business which engaged mainly in the’ production and

decoration of floats for carnivals. ‘He stated that the ROVIRA family
helped him financially to set up this business. - .

a (b) Mrs. QUESADA reported that. the ROVIRA family was
very wealthy as they.were the proprietors in Cuba of the CASTILLO RUM
‘and CINEMA REX enterprises, among others, and that Mr. ROVIRA put
VOLSKY to work in a. decorating firm which he owned.

oo ee
(ec) Aureliano IxspreTon, ‘formerly in the advertising

billboard business in Cuba, reports that when Studio Dekora was

nationalized VOLSKY was working on a large advertising plan for

‘Central America ordered by the Coca Cola bottling plant in.Cuba.

: c., Contacts ‘and Travel

' (1). VOLSKY traveled frequently while in Cuba and amassed an
.extremely large number of influential contacts. He was a member of
the Havana Biltmore Yacht and Country Club and predominately :
mingled with the upper class professional industrialists and
particularly cultivated the friendship of American journalists.

(2) ‘According: to his PRQ, VOLSKY traveled to Europe in 1957
on a pleasure trip at his own expense and also had traveled to the
United States many. times during the years he lived.in Cuba. He also

"listed frequent travel to Jamaica.

_d. Politics

» | (1) During the period before his business was nationalized,
VOLSKY is described as a socialist, who ‘had publicly said that the
future of the world is socialistic. He was avidly pro-CASTRO and
had often denounced the United States for putting up with the BATISTA
Government in Cuba which was riddled with graft, (AMOT-119 Report
AA-774/17, September 1962). :

(2) According to Tad SZULC, see Paragraph 5 below, VOLSKY

‘became disenchanted with the Regime when his business was intervened

and he spent the latter part of 1959 and most of 1960 actively
supporting anti-CASTRO activities. SZULC amplified this remark by
stating he knew of instances of VOLSKY's transporting explosives and
hand and shoulder weapons in his private car. .

(3) VOLSKY was arrested and imprisoned in La Cabana prison

uring the Invasion roundup, an event he has
made much of ever since and has used to establish counterrevolutionary

‘bona fides. ‘AMBLEAK-1, who was imprisoned during the same period, *

Stated.that VOLSKY was held for a short time, a matter of weeks, and-
probably had been included in this roundup because he was a known
‘MRP member, foreigner, or member of the middle class. According to

-Tad SZULC, VOLSKY was able to leave Cuba shortly thereafter as he had

a valid U.S. visa in his passport. VOLSKY arrived i i

22 May 1961...

5. JMWAVE Knowledge of VOLSKY Relationship with Tad SZULC

: a. On 17 September 1962 AMOT-119 presented a report to KUBARK
which contained information to the effect that VOLSKY had influence
in elements of the American press, especially the New Yor

Times and the Washington Post. This influence was derived from
Subj 's_cultivation in Cuba of American journalists, in rticular
Tad/*SZULC, currently employed as a corresponden or the Washington.

‘Bureau of the New York Times. A close relationship exists between

S8ZULC_in Washington and VOLSKY in Miami and they are in touch
periodically by both telephone and pérsonal VisitS~VODSKY 1s a

‘source of.information for SZULC and evidently influences his thinking

as is manifested by the transfer of VOLSKY's political philosophy

' into the principal thesis of a book on Cuba written by SZULC: namely
_ that Cuba -should not be attacked by the United States and that the

Cuban problem can.be solved internally. This book entitled, The

SECRET
74-0000

' dead pilot for personal reasons.

. were obtained:

SECRET i at

~ (b).. Subjact, AJBUSZYC, ‘took the name of VOLSKY from the

°

(ce). Subj ect is. a communist agent who assumed one or both
of the ‘subject. names either in an effort to erase a derogatory back-
ground or, more likely, to assume a new identity and attempt to con-

- fuse .the issue.

; (2) “still ‘in’ connection with Subject's true name, VOLSKY
deliberately withheld information when he made out his PRQ for
JMWAVE in March 1963. The PRQ specifically calls for "name at birth
if. different from Item 1" (Item I being Subject's full name).

. VOLSKY marked the item as not applicable.

. . ~ (3). ‘The slight discrepancy in education listed in paragraph
3b Should be checked into.

24S .
la ale? (4) On 8 February 1963 He§dquarters reported ‘Jorge VOLSKY as

probably identical with: one JosephyY*SKULICZ "although this still
questionable", (DIR 16243 dated 8 bruary 1963). There are no
‘Station traces’ on SKULICZ and further mention of this tentative
identification was never made hy Headquarters.

(5) Still to be. ‘explained by VOLSKY are the circumstances
surrounding his imprisonment in Russia and his joining the Polish
‘Army Service there at a time when Soviet _intelligence was attempting
to subvert those recruits..

4, Background in Cuba Prior to U.S.

a. Family ~
(1) VOLSKY reports in his PRQ that on 7 August 1948 in
Havana he married his present wife, Mercedes ROVIRA Bertran.
Immigration and Naturalization Service (I&NS) in Miami has a copy of —
this marriage certificate on file which confirms the marriage date

given above d gives the following information:

. : The full name of VOLSKY's wife is Mercedes
Antonia Juan OVIRA Bertran, daughter of Jose ROVIRA and Mercedes

BERTRAN, nativesh of Spain.

(b) VOLSKY is listed as Jorge Ajbuszyc VOLSKY, son of
Jose and Maria, natives of Poland.

(c) From 1937 to 1938 Mercedes was listed as a student

in | Santiago de Cuba and from 1938 to 1961 as a housewife in Havana‘

: “(2) The fact that Mercedes ROVIRA says she was a housewife
“in Havana from 1938 to 1961 does not coincide with the story told
above to the effect that during the war years she was the single
daughter of Jose ROVIRA in Santiago de Cuba, engaged to Jorge VOLSKY.
It is possible that she mistakenly put the year 1938 instead of
1948 on her record. However, that. leaves ten years of her life
unaccounted for in the Immigration records.

b, Business
(1) Jorge VOLSKY reported in his PRQ that he directed and

owned his own business in Cuba from November 1947 to May 1961 when
he left for the United States. This business, whichhe described as

' a-publicity office was named Dekora Studio 8S, A., P. Gomez 283, Habana,
and was subsequently confiscated by the CASTRO Government. VOLSKY

also told AMLAME-1 that in addition to his publicity business in Cuba,
he had rendered services to the Information Service of the United
States Embassy in Habana. The following reports on VOLSKY's business

(a) AMOT-119 described VOLSKY's business, DEKORA, as a

SECRET
 

}4-00000 -

  

 

 

 

 

' e
‘ ‘ :
t .
. . . aay .
oa z at . 3 . . . :
. . : .
. : hay : -
° . o . a
. a . ; ; /2
. . i :

   
14-00000

 

 

 

 

 

'
.
Fy a .
2
‘ . .
'
. i
t ,
‘4
cea .

 

        
14-00000

“SECRET

i Jerzy VOLSKY (i.e. Jorge VOLSKY) who was born in 1917 and killed in

action in 1941 and Speculated that Subject might have assumed the name
of this mant .

mo (1) In Reference A, Headquarters stated it had made an exhausti-
analysis of the allegation that Subject might have taken the name of the
‘Jerzy VOLSKY killed in action but found no indication that would justify
that conclusion. In an effort to determine why Stibject's name was car~
ried on the RAF rolis as AJBUSZYC instead of VOLSKY, it was surmised by
Headquarters that it was "understandable" because of the length of
Subject's name. In this regard, it was noted by Headquarters that
Subject had listéd his full name in his PRQ Part I as Jorge Stakistaw.
Ajbuszyc VOLSKY Kraisler, ;

Se . (2). In analyzing the above interpretation by Headquarters ,
JMWAVE felt that if the RAF were. to shorten Subject's name on their
records for brevity's sake, they would have been more likely to omit a

' Second or third name rather than his family name of VOLSKY, An investi-
gation was initiated by JMWAVE in March 1964 to attempt to clear up the
existing\cgnfusion concerning Subject's identity. AMBLEAK~1, a personal
‘friend o ubject, on instructions of his case officer contacted a Mrs,
Aurora de\¥QUESADA Miranda, a very close friend,of the family of Subject’

wife, MerceYes ROVIRA Bertran. Mrs, QUESAD, resident of the Hotel
Terrace Park in Miami, is the wife of David) SNATA Azcue, former
official of the Ministry of State of the ‘public of Cuba, and had the

' following pertinent information -to offer:.

 
 
  

(a) During the Second World. War at a session of the Havana
Rotary Club it was decided to ask members of the Club who had single
daughters to act as pen pals for officers. fighting with the Allied
armies in Europe, Mr. Jose ROVIRA presented the names of his three
Single daughters, Only one of these daughters maintained this corre-
Spondence (with two officers), one of whom was Subject, a pilot aviator
in the RAF,

. (b) According to Mrs. QUESADA, Subject's father died in
the Second World War and Jorge had joined the RAF, She stated that as
‘far aS She could remember, VOLSKY was born in Warsaw, Poland and that
the name VOLSKY was that of his mother or of a grandmother and that
his true name began with "A" and continued, she believed, with a "w"
and a ''z"',

   

(c) At the end of World War II, VOLSKY, then in London,
b pen pal, Senorita Mercedes ROVIRA and _thes—beeame—« eared;
As it was not possible for VOLSKY to obtain a visa for Cuba, he obtained

one for Ecuador and arranged to stop over in Cuba in transit,

       

- > . ‘= (d)-,Upon VOLSKY's arrival in Cuba, Source's husband, Mr.
David MASNATA, by virtue of his connection in the Cuban Ministry of
tate, was able to arrange permission for VOLSKY to remain in Cuba.
‘Within a year of his residence in Cuba, he married Miss ROVIRA and
because of the fact that his name was virtually unpronounceable, he -

decided to adopt the name of VOLSKY legally, stating that this was the
name of his mother or of a gran mother,

e. Station JMWAVE analysis of Subject's background prior to his
arrival in Cuba is inconclusive. The following points, however, are
worthy of further investigation:

(1) The fact that -the as _o i=
sumed by Subject does not totally clear him of suspicion in this
. respect. It becomes evident that YOLSKY fabricated a.name for his
‘father, that of Josef A. VOLSKY, which would fit his own- new name, If
it is assumed that VOLSKY is not the real name of Subject's father, |

three possible solutions to this puzzle emerge:

a : (a). VOLSKY is the name of a grandmother as Subject claims
. and Subject attributed it to his father to avoid lengthy explanations
-on forms, “ : m, ; ; ;

SECRET
a
VEoov00

  

: : . : . /
’ aie oe — sos d ] “ (:
ca SECRET ~ bp
7 BS SED g gga ; ‘ ; ; ;
- oo 4 Separate Cover Attachment to UFGA-17410
] wane. ser. fl ; .
iy sort Hy

  

oe - :  Odene
' SUBJECT: Jorge VOLSKY aka Jerzy Stakistaw AJBUSZYC aka\ Chico *

‘le. Introduction

; dorge VOLSKY is a Cuban citizen of Polish ona gen now a permanent
U.S. resident, who is currently employe y e USIA office in Miami
as editor of the USIA Weekly Report on Cuban Developments. VOLSKY
Came to the attention. of JMWAVE because of his extra-curricular
activities which appear to be incompatible with his position as an
employee of the U.S.-Government. A conflict of interests appears to
have developed in VOLSKY's case as a result of his position in the
USIA office in Miami, his access to various high-level Cuban refugees,
his close association with prominent American journalists Cone of _ d
whom had an entree to high members of the Kennedy Administration 10
‘and his involvement in propaganda activities for both the JURE and ag
‘the counterrevolutionary groups. Analysis shows that he has used *
-his USIA position to obtain information for a leftist political

group, has engaged in anti-US propaganda-campaigns for it, and may

be guilty of duplicity in his dealings with KUBARK. VOLSKY is a

Cuban citizen of Polish origin whose background includes a two_on

hree_year perio Russian pri my Because of this back-
ground and the nature of his present political activities, the
following compilation and analysis of the material currently avail-—
able to JMWAVE concerning VOLSKY are deemed necessary and are hereby
presented as a prerequisite to the determination of the future
course of action to be taken by KUBARK in this case.

\<

2. Original JMWAVE Operational Interest in Subject

; a. Jorge VOLSKY first became of interest to KUBARK in February
1263 when it was learned that he was the gource of an anti~CASTRO
plan known as Operational Leonardo designed to split e Cuban
Regime by the recruitment of certain elements of the Rebel Army and
Militia in the GOC. This plan had been presented to ODACID through
Tad SZULC, editorial writer of the New York Times Washington Office,
and ODACID sent it for action to KUBARK Headquarters. :

b, The disclosure of Jorge VOLSKY as the originator of Operation
Leonardo came about when a KUBARK case officer contacted SZULC at
his home in Washington concerning the plan. SZULC was reluctant at
first to reveal the name of the author but did so when the case
officer pointed out that it was necessary for KUBARK to talk to the
source in order to clear up various points. SZULC, stating that he
would rely on KUBARK's discretion to safeguard the identity of his
“source, named Jorge VOLSKY of the USIA in Miami. SZULC related:a

«Short biographic sketch of VOLSKY in which it was revealed that
during World War II, VOLSKY, a Pole, had been a prisoner of war in

' Russia.

c. At Headquarters' request JMWAVE contacted Jorge VOLSKY and
made arrangements to sponsor his plan which involved Cuban infil-
tration/exfiltration ops. It was the intention of KUBARK to use
VOLSKY only as a funding channel for the operation; however, because
of the Station's belief that the ‘operdtion's team would inform
VOLSKY in detail about operational matters, a-POA was requested on

- him, A request was also made that Headquarters check on VOLSKY's

activities prior to his arrival in Cuba. -Locally the AMOTs were

' requested to provide information on Subject's activities in Cuba.

Be) Polish Background Prior to Cuba

Using the information subsequently made available to the Station

by Subject in his PRQ Part I, submitted to JMWAVE March 1963 and. the

‘Headquarters .trace reply (Reference A) which includes information
contained in Royal Air Force and Polish exile records in London and
information on Subject recently solicited from various JMWAVE assets,

oy GY, Fo IY Fab 77 Meme
Wea. 2e99.€ SECRET ana Aortuwk—-t
([tocetot03-t0rt0 os

 

DISPATCH

_ Deputy Chief, WH/SA

 
 

CLASSIFICATION
.

      
   

U/

     
 

Chief of Station, ‘JMWAVE jr

FROM
sumer -TYPIC Operational U U
__ AMTRUNK-1
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES : v ;

Action Required: For your

ene Ee

  

B, UFGW-3377, 16 March 1964

. employee,

2.

. QKFLOWAGE for appropriate action, -

‘4

a . , Y

- Attachment: 1 .
Under Separate Cover | .
OA ale: f, an
Disttibution! f3 copy

Mow

e 4 CROSS REFERENCE To
f
'
'

  
   

   

GUL:

    
    

 

downgrading and
dactassification

our) |
Excluded frem autsmatic;

2
Py VSIA |

 
 

References:. A, UFGW-2601, 16 October 1963

ee a Forwarded as a separate attachment is a review of Subject
case which sets forth the extra curricular activities of Subject,
which appear to be incompatible with his position as an OBYOKE

ppear that an early
inquiry into his activities by QKFLOWAGE Headquarters is in-
dicated, As pointed out in the attachment, both the local
QKFLOWAGE and ODACID representatives have expressed certain
»reservations and misgivings concerning Subject's activities to
., the COS, JMWAVE.: Under such circumstances, =
. to bring certain portions of the attachment to the attention of

fc 9
yen & CO patna

vel ANDREW K, REUTEMAN

DATE TYPED . DATE DISPATCHEDs 4
20 Aug 1964 | AUG 24 154

_g HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

  
    
 
  
   

  
 
 

7a ens ———}—]
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

—
LMCROF  emee

  

Ng

        
  
  

 

 
     
         
  

 

 
   
     
  

Headquarters may wish

      
           
  

  

  

 

 
  
   
   

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA~17410

     

$ 201-352252

 
74-00000

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 . °
:
. . . nab . .
a : ae
~ V
ut : . . A

      
14-00000

yo

« *

seeReT

the following is an account and analysis of Subject's life up to his
‘entrance into Cuba in November 1947.-
. 4 . °

: a..In his PRQ Part I Subject lists his full name as Jorge
Stakistaw Ajbuszyc VOLSKY Kraisler, born 8 March 1921 in Warsaw,
Poland. He lists his parents as Josef,A. VOLSKY Zascycki, an
engineer, and Maria KRAISLER Madeirka, a medical doctor, both
deceased. : :

ne (Education) VOLSKY's PRQ states that his education consists
. of high school attended in Krakow from 1930 to 1938 and one year of
medical school at a University in Krakow. .

- . (1) USIA records (information supplied by Subject) agree
with the above, showing that he attended the St. Anna Lyceum in
Krakow from 1930 to 1938 and the Jagiellon University in Krakow from
1938 to 1939. . ,

ot (2) The Headquarters trace reply which included a London
Station check of the Royal Air Force and Polish exile World War -Tl
‘records, however, did not mention his attendance at the Jagiellon
University, stating only that Subject matriculated in 1939 in the

“St. Staszic Humanistic College in Chrzanow. (WAVE comment: Chrzanow
is West Krakow, 27 miles WNW of Krakow.) ;

c. World War II Service

(1) VOLSKY claims in his PRQ that during the years 1939.
! : : = 3 i Serial number
705740, rank: Officer - Cadet, Private Flight Sergeant. In a
different section of the PRQ he also states that he was a

of -war in Russia (1939 . This is an obvious contradiction
-within the PRQ itself that requires clarification. -

. (2) The RAF and Polish exile check (Reference A) mentioned
above confirmed service in the Royal Air Force for a person with the
name of Jerzy Stanislaw AJBUSZYC (the first three names of Subject)

“ DOB: 8 March 1921, Serial number 705740 with rank: Leading Air-
craftman Radio Telephone Operator. This record which is obviously
that of Subject showed that on 19 June 1942, while in the USSR, he
enrolled in the Polish Army Service where he served for one year
until 30 June 1943 and then enlisted in the Polish Air Force Service
under the British Operational Command on 1 July 1943 and served until
27 July 1947 when he was discharged at his own request and emigrated
to Ecuador. The Polish exile representative further noted in
Reference A that in 1942 the Soviets had attempted to subvert some
of the young Poles who were recruited at that time in the USSR fot

-Polish Army Service and that such might have been the case with

_ subject .. an :

(3) (JMWAVE Analysis) It is. interesting to note that
Subject's PRQ and USIA records which stated he’ was in the RAF from
1939 to'1947 do not agree with his official RAF records which show ;
that he did not enroll in the RAF until 1 July 1943. The RAF records
also show that he had enrolled one year earlier (19 June 1942) in
the Polish Army Service in the USSR and served in it for a full year
.before joining the RAF. However, even allowing the year 1942 as his
service induction date into the RAF, there is a discrepancy in what

. he reports in his PRQ (1939) and what the RAF record shows (1942).

It is possible that he has. falsely reported the date of his induction

. into the RAF in his PRQ in order to cover up his activities during
that period (1939-1942). This was a period of time when great numbers

' of Polish prisoners of war were shot by the Soviets. It is i

that Subject may have been subjected to RIS recruitment attempts
_ Guring this period.

d. (Name Change) In the referenced RAF and Polish exile check,

: at was ‘noted that the Polish exile liaison representative, while

“searching: the record for a Jorge VOLSKY, had found a record for one

SECRET
