74-00000

are Sect dl,

 

". wag not in @ positi¢n to avail themselves of his services but he was to
"keep in touch. The interviewing officer in Honolulu forwarded a report —— ao
‘of the visit to the Security Officer at OSS Headquarters with a comment to —
note the Dum and/Bradstreet leak and that Subject certainly knew mote | -
: about the inside of OSS than any potential recruit he ever saw and :
“i .+ Subject had never been in Washington. ; -
“ Qn 13 December 1950 Subject was Feanted a Covert Security Clearance :
2 (a Agent with Project(TFFOCUS. Ha was assigned to the aa
. 9 Chief Instructor of Clandestine Operations. He reported
; or duty & January 1951 end arrived overseas 12 March 1951. In _ mi: .

 

nis dependents were issued travel clearances to join him at the
Subject suffered a nervous breakdown in, March 1952 and
warters, Washington for medical observation. ' Examination by the
Medical Office in April 1952 concluded that Subject's breakdown was caused
by family trouble and overindulgence in alechol. ‘The Medical Office
recomanded that he should not attempt any extreme covert work but should
only accept either light semi-covert or overt duties for a probationary
. period of one year, these duties to be performed within the continental :
Limits of the United States. Subject was assigned to OTR as an instructor —
in the Operations Course in May 1952 and recommended for conversion to
ateff status efter a four-month probationary period. This transfer was
security approved in October 1952 and he received his appointment as a
GS-11 Training Instructor with OTR (Operations Training Branch). —

 

  
    
   

. In December 1952 he was found by an Agency guard lying on a sidewalk
" near Temporary Eye Building bleeding from the mouth. ‘here was no evidence
. of foul play end he wes taken to Bnergency Hospital at his ow request.

. In Jenuery 1953 when he failed to report for duty, representatives |
from the Medical Office and Security went to his residence at the Lefayette — |
Hotel where they found Subject under the influence of alcohol. He was '

requested to report for duty the next day; however » & house doctor at the

Lafayette Hotel had him removed to Callinger Hospital for intoxication

the next day after a maid found him in a state which she thought was illness,

a . He was released to the 5th Precinct Police and charged with drunkenness.
2 A Beourity Officer obtained his release. :

; vy Subject resigned 27 January 1953 after en interview by @ Security :
! , Yepresentative on 19 Jenuary 1953 at which time his resignation was requested.

On 11 July 1953 Subject called the Security Office collect from Dallas,

Texas stating he was to have a brain operation on 13 duly 1953 at Baylor
Hospital in Dallas, Texas and he wanted to know 1f an Agency representative

' could be there, Instructions were given to the 0S Chicago Field Office .
by the Deputy Director of Security to have a representative contact the head of
Baylor Hospital at Dallas, Texas and advise him that Subject had hed access
to highly classified information in which the Government head an interest;
he hed a hiebry of becoming talkative under anesthesia and that personnel
in the operating room during the course of the operation should te cautioned
not to disclose any information divulged by Subject. while under e@nesthesia.

 
    
     
 
 

0d-t 0104044

 

Faas RETURN TO GBA
eS Background Use Oni
, Bo Noe Peproduge

 

 

- 7 SUBIEON WOOD, Wilien Clarence, Jr. a
a eke WOOD, BA1L '

ake » Bill (See BOXLEY, Williem) ~
saan, Owen He Agency pseudo)

 

 

AULEGATION, == CTA COMMOTION:

.

: ; 23

5, Bill WOOD, who has been _ Applicant for Oss in 19bbaks,
identified es Williem Clarence ' Btaff Agent Jenuary 1951.

. WOOD, Jr., recently made ine Returned to U. 3. Tor nervous — :
quiries about CIA end ite : breakdown, March 1952. Approved for
operations on behalf of Jim . otaff employment with O[R in October -

“GARRISON at the Hunt O11 Company, . 1952. Asked to resign for continued —
Dallas, Texas. WOOD went to e@lcoholism in Jenuary 1953. Of Contact

| work for GARRISON using the interest in, March A967 but not used.

name "Bill BOXLEY". (See. . . oy
"summary on William BOXLEY). ; . ‘

 

SOURCE:

: DCE Memo ata 26 April “1968 : a

; | ftom Houston Office (HOU-80-68); Co re

“! §ubgect: Bll WOOD, Agent for a,
Jim GARRISON Making Inquiries ;

in Dallas.

 

 

". 08 INDICES RESULTS: oe 8

’

Review of Subject's overt and covert security files presents the
following chronology of hie employment history with the Agency.

 

: In December 1944 Subject was security approved for 055 employment to be
_-, -¥sed overseas in a writing/publishing assignment. However, he was .
-  gssigned to combat infantry duties in the Southwest Pacific Area and was

not used by OSS. Of interest in his file at this time are memoranda

recording a visit he mada to the Honolulu Office of 035 in February ighs

in which he told the office how he had been reeruited by 0S5 while

attending infentry school at Fort Benning in October 1944; that his

‘y.. Services were. to be used in originating and conducting radio programs in

7 . the CBI theater) that when he did not hear from 03S, he made certain

: inquiries and found that his record had been very carefully investigated
by Dunn end Bradetreet; that he then made a long distance call to 088

. Personnel Procurement Office. He was told that temporarily the 055 —

 

 
    

TNT pee
Enclated ‘ten aglomatte
Waiaradlas end
Geclas: aesiticetion

    
    

  
   
 
   

 

stn mie aca RANE 0 5 A NADI BLEEP SETA RN iD SABI. RR TNS SE OI aA Oa esis:

/ 4 a

On 12 July 1953 an OS Chicego Field Office Special Agent,/
interviewed Mr. David HITT, Administrator of Baylor University
a 9 Dallas, Texas and requested permission to be with William
: i « Clarence WOOD, dé. during the time he would be under the anesthetic in
nr the operating room on 13 July 1953. Mr. HITT wes very cooperative end
aa a @lso received permission from Subject's doctor, Dr. Albert. -
‘O-and Dr. Earl WEIR, Head Anesthetist at. Baylor Hospital who ot
.  . 7%. agreed to cooperate. Two nurses, anesthetists, a Mra. Sally MOORE a
and a Helen GO @ briefed and promised to cooperate. Dr. D*ERRICO oo,
asked gent fit he should introduce him to Subject and the
- - Agent answered "no" 23 The first words of Subject when he saw his. doctor
“. dm the operating room were: “Has Washington contacted you, ‘or is there
_ 6 CIA agent or an FBI agent here in the hospital to be with me during
, the operation?" Dr. D'ERRICO answered "no" to this question. Subject
‘. was put under sodium pentothol so a spinel tap and x-rays could be made. Ko .
. brain operation was required. :

Agent using the pseudo, Dr. SHAUGHNESSY, was in. Bub Jject's

~ goom when recovered from the effects of the anesthetic. Subject's
father was also there. (Subject's father, William Clarence WOOD, 6r.

is a well-to-do banker; the Lubbock National Bank of Lubbock, Texas. )

-, , Bubject looked around the room and inquired of his father: "Daddy, has
_ @ny man besides the medical staff entered this room while you have been
‘* here?" The father replied, “No, son, no one hes entered the room except
the doctor here (referring to Dr. SHAUGHNESSY) and the nurse.” After —

_, Subject was convinced no government agent was there » he stated he "had

* served overseas with the CIA and had seen many people killed. The CIA

.. @fe @ bunch of dirty cutethroats and I wouldn't be a bit surprised if
_ they sent one of their men to cut mine. They think they are smart but

. One of these days in the near future I will show them who is the
smartest. They have about 100 GS-1i's walking around with their heads oI

shaped like eggs. Daddy, I have been such a failure but after I get well

. 2 am going to go back to school and get my degree and fight the CIA with

+ everything that I can.” , . ;

Bubject. neve hee avore of Dr. SHAUGHNESSY's. identity. Subject's
. doctor told Agent at Subject's trouble was probably caused __
by the excessive use of a@lcchols; that if he woulé talk under the influence

; Of an anesthetic, he would most likely telk when he was under the influence
of alcohol. os

 

 

 

 

  

   
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

_ An FBI report of an Internal Security character dated 30 April 1957 .
- from Dallas, Texas reported that Subject telephoned long distance from

Midland, Texas to a Chinese Intelligence officer in Formosa claiming to
_ +: Beave been formerly employed by CIA. Subject offered to "help you with
4"; - things I know". Subject then called a person in Lubbock, Texas believed to
‘ ' be hie wife. He told her he had talked with the Chief of Intelligence

"|... for Chiang KAI<CHEK in Formosa and that she and the baby will receive
"> $700 © $1,000 per month "if this thing goes through". Subject was identified

 
     
    
     

  

ee Domestic |
“of Pebruary 1 had not had a drink in nine years, On
3 Maren” 1967 information

Bio data dated 9 denuery 1967 reveals thet Subject, born 17 August -
1920 at Shreveport, Louisiana, resided at T2h International; Apt. FR,
Houston, Texas, At that time he was employed as Executive Vice President,
.. Houston Tribung Publishing Company, Houston, Texas. In 1954 he was
- employed by Charles B. ROTH and fscociates. In 1950 he worked for the -
DENVER Post, .

         
   

espondent.’ Ha wag .

Ys FBI: 1950-553 Resi( 9104 Leaside Dr.,) o
Dalles, 493 Emp: Fiela Rep.,°700 Mercantile Bank Bldg., Della 1, Texes. -
No other information ig given,

_ 03 indices vere negative oa Clymer WRIGHT ana Harold. pyry mentioned
: £1 Source memorandum, : ,

a

t

'. See Source memo attached and Summary on Wiliten BOXLEY attached,

. | . ,

  
