13-00000 »

wy
a

‘considerations of national importance and international

but reminded him of it to point up that the Committee had
not been denied the full story and I saw no excuse in
Mr. Blakey's making these statements. ; .

5. I stated that we understand that they are follow-
ing a tactic of putting in something of everything on
all sides, but I felt there was a place for discrimiantion.
Reminding him that CIA is part of the U.S. Government, I
told him this inquiry is not a courtroom case, but involves

implications, and they should keep it in mind.
5S 6. Saying that I had not discussed the matter with

anyone in the Agency, I asked that he convey my personal
concern to Mr. Blakey. He said he would. .

S. D. Breckinridge

 

’ Distribution:
Orig. - OLC/Subject
- OLC/Chrono
. > SA/DDCI

~ PCS/LOC (Mr. Shepanek) |

- CI Stafé

- O/Security (Mr. Reardon}

~ LA Division (Mr. Sturbitts)

food ood Jeet ead ead fad

ECRET
 

fuetzzttie]
, [ou #78 3=AZ |

SECRET Tae Bejay
J- & 3S/

 

20 September 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT : HSCA. and Mexico City

1. Yesterday morning Mr. Blakey, in the prologue that
he gives prior to testimony, made statements as follows:

"the Cuban Government has suggested that pictures
should exist of....the Consulate taken from a
surveillance camera....the Cuban Government has
provided photographs of the surveillance site
(Blakey entered into record)....the Committee
has investigated who was responsible for the
surveillance....and sought to interview the
’ person(s) who operated the site....no pictures

of LHO have been located..... "

He had told us no mention would be made of CIA photographic
or telephone operations: in Mexico. This. obviously raises
peed the question directly. ; “ .

2. <At a meeting yesterday afternoon with one of the
senior staff members, Mr. Goldsmith, I complained about
_this, observing that there was a commitment. to avoid such
mention. It struck me as strange that this source was

used as a way to get it into the record anyway.

3. Observing that the HSCA was concerned with its
credibility I asked how it would seem to the press if the
Committee appeared as hand maiden of the Cuban government
in ‘its current propaganda attack on CIA. [I said we
could not approach the press, but HSCA should be aware
of how alert the press is to such things. -

4. I reminded him that we had sought a hearing in
executive session on the Nosenko and Mexico subjects,
and. had been refused. I was not renewing that request,

Fd
(EXECUTIVE ReBSIRY F'7 Spec tor)
( | |

ClP RET
SLbRe |
