 

representative. While the talks were still in
progress, th(_ sj case officer in contact with
AMECRU-1 met with his in Paris on 28 January. Since
the Station has consistently been advised to
ave dication of CIA interest in eny ransozm
case, other than AHSOUR-1, little concrete information
was obtained regarding AMCALL-l's status or the GOC
time table for his release. After AMECRU-L concluded
his Paria taika the early part of February he left

for Caracas where he is expected to remain until the
latter par¢€ of March before returning to Miasi.
Although a full report on the results of his Paris
negotiations can not be obtained until he returns

to Minwi, AMECRU-1 has been in touch with AMCALL-l's
wife and QUPILL-1 the asset handling the
ANSOUR~1 case. Accor @ AMCALL-1's wife, ANECRU-1
advised her the GOC representative in Paria indicated
the delay in releasing AMCALL-1 was partially based
on the fear expressed by certain GOC officials of
AMCALL-1'g3 potential leadership in exile movenents

ig he ig freed, As a rebuttal to this GOC argument
AMBCRU~1 wrote a letter to Hanuel Pineiro, the DGI
Director in Cuba, stating that AHCALL-1 had no desire
or intention of engaging in political activities
after his release and wished to seek employment with
gome European social research organization. A letter
from August Vanistendsel verifying AKCALL-i‘ts intentions,
with assurance from Vanistendsel that he would assist
in resettling AMCALL-1 in ate was attached to

 

ANECRY~1 letter to Pineiro. Th ase officer
obtained copies of the AMECRU-1 letters to Pineiro
from QUPILL-1 and forwarded thea to Headquarters.

 
 

oe

 

 

RETURN TO CIA

3 va 7 . . : : Background Use Only

owe, Do Not Reproduce

WH/COG 71-93
15 MAR 7

MEMORARDUM FOR: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
SUBJECT 3 Statue of AKCALL-1 Ransom Hegotiation

1. Om 26 August 1970, $120,000 ransom was
paid for the relense of ANCALL-1, $70,000 of this
azount wae paid by the Agency and AKCALL-l'a wife
arranged to obtein the remaining $50,000 from
4ugust Vanistendsel, a prominent Belgian with high
level Vatican connections interested in ANCALL=-1
whe presumably provided the additional money. Al-=
though there was no firm comsitment as to the exact
time ANCALL-1's release would be effected, AMECRU-}.
anticipated his release within 60-90 days after
payeent of the ransom.

2. Although 6 months have now @lapsed since
AWECRU-1 delivered the money to the Cuban negotiator
in Paris, there vas no way to determine the reason
for the delay in AMCALL-Il's release until AMECRU-1
wee able to retura to Paris to discugs the matter
with the GOC representative authorized to negotiate
tho rangom cases. Since AMECRU-1 now resides in
Miaai he ig no longer able to maintain as close
contact with the Paris official as waa the case when
he lived in Barcelona. However, he did arrange a
trip to Paris in January to discuss the status of
ANCALL-1 and other ransom candidates with the @ec

f

phot ™ _
Aa

 

ceva

Aememeerctibinntntietaeens se naman tamales tu pygrtemennea a
 

pee

 

eal

3. AMECRU-1 algo told ANCALL-l's wife that
the GOC Paria representatives offered te retuzn
the ransom money if the interested parties were
Rot Gatisfied vith the current pregress of the
case. The raeifications involving any deusnd for
return of AMCALL-l's ransom and terninstion of any
further efforts to obtain hie release are cocsiderably
greater than was the case with ASPANIC-7 whoa entire
ransom was provided by the Agency. In the cese of
ANCALL-1, there would be no way to demand return of
our share of the ransom without exposing Ageacy
interest until such time as the Catholic coutribators
indicate a desire to recover their $50,000 investment.
Rot only did Vanistendael's letter fail te indicate
any concern in this respect, but clearly expassized
bia continuing deep interest in obtaining AECALL-1'a
freedom. ANCALL-l's wife is also insistent txt his
chance of being releaged not be
this precarious atage of the negotiation end that
any decigion concerning return of the ransom be
detersined by AMECRU-1's evalustion of GOC intent.
Although AMCALL-1l's wife has always been discreet
and her relationship with the Agency cooperative and
above reproech, her understandable anxiety over her
husband could lead to ¢xtrense reseatzent should eny
attempt be sade to recover the Agency’s share of
the rarson at this juncture. This ecald be gerticularly
true if the Catholic contributors show no slam over
their investment or the present lack of pregress wade
am effecting AMCALL-1's releage.

 
74-00000

   

   
  

 

nee oo ~
f oe < . _
: . - 48 ° .
nae? SO ene me ee eet , ST tems ae a eg
= € id ~ ~
[a .
— .

4 '
!
i

4. It is,’ therefore, ed that the

Agency bas Little choice but to avait AKECED~1's

xetura to Hiowi where @ detailed easesament of

AMCALL-l‘s states can be obtained by AMBIGE-2,
our coutect with ANXCHD-1, |

Wesley L. Laybourne
Wesley L. Laybourne |
Acting Chief, #H/cCOG i
i
i
DDP/WH/COG/SA: E. Gratzzmli j
25 March 1971 |
Distributica: {

Orig & 1 - Addressee

2 - FE/0OG/Chrono ;
 WE/COG/SA j
ge ~ 221-275949 j
i
j
~- So —_ . ;
_ . :
; :
. Af
