- (HSCA) felt they could simply approach them directly with-
out reference to any Agency association. ' They are as
follows: . ;

a. The two who worked for CIA, LIONION and
joperated photographic surveillance
posts. It was agreed that arrangements would be
made whereby they could be interviewed by an
electronic means, in adjoining but separated
rooms. One of them may not be available as he
may be in Spain. . .

 

 

b. Two persons who reside in Mexico City,
whe formerly were employees in the Cuban Embassy,
| These would be
interviewed as HSCA had done with other former
employees of the Cuban Embassy, to ascertain
what, if anything, came to their attention about
Cuban attitudes towards and reaction to the
assassination of President Kennedy, etc. It
so happens, both were penetrations of the Cuban
Embassy. Again, HSCA people took the position
they would not mention any possible Agency
connection or activity. They declined to have
these persons interviewed under the same arrange-
ments that would be used with two support agents,
whose only interest is that they worked for CIA.

 

 

 

 

c. yiwo U.S. citizens, Mrs. June Cobb Sharp
(believedasto be in Mexico City) and a Mr. Wichtrich.
Both are private citizens who are reported to have

_information of interest to the HSCA, in their
private capacity. HSCA proposes to interview
these persons just as they did the two penetration
agents, without any mention of CIA.

S. In essence, we have an anomaly, whereby we have
arranged to have support agents (whose only interest to
HSCA is their work for the Agency) interviewed by tele-
.phonic equipment. Two agents whose nature is ordinarily
even more sensitive (penetration agents) are being
interviewed directly because they worked in a hostile
diplomatic installation (and not because they worked for
CIA) with no reference to be made to their association

SECRET

°
oe toiz7-t00tg]

i
|
\

©
°

 

.

 

 

 

[ac pie 2473 —
24 July 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT : Meeting with HSCA on Mexican Interviews -

1. Niles Gooding, George Joannides, Rodger Gabrielson,
Bill Sturbitts, Marty Hawkins and Norbert Shepanek met with
Messrs. Blakey and Cornwell at 0730 Saturday morning. The
purpose was to discuss activity in Mexico City planned by
HSCA.

2. As usual, it is difficult to plan how to approach
questions as limited information is provided by the HSCA
people. They had told us of their interest in ten persons
in Mexico City. A quick check of Agency records had broken
them out into separate groups and in the discussion with

_ the HSCA representatives, one of these groups was subject

to yet further distinctions.
3. The first group consisted of the following:

a. Calvillo.- An unwitting co-optee, it
had been agreed previously that Calvillo would not
be asked about the activity he engaged in that,
unknown to him, was at CIA initiative.

; ble wom A former contract agent

of CIA. €-is er employee--as distinguished’
from "agent" in the full sense of the word--and
could be interviewed as a former employee.

 

c. Two men by the names of Palomares and
Flores, neither of whom.has had an operational
association with the Agency.

- 4, The second group is more complex, consisting of
persons in whom the HSCA would be interested because of
their private activities without reference to Agency
connections, which all of them had. HSCA has spoken to
other persons in Mexico City, and had independent informa-
tion about them of interest to their investigation; they

—_—

be Yeah . :

   
74-0000

 

“ae

, SECRET

Mid

with CIA (HSCA declining to include them in the arrangement

\

‘forthe first two agents above). And two U.S. citizens whose

work with CIA is of no interest to HSCA (although the reasons
for interviewing them were not revealed to us) will be inter-
viewed without reference to their CIA connection. In the
eyes of HSCA, while they recognize a proprietary relation-
ship on the part of CIA with the two support agents (operated
photographic surveillance posts), they do not recognize such
a relationship with the others, as HSCA would have inter-
viewed them anyway for unrelated reasons (i.e., unrelated

to CIA connections).

6. While HSCA has had to postpone their trip until
around 7 August (the Mexican Government requested a delay),
the basic problem remains. There is more time to get
some feel for what is involved, but in essence, it is the
position of HSCA that since they would have interviewed
the four persons without reference to a CIA connection)
they will do so anyway, but have solemnly undertaken to

not raise any question about CIA connections or activities.
‘ iJ e :
a. S=>. es aren
S. D. Breckinridge

Distribution:

Orig - OLC/Subj.

. - OLC/Chrono
- Niles Gooding/IG Staff
- George Joannides/OLC
Rodger Gabrielson/OLC
- Bill Sturbitts/LA Division
- Marty Hawkins/LA Division
- Norbert Shepanek/PCS/LOC

foot frat ped fet bed rat et
4

 
