 

 

 

 

    

 

 

-~  & The sade a rather
impassioned spere RICT ue COverad the tolluwin, ooints:
: i : 9

. . ‘a& ifs own lous Qaperience inthe GAL,-in Cuba
: - and la Cestcal Avaric;

 

hb, sile euriy warnings avout Castro--wnien
were (iisreyarded; ee
: 24

bas Lived in: - a Lore

   
 
  
 
 

 

 

 

   

yalnst Cua and tue need for taxing a

 

chuurd Line, unclurling the use of force in support a 4
_ ‘military activity by thedree Cubans and the other. :
a Aterican countries; -- : . sot me .

®. visls apnrectition that the Soviets will not be
willing to risa a nuclear war over Cuba, ~

cet oo . Condeia nation of Mevico for her dealings with
. . , - Cuta, for failure to abide by her odlfvations in a
ie . + the OAS, and for perisattin, me Castroites. to
a . . operate out cf Siextco against uther Aunerican 7
countries; : :

 

ys The need for action asainst sicaico; :

ts/pl
 

104-10183-10260

 

 

 

 

 

(py

 

 

including the i GUL intelligerce:- requires nts | py

4 e.cpluitly the tulurugtivun with re.ard to the
als rect] Jruntre at

      

 

 

  

1. The brie ng ae hél

 

      
  

 

 

 

 

 

2. atthe request of the|
{ na Ww ‘description
of how tue Us. Intelligence ce auntty” operater, . ua the
role or CLA, of the need for compartmentation aud security,

and specifically of how theorequing considerations mace
it imperative sor the to ddopt-recurit, pre-

cautions vhich yill ensure that the intorriation we pravide
and the we undertaa zal

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

   

 

within $R¢) ;
by-the Tpxclis: i a'r, a a
peeseatatives In the field), zy" ~ Coe Oo .

4. sollowing (he introductory renaras vuthned . : ~
above, [brief the grup onthe Dail, structure, tae LOL :

operational techniques dyand spe. 4 BH taco at and Co
operations wf Ny ‘The ent c Re attention oe : .

throuchout the S bristing and esarined the, exhnitts closely

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

4. After the foregoing exposition, 1 explained. °

 

 

 

  
 

Ua Usis connection § asacd tar
prumininge

7 as Clee WE HALL
reterence ty uu ZU

 

dy our @utinust ami avast

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

be ee

 

“pl

nA EERO eile tonne wetnbet irae toda

 

 

 

 

 

    

a. Tae effectiveness al
ouerrillas ‘
te “meet violente with vicles

  

 
 

  
   
   
 

 

iF ecusnition of the linportance if
oon covered in the Lrfelin, and uf its @

xeference t

 
   
    

5.

     

bo Accertance of security * ‘icthi ‘ :
decision to hold tua tnformation to those present,

 

7. In roplring to tae remards
I said that se appreciate the cooperation
nd that se ehall bo mutt interested in the eploitation

 

 

United ‘tates Covernnient-are based on careful study of

 

of the possitilities la the present case. [added tat the + matter
of usin, fores avainst Cula-is a policy matter on-wnten I was
net competent to conmuent but that the decis:ons made iy the

 

 

detailed inforrniation Inclodin,, information oa Soviet intentions

and Capat. ilies, we

d, At the conclusion of the rieetis [rewurels
as-ed for a cou, of tha Lull re wuirements (whiter alr
had ,one over closel)) and toon the copy wath ulin: tor tu
further, . :

      
 
 

 

 

   

   

Larold ', Swenson
Chief, ¥ af A/EL

  

CEP RET
