   
      
   

 
  

 

   

CLASSIFICATION

sce EW 35 °

DiSPAICes SYMBOL AND NO

 

104-10315-10011

 

WEAGGUARTERS Fit NS)

 

  
 
 
 

 
  

 

 

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGES
| BY QUAUFIED NG. OLSX ONLY

an

      
 
  
 
   
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  

MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED

 

 

1. The proposal submitted in the reference is interesting and worth
- serious consideration. Several possible ideas have occurred to us on how
. We can mount this. type of operation. As yet, however, none of these has:
| been worked through sufficiently to prepare a definite plan of action.
Kevertheless, it appears to us that any effort that would carry conviction
would have to be based on detailed knowledge of the “proposed victin's"”
_ babite, movements, and exposures to the public, providing @ basis for tin-

' dng an attack and selecting 4 site fros which an attempt could be made. In
short, ¢ho seme information fe needed as would be required if an actual
asgassination attempt were contespleted. It would be belpful if sketches 4

i

and mapa could be prepared to show routes of travel, time intervals, places
of vantage, aites of police stations, routes of escape, location of safe
sites, primary and alternate means of exfiltrating after the attempt, loca-
tions of sites for caching the weapon and for picking up travel docunente.
Such materials could then be worked into an operation attributable to the |
Chinese Commmlete by the introduction of suitable Chinese touches, end
would provide documentary support to the prima facie evidence of the funds

ama xitie.

2. We believe that without the authentication described above, the
combined rumor and “evidence” vill readily be detected as a provocation.
We therefore suggest that you draw together the information described above
and forwaré it to Headquarters to be processed far use in mounting this
operation. .

“CHESTER D. DAINOLD

 

' OLIVER G. GALBOND

Distributica:
Orig. &1 ~ Havana

ze/cx/ea jrh (8 July 1960)

 

 

 

Tages ATW a

SECRET [eww

“wait thet

 

| BEPLACES F025
ou? 53 51-8, 51-784 AND 5127
WHICH ASE OBSOLETE,

 

USE PREVIOUS ETON | .

 

 
