104-10331-10083

 

( ¢£ nn ann 4

Secret

11 January 1996
Memorandum for the Record
Subject: ARRB Meeting 5 January 1996 a

Reference: Meeting with David Marwell, Jeremy Gunn and Mary
McAuliffe, 3:00 p.m., 5 January 1996.

1. The Board acted on 35 plus documents (Mary did not =:

have final count). They released the six additional
stations that we had requested be protected:

Rome Madrid Brussels

 

oo

 

 

[estes sh2e the Hague were released again. was
tabled pending addition information. London, Ottawa and

Paris were also released in this set of documents. In
addition there are references to(iaison Contact] and traces
released in several of the documents. The Agency's
recommendations on digraph and file numbers were upheld.
Mary said, beyond these issues, there were no serious
problems in this set of documents.

2. I ask how the Board would react to a “window”
approach” to the issue of releasing stations. Gunn said
there appears to be support for such an approach. However,
the window would have to be wider than Nov./Dec. 1963. He
suggested expanding the window to cover the Warren
Commission period in 1964. If a document mentions Oswald,
he expects the Board would lean toward releasing it
regardless of the timeframe.

3. Gunn expressed concerned that our position was
being eroded by the lack of a clear understanding of where
the line is (i.e. the Agency's failure to appeal) and the
failure to provide evidence/best information prior to the
meeting of the Board. He felt that we may see some erosion
in areas where the Board had accepted the Agency's
postponements (digraphs, file numbers, liaison). Several
times, Marwell and Gunn returned to the issue of providing
best information/defense upfront. If the staff is unable to
answer questions about why the Agency is protecting or does
not know what a particular item is, the Board takes this as
a lack of evidence and leans toward release.

ER ery Harrelson
bibs
CL BY: Com
cc: C/HRG, Ellie CL REASON:

\
DECL ON: a
DRY FROM: [2 mmr

Secret
