74-0000

 

Operations Against Castro

The AMTRUNK Operation, starting in 1963, sought to develop a
capability to join dissident elements among the Cuban leadership into
a group that could oust the Castro regime. It was conceived by Cuban
exiles and sold to the Kennedy Administration, which assigned it to
CIA. The program was very slow in developing substance and momentum,
with little concrete progress during President Kennedy's life. Ata
later date, in 1965, it was believed to be compromised and CIA withdrew
from its association; the key members were arrested later and tried in
Cuba. There are basic questions about the security of the activity
from its inception, due to the involvement of personalities who are
suspected of having pro-Cuban sympathies, including possibly having
been foreign agents. While the suspicions cannot be verified, the
reservations are sufficiently basic to consider the possibility that
Castro knew of the operation from its earliest days. Its long range
objectives--the overthrow of Castro and his regime--would have been an
irritant to Castro; its inability to develop any substance and momentum
until long after President Kennedy's death suggests that it is unlikely
that it, of itself, would have moved him at that time to resort to
assassination in retaliation. This is discussed at Tab C.

Operation AMLASH centered on a high-level Cuban official, AMLASH/1,
who had expressed his opposition to Castro and to the Castro regime.
The SSC Final Report undertakes to demonstrate that the operation planned

Castro's assassination during the period preceding the murder of

WUE RITA
CONG EN TAL
CINRDERTAL

President Kennedy; to the contrary, a full review of the operatton
shows that erior to the President's assassination not only had CIA

not agreed to give any support to AMLASH/1, but had rejected his
proposals to assassinate Castro. When evidence supporting this view
was offered the drafters of Book V of the SSC Final Report, it was
dismissed out of hand as false, despite confirming evidence. The SSC
Report, instead, having asserted that assassination was the character
of the operation at that time, then undertook to show that AMLASH/1

was at least indiscreet in his conduct, risking exposure of the plot.
Alternatively, it suggested that he may have been acting for Castro

as a provocateur, to lead the United States into a plot against
Castro's life which in turn was then to provide Castro with the
justification to order President Kennedy's assassination. In either
event, had Castro learned about the relationship between AMLASH/1 and
CIA he would have known only that there was an inconclusive association
that certainly had not progressed to the point that it constituted the
basis for the postulated provocation. This is discussed in some detail
at Tab D of this paper.

The SSC Final Report discounts (at page 68) the possibility that
actual plotting by CIA with the criminal syndicate served as a source
for provocation for Castro to have President Kennedy murdered. There
are new considerations that developed in the course of the present
review that throw more light on the role of the criminal syndicate,
but they do not provide a basis.for taking issue with the judgment of
the SSC Final Report, which dismissed the activity as having provided

Castro with the postulated provocation. This is discussed at Tab C.
14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

(whichever was under review) could have provoked Castro to order the
assassination of President Kennedy, had he (Castro) learned of it.
The SSC, in its Final Report, fell into this very trap, trying to make
the AMLASH operation actually fit the theory for which the SSC's
presentation seemed to be tailored. (See Tab D.)

We have looked at other operational activities with the SSC's
theory in mind, but have been unable to provide tangible substance
in support of the theory. In the final analysis the reviewer is
compelled to fall back on the evidence. A wide variety of theories
can be~-as they have been--advanced in strident and challenging tones.
Not all of them are susceptible to conclusive answers; the primary
possibility of finding such answers was lost with the death of Lee
Harvey Oswald. The fact is that the Warren Commission considered the
possibility of Cuban or Soviet involvement, but could not find evi-
dence of it. Were it known at the time of the Warren Commission, it
would have been reported and dealt with then; that it was not is a
simple reflection of the fact that it did not exist at that time in
the minds of Americans knowledgeable on the subject. To hold dif-
ferently would be to accept uncritically a social paranoia often
prevalent today, which would hold that a significant number of
government employees could engage in such a well-disciplined con-

spiracy to suppress evidence.

5

CONFIDENTIAL
74-00000

CONFRENTIL

*

the period preceding President Kennedy's death and the period following
it.

It was determined that a special research effort would be mounted
to review those Agency files that might relate to this problem. The
organization for this research is summarized at Tab A of this paper.

It required not only the meticulous review of all Cuban operations,

it necessitated careful analysis of the content and nature of the oper-
ations with special attention to their security. Files relating to the
Warren Commission inquiry were reviewed as well as those relating to
plotting against Castro.

The results of the efforts of those assigned to the task are
contained in this covering report and in the separate annexes to it,
Tabs B through G.

CIA has now conducted such a review -- looking at “the other end"
of a possible chain of evidence, where things theoretically could have
started. This has produced no new evidence bearing on the assassination,
although it has produced the basis for new lines of speculation. In
fact, the review sometimes seemed to become a futile exercise in trying
to fit facts to the provocation theory rather than being able to
identify evidence actually bearing on the assassination of President

Kennedy. The emphasis sometimes became one of asking if this activity

  

BORE?
74-0000

CONFIDENTIAL

The significance of these statements, to the. authors of the SSC,
Report, is highlighted as follows:
"Certainly, concern with public reputation,
problems of coordination between agencies,
possible bureaucratic failure and embarrassment,
and the extreme compartmentation of knowledge
of sensitive operations may have contributed to
these shortcomings. But the possibility
exists that senior officials in both agencies
made conscious decisions not to disclose
potentially important information." Page 7.

A central feature of the rationale is the concept that if Castro
had learned of these activities it would have provoked him into
retaliation against President Kennedy. The SSC Final Report makes
it clear that it feels this theory should have been perceived and
accepted at the time by the intelligence agencies (not to mention
the Warren Commission) leading to a review of the various anti-Castro
programs to see what it might reveal.

The provocation theory, in the specific form postulated by the
SSC Final Report and the press, is of more recent vintage than the
perceptions that prevailed in 1964 when the Warren Commission was con-
ducting its investigation. There was a general concern in 1964 that

the USSR or Cuba might be behind the assassination of President

2

CONFIDENTIAL
74-00000

a, : CORFOENTIAL

Kennedy. This was based on a more broadly recognized understanding
of the tensions that existed between the Kennedy administration and the
Soviet and Cuban regimes. The Bay of Pigs in 1961 and the Cuban
Missile Crisis in 1962 must have appeared remarkably provocative to
Fidel Castro, along with the array of American anti-Cuban programs.
The humiliation of the USSR in having to retreat in the Cuban Missile
Crisis cannot be dismissed completely as to how it might have been
perceived by a foreign power as a provocation. To note these events
serves only to remind the reader of the tensions well recognized at
the time. The SSC Final Report has elected to emphasize instead CIA
operational activity against Cuba as requiring specific attention.
This emphasis on CIA's Cuban operations as a possible source of
provocation of Castro represents the result of an evolution in percep-
tions. In response to it we undertook an extensive review of the
various operational activities against Cuba and Castro.
Organization for the Review

As there are no persons now in CIA who were directly involved
at a senior level in the investigation of 1964, it was felt necessary
to organize a fresh approach to the matter. The persons who, in 1963
and 1964, knew the details of the various operational activities are
no longer available, for the most part, to provide the current and
detailed factual familiarity that existed at the time of the investi-

gations. Primary reliance had to be placed instead on the records for
~)

 

CIA could well have perceived the usefulness of inquiring into
specific sources of possible provocation of Castro at the time of
the 1964 investigatton; it is clear that the general consideration
was recognized by al] concerned, and pursued, but the concept of
specific possible provocations was not. A reyiew into such possj-
bilities has now been conducted, with essentially negative results.

4. The report 7s not to be considered a report of the
Inspector General, as such, being the result of a representative
working group. However, the report should be considered as being
for internal CIA consumption only. It contains third agency reports,
liaison reports, and involves sources and methods materials, as well
as evaluation and comment of a nature that is advisory to manage-
ment. Any release of this report and its annexes outside the Agency,
even in classified form, would require considerable sanitization.
It is recommended that this report be held against future inquiries,
-providing a basis for appropriate responses, and that it not be
volunteered at this time.

oo.

Lr Se . Qanhe AY
S. D. Breckinridge

Attachment:
As Stated

DIG/S.D.Breckinridge:js (23 Aug 1977)
Distribution:

Original - Addressee w/Copy #1 of ate RAE
‘| - SA/DCI (Robert D. Williams) w/Copy #2 of Att. hte
- SA/ADDCI (Mr. Lewis D. Lapham) w/Copy #3 of- Att. pik-4, WHEE
- ADDO w/Copy #4 of Att. Ld)
- Asst. Public Affairs (Mr. Hetu) w/Copy #5 of Att. pesto
- Chief, LA w/Copy #6 of Att. Y fY-
Chief, CI Staff w/Copy #7 of Att.
D/OS w/Copy #8 of Att.

1G (J.L.Leader) w/Copy #9 of Att. yh » pQetda EG

DIG (S.D.B. Chrono) w/Copy #10 of Att. 4” a
IG Subject w/Original Copy of Att. (UNNUMBERED)

torpobtnra

ae nee eee ee ee ne ee

 
[0g 10408-10360

 

  

8 6 AUG 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Acting Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

FROM : S$. D. Breckinridge
Deputy Inspector General

SUBJECT : Comments on Book V, SSC Final Report, The

Investigation of the Assassination of President
Kennedy: Performance of the Intelligence Agencies

 

1. Forwarded herewith is the report of a review that Mr.
Knoche requested last fal}. The undersigned was designated as
chairman or coordinator of an Agency working group that was to
conduct the study. It proyed a more ambitious undertaking than
had been anticipated. The extensive files of CI Staff on the
Warren Commission inquiry into President Kennedy's assassination
were reviewed in detail, as were the very large file holdings of
LA Division on its Cuban operations during the period preceding
and following the death of President Kennedy. The most pains-
taking review and analysis was required, and the files proved to
be so extensive that the research became a major task. The files
of the Office of Security and the Office of the Inspector General
presented a less formidable problem.

2. The attached report, with its annexes, is the formal
result of the effort. If the attachments seem bulky, it is
noted that additional back-up materials are being held for thé’
record in the event of future inquiry. These papers represent
the result of a conscientious and painstaking effort,- conducted
with high standards of review and testing kept foremost in mind.
We believe that there is Jittle likelihood of oversight.or omission
in coverage; the work was so extensive and carefully done that we
feel there is small chance of surprises remaining in CIA files on
this subject. .
\

3. In brief, we found that many of the presentations of
Book V of the Final Report of the Senate Select Committee were
based on incomplete information or distorted perceptions. While
the record of CIA was not perfect, the performance at the time,
under the understanding of the period, seems reasonable. The fact
remains that evidence of a Castro conspiracy to assassinate President
Kennedy still has not been discovered. The Warren Commission and

TIA RETURN TO GIA ad
SBOE eu Background use Gay” * items
wees womens Bo Not Reproduice--"- emncnnaren

       

 

 
74-0000

Table of Contents

Summary of Findings
Tab A. Organization for and Conduct of the Review
Tab B. CIA Performance on the Inquiries
Tab C. CIA Operations Against Cuba
Tab D. AMLASH Operation ,
Tab E. Materials Forwarded to Warren Commission and FBI
Tab F. Mexico City Coverage of Oswald Visit

Tab G. Selected Newspaper Stories with Comments

‘CONFIDENTIAL
74;00000

Lagat eg be dee WA EE bee

SUBJECT: Comments on Book V of the Final Report of the U.S. Senate
Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with
Respect to Intelligence Activities

1. Book V of the SSC Final Report, titled The Investigation
of the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy: Performance of the
Intelligence Agencies, presents a number of issues that address themselves
to the conscience of the Agency. The criticisms of CIA are based on a
series of presentations of how various investigative leads were handled,
and on the non-reporting of various Agency operational activities that
the SSC Final Report judges to have been relevant to the Warren
Commission inquiry.

2. A stated thesis of the SSC Final Report is that the operations
of the intelligence agencies against Cuba exercised a negative influence
on the quality of their support for the Warren Commission investigation.
The following statements appear in the Report:

"It (the SSC Report) places particular
emphasis on the effect their Cuban opera-
tions seemed to have on the investigation."
Page 2.

"They (senior CIA officials) should have
realized that CIA operations against Cuba,
particularly operations involving the
assassination of Castro, needed to be con-
sidered in the investigation. Yet, they
directed their subordinates to conduct

an investigation without telling them of

 
