 

‘. ce - TOP SECPET

Khrushchev. (For exarple, the Soviet chairman had been
bragcing about new rockets, but said, "All the same, you
cannot put a rocket inte soup.") A few days later, when it
looked as thouch war would break out on Cyprus at any time
Gespite a strong US mediation effort, Clifton instructed
OCI to keep the White House “un to the ninute" on develop-
ments. - "Hours will make the difference," he said.

Gen. Clifton told James Hanrahan on 28 January that
he had talked with the President about the Intelligence
Review and Mr. Johnsen had sai¢ it was just fine. He found
it a very valuable. supplement to his occasional briefings
from the DCI and he wanted it continued without change.

Qn 25 March the President's plans to spend a weekend -
in Texas prompted Gen. Clifton to comment that Mr. Johnson
read his intelligence while at the ranch; he was often up and
asking for it by @:15 a.m. But it was hard to catch him in
Washington. The next day Clifton said that it was not
necessary for the OCI representatives to meet him at 9:30
a.m., the book did not move upstairs that fast. He asked ~
‘that the meetings take place at 10 in the future.

Early in 1964, the President drew his aides Bill Moyers
and Jack Valenti into the intelligence picture. He wanted
one of them present when he read ‘the Review at breakfast
and he was reported occasionally as discussing Checklist

items with them. Although the PICL writers continued to

ae) .
_ TOP SECRET

 
 

meet and talk with Bromley Smith and Gen. Clifton, it
began to look es theugh Movers and Valenti were taking the
Cocuments to the Presider

James C. Graham, Acting AD/CI, took up with DDI Ray
Cline the possibility of inviting Moyers to CTA headquarters
for lunch anc a briefing. Cline first wanted to discuss the
White House. problem with MeCone, and asked Graherm for a little
memorandum on how things were going. *!8/ OCI drew up a state~
ment for Cline making the principal neints that it had ne way
of knowing whether it was mecting the President's needs be-
cause it had no feedback from him, in contrast to the situation
under Kennedy. The reason for this was that OCI's contacts
at the White House did not deal directly with the President
on intelligence matters. OCI hoped to be able to establish
close links to the President's immediate staff. 76/

Things remained in a confused state for the next few
months, with only occasional indications that OCI's presi-
dential publications had hit the mark. Clifton commented
in May that the Review was the best means of reaching the
President, although he said the PICL registered at times
when Valenti was interested in an item. There were days
when the President read and initialed both the Review and
the PICL. One day when the PICh was heavy on the side of

bad news, Clifton said, "Tt's no wonder the President doesn't

A+ ’

TOP SECRET
i . aN Sts TOP SECRET

The next morning Gen. clifton called Lehman to report
that the White Mouse was very pleased with the Review, and
wanted it continued. It had been tried on the President at
breakfast and it had "worked like a charm." Fy

Because the President was not reading the Checklist
every day, DCI McCone wanted it sent to a few more high-
levél officials beyond the small circle of readers in
Kennedy's time--the Secretaries of State and Nefense,
McGeorge Bundy at the White House, and the Chairman of 7
the Joint Chiefs. Therefore he cbhtained permission in
February to extend the dissemination to four additional
top officials in the State Department, two more in Defense,
‘one on the Joint Chiefs staff, plus the Secretary of the
Treasury and the Attorney-General. YW

Besides doing the semi~weekly Review and the PICL,.
OCI was writing memoranda.in response to requests from the
White House staff, and DCI McCone was briefing the President
from time to time. ° The Checklist writers still took the
publication to Bromley Smith and Gen. Clifton each morning”
and received their comments, plus occasional playback from
the President. When unusually interesting items in the PICL
caught his eye, Clifton would make a point of bringing them
to the President's attention. on 21 January, for example,

he was taken with an item featuring quotable statements by

 

TOP SECRET ,
a .
bo ewe TOP SECRET

On 8 January, however, Clifton was having difficulties
again-~the President had not read the intelligence document
since leaving Texas. Clifton thought there would be a little
let-up in the press of business after that day's State of
the Union speech. We asked Philip Kennedy for a special
report, briefly treating important and still-current
problems that were covered in the bcoks the President hadn't
read. Clifton thought, in fact, that it would be good to
try the system of giving the President a summary of signi-
ficant intelligence twice a week.

OCI auickly put together an experimental President's
Intelligence Review, covering the period 4-9 January. This
was taken by Richard Lehman, Assistant for Special Projects,
to Gen. Clifton on 9 January. Clifton thought the Review
was the best solution to the problem of the President's
intelligence reading. He and Bundy were agreed that the
President would not accept a daily intelligence briefing.

The President had instructed Clifton that the DCI was to

see him whenever he wished but that otherwise the President
relied on Bundy and Clifton to stay on top of the intelligence.
Because the President was likely to ask them with no warning
for the latest word, the daily Checklist had to continue.
Clifton suggested that the Checklist periodically include a
‘special blue~ or green-bordered page containing an operational

~

2
report. 2/

 

TOP SECRET .
 

TOP SECPET

Although OCI had provided more detail and hackground
information than usual in its first intelligence hooks for
President Jchnson, McCone on 24 November passed the word
through DDI Cline that there should ke more but shorter
items. McCone said the Fresident expected that topics
appearing in the Checklist would be followed up in later
issues; therefore, OCI should make even negative reports.
& that day; ‘Cline said that the Checklist should cover
rilitary activity in South Vietnam, the fighting in Laos,
Soviet ICBM developments, and problems in the Berlin air
corridors and Venezuela.

ons December, the President held a meeting cf the NSC

to which the chairmen and

 

Congressional committees.were invited. Most of the guests.
had to be hurriedly briefed on COMINT, Clinton RP. Conger,
Chief of OCI's Presentations Branch and the office's briefing
drafter, put together the intelligence presentation on the
Soviet military position, which was presented by DCI McCone.
Conger was present at the briefing to handle the charts on ”
the easel. Befcore the meeting started, the President gave

a nod and in came his photographer, Okimoto. He began
shooting pictures left and right. McCone was aghast, finally
‘ leoking around at Conger, who had ‘managed to turn over a

map of the Soviet ICBM sites before the first picture was

taken. A week later there was similar NSC meeting on China.

ra

TOP SECRET :

ca

 
 

oan eee TOP SECRET

Johnson did rot have a large number of NSC meetings, but
‘when he did they ncrmally began with an intelligence
briefing, usually prepared by Conger on the basis of

materials frem OCI, OSR, and OER, as appropriate. 47/

 

Around the middle cf December, when McCone stopped

seeing the President daily, the White House staff tried to get
_the President to read the Checklist. They were largely
unsuccessful, although McGeorge Bundy was able to do some
oral briefing, Checklist in hand. On 16 December, Gen.
Clifton told OCI's John Heidemann, "If we can't penetrate
this sort of wall today or tomorrow, we'll just have to try
something else." Cceasionally things went well. On the

18th, Clifton said that the staff had finally managed to get
the President to read "the books"--probably two or three
issues. .

At Christmastime, the President went to his Texas

ranch and shortly after Christmas had Chancellor Erhard as

a visitor for several days. The PIC, was cabled to the ranch
each day. The report was limited to notes covering important
developments and any information that micht be useful in the:
talks with Erhard. The President returned to Washingtcn or.

5 January, and the next day Gen. Clifton, who had been at

the ranch, told lleidemann that he had been able to get the
Checklist to the President with some regularity once Erhard

had gone.

SG cs
TOP SECRET ,
: FORM NO.

Lo) AUG 64 for

 

 

REPLACES FORM 10-101

WHICH MAY BE USED. een weebeee
=

s .
- .
*

Ld .

041090240023).

  
   
        

ROUTING .
-___NAME AND ADDRESS

TOP_SECRET

(Security Classification}

DATE JINITIALS|

 

  

Fry pea (=) [Ey
Fe
iN

_LCONCURRENCE FORMATION

CONTROL NO.

COPY. CO

  

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO.
Handle Via .

—COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to
those approved for the following specific activities:

 
 

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

y 4

 
 

Lae. TOP SECRET

. “pens

The Johnson Era erik

For most employees of the Federal government, work

continues unchanged when a new President moves into the

White House. Employees of the Bureau of Reclamation, the

Labor-Management Services Administration, or the Commodity

Exchange Authority all go about their jobs in their ac-

customed ways, though changes of administration policy can
ultimately have an effect. Even the pattern of most intel-
ligence work--collection and the production of finished
intelligence for a considerable number of officials--remains

undisturbed. But for these who are turning cut intelligence

specifically for the President, everything is apt to change

as soon as a new Chief Executive takes over. low wide-
ranging will the new President's interest in foreign
countries and in international relations be? Hew much
appetite will he have fcr intelligence? © Will large and
frequent. servings be in order, or modest portions only as
absolutely required? Will he want merely facts, or facts
plus interpretation and analysis? Separated or homogenized?
Is he willing to read a regular intelligence document, or
does he prefer to be briefed?

In each of the previous administrations, OCT had

established a satisfactory channel directly to the President.

Hewever, ike system had revert Carrici ever from gne Lnouwmsent

TOP SECRET
ta]

 
- ue TOP SECRET

to the next. Hisenhcwer did not want the personal weelrly
briefing frem. the Director that Truman hed received; the
; rely on the
General preferred to kxtemistegetre tim psstreerors weekly
meetings of the National Security Council. Kennedy did
not like to use the NSC with any regularity. Instead he
found just what he wanted in the nersonal, daily intelligence
Checklist devised for him five months after he entered office.
The Checklist system worked so well with Kennedy that .

OCI and the Director naturally honed to continue it with
Lyndon Johnsen, especially as it became apparent that
Johnson, like his predecessor, was not going to have reqular
NSC meetings. Iventually OCI succeeded, but after many
months of frustration. It was only when he had a firm hold
of his administration and when certain foreign situations
forced themselves upon his attention that President Uchnson
discovered the usefulness of a daily current intelligence
document.

. For a few days after the assassination of President
Kennedy, R. J. Smith took the Checklist to DCI McCone at
East Building at 8:30 a.m. The Director then held a staff
meeting, after which R. J. Smith personally took the
Checklist to Bromley Smith and Gen. Clifton in the White
House. The briefing of President Johnson from the Checklist,
however, was done by McCone, who saw the President daily for

: - , ze
about three weeks after the assassination. z/

 

TOP SECRET ;
. 3 a
