74-0000

 

saphena ey ae i a ae
Lo 2\\CONFIDENTIAL/NO FOREIGN I3SEM

ft ey ee . ~ 4". ee _.
“with the U.S. intelligence services should his services be

required.)

data

2. Gonznloz provided the following partial biographical
of Major Victor DREKE Cruz:

Major Victor DREKE Cruz was born into a poor negro
family in Sagua La Grande, Las Villas, Cuba, in 1938 or
1939. In 1957, he joined the 13th of March Movement, and
became one of the personal aides of former Major Rolando
CUBELA Secades; Upon the overthrow of Batista. in January
1959, he returned to live with his family in Sagua La
Grande. In 1960, Cubela convinced Dreke to join the
Cuban Revolutionary Army (FAR). Dreke joined the FAR
with the rank of Captain, and was assigned commander of
a unit located near the city of Cienfuegos. Dreke led
an Army unit against counterrevolutionaries in the
Escambray in 1961, In 1963, he was appointed Chief of
Guerrilla Warefare of the FAR general Staff: As of May
1969, he was Chief of the Political Committee of the
FAR General Staff (Source Comment: He obtained the
information from Captain Julio MARTI, an acquaintance,

in a conversation that took place when Source and Marti - -

casually met on a bus in Havana in May 1969. Marti also
told Gonzalez that Major Julio GARCIA Oliveras (who was

e an assador to Nort et-Nam) was the second _
hn comman oO. e ica omni ee. are. a. so. stated.
a ie, mself, was a member o @ committee.) Dreke

is considered a Fidelista rather than a Communist. He -
is intelligent and very bravé. He was described as
Negro, 5'5" tall, 125 pounds, siender build, black kinky
hair, abnormal large head. He is living with his wife
(name unknown), and two daughters at Alturas del Nuevo

.: Vedado, near ‘the: Havana Zoologic. Park, Havana.

 

ne arate Es, I EI mm tee ten oon nnn ect st gars # PETA ne ee Gets ae Aenean amety mune wnen nn wees

a
t
i
I

 

 

4
:
{

1

1 coe a cheann nth

2 athe oe

 

 
74-0000

MARR TIE IE AE ON ei ae A HME LE Ae cee ne es a ca

 

AY so

Maes ot . . . .

elo - cs oN
. . ae ‘CONFIDENTIAL/NO FOREIGN DioSEM
i : . .

11 August 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD |
m: as {| |
FROM: Army Representative . i

SUBJECT: 1. Interview with Cuban Emigre Guillermo GONZALEZ i
: Saavedra ‘

 

2. Partial Biographical Data Major Victor DREKE Cruz

1. On 31 July 1931, and 4 August 1969, Guillermo GONZALEZ |
Saavedra (CC 4113) a 3l-year old Cuban emigre who arrived in i
Madrid, Spain, on 19 June 1969, was interviewed in Madrid, |
Spain, and stated Substantially the following: Ne was born |
in Central Fidencia, Placetas, Las Villas, Cuba, on 8 June 1935, weotd
He has a sixth grade education. In 1957, he joinea the 13 of 4

March Movement, and became the aide of Major Rolando CUBELA oe oy
. Secades at the Escambray mountains. Upon the overthrow of . 7 }
i Batista in 1959, he continued as aide to Cubela with the rank {
, of Captain of the Revolutionary Army, In May 1960, he was |
assigned Chief of the Transportation Repair Shop. Zone H-7; !
Institute of Agrarian Reforn (INRA), located in San Jose de :
Las Lajas, Havana. In January 1961, he was apprehanded by the :
Cuban authorities, and Charged of cooperating with a counter- i
revolutionary movement headed by ex-Cuban Major Cesar PAEZ. i
i Though Source indeed sent weapons te Paez, he denied it, and
. the Cuban authorities could not prove Gonzalez connection. with |
the Paez movement. He was released from jail in May 1961 and
he was reassigned to INRA, San Jose de Las Lajas, but was not
appointed to a specific job. In August 1961. he was approached
by Major Enrique OROPEZA who offered him a job with the State .
Security Department (DSE). His first assignment was to infil-_
trate a suspected counterrevolutionary organization being
formed by personnel of the Transportation Repair Shop, INRA
Zone H-7, Oropeza said that he was ideal for the assignment
because he has just been released from prison, and the counter~
revolutionaries would have confidence in him. Source did not
accept Oropeza's proposition, and in turn warned the members
of the Transportation Repair Shop. From August 1961 to April
1962, he was Chief of discipline of Hermano Gomez Technical
School (former Belen College), Havana. In December 1961, he
: was discharged from the Revolutionary Army, but continued to
te, _.° work, as a civilian, in the Same. positicn. From April 1962 to
: . December 1962, he was Chief of discipline of Havana University
students dormitories which was located between 12 and Malecon
Streets, Havana. From February 1963 to June 1964, he was the
Administrator (Administrador) of a pre-medicine course which

 

 

ance nteemetn tne amen

— 2b t mTotma 2 STARS (sey

TT ne cts nimi + mn erent eee

f.G4 ~ “Tot AS
 

 

0d-f0246-10025

 

   

 
 
 

8528.
2. Attached is a report from the Arny Representative
assigned to this office on an intervicw held with:

Guillermo *GONZALEZ Saavedra
DPOB: 6 June 1935, Placetas, Las Villas, Cuba ~

who is the Subject ef References.

2. Although there is good reason to quostion the
validity of his statements, this report may nonstheless
be of seme interest to several WH Components.

 

“warivatt Soon
ess

     
       
           
       

cotati Mts See
74-0000 .

darters +

. . ae . .. ree

 

"g CONPIDENTIAL/No FOREIGN D7SSEM
+ . . “ sae —-

was being conducted at building “Sonelilan", 17 and O Streets,
Vedado, Havana, From August 1964 to September 1966, he was
Paymaster of the construction projects at Ciudad Universitaria
“Jose Antonio Echevarria, Marianao, Havana. In 1965, he divorced
his wife Zenaida ARCE Fernandez who is living at 35.25 164th St.,
Flushing, New York, and whom he remarried by proxy on 6 April
, 1969. Upon divorcing ARCE, Source moved to Cubela's home,
38 Street, Havana (exact address unknown), where he lived until
Cubela’s arrest by theCuban authorities for plotting to kill
Fidel CASTRO. On the day in which Cubela waS arrested Source
Was managing a kiosk (a temporary hut in which people are sold
@rinks during carnivals) at a Carnaval in Havana, and did not
sleep at Cubela's house. When he returned to Cubela's house
he learned from Cubela's mother, Virginia SECADES, that Cubela :
had been arrested and that the house had been searched by the
Cuban police, Other persons which were apprehended for Plotting,
with Cubela, against the regime, were Ramon GUIN,: Alberto Blanco,
CFNU) GALLARRETA, and two unidentified Cubans, (Source dénied
having any knowledge of the plot, though’ he Suspected that some-
thing was going on). Source was never interrogated by the

|
“y oe .
|

  

and Efigenio ALMEJEIRA, two or three times a week, visited : . “ova
Cubela and engaged in private talks. Source never Participated ~-—---
in the private talks between Chomon, Almejeira and Cubela.

(address unknown), accompanying Cubela and Guin. Politics was .
not discussed during the occasion. Gonzalez attended Cubela's -
trial accompanying Cubela's mother. Source could not provide
| details of the Proceedings other than Saying that “the Cuban 7
i authorities knew everything about the plot" Cubela made ad

admitted he had had &@ meeting ina hotel in Madrid with ARTIMES : i
( fou) a Cuban exile, Alberto Blanco, and ROBEXO {fnu), alias
_ “Bl Mago," a Cuban exile residing in Barcelona, Spain, who

 

unknown). About four months after Cubela's trial, Gonzalez

in El Escambray). He told Dreke that he was being followed

by DSE agents. Dreke told Gonzalez that he was going to take
the matter with Jose ABRAHANTES, Chief of the DSE. Since
Gonzalez visit to Dreke, Source did not notice being surveilled.
During the first quurter of 1966, Source met at a party, Mirtha
PEYROT Alfonsos, a female 39-year old Uruguayan doctor heart |
specialist, who was under contract with the Cuban Government.

 

  

Lo were mere, oA re enraged aN Ne oc .

ro
14-0000

 

 

“said that he was going to write to his present wife (now in

. It is interesting toe note that a Myrta TEIJEIRO, an Uruguayan

. Spain, to contact Robeno “El Mago", in Barcelona, and to join
: him in working for. the CIA, i

’ of an alleged Brazilian dentist, that was ‘located in a building

im Cuba, and is afraid that the Cuban authorities may take
. Fepraisals by not letting his son exit Cuba if they, the Cuban

eo 7 . . ° “ae
see “nN
CONF IDENTIAL/NO FOREIGN D. SEM

: -3-

Gonzalez thought of an opportunity of leaving Cuba with the

help of Peyrot. He married Peyrot two or three munths after

they first met. Peyrot made an attempt to get an Uruguayan

visa for Gonzalez, and in her attempt she made a long distance
telephone call, to Uruguay, to an Uruguayan doctor named Carmen
(inu), who Peyrot claimed was the personal doctor of the Uruguayan
Minister of Interior. Peyrot also told Source that Carmen was

the one who got her into accepting the Cuban contract. Failing

to get an Uruguayan visa for Gonzalez, Peyrot opted for paying
Gonzalez airplane fare to Madrid. Source had limited knowledge

ef Peyrot's background. She had been in Cuba from 1963 to 1964. |

Gonzalez became suspicious that Peyrot was cither working for

the Cuban intelligence or the CIA, when:she began asking hir
captious questions about himself. In public, openly and unafraid,
she expressed disaffection toward the Cuban regime. At an
occasion, she suggested to Gonzalez, that once he arrived in

 

x months..prior to her departure
from Cuba Peyrot visited, two or. three times a week, an office.

   

i
i
i
i
t
in front of El Hotel Capri, 2Ist Street, Havana. Source never }
met the Brazilian dentist. In November 1968, Peyrot supposed 1
to have left Cuba for Uruguay via Mexico. Source, and other Co a
unidentified friends, who went to the airport to say good-by 77
to Péyrot the day she left Cuba, did not see. her.taking the
Mexico airplane flight, though the passengers were easily,
distinguished when they were entering the airplane. Shortly
after Peyrot left Cuba (date unknown), Gonzalez divorced her
on the grounds of default. (Field Comment: Source had a
difficult time remembering the dates in reference to his
personal history. He seemed to be anxious’ to cooperate, and

the U.S.), and ask her to send him a copy.of his divorce papers,
in order to confirm some of the dates. which he was not sure of.

the Record to CAS, dated 20 November 1968, paragraph 22),
where Rivas stated e has visited the Cuban Embassy in
Madrid at approximately the same period Mirtha PEYROT left Cuba.
Though it may be coincidental, it is probable. that Mirtha Peyrot
and Myrta Teijeiro are the same person. ‘Source did not divulge
any information on his past associations ‘with Mirtha’ Peyrot in
his initial interrogation at the Cuban Reception Office (ORC),
because he was afraid of discussing sensitive matters with the
ORC interrogator. He stated that he has a seven-year old son

doctor was te CAS, Julio RIVAS Delgado (see Memorandum for

 
 

authorities, would find out that he has brought the subject of
Peyrot to the attention of the Cuban interrogator at. the ORC.
Source stated that he is willing.to cooperate in any way possible

pence mime eer mane Santina nin atm en Se Ma rye ie padi ne cree en
