 

 

“- out by Yelive Pasos. (cooanr, 2 gained the tnpreaston that these
_ Penebeo aicht not-be returned.) ' : .

 

‘6. “I reatty shoved sone
take. tha 190 ¢.
cuse"up-in the folk
either by nt ! J
~ POSEY Che ques of wh: were the areas of screes
; Hay said that he had
feel that thera could
to get rid of Castro; ‘eecang,
ivivual freedos. Be said.
‘Ong iderably ereaters be |
for Cuba's political
the Constitution would

 

     
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

  

    

outdated political and -ecananlc Philosophy of the Prio regime. It La
impossible for the RRP *o have any dealings with or any links to that
pact. . . : ,

Te asked Ray what hts position’ to the S:vtet/chicom block would,
be after Castro's vanisa. One-of our baste concepts, ay enia, ts to

trade. wherever it wild be beneficial for ue; benefielal does not mean
., to tle our sconcay-to that or the Soviet block. We are quite avera that.

throuchout intin America; Don't use the Karinas! vont invade! This

revolutica haa to be generated from the instve. be need Averican help

. but. belp-muvt be without strings attache, Ambassador Bonsal and

Ln promise us this help, and your, Bender's, dealings vith MP |
tives here mave ug very hopeful, but ir ve can not get thio alu,

“we will process on our on. We are certain that ve will win, but if we
 

404-10271-10145

' gUBIECT: beeting with Banvel RAY, 15 November 1960, at a hotel

 

paned motel; I bad previously called Rey op. the.
at bis Tasps residence and told bin that I vould meet bin on 15 Novewber.
The weeting began st 2100 bourse and lasted samzal about 0130 the next cay.

‘when asked sbout the agrarian reform and, in thie connection,

- a3 ownership by insivicusl fires of land so pareeL
goal of bis governmcats the criteria on whetber or not Amarican-owned

 

21 November 1960

4m Homestead, Florida

A, The nesting Was Deli $n the abovestened place because, at ‘that

“Jpavtiediar tine, Kanvel Ray vas still “under, veape® end ve did not want

to take any chonces of having bis spotted im Miawte - Manuel Ry and bis ©

wife had been driven. fron Tarps by “Ray Adana” (Ray Dubois) to the eboveq~
telephone from Bev Tork

2, The highlights of thie ueeting vere reportad in MASH-L694,, 17
Bovenver, copy of which 4a attaebod. The following paragraphs er¢ in

“ @labovation of this seseag@. ||.

: 3. During this Lirst weeting, ay intent wes to establish rapport,
prove into Ray's political thinking, snd, by reiterating previously asde

" gtatements on the Bander group's wiklingnews to. support tha MRP, to

estadlivd the Bender group as & private contacto definitive for satl-
Castro activities. In line with this, I "keps She meeting purposely

ao on “exchange of views” seeaion, avoiding any controversy, but at
the oame tine, Andiesting scas surprise and scoe bewilderment over sone

of Ray's ptatements.

 

kh, Throughout the conversation, Ray elearly stressed his great
Belief ia eivil Liberties, individual freedom, an bis position a8 &
Cudan, and 6150 bemiapneric, nationalist. On a gumber of ocesaions, he
streseed the point that moet Likely some of the solutions he proposed
for ths post-Castro period, might bs viewed by me vith wome misgivings.
Dents you belfeve, he asked, that what 13: dmportant to tho economy of the
U. &. ia not necessarily dmportant to the econcay of Cubs? von't you
think thatthe Anericen vrans of deuocrecy, which works ovmirably in

_ your country, dis not necessarily applicable in its totality in Cuba?

$. Ray reiterate’, on a number, of oceasioua, that he wanted to go

pentiones cable <= ca the need of tho ‘wationalization of public utilities;
vhat would

he geid that land distribution
Jes out, woulu be &

“pack to 2 January 1959. Be was quite firm -- 13 eportad in the ebove=

happen to Castrosseized American ranches,

ranebes would be returped to their owners, were currently being worked

 

 
74-00000

 

bave to die in failure -- 60 be Ith It was at this point when Ray complained
bitterly abouts our bond ling of the Sinesio wWalad affair: Sinesto Walsh wo
lvoking for arm. He, Ray, was easer to build ug bis orsanisation and
therefore to draw peuple like Walsh into his eirele,. One of the means to

do this was, of courge, to make walsh vepencent on his, Aay*s, abllity to
furnish military equipment. Walsh made a request for arms to Rays Ray
ebanneled this request to his Anerfesa contscts in Havana in the anticipstics
thet he, hay, be given the crecit by Valeh of having delivered the goods.
¥hat bappenes: x, vas thet Plinto Prieto, wbo hat deen trained in
Aparica, ware 6 with Walsh oni assured him that suport would be
fortheoming from a source other than Asy. This, Riy continues, was ine
vieation that the Awerieans wartes to eplit svoy the Walsh croup from.
Ray*s influence. I indicated no krovledcge about this affair but poo-pooced

the conclusion draw from it by Ray.

  
 

8 after this political discussion, Say elucivated on psychological
aspects of the KR? work: ve sre revolutionaries, snd thus we suet retain,
at all times, a less ani hungry look. Sach one of us, regarilesa of the
Level of our activities, wust bhava a feeling of personal responsibility;
from me down ts the plain cook, we wast have specific tasks assigned to as
to do and each of tis aust recognize that we vill be held responsible for
the success or fatlore of the specific mission essigned to us. Thus, for
inetance, ve ean not be satisfied just to acceps moneys we sast engage in

fund-rateing srives here an! in Cuba. Theee Jrives night mot bring in

much aad hopefully, Bender, will wake up the difference, but the individual
fund-raisers vill bave a feeling of accomplishment and vill not set fat and

opulent and lazy,

9. Adove concluded the overeall diacuseton and Some datailed questions
vere asked by Ray, Could he bave 325,000 by next week? (1 committed
$10,000.) Cowld be engage in a fumersising activity tn the U. S.F (2
temporized.) Could he have grees sonferences? (I seic, why not?) Could
he have radio tinct (I said, perhaps. } Could he cot military aist (Z
oald yee, provided our eriteria for furnishing such afd wouls be wet, and
I repeated, at thas point, my view that there could be no Juplication of
effort.) Ray told se that the chief of the KK? in Cuba was 4 ehap by the
name of (imu) Cisneros. He told me 3 hanush Gedjes, who is currently in
Spain, would play a considerable role in the Sar peych warfare activities.

10. The meting closed with cur unterstending tbat we would meet (Sain
withia the next two weeks. .

WALLACE A. PARLSTT

uAP/ote (19° wow 60)

Distritations
Ow CR File
1 = IMASE
1 - Kansel Ray dossier
Le PRP 1. RY Che

vos

1 = C/UNARC/OPS

 
