104-10331-10376

 

' Marwell recommended providing evidence of bilateral

. SECRET

September 12, 1995
WORKING PAPER

Notes from meeting w/ ARRB staff Sept. 11, 1995

Issue: Presentation to Board at Sept. 20/21 meeting

It was agreed that “STATIONS” would be the focus of the
presentation -- 10:00 am, 20 Sept., one hour.

ed

agreements as well as identifying current harm. Said that
the Board was leaning strongly toward releasing stations,
particularly those in Europe. . : a

Mary pointed out that there were still issues on the Mexico
City station window. There are documents from the 50s,
references in summaries to the founding of the station and,
most important, the visit by the HSCA to Mexico City.

Ellie said there was the possibility of opening windows of
stations when Oswald was present, however, this was a key
issue for the Agency and a senior Directorate/Agency
decision. She indicated that the DO would oppose expanding
the Mexico City window] si. -

As for the older documents, we pointed out that we had
already agreed to the release of those documents.

Marwell suggest that the 20 Sept. presentation would be a
good opportunity to address the Private Line and other Tel
Taps issue rather than requesting a separate meeting.

After the meeting Marwell elaborated on the presentation.

He said to try to avoid going over old ground (US-Mexico
relationship); when possible provide specific/hard evidence
(bilateral agreements carry weight); war-stories do not go
over well. He emphasized the importance of- using the
language of the law especially when citing harm. He
specifically mentioned Sec. 6. (B) {copy attached} which sets
a standard of “interfere with the conduct of intelligence
activities”

(Note: In a previous meeting with Gunn, he stressed similar
themes including avoiding what he called “chicken little”
arguments. He also raised the question on sensitivity of
acknowledging we had a station in Moscow during the 60s.

“Tt would have been logical to have one: during the Cold
War.” J

SEGRET
