74-0000

DRAFT

(c) _ Record repositories and archives of federal, state, and local governments,
including presidential libraries;

(d) Record repositories and archives of universities, libraries, historical __
societies, and other similar organizations;

(e) Individuals who possess such records by virtue of service witha
government agency, office, or entity;

(f) Persons, including individuals and corporations, who have obtained such
records from sources identified in subparagraphs (a) through (e) of this section;
(g) Persons, including individuals or corporations, who have themselves
created or have obtained such records from sources other than those identified in
subparagraphs (a) through (e) of this section;

(h) Federal, state, and local courts where such records are being held under
seal; or i |

(i) Foreign governments.

§1400.4 ’ Types of materials included in scope of assassination record and

additional records and information.

The term record in assassination record and additional records and information
includes, for purposes of interpreting and implementing the ARCA:

(a) papers, maps, and other documentary material;

(b) photographs;

(c) motion pictures;

21
74-0000

DRAFT

(d) sound and video recordings;
(e) machine readable information in any form;and _
(f) artifacts.
§1400.5 Requirement that assassination records be released in their entirety.
An assassination record shall be disclosed in its entirety except for
portions specifically postponed pursuant to the grounds for postponement of
public disclosure of records established in Sec. 6 of the ARCA, and no portion of
any assassination record shall be withheld from public disclosure solely on
grounds of non-relevance unless, in the Assassination Records Review Board's
sole discretion, release of part of a record is sufficient to comply with the intent
and purposes of the ARCA.
§1400.6 Originals and copies.
(a) _ For purposes of determining whether originals or copies of assassination
records will be made part of the President John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection (the JFK Assassination Records Collection) established under
the ARCA, the following shall apply:
(1) In the case of papers, maps, and other documentary materials, the
Assassination Records Review Board may determine that record copies of

- Government records, either the signed original, original production ora

~ reproduction that has been treatéd as the official record maintained to chronicle

22
74-0000

and broaden the historical record of the assassination.

€1) Records policies and schedules; D R A F T

(2) Filing systems and organization;
(3) Storage facilities and locations;
(4) Indexing symbols, marks, codes, instructions, guidelines, methods and
procedures; :

(5) Search methods and procedures used in the performance of the agencies’
duties under the ARCA; and. |

(6) Reclassification to a higher level, transfer, destruction, or other
information (e.g., theft) regarding the status of assassination records.

(f) Any other record that does not fall within the scope of assassination

record as described in §1400.1, but which has the potential to enhance, enrich,

'§14003 Sources of assassination records and additional records‘and ~

information.

Assassination records and additional records and information may be located at,
or under the contro! of, without limitation:

(a) Agencies, offices, and entities of the executive, legislative, and judicial
branches of the federal government;

(b) Agencies, offices, and entities of the executive, legislative, and judicial

branches of state and local governments;

20
74-0000

DRAFT

“any inter- or intra-agency collection or segregation of documents and other
materials);

(3) | Other records or groups of records listed in the Notice of

Assassination Record Designation, as described in §1400.8 of this chapter.
§1400.2 Scope of additional records and information.

The term additional records and information includes:

(a) All documents used by government offices and agencies during their
declassification review of assassination records as well as all other documents,
indices, and other material (including but not limited to those that disclose
cryptonyms, code names, or other identifiers that appear in assassination
records) that the Assassination Records Review Board has a reasonable basis to
believe may constitute an assassination record or would assist in the —
identification, evaluation or interpretation of an assassination record. The
Assassination Records Review Board will identify in writing those records and
other materials it intends to seek under this section.

(6) All training manuals, instructional materials, arid guidelines created or
used by the agencies in furtherance of their review of assassination records.

(c) All records, lists, and documents describing the procedure by which the
agencies identified or selected assassination records for review.

(d) Organizational charts of government agencies.

(e) Records necessary and sufficient to describe the agency's:

19
   
 

CIA SPECIAL © LECTIONS
RELEAS © ie PULL
2000

DRAFT

. CHAPTER XIV - ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD ,
Part 1400 ~ GUIDANCE FOR INTERPRETATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
OF THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS
COLLECTION ACT OF 1992" (ARCA)
Sec.
1400.1 Scope of assassination record.
1400.2 Scope of additional records and information.
1400.3 Sources of assassination records and additional records and

“information.

17
74-0000

~DRAFT

1400.4 Types of materials included in scope of assassination record and
additional records and information.
1400.5 Requirement that assassination records be released in their entirety.
1400.6 Originals and copies.
1400.7 Additional guidance.
1400.8 Implementing the ARCA -- Notice of Assassination Record Designation.
Authority: 44 U.S.C. 2107 note.
§ 1400.1 Scope of assassination record,
(a) Anassassination record includes, but is not limited to, all records,
public and private, regardless of how labeled or identified, that document,
describe, report on, analyze, or interpret activities, persons, or events reasonably
related to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy and investigations of or
inquiries into the assassination.
(b) An assassination record further includes, without limitation:
(1) All records as defined in Sec. 3(2) of the ARCA;
(2) All records collected by or segregated by all fedéral, state, and local
government agencies in conjunction with any investigation or analysis of or
inquiry into the assassination of President Kennedy (for example, any intra-

‘ agency investigation or analysis of or inquiry into the assassination; any inter- .

agency communication regarding the assassination; any request by the House

Select Committee on Assassinations to collect documents and other materials; or

18
 

AGENCY- INTERNAL USE ONLY
PRIVILEGED ATTORNEY WORK PRODVC

SUBJECT: DCI Sources and Methods Authority With Respect to JFK
Assassination Records

(A) an intelligence agent whose identity currently
requires protection;

(B) an intelligence source or method which is
currently utilized, or reasonably expected to be
utilized, by the United States Government and which has
not been officially disclosed, the disclosure of which
would interfere with the conduct of intelligence
activities; or

{C) any other matter currently relating to...
intelligence operations ... the disclosure of which
would demonstrably impair the national security of the
United States.*

ARCA § 6(1) (Emphasis added.)

4. The originating agency is ts make the first review to
identify information that meets the standards for postponement.
ARCA § 4(c)(2)(D) (i). For CIA, this effort is being undertaken
by the Historical Review Group, in consultaticn with the
Directorate of Operations and other appropriate Agency
components. Information the originating agencies identify for
postponement must be transmitted to the Review Board. ARCA
§ 4(c)(2)(E). The Review Board "shall consider and render
decisions on a determination by a Government office to seek to
postpone the disclosure of assassination recerds." ARCA §

7(i) (1). Specifically, the “Review S5oard sha:l consider and
render decisions on ... whether an assassination record or
particular information in a record qualifies for postponement of
disclosure under the Act." ARCA § 7(i) (2) (B).

S. If the Review Board determines to order the disclosure
of information that the originating agency feit met the criteria
for postponement, it "shall notify the head cf the originating
body of its determination and publish a copy of the determination
in the Federal Register within 14 days after the determination is
made." ARCA § 9(c) (4) (A). If the information contained in an
assassination record is "obtained or developed solely within the
executive branch, the President shall have the sole and
nondelegable authority to require the disclosure or postponement
of ... the information under the standards set forth in
Section 6." ARCA § 9(d)(1) (emphasis added). The President's

~ - - . decision must -be certified to,the Review Board within 30 days of
.the Review Boards determination. Id. Records postponed by the ~
“President must be re-reviewed every S years. ARCA § 9 (d) (2).

2

{ PRIVILEGED ATTORNEY WORK PRODUCT
| . AGENCY- INTERNAL USE ONLY
 

([ioetosa-t00rt]

ae

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBCECT:

AGENCY- iNTERNAL USE -ONLY — and :
PRIVILEGED ATTORNEY WORK PROC UCT a :
c RTE.

OGC-94-52916
19 September 1994

David P. Holmes
Deputy General Counsel

Robert J. Eatinger. Jr.
Assistant General Counsel
Litigation Division, OGC

DCI Sources and Methods Authority With Respect
to JFK Assassination Records

1. Per your request, I have attached a copy of the
President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of ‘
1992 (ARCA), Pub. L. 102-526, 106 Stat. 3443-2458, reprinted at
44 U.S.C. § 2107 note. For ycur convenience, I have highlighted
the pertinent provisions that will aid in resconding to an
inquiry regarding the statute's effect on the DCI's statutory
authority to protect intelligence sources and methceds.

2. The clear language and intent of the law is to supersede we
statutes that prohibit disclesure of information, except for some »< °
irrelevant subject areas, such as_tax records. The statute ae
provides that "it shall take precedence over any other law ee

(except section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code), judicial

decision construing such law, or common law doctrine that would
otherwise prohibit" the disclosure of information subject to the

Act. ARCA § 1l(a). This language, taken with the provisions
discussed below which limit the intelligence sources and methods

that may be protected and set a strict procedural scheme by which
information is to be reviewed under the ARCA, effectively Y
supersedes the DCI's National Security Act authority with respect

to intelligence sources and methods information subject to the

ARCA.

3. Section 6 of the ARCA provides the grounds for which the
release of information may be "postponed." The statute
contemplates that all information will eventually be released.
Indeed, it specifies that all information will be made available
to the public no later than 25 years after the passage of the
ARCA (which occurred in October 1992) unless the president
certifies that continued postponement is necessary. ARCA

§ 4(g) (2) (D).

With respect to intelligence-related information,

ARCA_allows postponement if:

"(1) the threat to ... intelligence operations ... is
of such gravity that it outweighs the public interest, and
such public disclosure would reveal--

PRIVILEGED ATTORNEY WORK PRODUCT
AGENCY- INTERNAL USE ONLY
74-00000

AGENCY- INTERNAL USE ONLY
FRIVILEGED ATTORNEY WORK PRODUCT

SUBJECT: DCI Sources and Methods Authority With Respect to JFK
Assassination Records

6. I would be happy to discuss this further if you so
desire. You might also want to contact John Pereira (x30373}
since he has met with some or all of the Review Board members.

 

 

Attachment

3

PRIVILEGED ATTORNEY WORK PRODUCT
AGENCY-INTERNAL USE ONLY
SUBJECT: DCI Sources and Methods Authority w/Respect
to JFK Assassination Records

OGC-94-52916

DCI/OGC/RJEatinger: 76195 (19 Sept 94):

Original - Addressee .«/attach) ihand delivered)
- OGC Registry (wfattack)

- Lit File

- RBB (OGC/TILD)

- C/HRG (J.Pereira-404 Ames)

RJE - Soft File (w/attach)

- RJE - Signer

- PDP

- KK -fyi

- PAS-fyi

et et fet ek pet et
‘
