 

 

D. should be examined together with all the other
available reports go that ec may t Le

7 . iy
(1) clarify our own objectives and wishes with
respect to all the AKLASH group (and this incluces
AMMHIP);

(2) sort out which people, if any, ‘axe worth our -
time in the future;

Gy take “appropriate: peasures, including inter-
rogation and polygraphing, to clarify doubts and
then, wheh necessary, teruinate those who are
working for us but are not worthwhile;

(4)> tighten up our own operational and security
procedures in connection with the AMLASH group.

3. Preliminary Aca) sist As pointed out in @ preliminary
analysis of the AULASE € lex, made in Karch 1965 wh IT was
preparing for travel tema 1
case: "...There 18 no © s evicence that the group is
working eather for or against the regi:e of Fidel CASTRO.
Reports on their contacts with us and their discussions among
themselves are at variance. in 1962 ¥.del CASTRO, reportedly
knowing that they were plotting against him, talked to AMLASH-2
aod seven members of his group to enlist their suppurt against
Anibal ESCALANTE Dellande and the communists in Cuba. Possibly
they gre playing both chds ayarnst the middle. Tney certainly
have been and are in contact with the two ends.” The following

cosments are keyed to matters raised by ESPINOSA: 2
A. The AHLASE conapiies - As detailed b 3716
(IN 28634) on 6 April 1965, |¥UgpoKr- 1 reporting on ing

of the AMLASH group, includiig AMBHIP.1 aentioned the following
significant points:

())) KUBARK was criticized for “fooling around for
years" without helping and for jeopardizing the operation;

(2) the yroup was to be prepared to denounce
ODYORE as responsible if the operation fails and believed that
the resulting acandal would make the Bay of Pigea seem tnsigni-

ficant; and

(3) AMLASH-3 wag in touch with Crban Intelligence
as eatablished by sents messages vhich he exhibited.

As reported by Gani 1532 (IN 82939) on 4 Jine 1665, based on
eeetinga with ESPINOSA, the problen eecn by Par. ia that

 

hn connection with the{QUioPs-1 }4~>

 

as i
 

104-10183-10090}

 

 

“MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WHD for Cuba
SUBJECT $ Eepinosa Allegations

1. Sensitivity: Regardless of accuracy, they

 

   
  

 

A. present a problem because of their having been ~~
presented to other governnent agencies; Tee

    

B. in view of matters touching or U.8. ’ a
are delicate and could have unfavorable repercusgiong ~ --
if repeated to Rewszen by $he_complainant or his ove
associates («hose indepenient, previous threats were =
of greater potential embarraggnenit ); :

 

- personnel at [Madrid \ang/ Pari
> _

°C. affect the arid'pnal Pa and the security of our
‘Of the £8regoing, ‘the allegations

Actaon: In vibe

4. should be put in Proper perspective i.e., mot
ignored because of the potential embarrassment but
considered in the light of what we Biready know
(Almust all of them are ropetitiong of previous

d char,es apd reports, known well to both th id ~2
iy and|" __, ptatsons and to Headquarters of £1 =

con ith the AWLASH group, whose members‘
xeliability, reputationg and good faith are question-
able. Tso of the charges - about Earle and "Tota"
and about AMVHIP-2 and LARKILLO - are new);

B. should be treated so as to protect us ayainst any

charge of laxity and so es to catablish the facts but,

at the same time, treated go as to avoid stributing .
to them more importance than they deacrve; .

C. should be kept in mind as examples of other
charges which may be landied about and-reported by the
AMLASH group t7 other’ govornmental agencies or to
other governaents or to news nedia (In the last
connection recall the implied threat of publighing

3716,IN 38634.);

ome reepons:ibility, as reported previously by

 

5/6
 

ib

ec

gzand his connection with [UNBNAFU-19.) Ak issue are two basic )>
iS

 

“the AMLASH circle is side and each new friend ef whom zc Jeara
gcema to have knowledye of the plan.” 1! belicve that the
problem is a more serious and basic one. As indtcated in
paragraph 3 of the present nemorandua, F.de)l CASTRO himself
veportedly :-kncw as far back as 1962 that the jroup was plotting
@gainst him and, knowing it, enlisted, ita support. Hence .
carinot rule out the possibility of provocation. Agsaasination, «
obviously, 16 a dangerois game, not merely to the piotters in

& physical senée, but to & sponsoring governaicnt which may: we
suffer severe polit.cal reperc.issions at home and abroad if ite -—
involvekent is made known, In the instant case, the risks of
exposure of the ODYOKE hand would appear high, whether there is

@ provocation or not. Congidering the individuals who are
involved directly, their eontacts wath KUBARK. officers,and their :
reported plan to expose ODYOKL, perdisting in the: plan could

be highly embarrassing to KUBARK. (This is even more the “case
now that ESPINOSA has talked to ODEXVY and ODURGE, although

 
 
  
 

 

 

:
t
i
i
i
aa)
H
J
i
i

 

!
fortunately the tenor of his complaint was that KUBARK had not - | \

given adequate support to the pian.) ,”
ie .

The contacts at Paria and the matters affecting

the tation - The "recruitment" of Kaurgen had been the  ,.
gubjéec an cxchange of cables between and Headquarters | 6-4
nd.of dis¢ iasions at Headquarters betwee and YE (See --

1072 (IN 66557) and DIR-10955). The annoying thing in

‘connection now is that LSPINOSA has talked about it to
ODENVY and ODURGE afd the danger that, if he is indiscreet,
his story avout thag (and the other matters) could reach some
curtous newspaperman. (In this connection, 1¢ appears that the
questionable decision to put Maureen in touch with the AKLASH
group waa wade without the knowledge of STOCK# INOSA
did not.Feport any criticism of the KUBARKers at at i$ ib-4
is evident that the AMLASH group knows more abou en than
we might wish, What ia nev and of concern from ESPINOSA about
matters in Paris is his story of AMWHIP 1 and [UNSNAFU-19 re
dealings. The questions raised about AMWHIP Dare of mitual
oncern also to Headquarters which has been running him and

which he hag vis ted often. j7(On the occasion of ny

previous trip a the, 4UHO ~l case, GROWERY had voiced
hie doubts abut e groip’and specifically about AMWHIP-3

“
}

cints, the knowledge on the part of JUNSNAFU-19 aboit KUBARK‘s
connection with AMAHIP 1 and the char,¢ that AMWILIP-1 has been
defrauding KULARL ta the jewelry transaction. Aliso to'be kept
in mand is the fact that ODLNVY has an office in Paris snich
weli might nave been informed of the allexations and which mi,ht
have been asked for coumcents - althouxh ODENVY poltcy always
has been to utay away from any investipation of other governnent
agencies unless specifically directed by the Attorney Gacral

to imvegtayate.

=

me

 
 

 

 

s.

 

a -
‘ — col

 

~4-

_Critaeien ot tne station - Criticism of
'Station-by the AML group ig not new. AMLASH-2

a snd wanted, direct contact, but the —
2 ta about sveiaz then. The Station nas t=
ause of reporting by its sources i
ets. with both tho % :

from Headquarters). om
on8 (IN 73094) (both BYBAT).) Ctx
PA yr=1,;-AMAHIP-1 and AMLASH figures i
Lieting reports which previously were digcussed at id
‘Headquarters. Ingofar as. GROJERY hingelf is ‘
must -be kept ia wind that be ig 3 natural target ©
ISH group wo be Lnclined ta focus its com i
horegard to the specific complaint about “Tota", a
WIFT-7 and has reported that ‘
had contact with ber.

 
  
  
    
 
   
  
  
 
  
  

 

 

ucetings-

!

 
  
 

4. Further tayolvement_of ESPINOSA: On 10 June ODEXVY
notified ARK - low “2 bad telephoned
ESPINOSA to ask whether he had succeeded in contacting “the -
proper people" - 1.¢., responsible KUBARK representatives - and

_ to request notice of the resulting arrangements.

5. ane: OS plan calls for meeting him next week. ....
to obtain PRQ in orcation and to obtain clarification of the.
roles played by thos: involved with him in the ANLASH operation.

His dealings with SNAFU 19 also will be covered. Following .
this, an LCFL ¢xamination is planned. This may help te :
determine whetber he has been truthful in his reporting.

Harold F. Swenson
WH/C/SP

inlk4

 
