74-0000

De

OMiA-1792
Bass Pago Po
1 Beate, 23 July 195%

ob
he (LOHinat R]ia pot identical wth the Fulbright stutent Jane Ps
Kichline @poxa of. That stutent is Mohn HW, ROG of Carteouth College, ; :

who was debriefed by iiarold k, shunds on ly daly. OV

Ov
5. The personalities of intersst whoa [Lor ATS] has mst sean to be
QCLUB (fu), @ soviet Vine Counsul whe 4a an asaistant to Ivan Sc.0sYey,

2 and Yuri Void. He aleo met a Finnieh Commmis$ naged Qi3sk (fnu),
who wa aitting with GOLUB and VGNONIN at a Finnish restaurant. On one /

occas lonLCHuAT:.i] asked OOLU3 over to his amrinent for a drink and
suggeoted that COLUY bring VOXONIM and the Ainnish: Commnatst along b
Maen the Finnish Comauntat did not tun up der a drink, (CORAT SN abled
his Rusatan guests why. Ona of the Rusadans allegedly replied that,”
"de do not lils to associate with these Finnish Communists, Many of —
these Comuunists sho would betray their ow country would also betray
ws toos you can't trust thea,? .

lo : :
6. On one oceanic Dita] saw the Finn's passport and noted that
he had travelled to practically every country in the world,

a .
7. rafear rang USIS file there iz a letter dated 16 April 1955,
in which [Lousar ul) aais paraisaion to go to the Soviet Union. the letter
reads ag foll dts:

"I have been invited by the Suvtat Acadary of Seisnoes to
give ons or two lootures in Xoscow at the end of thie week.
Ths dato of deprtura iro: Helsinki has mt yet been Mixed,
wut I ehould like to inform you at this timo of the plans,
Tre visit wll not excead three or four days.

Sineerely,
Ow
fef{ a de Lotwaters|

Although U3I3 has bsea repeatedly briefed that the Embasay La interested ..
in practically everything regarting the travel of persona in ani out of
the Soviet Eloe, thie item mas mt brought to the Rabaesy's attention.

8. Since t: riences of (ireats0 ant fig5es039 have ancy siatLarite
° 8 @. CACSSE iN yOGS Ve eany 93,
it fe possitle we Lowatet\took only ene trip to the U332; however, (BODG30K) 06
took tro, the undersigned say be confusing the two canes. On tho other : :
hant, if Louwatsd) went in April ani his lost date of entry fron the US3% was “
in ald-July, 1t looks as if he took two trips also. However, his fle only .

prefers to one,

Aocky
 

(roa-10172-10806} moe a
uo uc - “RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

   

 

. ~
Maundy
ala _ _
oo Chief, ¥5 23 July 1956
ee , ; _. Calef of Statioal

- [artmar de Lowwates | Db
REFESENCEr Conwlrase, 15 dune 1956

bo
1,0 me Subject and his fanily Left Selotnkt for good on 17 July
1956. (LOHWAT RY] had just returned froa bis second trip to the Soviet
Union during the week of ) - 13 duly and was only in ielainkt for four
ae pr five days prior to leaving for the united States via Surope. at
: Nba Treen, the Cultural Attache, Dr. ott, call HW OL
nto his office and asked him a few aixple questions, suc: ag; how wae
. hia trip to the USAR, if he imew any Soviets in fielsinkl, and if so,

. which onss. dcoording to Or. Ott, the Sudject seamed quite anxious to
answer all these questions and even offered to give filler anawirs, if
required, ile added that he had taken wany ploturea wile in the Soviet
Union, pone of which were of the Soviet officiala he met in koscow. -

. [s)
2. Sinoe(Loitiima) nad agreed to talk more at length wth an
American, Dr. Ott, ae prearranged, told him that dip, William Mansfield
‘ would get in touch: with hia over the weex-end by phone and arrange to
seo hin. (LONER gave Ott the teleshors number of his temporary real- ~
dense, but the 5 wble to reach hin because no one answered

the phone. the a@twean 13 and 17 July were rather busy at the
\Y-} since ¢t 9 officers wre here on (LY and remired
r egress of pestotance, Both Andrew i. Reuteman and
_ | Harald &. Shands, casa officers in question, agrued to pose as
Willies Mansfield and do the Gebriefing 4¢ they could Aird the tims.

Both, however, were quia tusy and LOmvaTey} could not be reached,

oO
3. Carter as Headquarters perhaps knows hy now, is an Asaistant
Professor of Mathemlics at the University of diciigan. iile hous ad~
dresa fs 1,07 Shadford Road, dnn Arbor, Michigan. He was born on 20
October 1922 in Rochester, Hew Tork. As can be aeen from the daformtica
balow, it would probably be ef some ASDCAY value for hia to ba debriefed
at Ann Arbor next fall. erey ono :

 

ve ‘ ve
re OF,

he oe

SECRET,

Ve

Copy ROE OVER
 

seca

ae

OFHAALI92
Taree

23 July 1756

Tre fact that the above information is eo spotty is a direst

%.
. reflection ca De. ‘g debriefing, wilch was very superfielal because
Yokr be and the! Rhought that WATER] could be debriefed in more
Getail before he left . Gu :

12, Wie is the firvt tims the Station ne heard of Vise Consul, -

Us. SUNT and SsiOsYav are, of course, wall known.

  

and the Pinaish Communist. 0b

Melvin H. Pendleton

 

,
would be very interested in all inforuation (LUMATET) can give on GOLUB

The Station H

sep  f2eoee a

 
