 

oy oy SECRET dg

CIA's material, sanitizing exhibits, as necessary to
protect our sources and methods.

7. I mentioned in passing, that two other things
beyond our control have contributed to the misconceptions
over our exhibits: A)The inadvertent release by National
Archives of the master list of numbered exhibits shortly
after the demise of the President's Commission without
distinguishing between overt and classified items; and
B) the fact that many exhibits bear different numbers
but are interrelated, thus giving a false impression that
there are more exhibits than is the case. The release
of the master list without the accompanying documents
caused much apprehension and misinterpretation, particularly
among assassination "buffs" and Agency critics. I cited
the "Oswald and the U-2" entry which was widely exploited
until we declassified the document a couple of years ago.

8. Mr. Ichord asked if any CIA members served on
the President's Commission. I said no, but mentioned that
fermer DCI Allen Dulles was on the Commission. He then
turned to the makeup of the Commission staff and how it
was chosen. I replied that we were not really competent
to comment on how it was chosen but the staff consisted

‘largely of attorneys of varied political and ethnical

backgrounds from widely separated parts of the country;
that, from my observation, the Commission was impressively
organized and a highly motivated, hard working group.

9, Mr. Ichord stated that he had no further questions
to ask and thanked us for easing his mind. We offered to
vroduce any other documents he might wish to see. Mr. Ichord
replied that this would not be necessary. He returned our
exhibits and told us to consider the matter closed.

CIE hot

Arthur E. Dooley
CI/REA

SEGHET
13-00000

 

 

oe ¢ > SORE oem

Poe A
15 MAY 1972 6252

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence
VIA : Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT : Release of Documents Furnished to the
President's Commission by the Central
Intelligence Agency

On Monday, 8 May 1972, Mr. Arthur Dooley visited
Congressman Richard Ichord to show him the exhibits he
requested and to answer any questions. “r. Ichord is
Chairman of the liouse Committee on Internal Security.

It was quickly apparent that he knew very little about
the Oswald case, and that he had been misled by Bernard
Fensterwald, Jr. regarding the extent of CIA's coverage
of Oswald when he was in Mexico City. Mr. Ichord ex-
amined the documents and raised a number of points

which were answered candidly and without reservation.

He thanked us for easing his mind and said that we could
consider the matter closed. Mr. Ichord was well-disposed
toward this Agency from the onset and assured us that
anything said or shown to him would be held in strict
confidence. A more detailed memorandum is attached.

LEE * . Rocca

Denuty Chief
Counter Intelligence Staff

1 Attachment, A/S

Document numer LOST-47 Bo.

for FOIA Review on SEP 1976

SEL

 
 

104-10009-10195

Vue. DLE. Pratt”
C/CI/REA

* Mr. R. Rocca
DC/CI Staff.

“Mr. Karamessines. ;
ppp - 3C 2016 MOM

 

&

 

 

Document Number 1057-947 R

for FOIA-Review on SEP 1976

 

 

 

 

BE 610"aase" ] secret ) CONFIDENTIAL C] WTEMAY ] UNCLASSIFIED
13-00000

 

Sor € € 5 SeRT OE

SUBJECT: Lee Harvey Oswald Case: Briefing of Congressman
Richard Ichord, 8 May 1972 .

1. Mr. Joseph O'Neill, Office of the Legislative
Counsel, presented Mr. Arthur Dooley, who furnished the
exhibits requested by the Congressman, and answered his
questions as follows:

2. Mr. Ichord said he was concerned over one aspect
of the Oswald Investigation from the standpoint of his
committee. He wanted to know if "during CIA's investigation
of Oswald when he was in Mexico" we developed any evidence
of a conspiratorial relationship between the Soviets and
Oswaldeither through our coverage of the Embassv or
outside meetings. He specifically referred to Soviet
consular officials Pavel Antonovich Yatskov and Valeriy
Viadimirovich Kostikov, one or both of whom Oswald
contacted at the Soviet Embassy. (Both Yatskov and Kostikov
were identified in the Commission's Report as consular
officials and KGB representatives.) I told him that CIA
did not have Oswald under investigation when he was in
Mexico City; directed his attention to the pertinent
exhibit; and explained that the KGB affiliations of the
two Soviets were suvplied by CIA experts who were aware
of their activities and not by anything said or indicated
by Oswald in the evidence compiled by us. Mr. Ichord
examined the exhibit, noted that Oswald's short conversations
oniv related to securing visas; indicated that he had been
misinformed; and said that he had no further questions to
ask on this point...

3. He said that his question was sparked by Bernard
Fensterwald, Jr. a former constituent, about whom he
knew very little when he requested the documents. Since
then he has learned of Fensterwald's dubious credentials
as an expert on the assassination and of his association
with Jim Garrisson and others of questionable repute.

I detailed our own difficulties with Fensterwald, his
insistence that we are hiding something, and how, as
Executive Director of the Committee to Investigate
Assassinations, he has been vressins us to release our
classified documents under threat of invoking the
Freedom of Information Act.

SEGRET

 
 

oC (SENT €

4, At Mr. Ichord's request, I gave him a complete
rundown on how CIA learned of Oswald's vresence in Mexico,
and the circumstances surrounding the photo of the
unknown man which was taken in front of the Soviet Embassy.
I specified and refuted the assorted allegations regarding
this picture which were generated by Edward Enstein,
Wesley Liebeler (a former Commission attorney), Mark Lane,
Jim Garrisson, and later Bernard Fensterwald, Jr. I
mentioned that Fensterwald told us a year ago that h
knew the identity of the unknown man but so far has not
volunteered his name, One of Garrisson's charges was that
Oswald was a CIA agent and that we cut him out of the
picture. I took the occasion to stress that Oswald was
not a CIA agent and that we never had anything to do with
him.

5. I mentioned that when the President's Commission
came into existence Mr. Helms issued specific instructions
to cooperate fully with the Commission and to give it
complete access to any information bearing on the assassina-
tion; that Commission members, at Mr. Helm's invitation -
visited our Mexico City station for an on-the-scene
briefing and inspection. I told him that we have not
released exhibits relating to Oswald's visits to the Soviet
and Cuban Embassies, because the sources of the above
information are extremely sensitive and still productive.
Mr. Ichord fully agreed on this score and complimented us
on the extent of our coverage.

6. Mr. Ichord asked what steps CIA was taking to
declassify its other documents, I told him of the required
five year cycle (one coming un shortly), the review
process, our interim releases, and CIA's desire to release
them all as quickly as the need for protecting them subsides.
I pointed out that most of our material consists of "nut
complaints", rumors, gossip, etc; which have no security
significance per se but could be embarassing to innocent
persons; disclose a productive and friendly foreign source;
or acknowledge CIA's presence abroad where diplomatically
this would be inadvisable. I cited our experience with tie
“erank call” that originated in | how
in 1968 we tried to declassify this exhibit but
security officials objected on the grounds that It wou
publicly acknowledge CIA presence on their soil and pvernaps
stir unwarranted controversy. I stated that despite the
above-typve problems we gradually have been declassifying

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
