74-0000

be There are some gaps'in the files at the "critical
perood,'t which they think reflects documents taken from the
file to serve other resear-h purposes at fhe time of the Warren
Comakssion inquiry; the transcripts, for instance, are not there,
though known to exist elsewhere. |

-Co I mentioned the speculation in O/S about Frank Sturgis”
making mention of Juan Orta's role prior to our having released
anything on this outside the Agency, and what it might mean
about who knew what re Trafficante, etc. Sturbitts said that
Orta's daughter has asked the Agency for the mss. of a book or diary
done by Orta during his taking haven in the Mexican embassy in
Havana. Orta came ow of Havana and someone fetvhitth end :tobk the

labsyesendimgtibito Miami, where the CA people took poosessions

 

A search for the mss has been fruitless to date

 

remembers its existence, but noti:its contents may:

,

know, but he has retired. The diary may contain very significant

mayerial, but Sturbitts recalls large burnings of paper when the

‘station changed from a large to small one; it could have gone up in-

the flames then, A search for the mss continues.

3. By and large, the projest is moving to a conclusion. When

LA finishes, we can assemble what has been found, which seems not to be all ©
that much, and a final summary can be undertaken. In terms of what has
ten found to date it would seem that we have little to add to what ye

already know,

SDB

 
(te-toos-toaes]

id es Se |

Bact Uny

Le . Oo it0 oun 7 cup Dec "76

MEMO FOR FILE
° : eproey, Coy

SUBJECT : LA Division File Search ©

1. Ismet with Bill Sturbitts and Chris Hopkins for about an

hour this afternoon to review the statua of the La task force of the

Cuban ops files. Essentially the original 900 files have been reviewed,

plus some 300 files to which the material in the 900 files led. Chris
was reminded in the course of this of a sensitive operation that de
never had access to at the time she was in Gua ops, ZRKNICK. It was
an intercept of a Cuhan OWVL and provides names of a variety of CUIS
types and what they were reporting, Some 12 boxes of this material
have b.en searched, and there remain two lare boxes bf carded yaterial |
that requires meticulous reviews based on the earlier search referebces
in this maternal suggests other materials to be checked,
2. Items found to date add but marginally to what is known
already. We tallied about how to present: it for the final report. I .- ,
envishoned separate :ackages covered with a brief description or explanati On,
which would be used for writing a final report with some attachnents, but
the fitst set of packages or bundles being held for the record of the
research, Documents with any referebce to assassination were pulled;
they may contain condolences, but nothing operational. Some few itens
are intrig ing but not of substantive meaning that can yet be identified.
Samples of problems, not all stemming from these materials:
. ae Reference was made to a latter in 1962 from a Cuban requesting
the aduressee in the US about assassinations. ah -attenpt ‘ds-b&ingvmade
be identifyethe persons, nut at present it is an intriguing but not -

very meaningful item.

 
