 

CADE ATONE Da IC STWR el NO
CONTINUATION OF .
DISPATCH SECRET EMMA-22550

narrow in interest to merit KUBARK support”, Chief of Station, Mexico has
asked IDEN B and his company to pay this subsidy in the future, This

| arrangement will begin on 1 January 1964, The circulation of this magazine
is approximately 2000 copies. It is definitely conservative, strongly
pro-private enterprise and anti-Socialist. In a meeting on 30 July 1963,

with the Chief of Station and Michael C. Choaden, the Chier, HBF1NCH said,
“we do far too little propaganda of IDEN A type; that is, that which is pro-
capitalist and strongly anti-Commmist". He said this 15,000 pasos monthly
is less than it costs monthly for.us to put one officer abroad and this ia
far wider - far beyond what one more man could do", He asked “hat the Chief
of Station appeal to GALBOND to keep financing IDEN A.

4, AS previously pointed out to Headquarters, IDEN C provides the
Station with a research facility not otherwise available, They are able to
place articles in newspapers and magazines, sponsor lectures, and sponsor
research projects,

5. Manuel CALVILLO Alonso is en intellectual asset connected with
the LIHUFF organization. He is a source of positive intelligence on right-
wing political groups. He is the brother-in-law of Dr. Salvador NAVA
Martinez of San Luis Potos{, prominent eye surgeon and politician. CALVILLO
also mows the educational field better than eny source of the Mexico Station.
He, additionally, provides the Station with background information on well-
known leftists. He has just completed a book on “Penetration of Mexican’

Educational System by Communists". This manuscript hes been read by Chief,
HEVINGH Mexico, IDEN D, IDEN a - Michael C. Choaden
and the Chief of Station, all o: cellent historical
of penetrations by Communism into the Mexican educational system.
(meee ltt has lived through the years cited (1930-1963) believes the
Gt the book (which he says is tactual and excellently documented)
“will be terrific",. HMMA-21976 trenamitted a copy of this to Buencs Aires
with a request for publication, The timing of this publication is important

because of the impact it is expected to have on impending national elections
in Mexico. .

6. The student activities of this group (IDEN E) have been far ~
more effective than it would appear from Station reporting. LIWQUFF/1 and
the Station are at fault for failing to keep Headquarters fully informed on
these activities. Headquerters (in reference) recommended that instead of
@ flat subsidy for basic expenses for the student group, the Station provide
funds for specific activities, trips, demonstrations, etc. This arrangement
is perfectly acceptable to the Mexico Station. Those activities which ere
financed by KUBARK will be coordinated by the Station CA staff, IDEN E
consists of 200 shock troops who are vigorously anti-Commmist and campaign
actively against Commniat and pro-Castro groups at the UNAM; the University
in Guadalajara, and the University in Puebla. Thie is an excellent channel
for action, for anti-Communist propaganda and for pro-Free World propaganda.
They are willing to take direction from LIHUFF/2 who will take direction from
LINUFF/1 (who is in contact with Chief of Station, Mexico), ‘The group
publishes a weekly news organ (IDEN F) forwarded under separate cover. Also
by seperate attachment is a list of some of the activities of this group
during the past few months.

7. %In summary, the Mexico Station requests that the LINUFF Project
be approved for an expenditure of US$30,000 to be used for spot covert
action activities via the LIHUFF orgenization. Of this amount, US$6,000
will be used to pay « monthly salary of US$500 to LIHUFF/1. The remaining
gum will be used for specific activities in coordination with other CA
activities of the Station.

Distribution: , bind
3 - WED, w/atts. u/a/o ward Cy Curets
2+ Files :

‘SCA alah ag Ain
a

 

 

sneneenhcantae ences e

 

}
|

a emigoemencerne

teen atten acne een gpa
‘toa #0718-10036

(@.

we

 

—

CLASEICARION

SECRET

Chief, WH vivision

 

 

 

 

Chief of Station, Mexico Cit

: © operational /KUWOLP/LIHUFP
* ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

 

Reference: HMMW-11780, 18 July 1963

Action : Headquarters approval of Project LIHUFF as outlined
in this dispatch and separate cover attachments.

i. Reference advised the Mexico Station that Chief, WH and rawour! :
Starr decided not to request approval of the LIHUFF Project as outlined in .
HEMMA-20931 dated 22 March 1963. The reasons for this decision were: :

 

(a) that the Project would support a rightist conservative group
in Mexico without adequate operational control and without
adequate control of the expenditure of KU-ARK funds;

(b) shortage of funds for CA operations;

7s traresan ements

(c) that the LINUFF magazine is too conservative and too narrow in
interest to merit KUBARK support;

oa . (4) that Headquarters has not been sufficiently informed about the | . i
student activities to recommend ea subsidy of US$8,000 per years i

Reference asked for Mexico Station reaction to Headquarters' position and .~ t !
for details on how the group could be financed and guided under standards | :
more acceptable to Headquarters. :

i a

i: 2. Headquarters is corred regarding the right-wing conservative.

: attitude of the group; and it is true that the Mexico Station would probably
never have complete operational control of the group. It is also true that |
funds once given to the group can no longer be controlled by KUBARK except |
through the influence of LIHUFF/1. Nevertheless, the LIBUFF group does sound
good and is very useful to the station In the &A field. '

 

 

3, The Mexico Station. agrees that the LIHUFF magazine is conserva- :
tive and “pro-capitalist". From the financial point of view, it is requested 3
that HMMS-2530, dated 15 August 1962, and HMMT~3023, dated 30 August 1962,. i
and MEXI-2246, dated 18 October 1962 be reviewed for™background on the mannér,_
in which the Station became involved in a subsidy for this magazine. In i
view of Headquarters’ opinion thasng hg puagazine is “too Wf, sn: and $09.5 }

SERY-
DISPATCH SYMOQC AND KUMBER

HYMMA-22550 hi Decenber 1965

 

 

CLASSIFICATION [nasa NUMBER

SECRET | 50-124-28/1

 
74-0000

cere eeemmnntanete LPR E

Chief, WH Division

SECRET

Separate Cover Attachment - HMMA-22550, 2 December 1963

IDENTITIES

A.
B.
c.
Dd.
Ez.

F.

 

 

 

[

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SECRET

 

|
|

 

 

L
I
i
t
i
 

wee we been eaeptattaie ot

ab

: | ay

SECRET . Yo

 

 

IDENTITY EF |
Recent activities of this group were:

 

Militant political action in campaigns against Commnist rectors in
Monterrey, Puebla, Guadalajara and.Morelia, working with other anti-Communist
ores). (In all cases these Rectors vere eventually removed from their
posts).

Continuous placement in capitol and national media of anti-Communist
articles of interest to students and government leaders.

A significantly effective character assassination campaign against

EE vee director of the broadcasting station, bas been leunched

ed by the group. i
Carried out successful demonstrations before the Mexico City Joviet

 

Embassy, ond during the visit to Mexico of Tito (several members of the group
were jailed as a result). i

The group bas participated continuously in political action activities

at the National University - and throughout Mexico + in support of anti-

Communist student candidates. .

|

i
i
i
1

SECRET

 

 

3
x
