14-00000

 

a aan ’ 7 . -.

. leat
-. ; . . e .
_ a SECRET,
a "— 20theApril 1960.
with tho Quban Enbosey's intontion of fostering sush activity eneng ali
cisaffected groups in the country, Ho coardi:ates his wark with that of

Eusebio 4ZQUE Lopes. ~

(12) Qonsuelo BSPERON, Tezioan shorthand/ typist who has. beon onplayed by the
Oubon Erbasay in i‘exloo Aty for more than Wftoon years. She doos not
take any intarest in politios.

Lr

(12) Hunberto WROL ve Leaistent .ttaché whe is in oharge cf the issue and

ronewol of pasaporta.

(13) Luts oz. 44 cqmmsulaor employee who omfines hinsolf eclely to hie work,

peers &

(14) Bnrique HEPRER. Oonaul Goneral, 4. sanowhat resorvod mann who tends to

koop himsolf te héinwelf and who doos not shere the viows hold ty tho |

 

 

t Cub ‘( inte Wigee
prement Ovban governments yn fealtony Meese
- ape EO es (Ce :
(15) ¢ daniatont sttochdé iftor BTRO once to power in January
1959, LOPLZ.w ointed oa o sooret cgont of the Prosidon
on end later ode two 6 to ‘exioo and Oontrel dnorioa a @
pans wnetion with OLGTRO oyents in idan, he ia oing
the Ouban exile we and hoe boon ordered to pion cote of viclenos against —

 

then. , LOPES oppears %o be nothing wore than a hired gumian and is an
euelsorbor of a group of Ouban ganceters,

(16) Sefiowa Gilda MONFLNB, Tho wifo of the Socand Booretary, Dr. antonio R. -

, WUNTANE Laredo, Gsflora LONTANH work in tho Oonsulate.

(27) Seflortta Marta LURMOXO, Ia on Lesdotend .ttaché and holps Sefiorita
Teresa FROEMEA Procnaa in her propaganda works

t

(18) Cewles LITA, Asoiatent to the Consul General, 4 cocbor of various
Orica otulent groups, LITER doos not appoar to be in ayypathy with the
aire of the present Ouban Governuonte

(19) Cowles KORA, Press sttachss

(2) Regino FEEROR.. tas only recently arrived in Mexleo ond my be either @
Cultural sttschd or Oultum) GnmclichPRAEP Annona. oo

 

 
 

Tha tollowing personnel are explayed in the Ouban Tmbasay in Uexleo City te

PEELOUATIO SEAPD, ("G3 palmanal Rana |
66 2 Bry
2 voltae =yosr) ] Although 4% was known én

(1) Jose Antond
Maroh 1960 that ha hed be ‘appointed Ouban Anboseader to Maxioo to

succeed Dr. Salvaddr WASP, he haa not yet arrived|| 4 never of the
Partido Socialiata Popular (P.GcP. « Ouban Oxeunist Party) singe the ego

een e
of 16, PORTUDNDO Valder reooived instructions from the Ouben

e comterestivitics against the Cuban exiles in

 

Rearend abies eomelaaneice

ene

 

wien). rs Sfyad dav

Py a ee,
Dr, Ricordo & VIDAL Decdnguss. Gounseller at the Ovban Sxbasey fuho has
been acting as Ohargé d'Affaires einoe the departure of Dr. Salvedar
_ WABBIP. | Ho 12 0 career diplomat but takes his orders fron Pablo Aguatin
ELD Losata, the Oivil Lttcehd, and Licutenant Hector GLROLA Vidal, the

MU tary Sttachs,

(3) Dre Magual QULILNO Layos Pires Gearctary, at present on leave, ' amy

Dr, Antendo 2, MONEANE Laredo, Se0cnd Seoretarys 4 caresr diplenat,

(s)
like Dre Biome G. VIDAL Dexingues, he takes hie ariers fren LLDUMS

 
 
 

 

Socnta ent
ARORA vane) Bbieeste:
(3) Cams seotal WSO eae [Beastnoe vith Pole ze
dgvotin LED Leosta, the Givi Ltenehd, GABOR Waa fafa ge
: F ss
Pre as SEER e Me S we
gq

 
(7)

  

Ae He 1a in chosq, alooat deily, contact wi th(Ferel Lntonovigah
ow ' Me AEN aT and Coniul at the Rusetan Exbosay tn Maxigo
Oity, » oe cE At Ys oa_DAS AneaerSalap fl LATTE ; BS fics

(8)

 

(10) Grteyin STR. Untntaine contaot detwes the Otben Exbesay end wasters

~ flat with

.

    
  
    
 
   
 
    
  
 
 

a Z ; ADtheApril 1960.
Rlonragun,: Guatenla ani the Doninioan Republic who are exiles in Mexlog
and ogainst whose governments the Oubon Wibassy is carrying out a

aye

Progcone of propoganda and subversion.

Gt Cube
Pablo sguasaseonans socata, Civil Jttaohé, Tho “oxdnence grise” of the

we Mee

Ma :
_Guban Embassy, and by far the most fanatioal and active Oastreist of 4:

2taff, ALDAMA Aooata 1a in obarge of coordinating ol] Quban Govermamd. .

sotivities in Mexico against the Ouben axles, 9, teak in which he io ely

esaiated by GIROLA Wéets “A froquent traveller between Mexioo Gity and
Hevona, @LDiMA Acosta is eaid to receive his orders fron Mdel OLSTRO Rus

 

 

 

  

whioh are sent fron Guba in the Ouban diplomtie bags His sotivitiea have
attrasted ths attantion of the Nescloan autherities tio are sald to be
considering the poabibility of axpolling both hin, and other nenbers of
both the Ouben ond Rusatan Bxbassies as "personne non grata”,

Yade ALBER'! Gouto, The Oulturel Attaché ab the Ouban Erbasay who aly
omeome kingelf with his work and does net allow himself to becena
involved in ony other of the Exbasay's aptivitieas ‘

|

    
 

tine worked for the Usxican Ministry of Biusstion ea a teacher, For many
yearo sho vas connested with the Mieviniente Laxiesne per le Pea (ilk. ©
Maxioon Peeso Hoverant). ,

MN
30 Kops
eves tt®,

Cov bearer

en trede wions in lisxico cusg whan ho prenstes ogiteiien in assardance

BARE _ SECREPa@awenn: oo

it

est OBFAMAs

-ATUNR ead SUBiLITTE

me
=
Fo
=
z

 
14-00000

 

 

 

 

 
 

104-10073-10008

 
14-00000

    
     

 

aifghington 1

Hexioo City 1 Lo. oo
Havana 1
Registry

 

 

 

 
 

— SERRET GORTHeS
a Ones omy

 
 
 

TSH 1S BEST OSTAIBABLE

 

ReeRepue

BMITTED

Faon APERTURE SAND SU
14-00000

cera H etna

wee
*

Ga2ty

RGAY gaye yy

 
