a7 Paris necting and further’ discussions, ANLASE- ft aatd,: fn response. to. ‘the
“question,” that’ it “would be: ‘quite’ normal for hin. to be’ in Paris, as he: had os

. already’ cleared this wi th Fidel with who, he renarked caustically; ‘one

“ had to clear everything ‘these days. Het then a expressed, the idea ‘that. he

t-

would Like to return vo Par

“in order to pick bed his + Ingenees,

 

just dlating. ‘From there, ‘or opéxhagen, he would oO
“for ine “"enbrgency ‘nesting were ‘ata on. In Steckhohi, “meeting arrangements

for Paris will: be éstablished. “AMEE departed Helsinki, 5 Angust and is’
a presumably: abaya 1b the Paleo: Hotel “td Bhi 8 aes ke

SO Cae,

were, | hela a theiy. Yespeciive hotell 106

 
74-00000

=

    
  
   
  
   
   
  
  

2 This meeting ‘teiminated's at ‘0030 ‘on 2 “hogust. ‘he. ‘thrée perticipants
toil a » tai together back: to. ton: AST? and AMLASEH stopped off ata ocal *
‘night club, Teatey) Gritien, while we cont fined on to our hotel: Fo. “Indidents :

 

f- a “security nature were. Sbgerved, and dt was felt that the meeting was’
. “held without the knowledge or “observation of the opposition. :
oh. Meeting ‘of 2 August 1962.

We met with. AMNHIP in his’ hotel room (io. ue at the Yeskuna) at

 

1700 hours on 2 drigust. We discussed the events - and- talks of the, preceding -
" eventing for ‘some time. At appr -scimately 1800, AMLASH arrived, greeted :
“us affably, and joined us for 4 : drinic. _ AMLASH: used this meeting to re-:
“tate his: Bosition. -goncerning’ his’ ‘desire for ‘participation’ ina veaily -
significa
, that, further. -discussions and éebrietings of AM ASH should take plac ace with

  
 

i etic against the. Castro regime. “Having decided by this time

 

a Spanish-speaking c/o, we outlined the idea to meet ‘for such a purpose in

Peris. . AMLA SH did not Tike the ides. of too. many peonle being. guamne a? hie i

‘cooperation with: POPRDIE, but: Bareedl ‘that it would be best in order tbe.

    

allow. hinsele to express his ideas and plans. better;. and. to: tbe. able ‘to: o provide:
“us: us with. h hi information in the. restest possibte detail. r-
we free ¢ cuba without any outside Support. (ana’ by inference, - -oviigations), ’ brit.

  

jie is a realist enough, to ‘concede ‘that any etforts to overthrow Castro 2 a

 
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 

 

 

wat have the support of. PEPRIME “He is, ‘therefore, willing to enter into”

 

a poussins ith a ‘representative (s) of PBPRIME. towards this, end.’

 

mst agresd ‘to neet ’ “in ‘Paris ‘for the- purpose of ‘further devrietings :
i wad to. give ay ‘Angormation in any. field ‘which he has. He is also most.

yi 1Ling to discuss any plane. which. nay ‘lead to an overthrow of the present
pavernment.- ‘AMLASH. ‘stated niany, tines, however, during the ‘course of the.

maatA ngs, that he was only interested in involving himself ‘in a plan-o
wigndPhoan ant action, and which as cteuly designed, io achieve rapidiy nis. Sesire

4a help Cuba... (Be, told AvP later after we had left. _the’ meetings, that.

eS eed

ha wag afraid that: -PBPRIME would contime to pursue. its present course,
: shat ‘of providing money and ideas, but. no ACTION!) AMLASH was also moat

danant about - not becominig involved in any way with the Cuban refuges,

 
 

gireles and. orgentzaticrs dn Miami. | ‘He. said that he fecls these are 2 still
“dhe ‘same People who, left. Cuba, i.e: 2

  
a take-over, during the: cerisuing confusion, ‘would be mich facilitated...

did, not feel that. Raul or Che would be able to rally the People in sufficient

- tine. to prevent, opposition forees fran forming. His arguments. and plans hed -
many flaws, but AMHHTP could not help adniring (to hinself) AMLASH"s
professed. desire for vigorous and, hepetully, effective potions, seni a

to alter the situation in: “no. uncertain terms, While we were e making no —

comittnents or plans, » we e pointed out to > AMLASH that schenes Hike he: nvisioned.

 

 

 
 

a is) position in the goverment and

     
 
 
 
  
    
      
      

: as ; mich cone red about his

 

personal ‘stake ina new aba, as he was ‘about aiything else. - Tt is. our.
* : impression that AMLASH eels that he dia not get his: share’ “Of the ‘spots =.
oe ‘or. power from the Castro regine, in proportion to. his, contribution agpinst :
. Batista. AMLASH is a complicated personality. It: is difficult to fairly: “
judge, at. this time, AMLASH's. degree’ of concern for. a truly revolutionized .
Cuba for the: people! 8 benefit, ‘vs his concern to see a new. ‘government in.
7 cuba in which he gets Just recognition. This does 1 not & hecessarity mean © —
- r that AMASHE wants “high political office, ‘but he. does want credit for his wee
efforts and the resultant power and d prestige among his countrymen. sos .
in addition to ‘his ‘concern’ tor the 1 ‘manner in which: the: Soviets are® :
“ysing cuba for their om designs in latin America... AML ASH. wis. worried about.

: ‘the extent: to. ‘which Castro 3 is using. the Soviet ‘technique ‘of. capturing the

 

. minds « ‘of the. young. People and. the mass. propaganda efforts. _ agains the:
oF ot tay Sane hotels that t evening. We  peroxaded him. that it. was not the
best idea” vets and. to give. o other ‘people more tiie to locate ‘him, He
“agreed, “bw: kept" ecning up with ideas all evening for ways to locate AMLASH. .
“He ‘enggestied that AMLASH liked night. clubs, and that: ‘after dinner we coula
"perhaps try several. We agreed, more to placate ‘hin that arith any. thoughts a
a “of incooss. We- trie several, the Brinnspexken and the ‘Theater ‘grit, .

the The atom ‘Gril: fer an’ hour, hs. paid. that
Settee Me te nt Oe

oh he 2 thought this was a waste of tine. We: "agreed, erabbed a taxi and went

 
(odt0t03-10270

 

 

: (due: te his hotel, porter's
HiceMectatiishes contact.with

restaurant. of his hotel, the ¢ Yanna, cand Later in his. ‘room. + Men had . ne i

meeting lasted about one . and a halt hours .:
: " Later the same > day we: called AMWHTP ‘at his hotel to report

- nO: progress ‘in. Locating AMLASH. Feeling it advisable to. keep AMNEIP

: occupied, we took him out to dinner: at Eisketorpet, ‘located in the ,

: subuse ‘of Helsinki “The evening lasted until 1200, terminating with a

zed that, this was  Recessary, and: sereed with our ideas. “However, 7

 
     
   
  
    

from Hextis ;

Fae caitoo", would’ call deck: During | the break, “we! instructed

 

on the: telephonic, and to talk as’ aft the opposition was
uate be casual, ‘greet AWASH, abringe to see him, oo
© saying, that-2 he was in Baripe on “isiness® in Scandinavia, France: and Sittaerind, °
and’ that. beiricg 4n Helsinki: thet -AMLASH was ‘attending ‘the Festival, the’ a
: had decides” “ stop: over and contact him, ‘When AAS answered the phone, ,

TPs Poe at up, caution was abandoned, and he was off at a rapid

   
   
   
  
     
  
      

& was:

  

: rate. in Sects " AMLASH said that he would be right: over to see ater |
ih ‘his.2 00m,

    

che. Vaaicuna We briefed ANNIE once more on being careful,”

"and. shores nz te the door. We arranged to have AMWETP call. us when.

he could Eo ne office, urging him once more to be careful and’ Aisoreet.: oe

  

. We hope’ Be 228 teen. -It.was later, jlearned that! “finding AMLASH ‘in this |

notel: rem, “es: pare good. fortune, as. he was just using this’: room a to" tak

    

 

a shower,’ Biete =e | was. still residing in ‘the: quarters: of the conaiort delagates

 

 
 

. as at ‘is often: used by businessmen to have private dinner: an afterwar s

"awaited AROIETP and. ANLASH, who arrived at ‘atio ‘by tati. “wthoveli AGHIP

  

business discussions.

 
  

an We- arrived at the White Lady. first, arranged for. the dinner, cand.

   

-had sug) ésted. ‘to us that: the: eiscussions should be merely ‘dévoted to.

: getting acquainted the first ‘evening, “AMLASH. -eommenced: ‘almost “immediately”

into a discussion of his feelings and, his position concerning Cuba today. °

As. reported 1609) AMLASH was quite intense, ‘and showed

 

the strain of his mexpected meeting with AMWHIP. Although obviously”:

under ‘emotional strain, ; AMLASH H presented his feelings ina relatively calm -

     

: at Btn Oh ced =
5 g£ Nei ve wiscubsing pivterrrs throughout the eel. Bo ania ke

maruler 9: aul
was ; considering not going “back to Cuba, ‘but after tallcing to AOI, ? he :
felt that if he could do sonettiing really significant for’ the creation of

a new ba, 3 he was, interested in reboming to carry on | the tight theres? ;

 

 

 

  
 

 
