 

 

 

ARE Ameren

 

j

ege

cat ths

 

3. 8°91 Coedaas one aslo oyero, Sle 54%!) advlog

flooas faction Gf the lawsare Bias Judges refseed 19 acer st easlalene s-

eam 41K -S, a8 we Laeagnl Whe; propec:y sack. MW owtil oe secelied anat

ver. UP 97956 sik O wae infoponed OF le leteruter thas yaa pose lbilhy

foe ovgeniasticn gad glans flor entle Cabana ,achats tad lawyers will be .

WLRGs. This ceble #96 cleared, aecordeng 42 Om ihing, oP 3

be Weodwla Gad AHA Of sista, £0 Boles oo ae cevie IiasU by Col, BE Ing. "
tBcsiioe: Do we oe wish. te Sopport tha -ruep ‘awy ere in oby way CO

7e6e fet thane arift aad pousioly Become a nctisze of vppociiien te LAG,

ead another exile faative of wigalit. sate over riom we wall (:bes} exert

viewesily av inflsenze ? .

4 CONTE Aguere and 2. Howard Hunt's menereadam af : :
soaversesion with iy, Hugwiteh, CUL973-, ivaniiuaed above, otaied “ -
that cor torning the lawyers-over 12 DIRS 614 mn coasthate a procodant .
Godt 1B C's dcrsed for gus,smelbiiity 26 eaciusive chansel.co Cuban oalle -
£f08,;0, Dal. anu Ford, eyeciftally goje-tet. 2 i8G sgreed (ica) bse
Starts be loge these groupe inte toa CE weld Mheiz io the tong cun
breve Counters prodsctiva, allioug. bozefaliy 04 vould eadsovor id give
pulitival guiganee te ihe lemiere oi these easiii4s, Sime then we have bsd
6a exckamyes of cavles with : faci ig @aicb fs wes teticoted ty iota! aber
s7R-5 ta bast weet back to CUNTE Agasze ai.0 tiolated ines CONTA‘
futazve aotivitice be oBbjec: te the clrocitica afihe ChO, S56 rasiied te
CAVT thas COMEE%S long cue lotatned p_eliius of muneeiigh test ih aay
golisical grow wae en see. foy b's activi ive 2.4 Lis job world net Jenoxd
0@ bis joiutag the CLC. Noe we beve 8 win ernasan of 4 4icber irem —
+2, bem wile ba affect eays we cast ruash 0% wasorsiagdio; ~wha CONT!
whet avy in¢ezeatent sepzert Cennst be weed fo ierpeds CONTI e jolalag
he Cre, This of course doce net mean cuat CONTE's breadcaats aoed
Le terminated, ei.agig that inay be flanased and trutactot ibrough the
aaletteg Ca ciecRaniom, ~ Cbovicesly chi le in é'veet ceniradicilon to our
praviess codevetandieg wih SHA aad the “Lite jose, Aside Izowu the
bead fo7 bien, to heey im cloves tous nhin Cas Lececa, whas 19 the arowes?

 

& CRC asd tetereal Caben groupe. Fs tive aoe been tefecuced thet
63 8 sosalt of wor urging, the vripclal tmdaror! celliica! groups bave
ereced te send repyesenaiivss a the CAC, baveves, before fiat 6pveqmes:
 

7

emma pees

CETTE ON see WRN tt emp gee ee pmo oo og etme

weet eee

ea gee ge cee

  

Bere nee

oN oR eee Spee

a tet rhar 896)

cor Mua ANDUM YOR THE GEG RD

NUUGLCT. Chet of watetamdiag SMA SR Pr sulsn Acoas

1, Beet Cp-rations, What sa the istlitratoe -oxfiiveticn authe rity

ofS AVET TaAlle we Lave ali agrees cof 8 peer ul mente that
ewhortty to rug ‘aliltretionsouiutretion bust t-eractme shoul bo givea
VAYI and, ip fact, there has been tore suc!. asthority extended by
cavie and condirmed in diapatches, bul cacy tice a TscHic creratian
arines, the same cld reesrvatiors come up in our isiace heve In Heade
quarters, Aga apociite exaraple, UM 4545! 0 4 “etcber, Operation .
SARICUCK, atatee Chat the MRD fe runniag 6a we ' teation cperition,

lngt there ls “ne AUBARK ireteat, ed tat ba ‘only provided them
~tth food oad feet.” Tale §¢ oo eacelle:, g2ainzie ot double! teie,. In
fect, it da virtually Impoesibia at the progent time “or Bey of Le any
groupe in the hulamd area ts rue OA opt ration of this nature keto Cups "
witout wilisiag some parconnel wee covi) poimt a Uiaser ag 7 UBARK
ondsar tha U.S, Coverningal with 16,074 lo ae oP mere ef tus following:
eoutret and/or debriefing by CU, vetnic,, sug ort ia vepeir or maine: -
tevaace of boats, knowledye cf KUBAKM tastailativas, epecial visa

Caneiieration, Coast Uuard aad lah. fosbearancs ur num-obzatvames
Fino vin; Uses, be th tecursbent

an “azze:red oF

   

 

 

of covert type activities pad the flke,
upra tho Division or tha Uraach te ach newled e
“disapproved” wossage tn respense te UN 404005

 

 

2, wil be recalied that eeveral woshs ago former Av vaseadsr
tu Comdua RACJAS proposrd a sshotage vperalinu af @ peciutiarty acd flag
ravily unewdic nature, Ye had some re vations alout trie, (fret of
atl, because of LUBC'e hel itage trike Ce. Vepublic an: a lot of
thee slaras, aad af the Veanth level, we cic ¢. nce U tae Avercy «ented
tc become @ partrer wRA Li 6G, 6 Git aut be liewe that S0!5. cA would
Vauy "the propesal without some eentes sion of i.'. Covert cucul agytoe
bation, Thirdly, we aoubted wh-thor all ti mechanice of j-olling Lae
apéretian coals ba ellecled without some disses Government support,
Firallyp, we fet tbe U.S. would be, in any cent, accaged before ihe UN
sf wetsg spcsees, or cfheviag tolerated the upsratyan, and we «ere oul
eure wiat the U.S. gsvermicent “posture wereld oe in euch on eve.
Mfler vartvas Conoeltetions at vasivas leve:. in tio Agency, £OJAL wae
tid we wuld not (insece the ayeretion, fe Lae aus: coms acs and
erated that ciceburg and biniene will finance (aso eretion ant hes
piled, af least, trat the Canadite will percrit kin. ‘os buy the ,fanes and
ciyer equipment. All they want ace te the pseaces! from “UU IAAR.

“ein the dreach do add eve that the situats . Ree ccarced very much,
bur would fixe to bring dais walter torte attend fhe Sor eutharity
ia review, im short, when §. “plausio'e devial > ore wan ae'f Jelusion”

in ¢.16 type ef thing?

 
 

   
 

  

 

 
14 Q0b0,

oh see tery pee

ET NRE gee we el

 

 

Mya ee ene cae

ot.

“ia 18 givem te MLR, Probasly ta the acu Cay SF lwo, ther would tive

"44 98) veeding fro.a eo a6 te Wastiee Gs cincora'y vant iv de this ans

 

voy bp it They wey, and eelaw adaliied ta PUSS AS. ge. posettaives
an ls Tepioenber, aber thay bad Wid blue eo, ohat tle Cas oof as
ist cortege oa the lasidan, fhsy alee O2y they 06 no res! use bo daviag
toe UG walese i: Belge tha U, & Covernsiens to susie way, ,

  
 

® RK wll be recalled thas Col, Johneon bbe bees Bent to “diasct ead er
ae cover for TOY to meet with BURG, RUAC ea the ounar boud, baviag ;
ou. custretes hig eireagth vis-a-vis *OpbhD gion in getting Cel. Jehnesa
$9 tgaed 16 ‘ulomnt eow leaves Col. Jobnoon siitteg im Miauh wile he,
at the deboduled tirne fer the teeing, comes ic + Oa lsgien 66 else
\6Gilons, wack ast did FRIO heoe of Cel. Sehasea’s 4: 20iat men be fore
at, HIRO, Snow? Covioasly 2180 te Goliowtng the edvi.e oill! ef Ce RMA

Soaziy 8890 Eiw seprecent hime olf 68 £8 Ieletiedtavy of tha U, A
CVversmem? This “Oteae’ indicates Cleary vee laca of OQ) £eal oz: eeizces
‘uae 3 ANe bone and State Deertrmant or for thy. matiee da the Ageacy
$7 1o gancily 309 we wlah ve doutact eoluitene siti the CEG, oven at a
riotalured crester, saucy Joog ets Fogard io majey gcksiemive tooces,

"s) gtidaace oa idle would be ents earely deiptul.

corel | mae ( Cetader 1981)

Tietri>atioa:
welg. © ADCIRMD
boo CUWR/G
b- C/wH/ 4s ian
le ACISNI4/ PA-Prep
de AG/Wi94s Ag
be ASIWH/asr8ecd

 

 

oer

 
