10000 +

 

inp sere:

i eRe

$, Regarding your paragraph 2c, you rasy wiab to se7.ind him
of hie conversation with CL <HK and HANLEY ta Saitimere Pare thie
was digcuseed, You may tell him that we Gro ae acreed endeavoring
to provide furis to ths laternal groszs which be ini.cated sogald be
sapported. Natarally the meane are secret. Ef be has a partieslar
leader or group Inside be warts ue to try.te scpport be shoeld tell us.

We could eenzest aome of his million doilere could be utilises by hina
action, the. Stale Departure,

alse for thie purpose. As to sermands

which sote pelley, hae not authorised any con.mande operations of any
biad and we are accordingly not lo & position te organise of support any
for the presect. . : .

on Commande Action, this plas

&. Regarding your paregraph 3
wo have na polley sotborisatios

le net yat im Headqus riers; hewever,
(rove State fey sech aa operation.

7. Regsrding soar item 4, yoo will recall end he will recall, be
took thie ag with GOOD" IN and thes with RUE ITZ and thee with
ChlAaR amd HANLEY, He wae unable than to say exactly how oe evee
Ui he could develop & come lise to Aamires row b leas how be would
getarne te RAMIAEZ, oF anybody sise by alr. aud io elthear boat or
‘alr operations there sould havo to be some ascucance that be bat the
cripebiilty to srrange & reception parts im Cuda fer the arms, secentsg

we bad the polley authorisation to support this kind ef operation. Tou
by HANLEY te Ble, ig 9 nef enough

ebould tall him that a6 explained
fer him to just say he would like to euppert @ given guorilla group. fie
fer deing st before we can support dla,

alll have to have come capability
Asteming wo can got pullty approval fer sane.
im 6, althouc wa sympainize with hia view,
ae Mr, HURWITZ and Me. CORAR, a8 selt ag bir, GOODIN, bave
teld him, the U.S, Cove rament bee ct aad Goes Bt piste te camvnls
lself te him on the quaction of seeding U,3. traope to Caba,

9. “ith regard te your item 7, Leguld sug seet you remtat hire he
agroes Ia hie conversation wits HANLET ans CO. 4h that ho woald
ogrange an ar (cable (acouvss of the furtsta which ba admittediy has
not Jone. We still bags be con exert enough Liiineace over Bis pecple

te keep tho mees Gut af the preas.

3. Regarding your ite

 
 

10d. 0207-10148

 

ty Uctober 176)

MEMORANDUM FOR ¢ Colenel Jobasca

 

Vaa - 4 Be. Ellis
SUBJECT . 1 QOsbdonce sot Sr. Mise CARDOMA
pEy SARKCE t Your Memorsadum for the Record of

10 Ocsober 1968,

i. Bn your diceuselcn with State and MIAO it eotght be wlee, for
sqcartty reagens, te saguse they have litshe spec ifta haewledce of
our operations afd cortminly ef apecific IndiviJuale ehe hare seme
soosaction with C.LA. Yor exasapls,.chea they speak af Coste
Agro, tt has geome leo fas Cov as to desy say relaticaship, bet we
ebostd {truly trolet Ch. Ap bo oct directly in toch with Conte.

3. Realising the dlMecull haodling probiess yea have, 2 aso putting
dewa my @ee reacties to serbe ef the parta iy pour meme, ebkh

may, Lhage, ba of oume aselotante. :

: Regarding your paragraph 2, lnoen a, 1 do wot believe we
shosld, far cecurtiy reaccas alene} reveal to hire er State our
ope rations in this area. Bech of the time ohen they rales isenee
Itke thie they are simply gueseing ead Usbiag.’ Freqosntly thelr
gevsoee Gn oar ansote are VOry erexcest. Usmlly, thoi? forays
oss ba countered by eaying wo agree that the propagaeds ‘tines ”
ghmbd be diseaseed er they should tell us what they thiah the Tine”
sheohi be acd we will cecoment U we disagres. ia cbert, wa are
wing 6 cevartiy try te eagpart them, bul we are Bot ebligaced te
poveal to Stats or MIRO oar aperiits railoue tad yorscome),
wailed elpald te ta 8 Horenal oiwales cinsavsiing, Accordingly.

L wenld eeggurt that yoo ent garage the CR gomord divertiag sod
ef the salllies dallare the *hhe heore pro-niced them tate ieroning
9 functioning propagamla voocissica sed euggest they thea tell as
wat they are deisg ami psa te éo, os tha: if we have assets anl
approvals fra> eur peonlc we wlil
were lorts wits Gaelirs. i

be ta 0 poiiticn te caordiue’a@

parageaph 2,2, there sve ta poss ce, 3 saad
exsagh.. ‘Toll hice to hoes as afvised a2 to obal be proposes to és
wu Ris tamdas ba ia field, Swrely be doesnt .H0: be bs gtvizg ws
cordate a8 te what ce 2henld do bere ta cur coumiry.

4. Begerdmg your
 

 

  

"8s SUD

PRES armg coneenp ttm 8 Wr Hem

imme Tene Notts owe

~se

Db he eRe Lie eet

 

T2, Riwawgert te yous ies by we ten tol
come loadermate and ladece these grea>e $0 euct* alia iu in ene «ae
Crapvther, bul da aot agree wite hin, tees ip the long ram iaach ven be
actonyebed by just saying I cort, of the wore sg, and-Tam Tilt chamel
to tha U.3. Goverar ent. He ecost +eey io rbot tbe! there are ta :
existence lots of chaanels to the U9. Geveransat ead by that ve de

not mean C,4, A. :

 

MU, Regarding Jour em NU, you protably about! @mphaslsr to kim

Sgals thet he bas tahon over the FED budget 123 persannel aed it is
up to bim to get thom orgaaise! aad doing so-rethie, ether thar trawiag

' rehtet checks. : . »

WB. Regarding your tan 14, Leuggest you continse your “Crerll wtton
ding @lth MIRO, potntiag owt these groupe ars BM under comslota
control of C,LLA., that they io macy thiare on thelr owa, that we
wierely support them, {ress tice to tlst.6, @ewctiy Indivectly. arccaerdiauly,
we ere not bi & position to turn the: over ta bir, even Uf wa ranted

‘to, which we at ible pelat, are rot sure they would Bgree te in toy case.

Ha wii eiregly bave te gat Lote suis wording réelatlonahip with thar,
welag bie milliea dollars or taadgrabip, prefaredly the lanar.

 

 

 

 

we fwnls

Olatribsasions
Grig & 1+ Cal. Peknses a
beMr. Rule
1. OCHA
1-CsWHsG
1. C/WH/4/Plone
