   
    
  
    
    
    
 
 
  

in Switzerland, and which was addressed to Lea, which said in effact:
that this colleges was expecting Lee Oswald on 20 April 1960. After.
recelpt of the lettar, Mrs. Oswald planned to write to the collage to

' dearn if ber son was in actual attendance there.

The Sovists nelther encouraged ror discouraged Oswald's desire to become
& Soviet citizen. The American Embassy wanted him to think 1t over
before hearing his oath renouncing Amarican oltizenship. As a result,

. Osuald is bitter towards the consal there. He has stated that regardiess .

of any material shortcomings he sees while in the USSR, he will never go
tack to the USA. : mo
Ress. in . 7 .
sea, Mamskts Deswes roves GSXuadbuy ©. Semen = x
“Cewwwd Vacs Weak wo gerne, woes - Crm d Reams [ing wh Breese ding

Marewd Warwa Nidlagana te osatiay ay ‘been 4 vly eal BS Na\etosce,

Archang2huOhs Laboratory acsgh. Sepk by ayphed wiSa come ust
wok Osuaia, ; 2 ,

Unless so noted, info is from the Washington Evening Star, 26 Nov. 1959.

- th WutarS

Shot. + Kath gece Ruby owe ae nevirbo 743. whee

bang waved tem Dates aan .
 

-disseminations have > already been made. -

cf rans
1
a - 5 December 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT "American Defectors to the USSR

1, The attached material was part of a soft file entitled
"American Defectors to the USSR", which was set up by .
around 1960 ard maintained by various © components

“until ca, 1963, The compilations were derived from a variety

of sources, and contain both classified and overt data, —

2. In the fall of 1966, the files were turned over to
In most instances, basic’information was then abstracted -
» Inall instances in which

the material was unique, or repr esented a valuable collation effort,

it has been incorporated into the appropriate 201 file, along with
@ copy of this memorandum. .

3. Itis suggested that any dissemination of this data should
be coordinated with - and with: © ", in
view of the frequently inadequate sourcing and of the fact that

|
on
;

Orig - ; BO g2|-40 :
bee - Document Number 4 S

Le. an |
Le . . for FOIA Review on SEP 1976

1. . yee ;
. Se een

oS bapy

fi

 
ree mi, 26 ne enn penne, 2 see, :
ont teen meget we ce oes ne

OSWALD, Lea Earvay .
Date of Birth: 18 October 1939.: New Orleans, Louisiana

Data of Defactions October 1959

Education: High | school. Always a studious type, read books that ware
considered "dsap*, .

Military Services

Joined the Marines at 17. Says he did this because he didn't
want to be, burden on his mother. Becams a PFC, radar operator;
14 months service Japan ard the Philippines, Honorable discharge

on 3 September 1959 (dependency discharge).

Backgrounds \

' ‘Father, an insurance salesman, died before Les was born. Has
a brotker who is @ salesman at Acme: Brick Company, Fort Worth, Texas,
and a half brother John Edvard Pic age 28, a US Air Force Staff Sargeant

' stationed in Japan. Mother is currently employed as a supply & mother at

tha Methodist Orphans Home, Waco, Texas.

According to newspaper article, reasons for his defection were a conbi-
nation of family poverty, what he considers the plight of US negroes, and
the US Marines or American imperialism abroad. At 15 or so he read

"Das Kapital® ang agreed with its theorius. A year before his disckarge,
he began to prepare for life in the Soviet Union by using a Berlitz -
grammar to teach himself how to read and write Pussian. Never, however,

' Qld he consider deserting the Mrins Corps.

After discharge from the Farines, Lee visited his mother, in Fort Worth
for about 3 days, then left for New Orleans where he planned to resume
employmant with an export—import company for which he had worked prior. |
to enlisting in the Marines, Shortly after he arrived in New Orleans,
he sent his mother a note saying that he had booked passage to Europe, .
that he was doing something he felt he mst do. His arrivel in Moscow
came as a shock to the family. Travel money probably cams from that
saved while in the Marines. Hse had never expressed any sympathy for
the Soviet Union or Commmnism. Ha had been interested in Cuba and South
rica and his family would have expectsd him to go there, 17 anywhere.
Mail sent to him since his defection has been addressed to the Hotel
Metropole, Moscow. He acknowledged receipt of his mail in 19595 but
letters sent in 1960 have been returned to the senders. .

In November 1959 the Soviets were investigating the possibility’ of
fey aszone, to a Soviet higher technical institute. (Wash.Evening Star)
May 1 Mrs. Oswald received a Lotter from the Albert Schweltzer College

 
of

CC GEGRER) ¢ €

Gs. 786
December 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT? "American Defectors to the USSR"

 

1, The attached material was part of a soft file entitled
"Ainerican Defectors to the USSR", which was set up by 6R/6
Support) around 1960 and maintained by various(SR components
until ca, 1963, The compilations were derived from a variety
of sources, and contain both classified and overt data,

In the fall of 1966, the files were turned over to(cr)
Stast,) In most instances, basic’information was then abstracted
for the US Defector Machine Program In all instances in which
the material was unique, or represented a valuable collation effort,
it has been incorporated into the appropriate 201 file, along with
a copy of this memorandum,

3, It is suggested that any dissemination of this data shoud
be coordinated with 6B Division\pnd with € Staff (CI/MRO},
‘ ; view of the frequently inadequate sourcing and of the fact t
disseminations have already been madefthrough the US Defector)
(Mac hine Program)

 

  

Document Number 1oal— OS

SEP 1976

 

for FOIA Review on

"08 eopy i Oo/-2 VS LVS
GecRET) Gas")

 

 

Ae ee Ot
404-10433-10001

 

 

 

 

 

%

 

 

1031 - 405 5 December 1968 3

Disposition ~ This document was released with portions deleted, The

. deleted portions contain information about a specific foreign intelligence method,
"as well as information identifying Agency components and Agency staff
“employees. Agency internal filing instructions were also deleted. The
‘deletions were made under the authority of exemptions (b)(1); (b)(2) and.

*(b)G).

 
 

| Mees
OSWALD, Lee Harvey G@- 2892 ve) C a

Date of Births 18 October 1939. New Orleans, Louisiana
Date of Defeotions October 1959

Education: High school. Always a studious type, read books that were
considered "deep®, oo, ‘

Military Services

Joined the Marines at 17. Says he did this because he didn't
want to be a burden on his mother. Became a PFC, radar operators
14 months service Japan and the Philippines. Honorable discharge
on 3 September 1959 (dependency discharge).

Backgrounds

Father, an insurance salesman, died before Les was born. Has
@ brother who is 4 salesman at Acme Brick Company, ‘Fort Worth, Texas,
and a half brother John Edward Pic age 28, a US Air Force Staff Sargeant
stationed in Japan. Mother is currently employed as a supply mother at
the Methodist Orphans Home, Waco, Texas. (DBF 49478, 25 May 1960)

According to newspaper article, reasons for his defection were a combi-
nation of family poverty, what he considers the plight of US negroes, and.
the US Marines or American imperialism abroad. At 15 or so he read

"Das Kapital" and agreed with Lts theories. A year before his discharge,
he began to prepare for life in the Soviet Union by using a Berlitz
gramear to teach himself how to read and write Russian. Never, however,
did he consider deserting the Marine Corps. . ;

After discharge from the Marines, Lee visited his mother in Fort Worth
for sbout 3 days, then left for New Orleans where he planned to resume
employment with an export~-import company for which he kad worked prior
to enlisting in the Marines. Shortly after he arrived in New Orleans,
he sant his mother a note saying that he had booked passage to Europe,
that be was doing something he falt he mist do. His arrival in Moscow
came as a shock to the family. Travel money probably came from that
saved while in the Marines. He had never expressed any sympathy for
the Soviet Union or Commmism. He had been interested in Cuba and South
America and his family would have expected him to go there, if anywhere.
Mail sent to him since his defection hag been addressed to the Hotel
Mptropole, Moscow. He acknowledged receipt of his mail in 1959, but
letters gant in 1960 have been returned to the senders. (oar 19478)

In November 1959 tha Soviets were investigating. the possibility of
sending Ise to a Soviet higher technical institute. (Wash.Evening Star)

_ Bay 1960 Mrs. Oswald received a letter from the Albert Schweitzer Colleza

 

cay Go/ -2872/7)
in Switzerland, and which was addressed to Les, which said in effect
: that this college was expeoting Lee Oswald on 20 April. 1960. After
a receipt of the letter, Mrs. Oswald planned to write to the college to
learn if her son was in actual attendance there. (>2F AGT

 

is The Soviets nelther encouraged nor discouraged Oswald's desire to become
Eo a Soviet citizen. The American Embassy wanted him to think it over

5 before hearing his oath renounoing American citizenship. As a result,
Oswald is bitter towards the consul there. He has stated that regardless
of any material shortcomings he sees while in the USSR, he will never go
back to the USA.

Ress Wang, Desi 3 woe . wo — \eoal

7 oy We . Sve rahurn USK ond Cem eas Corddrvonsldive aN Preeeeds
“! Gensed Veace Ay Ne Pe . * ® meh % .
f a me who g . = & Ad a aw - Sule

_ Warewd Marian Vidslagina te osmeua , Yorn Moly RAL, Waleteusk.,
: Brahangebed Wl. Lalnevatory assist. Segh by ayphed visa come ws

“fo

\

lh sual.

~*

Unleap so noted, info is from the Washington Evening Star, 26 Nov. 1959.
Qeruah (oarerod % Onretuvt sae 4 Xemnsdy ree

. tn Wuaterp—efce (768

. Shek + Kune’ fucte. Pada ow ag nevtwben) 463 wohide,
zy of bey * rete fun D-cetles Sout.

(OOD) Qo/-0 PF 245

 
