14-00000

  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
  

 

nef
‘scussed. briefly the
‘g guidance. We painted out that .
: en thade. dué to the fact that BARVIIN = RAY's .
Job ~- had ‘go tery, other responsibil itie8 that. h
4g mattar his undivided attention. RAT laughed .
AUIN has been: given: no other resronaibilities, but.
e . ought out other responsibilities on his om which are”
tine taking. “He -promiged to think about this and was agreeavle to. —
Lt assigning a “shirt sleave" typa of ooerntor to work with WIZSINGZR
elt von the-nuts and-bolts. © The name ‘of Yiicolas “EIDOZA wes magrestod. - s
“py the “undersigned (in prior consultation with WIZST!G7R) ag a person...
of considerable intell igence end drive and endowed with a willingness
to carry out orders. Nicolas. wo 13 a brother of one of RAY'S =~
closest men, ‘Ignacio VENDOZA, was acceptable to RAY and he asked
WIESINGER if he could ascertain Nicolas’. present whereabouts BO .
: ‘that -he could.be. propositioned on ‘the subject.
12, ‘The tieeting. broke. up after ten of cluck, it wes sortial throughout:
and I feel cleared the air 4 Little alt tled no matters. of
consequence. I told RAY. I was going to.Washtr Lond |
He said he vould .

     
       

 

Tae

 
 
  

   

 

 
 

   
   

   

‘welcome .ano
” CHIBAS ‘during ‘the.current’ week.

 
  
    

7 gaid-.to RAYS a unitrg‘and you do fot: want
tion of 1940," ‘Ha ed at this. He aaid
this question ha en. put to nit bofore. Cften bel izarently,
Hovever, he said, each -tine.that he. has explained why he feels that

the Constitution must~be revritten he Kas ended up convincing the

rerson tn quoation that cortain features of the Constitution of 1940

are either uaworkable, cratic or obsolete. He said-few.of the : Bs
people who gat worked ‘uy over the Constitution heve. aver: read. the . . . - 7
Constitution and-tl ro ds not Mew what. they. dre” talking about. :

He said the.Conatitu ts hot. like the Arericen Constitution i a *
‘which. sets out..its. precepts. ‘tn general terme and covers basic .
questions. of government, Tra Cuban constitution ja.a long. rambling
document that often poes into minute details of piles and regulations

which have no place: in. the.basic law of the land. Firat. he said. he fa
wanted to make 1t absolutely clear that he “loves” those provisions,

of the Constitution which cuarantee individual liberties, private
property..ete,. However, there are other carts’ of tha Conatitution

wich are iupracticabla, - Wit th resrect, to Agrarian Reform, -he pointed
ent in-dash, He said

 

 
 

to retain tho Cont

 

   

 
   
 
  
 

 
 

  
 
 

 
 

 
 

yornment ‘not: have the

toney to earry. out suck: a. vrograr, but if it Hit would ‘Fesult in
‘inflation and a serious dislocation of: the eccnony. The alectoral
lava, he said, ara very: comps c
ef the Ccngress can Snly result “tn: ‘gorruntio:
mean they are written in such a ‘way that they invite setae eton
ne said: "Kore than that, they forces corrustion,” He said‘under the . ’
Present sat-up one has to elther be a millionaire or ba ‘able’ to borrow

~ 200,000 pesos (and thug’ acces? cormitmenta) in ordér to be jelected to .

He said‘he would like to see this part of the Cénstitution

written along the American lines, Also, he said the laws relat ing to

the raising. of revenues are archaic. He said that !n order ito ae: quirs .

noney for a given program. a specific tex must be applied designed to. . Te

4

  
 
 
 

congress.
 

 

  
    
 
 

20,

‘already trained: a -
‘into Stba and. ne wenderdd hers. that man

¢

8 pe political". ocnaldération
ind teated ‘(atthout clerification) :- ware going quite ‘ant {afactortly =.
ily: cone tn "two weeks or: 80,7 | ¢ .
di ‘aftor 20 January?" “Rif sniled ‘tut made
hoped that -he had aettlod the mattar of “the logistical ©
the talked?to Mr, B-last, but it now appears that it is’

not “settled and that- y. have" to return to Cuba without thie |
support. He: said” he for New York'on 9 January and would” soe

nuary He sald he could be reached

  

     
  
 

 

  
   

as ‘at the preeent time a -
whether in Havana or the hills, Neither I nor WIESINGER could enliphten
him on this point, exespt to say that he was ‘safely in Cuba. .

During the entire. interview, swith one exception, - “RAY. was his usual.
quiet, soft-spoken self. However, he did. show exotion when he asked me
if I thought somecna-was tr; ving to gabotace his efforts to supply the
resistance froups in Cuba. For example, he first brought up. and it
was vost obvious that it ia a matter of graat concern to him, the
matter of ths plans, maps, etc., for the. MRP action against. the Isle of
Pines; | Ho’ said a carefully coor! inated plan had been laid on, That .
BAR UIN. discussed it with "Cirzy.” That BAR QUIN asked "Jimny" if the
map. and other pacers could be delivered in-Cuba within £5 ‘ours. ©

ee

  

_"Jiomy assured BAR QUIN that they could and AR I!IN handed them over.
RAY said that Bas RIN erred in doing this as ‘théy hod. there own

facilities for transmitting the papers. The papers never: arrived at
their destination. nor have” they ever been heard from again, Aga
consequence,-@ plan of great icocrtuncy had to ba abavicnea, and an
irreplaceabio opportunity lost. Ha was extremely agitated when he
talked of this natter and although WIESING:R and I attemrted to
assure him that re was sot. being sabotaged and thet there wera no
communists" trying to frustrate his activities, he nonetheless is

 

 

 
  

 

 

 

 
14-00000

 

5

“be disseminated,

. ingisted that=the Job be don

   

 

tick ‘hore 41. the propaganda line:

t tc to -the ‘people in’ s - ruer light. —
nnes he gaid that thé ERP hopes within. the ‘next three =
woeks or s0°to acquire broaiéasting facilities in Costa Rica,
Venezuela and perhaps dequire a ship .frod which ‘propaganda cowd

  

    

ATPITUDS TOVARD-THS FRENTE, RAY fool's.that the Frenté bas little ee
to offer. the people of Cuba for she future, For example, he saia, ¢
there is great discoritent, ‘in the Cuban Rebel Army which could be

exploited if these, dissidént elements could have some assurance tha’

they were laying down. their lives for's worthwhile cause, RAY
doés not feel :that ‘the action: id composition of the FRO inspires
such confide "He did not ‘Hention-eny nates specifically among

 

 

“the FRD: which would represant a “return tothe past” but he did

say that one of the Exectitive Nanbers. (head of a departnent, I
‘pelieve is. how he put it) had: been a big time ‘contractor during
BATISTA‘s regime and that wheh RAY tock over the Ministry of Publie
dorks under: President URRUTIA; he léarned. that this saze contractor
had previously presented'.a ‘bill and collected 300,0C0 posos for 2
public ‘works project which was never undertaken, ‘Inatead of having the
man- Jailed, RAY. said:.th “as Minister of Publie orks werely ~ .
He commented that he (RAY) would.
now probably “have to pay.for this." I presume he meant that this
particular person will eventually saek some tyre of parsonal revears.
RAY alao sa‘d that "one of the five” rexbers of the.FRD confided to
him that-he is not. happy but there 1s little he’can do about it besarse
"he is there.” -RAY repeated gone of the usual criticisms of the T2> -
"high living,” petty politics, "everyboty. receiving a salary,” an2 che
nobvious fact” that the U.S, Governcent is picking up-the tab, T=ts
he said vas fine with the }RP tacausa it vas causing Aigillusione
Cubans within ond without Cuba to turn to the “RP as: the only hore,
He was quite frank in steting ‘that while he is willing to "coopersta*
with the Frente, he did not want the ‘RP to become identified. is <te
Cuban mind with the Frente; arid thus itself bee-te discredited thragh
*association.” . , . : 7 et

 

  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

MSMORANDUM OF CONVERSATICN

SUBIECT 2 Meeting with Dr. Nssuel *Yenole” aaY

1. ‘Prior to departing from Washington on 1 Jsnzary 1961. 1 vas"
instructed by Tracy Barnes to contact Dr. RT in N4ami, I was
instructed to assure RAY: ; ; a : . —

A, Thet "we" perscnally hold hin in Bish + veper ‘ond
that while "we ara not backing acy iad‘vidual ox
group in the political sense. we 22- here synpathr
with his program and his ains,

B, That "we" are prepared. to render biz vigtever meterdal
assistance he naads and can feasitiy uae. That wile
the mechanism of the Frente would =zve to be usei for
the delivery of such materials, since nodher mechanien
for this purpose presently exists. this iid not meen
that Dr, RAY nead. be beholden to the Frente.

 
  

C, That wa understood he is planning +o retura to Osta,
We feel that this would be a wise move, end
consequently urge him todo so. in ‘his connection
we are prepared to offer him a com=micetor end ether
similar assistance so that he can maintain contast
with his peonle. :

Puertc Bless on

 

2, I head plenned to sea RAY on his return frost
he afternocn of 3 January 1961, but the im inency of a break of
diavenatie relations batween the United States an? Cuba eompelled
me to return to Havana on the morning of. 3 Janucry 1°41,
Consequently, my meeting with RAY was po 4 wil last avening
when an appointment was “pada through IS, S$ 4o meat with him
at the latter's apartment.

 

 
 

3. Cur mesting lasted approximately three hows - roughly frar 7 to 10 p.m,
We covered a wide range of subjects, the highlights of which I
shall try to’ cover in succeeding paragrarhs.

 
    

 

 

with’ kers,, so.therefore he could not.’s
Lon f asisting that the arms bear the FRO :
“said that his group has done all. the orérational plam or the drop,
couriers hava’ gone ‘back and ‘forth between Havana and the Escambrays,
maps have bean drawn up, DZ's hava been arranged, and nowhe is.
told that the equipment urich he had been told vas being aupplied.,
‘to his sroup must bear the label of the rival "F2D," It is obvious
that while we say that: we; look. uron: the Frente daa non-rolitical
z of ve ; ; 10k the Frente as
fT aCHA- and I personally do not
mount .of explanation will change. his .
inking: % 1 Here, and elsewhere during our conversatlon,
I noted a.certain it of intransigence and jac’ of tolerance on
“the part of RAY which does not. baie well for tho future, “unloss he.
‘ear be made to realise that his rroup and foklowing are not ‘the. ‘sole
‘repository of. virtue, honesty, competence and ood intentions, RAY -
isan idealist, He dreams. of a iexocratic ‘Guba; free-of corruption,
riled by sen who are selflessly dedicuted to the promotion of the
‘ganeral welfare. hen I sald to RAY that Tony TARCNA and other
leaders of the FR) would say that they too stand for these things, he
again ‘siiled and sald:.. "The curious thing is thet thay do not come
out and say unequivocally that they stand for these things. _
Instead they say we ate Cutans - we are-not Englishmen,.we are not
Americans, ve are not Germans-~ we. are Cuban3s,"” What they nean to say,
he went.on. ig that selfishness, . some corruption. et cétera, is part
of thé Cuban uake ud and ‘that this being the case-1t is unrealistic
and impractical to think that Cucans can aspire to a denocracy
based on integrity and fiseal honesty such as ve have in the United
States, o England. or other more advanced deviocrncles of Vestern
Europe, He feols that. the peorle of Cuba yearn for such 8 denocracy:
and they do not seo the chance of fulfillment in the compositicn of
the Frente. Therefore he wishes to exbody in the MRP thosa men whose

   

fustifics

 

   

 

 

  
 
 
 

 

   

 

 
 

 

    

 

Ay
Bi

 

 
 

;
!
;

v- PROVISTONAL GOVERNM

rerutations sre clean ~ ha bart roforring to Felips Pasos, ag an
exatple ~ and thus bold ont to the Cubans tn Cuba a hope of better

dsys to care = and to previte thea a cause for which to fight,

without a will to fight.on the part of tha poorle of Cuba, he said,
ASTRO wi?) never be overthrown, Tho will to fight does not exist

on the scalo that {ts needed to achteve succoss. Tre Frente ts
completely incapable of providing the inspiration frem which such

ea will can stem, Consequentaly, it is ur to the MRP te inspire the
confidence of the people by bringing torather those persons and elements
whom the people trust.and who ara not ddentifled with the corrupt :
past, The people of Ciba, he said, cannot stand another disaprointment.

Their hopes must not be raised again, only to guffer another betrayal.

. TI brought up the subject of a provisional
governnent, a government in exile. but prefaced my remarks by saying
that I was only oxpressing my personal views. I said: "Don't you

feel that the problem of whose sticker goes on the air drops, and who
gets credit. for this or that, would be resolved if an Assembly of.
Opposition Groups were to mast and to democratically elect a provisional
governnent, composed of honest, competent men of unimpeachable record,
witch would represent all tha diverss opposition rroups and which would
raise the. hopes and provide the will to fight to the Cubans in Cuba

who are uncertain and confused with resract to the future?"

He said he was opposed to a coalition coverazent made up of representatives
of various political parties -ag-a provistens}.povernment because Fa”
was sure such a government would not be able to provide the united,
honast, non-partisan type of leadership which will bo required following
the fall of CASTHO, ile would prefer a governmeny of "integration"
rather then a povernment of "coalition,” By that he said he meant

that the best qualified men would be asked to serve their country in

an apolitical capacity. That these man would be measured by their
experience, conpetence, reputation, ete., and little or no concern
should be given as to their political arfiliaticns, A government
composed of such men would quickly win the respect of the Cuben porulation;
these men could get on with the job of reconstructing the country,
completely subordinating rartisan political considerations, since

such man would not be politically ambitious. Moreover. a government
composed of such outstanding xen would win the ecnfidence of foreign
countries which would be mera disvosed to grant loang.which will be an
urgent nacessity from the very start, So far ag the rovernment itself
is concerned, it would be apolitical. The verious political parties ;
ani their leaders would be free to vrerare for the coming elections -
whether they be in 6, 12 or 12 montis. at which time the Cuban people

in free eleetions could Jecida whieh potitten! oarty it wanted to

govern the country,

 

I.asked RAY who would salect thesa men. And at what juncture of tha
struggle against CASTRO would a provisional rovernment appear. He vas
a little fuzzy - probably intentionally - on s point, He clearly
indicated that some work hat already been eccomplished on the matter

 

 

oni my

Ree

 

 
