 

é
Antestion of taking AMCONCERT=-1 with them. (NOTE:
NOBREGAS and his three coapantuns later reached Key
j fest, Florida, shere thoy were picked up by a U.S,
i

Coast Guard vessel).

b. Since AMCONCERT~1L apparently decided not to return to
the Brazilian Eubassy again, he recontacted the Stay=
behind Net and an oxfiltration plan was worked out with
WAYS via the OGAKIK channel for him te leave Cuba on
3l August. AMCONCERT~1 was staying at a beach motel
cabin near Buca de ila Camarioca since 28 August and was
to be taken to the reception area in a fishing boat
out of Carabinero Point, once he received the signal
by phose to move out. This exfiltration plan failed,
however, when the WAVE vessel found a hostile Cuban

- frigate sweeping the rendezvous area with searchlights,
which forced it to abandon its mission. At this point,
contact was lost with AMCONCERT-1, who it is presumed
returned to his hide-out in Havana.

Fran 1 September to the tine he was picked up by G2,

wo can only assume that he recontacted CUCG, who pre-
sumably was responsible for laying on arrangements for
the ili-fated venture at the same location near Yaradero
Boach, AXSTUFY-1l's recent report indicates that AMCON-
CERT~., ia the compaoy of five other Cubans, was actually
picked up by G-2Z on 6 October, as they attempted to leave
tie beach by boat. It appears that CUCO successfully
evaded capture and returned to Havana,

3. Background

AHCONCERT-1 (code name, "FOCO?) is a Cuban national, who .
was born 11 October 1922 in Consolacion del Sur, Cuba. He is
married to Norma UGARRIZA Alonso, who is a Cuban national. They
have two daughters + Hormita, age six and Ana Luisa, age eight. .
Although his parents are believed to be dead, he has three brothers
and two sisters presently living in Cuba, He received his educa-
tion at the ESCUBLA TECNICA MECANICO TORNERO, where he learned
his trade as 3 printer. From 1952 to 1957, he was self-omployed
operating a printer's business and an auto sales agency.’ In 1959,
following the overthrow of the BATISTA Regime, he was employed
at the Ministry of Justice in an administrative capacity.

Subject was a member of the "AUTENTIOO" Cuban revolutionary
wovement led by Carlos FRIO Socarras, former president of Cuba. In
view of his counter-revolutionary activities against BATISTA,
Subject was exiied from Cuba to Miami on 29 May 1957. He was
later arrested and fined in Niani for gunrunning operations into
Cuba. He returned to Cuba during the latter part of 1958.

 
 

104-10177-10000

 

 

ay

 

 

2/py

 

  

8 Novombor 1961

MEMORANDUM POR: Chief, WH/4/FI-C1

SUBJECT -  : Operational Security Threats Posed by
: Arrest of AMCONCERT=-1

1. Problem

To attempt to determine extent and nature of possible
compromise of the Staybohind Net rosulting from the reported .
arrest of AMCOXCERT=) by Cuban G=2, :

2. Circumstances

5/-On 18 October 1961 Olneadquarters received a message from
ng Station that the (quaTunt representative at the Spanish
Embassy In Cuba reported that AMCONCERT-1 had been arrested by
G-2 during the veek. of 9 October, when he tried to make a clandes-
tine exit from Varadero Beach, No further details were given
ether than the fact that ANCONCERT~-1 was being held at G32

Headquarters in Matanzas,

The events which lead to AMCONCERT-1's subsequent appre-
henszion by G3 appears to be as follows:

&. After taking asylum at the Brazilian BOabassy
sometime in July, it is apparent that AMOONCERT-1
had made up his mind to effect an escape to Hiami
via channels used by other members in the Staybohind
Net previously. Accordingly, he met Jorge NOBREGAS
(snowa as COCO) on the aftornoon of 4 August, who
informed him that necessary arrangements for his
exfiltration had been completed, and that he would
leave that weekend by boat from the Varadero Beach
area. It appears that KOBREGAS was serving in a
cut-out capacity between ANCONCERT~-1 and the
Staybehind Net, and was reportedly given 2,000 pesos
by AMSTOY-1 to grease the skids for AMCONCERT-l's
escape. When ANCONCERT-1 reached the rendazw us
site at the designated time where he was supposed to
meet KOBREGAS, be learned from an individual known
as CUCO thet NOBREGAS and three Cubana had already
taken off in u fishing boat, who. presumably had no

 

 
