 

7 ; ate who 4s a ‘salesman at Acme Brick Company, Yort Worth, Taxas,.

 

     

os “Futher, an inaranios o&léeman,'@ted before Las was born. :

  

and a half brother John Edward Pis age 28, a US Air Fores Staff Sargeant. .
stationed in Japan... Mother is currently employed as a supply mother at in
PERIOD AIO) .

: ", the Methodist: Grphans! Homes Waco, Texaa.

According to newspaper ‘artloles. reasons for his defection were a: ‘conbi—- .
nation of family poverty, what he considers the plight of US negroes, and. _

. the US Marines or American imperialism abroad. At 15 or so he read -

"Das Kapital” and agreed with its theories. A yoar before his discharges,

-> he began to‘prepare for life in the Soviet Union by using a Berlitz.
| grammar to "fanoh bs himself how to read and write Russian. Nevery bewerery -

did he consider de sorting the Marine Corps,

After lacharge from tha varines,: Lee visited his nother in Fort Worth oa
for about 3 days, then left for New Orleans where he planned to resume

” employment. with an export-impert company for which he had worked. prior.

to enlisting in the Marines. Shortly after he arcived in New Orleans, -
he sent lis mother a note saying that he had booked passage to Europe,
that he was doing something he felt he met do. His arrival. in Moscow |.
came as a shock to the family. Travel money probably came from that —
Saved while in the Marines. Ha. had never expressed any sympathy for...
‘the Soviet Union or: Commnism. He bad been interested in Guba and South | ~
America and his family would have expected. him to go there, if anywhers. . :
Mail sent to him aince his defection has been addressed to the Hotel
Metropole, Moscow... He acknowledged receipt of his mail in 1959, but .
ama

letters sent in 1960 have been: returned to ‘the senderse

In. November 1959 ‘the Sovieta were investigating the possibility’ of

__, Bending Lee to a Soviet higher technical institute. (Wash.Evening tas) ~
: ‘ay 1960 Mas Oswald received & letter from the Albert. Schveitaer Sollege ”

  

 
 
 

104: aie 10111].

a

. until ca, 1963,
: of SOUrces,. and contain both classified and o overt date, « .

oa The attached material was part of a ‘soft file entitled
‘American Defectors. to the USSR", which was set up by Bee

‘SEBEEEELar ound 1960 and. maintained by various @p. components

- The compilations were derived.from a variety

- 2. In the ‘fall of £ 1966, the’ files were ‘turned over - to Gia.

~Stalée In most instances, | basic’ information was then abstracted |

be coordinated ‘with 63-Bépiston and with Srominieuianes,

2 view of the frequently inadequate sourcing and of the e fact that
: disseminations have already been made | epirtiTes ree

 

 

 

 

_ for FOIA Review a : “SEP i576

 
( a HE psc Saar ecoreaanes * ( /
Ly ” \

. me, BY

-2-

    
   
   
    
  
   
   
  
  

    
    
  
    
  

in Setbvertand,.« end vhieh vas ‘eddreased to Lee, vnich sala in effect
. that this. college was expaoting Lee Oswald on 20 April 1960. After ~
OO "receipt of the letter, Mra. Cavald planned to write to the college to
|, learn 4f her gon was in actual attendance there. {onnmmanat

 

 

/ ot The: Soviets: neither ‘enecuraged ner aiscouraged . Oswald's desire to become.

- & Soviet. citisen. « The American Embassy wanted him to think it over: -
before hearing his oath renouncing American citizenship. As a result,
‘Oswald is bitter ter.tawards the consul there... He hag atated. that regardless
of any material. = he sees wnile dn. the USSR, he will never go

 

 
 
  
   

 

wee Famelie Besives aun “os ow bay cota
‘ sto “ts he a
Remnes Nemes Wrest “ajo erste - ; e ake. Laue

  

: “haved Warien Audbslacsna Reosaoua, \aew wy “aa. “Nally
“Redes ta Lalnevatbry, noassh. Seg 4A ayes ed "Sa eben
. uw Ah Oswatd .

     

 

Unless so noted, JAnfo 18 frea the Washington Bening Stary 2 tov. lope

   

Qemnek Cnet te & moby awe
; ; tw. Stan “ $b (76 oe
- ; . Shak + cate, ae rake on 2s inewtebod 1963. oka

eye weve fm D-atQos aa

 

 
