 

 

<a nareen ererRe LE EMPTSDEL Eh Bf ee

 

F
i

Be

 

 

ivh (13 Jan 1961)
. nee . .

 

 

5. AMCLATTER-1 also. reported that Tony Varcna said he was
dealing with Eduardo’ Gonsalei a _Reacate: man: in New York, _ who was

   

number, of people coming from Miami,
6, AMCLATTER-1 commented that when Rasco found out about

  

, ° see. that the movement | was stopped since
“ 3 PRD. sponsored, Eduaido Gonzales called Varona to- try to,-
get the MDG representative to lay off, which Tony did, assuring -Rasco
that this was his own personal operation.

 

7. Mr, Stanulis suggested that Mr, Barnes should make it quite
clear in any conversations at the White House that we seriously doubt’
that at this etage Varona or anyone elae can exert very much control
if the delegation comes to Washington, Thia seems obvious, since by
now not only does it svem that several groups in addition to Varona'é,
were initially involved in the organization of the cavalcade but others

may well try to got into the act.

8, We have been promiaéd through the, Bender charinel more -
precise information on when the cavalcade will arrive but given the

Somewhat confused picture. one cannot count on receiving advance

word,

Note: See memorandum to A/DDP/A, subject "Jose Manuel Brana

- . Duran."

con

 

Distribution:

Original and 1 - €/WH/4/PA
WH4/Registry
‘Originator, .

er

   

 

  

   
‘og 10200-10376

 

 

 

13 January 1961

  

i hy 000, 900:

   

a. To thank President Elacnhower for
relief fund made available. for Cuban refuge

  

b, ha jan. Amibaseador for the’ break
in relations between Peru and Cuba,

c, To try to get an audience with the OAS in order
to influence other Latin American countries to break
relationa with Cuba, .

2. According toa Bender source (AMCLATTER-1) who talked
with Tony Varona, Varona considers this a completely unilateras
operation, i;e,, an Autentico Party operation, It was arranged by
Tony through one Ernesto Rojas who contacted White House officials
Hopkins and White, Also involved are Manolo Brafia, Jose Antonio.
Mgestré and an MRR man-named: Jose Antonio Mendes, (AMCLATTER-1
algo mentioned a (fnu) Manolin Hernandez, a wealthy sugar man

" leonnected with the Reforma Central.) AMCLATTER-1 had no
“information concerning the size of the group although estimates seem

to run from a few hundred to about a thousand,

3. From Mr, Jacobs we hear that Rojas is an unofficial delegate |
of AMBIDDY and lives at 6711 Glencarlyn Drive, Lake Barcroft, Falls .
Church, JEfferson 2-5598. A call to this number was anawered by
Rojas’ wife whe gaid yes, he ie connected with the matter of 3,000
signatures for presentation to Eisenhower,

 
