“Guba where military achion 18 Soke place,

 

   

in Hovana, tut Sele he ¢o
his om return.

  

c. Probl Lens Encountered by

 

Some of the more significant problens. encountered by A=7

Curing the course of his operations in Havena. aré as follows:

 

(1) Security: Ih this connection, A-7 stated that despite

the disguise given him, he had to be constantly on the alert
from thé datiger of being picked up by G+2 or Castro police
during the course of his numerous operational. c s. Hé
Sited several éXanples where he believed he was under sur-
veillance by the opposition and subsequently succeeded in allud-
ing this surveillence. He coumldined that his disguise, (hai
piece and mstachs) rapidly deteriorated in the Havana olamate -
and as a cohseqtencé he was forced to abandon “this disguise tower
the latter part of his stay in Havana. Similarly, te was forced
to Change his quarters continually, by moving from one safehouse
to enother as a security precaution, since he felt that it vas
generally knowi in Cuban civeles that he was obérating in the
Hevana area, and that he was probably already under the sut-
veillance of Castro security Poress.

     

 

  

 

 

(2) Meteriel Support: In the course of these debriefing
Sessions, one or A-7's chief complaints was thet despite ni
urgent messages sent through his cut-out (AMERE=2) to the Station
that arms and other military equipment were sorely needed by!

his groups in Havana end Piner del. Rio, no ection was taken to
itipleisnt his réquésts. As a result, A-7 felt he was josing f ace
with his followers and this was one of the primary s for
returning to the States to discuss this aspect with Head flarters.

 

 
    

 

 

(3) teed for Direct Commmication: A-7 stated that without tHe
services of a W/T oberator who could bé in direct commmication

with us, he is fully convinced that any subsequent 2 eT ¥o Outse
in an operational cabacity would be ineffectual
would be one of the conditions laid on, us.that
A. W/D overdter would be assigned to him person:

 

 

  
  
    
   
 
   
   
   

 

    

Ts Projected Future Assi.
Sion that aT will be “Bent back to Cube in tne
Mssrs. P + feel that iis most si,
trade in the “Pinar del Rio ares, where he
hills. this, however, ¢ does fot preclude As

 

Guba %

 

 

  
 

Predi weeks on the assur

 

     
 
 

    
  

  

these open tions S ghoutd & 1
to move into other
ould 2

SAta AST
Horeover, showla the oat

%,

 

 
 

 

 

“cy

choles an te over the operacions in this area again
In eny casa, a decision has been reached that A-7 s
without a trained 1/7 operator who can be relied on
operations ith A-7 isside the country.

  
 
 
  
 

 

   

 

Despite A-7's tendencies to oper
C t f Of supp eeived on his
initial mission to Cuba; and his displey of emotional instability ot times
it is believed that his efforts can be properly channeled to worl: effectively
for us in Cuba. His motivation appears to stem from his personal ambitions
to make his mark on this counter-revolution against Castro, where he can ,
assure himself of 4 priminent position in the future government to be formed
in. Cuba after the overthrow of the Castro regime. A-7 has imagination and
the will to succeed. His weakness is his inability to hide his personal
ambitions from others who may work with him ond who may have altogether dif-
ferent motivations and sense of values. Hence, it is believed that 4-7
Will encotinter problems in handling pecile recruited or assigned to hin in
the course of his activities inside the’ country, ALDUG-1 cen be sited as
@ good example, where a clash of personalities has apparently already taken
place. In view of this, A-7 7411 have to be dealt with firmly ond mist be
convinced that the success or failure of his projected mission will depend
on his ability to develop confidencé and loyalty among his followers once hé
is insidé the covntry again. Similarly, A-7 must resolve his personal problen
dealing with his wite and in-laws, which has head an adverse effect on hin
personally since his return, and may affect his operations insidé Cuba. ‘The
next several veeks will, thereforé, néed be cGevoted to reses tablish A-7's
confidence in our ability to support his efforts. in Cuba, once he is sent
back, and working out his family problems to obviate any adverse psycholo-
gical effect which may be detrimental to his operations A Cuba.
\. !
f ~ 4 roy

ate on

  

 

 

 

   

 
 

 

 

      

shat

  

 

   
    

contest

 
  
 

 

onture from Cube ¢
to lay on unilatersl errangements to this end wit

      

 

    
   

 

ey introduced A-7 to Q(T NSS SAAee enema ened oho

offered to assist him in getting out of Cube. in the course of the
next ten days, A-7's plans to get out of Cuba began to take shape,
after[________f introduced hin td

as who operates his own clinic in Havana. On 1 November a negro
by the naze o —_—_ saetswief drove to A-7's safehouse
and took him to his om house located on ‘in Marioneo.
On the morning of 2 November at 1100 hours,-‘Staaeorrived at the
Regro's house and told A-7 that he piennea to Leave for Key West
Florida 5 November and would arrange to smuggle A-7 owt of Cuba by
niding him in the motor room of his yacht. Arrangements vere mace
between the principals for A-7 to visit the yacht 4 November to in-
spect his proposed hiding place on the yacht. Ia the interim period,
A-7 stated that he began to susvect that he mey have fallen into a
trap and told the Negro that he was returning to the U. S. to bring
tA back with him to Cuba. A-7 felt this was a good gimmick
in the event{___——=éd|: plammed to turn him over te the G-2.
After inspecting his hiding place on the yacht, A-7 tolaf™“*T"*T*] he
didn't like the idea of hiding in the motor room and suggested that
he swim out to the boat, where he could be picked. un et sea. Thas
night (4 November) A-7 stayed at the hone o ho had 2
house close to the beach at Senta Neria del ier located about
25 Kilometers from Havana. On 5 Hovesber at 0530 hours, A-7 vevan
his long stim in rough, choppy waters and vas finally sighted by

yacht, where he was taken on board the ve
chat he vas completely exhausted when he wa

 

 

 

    
 

  

 

 

  
 

 

   

a
3

re
°

9,

zed up br the

 

 

 

 
  
  

 

Mey West, Bleride 5 Movember 2
Guring the refuel
and irmedietely too.
directly to his wife's home

g 4-7 further on | sane
serious obs%. 2 =i F 3

en vessel

  

 

 

  
  

a 7 ti he phon leave the

 
[foe totoztonee

- ee a | t
< =m é Fors aoa WB te bea” cate. a 7 [ee
ae :

     

 

od ah

  

  

 
  

EDU FOR THES RECCRD

SUBIECT: Preliminary Debrie

 

Activities in Guba

 
 

1. ‘the substencé or this p
with AMPANTIC-7 from 7 ‘throwsh 15 i loveniter 1950.

signed. vnarticivated in these debrie?

  

“noth | Loe
gs veriods. The 7
7G suwimarized into 2c

   
 
  
  

 
  
 

     

 

a. AMPANIC-7'S oberational activit
exviveal in Cuba 5 August wil his departure 5: i

 

be. Inte

   

ial assets develoved in Cuba for Puture opéré

 

¢. Problems. encountered by A=7 while onerating in Cuba.

 
 
  
   
  
  
      

7 Lovemoer.
end, ves er oh bs
poohied at the Vashingten H abi
At aporoimately 1900 notirs, A-7 called Ee. elt ich on “he & sgent phone
Uashington airport t6 anncunce his arrival on 7a directed + to 85 6 4
where subgéet ves “subsequently contactad by ir. Fel

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

             
   

Te nis : i
x _conmittents support his ecti riti2
considering nimsel2’ as bein® e:e:

@ first plece if

 

   
      

spy
 

 

 

 

 

   

    

SOuE

 

 

 

 

forts to debrief A-7 on his operational activities in Cuba were
somewhat futile in this initial meeting in view of his unsettled emotional
state. His primary cSricern apreared to be his wite and his rather strained
relesionship with his inslaws, who were now residing in Miami. In this con-
nection, it should be pointed out that this emotional state sppeared - %O Sten,

in part, from his inherent suspicions that his wife (21 years of age and rel-
atively attractive) vas being unfaithful to him. All. indications are, however,
that A=7 has no réal basis for these suspicions; other than those conjured up

in his own mind. In any case, he requested if it might not be possible to wire-
tap his wifé's howsé in Mismi, go. that hé could nave daily reports on her activi-
ties, While no promises were made, A-7 was assured we would attempt to look
ince this possibility, once we had more defi nite information that there vere
some grounds for his suspicions. (Hote: Subsequent discussions with Security
Office revealed that a wire«tap of A=7'S house was a major project in itself

and impossible to accomplish at this time without tieing up considera ble
personel. ) A-? was later téld this after We assured Hin 3 ¢
were groundless wheré his wife. was concerned. :

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

5+ Following this initial meeting with A-7, it was apparent to both
Mp. Péieh arid the undersigned that time ‘ould be needed to restore agent's
gonfience in our capability to support his efforts in any ruture projected
ssignment in the field. Moréovér, A-7's emotional state, appéars to
Sten from his problems with his in-laws and his concern about leeving his wife
alone, must be Bully resolved before attempting to dispatch hin again.

  

 

 

6. Ia later debriefing session held trom 3 te 15 November with AeT,
éonsidérable more light was thrown on the nature and scope of his operational
activities. in Cuba. As previously indicated in paragraph 1 of this report,
As7's BSetivities are suimerized as follows:

  
  
 

 

   
   

2 OA, Triple-A and “IC
in the furtherance

é tO Note
contact with oF

  
 

wit th
9 or

 

   
 

   
 

On. sersonal, objectives.
5 tod of ado roximately ? WEEKS

 
   

 

    

   

hinsel? ous boo thin ain th nis 5a

 
 

 

 

 

 

     

   

Ta this: connection, AT loin § he tuvne
over to AMPANIC-5, prior to his movemen
Wes Subsequently picked ws by C-2.

 

 

b. Trbernal Assets Developed in Cuba for Frture Corer

    

In attemoting to sift out specific assets developed by A-7 during
his activities in Havana, three of thé more srontnent individuals with
whom A-7 was in direct contect should be listed.

cy

@) Lo} ower of thf Jand
Cece. in Havana. AeT 3 used PERNAIDEY Tor planting

 

 

 

 

 

 

alettion of suitable Ié's end DZ's in both Tiner
and Oriente provinces, location of sefehcuses in
use of his garages for storage of arms and militery equi

which A-7 enticipated spatched to him.

  
   

  

 

 

 

 

(2) la lewyer by profession, who has unlimited
contacts in Pinar del Rio and who was working closely with A-7
toe form a guerrilla group in the Sierra de los Creanos. Was
also selected to handle the vropaganda for the "Cuba Libre” croup
being orgenized by A-7 inside Cuba. a

(3)

in the W.c. Army and 34
forces. ROBAYHA ch mad ine had a Fore ce of 150 nen at his dissosel
and wes planning to use them in a guerrilla action against Castro

forees in the Pinar del Rio area. 1 x, ofce Droper materiel

suprort in the form of arms and other military equipment was made

availeble to hin by A-7, He felt he could marshal over a thousand

tien in this area. ,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

(4) In addition to the ebove assets, A-7 indicated
(imoim to hin 2
rendered him considerable assistance in moving sécurel
in the course of his operational contacts. In the cass of (OMERES
A-T highly praised his abilities as aA highly eatable Case Officer;
and he feared for his personal safety. He suggested the. ey S AMERS-1
should be brought back to the U.S. for & Fest Serio:

 

  
 
 
  
  

 

 

 

 
    

 

(5) F ally, 4 ee who vas tr sachnianes ia the
Usse 3 igned to fT ‘ona. as en as Set,
who could & be la ‘L. spec

maters Sf it, however,

were & certain aspe

  

BN a cme
