 

 

age CB-H/uJ24° 2

. Wiguel KOGOE Ba tenseurt, oaplayed fn tho Cuban Matouy of
Steratioa, ocatribated to the erm expply of Blearageen.
TevOlutisuiries, and eseioted 1a sandiag arite to lentes
eétrepecd to the Malsiry af Bécsstiee a0 books, :

: 7 ted Mates ciiiscca thirty-three peare

1 the Mearegnsa Mie ides vere absurd,

tn ccapletaly Commntetio, dangerous, and

  
   
    
  

Uraty thrse-year-old Gal ted Mates attiens
Ragsies; Califursite, Sere PAE at don

   

 

  

held Comments ; : ; i
PASTORA left Coote Rice with teenty:tive men, going to San Salvador, -
PRIEISNE brought’ severel eras to Con’

by Sa a aU tne Latentioa of sentiag: t to Monturas. ((8=3/L29, 028)

 

VARARRA, Urevel ng ‘on special pasépert ‘to, 8/68 °9L, ieeued tn RaNana,
art oF @ Riek from Panera on ¢ March 20, eroding te offtetal
lant gration lates 5 :

  

‘te One Unis TAHEIA Apenatr, © Suan, was Fepurted to he in Conta Rica
in late Oo. antwr 1959 te participate tn revolutianary actisities,

 

Beare Comm.

 

 

 

fa Ong End ise AROUNES, @ Honduran, hela emall fielt ona fare near
the Henteren/#icaramuan benier, whisk could be, used by Riceragvan
rabele, Withewnon he sympathiied.

 

SeaPoaay comTiness: Oster,

mE bs ‘Rice la lata Pecsaber 1969 tat
PASTERA Ghd LACATO @iPegreed on thétr woo, and FRIPIOKE Cook: thins beck =.

  
  

ats
ee iene mma rman Fame ee om

e

 
 

 

 

 

  

oot SR BF
BCHPORR/CONTIRTED CONTROL

he CS-3/4E SN

 
       
 
 

Petrvary 190 bo vere: partisipeatiag in or eupperting Ricareguas
revolutionary Pleas and gives know: details of ‘their activities,

         

& ‘Herainto COMES, & Cutan sdout erty years oid, bad experience

in sabotage; he quit his university: stodiee before uriting
@ theals for & law digree to joie the, ficht against Pulgvasio —
BATISTA, former Preoiden’ of Cute. Fidel CASTRO of fered
Lia a poaltcom ia’ the Cubas Goverment, but be refused,

preferring to participate ta Hicareguan efforts to sverthrow
SOMDGA... For Bicsregue be favured sotial em political
reforme sigilar to thoes inatituted by Fidel CASTRO, Be gee
Franeieco FRIZIOM. Serevie, Micareguan revolutionary leader ta
Cube, Afe Mull support. GOMEZ’ tvin, Late, also hed offered
lo Sight wit FRIKIOM, but be did sot suport FROLIC eo
wholeheartedly rr) Hereinto COPE,

db. Lefe Miguel GAS a, a Cate, pertormed sabotage operations
in Hebana against “BATISTA, Be was in Hondares when Pedro
Joaquin CHAMOREO Cardenal imveded Bicaragus ia carly 1959,
“going efteruerd to Cubs. - He clataed to have access tc a
weal}: ascport ‘pear te: Hondhirua/ Biearaguas frontier, waieh
would be Seable after Seomd repaira,® :

        
     
 

 

   
    
 
   
   
   
   
 
       
     
     
 
     
 
     

o, Higuel Ernesto WIGHL lease, am orginser atoat tuenty- two years
o14, ppoared to be important ia FRIKIONS‘s organisation, Bo
Clained that FRICIDER intended to send him to Washington, D.C.,
end thes to” Risaregas to sseist ip revalutionary preparations,
Re also x ie Honduras’ vod CHanoRRD taweded Micaragua,

a Tote BARDERA, a friead of Conilo CTESUBOS, wa highly ectecasd
by FUR iog= and had helped. oooh ia preperiag for @ revolution,

 
            
     
 

°. nisin: acig, fros besa, Hoatogws, aloo we a sauber of

  
 

f. .

 
   

Ponals casritic, ‘a Biosragusa eighteen years old, bed secoma -

 

ACh. yore: among group of Wicarayuans at. the air Base at
Sea fea, 1a Pinar del Rio Provides, soge ip training and:
othre enployet ty the Fuarsa derea Revolustenaria (Fak
Cuban Air Paros), An officer at thn tase, Reniro TALIES, bed
captured alnetecs eras, but the purpose oF these arne had wok
been established.

         
    
      
     
 

 O:tasts GUTIFARKS, called "Marciano, usa a ofval engl oyee ‘of
VaR. te catered Cuba from Hosduras sile in dogust ad
apier the same Godofrede SANCHES Oriarte,

   

a”

         
   
   
 

1. One Pedro GOREALES bad trained saboteurs in Aicararua efter
eatering Sisarague iileguily from tne Costa Alcan froatiar.
Waid ip Bicarague be talked vith Armando ORE Reyes, who
had arreaged to seed ¢ynenite inte Bisarsgue, CALTORA (fan),
bead of the Leon breach of the Reticnal Bank of Bloaragua, who we
ons of the leading Sicaraguem sabsteure amd had dynanite ant
other toola of astotace in Ais possessions ani Jove Lata AMIEL,

     
 
   
   
   
 
 

BECLET
NOMPORI/CONTIMEED OORYROL

    

 
 

  
     
 
 
  
 
  
    
    
      
    
 
    
     

     

 
 
    
  

vans

 

mei?

CaNTRAL (STELLIURE RECT

     

couwney —Hlearegun, GemsyCoste Ales -Vig2sE

Suaact 1, Inerssoire Support for eam, 2 Lea"
Inds lee to rach te dae aan 4 anes
. To te ig ad s .

2, Persons in Cube leveled to
Aiooregusa Bewolationsry Affetea geysers RO

tt .
FUSLD RERET BC. Cores a

pat aca "a
SOUECE TVALUANONS abe Daiwa aPPAAL io) esac gS tat

SOURCE A porsen astoctated with Micaraguad revolutionary actieitiea (7).
Agra aah of Conteatr te

 

CANO betruary 1060 lS

 

 

 

In Februrry 1960 Ind Jeeio PASTONA Majin, Wissrecuee oppositions lesder
who left Conta, Kica ebout 20 Febewary 1900 sft-r loodiag gverrille
: altachs areinet Hie rages froa the Costa Mice terder ares for
(gontte,* was wineing increealeg maort enone Codans wbo favored the
i (a SOROEA Bocuyla, If PASTORS
l dattinted @ compnicn ave inet the Risareguss Geveraaeat be eo 14 escent

‘9 ismediste amt gubetemts) eid is sree esd Gey from. Cate. . Ths
fer PasvoRa,

 

 

       
   
    

FRILIOSE Raraeia, Miosragusa revelutiousry lender ie Ceba,
to sitend » seating of oppocitics leséars in Marecaibo the

hie te ebtain a tise ia time
Leader

[4 The fifta Meer of te Geeilia-Buliacrs tate) is Batses, ce walk as
'  ! epgme te Latermn tions) Beast, 9 tod in conjunetion with tbe hotel,
. beneed perooes aganeteted wilt rewletioaary activities
: fveo ef charge. iter 31st persone fe Geta te
+4

 

 
 

 

    

oe

Ot the Sante Glave
may at
palica,

sevesty-five asa, ermé wlth ‘rifise

Milling to fight an
Grorpy wae

ty bes.
4 wats

 

Lavsar ine (tea), @ Caden medloal etedeat, tat Poet gba
choesiesls to Mosraguss revaletioniata, Replo xtves, a8
well as arva, ted bona cant to Blcarege hy plane,

TL AIO (tim), © coptain is charge of tee base at fon
a wiv gussrees ia offerieg to balp TRIFIOG's

revoleiicesry grow La any eny possible,

_Ponite AAJTVAT, eecoed 1a command of Pinar dal Ric, fered cbed

Eicaramiea revaluticalote with arse ant gure ay secistance .

be evaild Revewer, Wario BECALOEA tried te himar ARITUAY 'g

Reamrise TOAAE, @ cergenst et the eilitery alrpert ere fe
Beene, wo faraichiag aréo to FEIKEEK:

Peefirie CLEDO, « Cirot Leutenat vith the soarut serrise,?, :
sloiméd that bo bad ose Ramired wes in Cemigacy resty to fight

 

False PIMMOL, chisf of the Judiaial police, promised té supgly
arte when seeaed,
Retele LOSER. times tel searelary of the Cenfederscion de
Trabsjadsree Cabanos (CW. Cubea Labor orgnsisa tion), so.

' tlgned svony to nim, .
Cthers eopea sated vd th revoletiomry a poorte base eotenl
Simpess, @ Bsearaguan, Jul ts GAIGla, @ te fe
ALAAILGA, and AUNTAMAATA (tea),

SSGBEBE -
OCT,

 

 
 

    

 

 

__ APPROVED FOR RELEASE 2854
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGKAR

 

 

 

6. Jotmry Mitclma, United dtatee elticen, about forty years ol4, claimed
that he was going to head Coba's seoret services
nm al.

stible that in Novendeor 1959 Honduran delagetes to &
Qs Apsclicion de franspertee Aeruce carried arma back

with them te Hondurase
Beadseertert Comments Niguel Angel de la As HUOZ Betanceurt, Cuban sstional,
was repo Ta Jamsary 1960 to be golag to Mismi on an anidentified alssica
for tha Cuban dovarmmants

8. Scurce Comsert. Concerning travel, Maming caid he would like to go to
See ey corerdinate sotivitiee betwesn Cubsand Coste Rican groupss
Bs also hoped to go to the United States, reveling on 4 false nama and
_Gudan passport, He had epoken to Willies Morgan and believed thet Morgan
cmald obtasa the passport for hinc. In the United Statee Meming wanted
to gell liberty bonds in Califernia sod obtain are and planes from 4
ranch in Tune. iy claimed he gould do this by using comnections be
used to chtaim sintlar material whee he was aiding Fidel CASTRO. He’
fao0 claimed that be hed gone to Mabana to talx with PRIXIONE abcut tho
trip ani supplying arns to PABTORA. He had @ wild echame to etonl to -
gael planes from an Air Force bese in Texas, powaibly Brownsrille, and
eid be: bed frienda in the Marine Corps who would obtain arus frea corps
arsenals. Another achene was to hold up a truck carryiag clothing and
ares fron Virginie. te Tndtanépolie oa 4 regular bimonthly tripe
Rening cited a exenple of ares procurement: Captain SECUELA (fra)
Chaieen, was sen? by the Chilesa Goverumont to Aimal to cbtain sis
B26 aircraft which were seat to” Ponlaiean Geverneent, ite claimed
he could ise the sane ‘eystem by ning: ano friends well connected in
the Cudtans iin Corernments .
 Aseord ing to Haatng, when Fidel castes and Ansetas Mikoyen visited
Jaisas they Checuseed Soviet aid te Cuba, including secret aud in
en and aras. | .

Ye

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 
