13-00000

 

Workers (Connunist) Party. .- He spoke a

“suchaty. just as the U.S. is a sick suciety. $/ (Biscussion
“niiaited was formea in Lyu2 in. Los Angeles and is made up
largely of present @r forner CP acnbers.)

Cn 33 April 1900 SCHEER aet with Zygauat. BRONTAREK

G
Ed

    
    
    
   
  
      
  
  
  

vasnington, ub. &. correspondent for Trybuna udu, Polish

baily newspaper and official organ of | ‘the. Polish united,

   

~

ally pF the: Spting

      

wo

fobitization Committee agiinst: the! var fa Vietnam in San

 

“Francisco | on “41s Apri 1906,

   

On Ea ay. 1966 he was, a Speake.

orth Vietnas. uv. At a 5 necting on “4 February. 1966: of the

 

Santa Barbara Club, Southern’ California District

 

“Willian TAYLOR stated that. ‘Tiving, EAUCES (203 “827307

reported investor of 350, ‘ood in Ramparts), of the. eater for

  

the Study oF Democratic Institutions, Santa Barbara, would”
donate $10, ove for a peace candidate and it was expected:
that this voul gO ta SCHEER "S caapaiza. ye SCHEER was:
defeated in the prinary election... The ‘San Francisco | Ex amine ar

£12 2 July 1966 reported that SCHEER spant 357, 834 on his

caapaign, more than‘one and one-half tines as such as his’

co

‘
}
1
ca security risk. - “He is- ‘probably the father of Michael. Ss,

ANSARA, Staff Writer. ‘for Rasparts.” ie was “reported ‘that

. Organization conference: in: Cuba. held, 28 July to 5 Augus

“12 September 1967, BIGSSAT made the Following remarks. 7). Te

-

eppenent spent, The article continued that SUILER dest by

7,390 votes, a cust of 52.94 for eaca vote he wen. -

tae U. S. on 13 July 1967 for Cairo, Egypt to intervier

President NASSER and write an article for Sanparts: ca the war

 

in the Middle East. James ANSARA is of Le PARES origin and
claias. to know President NASSER. de ‘was to be used ‘a5:con~

“tact san for SCHEER in Egypte. "James ANSARA was di snissed by a

    
  
   
  
   
 

 

the Depaxtuent - of State Ca. 1947 as. he was. cousidered to-be-

 

| SCHEER planned, to “attend: the Latin’ American’ Solidarity”

 

1967, “routing his travel: froa, Cairo to. ‘ihe. us ‘Ss. via Spain -

‘and Cuba. There has beon- no confirmation oF his | presence..

at the conference...” ee

  

: Robert SCHEER + WAS a member of the. steering committee,

at the | National’ Conference for New Politics hold in Chicage-

23 August to 4 Septenber 1367. In a syndicated article By

aruce BIOSSAT, published in. the Serkeley Daily Uazetre of ~

relating to Robert SCHEE aR np vhaps the strangest perfor~"

yance of the whole incredible dvana was that of Rovers.
Scheer...On ane convention day, SCUJEER stood befora the ae
assembled delegates and eloqueatly pleaded with the whites ¢

to purge thenselyes of sel£-conteapt and selé-hsate...The ~

3
on the editorial sta

 

. “sar

incumbent Jed irey COMELEN, The “Scneer for Congress Conmmit-
hag"? (which Later butane the Comaittee For bev Politics) was
foruea and its slat fors called Zor onposition to U. 5.
rayolvement im the Vietnaa war, and. further and continuing
involvenent by U. S. Governaent in the war on poverty and
civil rights. es A group that supported SCHEE BRI s candidacy

#as started by Daniel SIMON, Me a. and was “nada up of |

 

srofessionals and businessmen who opposed Ue Ss. involyeaent ”

io the. Yietnas. Ware. “(See Attachment’ 1 fox List of nova :

  
  
  
  
   
      
   

 

endorsers to SCHEBR's candidacy. ).. The cP supported. SCHEER

ja his canpaigan, and Carl BLOICE was released from “his ab-

 

  
 

of. the People! s Worka to work full

Carl BLOICE,. Roscoe ‘proctoR, and

rh

tine in ‘the campaign.

SCHEER’ s campaign. “M/ Dr. Ephrain. KANN, cP monber, | was.

    

reported as Manager of

   
    

 

the campaign. | “Robert KAUFMAN; _ ener

  

wan. The WEB. Dubois ¢ club in Sen Prancisco supported |

 

 

anpaig ened for hia. | 7/

ft

At. a meeting of discussion Unlimited on 2 December
1366 in dos Angeles, SCHEER led a vicious attack against the -
80 viet Union, _against the Stalia Era , against.crimes committed 9+”
in the Soviet Union against the Jewish people and Jewish - oy
in the Soviet Union. He said that the Soviet Union was a sick ~

Toocort

or)

‘culture, and against other rdligious people and intellectuals -
13-00000

" peraission to. enter ‘North Vietnam. The ‘cP USA urged” the: oe

Soviet Union to prevail upon’ ‘the Contra Comittee, of ‘the!

running as a: “peace, candidate”) | . SCHEER would support. the - ne

ae ‘2 2 RD

pade to assist SCHEER in Ais efforts to obruin adaission to.
hoapta Vistnaa, wet at least to arrange an luterview for bis
ie Norta Vietnamese Ewoassy in Camvoodia. 1/ Sources:
Whe Have furnished reliable information in the pask reported

: ERPs

that the CP USA was makina & arrangenents with the cP Soviet
inion to.vormit SCHEER to entor forth Vietnam in order that
he wight confer with the leaders ship of the CP.c € North
Viatnam. - Upon his arrival in Cambodia: ca. “is February 1966,

he would visit the North Vietnamese ‘Embassy and. re quest

a

 

     
   
  

 

orth: Vietnanese cP to permit SCHEER to “ehter. Ia this

   
  

electa

 

bce the. U. Si Congress. -in ‘Kovenber “1958 (Sete 2. was~

Soviet cause for. peace and attack. the: “United ‘States

imperialist tactics, on @ nationwide scale."

 

 

An article ‘tm the: New York Herald. Tribune. of

 

13s March 1306 id ntified ‘Robert. SCHEER AS a former’ University |
OF California graduate student of hinese studies . “Anae

SCGiEER (nes } SILLS) waa a subscriber dia ‘198s nies tae name -." te
Anne WEILLS to the People's vortd Giese Coast. ‘Communist

.

 

newspaper) »- mA . . Te

Robert SCUEER was 2 candidate ia the Benocratic.

Tse

earty prinary election in. June 1906 for: the office ef. oO woo. ae :

Congressman from thé. 7th District of California, opposing

 

 
Perereees

was to be one of the participants. | He was described in SPUR

; North Vietnamese Communist weekly. newspaper Cuu Quoc,

published in Hanoi. SAO. ang BA Lived’ and worked at 13s"

: pebruary 1905 he was in Tokyo, ‘Japan, whare he: visited the |

bnile a student ac thu uaiversity uf California,

   
 

wevkeley, Rouert GUILSk orgzanised tas foul sad
a2oMaganine puvlisacd for ond by ultraliveral

university. Tua ll Nevewuer 1944 edition of $

 

Gusoas Cluos of Auerica newsletter) reported on a panacl | . a
discussion sponsored by the W.E.3, Dudois Club, the Students:

for a iemocratic Society, and The New School. Robert SCHEER.) 1.

 

 

as Correspondent for The Realist and a member o£ The New ,

 

School. According: to the San Francisco ‘Exaninex of 22 Hay:

1965; ‘Robert ‘SCHEER traveled to Cuba int

 

the sunmer of 1964"

     
 
 
  

_ in. 1965 he was

Yan SAO" and Cu Dink “RA,

Netherhall Gardens, laupstead, London Ne BR. 3. et

 

office oz. the National, Harbor and - Ports Labor Union. He oo

lived ina dornitory ‘of the Labor Union for three day:
traveled Ero Japan to Indonesia for ten (SByS SCHEER later
stated that he was the only 3 Anexican at a conference in”
Indonesia. Before Leaving Jupan, SCHEER stated his desire
to visit Communist Chiaa and complained to the Japanese oe
Labor Union officials about discriaination in the u. Ss. and.

sude derogatory remarks about the U.S. The Japanese Labor

te

fn te nee ae ne ene ctitenne AEN nee tanec mane matted glee
13-00000

ainton ofriedsls asasé tae Coanuuist Chinese in Tokya avout

tas pussibility of

 

“to the China sainkand. SCAEER
iso visited Vietnam during this trip. L/

. SQIZER was the principal. speaker ata dewoastration 7
on LJ April 1905 sponsored by the WEB, Dubois Clubs of
Anerica and ths vonen for Peace, At a meetin of the viet.

at .

naa Day Committee an 4 October. ‘1905 to discuss whether to, on

 
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
   

i

violate, the MeCarran Act; the Espionage Act of 117. and other”

espionage: daws,- SCUEER stated: Tt is, ‘tine to: risk. treason.

we- must totally disassociate ourselves with the: UL ‘Ss: Gove

nents > At ‘a teach- Sin) at the’ University: ‘of California. on

12. Noveaber 1905 held by the University Conaitise ont Vietnaa

 

SCHEBR ‘stated: "The Viet Cong | is a. party of: peace and ig t

 

 

was in Vietnon I would be on. the side of the Viet Cong."

was  spokesaan for a six-manber “delegation from ‘the Vietnam

 

Say Comaittee that met ‘On Ss Becenber 1955 with Vice President

 

Hubert HUMPHREY, at the Naval Air ‘Station, Moffett Field,

 

“

california. aM -
"in february - 1966 SCHEER, accompanicd. by his (second)
wife Anne (nee REILLS) and Stanley SCHED BAUS (Consulting ©
_Editer, Kaapsr ts), visited Cambodia by invitation. fron Prince
| SIHANOUK. Trey also visited ‘Thailand and. Vietnan, - ha -

announCericnt was made at a Comaunist Party Contact Class,

 

e31 Redwood Street, San Francisco, that SCHEER. lefe California
on 4 February 1566 and would possibly visit North Viernam. -- fo

Two functionaries of the CP agreed that an effert snould be

5

 
 

 

f, i"
Ex-o85- (rewritten)

OUuEER, Rovert (201-809730) 7 March 68

1. Robert SUnabaA is. Mansylag Luitor of Ranparts naga

2. Revert SCHEER uttended mvetings of the Lasor Youth

League (cited by the House Committes on Un-American Activi-

ties (CUA) aS a Communist front organization). + He was aa

“officeholder dm. Fair Play for Cubes Committee, doainated by:

Party USA supported his candidacy for U.S. Congress in

-June- i966, and. attempted to have’ cP: ‘Soviet: ‘Union, use its

‘Leaders ‘ef the International Union of Students” (Soviet:

" controlled organization)’, 1

tne. Socialist workers Party. He was in correspoadencs with

two ‘North Vietnamese journalists An London. The Communist °

  

  
  
   
   
  
 
 
  

influence. with North Vietnanese officials: te perait SCHEER

‘to travel. to North Vietnam. = ‘He visited Prague late. January

“1907 as “guest of the. Czech, Governsent. and consulted with

 

to u. s. involvement in Vietnans

“3. Information received froma the FBI. reflects, ‘the. oe

followings

: Robert SCHE ER is the sor of Froderich Jazob SCHEER,
vora 28 May 1398, Gersany, U, Ss. Citizen, aad Iida (neo ORAS)
Sci SER, ‘born 26 April. i300, Russia, non-U, 5. citizen
Fred erich SCHEE R joined ‘the International Worsers Order in.

Hovember 1941 and was: as menber of Lodge 500 as late as 233-(Fp

 
 
 

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW -

oxoucreo onZ& drier kd

     
 

ak .
FULL TEXT tap on Tt wr

 

 

 
 

fod-10433-10088

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

° Toy >; 1
= sae i
eat: Qenenol) j
: . Gi Siographic Summary on: Robert Scheer }
arent Daension | KO, _ ; f
, ; 895 rewritten :
: cl/CP RCver 6537 DATE oo j
i : . ; f 7 March 1968 4
TO: (08 shot od:
i ee a ‘cer etignetiony rom members ° bate s COMMENTS” (Numbar each comment lo show from whom
i ; : | rsceiveo | | roavaazeo | ta whom. Drow a Tine across column after sach comment} ¢
tau, - ;
_. ; Prepared by a
: | | | ff . !

aa mare SON A ely Arnona ee

my

1 - Subject's file

1 - Cl Task Group Biographic
Summaries

1 - Orig. for Final Report Typini
Uv “. EX Chrono .

7 Distribution: a : Pas

os

‘
nena etna na tps epee ty te ati mf mente So Noh ay Ht nn ON ppl A WASuDAIN PRRIASSrRSRD ENOTES EMER OO
4

 

   

oy “tl SECT. uo Corb Pay

pieces . . noes

[J UNcLAssines
13-00000

-) SeBINA protesting the trial of tne National Committee of the
Losauaist Party, U.S. A. Tua Ruran SCHEER joined the Inter-
national workers Gruer in “arch 1947 and was a member of

Louge 500 as Late as 19535. (International Workers Order has —

oevn designatsd by’ the Attorney Gonovral.)

     
  
  
  
   

Robert SCHEER stated during a Gove nment interview _

‘tat while) in colilaze be attended 3 few: ‘Rostings which. ne.

.felt wete run oy sameone whe could have: been, in the ‘Labor

 

Youta League, CLYL)- and that he “had attended one social ‘event *

  

which, he. felt was aeinitely sponsored-by the tesa

ey tee

 

 

       

General” ‘Me adaitted having’ read’ th Conaunist

     
       
    
    
 

 

uanizesto™

   

frequently. ~ (Ths LYL. is. ‘cited ‘as. 2° Communist front. organi

 

tion by the CUA, )

    

"SCHEER said that he ia’ not, ‘consider

   

tarowof the UL He™ stated further tha aE. he.

 

s. Covernment.
believes that. the CP is not subversive oocause it claias. te.

ve interested in bringing about its progran through demo-, :

- . fee ~

 

.wratic processes. 1/ i oo. a
In 1l9ed Robert SCHEER and Ais first wifes Serena

SCHEER contacted the Cuban ‘Consulate in New York City ~~

concerning a trip to Cuba... 3/° The Daily Californian of

2

 
 

 

SEPCC at the sage tine were: Haurice ZEITLIN, Secretary

+ Latin America, Ramparts. 3; and } Richard CURRIER, Président.

in SDA

hia a Stalinist. Ina political discussion he gave me that.

‘the Student Ad Hoc Comaittee of the PPCC be made part of -

an (o yy

5. Getober 1569 carried the story tnat Robert SCHEER nad been
su Cuva ja isd for che montn,. .
Ropert SCHELN was Research Director of the Studear
reir Play for Cuba Cuamittee (SEPCC) on the 3erxeley campus
vit ne University of California.  Gther officeholders of the

{Since January 1965 he has’ been Contributing Editor for

in 1360 the national office of the Socialist Workers. Party -

 

(s¥P): (cited as- subversive >y ‘the HcuA) was’ anxious to

     
   
     
   
 
  

ze

infiltrate and dominate the “FRCC. The élles aia a the national

  

(Students for. Lewocratic Action).

L (Socialist Youth. League)’ and told me that ‘thay ‘ealted’

iaipression, too, though he can attack the Soviet. ‘Union

 

before a liberal audience.”. Either in ‘periphery of cp or,

thereabouts (influenced), etc.” The. SNP was apparantly

successful in their efforts... ‘In aay 19S) ‘Asher HARER,

wvaber of tie SYP National Committee and of the San ‘Fran-
cisco Branch of the S#P, nade a notion before the Bay area

-

ar. the FPCC that an executive conmittee of. seven. neabers of

  

tie Bay Area FPCC. ‘fae motion was carried, 2/ of
