74-00000

 

Way CSeGHEY ena!
te te of - {
‘ft. Rolando Masferrer Rojas (deceased by bombing) - barn }
12 January 1918.
j
a tee ii. Luciano Nieves (deceased by shooting).
_

iv, Jose De La Torriente (deceased by shooting).

v. Jose Quintana - born 3 October 1945; reportedly a nephey by
marriage ta Rosselli, a ‘

vi, Jaoquin ‘Antonio Cortizo ~ born 10 January 1945.

. wih. Manola Artimes (the detectives specifically asked where he is
now).

Neer Se

vill, AM/LASH - his identity and preser.t whereabouts.
i ‘fx, “What are the names of the three Cubans mentioned in the. : ‘
: Rosselli testimony? (Two of the three names are in the
. . 9 December 1970 memorandum discussed in paregraph 40f
this memorandum.)
- B. Secondly, they asked for whatever information the Agency could
provide on the following individuals whose citizenship is unknown but who
are probably U.S. citizens.

. 4. Fred Black - identificd as a lobbyist involved with Bobby Baker; ‘
he reportedly lives in the Watergate Aparirents and is a friend i

ts of Maheu, Rosselli and Shimon. They wanted to know if he had, i
any connection with the Castro assassination plots. f '
{

_ dik. ‘Joseph Shimon ~ identified in the Senate Select Committee Report
on Alleged Assassination Plots at page 81 as "a friend of Rosselli !
and Giancana." They wanted to know if he had eny CIA rela~ i
tionship. '

|

'

i

t

| . fi, Edward Morgan - aD.C. attorney who has reportedly represented

' Black, Shimon, Rosselli and Maheu.
: t
{

{

to CG. Third, they ask a number of general questions which are as
follows:

rs Whe is the Cuban who provided the speedboat mentioned in the
.- - Senate Sclect Committce Report?

 

|
i

wees wat eg a

ee ge ene Cae eee ae en

 
 

 

04-10213-10020

 

 

ro ON

AEN cant A ee RATER RRA cpm ee

se ANT OFMATHE
Lot C “ORET SRE

"., 25 August 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM: Gary M. Breneman . : :
Assistant General Counsel . ,

SUBJECT: Request for Agency Assistance in the Death of John Rosselli

1, Senator Gary W. Hart (D-Colo.) hes involved the Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence in the investigation of the murder of John Rosselli
Washir.cton Post, 25 August 1976, p. 425, copy attached). In addition, the
Director has met with Hart and stated that the Agency would cooperate in the
investigation of Rosselli's death within the bounds of its charter and its
statutory charge to protect intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized

disclosure.

2. At the request of the Committee, Mr. Tom White, OLC, and the under=

signed met with two homicide detectives from the Dade County sheriff's office

at 12:30 p.m. 24 August, in the offices of the Committee in the Dirksen
Building. The two detectives were Julio O. Ojeda and Charles Zatrepalek.
Also present at the meeting were the following individuals: Paul Daly and
Carlton Burrell of the FBI and Mike Madigan, Rick Inderfurth and Mike Epstien
of the Committee Staff, Present for pax of the meeting were Bill Miller, Staff
Director of the Committee, and Charles Kirkow of the Committee Staff. t

3. The Agency officers explained that they were there to determine how,
within the Agency's charter, they could provide assistance to the detectives .
in their investigation and to receive their questions and then pursue the answers
within the Agency. The detectives asked for help in the following areas and
their questions break down into three basic categories. :

A. First, they would like to know whatever the Agency knows
about certain Cuban nationals, some deceased and some still alive.
They are as follows:

i. Ramon Don Eestevez Dominquez (deceased by shooting) - born
| 2 May.1936 or 5 February 1936; reportedly a boat manufacturer
who was able to go in and out of Cuba on a regular basis,

   

SECR RET SESE

i
if

Posares eam]

 

1 LC TTTOO TPS LAG Hao PIN EPPING OS PIRES IVE NE See & ein

te et 08 woemas:

 
 

ets { . i

“. ~ .
_ fi, Whois "b s® and whatis the name of the: i-Castro group
both of which are mentioned on page 89 of the Report?

  

tii. Did Harvey actually pay Rosselli $2,700 to defray the Cuban

 

3
expenses as mentioned on page 84 of the Report? 2]

iv. Why was Rosselli approached ingtead ‘of Giancena or someone 1
. Le

else? ~&

. z=

v. Did the Agency do abackground check on Rosselli or Giancana
and, if so, could they have access to it?

”

femme 0 000 4000 ass 089 8 OE ORT FANT 0 MEO OPN ot #17 FN

. vi. Why was all contact with Rosselli stopped im 1965? -..- 2

vii. Would it be possible for them to talk to the man ‘or men who
served 2s Chief of Station in Miami during 1960 to 19657

viii. Could they talk to the current Chief of Station in Miami?

‘ix. Would it be possible for the detectives to talk to James P.
O'Connell, a retired senior Office of Security employee?

x. Does CIA have any evidence that the Cuban Intelligence Service
. " ‘maay have been involved in Rosselii's death or that Cuban agents
. were in the Miami area at the time of his death? -

4, Rick Inderfurth presented the undersigned w’ th two classified meino-
randa and stated he thought they shou'd be declassified and made availzble ta
the detectives. One is a 9 December 1970 memorandum fo the DCI from the

- Director of Security, Subj: ®ROSSELLI, Johnny." The second is a blind memovy

randum dated 9 August 1976, Subj: “Johnny Rosselli.” Copies of both are “*
attached. . oo

~

&. The undersigned made absolutely no commitments with respect to any
of the requests except to the one relating to interviewing the current COS Miami
and I said no to it. The detectives will be in town until Seturday and can be

reached 2t their motel, Tel. 521-1900, Room 610. Following that they can be
reached at the sheriff's office in Miami at (305) 547-7456.

<f. aR —,

Gary M. Brenefean . : |

|
|
i
I
|

 
  
 

Atts. MA

 
