 

13-00000

   
  
 
  
 

(a known
with an
Ra exclu-

  

to provide
sive story of Su
KOROLEY, Subject
international jeri i
tain compensatic: t
abandonment of her and her call:
ec
g

approach to an
tion in an effort to ob-
damages caused by his
ven. In ressonding to’

   

 

this approach through an offi wa have
qucted a statement, purportin himself,
to bie effect that Subject conside So th P i fo

the KGB and that he 1 will net Tena nimselt to tha scheme
by agreeing to an interview or in any other way.

Subject's Status

 

2. To recapitulate, Subject entered tha United
States on 12 February 1964 on parole to the agency under
he provisions of Section 212 { (3) of the Immigration
and Nationality Act. As we understand it, parcle re-
sponsibility is delegated to the Agency by the Atte
General and the DCI on 10 February 1955, which stat

 

 

 

“After parole of such aliens. the Central Intei-
ligence Agency will assume re ‘sponsibility for care,
supervision and control of a Kind and .; aegrea it
believes consistent with the internal security
needs of the United States during continuance of

their parole status,”

In accordance with our understanding of this agreement,

and because we have reason to balieve that Subject is a
conscious and willing agent of a hostile intelligence
gervice, we have seen to it that Subject was under our
direct observation and control at all times from the
moment of his arrival in the United States. From 12 Febru-
ary to 4 April 1964 it was possible to keep Subject ata
location where he could enjoy a certain amount of movement
anc of sontact with the outside world. Since 4 April 1964,
for reasons explained in paragraph 6 of this mem iorancum,

 
13-00000

9.

it has been necessary to keep him incomrmunicado at a loca-
tion which is known to no one outside of the agency {and
to very few within it). Authorization for Subject.to
remain in this country under the Special Agreement Pro-
cedures has been periodically extended by the Iseaigration
and Naturalization Service. The current extension is good
until 17 February 15957 (see Tab N).

23. Although his freedom of movement has been severely
restricted, Subject has not been maltreated and ne has not
made any formal complaint about his treatment. On the
contrary, we have several written statements from him in
the past year in which he states that our handling of nin
was justified and even beneficial (sea Tab E).

Disposal

24. From the time that Subject was brought to this
country we have thought about the possibility of his evant—
ual deportation as a contingency measure. You will recall
talks on this in which you participated in the spring of
1964: at that time we thought that it might be possible
to mitigate the political anc propaganda drawbacks of a
forced deportation by announcing that Subject has con-

‘fessed his true KGB role. With the passage of time. how-

ever, and in view of our much firmer conclusions about
Subject’ s xeal role and mission and our clearer understand-
ing of what this implies, it is apparent that great practi-
cal problems stand in the way of his deportation to

either the USSR or a third country.

a. USSR: Subject has categorically stated on
numerous Sccasions that he will never contemplate
return to the USSR, and although we suspect that he
might secretly welcome such a move, we would expect
him to act out his part to the end with loud protests
that he was being shipped to his death, etc. When
the peasib’lity of expulsion was discussed with De-
partment of State officials in 1964, both tha Secra-
tary of State and Ambassador Thompson expressed
their concern for the adverse effect this might have
on other potential defectors. Forcible repatriation
of political refugees is against long astablished
U.S. policy, and would be certain to arouse viclent
reaction from ethnic minority groups in the United
States and the congressmen representing them. Undz
these circumstances (and we can be sure that the KGB
will dco whatever they can to promote the furor), an

|
ad

“Ff
13-00000 _

7.

18, The then Acting Attorney General Hr. Nicholas
Katzenbach (and several members of his staff) were apprised
of our reservations about Subject on Z April 15954 anc an
opinion was sought from him both as to interpretation of
the exclusion and parcle agreement. and as to how we should
preceed in the event that it proved mscessary to devort

  

Subject from this country. Pertinent memoranda are attached

as Tab L.
Queries from Congressmen, the Press, and the Public
19, There have been several queries. from congress-

men about Subject's status and whereabouts, and from the
press ahout the possibility of interviewing Subject. The

general formula that was worked out to answer such requests,

adapted as necessary to fit the specific request, runs as
£ollows:

"Yuriy Nosenko requested asylum in the United States
in February 1964. His request was granted. The
information Mr. Nosenko is providing is regularly
made available to appropriate agencies of the
Government. However, publicizing. this information
and its source could only increase the possibility

of Soviet reprisal against Mr. Nosenko and others
who may seek. asylum in the Pree World."

Several specific examples are attacned as Tab N.

Efforts to Keep the KGB from Learning of Our Awareness of
Subject’s frua Stats

20. From the time we learned that Subject had been |
sent to this country on a KGS mission it was obvious that
if we were to Have the time to analyze and resolve this
case, and to plan and execute appropriate countermeasures,
it was essential that we attempt to keap the KGB from
learning of our awareness of Subject's true status. Con-
sequently, detailed knowledge of the depth and scope of
our suspicions About Subject, and the implications thereof,
has been restricted to a vary few people in the Agency
and the intelligence community. Nonetheless, as can be
seen from paragraphs 11 to 18 above, we did advise key
policy echelons and principals in the intelligenca com-
munity, even though this carried the inevitable risk of
leakage. As you can see from Tab H, we have not disclosed
eur suspicions about Subject in our responses to press and
congressmen. Even in our formal correspondence to the
PFIAB, for example, the most we have said is that “Sub~
ject’s bona fides has not been established” (see Tap F).

i
é.

 

work ef the Warren Gomaission. According to Subject's
story, he had baen in the #GS Line of responsibility for
Lee Narvey Oswald while Oswald was in the Soviet Unien,
and after the assassination of President Kennedy, Suuject
particinated in an investigation of Oswald's activities

in the USSR. In the course of his cfficial duties, ne
alleges that he nad read Oswald's dossier. Subject was
therefore in a position to vouch for the fact that the

KGB had never had any interest in Oswald, considered him
to be “abnormal” and were delighted to get rid of him.
(Por good measure, Subject threw in a story about Oswald's
being a poor shot.) As Mr. Rankin, the Chisf Counsel of
the Warren Commission commented, Lf Subject’s story could
be accepted at face valus the Commission could easily
terminate its werk sooner than it had expected. Rankin
was informed therefore that there were aspects of Subject's
information that caused us grave concern and that we were
not able to say that his information on Oswald should ie
accepted uncritically (see Tab I).

   

17. Because so much of Subject's information affected
U.S. internal security matters for which the FBI hears
primary responsibility, and because of the possibility
that Subject was a KGB plant has a direct bearing on the
validity of certain FBI operations, the FBI nas been kept
fully informed on our views about Subject's bona fides
and our progress in interrogating and investigating him
from the moment of his defection to the praesent time.
Thus, C/Ci_informed the FRI liai officer about o
reservations on subject's bona fides as early as 5 Febru-

 

 

ary 196 e the FEI a4 puty for
Internal security. william Sullivan, have been kept com-
Oe ee eee eer ence and we have coordinated
all Major aspects of our handling of Subject with then.
After a long meeting with Sullivan and other FBI repre-
sentatives to review Subject’s case on 1 April 1964, the
FRI interposed no objections to our proposal to restrict
Subject's movements and commence hostile interrogation
(sea Tab J). Subsequently, the FBI has formally agreed
with cur findings on Subject, at least to the extent that
"On considering carefully the results of your interroga-
tions of Yuri KOSENKO and your analysis of his statements
and activities, it does appear he is not what ne purports
to be. While this Bureau is not in a position to draw
any conclusion in this case, we do recognize it is possi-
ble that NOSENKO could be a Soviet plant or agent provoca-
teur.”. (Sse Tab K.)

 
4,
could be more o asily contrelled. and his outing privileges
were suspended, pending resoluticn of hona fides. Ho has

remained in this status to the present time,

8. It is worth noting that had we not taken the above
action but accepted Subject at face value, it is quite pos-
sible that we would have proceeded with a saries cf opera-~
tional actions on the basis of Subject's information. The
results of some of these actions could have been very em-
barrassing to the U.S. Government politically and damaging
to U.S. national. security. For example, Subject's chief
operational proposal at the time, one that he was most
iasistent we should proceed. with immediately, involved the
sexual compromise of Vladimir Paviovica susiov, the most
senior Soviet official in the United Nations Secretariat,
holding the position.of Undersecretary in Charge of Poli-
tical and Security Council Affairs.

Bona Fides

9. Since April 1564, hundreds of hours have been
devoted to interrogations of Subject (in which he has
willingly cooperated) and a great deal of time has been
spent on exhaustive collateral investigations. We con-
clude that it has been established beyond reasonable doubt
that Subject is a KGB agent who established contact with
CIA and subsequently defected on KGS instructions, ané
that he came to the United States on a deception mission. .
The implications of this mission have a grave and direct
bearing on U.S. national security Although our findings

are supported by the results of two polygraph examinations

(as ssecond one has just been administered), we must note
that the nature of the evidence is inadmissable in a
court of law, In any case, it is clear that Subject has
not been in a position te perform any overt act of trans-
gression of U.S. espionage laws since 4 April 1964 when
he vas placed ina restricted area and deprived of any
conceivable meats of communication with the KGB.

30, Subject doss not admit that he defected on KGB
orders or that he came to the U.S. on a KGB mission. He
has admitted, however, that he made numerous lies about
his personal history and about the details of his KGB
service to U.S. officials, both before and after arriving
in the United States. (A translation of a handwritten
statement by Subject about these lies is attached as ab E.)

Coordination with Other U.S. Government Agencies

lL. USIB Members. In accordance with the DDCI's
ruling relating to a defector wno has bean a member of

 
5.
a hostile intelligence servics. Subject's status and
handling was discussed at an executive session of USIB

and decided en an ad hec basis, SOSENKO defected on

A Fobruary, and the Secretary of State,. the Attorney
General, the Special Assistant to the Prasident on National
Security Affairs, MeGeorge Buncy, General Carroll, Direc-
tor of the Defense Intelligence Agency and the Fst were

all notified immediately. On 5 February, General Carter
xeported the defection to an executive session of USIB

and followed this up with formal statements to USIB men
bers on 11 and 19 February (see Tab F), which stated that
Subject's bona fides had not yet bean establisnaed. It

was agreed that no DS number would be issuad to Subject,
and that he would be handle@ on a special basis by this
Agency. In fact, normal USIB interest in Subject aa a
defector dropped off drastically as it became quickly
apparent that he had no positive intelligence interest

of value to any part of the community.

 

12. The President was informed of thea full extent
of our suspicions about Subject's bona fides by the then
Director, ie. MeCone, on 11 February 1964. “Mr. Patrick
Coyne, Executive Secretary of the PFIAB, was given a simni-
lar briefing by Mr. Halms on 19 February 1964.

 

13. Generals Carroll and Fitch of DIA were also sub-
sequently informed of the problems about Subject" 8 bona

fides (see Tab G).

14. ‘The Secretary of State, Ambassador Thompson,
and other senior officials in the Department of State
were informed of our reservations about Subject's bona
fides and our fears that he might be a dispatched KGB”
agent. In discussions about the possibility of Subject's
eventual deportation, the Secretary of State expressed
serious concern about the adverse reaction that such a
move might have on other potential defectors (sce Tab H).

15. The Director of Security, State Department, was
informed of the bona fides problem at an early date. We
have worked closaly with thia Office since then on the
problem of evaluating the significance of Subject’s in-
formation as it affects the security interests of the
State Department.

16. The problem of Subject's bona fides took on
particular significance and urgency in respect to the

.

'

 
13-00000

7 November 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: General Counsel

SUBJECT > Yuriy Ivanovich WOSENKO

Summar

1. The Director has requested that tnere be con-
ducted immediately an exnaustive examination regarding
the possibility of damaging publicity and embarrassment
to the Agency should it become public knowledge that we
have held Subject incommunicado for over two years. This
memorandum seeks an advisory cpinien from the General Coun~
sel on the Agency's legal basis for its handling of Sub-~-

ject to cate, on the position that could best ba assuned

= the Agency were calied upon to defend its handling of
Subject, and on legal aspects of Subject's eventual dis-
posal. :

Background

2. Subject voluntarily established econtact with CIA
representatives in Geneva in 1962. He identified himself
as a staff officer of the KGB's Internal Security Diréc-
torate and offered to sell counterintelligeance information.
This offer was accepted and he was recruited as an agent
in place and debriefed on counterintelligence matters dur-
ing five meetings in Geneva. He then returned to the
USSR. He came to Geneva again in January 1964 as the
security officer for the Soviet disarmament delegatisn.
After a number of meetings with nis CIA handlers he de-
fected on 4 February 1964 and was secretly taken to Frank-~
furt, Cermany, crossing the Swiss-German »ordcer on the
night. of 4/5 February with alias U.S. Army identity docu-
ments. In Ganeva and again upon arrival in Frankfurt,
Subject wrote out an asylum request, requesting political
asylum from the U.S. Government (see Tab A).

3. Because serious doubts about Subject's bona fides
had arisen on the basis of the information he had pro-
vided both in 1962 and in the meetings in Geneva in 1964,
it was originally planned to do a detailed bona fides de-
briefing and. assessment in Germany before making any

 

 
 

104-10312-10192|

oh

   

CIA HISTORICAL

LEASE AS SF
Re 4999

NOTE: Pg. 6 excerpt (pertaining to Warren Commission/Oswald)
is taken from a 7 November 1966 memorandum written by

David Murphy to the General Counsel, Subject: Yuriy Ivanovich
De routed through Chief, CI Staff (w/carbon copy to

DDP

The original document, and its attachments (Tabs A_thru_N)

is located in file entitled "General Counsel -- SB Discussions
on Legal Aspects of Case."

only
A Xerox copy/of the covering memo is contained in the Pertinent
Documents (to the Study "The Monster Plot") file drawer.
”

Be

decision about moving Subject to the United States. How-
ever, unprecedeated action by the Soviet Government in
respect to the defection of one of its citizens forced
a change of plans. On 9 February, unidentified Soviet
sources in Geneva leaked the news to the press that Sub-
ject, described as an “expert attached to the Soviet bele-
gation te the Disarmament Conference“ had disappeared,
and that it was presumed taat he had defected. Because
of mounting pressure from the press, wnich included mach
speculation that Subject was a high level scientist or ~
disarmament expert, it was decided that the State Depart-
ment would make a brief announcement acknowledging Subject's
request for asylum in the U.S. and identifying him as a
member of the KGB. This was done on 10 February (see Tab
B). On Ll February, the Soviet Government delivered a
note to the american Embassy in Noscow asking how Subject
left Switzerland and requesting an immediate interview
with him and his release. On 12 February, Soviet Ambassa-
dor to the Disarmament Conference. TSARAPKIN hald a press
conference in Geneva in which he accused the Swiss Govern-
ment of failure to cooperate in locating Subject. Although
the Swiss categorically rajected these charges, the Ameri-
can Ambassador to Switzerland recommended that Swiss
authorities be allowed to interview Subject to convince
themselves that Subject had left Switzerland of his own
free will. :

4. On 12 February, on the instructions of the Dirac~
tor, Subject was brought to the United States. He travelled
by commercial air, again using alias U.S. Amny identifica-
tion, and was admitted to the country at New York City
(in true name) on parole under tne provisions of Section
212 (da) (5) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (see
Tab Cc).

5. On 13 February, representatives of the Swiss and
Soviet Embassies in Washington advised the State Depart-.
meant that they desired interviews with Subject. On 14 Febru-
ary, in Neoscow, Soviet Foreign Minister GROMYKO called in
Ambassador KOHLER and protested “‘impermissable activities”

on the part of the U.S. in Subject's case. Soviet press

spokesmen took an even harder line to Western. correspond
ents, and accused the U.S. of kidnapping Subject. On the
afternoon of 14 February, at two separate interviews, .
Subject spoke first to Swiss Embassy and then to Soviet
Embassy representatives (see Tab D). At these interviews,
which were also attended by State Department and INS
3.
officials, Subject confirmed that ne left Switzerland of
his own free will to seek asylua in the U. s In atiditicen,
Subject replied to questions of tne Soviet Enbassy repre-

sentative to the effect that ue was renouncing his Soviet
citizensnin. Gn the avening cf 14 February, the U.S.
State Department made a brief formal reply to the Soviet
protest, then issued a brief statement to the press noting
that the interviews had been neld and that Subject had
confirmed his desire to remain in this country.

6. From the time cf his arrival to 4 April 1964,
Subject was housed in an Agency safehouse in the Washing-
ton area. During this period, regular systematic debrief~
ing was commenced, and Subject was made available to
representatives of the FBI for debriefing on matters affect-
ing their responsibilities. Although allowed out for
evening and week-end excursions, Subject was at all times
accompanied by 0/S personnel. In addition, Subject took
a two-week vacation to Hawaii, again accompanied. by case
officers and security guards. Evidence continued to mount
that Subject was a KGB plant, and at the same time it be-
cama obvious that it would be impossible to proceed fur~-
ther to resolve the many suspicious points and contradictions
that had arisen without changing the conditions in which
Subject was being held. Subject was growing increasingly

uncocperative, especially when sensitive areas were touched

upon, and constantly pressed for the legalization of his
status in the U.S. and the issuance of an alien registra-
tien car€@. At the same time, Subject's heavy drinking

and other.unruly personal habits were causing increasing
difficulties to the security personnel charged with keep-
ing him under control and out of trouble at all times, and
it was clear that it was only a matter of time before hae
created a public scandal. More important, ne was ina
position to communicate with the KGB since physical control
could net be absolute. .

7. On 4 April 1954 Subject voluntarily underwent a
polygraph examination. The results of this examination
indicated deception on a number of critical points indi-
cating that he was sent out. by the KGS to perform one or
more missions. which also involved his penetration of the
Agency and its operations. It was decided, therefore,
that the physical circumstances of Subject's stay in this
country would have to be drastically changed if the Agency
were to carry out is counterintelligence responsibilities
and adhere to the terms of the parole agreement. As a
result, Subject was moved to quarters where his movaments
