 

c

AMSPELL group and their exinounces 5

te persuniad AMRIT and AMLASH that tt wuld be test not to have

further mectings wth them tn Helsinxi, but that ve could continue our talks

 

in zreater safcty in Stockhola and Paris. They a: Es) 2 ALAR also said

-that he felt that he shouldn't see AMHIP too vuch wore In Helsink!, as he

vas bez Anning now to make sone public Appearances

estatltched to “groryone in the city. Inc! dentally, prior to Thursdays

2 Aug August, AMLASH had had purposely refrained froa saking any public appearances

at the Featival because red) he and the other Cubans had been avare of the
ntentigns, and (?) AMLASH did not feel

very ateposed to play the *public Relations” nan from Guba and espouse the

"peace and friendship nonsense", as he called it. However, AMLASH also said

” that he'felt that he had better parfors this role to some extent, a5 it was

expected of hin ‘by ‘Fidel, aad he eta nat wish to provide an- unnecessary

chances for unsat! sfactory 1 reports te be ent tack hane conce:n’ns his lack

of eooperat! on with the onban dele-atton. In makint the arranrenents for

a Paris metine and further « discuss tons, AAA H satd, in reszonee to the

question, that ‘t vould be quite norml for hiv to te in Paric, as he had

already cleared this with Fidel, with wher, he rerarced cavatically, one

had to clear everything these da,o, He thea exprosead the idea that he

would like te return to Paria, via Ctockhole, ant at AM-HIP's sugcections

spond # faw Jaye there just relaxin’. Prom thera, O° “cpenhagen, he would

return to Pravua for two days at most, in order to pick up his Luggage, .

then core as soon as ponaible to Paris. there, he intemie? to via't a

hospital or two, as avread uron with Fital, an? cnend a total of at least

a weer thare, He eafd that tf he was te vatucn te “ura ta tecn h +

affarta, be *' 2 not etal te be awe: foam eA eh lencrar than neseceals.

ote

and his precence was now ©

ORR Rak Mer eeeys, bemimmmeerreereneert teresa Pe ERRAND PS REE PRP PERT PN
AE ORRIN ROUGE TP GEENA TEETE NT TE Oe IL Te OO
(He has, it {s poted, a sense of urzency io bestnaing action acainst the
rezixe a2 goon a8 sheets.) AM-HIP told ug later that AMLASH also’ was
interested in a Pag ‘hios“can Hiant-based stewardess, wh m he would have
coms over to stay with hin. AMHIP succested to us that he thouzht. the
etovardess night be connected with PBPZIS. He rased this apparently on

a remark which the steverdess pade concerning AYLASH's political frama of
ning Last year. wa answered that as far as we knew there was no beats for
AMHIP's thourhts along this line.) AMHIP will try to get the stewardess

full name for us. oe
°

Meat ing arrangeaents for Stockholm and Helsinkf were laid on at
this meeting, AMLASH fult he had to stay until ths end.of the Festival for
cover purposes,: Since AMHIP had already accidentally run Into several |
people he ynew, 1t was azreed that he should leave town for Stockhola in
the near future. «se vould remiin behind until AZASH left, serving as an
amarzeney contact in the event ef chance in LIasH'’s olens. It was arrenzed
to meet AMLASH {f absolutely necessar,, at either 1700 or 1200 each day
ate given restaurant in the center of the cit. Normal secu! it. measures

for tha "anerxsenc " meetin: were laid on. In itocthcix, meetin: arrancenents

 

for Paris will te established. UONIP denartod Helsinki 5 August and te
presuma>l; staving at the Palace Hotel ‘n steczthol: he will make arranzements
for accormandat‘ons for AMAT there. ‘e w°Lk follow AMLALH to ftockhola.

S. Moleink! Meetinss hetxeen AM HiP/1 and, Fallyce:.

 

AMALIE? and Fallucei were ‘n oubl ¢ tocether onl: three times for
any lencth of tine. CGther meetings ware helt ‘n thatr reepect'va hotel rooms.

Cne bresefact meet'ne (the Sth cf dust) was hel: in the near dogerted

=10-

 
 

‘ne ‘felt that the ubans there were completely penetrated ty Castro :nfernante,
and that for thea te mow of hip cooperation w th pre-ne, voul4 be the caze
as talline Castro, “ane ‘thus his future vould end ga cnst t the Walls we

te practiced, .a8 far ae these people
wed with, |ny,_

assured him that macioas security would

 

were ecerned, Ee also does not.wish to trust-or ye ts

contract Subans Only the PSPRIMEKS does he-wigh -doal. (Aloar this Line,

MHIP stated that ba did not think {t advisable: to “reveal any of these.

“piegotiations: to AMCONTERT/L, whom AMWHIP has known. for may years and is

quite friendly, tut whoa he does not feel can keep B secret of this navares)
This mecting terminated at 0030 on 2 Aagists The threé participants

_ took a taxi together ‘pack to town. AMSHIP ard AMLASH stopped off at & leeal .

night club, Teater Gritlen, while we cont tnued on to our hotel. Ho incidents

of a security nature were observed, and it was felt that the meeting wes

held without the knowled7¢ or ohservation of the oppoa' tion.
bh. Maating of 7 Ausest 1947, , ,

ce met wth MEHTP tn his hotel room (No. Th” at the Vaaruna. a) at

1700 hours on 7 Auruste te discusset the events an? talxa of the preceding

even'ng for sare time. At approximately 3900, AMLASH a: rived, sreetad

as affatl, an? fo'ne! ve for a drink. AMLACH used th!2 meeting to re-

atate hie posit™on concerning his dostre for participation tn a really

arpnifteens getion aainrt tno vaztio rey-rea. Having decisted *7 this tine

thet further 4’ scussicne ant denetef ina cf AMLALH shoul? take pleca with

a Upanteheapeakios ae wa outlines the © tea to eaet for puch a purpose in

Porta, AMA St did pot Live the idea “ft too mam pecole being avere of his

 

eooeration with PRO.IMS, tub as -saat that it weult be beat in orcer to

 

alin himself te exywecs his (fess and plans better, ant to te akte to sravide

wa with hip infeswatian tn the sreateat paaaitle Cath ie

sth tna TS AEE AT SESE TRI TT TPIT TET CPE ET

 
 

‘|
+
:

 

w1Lte seniplstely

 

He feels certain that in a couple of years, the young peop.

 

\ane irrevocably won over te Castro, and. that the miszes will begin to- ftere

ithe intense anti-American,” anti-“est prepacanda to which thay’ ‘are eubsected.

Just as great as are ASLACH's fearc about the Castro’ 6 winning of

. "young minds, 4s his concern th t the aA will beg’n to consider’ a statue

quo ‘for Cuba, and in the event of ‘any intenze and encééseful ant!-rezima
“activity, euch as he. plans, ant whieh ‘Looks: as tr. tt might depose the rezine, .

7 ‘PopeDe will withdraw its smapport fron such efforts Ja the fice of” serious
a threats fron ‘the Soviets.” “Although ASAE dtd not say it in ‘a0 many wordi,

it was apperent from the dtecuselons that Lash would prefer” te ve able to
free Cuba without any outside support (and ty inference, obligations), tut |
he fa a realist enough to conceds that any efforte to overthrow Castro

past have the support of PERiIMY. He is, therefore, willing to enter inte
@scussions with a * pepresentat! ve (se) of POPYIMZ towards this. end.

AMCASH agreed to meet in Paris for tha puracse of further datrieftngs
and te sive any inforratton in any field which he has. He {s also most
willing to discuss any plans which may lead to an ovarthrow of the prazent
government, AMLASH state! many tines, however, “ur'ne the course of the
meet(nzs, that he vaa only ‘interested 'n tavelvines hovrelf tne plan of
siumnificant action, and which waa truly das*-ne-t to achieve rapitly A's desire
to help tute, (He tol4 aMAHIP later :ftar we hav left the meatinea, Wat

he wae ofre:4 that FRPIIMS vould esr. gue to pureue tts present courre,

 

’ .
that of providin’ monay an: iteas, tut na ATT AYA ae alan mort
adamant stout not tecaming tmvalved on any wa © th the “utwn iafures”
etreles and oganisatt-en tn “iam... He pat’ Ghat he feels there are at.li

the #ape peapie why here: “ube, ietee wilisns ta walt fre the chance 14 return

ant again pureve Une’. eeiy feterest , that of masing wenes, Fe aleo eat’

aTe
 

ineluded tyro majovs (one of wh:ch AM“MIP Later reported -was a ailitia

commander iq the center part of the islansa), twe captains, and several

“ethers whom AMLASH sai¢ he could trust, but whom he would not namo.
AMLASH said he had had plane to blow up an cil refinery, as he felt that

" the continuing exietence of a eaablence of néreal -funct!oning {i Cuba
depended upon a-contiuing supply of petrolew:, supplies of which, as we
imow, ‘are at a-eritical stage today. He also wanted. to plan. the execution
of Carlos Rodriguez and the Soviet ssbassador, and also to eliminate Pidel,

aay

by execution if necessary, He feels that if Fidel is-eliminsted, it would
" bie muoti Gabler to effect a tavesover, (ve Metened for the mst-part, bat
at this point tried to explain to AMLASH that men like 2odri.uez could easily
be replaced by Moscow, and that the killing of the Coviet (mhassador, would
_ have only the triefest effect on the Soviet control of Tuba.) AMLAH was
not too interested tn llatenin: at this no'nt, an? continued ty te-in: that
{f he could achieve all these actions, plus othere, in cne master stroke,
@ take-over, durin: the ensuing confusion, vould te much factl'tated. Ha
did not fesl that Kaul or Che would be able to rally the people ‘nm uffielunt
time to prevent opposition forces fran forming. His arvcumsnta and plang had
san, flavs, but AMHIP could not help admirine (to himself) MEAS !
professed dea‘ra for vigorous ani, hi pefully, effective act‘ons, den iened:
to alter the situation in no uncertain terna. chile we were making no
earaltteente or plans, we pointed cut to AMLALH that schemes itive he env igioned
ecortainiy had the'r claae, hut that a lot eof coorttnatton, planning, inforsatten.
nollert’on, ate,, vara meceseary prerequiottes te onoure the value end gugrags

of och plang, &M4 4 eat! he acrem eth tha, tut we ween’? too aure tat

Rew reith Gf the areunent AMLAM veo wilt ne, @: wearltte willita., tp Ye.

Sareeneerneemereteanes

 
 

 

  

AMLATH made it clear during the discussions that he.wae completely
against Fidel s use of Soviet help fron the first, tut he had never envisioned,

that even if 't vere-used, Gust hov ineffective !t feally vould be-towards,

_ soleing Cute's problems. He still feele stronzly, he said, about the
. opktght of the lower classts“in Cuba, and in any future Cuba, he would tt
instet on a new deal, for then, AMLACH said that althoush he had ‘Rot besa

effective in helptig the formation of a-banefictal nev. Governnent tn’ Cuba,

he was now prepared to work tovards that end. ‘This tine, he sald, he
fitted t8-AeGk wake Lovardd the future, both for hig ova interests and for
‘Cuba's. the Last’ tine, be sata’ that. he thoucht only as far ag the elinination

of. Rat‘sta, and had not ziven eensideration to plann'ng for & covernnent he |

. favored after the fishttar was over. “la felt that AMLASH =eant that he was

a8 ‘much concerned atout his (AXCACH’s) aoe‘t’on tn the sovernmant and
personal ste:e in a new cuba, as ho was about anythin: else. It {2 our
'mpresston that AMLALN feels that he did net -at his share cf the epotls
or power from the Cestro regione, tn proportion to his contritution aceinst
Ratista, MCASH t6 a cocpltentat personslit., It is diffteult to fairly
duige, at thie t'me, AMLALH's devies of concern for a@ truly revolutionized
Cuba for the people's henefit, ve his concem to sea a new covernment {n
Cuta {n which he gate just recomition, chie soos not necessarily mean
that OCAsH wants Aikh political office, Mul he does want credit for his
efforte and the resuitant power and prestire @aon: his countrymen,

in addition te hie concern for the manner in whteh the voriete are
urine Cube for taste own eet cris An Latin hme: tea, won ta worsted atout
the ertont tw waleh teates ‘e usin: ‘ne sévie® Loehnique of canturing the

alate of Ure pecue neopte an! the mans propesanis effe:'e asa net Ure eeaess,

teeta tee path emma Hitatereet en + iene tyenteman es
 

  

pesttion in this matte:. <“# cloced the meeting br telling hix that ve
woult have an effort male ‘a the morning te locate AMLACZ, and that he
mizht as well relax, s.cht-see 'f he w'shed, and that ve would te in touch
with him at intervals ferin: ihe 4ay.

>, Events of 1 ful~ 1942.

Our efforts to locate AMLASH tnsou nxn /* proved to te
frattless. Theadore T. s!ntergrst, vho vas ancl ing(GPDOL2/2, aad
thet the latter tried his bast, Lut had not been able to do us any rood.

[danse reported that its contacts had teen unable to ald us.
Be reported to AMNHIP the fact that we had not located AMLASH, and suggested
that we have dinner together, to which he acreed, “ae met AMVHIP at 2100
a* our hotel, the Kam, and proceeded to the loyal Restaurant for dinner.
AMAUYP was obviously cetting on pins and needles tecausa we had not found
his friend. He sugcested that we call up the Cuban Festival delezation,
or try some hotels that eveninz. "s carsuaved hie that it was net che
test idea yet, and to sive sther pecple mora tine to locate hin. Fe

arread, tut Kept caning up with {tage abl evening Yor wis to leeate ANLASH. |

He curv~eozted that AMA Lived atoht eluts, an? that afta: 2 nner ve could
perhacs try several. <e wree, sore to placate hin that woth any thouchts
ef guecesa, a tr’e? eareral, the Youmapar-eo and the Theater bk,

reth of whitch wero fillet wth tind ne Ponts, cut no sits of ACAM, The

ce

Pinne, @rmca-ing in the r nat’ omal past ae, ms furl, sgiftatet AM HO, as
after ten: pushet around in-bie Theater ic}} tf: an hear, Se gat! thet
he thos St thia wae a waste ct tae, co acmat, ‘ran’ ec B tex. and want
howe. Tursng Use evening, ee Ui aN TY thet dooats aw momins, Pf neth oo:

hat tommmt um, we meneied atart Pe raliing te Laver hotels in tom ourreleaa,

+

An’ ts thte rvether teborteme sath! te idsate 2 * § @, we apiee! te sree

ee eee PAEMORSOTR G80 SEMIN NERSRCONTIDR OTULLS era? A nei cash IN Os Nae en NEALE RNIN M8 ee te
 

{o4- Jol $3- JOO

Sumer, of Contacts with

AMERIP/L and AMLASH/L

1. Events of 30 July 1962.
AMWHIP arrived in Helsinki on 30 July 1952. He called HAF IRCR

secording to plan, and after his secand call (due to his hotel porter's
atysies) underatanding of English), Falluec! established contact with ; .
AMCHIP without further a’ fttculty. The- meeting took place in. the
restaurant of his hotel, The Yaakuna, and later ‘n hie room. te had
nee at th's time located AMLASH, so tha time was spent priefine AMAIP
on the local arene, ani on hie conduct with AMLAGH when the, met. The

meeting lasted about one and s half hours.

Late; the sare da. we called AX-HIP at hs hotel to repect
no procress in locatinor AYLASH, Feeline it ad iaabla to keen AN HTP
oncunte+, we took h’m on’ to dinner at Plexetorpel, lecatad in the

o:lucte of Helsins', The svenin: laste? unt.) 1700, tersinatin: with @

dr?nk at the recf tar of the Yaakuna, Darn, the als houra, wa had an

oopertuntty ts expla n casefully to AMOHIP that in orto: for us to help

hie fr and, AMLALCH aust be will nv to follew our rections and acre@ to

certain contitions (alreaty acread upon ty tnterseted Has, part on).

Ae I> resitaed that tiie was necessary, ant srreet with our ideas. Hower,

he ‘oe attemhet te AAG, ant will aunt’ me t+ Jaob amen Ria in the moot

ener stent anf gut ftective manner, The he’ rau.er fac pamevet Pocm od

tntentst ararcact ta, ant cvinton af AGA AMATO ~ tioreye.@ hants ¢

thet se Mb) ute eters? ant te aware cf ow

vi eo ®,.@e MeL # oN te

 
0009

 

tetveen 9 and 10 o'elocic at our hotel,

3. dventa of: 1 Aumst 1952, ;

‘m-AMAHIP arrived at our hotel at O945 co 1 August, and we retired
to our room to teleghone. Securing an outside lines, our friend began
to telephone. ‘Je decided to try the local "pink" hotels first, the Eleag
Kerkk!, and the Torni. ” AMHIP had no luek with the Clase forks, but when
ho called the Torni, he was told that AMLASH was there, and wan connected
with room No. 701. 4 Spanishepeaking man (who was later identified ag .
the newly appointed Cuban Dislonstic epresentati-e to Finlar+) answered
the phone in "Ol and said thet AXLASH was in the shover, an‘ call hack
later (f tt wae fmportant, AMJIIP left a Rescacs thet he was from Mexteo
and that he, "Carlos", would call back, Durin: the breax, we Inetrueted
him to be careful on the telephone, and te tall as if the opposition wag
Meatening, He was ust to he casual, greet ACLALH, arrance to see hin,
Saying that he was {nm Qurope on business in cnandinavia, Frease and owitzerland,
and that hearing in Helsinki that AMLASH was attandinz the Festival, he
had decided to stop over and contact him, hen AMAL answare+ the phone,
AM-HIP's face lit up, caution was abandoned, and he was off at ¢ rapid
rate in Spanish, AMLASH eaid that he would te rivht over te see AMATO
in his room at the Vaakuna, <o briefed AMSHIP ona more on teins careful,

to have AMOHIP call us when

  

and shower AM HIP to the Aoor. a Arvance.
he sould at the effies, urctins hia once more to te careful an! “teerest,

“9 hope he hes ‘een, 2 van lates laerned thas ftnatn- AMLALH os, chis

Retell room win nure vo fortame, as he ves WES 8" th og sere th lave

A phewe:, etrro he van atill ree'etn th MMe quart + af Uke esemen faleavates,
 

AHIP talked to AMLATE fo> at least seven hours, frox ‘about
- 1000 tn the morn'ne unt!) aporox matel- 1°00 the save eveniny. chen AM HIP
cailed us et 1730, he presented us w'th the fact ‘that he had convinced
RASH to tale with us, ane for this surpese, he hed arvanses a d'nner
meet ng thet sane evening for approxinatal: 1939, <e would have preferred
to talk lonzer with AMHIP about AMTESEs reactions, tut time did net
permit. ve arranged a dimer for 2100 at "The shite Lad", a restaurant
sone way from the center of town, and succeeded in obta!ning a private
“dining foom, & practice not uneesmon in this| frecumnen.:74 restaurant,
‘as it {a often used by basinesenen to have private dinners and afterwards,

 

bua iness discussions.

We arrived at the white Lady first, arranzed for the d'nner, and
awaited AM/HTP and AMLAZSH, who arrived at “110 by taxi. Althouch AM-HIP
had sugzested to us that the dtseussions should be'nerely devoted to
getting acquainted the f'rst evenin:, AM 4 Mf eermence’ almost imediatel,
into a ¢iscuss'on of h’»s feelin-s ani, hg pesition coneerninz Cuba today.
As reporta! in our eel C9) ULALH was qu te intense, and showed
the strafn of h’s unexpected meetin: w'th WHIP, Althcuch otvfousl
unde. @ecttonal strain, AMAH presented his feelinve 'n a relativel: cals
manner, and was ziven to ¢@ scussins ‘teen throuvhout the meal, Hise sai! he
was eosicering not co:ny back to Cuba, but after talk’ng tc AYS IP, he
felt that ff he could do somethine really etmmifteant for the creation of :
a pew Cula, he was tntereste? in returs né © carry on the fight there.

He aad he wan not intereste! in ristir: he (fe for any email un tartarine,

Put that tf he coult se vtven a really lace part to pla » de wuld use

 

Kineel! ant geveral ctha:ea mouse whem he rould cal, wean,

 
