 

‘group. Dr. MIRO had merely a plece of paper signed by RAMI

that, {{ weapons wore givéa.to thom, thoy could muster 100,

‘to both Mr. Hurwitch and Colonel Johnson about, f.e., the $76, 000

gers: |
. ‘

. o. Dr, MIRG© hae requested that the /gency turn over to :
him the funds, the control of the bank accounts, and the entize : \
mechaniom for making the “dependent paymento."" This is a rathor
hey item related to past history. Mr. stated it wae his -
personal opinion that this should not under any circumetances be
turned over to the CRC to administer independently. ‘

 

 

 

 

- {, Relative to MIRO's request for aid to tho Escambray ;
resistance group, Mr. tated that be had discussed this |
matter very thoroughly with Dr, MIRO, and it appeared from that
convorestion that: MIKO had had only ono indirect contact with this |

REZ.
and saveral others allogedly in the Escambray, stating that there i
were gomne 30 of them in desperate straite and in need of support and

 

Dr. MIRO was at that point not even sure how the paper had got to 4
him and had-no means whatooaver of communicating with RAMIREZ, !
He proposed the use of a boat to get the supplica to the North coast
of Cube, but hed. no idea how to get thom {rom tho North coast to the
Zecambway. As analternative, he suggested an alr drop by 4 plane

from Florida.
gi With regard to.the financial aid that MIRO had epohea

 

 

monthly to be cent into Cubs via the Merl]
pointed out that the when contacted by an Ageney
ropresentativo, stated that he, for the time being, did not want his
Ernbasay utilized further in this type of transaction, that of the $70, 009
given MIRO, apparently only $40, 000 was sent into
and, of this, a large portion went for the needs of persons in asylum’
in the Embaasoy rather than for-aupport of Cuban internal resistance
elements outaide the Embassy. In at least onc instance, the Agency,
through separate channels, had, in fact, arranged to send funds to

 

 

‘the principal internal group. which was suppoeed to have recelved--

but didn't--a portion of the $40,000, Certdinly we could not give
further support to thie activity without a good deal of clarification of
exactly how future funds were to be sent in by Dr. MIRO. .

8. Mr. Hurwitch then said that, with regard to Dr. MIRO's pro-
posal for the Council to establish itself on Cuban soil via a commando
operation and then got U. S. military support, thio had been brought up

aye
74-00000

SEGRE

repeatedly with Mr. Goodwia, and Dr. MIRO had been told fatty not
to count on a U. S. military operation against Cuba. Mr. Hurwitch .
gaid that MIRC now seeme to ba making the same proposal again
through Colonel Johnson, and that he ehould be discouraged from
making any plans for such an operation,

. 9, Myr. Hurwitch sald that he belleved something could be done
for the three Cuban residents of the U. S. whe had fought at Playa
Giron, but who now couldn't got aid through the Hefugee Council or
Social Security, Ho offered ‘to take care of any such matters with HEW,
Accordingly, the names and data were left with Mr. Wollam for
Mr, Hurwitch'’s wae. Mr, Hurwiteh added that Mr, Wise at the

Refugee Conter in Miami might be a goed contact " clA wanted to

handle these matters ieelf in Miami,

 

 

 

 

 

DC/WH/4
DC/WH/4| iga (19 October 1961)
Distribution: :
Orig. & 1 = C/WH/OPS
1 - C/WH/4

1 - C/WH/4/ Plans
} - C/WH/4/PM
1 » WH/4/PA-Prop
Atta: Col Johnedn
Mr, Ellis

 
i

 

 

 

3. Mr, [paid that. there was noed to, clarify just who
Colone} Johnson represented to Dr. MIRO, that MIRC had been told

he would have a representative who would havo frequent contact with
My, Goodwin in the White Houge and Kir. Vioodward and others at

tho Department of State and would also be in contact with the Agency,
and that it waa accordingly the understanding of the Agency that .
Colene!. Johnson would therefore represent or be the link between

Dr. MIRO and the U. S, Government, at least in the Miami! area.

He remarked that thie certainly had some bearing on the cover mattor
and ite security aspects. Mur, Coerr remarked that it seemed
Colonel Johnson was simply an overt representative of the Agency.
Mr. remarked thal this was hardly posaible and still have
any security or deniability, If he was overt, he was automatically

“a réprosentative of the U. 5. Government. Mr. Hurwitch interposed
* that ho considorad Colonal Johnaon to be solely the representative of

the Agency. He said that Mr, Goodwin had said that he, Goodwin,
only wanted to be consulted on tha most important isoues and that MIRO's
normal contact in Washington for policy guidance should be with the :

- Caban doek in the Department of State. in Miami, Colone! Johason

would thea work cut with MIRO the Agency support of these policies,

4. Mx, Hurwltch continued, expressing his view that
Colonel Johnsox should have the authority from the Agency to discuss
and approve Dr. MIRO's operational plans ouch as tours to Latin
America, support of internal gruupa ‘and the ke and, if certain plang
wore approvad by them, to sit down with MIRC, the military advisors
aad representatives of the internal groups, aad work out fina) details
for actually running operationa in support of theae elements.
Mr, icountered, "It ie by no means as simple as that. This
is a lot more complicated than juet having two or a dosen people att
down in Miami and agree oa something, Take, for instance, the
simple matter, relatively speaking, of sending to Latin America a
person on a speaking tour. Did you know that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and the FBI require all requsets for support
from them to be sent back hare to Washington and then their people

 

 

 

 

‘in Miami have to be instructed by their Headquarters here in Washing-

ton to facilitate auch travel, thus, in effect, the final control on travel
is up here in Washington and it doesn't oven reside in the Agency.
Each individual has to be so handled." Myr, Hurwitch said he thought
that this could be worked out so that it could be done entirely locally
in Mami. Mr, expressed some doubt and said that somehow

 

 

 

 

 
 

‘toa t0a77-40143

‘

 

 

‘PARTICIPANTS: Mésere. Coérr, Wollam, Hurwiteh,

 

 

19 Cetober 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT : Meoting in dir. Coorr’s office, 1100-1230, 13 Get 61

 

_Colene! Johnsea:

1, Colona! Johnson gave a full account of his two meetings with |
Dr,.-MIRO in Miami on 5 and 6 Cetober, following in detail the Meme-
randa for the Record prepared by Colone] Johnson of these meetings.

He also outlined the items Paula had gived as the budget for 1961
onthe basia of thoir receiving $100, 000 for that month. That outline,

it was remarked, appears to be largely ‘the same as the old FRD budget.
All present felt ¢ this budget appeared to be well-padded and. largely —
for salaries. NR. was:remarked by Colone)] Johnson that there seemed

to be a vary. good possibility ‘thiat some of those on the salary Mat may.
aloo. be receiving. Support from HEW, Colonel Johison remarked that.

 

 

 

 

: he would be seeing. Dr.- MIRO on Monday, 16 Cetober, at which time

he expecta te clarify some of the budget matters and also to got from

CIA's Miami station sorns niore details from Mr. Paula,

2, Mr, Coerr raised the question of what waa the cover to be
used by Colonel Johnson in his contacts with Dr, MIRO, Colonel Johnaon
eaid that-the covor question had not yet been reeolved, that it was .
questionable how long any cover would bold up, particularly with the
press, that the cover of public relations consultant, the cover of 5
research man or-teacher in Miami, and various other possibilitics were
under consideration, Mz, Coorr commented that the astute press rep-
resontatives might soon learn the identity of the CIA representative
with MIRO, particularly if opposition leaders like PRIG, who, he re-
marked, already seems to know, should become angry and report in”
the press what they know. Mr, Hurwitch stated that MIRC had told him
that PRIO, or a representative of PRIO, had saidto MIRC, “lundore
etand that you have s Colone] Johanson as your representative with the
U. S. Government.’ MIRO also declared to Mr, Hurwitch that only
he, MIRO, and his secretary, ARAGON, had. reason to know of
Colonel Johnson's role, There was some speculation on how PRIO had

learnod of the matter.:

 
 

 

i
t

 

he had the impression that MIRG had Uttle-assets but thought that

if he could acquire al] the facilities of CLA aa a governmont ontity
placed at hia disposal, he could do something. Of course these
facilities and the authority of CIA gimply could not be turned over to

Dr, MIRO, ,

: 5.. Colonel Johnaon sald that he felt there was a considerable
area in which we could support Dr. MIRC and he. referred to the’ .
Stato Department's propaganda plan, ‘'Cperacion Grieta, " which

Dr, MIRO said he had received during hig visit to Mr, Hurwitch and

Mr, Morales Carrion. Mr, Hurwitch explained that this was in ne
sense a Department of State plan but rather a suggested draft by

' Morales Carrion and:pagsod to MIRO ao meroly an indication cf the

sort of propaganda operation in Latin America that might be effective,

6. On the subject of propaganda and the activities of the
“collateral groups" lke the FORD, the DRE, etc. outside the CRC,
beth Mr. Wollam and Mr, Hurwitch said they believed it wou'd be
possible to'transfer these groups and their activities in their entirety |
to Dr. MIRO in accordance with his desires, Mr. said
he sympathized with MIRC's position but doubted would work,
Hr, Hurwitch aald that if we had some doubts on thie matter, he won-
deved-why theac doubts had aot been brought up by Mr. Bissell in tha’
discussions with Mr. Goodwin. Mr, Hurwitch then claimed ho had a
Goodwin mamo saying tho DRE, FORG, and all internal groups must
be financed through MIRG. - Mi. Hurwitch woadered when thie neo
position had developed in the Agency, Mr, stated that the |
Agency had had long experience during the past two years in dealing
with the various Cuban elements both in and outside Cuba, and that
these types of probleme had existed {rom the beginning and although |
they may seem new to Mr. Hurwitch and Mr, Wollam, who had recent-
ly come on the desk, the certainly were not new to Mr. Coerr, who |
readily agreed, lr. jpoinnd out that, in the early stages of
1969, attempts were made to form some sort of coalition of the
miscellaneous Cuban groups. Finally the FRD was born and much
later the CRC, reaponaibility for which was. then transferred to the
White House and the State Department alter the invasion, In the first
or early stages mentioned, relatively little had come of our atternpts
to genorate moaningful activities through Cuban-controlled channels
such ag the FRD, that the Agency, to achieve any real degree of success
in developing propaganda and other activities against Castro, had to
form miscellaneous groups, political and collateral, and then try to

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

‘netivities are sometimes very unrealistic.

SEPPLT
BS

shove them one way or the other under the umbrella of the FRD,

:He pointed out that the most telling criticloin made by the press and

by members of the. State Department, too, at that time wag that :
we were forcing those various groups through monetary control into .

Baltimore. last ‘month in détail with Dr, MIRO, who at that time
' -geemed to agree that if. DF. MIRO and the CRC were te succeed In
'. controlling the other groupa, both collateral and political, it ideally
~ should be by leadership rather than by oxorctoing fimanctal control, - |

 

T Mr, then brought up the question of just how far
should we go fn gupport of MIRO and the Council, and how are we going

to justify some of these expens: Considorabie discussion followed, -
Said he would like to throw out

at the conclusion of which Mr.
en-the table some. specific points éimiply ae an indication of some | Sn

the problem arenas which he felt had been at loast touched upon by the
discussion and to which in the coming weeks come consideration would:

 

 

 

 

_have to be given, although certalaly this meeting should hot try to:

arrive at any definitive ahawara;

Cte a. should be clarified whether: or not, in fact, some of
those persona listed as raceiving salaries from the FRD are aleo Fre<
ceiving ecouomic aid from the HEW, .

b. I should bo noted that Dr. MIRO's request” to engage in
For example, at one point
Dr, MIRO wanted to take over the Swan Island operation and wanted
to put up a $2, 000,000 radio station at Key West to beam propaganda ©
to Cuba and‘dlao to jam Cuban broadcasts, .

 @ ‘The proposal to have round table diecusaiona including
De. MIRO, his military: commisaion, and representatives of the internal
groups te decide on sabotage and commando-type raids is rather uae
realistic tor a variety of reasons, including security factors and the
‘question of whether or not thie would be acceptable to any or all of

the. internal groups.

: a pe, MIRO has apparently the idoa that he can use his
million dollars for whatever he desires with ttle or no advance ap-
proval, and above this figure he may ask for unlimited funda for
operations. This area certainly needs clearing =P.

 

 
