 

TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN DCI AND J. EDGAR HOOVER
26 November 1963 - 11:20 a.m.

DCI:

I just want to be sure that you are satisfied that this Agency
is giving you all the help that we possibly can in connection

' with your investigation of the situation in Dallas. I know
' the importance the President places on this investigation

you are making. He asked me personally whether CIA was
giving you full support. I said that they were, but I just
‘wanted to be sure from you that you felt so. ‘

We have had the very best support that we could possibly
expect from you.

Good, Well you can call on us for anything we have.
We will feel free to do that

I think it is an exceedingly important investigation and report
and I am delighted that the President has called on you to
make it. :

We are trying to do it as fast as we can so we can dispel various
wild rumors that have been circulating as to whether this man
was the right man etc, that fired the gun. But there is no question
that he is the right man. There are a lot of aspects that we have
dug up, for instance, with regards to the matter in Mexico City.
We have now found that the photograph that was taken was not
that of Oswald. We do find from our informant down there that ©
Oswald did call at the Embassy that day and the informant has.
given us the conversation that he had. He wanted to get a permit
to go back to Russia and the Cuban Embassy couldn't give him
the permit. The Soviet Embassy stated that it wold take three
weeks, He had, I think, a visitor's permit for about a week or
ten days so that is why he came back to the United States.

Well, all of that ties in importantly into the story and we have.
those operational sources down there.. We want to handle them

very carefully. It involves some very high level people/down

there, Sam Papich and I have talked about that a couple of times.
Ketz- ad veh bec was :

Mr. Katzenbach jwho is handling it for the Department -

it is our intention when the Bureau finishes the report, he will

of course go over it very carefully because it will be a report
that will be released to the public, probably through the White

 

EMD ARERR STON EDT RE OE OU

i.
‘

 

 

 
13-00000

DCI:
H:
(tape )}) mem

ce: DDCI

DD/P -

 

House, but it is the intention after it is in final form to be
checked with each of the Government agencies that are mentioned
in it. State Department is involved in regard to the issuing of
the passport to the man to come back to this country and that
has got to be explained why it was done, the law requires it, etc.
all of which of course we are gathering. The aspects of the
Mexico City thing. It will have to be mentioned. It is his
intention to check with the agencies, Secret Service, etc. to be
sure that whatever is said in the report is conférred in and it

is agreed to by the various agencies mentioned. So you will
have that opportunity to go over it and see exactly what is said
and I know he will-welcome any suggestion that you care to make.

Well that will be fine. Thank you

Good bye.

AAPL PRED DR MRL NEN PCIE REESETAES NITRA SPS AE

 

 

 

Nea ne ee peo mH

Sen See Ra Ne RRR EA DRESS 8H jane ate

 

 

 

 

 
DCI:

DCI:

(tape) mcm

It is apparently an insert in some paper he bought on the stands

"yesterday and he doesn't remember which it was. It looks to

me like New York news print.

I don't know from where it came. In fact.I didn't see that article

until last night when Fleur was leaving, I sent out to try to find

the Chalmers article and they came back with this Inquirer article.
But that is the first time I had seen it. I guess it came outin

_one of the Sunday papers.

Yes,

We get the Star, Times, Herald-Tribune and the Post, so it was
one of those four. .

T am sure that the Roberts one was in the Post.
Yes, Saturday morning. Fine Earl.

All right, I ohn, Thank you very much for calling and we will
find a way to meet this whole thing and I will be happy to see

Fleur Cowles.\
et

Fine.

oro tea manece ren ncn sang pT ene

Page apt me eR ORRIN EEE RE TENCE NINE

 

 
13-00000

DCI:

DCI:

W:

Sy

This is nit not the kind of thing Chalmers usually indulges in.

No, it was entirely foreign to his ~- to areas that are normal __
to him.

The thing that I didn't like about it, he rather intimated that
this came from some source within the Commission.

I didn't read that into it. But you would be more alert to that.
thanI. Well, in any event what shall 1 do?

cof

Well, I'll be glad to see Fleur, and talk to her.

I'll have her call you up.

Yes, ybu may tell her vas far as this is concerned, we have no
intention of letting go uninvestigated any phase of it any of these
people have brought up. :
Well, itis always pbeasant to see her anyway, you know.

It is always. pleasant to see her and I'll be glad to see her.

She is going to call me in a little while and I'll tell her to give
you a ring.

Fine. Say, John, in this one about ~- of Henshaw's. Let me see

if I can find it quickly here - he alleges that the Central Intelligence .-

Agency was using Ruby to recruit commandos for raids against
Castro's Cuba. To prevent this explosive information from being
disclosed, the CIA asked the Justice Dept. to step in and stop the
Dallas police from arresting Ruby as wellas Oswald. This was
supposed to be last April and then it says, a top secret document
a letter signed by a high official of the Justice Dept. was sent in
April 1963 from the Justice Dept. to the Dallas Chief of Police,
Jesse E, Curry requesting theDalas police not to arrest Oswald
and Ruby in connection with the attempted slaying of Gen, Walker.

There is no truthin that. Let me get you all the dppe on that,

Oh, I'm just positive there is no trugh init. The only thing is I'm
trying to find a way where we can counteract any such thing

because that paraded over Europe and around the world is a terrible
thing. Do you know anything about this so-called Inquirer? ’

_ No.

I don't either. Itell you howl sawit. My driver bought it.

 
TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN DCI AND CHIEF JUSTICE WARREN

1:20 a.m. - 4 May 1964

DCI:

W:

DCI:

DCI:

DCI:

DCI:

Tam calling you because last night we had a guest for dinner,
a mutual friend yours and mine, by the name of(Fleur Cowles *
Montague-Meyers. |

Whom I know very well.

Now, she engaged me in a conversation at dinner concerning

this Buchanan report and she was very disturbed about it because
of the very great impact that she feels it is having in England
and throughout Europe. Buchanan has been on TV and on radio,
both in Britain and on the continent. |

And he has got a hook coming out on the 8th.

And he has got a book coming out and'she feels that essential

in your report that you dispose of his allegations or indiaate

the errors on which he draws his conclusions. She feels so
strongly that she told me that if this were not done, there would
be a very strong feeling among groups in Europe that this whole
investigation was a whitewash and that we didn't get to the bottom
of the thing. Now, strangely enough, there was an article that

appeared in the Washington Post on Saturday, which you undoubtedly
read.

Is that the one by John Henshaw?

No, the one by Chalmers Roberts.

I didn't see the Roberts one, but I have one by Henshaw - I'm
just reading it right now. Ihave it before me. Ithought that was
probably what you were calling me about. Itis from the Inquirer.

Yes, Ihave seen that, but that is a kind of sensational thing.
Chalmers Roberts, ask your girl to get....

Let's see, that wasn't in the News, That was in the Post.

Yes, it was in the Post.

Yes, lread Roberts. Saturday morning, I read that, saying that
he thought we ought to go into all of these things.

Now, |Fleuzlis in town today. She is leaving this evening. She
would like very much and it might be wofth your time if she could
drop in and just give you, herself, what she told me last night.

 
13-00000

I don't know whether you would want to do that.

Ww: Well, I know Fleur| Would like to talk to her. I usually see
her when she is here, I am a little surprise that she would . :
doubt that we wouldn't do such a thing. . i

DCI: Well, you know, sometimes these girls get quite steamed up
about things.

W: We have taken closer to 400 than 300 witnesses’ testimony
and we have taken it deliberately so that nobody can say that
we have just been rubber stamped for the Secret Service or
the FBI or anybody else.

 

DCI Well, I told her in great detail at dinner because you had told
me only a few days ago, the depth and the penetration of your ;
inquiry. . boo
W: We haven't yet finished and I would think, John, between you :

and me, that we ought to take this book of Buchanan when it | oa,
comes out and scrutinize it carefully to see that there is nothing i
that we have overlooked. Because if he has any allegations in j
there concerning witnesses who have information we ought to
hear them and we will do that. I don't - I hesitate calling him
to testify because that might be just what he is looking for to
get the sounding board for another book and I don't want to do.
that.

 

DCI: Well, you have to be careful about that until you at least see
the book. Now, I thought this Chalmers article was very strange
coming (1) by Chalmers Roberts and (2) in the Washington Post.

W: it sounded so to me.

DCI: . However, it is interesting that Buchanan worked for the Washington
Post in 1949.

W: ‘Wasn't it the Star?

DCI: No, Iam told he worked for the Post. Now, I may be wrong on that.

W: Well, I just saw in one of the papers the other day he was originally

a Star reporter here, He could have been either.

DCI: Could have been either and sometimes those fellows shift from one
newspaper to the other.

 
bie ee : . . oe nn thts)

( Cal

 

SARE Hee eNO RINT ESHEETS

TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN DCI AND MR, RANKIN, GENERAL b
COUNSEL OF COMMITTEE ON THE ASSASSINATION
12 May 1964 r
. 2:50 PM returned DCI's call :

fet auaoamcep sent eg

R: if ;you'd be so good as to appear personally before the Commission
and testify very briefly. ; ?

DCI: Yes, I'll do that,

R: Now, ali they want to deal with is the question of your knowledge
. about Oswald being an agent or informer or anything of that

character, They also would like to deal with your knowledge of :
any conspiracy, either domestic or foreign and that kind of thing. :
We are going to have Edgar Hoover on Thursday at nine to deal
pretty much with the same thing. I think we might also ask,
Mr, McCone, a little bit about the question of security precautions
for the President that you might suggest in a very general way, :
things that might have occurred to you. I;m sure you know the
President is very sensitive about that area for himself, That is,
he thinks that sometimes it's just an interference with things he'd
like to do. :

Decl: Well, all Presidents think that, President Eisenhower used to
complain about that all the time and so did Kennedy,

R: And since this testimony is all going to be made public, I thought
you might want to keep that in mind. You will have some thoughts
about possibly in the domestic area or in the foreign are a or both,
in that regard, that they would like to have from you,

aa vane een gs

 

DCI: Alright, I'd be glad to come up.
R: Would 10:30 or 11:00 on Thursday be at all convenient,
DCI: Sure, that's be fine,
R: Which would you prefer?
Dci: . Well, I'd prefer 10:30, I have a 12:30 luncheon. You have Mr.
: Hoover at 9:00/
R: I think that we should be well out of the way by then, >.
DCI: Well, suppose I come up at 10:30 and if you run over, well, I can

just wait, wae
$04-10322-10186

G

 

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

{_[_uncrassirieo |" conripentiay [| secrer |
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

j_jacrion  Foirecr meray | [a

j—_[arprovan | nusparcn | Recommenparion |
j__feommenr me erony
|__| concurrence TT inrormarion | [sienarune
po

Remarks: a
‘Attached is material for the House Assassinations
Committee (Mr. Berk Requested). Roger Gabrielson
has reviewed and requested we provide him the
attached for Berk's review here at Headquarters,
no relaase to the Committee.

the parts

 

: a 3 hy ee

- - £4
(ined PEPE
[yanks —[—[ conmioeriat—[—} seen |

Foam x0. 937 tse previous editions : “ Tio
13-00000

DCI:

DCI:

 

Fine.

Where is this, Mr, Rankin?

200 Maryland Avenue, NE and it's cater-cornered from the
Supreme Court Building, it's the Veteran's Foreign War
Building on the fourth floor. It's a white marble building. ..
I'll find it.

If you have any questions about anything that occurred to you
beforehand and you want to ask me, don't hesitate to call me.

Should I come alone or do you want me to bring somebody with
me?

Whatever your pleasure.

I see.

It makes no difference as far as the Commission...

I'll tell you what I'll do. I will bring with me the man that's
been principally involved in answering any questions that you've
had, I know you've had some.

And if something occurs to you why we'll just let ;you go off the
record and ask him if there's something that ;you don't feel that
you could answer yourself and you want to get a little refreshing
from him.. .

Alright, fine. I'll be there. Tell me, how are you getting along
with this Buchannan matter?

Well, we've been debating that over here and we're quite unhappy

' with that fellow. I got a note today saying that in the preface to

his London edition he says that he talked w this over with someone
in the.Co.mmission and that the entire text of his report kx has
been filed in Washington with the Commission, He's apparently
trying to give some respectability to itin that way. Some of the
% Commission think that we should call him, some think that it
would just advertise him if we do.

I realize that, and you're always up against that problem of
dignifying a book or report; however, Iwas rather distrubed at
a discussion I had a week ago with Mrs. Fluer Cowles Meyer
lives in London, and;you knew her as Fluer Cowles when she
was married to Mike Cowles and she told me of the extent to

eT ETI COMIN ENN.

 

 

 
13-00000

DCI;

DCI:

 

which Buchannan had captured the radio and television audiences
in Great Briton and on the continent and went so far as to say that
unless the Commission's report dealt with his allegations and
charges with a good deal of finality, there would be quite a feeling
that the report itself was a whitewash and that the real facts had
not been developed, :

Well, we had in mind to take every point that he raised , and Mark
Lane and every other person that's commented that way in a separate
section and just proceed to knoick everyone of them clear out.

That might do it. I spoke to the Chief Justice about it. The fact
is I think he talked to Fluer about it, ;

He's one of the strongest against calling him. Did he indicate
that to you? :

Yes, he indicated that to me, and for the reason that he was Xx
afraid that it would just advertise him, I know that, because I

get up against that with every book or article that's written criticizing
the Central Intelligence Agency. I have a certain number of people
who want you to get right on the stump and deny it and when you
analyze it, all you've done is advertise what has been said,

~ Right,

But nevertheless, I think your position is considerably different
than the one I mentioned,
You think about it, whether you think shat if we dress ourselves
directly to it in a separate section of the report with all of these
claims made by people like that, whether you think that might
be better than to try to call him here and just have him put on

a show. I think they might like an off the record comment from
you if you'd care to make one,

I'll give some thought about it between now and Thursday, Alright
fine, Thank you.

Le ear ReaD RY HET I

 

 

 

 
