 

 

SBC DBT was - 3633

3- If Subject read IRS Publication Bo. Sh (fax Gaide for U. 6.
Citizens Abroad) it is easiiy understandable how he could be wialeod
bemsnse they refer to Goversntat exployees acd act to those Iniividuals
heving as indepeotent costractor reletionsiip with tae Governacct. The
kay poiat in tue Peveser regcistioas is tae definition of earned income
end the fuet that earned incoee is not excludeble if earned frome U. &.
Governusat eource. *

kh, Abteched arv photoropios of tne Internul Revenue Code and
Fegilations perteixing to the exclusica of income earned ebrood.

§. Also attacked fe the 1963 covert tex retarn which Rsedouerters .
bas prpareé. Please note that lines 17 thru 23 ami the Schedule C
(ifmes 6-11) have act beea completed. Ef LINJFF/1'S overt income hes .
taximes goctal security (FILA) witehela ao celf-exployment (social
security) tex is computed. Lf social security is not .ithheld overtly
thes selfeerployarnt tax is computed on the Schedule C end edced to the
income teat oa the form 10k0 (sce line 17, Porm 1040). The Pora 10k0
can then be completed, siguzd, and retarsed to Headquarters aloag with
the paysent for tas outetaniing tax Lliebility.

6 Yf @ perconal check is veel in payvent of the tax liehility
it shoald be prepered in ecturiance vith FEB 20-661-i, Sippleacat»

peragrenh @ (nme oP @ Ceeieiace com ss tts 55,

spit.

DGS Be PERECRY

. 6-8-C-B-3-T

 

|

cee we ag eae cee ee Mean ogee oe neem me

 

 

inet pene gee

 

ee gener eM a et nee ORI ROR ere ont

 
 

 

ooo serene cera ener eterna tren tress rprnnnanammn
tenement AERP, sttntnne Gp ne eterna een

 

B-E-C-ReE-T

Cntef of Station, mateo City

Office of Finasce
Lrmuyr/l - 1963 Tams

Bem-b593, 25 October 196k

1. A review of cock of tht stetemate onde in reference by
LIGUYF/1 nos been made by. Beedquarters... Song .cf. these atetenests .
Cem be ased to substeatiate a claim thet the KUBARK carsings are
noa-tezaale.

2. The fact that ae expleyer-employee relationship does act

. exist is mot a basie for determining mether earnings cre taxable.

Sabject is a contract egeat-Laiepenient contractor; mad ine payaeat
received by LIDUIFF/1 is considered earsed iocose. ‘the law (Intersal
Bevense Code) defines earned incoae es “wiges, salaries, professiasal
fees, aad other emouste received as aeetion for perscaal services

reacered*. Raraed incoge is extlable if tor culificetions
Sf Sectioe Jil of the Ieteraal feveaue Coda are Bat Turee of taese
QOL Cabiwas @Os

& Eerned incow» frou sourees without the U. 6.

B Attributable to suck aaiaterrupted perlod-ane coaplete tax
yeer or 510 days oat of aq 14 soath period.

Ge Ceeaeage Yar Waited Staten or aay Agency or inatrenestality
thereof.

“Subject obriously qsalifies oa (A) eat (B), however, LIEUFF/1. doe act
erst qualification (C), therefore, exclusion caanct be elaine’ for the —

fucose earard from KGBARK.

Attacherats:

1963 Covert Tax Retara

Sec. of IRS Code (fee para. 4)
Distribution:

2 ~ mexico City/u/sttecks.

; ; Bes 3933 7 Movesber 1964
: _ , SECRE-P ~ i
, o3
77 i ie
-&@ Division .
Lo OF Beg. :
lL - RIi/e va

tile sh

 

NOT Cee ae Tene

PO Fane een anemia ot fay ay oy OE tn Sg een nn me ae pe

ak
