74-00000.+

 

 

 

: - - 2362

Zhe-

sod

Jose &, Pedraza Cabrera
Lutgardo Martin Perez
Tomas Rodriruez Fuentes
Angel 5S. Gandara Rofriguez
Pedro Oliverio Santana
Luis Padren Nolina

Enkexm Ramon Machin Molina
-Sotero Delgado Mendez
‘Rafael Gutierrez Martinez

Angel Alvarez Granados

Raul Miranda Rodriguez
Sergio Fernandez Echevarria
Andres Eassoly Pozo

Elio Riveron Perez

Gilberto Azcuy Verea
Saturnino, Espinosa Alfonso
Pedro Perez Gonzalez
Rodolfo Diaz Hernandez
Abelardo Montes de Oca Lopez
Margarito Diaz Medina
Paulino Rodriguez barrio
Luis Sierra Perez

Bartolome Valdes Mauri

Gerardo Alvarez Mauri -

Roberto Pedraza Llanes
Candelario Bravo Guerra
Antonio Fabelo Gonzalez
Heriberto Izquierdo
Heriberto Ravelo Aguiar
Roger Galindo Martinez
Alejandro Mayoli Iglesias
Jose KM, Ledo Fernandez
fulio I. Navarrete Vidal
Maria Delia Santos Rivero
Hildelisa Santos Rivero
Georgina Santos Rivoro
Blanca Maria Ravelo Santos
Armentino Feria Izquierdo
Berta Ramirez Crespo
Antonio Policarpo Ochoa
Ismael Gonzalez Beruvides
Gilberto Morales Cruz
Jose Weceslao Maiquez
Emilio Izquierdo Hernandez
Felipe Hernandez Jorge
Antonio Hernandez Acosta
Luis Valdes Hernandez
Luis M, Abreu Rodriguez

» Evelio Mulet Torres

Ruben German del Busto
Amado Rodriguez Rodriguez
Miguel Victorero Gracia
Alfredo Murillo Fleitas
Sergio Valdes Martinez
Marcos A, Suarez Cruz
Antonio de la Torre Parodi
Wilfredo Arias Arias
Francisco Javier. Castrillejo
Wilfredo Riveron Martinez
Erson Martin Carrera

6le- Joaquin tuniz Martinez
62.- Juan Fernandez <uro
63.° Bias J. Trull Rodriguez
6h.- Jose H, Virues Moraga
65,- Conrado Carratala Ugalde
74-0000

~ SECRET

6 duly 1960 te

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, HD
SUBJECTs Alexander I. Roarke, Jr.

1. Pursuant to a request at the end of last week from

* General Goodpasture of the White House, a representative of 00/C in

New York City interviewed the Subject on 5 July.

2. Following # rambling narrative of his experiences over the
years in Central America and the Caribbean, Mr. Roarke came to his
wajor point which was that the ost capable Cuban exiled allitary leader,
and the one who is most deserving of U. S. support is Pedro DIAZ Lans.
Mr. Roarke knows DIAZ Lanz and was planning to appear with DIAZ Lang
on a television program in New York City on the night of 5 July.
Mr. Roarke considers DIAZ Lanz superior to General PEDRAZA, Franciaco
CAJIGAS and Antonio VARONA, all of whom he claims to know.

3. Mr. Roarke sald that the SOMOZAs have agreed to give DIAZ Lanz
a military base in Nicafagua. Mr. Roarke himself plans to organise an
American committee to back DIAZ Lanz. He will call it the Comnittee to
Rescue Latin America from Communism or something similar. Mr. Roarke
claims that Spruille Braden-has tentatively agreed to support this
coumittee. :

4. At the present time, Mr. Roarke 1s preparing a documentary

television film dealing with a mumber of Cuban opposition groups. The
money for this project has been put up by Channel 5 in New York City.

5. Mr. Elmore Haring, the 00/C officer who interviewed Mr. Roarke,
will submit a more detailed report through his own channels to us in the
next day or 50.

\e

se.
J. D. Esterline
Chief, wi/y

SECRET

 

ae

 
 

104-40180-10057

 

 

; . CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
7 OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

[action | _—|
APPROVAL ||
COMMENT

CONCURRENCE INFORMATION

 

 

Detects va e0fe in Rerveew.
CO fiacs fect ty Fon, Foee toaster,

FOLO HERE TO RETURN TO SENGER -

 

Loc Reuassieien |] conripentia [| sean

ws Replees (29)
thee'ss 237 whe ae raed psrherg 2. 6 COMERNDNT Pret Tien OFFICE . 1—~O-Barsgt

tp!
 

 

Uay

Chief, Contact Motrtue 6 Rily 1960
Support axl LA Brench
Chief, Hew York Office

Conversation «ith Alexender'I. Rorke, 51 Chanbers Street,
Hew York, ¥. ¥.

ey Baring called on Rorke the urate of 5 July 6) as result

of a telezhone call fron fighert Reynoldgfs Division, vio stated
that Rorke night have information of value concerning Cuba. .

2. Rorke fe @ tell, @lender, personable men, about 34 yeers old,
who by Eis own oduission ie somewiat garrulous. He dtd-not eppear to
be a aherp operator. Rorke described himéelf es a free lence reporter
snd photogrepher who hag wrked nostly for the National Broadcasting
Company on essign-ent. He says he ia also trying to moke a living by
producing doc.nentary filma for televiston station KNEW in New York.

He claims that he will shortly finish for then a documentary concerning
the varfous groups which are in opposition to Castro. Rorke's business
eddress is the office of his father, on attorney. Biogrephic date
concerning Rorke is being forwarded 6 July ©. -— -

3. Rorke explained that he knows nany people {in Cuba end other
Caribbean countries ag a result of his reportorial work in W.ceregua,
Penema, Costa Rica, Cuba end other sarees, and he says that because of -
@ keen interest in the problem of what can be done about Castro and
Coummiaa in Cuba, and his work on the current documentary filn, he has
beon keeping in close touch with various Cuban opposition groups. Me
inaisted on going into his Ceribbean background at great length and
described in detail hie visits to Micaragua, Panama, Cuba etc. The
events he wentioned are. all past history nov.hovever, aad ve will not
ettexpt to recount then here.

he, Rorke gave ell this background zerely to try to prove that he
is well ecquainted with the situation in Cuba end understands the various
opposition groups. He then case to his real point which ie that he
regexds Diaz Lanz, whom he hes seen @ great deal of recently, as the
most salid of all those wo want to take action against Castro. He
feele that Lunz is completaly able, and 4s in contact with the right
people in the Cuban amy end other Cuben orgenizationsa who can lend the.
gupport when the right tine comes. According to Rorke, Lans believes
that the job should be done by Cubens fros a base outside the US, end
that Lanz {s brave and resourceful enough to lead a successful action
if he fe furnished the necessary arms and ammunition. Rorke believes,
further, that Lang is politically in the middle of the road, that he
is not notiveted by hatred end vould not tring about ea blood bath in

‘Cubs. In short, he feels that Lane vould be with the US all the vay.

HA ELP7Y
74-0000

 

 

SUBJECT

 

 

~20

: Conversation ith jlexunder I. Rorke, 51 Chanbers Street,
Hew York, H. ¥.

oa the natter of 0 base frai-vtuteh to operete, hovio save, that be has
‘talked. with egstite of Hicaragua und they say that the Somozas vill
fiamien one.

. 5.. In cocporing Lene with other figures vho are in opposition to
“Castro, Rorke nentioned Cajigas, Pedraza end Verona, ‘none of vhon
feelo: compere favorably vita Lang. Verona, for instante, ‘is too
= secoting to Rea, Laas has int with 5 eitterent gree

 

 
 

6 ‘Rorke seid thot he ves gotng to appear vith Lane et 11 AM
5 July @ on Barry GrayS’ redio show fore period of sbout 2 hours. A:
chief topic of discunasion according to @ will be the anti-senitien
of the Castro govermuent. At the eud of the week Lanz expects to return

to Mie.

7. Rorke stated that he hopes to form on Anericen front comittes
waieli Spruille Braden hea agreed to head if the right people can be
brought into. it. The group would have gone such none as “Committee

to Rescuo Latin Anerica from Cosiunian” and Rorke believes that ahie
organization might fumics excellent cover far CLA participation.

.&. While we were in Rorke's office he received a telephone call
fro Diena Alexandria ebout 1:30 Pi. the wanted to reports that a warrant
hed Just been Lasued {mn Cuda for the arrest of her boy friend Yanes
Pelletier. RPorke described Pelletier os a persvunul aid to Castro whose
roal job hai been to procure women for Caatro and hie asaiotants.
Polletler had fallen into disfavor oa a result of the story of Castro's
affair with the Loren: girl having eppeared in Confidential Magazine.

“9, ‘At the end of our Interview, Rourke honded us “the attoched list
of 65 naces of Pedreza's mon wio had been held by Trujillo. ALL 65 were
in Joli 2 weeks ago but according t% a telegraa wiich Rorke claice was
received 4 July, from @ brother of one of the men, only 20 are in custody
now.

“ 0. If-there is any interest in the details of Rorke's current
Cuben contacts, he will be avallable for questioning.

JAY B. Le REEVES
