 

 

 

Nee

SEC REE SIRE se WSR ee ne we RR nt a eee WE Lhe S ~ :

ae

p. Rank of Cuban officials under Fidel in terns of
their influence in making national policy, Raul is still
the heir apparent to Fidel. Next to Raul is Che Guevara,
After that, no other official, according to AMLASH-1, has
apy great influence in the making of Cuban national policy.
President Dorticos’ relationghip with Fidel is gvod since
be is a hard and serious worker, has good administrative
ability and ie able to work within the general outline lgid
down by Fidel, Raul Castro has some political influence |
and control in Oriente where he has placed his men in i
positions of influence, but only Fidel personally has any
poktical influence in the rest of Cuba. Even within the
military Fidel selects and appoints high army officers.

Che Guevara is still strong in the economic field and

has not suffered a decline in his influence and authority
because of his eurlier policy of industrialization,

Guevara restricts himself to the economte field and plays

a very small role in the political field. He is serious
and very hard worker, one of the few, according to AHLASH-1,
who has worked seven days a week without leave since the
revolution, Emilio Aragones holds an important position

ae the organizational secretary of the PURS. He is the
official who was always at the office of the National
Directorate of the Party and has contact with all the
officials in the regime, He plays an important coordinating
role, Faure Chomon has been accused of organizing former
13th of March Revolutionary Directorate people, but,
according to AMLASH-1, this probably based on the fact that
Chomon always gives joba in the ministry he heads to DR
people. Because of this Chomon today controls to 3 large

degree the Ministry of Transportation. Of all the ministries,

the DR’s stronghold is in the Ministry of Transportation.
Other DR people who continue to hold important positions
in the regime are Alberto Hora, Ambassador Carrillo and
Jose Naranjo. w OMe ee

q. AMLASH-1 and AMWHIP-1 were unable to develop any
specifics, but from their conversations with Ambassador
Carrillo got the impression that Carrillo would prefer and
welcome a transfer from the Eebassy in Paris to the
Enbassy.in Madrid,

_ & Aecording to Emilio Aragones, Anibal Escalante
is being considered for a job outside Cuba. The job will
probably be in the commercial/economic field, but a
decision had not been made as of November 1964 as to
location. ,

 

 

 
ence teen tne net een fae enn err manatee cteneen ert bs saiene

i
|

    

oe

FSCS SEAN Te rte hc

  

on SECRET

. ~6-

8, AMLASH-1 again reporte

d@ that he feels Orlando

Blanco, Consul of the Cuban Embaesy in Bern, is

approachable gince he is unhap
| AMLASH-1 also feela that Enriq

| Cuban Ambassador in Rabat, is

and developed by the right person,

asGigned to the commercial sec
ip Rabat, AMLASH-1 feela ia al
money can be used as an induce:
AMLASE-1 feela, if the proper

  

could easil

& compromigin situation, Amb
friend of Lucy Echevarria,

3, AMLASH-1 was also asked in
of other requirements on Cuba. On
vide information and cables were se

 

 
 

py with the Cuban regime.
ue Rodriguez Loeches,
approachable if approached

tion of the Cuban Embassy
80 approachable and feels
ment, Ambassador Carrillo,
person developed him, could

robably be compromised with Fidel. He is a charact:

 
 

o AMLASH-1 in
assador Carrillo Is a close

formation on a long list
many he was unable to pro-
nt to Headquarters on the

requirements on which he did provide information.

ce: WH/EA/EoB
ind rey) moe

File:

AMLASH-1 201

Internal Op

we SEORET

iB ener oneness nN a Mn es begs,

Restor D, Sanches
AMVORLD

 

Marina Garcia Gonzalez

write Tate

 

dP

 

 
 

hasten ype «

Lhe SME tre

Saye

ttt.

  

Zo

Cc. ANLASH-1 wag given a resupply of S/W developer
pills and carbon. He planned to take the S/W material
back with hin to Havana, AMLASH~1 again reviewed with
UNSNAPU-9 and reminded UNSNAPU-9 to turn over to his Paris
case officer a)} letters regardless of how received from
AHLASH-1 to @ither UNSNAFU-9 or letters that may be addres

- to his parente-in-law, AMLASH. ed to send S/#
. out in letters addressed to CAMWHIPLL' gs

business Partner) in Geneva or Rome, AMWHIP-} was briefed —
on

to inforng Ventura that any letters he received

1 should be immediately air mailed to AMWHIP..

in New York, Since AMLASH-} will probably find it

necessary some time hot to sign the letters to
in his true Rane, AMWHIP-1 was algo briefed to

 

 

 

 

 

arora

to forward to New York any letter received from

ba addressed to him and Signed by a person unknown to
him, 8/W letters to AMLASH- @ continue t

addressed to
Sent to AULASH-i's mother,

 

 

 

In an energéhcy a letter can algo

d, /MLASH-1 wag again debriefed on the cache that had
been put down for him in Matanzas, He repeated what he
had previously reported and attempted to answer most of

the questions in the WAVE cable. A cable on t
WAS sent from Parig to Headquarters, info WAVE,

his subject
2 On 2 Feb,

1 was requested to send a message either through

* bis channe) or through AUTRUNK-10' s S/W channe

1 reporting

how much of the radio equipment and other material had

been recovered from the cache,

to get the por to assign this man to Caracas, Venezuela,
SH-2 could ¢ ¥ one possibility, an individual

known as 5H-1 has full confidence

2 aS previously been approached on

 

. e
who also knows 5 will provide the background infor
a Fé )

mation upon hi ‘urn to New York,

Upon his

 

| 2, AMLASH-7 reported on the upcoming FEU elections
on 10 February 1965, AMLASH-} stated that Crombet, the

president of the Communist Youth, will become

SECRET

PERT

Een TEE ee bee

the new.

 
 

104-40216-10998

 

e

 

 

 

 

LT vay
a .
ak

15 February 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting with AMLASH-1 in Paris,
31 January to 3 February 1965

following subjects were discussed at the two meetings on 1 and

2 February 1965:
@. The primary reason for again meeting AMLASH~?

before his planned return to Cuba was to brief hin on the

security implications involved in the infiltration and

 

 

 

 

Orozco, a ding to his wie, went to Cuba to rescue |
sd ‘and three others w re hiding in the.
4 one of a woman named Tne Bhoae who lived at

 

Havana.
Orozeo's capture, if he has been captured, presenta an
indirect threat to the. security of AMLASH-1 and a more
direct threat to the security of AMTRUNE-10 Since Orozco
in Jan 1964 oxfiltrated throug the rat line established
by AMICE-14 (Miguelito), Upon his return to Cuba,
AMLASH-1 will check the above with AMTRUNK-10; and, if

 

good and pleasant return trip, this will mean that Oroze

is not under the control of the security service. If the
letter talks abou long, tiring trip, this Will indicate

that Orozco has m arrested, AMLASH-1 was also reques:
to send a report on the above and any complications whic!
have developed or may develop from Orozco's infiltration

b. AMLASH-1 Suggested that his nom de guerre “Charles,”

which we have been using for the-past three years, be
changed to "Gerardo."

ted
h

 
 

 

AR A AE oe RU SES a ey ean

SOHTE ase eraes et cera ensayo

Mere yee

srage buttinatetee tes Mime anatomy eer Be oko

e

-3-

president and that his man, Lagéro Mora, would be one of
the vice-presidents, {A cable on this subject was sent
to Headquarters from Paris.)

g@. AMLASH-2 was requested to check with Fizgolo
regarding the precautions being taken to prevent sabotage
of the lodkotives being shipped from France to Cuba;
gepecifically, how carefully do they check the placement
of the seals, are they special seals or regular load
serls, are there going to be any additional checks once
the locomotives reach Cuba, will they drain the of11 and
lubricants from the factory to the port, and do they run
the locomotives under their own power or are they towed.
AMLASH~1 agreed to attempt to develop answers to the above
requirements and pass the information to his contact in
the Paris Station. AHLASH-1 also agreed to attempt to find
out and pass to the Paris Station through UNSNAFU-9 the
names of the Cuban techs training at La Rochelle,

h. In a general discussion regarding the persons with
whom AHLASH-1 had been in contact either personally or
through letters, AMLASH-1 mentioned Alfredo Portela.
AHLASH-1 stated he had received a letter from Portela and
had in turn written to Portela. He considers Portela a
friend which was the only reason for writing to him,

i, AMLASH-1 was debriefed on Cuban Intelligence
Service personnel. A cable on this subject was sent from
Paris to Headquarters.

j. <A cable was sent from Paris to Headquarters
suggesting WAVE send a S/® letter to AMTRUNE-10 stating:
"Este tranquilo. Carlos regresa pronto,"

k. AMLASE~1 was asked for information on the fol-
lowing persons:

(1) Samuel Gonzalez Rodriguez-Planes. AMLASH-1
reports he is a member of the Ameijeiras group and
ip a good and brave man.

(2) Antonio Lusson y Batiie, Chief of Operations
of the General Staff of the Occidental Army.
AMLASH-1 reports Lisson im an independent and rare
type individual who keepa to himself and doesn’t
involve himself in political matters. AMLASH-1 has
heard nothing bad about Lusson,

 

 
74-0000

wer

(3) Cadte, Raul Diaz Arguelles, Chief of
Artillery of the Oceidental army.

' (4) Elpidio Baox Bigo. According to AMLASH-1,
| Baez is a trusted Fidelman,
t

(8) Lais Manuel Cantillo Toirac, Assigned to
the Cuban Embassy in Madrid and one of the security
people, Ho was formerly assigned to Brazil, is young
ane hes for several years been with Pinero and the

ban Is.

(6) Enrique Oltuski Osacki, Oltuski is a cloge
friend of Faustino Perez and his stock with the regime
rises or falls as does that of Faustino. |

i
i

(7) Sergio Tolfon, Code clerk in the Eabassy in
Paris, TolYon is staying in Paris at the request of
Ambassador Carrillo.

1. Gastro enteritis, water pollution and unsanitary
conditions, AMLASH-1 states there are no real problems,
although the scarcity and lack of a balanced diet do
cause some problems. The purification of water has been

. & problesx which probably hag been the cause of some of the
sickness in the country. ~~

a m. AMLASH-1 did not believe that Aragones had invited
him to fly back to Havana with him in order to get him
back because of any serious security matter, AMLASH-1

414 state that Aragonese was concerned that AMLASH-1 may not
return to Cuba. Since Aragones cleared AMLASH-1 for his
trip abroad, he is in a way responsible that AMLASH~1 does
not defect and returns to Cuba. AMLASH~-1 feels Aragones
does not want any problems with Fidel in case AMLASH~1
gecides to stay out.

nee eneeeneine eure Sunnie ene

  

SEES tensa ts

hk. AMLASH-1 was unable to provide any information on
the political developments in Cuba in mid-November and
x since he had been out of the country since early
Rovember, AMLASH-1 was asked to check on the problems
between the opposing factions in the Cuban leadership and
explained the issues, the background and personalities
involved, -

o, Soviet advi or influence in political and economic
matters creates re tment among the middle and higher level
Caban officials. Basically, the Soviets are not respected.

SECREP

“Aas hye eng ao Cty aymeg tate eer

nee

     
 

Ea

 

ee ee

   
