  
 

  
   
 

UXE's Viewpoint, T happen. to Kn}
potting in Corsican circles whereve

 

pt s
: QJWIN can do:
want him to

      

AMS .

 

 

 

 

   

At ee cee oyun

 

   
 

[foe totes-tonog}

wee

. OO : . : : ‘ :

      
   

  

ANS: |.

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
   
 
  
    
     
       
 
   
  
  
   

ZRRIFLE|

te, Per our discussion of 2 July 1962, I expec
proceed te transfer QJWIN to Baden-Baden per the proposal: oor

dn JOLLA+1463 dated 2 February 1962, SMXEZO,89 dated 19 June .

‘1962 sated that COS woutd have. the full detalis of the i

_ Capital outlay required by 23 June: however, the information

- ; Mot :been received. as of 3 July. The last cable to the

tation: DIR, 18391: tetd COS to contact: you directly on nis i +
Ty. ‘on 6 July. So ; ol

5 “With regard to candidates Spotted by QJWIN, the

“two wham he spotted in Italy a year and.a quarter ago can

probably be used if needed, if we can accept the assessments

Of them by- the Trieste Base contract agent, Magonetti. — -
Magonetti’s assessment is contained in’ OIRA,27542 dated

: fay 1961, The names ofthe two French candidates are con-

tained in QLLA, 1426 dated 15 December 1961, No action has

been. taken on these names regarding ‘tracing or anything else, oy
My! handwritten notes attached: to that dispatch contain - :
fuller descriptions of the two people than appear in the So
‘dispaten, : es :

 

   

tting effort chat can be made is

CIN) in Rome, Hank was well briefed :
esired and ‘the security precautions 2
potting activity. COS Rome has a . .
tions and restrictions in his safe;

is told to proceed with his contact in

orence, 1 suggest that he be re-briefed in detail.

Aankly,.all the rest of the paper in the file is oe.
“for the pay receipt which ave assembled in one . :
envelope, I have already given} the 2RRIFLE authorization ot yer wy .
paper signed by Helms and Skip has bees given the OJWIN con- ay oo ey

tract, including the extension to 1 March 1963, : : :

  

    

 

5, . The detafis which have yet to be worked out are Feo
a, The precise method of contact with QJWIN : .
b, The systen of ‘drawing funds for payments to him . ° i.
oe, e. ‘An emergency contact for him (this should ce i
Probably be COS. LUXE), .

   

ee or

 

 
   
