ae .
( "SECRET/SENSITEVE (_ -

Ex-LIADLIB ever met socially in Mexico or not.

1 am quite certain their work paths never crossed,
LIADLIB is still in Mexico, He has had a difficult
time since his "resignation" getting a job,
keeping a job, and making ends meet. It probably
would be to BKTRUST's disadvantage now for

the two to meet. For this reason, and to assess 1:
ex-LIADLIB-s present state of mind, Headquarters ‘-
sent someone to talk with LIADLIB-1 in the spring
of 1972. At that time he still seemed bitter
against BKTRUST. . a

Other than wishing to make special mention of

_ EX-LIJADLEB-1, 1 know of no Agency personne}
other than those in WH/1 and. the Mexico City Statio
whom. he knew. :

5. OTHER U.S. GOVERNMENT PERSONNEL

1 know of none except the Olympic Attache in Mexico
under whom Agee worked fron July 1967 until the
end of the Olympics.

 

jo Geely (77

oy

 
 

- At-Headquarters in WH/1 Phil shared his cubicle —

© OTHER AGENCY PERSONNEL A

‘the Cuban target little attention. /—

SEGr“T/SERSITHVE” * nn a

GETTING Pail to cone to our end of the hall

a couple of times. | was not in on the
discussions between C/Cuba (Raymond F. FRADYER)
and. Phil, but 1 believe they were mainly held
to see who Phil nad met who might be useful
against the Cuban target. |. know we thought at_
the time Phil was spending almost. full time on his
overt activities and the SB target, and he gave -

  

with LIADLIB-1 who was pressing.to get overseas.

- as mucn as Phil, for different reasons. Ex-

exoerienced operationally (right out of the JOT
program) -and out to benefit nimself entirely-~

mucn more so than: Phil 24 LIADLI 8-1} went out of channe
constantly, ‘talking of ideas (for nimself);:
and going right to the head of Training or JOT. ...
(can't remember which) and WOMACE on- ideas and . “|
suggestions, without ecessari ty going’ through the. |
Branch or Division. He had many business deals on 4
the side (one was as a landscaper in Virginia) y
and had great prospegts for business deals in #5
Mexico.9, He wangled a job in Mexico (réplacing*
LICINK) ‘and was inserted in the 9GLOBE program wile
he knew Phil (1 think this was the”timing.) He was
also quite open in nis bragging he had been hired i
as a GS-13 (I think it was) and did not nave to go
up tneuranks. This mignt have irritated Pnil who

was still a 12. Ex-LIADLIB came to Mexico PCS about
the same time Pnil and | came. Although | remember
no close friendshi.. between Ex-LIADLIB and Phil

on the desk, the fact they sat togetner, were

poth processing out for Mexico, would have meant
they nad something in common. Also, LIADLIB was tnen —
nandling all the projects for CP and leftist ;
penetration operations for tie Station and Base
(Monterrey). Phil would have more than casual
interest in some of these as sone were being handled
in the field_by How rd R. BENJAYA, an old friend of
Phil's from 1 do not’ know that Phil and

- LIADLIB-1] was @ much more nusty individual, less |

“6

i

il
SECRET/SENSITIVE

 
SECRET/SENSETIVE
f Tee »

In Mextco when PATT*s nouseiold effects arrived
he let me know; and as | recall, ne brought them over
to my wouse and we unloaded them into our apartment.
We did not go and pick them up. In thanks, we
invited him over to supper one evening. (Willard C.
CURTIS had given pennission for individual officers
to have Phil over to dinner if no outsiders were
present and prior permission was obtained.) | think
1 got permission fron the DCOS at that time. There
were only the three of us (Phil, my husband, and
mysel f--no maid, no other invited guests) There was
no discussion of office. My husband knew Phil was with
BKTRUST and was working on the Olympics in Mexico.
Conversation was light. During dinner,. as } recall,
we talked about business in Mexico, and he mentioned.
his father was in the dry-cleaning business, and
he thought he might be interested in’ bringing into
Mexico some used dry cleaning equipment which is worth
nothing in the United States, and set up sone dry
cleaning establishments in Mexico, The “discussion
was merely in generalities--nothing specific as to
timetable or even if Phil were serious about this.

About a week later Phil brought his car over and
my husband helped him work on his car--adjusting it
to the altitude, This must have been around September
1957. .

Shortly thereafter, when Laura B. UTSTINE was
in Mexico TOY (she worked in WH/1] and also knew Phil
at Headquarters), Phil had my husband, me, and UTSTINE
over to his apartment (on Insurgentes Sur just off the
Viaducto) for dinner, Et was. a huge apagtment,, sparse hy
furnished. We had an enjoyable evening, very light
conversation. Talked mostly about Mexico, At this time
he showed us he nad several bedrooms (forget how many)
and hopefully his sons would be able to visit him.

During his tour in Mexico | only saw Phil in the
Station occasionally--and then just in passingin the
halls. Once after | heard about Phil's having kidnajec
his boys, | thought | saw them (can't remember why |
thought they were his) in front of the Embassy with a
maid. | never saw Phil in the Embassy proper nor at
any Embassy functions (1 was tourist and did not
circulate in the Embassy).

During his tour in Mexico, Phil remained pleasant
but was certainly¥€6 fiud to talk to. After Phil.

resigned | saw him once. After John PROBERT arrived
as COS, | saw Fhil along the side of the Embassy.

SECRET/SENSITIVE ge

 
We just greete!- cach other. te said he- heard. PRODERT
was coming to Mexico and asked if he were here. He
wanted to call and say hello. | said yes. |
immediately informed PROBERT, and suggested the

latter; read Phil's file at the Station as it was ?
my understanding there was Sone proslem about his . z
resignation, but did not know all the details. Ee
(This was true as personnel matters in the Station ES
were kept very close by the front office.) 1 do fs

not know if, when, or iow many times .PROBERT might
have met wita Phil. At this time Phil looked neat
and well] kept, as | recall.— ; i

3. SUBJECT'S KNOWLEDGE OF SCALETT!, PROJECTS, OR
OPERATIONS IN WHICH SCALETTI PARTICIPATED

a). Phil could definitely identify me as a long-
time BKTRUST employee

b). Phil probably knew that Mexico was my first overseas >
assignment, and possibly.that | had a medical | a
hold before. He knew | had spent Umany years" ;
in Branch1!, and was privy to almost everything
going on at the Mexico City Station. He
knew | was assigned to Mexico under tourist
cover but worked inside the Embassy. He knew ;
my husband was here “as a professor at tne Universit

of the Americas, and that he did not work for BKTRUS

ac a am RN

c). tn Headquarters Phil knew | handled reciniglend
INK)Yiand

_ support projects olus suctwextras as LI
“ o@ CLBGLOBE peek F LILINKnad closed down either
just as Phel came toot Branch, or just before
However, Gary A. MANDER, formerly with Link)?
was assigned to the Branch then, and talked with
Phil about Mexico, and possibly about DLINKOM
remember keeping thé (LPGLOBE material very close,
ao in my own safe, and | do not think Phil knew of
oe CLPBLOBE (LIREALM was then in Mexico under (LPBLOBE),
but may have learned of,(LPGLOBE program afid LIREALM
through Ex-LIADLIB (see paragraph 4).

In Mexico City Phil knew { was in the Cuban section,
and privy to all operations being run against the
Cuban target. He did not know of operations in
particular except possibly LIARM-1 (now terminated)
who we hoped to use against the Cuban olympic
target. The Cuban Section tried to talk with Pail
many times about the Cuban delegations to the .
Olympics, but as } recall, C/Cuba only succeeded in

SECRET/SENSITIVE

 
 

:
}
i
:

- 4

Se

ait a

“OTHER AGE" *Y PERSONNEL © ee

List other Agency personnel’ or former-persomer,
who on the basis of your own personal knowledge or
belief, had official or social contact with Subject.
Give brief information as to the period and nature of
such relationship for each.

See memo. attached.

OTHER U. S, GOVERNMENT PERSONNEL

List all other U. S, Government personnel who, on
the basis of your own personal knowledge or belief, had

‘particularly close official or social contact with

Subject. Identify the Bureau, Department, Agency or
Office with which each such person was emploved at the
time of the relationship and. give brief information
concerning the period and nature of such relationship
for each.

See memo attached

OTHER PERSONS

- List all other persons who irrespective of nation-
ality, sex, or employment are known or believed to have

had intimate or particularly close assocfation with him

and brief information concerning the identity and occu- —
pation of such persons, your knowledge of such persons,
and the period and nature of the relationship of such
person with Subject. Include also the names of all
American and foreign newspaper people with whom he is
known or believed to have had personal contact irre-
spective of the extent or closeness of their relation-
ship. Give names with brief information as to the period
and nature of such relationship for each.

{ know of none.

Page 2 of 3

 

 

 
eRe CE PGCE
wo, . OUTLINE* oo, ,

\

Subject: Philip Burnett Franklin Agee Punto - vid

1. NAME OF OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE Elsie |. Scaletti

ke PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF SUBJECT HA SGC SSO 7

‘Were you ever personally acquainted with him?
Lo, Yes or No yes .» If you were neveT personally
j- acquainted with him have you acquired any information of
a personal nature concerning him through other persons?
Yes or No . Give details including dates,
by months and years as. best you can recall, ‘circumstances,
purpose and nature of any relationship vou may have had -
{ with him and provide all data relating to his character
' or personality, illustrating briefly with any-stories oF A.
: other information acquired as a result of your. own : L
relationship with him or which might have been acquired
from others. : . .

RETURN TO CIA
See attached memo Background Use Only
1 , , _ Do Not Reproduce

3. SUBJECT'S KNOWLEDGE OF YOU, PROJECTS, OR OPERATIONS IN
WHICH YOU PARTICIPATED . ;

“On the basis of vour personal association with
.Subject, either official or social, or, on the basis of
what you know or believe him to be knowledgeable of,
outline the nature and extent of information you believe
he could provide an opposition intelligence service as to
(a) your identity as an intelligence officer or employee,
(b) your personal background and experience including
places of assignments, and (c) operations in which you
participated in some way. (Cryptonyms should be employed
when known, The nature of the operations in any event
should be priefly but sufficiently described to lead to
their identification, with the dates or periods involved
and any comments OT observations as to their. success or
failure.)

See memo attached

: . st are, Page 1 of 3
i 7 Maat. t ate a - a
| ett

 

 
 

 

7. HOSTILE INTELLIGENCE CONNECTIONS

Can you provide any information of any kind
tending to establish that Subject may have been

sympathetic to hostile ideologies or had contact
with and was cooperating with a hostile intelligence
service. Yes or No no » I€ yes, give
full details. . oS

Signed: Be Oh. a,

Dated : 10 suly is72

 

*This is an Outline only of information desired. If vou
either knew the Subject or have any information from other
sources on any of the points contained in the outline, a
separate memorandum is needed with each paragraph. thereof
keyed to those in this outline. If you neither knew the
Subject nor have any information of the kind requested in
any section of the outline (and only in such instance)
negative entries may be entered under a all se sections, and the
outlined returned after signing and dating. The Signed and
dated outline will thus serve as a memorandum for the files,

Page 3 of 3

 

om
oe

 

 
 

C oo

SECRET/SENSITIVE Ss,

\

SUBJECT: Philip Burnett Franklin Agee

NAME OF OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE: _Elsie I. Scaletti
PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF SUBJECT: - .

| knew Phil during the entire time he was in
Branch { at Headquarters, and during his tour in’
Mexico. We came to Mexico PCS at the same time. ~
This means | knew him from 1966 until he resigned.
in Headquarters our relationship was limited to

business in the office, and that. was ‘not very:-

frequent. We sat in different rooms. He handled $B
matters. | did the routing of all Branch .
correspondence which meant | decided what he was to

_see--this was anything affecting Soviet/Satellite/
Chinese matters.. My main..areas. of responsibility

were. in the support field. Even though we were both
processing out at the same time, we did not exchange
stories much. However, since | traveled as a
"Tourist" and was not therefore allowed to bring
anything into Mexico, Phil offered to have some of
my things packed with his household effects since
he said he owned hardly anything. .One day my husband
and | took some boxes of things over to his apartment
before work. {| do not remember the name of the
apartment development in Virginia, ‘but it was the
garden type. His apartment was nice--fairly new
But sparsely furnished, He helped us) unload the things
aid take them upstairs. Then we parted. | seem to recal
ire had some trouble witn his car that morning and we
dropped him off at a repair shop on the way to the
of fice. . Lo

At this time, in Washington, Phil was very
pleasant, was nice to’ work with. He did not appear
to be pushy, even though hedid everything he could
to get the Mexican assignment. At this time, despite
his family problems, ne did not appear to let these
affect nis work. At least from my position he seemed
to get his work done, not to procrastinate, not to
take a lot of time off. fron the gossip |! heard,.
he was separated, and was anxious to get any assignmeat
overseas. When the possibility of this Olympic job
opened up in Mexico he grabsed it. As 1 recalty C/WH/}
was sympathetic toward him also, and was happy to be
able to nelp Phil at this particular time.

SECRET/SENSITIVE 0» #8.

 
