13-00000

 

 

aw

   

sage Gecoad frou
a can he

  
 

se, Cabiforaia, ~25 ie . ee Sh av Lae:

   
 

Ta Ritu, sds we
let tae phobow va pan. Ninwe wi ther other budi
luttser ivoutilied.

 

waa?
ns

. Boys, eich iR and tddes [ici LI, Sob uf whim are United
‘Yates ctiizess, ‘eors comiactad Sy thie Apeacy oa 2 Gtweiins basis,
following Gaede retura from thaif tow? af baw Go. ane rapset of
taiw coutach, oieGe3,2ia,357, dated 21 Marte L7G2, sudojecth:
Cxaliies/ Titew j arade/interrogation is Minsk Following the Giving
Away of a JS News Sazaalac, ie forwarded as Attachcrent TC,

   

 

3, bre. BRAMZNA, who is described 38 “an older companion”
inthe source destription of AMacoment C, furnished thia Agency wits
(59 color transparencies taken during the trip, Attachment A la saly
gaze of the tive transparencies of which negative cosieas were made and
vetaiaed by this 7.gency. £0 af the io original color transparencies
wees yeturaeid te lcrs. KRAMER.

7. wise NAMAN, relearred toa A callege sraduata” in the
souves deveripticn of Attachment C, provided thizg Azsacy Wit ome
reel af Soom color movie film taken dyring ne trig, The flim vas
viewed ly tbig Ageacy and wis subsequantly rerrned to ise NAMAN,

a, This A, ,2acy Ras bad uv» further cackact with citaes hire,
hoAR RG of hiiag RAMAN subsequent ta the contsct reflected in the
réegeart fazcardied a6 Atacament ©.

}. This office would be inlerested fa any pertinest information
weied interviews of Mize. KRAMER and bias NAMAN by your offies
might posalbly provide along the following lines:

&. 4 mere positive idantivication of the tndividual ia
Athachusent A tentatively identified as JS WALD,

2. She sxact dato and estimate of the Ume of Uay when the
photograph (Atzachment A) wae taken.

fe. Amy isfoeroation
 

104-10404-10214

. * : : Rena??

.° 20 MAR 1964

 

 

sivetlur
Federal Eurean of investigation

RES . AG$saocination uf s rcsidert Joka J. Lencedy

 

', da the comree of our research of liive peztalning to areas of
tae J5O2 im which Lee Harvey OS. AL allegedly resided, 2 pheiograrn

sf 25 individeal closely resembliag Gu 1L5 was uncovered.

   

2. luv Wes imlicate thst thia shotegraca { \ttachmaeak 4} came
from a caoloy transparency Imken to 5 dase, Jos, mm or dnewk ti “August
ifol, by an “merican tourist, b-rsJAisonies FR
at ine time wta oc. CO. Bow Jas, Colvaag, California.

    

3, fho photugra ph appears to have Seem taken ia Toeatralinaya
closhenad’ (lentral Square), which ia iocated in tie center of + ines
Jae boliding La the background bas Seen identified aa The jatace ef
Colsure. fix peeple are depicted in the photagrarh, The individval
second izom the right, Appears to be Les Harvey OURWALD. 1b ahovld be
noted that the sairt thie ladivideal js wearing appears to 30 idendcal ta
tse shirt OSG ALD ia wearing in two photegraansa Isom the group af 47
paotegtigns from sas effects of 350 ALD asica were forwarded te this
Agemscy ia your commuaisation of 3 b:arces 1554, fle nucnber (5) 165-525435,
subject: *ssaasiastioa of rreaident Jaan F. EL NED. Caples of these
two photograghe of OSWALD are formarded with thia report ays Altacaiant 5.

 

4. Source of the photograph identified ove of the fercales la the picture,
posalbly the one on the left, asks k an Interiot ;uide. Soures
aS Becarpanked by another imericasa, Wise\iita MAMAN, 5395 Attardes

 

fSosd, Solvang,

 
 

ec, ‘ay information waicn would 1id in ideativyiag other
individuals in the photesrapa is “tack wment 7)

a. Lhe name, orddress, and any ciher identifying data
ic traveling Companion who accompanied N.rs. KRAMER
tigay MAMAN from Moscow to Varsaw via Jiinsk.

  

iv. .cissemination of Attachment A and pertiient identifying
information to the President's Commission on the Assassination of
resident iennedy ia being delayed peading receiat of your Bureau's
findings in this matter.

.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FO FLANS: .

JAMES ANGLETON

CSCI = 3/785, 6i2
3 énclosures aa Cited above in paras. 2, 3 & 5
Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addressee
1-G/CI
AT CICUSIG
1 - C/CI/R&A
1- C/SR
1 - C/SR/CI :
2 - C/SR/CI/R {hold cy & comeback cy}!
1 ~ SR/O/US/dl
1 = 201-289, 248

19 March 1964

 

SR/CI/Research: Aw

 
