13-00000

  
  

‘Oftices, Bers Feggdahs tols we ea 23 Bovesber thet the Baresn has reason to
‘Delieve thet QSUALD's visit was te get Soviet support for « U.S. pas

    
   

 
 

“S eaep ais

Doevinent "er a

 
  
 
 

po . . Gea Sanitined Fis Oo
, Buaber pac 2) ss
_ For sterile sony af Shia coguapake

 

 
   

7 "p ; ° xe
. “Mr.cAllen. ‘DULLES asked « ‘one of ‘the- a ray ‘questions ~* ‘in’ the* inquiry. oe
Ugsttunately the question was badly phrased and contained an in-

“aecurate. statement. It was usggested that the’ following modification
_! be-made:-forsthe .final-record

     
 
 

Of, any: belief: that. ante was: working for or on pation :
of the Soviet. intelligence services (originally phr ised:
behalf. of. the. Sovéet Union)" ate any ° time? =: :

    

 
 
   

 

This would require a “Slight. change in Mr. MeCONE's testamony in
‘intelligence: services" ‘would be substituted for.

 

        

., In, response. “C/SR's. ‘request : I: provided. him-with ‘a brief

ement to the effect. that other defectors to the USSR had received

subsidies or salary Supplements vis the MVD. The Statement also in-
cluded information concerning the role of the MVD. in 1959. ~ 61.

 

(Copy attached)
Q°

 

Lee H. Wigren
Oo ' C/SR/CI/R :
“Note: I was advised by telephone + that C/SR, used this on

18 May 1964.
 Fsf Document Numbor (98-305

for FOIA Review on SUN 987g

[RECORD copy |

18 may o4
201-288
 

 

 

“received. a lump sum of 5000 old-rubles and a monthly.
. supplemented by 700 old rubles. These -funds’ we
-.. to-him through the Soviet Red Cross, but :OSWALD: :
‘belief that these funds actually came. from the Mi
‘Internal: Affairs: (MVD).

salary supplemerits while resident in the USS
.. ‘the Soviet Red Cross reportedly . supported. the-d ‘and his ..
' family for as. long aS six months. prior. to. . noes .
“other ‘cases it was not specified where he
“other than’ | Soviet Government ‘or '_Sovie

‘Maintenance of Public Order (HOOP) in mid 1G2. oss

 

oe
—~

    
 
  
 
 
   
  
   
     

“Ae: According to his. own statements, Lee: ‘Har

 

 

de “Several. other Americans are. ‘Known to

 

resettlemen

   

sin. inser 1960, ‘the: Al1- Union MVD was: abolished- ‘and its “fune~
_. tions were: transferred to:the MVD's ‘of the fifteen: republics:
of the USSR. The republic MVDs were. renamed: Ministeries. for ~

 

Prepared for and delivered to — Notified by phone that

C/SR on 18 May 1964 (AM). _ C/SR used this on 18 May.

/s/ Lew.
 

 

he also subscribed to the Daily Worker anda Trotskyite.  .
publication, allegedly received newspapers from the Sov-. :
jet. Union, and asked last June that his pansport be:
ro~validated for. travel to, the: ‘USSR. >

 

    
 
  

 

Be Certain facets. of ‘Oswald's ‘activities. ‘in the
USSR also argue strongly that the GB would never have
recruited him for a mission of any -kind... First, there: :
is no doubt that Oswald was debriefed by the secret.
police shortly after his arrival in Moscow... They. were “,
interested in him not only because he was a political a
defector, but also because be boasted publicly-~in the
Embassy on 31 October 1959--that he intended to tell .
the Soviets “everything he knew" about Marine Corps  _
Yadar installations on the West Coast. / According to _
Oswald's former commanding officer, this included the).
locations of all radar units and their secret cali signs, - 8
authentication codes and radio frequencies——all of which:
knowledge was grist for the Soviet intelligence mill. ©
Given the KGS penchant for keeping its “illegals” under
the deepest possible cover, however,/it is extremely ~~
unlikely that Oswald--with his Russian wife--was even .
seriously considered for subsequent repatriation to the
United States 48 8 HGB asset. As a re-defector from
the USSR he would immediately be suspect and thus under
surveillance by the FEI. Furthermore, any indication
that he had made good on his boast about the radars
could easily lend to arréat and indictment on a charge
of treason. . . : . ,

 

 

he Secondly, Soviet. “executive action” agents ;
(assassins, saboteurs asd terrorists) are carefully.
selected by the KGB and specifically trained for their
‘missions, Oswaid very probably ruled himself out of .
apy consideration. for this kind of operation. On |
14 November 1959, Moscow refused his request for Sov-
iet citizenship.; Shortly thereafter, he became des-.
pondent and reportedly attempted to kill himself by
Slashing his wrists. Even if the EGS had not earlier
noted signs of mental aberrations, the suicide try pre-

' sumably furnished convincing evidence . ‘that Oswald vase :

not agent material.

 

“4 5. Oswald's activities on a Dallas rifle range on
i 17 November are of some interest both as circumstantial
evidence of prior planning to assassinate the President
4 aod as one more negative indication of XGB involvement,

 
 

104-10431-10075

 

  

|e

- a Decesher “96h

      
 

|. MEMORANDUM FoR: cater, Bino-Soviet Bloc Area -
“TmovcH Tg ‘Chief, Soviet Internal Affairs Branch
' . - 8. _ Chie?, Soviet Division |

FROM - ey ‘SRI. - Neil Huntley

 

 

 

susgsct. ss “AgaN tional Notes and Comments on the
; : ~~ Sswal GP UaSE = Sim meny cf AGESEE
fox aed cewe/la eel gina 5 Socte LF pabelive pstee

. with ae

 

1. According to the New York tines for 10 December,
the FBI report on the assassination of President Kennedy
categorically states that Lee Sarvey Oswald was the
assassin, that he acted alone, and that there is no evi-
‘dence to indicate that he was the agent of any foreign ~
government, These disclosures presumably eliminate the
possibility of further confrontatious with Mr. Robert -
Slusser, .In the event that kr. Slusser continues to. .
‘insist that the President was murdered by the Soviet se-
cret police, the following additional negative indications
and observations may be of some value. a

 

 
 

MAY G76

Be Loag standing KGB practice generally forbids
agents serving outside the USSR to have any contact with
domestic communist parties or with Seviet embassies or
consulates, This prohibition, designed to reduce the
‘possibilities of compromise to a minimum, is probably most
‘stringeatly applied to agents on extremely sensitive mis-
sions, Yet Oswald blazed a trail to the Soviets which was
a mile wide, He corresponded with the national headquarters
of the Communist Party USA--apparently with some regular=-
ity--and visited the Soviet Consulate in Mexico City. In
addition to his well-known leftist political activities,

\\ DEC OZ
20)-d84248

pocumont Number 376- | Su - \ :

for FORA, Review oA

  
 
 

 

 

 

. Oswald was firing at a range of 100 yards, He was assigned.

to target nunber 8, but according to witnesses, was actu-_
i ally firing at targets 7, 8, and 9. He was thus firing |
. .. through an-are of approximately 15 degrees and obviously
"., Seems. to have - ‘been simulating fire at a moving target.

." It is, of course, most unlikely that a KGB agent on an

| * ‘executive. action mission would be ‘permitted (or would .
--' permit himself) to. ‘practice tiring under such obvious and
aa public circumstances. :

. The evidence presently available to us seens ,

on tairly Ssopsiusively to rule out. any Soviet involvement in
.|. the President's assassination, There are, however, .

. geveral rather fascinating inconsistencies, loose ends -
’ land unanswered questions about Oswald, .Some, if not all, .
- | pay be treated in the FBI report. Pending its publica- _

; tion, ‘they are listed below for whatever they may be worth..

aye In an interview last August, Oswald stated
that his father-in-law was a Soviet. army colonel who
taught him to drink vodka when he came to court Marina,

“After the assassination, however, Mrs, Ruth Paine (some-

time Oswald friend and landlady) stated that Marina's .
father, a eolonel, had died when Marina. was an infant,

b) - “To the tune of some $437, the US picked

“ap the tab. for Oseald's return to this country, This

loan was repaid between October 1962 and January 1963.
During this period, Oswald was earning $50 per week,

' Thus, over half of his total earnings went to the govern—

ment and he supported himself, his wife and child on
somewhat less than $25 weekly. His rent at that time

-was $59 per month, The possibility that he received out-
. Side help in repaying the government apparently Rasnnot

been raised in the press,.

. °c) In contrast to the letters Oswald wrote
to his mother, Governor Connally and Senator Tower, his
letters to the Fair Play for Cuba Committee are rather
surprisingly literate, They do not appear to contain
his frequent misspellings and ungrammatical language.
There have been no suggestions that he received help in
framing the letters, and he told the FPCC that he was
financing his activities on its behalf out ef his own
pocket.

 
13-00000

 

 

 

oo and: his wite were not happily married, She was weli- |

liked and he was unpopular. She seemed genuinely fond”

‘of. the United States, did not share his anti-American. | velo
views and sometimes spoke of the hard life in the Sov— oe
‘let Usion. Oswald resented her friends and best her °°

 

a) Thera is. inereasing evidence that Cavald oe

 

  
 

up on at least one occasion. ©Since he. could. azot have |.

- planned the agsassination of the President prior to

26 Senptember--when the Dallas trip was announced--could ©

4t be that his application for a passport (without one ~~

for Barina) on 24 June, his application for a Nexican:
visa on 17 September and his trip to Mexico City on .
28 September simply indicate that he planned to desert :
his wife and seek refuge in the Beviet. Union?

-e) Despite Mrs, Paine’s testimony ‘that

Oswald could ot-drive, witnesses said he drove himself

to the Dallas rifle range on one of his visits. Be was
driven there by an unidentified man on his other trip, |
One witness also claims that two nen were involved in the
attempt evidently by Oswald--to shoot General Walker

last April. ; ; ;

Distribution:
’ Orig. & I - Addressee
Co 1 ~ CB/BOV Y/Y

2 = CB/SRI
1 - SRI File

 
