 

SECRET 171100 Af vee 470s

220

x WA
LABS wae 62292

rox orca]

GROUP ONE EXCLUDED FROM AUTONATIC DORWGRADING AND DECLASSIPICATION

 

 

NEW CASE 42,315
KEFA WA, 62213
i. SAS, WANTS TO SANK THANK ALL CONCERNED FOR THEIR HELP AND

ASSISTANCE ON HIS RECENT TRIP TO LA.
2. CONTACT Is INTEXESTED n{_keposr ey

THE ACTIVITIES OF MANOLO RAY IN THE LA ARYA, RFSULTING Fron] fiwreavnew
WITH RAY. WE ARE OPENING THIS CASE 70 COVER,

 

 

 

 

3. PLEASE SUBMIT OOA(S) REPORT TO SATISFY REQUINUMSNT. THANKS.

 

 

 

 

$8 £ECRER

 

 

 
74-00000

 

COA)S 2-94.25
Wied 2 34737

10 February 1964

Gubject: Cage 42315 - Manolo Ray/JURE

1. I heard Manolo Ray's speech to the Cuban exiles in Los Angeles,
and also het an opportunity to visit with him Cor e few minutes, The
lellowing is ay evaluation of Ray.

2. Ray tries to make clear that the Cuban problem is a Cuban
problem, should te handled by Cubans, and should 16t De considered as
an international situation. He saya timt the Cubans in the US cannot
cit and wait for things to change. At the same time, he decries any
kind of discrimination in employment of Cuban exiles in the US, claiming

. that their scille and their hopes will deteriorate. I suspect that he
feels that they will not be able to contribute financially if they are.
not employed, also. He makes a big point, too, that they must rely
heavily on the people within Cuba, adding, that there are many there who
must cooperate now in order to get work and food, but that in their
hearts they are not pro-Fidel., He wants them particularly to get the
message that he is not areinst they but necds their help.

je

He likes what ne described ag a “cooperative system," and praises the

ides of government autonomous corporations. At the same time, he says '
he is in favor o° caintaining private property and supporting education. '
His aim, he says, is first to get Cuba out of the Soviet area, and then . 1
into the democratic area, but adds that it would not be proper to trade

4 leftist dictatorship for a rightist.

3 Ray seers to faver a covernmental system like Puerto Rico's,

4, Of come 400 or 500 people who heard Ray speak, most were some-
wrat indifferent, even critical at first, but at the end seemed to

approve.

~ end ~

oe

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

[TT hatervtew of Manuel (Mancle) Ray

 

 

 

Chief, Conzset Division (Support) 270

 

For yo
‘Vtoa-10780-10097

 

 

CLs CeO). 264 wx

CA ANTRO UAL ESE ONLY

 

10 March 1964

SUBJECT: JURE Repeated Reference ‘to May 196% Invasion

mp, {per avivy = GC. VAST

1, The following way be of interest to SAS :
2. On or about 6 Mar 64, set eee
(mown generaily in low Angeles as Supporters of JURE) ‘told repre-

sentatives of the (private) California Jatelligence Bureau, Los
Angeles, that they planned to invade Cuba by 20 May 64,

3. wade no secret of their JURE-affiliation
and solicited a donation of $92.00 to equip one fighter.

 

  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

b, fin February 1964, had previously so’ cited $92.00
to buy an M-14" for a fighter. portedly
told that if Castro's departure seant control of Cuba by

JURE and RAY, he wasn't so sure he wanted Castro to go.

~ end -

bb

 
 

20 February 1064

“ 1
SUBJECT: Interview of Manucl (ttarivto) RAY (00/c Case 42315)

 

‘

Interviewed on 2h Fed th SSSSC*dieS rived the circumstances

of the recorded statement as follows:

1. “in connection with ey Spanith language radio
prosrac, ac well ac in furtherance of my personal interests
in Cuban affairs, I contrived to {nterview Manuel (Manolo)
RAY cn the occasion of his visit and ajecech at Los Angeles
on © Dec 63. RAY is the teader of the supposedly anti-Castro
grup known as JURE, or Junta Revoluciconuria Cubana. The
interview, with RAY's permission, wuu taped while we were
proceeding via Volkswayen to the airport. RAY's chauffeur,
significantly, wag a JURE surporter, Manolo GONZALEZ who,

I recall, was emotionally condemning the US in front of the
Los Angeles Civic Center at the, time of the aboftive Bay of

Pigs invasion attempt, 1

2. "As you will note in the taped record, IT was
brutally frank with RAY, [& was my intention to try to
convince him that his stand dtd not differ markedly from
that of the Communists. helther KAY, nor JUXz, are prone
to ettack Castro frontally. ‘Their response to everyliiay
is a criticiom or un attack on Batiste, RAY's devotion
to soctakism Is pitifully obvious, and reminds me once
more that he did not break with Castro, It was Castro
who threw him out, after the former made it clear in
Fevruary 1959 that his object wau the Coowunization of
Cuba. If Castro had not murdered Camillo Cienfuegos and
Huberto Matos, chunces ure RAY would still be with him.

3. “As you will note, RAY espouses pudlic ownership
of electric power facilities, transportation, communications,
etc. Hiy defense is based exclusively on the allegation,
probably true, that the extension of electric power into vi
rural areas {6 not economienlly feasible, hence neglected ‘
by private industry. No other reason 1o advanced for toe —
nationalization of other industries. At any rate, RAY
speaks for himself fn the interview, and in the unhappy,
but unlikely event that RaY and JUR& ever come to prominence
in Cuba, with or without US governeent aid, the record will
have more imcediate and core devastating significance, As
B catter of fact, one would do well to translate, transcribe

and study it.”

,

- end -

Single track, one side only tepe recording of
AY interview in Spanish

5.£] CIA Herbed:

 
  

     

 
Manele Ray /JURE
Case 42,313
13 FRB 64

 

Chief, Contact Division (Sarpert) 2270

 

, ere is a note that
! 81S /EDE hag not yet fournd
1908 think this report ie

“Fron] md in her words.

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 
