 

Vil

~

ote

Gegee meer 150).

°
& Tats ageecy’s records reveal that Peds mULAA Goa es,
tdpaticad WHR Pedro RULNA above, was besa 7a ly Jaswary
1859 in Ratana, Cur, Bis ees upation waa Usted os public ectousisct
fal be eas af ond Htee 1b0 proudeal of th ascoritinen af Colde Baton oe
Ore fisseesera;, elie presidest of lever siomre Baaeas, wb. A., 620 rect:
ef aides leternecsenalsa, ba.

& Pais alii nas no rarther poytinest Minstitiente lulot.slive
am the above individeaie, Acy odashicmal induration which. ¢y 0.8
i ine acpective of (aa + grog wilh os forwarded te tne addresane.

CX IAS/TFEA RE |

ee: Uepartusat el ptute (rocurity)
Ustense inisligeete tat y
vepastr.oo of the Arrey
Deyarticond of tad avy
igpariawat ef tee Aur donee
Jauigret.iva ead Neteradestics bersice
Boreas af . attend
ourean cf isternaisamal Drugrane, iegarl. «el wl Coe weree

23 Crtober 19C2 Rased on Ger-A 3,255, 24%
jb Marust TyS2

TEW/ CL L¥ redricksur:sab
(C49-A-3, 248, 950

+} September? 1902

Dist rioution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee :

I + State A complete RE Trace on ct
1- DIA individuals manntionedl aver é
1- Army
1- Navy 204-290847 (MUINAY
1- Alr Force
1-1éNS 201 512868 SVECIABA®

1 - Custums ; %
t- Internat’) Programsstile Neo 19-300 3 06.0

P- wos

 

 

1. aD Cc. Saree
3 - UD : :
peo Lan
2 CP RSA
1 Tkw ? = a
2 fre LT ecctephe :
el TH |

 

 

 

  
  

t
i
§
L
‘=
i
Pe
rg

sonar
14-0000

 

 

 
 

[tocctotet-iorg7]

“&

6 . . .
. . . Bey te
“4 curt 5
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY !
WASHINGTON 2S OC :
i
i
To _ + Director
Federa} Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich
FROM : Deputy Director (Plans) —_——-

SUBJECT : Alpha 66 - Organj zation and Plans
SRT OR nom aregenmania gee muy

1. Reference is inade to this Agency's teletype OUT 84747 of
6 October 1962, subject” Current Plana of Alpha 88,

 

2. Tne following information concerning Alpha 66, a Cuban
Counterrevolutionary xroup. was received im 7 September 1962 vy
another office of thia Ageacy from a source whose reliability ts unkucwn,

&. Alpha 66 ts incorporated under the laws of Puerto :

Rico and ia comprised of Cuban certified public accuurt-

ants tn exile, for the most part Living in San Juan, but

with some representatives in New York and Miami. U1 1s

dedicated to Sabotage, harrasemem and similar bit and

run type commanda operationa against the Castro regime

in Cuba and intends to Carry out Bix to eight such forrays

ta the coming months. The first of these is reportedly ; ¥

already planned in detatl and mill €0 into effect io the not hi ~

too distant future, Steouming from some undisclosed island

baze in the Caribbean, Thia organization has no poltical .

aspirations and does not look forward to any position or

representation in & postwar Cuban provisional government,

b, Ta date all of the support for this organ! zation
bas come primarily from private sourcea and they are
&axlous to accept contributicas from any interested sup-

porter, They have no averaton to working with the United iP
PO — eur 19 © only

a R gous due
| genre! [ES ne

 
14-00000

must of their plang to assure them succesa of this purely

we
‘seat

 

-2-

States Government Lf it will serve their best interests, how- 1
ever, with or without United States Government coordination \
and/or support they intend to go ahead with their plans. :
This organization does need more money and equipment

for future operations which may have to wait until they can

get the resources that they need. Their criticism to date

of all other Cuban exile groups 1s that they have wanted \
power, money, and position. Because this group wants :

none of these, except supplies and cash to get their harrass~

ment projects underway, they are, therefore, only tell-

ing what they-must lo convince interested helpers of their

seriousness and intent and will disclose only what they

aggressive, retaliatory, harrassment organizauion, They
claim they want nothing to do with the student group organ-
ization which recently shelled Habuna, As ex-CPA's their
very businesslike manner requires them to give receipts
for any funds received for help. .

* RECENT 4 ii, STE NBER MATE FORE Tales An dn

¢, They now have enough supplies to carry out their
first operation successfully and maybe one other. The
organtzation purchased these supplies in Europe to avoid
being identified with strictly United States support and
endorsement, They have approximately $30, 000.00 wluch
they coliacted from private, business subscribers, but
obviously need mure to go ahead after the first attack, At }
the present time they have one-boat, but need more for
future operations. They plan to use 6ix to ten men per
operation, and all of their training has so far teen carried
out in Puerto Rico, According tu their contact man in Rew
York, ove of their first operations is ta blow up all the he
power stations in Cuba.

d. Their personnel in the executive or lrade retup
phase, although sume are doubtless in (be cperational
phase as well, are as followe:

Lu in New York their keader is Alse rio

GUTLAREZ de la Sulana whe is employed vy
the mueaine Bohenia and Vanidaces, if Une
Lincuin Butd’ng, ap treasurer, (2:0)

 

 
74-00000

Sa
s
a

-3.
a
. ) fa San Juan, Puesto Rico, the leader
ig Jeronimo ESTEVE, He was a former leader
of the Catholic Pamily group in Cuba. (sic)

(8) Another officer in New York ts Ramen
PEREZ-Daple, office manager of the company
Olavarria, and Antonio VECIDVA Blanch, vice
treasurer, (atc)

(4) Other officers in Puarto Rico are Dr,
Raul JANES, an oculist, J. J, MURABOTTO, — /
former vice president of the Trust Company
of Cuba, and Roberto CASTELLON,

(5) Still other members in Puerto Rico are
Ricardo GONZALEZ Porta, Pedro MUINA, and

‘WSS urraeiraasuee meee " ERS ete ahsenettattretne as

. €. In addition to the officers in New York and San Juan
whick are listed above, they have a hard core of forty five -
combat persunne] trained in guerrilla operations who are.

slzo have two ez-army men from Cuba, a former Batista
officer who later was in CA8TRO's original army, end the

her a Castra officer who 16 known as the Miliary com-

mander and operations Gffice, who have directed the train- .
ing and will Carry out the operations when ready, ue

MORE TLD NE re sina 2 ten apie

3
2
Z
E
5
:
z
é
9
ty
8
ha
5
&
NN

 

 

 

In August 1962 these men were reported by an untested suctce to be infil-
rated Castroite Cubana even, thouch they are nued in Hazel Crest for
their anti-Communist activines. This information was Previously passed
ty the Bureau and the Immigration and Naturalization Service yn this

 

lie tay

Agency's CSCI-3/T72, 891 af 1 Octoler 1962, i

: , Be

‘4, Records of thts Agency reveai that one Antonio Carlow VECIANA A

Blanch, Probably identtes! with Antonio VECIDVA Blanch, was burn us i
18 October 1928 fa Cuba. VECIANA's Connection wita the Algoa 68 orpan- &

 
  

po

ization waa disseminated in ttes Agency's teletype OUT T46u5 . 6 9

 
