eo - + SECRET
e A ,

SUBJECT: Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues

additional documents with his name/crypt in them.. ‘Phat will now

occur at the May meeting of the Board. It is, however, unlikely

that the Board would agree to delay release until 2017, however,

there is precedent for delaying release of records on individuals
for shorter periods or until death.

ISSUE 6 -- {Richard Gibson (CIA Reset) /

\i2- (S)"RicHard Gibson, who présentiy lives in England, is
a left wing journalist who was associated with.the Fair Play For
\Cuba Committee (FPFCC), an entity to which Oswald wrote letters

-and claimed to be a membér.~ Gibson did not become an Agency.
(aseet until after the assassination, however, he had been-of:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

interest tod the F FBI when he headed the FPFCC. reports i a “F
(Combination of previous reléases"Tedto press reports in

1994/1995 about his relationship with'the CIA. At that time

jofficers weré dispatched to advise him about the possible fae a
{compromise and promise him the very best attempt at protecting

\the relationship.

 

 

 

 

 

  
   
 

i3.. (8) Since then, the ARRB has agreed to : aelay the.

eléase of any additional information until the Agency. and FBI
had determined the full extent of the files on Gibson and the _
potential damage: The issue is scheduled for ARRB action at the
May meeting and. our objective is to release Gibson's role in the
JFK assassination story while protecting his relationship with
{the Agency; however, the. FBI has a four volumes file which covers
both FBI interest and Gibson's relationship with the Agency. We
will be working in detail with the ARRB staff and the FBI on this
fapproach.

 
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

ISSUE 7 -- Certain Files of CIA Officials

14. (8) This isa major request encompassing ‘*... the
office files of the individual occupying the following positions
during the period 1959-1964.’ :

The Office of Deputy Director of Central Intelligence
General Charles Cabell 1953-1962

General Marshall Carter 1062-1965

The Office of the Deputy director for Plans

Richard Bissell 1958-1965 ;

Richard Helms 1962-1965

eeee8 @ @

-5-

SECRET
 

Ry
SUBJECT:

4

- SECRET

‘Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues

@ The chronological files of C. Tracy Barnes, 1959-1964
® Office of General Counsel, Lawrence Houston, 1959-1964.-
® Operational Diaries of William Harvey 1962-1963.

This request will by its very breadth require significant time on

the part of the directorate (and DCI) IROs.

While it may appear

overly broad, we have developed a methodology. with the ARRB staff

which provides the access required by the Board but guarantees
In sum, we work from shelf lists
to narrow the selection and then conduct file review sesstons——

that their review is focused:

with the ARRB staff;

sensitive,

if material requested is particularly
access can be limited to the ARRB Executive Director

.or. members of the Board. This effort will continue fox some
: te

time.

1S.
involved
level of
near the
However,
extended

will extend 12-18 months beyond the end (of the Board's existence.

{

\

Conclusion

(AIUO) At the present time, over 40 persons are

in the JFK records review and we anticipate that this
effort may increase by 25% in the coming months as we

statutory end of the Board (30 September 1998).
even if the Board is not extended (and it has been

previously),

‘there are statutory tasks for CIA which

Your continued support is critical.

Lee S. Strickland

- 6-

SECRET

ro

pee +
w
SUBJECT:

2.

~ SECRET
5 ;
Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues

ISSUE 1 -- Unacknowledged Covert Actions

of

{(S) Within records surfaced by the Ford Library is a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

document -- a Helms Memorandum for the Record on a PFIAB meeting
-- which contains references to CIA i
3. (S) After much negotiation, the ARRB staff has agreed

to recommend to the Board that the information related to those
covert actions be considered non-related and the documents
designated ““Not Believed Related'' (NBR). The document. will be
grouped with similar ~“NBR'' documents and be presented to the
‘Board for final action at the 13 April or 12 May meeting.- =

ISSUE 2 -- Alias Documentation and Accommodation Addresses

4.

(S) The security file of former Agency employee, David

Morales (deceased -- true name already released), within the
sequestered collection contains documentation on five of his

alias.

We anticipate similar problems as we re-review other

security files within the sequestered collection. We are
attempting to work a compromise with the following elements but
details have yet to be finalized:

5.

 

 

protect all references to ficia documents reflecting the alias
such as (Social security cards, drivers licenses
release items designated as pocket litter such as club cards,

protect elements of accommodation addresses to avoid identifying
specific locations, and

lastly, make a decision to actually release or protect the alias
itself depending on the timeframe and its importance to the JFK
story.

(S) However, disagreements on the actual implementation

{e.g., protect house number but release street name of ‘

:

(S) See Attachment 1.

(Ss) See Attachment 2.

-2-

SECRET
104-10331-10152

 

 

os

re -. SECRET

te

OIM 98-000nn
13 April 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Executive Director
VIA: Director of Information Management

FROM: Lee S. Strickland
Chief, Information Review Group/OIM

SUBJECT: ; ‘Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues

 

1. {(AIUO) Per your request at our 1 April bi-weekly
meeting, we have summarized below the significant issues which
are under deliberation and negotiation with the JFK Board. Our
approach on protecting Agency equities is multi-step:

e First, with the staff, we arque relevance although the statute and
implementing regulations define ‘‘assassination records’' very
broadly as including

e (1) any records related to the assassination or Oswald,
® (2) any records concerning the various conspiracy theories, and

e (3) any records within the scope of previous investigations
including the Church Committee, Pike Committee, Warren
Commission, or House Select Committee on Assassinations
(asca) ,*

e Second, with the staff, we argue that release would cause current
damage although the exemptions under the JFK statute are much
narrower than the corresponding exemptions under the FOIA, and

e Third, if we fail to convince the staff, we must proceed to a more
detailed and formal presentation to the Board.

+ (ATUO) It is the materials collected by the HSCA which are the most
numerous and often the most troublesome in terms of sensitive equities. They
are generally referred to as the ‘‘sequestered collection.’’

CLBY: 0219849

CL REASON: £.5(c)
DECL ON: Xt

DRY FROM: Multiple

SECRET
C gener

+ SECRET

H
a . .
SUBJECT: Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues

accommodation address) have prevented. a final resolution at this
-time. We are also exploring with the DO senior management”
whether the blanket release of pocket litter (whether awfully
obtained] } might present media or operational issues
today. Accordingly, we have requested that the issue be
postponed until the May meeting.

 

 

ISSUE 3 -- Organizational Materials

6. (S) This request (one of the earliest and known as CIA-
1) asked for organization charts on various Agency directorates
and/or components for the years 1958-1968. All Agency’
directorates provided material responsive to the request and ‘the
ARRB staff has selected items for inclusion in the.JFK
-<Gltection. Remaining at issue are three DO charts -- a 1961
sje DDP organization, a 1963 generic DDP organization, anda
etaided JMWAVE organization.* The DO has agreed to release the
first two and remain adamantly opposed to the release of the
JMWAVE chart given its similarity to current organizational
plans.

7.. (S) This issue will be presented by ARRB staff to the
Board at the 13 April meeting where they will recommend that the

DDP generic charts be accepted (good for CIA) and that the JMWAVE.

chart be declared as an assassination record (bad for CIA); an
actual vote by the Board will not take place until the May
meeting.

ISSUE 4 -- Mexico City Tapes

8. (S) This request asked for a thorough search of Agency
‘files and documents for and CIA **... surveillance ‘take’ from
Cuban and Soviet facilities in Mexico City at the time of the
Oswald visit and in the immediate wake of the assassination. ’’
Among the items provided by the DO were five boxes containing
audio tapes from telephone taps on the Cuban and Russian
embassies and facilities. A number of the tapes are dated 22

* (S$) See Attachment 3.

-3-

SECRET
« ?

+ SECRET

SUBJECT: Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues

November 1963;, many others are dated 23 November 1963 through

December 1963.

.

9. (S) This is one of the most complex requests because of

the following facts:

® at one time, there was a tape of Oswald in existence but it has
since been lost or erased;

 

e this was not an unilateral o eration but rather a joan oppration
iS 3

 

with the Mexican Government ; f a =

 

 

* there is a confidential request from. the ane (ES the Mexican 7)

{Government} for any (opies of the actual/Oswald conversation they

may possess; and,

 

7

® quite obviously, the sensitivity is not so much the mere fact that
we possess such tapes but our confirmation of the extent and our
release of the actual conversations captured.

10. (Ss) The good news, at least at this time, is that the
ARRB staff has agreed to postpone Board consideration until May
the Agency will have an opportunity to
review (i.e., listen and transcribe) and determine the

sensitivity and provide detailed arguments in this regard.

and, in the interim,

 

a,

ISSUE 5 -- Protection of (LITAMIL-9 }

11. (8) (LITAMIL-95) was a CIA penetration 6£ the Cuban _)
Embassy\ Unfortunately, his identity was indirectly and |

 

inadvertently released in 1993 and, as a result, (he was

identified
{ Oswald and the CIA}

 

true name as a CIA

 

As of 1993, [L

 

‘living in

 

ent in John Newman's book,
‘AMIL-9) was still alive and

 

with family in(Cuba.) To date, the ARRB

Board has agreed to protect his identity and crypt and delay. the
release of his 201 file until the Agency could make some
judgments about the potential damage created by the release on

iq
Ey

 

(Ss) The scope of this request is quite significant; it includes five boxes

of 185 tapes from operations against both the Cuban and Russian Embassy.

- 4 -

SECRET

om

F -
arene”

i)

*
