 

 

 

 

 

June 1967

Having heard that I had been promoted, then discovering.

that I had not, I asked for a meeting with ADDP Karamessines.-
When we met I expressed concern about this strange turn 6f |

» He said

- that he and the DDP were fully aware of C/SR's ‘position on. the

Nosenko. case and. fully agreed with it. He then directed ‘me to

' leave CI to those who were Yesponsible. for it and to concentrate:

on doing my own job. In addition, he said that my promotion
would go through, and that I should inform C/SR of this decision.
(It did; one pay period later than others promoted at the time.) —

Since “I was on leave at the time, no memorandum. of the conversa-

tion was written.

September 1967

vented the chain-of-command, I prepared and personally typed
a chronology of events and took it to Taylor so that he would
be informed enough to assure that his Nosenko review did not ;
become complicated by an element of personal or organizational: —
revenge. (Attachment E.) a

Late 1967

It became apparent that the Nosenko review was under way
and the Division case was coming apart.- .

   

eonard McCoy

Attachments
A/S

SECRET
 

 

 

 

 

‘Spring 1966

From personal contact with psychiatrist Dr. Bohrer and. .
psychologist Gittinger in the winter or spring of 1966, Ts
learned that they had independently arrived at the professional
judgment that Nosenko was sociopathic, and therefore could not -

- be reliably evaluated on the basis of substantive information

analysis such. as was used against him in the two notebooks. It
seemed to me that these conclusions would now bring the case

to a close, placing the bona fides evaluation in permanent = _
suspended animation, leaving us with the job of sorting
Nosenko's information for CI arid PI use according to the

. degree to which it was substantiated by collateral reporting.

When I heard that these two officers were scheduled to meet
with C/SR to present their findings, I waited for the word to
leak out that the Division had given up its case against Nosenko.

- To my surprise, I learned instead that when Bohrer and Gittinger

met with C/SR, the latter advised them that if they insisted on
their conclusion he would have to take the position that their...
support of an identified Soviet deception agent raised serious
questions about their own bona fides? — : : Lo

At about this time friend Breitweiser returned from over-
seas to take the position of Special Assistant to ADDP
Karamessines. I asked him to lunch and described to him what .
‘I knew to date of the Nosenko case, encouraging him to raise

the matter with the ADDP, hopefully to result in objective

review of the case.

April 1966

- Being convinced that there had been no progress on the Nosenko

case, I called DDCI Helms secretary Dunlevy and asked her. agree-
ment for me to bring a matter to Helms' attention privately. I

‘then took the surviving copy of the memorandum to the DDCI's

office and left it with Mrs. Dunlevy for him. A day or two.
later he called to say that he had read it, that he was con-
cerned about the Nosenko case, and he asked my permission to
show it to John Gittinger, whom he intended to ask to lock into
the case! I of course agreed to his doing so. (Months later I
received this document back, but the cover sheet was exactly as

I had prepared it, with no.mark to show that anyone had seen it.)

_Gittinger told me a few days later that Helms had called him in

and given him my paper, asking him to review the case and return
to him with some advice. Helms then called C/CI Angleton and_
told him that he was sending Gittinger down to Angleton to be
briefed on ‘all sensitive matters which were essential to under-

standing the Nosenko case. Gittinger then went to Angleton's

4.
SECRET
    

 

 

 

 

a . e
. . : +. . ©

office for the briefing, but. Angleton told him nothing,. saying
that: Gittinger knew everything that was pertinent to the case.

. December 1966 ceo . SR,
Having heard ‘nothing encouraging about the Nosenko case,

- and becoming more.and more pessimistic about. the Soviet opera-.
. tions program, I. prepared and personally typed another memorandum,

_ Summarizing the situation as it appeared to me, and delivered it _

.to Mrs. Dunlevy for DCI Helms about the middle of December 1966,
(This memorandum is attached as Attachment B.) ‘Helms then asked
me to come up and discuss the matter with him. In this meeting

he stated that he appreciated the situation, encouraged my con-

tinued attention to the problem, and insisted that I stay in the
job I had, coming straight. to him if I’ran into any trouble as a
result of my dealings with hin. By this time, .C/SR had directed
all SR/CI officers not to discuss the Nosenko case with me, ---

' March/April 1967

* Sometime during this period DCI called to ask that my:
Nosenko memorandum be brought up to him so he could give it to
DDCI Taylor. He said that he had asked Taylor to take charge
of the Nosenko case,-and that Taylor was turning it over to.
Security Director Osborn for independent review.

In April I prepared and personally typed a paper with some
proposals for disposition of the Nosenko case, called Taylor,
and met with him on those proposals, Aside from a Keystone Cops
episode of Support Chief White running in and out of the office,
apparently trying to get a tape recorder to operate, I can re--

'call only that Taylor asked how C/SR could have fooled so many
people about Nosenko. I replied that C/SR was the supreme .
confidence man. (Memorandum attached as Attachment C.)

In early April 1967, as a result of a pro-Nosenko briefing
I gave BOURBON (CKBEEP) case officer Flint, home on TDY, C/SR .
learned that I had been to see Taylor about Nosenko. After
investigating within the Division to determine the sources of
information I had told Flint, C/SR called me in to advise me
that he knew of my meeting with DDCI Taylor. After asking if
. there was anything personal in my opposition to his Nosenko
stand, C/SR made a plea for better cooperation and understanding
' between us. (A memorandum of this unpleasant incident is .

attached as Attachment D.) : ; .

5.

SECRET
 

 

 

 

 

 

. 16 October 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD -

FROM : Leonard McCoy °.
Deputy Chief, CI Staff

SUBJECT: Chronology of an. Effort to Inspire. ;
, — Objective. Review: of the. Nosenko. Case

  

BACKGROUND .

With the ‘HSCA emphasis’ on the Nosenko. case in its review’
of the Kennedy assassination, and the prospect of a more con-.
centrated review of the Nosenko case by: the House. or Senate.
Committees, I.feel that the time has come to record in the
‘Nosenko file the effort which I made in 1965-67 to have the.
-Nosenko case reviewed by a group of objective officers. This .
chronology has not been recorded before, but a general statement
concerning this effort was incorporated in J. be Hart's paper |
-on the "Monster: Plot"...

CHRONOLOGY .
1961- February 1964

. By the time Nosenko | defected and.arrived in the U. S. in
February 1964, my evaluation of him was already prejudiced by.
information which the case officer for Nosenko's 1962 contact

had provided me informally... This information. "Oo ted to the

bona fides of a Soviet agent called CHITCHAT. . IRELESS)
whom Nosenko identified in June 1962 as a gear eception
operation. When we met (ARCHITCHAT in London in August 1961

case officer and polygraph operator concluded that HAT
was bonafide;. I took the position,with them and wit and
later directly to the DDP, that HITCHAT was not bonafide.
‘Therefore, when KISEVALTER told me in mid-1963 that a new KGB
agent source had ident fied (Acunchat as a deception operation
Iwas predisposed to consider this new source. to be bonafide..
After his defection T learned that Nosenko had been this source.

with the primary purpose of establishing his “shar (si the.

Summer 1964

When Nosenko defected it became my task to formulate re-
quirements to exploit him for positive intelligence and to
draft reports to publish the information which he provided in

. E2 IMPDET
SECRET CL BY 012208

 
 

 

 

[foe toonst0t25}

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

response to those requirements. Most of the limited but
‘significant information which he provided was published in
two CS disseminations. After the publication of these
‘reports, C/SR Murphy directed that no further reports would
be disseminated, and instructed that the drafts be held antil
further notice. (It never came.) — oe : wo.

: As the Nosenko defection became public and kriown. in the.
-intelligence community, there was pressure for information ~“
from ‘Nosenko and access to him, particularly from DIA. DDP ©.
Helms visited DIA Director Carroll to inform him that. | Po
Nosenko's bona fides was.in question and that therefore no... .
further information from him would be published and he would.
not be made available to DIA for debriefing. .In accordance .~ .
with regulations concerning CIA priority in intelligence. ue
officer defector cases, the Inter-Agency Defector Committee .

was excluded from the Nosenko case.

November 1965.

su td

 

November 1965 a series of reports from_
was received from the FBI on various téchnical subjects.
é responsible officer for evaluating and disseminating
eports, I prepared evaluations for each of the reports
which were drafted on the basis of this information. C/SR
Murphy examined these evaluations and disputed each of them ©
with me, arguing generally that all of the information was
"‘"give-away" and part of a KGB deception operation. He
directed that I reevaluate the reports and correct the eval-
uations accordingly. Being still dissatisfied with the —
evaluations, he informed me that I needed to be educated
about KGB deception operations and that to achieve this he
directed that I read the notebooks on the Nosenko case. ~

 

Up to this point I was generally aware that Nosenko was
judged by the Division to be a deception agent and that he
was under interrogation to resolve his bona fides. Two note-
books o moranda concerning Nosenko were delivered: to me by
casket, These. notebooks were each 3-4 inches thick
and weré CoMmpri of mostly Ton Secret memoranda signed by
the DCI, DDCI, DDP, C/SR, DC/SR and C/SR/CI. After I had
been reading these memoranda part-time for two days, C/SR/CI
called to say that he needed the notebooks every day and had
to have them back within two days. After I had the notebooks
for four days he collected them from me.

Upon reading the first few memoranda and noting various

contradictions, inconsistencies, and inaccuracies I reselved
to note these down and comment on them. As the volume of

2.
SECRET

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

these problems grew it became apparent that it would not be

possible to simply state these orally to C/SR/CI but that

they raised a fundamental question which affected the entire -
issue of Nosenko's bona fides. With this realization I
decided to put as ‘much information as possible together insthe

_very short. time available so that an alternative position on

Nosenko! s bona fides could be considered.
December 1965
Upon completion of this paper I asked. C/SR/RR, ‘Katharine

‘Colvin, to review it and advise me as to whether it was

sufficiently substantial to be presented to C/SR. She agreed

that it. was, and pointed out that it would: probably cause some -

difficulties with the Division Chief, but that. it should go

'. forward. The memorandum was then typed by the SR/RR secretary

and I delivered it to C/SR personally. (A true copy typed from

‘the original ‘draft is attached as Attachment A.)

C/SR had barely glanced at the Introduction to this.
memorandum when. he became highly emotional, shouting and pounding
on his desk. He said that he knew I felt very. strongly about
the Nosenko matter and that he would call DDCI Helms immediately
and we would go together to settle the issue in his presence.

I asked that he first read the memorandum. He asked who else —
had read it and I named.C/SR/RR, DC/RR Ops Group Stolz, and -
DC/SR/RR Lubbehusen. He then asked that I collect all copies
of the memorandum and bring them to his office immediately.

(I did so, but some days later the secretary came in to say
that she had as usual retained one copy for her: files.)

The next day C/SR called C/SR/RR, DC/SR/RR and me to. his
office. He pointed out that my memorandum was an. extremely
serious matter and that it was not possible for us to have a

._ valid position on the Nosenko case because we were not privy to

a number of sensitive cases which he was not permitted to in-
form us about. He said that the memorandum: should not be dis-
cussed with anyone, implying that if any of us violated this
injunction, we would be fired. (C/SR/RR did a- memorandum of
conversation of this meeting.)

“Two weeks later I was on Saturday duty in the SR Division
front office and C/SR came in to argue the Nosenko case briefly.
He pointed out that Nosenko's claimed access was equivalent to

“that of an OSI nuclear physicist who was simultaneously deputy

chief of CI Staff and SR Division. I attempted to express
disagreement with this characterization, but C/SR's manner and
tone of voice did not permit anything like a sensible exchange
of views on the topic.

3.
SECRET
