 

i

SECRET /KAroR Enclosure 3 to HMMA~

COVER)

 

 

 

 

B ae ecunomics journal shicth strongly supports the
ree enterprise system.

cs

D, Principal Officers of E alove:

eo .
Identities:
UA.
ee

 

caer me sgh

 

Director:

 

 

 

,

- - “+ 26931 (UNDER SEPARATE

oo reer emantyens 6 etm

cen mene eens

 

s abvasuan b

mae
74-0000

 

 

. .
«
‘ “e bd -—, of,
SECRET /KAPOK
The Ses af te Mexico Station have been checked for derogatory
information om cnr nase tory information
on anyone cf tem = Efforts will be
made via LINZ F-i uw get him removed from the organization.
t
Hot
ia '
; .
i F
—
< '
HS
t :
if
a t
|
. . Hoo.
i |
3 uy
4 }
Ay te
I,
=-2— i

: SECRET/KAPOK
ENCLY SH A Aer mG 57 CS Cory

‘
74-00000

wer
g
+

SECRET/KAPOK i.
scene may not affect the g.oup*s, offices in other Latin American countries.
In the event of an emergency situation, contact can be made by the

COS with either LIHUFF~l or LIHUFF~2. .

NOTE: For a note on the production and some successes of the LINUFF
organization, see Appendix Il (separate cover enclosure 4),

 

a ee

Seeeatnadcantemerdeed

-7=
SECRET GyAPOK
AGF SE/

Rewer e

i ECL SA tT 4ADA

rnd see ae

 

event
vier wt

ee GBite he
 

SECRET/KAPOK
3. Commitments.
No permanent commitments have been made,

4, Funding and Accountability,
Funds will be paid to LIHUFF~1l by COS Mexico. Receipta will

be obtained. The money will be paid in cash in local currency. There
are no unusual funding and accountability requirements.
H, Annexes.

1, Administrative Plan or Fiscal Annex.

it is not believed that this annex is required for the LIHUFF
Project. .

2. Communications,
There are no communications requirements for the present time. .

3, Technical Support.

There are no' technical support requirements for this project.

4. Logistics.

There are no logistical requirements for this project.

5. Intelligence.

Operdional intelligence from other PBPRIME agencies is not
required, :

1, Emergency Conditions.

Since the Director of the group is a Mexican national, he could continue
living and working in Mexico in the event of emergency anti-ODYOKE
situations; however, he probably would not outright attack his own govern=
ment. It is likely that the group locally might lose its effectiveness or
cease to function in Mexico. However, a change in the Mexican political

~b«
SECRET, KAPOK

ITE aL KED 8 COPY

 

|
 

' SECRET/KAPOK

cut-out and operational adviser to LIHUFF~2, the Director of the group.
LIHUFF-1 worked for KUBARK in Panama from 1947 until April 1949
when he returned to Mexico, He was in contact socially with members
of the Mexico Station and in November 1962 was hired for the above
work, Biographical data is being forwarded via separate dispatch. He
is contacted by Willard C, CURTIS or Michael C, CHOADEN. Training
is not required since LIHUFF-1 has been in intelligence work from his
service with PBPRIME military intelligence during WWU. He was
engaged to work for PBPRIME military intelligence in Mexico until
recently. He knows that he is working for KUBARK. HMMW-11040 of
25 October 1902 granted OA for LIHUFF-1.

LIHUFF <2 is a 46 year old Mexican lawyer. He is alao a well known
economist who directs an economic research organization in Mexico and
other Latin American countries, He is met by LIHUFFl. LIHUFFe2
probably suspects that funds may come to him from ODYOK®; however,
cover used is that the money is from private business groups. He was
granted an OA on 26 October 1962 (HMMW~11089 of 9 November 1962).

2, Mechanisme

 

a. The principal officers of the Identity A group are listed in
Appendix I (separate cover enclosure No. 3), Other details of the
organization are included in C. Background above,

. b. The LIHUFF organization frequently and regularly makes
press placements in all of Mexico City's leading newspapers. Its
editorial features are also regularly accepted by provincial publications,
Radio and television placement is on an irregular basis.

(1) General pro mganda and political actions of LIHNUFF
will be influenced and guidedby the Station for its benefit.

(2) LIHUFF student operations have already been
utilized (often in coordination with other Station student assets),

(3) The LIHUFF editorial service for provincial news-
papers has been used by the Station.

(4) The press-placement capabilities of LIHUFF in- - -
capital city newspapers, which is considerable, has been used, This
will be taken advantage of by the Station for KUBARK purposes.

(5) LIHUFF's international connections, especially his .
associated offices in Salvador and Guatemala, will be exploited, °
w40 :
SECRET /KAPOK

 

 

 

ame

 
74-00000

 

SECRET/KAPOK
(6) The Station will call on LIHUFF to fill research needs.
E. Security Evaluation,

The LIHUFF organization is funded through a cut-out in such a .
manner that KUBARK participation is concealed. It is not connected in
any way with any other KUBARK operation. .

¥F. Coordination,

AU coordination with other PBPRIME elements will be handled by
COS Mexico as such situations arise, For the present there are none.
In the past, ODACID Chief Mexico asked COS Mexico to assist the group
-financially, Also, the operational use of LIHUFF~l was cleared with
PBPRIME military intelligence when it was learned that they also had an
interest in using him in clandestine operations. They are not using him
at the pre-ent time.

 

G. Coste.

 

1, itis requested that the following estimates be approved for use a
in the LIHUFF project for the period 1 May 1963 through 30 April 1964;

FY 1963 FY 1964 | :

LIHUFF-1 Salary $1,000. $ 5,000, | oi

Identity publication 2,400, 12,000, I
Identity student organization 1, 60¢. 8,000,

Total $5,000. $25,000, ~

Station Mexico proposes to pay only a portion of the LINUFF operation.
It is not intended that this partial support will make LIHUFF a completely py
controlled Station asset. It will make it responsive to Station guidance. an
The organization receives funds from private groups but the Station does

not know the amounts or all the donors and it is unlikely that we will ~ j
know these exactly. The Station, however, will be alert for the future |
possibility that the LIHUFF may begin to operate solely on Station funds, -t
Should this occur, steps will be taken to place the organization under po

 

-nfomplete, classic control,
2. Foreign Currency.
There are no specal requirements for foreign currency.
SECRET/KAPOK ,
 

SECRET /EAPOK

PRONECY OUTLINE .

CRYPYONYM _LIRUFY
SEATEON __ MEXICO CIry __

 

CHIEF OF STATIO!

a hee project is presented for zsproval.

- t—

SECRET /BsPOR

eS Gey

Face Of fh pf mars-tbg $s

rarncxse orca leo wes
Gis

tenermney agi «

(ge-ny- 2th

ce eT

1

eau

 

fee
 

 

104-10218-10040

Fc wapaae cc
Chief, WH Division
Gar QUAKE.
nn Cd
Chief of Station, Mexico City
ne Operational /LINUEE Field Project Qucine

AGT SERED - REFERRES
REFERENCE: A, DiR~$5153
B. HMMW-U321, 27 Feb a3

1, Enclesed for Heaiquarters" agprovell ie the Geld project outline for
LIHUFF. Detailed information reqarimy LISUEF-f is bebe forwarded by
separate dispatch with justification anda request tiat he be hired asa
contract agent.

 

2. The Station comtinues ta attermt to Sad omeritctions for LIHUFF
from private firms. There has been scme success im this effort, but this
assistance has been om a spot besiz. (4s Hee ipuertems is aware, Mexicans
contributing to such an organization casnot ieefat by tax reductions.) The
funds not provided to LEHUFF by tie Stetiom cume fromm the 3 group of wealthy
backers listed as Identigy D. We shall cont-nne 2p stinmelabe pFivate support,
and will advise Headquarters of azy rezilar. sigmiicamt euekributions.

ile iste

san eige canes cine

Enclosures:
Odd numbered pases, b/= :
Even numbered pages, u/s/c i
Appendix I, u/s/e ' t
Appendix I, u/s/e
’ Magazines, u/s/c

 

 

Distribution:
Use WH, w/fencls (orig & 4 copies propef”

eee Seep epee mes

 
74-0000

SECRET/KAPOK

A. Identification.

 

Mexico City, Mexico -- Political Action. See C. below for other

countries which may become involved.-

B. Objectives.

Yo support and sustain a long-established, proved, anti-Communist 3 a
front exgamization im Mexico. To encourage the expansion of the group's ~
presext efforts in provincial Mexico, and, to some extent, in other
countries. To obtain a measure of significant control over the
orgarization through this continued funding. To guide the group in
imcreasingly more efficient methods of fighting Communism and fostering
pro-sestern programs, such as the Alliance for Progress. To '
accomplish the following objectives in the Related Mission Directive:
Priority & 2. a, ¢, d, e, f, g: Priority B. 1. a, b, d.

Cc. Background,
LIHUFF (identity A) was founded in 1953 under the auspices of a a
grocp of Mexican bankers, industrialists, and merchants to spread the i.
principles of free enterprise and private initiative. Since its founding, !
the group has arranged a number of meetings and congresses designed ‘
to exslore the dangers of Communism (particularly in its economic
aspects): and hyper~nationzlism. It has also financed the publication of
parccalets, bulletins on economic matters, and books. The director of
this rrocs (LYINUFE-2) received support from LIHUFF-I and the business
firms which LINUFF-1 headed in Mexico until 31 December 1962 when this

cormgany decided to give up its franchise in Mexico.

oe ete meni ce .

in Bune 2960 LIHUFF-1 visited the ODACID Political Counselor and
requested am ODACID contact with LIHUFF-2's organization. Subsequently,
Chis, ODACED Mexico, asked the COS, KUBARK Mexico, to explore the
possibifity of givimg financial help to the group headed by LIHUFF-2. In
mic-Augist 1962 (HMMS-2530 RYBAT), Oliver G. GALBOND advised the
Mexice Station that the group had been receiving partial financial aid
from a group of PBPRIME business corporations (solicited by Mr. Heury
Hetand, now deceased) and that KUBARK Headquarters had also provided
some financial assistance through this channel. After the death of ;

t

ieee yee eee cape

ere
?

2

ae ee

: SECRET/KAPOK . ..|
“Te A
£3 Gi? ;

EMEA Hing -D0530
 

SECRET/KAPOK

Mr, Holland, it waa recommended that the funding be handled through
the Mexico Station, Specifically, this was to help pay for the publication
(Identity B). The local ODACID Chief was consulted. He replied that he
thought LIHUFF~2 was one of the few economists in Mexico fighting
Communism, The ODACID Chief also said that everything possible
should be done to support the LIHUFF publication (HMMT~3023 RYBAT
1926, 30 August 1962). .

The LIHUFF organization has its offices in Mexico City, with
associated offices in Salvador and Guatemala, and working contacts in
the provinces of Mexico and in several capital cities of Latin America.

LIHUFF devotes its efforts to selling the free enterprise system as
an economic way of life and in defending at every turn individual liberty
or freedom. In Mexico this type of organization is rather unique, as the
trend in Mexico is towards more government intervention.

LIHUFF maintains an excellent library of source materials on
economics and free enterprise, which is open to interested researchers,
LIHUFF publishes regularly a considerable amount of materials,
including the monthly publication (Identity B). See Enclosure 5 for
samples of LIHUFF publications. .

The group is extremely active in the student field, in the provinces
as well as in the capital. It supports student publications; has organized
a national student group (Identity C); and engages in militant student
political action.

LIHUFF also prepares and sends out to provincial newspapers
editorials featuring anti-Communist themes. In the last four years
LIHUFF has collected 65 loose-leaf binders filled with editorial clips
authored in the LIHUFF office. LIHUFF also sponsors a training course
at which interested groups (of 15 to 20 persons) are indoctrinated.

LIHUFF=-2, Director of LIHUFF, has shown complete dedication

to his program, The members of LIHUFF, especially the students,
have demonstrated courage and competence in a variety of operations.

D. Operational Assets.

1, Personnel.
LIHUFF-l is a 47 year old PBPRIME businessman who acts as a
coo bed

SECRET /KAPOK --

aes

ne os ence

 

ae rps
