 

 

 

 

 

a 7 . . 8 -

Gubject: Gold Shipments : Report no:[— fo
: Date of Information: Mayuly 1950

, Ie-*F _.
Place seasteea:f— “I © Date Acquired: JunowJuly 1950
bee . .

Evaluation: Date of Repart: 10 July 1950 .,, it

 

Bource: nope Det pilin ath, 1th! . ~~ pete
. “yeour e : bee OF ,
LH 1. Ge reported tat an 7 Kay 1950 a BeS6 type boater/lerrived-tn Evid, Passa,

from Brownsville, Texas tus to a low cos0lize suprlye @ plano’wes headed for

   

ir
i Tocunen Airport in Parca City, ae Carriod as.a crew tha following acoording-to
Gms
— -
Frork OWGFL, UsS. Citizen, Pilot . .
Os HARTUIEZ, UsSe Citizen, Co-Pilot os .
- St 3 UeS. Citizen, Mechanic .
Arak Mauricio -Castau, Ponaneniat, Passenger _

 

“\ or (4 thf blew out at Lavid and Civil deronautics technician et
vf Tocunen rt was instrusen getting @ spare tire to then,
. “4 ete Pe we aa BE a Ty pocld
Re office that he had mot Steve MURRAY in Havana in
4prfl 1950 in-conneny with « fellow" razed ZORILLO, tho elaized to havo sczre
4, connection with the, Secret Police, in-kexieotS[“"Heser ied MURRAY Plas an -
: . advonturor who hed been in the Philipines end tha Far East and-whoa he suspected -
f/f gold amuzeding activities, [pata that LUARAY wos pilot of the plene
ie. and he thought it was unusual that eo fest @ plano cs this and as expensive to
operate was teing used when it had conpargtively little cargo space. In Vay
1950, whon kURKAY was in Panama, be told that ho was buying orchid bulte.
: BS

  

 

‘

: . (a 2
i gS On 16 June 1950 the following information was’ recetved( fro Civil Intelligence
: + Section, Panana Canal, regarding this matters . :
a

“It-hap-beon-reported-that Very frequently a Be26 airplane (NSS6N ~ 6 Martin
Morauder) makes tring between Tocuncaf and David, Reis It is piloted by
Steve MURRAY,’ andiat Teast two other imeriesns ridowon-the-plano, whichis “~~
Senetines met at Tocucen Airport by eithor Tito, Har~odito or Toni ARIAS.
On lending at tho airport it goes directly to a hangar, and allegedly the
£m) only ones who vioit it era the 28185 brothers, PASTOR Ponce, Chief of the
Airport, and one (fnu) LINARES, Chief of Custocs at Tocusens
Pree Leon ee . . .
*IrLormant stated that it was baldeved et first that the plane wea engeged
in arss contrabard, but later it appeared more lovical to assume that it

wes involved in another type of scugeling, poscibly druzes
PVirgilio PAVIPEZ, thea Chief of the Control Tomar, 13 said to have stated

that the plane cccas and f,06e without teirg Yegistered at the airport under
orders of FOE, Ainnart Manager; that the place landa withoat Signalfing

few 0,
20e reap Ph Ge

ot ee

 
 

  

 

Ao4-t0t72-10001). ; . :

 

 

soy 8
. 4 : _ 5 OE gas
lb-G - 2 ,
aoe A | reer ia Loral vile nor
Sorat tbe Noe
Ko. of Dagens aa Bnele gress ws wee,

 

——Eseett tate tel Hoverd MeAnteh tcsraveg pg: _ ne :
ny

Dietridution: jp Wash & —_

 

 

By copy to a). Crally te: .
erg! {M . Pee Fi hele bes: *
See : Laie atiabte to the Eabsessy ani | OMNES,
2 : . ot ;
Source Cryptonyn: Sources Identified ke ferences:
Source, Operational Data, and Commenta: bare m

  

3. 4

my tion to Guatemala and Panna.
a : : .
ye Che “Foquested confirmation of the sbove informations -

It 49 poositie that the attached Teport ney tend to confira part of this’

informations
: Ba Not Rep
i Classt fication ‘ . ry

Poem xo,
€ha 194g 88-00

 
14-00000

f . tae =

ty rails or talkirg to anyone for four Of detect! sa at alteouk Finld, but

heat dt ds elgicded ty mans of a 4 atee that the tinld Ie sf

free for Tomtirgs ésramite as ug they antl or Jlany QUT. te: f .
Sar S aAnke that Pansat alr ecroveent with ¢. Basted ctates revardirg landing ,
‘ ‘Pale? ana tenty delg Violated, ard that Lhose teo sen wore afterwards - ft
reacted Erea their Joba, te .. .

“ Mere .

Teant acde that lie above plane ladsd at Teewen froa “avid on 13 kayo
PeSeg 08 12 Lay at 6:51 Pokey Oc 14 May a 6259. Pete and on 16 May
Bote : .

Fhe sbove tforeation was allegedly given to Prestiert ARIAS by the Kinister

of sovermment and Justico, and he &operently shored litrle intorest inthe —

7 eudlect, merely stating that the Fatter shoule be tavestivated to seo what
there is to ite ee .

Upoa receipt of this inforzation it aopetred that Tirgilio RAXTREZ might have
been the Source, since he. was fired froz his post xt Tocunen Airport and was
XY diserantled ; about_ite It was‘ oscertained that the information contained
f the anew) Reracrant , in which RAN TRE? {5 nentionsd,exs reported by RAMIRE2/ but

  
 
 

 

    
 

  

the ofer infornatyon ana from other Civil patltceece sources o
in Mae [heme wcetiered utewty”

$e 6 Jy advised that the-chove-plars-ant Stevo KURRAY had re~
i turasd to Fonz at the Lirister of Goverrsest bad ordered that the plane

‘Gisaertied and Searched ,but he could not ascertain the basis for the search.
ps had talked to the Kanager of the Alrport, Psfael PsSTOR Porce, and with .
&

from Kexicg City via Monogua ond arrived at Tocuran at nw Pome § July. Bis

hacer Steven T. Murray
Passport Noes 2624 .

dissed? Manila, Docenter 2, 1946. . .
Renewed: Kantla, Doconter 27, 1948 7 -
Exgires: Decoater 2, 1950 . . :

He furstahed the folowing additional informations

Tyye of Planos Converted B26

UeSe Segistrya S546 N .

Pilot end Ownors Steven Te Murray

Copfiots Frank Oerpol, US. citizen
ee Fligts Exgireers Cristobal, Martinez, Koxtcan sitisen .

ri Mauricio Di CASTRO, Panssontan Citizen (beurer of offiotel

. Passport), pessencer fron Mexico City to Tocunea soot

Destinations Brownsville, Texas

Purpose of Trips Businose

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

— >
“us robe, og caret
- . te. . : Gt: es

He stated that he was in the exporteizpert business ard that he dealt in gold. |

He said that ho hed coco to Panors ta
dealer frca Buonos Aires, about gold

€. Ou 8 July, Kintstor of Goverment,

Seo'a ran ty ths race of S3S,'a gold a
shiprenta. o... a re ~

ae oa:
Alfredo ALILAN resorted the

      

_ the U.S. dcbassador, Stating that prior to arriving da dinaca Bhe plane had
vo beon Gignaled, thet’ 513 wos not well at the afrport and Stat, the crew hed

“C/
~ fis, thing wes jottisoned,

. ben
o

“was advised that PASTOR. Ponce had, in
-mined to bump off Tont ARIAS. Both

 

  

182 Crete et, a
8 Tho Mextenn /refersed” toyaCris'
ere bolieved to be identical. SAS

doaler, whe oporates An Buenos Aires ani Hortavides,

; “thon has. advised that SAS Kus. "stay ine
9) from Panana hastily,

At woe later
. dnvolvirg the Prosidont's fumilye

Secure the release of the plaro. Tho

ARIAS wos -bohind fall but that Pssicr Ponce wes, se faa
fod. .

CiS-alvo-advised. wnat Presic
ordore for the, disaisaol of both his nechow, Tont 23
ureed that Tont ARIAS would not bo fired.to avoid a Public scandle

Jettisoned cargo prior to orrdvale (4 check with the air Force authorities
does not confinn that any such ressege wes sent ard MUAY dondes that ay

at he was cocine te Panaza to discuss the

“a gold busines but that he had no earge.)t/ The Kirister also advised the dcbassador
that PASTOR Ponce had been fired a3 Eead of the alroort, - >

of
ras says conversation with HST Ponce and LURUY oa the dicht of 8 say]
te TE!

fest, beon fired and that he was cetar
Uy and PASNQ bonce clained that Tonk

   

 
 
 
 

 

  

ntified ass * a sold
vil “Intellisense Seue”
with Toni aRIAS end thet: had eonarted,
4215S, at—Lirst-had given
y ANd PESTA Ponce, but

 

 
 

A Lage

oy : . ,
4D Ge (mo Present status of tho matter is that the “Plane has teen searched with
nogative results, that the Plane is still boing held ty the Panssanion authori
ties and that xuRay end others are Oomeavoring by every mecns possible to

has beon disaissed and Toni ARIAS, tho Presidont's_pertex, will Probably be

. alenod to withdraw from his position

 

t
he

 

Yok

 
