 

 

 

 

    

 

L

+ SECRET

Mise ty
address: We extict to ask the Chief of Station Mexico to
assist in locating these three and to assist in providing
a secure facility for them to be interviewed by the
Committee staff. As per our Memorandum of Understanding with
‘the Committee, all notes taken during these three interviews ~
should be retained by the Station, classified Secret and
pouched to OLC for disposition. The Committee will carry
with them a copy of your letter to Chairman Louis Stokes
authorizing current/former employees to talk to Committee
investigators. :

Lyle L. Miller

Attachment:
As Stated

Distribution: |

Orig - Addressee. w/att
1 - DDCI w/att

1 - ER w/att

1 - SA/DO/O w/att..

SECRET
fod-in06st0144

     

fe . SECRET Oo rt __

7 He 1G 2 36 PATS
OLC 78-1745
z 16 may 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

FROM : Lyle L. Miller
- Acting Legislative Counsel

\ SUBJECT : House Select Committee on Assassinations Staff
‘ Visit to Mexico City, 30 May 1978

1. (U) Action Requested: None; for information only.

2. (S) The House Select Committee on Assassinations staff
plans to visit Mexico City to interview individuals in connection
with their investigation into the death of President John F.
Kennedy.

: 3. (U) The Committee is sending four staff members to
7 Mexico City. They are:

Gary Cornwell, Deputy Chief Counsel
Harold Leap, Investigator

Dan Hardway, Researcher

Edwin Lopez, Researcher

 

i 4. (S) This team is scheduled to arrive in Mexico City
from Houston via TIA 983, on 30 May for a four to five day visit.
They expect to contact the Mexican Government Attorney General's
office to seek assistance in locating Mexican citizens for

oh. interviews. They have asked the Agency to assist in locating

| other individuals, and we have forwarded their request to the

. Chief of Station, Mexico (see attached).

5. (S) Of the individuals requested, Charles Flick is a forn
employee and‘ formerly operated a DDO
photographic surveillance site. A third individual was recently
requested. He is Robert Zambernardi, a former TSD officer who
retired in 1965, listing American Embassy, Mexico City as forwardin

 

 

 

 

Tb Efed
se

FOSIEF

 

SECRET

 

 
