13-00000

eras
eet ty
. .

=~,

 

  

   

God i = calareci. a3 noted ithe sracs releace, The
purpose of ea sneclically to obrciniay
intelligence information. There is no truth to the alleration that

3 at
CIA paid vie. 8 Gee or any other sisesble sum: of money to aithe

= 5, The Agency has also had Hentt ed
contact with Jorge ROERIONO, Albert
Cazlos TESZDING, usted in the press

contacts were restricted to obtainin:

 

Ys/ Rictera Folas

. Richard Helms :
: Deputy Director. .

 

Poe] , Signature Recommended:

 

isl Theazs y, Surenessi 3

re
FEA foor

 

 

   
 

104-10315-10020

   

 

SURE CSE AWTUTTNSA TR 2 ry C wet. 4 V wile
MEMORANDUM FOR: The Honorable Dean Rusk

CIA invelvement in Cuban Ccuster-
revolutionary Activities--Arrest of
‘“Relandse CUBELA Eecades aad
so Ravacn Toraas GUIN Diaz

ee

SUBJECT

 

1, With reference to the Habana Prensa Latina news release
of 5 March 1966, alleging O14 involvement with Roicndo CUBELA .
Secades and Ramon Toraas GUIN Diaz in counterrevelutionary
activities, the following outlines the Agency's contact with these two
persoas. : . . - .

 

2. GUIN was recruited by a CIA agent in August 1953 inside
Cuba es a Principal Agent to recruit high-level military leaders.
Be has had no contact with CIA staff personnel.

 

3. CGUBELA, the more important cf the two man, has been
in contact with this Agency during the pericd 1951-1965. The iast
Agency contact with CUBELA was in February 1965, He kas hed
direct contact with several Agency officials ‘and, in addition, is
: known to have been in contact with Cuban exiles, including Manuel

ARTIME. CIA's contact and reletionshin with both CUBELA and GUIN
owas for the express purpose of using them to collect intelligence on
military activities and objectives in Cuba. The Agency was not
involved with either of these two mon in a plot to assassinate Fidel -
Castro, as claimed in the Prensa Latin: news release, ner cid it
ever encourage either of these two persons to attempt such an act.

4 Mel

 

 

slease, isa .
Spain, and was .

       

 

 
