 

 

 

“that no one had ever even talked to him about it. , ,

 

in general.

 

    
 

involved in turning in his Korscmml canis He edmitted thet he vas the enly -
nerber of the SCD who vas not either in the Kersemel or the Party, but neintained

Te Subject eaid he received vhe following cedalz and awardest
Medal for Vietery over Cernany 1945-6
Ld For Defeneo of Yescov 1945-6
" 40 Years Soviet Arny 1957 .
. ' : 1942 er 1963
Lid 3rd Clase, For Benorable Service, 10 years x
Order of Red Star : end 1961 o

Im regard to the Medal for Honorable Service, 10 years, Sub‘ect first :
2 ;
seid he received it in March 1963, then corrected hissolf and said 1962. Asked

why not in 1960 (it takes into eccount both military and KC3 service), Subject
said he didn't knew why it was so late, that it wae persennal's faulty possibly
because of the reorganization of the SCD. These are nonsensical answers, and. it
wa fe obvious that Subject is unrure about when he shou-d have received this

 

redal,: .Temenbers. the previous interroge ston, and is being carefule

Baked uke vhat he recéeved the Order of the Red Star fer, Subject vas
extremely evasive. telat red net te renabor the exact ‘formation of the
order, and perhaps slipped when be said "For exceptional. perforrance of missicn.®
When I asked hin, what mission, he said sarkt that it was just for good work.

 

Subject alse said that in 1959 he was put in for the Order of the Red Banner,
iecubtahomioguiockt because of his tourist reoruitrents, but did net get it,
probably because he was transferred to the First Dept at the time, Raninded a
abeut bis provieus beasts about the Order cf Lenin, he seid that 1% wae previved ,
$e hin in 1963 ‘bat be did net reoéive it. Subject did not’ say whet St weld have -

cs

  
 

 

Pa

 

 

8, I asked Subject if he had uttended the opening of the Dserzhinezly

Ferorial.mmn in front of the KGB building. Subfect quickly xxtepumx
said that he vaan't there and that he cidn't remexber when it was

epened er where he was at the time, He refused to estizete vhether thia

took ‘place under Beriya, Kruglov, Serav;:Shelepin, or Serichastnyy, and

leeked uncemfertab.e when reminged that it was @ very big event, attended .

by Deerzhinskiy's wife and son, anong others. (It was epened om 20 Des 1958 =
st

the sithtn birthday of Seviet State Security - ans was attended by Khrushehev-

and mikey other preesidiun verberae)

 

%e Subject . Nas aked to describe his father's funeral, This he did ina setisfestory |

memner.s dys where be had come fron to attend. this. funeral, Subject: replied .
that be ves in Moncey all the tixe of hie father’s illness frem Hay 1956 until.
his Sita in August 1956 with the exception ef ea fev days TDE in Kiev (this
Weald “men be for the BURG] case, atout ubfch Subject will be questioned: next

, tie) Of possible interest is Subject's remark, appropes of nething in-

portrait
fertioular, that the poactagaaph of his father that hung in the House ef

_Gelwene ahd was published Sn the pacers at the fine of Me dowth was sot a gpet
‘Likeness. :

+ We Sous tine vas spent questioning Subject en the residences of the Soviet

heirarchy, especially these vho lived either at Granovekly or Serafinovich
Streetae Setnfemtoathbon The results vere incenelusiver Subject dis pot wink

"any mMoatakes, ner aig he have any sensations) revalatiens, Asked vhat residences —

he personally Visited, he saad only BULGANIN, RESYG.H, MALISEBV TIM SHENED, -

_ KREOYAN, (dasha), SHCKEREAROV, Subjert! eala he didnot keov whore mauLon. Lived: va

 

 

 

 
14-00000

 

blocked by LYALIN,= whe vas deputy chairman at that tize.and a menber of

:
}

| | the prosetion board = on the.grounds that Jmuduix Subject should..be made: te
wait because of shortoomingsl: his Vorke Subject said that he was propossd fer
i rajor in 1959, but only received captain. At that time, be vas pro :zed by —

| GRIBANCV that he would be proueted directly to Lt, Colonel the next time
areund, and this. happened, I teld Subject that this was impossible, and pointed

cut te his thet not even the astronaut GACARIN had been able to ekip a ‘Tanks

 

Subject simply inaisted that this 1s what had heypeneds He said that he didn't

  
  
   
   
  
   
 
 
    
  
 

| knov why he should have gotten such special treatment, and ceulé only suppese
that allewance was made for his leng stretch as @ Sr. Lt. and the fect that
| : i he was a deputy chief of department. (Subject's story does not held water no
matter what way.you.turn itz even if bis career hed preaceded nermally he vould
: } not have been eligible for Lt. Col before 1964.) Asked vhy he had previously
teld.us that he had been a majer (in the auteblography prepared in Frankfurt),

Subject said he did not think we would believe the true storys

|

| 6. Subject vas then questionsd briefly'on the fameus WD ineident. His stery
about the investigation of this ingddent dees not cenfernm te nermal practise

| 4m ouch cases, end is not belicvable,, Still worse is his account of the

eensequences this ineident had en big Keusomel standing, He tintains that

| the ypyskaniy, oak was reneve@ froz his recerd in Oct 1954, just a few .
| wenthe after the incidents Thhs Af never done in less than a yoar, especially
| fer such a sorinus effenses His ohptanation that this was dene to enable hin
|

A

jcoc> + te leave tae Kerockol becatss: sf age; without @ black mark on his recerd is:

 

simply absunts: for «. aD officer | te’ ‘leave the Kensonel becation, of- age. vind. vithout::

entering the: party 1s « black mark dn itself, and'v. ula inevitably mean a
peribe the procedure

‘
a

     

expulaion frem. the. mupe Subject | was completely unble to cry

   
 

 

 

Raval GRU. Thie was in Oeteber 1950, although the processing had started in the
spring, He deregistered fron the rayvoyenkomat dim Sept. He left for the Far
Fast mediately. ix Questioned about the procedures involved in processing
for hie departure, Subject was tetall: unable te describe the ecrrect sate
documents and precedures, and even said that he travelled in civilian clothes.
If Subject had over been a naval officer anyvhere (or fcr that matter an
efficer in eny branch of services) he could easily have invented satisfactory
answers to my elementary questionse@s instead he appeared to ve improvising

answers on the basis of very inade:uate knowledges

Ge Subject vave the following chronolegy of his military rankss
duly 1947 . oe o dre Lt. of the Reserve
Octeber 1950 dfs Ire Lte
April 1951 (vbile in Fur Rast) Le
April 1953 (in KD) ¢ 0 0  Sre Lte
October 1959 (KGB) » » « Capte.
*  Oatbeliew 1963 (KGB) co 2 «© It, Colons]
In mo instance does he renorber vhe signed the erder ef his promotion te a new
wilitary rank (normally, onewould rerember at least a few). I teld Subject that
4% vas inpossible for him te have been premeted in the MVD in April 1953, oF
Gh any tive in March = June 295% and even later in 1953 < because net one
single persen in the MVD was promoted at this tine, He leeked asteunded and
at first seened undecided vhat lins to take, but finally said that-he couldn't
sey about anyone else, bat he was sure that he received bis premetien at that —

 

time (In fact, this is exoiuied. ‘A prometions were bela up Tron Borda”
until late 1953.) Lo oe . a
fe Sheet and tat De apt wy Fr cpt tf ut Wat the preston van

fae oe ee ane oo secon ecto

Bewbleuen .

 

 

    
  
   
    
 

    

Be 5

10. Some tine was spent questioni::g Subject on the
vesidences ‘and’ private lives of the Soviet heirarchy;~
especially those who lived either at Granovskiy or Serafi-
movich Streets. The results were inconclusive: Subject wie
did sot make any mistakes, nor. did he have any sensational
revelations. Asked what residences he personally visited, ws
he seid only BULGAHIN, KOSYGIN, MALYSHEV, TIMOSHEHEO, ‘ ~
MIKOYAN (dacha),.SBCRERBAKOY. Subject said he did not know an
where KOBULOV lived. in Moacow.. , : : .

2b

        
      
     
   
    

11. At the end of the session Subject vas reminded
that previously he had said that he received his first VB
im Leningrad. Ee admitted that thie was wrong, but said .
he got some sort of documenta connected with hig schooling
through the yoyenkomsat in Leningrad; however, he could not
remeaber what docusents they were.

   
 
   
   
    
  
 

 

 

  
      
     
   
     
    

“woyenkonat, uhereaa priér to 1958 wey vere eotually lecaied iz tie Huta” -

  

Rapert of Interrogation ef 10 August 1965

le Today's session was from 1100t0, 1200.and.fron.1300 te 1500, It was largely.
deveted to a review of Subject's military ranks and awards, but inevitably’

a manber of related topics vere touched upon. Subject vas alge questioned Tee
about his father's funeral, and about. members of the pracsidéum and the Soviet

gevernnent generally. . 4

2. Subject vas first asked when and where he first entered on active ollitery ¢
services Sctsxk Ho said thet norrally people vere called up at the age ef 18, :
and Ptela him that the age was 19, but 18 4f the person has the “equivelant of
a full se ondary education, He sa:d he was naver called into the army, but
received a deferment because he was a student at the Institute of International
Relations, Ia June. or’ July 1947, .at the end of his second. year at the-.

 

Institute he received the rank of Jre Lt of the Reserve, as did ali his olasonatese

‘
i
Hy received his first: TRESS (VB) at the end of 1945 er early -19465 |
at”
stooge: the rayveyenkamt | at his place of residence $xtctmeatmeso atom |
- be said he thought. dance it sight have besa Krasnepresnensit .
viich was Ul Granevskege4 . 20
rayen (this is correct, ani ‘ds the first tine he has mentioned @ rayon in which
This was an ordinary enlisted can's YB, In 1947 this

 

 

he lived).
VB was replaces with an officer's VB, In neither case was Subject able to

give an adequate description of hey the documents vere dssued, nor did he have
any idea of what vas in them. He does not knew it what brane: ef service

he was (except that it vus net the navy), what his mutugmry sostay: /catesory/,
was, or his 5. He said that/ailitery registratien desk as lecated in the

 

 

we
1

i
|
i
Be Subject said that be first went on active military service then he entered =? |
 

 

.was deputy chairman at that time and a member of the pro-

‘promotion to a new military rank (normally, one would

   
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 

1950, although the processing hed started in the spring.
He deregistered from the rayvoyenkomat in Septeaber.
Be left for the Far Best immediately. Questioned about
the procedures involved in processing for his departure,
Subject was totelly unable to describe the correct docu-
weats and procedures, and even said that he travelled is
¢ivilise clothes. If Subject hed ever been a naval offi-
cer anywhere (or for that matter an officer in any branch
of service) he could easily have invented satisfactory
ansvers to my clesentary questions; instead he appesered to
be improvising enswers on the basis of very tnadequate
knowledge.

4. Subject gave the following ehronology of hia
military ranks:

duly 1947 - Jr. Lt. of the Reserve °
October 1930 ~- Jr. Lt.

April 1951 (while in Far East) - Lt.

April 1953 (im HVD) ~ Sr. Lt.

October 1959 (KGB) ~ Capt.

October-Hovember 1963 (KGB) - Lt. Colonel

In no instance does he remesber who signed the order of his

renoaber at least a few). X told Subject that it was in-
possible. for’ him to have been: promoted in the MVD in April
1983, or at any time in March-June and even later in 1953-
because not one single person in the MYD was promoted at
this time. fle looked astounded end at first seemed unde-
cided what line to take, but finally said that be couldn't
gay about anyone else, but he was sure that he received
bis promotion at that tise. (Im fact, this is excluded.
All promotions were held up from Beria until late 1953.)

8. Subject said that he was put up for captain in
1956, but that the promotion was blocked by LYALIN--who

motion board--on the grounds that Subject should be made —
to wait because of shortcomings in his work. Subject
said that be was preposed for major in 1959, but only re-
ceived captain. At that time, be was prowised by GRIBAROV
that he would be promoted directly to Lt. Colonel the .

mezt tine arcund, and-this-— happened. --—i-toid “Subject—thwt -— ~—

 
 

10d-40241-10066

 

Td
wae tel,

 

  
 

LL August’ 1965°%"
SUBJECT: Report of Interregetion of 16 August 1965

1. Today's session vas from 1100 to 1200 and fron
1300 to 1500. It was largely devoted to a review of Sub-
gect's military ranks and awards, but inevitably a susber
of related topics were touched upon. Subject was alsc
questioned about his father's funeral, and about members
of the praesidium and the Soviet-Government generally.

2. Subject wag first asked when and where he first
entered on active military service. He said that normally.
people vere called up at the age of 18, and I told bis that
the age was 19, but 18 if the person has the equivalent of
a full secondary education. He.said he was never called
into the’ srmy, but received'a deferment because be vas’ a
etudent et the Institute of International Relations. In
June or July 1947, at the end of his second year at the
Iastitete he received the rank of dr. Lt. of the Reserve,
ag.did all bis classmates... He received his first voyennyy
bilet (VB) at. the end of 1945.or early 1946, at the
Fayvoyentouat for his place of residence at Ul Granovskogo,

said be thought it might have been Krasnopresnenskiy
rayon (this is correct, end ia the first tine he has cor-
rectly mentioned a rayon in which he lived). This was sa
erdinary enlisted man's VB. Is 1947 this VB was replaced
with am officer's VB. In neither case was Subject able te
give am adequate description of how the docusents were
issued, mor did be have any idea of what was in thes. Ee
does not know in what branch of service he was (except
that it was not the navy), what bis sostavy /category/ was,
or bis HOS. He said that the military registration des&
was located in the yoyenkonat, whereas prior to 1958 they
were actually located in the Militia Sections.

3. Subject said that he ‘first vent om active wilitery
service when ho entered Faval. GED. Thies ves in October

 

 

 

fsa

   

 

 
 

 

3.

thir. was impossible, and pointed out to him that not even
the. astronaut. GACARIN--had.been.able.to. skip a rank. Sub--
ject simply insisted that this is what had happened. He
said that he didn't know why he should have gotten such
special treatwent, and could only suppose that allowance.
was made for his long stretch as a Br. Lt. and the fact
that he vas a deputy chief of department. (Subject's
story does not hold water no matter how you turn it; even
4f hig career had -proceeded normally he would not have ~
been eligible for Lt. Col. before 1964.) Asked why he had
previously told us that he had been a wajor (in the auto-
biography prepared in Frankfurt), Subject said. he did not
think we would believe the true story. 7

6. Subject was then questioned briefly on the famous
YD incident. His story about the investigation of this
incident does nct conform to normal practice im such cases,
and ig not believable. Still worse is his account of the
consequences this incident had on his Komsomol standing.
Re maintains that the vzyskaniya (punishment) was removed
from his record in October ist, gust a few sonths after
the incident. This is never done in-less than.a.year,
especially for such a aprious offense. His explanation’.
that this was done to enable him to leave the Komsomol be-
cause of age. without a black mark on his record is simply
ebsurd: for a KGB officer to leave the Komsomol because
of age and without entering the Party is a black mark in.
itself, and would ¢nevitably mean expulsion from the KGB.
Subject was completely unable to describe the procedure
asvrolved in turning in bis Komsomol card. Ke admitted
that he wag the only member of the SCD who was not either
iz the Komsomol or the Party, but maintained that no one
head ever even talked to him about it. es

. 7. Subject said he received the following sedals
and awards: : :

Medal for Victory over Cermany - 1945-46

Medal for Defense of Moscow ~ 1945-46 :

Medal 40 Years Soviet Army - 1957 a

Medal 3rd Class, for Honorable Service,

20 years - 1962 or 1963

Order of Red Star - end 1961
ce In regard to the Bedal for Honorable Service, 10
years, Subject first eaid he received it in March 1963,
then. corrected himself and said-1962: - Asked why not ‘in :
1960. (4¢ takes into account both military and KGB service), -
Bubject said be didn't know why it was so late, that it~

i

 

 

geen

 

 
 

 

 

 

Seat hg ni PRIN Anal Mar bpeeet oN OMNIA att ti amare mY

 

  

 

4

was personnel's fault, possibly because of the roorgapiza-:

tion of the 5CD. These are nonsensical ensvers, and it

is obvious that Bubject is unsure about when he should have
received this medal, remembers the previous interrogation,
and is being careful.

- Asked what he received the Order of the Red Star for,
Subject was. extremely evasive. He. claimed not. to remember —
the. exact formulation of the order, and perhaps slipped
when he said “Yor exceptional performance of mission."

Yhea F asked him what mission, he said that it was just for
good work in general. .

Bubject also said that in 1959 he was put in for the

Order of the Red Banner because of his tourist recruitments,

but did not get it, probably because he was transferred te
the First Department at the time. Reminded about his pre-
vious boasts about the Order of Lenin, be said that it. wae
promised to him im 1963 but he did not receive it. Sub-
ject did not say what it would have been for.

8. I asked Subject if he had attended theopening of ©
the Dzerzhinskiy Memorial in front of the KGB building. ~
Bubject quickly said that he wasn‘t there and that he
dida't remeaber when it was opened or where he was at the
time. . He. refused to estimate whether-thig took place:
under BERIYA,.ERUGLOV, SEROV, SEELEPIN, or SEMICHASTHYY,
and looked uncomfortable when reminded that it was a very
big event, attended by DZERZHINSKIY's wife and son, among
others. (It was opened on 20 December 1938--the 4lst
birthday of Soviet State Security--and was attended by |
KERUSECHEV and all other praesidium members.)

9. Bubject was asked to describe his father's funeral.

This he did in a satisfactory manner. Asked shere he had
come from to attend this funeral, Subject replied that he
was in Moscow all the time of his father's illness from.
May 1956 until his death in August 1956 with the exceptica
of a few days TDY in Kiev (this would be for the BURGE
case, about which Subject will be questioned next time).

. Of possible interest is Subject'’s remark, appropos of notb-
ing in particular, that the portrait of his father that

hung in the House of Columns and was published in the papers
an. the time of his death eas nct-a gocd likeness. ..-—

Se ct

we

 

     

i

 

    
 
