3. The Army has stated that one of the allegations against
Lt, Col. Herlihy is that he committed acts not clearly consistent
with the interests of national security, as defined in Army
Regulation 604-10, by misrepresenting himself ag being an agent
of the Central Intelligence Agency, There is a classified written
statement signed by Mr, Bagley contained in Lt. Col. Herlihy's
: dossier to the effect that, as of March 1968, Lt. Col. Herlihy
was not involved in any CIA activities nor performing any functions
in conjunction with members of the Central Intelligence Agency.
The Army has requested permission of the Central Intelligence
Agency to present this document to the Board of Inquiry.

 

4. It is my understanding after discussions with Army
counsel that Mr. Bagley's testimony can be introduced by answering
written interrogatories and not require his personal appearance.
However, I ask that we be furnished promptly a complete report
on all the facts available to Mr. Bagley and known to members of

oF about Lt, Col. William J. Herlihy'’s activities in
Belgium. In particular we would like to know:

 

 

 

 

b, What contact did he have with [personnel ?

{ a. What was Herlihy's military assignment in Belgium? -
: c. What knowledge did he have of | operations ?

d. Had Herlihy ever been officially affillated with CIA?

e, What are the circumstances surrounding the
allegations against Herlihy?
oF

f£. Did anyf sd personnel participate in the
investigation ?

g- What are the allegations that the investigation
: of Herlihy was improperly conducted? =

{sj POTN E. T
JOHN K, GREANEY
Assistant General Counsel

OGC:JKG:bt

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Adse 2 .
- HERLIHY subj file

seein ee La macnn HAE eke

1 - JKG signer 1 - Chrono

Eloy
[toatotort0osd) ; i , |
wo, -~

ne . -

m RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only
. Do Not Reproduce

OGC 69-2093

5 November 1969

 

 

{ MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, European Division
ATTENTION: Mr, Edward Fennimore

SUBJECT: Lt. Col, William J. Herlihy

1. In accordance with our telephone conversation of
3 November, I am furnishing you the following information about
the Army hearing. The Department of the Army has convened a
board of general officers to review the record of Lt, Col. Herlihy
to ascertain whether he should be retained in the service in
accordance with statute 10 U.S.C. 3791. One of the bases for
dismissal from the Army under this provision is the finding by
the board that an individual officer's retention is not consistent
with the interests of national security.

2. The board is set to hear the case of Lt. Col. William J.
Herlihy at the Headquarters First U. S. Army, Fort Meada,
Maryland, from 26 to 29 January 1970. The Army counsel who
| is defending Lt. Col. Herlihy has requested Mr. Peter Bagley to
appear as a witness on behalf of Herlihy. The anticipated testi-
mony of Mr, Bagley would cover the following:

 

a. That Mr. Bagley had been interviewed by
military authorities concerning Lt. Col. Herlihy;

b. That the above interview was conducted in
an improper manner;

c. That Mr. Bagley told the investigators Lt.
Col, Herlihy never represented himself as a member :
Of the Central Intelligence Agency.

sek een et agri esRCAREN RC Aas Tinie lak A NesRNT eenaiaene dmetimnesbane data tet eet

+ menbtenitteractinn she Err,
