74-0000

 

 

wiorv&é ion

Arrests: Kons known.” yom ense mentioned that
she had ones been caught taxing noney from the
Institute. Subject had been told that aitunaticnas
gush 4s this were frequently used to enlist the
eooperation of employees for reporting on fellow
employees, ete,

B. Physical Description’

 

Apparent ege: 20-21-

Weight: ca, 100 lbs

Height: Ce. 5°4"

Ethnic baskground: Obviously slavie- high oheek
bones and black hair,

Build: slight

Complexion: Fair . :
Hair: Black. Subjoct added that she does dye __
her hair and the navural eoler could be anything.
Eyes: light colored, sither blue or green.

Nose: gmail tr,
Pace: Round

 

‘Lips: Medius

Teeth: Even and in good condition.

Clothes: For a Russian girl certainly above average.
Subject felt that she dressed above her insoms, He
had no evidenee, however.

Health: Subject a very athletia perzon and always in
excellent health, A very bright and lively person,
Special features: None

Gurrioulus Vitae

Subject gould provide nothing supplementing that -
already given above, .

Personal and Private Data —

Q)

(2)

Address: Moscow, Subject said that he has provided
the addrese previously. Ha algo has it listed in his
diary which he left ‘with his mother when he was home
last Christmas, See above for.current address.
Telephone: She had a telephone in the apartment.

- Subject .doss not recall the number.
‘Apartment: See above, Subjeet considered the apart-

meat nice by Soviet standards, Subject was not sure

4f the father lived there.

Servants; None.

Meals: She usually. ate lunch at the Lebedev Institute.
Dentist: Subject reoalis that she onee went to the
dentist while he wae in Moscow. He could not reeall

any details,

Clubs: Subject was a member of the Komsomol and en-
Joyed visiting the Molodozhnya Club on Gorkiy Ul.

This was a club primarily for membera of the Kozsomol
where thoy had available zany of the popular current
Western records. : .
Sports: Skiing, swimming and skating, |

Theater: Enjoyed the theater, .
Vacation: Every summer. Arranged through the Institute.
Hobbies: American jazz.

Personal friends: Subjeat had no specific information.
Smokes: Subject does not believe that she smokes,
Aleohol: Normal

Casual Sex: See comment above,

_ Transportation: Usually took taxis, metro or the bua.

No oar.
Finaneial: -Aceording:to Subjeet, she seemed to spend
money faster then she eared it, .

Political Data

@)

Menber..a

 

 
 

 

 

 

held any epeoial ccaiticn, although she did mention
onee that she had introduced a -meone at a meeting
indicating that possibly she nelyed some sort of posi-
tion.

FP. Jobd Data - Kothing other than already noted above,
G,. Miscellaneous.
(1) Travel: he once visited Poland with a student group.

14, In returning to the topic of MARTIN amt Subject's contast with him,
Subjest reported that MIRFIN uaually cid most of the talking. He discussed
life in the Soviet Union end frequently his atterpta to get a divorce, (when
Subject was in Mosoow in July he learned that MARTIN hed finally received his
divorce}, MARTIN onoe told Subject that he was permitted to reaeive Tize and
Life mayazines:so long as he agreed not to show thea to anyone, Subject and
RENNINGER onee referred to tne allegations that MARTIN and MITCHELL were homo-
sexusls, MARTIN stated ematically that thia wes not true, He said that
he kad some sex problems, bot that he was cartainly not a homosexual, with
regard to his defeotion, MAHTIN said that he had contacted someone pricr to
his defection. Subject unierstood that no money was involved and that MARTIN
had not been an inplace agent.

15. With regard to Headquarters desire for m personal assessment of
Subjeet, the ciroumstanees surrounding this meeting with Subject did not
provide an opportunity for any sort of valid assessment. He was constant-
ly on the edge of his ohair for the reasons previously noted above, As 4
bright and unusually gifted young theoretical physieist he spends much of
hig time wrapped up in a world of his own, At the same time he does enjoy
ekin diving, skiing and other cports. In some waya he seemg to be rather
naive, Poseibly this is the wrong terminology. A better way of desorib-
ing Kiei would be to say that he ig so imrolved in his own field of speclal-
izationtat he simply has never taken tine to preperly consider many of the
other problems we fase in life, In going over tbe list of questions above
he mentioned very proudly that he was an atheist, At this point all of
these remarks are: probably seaningless-and should not be given any. weight
in asseasing Subjest for possible future operational use. The undersignid
expects that he will again be in Trieste in the not too distant future and
will make a point of having luoch or dinner with him, Possibly under more
relaxed ciroumstances we can obtain a more objective pisture of him as an
individual,

16. If Headquartera hes any specifics follex-up questions we will
try to cover them when we see Subject again, We are at the veint now,
however, where any further questions should be rather specifie to be
e@aningful., Though much ef the above is simply a review of information
previously reported, we hope that a few of the new details will be of
some value to ODENVY and Headquarters. : t

a let jo op

CARLTON T, SHIVELL a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

 

 

 
74-0000

 
      

DISPATCH

 

 

: The Soviets had exerted considerable presaure on Subjeot to participate in

Objective comparison of life in the USSR and that in the U.S. After having

  

' versations with him and the fast that he was in Moscow.

Form :
8-60 53a USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

 

— ~—— — = Toy a0
arrived at the Institute, Subjest and nid colleazue, Dr. George Renninger,
who was at the Institute on a, similar ten’ gonth excrange fellowship, were
approached by Viadinir Anatolavich SOCLOVSKTY whiie waiting in the cafe-
teria line, SOKCLOVSKIY, who identified himself as an American, said that
he had heard that they were in the Insatiture and wanted to meet then. Dur-
ing this first conversation Subjeot claiza that SOXOLOVSKIY told them that
he was in fact William Hanilten MARTIN and went on to explain some of the
superfioial details surrvunaing nis aerection to the Soviet Union in 1905,
MARTIN told them tnat if they did not consider him coo tainted, he would -
welcome the opportunity of talking to scz@ Avericans. He felt that there -
were zany facets of his experiences while in the Soviet Union which he
would like to talk about but which he could not dississ with his Soviet
friends. Either on this: oceasion or later, MARTIN mentioned that Vernon
MITCHELL, who had defested with MARTIN, was living in Leningrad.

  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

3. Approximately a week later Subject met MARTIN again in the lunch
room, MARTIN reporte: that following his first encounter with Subject and
RENNINGER he had been called into the party office at the Inatitute, They
apologized to him for not having warned hin in advanee that Subjeet and
RENNING:R were being assigned to the Institute, sinee tiey were certain
that Subject would have wanted to avoid therm, They told MARTIN that it
was perfectly permissible for nim to talk to them, but that he should de?’-
initely not reveal nis true identity to them nor should he give them his
address in Moscow singe there was the possibility that they had been sent
to the Soviet Union to assassinate him, Quite naturally. they algo wanted
to know what MAHTIN had disoussed \.ith Subject and REININGER, As a general
rule, Subject saw MARTIN in the lunch room every weex or two for the entire
pericd that he was in Moscow. On certain occasions tt appeared that MARTIN
would avoid talking to Subject, Based on MARTIN's actions, Subjeot assumed
this usually depended on who wag present in the lunsh reom., Subject added
at this point that their discugsions with MARTIN were always in English.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 

k, MARTIN msde it definitely clear to Subject that he was intorssted
in getting out of the Soviet Union. He degoribed life in the USSR as a
constant game with the Soviet officials. MARTIN felt that he had only been
able to keep his head above water while there because of his knowledgs of
Soviet. law, He explained to Subject that he had devoted a great deal of
time atudying Soviet law and had used his knowledge to protect himself.
The Soviets were frequently at a loss when confronted with quotations from
their own lawa in total conflict with aotions which they were trying to
impose on MARTIN, Subject was once asked to write a letter to MARTIN's
parents asking them to.put pressure on the Soviets and the Press to help
in obtaining his release. Subject said that-a copy of thie letter aust
be available at KUBARK.

  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

5. MARTIN aleo desoribed in great detail to Subjeot life in general
within the Soviet Union and what the averase Soviet citizen must face every
day. It was obvious to Subject that MARTIN had been greatly disillusioned
following his arrival in the USSR when he found a soalety totally different
from what he had snticipated prior to his departure from the United States,

  
 
 
 
 

various anti-US radio programs or to write anti-US articles, After much +
discussion back and forth MARTIN agreed to write something if they would
promise to publish it without editing. He wrote what he considered a very

 
 
 
 

submitted this artisle he was never approached again on this topiea,

 

6, Regular contacts between Subject, RENNIN@ER and MARTIN continued
in the lunch room with general conversations such as those noted above un-_
t4l December or early January, 1964. At this point MARPIN asked Subject
if he or RENNINGER weuld. go to the U.S. Embassy to ask them if there were -
any way in which they could assist him in. leaving the Soviet Union legally .
or otherwise, Subject mated that’ RENNINGER had already contasted the U.S.
Embassy following the first meeting with MARTIN to report on their con- .

 
 
 
 
 
  

   

 

 
 

 

  

   

  

eon
[ig t0219-10074

 

 

PROCESSING ACTION

   
    

  

 

 

deans ad ieeabe ee g eben

 

 

 

 

 

: Chief, #E 9 monoes ecguiagD
Eee HRY COLES OES
{* Chief, SE am RESL SODUN
i. Chief of Station, Rome encore
[SRN eherthaaiatirtatenihis EE 5
A SECT e
De KUDESK - De, Roscoe Bery] «HITE (262~97082

» [chow RiQuRLD- RTA : F)

REFERENCES: (a) 24330, 17 Auguat 1965 ‘
(b) 24418, 15 September 1965
1, The story provided by Subjeat during our interview at the United . es

States Consulate in Trieste on 25 October 1465 concerning hia experiences
while in the Soviet Union {1s essentially the same ag that provided by Dr.
George Renninger in reference (a), Although Subject was reasonably ao-
operative, he was not as fully communieative as we mizht have desired, In
. condidering the various possible reasons for his partial heaitanee {it ap-
pears rather obvious now that our continued interest in what he interpreted
to be a very simple relationship with a Soviet girl haa caused him to sus-
pect that possibly we are suspicious of him. Aagording to Subject, the
entire episode was reported fully while in Moscow and again to KUBARK last
Christmas while he was on a visit to the United Statea, Subject stated ” oes
that he had prepared a report in writing for Dr, Goldberg at Prinseton
University who acts as a gy between for KUBARK, It ia obvious that he was
probably asked to prepare a general report on his experiences while in the
Soviet Union for KULOOK which we had not been aware of previously and, whieh :
may not have come to the attention of KUDESK, Unlees Headquarters hag some foose
rather specific questions it is considered unlikely that we can provide any
information in addition to that reported in the following paragraphs ob- : on
tained during this interview, “Oo

 

2. Subject arrived in Mescow during the early part of November 1963
ona ten month exchange fellowship arranged between the National Academy .
of Sciences and the Scvict Academy of Sciences, Subject was assigned to 1 i
the Lebedev Physios Institute in Moscow and the major portion of his life
while in Moscow revolved around his work at the Institute or various in-
dividuals met through the Institute. Subjeet ate lunch in the Institute
lunch room or cafeteria and usually at about the same time each day, some-
time between ome and one thirty. Approximately two weeks after he had

 

Distribution:
-/3 + Chief, WE
2-C/SR

 

 

" ‘CROSS REFERENCE TO COSPATCH STWETA AND NUMBER . Tone

 

9zn fa November 1965 ce :

   

 

      

  

viet aie

 
 

 

ee erential tna nn om tener nantes

DISPATCH

   

. get DOL 70-37

7. Alao at about tne same tine, ‘probabiy early January, Subject was
standing in the lunoh roum line (Subject always referred to it as the lunsh
room rather than a cafeteria) when Le saw MARTIN vogether with an attrac-—
tive young girl about twanty or twenty-one years of age. They stopped to
chat for a uvment and MARTIN introduced Alla Aleksandrovna KOZIOVA, Subject
emphasized that this was entirely casual and that their conversation at this
meeting lasted ror only a few monenta. A few days or possioly a week later
MARTIN saw Subject in the lunoh room and nentioned that “Alla” had found
him quite a handsome individual, MARPIN meationed this oaly in passing and
in no way, an far as Subject was concerned, avtenpted to foros "Alla" on dub-
ject. Subject was equally impressed.with “Alla” and during the following
few days made several inquiries among iis Soviet colleagues in the Insti-
tute. No one had anything particular to say about her otner than that she
was rather active socially and had aany friends in the Institute, At this
point Subject did not know where she worxed at the Institute.

8, Sometime during the latter part of January 1964 3.bJjeet had his
first date with "Alla.” Subjeat could not recall exactly how this wes ar-
ranged, but believes that he met her in the lunch room and asked her to go‘
on a troika ride with him, ‘This was followed by five or six other dates
with her over the next seven ov eight weeks. Trey went to a film ones, the

. Bolshoy onew, the opera onee and restaurants oa two or three oosasions.

9. After a while Subject noticed that she was particularly interested
in his Soviet friends and other contacts in the Soviet Union, For example,
on the evening they attended the Bolshoy, Subject noticed his friend William
(Bill) PARRIS, an Aserioan exchange atudent at the Moscow State University.
Subject had known him at Prineeton University, SubJeot said, "Oh, there is
Bill." She inmediately said, "what did you aay abuut SOKOLOVSKIY?” In other
words, she knew perfectly woll that SOKOLOVSKIY and William MARTIN were one
and the same, She was obviously embarrased and tried without success to
oover up her blunder, MARTIN later told Subject that "Alla" had called him
that evening to cell him of her blunder, She also once assed Subjeot if he
were really going to return to the United Sates. This could, of course, be
interpreted as a defeotion pitoh, Suoject feela that it was more of @
easual personal. remark, . .

10. According to Subjeot, “Alla” seemed to him to be sush too friendly,
while at the sane time not sincerely friendly. In February, SubJvot's. sus-
picions had mounted to the point where he desided to ask. his Soviet col-
league in the Institute, Il;a ROYZIK (phonetic), 1f he could cheek with
sowe of his contacts to determine if “Alla” was in fact being used against
him for sowe purpose, Subject claimed that he already knew at this point
through conversations with his Soviet colleagues that ROYZiN eould oneck
without bringing it to anyone's attention. Shortly afterwards, ROY4IN re-,
tuned to Subject with the advifje to stop seeing her. fie caationed Sub-
ject that he should not mention to anyone that he had talked to him and
certainly not to say anything. SubJjeot claims that he stopped dating her
after this point, but did occasionally see her in the lunch room. After
Subjeat stopped seeing her she called him at his hotel every twe or three
days. At no point did MARTIN really push Subjeot on continuing the relation-
ship. .

11. Subjeot desoribed their relationship as perfectly natural for two
young people interested in each other, They seldem discussed anything of
importanee and never disoussed his work at the Institute. Subject went |
hoze with her to her apartment on two separate oasasions, Once she asked
him to spend the night with her, but he indicated that he should get back
to his hotel, Subjeot desoribed her as possibly a bit more forward sexually
than others that he had met, but that their relationship was perfectly -
normal and certainly nothing that could.be used against him since he wag
a single man, The apartment was actually her mother's, a cne room apert-
ment with an alcove for the bed and a small Kitchen, Subject never met her

: 7 mother and is not sure if her father lived in the apartment with the mother,

 

 
 

 

de shbeweneeeyad Tnentene ma 9 enti nmtion ahaa

 

 

whe,

 

we saceen tH
74-00000

  

 

penne I :
Poe Cn oF Ritrciiaa
“. 9° -|' © Bupseet doce recal2 that her mothor rppleli ee although he 61d
; - not know if the first one had died or if Gey Yhad teen divorced, Subject
heard from someone that her fathor worxed for the 103, Subjeat could pro- .
vide absolutely no further information on this point,. “Alla” never sceaed
to be pushing the relationship even though she did seem ourfous about some ©

 

: of Subject’s friends. Once she mentioned to Subjest that they should not.
be seen together in the lunch r-om since this might be a ris« fer her.

 

12. Subject last saw "Alla" alone just before he ieft the Soviet Union,
He was down town one day and met her by chance, They stopped for coffee
and chatted for awhile, The only thing of any significance noted was that
she had been dismissed from the Lebedev Institute and was then working for
Ministry of Poreign Affairs. During the past sumer, Subject and REVONGER
again visited Moscow for a week (15-20 July 1965). They drove from Trieste
to Prague and then on into Moscow via train, Arrangements were nade through
Inturist, They visited the Lebedev Institute for a day, as well as, rriends
in Moscow,. Nothing cceurred on this visit of any particular note, Subjeet
promised to prepare a written report on this trip during the next two or
three weeke and «ill pass it to the underaigned via the Consulate in Trieste.
Possibly after reviewing this report we may have further questions. ince
his return, Subjest has received a brief letter from “Alla” in elementary
German stating simply that she had heard that he had been in Moscow and
that she was sorry that they had not seen each other, The return address
indicated that she had moved:

    
 
  
  
   
 
   
 
 
  

Koskpa W~36
Profsojusnaja U1,15
Korpus 1 Kwartira 10

 

13, Subject's responses to the questions conteined in the "Personality
Data Debriefing Guide" produeed the following additional information:

  
 

A. Basic Biographic Data

  

 

(1) Name: Alla Aleksandrovna KOZLOVA.
(2) Nicknames: None other tian "ATI".
(3). DPOB: Subject was not certain but believes that
..* she wags born in Mogoow and had always lived there,
vhs He did not know her exact date of birth. He estimated
. that it cust have been about 1941.
(4) Citizenship: Soviet
(5) Iden Doeuments: SubJeet. never saw any of. her. docuncnts,
(6) Father: As noted abcve Alla's mother had had two
husbands, He asaumes that one was Alla's father. Her
father was also supposedly working for the KGS, Bosord-
ing to MARTIN,
(7) Mother: Subject never met her, Subject only knew that
Alla lived with her mother in the apartaent in which he

    
 
 

   
  
  
     
 
 

. |. had vieited,
: (8) Siblings: Subject does not think that she had any sib-

 

(9) Spouse: Never married.
" (10) : Edueation: Subjeot mew that she had had some special-
ized training after completing high school, but does not
believe that she ever attended the University.
(11) Religion: Atheist. She wema small gold oress given
, to her by her grendmother, but Subject explained that
this had no religious meaning. .
Languages: Russian (native), She told Subject onee
that she planned to learn German, Based on the brief
note in German recently received from her, she appar-
ently has made some progress, She also spoke a. very
little: English, Subject does not-imow if she had ever
studied English or where she might have iesrned it.
Employment: Subject did not know if she had ever . ©
worked anywhere prior to joining the Lebedev Institute,
Subject did not know her. exact position there, though
she was in the Firat Section or the Party. Offiee,
When he met her Just prior. to his departure, she told
him that. she.had transferred to the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs. : x

  
   
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 
 

   
 
   

 

PAGE NO.

Bam

 
 
 
   

FORM ‘ :
559, 33a use PREWIOUs EDITION.
300 : ”

ie. Tor 70- 7

Sees Behe py

 

  

 

  

  

 

 
