 

rrp bok
28 June 1960

POLYOR: Pa RESULTS

Anslysie of the
gpeattons 16, 160,

vecause of ingufficient tine being avai ledle.

1d,

v4
stem

lysreph tect iniicetes consistent reactions wo
19, 15a, 20, 22, 26, (4), 51, 56, 57, 6, &,
, aad 65. Theee reactions were not resolved through intermeation

Tt fs, however, thia interroe

@ator's opinion that Subject hee such mom informmtion to reveal and aust
be re-interviewsé at o later dete ani then tested again.

Buns

*

he Information obtained fron Subject during the pre-test ioterview ©
: :
is undoubtedly one of Bubject ‘a closest frienda and coafidents. Ta Sube

‘tndicates @ close relationship between Subject and Rosslba ROCA, &
Domiaicen Republie citizen ie the United States on a resident vies. —

ject’s ow words, “I tell her everything.”

2. Sudject's finsncial status ws discussal.
bank acerute, thet monay meent nothing to her.
money, she always got couse from hor father and frienls.

She sdvised she hed no |
She seid when she needed
She vas asked

to nese the frieaie thet hed giveu her monzy end to state approximately
how mich money thay had esch given.

3. Subject stated that sinca 19a the follouing pers.ne contributed

to her guyport:

Ge

Be

a.

Eee A
” putrea FupaaEn

575 Medison Aveme, Hew York City
Ayproxiantely $5,000.

BLL Orman .
Mextao City
& tew mndred dollers.

*
' Nre. lee WRT
Coral Cebles, Florids
& fev, biuvired dollars.

-Regue) SERRA - flauee °
Fédrese :

Ped

   

 
 

| (Bectionsr )
ia oe
: ScCRET

‘6
f. dJohony NICHOT
Cefe Micholsun, Fast $7th, Hew York City

$300.00,

4

@- Luis Conte AQUERO coe ee eee Looe --
Hew York City .~. ot oo
$100.00.

he Jasper B. CGS - father
Ponca City, Okleaborm.

4, Subject's past exployment was not complete. Sho-wns-anked to give .
4n itemized account of ber past employeent. (See Section i, peges 17
through 35 in ettachzent. ) .

1. Yaformtion obtained from Subject is outlined in attechnent vate ia
& transcription of teye recordings of tho interview, Theea transcriptions
were snde because Subject and tho information presented by her presonted @
biserre veckground, one which (s intervoven with odd finencial circumstances,
intelligence personalities end activities ani many qretionsble agsceiations.
Subjeet's motivation and loyalty are wnxnow; at this point. Also, the extent
of her devotion to Castro and his beliefs is queationable._.----

2. Before Subject ean again be interrogated and given a polyerigt
exesination, the following should be completed:

@. Research completed on attached transeriptiona.
db. ALL of Cubject's close associates investigated.

  

@. Thorough ose checks corgleted.

a. 411 deckgrousd inforvation exilating on Subject be obtained,
; FSI, Bureca of Karcotics, Department of State, etc., and
: presented to. the uslersigned for review in onter wo preyare
: for the next interrogation. ~

 

Ralph ©. True

* stechuonts: :
Transcriptions of ‘tape xecordings

 
74-00000

Tog bob sn
June 1960

52. sce po a uachor of the jeistuttootry Posty? Ho,
Sh. Are you sympathetic vith the Comaunist World Movement? Ho.

56. Pid you first meet Fidel Castro during his trip to the United :

States in 19591 Yea. . ot :

. fl

ST. Have you ever or are you now serving Fidel Castro in aay !
intelligence capacity? Ho. ‘ i

58. Are you now on agent of Pidel Castro? Bo.

59. Were rau ever cecretly somectad with euy tntelLignare organi .
tation? Bo. wee

fon you oe comactal ith any Oban inetiiomee anrvice! Ho.

 

a.
oa. Are you now comnonted with the 0-21 te.

&. Are you now connected with the DIF:A? Ho. : ; a
Ge. Are you now connected with the DIER? to. .

62. eve you bed ny secret communication with anyone tn Qube sin
you heve been in the United States? Ko.

63. Other then you mentioned,~have -you met’ with aiyous contested
wits tas Cestro goverment since you have B aicyens sonata
Statest No.

64. Bave you told aryone in Cuben Intelligence or Security Services i
regarding the true purposs of yuur vieit to <he United States? i
Bos

65. Cther then you have mentioned, hava you coummicated with anyone !
in the United States during this visit reganting tha true purpose - :
of your vieit to Mew York? Yo. :

66. Aro you concealing anything of on fntelligrace or aocurtty nature
from mel Ho. .

i
i
& Otter then you bave orton, ave you used say las or perudonyn 7

damebelle Vilsou? fo. re i

  
    

 
 

-5l.

  

dave you ever participated tn ony may ta any type of, Coganiet
activity! Ho. ca

Haws Sou ever teed epapatbette tm the theory Sr prectice of

Soviet Ccomnisa? - ad :

Bave you ever been synpathetic to the theory or prectice of
Marzien? Ho.

Other than you beve eutioned, ore you personally acquainted
Feet Meee Mem Fon Neliove & be seratetic 10 to Sonumien! -
he.

capacity for a foreign goverunsnt: §b. a

Bevo you evar been cated to ws for « foreign tatelitgnoce
organisation? fo.

  

dow ya eoqimtated wit exyore working far ¢ foreign fotel-
Ligence orgenization: Bo. .

Bee gu eteya te tee of yer rn Sg fe
eet 'e ;

1a: there exything thet night open you to biackant

  
  
   
 

are you,sov uate, OF kn ter snotber man the
mot told us shout? Bo. -

Hove you. Goliberaraty ‘given ¢ us any false information
your pest? Bo :

. “gecnel

“2

 
 

 

f.

rd
@- Usle Conte AGUEND
New Yora City .*.
2200.09,

h. st :

L. Sudject's past employment wis not cocplete. Sue-weev asked to give
Qa itenized account of ber past enpluyeent. (See Section I, peges 17
through 35 in attachsens.) :

CONCLUSIONS AND RACOMS}OYTIONS (Shect en

L. Infomation obtainad froa Qybject fe uutliacd tn attechient vateh ti
@ trenseription of tha interview. These transerlptions
were xade becouse Subject end the tnforration presented by her preamntel a

biseriu vackgra:nd, om? which is tnternoven with odd fluancial eiroadtaaces, .
,

intelligesce personalities ent ectivitics ond many quretionedle asccetations.
ibject’s motivation aul loyelty are uekoovn st this potot. fsleo, the extent +
of her devotion to Centro and his beliefs ts queationsdle., :

2. Before Suvjcct can egain be Laterroamted and given 4 poltyeregh . ;
exmaination, the follcving should be cunpleteds .
a

a. Pecearch eceploted on attached transeripticns.

be. ALL of tuvjoct! s-6loae asaccléetes Investiguted.

¢. Whorough sare thecks corwleted.
, ad. ALL Deckoroust ioformation exiating oa Subject bs cvietned,
‘ FOr, Bureca of Harcotics, Department of Ntate, ete., aod

: presente! to tha unlerstgecl fay review in ories to prepare
. for the next interrega tion. «

: : Paiph 0. True
 sttacbuents:

Tianscription

(Sections! thrown ¥)

Tees c/euf

 

wt oe A

iRTsdax
: 3

hy
74-0000

ee - SECRET

TO ot Chef, Security Spport Divtstoa DT: 28 Juno 1360 / .
eTIN 4 Mr. Wil item Curtin/J RK .
PROM «ot Interrogation Research Division .
saurect: CRS, June . . TRO: kohgL . :
YOENTYPYTNG DPS ‘
Le subject of this interview 19 a thirty-tuo-year-old fecate, tmarle 8

ean eitisen, boru in Ponce City, Oklehome, in -ugust 1927. She presently
is exployed by the Castro-.goverment of Cuba ia the Ministry of Public
iffeirs Office, as Chief of English propngaaia ani contacts in the United
States on Fducetional Mattere. The JMIK project bes specific interest is
Subject sad is secking an. .cperationunl approval for possible future contect.

2. Me. Chief CT/TMARK, Mr. cese
: Officer, ‘and to Mr. J. C. King, Cy 4 scheduled the
i intervjew with this Division.

3. Subject was interviewed on 7 Pure 1X in the Raleigh Rotel,
Foca 304-5, procured by the Sccurity Support Division. Interrogetion of
Subject begua at L710 hours and lasted until 2355 hours.

&. fhe Security Suppart Division provided audio coverige during
the interrogation. Transcriptions of the tape recordings are attached.

5. Mra. = CI/IWRC, and the Case officer, ef
monitored the sai re: ‘ev from an edjcining room. on
6 Since thare via Utttte {ime avatlsble' for briefing of 2
signed aot access to ‘Subject, it was wecessary to conduct a rather: extensive
detriefing of Subject before polygraph testing. Yaformmtion extracted from

Subject during thte portod can be found {n Sections T through T¥ of .
attachzent. : os

 

 

 

 

  
    

RESULPS_ OF Pouvons PH TRSTTIR

Subject's polygraph testing began at approximately 2150 hours. During

this time, Subject wos tested on the followiag questions: .

we tive you ever been a umber of the Comumiat Party” we. . i

lés. Were you ever approached to becane € masher of the Gomiuntst -
Party! Ho. .

 

JnET

 
 
 

 
 

 

baa) : OWiet, Seeurtty Quaport Diviston BITE: 29 Sune 1369
sAM 1) He. SULRtas Curtin, .

FAM oo: Intwrrugiticn Research Uvision °

WERT: C3, June . oa Trig: &5% BL
WOOT OT. i

le. Jabsect of this interviev is a thirty-tw-ycar-old fomie, iseri-
cen eltizen, bern in Ponce City. Uklehess, ta cugust 1927. cbe preeently
$6 exptoyed by the Caatro goverment cf Cuba {a the Ministry of Publite
sf[foirs Gffice, as Chief of Pngiiah propecests ant contects in the Untted
States on Faucational Mettera.

2.

3. subject wa intervinwed on 7 June 1X4) in the
Toterrveptica of

Foc 34-5,
Subject begaa at £72) mours end lasted until 2555 bours.
&,
Trenscriptions ware attacked.
‘.

6. Stace there ws iftile tice avatleble for briefing of the undor-
Blgned ant acwess to Sudject, 1t was necessary to conduct e rather extensive
detricftre of Subject dbcrors polyzeaph testing. Tarformmticn extracted fron
Subfect during this pertod can be found in Sections I through IV of
attacioent.

ROWILTS oP AVAGRIPH TESTI

Sudicet’s golyrrsph teattug ovgan st emmuroxiataly 219 bars. Duries
$his time, Subject woe tested ca the folloviag qusstions:

“eT

athe

sae
74-0000

 

 
74-0000

POLYUR TY KERLTS .
‘ lee
Anslyste of the pues tact initcetes consivtent reactions to
gurattoas 16, 160, 13, 18, 153, 20, 22, 2. (4). 51, 56, 57, &, &,

3, oni 65. Tbece reactions were not resolved tarvuch fatermentioa
veceuse of tumiffleient tise bela evalinsle. It f9, hnmver, thle interro-
gator's oplaios that Sudfect bag guch wor informecian to reveal asl aust
be re-icterview, at e inter dete ani then tested again.

DETAILS
1. Xnfurwation obtained fras Subject during tha pro-tast interricy
indicates a close relationship betwen Subject ext a

Diectaieen Republie citizen fa the United Stetes on 2 resident visa.
1a undoubtedly ont of Dubject'a”cloacst friends and confidents. Tn sub-

Ject's ova wands, “X toll her everythicg.*

\g. Subject*s financial status wis discucsnd. She sdvised ehe hed no

77 de
dank acccuuta, thet moasy meant nothicz to ber. She ratdé when sbe needed

tweroey, Eo alwmya cot coum frou hor fether ant (ricnie. She wee osked
to neme the Srieels thet hed given her mscay ami to state epproximtaly

bev much money they bul each given.

3. biect stated thet sinca 1991 the folloviag pers ina contrivuted

to Lar mspport:
f

2.

a.

We

woke
