 

 

 

 

 

"FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS °

CONFIDENTIAL

ATTACHMENT To DDCI LETTER OF
; a dune 1979 ; oe

   

Page 60 DII-PATS, Footnote 4. Use of the word “recruited” is -
inaccurate in the accepted praseology of intelligence. The word "recruited"
refers to controlled agents, which are very different from cooperative
private citizens who do not have a clandestine role. Use of the word in
this context could harm future participants, if the program were resumed.
Delete "recruited" and insert the word "contacted" in its place. (C) ~

Page 72 DII-PATS, Third paragraph. Second sentence should read
"According to an affidavit that McMillan filed with the committee, her
only employnent with the Federal Government was a 30-day temporary
translator." Delete remainder of sentence. Reference to the Joint
Publications Research Service reveals a classified cover operation
in / conjunction with other foreign governments. (C) .

Page 75 DII-PATS, Fourth paragraph. Last sentence in paragraph
should read "de Mohrenschildt’s CIA file contained several reports ---
submitted by de Mohrenschildt to the CIA on topics concerning Yugoslavia."
Delete remainder of sentence. See 26 March 1979 letter to G. Robert
Blakey from S. D. Breckinridge. Inclusion of specific titles indicates
areas of pointed Agency foreign intelligence interests. (C)

Page 76 DII-PATS, Third paragraph. In the next to the last

sentence of the quotation, delete the remainder of the sentence following
the phrase “he furnished fragmentary intelligence...," which refers to
the attempt to obtain financial loans from the Agency and is of a confidential
nature and not relevant to the purpose of the investigation. Agency
confidential information on intelligence sources is protected as part -
of the operational necessity of maintaining professional confidence in
the relationships. Revelation of this sort of personal information
could be injurious to the ability of the Agency in this respect. (C)

Page 5 DADE-PATS, Exhibit No. F-7*. Delete *Ryaa to Nosenko."
This reference describes the true name of a CIA operations officer
currently an active employee of the CIA. He is under cover and his
identity should be protected. (C)

CONFIDENTIAL

 
 

104-10067-10166 ¢

   

Okc 79-0113/%
June 18, 1979

 

Mr. Edmund L. Henshaw, Jr.
Clerk

_U.S. House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Mr. Henshaw:

Forwarded herewith are comments concerning the final report
of the Select Committee on Assassinations, listing a series of
points in the report that raise security questions. These comments
cite the section in question, the reasons for changing them, and
suggested ways for handling the matter,

 

; IT trust you will have no problem in ) accommodating these.
suggestions.

. Sincerely,

 

Enclosure

Distribution:
Orig - Adse
- DDbCcI
- ER
~ OLC/Subj
- OLC/Chrono.
- OGC/Rininger
- OS/Sullivan
CI Staf
- SE Div/sumption
- LA Div/Stur] ites @
- OP/Haudescheldt ye
- DDSsT/Clark 0
- OLC/HSCA/Holmes

 

 

Pe ee ee
'

OLC/SDB/ksn

    

C)DECL. GrREVW ON

CONFIDENTIAL EXT BYNDG YRS sy 7.

No

 

 

 
 

 

 

2.0. CONFIDENTIAL

APPENDIX TO HEARINGS

VOLUME VI

Page 262, Paragraph | (698). Add the words “an alleged" in front
of "former CIA employee." The point here is that it has never been
- made clear that the man known as Carswell was the Same as a CIA employee;
there is reason to believe that, he was not. (c) oe ;

. Page 267, Figure IV, lower right photograph. A photograph of

a former employee, associated. ‘in the report with a man known as Daniel
Carswell, should be deleted. The photograph was provided the Committee
for identification purposes only and is not to be used. The employee

in question was involved in many sensitive overseas operations. To

avoid exposing his identity in this manner and thereby certain clandestine
operations, as well as protecting his personal safety, the Agency
photograph must be deleted. Beyond this, the man currently owns a
private business with a large clientele and this exposure could also be
harmful to his business. (C)

VOLUME X

Page 17. Footnote (58). Change "Ross Crozier” to "Ron Cross.”
Previously the name had been changed to protect the identity of an
Agency employee and this was simply an error in ommission in the
‘process of reviewing and printing the draft report. (C) a .

Page 126. Paragraph (484). Delete sentence "The scheme was
shelved when ‘derogatory’ data about Banister was discovered." This
reflects methodology and standards used in the selection and rejection
of individuals for operational purposes. As a general practice in
maintaining the viability of its relationships with operational assets
it is an important procedure to protect the personal confidential

“information concerning individuals. It is noted that we think that
Footnote (64) is misplaced. (C)

Page 156, Paragraphs (39) and (40). The presentation makes
it perfectly clear, to anyone who refers to the newspaper story,
who "the Cuban official” was. That man's identity must be protected
for his own personal safety. Although the basic operation has been
described in general terms the identity of the man in question has
never been revealed publicly. It is suggested that the following-
general language be used:

"The writers of the TF report were concerned with
these assertions because aspects of the newspaper story
were similar in some respects to certain elements
involved in Phase I of the CIA operations. The possibility
of some relationship with the CIA operation attracted the
attention of the CIA." (C)

CONFIDENTIAL

Se mm in Te SSE ED tg RUSSERT SQ

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

OTe ren ee A REE RE NESE SS Ep

toe

CONFIDENTIAL

-VOLUME_XIT

‘Page 56. Paragraph (33). Delete sentence “In a fitness report
for...and searches for and develops new sources." See 26 March 1979
letter to G. Robert Blakey from S. D.- Breckinridge, in which it was
noted that the fitness report is a classified document and suggest
that the duties of. the employee in question be described in general
terms to the effect that “his duties in Dallas were contacting individuals ~
in the area who had information on foreign subjects." (C)

Page 56. Paragraph (36). Sentence should read “De Mohrenschildt's
CIA file contained several reports submitted by de Mohrenschildt to the
CIA on topics concerning Yugoslavia." Delete remainder of sentence.
See the comment concerning the same subject regarding page 75 DII-PATS,
Fourth paragraph. (¢) a

Page 58. Paragraph (44). Delete “Jerry G. Brown" whose name
appears twice. Delete "Gale Allen, a Department of Defense." Allen |
appears yes times. Both individuals are currently employed by
GIA. (C ; oo

Page 61. Paragraph (65). Delete "Robert Gottschling," who is
currently an Agency employee. (C) - , oe

+

Page 62. Paragraph (73). Second to the last sentence should
read "Dryer said one of those contacts was a person who worked for
French intelligence and cooperated with the CIA. (189)" Delete last
sentence. The operational relationship remains classified. (C)

There are a considerable number of blank pages and-missing pages in
the materials forwarded to us. We are unable to certify as to the

content of those pages. It is presumed that this material will be
provided for review prior to publication. (U)

CONFIDENTIAL

ES SENET a ERR A SEATS ae SE
