74-0000

 

 

 

 

 

- are requested,

“yg ECRET “" URGA-S756

3. Memo No, 50 concerns the booklet by Antonio F. Silio
entitied "Tres ospector de la, Revolucion Cubana" which-has been
printed in 5,000 coplon by the CRC and for. which funds for woilling
This booklet would be of assistance to editors . -
ond writers and containa clear statements of the stand of the Cuban .
Revolutionary Counei] which in our opinion justify the costs of.
mailing copies, ta 011 CRC delegations in Latin America for distribution.

 
  
 

  

.

' Therefore approval is being granted for mailing of this pamphlet.

End of Dispaten

ATTACHMENTS

Memos No. 43 through. 50 (2 ea.) (use) 0 , oN

DISTRIBUTION .-
3+ Chief, WHD w/otts, (use)

2 = Files ‘ufo atta,

 

 

SL ee,

 

OOS et EADY. Siento
‘od-t0zz7-10168

 

     

‘chiet, WHD
Cs

   
   

 

 

re)

Chief of Station, JMWAVE%) ,
SORZIP/KUCAGE/Operotional § —
ransmittal of ASSAVOY. Memas. 43 through 50 ‘
ACTION RLQUIRTD REFLRENCES wf ‘ ©
FYL - : o P-H-I-0-R-I-T-Y

 
   
     
 

 

  
   
  

   

 

  
   

1, The request in Memo No,.43 for support of the Cuban Catholic
Information Bulletin put out by the Committee of Cuban Catholics in
Exile was éisapproved ag have been previous requests for support for
Catholic bulletins (for example, Father Gonielez Pesade's request for
support for hia semi-monthly Jesuit information bulletin on Cuba),

The reasons for donying suppor’ to this bulletin are:

. @, The type of material covered, by this bulletin is olready
covered, dn other publications with wider audiences in Latin Americs,

    
   
 
   

      
      
     
      

b. The Audlence reached by this bulletin ia already an
informed audience and 1s” ‘reached by other church organs with good

Cuban information,

6, This bulletin (published tn Spanish and English) does
not reach the masses who must be renched by our propaganda.

      
    

      
      

dé. Support of this type of bulletin is the province of .
Catholic groups such a8 NCWC (which has the NC News Agency and reaches
church papers and the religious orders such as the Jesuits,

    
    

 
   

-@, There ere sltogether too many "bulletins" at present,
Every group has one and they serve more to publisize that group than
to put over effective propaganda to reach the people of Cuba and
Lotin America, All such bulletins should be centralized in one
effective information-news tyre bulletin with up to date truth on
Cuba simply stated ond streasing pictorial content to be spread
throughout Lain America and Cuba without seeking to promote the
interesta of any one group, ‘If the CRC continues to publish its
bulletin, this 1a the direction it should take,

2, In regard to Memo No, 46, a cable request for approval of
operation Orieta ia being forwarded, .

   
      
   
     
     
     
     
    
       
 

     
  
  

2S, of. n°
He ROK
ja fr we ‘Daft Oreratcrty

PALE THD

27 Nov 61 | A

  
    

cs pin cee /7-

“P DisaT Cn SymbO AND NUMBER

UPFQA=2756

  
  
   
 

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
sy lett

p97-126-3

    
