  
    
  
    
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
 
 
 
    
  
   
  
  
   
  
    

 

Marina and Lee Harvey OSWALD

 

- ‘The subject of the OSWALDs was introduced inte the
interrogation during a discussion about the difficulty a
‘Soviet citizen, who marries.a foreigner, encounters in
attempting to leave the USSR if the KGB chooses (for some
reason) ot to permit the Soviet citizen ta emigrate,

 

 

 

. an Subject. stated that it goes without saying that prior to
_..'| receiving KGB's. ‘sanction not a single Soviet citizen, whether —
_ he or.she is married to a foreigner, would be allowed to .
leave. the: USSR.” .

 

cs “Asked ar the case of Marina OSWALD's departure from
| the Soviet Union was typical, Subject replied that her :
: departure: from the Soviet Union was neither typical nor usual,
particularly, in. view of the fact that her husband, Lee Harvey
OSWALD, was ‘a very strange. individual. He had been in Cuba,
.. cand then came to the Soviet Union not as a tourist, but as.
“an American defector who renounced his American citizenship.
and attempted. to become a Russian citizen. This in itself
. is. unusual ‘for an American = it is not typical and very rare
for. an American: ‘to do so, and Subject believed that an |.
-American doing what OSWALD did (seeking Soviet citizenship © .
and renouncing American citizenship) could only do so because
he was a. traitor. ee a,

 

    
 

   

woes tn ‘answer to a pequest for his opinion regarding ‘the : mo,
"OSWALD case,” Subject said that all of his information was based “
“only on what was known to everyone who read the newspapers ao.
_. after. the KENNEDY assasination and on what he read in a con- .. |.
'.. densed version of. the Warren Report while he was in Western ~~
.. Europe, ‘When pressed for his personal opinion he said it was.
_. | a very unustal situation, Normally a Soviet citizen (like >.
-. Marina) would. net be allowed to leave the Soviet Union, in ~- Mo
. fact the Soviet authorities would try in some way to convince ©: .
.; the citizen not to leave. However, if a Soviet married a... '-
_ foreigner, and insisted on leaving he or she could always, as
-. @ Last ‘resort, be refused an exit visa, There have been oe
.@ases where a Soviet citizen married a foreigner and received
“am exit visa, however, in such cases the Soviet authorities ;
_ have conceded. to the. exit visa requests enly because they felt...
-~ that the foreign spouse may have had some influence, and could: . .
"have created adverse publicity for the Soviet Government had = =~
the exit visa not been granted. This was definitely not so -
in OSWALD's case, OSWALD could not insist that Marina be
granted an exist visa since he was not in a position to do so,
and consequently the Soviet autherities were not compelied to
do so unless they specifically wanted to let her go to America ©
with OSWALD. .

 

: ” When asked to still further elaborate ‘on his beliefs -
‘regarding the case, Subject stated that in this case (OSWALD's),
Subject couldn't guess, and in order to come to any kind of a
‘walid conclusion he would have to know something (factual),

which he doesn't, His opinion, however, is strictly an —

opinion without any basis or fact. He thinks that KGB was | :
definitely interested in OSWALD while the latter resided in the
USSR, To presume that OSWALD could have lived in the Soviet
_Union as a simple American is excluded, Subject believes that

 

 

 

 

 
 

104-10087-10303]
ar

 

__ GASSIFICATION PROCESSING ACTION

ssenet | [ummm |
[x _fommemma _|

 

2524, 20 May 1968.

 

“Marina. and. oe tare oswatp *
‘Soviet Det sctors. . Ki Moy boa Gos rs44 :)

“os KRapeemstey,
y “Travellers Checks aaa

omoth H. PHILBROOK oe!

. ‘Attachments: -- -Herewith = — ;
AS Stated above a 2 copies each ;

.. Distribution: . a ae
OTS Wate a o a “for FOIA Reve een FEB wi

AS ‘of Nov 73 file review, these attachments -
removed for *a2akRg filing: Soe

_. AEMAKEUP DEBRIEFING . = Fina. pports,
_ CIA, April-July 68, poe en

7 7 we. pee

GROUP tT Cal EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC poms AND ‘DECLASSIFICATIO

 

 

5 June’ 1968

 

 
 

 

- the KGB kept OSWALD in “their field of vision" and
“undoubtedly worked with him, To Subject it is unthinkable. —
- that the KGB would miss such an opportunity, since it .
-always considers using persons (such as OSWALD) for work
.- either ‘directly in intelligence, as an agent, or in any .
_ other way. te. inflict damage to the West",

; “Asked: ‘whether the assadnation of President KENNEDY
could -be: ‘considered a as "being damaging to the Wests Subject
. answered an the affirmative. -

 

“Subject explained that the existence of a government
such’ as-the. United States is a threat to the Soviet regime, -
The United States is an example to the rest of the world

(Soviets. ‘ineluded) that people can live, survive, and have ©

‘| a higher ‘standard of living in a democracy. Therefore, the.

_ Soviet Union tried, and tries, to cut the U.S. Government...
‘down at every opportunity. Since President KENNEDY was looked — .
upon by many. in: the Soviet Union as a popular personality, - 3
KENNEDY ' s. personal attraction further raised this feeling ~

that living: in ’a- democracy had its benefits, to an even Righsr con a

level with the general population of the Soviet Union. | a

  

“When® ‘asked, af. at was possible that KGB could or: would os

'!-- ever sanction such an operation (the assasination) Subject.
| ‘answered "yes, at that time (KHRUSHCHEV's) it could have",
'. KHRUSHCHEV. was: considered by Subject to.be an ignorant 29 0
> andividual who was willing to take risks and adventurous under-. oe

.. takings... Subject said, however, that this could never occur
under the present.Soviet leadership, Subject considered that

“the decision to carry out such an operation, (the assasination) . gon

' gould not have been made by the Chairman of the KGB since he Q
:-. does ‘net possess. such authority, and, ‘therefore, could \ only ce

- oh have been. made. by KHRUSHCHEV himself.

 

   

“Subject was asked af such an operation might not have - —
-4Anvolved a terrific risk which could have possibly resulted -

... in’an. armed conflict: between the two mations, had Soviet
. involvement: been proven by the Americans, Subject felt that.

~ even if the Americans did accuse the Soviet Government of

Complicity in the ‘assasination,— ‘the Soviet Government would
" gertainly deny such an American accusation, claiming that the

| Americans were using OSWALD, a crazy man who had been in the :
--” Soviet Union, would say that the accusation was a provocation,
: os and in all probability would repudiate such American elaims.

oo To underline his point, Subject mentioned that even

. though OSWALD was-in the Soviet Union, and was suspected —

. because. he was. in Cuba, nothing happened and the Soviet Union
wasn'¢ accused L by the Americans, ;

 

 

 

 
