74-0000

_.. | &,. Ltelephoned Mr. Zawrence Steratield, Chief, WH/COG,.- ;
. ” waking him for. information ti WH Division files as to what documentation '
Bubject might it ‘ever havebeen iueued,'-Mr, ‘Sternfield said that: wa
wodld ; not reflect information relating: to: any sti ‘Bubjéct'

 
  
 
   
   
   
 

  
 
 

 

 
   

: Ss. 1 next ct spoke. te. Mr. ‘Willard Burke, Central Cover. Staff

 25122,. who advised that’a' Drivers License anda ~
1G Auto Registration Form are two different items, He
checked his records on Subject, and found, after pulling them from .
‘Retired Files, that there was nothing relative to Cover. documentation
‘there. I then checked the file- ‘myself, just to be sure. He ‘de correct;

 

  
     

  

    

 
 

-documentation of any kind,: ‘with the exception of references. bo ab, ject?

- State: ‘Department stetun on various overseas tours and trips.

Frederick N. Evans

   
0d 10420-10355
<. ; = wR RETURN TO Ghd

 

gaye wet ; Background
eee , : Do Ns Roprecion”

   
   
   

 

» MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD '

SUBJECT:. Everette Howard Hunt, Jr.

Bureau of Investigation; inquired of the ‘Acting Deputy Director
Security (PS), Mr. Leo Dunn, as to documents: issued by the Agency —

to Everette Howard Hunt, Jr., in the alias Edward Jose ‘Hamilten
or any other alias.. He mentioned specifically, @
License; Massachusetts Auto Registration # Form
and Insurance. Policy. a

  

ra I telephoned Ba Dufty, “TSD Security ‘Olficer, but he wasn't on
in. I ended up talking with Wesley M. Parcells, x2531,° who checked ae
TSD files on documentation issued in the alias “Hamilton.” This ta” ok
: . the only way the name is now listed on TSD'e records. . SThey have no ~~
| : first name or middle initial, . Their records simply reflect that on two
\  oeeasions sometime between 1957 and 1964,.alias documentation was - :
issued te someone in the name of "Hamilton," The requests are: ‘numbered ©
' 4005 and 2134 on the. TSD Control.Card. They do-not cross-reference
- -giias names to true names, - and ‘could not may, whether. or not Subject : was
_ iesued any other alias, asl

 

        

* Office of ‘Beeurity sejorde show that Bu ubject was to tive been :

i - issued, among the other ‘items, '2 rivers License with a

' ‘Providence, Rhode Island, address. Mr. Parcells said it is possible

_, that this was issued, and also possible that he would have been issued -

a ted and insurance policy. None of these would have
been backstoppéed. Mr. Parcells said.it would have been difficult or
impossible to renew the| si Drivers License because one .

- would have to show up for a test, (It has been the writer's experience -
that this was not necessarily true in past years.) The; ;
Drivers License would have expired in two years, The a
Card, while fake, would be "valid indefinitely, The insurance pe v ,
would presumably expire @ at whatever date at bore, crs oo

*

 

 

a re
