14-00000

 

fe
ua

_

 

out that we had never targeted against American sections of foreign
intelligence services on the basis that their activities within the U.S.

were not within our overall charter. Miller said the Committee would

be interested in sore discussion about possible future capabilities in

this regard. It was agreed that Mr. Wells, with the assistance of the IG, .
would prepare a rough outline or paper on a presentation which would.
originally be given to the Chairman and Vice Chairman which we.would
review with Miller before any meetings with even the leadership or the
Committee are scheduled. Once that has been run by Miller it could

then be fleshed out to the leadership and ultimately to the Committee.

5. As Miller was leaving, I told him I would be meeting with

. Richard Sprague, Acting Director, House Select Committee on Assassinations,

this afternoon, I told him while I was not prying into the Committee's
business, I was hopeful that the Assassinations Committee would be in’
touch with the Select Committee. I said we were particularly concerned

‘about establishing firm security procedures with the Assassinations

Committee. Miller said they had been coritacted by the Assassinations
Committee for access to their records and Miller had indicated to them
that they would’ be willing to provide access to their records so long as

the Assassinations Committee agreed to abide by the disclosure provisions
of S. Res, 400. To date the Assassinations Committee as not respond ed-

to that offer, . — ——
ee oe

 

 

6. Lalso mentioned to Miller that the Office’ of Security ¥ was is suing
ne gency badges and tightening up on Headquarters security procedures’
antBsince we are having a number of congressional staff people from .
vaiiéus committees coming into the building, we propose to modify the’
vagus procedures previously used with the Select Committee staffers

‘to 0 fBe extent that we would like to have prior notification from staff

personnel of their visits to Headquarters before badges are issued, ‘Miller
said. this would pose no problems for them, :

=

 

 

YG} a .
Loy yo! SCs
: AGEORGE L. CARY -
Legislative Counsel
Distribution: =
Original - Subj file
1- DDCI
1-1G
1.- DDO
1- ER

OLC/GLC: baa (29 Nov 76)
 

[foetoons-0405

 

 

 

  

OLC 76-3475

29 November 1976

ETy,
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD Do Gung Us tia

SUBJECT: Summary of the Meeting with William Miller, Staff
‘Director, Senate Select Committee on: Intelligence,
re Foreign Liaison

1... During the meeting ‘today with Bill Miller with Messrs. Knoche,
Wells, Waller and Cary in attendance, Miller tried to elaborate on the
interest and concern of the Committee which prompted Chairman Daniél
Inouye's letter of 11 November with regard to activities of foreign
intelligence organizations in the United States with whom. we have liaison
contacts. Miller touched on what he referred to as “parity i in operations"

_v-implicit understandings or at least results in parity between our
‘intelligence operations and those ‘of foreign governments,

2. The question of the quid pro quo, that is, an n understanding

with a foreign intelligence service that the U.S. would be permitted to

conduct intelligence operations within the country if they. were given

comparable. opportunities in. the U.S.

3. The’ question of support of foreign governments and what this
might entail -+ in this connection Miller mentioned Senator Gary Hart!s
-) interest and c ll impact of thd Brdgram
Relationships nl tc., were touched on in this
ontext and with respect to the latter organization, Miller expressed concern
about the possible long-range consequences of our (that is, the U.S. .) providing
early training for foreign intelligence officers who may subs equently wind :

up in operations against the U.S. or activities in the U.S. In this. connection,
Miller said he would be interested in what Mr. Knoche referred to as the

constraints on our "training of the se individuals.

| 4, In the areas of penetration ‘of. foreign intelligence services,

the question arose as to why if we can penetrate a foreign intelligence

service, we can't learn what that foreign service has in mind as far.as
plans for activities within the U.S. are concerned, Mr. Wells pointed’

  
