 

 

 

SEQPET

oSe

ona eocmiand chamel for all.groups Father then te trdividual groups.
At tho eam tims, be recogalsed that for security sake this would
bave-te-be bsndled on @ compartmanted basia.

a, Thay. wore told “€

hat thoy aust sake on attespt te got along

with Miro CARDONA and-even though thoy may not. like him they must
try Co cooparate vith hia and work with hin and/or heve hin work ~

_ foe thea rether thea: fight :
~ bowaver, affcr etrenpting te work wt é :
., Lspossible wo would sot dcay then Support because of this,

 

kis. hoy must not lock horas with Blo,
th bis {7 ehsy fouad ie conpletaly

 
 

OLE hunt” fo

tag, ee Lay)

a iene "nrordy tt. (he Bertie) Se aia “itor

 

 

ai Santina Ore, cueueeenas

 

le . : eatin Aare. Vieta ter’ o op lattera:

 

 

j
:
i
i
!

; 2 of Fafosl ao) '

 

 
74-0000

 

k. "Frank" © public rolatioes. . :
1, "Hob" = not o monber of the official axccutive comaitteo |
but attended all the scotings, : st
| G@lota: At @ lator meeting “Justo” eatd « man called "Ricarde”

Slerge FVENTEFRIA) vao the so-called UR leader on the street
Ricardo BODRIGUEZ-ESPADA) was the

(true ‘nem:
and "Ricardo" (another ae, trus nese;
_UR leader faside ths Italian tubasay.) ; ;
: | &. "Cosar” was the maibor of the UR that the u/T operator, Al HENDOZA,’
i . : ‘eeing- Signal Plan BULTAG, contacted. Lision and BRITO said MENDOZA was a
pos | edgy boy. When they sew him they got pénichy. co :

i 5... "Justo" adaiered gatting ten thousaed posos from Miro CARDOWA.

i Hovsvor, firet BEITO said be gid nok get 1¢ until corrected by "Justo", —
. 6. Although “Juste” lived in the Italien embassy be sald. bo did

poe Bot take asylus but rather used that a0 a aafe operations base and was
in end-ovt Gany times conducting UA busineso, Ha finally admitted,

. however, thet in the eyes of tho Cuban people that was probably asylum.

7. The following groups and their leaders and tha Embassies in
which they took asyli was given by BRITO: Lo
. Ge MREC + “Gallin" © Italica Embaosy, This fe a different
men than "Simowa". -"Simone" was the saa vho was the leader of- tho MARC
waeil “Guilin” roturnmed to Cuba (believed to be March, 1961) end again
took ower the MRRC, .

b. HRP » Marcos Willions - Italien Eebassy,

c. UR - “Justo” - Italion imbaosy, (He oaid this wes not
esylus for himself, bet just a safe living area.)
4, HOC + Lucas" = Italian Esbasey. (Thay doa't like "Lucas";
wont to work with sMBLESS~1 af leader of MDC.)
| @. DRE ~ “Laciano” = Eubasay, if any, cot knows, (VOITELL
supposedly sew leader of D082.) ;

f. RESCATS - “Bario” « Embassy, if eny, aot tnowa, (thoy
den’ like bin.)

& 30th of Hovanber « VILLAREAL (trus ase), (They say you
Gever know who the real lesdar of tha 30th of Sovember is, for it has
@ thousand groups ami a thousand leadare.) :

a

 

 
 

104-10226-10032|

 

   

- SECRET. gel’
: : [7
3 October 196i =

SUBJECT: Contest Report detween “Jus te" and Mr. Weka (uo ing Reme .
Cal Hitch) om 22, 25, 27, 28 and 29. Septembor 1961,

1, im eddition to-the oubject name, Mr. Pohich (using none
Jim Bowlin) was et all eactings and ons or all of tha folléwlag .
individuals eles attended these crotinga: .
, ae amives ZAYAS (susto") ,
be dusia SARCHE2 (“Pleceltao")
“es Roay EUIEZ ("Touy”")
ds -angal 20S (outta)
‘G. Wilfrede BRITO ("Sebo") = ustag nace 2. 1. Rarrison
8. Vérnando CARADA = using sane Prank Dutton

2. Por additional dotaila already reported by cable, seo DIR 19356
(our $3207) dated 2 October 1961. fo .

3. acearding to BRITO tho Jeadershiy of the TR_es of A? Ast L961
wes es follows: ("Rafsol” had been nal inator tmtil executed.)
a "Justo" + civillen coordinator, a
b "Cesar" - ection coordinator.
©. “Piesslize" - general coordinator.
.; d. “Plesoline” = right-hand mam of "Rafeol" (also kmos as “Pedro"),
| @. “Arturo” « tatelligenes.
: t. “Bebo (true nems: Wilfredo BRIM) - propaganda,
: Be “Ricardo” - security.
‘Be “Rttertot « como,
te “Marcial” © transpertat ica. ;
Je "Bede" (met Che sane a2 the sbeve “Beho") « flames,

erate

Rate T

 

i
{
i
i
i
1
}

 

—— Nm
 

 

   

 

 

 

8. “Quilin" supposedly. organised the MRI bech ta: 1959; thon he

“bed. falling-oul and bia-elesent, known es the MERC, euppooodly broke oo
the before the favasion end worked with the UA. c.

 

with: tha MRR several. mon ‘
However, all.ofi thes spoke wil of “Prancisco", and admitted that hia
group carried out most of tho ection but always adding slong with the
UR. It soon becans epparont. that with "Franciaco" gone-and the avidant

 

“confused leadarabip of tho MRR, that "Guilin" thought this would be

tho eppostuna time to attompt te rogeia control of ths MRR. Since he
did wot fcol be could claim the MAR 89 such, he attempted to do it by
Séying “ALL ths good Bao loft tho MRR and now belong to him". |

. Hercoo Wiiliens wad the action leeder for the KEP end left

_ -becsuse bo wanted ectioa and coulda't. get it with RAY. lb: bed orders

froa RAY not to usa explosives, otc., end not.to expose tkanselves;
cy uae: de low and let. the othore take tha risk, Marcos didn't
reo with thie and.folt that the MRP was going to have to be eative

 

- 80. They: knew of MaUG.1 uaiag tho Wariens “Andres” sad also
knew the true identity, and thoy donouneed bin end "Cesar, (Howower,

' thig was sot."Juste” talking, but was BRIT and SANCUSZ; aad, BRITO
‘ftealy ataitedd that “Juote" did got fool the game way about “Cesar
8a he did.) SANCHEZ, ‘in eddition te knowing AMPUG, know of aa

‘“Bresate", but did not know bis tres. identity (this was the warnene

|”, "used, By ABOOAK*1),. ne

A. vhs querying about ‘som: of the nasss in the newspaper

“axticla that eungunced ‘tha arrest of twelve people, TURREOLLA was

‘gM eieolleat many FUAL, who wes a distant cousin of BRITO, vas on

i. @toellent sea, Although ‘they dida't lito AMPUG-1 beesnee they fele-

bo was trying to aplie the UR-inm hie attempt at unification with

" * (agais “Juato" did met sooa to. believe this about “Cesar"),
thsy sald anpUG would cever talk. "Cesar", BRITO felt, was wah and
indicsted ba might talk, however, "Justo” was so violently oppocad
to that, that BRITO finally edinitted that “Coser” wouldn't talk;

«££ wes Just that be didn'e like his end thought he was ao good. Neo.

of the other fodividuals they dida’t know or bed no opinion of,
However, cas of them seemed to think that GARCIA-RUBIO aight have
talked, but thia seamed to be baned more on tho fact that be knew -
of many of ths events and was a loose talker end tediocrece rather
than the fest thet be ams deliberately informed for his cum benefit,”

12, "foxy" was bragging about knowing of “Arand", GASCIA-RUBIO,
end PEKION W/T meseages. 1¢ was later learaed through “Justo” that
“toay" got Bis informatioa fron aMPUG-i and GARCLA-RUBIO eetually
lived ta “Teay's" house and aay beve operated bis radio fron tbhore.

 

i
1
i
|
|
|
t

 
 

 

_ at the U, 8. Bubasay in. tlavena, Cube, to he, on
> -@avelopa with the following-coatsats: A pb

 

13, Tho following phone timbers ‘exi/ox addresses vere loft to
eneble one of our poople to codtact thea in Miemi: co

4. “Justo” o PR 3-1306

b. “Angel ROS - 3451 BU 10th Street, Apt. #3, Ht 3-7097°

“146. A Paul Buran was naosd.an the wan representing the outfit end
@ maxber of the’ Audrican Eabassy fa dsvena until Juna, 1960. Be
supposedly was im Santiago in 1939. : .

15. The followisg 19 0 stazenont written by “Tony's
_ "I, Lute Antonio DIAZ Pina, ‘gave &

 

ee oe .
Revolutionary Unity origins! docemes, a Leaf. of paper of 8" x 11"
with some addresses, @ half leaf ‘Gf gener of ebout 6" = 4b" cut in
half, and four $100.00 doller bills. This enval was addressed to

Pred QOUDIE, at Miemi. J esver got fa toveb with because when I
got te'esil him-at Mizal, wo was ealied beck to €8 éccount of the
“: elation ruptire betwen that, 3..@04 Gsbe. Refesl DIAL ti that

cba get the euvolope ba sent, but ho dida’t alee; He asked
wife end obo: dida't know @ thiag shout it,”

Septenber 25, 1961 » (Signed)

16, attachment A to & copy of & doeumiat, ealf-cxplenatory, subaitted

 

all business including training would be headled through his, They
eppeared to ba ig am eager snd receptive aod when they were ready te
leave Washington tho afternoon of 29 Seprembe rs They indicated @

 

“support, but thay did mot want to B beck te Guba just for the ake

of retersies and thoy. did ot wast t6 risk tho lives of their asa
wnless they felt cure thera was 6 defiant ‘geal to be attained,

“beets” eepeetally, fait very strougly thst expport aust cas threess

  

MARIE ates ac

 

POS eS wae BM Proce, op sbi aneenyy ce

ES
a

 

 

 

PPR ao

aitticragics | ATS nthe
