   

(toe t4s-1000]

ee 7

. o “CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY -SECRE1

Journal - Office of Legislative wouneey aa : "Page 4

Wednesday -.20 October 1976 es er ia Q Dp
| 77-OO10 > = cs
13. (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Ken Brooten, onthe ~~
staff of the House Select Committee on Assa jeination, called requesting
any summary information the Agency might have on the Kennedy
assassination. I told Brooten that I had met with Richard Sprague,
also on the Committee staff, yesterday and Sprague had asked for
the same information and that 1 was in the process of determining .
‘if it exists. Brooten was unaware that Sprague had requested this’ to
information, ; . -o

 

 

 

     

14, (Secret - PLC) BRIEFING Attended a provtetp briefing of

George Murphy, Executive Director, Joint Atomic Energ Committee, . .
given by Bob Ames, NE Division, and \Desk/DDO. “
Murphy is accompanying a group of Members from Committee who will

be visiting Cairo, Israel and Iran. Certain material was requested which
Ames will = together. See Memorandum for the Record prepared by _.

 

Ames and

 

15. (Secret - PLC) LIAISON Met with Frank Slatinshek, Chief .°
. bE ; Counsel, House Armed Services Committee staff, and gave him a copy each
of the classified and unclassified letters to the Agency from the House ..
Select Committee on Narcotics Abuse and Control and we discussed the
sensitivity of the information requested. Slatinshek said we should try
to respond without disclosing sensitive operations or sensitive liaison
relationships. He said he would assist if we have problems. I gave him
. ; the letter from the Director expressing appreciation for his appearance
before the Intelligence Process Course. He asked for a rundown of f past
members of the PFIAB and any history as to its creation, 8  . -

16. (Confidential - PLC) LIAISON Met with Claudia Wrazel, in :
the office of Senator Alan Cranston (D., Calif.), and discussed the background
of the request from their constituent Kamal Kapur. She said she felt
assured that the Agency had not in any way investigated Kapur and will so
advise him. She will call me if anything further develops. 2) 2 8 a

17. (Confidential - PLC) TRAVEL Met with Frank Sullivan, Senate
»fArmed Services Committee staff, and clarified an incoming cable from
27, 18-] Dptating th that an advance itinerary from the Air Force
Of-Senator Sam Nunn's (D., Ga. emnin trip included:a visit with the
24 noted that there is:‘no such position ‘in the
German government as intelligence chiefs are only within the various services.
Sullivan sdid this was. probably a slip-up bythe Air Force here. What is to be
schedtiled is an intelligence briefing by the German Ministry of Defense.
Sullivan will straighten the matter. out.. Sullivan said Senator Nunn will not

have enough » to. meet with He felt that[_}would probably =~
be the best o visit. I said I would check and Gate Mo Sovern,
ipl CIA INTER?’ Rer“AR ed and will finalize arrangements.

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
