14-00000

Se Ws

|

 

>

 

24 March 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR. THE RECORD ©

SUBJECT: Lee Harvey OSWALD
OS#351 164

23
- 1, On 22 March 1977{ x} Office of
Communications, and the undersigned met during a social
ent (a party in his honor prior to,his PCS to
- During social conversations, mentioned

an incident which_occurred in the Security Records Di Dow ~
file room relating to the OSWALD security files. —_—
was subsequently interviewed by the undersigned a Jerry
Brown, Deputy Chief, Security Analysis Group, on nd Pn e3

 

 

 

in the Security Analysis Group, Room 3E49, and
related substantially the following.

2. Sometime between May 1975 and January 1976 while
an Office sf Security employee assigned to the Security
Records Division file roon, [| fas requested to
search SANCA in the name of Léé arvey OSWALD. This request
was in connecti i a Freedom of Information case involving
OSWALD, andj) believed that{ also
assigned to e Security Records Division, made th
This search met with positive results, thus making) DS
aware of the fact that OSWALD's name was entered itt .

3. Subsequently, [J came across a file which
he described as relating to OSWALD, and he intended i

 

Same with the rest of the OSWALD files on the shelf.
described this file as covert, thin, and having”a
higher file number than the rest of the OSWALD holdings,

He could not remember the name which appeared on the outside
of the file but thought that it may have been one of OSWALD's
akas. He further related that he looked inside the file and
believed that it was related to, or possibly identical with,
the regular OSWALD holdings. While attempting to refile this
covert file, he observed that all of the regular OSWALD
holdings were permanently charged to the Security Analysis
Group; thus he believes he sent the covert file to the
Security Analysis Group.

 

E2 IMPDET
CINTA AL CL BY 007472
aires bbe
 

[ioetorsztoaag] a RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onl
: : Do Not Reproduce ¥
F] UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL [x CONF’ENTIAL _ (0° SECRET
L a “ ONLY

      
  
 

 

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional}

Lee Harvey OSWALD

FROM: EXTENSION

 

Michael E. Schneeberger .
Security Analysis Group -.| 6009 24 March 1977

TO: (Of; ignation, bs nid
building) ficer designa ion, room number, a OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment fo show from whom
INITIALS fo whom. Draw a fine across column after each comment.)

 

 

 

ROT,
C/SAG

LLL |

) Dbo/s

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

   

wN\
(Ase

610 “titer (] secret (] CONFIDENTIAL [] INTERNAL J nctassieien
74-0000

4. Later, again queried SANCA in the name
which he saw on the covert fi ‘found no record.
Perturbed, he queried (Indices Chief) as to
why he could find no record in the na eof a file which he
knew existed. He specifically asked [Dit the name
(which he. ot remember now) could have been erased from
SANCA. (Pa treplied that s i ink that was
possible.,,He then apprised of the above,
since [ "_|had proce the OSWALD Freedom of Infor-
mation ACt request. o3 made unknown inquiries for
ossible erasure
that there
la3took care
that he made his
aware of the incident.

  
 
 
  
   
 

 

concérning the,
of a name from SANCA and finally told
was nothing to worr that he
of the matter.o i

   
 
    
 
  
 

e

immediate, supervisor,
3 —advised tha ra-nothing further concerning _
he incident but privately harbored doubts about the resolu-

i'e/n\

tion of the incident. He mentioned that he entertained
thoughts of reporting the incident to the Inspector General
but has not discussed it with anyone subsequently until he

apprised the undersigned on the night of 22 March 1977.

 

: S. | was advised by the Deputy Chief, Security
Analysis GFéUS”fRt the Security Analysis Group would make

the incident a matter of official concern and would begin
immediate inquiries.ozl|- was cautioned not to vocalize
allegations regarding possible erasures of SANCA entries or
possible illegal destruction of official files. However,

he was told that he was perfectly Cree to bring the entire
matter up with the Inspector General if he felt it necessary,

is QoQo9

Michael E. Schneeberger
Security Analysis Group

i}

CONMEISENTIAL

   
