74-0000

  
  
  
 
 
 
  

na de aaa exmaes diticultades gel ‘el mal :
_ oH prinel 10% Me entrada de mereanoias, medieiriag, rapa revit cd sary |

 

 

     

&& ooordinast ber oon 61 antertor, trabay | Guartel Maestra Genérals ae

  
 
 

 

serion & lee ‘iomeee blea eae.

   

@tetripuye los alinentos y otros axtfoulo
os Ja persona: eon que euenta «

 
 
 
 
 
  
 

penentos yeboldas; Psy Gapitdn Honore Haehi
el Batade Kayor rebelde para que guptuersas distrutan da le dedida atensi dns
“adonday es significative sefalar que junto & Abeatesimientos y al Guartel

/ Msestre Goneral, eatd Ounctonando la fobriea de dotas, eananas, uniforses ¥
sertucheras para revélveres Y pistolas.

BL Departamento | de Armeria dol ai Fronts aot onal 6a Secanbrey, do tade te :
-_todes les equipos Necesarice para lena « cabartead ‘ma trrebsso, ontk aivigi«
60! por el capttdn | Regino Ganache, e2-
- Bok, 2

     

Ae ese per as ntti 4 get stecne wench inne SH pe tee Hes eas

          

h eyeratto republissne sepa

 
   
 
  

eee na
{

 

“@arios Mandel cdrtenaes : ; J :
Bl Estade Mayor Pa le Delagaatén | civta PA ste frente, on vista del alovade

 
  
 

"porcentaje do nifios: ao wand escolar y. sempesinos anal fabetos, he proesdide a
fe sperture Ge edqueles en varies zonas, © sarge de ias cudies ae encusnutrdan @
elementos con condiciones intelectuales para duparti> une enactiansa que jande
gobierno alguno ofreaté, . . g
Loe honbres ¢<4 II Fronts Hackonad dal Sasambray dames tren, oon Aa veali- 5
macién dtaria de hochos posttivor que son elgo.ads qe cusrrerce, Kets se came i J :

4 . t
74-0000

 

bn4a. la ate

    

j prucbe ecm ol trabajo que realiza el omperilene de Ingentyrds
fe resoiéa don eatudlante de esta materia, Capitdn. Publ ig Be. Rey onehitaty -
i precaupada: por el ‘pe Joraniente de los exwinos 7 serregorat-ext atemted el e~

4
wee ‘tas aonas, y reimiemo ae preoceupa por ln ‘odifioseién y reparacidn de panne “
f del- sempostrinds do sposefde @e la eoratilera. Se asth estudianda da pang dsti~

i-
{
| ded de Lisvar a sabe an, plan ae reedifinactéa ae las reteetas ‘omaibyies -

 

ter ae dads 46} seahinnay © ‘Re en ten theta come mireh oo tnaginan, Gaia
“she pleaser ‘que al penewrar: mm. ‘terri torte. Febalde, és temediate ‘pa serén ae

 

b
i
z

las fuerses. ‘qua: operan y eunbaten on Jae distinces earaes, Frees ne eourre Ca
sale Ouante mualquisr honbre snira on al Territeric Libre del Baewabray, 60
le interregs aimot csenente en 01 Dopartanonts do investi gaciés © Informe ;
eiém, y mda tarde se le reaite al Ganpenente General de Inetrusetén, lager Y
donde . parmanscerd el tisspo prugsriaLat qe le perval ta obtener les conced alamo
.  t08 elenantalss para gonvortires en un guerrillere ste para da . Peles y ol '

 

‘de ouabattentes onne titayen ae fusreas el i Prente Hasional

 

éal ksemmbenz, donde «x on soeaieo patriétioo conviven. les healree de tedag
las eafares’ ‘ecoiales, de todar las wiiitancias revolusiqaariags polftieas «
los alejadoa és elias, berwanadee bejo wi nomvres 1 FREY TS WAOLOWAL DOL BB= i
CANERAY, y una bandera: LA CH LA SOTRELLA SULITARIAL — |
mt -Prente slo rei{rerasos- os un bastlén de guerre, que tiens coma ob- ;
Jetive primerdial ol derreceviente de la. dotadurs y el restadlosintente de \
“Isa inatitceitomes dencardtisaes pare eatine que de esate revelveidn debea @ \

 
74-0000

 

     
 

rgiin nontaflosa del Sur de Las Vilias, penetraron de opts
de la orgonisadidn y 1s nde extetota Giseiplinas A val Ure gt dy
a sietar on reg lysento oat any eT Se iat “bana ropreansnb =
dou do lea oldados do ln reves +0 bay viet tarig

', Libre del Kacamtreyt pare la. adéeuada aplisseién de an aneguferta Mastodon

ey he

<n oién, ae consti tayé un Teibarial Disetplinarto, eroergndo en einai ‘pesol- !

 

: Vex aghre todos ‘les easce ds iefracot cries ¥ delites. Lo mie ofrece une téasce
da da ‘preveupaict bo de lose bonnes ‘del iacantray pas ed nan tontmionte de la

a
&
[ . merely le: “atestpitos y eh ordeme 6. " m, i foe

 

    

“yd de. hoa organiscos que. af Pilotdtera labor realise en le cordiiies .
Pay 23, zin lugar a dudas, el Departamento ‘Senitartos: a ‘cargo del misao estd
6) reputado galeno, Capitén José Mizrahi, tentends, 2 os Gedenes un mmerceo
¥ valiosfsino personal; ooupande el pueato do. depuivio, 41 Teniente Carlos « i
gieaada. El teen Kédico no ‘solamente. preate mua servieles a los rebeldes, ai~ ;
wo que ‘taubiéa lo hace a los ‘habitentor 40 laa régiones ea que elles operen.

con ce instaleetéo de dettates outeimer ies 7 ‘od inooeante frabajo bad °

 

\- : * ajeaee ‘Sneneab ta por - la ameractda es todo al ‘ererato que opera bate Ye =
: fartedtootéa dah Batado Mayor ronaldo.

Pare aviter ta $ futiitcrasidn de oonfidentes, agentes guvernammtalen, ont 5

B

 

vatos @ delinenentes om territeria peligerente, se ha ereado ol Cusrpo de Tae |
7 Yestigacién e Informacidn, at mando dal Capi thn Manue) Uteras Bate orgenisao
ge enearga taavién de interrogar a squelios hoatres quis soa caviados por lee
oansles rebtoldes-en la retacuasdia para fugresar en sus Tilue, adeada de eae
Lisar wn permenante etequeo solre 6] cowportamionto ¢e todas las fuersas son

in poblaci<m scawpesina.

 

a

o

 
74-00000

 
    

 
   
 

 

tes

me ma
wes BS by vasa? RAUIGAL ‘uw 2ecAnsaias- reco fe “4
- wes ee menpe meee oe emes weenerennent hee &
: 2 ba oh. one
- 72° Prente Kasianal del deoanonas, representa cvvuntdndeh an AE

   
  

 

Hayor radtoado. en le Cordillora, orgentan ‘que @labora sobre Pt F: Fo) :
BY ortratenit x la’ ‘sarton a copes 0 cate  epormansiad. La Semendanete 7 Jofae t

1

 

een wae truer ORIN EAI! edhe ngewe weer wet

7

i

i

. -e8Us CARRERA, ba. “Ansa m0 PURI IRS prez (Bote gaao. General osvin}, WILLIAM de = |
MUBGAT, FLINIO PRI:.70 RUIZ (aotualaente Delegaio, en el Exvranjere) r ALFREDO of
.. is

 

Paliwe we :
a) Presto seflalar que bajo la Jurisdisetéa de este Ratado Mayor, oe ttn - -
seujetes gran, inane ds oficiales, qe han obtanids gus respectives grades pos

Ales adet tos, saquteieos en las sonas de operaciones del If Frente ‘Rasional: “aol
. Raomis OF», aaa grail ts Sepitta 7 jete. 60. diatzomenio, exteten. xe :

tate tamer

CPL ecto

 
  

ab arcane

 

per Jos axstintes Delegadoa neteat ibe 7 y ‘departamentos & smexoce al: eee wna o
Delege.zi én en el Extranjers y un Comité Interno ‘pera funeléa no militar. a Dire
7 Ploites Dias, adends de. desempelar oabalmente ou responsable eargo, treba je’ ea
, semnttsesin eon. el Derertenento Santtarto, atendiente a ls Fotiect éa conpeaton

eee pooner ett

   
 
   
 

 

va a TET pp |

L..

   
14-0000

   
     

 

“SeE*C-R-E-T
- b -.

  
 

Delegate. General, .
Political Advisor -

Be r4 onecuez 34 — , National Coordinators” : eo ds
Bépartaentel ard Poretgn Delegations. a ; , j

     
  
   
   
    
 

 

., Provincial,’

g. Internal Committes for Non-Military Matters, oO
we Disotplinary Cote an
+ . “ ~ . . . + ; . a a 7 7 i

a) ge a of : ~
ey. Conmana fic
Qs Mes Panto ing foe

  
      
74-0000

SAEAC-REaE
“5

Field Cements :
le “Top Srtédexo leader well known for ‘his opposition activities :
against. BATISTA, : oe
2. Former. student who participated: in the ascagsination in. 1956. of:
“Colonel Antonio BLANCO Rico, former Chief of: the Servicio de
cia (SIM, Cuban HAM tary Inte

GuTTERREZ ‘and MORGAN have several’ tines been: reported as. “leaders - BS
-of rebel groups in the Sierra Escambray. MORGAN ia aU. Se - ;
citisen and reportedly a Korean war veterans

Armarido M. FLELTES Diaz, former medical student in the University E
of Habana; FLEITES has @ long racord of revolutionary activities bee
and left Habana for exile in Hexico on 25 August 1958. 4 :
Manber of the National, Executive Connittes of the Partido del“
Pueblo Cubans’ (Ortedoxo) (Cuban People’s Party-Orthodex). soar

Possible 2 referetios to _fatsede ‘PEM, ‘mentioned as a guerrilla

a
Jf
|

: .
ok
-#

S-E-CoReR=?

.

 

+ ean ee ae ems
14-00000

ten

     

i FIELD INFORMATION REPORT ‘ ot
couee et Goutal Boney o7 loyalty. eegardiees of thes competence). 6  Kehatehty caemot be judied VAnpledve towed ae weeetrale ‘

a
, ASTRAISAE OF CONTENT 1. Conformed by other mndezontent and reliabiv scarces Zi Probstty true. 3 Ponsiblytrve.  & Gaubtlul $ Prutahly hs
3 false. 6 Cannot be pedced, Documentary, Based on oneal document, vat : :
. . - 1

EVAL USTOM.OF SOURCE A Completéty retiebte  B Usualty cetebtg, C, Sante rnteehte DB Het esnatn retin

1

|

{ S-E-CoR-E-T ot
| - .

 

COUNTRY Guba "* REPORT NO. “weHe1 754

i : bs ; :
SUBJECT Segundo Frente Nacional del Escambray OATE OF REPORT 30 October 1958
* NO. OF PAGES gs - .
i
{

’

° REFERENCES

INFO, 27 October 1958 ,

PLACE &
DATE ACO. Cuba, Habana 29 October 19
SOURCE EVALUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE. NOTE FOREGOING EXPLANATION.
i Coat Pore .
SOURCE: SFNE leader in Habana who has just retumed fron a j0-day tour of the
Sierra Escambray (C). Appraisal of Content: Paragraphs 1-10 1 33
Parsgreph 11 1 Documentary
: . , 4 ans

Ye : . .

1. Rebel forces in the Sierra Escambray, Province of Les Villas, now consist
of ene major force of about 1,400 men and two minor forces of about 100
and 16, man each. The major force, which calls itself the Segundo Freate
Nacional del Escambray (SFNE, Second National Front of the Escanbrey),
consists of former studenta, mesbers of the Organizacion Autentica (0A,
Authentio Organization, followers of Carles PRIO,. former president of Cuba),

and members of the Partido del Pueblo Cubano (Ortodoxo), including follow- . :
$
:

ES ee a ne

ers of Fuilio OCHOA.’ Organisational details of the SFNE are given in
paregreph 11 below. The two minor groups are the Directorio Revolucion=
: ario (DR, Revolutionary Directorate, a student revolutionary organinae
tien) with about 100 men under Rolando CUBELA Secades3* and the 26 of,
duly Revolutionary Movement with 16 men under Emesto "Che® GUEVARA.2

mean

i

af 2. The SFNE members see thenaulves as the answer to the threat posed by the

. 26 of July movanent. While thsy desire to see BATISTA and his clique

i driven out, they are not axtranists and would co-operate with the Cuban

* Arny toward the accomplishment of this end. Although there are many

anti-BATISTA persons within the Cuban Army, the SINS is not in direst

touch with any active conspirators therein at the present time. Ifa

military junta were to be formed to oust BATISTA, however, the SFNE

vy. would co-operate with that junta. With regard to SFNE-DR relations,
the SENE cannot become identified with the DR because of CUBELA’s

1 involvesent in the assassination of Colonel Antonio BIANCO Rico in 1956*
and the consequent effect this might have on SFNE~Cutan Amy relationss

a .
3. The SFRE occupies a territorial sone of great potential strategic
importance. Given sufficient ams, they believe that they could cauge . 1.
@ governnent crisis in Habana by seizing and holaing Las Villaa brov-
ince, thereby cutting off Habana from its main sources of mpply in Las

~ . Villas, Camaguey, and Oriente Provincese

S-E-CoR-E-T

  
 

104-4 0220-40004

 

 

ee eS . “ /

. . On
“eh ores ‘0 INTERMAL m5 Fg id. conrvertal,7

  

USE ONT * i=) secery .

2

    
  

    
    

. . . ce at - . y
wba cone’ Report wa: yis17h Loeal Pile ‘Ko : “le
be ce . a .
to 1.2 RS LO GIOEYES G3
' ae ere C
ra fepidved’ Dy: __‘unadow a Mae
I Distribution: 4- Washington w/a .* sod Att
. By copy to: 1 = Bxbasey w/o aty Orally to:
1 © Defense, Legal Attache w/o att
. 1 = Santiago de Cuba w/att
: 2 = Files w/att

 
 
     
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  

 

References:

 
 
  
  
  
 

Source Ceyptonyn;

. . we
Bource, Operationd!) Data, and Coamente:

ra on no SUT FOR MICROFILM

SUBJECTs Segundo Frente Nacional del Eecanbray

SOURCES Subject of HAVA 037, 8 Ostoder 1957 Paty Captiof’

j
‘station Coamentat

ra Source offered to srrange # week’s tour of the Escanbray for any observer. ~ ;
we choose so that we could “see for ourselves." He loaned the Station ~~ "
what was purvorted to be an official SFRE document entitled: Que Be EL ~~ .
It Frente Wacional Del Escaubray? (what is thé Second National Front of

the Escambray?) from which the information in paragraph 11 was taken,

Verifax copies of the docusent are attached for Headquarters, Base .

Santiago de Cuba and Station files.

¥ | 2. BI, please card all names apoearing in thie report.

3. Source hes been assigned a "C* rating on the basis of Station contact
with ca for over @ year,

    

    
 
 

7 - oe . é n
2. : 4
fo safe Mi mean ee 2
_ detaph Feplad sroseat the. Tey ae Loe f we edd
. VBek 4 tO, ute ~ guanatd Fait ed teen ok
Uheien J ee age Ey 6 ote

£ 7

he

   

Top fitagad FEI eal

nary

“4
H
 

be

de tae eee

5.

6.

Te

- 7. 8B,

   
   

 

S-E-CoR-E-?

~2e

The SFRE suffers from a serious shortage of arws and ammnition.s
Approximatelz 700 men have Italian cartises and e very few heavy weapons
euch as Johnsen automatic rifles and Thuspeon submachinesuna. The
rematoder of.,ths mon have aideams. ‘The,carbines were furnished by
Carlos PALO from previously oxtating area caches in Cuba, The SFNE, «
has sbout $100,800 cash avallable in the United States to buy arms but
they age reluctant to chance losing the arms to U. S. authorities, who
have already ecized some attempted shipments. The SFNE suspecta that
the 26 of duly Hovemont may have been_ses; onsible for such sqjzures by .
“tipping off" the 0. 8, authorities. ied

The SFNE iz fecing a stretegic crisis. Eecause of the arms and amhu-
nition shortage they must necessarily restrict the scope of their allim -
tary activities. This means that ss the 26 of July force under GUEVAKA
begins to get organized and to receive the full support of the interna=
tional 26 of July oryanization, they will be able to maintain a much
hicher level of military activity than thst of the SFNE. This will oven-
tually result in a deterioration of SYNE morale and in the domination . —
of the Escambray by GUEVAKA. The SYMZ extimates that this will take

place before tne end of January 1959. They have told PRIO of this
siturztion ani are urging him to send arms and ammunition as soon as
possible. Tne Ch members of the SYNE are serding about 30 “ie . . yt

lettera to P10 urging hia supports , 1 Z .

Beforp GUEVAHA‘a arrival in the Sierra vecsnbrey| tiers was a senting

gent of about 150 sympathizers of the 26 of duly operating in that .
area. About hulf of these have joined SULVAFA’s force, bringing it . .
to 164 mens the reueinder have stayed with the SEINE. GUEVARA’s force . 3
ise well equipped with automatic weapons. The emount of his present _ oat
supplies is not known. He arrived with a supply train of 70 mlese . ~
There are no air etrips in his area, and the only way his supplies can =f
be augnented is by air drop. ont \ Weng oe

The SFHE, oa the other hand, controle four air strips and oan control

on demand a certain section of the coazt hipinsay between Cienfuegos and *
Trinidad. Any of these can be used by X-3 aircraft. No air shipments of
of arms or amcunition have been received by the SFNE as yet, although :
around early Gctooer they held the higinay strip for five days aweiting i
such @ flight. The DR has received one air drop of Thompson submachines _ ‘
guns, but most of these were broken under the iapact of the drope - :

 

It costs approximately $2,000 a day to maintain the fighting force
ef the SFNE. Most of this money is reised by taxes on the Escambray

coffee harvest. Some financial and material aid comes from Habana

from the retaguardia (rearguard), as these S7EZ supporters call them-

selves. The sii bas a smail meaical cepartuent consisting of about == * ,
two doctors, two aentists, and several nurses, ‘They also have a vO. 5 :
shortwave transzitter vaiued at about $2,00U. ‘The SFNE receives

dittle &id from abroad, where the 26 of July movenent dontnavee all

support Activities. : po ody 2

ra

wee hee.

“The SPNE has little poultice ideology. Ite fighting creed 18 “Liberty,

dJusttee, Deweracy, The Constitution cof “L0, and the Lone Star." Rather
than create another flag as did the 26 of July movement, the SFNE pre-~
fers to retain the Cuban banner with ite single stare = -

The SFNE has completely controlled the problex of Commnismin ite «©-  -. _
gone. There are only two self-admitted Coccuniste, who have been oo oa
Slloved to renain in the sone on the condition that they reusin 3.

“quiet (Tranquilo). Conmunist leaders. fras Hsbana previously nade...

an approach to the SFNE to be allowed to participate in tne £4 Be La ae
alongride that organization. The request was zade through ‘tot selt- C$"
admitted Camcuniste whq resiced in the Escambray zone, om 7

have since left the seas. The Gotmnist | offer was ° Bi ai

we toe

Os “Beceet gee :
Wa, 2 OP a et F a or ee

AN,
“
Mw

an

   

 
querrilla foress totaling about “4,000 ~
a Set forth below. 4s the. -

. Nf , Commander-in-Chief
z A ay” Delegate Genera,
jor. Wid] Lexi Alexgnder " HW. Chief of Organisation

w aoe a “Aurelio” NAZARIO: :
Political Advisor

Secretary of General St

wagon (tm) -
MajoxMARROYO:- >. (fm).

» Major’ Lazare TARTOLA

+ Majo# Anastusis“C oS.

Major Plinio“PRIETO" Bf broua) .

Major Joaus CARRERAS me

" Datachaent Conmanderg »

a

. _—— > (IY “ht. Oscar \PEREZ
(7 42) Me Angell

\ eee

Andree ‘GONTAN Costa |
Jose \PACTH” :
,Widfyedot PB PEREZ

. Marcelot DIAZ Gonsales ‘
Julio A,!NUREZ Cabada
Jose A. sae ml euler *

Carlos] MEE Milian |

 
