13-00000

(ms this conversation, the America vas speaking hardly recogalvable Russian.)

As far as our records show, OSWAID did not phone the Soviet or Cuban
pcbasates ogain until Tuesday, 1 October 1963. The intervening days were o
suntay ont a buniay. ‘tha contents of his later calls seem to shov he aa not
contact tha Soviets on tks those days. |

1 October, 10:31 AM > A man calls the Soviet Hilitary Attache in broken

- Rusitan and says he hed been at their place the previous Sstuntay (28 Septenter)

and talked to their Consul. ‘They had said they wuld send a telegram to Washington,
and be wanted to know if there vere anything rew. ‘The Soviets ask him to call”
qrother yhove msber ond given him 15-60-55, saying to ask for a Conml.

3. October, 10:45 AM = (‘this ts the phone call in which GSWALD used his
true nme aa vhich was therefore cable to Washington on 9 October 1963.)
too OSWALD called the Soviet Tbassy anf announced hie own name, saying he hed
visited then the previous Saturday end spoken with a Consul. they hed said they
vould send o telegran to Wesliingtoa, anf be vented to know if there'vere exythtng
nev. He did not reneuber the neue of the Consul. ‘The Sovict, vho wes Eubassy

guard OBYEDKOY replied: "KOSTIXOV; he is dark." OSWAID replied: "Yes, ny
13-00000

name is OGWALD.” he Soviet excused hineslf for a minite ani then sald they
hedn't received anything yet. OSWALD asked if they hadn't done anything and
the guard replied they had sent a request but that nothing had been received
as yet." CSWAID started to say: "And what...", but the Soviet hung up.

October 1953 = A min speaking broken Spanish at first and then English —
phoned the Soviet Military Attache and esked about 4 visa. the Attache's office
referred him to the consalate, giving the maser 15-60-55. ‘the caller wote it
dow. ‘he attechs official shrugged off another question about vhether the caller
could get @ visa, and the conversation ended. (tere {8 no spectal reasoa to
tie this dn with CSWAID, tho 1s nov lnown to have re-entered the U.S. et Laredo the

some day.)

 

 

 

 

 

the.

 

 

inforsation on Lee OSWALD olso cems to the attention of President LOPEZ Mateos
after 22 Yovesber. ‘the next day, 23 November, he called it to the attention of
our Chief of Station, who was already working feverishly on the case. Sintlarly,

the Mecccens noticed the involvenest of Cuban Cansuler caployee Silvia DURAN, &

SRA

   
13-00000

rejeina thet they have the sow pein; the “urtcan’ te sti atthe
Consulate; they cannot give him a transit visa unless he is assured of a Soviet
visa, even though he just wants to go to Cuba to watt thare for his Soviet visa
to be granted. Ee does not know anyone in Cubs. They end the conversation oa
thie note. Silvia DURAN says thet she vill note this on hie “card,” and the
Soviet concludes ty saying, "Besides be ie not known.” Ee excuses himself for
the tnccaventense he has caused end Silvia DURUM ays St fe all right.

28 Septauber ~ Silvia DURAN calls the Soviet Embesay from the Cuban

‘Consulate. che says that she has the American with her again. ‘the Soviet

answering esks her to wait. When another Soviet tekes up the phone, Silvia puts ;
the American on. ‘The American tries to talk Russian to the Soviet who answers
tn English. ‘he Anericen asks him to speak Russian. ‘he Auericon says that he
hod peea in the Sovlet Eubessy taxi mpoken with the Consul, ant that they hed

taken his address. ‘the Soviet replies that he knows thet. ‘The American then

eeys, somewoat enigaatically; "I did not know it then. I vent to the Cuban

Frbassy to esk thes for my address because they have it." ‘whe Soviet invites hin

to stop by again and give them the address, and the American agrees to do 80.

 
13-00000

.

can grant hin a trenalt visa ext etaply motify Cubsn tuntgretion euthortttes.
The Soviet first asks her to walt, and then she has to explain the whole thing
over ogata to another Soviet official, iho takes ber telayhane mmber end
promises to call her beck. Silvia DURAW conelutes this call ty telling the
Soviet she herself bas moved ani gives her new adress for the Soviet Pabassy

bulletin. He sakes her to phone (Sergey Sememovich) KUKIARENKO (Second Secretery

vho puta out the Bulletin) to give him the nev eddress and he aske who the Cuben

Cultauwal Attache is. Gilvia DURAN gives the Attacha's name os Teresa FRORZZA end
edds her telephone mumber.

27 Septesbar, 4126 PY A Soviet official calls Silvia DURAY back end
tele her that the "Auertean" iia been to cee the Soriet's end show then a
Letter from the Soviet Consulate in Unshington indtceting that be had been
swatting for vises for inoelf sok bio vie to go to Gae'foriet Uriea foe a ioug
time, tut that no esswer hed cone from Washington, elding that the welt was
sonetines four or five months. the “Auerican" bad sham the Soviets a letter
shoving ba vad a xesiber of en ongantantion in fovur of Cubs ek had clained. thes

the Cubens could not give him a visa without a Russian visa. Silvie DURAN
Sebi
13-00000

OSWALD and passed them to us, and the FBX gave us a copy of the Sovieb

Consuler file on OSWALD which ba® boen publicly gives ty the Soviet Aubessadce
to the Secretary of State. On Friday 6 Decenber 1963, Deputy Attorney Genexval,
Katzenbech tuvited us to review the FBI's comprubasive report on the case to
quoted. We found the report highly interesting eni no threst to our security, as
long aa it ves read only hy the authorized investigative bodies. |

After the first fev days, the CIA investigation of the case vas haniled

ot Reedquarters by a staff usually charged xs with investigation and analysis of

the most important security cases, and ty officers and analysts of our Western

Zomisohere Division.
Reports from Mexico

As noon a8 our Mexico City Station realized that Lee OSWALD vas the prine-
susgect, it began re-screaning all the uritten telephone trenscripts in ita
files w covering the Soviet Fubasey for the pertinent period. The actual tapes
wore also reviewed, ut say of them had been erssed, after the normal tvo woeks

wait. Several calls believed to involve OSHALD were discovered mt and their

tyre ne rh cnr SE PT PCE ess aeseenaeneennenssesannnste eee
13-00000

House, the State Departaent, the Federal Bureeu of Investigntion.

CSWAID's nane vee not actually mentioned in these sdditional calls, tut
siztlarity of speech end various plain points of content Link them to hin, ‘These
cells are aumarizel telov in chrenalogieal ortar. They cover the period fran
27 Sapteuber 1963 to 3 October 1963, the whole apm of (SWAID's visit to Mexico
City es later learned froa travel. records.

2] September - A nan phones the Soviet Military Attache end says he
neels © vise to gp to Oem. len answering says be should call 15-60-55 and
oak for the Commll. Caller asks for the eidress, aad it is givan to hin,
(chere ‘1s no special reasoa Zor Linking thts call to OSWALD.)

27 Beptenber, 4:05 PM ~ ‘The Cuben Consulate phoned the Soviet Consulate.
Stivie Duran, Hettoen national clerk of the Ciba Consulate talked to a soviet
official, saying that a male Avericai citizes vas ab the Cuban Consulate asking
for o transit visa to pass through Cuba on his way to the Soviet Union. she
vants to knov to shom he talked in the Soviet Consulate and uho told hin be wuld

have no problem sbout 1t. If a Soviet viea 1s assured, the Cuben Consulate

soe we tN

( SEBPET
woGe~
contents cabled to Washington, where they vere disseainsted to the White .
|
Ales, “4 63 par - “ |
elb lt bebe 20)-29I2F9 |
13-00000

The cabled report was received in Washington on 9 October and checked
fn our files, vhere it was immediately noted that the Lee (OSWALD phoning the
Boviet Yubassy in Mexico City vas probably the Lee OSWALD who had defected to
“the Soviet Unton in 1959 and retuned to the USA in 1962. Oa 10 October 1953,
the day after the report from Hexico City, CIA Headquarters sent out a cabled
report shout Lae CSMAID's shone call to the Soviet Extessy; the report vent to
the FSI, the Depertuent of State (because OSWALD vas 0 U.S. citizen), snd to
the Novy Department (because he vae 0 former Nerine). ‘The cabled report to these
agencies highlighted the 1ikithood that the Lee CSWAID meutioned ves probably the
former defector. A cony of thts sane cable vas delivered by band to the
pantgretion ent Naturalization Service, vith valeh ve have po esble Mul, Te
pane day & long cable vent out to Mexico City informing our Station of the
background ef defector Lee CSWAID and asking for moe information. Our Btation
‘yas instructed to pass its inforantion on the phone call to the Hextco City offices
of the ar, the Febeasy, the Naval Attache, and the Tumigretion anf Yatureltzattion

Service. This was done.

 
104-10406-10382

 

pe (  SEGRET ( XAAZ- 12953
63
Piscovery of OSWALD in Hexico city PriePing Purposes Ciren 10 Des e3

(Exact Date Vaknown)

On 1 October 1963, the CIA Haxico City Station intercepted a telephone
call Lee OSWALD made from an unknown location in Hecieo City to the Soviet
Embassy thore, using his ow nmae. Speaking troken Russian and using hie true
naw, OSWALD ves talking to the Bubassy guard, OSYEDKOV, vbo often answers the
phone. OGKAID said he bed visited the Exbessy the previous Saturday (23 Septesber
1963) anf spoken to a consul vhose nase be hel forgotten, end vhio had pronioed to
cent 9 telegrem for him to Washington. He vated to know if there vere “anything
nev.” roo gusrt said Af the consu) vas dacs 4% vas (Valenty Visiintzovich)
KOSVTALOV. he guard checked with someone else and said that the messaga hed gone

out tut no sosver had been received. He then lumg up.

 

 

 

This piece of information was produced from a telephone tap center thick
BereY GHA not knova to bo hiswe>

 

 

CEnBLx ownscenteny By 9 October, the OSWALD telephone conversation of 1 October

hol been tronscribed ond a summary of 1t cabled to Washington.
CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

   
   

  
  
 

; eepay AY 19
RELRE CONDUCTED ON.
Document Number 367 - 7a 6 : SEs f &__impper cr pyG/2 L039
. ns pea] A :

for FOIA Review on MAY 1976 Wo il.

. a Dol- 239248
13-00000

 

-3-

Our Mexico City Station very often produces information an U.S.

citizens contacting Goviet bloe exbeasies in Hexteo City. Froquantly the
information ve get is extremely incriminating, and on one or two occasions we
have 4 even been able to apprehend and return to the USA American military
persomel who are attenpting to defect. Th all such cases, om Headquarters
desk requests and obtains the special permission of the Deputy Director for Plans
to pamthe derogatory informstion on a U.S. citizen to other govertment agencies.
de vere nob informed of visb action the YE and other ageontes nay have: teken es

that time based on our report. Later investigation has confirmed all the details -

_ of his trip, where ha stayed, and whet he did. To avoid crossing Lines with the

FBI, our Mexico Station undertook no local investigation of its om. As ve now
knov, OSHAID left Mexico on 3 October and was no longer there vhen our report

' was put out.

 

sBitice this telephone tap operation Ja a joint one vith

 

 

 

“ tive Mexicans also had the 1 October. interceps on Lee OSWALD, but it.

 

 

epparettly slumbered in thelr files uxtil the assasgination took place,,
13-00000

22 Novesber 1

As soon as the name of Lee GSHAID vas mentioned in connection with the

. aenaseinstion of Preaident Kennedy on 22 Noveaber, CIA file checks vere begm

‘and the Mexican station waa asked by cable for more information on OSWALD.

Within a week, tventy-seven cabled reyorts hed bean cent to the \nite House, the
State Depertaent, ent the YET.

GIA fleld stations provided many Ltetw of information during the week
af after the ssssolnation. The Mexico City Station researched its telephone
tepe very thoroughly and cane up with several more conversations probably
tavolving OSUAID, tut not sctually ventioning this nase; these connected ha
also to the Cuban Consulate in Hexico City. Several Hexicang vere arrested
ond questioned about his activities, giving a good picture of vbat he vas really
up to. 4 host of fabricators, pone anonymous, bouberted overseas exbasaies ” |
vith oyurtous tips on the cese, most of Which we tnvestigxted. ALL of these vere
soon dtcerodited, but they are still coming in.

During this phase of our work, we served primwily in support of the FBI,

vhich wes entrusted by the President with the major responsibility for the
ex ry .
whben

investigation. ‘he Department of State photographed its entire file on

 

  

  
