14-00000

ey

Belgium: trying to buy arms for the Vominican Republic. Subject .-.
said he had been phoned this inSsrustion by Manuel FIRESTONE, who
was there. anong the equipment wanted are six hundred wilkie-talkie
radios. He said that Policarp> (obviously Policarpo SOLER) vas
Killed because he convinced PEDRiz: te cooperate with William Alex-
ander MIRGAE, whe was acting as a eouble agent for CaSTRd,

6. I told Subject that after due consideration of the risks to
him, the cost in time and effort to hin, and the risks and expenses
involved for the Agency, balanced against assets generally available
throughout the Antelligence community and his (Subject's) access ta
additional information, it had been decided not to give him any
operationa? tasks at this time, I eaphasized that this was n>
reflection on his character, but that we felt that in the balance he
could not do enourh to warrant using him at this time. I suggested
that since the bulk of the netters which come to bis attention in
connection with the Cuban matter take place in the United States, he
should report such information to the FBI, Subject appesred to
understand that we would not use hin and expressed his regret. The

 

conversation ended on a friendly note.

 

 

mT Ss Ts TIOTes
= WE/III/40

TUF /par

bad

q
 

 

a

 

13 October 3939 -

MEMORANDUM FoR: TEE RECORD

SUBGECTs

1.

Hitchell L. WER BELL

Subject. phoned me on 25 September to report that a super-

secret meeting was to be held in Washington during the week of 28
September, The conferees wuubl te a.group ot “hiaty financiers sf
the opposition to C2372 in Guba.” The purpose of the meeting is to

decide on action ta be taken against CaSTAS,

2. Subject said he was invited to attend by Jorge BETEART, one
of the leaders of the group. also attending will be one 3aNcl=
Nunez (fnu), who lives on his yacht in Miami. Subject said they are
interested in him because of his contacts with the World-Wide Inter-
national Service, the news agency with which he is affiliated. Ee
said the Cuban opposition does not intend to let C:STRO harvest the

next sugar crop.
. .

3. Subject sais would like to attend the reeting, but has
invested so much morey in the Cuban matter alresiy without any return,
that he cannot do so unless we are prepared to uridervrite his
attendance, I told hin that I would let him know.

 

   

 

 

4. In conference with C/WH/III, I recommentei that we either
terminate Subject or put him to work, (C/si/III ani I agreed that ke
should te terminate? for the following reasons: .

&@. His motivation is obviously to use the arency as © source
of firancing Tor his personal business schexes.

b. As an american his access to full inforzstion on Cuben
revolutionary activities will always be Limited. This is
borne out oy the fact that his information, while indci~
cating sone access, has been incozplete sni obvisusiy

* second or third hand.

§. On Z detoter I talked with sub‘ect by phone. At thet tine he .
reported that there is a purchasing mission of the cuban opposition in

 

SLL taped LBS S fle
