74-0000

SC RET
7 AWBAT

5. Agency records contsin numerous reforences to INTERARMCO,

6. It is noted that Subjects have net appeared to date in any public
or classified raports of tho Garrison invastigation in Now Crisans.:

i

cet
RYBAT

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
  

 

SECRET
RYBAT

“Yhe {rlends whoro Unertuth visited say ho waa sober -
-, but badly shook. They say ho attributed the Kennedy
‘puirdér to a CIA clique which was carrying on a lucrative
racket. in gunerunning. narcotice and other contraband,
and manipulating political: intrigue to serve its own ends.
Keanedy supposedly got wind that something was going on
-and wae killed before he could ‘blow.the whistle. on it’,
; although” the {rlonds “had always known Underhill to be
' perfectly rational aad objective, they at firat didn't take
hie account seriously. ‘I think the main reason waa,' |
explains the husband, ‘that wo couldn't. believe that the ~
CLA could contain. a corript olemiont every bit as ruth= © ~

lega-eanhd more efficient--ae the mafia.’ a

“The verdict of suicide in Underhill's death 1a by no
means convincing. His hody was found by a writing
collaborator, Asher Brynes of the New Republic. He
had been ohot behind the left ear, and an automatic pistol
was under hia left side. Cdd, enye Brynes, because
Underhill wae right-handed. Brynes thinke the pistol
was fitted with a silencer, and occupants of the apartment
building could not recall hearing 4 shot. Underhill obvi
ously had been dead several days.

"Garry Underhiil's chilling atory ie hardly implausible.

sg a apy apparatus the Cl, (s honeycombed with self-
contained cliques operating without any real central control. ase”?

2, A check of Ageacy recorda haa ylelded the following information
about John Garrett UNOLAHILL Jr,

3. DPOB: 7 August 1915, Brooklyn.

b. Attended high school ‘In Brooklya and wae graduated
from Harvard in 1937. 7

¢. Died 8 May 1964.

SECRET
RYBAT

 
 

4-10189-10066

 

 

SECRET:
YB AT

19 gut i867

MiMCRANDUM

supyeér: Ramparts: John Garratt UNDERHILL Bree

Samuel George CUMMINGS, and
INTERARMCO

1. Ramparts of June ‘1967, Vol. 5, No. AZ, PP. 28-29, contains

the following passages about subjects:

“The day afer the assassination, Gary Underhill left
Washington in a hurry. iate in the evening he showed up
at the home. of friends in New Jersey. He was very agitated.
A amall clique within the Ul waa reaponsible for tha as
sassination, he confided, and he was afraid for his Hfe and
probably would bava to loave the country. Less than six
monthe later Underhill waa found shot to death in his
Washington apartment. The coroner ruled li suicide.

"J. Garrett Underhill had been an intelligence agent
during world War U aad was a recognized authority oa mie
ted warfary and emall arms. 4 researcher and writar on

+ military affaire, he was-on 4 firstename basis with many of
the top brags in the Pentagon. He was also on intimate terms

with a number of Bigh-ranhing ClA officials--he was one of -
the Agency's ‘un-peopia' who perform apecial assigaments.
At one time he had boon 4 friend of Samus] Cummings of
Interarmco, the arma broker that numbers among ite cus-
tomers the CIA and, ironically, Klein's Sporting Goods of
Chicago, from whence /sic/ the mail-order Carcano alleg-
edly was purchased by Cowald.

SECRET
AYBAT

 

 
 

  

” for sipertor work in. military intelligence.” Lekt activa”

 

“advieed that contact should be developed with caution, on

“UNDERHILL served-in milltary intelligence in ¥ orld War aa

 

 

de Was a pletorlal journalist for Life, 1938-1942. .

e, Crderad to active duty with MIS, Washington, ao
a socond lieutenant, on 8 July 1943. Served with MIS
for ¢-i/2 years, working ou tachnical and photographic.
adings for MIS publications, evaluation of intelligence,

| enemy: uniforms, insignia, weapons, etc. Cr
9 October 1945 received & Jar Department staff ‘citation

 

duty in May 1946. .
f. GhA raemeranda of F ‘abruary and Cetobor 1949 |
show that there wae interast by the New York offica of
CO, Contacte Division, in using Subject as a contact for
foreign intelligence, Name checks were conducted with
various military members of the intelligence community,
but these ylelded insufficient information, and OC was

a limited baois, and that Subject was not to receive in-
formation claseifled higher than confidential.

g. On l2 March 1957 national agency checks were
again requested on Subject because of interest By the

Office of Security.

h. A UP ‘article of unknown date cites an article written
by UNDERHILL for aquire.. The article described the U.S.
Arey as shockingly weak. The UP plece stated thet

7 and Korea, UND&AHILL said that he had served ao a con- \
' galtant {probably in 1956/ to an Army coordiasting group. ’

1. A report of 6 August 1954 from the Office of Sacurity,
Department of State, concerns contacts between UND RHILL x
amd one Herman AXSLBANK, who wae trying to gall photo- \
graphs of Soviet military subjects. UNDERHILL reported i
these contacto to tho + Hi and to CLA. in November 1949

 

ae aa
et
com]
—P]
74-0000

Peet nas!

 

[
i

 

SECRET
RYBM

UNDERHILL visited “vashington to call the attention of CIA te
cortain AX ELBANK pictures and was advieed that Colliers |
. might be interested in some of them for an article on Kusala.
UNDERHILL discussed 4<cLDANK with [sd
CIA. : a

3. Cn tha basis of the foregoing an inquiry was mado of direc-

"tar, Domestic Contact Service, \ whose office provided the attached -

reply. i
3. A check of Agency racords has yielded. the -e following information

, about Samusi George CUMMINGS, 261 -178343,.

a. DPOB 4 February 1927 Fhiladelphia.

b. President and cole owner of INTERARMCG,
“probably ths largest international armo dealer in the
world”. (OIR 61282, 16 Beptomber 1960.)

¢. Wao a staff employee of CLA from Cecember 1930
to November £933. HVG1V¥-2756, 5 August 1957, aa wall
aa other reforences, list him-as a forrner ataff employes
who has no present CLA affillations but who continues to
act as an FBI source.

da. Cther intelligence contacte: State, DIA, and the
Weat German BND.

e. The INTERARMCO firm has been used by CLA to
acquire and dispose of weapons, ammunition, ate. CIA
had no control of the firm ond no proprietary interest in
fe." 1.

{, Am entry of-1 June 1967 staies that Subject has beea
terminated without prejuiica.

SECRET
RYBAT

 

 
