 

404-10177-10184

 

 

 

REPORT CP COVERT ASSESSMENT

It may be reteined in the cperstionel personnel Tile. In the
event.further interpretstion av the information provided on this
individusl is desired, plecse contact the Assessment end Evelua-
tion Sterf, MS, extensicen 2287, ‘

NOTE: This Report of Covert fAcsesenent te entrusted to C,VH/SA.
st
f

 

Name: Victor PANEQUE Batista Detes or Assessment: 5-13
Aucsust 1064

ne i}
Date of Birth: 103 September 1920 Education: 4-Sth grade level

Official Requesting Assessment: Bob Well, JMNAVE }
t

Projected Job Assignment: PM/I
|

 

COMMENTS :

'

1. Mr. PANEQUE was one of six members of the radop treinees
who were given brie? psycholovical essessments on 6-13 August iddh,
They were given a sroup battery of ability ftosts, checked personsli-
ty questionnaires, and esch wes interviewed ror at least en hour.

2. The test dattery consisted of « sertes of measures or
non-verbal ‘intellectual abilities, involvins principally the per-
ception of reletionships between cbjeets and symbols end the
manipulation of numbers cnd numericcl concepts, While this battery
has not be used extensively with Cuban sroups, experience with
it elsewhere suggests its usefulnese in predicting edeptebility to
the intellectual-demands ef treining. On the attached forms,

Mr. PANEQUE'S ‘4 appears on 4 scale which shows his perrormance
relstive to other Cubans tested to dete,

  
 

i

3. Mr. Pe NEQUE is the oidest. lease intcilisent, ond most
experienced member of % redop group. The;tests indicate that he
hes little ebility te deal with abstrect or symbolic cspects of
a problem. Thus, training cids will be of little value to him;
rether, actunl work on the equipment and consid ble time for
preetice will be necess ver the ° dis. He is 2
rether simple men who, ciroumstene
position of comnand end prestige. His pnst 'success epperr:s
more to nis outzoing. ejcvessive, ond cels-tonf.dent manner than
io intellectual abilities. Whether he will be willing to -ssume a
subdordinste position ons term is coubtful. In fect, it is auite
Likely thet he could ena would ettenpt vo cominace rad conero.
teem leader who hes aot hed the experiences gad positions of
chip thet he (PAYEQUE) nee hed in the pest. ‘Moreover, he
be a rether indepencen. dividuel whom
either on his own n some or.enizetion now spon
by KUBARK. Stl-inecll: shovteominjs tend to outweish nic

onsets. | [ _ = _| 03

 

   

   

      

 

  
 
 
 

    

   
  

   

  
 

$e

ty

 

 

 

 

  

 
