104-10074-10087

 

Toy

 

 

2 /) . :
“ ae)
( . SECRET
: CK = 135
. oe a 30 June 1962
Chief, Task Force/W . .
Chief of Station, IMWAVE GMA". tee FL a

Oper at.ional/GYROSE
Qise/tabere

anveron (REQUESTED: KUTUBE

Zz Ca. ob?

1. (On 27 June 1962) SJ oa
cH 27 Januar (Miemt address: c/o
(Apt: 7) . TRY cue 27 aaNaed

- aia » Wes. erent Re. arias PEA 2 Tenis -
2. Source said that he Gesl, eee J;
until the time of the confession of Reinol Gonzalez. Apparently, in his —
confession Reinol identified as being.used in the re-

sistance. Source left Las Villas and went to Habana where he worked with
some of the MRP chieftains. :

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

ered! YAP
3. Source, who was cooperative for en MRP type, said Ahet the MRP is |
working in unity in Cuba with the 30 November Movement, tHe MRR. end. the
Catholic groups. His only méssage to the outside, exite’ leaders is that
unity exists in Cuba, do something about it onthe ide. About two weeks ©
iy’ ego, he said, the MRP ‘inside Cuba re-elected Manolc Ray as its chief. ,. .
REE oe AS A) chisr’ Giwet ae 2
4. Source said that the fetdonel coordinstiér” for the i YiRP inside Cuba ~
is a young man from Camaguey Province who has the nickname "Chicho".: His
.war'name is "Jose Antonio." Sdurce said that ‘since the flap with Reinol
Gonzalez, the MRP makes it a point never to use last names. Source said that
"Jose Antonio” is a- ENP brave and pated gent fellow. He is greatly aided
by his advisor, Felix+«Fernendez Yarzabal, yho hag. an office on Avenida 23,
. o nunber 956. Fernandez formerly worked fo: Etope Fresquet, and he also has a
( ; clothing store in Segue la Grande. : : : .
| ee

     

o.

Source said: that the MRP does not have any” arms. Tere is no
_regular.esteblished communications with the inside organization, but the
source’ can write to the organization, using a simple code, by mailing the.
letter to Las Villas, and from there it win be carried to Habana...

6. Source said he wished to be of whatever help he can. He can be
contacted, ‘at the paragraph A, address using “amigo de Roberto” asbonafices.

ee ee ed
Nelson L. RAYNOCK

 

CK = 135°

oe Ray : 10503
