 

--| Vodoration, kt 49 @ Younes

ee wee eteea F

the visereus and colorful p-rsenelity of charles
Acasa oo is the Uunsarian oderation by ibe

tive earetery teohan .. “alos from ashington,
bd inien “sn creda Cassittee of Apurica ie anothur very
active hedy uacer the chairnanohip of young eoonorret Ure Lev
lebrianszy {ron igurgetomn Us vorsity. -

    

  

The above mantiened thrive ors aigations tozotaor with the
Syelorugsian © Ancricsan ‘ssoctatios a rican .sepatia|elus Corr Pass,
Vet@ed \sarlt@an lresiiane, an the “lovak league o7 (,ertca are
Bpoueoring a federation of s.urptoana of Canteal and ‘ast Lurooean
Lesve tth thea “eadyuartera at Li?h ye itrsets, Novey snahiniton
my whieh ts at the ance time the Hes. of thea snorioéretunvarian
orgarisation in Ate initial period of
ite officors slested on April 1951 at the

Madson Herel © sew Tack vonfersues ore Stephen uv. Tkateh (Cargatno=
Ruthenianjeoryresident, -r. Lev -obriansky (of UJkrairian descent) ««
¥iee rrosifent, charles hoamarek (of rulieh descent, ~~ treasurer,
Heubers of tne Aoard of .irwectorss “tephen "Ne Ealezh feof ‘unzearian
_deacent), John Lsohayonack, thilip Hrobak-elecordiaz “eeratary,
tr. Loaine for Latvian descent), ‘av, *ilvije -rusista fef croatian
descent) and vte;hen J, Skubik (of Ukrainian dascent}-=Sureau
haneger, Josepn A. Jackovics {ef “lovak descent, waa +ederation's
Sooretary sensral cut aecuged hy othar o' fisdra fer ‘198 tendansy te
turn the ederation into a vere tool of kn: a>liecan carty maghine he
eas forced ts resiun, Tt is st to be overlogkad that the lederation
1% at the noreet under stron kraintas flucnce, Ths offfasre of
tha “oanl oP Tirectora cauplain thas pr, “ogmarok rever attended a
mectins: of tieirs ant othag ove, chorles ourke freatthe ashia ten
Cifiece of the joltsh w«srican ‘cnvress de, utises oir im the sharasoter
ef an olaecrvar, “48 at sence fe facto of the :olighes-«rigan (o-Pesa
Sorarently Aagicers te i larle Oxtent the ‘aderstior’s activities,
(che ronays for tis # goneo will <3 explained orally!.

  

 

 

  

 

 

Bcabhous a-tivitios

 

       
 

 

Acaordi-¢ tc an cffiatal itatant of thas an’ rrinciples of
"ederation of 4esorleaas of “ontral ant fast urspess eeeant ad»-ted
et the "earé of ..recters fweting hele an “ashingten cn 4. fuse 17,
19.1 there ore as feilowe:

 

1, To exert aver: affert to fend tre Constitation ef our
American -ay ¢: life, ‘Te en‘a-e ani oxercies evorr wessurea of offers
and pesuuree terard tie dagisive defoat of aus'tan osountat
imperialisn eirtgh in Lis Tenemvia oesance “sees A zc Pts] thereat to
the moral and aut@llestsal ‘irae ian feintyvtions of western cavilie
Satian an watea 18 pootted our priceless inerkcan var of life,

?, Te eeerdinate ant taplenent tno consen ant aut.al activitios
of the numerous sorber or o isaticona ropresanted ‘\aretin rithin tha
esope of a Univiod cel:tical action orlonted tovara © #ystenstta
realiastion ef tig beeic objective ant thea ginultane vrorlidaevice
Satension of tue s,Aritual aici agned, any « nlinvatier «o the gorving
of seuplatate. will’ Ue Bisxply @ justure of dematorial tlessince
ongendorad in eur Falk of aichta, t1e@ formila of scl fmdetermined
freedges ami tre tlantdie SNerter,

 

 
 
74-0000

‘o serve and assiet throush ch umifftad political action
the a> ropriate aseneies of our Sovernacnt and various eollaborating
American antiecommuntet oriacisationa in the dieseninstion of
authentic information on Joviet Hussien tyranny and atrecity behind
the aren curtains of Central surope und asia, ia the promulcation of
necessary o formation of a slebal rsateork of ante
Cesausist all the. a fe, ia the foraue

laticn of politica rke requirouente—
Gad aerivations of th "peoples av 2 allies, ‘and
in tho persistent counteraction and othor -antieo

 

  
 

         
   

 
   
   
 

ob.

  

     

ieteter cous

idenocintia influence sad croups in our doneatic envireanert,

_ he 'e prosote the aeourity und aslfare af. the “ntted States

Dy Lasteting upon polleisa which are shaped in ters ef a eer upulous
and forthri at observance uf the sacred orinciplea ewbedied fa the
aforenentionud motiments to (ue litoral husan spare and s.tohn wilh
inaure lastin; peace to all the natiune of the orld, tneludias t:ose
of cen.eal aad Lastora wurepea, naabering Approkinately 159, .00,590
Peonle.

". To arse our lovernmont to asok the restoratton of scveroien
rircttea anc selfecovarngest to the nation Sigh avvo been orcibly
deprived of them and to secure the xort of the. fandesental right

eh have 70% the past been

° aelfetoterminition for these nations wri
i{n@ countries ef ventral and

  
   
 

   

 

;aeeonled tits risht, particularly in
teaatern urore. . . L
a,

. & Te dapel, on tha happy eceasion of the Literatinn ef all
peoples from the yoke of -artet anestan isp -rialioa, covernnental sohion
to fulfill the cuaranty of free and unfe- tered elections in these
countries under the supervision of the ‘nited Nattons ant with striat
rocard for conditions of »opulation cLetributton existing prior te the
institction of the Kusetfioation poliay bent on tha extination of
the mational identities of tne Feaepeotive enslaved countries,

Te Neoognigins the twofeld noud, vise ridding all eountries
(sent of inplanted ‘Soviet influence, together FAth ultivate gsolu-

 

tion of territorial noundary Alepuboss, 1% Lo urged that strict priority

of action ba oxtended te tha rormor consideration,

8. To abot forgarslly the realisation of the Preceding objectives
and ooncusitaatly c-nirsbute to in@ prevention of a cenorally
¢teastrous world wer 111 through the Va torous adVancaxent of paycho=
docteal eorfare, wilh particular seahasis on auratantial inprevenenta
in the status aad function ef the Yoro@ of Amorida, rososndin: Froclas
mation ef ¢nurigan Priendship ant Support oF tha sibderatin: vovanonts
@d$earrias throughout the wide peripoeral urcenoan ant detatte area of
Roneluselan poepies fuporialtatioally eabjucated an the soviet SNplres
and densnds sor true resresentation of these enalnved peo:tes in the

countiis of the “ited Nations,
9. 's geeure paxiwun and Ucetiating ald on tre part of oup

‘overnuent for the cantfold Operiblons ant tre potentially unlinited
@areansien of tie MNJOP SFuaad ocrecunte Lakind the iron curtatas of

Zurope@ an! Asta,

Taeueh wany or tne Proolainsd aise sesm ts be ddontasal wi¢h
 

 

sf emoerat of .tcid tan, gpoaki

    

share are about #4x uillion + oricana cf polish ceseent 1a

the United States, They e -naiet anproxinmatsly one half of the

Getisated to:al of the Central and astern wPOL GOR Gren. lovaka

and Ukrainians conpete for socond plage, \avine atoeut one stliion

each, in the vaitad States and Canaia, ithuantane aol -aunsarians

geen to be next an tine.: -it'rsy be taxeh for vranted thas all of

eur national ‘rexups have at least a hundred thuusand ¢ erican >rotherge

in this country, ft ia, and ft whould be a trenencous aseet fa ow

strucvle fer liberation, Ta take woown relish creun for exaaple it
Lo Onceuractn: ta krom that there ary already ten Concressven gf roliah
© (acess Lasven S.ecpitg, three i 4 teins’. Tadeues heowses :
7 goats ASEL rally in -etreit dee
‘clared a few wauk’s aco that all can Passson of rolieh deseent, resard=
leee of party aclillwttons, ara uatted in sc far ag the onuse of ree
roland 42 concdrnad,* According to him, as reported br tse solish
american Journal Yo. bPeeYol, XL of covatter Ththy. 19 lao’ ose Olah
Aterioa aa golona are workin: tovuthor to devalidate the Teheran and
Yalta agreenents and to persuade the Vnited states sovernvent te co
on rocord favorin: the present western boundaries of roland,” of
other srocpe - lovan @ hava cne “onvresaxan of their degventenyouaz
and prominent yr, atnik from the fourth -istriet af vi nosota,
Sur <seeh frionda can clata an old exporrencead seaber ef tre roreizn

Affairs Vonsittos vr. Sabhath--"ez0crat fros Tllinota, bern in
Prag Tp to 08

   

           
   

 

anc another Con revenan ir, Stefan cited recently, p
Jthere nevor waa any Uetie “enstor He aould claim ‘entral er 1astera
g78POpean ancestry, althouch enator Lancer waa bern of “eeercelovak
Uerman parents, ‘ermer “OVGP OF -tasgen clains “gach encestry and
‘overnor Lausehe Slovenian anceatry. ‘there are sev-rel .sn- ressnen
of Jowieh extraction who worn either vorn im cur part of tte sorld
or are of the cantern “urepesn parontaxe, -7 9 of thes aay to alee
considered as potential ‘riends of OBP \AUSe,

 

 

A typical orca sation tn wiich we bhe lf be interested tn our
work ia shat of Polish an-ricar VE IP@8G, @8 AdliBshad esriy tn Ish)
with the natn -urcoss te calp volaad tn Pevaininy her itierty and at
tne aane tine to serve ty he ‘eat war the leas ran-@ interaats af
tue united tates by posting out tha dancers +f C@OUCNMALSE am! Suasian
feportaliam, vy takia; such a sutorained stant at tha (ime -aun the
sloge lrtendehin oath “ts Seweailud creat asters Ally vase preached
in a@nin-ton, thoy . ve randered a Valuacle sarvies te t-is CusAiry,
rolitoh Anorican oncrens tg A sort of federation of all t nes of
ioligh Aaertean orca brati nag su.t e° toe seine of course insurance

Companivge sith ro tsh sattenal slitance. fd, 50% Gemlers ant 7A
milifon of ca-ttals 4a the Frost powerful, cth-re are ealtural, odu=
Gationsl, or shurch and veteran -Foipd, Thay joinad te-etrer in a
struscle fer Juattice ror solard, rolisheteerican Tenyrese se the

Cooperation of abaut 30, :oltaheAperioan Fewavapere tn tie country,

 
   

veudyine the pretlen 7 found that thrhore extet peraliel e-rantaae
tions of other nataonal Po pa, theif structural baeie ere leo vory
oimilar, ! becano better aequatuted sith the amertean Tehiirian
hederation, Though OF.anised as lons avo as L995 at loveians Sonrenttion,
“480 ow has aaon.: ite principal dane ana euPrasese fife panperteourtiin
the Constitution and laws of the *HALOG -teseewendth all ste i "loonve
SBovenente aiuin:s to tring about independence ‘or “WA. 8PY se well ag
liberty and well doing tor A486 secple and te eo @verytnrs- oceritle ¢e
ePeot@ot the Ruses rh Str and Cksornship of the ‘un-sedas Siar laced
peregre outeids of HR TOP¥.® As tre obsah OP @:igetion be

net aa Manian ad DIAC PRM Fe me a EO a gene
 

 

 

FO mee Nh Ree te tae Reels an oe ates a

\

 

ay

fgtension of ‘emarha An 0 fen rantt. a: terd on foptenter
Stn, 17°1, ives the total nusber of thease “loyal amuricans®

Ae 20,059, 709,00 thins 48 ts rather too isch es eatinats, ‘van -

Lf wa wosld inelude all Jews fror those arcae the number so:ld

hardly be vicher than 15 sillions this woul¢ -@ 19% of the total

population of the “nited’ .tates, Tris zork Seeking, econonie

oni. ration trea our countries was mainly concentrated in the btg

cities an: tre crest industr 3 areas, of ne sixteen

‘ast and sid=ceusterna stata via, ‘ow Jersey, “olaware,

eryland, .o3t ‘Virgt ta, Ncw York, Connecticut, Thode Inland,

Sasvachusetts, cicntcan, hebraskay, (hig, In¢tena, Illinois, ise

eongin act vdinusaeta, [n eoua a) thove states these wurcpeane

cosprise a53t ons tiird of the populatten, Tuts applies espeetally

to bin cities such as “nivazo, “etroit, “leaveland, Toledo, i ittae ———-
burgh, “cranton, Luffalo, «tlies arra, ‘ronton, liawarks, Camden, . :
k\ew ritain, ote, ne sho lc sleo sesatiron that not less ths Fh .. .

fafth of tote bac emtsration managed to find work of farng-—4
sigh states as iistousing -innesotay Illinats, iichigan, Hobraska,
‘agenshuss+t@, and sow york. -

    
 

   

 
  

Ja pollvacal importance of tls creat seznont of frarican
popsiation s2 steadily iscreasing in the last twenty years,
uvariy all a regasctive xrouns -ers concerned shout the henge
lanis of thsir fathers and vraadfathors and becane very active
curint orld ar it, Althouth, sith the suceeeding generations,
tird-or even fourth, tttg interest has waned, ‘ue to the natural
woakenins of tlas with the, "ol¢ countrisa’=--theee now Americans,
the gona and srandsengs of the poor antral and ‘astern “urepean
pessant eai-ronta ara congoloue of their anseatry, cducated in .
American coliczes and universities, they ire gradually energing in
Asericaa p.Liis Lifes their old inhitittwe inferiority scanlex is
racidly diss cearinge Let us study the ashin-toa “slephona -trestarye
Tt as astc-Ashing that et loast every twolfts maze is of antral
se9terD +.sropean dessent. { an ast a8 faatliar vith other nattonaal
fFoupa ané their @enievenunta, cut as far ae soles are concerned, ve
are proad to “sve Mr, symcgak as one of thu vovernors of the -ederal
Seserve, eter lukewaki the newly scpetnted eopaty .irector of Heo,
kre kruk the aayor of tur slo and sr, Czeiusta ‘ayor of Toledoe z
Qu gure Gimilar successea3 can be claimed hy etaer croura of oar
Soatral ana .astern .ur.;ean bleu, ost of these ‘suricans are very
helpful al preporly sroroached. @ ‘save :e@ard recently et a ree
eeption ¢f onaral . ore.oscrowski a atetarint nado by calor Alfred
Se vhe@inukd a “anocratie Con-reseuan ‘Pon Hew Jereay who offarad
Uke Willis cnees to help tre exiled leaders cf all of our Poupe, in
our elferts to “therate our cart of the worlé, .intler statuAeatsa
heva Soon nade Sy athur yon resozen of ji aiish dasoant,

   
 

 

‘Ne estdial alvancosant of sur s-erican Lrethren te viaihle
nearly tn all apheroe of .yerteas Rife, 014. te sole excention of
proparania lee. reat, radio, ‘clavigion, “ellyweed, tau h oven

there @:s@ precrees ts ‘a a ceticed, 78 eact ‘telda we hurch,
Rivera. hee, and co.difcw the rrecess of S*Vaneorent is recarkable,
anschea.e of entral an! castern ‘2° Op@8R . @8cant ave preved to be

GS 'Arat class roliazle clemant as soldtore ant Cithgens of t5@

Vattad  fatee corinne tie tec world are ano the pragest vost dancers .a

Aveolojitcsl otra lo stth ‘omnusiaa,

 

Sm RE WAT ee ta ie Stee bec Haein ADAIR AMEN | ARNE ne in een la ARIE carmen EM

 
 

C-22 Cg
a Po
PUNY bY Han Ce Vee a ATAT: wee
cee mber 32, 29°) o
fs

.
: Attached to tris resoranidun are copies of dcounsnte
7 rezarcing the activities of the -aentral and Snetern.
7 ; European onnference (Slavik-Hajer oroipde .
; CBreki) —
: ,

 

 

att

 
74-0000

a eee Tae eee et ee ke a ee Se ee EET

N

a ON TIAL

tir,

on behalf of vr. 4. Cpetatona, ‘haderman of the last
conforcncee, and cr, Jonstentine otitch, -sairsan of the

    

 

serbian “Nets nal comnittao, Vsiir an of She rext maoting
of the néral and .astern .urepoan ocnferance, I an ine
vitine vou and veur political frionds to a reotins of the

tp ce Lah wALL be held on Tuesday, Teoanber 10, 1951 at
tha votel dallard, ‘ixecutive ‘oon, rennsylvania Ave, and
they Tashanctony Neieg at preciaaly 3 Pele

 

 

Tne Agenda of tha vaatineg will bas

Le hepert of the ‘ocrotary teneral on the seetinys of the
Soneral Soznittce on the action of the C250 on depertae
tions, in ashington, New York, Faris, about the press
esnferense in “astington, ote.

.
ve Roport of vr, Jerey Loraki (Tice Chatrnan of the
+ Polian Folittionl Counctl, orking vousittee in the U.S.)
on collacoration with ‘mericangs of “antral and cast
uropsan ; oscant,

hate

3, sevort of dr. %¥. ctanka on -orld “niverstty.
The report of sr, Leraki io attached to this invitation,

very sincerely yours,

(stened) Lr. Juraj tlavik
Secretary ‘eneral
o 7 2 ee

 

BPO RTE CU
(Cu 4i:7icans of vontral end wast -uropean Tescant!

Yrom Jargy Lergxi, ‘lee ‘hairvan of tte ‘olish
Colrtical Counctlte orkin; ‘eanittes in the
Vete, CLE A ‘treat, “oie, tpte Li, sarhin:ton 3, 7. 7.

The Last thres decades o” tha past century and the first two of
the present one, “ark the period in #.ich amlllions of the tarovertahed
peasants of eatral and astern survrpe cate ta the nappy t:ores of froe
Aseriea, There are o4 at ivast twelve atilion U.s, citizens of
ventral and «ast ..ropean desvent. t:18 Lay of courses, ® vest careful
ostiaate, Congrasesan Kannoth i. eatin. of Kertiaster, Ye Ye, 2 hia
 

 

 

i

 

 

 

 

 

UW Cle Conversation at tue

partnen, of tw vi £2 carch

° \
=
wes
Qe hep. se
. Tet te

 

ire gets) Bere jossre. voye., Probesavt. aot .awsece Laon

Lae avi sloner, Lloyd anc oriuden fro. Bae

Mee fretemest os¢ Suu returned free. 9 tells a:reed ant gald

  

Wat os had wires evveays ty nake atau &
a. follows:

 

Le He galt u.et in bie Crock “-bacere, . te Zett
complainei of wa activities a: t.9 wurlncers af -77,
coriwer., .¢ off, suneting. et aa seerrer st gar
wink Lo omasciee +2
Wis ub clearing ef. toe oe fe | Naotpe ct wt ee
moke str oT, Sey 7 bat is aut bol? Be pare.

 

   

 

 

Vinh wie views «2 27

 

wold reves? Wace warrinc

wore identical: 74 ee roulu.. Losba amt. wae Ghocu

Griaboof tht mio Peers is mesce wos were 29 vel
er! bankh ae grey nai how ict 9 ak
spoolom, if mt ws 8 7, UA Adve for 2 + pee be

 

do Fretman win ad babi a!
ameund ‘upspe Leceeal lt omuaoP. boet baer: wer 2m
whkith Hr &s. @ @-? Wr rhc Lew me Lo
Dl OLNOP Lf We el Cet babe BoonErls ‘
tre A berate. ar. Te. . hodroervid . ¢ .
‘wieeyor, ineumicwec ose
Aim WO warn ws cry laece, ou ATO, Sele 2
thet, ie co wm
Geo ore an Bau. -

  

       

  

3. te Soe me gage Gaak ot
apiiays th oe Seas ar ek
riuddanes, st .va: rere on
woud Ue Ls Tre er ior a

   

 

 

 

. 2S efter Wey wore

ang otiors
luese
Loyees ane

gtner countrie: oretiis oc wee, wht) refuress

Vor

 

mitre el

“ay Lant acweral
tings taatb be 7 reeurters uush er ta iie.  .¢ said teat ce

andof Yok

 

 

rar Mrery

 Lantow. kt

a fet te poncliic

2 far 2a. powers. woErees

aml race. abe

 

Cee chan,
ac ta dnistruce
ynie. Gora

 

an

et Boh bet viet wan ace. Wo W intictrabe

 
  
 

10d-40226-10029

 

 
   
   
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
       
  
   
        
 
   
 
   
      
   
     

.S bee CVEOTY AAATE EAA? “
wo ReoGeD MATERIAL
: 2 EIS DOW SIENT OS CHARGED TO-YOR, See
t
:
t {fo re THIS DOCEMENE TO OLP/ARCHIVIS &
~ , PESTOSELION SFOTION, RM GEESE ON OR BEFORE
oa | PATE INDICATED, CA
: F ‘Ps tk VOU PORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER
t 3 a
‘pO. INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION 278.0 47. t
4 : DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM TO .
t f Te V79e uae ear vious 6 Or TlONs. vant ee
3 Sane

DO NOT REMOVE ANY PAPERS UR
MUTILLATE FOLDER.

  

gfe We-7
Y3B237 7

 

 

 

- tte a ne .
a

pune MOUs CIA ip A)

(DOCUMENT:

Lia ne an cai a al OD teal ne i dt edo ate tal intan a isnad nies ap,

HOLDER:

REAURN TO 6 Pe 2) of 2

    
 

   
    

TE /ARL en

     

a ERMA
tom 610-0] secret [(] CONFIDENTIAL (J Hae (CT) UNCLASSIFIED :

Sek at et ey tt te

pga wre Le

 

 

|

a

yo] Seqwaseg

  

y

oena

 

}

 
 

 

4
5

wee be,

replied tast in Cnet 1FS did receive constant ad frequent olicy
muidanes tut tint tie wovbéers of tio ta, ataff of Ket were Looking
for tie type of policy ruldance wte: did Gat oxdiul — a kind of
overall ;lobal stratesy coverin, e-ecalfle Ineldents and eventuall-
ties, a hind of police, ~uldanee wien orolally neltuer wid oor
aula be written, “reelfieally ne had a» oljectlon to siowlny ties

_ toe pae-ly ¥ t solkhey Lae,

Finally, tere Koliles questioned the adviea'ility of ,ubtin; te
now pupsdan Gariittee weler tia urusadee io pointed out ts fear
taat, wat wile APY and AFA siready wkler tag Crusede, Wo Congresa
would won believe thore was cotiing tere far VIA to cover. tre Jayco
rose to tals guoction oxrlalnin: the nvecusity of uelpiay Adairal Kirk
to tind snes covere He pointed out biat Mesure. brafen and Levine
nad been detailed to acair: taat Gruvado jaLLlicity did not cive the
diprescion tat @PE aml ici amd any new” rivate” racloe wuld obviate
the necessity for the Voloe, and assure! £9 lor tual all Crusade
publichty, posters etc. would avold wils joe.lldiite. «isaner men~
toned nio deulro to iind Mtcer cover for tus new Committed ani
there was uome talk of (ounintionse No Inttar cover vad, cwevor,
teen four’ at tie wanent and it was a parcn’ that Accipal airk suet
Nave some onower to questions w.ten are mulaltted ta ulme bre nucler
ansvored thie arcumont by reiterating Ala foars.

 

  

  

 

 

TVA we HRAURG
Iiulef
rabiional “reanleathons “yidon

 

cite T.B/eh

Orig - MMC (thru aise Mm’.
ec = DD/r

ec « F (Mr. Yoor)

~- EY

cee Cic

ec - HE

eee
a
a
 

ce ee tems ERE ne ee Mm eR anne I

x BEUTION C- 2d

BTanOARe FO Pa. OF

Office Memorandum + onttep states GOVERNMENT

 

RT  RIPY Es

“

to S/P ~ kr, Joyce DATE: P-br_ery 19, 1952

From 35: = Vr, barbour i?

subject: Fund Henorandun vo, -62 of December 2], 1951 a-techine copies of
~ document: erinding the activitios of the Central snd “estern
‘ \" Earopea.. Conference (Llavik-lajer Group)

   

Your attention is invited to subject menor:
speech by Jerzy Lerski, Vice Chairzan of the F
orking Committee in the United States, prorosiz
dorestic political pressure group of Anerican re
Turepes:. stock, In the course of his specch, |

nders:s tne official etatement of Aims a'd Prineizics of :
of /rericans of Central and “ast-Suropenn Descent. This st: ts
: particularly in its paragrani. o. 3, proposes tn.t their obfectiy:
+ snoild be obtained through “unified political acticn,*

juz which rustves #
toimcilts

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

 

 

   

Lae The Department is obvicusly in complete surrert of their basic
objective, namely, the overthrow of Communism, 4
reol narmn in the utilization of Wr! funds to
pressure protps; esoncfally, when sich crouvs w:
political and election contests in the United
tneir objectives abroad,

    
 

Aecordinrly, we would surrest that stens be then to ene:
rroups which are sponsored bv or su prorted thro:
Cs. be restrained trom participating in or as

 
  
 

oWe.. rroips sho d be cautioned, in any ec

declarations of intent to interve.e Ino tic Sserican potistes.

oo

 

Pallsite

“Fe 2/19 52 ae

 

hai | f FOE?

 
