 

 

he

FS it
233%
PY

a.
pi?

fee Raul PEREIRA

 

   

   

“fash ze “yelp the Eetascy the
oO. ar tery "oletned out" of MINVARE,
Cn 23 ry. rok. was ataniiag at the gate sen the

 
  

as ssalor, “13 latter
“et said, "T saw it with ay
cuir! memsoom it?

BAL IDAs 6
was from
on eyes, toe

 

On 29 can a Veneruclan woman coted Pte ne ARAY) came to the
Trhascy. c atthe Vole! Virrayea, Roos 1c2, She
was tryirg to $a.l ex’ sion richts to a (lm entitled "Twist

y Crinen” which had > filmed in Vernezusla and shown only twice
before the sovernnert shut Lt dow and prowibited future showlnge,
Tabelling the fLlm as of "inproper yuocial tendencies." BEJARANO
Said that she planned to stay in Kexico about a week and would also
contact the Sovied and Czech Sxbaraies tn an effort to 86]l ‘the
fim anil recoup some of the cost of prolucing it, She was told thes
her proposition would te relayed to Hevana, ’

 
 
   
 

 

A
A young Cuban doc‘or, named Sil: slo |SEES, te in Mexteo City and
trying to return to Suva, Fe was in the Embassy on 79 Jan and haa
veen there before. :
on 28 Jan

The Varti cormenoration at the Institute/vas a big success . A lot
of people showed uw, The speakers were Ermaneil CARwLO, Raul
APARTCIO, Gaston MLC, Ernesto GdTA Sanchez, and Errilo ABREU

Coras £4 .
$ * LY (3s
After ths affair at be ‘institute a croup of those present went to

the home of Herscic’S Sanches of Bellas Artes, CARSALIO did

not want to go i¢r Sang reasen uniinown te Gao; While at FLORES

place, L-2 gaw that Raul PERSIA "Raulito” seemed very interested

dn FLORES Sane! and askel a number of questions about him. 1 574

gays that FISRES ts a xell imoyn homosexual, (LTENVOY shows that ~
is(also homosexual)

pessio ; ;

Several days aco sna sarta ORTECA do ARANGO cane to visit the

 

  
 
 

      
    

     

 

ke
Ke tas seoapanted by the brother of the
2 ON — he phaa a dancer, She said sho
is director of cing atwiio located at Monte Ararat
corner of re Leonty bones Barrblacde WOOL cH go %
Guba to soak up some culiunt.

v.
~T

4. At 1330 hours 21 Jan Lantio Benen aacaladay a Honduran, visited the

 

 

Cultural Denartment, Ha ifves in ruevla at Peubla 13. sur 3307-13,
Later on he.spoxe with Rovelio RCORTSUEZ and tolate® afterwards,
ARogello doesn't sem to trast moe”

The Sreziiian-Polish Encineer Gap uch at the airport has gone On
to Cuba, This man (Z50ELE) is "very correct, does net say much,

serious,”

was seen off at the airport, Cscar CONCEPCION
Upeyeaies” that so8 nai deen fired on ordare of President DORTIOOS
who got tired of recetvin reperte tiat a famous international
sex Gevieate {fa.o8a * Litera’ internacional) was working at the
Exbasey, DOMRTIOCS fired ner for Tisnorsl coaduct.®

  
  
  

After Teresa DEE

  

 

rout ea

yo ss

werent wee

e.

5 UY Oe why oe
> ers

th

Peeer eyes ve ney eng fea A oot ny Arne ARORA INE

Meg Ske

see
[toa t0076-10074

 

 

 

 

SUBJECT 5 Meeting with &F

vee Tove rag TAL

 
 

35 Jan 1364

1, A meeting with £-9 took place fren 2CLO stil 21LS hours 30 Jan

156k at the safe epartuent, [29 wis ia surprisingly good spirits, showed
none’ of his usual deprassion, .

@
wy

wee

ze a9 veporte! on the fallewing:

a, On Saturday 19 Jan at the usual Enbassy staff meeting, several
new assigrments were passed out. "Tiree month plan" wag
announced and during this period staf? members, in addition
to their useal duties, wil? orecare snecial reports on several |

4 x topics. “Raul APA?

Puy physical slant, stutest body, activities, ways in wiich the
government can exert influence, etc, Ged tir

Jy Dra.
f sit xeon will doa report on countries which have diplomatic ree
~ lations with Cuba -- emphasizing how contact with representatives
here in Mexico of such comtries my ba parlayed into sonething
34. «more worthwhile for the Ssstro government, Rogelio RODRIGUEZ was
pi? given an assignment as Political Reporting Officer.

   

 

 

 

At this meeting Guillerso 2072 of the Comercial Office -= sho hes
pro recently been ergity a3 4 tanatical Fidelista — spoke out abcut

the recent accord between the USSR and Cuba, saying that it was

convenient for the WS2 te keen on the good side of Cuta and thus

ahr keep a dacger in the back of the impertalists, Ambassador JEQANDEZ.

fat Arvas, Sonevhat taken aback by RtTZ' language, pointed out that the
relationship between the LESR and Cuba ig based, above all, on the

highest principles of international friendship, PE
RUDENID, visited
ICTY ERE Cats Te>

Le ios erndigy be Last Wednesday (29 Jan) a Soviet official, Boris T

whe dey the Cultural Derartment and spoke with APARTOTT a5 took
ray £-<, pains to "de a good Conmunist” during this encomter, (Tala cone
* Be wet = versation wos picked tm by WSTRAP) RUDFNND war algo at the hae of
. ah oe Horacio FLCFES Sanchez on the 28th after the Marti hasage’ session

8% the Cuban Cultural Institute,

@. A Bolivian wonsn -- name possibly VILLALBA == was recently at the
Hotel Oxford with 7 children, witiag to go to Cuba to jJola hey

- 7h i? or husband who works there, <3 believes she has gone on to Cuba,

 

d. On 17 January Cuban delegates to the CEPAL Conference visited the ~
Embassy ant spcke with Intassy employees, One cf these delegates,
referring to the Nicaro nlant in Cuba, said that only 12 engineers
of tha original 37 re-ained, Of . #30, @ man named (fu) PRESILIA
was atill doing an axcelient feb althoush he is physically ia poor

- condition, The iicaro plant specifically, and technicians throughout

Cuba in gmereal, are baying a hard tine with the decisal system naad
by the USR in its technical equipment, The delegates said that

7 5 a deri t 3
it was new apoarent the Ou ret te. ingtely tags Sut s2.t hh cemny

om sugar ee that Fidel CAST abt last mm

SECRET

D wii doa report on the National University o.

-

ek en ee
 

Os

  

wk, _&R abou

lo) ie a cine fosar i af :

   

   

Pe
o of tne Corcterctal 5S
| 4 y af s eedly work ther » che
' eo whe canit seen to gat anything done ¢
up pares UASTETA was onite Hascusted,

 
  
 
 
 

emo RUIZ has been showing hinself to ba quite aggressive
tically in staff meetinns. Ne appears to be a violent .
gar of the Castro regint. - ,

MIFABSL has been lees ageswasive than before, has recentiy beea

a ‘Gam in the dupes and has been spending & lot of tine telicing.
{i to Dra. MACHADO, The Ambassador told Ura, MACHADO that MIRABAL

and Yextcan food don't grt along tozethers

 

Be Felipe ROVAS, Mexican employes of the Cultural Section « who
haniles distribution of Castro propaponda to pecple who visit the
Exbassy -- has been given & desx in the Cultural Section, This mam [
oaly cams sbout 5 - 5 pesos per wonthe Ge? SAYS THAT ROJAS ss

! cy 5 SE DOUET we IS AVAILABLE! lis ia about 28430 yeare olde .

, Coty SLORZAND has rebumed fron Cuba, There ds some talk that
she nicht marry Jesus SOTO, in Cubn, although she is much older,
SO™) is some sort of leader -~ perips a labor leader there.

see es ms

On Swriay 26 Jan a group of chines acrobats paid @ courtesy
visit to the Embassy, The Leader of this group seid that Senator = =
Mgauel SOREN Sanches would soon be foing to Ching. va ; :
ee 7a aan
She said

    
  
      
   
 
  
  

 

en
4 was at the “Snbassye
tha Johasen-Lopes Hateos

On Monday 27 Jan Dolores DE Lic j
28, divorced wife of a former }
{

she hopes to £0 to the tS to cy
interview, She came with DorksAr
COBEN Lamsasean KmMBERIOR 66 Braz Tt
that DIAZ Ordas and Ambassador
and that she had seen an nveloge
Aad, Sha appeared to be quite upse
been invited to Cuba bu

 

 

ols wecatrommtry) Dolores said
sEZ Arras are great friends
nich DIAZ Ordaz sent to ths .
% that Victor RICO Galaz hed :
She wants to interview

 

 

 

     
 

   

Sur
We csn raned
he Enbhassy tr, :
1 Florida and set a
sah that if they let this nut train a Cuban to rake this swia {as he
ayet wer wants to do) it world pretabiy result in thousands of Cubans deiag
ro the sare thing to get out, (LTPNVOL and PUP have picked wp
. BUASAE) +
——

Xe See yomgsters fron a group called the "Movimiento Cultural :
ieang” have been trying to aatghlion Rood contacts wilt whe

Me:

te .

tnssy, The president iz ict Pega, phone 23-24-3292 The
Teh3, address Aveaida

TieeePresident is Enfaek Aor phone 21-17
rat Ko, (S404, Colacia Pro Hope rhgacretary of 1
They had

* 73,
"as proof of the

 

       
  
 
 

 

  
 

  
 
 

phone
fo Sly 1763

 
 

* €2Bdoas not

2 investipatings

 

la
ae.

  
 

   

know mutes about this,

Jap drantie GORKY, Thie
-

3, Gad asked B to get hin a book abo
Tne Macallian Company,

deck 4s publisaed hy the whitary Muses
New York, 1957, It wiik be ordered from Ho secsratel ye

. by The meeting had to be cut short since D tad to go alsewhere to meet and
asgasg an agent prospect who was plinning to leave licxdeo City the next mornings
Accordingly, it was agreed thst anotier mee'ing vous be relA on Tuesday February
at 2000 at the safe apartment, GePwill be maid Lis January salary at that tines

 

 

: ; lta ee F [Qato—

 

on EN re

 
