 

CONFIDENTIAL

eet aS ioe erent
Tee NTR tee tae Co Rime ob

  

available to unauthorized porsoms throuch "cenpresi ing enanatlons."
For a thoroush ovalim.ton, it ray bo Ruceusary, if tha White Eouse desires,
to request NSA to monitor White House communications on a saspling basis

and advisa the White House of the results.

wen

On tha ratter of clandustina listonin: devices, the XSc Special Comittee
on Techateal Surveillance Countermeasures should te charged with assessing
the adequacy of the Secret Service rrocedures, equigrent and level of
technical skill, and recommonding any changes necessary to attain the
highest practicable level of porforsance.

We believa the Sacrat Service has the rosponsibility for protecting tha
Presidential estabiishront against clandestine devices since thoy support
the Bureau on request. Thoy are not members of tha comittea and, so

far as we can deteraine, they do not receive comsittee reports nor do they
contriduta information to the committee. As a continuing mattor, they
should be made a mexver of the coraittee.

Recom-eriad action:

i. That Mr. Bunty issue a. NSAM providing that the Sacratary of
Defense, as Executive Ago:.. for all communications ccsurity matters, will
direct N34 to conduct a survey and make a report on tho adaquacy of presont
commumications security measures in effect at the Waite House, including

non-crypto cennunications.

 

2, That Mer. Bunly arrange through the "sc Special Cormittsa on
Technicsi Surveillance Countermeasures to s iew and report on

 

ea a cavi
maasures in effect at the white Housa to maintain surveillance and protoc-
tion against clandestine listeniny devices.

 

 

3. That both sagzorta ba reviewed by the Picsicent's Committee on the
Warren Re> sort, augrenied by Br, Hornig and General o'Conn
advice and 3 recormendation to the President.

    

 

CONFIDENTIAL
 

 

j :
|
|
|
|

  

2

Ce Advised that NSA “shall oct for the Executive Agent in all
COMSEC matters set forth below" - primarily responsibilities for estab-
lishing adequate standards;

da. Defined COMSEC as “the protection resulting from all measures
designed to deny to unauthorized persons information of value which aight
be derived fron the possession and study of telecamunications, or to
mislead unauthorized persons 4a their interpretation of the results of
suth a etudy";

e. Defined telecommunications as “any transmissions, emission or
reception of sign, signals, writing, images and sounds or intelligence
of eny nature by wire, radio, visual or other electromagnetic system".

NSA prescribes Governvent-wide standards for the eans of encryption «
equipments, codes or other techniques - and only those approved by NSA
may be used for the encryption of classified information. NSA also
develops equipsents where requined. COMYSEC equipments are available
today to encrypt ali standerd coscmnications methods - telephones,
veletypewriter, high-speed data, television (bleck ani white only), even
conputex~to-computer transmissions.

However, NSA has no authority to require encryption; the requirement for
encryption is left to the agency head under the EO 10501. Moreover, they
are positively prohibited from monitoring telecomnmunications to deteraine
whether classified information is being revealed unlees the agency head
concerned approves in advances

To dute, there are no known telecommunications techniques which would
Permit unencrypted (clear) information to be transmitted sare fron inter~
ception and fron being read by unauthorized persons. As a result, the

U. S. COMSEC Board and NSA make the assumption that all unencrypted tele-
communications are being monitored and that the information ocing trans-
mitted Is compromised. While this is a physical inpossibility, there can
be no assurance that any particular transmission is not being intercepted
and read. ‘Therefore, liSA will assuze no responsibility for the security
of communications which are not encrypted in an aprroved cryptosysten.

The White House Communications Agency (WECA) is responsible for, providing
ell telecomunications for the President und tv the white House, except
for cocmunications to and froa the President's aircraft (Air Force I),
which are tke responsibility of the Air Force. WSCA is organizationally
under the Defense Communications Agency (DCA). ‘he WECA program has not
been reviewed by the Bureau. Kenneth O'Donnell provides policy guidance
to the WHCA and has informed the DCA that no information on the size,
program, Or budget of the WHCA is to be revealed without his authority.

 

CONFIDENTIAL
 

   

 

 

 

 

  
   
   
     

 

 

  

  
   

 

 

 

 

    

7 4
'
. S.rg
- ae . . ~~ = = = Sites thesendemmenneen |
. “ i
. 2 Fae
ir en Security of Sisscivies ev gonsitive Inte tion .
interration ts normally provided -
the rrevention of access to the .
eclied 1, .
_ ist throu an Spite’ wars:
i
at
ac ant nation, .
i 2.83 tec al
< nierophor
ee > pais one tO zisten
'
’ .
’
yotntu, cotonsa,
.

 

TIGA TION ANO/OR.
HECLASSIAC CAT ate CUME

: CONFIDENTIAL ERECT

 
 

  

 

3

There is a very close vorking relationship betwen WHCA and NSA on all
aspects of COSSEC, including possible “ccaprocising emanatic:s” as
discussed belov. However, WHICA has an inpossible task in attexnpting to
provide eccure coxmmunicetiqns for the President so long as he uses the
comercial telephone systema. Unless WECA can be informed of the specific
locations and people to whom the President wishes to talk about sensitive
or classified information, there can be no assurance that the conversations
are not heing mivitered. However, if reconi communications (teletype

are involved, crypto-equipment can be quickly brought to the locations
where a teletype capability exists. Crypto-cquipnents cannot now be
installed for secure volce transnissious over the comercial telephone

systene

Conpronising Ezanations .

The above describes the traditional CO-SEC problem where there is little
relationship to the “physical security" problen, except insofar as
physical security is required for the cryptographic equipseat. In addi-
tion and nore ‘closely interrelated with the physical cecurity prodlen is
the problen of “compromising emanations" or radiation. Briefly, these

are electrical or acoustic signals emanating from electronic snd electro-
mechanical equipzents.. If. these. signals cun be intercepted, it is possible
to read the information teing processed by the equipment.

To protect against this denger, the U. S. CONSSC Board has approved
(with concurrence by all concerned agencies including the Bureau) NSA
electrical standards for all electronic or electro-mechenical equips

 

equipments is Fesponsible for insuring that their eguiments meet
the standard.

A special subcamnittee of the USCSS monitors this program and provides
guidance acd assistance to the cencerned agencies. As might be expected,
new offensive techniques are constantly being discovered which require
additional defensive precsutions. It is in this field that the line
vetween communications security end physical security get Pussy.

Physical Security

The term “physical security" has traditionally been ussociuied with safes,
guards, ana fences. However, with the adveat of sophisticated elzetronic
eavesdropping tecanigues, most agencies have expanced the Rhysical security
role to provide protection against. unauthorized access to classified or
eensitive information either by people or by devices. "!"°
awareness of the threat posed by clandestine listening cev..-
in Decerber 1953, established a Special Corrivize oa Teciuical Surveillance

 

 
 

CONFIDENTIAL

4

      

Soumiormescares. hic Comitice, contosed of repevcenteiives ov State,
c3 and cach Cerrice), tu, = aarged vith,

 

taiy und review oF the Gonestic end foreimm threct to tae
cusiiy 02 classifies defens: infernition" presented ty the “installation
operation of clundestine technical surveiliance devices" in Us S.

Goverment Zecilities or quarters.

Be

be Ectublishing und coordinating policies with respect to counteriag

  
   

& &t& least noathly and cubrits annual reports to the NSC

end findinzce. Ther: is a clos: relationship tetween
and the Ultie comnitice oa ceapre:ising emunaticas - in
‘unter of incivicucis wao sit on tota.

 

Out tactisteat surveillance

    
 

tle for carrying out
Tusstions Latever cO.2%% policy guidelines are established by the
xc couaitte reining, cquifceat to be used, ete.)

xo saad Stine ceviers of say sind huve teen diccoverce in the U. S.
ash Over 100 were atccoverud in U. £. Scedlitics overseas batween
SS] waa 1929. An cdditional 420 wers ciscovered in friendly foreign
overceus fucilities tetwoen 1955 and igo.

 
  

  

 

  
    
  
 
  

 

ere decliny with we
hams whien in pee

invol: ft

 

wicuvicus and physical
davice:).

  

or
Covermenat
iiley vhrough

yo in tris

  

a
interarcney bourd
its FArEOse» iz

Tad Lourd dess elrce Cn aeti

   

 

wo tha exoeial shtuce oF Sc

BE
c
in
5
ce
oO
r
f
,
o
ir

 
 

- TO insure fet no tn rorza tL

8
E
e

 

 

Cc

5

INFIDENTIAL
