 

2.
sey mo
night he implied to me that he had had cembat experience.

Hy personal assess-

nent. of Wer Pell follows at the end of this mencrandum.) Wer Bell said he
asked Pedraz4if he was in touch with CIA, Pedramsaid he was not in contact -
but that the others, meaning the Dominicans, were. Wer Bell said the Cubans
are training a nininan of 2,000 troops in the Dominican Republic. ‘here are
also about x 1,000 Spaniards sout sent by FRANCO, Wer Pell said he

arbor el’ coms Arlee)
reconnended to Pedrazga typica: appeegetent operation to organize a petreined

guerrilla area, with supoly drops,and the organization of extensive communi-
sation facilities, . ,
4. Batista has refused to cooperate with Pedrazgand kx is refusing
to provide any funde for the operations He says that he expects to be in
the United States within two weeks and will then negotiate provisiong, ef .
support. Rolando Mansferreg is collecting funds in the US for the revolt.
In efdition to this, the Dominicans are ‘buying arms wherever they can get
their hands on them. The plan is to make Manez Portuondo Provisional
Presicent as soon as CASTRO is overthrown.
Se Wer Bell said that an Seer ecan weinessnan naaed Jones fm, who
stexskux does business in Eurcpe and xians in Miami tbyying real estate,
-had mentioned to hin the possibility of obtaining the services of 1,000
experienced German combat troops who are organized, officered, and equipped,
at the rate of 100 a day per man. An individual naied Pe, believed to
be a Swise staying at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel, is the contact for getting
the services of these Cermans » ‘ee is merely an intermediary and Frei (em,
wnose nationality is unimow, but elteved to be e German, is the principal
of this group. (Coment: When Ka questicned Wer #eBl about this he wes
very reluctant to go into details, and as the story developed it appeared
to me that he wan taking for granted a typical night club story resulting

from loose talk by hi~self and the individual called Jones.)

$29
 

roa t01e2 10134

. RETURN TO cia
; . Background Use Only
' Do Not Reproduce

. Crprry
a : DRAFT “nt: -i

7 valy 1959
MEMORANDIM OF CONVERSATION |

SUBJECT:
PARTICIPANTS: Mitchell L. ker 3¢1) and

—

 

1. I met Subject at the National Airport whea he arrived ‘trom Atlanta
at about 2115 and took him to the Statler Hotel, Ee told me that in late
January or early February he had begun acting as broker for some exchange
transactions involving Cuban pesos in the paxitimec possession of former

wef

Batista followers in the Miami area. During the course of these transactions

he became acquainted with a mumber of Cubans, most of them former followers
of Batista who are engaged in plotting against the CASTkO Government in
Cuba.

2. Together with Mamel Firestone, aka Manuel Puegoy(e US citizen of
Cuban origin who served in the RCAF during World War IT and one of the US
armed forces during the Korean war) Wer Bell went to the Dominican Republic
about 6 weeks ago. The purpose of the trip wis to see Batista and seBl him
on a pudlic relations campaign which might help hin reestablish his
reputation in the United States, Wer Bell did not see Batista personally,

but att Firestone did. wer Bell met with a mimber of Cuban exiies on

various occasions and becane convinced that it was not possible to deal with

Batista since the latter insisted on postponirg everything “until he comes

to the States". Firestone arranged to bring Ker Sell into contact with Gen

Jose Pedraza and separately Eduardo Kodriguez, Manuel De Mora's nephew, and
wd .

through hin Manuel De Moya. He discussed only a mctife relations campaign

 

on behalf of the Dominican Femublic with De Hof.

3. Pedrary on the basis of «er dell's OSS backround, asked him for

assistance in setting up 2 xaerkhkix guerrilla operaticn against CASTRO.

(Comzent: er Bell's OSS records shew no combat exzerience although last

gieces we heeks Cee Fe

 

#2?
74-00000

—~
e

6. Wer Eell said he had been virtually offered comand of the Cuban
counter revoluticnary force. He said that he will engare in this only if
CIA backs hin up. He wants to organize a para-nilitary force and-needs 15
to 20 PM experts including conmunicators to train the force. tle also wants
Some specislized equipment such as fire bobs, radios, and even mentioned
2h-F6k aircraft. (Comments: I believe the Doninicans have been trying to
buy such aircraft for some time feu from the Canadian Covernnent. The
Canadians, however, have refused at the United States' request to grant
export Licenses ‘for the planes.)

7. Wer Bell wants to see Cen. Cabell or Allen Dulles on this matter.
He says he is willing to act as our agent and believes he can gain the
conplete confidence of Pedrazjand De Moya He said that it is rumored in
Miami that the United States haa oftered 7 76 hours e& hands off ie the event
of an attempt against CaSTRC and will close its eyes to a mumber of gun
shipments.

@, Wer Bell adnitted to me that he had had some business difficulties

in the receht past and was now working his way out of-then. he have his

record through 1925 and he appears to be a responsible citizen as of that
time. The inpression that I got of him last night is that he is now a typical
proncter type of tne st successful variety found in Latin f¢merica, prone
to exaprerated ideas end somewhat nelve,as evidenced by his story of the
1,009 Germans.. I carefully avoidea the question of what he stands to

gain by all of this, but ae the story developed it becomes rather obvious
that he is seeking to act as a broker’ of CIA sypoort & Pedramjand probably
anticipates collecting hig brokerage fees in terns of public relations con-
tracts mix from the Dominicans and the new Cuban Government. It is also
obvious that Subject has good access to intelligeace which may be of consid-

eradle value, particularly if iv becomes necessary to initiate political

action operations against the CASTRO Covernment. { 2.7
 

 

9. I recomend that we ccensider utilizing hin as an FI Agent with

a very clear understanding that we are Mebtee sg his motives st this time

that we will not support Pedrazaand his proup} nor will the United States

fail to observe its international obligations on behalf of Pedratg, and with
"a clear understanding of the Linite of our relationships with Subject. I
‘believe this man will require firm handling uxxuux if we propose to use him, .

or we may have considerable trouble with him. We have had information

already on the SedrazAaffair, mich of which confirms the information supplied

by Subsect, go that ve are not without other assets on this matter,

 

 

{..90
