74-00000

cae anenes men eet quem,
NN MRE matt: sen sa

a er a cea

‘ 6Oy.,

 

bosdcr without a valia colish v tunes i
Dy the volish border artho es. Gubjork was all
by tho stationn.cter in crest to bisnvel bu ..o.eor
fis Soviet visa was sas. valid; in order to ostain
valid rolish ani Jasveceraaa trenciu vir ne Se—
curcd these visies on 7 septchbur and exited from

the Wosk on & septembor via wrest - coland~ lastoerlin
and rengned Connnhacen on lO Sentembor. .xcent for

the cays,6 and 7 soptember,which subject snont in
iLoscow,he stnyed in winsk all the time, /about 3 mos/.

       

 

 

 

 

ef Other travel
Subject traveled throuch western curovo in

L°S7ivisitins srance,seleiua,nolland, «e visited his
parents da Lew York from the ena of november 1950 srt
to chd January 1959. In sunser 1960,when Als mother
went to the Ussk to visit hér brother,ne net het her
in Le aavre and traveled with her by car to serlin, .
nis nurerous cast-Gernan visaes in his now cancelled —
passpo % Be 459373 ,which is still in Nis possession,
ate du tO bic" Biet that his secona trin to tne usot
was vorformed via ast Gercany and tnat he had to
renew his transit visaes,when he was turned back by
the Folish border autnorities, .e has not svent ary
tice in Hast-Uermany and has lived in .cst-berlin
wherever he wont throuch this city. / The pertinent
pages of Subject*s rorner passport ho 459 313 were -
photogr#hed by’! when subject idf-6
took out the new passport recently,so that there

is a completo record of Subjects travol from sun-
mer 1957 ~ avril 1961 on rile/.-

 

 

f/ Subject’s relatives in the USSR
.  BRCDKY, Zalnin,uncle on uother’s side,age
63,in retiraicnt and livias on soviet, state pension
‘of about. SCO rubles;violinist,but last job was that
of a store aunager in a food store in i.insk. He once
visited subject's parents in the USA in 1934 or
19355 and certainly returned to the Sovict Union in
"1955, sron 1937 until 1945 there was a complete silence
on nls partsfacn Subdject’s motuer got a short letter
that her brotier was all right. sator,oubject found
out during his first visit in .iask that his uncle
hog been arrested in 1937,accused of “svyaz s ancri-
koy" /contact with anericas,ani sentenced to 1G years
in a ilorth-iussian concentration can. somehow tro
wifo of subject's uncle succerued throuch connections
fu joscow to have her jwsbanu releasou after 13 conths,
even now neither subject's uncle nor hin wife like to

sveak in detail about saat veriod in tnueir Lives, md
jen that his cineles wite,

 

o a
SON.

  

vp ieee enine

2 ccne

     

 
74-00000

. 9 yen

ad

 

 

“ band’s freciton. pap: Ws UL uubieet’s uncle wir sens
: troa his fanily “aS wis evacuated to an unstern part of
i the USSR. bie sinself wag anwrently ewsnt by the outbreak
i of the war in Viborz,vaere he was traveling Wilh an unter
} tainrent ensc.able,and was than in Leninerad during the
: . sicre. Thoursh- ¢ Subject has no specific invormation én that ‘
j ’ “period in his uncle’s.life,ho believes that he wag mobili-
i ‘ged for nilitary or defence service. after the war the
i ...-Yanily settled in liinsk,where they orn a little and very
i - - modest house without sanitation and running water on
po . Grushevskaya 58, Subject’s uncle does not work anywhere;
} . . he is still in fairly.cood physical shape but surfers
i
i
t
j
i
i

 

from high blood. pressure.
Subject*s family hes been in overt corresnondencto
“@ himself hogs been snd svill
is in corresvondence with his uncle since 1957,vhen ho
needed a sudnort letter frou him in order to obtain a
Soviet visitor's visit. Subject produced at a Inter stago
_. the threc last 2etters from his uncle,written in the -
’ period Jenuary~iarch 1961,vhich contain seneral family
items and his uncle‘s reouest "not to forget -hin" and
to visit him azain,if possible. Yhis recuest 4s ellensdly
the prime reason for subject's desire to visit his uncle :
ones mora before returning to the United States and also ; ‘
to briny hin some medicine and such itcems,as clothes and
other things,which his uncle can sell and "add to his
: nodest Yinanclab resources.
a: EE ad
: BRoNSEY, Firea,/maiden name unknown/, wife of
“Yabmin SRODSKY, are bb-38, also in retirenent,last job

unknow .

-with his unele:sinco 1949,

 

The BRODSKYS have 3 rrown-uo sons and 1 daugater; -

iy 7 .
! a ' f/vwith one exception their first names have not been
i ; yet establisned/. The two oldor sons are photosrapkers,
: . one of whom resides in isinsk,the other in the vicinity
a of Vilnius sLithuanian s32/. he youngest son, izik
: ° a , BRODSKY is a lathe-overator by profescion,but at at the
presnat tine, or at least in 1958 and 1959,he is or was
in military service as a sailov in the yaltie fleet.
Subject set hin durinz his stey in 1959,vhen Izik
BRODSKY was on lenve. =e,ius rather suiaenly called
" back from leave in the becinnin= of Senterber 1959,
when oubjicet was sturoned vo UT and told to net out
ox the soviet union within three dayas,sllencaly bee
cause he Anau been in "bad counany". Whe only dnuvaner
ds mnarvicd to a jué-e or lnvyer,rhoce nine subject nid
not rivo ont and who works in rv insk, Jubjuet’s cousine

Anelove ce veg abs eet

     
 

 

bout ed

 

et beet ty

 

yoth subjects nother ars father proboely ive
gona other more distint relbrtives in the loud, bus one

SVORy

 
74-00000

 

 

 

‘ef Finsretsl latatns

‘subject claincd that’ since he nradiuated from
hireh scacol he never winted to be n burden to his varents
and vaiu hinsolf rer his education at -nirleish-vickinson
Tro: what he had earnea dn his difverent jobs. iuheh ho
camo to venmark he had with him abont US § 1700 vhich he
had saved up and rrom the pale of his car. With this
money he also peid for his trim to the uSSt in 1958’ and
1959. Since 1988 he has been receiving J 1C0 ver ‘month
under the GI Bill end this has been until nor his only
permanent source of income. In Conenharen he hes been
also giving sone lencuase lesson3,tnouch infreauently,
and has corned sone snail amounts fro: oasuel transla-

_ tions. as of this tine,he has practically no soney and
-would find it difvienlt te drum uv the fare ror his

trip to the inited States. Hie has not yet siven a serious
thouzht to how he could pay for his cventual + cray to

the USs2,dut since the trin is intended primarily to
bring some medicines and sone saleable. items to his
uncle, he expects that in this case his vareats might -
“gontribute tovards the travel exnenses, subject stated
emphaticnlly that he never accepted any money from any
Soviets,thoush attests had been made by some of then

to force some money upon hin./ for details see following
parasraphs/. Subdject*s Danish fiancée is a secretary

in an arcnitects bureau and anvarently they live now
together end pool their resources.

af 4 Gravel to the USS2
: Subject has been in the USS? twice,both *

“times on a visitor’s visa issued to hin for stevs with

his uncle in iiinsk. He verformed the first trio rron

end of tay till aiddle of Fahy 1998 and was on Soviet
territory fron 31 Ley to 9 july 1968. traveled by

poat to Sinland ani by train from lielsinki via, Vaini-
kala and Vibers-to Leningrad,where he stayed 2 days,

and then flew to iinsk. His rirst visa was issued for
1 month and he renewed it'for an additional period of.
2 weeks at the ilinss CVIR. i.e returned via Loscow

by plane directly to Conenharcn,but svent 26S days

in .oscow. Otherwise he was in .insk all the time.

sm His second sojourn in the UxSR lasted
from 2 June 1939 ~ & sentemb.r 1959, ac avolied for
his visa in Coverhacen,bnt it vas actually issues to
nin in cast-serlin, tinally ror a dur:tion of only

 

 

 

two weeks ard was then reneien trice at the . insk

OVIR.: Subject traveled ov train trou wost-cerlin
directly to ..insk throuch roland. due to the inci-
dent, rn rea sdPho oc vivetssce bole oc. caieh Ird to
atbdeet is sevdeercs rica yee: bee od eral ways
be. ore the acwuel expiration of his visa,suoject
nag to trevel dron hinsk to srast ani tho volish

 

     

v

 

we ihi

 
 

a . wes .
~ 5 earmioeniel

1
°

bt oraveled tareusi aurone On

x boards the ead of Tehy. ae

oy ussian Junvuao dsorficially,

; wlitdes actually listed until

4 Lay 1965,when vubject 5 dasatriculated as 2 ree Lar

= student. as per university certificates subsitted by
subject to Ravicy,he has been onrolled at the Univer-

sity of copenausen. ror the last soven semesters and
hos recently cvteined a dearee of " cand. artiwa'ty sorie=
of anerican universi~

thine between a beas and a sod,
ties; with a Good mark. -- is still attending courses
at the univorsity,primarily in Gld 2ugsian, Jerbo-
Croatian,dussian literavure and seminars, uc hes boen
stadyiag with rrof, sflE!,lector or instructor, Barsashov

: an ftne latter an elderly person of 68-70 white Russian

i oo. eplere who cane to vebmark from China in 19¢9./Indi-
vidual certiricatcs of tho various instructors indicate

1 that subject is judged to be a diligent suxndent and is

Poo a praised for his comparatively fast. promress in 2ussian,

] . though HARTASHCY -cuite correctly-vointed out that

Subject is not completely firm in accentuation and

soloction of the proper terms. At his arrival in

H Dennark Subject applied for an educational grant under’

: ‘the GI Bill,which was: avproved somewhat Latex sant nth

: since has decn studying and living on § 110.°x URS

f ; present tine, subjeot’s GI Bill has run out and sub-

) } ject is in a rather airficult material situation.

1
recently subject has applicd for an educational i
| grant from the national vofense Lannuare rorram for i
praduate studies at the glavic Institute of sordhan .
University. «is apolicaticn has doen rejected,but
Fordhan University has eccepted hin, ine has now written
to Fordham concerning 4 seholarship from the univeSsity
itself, iis everall plens are to enter yordham,work |,
: touards a Liasters degree, take up teaching of Russian
i. ; _ , at college level,and eventually work towards a Phe.
oO dn gussian language and literature. nis svecifie plans.
aro quite vague’ and dependent upon many factors,orimari- —.
ly of personal and monctary nature. --€ intends, however, i
to return to the Unite. otates in sentoxber and if
no acholarshiv will be forthcoming obtain sono work ar
and save up enouszh money to continue his studies. 20 i t
plans also to narry his Danish sirl-friend 7whose 1 : ;
name was not obvained at these nectinss/ berore re-
turning to the atates, but she ould stay here and join;
hin only whea ne is more oF less settled. ‘
serious intentions to
tino he thoucht ho

eventing

   
 
 

An sumer 1957 oub
his own enu Gute LO vor
beran attendiny courses
since the admission for

   

  

 

  

 

Subject has nover h-@ any

ro or study in China, but at one
4ote. bey to study tna sv aece Luncvnec as an dat

enndivsjo eo sis dinw

 

vie cavinilitior.»

 

SVORET

 
74-0000

° 4
ae

e

apvlication for a Soviet vis citer of ctation,e

and iemeyon oo: ad that, fer th ine being, AgyR should

heve no con. cin with and that nia (4-¢
; handliny shoule bo continued by saney. ab ciated above,

} vs . tho next seebin; with geek is seheduled for the first

i . week of May.

 

2. Karte 3 boekeround:
af ¥relininiry accosoment:

: vhe dut2 reported in the folloving oara-
eraphs havebecn eystenatized ao 2% to be rendablo. actual~
ly,the initial jebviefin:, conducted under academic cover
showod already that interviewing and laterronating gare.
is a rather disvicult tick. Since ne is at tines an alnost -
connulsive talker and inaulses in lon- parcnthetical re~ :
marks and sneculative co:sentz,it is almost inpossible
to keop him on a steexdy course. iic is an intelligent
and observant youny man but does not seen to be canable -
of sustainod concentration. se wants to show that ne is . .
@ brignt and alort man,that he grasps 211 innlications : .
: quickly,and he wants to imoregs ond please. .ilg intellec-
“tual anbitions are preater than his actual capabilities.
lie wants to be "unders toodand hence becomes often a
‘long-winded "explainer". “e gees himself in a far more :
flattering lisht than other peonle see him and because re
he is vaguely eware of this,he becones overzealous and
vorbase. uo docs not produce.a favorable inpreesion at
the first ahance;his appearance is not ennaging;his
small and weak hands are outright repubbive. rrobably
due to ais” buccrvound /Jevish lover niddle-class/, he
séens to have developed ccrtain inferiority feelings
and resentments, se has acquired sone political pre-
_judices which are fed ror: by emotion than by reason.
“e is quite likcly to deceive -hinselr into believing
that what he lmows and wrat he. has experienced hes a
general validity and he is therefore inclined to evade
self-analysis and self-criticiem. ~e is sometines
arrogant and overly colf-assurcd, sometinces auite self-
conscious and timifd. 7
When saney switched fron academic .
cover to the role of an .IS revresentetive, swe dis~ —
Played~aq pronounced susoiciousness,anxicty,fear and “
a whole namie of reelincs which all indicate that he
‘is not a very stron’ verconality. «ven tiouzh he pro~
Tessed to bo susvicious of waney,ne enved in very
auickly and admitted his cent 3 with tne «IS vrac~
ticslly under the slivivest p.venolexical pressure.
“ne exoerienced an obviois Fodiey? in unburdeaiasg hin-
rede. 4. ccanentrie ond weak
: ‘ica: Live, without

 

 

   
 

 
 
 

deep political convictions pun awwitkous to acquire

werey

 
74-0000

Gienien lnaeusca pea or the
son enn be rather aarily ine

 

as much knowles. “er PA th
Sovieu realitht eh a pes
Plvencea end cavloited by aiyone vao 'nows now to :
ayororteh hin and Platter nic eco, this vorelininary :
evaluation mag explain to some exucnt both twma’s ‘
behavior during the debdricfings and his invdyoront

with the 21S. - ;

    

d/ Personal and educational backrround:

Subject was born in Kew York nas the oldest
‘son of /fnuf A4AcmR and his wife,néc Sara BVODSKY. Ke
-has a sister,Lila or Leiln,age ca 20,who is married
to an advertising nan, bernard LIPOLULL, Subject’ s
nother is of orthodox Jewish belief, subject's father Py
is siore liberal, both have numerous relatives in — oe” :
wa - the United states and Subject ’s nother has several a: . i
fo . relatives in-the USoR, but’ Sif neintosined contact n>
yonly with her brother, 201° uae ENGI X,are 63,7res,
uy 00 Dinsk, Grisnevstava 88, 705) 3 varents cane to DOB 2 \a7e
ran the inited States in the = seuty tventies, eccaping OSS tates : 7
fron the Russian revolution and the porrans in th - XN . ;
Ukraine or Byelorussia. at homo subject's pa rents occ: irolwn se Y 4
used only Yiddish and Enthish,so thet he did not week S :
learn any Russian until ho started his studies at oe | ,
_. bhe vonenhasen p university. ° Subject attended the Marcus Rew Kawres - oo,
yk “ Wolinton We bP sich sohool,fren which he eraduated to\- 27-9779 i
s, . about 1951) or §2. vhoush & subject* S varents are cone ee
. { fos paratively well off,they were not ablc to finance . :
o ; ‘his college education. svom 1952-1955 Subject served . oe
in the USC and attained the rank of corporal.ke .
, worked as an aviation mechanic, after separation
trom the service,subject had no specific plana and -
worked at odd” Jobs, helping, aleo his father wie has
. a small store of bicycles and technical spare parts.
From September 1666 to sumer 1957 subject attended
the. _fairleigh-vickinson. College as a night student,
studyine ‘accounting. Le did not like accounting’ and : : .
. . €ecided that he would like to try study aussian and :
, - Russian literatura./Subject did not exolain in detail
what aroused his interest in this field/, Casting
around for a collere which could provide hin with
the cheapest possible euucution,subject cane ecross
fal mo, a extelog of tne Conenharca university and found
a out that there ves practically ao tuition eni de-
cided-to enroll in vopenhacon., rhouch subject did
rot scite clearly tae awitionul rensens rer the
selection of a sasish univevsity and tne Slavic
‘Yield,he implied that itv was useful and "oronressive”

to Stiny issinny

 
  

 

  
 

        

 

 

 

SLES]

 

ay

 
 

el:

 

 

- eonsiderably. Gradually,

cd . eon

Pa

ety
Peek

LB wird wel pie .

SECRUT

  
  
  

  

MICROFILHED

@, AUG qo wp

poc. MICKHO: fs KR.

  

AHP Ps pT trey Ped .
tA SSS BAA Cw
Go ..ots and debvierint on ll and 12 apsi}.

    

a, artaur J,.amey traveled frat stoekholn to
Covenhagen unuer truc ‘nane on lv april,resistered atiotel 1
‘orcur" as an american tescher in alias of pus Ape
and received an oral bricring on the ‘ure case_as ‘well
as the available file material at feoneane 70a Stationjon 14-6
the same day. In consultation vita end: j
with the approval or the (Chief of stationja letter was 27 i
edited and sent to «m7 in the evening cf the same day, ‘
requesting hint to come for en interview purvortedly :
connected with a survey of American scholars and sra- :
duate students encased in Slavie studies in seandina~

 

“yian universities./ See attchnent/, fhe letter re-

quested Subject to cone to the hotel.on 11 sprdl at

-1460 hrs and trins along his aceéenic record and a

resumo of his vlans for ruture statiies.

_ bf AS exvected, pw¥K was surficiontly ine
trisuod by the invitation and anveared at the hotel at
the annpointed time. In order to obtain a eral ussess-
ment of his verson,baucc:round, past and future trayel,
and the ectual overats onal sotential or the case,he
was first interviewed for aporox.] hour unser the
selected seacenic cover until tre ciscussion reachod
the point of subject*s contacts wita soviet citizens
and ofricials ond the details of subject travel to
the USS2 in 1958 and 1959. In view of subject*s opvious
withholding of svecific inferasticn,sone of which was
already availebie to Ramey fron the exaninavion of fille
material further elicitation could not va productive.

Subject vas first told tuat the survey was sponsored
by ‘the LS Gevirnment and that tuererfore concrete and
full data om subject*s travel in the soviet Lnion and
his contacts with the Soviets hid to be discussed,

 

 

awhén. Subject shsorbed the fact that the ersual interes

ther nervous and tensed up
wey revealed hincelf as 4
revresentative of the . d rhea Subject expressed
doibts shout + ey’s bona vides, wis shorn tae Intellie
sence I entirieation veeusrent in alias. Susject aid not
seen to be co:vietcly convineed oF ar ev's iaentity and
said reneatedly * I really aon” ee no
pointing also out that anney’s accent clearly indicated
ansvered

 
 
 

"2S over, he deceame yr

 

vier

 

 

   
 
 

 

 
 

 

     

   

that he was mn. native wwieridan. covever,! .
ell .ucstions,. snovitn visible ointal srvations. .
BP Ss tha UO at reer toa ee ten eda
tank Po ge Se cedar we 2 le vl ce ea CO Cee tee

nally arrancea at tne wirican obassy.

ie als

CHANGED FRSA C2,

yy abt

v4
Lf ye essay !° mh LO
nea) & 32 oS - ihe

a a th Dein AN AP al Nh A EAP ar TANTEI

 
 

(teeter
. ai & | _ _.
pee aril me himanseinectseusshmmamamanoel , pity sa

  

     
  
 
 
   

 

 

 

tae “
c a
yx Valera: Wous juied
t vy Gualaiied wqu deok
i x -gh Aoril 1951
} .
H “get
i to a Ohief, WE : 4 4~G-16/4
i ~ .
Tnfo 2 Undef, Sk, CUS, ~
from * chief of Stetion
“Subject o Fy jus
: 2A TY Contiet end Iebrierin., of JANTER (aiGROFILIZED

AUG 745 1987

oc. tAIERO. SER.

   

Action ieqnired See Paracraph 2 below
-b .

    
  

References 3 1433

Atkeched lerewith is Arthur J. Razey's revort of his contacta

i
t
i
;
|
H
i
|
1.

: with Wd? mn Corsnhogan Ll ond 12 Aaeil 1991.
Yesey meeting is to be held in’
1
}
i

2. Since the next uciieduled gyi, -
* consents cnould ~

tovanhagen during the first week in ay Headquortera!
be cyoled svuonest. :

, .

 

vow wer Hae: Od nit 4

t
£
i
i ; -
i Attachment: i : RECLASSIFIED
4 deport, as noted above
2b April 1961 La.
i : : -
: Distribution: ' ‘RI/MIS
i 2-\ufatt
| 1 ~ S232 nfatt _ lee
' i -| fate
! 2 Fyatt
oe
(ce. “eft bebe Le. Cpa?
i

» Ole, oo ap eg
74-0000

tu-

Srenesccer sem mamta 0
38 AR eI EEE NP
. 2 a NEON £5 Al: ode crogh, .

 

ef mhiedt win then interromatec,-til) vy itaout
avensurs JG Vita penoeved torminss thos 4&6 van in
#fS oon intomst.to vrovidce full anu truthrad Luror: ae
tion on his-vrcevious troval to the ls is coatacts
vith soviets both in Vosennacen and the . tesnectal-

     
    
   

ly on those that hed uny illicit or clancestine charac .

tex. chis fornal debriofin:,auring which notes were

‘ taken,was conddcted until avprox.c0%0 hrs. ith an

intorruptioa ov about 45 minutes,durin; which subject
repaired to his and his sirl-fkfand‘s hone to exnlain
hic vrotractee absance,the session wan continued over

_ @ dinner at a.restaurent witdl 2530 hrs, Subject was

then instructed to samtinx duper again at the hotel
on le april at 1800 hra and in the meantine uaintain
complete silence o. the nature of tne intcrview vise
avis his fiancee and other outsiders.

a/ In tho norning of 12 April,when xamoy was:
cvorting the results of the first session to the.
Hubject aoyenred ab the american sabassy and

cheexed out amey*s identity with the Vier-Consul
J.boekian,whon he hed previously seen twice in
counection with his visa problems and GI bill cheeks.
Subject showed our letter to Lockian and exolaincd
to hin that fhids Ame had asked hin “many personal
ouestions"anwiiie studies end future plans and that
in view of the fuct that <44*G wes not a native-
born .wnericen,he wanted to know if the latter was
known at the subassy and in general if he was"all
right." ue did not mention to Bockian that .amey
had daentitifed himself as a represcntytive of the
aIS. boekian checked with the station and was siven
inser ructions by ¢guyo to relay toe subject that

‘peas 3 had checked with the sabassy and is in
fact what he says he is". Subscqucnatly,when sub-
ject left, ockiun reposted aK vin to the station
that he had conrizned pufg"~ “status eas indica~
ted in our letter. .hrovzh tais unwitting fumble,
bockian actually pergorned a cood service since
he indiceted that iqyto connection \ith intelligence
matters. fhe incident indicateu also that subject
convlied wits the dnatructions and cid not reveal
the intelli-cnce neture ov Ais contact Vith ksmey,
nor‘the fect that he had veen oh: rily interro-
gated concernin: his coiscis vith soviets.

¢/ subject anne rea ser tne cecom: session

 

at the hotel at tie po cointed tiie and stated |

dite. iately taat he dd acce a ese of aarey’s

tae Lane oe n oagulate. oS arreed
“3 tod. ‘ne. daci=

i by tated

 

toa. 2d

   

    

.

nerdy t that unaus tae cite catanees subivet Ss actioa

peared |

 
74-0000

- with considerabla doubt in view of wi

 

  
   
   
   

“ones on tbfeet
ontack with
ou l tae to

ard neh cia agop
haw to brea aan

surtey Gn cenliws .
state vo an necount

vhich be: oF agdeet ys tian had row
ported to the See ViONe Nad “et aaacd bab ir ho had
not becn mivon icarsurance concerning anmey’s outhen-
ticity at tho Gonsulate,ne would “nave sollled tiie
whole story” to -ockian,n stetecent wich aust bo taken
a2 transpired :
rnbout cubject’s ouct during the debricrings. :

 

    

 

 

a/ Tho second dobricfing lasted approx. 4

hours. Since the sua total of the insoraation provig

ded by subject c edout hinself and his past travel to-
the USSR,2s voll as his centocts witn the Soviots,
brousht dut that he had been in the ssa twice in
1958 and 1989 vo» protrucvea visits with his uncle
in Minsk;that he bas been in contact with sovict
Embassy orriciula and Ris representasives both in
Copenhearcn and i.insk since fall 1957 until sebruary
1961 ;that he hed’ beon subject to a xIs reeruitment
attonnt in iiinsk ia sumacy logso,which ne allegedly
refused ; and that he Stitt planned to visit his
Felatives in jiinex in kes @ berore retnening
to the Uniten States in . enber , no decision
eencernins subject*s exploitation could be inmediate-
ly taken. Subjcot was thervetore Instvacted to pro~-
eeod with his usolication ror a Soviet visa,make no
sustaincd efforts to revive his semi-dormant contact

  
 

   

“with his last xIS contact in vonenhandn but drov

lar officisis at his next

visit vlanhed for rridcy,i4 .ordl,thay he was dis-
anpoiated. over the refusal cor an: meric an scnolar-
ship,and, Tinally,renort tae ovsone of ‘this visit and”
the status-of his Soviet visa in a short written

note addressed to Aurts nar §  , c/o Visitors
Liail,werican: Znbassy,Cononiacen” weicn,as Subject

was told,would be forwarded unovensd tho addressee.
Subject was told that anuther acetiny ‘in the first
week of iiay would take piace and that ho would be
‘dnformed of the ‘meeting »lace and. veucise tine by a

latter to his current ade ress. :

  

a hint to the sovict co.

 
  

 

i
- ef On 15 April AQney renortca the results

of the second invervies: to tre and (4-6

lert. for Stocinoln at liu hys, rripe to saney 3 de-

parture a shore esble sen’ e° Lil TO KiveRe 5

J¥T and cB notentisl / o WET _/., ending the elari-

“fleation of US “¢ hone ri ByeNE” \wior davcyenent

. ys a8 .

  
 
 

 

   

  

eres

   

Sp ae 2. 79 70€

 
