 

 

  

 

he presently feels will prevent hig return. ‘The incident
with the police in which Chomon intervened wags not as serious
as the report which was received in Headquartors, AMLASH-1's
personal relationship with Raul Castro ia again on good terns.
Raul has mentioned to AMLASH-1 that he would like for him to
come back on active duty in the Army in the Office of the
Surgeon General.

6, Requirements were levied on AMLASH-1 both for the
time he ie in Paris and after his return to Cuba.

7. Acable reporting these esetings was sent to Herd-
quarters from Paria on 7 December 1964.

Nestor D, Sanches
SA/ 80/ HR
ec: WH/SA/EOB
Files
AMLASH-1 201

Int Operation

SECRET

 

i
i
;

eect ec tenement mentee et “ie ceimeNenee ER ER Femme yea neat

me tenepeccenene gue

 

 
 

 

04-10216-10248

§

meme

RISO ACE AR SRS ARE or te hatte nomenon wit nen SIAL Hate tees

[rrr raenain

20 December 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meetings with AMLASH-) in Paris,
, 6-7 December 1964 ,

> seme ranaansnshaietnenanetets enorernntrsnnnan nee ete

1, AMLASH-1 was met by ONTRICE in Paris on 6-7 Dec 1964.
AMLASH-1 was debriefed on the general situation in Cuba and
the attitudes of Cuban officials toward the regine. Separate
Gables on these subjects were sent to Headquarters,

2. AMLASH-1's reason for travel outside Cuba was to
attend the conferences and meetings of the International
Union of Students in Prague and other countries of Eastern
Burope. AMLASH-1 had been in Eastern Europe since early
Movember 1964, AMLASH-1 is travelling on diplomatic passport
D-64-663, He plans to remain in Europe until early 1965,

"He bas not yet set a definite dete for his return,

f 3. AMLASH-1, although unhappy because he was unable to |
Proceed with hig plans in the past year, continues to feel that /
his solution to the Cuban problem is the only one feasible

and feels he aust continue trying. AMLASH~1 was told and he
fally understood that the U. S. Government cannot and will not |
im any way become involved or provide assistance in the task i
Which he has planned for himself, AMLASH-1 appeared to under- |
etand and appreciate our Position and stated 1f he needs help 4
he would look elsewhere. His worry was that since this is a 7
very sensitive and delicate matter 4¢ would mean making more ane
individuals aware Bf his Plans,

4. AMLASH-1 did not raise the subject of AMBIDDY-1 and
probably will not raise the subject until AMWHIP-1 returns
from Spain,

5. AMLASH-2 reported that although he had had a few
Scares in the past year, nothing serious had developed which

Pann
——
cence snatinaneanae

 

Pete a me ne tenn enna Senne pe a nena eo,

 

 
