 

GONFIDENTAL

c. The next component I checked was DCD. |
There was no record in their Headquarters files.
Arrangements were then made for me to check . ;
telephonically with each DCD base in the US. The
chiefs of the bases then serached their records.
and spoke with their officers. I was then advised’
by each of the chiefs or their designees individ-
ually that there had been no contact with OSWALD. —

d. I then ‘checked with Division D, SE Division,
and LA Division's Cuban Operations Group (COG) for —
any informal desk records. The results were dikes”

_wise negative.

: e. Through the Security Research Section L
(SRS) of the Office of Security I had the security. _
files checked. There was no record of OSWALD... —

f£. Although CRS keeps no records on Americans,
I checked their Soviet, Mexican, and Cuban holdings...
on the remote chance that they may have recorded
something on OSWALD, There was no record in those
files. :

g. In ‘my presence. the chief of the cr Staff's

| Administrative Office called the Office of Personnel

and received the word that there was no record on an
employee or an applicant for employment named Lee ms
Harvey OSWALD. :

 

he I also checked the Office of Medical.

Services and found no record on OSWALD.

i. The Covert ‘Action staff ‘also found no * pesaina

‘on him. | a
‘3. Finally, I also checked the records of the
CI Staff's Operational Approval Group {€T/0a) with

negative results.

k. My-.checks were completed on 4 December 1963
and I then sent a brief informal note to Mr. Rocca .

CONFIDENTIAL

 

 
 

AMeAmaaa A08z7 . . Lo. Ces

 

 

 

187078
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI Staff
SUBJECT . : Allegations of Lee Harvey OSWALD' Ss . ce,
; Connection with ‘the Agency - ~ ee :
REFERENCE 3 Memorandum of Conversation, Dan

Rather/Les Midgley and the DCI,
Dated 6 September 1975

 

1. The referent memorandum contains two points
-which require comments. The first point concerns ~ coe
‘allegations that were made shortly after the assassination |
a ; of President Kennedy. and that have crept up every so often”
wo - since then. .In one form or another, the allegations are ——
that Lee Harvey OSWALD had been connected with the Agency. :
The allegations are totally unfounded. : .

   

2. The facts regarding this matter are as follows:

 

. a.. On 27 ‘November 1963 I was “instructed by
"My. R.G.Rocca, my immediate superior at that time, to = |:

make a. thorough check within the Agency at Headquarters < °° |:
to determine whether Lee Harvey OSWALD had ever been-
used. by the Agency or been connected with it in’any..
conceivable way. He ordered me to make the checks ~
directly and personally to the degree possible and not. :
to. accept statements of intermediaries. He also ex= ae
plained that he was following instructions from Mr. R. |.
Helms, who was then the DDP and served as one of. the ge
Agency's key contact officials with the Warren —

_ Commission. ;

   

 

  

b. Although I had already checked the Main Index = -
of IP (then RID) on the night of the assassination, I -
rechecked the Main Index and found no record beyond .
that which I had already obtained before ‘(plus those
items which had been integrated into the records system _
since the assassination). There was nothing in the DDO.
records which indicated any Agency connection with :
OSWALD. . °

 

 

 

| CONFIDENTIAL
13-00000

ETA

specifying all the checks I had made and stating
that the results showed that Lee Harvey OSWALD
had never had any connection whatsoever with the
Agency. Eventually a statement to this effect
was communicated to the Warren Commission.

3. © Similar checks regarding use or employment
of OSWALD had been requested by the foreign divisions
of their appropriate stations, I was told, and he
results were negative. ; —

    

: , & TF recall very clearly that. we were extremely
concerned at the time that OSWALD, as an American returning
from the USSR, might have been routinely debriefed by
_DCD, thus having established contact with the Agency. :
The same point has now, quite understandably, been made.
by the two CBS newsmen. Having some knowledge of this
subject I have personally concluded that there is valid
reason for DCD's lack of interest in OSWALD at that time..
He would surely have been contacted and debriefed by DCD
had he been to the USSR and returned to the US before
1957/1958. Travel to the Soviet Union by Westerners,
particularly by Americans, before that time was quite
uncommon and we were hungry for eyewitness information in
those days. The thaw began in about 1956 and by the end...
of that decade there were so many persons travelling to
and from the Soviet Union that DCD was incapable of talk-
ing to all of them.. Therefore, a program of selectivity a
and specific target applicability was instituted. “In | |
light of the’ above, it seems to me that OSWALD--.if he:
came to DCD's attention at all--would have easily been: |
by-passed, because he simply did not possess the type of
‘information that DCD was seeking at that time. DCD would
surely have used its limited manpower on ‘travellers who
had had much greater access in the USSR.

 

 

5. It should be added that my above-described |
search in the Agency file holding produced no record or.
indication that any other US Government agency had used --
him.as a source or had considered him for recruitment. ..

 

CONFIDENTIAL

 
13-00000  ....

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6. The second point -in the referent memorandum
concerns the papers that were available at Headquarters
on Oswald before the day of the assassination. Specif-
ically, there were five documents which had been sent to
the Agency before the assassination. Two of the documents
had been sent to us by the’ FBI, two by the Department of
State, and one by the US Navy. A 201 file (201-289248}
had. been opened on 9 December 1960 on the basis of the
receipt of the first of these five documents. The 201 -
file contained no records that had been originated by
any Agency component. The Mexico City station's reporting

-o£ the monitoring of Oswaid's activities in Mexico had not

as yet been included in the 201 file. The pertinent cables
from Mexico City were held at the Mexico branch at Head-
quarters, while the data contained in them had been
disseminated to the FBI upon receipt. The cables were

incorporated into the file following the assassination <_

and were, of course, made available to all concerned,
including the Warren Commission.

7. It should be noted that no particularly great |
urgency was attached to the handling of the records
regarding Oswald before the assassination because Oswald's
name had no particular meaning before.that fateful event.

. 8. The facts regarding the records we possessed
before the assassination as well as the make up of our
computerized records system were explained to Chief Justice

_ Warren, members of his Commission, anda group of the

Commission's staff members when they visited Headquarters . |
in about March 1964 for the express purpose of viewing the
methods and controls we employed in our records. keeping

activities. Our 201 file on Oswald was also shown to them

at the time. From all I have heard regarding this visit,
the visitors were satisfied with our records system and

the manner in which we kept our records. -

ie Zoo Mok _

Paul liartmran
