 

SOBPIDRRTTAL

Rabanne rgiiad teenie Capen

-2-

3. ts answer to: any queries after nis public epptarasce, the
12S represeztative in. Mine ehould reply: }

a) Diss Lens arrived in this country after fleeing from Cube.

b) Staz Lanz reported to I83 and was aduitted to this country
on the basis of the documentations as a permacsmne resident
whieh he hed acquired during nig previous etay in the
United States.

@) Dies Lane requested the IRB oot to reveal his whereabouts,
expressing bis concern about the safety of members of aig
femily recaining in Cuba end his desire to cave his
immediate fuaily esfely installed in the U.S. before any
Publicity was given to his flight to this country.

@) Ia the e.reustences, the IKB felt obliged ta favor the
alien's request.

@) Tso IfS devs not keev Diez lass’ future placs or inteutions
Gnd eny query op this score eaceld be directed to hia.

Tre above etould by coordinated with Diat.lene himself ead.
ee, provided be agrese, be should be proparcd ts scershorata

the stary.

 

the reply stowlé4 be: Li informed tae Departaent of state. If necessary,
{¢ may be eided thee the Departesst or State mmamsamed cqucurred that
3 Cy

 

|
i
:
F

i

Ta reply to any farther press queries, the Departaent of State

and Justice should restrict thexselves to end eite. the substance of
_ the anevers given by INS, Mieai. In particular, thay should avoid -

evaluating or endorsing his statexents re Cube.

 

 

niente ti Amb ab

sp ie tag oo

—

 
 

 

 

 

= EQRFER TDA :
DIECUBEIO’ PAPER
rete is |

“4. Procedures: . oo ; .

 

i. Diez Lana to be released as soon aa this cen be done in an
Grderly fashion, with epyropriate coordinatioa by publicity among U.8.
Co. ermuent egencles concerned and between U.6. Governuent and Ding Lang.
Target dates exe vimumlised in teres ox roumuly Tmureday morning:

2. Upon bie release, Ding Lai enould ast on his ow responsibility
with respect to snything he might say to tie press and there should :
‘be no apyearnnce of 5.6. Government sponnors=lp or enforseacnt. ie
shoalé consider vnetcer, upon release, ne wuld desire to seck tue
@i4 and sponsorship of any exile Cubon elesents identified with neither ©
Castro or Batiste waoa ne may know or know of in this country. : .
3. Any contact with or appearance before. the. & ate Internal.
Security Comittee should be nandledin mich @ wav ms it vill be clear
that the arrangements and procedures were arranged between the Camittee
end Dise Leas without tae intervention of the Ruecntive french. |-

&. Dies Lang plens-with respect.te Sis future residence and" -
his views re personal protection should be escertained and acy :
. Gpropriate action thereon should be discreetly taken by tae agenay
Principally concerned. _ 7

5. Any farther debriefing by U.8. Covernnent agencies should
be coordinated snong tuen, evoiding éuplication to the maxima extent
possible. .

2. Public Relat long:

1. Ho U.8. Government agencies ehould (aitiate any announcensat
re Dias Lenz nor overtly make any arrangezentex to present Dias Lens
. to the press or allow press interviews to tose Place at U.f. Government
installations. It is an important objective tnat the U.6. Governzent
be identified vite Diaz Laos aa Little ao possible. 1
a
2. Peading bis public appearance, all agencies should state that-
- tay Leave bo information. sod a

 

RETURN TO CIA

i : 4 QL Backgroui
SOUYTOENTIAL : i. De Not

 

Use
produce

 
