_ : oo. an ( | : / | ‘

4
|

‘

/ Lo
du Jankary 1953 when he failed to Yeport for duty, representatives
. from the Medical Office and Security went to his residence at the Lafayette

E
E)
3
Fy
St
3
g
»
z
lag
5
bed
g
a
Ra
et
9°
qQ
=)
Pat)
a
Q
Le
ey
a
KS
ct
be]
~
oy
g
:
a
Q
p
aa
8

Subject Tesigned 27 Jenuary 1953 after an interview by 8 Security —

ey fepresentative on 19 January 1953 at which time his résignation wag
wy requested. ; ;

 

Om 11 July 1953 Subject called the Security Office collect from
| Dallas, Texag stating he was to hava a brain operation on 13 July 1953
“> &@boBaylor Hospital in Dallas, Texas and he wanted to know if en Agency
|. vepresentative could be there. Instructions were given to the os Chicago

 

7 hed had access to highly classified information in Which the Government
had an dnterest; he had a history of becoming talkative under anethesia and,

. should be cautioned not to disclose any information divulged by Subject
Y While under Snesthesia, Mr. David HITT, Administrator of Baylor University
_. Hospital, agreed to cooperate Subject was put under sg

 

th the CIA and had seen many people killed. The CIA os
are @ bunch of dirty Cutethroate and I wouldn't be a bit surprised if : |
they sent one of their men to cut mine. They think they are smart but |
.; One of these days in the near future I will show then who 1s the smartest,
_- They have about 100 Gs-ihtg walking around with their headg shaped like .
, SBESs oes I have been a failure but after I get well rt am going to go we

 

ail An FBI report of 60 Internal Security character dated 30 April 1957 °
- from Dallas, Texas reported that Sub ject telephoned long distance from, -
_..: Midland, Texas to a Chinese Intelligence officer in Formosa Claiming to
-*> have been formerly employed by CIA, Subject offered to “help you with
_°, things Z know", Then Subject called 4 person in Lubbock, Texag belteved
“te be his wife. He told her he hed talked with the Chief of Intelligence
for Chiang KAI-CHEK in Formosa and that she end the baby will receive
00 = $1,000 per month "1f this thing Goes through". Subject was identified
: ‘ in the report as formerly employed by various newspaperss @ world traveler
i " and formerly employed by CIA. : .

wo Domestic Contact Service requested Clearance to use Subject in
‘” February 1957 reporting that he had not had a drink in nine years, On

ty

 
 

‘roernd-t0017 f Z . €

ae . . ine
La an .

+ - SUBJECT: WOOD, William Clarence, Jr.
: _- eke BOXLEY, William

 

"In December 1944 Wilitam Clerence WOOD, Jr. was security approved
' for OSS employment to be used overseas in a weiting/publishing assignment.
: However, he was assigned to combat infantry duties in the Southwest
Pacific Area and was not used by 085. Of interest in his file at this
time are memoranda recording a visit he made to the Honolulu Office
of OSS in February 1945 in which he told the office how ha had been.
. wecruited 088 while attending infentry school at Fort Benning in
October 194k; that his services were to be used in originating end
4 @onducting radio programs in the CBI theater; that when he did not hear
' "'.. £rom 08S, he made certain inquiries ond found thet his record had been
|_| carefully investigated by Dunn end Bradstreet; that he then made a long
“{*"s distance cell to 039 Personnel Procurement Office. |. He was told that
— temporarily the OSS wos not in a position to avail themselves of his
services but he was to keep in touch. The interviewing officer in
Honolulu forwarded e report of the visit to the Security Officer in
03S Headquarters with a comment to note the Dunn and Bradstreet leak end .
that Gubject certainly knew more about the inside of O08 then any potential
recruit he ever saw and Subject had never been in Washington.

 

    

On 13 December 1950 Subject was granted a Covert Security Clearance

for use Agent with Project TPyocus. He wae assigned to the | :
(rere Chief Instructor of Clandestine Operations. He wed
Gi y 8 Jonuary 1951 end arrived overseas 12 Harch 1951. : :

- , In May 1952 his Gapendente were issued travel clearances to join him at :
rr ” <\ “Subject suffered a nervous breakdown in March 1952
. andl

 

to Headquarters, Washington for medical observation.
_|; Examination by the Medical Office in April 1952 concluded thet Subject's
7 , breakdown was caused by famtly trouble and overindulgence in alcohol. ‘The
“s Medical Office recommended that he should not attempt any extreme covert
work but should only accept either light semi-covert or overt duties with _
- @ probationary period of one yeoar, these duties to be performed within
- the continental limits of the United States. Subject was assigned to
74 OFR ag en instructor in the Operations Course in May 1952 and recommended .
“a: ". for conversion to staff status after a four-month probationary parlod. ;
This trensfer wag security approved in October 1952 and he received hia -

pppota iment 48.4 GS-11 Training Instructor with OTR (Operations Training
' Branch). a , “ : .

 
  

; In December 1952 he was found by an Agency guard lying on a sidevalk
+. near Temporary Eye Building teeding from the mouth. There was no evidence
- Of foul play and he was taken to Emergency Hospitel at his ow request.

a

   
     

gyangrading 26

mre
gaclated 05m |
declassiftcation

 
74-0000 ( - oe ‘- al
rn ; er aa : ‘.

- i determining the oxtent ond level of their use of Subject. Attached memo| .
} from DCG dated 26 April 1968 reports that after receipt of this adverse
: Information Subject was dropped by DCS as e potential source.

Bio data: dated 9 Januery 1967 reveals that Subject, born 17 August 4
1920 at Shreveport, Louisiana » Yesided at 72h International, Apt. FR 9, i
Houston, Texas. At that time he was employed as Executive Vice President, —
Houston Tribune Publishing Compsny, Houston, Texas. “ In 1954 he was _ :
"| employed by Charies B. ROTH and associates. In 1950 he worked for the
DENVER POST. His father, William Clarence WOOD, Sr., is @ banker at
'.. Lubbock, Texas {pubboek Netionel Bank) end is well«toado,

(Paur ROTHERMEL Security Officer for Hunt O11 Company, who was the
person approached Subject recently for information on CIA operations
for Jim GARRISON, and who reported the visit to the Houston DCS Office,
is @ former FBI agent who was considered as a prospective recruit ag
& Confidential Correspondent in March 1959, . ot

~s '* | QS indices were negative on Clymer WRIGHT and Harold G. PYLE mentioned
« 4n @ttached memorandum from Houston DCS office dtd 26 April 1968,

See attached summary on William BOXLEY.

 
