74-0000

 
  
    
    
 
 
 
  
  
 

“Ss

once stot au Américan in Habana as the result of a quarrel At’present he
ia involved with Sonia PERLA Gil, a well known Cuban show girl, by whom
he has one iilegitimate child, (He was suecesaful in having her join him in
Spain.) He 16 in close touch with Cuban embassies in both Madrid and Paris
and reported to both of them concerning his meeting in Paris with AMNIPS],
. an anti-Castro Cuban, ROBRENO brawled with the Spanish Police who :
ordered him to leave Spain and (according to a file éummary) permitted him
to stay because be agreed to work for them,

cate

ALBERTO BLANCO ROMARIZ

BLANCO, commonly called “Crazy” (El Loco), now 32 years old, allegedly
was given ® medical dlacharge from the United States Air Force in October
1956 and was divorced in Miami, Florida in 1963, after a 3 year separation,
from Mary Larkin of Boston, Maszxchusetis, He claimed to have tuken
part in antl-Bativta activity and later to-have participated in May 1959 tn-a’- ~~~
Cuban invasion of Nicaragua, resulting in hts capture, his lmpriscament
fn Managua, Nicaragua for 8 months and his subsequent imprisonment in _
Cuba from Junc to September 1960 (because Fidel CASTRO had-not approved —
participation in the invasion of Nicaragua), He went to Spain ss a refugee...
., hee September 1964 at which time that he was sent as a penetration
agent by the Cubas intelliyence Gervice, A summary report ia the Headquarters
file indicates that an LCFLUTTER examination about September 1944 did not. -
reveal major deception, (We are trying to locate the precise questions used. )~
“His Cuban 18 contact in Madrid ie Laia Manuel CANTILLO Toirac, assigned

 
    
  

   
   
        
     
      
       
 

: TENTATIVE, PRELIMINARY ANALYSIS

There is no convincing evidence that the group is working either for or
against the regime of Fidel CASTRO. Reporte on thotr contacts with us |
and thek discussions amcng themselves are at variance, In 18€3 Fidel a.
CABTR), reportedly knowing that they were plotting against bim, talked to- _
CUBELA and seven members of bis group to enlist their support against
Anibel ESCALANTE Dolhnds end the. commusieis is Cuba, | Possibly they are ,
playing coth eads agniust tae miade, They Certainly have been and are in :
Contact with the two ends, oe : :

    
   

   
 

 

 
     
  
 

     
       
     

 

 
104-4 0469-10252

to

 

Ne me vers

 
 
 

‘provided fonds to groups engaged in the

: koows number of those who playsd important soles in the struggle,
» He wan and tea c mo

  

 

ROLANDO CUBELA (OR CUBELAS) SECADES +) qf Jp. 2 >
¢ fee ( 48) SECADES ad The rpg .

doctor who played a #4; j

BATISTA, At present CUBELA is 32 years

eéotl<
yea We is cd

- - t>,
ockeye" (£1 Bizco}), CUBELA is 2 medica,

4 conferences.

lowe istend, of CUBE IA.

"JORGE CARLOS RORRENO

 

peoples:
cultlos wi

otruggla against BATISTA

MARIEGURS, "EL MAO" ,”

~ FOR
SOG Foun, * (9 Cla
fs) JO! Bq Se On .
"ProduggY

he pavee 4. how he

 
 
 
 

. -He participated tn anti-

s

 
 

 

:
etait ale gc

 

 
         
      
 

 

 
 
   
 

 
