14-00000

a

 

use of firearms. He said that no one could be recruited to do
"the dob, because the chance of survival and escape would be
negligible. Giancana stated a preference for a lethal pill
tha't could be put into Castro's food or drink. ‘Trafficante
- ("Joe, the courier") was in touch with a disaffected Cuban. .
official with access to Castro and presumably ofa sort that
would enable him to. surreptitiously poison Castro. The gangsters
"named their man inside as Juan Orta who was then Office Chief
and Direcvor General of the Office of the Prime Minister (Castro).
The gangsters sala that Orta had once been in a position. to.
receive kickbacks from the gambling interests, had since lost

that source of income, ‘and needed the money.)

When Edwards received the pills he dropped one into a glass of

water to test it for solubility and found. that it did not even :

 

. disintegrate, let. alone dissolve. | took them back and made

up a new batch that met the requirenent for solubility: Eavaras .

- at that point wanted assurance that the pills. were truly lethal. ‘He

called on Dr. Gunn to make an independent test of them. Edwards gave

Gunn money to buy guinea pigs as test animals. Gunn has a record of a

 

 

 

 

conversation with on 6 February 1961. It may have related to

the ‘tests, but we cannot be sure. What appears to have happened is that

Gunn tested the pills on the guinea pigs and found them ineffective.

 

 
14-00000

 

 

 

 

. ne

 

In any event, O'Connell did. receive the pills, and he believes
there. were sic of, them. He recalls giving three to Roselli. Presuzably 9
‘the other ‘three were used in testing for solubility and effectiveness.
The. dates on which O'Connell. recelved the. pilis and. subsequently. ,
passed them ‘to Roselli cannot, be. established. It would have been 7 :
‘sometime.after Gunn's: ‘notation of 10° February 1962.

Gunn also. has a record of. being. approached about. the undertaking
by William K. Harvey ‘(tomer special agent of the FBI ) in ‘February ;

_ in connection with a sensitive project. Harvey + was working on for -

. Bissell. According to Guan" s notes, he briefed Harvey on the. operation,

and Harvey instructed him to discuss techniques, but not targets,

“ai with Gottlieb. 7 Gunn's notation on this point is not in accord with .
. the recollectiom of any of the others involved. We are unable to
_clarify it; the note may have been in another context. 0*Connel1
‘states that J. Cc. King was also briefed at this time, although King =

dentes learning of ‘the operation until much later..
“| Late February - aieh 1961
Roselli passed the pills to Trafficante. Roselli reported to
' O'Connell that the pills had been delivered to Orta in Cuba . Orta

is understood to have kept the pills for a couple of weeks. before

returning them. “According to the gangsters » Orta got cold feet.

 

 

 
14-00000

 

 

soe

tying it toa recollection that Castro frequently drank tea, coffee,
ca or voullion, for which a . Liguia poison would be particularly well

suited.

 

January = Eaten Se a a Doe SO

 

“Despite, the sion that a 2 poleon in liquid. form would be most .

 

@esizable, what a actually prepared and delivered, was a solid in |
the. form of sma LL pills about.” the size of saccharine tablets. .[ }

renenbers. meeting with 2 Bawerds. and O'Conne 11 in Edwards' office to -

 

    

 

ue “ i discuss: the requirement. The. specifications were that the poison, be

: ‘stable ? soluble > safe to handle, ; "undetectable, 3 mot Immediately acting,

 

and with a _timly predictable end. result. Botulin comes nearest to

: meeting all of those requirenents, and it may be put up in either

 

 

  
 
 

~ Liquid or solia ‘foun. states tat the pill ‘form j was)

 

* (Coment The gaagsters may have had. some influence | on the.

7 choice of of assassination. orConneR says that in his

 

: very ‘ently discussions with the emgsters (or): more precisely,
Maheu's discussions with. them): consideration was given to possible
“ways: of accomplishing the mission. . Apparently the Agency-had first

thought in tems of a typical, gangland~style killing. in which’

Castro would be gunned down. Giancane was flatly opposed to the

 

 

 
14-00000

 

 

but that Cubans would be barred. The cabinet on 17 February 1959

authorized reopening the casinos for the tourist trade. Time maga zine

for 2 March 1959: announced that the casinos had ‘been reopened the
previous week. The New York Times issue of 30 September 1961 .

announced that. the last of the casinos: still. running. had been closed.)

Trafficante | Was. +a. male the actnugements with one of his contacts

_ inside Cuba, on. one of his trips: “ta Havana.

Fall and Early mune 1960
Very early in the operation, well-before the first contact with
Roselli, ° the machinery for readying the means of assassination vas
set in motion. - The sequence of events is not clear, but itis
apparent that a number of methods were considered. Preparation of
some materials went, ahead without: express ‘epproval. ;
(Coment: It. shoul be noted that Tsp maintains. a stock
of equipment and materials for operational use. When queries are
made of rsp technicians. about. materials or devices that are not
stock items, tt is not unusual. for the technicians to. go
ahead ‘with the preparation of the materials or devices against
‘the event ‘thet: there is a formal request for.them. Because of
this, undue significance should not be attached to advance

preparations for this operation. It should also be noted that

 

 
14-00000

 

 

   

 

deliberately avoided the use of any "bad words.” ‘The descriptive term
used was "an intelligence operation.” Edwards is quite sure that the

DCI and the DDCL clearly understood. ‘the nature of the. operation he

_ was discussing. He recalls aeseribing the Sbannel as “being “from A to

-B to cP As he. then envisioned: it, "An. wes Maheu,. "B" was. ‘Roselli,

, and. Wgn was the: principal im. Cuba. Bavards recalls. that Mr. Dulles.

merely nodded, presumably in: understanding and, approval. Certainly, ;

there » was no ‘opposition. . Hdwards states. that, while. there was no
formal approval. as. ‘such,. te felt: that he. clearly had tacit approval
“ta use his. own suignents Bissell comm tted. - $150,000 for. the’ = support

- of ‘the operation. :

(coment: : In the Light of this description of the briefing,
“, it is appropriate to. conjecture as to just what the Director dia

approve. Ne is safe to conclude, ? given the men participating

 

and. the general subject. of the meeting, that there. was: little

 

 
 

7 ie thood of. mi sunderstanding--even thous the details were

a. and. ‘the specific. intended, result 1 was never

 

stated. in umistakable, language It. is also reasonable to
conclude - that. the: pointed avoidance of “bad words” emphasized

to the participants the extreme sensitivity. of the operation. yN .

During the week of 25 September 1960, O'Connell and Maheu- went to

Miami where Roselli introduced only Maheu to "Sam Gold" at a meeting

-~ 18 -

 

 

 
14-00000

 

 

 

He. dia, however, learn their true identities. An Office of Security °

 

 

in tne Fontainbleau Hotel. "Gold" said he had a man, whom he § °
identified only as "ee a who would. serve as courier. to Cuba and
make arrangements there. Meheu pointed out "Gold" to O'Connell.

from a distance, but. O'Connell never 7 met either "Gold" or "Joe."

: memorandum to. ‘the. mpcr of 2h. June. 1966 places the time as "several.
- weeks later:" O'Connell is now uncertain as to whether it was on. this

- first visit to Miami: or on a. subsequent one that he and Maheu Learned,

the true identities of the two men. Maheu and O'Connell were staying

at separate hotels. Maheu phoned O'Connell one Sunday morning and .

called his attention to. the Parade supplement in one of that morning's
Miami newspapers. It carried an article on the Cosa Nostra, with -
pictures of prominent members. . The man Maheu and O'Connell knew as
"Sam Gola” appeared. as Mom Salvatore (Sen) Giancana, a Chicago-based

gangster. "Joe ? the courier” (sho was never identified to either

Maheu or O*Conne11. in any other way) turned out to be ‘Santos Trafficante, —

the Cosa Nostra, chieftain in Cuba.

At that ‘time ‘the gambling casinos were still ‘operating in Cuba,.

and Trafficante was making regular trips ‘between Miami and Havana. on

syndicate business. (The casinos were closed and gambling was banned.

effective 7 January.1959. On 13 January 1959, Castro announced that

- the casinos would be permitted to reopen for tourists and foreigners

ag

 

 

 
14-00000

 

 

Cunningham, of the Office of Security (and also'a former Special '

 

Edwards consulted Robert A. Maheu, a private investigator whd

“had done sensitive work for the Agency, to see if Maheu had any

underworld contacts. Msheu was once a special agent of the FBI. _

He opened.a. private office in Washington in 1956. The late Robert.

Agent, with. the Far) > knew Maheu and. imew that his business was having

é. 4. SHAEY start financially. _ Cunningham arranged to subsidize Maheu.
_ to. ‘the extent of. $500 per month. Within. six months Maheu was doing |

oy ‘50. well financielly that he suggested that the retainer be ‘discontinued. .

over the years he has been intimately involved in providing support
for some of the Agency's more sensitive operations. . He has since
moved his personal headquarters to Los Angeles but. retains a . . .
Washington. office. Aa more detailed account of Maheu's background
appears: ina separate « section of this report.

(Coment:,. ALthough we see ‘nothing sinister. in it, we are

- struck by the fact that so many of the persons whose names dppear. .

in this account once worked for the FBI. We have already named °
Cunningham and Maheu. Later to appear are William Harvey, James —

O'Connell, and Edward Morgan. )

" Maheu acknowledged that he had a contact who might furnish
access to the criminal underworld, but Maheu was most reluctant to

‘

allow himself to be involved.in such an assignment. He agreed to

- - 15 --

 

 
104-10064-10080

oN,

 

August 1960 .

     
 

PURO O48

Geubling Syndicate

The first seriously-pursued CIA plan to assassinate Castro had -
its inception in. August. 1960. : It involved the use of menbers: of
the criminal underworld with. comtacts inside Cuba. he operation

‘had. two: phases: the. first van : from. August 4960 until. late April.

or early May 1961, when” it was called off following the Bay of Pigs
the second ra from AeEL: 1962 wits February 1963 and was merely
: &. revival of the first phase: wick had been inactive, since ‘about

May 196. ne Be

Gamb. SS cate - Phase 1

Richard Bissell, Deputy Director for Plans, asked Sheffield

” Bavards, Director of Security, at Rawards eoula establish contact

 

. with the ws. gambling syndicate that ves active in Cuba.” The
; “onjective clearly: was: the: assassination of Castro. although. Edwards

: claims that there was’ & studied avoidance of the term in his .

conversation. with Bissell. Bissell recalls that the idea originated
with J. C. King, them Chief of WH Division, although King now

recalls having had only limited knowledge of such a plan and.at.a

‘much later date~-about mid-1962.

 

 
14-00000

 

 

participate only after veing pressed by Edwards to do so. Maheu
identified his contact as one Johnny Roselli, who lived in.Los

Angeles: and had the: concession for. the ice-making machines. on "the

strip” in Las Veges and whont Maheu understood to: be a: member of the :
syndicate. Maheu was mown, to. Rosellt as a.man who had. a number . of
“large business. organizations, as clients. : Eawards and’ aban agreed.

; that Maheu. would. approach, Rosell as the representative of, business-

men with. interests in Cina who saw. the elimination. of Castro as the

essential ‘first step to the recovery ‘of their investments. . Maheu.

vas authorized to: tell Roselli that. his "elients” were willing. ta .

“pay $150,000 for Castro's removal.

: _ Septe miber 1960, -

“Shet. Edwards. named. as his case’ ‘officer for the operation |

Janes P.. O'ConneLt ( former Special Agent; of the ¥BI),- then: Chief,

 

“ Operational. Support Division, Office of Security. 0'Connel1 and
: “Maneu met Roselli. a New York City. on. Us Septenber 1960 where Maheu.

‘nade the pitch. - ‘Roselli initially was also reluctant to become

involved, but finally ‘agreed. to ‘introduce Maheu to "Sam Gold” who
either had or could. arrange. coutacts. with syndicate elements in.Cuba

who might. handle the job. Roselli said he had no interest in being

. paid for his participation and believed: that "Gold" would feel the

 

 
14-00000

 

 

 

same way. A memorandum for the record prepar red by Sheffield Edwards
on 14 May 1962" states: "No monies were ever paid to: Roselli and

Glancana. Maheu was paid part of his expense money during the periods

that he was in Miami. " (Gtancane i is "Gold.")

an O'Connell was. introduced (in true maine ) to Roselli. as =n employee
of Maheu, ‘the explanation being that 0*ConneLL would handle the

case “for Maheu, because Maneu was too busy to work ‘on it eu ‘time yo :

“himself. Ko one else in the office of Security was. made. -witting of

the ‘operation a at this time. - Edwards himself did not meet Roselli

until the sumer of 1962.

At this point, about the second half of, September, Shef Edwards ,

told Bissell that he had: a friend, a private investigator, who. had

“ a contact ‘who in turn had other ‘contacts ‘through whom syndicate’
' elements in Cuba ‘could be reached. ‘These syndicate elements in”

_ Cuba would’ be willing to. take on such an operation. As. of the latter

part of September 1960, Bivards, O'Connell, and. Bissell were the only

ones in the. Agency } yho mew. of a plan against Castro ‘involving u. Ss.

gangster elements. Edwards states that Richard Helms was ‘not informed

of the plan, because Cuba was being handled by Bissell at that time.
With Bissell present, Edwards briefed the Director (aren. Dulles)
and the DDCI (General Cabell) on the existence of a plan involving

members of the syndicate. The discussion was cireumspect;. Edwards

 

 

 
