 

 

 

 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32281676 Page 9

 
 

 

 

 

Ses
wy
ve
:
|
\
s
Ls
i Ce :

 

 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32281676 Page 10

 

 
 

 

 

 

a Gee

  

revignation of Presideiit Quairos in August 1961, the ides
forces egain showed their ability to cope with hostile crowds
and street demonetratoxs. dhe good will generated by the
friendly reception of President Goulart on hie recent ‘trip
to the United States will. be. a factor in ineuring @. similar
reception for President. Kennedy. E empected that. the
Bragilion official attitude tovards the: deit will be highly
favorable aud that thie in turn will contribute towards a

‘similar attitude on the part of the préss and the public.

 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32281676 Page 6

 
 

 

tie oe alee ae

be

 

 

: Because Of the lack of mplelieas docal iasuge or
Situations that could be used to create hostility ageinet.

_ the Presidential Party, 1% ig podsible thet opposition

efforte may be devoted simply to creating diseriers and
unsettled eanditions because of purely local and interne)
economic and political probless. there ere plenty of these.
the objective in thie event ‘wuld be to create auch an
unsettled ditiation that the visit. of President Rennedy might
be either projudiced or cancelled. ;

 
 

 

“located at Mus Sao Clemente fo. 368, severe) perroy ridges
have to be traversed immediately after departing Galeso

Obstruction of the Presidential party dould more easily be
accomplished at this arsa than efter the cavalcade has reached,
the mainland. the UNE ( student organization) millding is
iecated along the Planing at a polat witch would have ‘te be.
passed if tho party vere to wee autamobiles. Sinea the UNE
cant be expected te take an wifriendly attiinde toward the
visit it can be assumed unfriendly banners, posters or _
Gemondtrations will be encountered at this point. Rua Seq
Cletients, on which the Enbasdy residence is Ideated, ia a
‘narrow street with « eharp right-hand twn tnte the grounds.
fsom Geo Clagente. This necessitates att almost desd stop in
ender t effect the turn and is @ point vhere the Presidential
party will be for a momont. in a crowied area at almost zero
Specd. these repredent the principal danger points along the
arrival and dépertare routes {f the trips are made wy
autompbile. At the tine of Pregident. Eisenhower's vidit the
tip from Geleab alzport to the Naval Mindstry was made wy
heliespter and. the offielal parade began at that point,
travelling down Rio Branco, along the Flamengo, and up Rue
Sap Clanente:. the veturn trip was made ty boat from the Noval
Ministey t Gales 69 thet the long trip by entembile wes
aye:

Genera) Estimate of Situation

_ &t this tine, the general security situation prevedling in
the Rio de: dimeixo area ie satisfactory. It is believed teat
the local forces « civilien and nilitery + are capable of coping
with any hodtile dexonstrations or attempts ab rioting or
vidlence.. At the time of the visit of formar President
Bisenbover to Brazil in 1960, the local forces proved capable

of providing the security needed for the protedtion of the

Presidential party ° while in Rio ae Jeneiro. &t the time of the

 

a abe:
—RSEGRET

2 fri the Galeeo aizport to the Sbasay reuiaence, \

 

HW 50953 Docld:32281676 Page 7

 
 

ied

 

 

 

2. Groups end Indtvigues

 

While the fragt lian Conmmnist Party; with @ menberahip of
approdinately 30,000 in the country and 2;800 in Guanabare State,
now follows a foneviolent policy to echieve its goal, 26 can
nevertheless be expected to muster ite forced within the seat
labor end press fields to stage demonstrations, make epesches i
@isplay propaganda materials such es posters, banners and
wallpaintings critical of the United States in general and of the
President in pexticular. As of 5 duly 5

Brozii during the time the latter wa scheduled to be in this
country. Among the plans meade by the Party. and pchedaled for the
period of e027 Toly were the following:

A. Mass dsmonstretiona egainiet the vieit and the
allisnce for progress in the more important
elties

  

B. Offictal protests against the viett by lebor
6nd student groups.

C. Mase distribution of propaganda nateriels end —
paintings of valle and sidewalks in protest
ageinst the visit

Bad

 

The Communist. Party of Bracil 16 a Giesident group which has
brokén with the Bragilien Communist Party and advocates viclence,
aléng the lines of Fidel Castro's Gaban Commariste, to achieve
ite goal. While the Commmist Party of Breil has relatively
fey menbers and much lees organicational cepebility then the
Brazilian Covmumdést Party, certain individuals within its venke

Wight conceivably attempt some sort ef yiolent action. ageinst.

the President or his entourage.
G. Peasant Lesauss

The Péasent Leagucs are Comninist-orientated rural. groups con+
sieting of vurel vorkers, tenant farmers, and gieli lend owners
concentrated mainly in the Gtetes of Pernambuco and Paraiba in
Northeast Bragil. A prominent Peasant League leader, Francisco
dailies, while not edmitting to Gommmist Party membership, is
éefinitely a Commnist sympathizer and strong advocate of the
policies of Fidel. Castro end Mao Tse-tung. He is es protegonist
ef the violent overthroy of the goverment through peasant
uprisings. Followers of Francisco Julies can be expected to ettempt
+ demonstrate in Rio de demeiro against the President's visit.

Inia Rear

  

cette BH ee

 

HW 50953 Docld:32281676 Page 5

 
 

 

De

 

— Gaban and. Gevict Rise Dnibassies can be expected. to marshal
sélected aaseta to create disturbances and incldenta designed
t6- mex the Buecésp oF the Presidential viewt.

8. Leonel Brisola, Governor 6

 

Leonel Brizols, welekmoun leftist, ern governor
6f Bio Grande do Sul, ney vexy possibly take advontage of the
President's visit to duepize further enti-American speeches and.
actions - not only in his cin states wt digo in Rio de Janeiro.

Bs

 

The identities of ell offielals. who will. participate with
Goulart. in the visit are not kngun at this time. Tt is
expected that @ new Cabinet will be femied prior to the time
of Président Kennedy's arrival, and that other major changes
we vemalt in Goulert's offMieial household

Tt. con be asgumed that Reul. Ryft, Preee Seeretary to
Breatdent Goulart, will emvive eny major shake<up in the
Grezgilgan Goverment if Goulart survives. RyPf accompanied,
Goulart on the recent visit to the United States. Ryff has a
- jong history of Gummnist activity, dating back to the 1946's.

_— & report dated September 1961 said that Brasilien Commniet
ee Party leaders considered Ryff a militent member of the
ie Bydzilion Communist Party who vas expected to be of great value

 

be

 

At thé present time there sre fow if any local situations.
Gy issues thet vould have mase appeal. and could be exploited by
the opposition to create hostility. ‘here are the ueuel. themes
of econantc. exploitation of Brazil by "foreign trusta", U.S.
wilitery “oceupation” of Brazil. which refers to the ‘size ef
U8. militery missions and the frequency of visite. of U.S.
militery, Interferevieésig: the internal effaire.of Brazil through
“dnsistence on beste vefoltie in connection with the Alliance
for Progress, ete. It is more likely that the opposition could
get more mileage from eome such theies es the current nuclear
testing by ‘the United States or the alleged. intervention in
Cuban affaires by the U.8.. Goverment.

SORT

 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32281676 Page 6

pa thie ‘Party becaise he enjoyed the deep confidence of President

 

 
 

 

~ SRET ae

ea
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY fe FP!
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

United States deeret Service 3
. oo "This document consists of

 

 

 

ls Reference is made to oor teet-3/rrdas, dated 22 dine 1962,
\ ' aid €801-3/771,522 dated 29 dune 1962, subject as above.

2, the attached briefing paper incorporates material fron
referenced CSIs with additional information received fran
Bie de Janeiro, Recife, and Brasilia vegarding the Presidents
; Visit to Brasil. Also enclosed for the beckeround information
' af the Searet Service are brief papevs oa the political, econanic,
' labor, student, and amy gituation in Bragdi.

ale yh
6802-3/771,616 a wee bi

es b
Aptachments One, da above yer

ce

eo: Department of State

Ee
. . pages.
be PROM: Demuty Director, Plans Copy _/ of _/ received. Seriés SY-4"

SUBIEST: Vioit of President temedy to Brasil

 

~ ae

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JUL Th1982

OFFICE oF secuemy

NOT, TOBE FILED.
W/O INITIALS

 

 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32281676 Page 2

       
      

. i pant to.
4 BES paw aon
 

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

ee ee ce ec cen en ce le ee ee Se ee i i i

AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES
DS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

 

ORIGINATOR
FROM
TO

TITLE
MEMORANDUM

DATE
4 PAGES

SUBJECTS :

KENNEDY, JOHN F.

DOCUMENT TYPE

AGENCY iNFORMATION

DOS
1191000310076 CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

PetEASe Oe nig AND/OR

F THIS DOG!
AS SANITIZER —— MENT
IS Dae 9
39-141-046 _- 7}
DOCUMENT INFORMATION GSC)

CIA
DDP

CHIEF, USSS

07/12/62
13

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : §

RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

ry
3

1c,

x
05/30/95

CIA REVIEW — COMPLETED

COMMENTS

*
Py

CIA DOCUMENTS released in part

mre MRR
HAART EERE

   

PAPI IARRRRERRRRRER IRL IR TPRIRT

bgt wa CA folieoiiuieieteeiicates

REMRAIRRARAAAREIN and ey; Tae a habs? RRRRRRRRRER: ST ET Enon tr ihn nite ikttid

 

The: Department ii of Siz! Nagetanees this decument
~ in part and postnones felecisi: of portion(s) of it
under the provisions of the JFK Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (PL 102-526)

Reviewed on 5S [9 Lym
Portion(s) Postponed Under_ | C- by CfA

HW 50953 Docld:32281676 Page i
 

 

 

 

Responsibility for the security of the Presidential party
by law reste with the Departmento Péderal de Segurance Publica
which bes its main headquarters in Brasilia. Te antionvide
authority of this unit, however, is challenged by various other
State end Federal entities and. is is generally recognized that
the Bepartmento Federal de Seguranea Publica simply ie not
capable of effective action outside the Federal District. In
the Rio de Jeheiro area, the protection of the Presidential
party will. be the responeibility of both the Guanebara Police
and elements of the Rioebagad Pirst Army.

| The Guanebara Pepartmente da Segurenca Publica (DEP) is

headed by Chic Neyton Merques Crus. Gur representative has
wet with thief Cruz in connection with security requirements
during President Kennedy's visit. Ghief Cruz introduced as
his principal assistant. in this effert a Dr. Antunes, Chief
Biviseo de Policia Politica y Soctel (UFPS). Chief Crus sald
Shat he is prepared to offer every ascletance to the U.d.
authorities vith regard to the visit. He said that the police

_ €spartiént vould work in cooperation with the First Aemy fox
the protection of President Kennedy while in the fio de Janeiro
ares end offered the services of two key officers (Inspector
dairy end Yaspecter Inio) te accompany the Presidential party
ubile visiting other areas of Brazil. Dy. Antumes said that

. he hes approximately 350 man in his section but that this
sumber can be sugtented as required by drawing on other sections
of the police department which totel about 18,000 men. the
Secret. Service officers should mest with thief Crua and Dr.
Antunes. Cruz, who has been in his present job for. a iittle
over two months, is the sixth chief of police in the lest
thirteen months.

he cotumander of the First Army 1s “fourestar General Gsving
Alves. Our representative has been-in touch with him in
connection with the security aspecta of the visit and the
Generel has promised full colleboration end assistance. Te
has instructed the following key officers to hold thenselves
available for plenning with the Uf. Beeret Service’ personnel.
upon their arrival: General Jose Ribeiro, Chief oF Stare of
the Plret Army; Colonel Antonio Negretros, Peputy ehiet of
Stef! of the Firet Army; Colonel Napoleon Nebre, Chief of 2nd

"SECRET

HW 50953 Docld:32281676 Page 3

 
 

 

=

 

 

HW 50953 Docld: 32281676

Page 4

 

 

 
