   

  

Memorandum W. R. Wannall to ¥, C. Sullivan
Re: OPERATIONS .
LEGAL ATTACHE, SANTO DOMINGO OFFICE

    
 

. In the case of DOM~12-, this informant was originally
developed by the New York Office. Legal Attache suggested
the New York Office might have use of informant's services,
This information furnished to New York Office which replied
that in the absense of organized activity informant would be
of no use unless he came to New York with instructions from
Dominican communist groups to reorganize activity. This,

“o£ course, is not a desirable situation. ; ;

 
   
     
   
     
     
 

OBSERVATIONS:

 
  
    
       
   
   
     

We believe Legal Attache, San go's recommendation
to tur ‘even though
both of a ition to furtish valuable
intelligence informati tous. By making these informants
available| fe will avoid any possible duplication
or conflict. is mattér should be discussed ure he Agone uy

officials by our Liaison Agent in order to insure the-Agenéey._

is fully aware of our current status in the Dominican Republic.
a)

 

 

 

 

 

ACTION:
If you approve:
. . .

 

, . ; CB?
: (1) Liaison Agent will advise appropriate CIA”

eer Serteatis set ficlals.as, FOLLOWS 3 vin sn ceon Ld Fale the ae ool Be tees erittnd yen Lone aauhene « ewe a de ad
! . ‘ . . ee fey . ri i oa . “ee . . t

: In accordance with the desire of the President that
| the FBI remain in the Dominican Republic, we are setting up a
regular Legal Attache Office in Santo Domingo consisting of

three men, This will not be an operational office but rather

will.serve as a strategic listening post for intelligence data
. and ‘as ‘liaison with agencies of the Dominican Republic, as

wit eee WALL as .other agencies of’ foreign. governments.in that country.
In connection with this reorganization, weekave instructed
' vepresentative in Santo Domingo

 

 

 

  

 

 

 
‘Prea-i0273-10028)

 

 
   

     
    
     
   
    

ortionstiioas w0.40 7” ‘ Ne “wis , :
2 Seapiaotte woof “}® .. : ; Tolaon a
“UNITED STATES GQ JRNMENT 3 4 oo
. i” . .é ; . Py 7 2 pak
co L=Mr. DeLoach , spt -
Memorandum : — C Lewes sullivan; tee
TO : i. W. C. Sullivan pate: August 22 yO

Rom : Mr. W. Re Wannall¢?/ )
(ee

SUBJECT: OPERATIONS
” LEGAL ATTACHE,
“SANTO. 0. DOMINGO OFFICE

 

    

 
    
     
 
   
   

1 ~ Liaison Tele, Room 2!
(Mr. Papich) Holmes : ‘
1- mee Liaison so
Unit (ir. Potocki a
1 Mr. Wannall 4 Atom
L-Mr. Gritfith 7" ;

 

 

 

    
  
 
 
 
 

This is to recommend that the Central Intelligence ~
_ Agency (CIA) be advised that we have set up a regular Legal
| Attache Office in Santo Domingo in view of the President's

 
  
 

   
   
   
   
      
       
 
 
 
   
    
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
  

desire that the FBI remain in the Dominican Republic apd tha: ti

af Legal Attache, Santo Domingo,}|be authorized to turn ¢éwo-) ~/ iy
‘ wW a) a

Z informants over to the Agency, oe? |
fh . . Fal t
In accordance with the desire of the President “and, \gv ;

recommendation of the Honorable Marvin _atson, Special } a

Assistaat to the President, thut tue FBI vemain in the Dominican’ i

Republic, the Director, on 8/2/66, advised the White House (¢ ‘
that our staff in Santo Domingo would be reduced to three men’| HH.
and that henceforth this office will be manned in a manner iN, ;
similar to that of our other Legal Attache Offices. It will no ?
be an operational office but rather will serve as a strategic
listening post for intelligence data and as liaison with
agencies of the Dominican Republic, as well as other agencies
of foreign governments in that country. 2

caneispey yew tho ene Sys DT eh eo OR “this Pedirection oe” ‘6Efort; “We Listructeds 0°"
Tegal Attache, Santo Domingo, to review his “beled coverag

tl to determine if any of our informants should be| made available.

 

 

K “go th ency for operati Lega ache has =
wh €, woA.nformants

Pee
| peratiONSI and GFe HOt the de ofthese *sourceslare "|
 sewerromerane—are-nettne-y ional and are no e type we would contact Ta a normal
Imison capacity. Continuation of their services under our ee TN
_ current criteria would be a questionable procedure, | .- i

yo ie 3
eit

 

 

 

 

Soto eae ome

  
 

(;-Bnelosur. :

  

ztaghas-2u (Lega. semone Jotormeata,
134413781 “(OON-12). :

 

. | _ bey Pe 13 " a He
ny rn ne ri

TIN

        

 
