Office Memorandum - Rios STATES GOVERNMENT

  

 

 

 

v7 Po! MONT t ORET pare: June 10, 1953
»

B 2 Ms “* Tolson

FROM ! _ . Ladd
/V} hae or Belmont 3
. ee
SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.- _— +
INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM -JAMES ANGLETON Trey ———
Tincnoed
Tele. Room
SYNOPSIS: ee
Mp Gandy =

James Angleton, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) offieyal,
ts in charge of [the Special w [Birtng pas located in the Foreign (S

 
  
 
  
 
 

Intelligence division of CIA. ] During past year he has been very dos
cooperative and has volunteere@ voluminous information of interest sig
to Bureau. At the present time he more or less falis in category /%
of Confidential Informant. In order to handle his material in a2
efficient and secure manner, it is being recommended that a control
ww JStle be created. Section Chiefs are also being alerted regarding the

handling of information received from Angietons RY)

 

    
 

|
RECOMMENDATIONS : Co, '
\ Doe |
1. It ts recommended that the attached memorandum be,
. disseminated to all Section Chiefs of the Domestic Intelligence
Diviston, which sets forth instructions concerning the handling
of information transmitted to the Bureau by Angleton.
CIA HAS SW Down
CL AG QiTIIE py Tb 1 1 rn wee THE
"Selo €. x PLGA DT eA
LevLaouery UN Lo ny THIS DOC: MENT y tor “Bonelcr

a Tt is GEE) mended that a separate control Ate of EF WS
created which will contain a copy of each|"SP"/memorandum which )
Angleton furnishes the Bureau. Such copies will be maintained
the file in numerical order and it will not be necessary to inder
the names. It is suggested that this file be entitled, "Central.
Intelligence Agency - James Angleton."

el spyegw/LEA 0, Mal ERBORMATTOR CORTE EC
OADR “4 8G- (826 OO ARS PB eas 2 ee
A. - EXCEPY wil BROWN
STREP TI Sp .

DETAILS:

James Angleton, a CIA official, is in charge of @ section

   

freserrgs to as[Special Pred ORDER. ‘i peor ° CALS 78% geen AX)
gues ae ary oa 12 1989
1- ar. wear JUN 22 1953 SB
~wwattiiGbiamsiaer -eoemer se ~

  
 

- Mr. Wannall eS

HW 50953 DocId:32313170 Page 2
 

 

124-10326-10098 a

 

 

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10326-10098
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER:  62-99724-1
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: KEAY
TO: BELMONT
TITLE:
DATE: 06/10/1953
‘PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS: |
BUREAU SOURCE 100 (ANGLETON)
‘DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS :

v9.1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

HW 50953 DoclId:32313170 Page 1

Date:

4/9/2015
 

 

 

 

Intelligence @ivision. Angleton handles spectal cases of a various

 

 

 

 

. ea .
Memo to Mr. Belmont SEE a] Re: Central Intelligence Agency
: Information Received from James
Angleton

nature and he is usually given considerable freedom and leeway in
directing the operations of his unit. In general, he ts responsible
only to the Director of CIA. e has numerous foreign sources
channels for developing infor ion. The primary source is the

 

 

8

 

- commercial cover.

‘Sin addition to this, he is in contact with
pune p todically makes availa
reports wh oh | Jras received fro
representatives roughout thé world.’ @ DFesentaty (S)
are soctated with the Free Trade Union Committee, which is sub-
sidized by the CIA. Angleton also has independent sources in the
intelligence services of France, Italy, Greece, and Great Britain.
On occasion he utilizes sources in the Vatican. Some of the men
under his control are on various foretgn assignments in EBurope and |
are responsible only to him. Most of them are traveiing under. :

 

 

 

During the past several months Angleton has been very
cooperative with the Bureau. He has volunteered voluminous infor
mation of interest to the Bureau and he has followed Bureau leads ,
in an effective manner. Much of the information which Angleton
has furnished appears in the raw form, that is, it consists of the
actual reports received from Angleton's sources. This has been of
advantage because the Bureau has been in a position to better evaluate
the information instead of waiting for the delay and processing through
normal channels in the CIA. In addition te information regarding
security matters furnished by Angleton, he has aiso been of valuable
assistance by keeping the Liaison Agent apprised of administrative
changes and reorganization within the CIA. Angleton is thoroughly \
informed regarding the foreign intelligence activities of his agency
and he frequently clarifies matters which the CIA_sometimes camouflages
with some of its cloak and dagger techniques. ty% u) .

For your information, Angleton was instructed by General.
Walter Bedell Smith, while he was still Director of the eta, [to u)
cooperate fully with the Liaison Agent and was told that he,
Angleton, could disseminate any information he saw sits] This policy
has continued under Allen Dulles.

Since the volume of information received from Angleton ul

has increased the Liaison Agent has endeavored to encourage Angleton
to establish some uniformity in the dissemination of information to

SECRET

 

HW 50953 BoclId:32313170 Page 3
 

 

 

 

 

 

  

   

Central Intelligence Agency,
Informatton Received from James
Angleton

   

Meno to Mr. Belmont

 

receives from Angleton is now
furnishing th tatson Agent blank memoranda which are dated,
captioned, and which carry a control number; for example, "gPal.
This number will serve as a ready reference when some question
comes up within the Bureau or the CIA. The Liaison Agent will make
an appropriate notation on each memorandum indicating that the
documents emanate from Angleton. It is believed advisable to set
up @ control file containing a copy of each document furnished by
Angleton. fhis can be done in a manner similiar to the arrangement

effected in handling reports received fronf | Ss)

In view of the above, ‘Angleton more or less falls into
the category of a Confidential Informant. He furnishes information
of a sensitive nature and it is, therefore, believed that when
disseminating his data, he should be protected as a source. Up to
date Supervisors have been handling this information in a secure
manner; however, since the volume of data received from Angléton
has increased, it is believed desirable to alert all Section Chiefs
regarding the handling of information received from angleton. (ANU)

 

the Bureau, perticularly with regard to that “WBangiete which he

 

 

 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32313170 Page 4

 

 
