WFO 157-1292

Il. Operations Being Eifected:

As pointed out above, WFO has submitted a proposal
to the Bureau regarding CARMICHAEL and will implement same upon
authorization by the Bureau.

Til. Tangible Results:

WFO was in the _process of submitting a recommendation
regarding the purchase of a $70,000 house by CARMICHAEL, proposing
release of this information to appropriate news media for
publication upon consumation of the purchase, when news articles
regarding this purchase appeared. As the Bureau is aware,
CARMICHAET, and MIRIAM MAKEBA thereafter cancelled the contract
to buy this property, claiming inability to obtain suitable
financing. As the Bureau pointed out, it has had an effect
-on his reputation among some black militants.

Iv. Developments of Counterintelligence Interest:

It is noted that WFO has continucusly considered what
would be effective counterintelligence measures against various
hate groups and certain individuals such as CARMICHAEL. The
April, 1968, riots in WDC and the presence of the ‘tPoor Peoples
Campaign" has certainly influenced the course of action by some
of these groups and has in fact been responsible for the creation
of others. The "Black United Front’ (BUF), which CARMICHAEL
formed, has been more noticeably active as of late and recently,
for example, took a definite stand on the shooting of two white
policemen by a Negro robbery suspect and his accomplice in the
shooting, stating black men have a right to defend themselves
against the "honky" policemen,

The news media has been dominated by the above since th
assassination of Dr. MARTIN LUTHER » JR., and perhaps calls
for a different approach to an effecting counteringelligence pro-
gram than prior to the ricts. It is further felt that a more =
effective use of news media could be made in the future in that
an article may receive more attention <t:ham during the past few
months.

WFO will remain alert to situations which can be
capitilized on under the counterintelligence program and will #ts=
advise Bureau under individual case captions along with
appropriate recommendations.

3
 

NG

at

Washington, D.C. 20535
Octeber 6, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON ASSASSINATIONS (ESCA)

On September 27, 1978, £A John T. Aldhizer III,
Congressional Inquiry Unit, FBIHQ, telephonically advised
that the House Assassinations Committee desired to interview
Special Agent (SA) John J. McBreen, Washington Field
Office as soon as possible regarding investigative leads
covered by SA McBreen during the MURKIN investigation
while assigned to the Miami Division.

On September 28, 1978, Mark A. Speiser, Staff
Counsel, House Assassination Committee, House Building
Annex #2, Washington, 5.C. (WDC), interviewed SA McBreen.
After furnishing backqround information such as name,
date of birth, home address, etc., Speiser inquired as
to the length of assignment in Miami and type classifications
worked. It was pointed out to Speiser that although
he was assigned to the Accounting Squad, SA MeBreen worked
exclusively Civil Rights Matters, particularly “police
brutality” type viclations. After discussing these matters
briefly, Speiser displayeé a photocopy of a Miami teletype
bearing the initials JCH. The teletype reported a contact
with a Mr. Summerfield (ph), who, according to Speiser,
was a former Bureau and local police department informant,
now deceased. SA McBreen disclaimed any knowledge of
the teletype message and further identified his Bureau
initials as GJM, With this disclosure, the interview
was terminated.

 

This document contains neither
recommendations nor conclusions
of the PBI. It is the property
of the FRI, and is leaned to
your agency; it and its contents
are not to be distributed outside
your agency.

,A-Bureau
\ipWFoO

JIM:kph

 
i. Operations Under Consideration:

WFO recently submitted a orsposal to the Bureau
regarding a “word of mouth" ccounterintelligencea measure among
selected scurceg to be directed against STOKELY CARMICHAEL in
an attempt to create the impression within the ghetto community
that he is in fact a paid agent of the Government.

in addition, it could ba inferred that Government agents
are maintaining close tabs on CARMICHAEL's whereabouts at all
times in order to afford him protection, not just in WDC, but
throughout the U.S.

The above is believed to be one of perhaps a few
counterintelligence measures that could be effective against
CARMICHAEL. Any allegation of immorality or illegal activity
would only enhance his reputation within the ghetto.

CARMICHAEL has not gone through with the purchase of
the $70,C0O house, but it should not be overlooked that he is
already living in a house valued near $50,000, which a source
hag reported is te be completely refurnished and has already
been carpeted throughout. WFO wlll recommend dissemination to
appropriate news media in this respect in the near future.

WFO will continue to remain alert to situations wherein
a counterintelligence measure would be timely against the various
hate groups and individuals involved therewith.

It should be berne in mind; however, that amy counter-
intelligence measure against amy of these groups or individuals
requires a different approach than the usual counterintelligence
program. As pointed out abeve, regarding CARMICHAEL, any
immoral or illegal act improves their image within the ghettos
community.

In addition, the very nature of some of the individuals
which comprise these groups lends to a certain disunity it ~~.
itself as illustrated within Resurrection City. Perhaps more
thought should be given to breeding discontent within the various
groups, which if successful, would render a leader “groupless. ".

 
DIRECTOR, FBI (100-4488006) 7/23/68
SAC, WFO (157-1292) (P*) .

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM
BLACK NATIONALIST - HATS GROUPS
RACTAL INTELLIGENCE

Re Bulet dated 3/4/68 and WrOlet dated 4/4/68.

In accordance with instructions set forth in re Bulet,
the following data is submitted:

PERTINENT CHANGES SINCE DATE OF RE WFOLET:

The Washington, D.C. (HDC) office of SNCC hag moved
from 1234 U Street, N. W., to 2208 14th Street, N.W., and has a
small staff. STORELY CARMICHAEL is affiliated with the overall
operation of SHCC, WDC, but LESTER MC KINNIE retains the title
of Directer. CARMICHAEL married MIRIAM MAKEBA, an entertainer
on 6/29/63, im WOC. They currently reside at 5015 léth St.,
N.W., WDC.

The Headquarters of the New Scheel for Afro-American
Thought has been moved from 2208 l4th Street, WDC, to 2115
l4th St. NW.

JEROME JENKINS, has been replaced by SYLVESTER 4X
HESTER, as Captain of Muhammed's Mosque Number Four (MM#4),
WOC. KESTER was born om 2/15/40. He dropped out of school in
the 8th grade and is employed by Safeway Grocery Stores as a
selector in a produce warehouse. He has been affillated with
MM#4 since approximately Sestember, 1957.

Yhe Blackzan's Volunteer Army of Liberation (BVAT)
is now located at 1642 Newton Street, N.W., WDC, according
to Set. JACK ACREE, Intelligence Division, MPD, WHC.

    
 

- Bureau '/ Ong 7 1922
2: av , eS So Searcheg

(1 - 100-43503) (CARMICHAEL); .” peratzed
AAM: nar oe meee

(4) lye
WO 157-1282

In regard to SNCC. <°D is probing for weaknesses which
may be wumeovered through gou“ces in endeavoring to ascertain the
identity of individuals wav ay be diesatisfied because of
personality clashes and/or ci.cce who may ba disenchanted with
volunteer services for ENCC and have seen @ salary; and those
who way be suspect of “workiag cez the man”, i. e., suspect of
being am informer.

 

In regard to STOMELY CARMICHAEL, WFO has carefully
considered him from a counterintelligenee standpoint since Ris
arrival in ¥O¢ te take up residence in Jamuary, 1968. However,
no positive program has been developed due to the facet that the
sedition investigation has been under active consideration from
a proseeutive standpoint, and it was felt that a similtaneous
evunteriatelligence program if operational against CARMICHAEL
might tend to aggravate possible future prosecution and possibly
lead to embarrassment. FG feels that a positive counterinatelli-
gence progrem would be warranted against CARMICHAEL, especially
in the absence of any proseeutive action against him. In
assessing CARMICHAEL for potential counterintelligence, WFO haa
eoeneluded that to be effective, mith a program mat diseradit
him in the Hegre commmity where he enjoys considerable popu-
larity, and would seemiagly have to be stronger then alleged immoral
or un-American politiesi inclinations.

Concerning the Southern Christian Leadership Conference
(SCLC) and the Washington Spring Project (WSP) offiee in YDC,
sources who are familiar with SCLO operations have been instructed
te leok fer opportunities to plant seeds ef discontent and
dissension between the SCLC and the American Friends Service
Committee (avSC) workers there, particulariy in the realm of
funda; and to give risa to rumers that KING seems to be getting
the lion's share of the funds, whereas the APSC and the poor
people who are to participate are getting littla or nothing
in the way of finsneial ald. It has been developed that WSF
reeruiter J. T. JOHNSON, since trausferred, was at the center
of « eortroeversy concerning dissension in the office. WFO is
in the process ef developing further plans exploiting this
dissension.
WFO 157-1292

With regard to MARTIN LOYTHER KING, FO will contime
te be alert for all possibllities te secure information of valor
in counterintsliligence aud fer use im the program. it ia felt,
however, that the office of erigin in this matter is in a bett.-
position to fully evaluate and be avare of possibilities to
expleit in this program.

There igs ne orgenized Revolutionary Action Movement
(242) aetivity in the WOO area whieh hag rigen to the surface;
however, in the event any aituation should arlse which wauld
lemi itself to a counterintelligenece move, steps will be taken
to fully pursue that matter.

4 sauree has advised that the Congress of Racial
Bquality (CORE) ig net currently aetive in WDC; that it haa
mo organizational strueture or planned program of activity.
CORE has held wo meatings im the past year.

WEG ts also looking fer opportunities to develop
positive information concerning H. RAP BROWN im this area in
erder to possibly effeet a workable counterintelligence operation,

53] As voted above, WFO will continue to exploit all
possibilities and egpertunities to institute a sueceasful
eounteriatelligence program an the mentioned targets and upon
the formulation of a specific plam on any particular organi za-
tion or individual, will submit same by separate letter fer
the Bvreae's approval.

With reference to Bulets of 3/18/63 and 4/2/68, in
the above caption outlining counterintelligeace situations
with reference to 5NCC and the Black United Front, these matters
wilt be taken up by separate letters to the Bureau.
val

Pet (100-4460048) 4/4/68

 

cor GP CL37-2792) Gm)

 

Ramulet 3/4/68, setting forth geale and targets
couaterinialligence Pre

 
  

i)
Ms
re
Pa
&

C3 2

ba

In aceordanee with the instructions set forth in
refulat, the follewing data is submitted:

i} SA ARLAND A, MOS"L has been designated as the
coordinator of this program. Thia letter sets forth the
soablaed specifie thoughts, views and efforts of toecial
Agents assigned those organizations amd individuals eoning
within the catagory of primary targets of the program, ag
well as the general views of all Special Agents handling
vacial sattere ia Yashington Yleid.

 

 

23 Suecinet Summary

 

a4

aople located

    
 

 

SNCS in UNO haa a staff of «tf
at L284 ou street, RS. We, “with LESTER MG KI 4. ag clrector.
STTRELY CARMICHALL aumeuneed new policy of SNCC ta attain
ume ty amorg: “Negroes and then Slack fower, Suhammad's hase

of the IMT hag shout two hundred members, and sreaches
* ill bea destroyed; however, officials alse
Foun nertiaisatic onstrations or

 
 
  

  
 
 

 

5 The Gew Gehogh of
Souk ten dues peying members; ob

Director of the Sew School and Gasten 7. Neal is th

  

 

2 - Bureau / /
(8)- BPO Ga - 157-461) | is /
(1 - 1096-41626) (sNec) _ Uy
G - 100-42300) tscic) a ‘
1 = 1060-22829) (Ror Eo Dm (292 hed
(1 - 100-43503) (STORELY CARMICHAEL) (57, oe “
Ch 2 389228393} HBR BP Rarey Seilaed < Va
OMS vile. ; Filed oe

aay fe. =
 

6/12/78
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)
FROM: SAC, WFO (62~-10995) (RUC)

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON
ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)
BUDED JUNE 12, 1978

Re Bureau teletypes, dated 6/5/78 and 6/7/78.

Enclosed for the Bureau are two (2) Xeroxed
copies each of WFO airtels to the Bureau captioned,
“COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM BLACK NATIONALIST-HATE
GROUPS; RACIAL INTELLIGENCE," dated 4/4/68, and 7/23/68,
respectively.

In accordance with Bureau instructions set forth
in referenced communications, pertinent files were
reviewed for any investigations relating to Dr. MARTIN
LUTHER KING, JR, and the Southern Christian Leadership
Conference (SCLC), in response to Bureau letter to Albany
Et al, 8/25/67, captioned, "COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM,
BLACK NATIONALIST~HATE GROUPS, INTERNAL SECURITY" and
Bureau airtel to Albany, et al, 3/4/68, captioned,

"COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM, BLACK~NATIONALIST-HATE GROUPS,

RACIAL INTELLIGENCE."

Enclosures being forwarded herewith reflect
results of WFO's review of fAi AS Feauested by the Bureau.

2.- Bureau (Enc.4) y
aie lon

PWraih GL het, j aA ,

yur we b-10995-

 

 
WEG 137-1292

Soltural Director. STOXELY CARMICHARL called meeting of #0C
segroes during January, 1968, from moderates to militants, to
form a Black United Front to aet as an umbrella fer the srotac-
tion of all member organizations, oo. MARL nated temporary
ehatieaon of the Steering Committes, stated he did mat vant to
lLapese Ris ideology om the growg, ALALAT ROY USSORNk, aka Cal.
HASSAN JERU-AHMED, founder of Blackman’s Volunteer Army of
Liberation, advocates a back to Africa movement and separation
of the races. Dr. NATHAN HARE, former professor at Howard
University, “a black power advocate” sees possibility of eivil
war between vhites and Negroes. STEVEN D. ADEL, Howard Univer-
sity student, with the now inactive United Black People's Party,
advocates violence, and has been charged with threwing a fire-
bomb in February, 1968, JULIUS HOBSON, Chairman of Asseelated
Commmity Teama (ACT) ia quoted in an Yovember, 19457 news
article ag urging a black power symposium to direet its move-
went to the dewnfall ef capitalism. The Communist Party hag
net expresged an interest in the black nationalist organizations
in WE.

 

  

z

  

 

c€ the organizatians named above, SNCC is assassed
to have the greatest inclination to violence. Propensity for -
vielence on part of the NOI locally dees existin view of the
exhortations by officials of ii 74 which create an atmorghers
of hetred for the white race. These same officials, hewever,
advise their meubers not to participate im demonstrations,
picket lines or public meetings, since disorder at gatherings
of this tyne could aasily be blamed on the follewers of ELIA
MUHAMMAD who might be present, Inclination for vislence on
part of the ey Sehecl camnet be disccuntad im vlew of its
attraction ag a center ot stepning off place for lecal militante.
For all intents and porpases, however, thea New School operates
under the facade of an institution of learning for the arts,
Regro bistory and cultural affairs, The Black United Frant's
propensity for violence could possibly be neutralized by the
presence of its moderate partiel pants. Members of the Blackman's
Velunteer Army of Liberation, few in number locally, are not
knewn te heave any propensity for viclence; however, OSSORHE,
   

ay In aes ease of ACT, SULIIS
son is " bhe or aly inci videak with this ersamication whe is

reseed fc uave acy propenmaity for violence.

  

 

Agitator index sublects within the eategery of black
rationsiicts ara STEVEN ARTZ, 2 student spokesman and laader
at Heeyard University: NATHAN HARE, former professer at Heverd
and former chairman of the dashingten Committee for Black fever,
new defunet. He was 4 professional boxer leecaliy, end hes
Sines moved te the West Coast for teaching assigmeent. As far
as GASTOW NEAL is concerned, Informed sources believe he ig
mot a man of vislent nature, but in view of his past mental
illness, and the facet he has purchased a .30 caliber rifle and
ammunition would ten’ ta indleate that a propensity fer viclence
on hig part doe exist. He was arrasted on charges of disorderly
eonduct in en altercation at feople’s Brug Stermat 14th and
U Streeta, N. W., on the evening of April 2, 1968.

 

3) Orgenizatione which appear to be of such petential
danger for esunterintelligence comsideration seem to revelve
around SNGG and its felloweres, and/or the organizations which
SHEE actively euovern, Primary individual tarcet would be

GIQRELY CABMICUSIL.

4} in eennection with overall consideration in
contemplated action and administration ef the ecounterintellizence
peogrem, the fuilowing say be meted:

Ah source wementiv dacarihed SOO as an organi-
sation without legal organization and dixeetion. lack af
eohesion iz illustrated wherein a Buffalo source described
the recently formed National Slack Anti-War, anti-Draft Union
CaBAWADU} as a SECC operated project in New Tork City: whereas,
in regard te thet orgenization's activity in WOC which is
supported by the Young Secilalist Alliance, JAN BAILEY is reported
ta have leeked upon it askanee, and hae recently formed hie own
Blaek Anti-Beaft Union (RADU), and has stated this organization
has nothing to doe with SHC.
