J ex)

Rane

Memorandum to Mr. T. W. Leavitt —
Re: Houstudy 75

1

secretary indicated that this was an "informal" copy of the final report.and that
its availability should be restricted. :

___ rior to calling McDaniels Cregar cleared with Mr.
the official of CIA dling the House Select Intelligence
ommittee matter for that agency, vised Cregar that
McDaniels had contacted him and arrangements had been made for
McDaniels to interview at CIA Headquarters on §/4/76,:

so adyjsed that McDaniels was aware of the fact tha
ad gotten informal copies of the final draft of the Houge F IC NM

“Select Committee Intelligence Report and in fact knew the identi
of the person from who biained this informal copy.
advised that CIA interposed no objection to the Bureau's furnish:

to McDaniels the precise sequence of events leading up to the FBI's
obtaining a ote of the final draft of the House Select Committee Intelligence

  
     

Report through| ffice.

- In the event McDaniels does obtain the Attorney General's
approval and we are notified by the Attorney General's Office that we
should cooperate with McDaniels, Cregar will meet with McDaniels
to respond to any questions he might have regarding the Bureau's. receipt
and handling of the draft of the House Select Committee Intelligence Report.

As a matter of information, advised thafl. _
who has been completely cooperative with the Bureau while
representing CIA, suffered a mild heart attack approximately two weeks
ago and is currently hospitalized in Georgetown Hospital, Washington, D.C.

ACTION: | For information and record purposes,
} APPROVED: Comp. Syst... Laboratory.
. Ki Assoc. Dir. AZO Ext. Affairs... Legal Coun...

Dep. AD Adm........ Gon. law... . Plan. & Eval.
Fur Dep. AD In [nC

Asst. Dir. Inspections... . Spec. Inv.

Admin

 

 

3-

 

 
 

Memorandum to Mr. T. W. Leavitt
Re: Houstudy ~
62-116464

DETAILS:

— On 5/18/76 Mr. August Fipp, investigator for the Standards of
Official Conduct Committee of the House, interviewed you and me in your
office concerning the Bureau's handling of the first version of the final draft
report of the HSC, which version was received by INTD on 1/20/76.

Mr. Fipp was furnished the following information, which to the
best of my recollection was the way in which this was handied by INTD.

At approximately 5 p.m. on 1/20/76 SA Dalseg received from
Douglas Marvin, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, two copies of
the draft report. SA Dalseg furnished these two copies to then Assistant
Director Wannall who in turn appointed me to coordinate the review of the
report, which consisted of approximately 340 pages, for classified material
_ and any errors concerning information furnished by the Bureau to the HSC,

This review,was to be accomplished by 9 p.m. 1/20/76 and the results .
furnished t t CIA. Based on Mr. Wannall's instructions,
each Section"Chief, INTD, was assigned approximately 50 pages to review.

SA Ryan was assigned the task of reviewing the Cointelpro portions of the
report and, as.the report contained considerable information concerning the
U. S. Recording Company, the Inspection Division was requested to review
that portion of the report. Tom Hardy, a former informant handled by
General Investigative Division, had been interviewed by the Committee.
Accordingly, General Investigative Division was requested to review that
portion of the report. As former SA Arthur Murtagh had testified before
the Committee and made a number of allegations concerning the Bureau, a
portion of the report was referred to the Finance and Personnel Division
for review.

 

With the short deadline imposed, five Xerox copies of the report
were made making a total of seven copies of the report in the possession of
the INTD;:. These copies were handled ag follows: one copy to Mr. Adams,
one copy to Mr. Wannall; one copy to you; one copy to IS-3, INTD; one copy
to Mr. Ryan; one copy split up for review by appropriate Sections of INTD;
and one copy split up for review by Inspection, General Investigative, and
Finance and Personnel Divisions. ,

-2- CONTINUED - OVER
124-10167-10378

 

 
    

—

* a Sigonas roms no, 19 “rf :
ee ons eS |
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT :

Aa Assoc. Dir,

 

‘ ; : Dep, AD Adm.

M emorandum 1- Mr. Leavitt oe

L ee oo

PY MT. W. Leawite| pare: 8/26/76 Bet rew —

Ident.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. : . 1 - Mr. Cassidy : Inspection °
FROM jf oy, casssafp- wi As oo

; Ve Legg! Coun,

L . Plan, & Evel, ann
SUBJECT: HOUSTUDY , ; Rees Marl
__— eye

. Talorhone Re.

PURPOSE: / : Director Secty

_ To record results of the interview of you and me by August Fipp,
investigator for the Standards of Official Conduct Committee of the House,
with regard to the handling of the draft report of the House Select Committee
(HSC) received on 1/20/76 from the Attorney General's Office. (First Draft
Final Report) : ;

2

SYNOPSIS:

On 1/20/76 two copies of the First Draft Final Report of the Hc
were received from the Attorney General's Office at approximately 5 p.m/\
with instructions to review for classified information or information which
contained errors relating to Bureau operations. As best as can be recalled,
five Xerox copies were made of this report, with one copy being furnished
to Mr. J. B, Adams; one copy to then Assistant Director W. R. Wannall;
one copy to you; one copy maintained by. 18-3 Section, INTD, which Section
coordinated the review; one copy to SA David Ryan; one copy split up for
review by the various Sections of INTD; and one copy split up for review by
Inspection, General Investigative, and Finance and Personnel Divisions.
With regard to disposition, the copies of Mr. Adams, Wannall and your copy

r wove) were returned t office, |CIA, by liaison on 3/5/76, orf

‘ instructions of Départment, IS-3 copy Teturned to the Attorney General's
Office at their request. SA Ryan's copy, as well as the two copies which
were broken down for various Sections of INTD and other Divisions, were

destroyed. ; .
RECOMMENDATION: REC-108". b ae // Bie 7 Fe fl
ve ley - : ia
None. For information. - nian —s
| 62-116464 ol gy bie Har8 wv
| FIC:glw ee — _. =
: ’ (3) aa CONTINUED - OVER
oy : {/

é oA ; /' . .
eA ” 4976 ; : ,
em Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan " FaiDes

 
 

 

Memorandum to Mr. T. W. Leavitt
Re: Houstudy ;
62-116464

aha 4
(yS)
With regard to the disposition of the seven copies, the following
is set forth: on receipt of instructions from the Department on 2/17/76
that copies of this report were to be returned to the CIA, a canvass of all
Sections and Front Office of INTD was made by SA Thomas J . McNiff, who
located three such copies. These copies were the ones furnished to Mr. Adams,
Mr. Wannall and yourself. Memorandum S. F. Phillips to Mr. Leavitt,

dated 3/1/76, captioned "Houstudy 75," cont: t on, 3/3/76
Liaison Agent Weimar returned three copies to office at CIA.
At the request of Mr. Douglas Marvin of the Attorney General's
Office, we had previously furnished to him the IS-3 Section copy of the report.

SA Ryan has advised that the copy utilized by him to accomplish
the review for classification and errors was destroyed.

tt is the recollection of both myself and SA R. H. Ross, IS-3 Section,
who assisted me in coordinating this matter, that the working copies broken
up and distributed to the various Sections of INTD and the other Divisions were
destroyed.
 

 

 

’ OPTIONAL FORM HO, 10 s00~106 : , ‘
MAY 1962 EDITION ba o- .
GSA GEN. REG, NO, 27 Go oe ' (>
. , * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT seen ae leet

nA

  

 

l-Mr, Adams Sonat pee
\, / Memorandum. yd eM eat ‘af
ly Ci x, Mintz artis
To ; MrT wilt eavitt ~ DATE: a3 30/76 Files & Com =
. Fw al (I-Mr. Hotis) irre
; ~ ~Mr. Phillips sin
: W. Of Cregar a
FROM pn S onat? 16 Wipe ali l-Mr. Cregar core
. ee aes - gal
. \ len. .
sugect) HOUSTUDY 75 Sy a i
eee sew ; raining
PURPOSE: To advise that on 4/29/16 Mr. Norman McDaniels "Detter Seen
Gormer §. SA), | a member of the investigating staff looking into the
leak of the House Select Committee Intelligence Report, telephonically we,

contacted Deputy Associate Director Adams for the purpose of ob-
taining information regarding the Bureau's knowledge of the drafts o fy 7 ;
the House Select Committee Intelligence report, Me a

DETAILS: On 4/29/76 Mr, Norman McDaniels (former SA). , a2 member

of the. investigating staff looking into the leak’. of the House Select Com-
mittee Intelligence Report, telephonically contacted Deputy Associate
Director Adams indicating he desired to meet with representatives of the
Bureau in an effort to determine what knowledge the Bureau had regarding.
the disposition of the reports of the House Select Intelligence rues

After conferring with Assistant Director Mintz it was Agreed
that Deputy Assistant Director Cregar would contact McDaniels telephoni-
cally and advise him that his request should be submitted in writing to the
Attorney General over the signature of the Chairman of the Committee -
looking into this matter. This was done on the afternoon of 4/29/76
and McDaniels said that he would definitely be contacting the Attorney
General's Office but probably would do so by telephone rather than in
writing. Cregar advised McDaniels that the Bureau would take no further.
action in this matter pending advice from the Attorney General's Office.
McDaniels agreed with this arrangement, ‘

 

It will be recalled that on the morning of Saturday, 1/24/76,
evn the secretary o the attorney hired by William Colby,

then Director of Central Intelligerice Agency, telephonically contacted
Cregar in an effort to arrange delivery of the "final report of the House
Select Intelligence Committee to the Attorney General."' The secretary
indicated that the Attorney General needed the report inasmuch as the
report WS to be discussed at the White House the following day and the

Horney General!’ 8 presence had been reanagyt 4) At that time __t

' a eft ny ; : I lft 72)
woc: enm Ls EX-T16 CONTINGED -

(7) #e 7“ 16 MAY 7 1976,

(BA MAY 20 1976 - fre
