 

 

 

 

 

FROM

SUBJECT:

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
   

OPTIONAL 10RM NO, 10 ot
Mav 1982 tOHTION yo tote
G8A,0tN, aro, 139. a7

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

 

 

’ Tolson
/ : DeLoach
F; Mohr

 

Bishop ——___

 

      

 

Cesper
Memorandum _
Aeeats ML: omen
‘Mr, DeLoach . pate: June 17, 1968 ~° , sis ——
: 1 o ur, -DeLoach? aiade ee a ora
:A, Rosen ; 1 =| Mr, Rosen Gre tie

1 = Mr. Malley Gondy
; 1 = Me, Shroder

ASSASSINATION OF l= Mr, Schutz 1 - Mr, Gale
SENATOR ROBERT F, KENNEDY 1 - Mr. McGowan 1 - Mr. Sullivan
._ LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA - Mr, Bishop 1 = Mr, Mohr
. - prad= | - Me. Trotter

. Attached is a memorandum setting forth full details
relative to the story that appeared in the London Evening Stan-
dard on June 13, 1968, to the effect that "new and startling"
information had been reported to American officials by an uniden=
tified Arab Government concerning Sirlian Bishara Sirhan. The
White House had previously made inquiry on June 13 concerning .

poe SL his release and a preliminary report was furnished the White

House that date showing that the allegation had no basis in
fact. This story was authored by Jon, also known as John,
‘Kimche who has since been described by CIA as an unscrupulous
free lance journalist who apparently supports official Israeli

Zionists Lines in his work. TELING)

Kimche alleged that his source identified Sirhan ag’
having traveled to the Middle East from the United States in
1964 and 1966, during the latter visit spending time in Cairo,
Egypt. It was reported that he allegedly married one Leila
Ussef Mikhael at Es Salt, Jordan, during another trip to the
Middle East on June 27, 1957.

a Our investigation shows this to be entirely without
foundation since we can definitely show Sirhan to have been
either gainfully employed gr 13 school during the periods he
is alleged to have been « Furthermore, interview with
each of his brothers indicate Sirhan has not left this country
since his arrival on dume=#®, 1957,

VAN, 12, . ;

; The State Department, through its Embassy in London,
contacted Kimche in an effort to pin hin down relative to this
story but he refused to identify his source and seemed unimpressed,
according to the State Department, by the possibility this might
be a simple case of mistaken identity,

ACTION:
' Attached for approval is a memorandum for the White

House, Vice President, and the Department setting forth full
facts relative te the incident,
