 

 

 

SECRET

SPEC)

Central Intelligence Agency
Operations in the United States

[ assignment, the Bureau will be advised and the two agencies ]
will confer regarding the handling of the arent in the

United States, It is recognized that cach cuse will have
its individual peculiarities, The governing principle will
be positive intelligence interest as weighed against
internal security factors, CIA will continue its
contractual relationship for the purpose of handling
the training, the procurement of positive foreign
intelligence, the fulfillment of CIA commitments to
the agent, and the preparation of the agent for his
next assignment abroad, (Ss o

. (6) In those cases where CIA will be handling its.
agent in the United States, CIA will service IBI security
or counterintelligence requirements and will: provide the
FBI all agent information bearing on counterintelligence
or internal security matters, including the scope and
nature of the uyent’s access to information and the
identities of the agent's significant contacts, particularly
in the comminist-bloc field, in such cases where CIA
servicing has been inadequate to FBI internal security
interests, the FBI will have direct access to the agent, (5)

L- - 5 SF ane) 4

er

~2-
SECRET

 

 

 
124-40485-10098

   

DBYS

F
in

t

/P-al Froelé
PA atin (,

cf
CLASSIF

 

 

 

 

 

Ja Reply, Pleuse Refer to

File No.

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X14 |

GF

“

2

ran
Bf
9

. SECRET .
usr STATES DEPARTMENT OF ice

PEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGYON, D.C. 20535

February 7, 1956

) SECRET JeEK (yl)

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OPERATIONS IN TiS UNITED STATES

(1) CIA will not initiate an investigation of any
foreign official in the United States without the concurrence
and coordination of the FBI, In this context, the tern
"investigation" means systematic and cirect inquiries or

_ procedures (such as physical or technical surveillances

or neighborhood inquiries) aiming at developing- information

. concerning an individual's activities or background;

‘Ninvestigation" does not include the acceptance or the
development of information through Social contacts or contacts
normally mage by CIA agents in discharging their cover
functions, $)

(23. CIA will seek concurrence and coordination of
the FBI before approaching for recruitment any foreign
official or communist-bloc visitor in the United States,
The FBI will concur and coordinate if the proposed action
does not cenflict with any operation, current or planned,
including active investigation of the FBI. (s)

(3) CIA will advise the FBI prior to any planned
meeting between a CIA asset and a foreign official or
communist-bloc visitor of knqwn or presumed interest to
the FBI (this would include all communist-bloc officials
and visitors) for purposes of assessment and social
development, (5)

 

(4) Clandestine CIA staff operatives,

 

 

| and foreign agents of CIA recruited

 

abroad who come to thé United States will be jdentified te
the FBI by name or appropriate description depending on
the national security interest involved. (s>

(5) Pursuant to paragraph 4 above, when a CIA agent
arrives in the United States for a visit or for an ® .

SECRET

 

downgradgigg and
declassi#fikation

SEGRE: a

 

 

 

 
