 

 

124-10273-10044

 

 

 

 

 

 

a .
Memorandum — Mr. W. M. Felt
Re: LIAISON oo

with other agencies is handled by domestic liaison supervisors dealing with

those agencies. In similar fashion the] British will not furnish derogatory(S) oa
information directly to the Degartment of Defense in connection with its’
background-type investigations but require that such data be channeled

through FBI. These are just two of the instances in which a foreign liaison

matter becomes a domestic Haison matter and should be under the same
supervision.

Our foreign offices are necessarily closely involved in the.
operations of several U. S. agencies and require domestic liaison with those
agencies. Our many problems surrounding the establishment and maintenance
of foreign offices have to be coordinated with the Department of State. Itis
essential that we know and have access to the proper official at State in order :
to solve problems faced by the Legats as without prodding State moves very ;
slowly. / Our foreign offices werk closely with the Central Intelligence ; re!
Agency(CIA) stations abroad, (CIA Headquarters does not permit its overseas J
stations to disseminate information to other agencies overseas, including our +) (6),
Legats, except in unusual circumstances,’ ]They frequently, however, suggest '
to our Legats that CIA Headquarters be aSKed for particular items. These |
can most rapidly be secured by direct request from a domestic liaison oO |
supervisor. In a number of areas, our Legal Attaches work closely with CS) }
local representatives of the U. S. military. Leads are passed to our Legat |
which are then followed up by liaison contacts in Washington with the appropriate |
military headquarters.

Liaison, or, in dther terms, the establishment of a harmonious
relationship, is basically the same whether practiced in Washington or Tokyo. . ;
I feel that it would be to the Bureau's advantage to have our liaison operations “ot
closely coordinated and directly supervised in the same area. This has proved
to be an efficient and productive arrangement in the past, and we believe that i
the re-establishment of limited direct ‘liaison in Washington. should be hgndled 4
by. the same supervision which. has been given to our posts abroad. .The-work in -> -.. i
both areas is primarily intelligence oriented, yet does not fall within the .
~ normal responsibilities of the present operational ‘sections. -It is’ gonsidered ly
, that we should ‘not leave-the foreign. supervision. in ‘its. ‘present: area,..whichis -\ 0. f.v2+f
' fully occupied with Arab terrorism, Chinese espionage, arid Cuban, Arab, ‘ ;

Chicano and Jewish extremists. A logical and economical step woulg be to . 4
make the reign liaison supervision an inteeral part oL the new « - j
_apnton-section. Under this arrangement, the foreign liaison supervision 7+? ©

. would be handied as a separate and distinct unit composed of the three -"

. Supervisors. presently engaged in this. work. + This unit would be completely “
SEG , |
- CONTINUED - OVER

 

     

 

 

 
