 

 

124-10185-10098 “

 

 

 

ee Sisal oka WO, Te
awe Ivey oie

° "UNITED STATES ~giS,
/ 4h pn l- Mr. Detoal
Memorandum }_ Mr. Sullivan®

1 - Mr. Conrad oo
"April 4 , 1970" one

     
 

TO Mr C. D." DeLoach an ‘pate,

 

FROM :, We C. sallivas

; cletalooa

suveer Ysuamons WITH CENTRAL . Ao ;
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) : ; tee os peor!

_ Reference my memorandum 3/30/70 summarizing pr oposals of

. CIA Director Helms regarding FBI-CIA coordination in intelligence collection

actwities. Director approved 1 meetings between CIA and Bureau representa-

tives to further explore these matters. —— pe”

On afternoon of 4/13/70, Inspector D, E, Moore and myself met
briefly with Mr. James Angleton, Chief, Counterintelligence Staff, CIA,
and Mr. W. Scott Miler of his staff. “This session was strictly exploratory
in nature and was aimed at defining the scope and limitations of our
. discussions with CIA on the points in question. Angleton noted that CIA
Director Heims will be closely fulluwing Ue cuitome of thesc discussions

and is personally interested in resolving any current prodlems m this area.

Mr. Angleton indicated that C1 A would like to direct initial attention
1 to two of the items cited by Helms, gamely, the question of audio (electronic
surveillance) coverage and the sugg restion that FBI and CIA specialists in the
communist bloc field hold periodic seminars to coordinate our information.
‘The Bureau's position regarding electronic surveillance coverage, as
outlined in the Director's letter to Helms 08.8/31/70, was reitereated with
emphasis upon the problems such coverage often pose with regard to
prosecution as well as adverse public reaction to this type coverage.

3 ; soe Zi made the point that the Bureau has not received the necessary
support in this area from responsible quarters; that in the past the Bureau
had a substantial amount of coverage of this type in the interest of both our
own counterintelligence responsibilities as well as the national security -
interest but that we have had to retrench in recent years largely as a result
-. of the lack of support for such operations. ,

  

Le Angleton 1 noted that in ree ek to CIA's “request ‘or electronic
coverage of two Indian nationals who were suspected KGB agents in the Fail
of 1969, the Bureau had d reaug te0 that they ‘aes this matterup with the .

   
   
  
  

_ Classifie be, (6 ~~ ~~
WCS:mea (¥Xempt from
(4) te of De Assification 1

afm ale

~ BIZAPR 24 197g Ss

 

 

 
