 

 

124-10274-10002

 

OPTIONAL FORM NOL IO
MAY 1962 EDOM
gods otM, EG RO. 27

+ “UNITED STATES G SRNMENT

M mora tion

FO Mr. C.D. prennhly pate: 7/20/71 \,

| : |
SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE EVALUATION COMMITTEE (IEC)
INTERNAL SECURITY ~- MISCELLANEOUS 5 of

Reference memorandum 7/16/71 from G. C. Moore £8)
you reporting on scheduled meeting of IEC 7/20/71.

   

Meeting of the Committee took place this morning, ——---
Assistant Attorney General Mardian acted as Chairman, and
the following representatives were present: James Angleton
of Central Intelligence Agency; Martin Pollmer and Robert
Merchant of Treasury; j|Leonard Nunngl of National Security
Agency; Tom Kelley and Dan Miller of Secret Service; Colonel
John Downie and Bill Vaught of Defense Department; Jim McGrath
of Internal Security Division; and Jchn Doherty, Bxecutive ,

Director of IEC, a represented the Bureau.
Mr. Mardian stated that he had just returned from
seeing the President in San Clemente and that, as a result
of fis visit with Mr. Nixon, he was charging the IEC with a
Hew project;~ namély, a comprehensive report o on the United ;
states “Government's treatment “SET SLaSsiFied” a “and .sensitive NR
information along with such corollary problems as how "Top | —
| S@GPECT clearances are granted, whether we need to tighten
up our security procedures, and whether there is too much
Classification of documents under our current system. Mardian-
noted that this study was triggered by the Ellsberg case but
he was not asking the Committee to review the Elisberg investi-
gation.as such. He said that President Nixon was most concerned
.«.,regarding: the Rentagon.Papers incident and the serious situation
_. created by Supreme Court decisions relating to the Ellsberg
ease. “Mardian ‘said that ‘the'President wanted the Committee
to conduct an overall, comprehensive review of all the factors a
relating to classification and protection of national defense-
. jinformation and to make appropriate recommendations, AOE. the,
fi President! s consideration

pet asked | Sees ae os ai sertbeds, oe, wont e preety:

 

      

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
