 

. an ; OF SET, . . 7 ,
we testes CRED a

received any money from the Cuban Government ® GIBSON replied,
"Oh, it's been a long time...I mean never since I've had anything
to do with the organization..." Obviously GIBSON answered before
he realized the full import of the question, and then attempted to
packtrack. In addition to the above, there were many other areas
where GIBSON either lied outright, or was extremely evasive in
his answers . 4 0)

The interview was concluded on a reasonably cordial
basis, and the door left open for a recontact. It is the opinion
of the N¥O that GIBSON should be récontacted and interviewed
within the next week or so, at which time a specific program could
be worked out with GIBSON for disruption and ultimate dissolvement
of the FPCC.. It is pointed out that the NYO is fully cognizant
that currently GIBSON is serving as little more than a figurehead ’
in the organization, and if he would merely drop. from the organiza- :
tion, it is quite likely that the SWP or other radical elements
would immediavely fill the vacupm created by his resignation.

 

' : ‘Following the next contact with GIBSON, the NYO will ‘
| submit the detailed results of that interview, including its
recommendation for both a tactical and strategic plan to be
implemented to disrupt, dissolve, or at least neutralize the
FPCC as a subversive organization. ; x {W

 

 

 

 

 

! ‘No specific commitment or other deal for payment for
: GIBSON's services will be made during the next contact, but the
NYO's recommendation in this regard will be furnished with the :
results of the second intervie ‘t is noted. that GIBSON requested

nat he be placed in contact with CIA;Jbut the NYO is recommending S) a

at this request be held in abeyance’ until such time as a final a
determination be made as’ to whether GIBSON with his background

could be’ © exploited by this Bureau. For the further
information of the Bureau, the recontact of GIBSON will take place i
under reasonably identical circumstances, in a NYC hotel room under
secure conditions. The NYO is closely following this matter, and
the Bureau will be kept advised of all developments. Ai

SECRET

 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32339364 Page 5
 

      
 

 

ee 9 ad So Mepis
is smomnten —/zyag

Transmit the following in__.

(Type in plain text or code)

&

rer SECRET

Date: 8/17/62

PLAIN TEXT

    
   

REGISTERED MAIL

Priority or Method of Mailing)

  
  

  
    
   
 
    
 
 

 

Gee.

»/

$Q63 SLO

   

 

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON
IS - CUBA
RA - CUBA

Re Bureau airtel, dated r5/as/6e, and NY airtel, da’

      

8/10/62.

The subject was interviewed on 8/16/62, by Supervisor
HAROLD A, HOEG and SA JAMES A, DAY, in accordance with Bureau
instructions set forth in re airtels. Subject was reasonably ‘
cordialjput stated immediately upon learning the identities of
the interviewing agents[tnat he would prefer to talk with agents i
| of cra. JG) :

 

ee REM Jos 93972 —
Subject stated that”he had, [in \1953, first made a disc ect
taly, but. nothing had

 

   
   
       
      
    
   
   

 

attempt to offer his services to CIA in
come from this overturesy He stated that since that time he pad &
ade attempts to contact CIA buf| this was the first time
ever realized that the contacts”"were at all sup Went re
; oni aay i
@- Bureau (105-93072, fi ' the t
“YT - New York (97-1791) (ROBERT TABER
1 = New York (97-1792) (FPCC) EB py ler ots ee stipe 29/2
-1 - New York (Locy2522 BERTA GREEN) #473 Lo- aah 4
1 - New York 100-4013 SWP) #413 Oud ‘
.. 1 - New York (88- ROBERT WILLIAMS}
1 - New York (100- 114769) (WILLIAM WORTHY) oe
1 = New York (105-46848 (TED LEE)
1 =~ New York, (105-4238 eT
a GASI9S .0r) ms
& ape a wp AY SES (ore
AN: CeCe

_ Sent,

‘‘* . Approved: :
F259...

 

|
| mW 50953 Docld:32339364 Page 2

 
 

 

 

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

_ AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
“PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :

' . RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

 

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI
124-90147-10077

HQ
105-93072-78

Document Information

08/17/1962
6

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B

Redact

10/19/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

AT

67

HW 50953 Docld:32339364 Page i

Date:

5/27/201

 

 
 

aceeyre

, AU ee : eS
} ; : : ros nomena

NY 105-42387

?

that WILLIAMS. was a fugitive from justice, at which time the
subject stated that he felt that the KENNEDY administration

could have the Federak charges against WILLIAMS dropped and
WILLIAMS could return to the US, though not to North Carolina.

He stated that if WILLIAMS were "handled right", he 1 would ‘denounce
CASTRO-and~the—Cuban—Governmerits THIS Would be, in the subject's

“opinion, advantageous to the US from a propaganda viewpoint. The
Sub ject stated that at the present time WILLIAMS is.attempting to
leave Cuba to go to Africa, | probably..Guinea. The subject “stated
that he was not motivated to initiate this contact by any specific
loyalty to the US Government, but he had gcne’ to the FPCC because
CBS had broken its promise to him and for money. He stated that
he had réceived no money while at FPCC, and at the present time

he is broke and living off his wife's unemployment check., He stated
that he felt that Cuban leaders had operated stupidly and he : ;
etested stupidity. They had made mistakes, as US officials had. ts
he subject stated that hg was now in a position where he would

assist the FBMgand/or cul return for “Tne remunerations,

 

but not because of any allegiance to the U The subject stated that Aa)
he would be receptive to make a public statement that the FPCC
was a useless and ineffective organization if the terms (money)
were right. :
3 i
(the subject stated that he still hoped that CIA would .
contact him in Montreal, Canada, as he felt he could assiat CIA 6)

 

in Latin America,{as in his position as head of the FPCC,he could
more easily"get In places with leftist groups " than others,
le stated that he could also help CIA arrange to meet his “contacts! !
Latin erica, although he refused to identify any of these alleged
contacts [SJ/The subject stated that there have been no specific : |
threats to his life, but t e have been implied threats by the ‘
““gounter-revolutionaries . 9)

The subject stated ‘that TABER had no influence in, bhe
“FPCC, and-déscribed TABER as"no more a Communist than I am." He f
stated that TABER was mixed up and had a problem more domestic -

than anything else. 4 -

“. : : a
. a lo HF

 

 

 

i
i
|
4
i

HW 50953 Docld:32339364 Page 3
 

 

C

ye fou cae , _-

SECREL

 

NY 105-42387

The subject stated that LYLE STUART had given money
to him as a friend. He described STUART as a maverick and one
who liked to be different. The subject stated further that the ‘
Cuban Government officials had treated STUART badly since they
refused to grant.STUART a, visa to visit Cuba. The subject
stated that STUART was an honest man who would have reported things
as he saw them. The subject said that this honesty was one. of
the reasons for STUART being refused the visa. y

The subject stated that TED LEE was a harmless fanatic
who had been trying to take over the FPCC,

; The subject was asked what he considered a reasonable
amount of money for his services, and he stated that he did not

know (Xu) a
GIBSON indicated that he would be willing to publicly

denounce the FPCC, that he ‘was duped, that FPCC is a tool of the
Cuban Government, that it is ineffective, and anyone still remaining
loyal is just ‘wasting his time, or any other tact subse uently =
determined to be the most effective course of conduct. Movever,
there was an undertone that he would be paid for any efforts in
this regard. He stated that it was his personal opinion that
it would. be much more effective to use the FPCC as a cover for

telligence and counter-intelligence purposes, but when questioned
for his specific thinking in this regard, he,commented only that
this could probably be worked out later] yy G6)

‘It is pointed out to the Bureau that it is the estimation
of the interviewing agents that GIBSON is a very weasel-like
character, evasive,opportunistic, with very little or no moral
fiber at all. ‘However, he has been reasonably well accepted by
practically all segments of the radical left movement in NY, and
to a limited extent in other cities, He is well acquainted with
a group.of what he considers to be young Negro intellectuals, :
bus 1t is conceivable, if handled properly under some circumstances,

-he could conceivably prove of some value to this Bureau.

GIBSON, in the opinion of the interviewing agents,
very obviously lied concerning his knowledge of subsidization
of the FPCC on the Part Se Wa ban Government. During the inter-.
“view the specific questio ‘ong has it been since he has (je

 

HW 50953 Docld:32339364 Page 4

 

any

 
