 

_ js
OPMONAL FORK NO. 10 / 5010-106
a MAY 1982 EDITION 1

Gsa,GeN. REG SNO. 27 f

- UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

Memorandum 1 = Mr. DeLoach

l - Mr. Sullivan és

Fel
TO ‘Mr. C. D. DeLoach _ DATE: 3/7/70 Gate
: 1 — Liaison Sullivan

SECRET 1 - Mr, Flemister Soyars
FROM :W, C,. Sullivan ae

“GIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO”

, AGENCY (CIA)
(Burgau OPERATIONS IN CUBA

    

a mize
EY : Sei 960)

Item number eleven in the material submitted to the
Director by SA Sam Papich in his memorandum 3/5/70 states that
(Rts operated informants in Cuba during the period we had a
egat Office in Havana and did not coordinate our operations
with CIA or advise it we had sources there, It was noted that
after Castro came on the scene, approval was granted to turn
certain informants over to CIA, Papich also refers to a
memorandum Donahoe to Mr, Belmont, 2/5/60, regarding the

Communist Party of Cuba (CPC) which dealt with the problem
of whether a Havana source i ercept operation
between the

and the C hould be

turned over complete coverage, We, “of course,
. had no coverage of | lle pareau had not advised other

agencies of this’ source Sinc€ w&" did not want Castro to uncover
any operational activities which might embarrass the Bureau, )

The entire operation was later turned over to CIA,

NTAINED

 

a
ba
te
Te
io

ca

  
 
 

TION

 

CIA began its operations in Havana in 4/47 and ina
letter to the Bureau, 4/28/53, [regarding Havana informants C9)
the Legat noted that CIA was no overly cooperative and tha >
in fact, it was not developing pertinent information. At that
time Legat met with the CIA representative in Havana who
admitted he was not getting any information concerning the-C cl@e
and had no plans for any aggressive action In that field, [For
this reason it was necessary for us to develop

TK

 

our own coverage {Vay
@ We instructed the Legat to ascertain from the Havana CIA
& representative information available to him concerning tters
G ef interest to the Bureau; however, he was to continue[ehrough
| ~~ & informant sources obtain needed information regardi security
2° matters which coll not be supplied by CIA, Subsequently, our
Re %% Yvelations with CIA improved to the point of being described as
SS a excellent in 1958. We think our overall position to be sound,
somal c=) .
“°& ¢3 RECOMMENDED ACTION:
. None. We do not believe, in lig of the facts set forth,

that CIA will make an issue of this matter,

are

HCF: bsf/mst

x \\L
(8) wnt i —S SECRET \\

: ‘ . . ‘4
L ee - oe eee

 

SUBJECT: RELATIONSHIPS WITH CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE - pri ASsitiCATiO’) ANDYOR, 8

 

HW 50953 Docld:32176432 Page 9
 

 

 

f 1010~106

   

REST ee pen
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT ‘ OCERE |
Memorandum |
TO Mr, C, D. DeLoach pate: 3/7/70
oe - EIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
FROM :W, G, Sullivan - NECLASSEICATION ANDIOR, |
2 "RELEASE CF CIA Lp alae
SUBJECT: RELATIONSHIPS WITH CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE ° iy Ts Doce (ope tise Ace.)
' AGENCY (CIA) : He ae

 

0

 

 

 

' agencies of this S0uréd Sin

time wane met with the CIA representative in Havana who

(BUREAU OPERATIONS IN CUBA] (x)

Item number eleven in the material submitted to the
Director by SA Sam Papich in his memorandum 3/5/70 states that
(Wwe operated informants’ in Cuba during the period we had a :
Legat Office in Havana and did not coordiffate our operations
with CIA or advise it we had sources there, It was noted that
after Castro came on the scene, approval was granted to turn
certain informants over to CIA, Papich also refers to a
memorandum WAME to WAMe » 2/5/60, regarding the -
Communist Party of Cuba (CPC) which dealt with the problem
of whether a_Havana source iiead in on ercept operation
between the and the C should be
turned over f6 complete coverage, We,“of course,
‘had no coverage fof Bureau had not advised other
we did not want Castro to uncover
any operational activities which might embarrass the Bureau (gp)
The entire operation was later turned over to CIA.

 

  
    
 
 

   

CIA began its operations in Havana in 4/47 and ina

letter to the Bureau, 4/28/53, [Pegarding Havana informants

WAME noted that CIA was not overly cooperative and that, . .
in fact, it was not developing pertinent information. At that
admitted he was not getting any information[Goncerning the cPcy (&)

and had no plans for any aggressive action in that field, ‘or

this reason it was necessary for us to develop our own goveraee day
We instructed. NVAMe to ascertain from the Havana CIA :
representative information available to him concerning matters
of interest to the Bureau; however, he was to continue through
informant sources fto obtain needed information regarding securit
matters which coilld not be supplied by CIA, Subsequently, our
relations with CIA improved to the point of being described as
excellent in 1958. We think our overall position to-be sound. 6-4. 9Y

RECOMMENDED ACTION: Classified by = tee
re erneen

Z
Declassify on; ganR~ (TF) ,

; None. We do not believe, in rigth\ of the facts set forth,

sthat CIA will make an issue of this mat

HW 50953 Docld:32176432 Page 6
 

 
 

; 60, ALLEGED ATTACK ON BUREAU BY JOHN McCONE

‘that John McCone, Director of CIA, allegedly was attacking the ~

‘manner, McCone allegedly informed Congressman Jerry Ford and .- _

appeared to be related ‘to information which had come from one

 

with CIA")

 

é . c

4 SRT

The entire operation fell apart when we developed
information indicating that Maheu was behind a wire tapping
operation in Nevada, Potentially, there were elements for
possible violation of unauthorized publication or use of
communications, However, prosecution was out of the question
because of the tainted involvement of CIA. (Arthur James Balletti,
‘unauthorized Publication or Use of Communications" and memo-
randum from the Director to Mr. Tolson, dated May 10, 1962)

58. | Ts) re

In October, 1962, we lodged a protest with CIA

 

', because the Agency initiated operation of Cuban agents in the
Miami area and in so doing violated Bureau jurisdiction,

Arrangements were subsequently effected where the source in
the matter was turned over to the Bureau for in Meno~
randum Brennan to Sullivan, October 29, 1962,

S - -

 

 

s.[ ®

‘On Avril 23, 1963. CIA requested that the Bureau =
establish coverage on a visiting Panamanian] national « ¥ea{s) -

‘dmmediately instituted investigation and then determined at

CIA actually. had been instrumental in supporting the subject's
trip to the United States, CIA had been endeavoring to recruit
the subject... On April 29, 1963, a strong protest was lodged
with General Carter, Deputy Director of CIA,. (Hemorandun
Brennan to Sullivan, April 26, 1963, ee 1 >)

. We received information in ‘December, 1963, “indicating : i

Bureau in what would appear to be a vicious and underhanded

Drew Pearson that CIA had uncovered a plot in Mexico City o ,
indicating that Lee Harvey Oswald had received $6,500 to So ;
assassinate President Kennedy. The story attributed to McCone .

Gilberto Alvarado, a Nicaraguan national, Interrogation of
Alvarado, including a polygraph, disclosed that he had fabricated
his story, This had been made known to CIA and to McCone, There-
fore, if McCone had made the above statements. to Ford and Pearson,
it would appear that it would have been an obvious attempt to :
ridicule the Bureau, The Liaison Agent contacted McCone on ~ » i
December 23, 1963, McCone vehemently denied the allegations. |
(Memorandum Brennan to Sullivan, December r 235 1963, “Relations

 

 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32176432 Page 7
 

 

t
hoa

show that many more people were involved in the Castro organi- -
gation than the U.S. Government had realized, Information
coming to-our attention suggested the possibility that both re
State and CIA had failed to assess developments in Cuba properly.

The foregoing is cited in the event that we found
reason to question the competency of [218 in Cuba.] This coulaG)
be useful if we wanted to justify thé existence of a Legal - a
Attache office in Havana, One could also comment that poor
-eoverage in Cuba had an indirect and adverse effect on our
operations in the United States, :

- 42, >)
By letter dated April 25, 1959, we voiced our
objections to CIA for giving guidance to an individual with
whom we had been maintaining contact for, the purpose_of developing
him as a double agent, The individual involved was
a well-known expert in the field of :
(9 HedLE applied to (Space flying. lena ols €) ;
. Also a contract agent of CIA and d-occasion to handie sensitive _
= matters for that Agency. ImfApril, (1959, [was preparing S) ad
to make a trip to Moscow. C brieféd him on matters as they —
applied to his trip. The Agency also interviewed him concerning x4
his relationship with the subject in Washington, D. C., and,
furthermore, gave him guidance concerning the relationship.
We objected to CIA giving any guidance to oncernin 3S)

is contacts with the subject wit ng with us.
Bureau file

43, ALLEGED BELITTLING OF COMMUNISM BY ALLEN DULLES

 

 
  
  

 

 

  

 

In July, 1959, Allen Dulles of CIA spoke at the ‘
.National Strategy Seminar of the National War College. One :
S, of the professors handling the Seminar was critical of. Dulles. ~ \
‘s He claimed that Dulles had belittled the importance of the ra
communist problem. :; , ;

 

* ut The above is being cited in the event we desire to
utilize ‘the information in justifying a position that it was ’
-%) mecessary to be circumspect with CIA, (Memorandum W. C. Sullivan :
“ } to Belmont, August 14, 1969, "National Strategy Seminar, National -— |
) War College, July, 1959") . :

44,

   

 

"TRUE" MAGAZINE ARTICLE — SEPTEMBER, 1959

 

|
: In September, 1959, "True" magazine carried an
article captioned "Allen Dulles: America's Global Sherlock,”
which included information of a derogatory nature concerning
the Director and the Bureau, The article precipitated a crisis

L

 

i
i

 

pemmemnmnae ee ee

 

para

 

HW 50953 Docld:32176432 Page 5
 

on

 

wy, i

 

| .

_ .. On February 7, 1962, [SEGRE cseiera Edwards,
Director of Security, CIA, informed the Liaison Agent that
CIA was preparing a report containing extremely sensitive
information,. He stated that this information came: from a
sensitive source and he was not certain as to how it should
be handled. As a result of a discussion with Edwards on
February 26, 1962, it was ascertained that CIA had maintained
a technical surveillance on __fpver an extended period.
Edwards explained that he ha beén reluctant to identify this
‘source at an earlier date because he feared that prosecution
could have been jeopardized and, furthermore, he did not want
his Agency embarrassed in the event the Bureau objected to

CIA maintaining a capability such as technical surveillances.

It was made emphatically.clear to Edwards that it was absolutely
necessary that we be provided with all the details and, further-
more, that CIA, at the outset, should have apprised us of the
existence of the coverage. The Director made the notation,

4"Z only wish we would eventually realize CIA can never be
depended upon to deal forthrightly with us. Certainly my
skepticism isn't based on prejudice nor suspicion, but on
specific instances of all too many in number.’ Yet, there
exists wistful belief that the ‘leopard has changed his
spots,' H." (Memorandum Branigan to Sullivan February 27,
1962, [Unknown “Subject; KGB Agent Kaown as ‘'Sacha'"> ©

56. lS

: In February, 1962, the Liaison Agent was requested
to discuss with CIA a case which, in our opinion, clearly

indicated CIA had failed to keep us appropriately informed —

of developments. The Bureau's original interest was initiated

in Miami as a result of a discussion with CIA personnel in that

city. Attempts to get CIA replies via correspondence were . a :
. negative, On February 13, 1962, the Liaison Agent discussed. wo
“the matter with CIA and received a reply which did not adequately |
_gatisfy the Bureau's request. (Memorandum Donahoe to Sullivan, a

van, March 2, 1962; Bureau — “|

February 27, 1962, and Brennan to Sulli ;

~~ BT. (CIA WIRE TAPPING IN THE UNITED STATES ,, <)\ . .
; } perc nna Oo a wy wo f
|

 

Pos

! Sometime prior to the Bay of Pigs fiasco, CIA had ; “ae
become involved in a weird plan designed to bring about the . —_
assassination of Fidel Castro. One of the principal ingredients :

of this plan was to. be the utilization of U.S. hboodiums, CIA 2... |
established contact with Robert Maheu, former Bureau Agent, who
gerved as the intermediary in dealings with the notorious |
hoodlum, Sam Giancana. (<\ : SO 2

) :

 

 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32176432 Page 6
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32176432 Page 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AGENCY INEORMATION .

 

AGENCY: FBI° :
RECORD NUMBER:  124-10185-10098
RECORD SERIES: HO ‘
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-386

 

 

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SULLIVAN, W.C.
TO: DELOACH,C.D.
TITLE:

DATE: 03/07/1970
PAGES: 15

SUBJECT: CC, CIA ACT, CP, LHO, TRA, WIRETAPPING, CASTRO, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
ORIGINAL” - Secret NEW

CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:

_ REVIEW DATE: 10/30/1998 UPDATE DATE: — 02/12/2001

STATUS  Redact ~

RESTRICTIONS:

 

. JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

| JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS: INC 3 MEMO, LIST, 329 OF 344 PAGES NAR

HW 50953 Docld:32176432 Page i
 

 

      
      
  
 
 
 
 
    

omer. * ae 99.10
vymaat 1982 ait 4”
“esa San. e-” RD. BE

personal discussion between | ‘the. Director
available until April 3, 1970.. I: ‘plan

AGHION: :
a e os

Enclosure |

 

 

aut L INFORMATION cornea
CUA SSIABR

WHEKE SHOW

ountawits i;

      
 

    

HW 50953 Docld:32176432 Page 3
 

1

i ;
possible hostage situation in his native country. The Bureau
was following this potential defection and pursuant to estab-
lished procedures was keeping interested agencies apprised of
developments. On September 15, 1958, we received information
indicating that another Government agency was conducting an
investigation of the subject. It was later established that
CIA was the other agency. (Ref Bureau file (S)

[105-64024)] (S)) ; a ke cee ae
| "39. CIA activitres[IN JS) a

: The Legal Attache, Tokyo, reperted by letter dated
mber 225 1958,/that
I was a paid, “highly ré¢g €aq, very sensitive source
of CIA. This information was given to the Legal Attache b
G2 Head in Japan, According to
CIA did not want this. iiformation to be krown to other agencies,
particularly the FBI. | The Director’s notation was, "Some more
of CIA double dealing?’ H." (Letter from Legat, Tokyo, dated
September 22, 1958, “Investigations in Hong Kong and Manila,
Philippines")

ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

 

 

 

40. ALLEGED CIA INCOMPETENCE

; During the period October 20-25, 1958, Bureau. ; :
representatives attended a seminar at Orlando, Florida, which, 0.0"
was given by the U.S. Air Force. Among the activities was a

lecture given by{| ___] subsequent to the (S)_
briefing, General Millard Young of. the Air Force confided to —
Bureau representatives and_expressed his displeasure with the :
briefing iven by[ He was particularly critical of G)
(——_jreluetance to furnish certain information, using the S)
@xcuse tat the matter was of a "Top Secret" nature. General

Young stated that the position taken by was only an(Ss)
excuse for incompetence on the part of . * ; as

' This item is being cited in the event we desire to
use the foregoing as evidence to support a position that we were
obliged to be circumspect in dealing with CIA. (Memorandum
October 28, 1958, Roach to Belmont, "Joint Strategic Planning
Seminar, Orlando Air Force Base, Orlando, Florida, October 20-25,
1958") «> ;

 

Al. CIA COVERAGE IN CUBA PRIOR TO OVERTEROW OF BATISTA GOVERNMENT oj
i " :
{ ao The overthrow of the Batista Government on January l,
~= 1959, and the subsequent assumption of power by Castro raised
questions concerning the efficiency and competence of U.S. intel- -
ligence. Allen Dulles indicated that future developments would.

SEGRE -

 

Wane ae

HW 50953 Docld:32176432 Page 4

 
