 

 

 

ANTI=FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES -

 

prearranged landing strip outside Havana. It was indicated that .
Cuban authorities would then issue a@ press release claiming that
a Miami-based plane had dropped bombs on Cuba, offering as proof.
one or more of the bombs with United States markings which * .
supposedly had failed to explode as well as fragments from other
bombs which the Cubans would explode. Almejeiras told infcrmant
this hoax would enable the Castro regime to _propagandize against
the United. States State Department in order to force United States
action against _anti-Castro elements in this country. Almejeiras
said he wanted this ruse to take place on October 26,. 1959, and
described the, operation as "highly important" to the Cuban.
Government. The informant will endeavor to deyelop additional
wformati on concerning this proposed plote (TP

‘The ‘informant, aiso learned that Almejeiras reportedly
_ stated that several hand grenades were’ dropped from the plane that |
dropped leaflets, over Havana on October 21, 1959. Reportedly

Almejeiras stated that another plane flew over Havana on Cetboer 215

1959, but that the Cuban Gover t did not have any descriptive
data concerning this planés wo) :

It is requested that no further dissemination be made .
of the information furnished by this informant because to do so ..- -
might: place his life in jeopardy. (u)

 

HW 50953 Docld:32303892 Page 7

 

 
 

.

;

| 50953 Daocld: 32303892 Page 5

 

 

: ne oO
‘ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACT. ace pene
ANTI-F. CASTR IVITIES . Orne ’

   
  

ew EG
continue through October 30, 1959, had temporarily ceased. These
data, as well as the data in the preceding paragraph, were o
urnished to Mr. Herbert Lampe, Department of State, and Mr.
Mentral Intelligence Agency, by Mr. G. W. Hall of this
Feaus It was also furnished to Major Cyrus Timmons, Department
of the Air Force; Major Gains Hawkins, Department of the Army;
and Lieutenant Commander Francis T. Reardon, Department of the
Navy, by Mr. C. B. Peck of this Bureau and to Mr. Chester A. Emerick,
Bureau of Customs, by Mr. J. F. Wacks of this Bureau. All the
disseminations were made on October 24, 1959.

 

On October 23, 1959, Deputy Al Tarabochia, Public Safety
Department, Dade County, Miami, advised our Miami Office that Jose
Ramos, Vice Consul, acting in charge, Cuban Consulate, Miami, :
claimed to have received information from a source whose reliability
is unknown that a two-engine gray airplane was scheduled to drop
leaflets and probably bombs over Havana on October 24, 1959, and
that possibly Diaz Lanz or his plane would be involved... Reportedly
the same plane was to fly over Havana on October 26, 1959, and. drop
leaflets and generally try to disrupt a large Castro rally planned
for October 26; 1959. Diaz Lanz, according to Ramos, may fly the
leaflet-dropping mission on October 26, 1959. The United States
Border Patrol and United States Customs in Miami were advised.
These data were orally furnished to Mr. Charles Hammond, Department
of State; Major Cobb, Department of the Army; Commander F. Lyon,
Department of the 2 A in.D. K. Harrelson, Department of the
Air Force; and ene bt the Central Intelligence Agency
by Mrs Jo Je O'CO reau on October 24, 1959.

On October 25, 1959, our Miami Office advised that on
October 24, 1959, Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz; his brother, Marcos Diaz
Lanz, former Inspector General and.Pedro's assistant in the Cuban
Air Force; Ricardo Lorie Valls, former July 26 Movement under-
ground leader in Miami; Frank Anthony Sturgis, also known as
Frank Fiorini, a United States citizen and former underground
member of the July 26 Movement in Miami; and Carlos Echogoyen,
former member of the Cuban Air Force, were interviewed.

Pedro Diag Lanz confirmed the data he furnished on
October 22, 1959. He stated in addition that the leaflet-dropping
flight of October 21, 1959, was a joint enterprise of the above~
named persons under his leadership in behalf of the July 26 Anti-
Communist Movement, but without the specific knowledge of the
movement. Diaz Lanz stated he planned the incident. The receipt
of the data concerning the arrest of Hubert Matos, Castro
military leader in Camaguey, caused Diaz Lanz to move up the date
and change the target from Camaguey to Havana. The purpose of the

 

-~3-

 

 

 
 

 

 

ous “ofeRET.
ANTI -FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES es

been in and out of the plane on nwnerous occasions and had never

noticed any arms or explosivese(Y ,

An informant who has furnished reliable. information in

- the past has provided the following. datas In September, + A959, the

informart learned. that. Fernando Coba,.a Cuban police sergeant in
Havana, “had. been. given $1,000. by his chief, Efigenio Almejeiras,
for his part in enticing Rafaeli del Pino to Cuba from the United
States. It is noted that Del Pine, a publicly admitted anti-Castro
leader in.Miami, was seized by Cuban authorities on July 25, 19595 ~
after his plane had landed near Havana wher was apparently
planning to smuggle someone out of Cuba. i) ;

. The above~mentioned informant has also jearned that
Almejeiras was attempting to find someone who would lead an armed
100-man expedition te Cuba from Miami and then turn the members
of the expedition over to Cuban authorities in much the same fashion
as William Alexander Morgan, American soldier of fortune, and Castro

official, had done in, August, . 1959, when he acted as,a double _.

agent for Castro. in exposing @ plot against. Castro from bases in

the Dominican Republic. According to the informant, Raul Castro, ©
newly named minister of the Cuban armed forces, approved of this
venture and was greatly interested in seeing it carried out.
Reportedly Raul Castro and Almejeiras expressed an interest in

the possibility of the assassination or kidnapping of Esteban Ventura
Novos. former member of the Cuban National Police, in exile in Miami.
The informant also learned of the interest of Cuban authorities in

having Evelio Alptzar Perez, ormer Cuban Air Force pilot in exile

in Miami, delivered. to Cuba. D2)

In Oateber, 19595 the informant learned that Almejeiras

‘and Coba were interested in enticing members of the anti-Castro.

of. bombing Havana.

faction in Miami to “(i a bomb~laden plane to Cuba for the purpose

According to. the informant, he conferred with Almejetras
and Coba on October 23; 1959. Almejeiras proposed that source
approach Rolando Masferrer, prominent anti-Castreo leader in Miami,:
or somé other leading anti~Castro leader in the United States and
volunteer to undertake a bombing attack against Havana from the.

United & Statese ve _ a y

According to the plan outlined by Almejeiras, the

markings and would deliver ‘them to Almejeiras after fanding ina

informant would procure bombs with United.States Government x?)

. gy pet AYE

‘|

 
 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32303892 Page 6

 

 
 

 

 

  
   
 

HW 50953 Docld:3230399W) Page 2

 

» £ - Liaison
~ i - Nasca

  

1059-504
Date: October 26, 195%
To: Office of Security
Department ef State
From: John Edgar Hoover, Director ~

Subject: ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES
INTERNAL SECURITY ~ CUBA

MIKH -
, ; ; Xe -4Y
Reference is made to my communication dated SL0/KSL.

October 23, 195%, with enclosure, which transmitted Ks
information concerning Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz, former 3-12-4/
chief of the Cuban Air Force,and his participation in (Jr FK)
@ leaflet-dropping raid over Havana on Uctober 21, 1Y5%. -

‘Enclosed for each recipient is a copy of a
memorandum containing additional information.

oo

. Meese YEG

Any additional pertinent data will be furnished

    

the recipients. ee
Enclosure : a

wéoCT 22 29g 6 .
l - Director AEnelosure).. -

Central Intelligence Agency 7 an

Attention: Deputy Director, Flans

i ~ Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence (Enclosure /
Department of the Army

Attention: Chief, Security Division

i - Uffice of Special investigations (Enclosure)
Air Force

i ~-Lirector of Naval intelligence (Enclosure;
I ~ Havana, Emelosure)

- FLiil

~ B65 fEIO-( Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz)

wae 3 TEL eTYES so

 
 
 

 

1241028410404]

 

JFK Assassination System , : Date: 5/11/201
Identification Form

 

“Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10284-10404

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER:. 2-1566-16TH NR 1

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI
TO: DOS

TITLE:

DATE: — 10/26/1959
‘PAGES: 9

SUBJECTS : :
PDL, CUBAN GOVERNMENT, REQ, EXTRADITION, ACA,
POLIT, AGENTS, EXAMINE, AIRCRAFT, WEAPONS A/O
EXPLOSIVES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 05/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : INC LHM

 

v9.1 6
i .
HW 50953 Docld:32303892 Page i
 

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION rn
as

OR a: _WEASHINGTON 25, D. G.
7 warts

Cassino B= -on- October 23, 1959, our representative in Havana he li

  
  

   

Becns
. bf
oe reel atl”

 

    

    

be in Cuba and Ponty one is known to be in Florida. This is the ‘
property of Frank Anthony Sturgis, also known as Frank Fiorini. ‘
His plane was last based at North Perry Airport, Miami. The C-47
reportedly had yellow stripes painted on its tail. No aircraft so
marked was known to be based in Cuba. The planes flew over the
Hilton Hotel, headquarters of the American Society of Travel
meets Convention, dropping leaflets. Their purpose ‘allegedly
s to show that thé present Cuban Government is incompetent to
Qmaintain law and order. No bombs were dropped. There was no
: strafing from the air, but some Cuban planes were damaged by
i misdirected Cuban Army and police ground fire.

bis itis Samet aa
Lv)
®
a8
®
8
3
cH
&
=
a
hw]
Ny
=
oO
Avy
g
2 ty
a
w
nN
y
z
a
N
se
ty
we
ga
oy
a
to
§
Co
9°

egentectanssed

  

|

ae

: *
=

fs

| -
3

SUE E SO ESL.

    

An informant with whom insufficient contact has been :
had to determine his reliability, on October 23, 1959, learned
that the Cuban Air Force had instructions to have two fighters
ready to intercept any returning invaderse

f

 

seat tal

With reference to the B-25 mentioned above, our Miami
Office advised on October 23, 1959, that the B-25 flown by
Diaz Lanz, according to Diaz Lanz, was owned by Sturgise Miami 7
sources had no information concerning the C-47. United States A
Border Patrol representatives in Miami advised that there were :
very few C-47's in the Miami area and none were known to have
gone to Havana on October 21, 1959. The Border Patrol suspects
that the C-47 mentioned above is based in Mexico but has no
evidence to substantiate this belief.

nates

i
Ft
On October 24, 1959, a source who is in a position to
furnish reliable information advised that at about 3:15 pemes
October 24, 1959, Jose Ramos, Vice Consul acting in charge of i
the Cuban Consulate, Miami, stated that the Cuban Government |
wanted to file extradition proceedings immediately against a
Cuban etile in Miami.s. The informant surmised that the subject ;
of the extradition proceedings would be Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz.
These data were orally furnished to Mr. Charles Hammond, i
Department of State; Major Cobb, Department of the, 4 pars 4

oie is Sistine AES Male lest NY agisbbe ss

bac

wee

8

 

aw 50953 Docld:32303892 Page 3
 

 

 

. REC E
ANTI ~FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES. <y Le Vib thea Ut
a : Co Cok . *

Commander R. Lyon, Department of the : in. De Ke Harrelson,
Department of the Air Force; and Mr. the Central. ‘,
intelligence agency Py | Ure Jo Jo O' COnNO?T ©, TS Bureau on ‘

October 24, 1959.

It is noted that. the press on October 25,- 1959, reported
that Cuban Foreign Minister Raul Roa publicly stated that the Cuban
Government was asking the United States for the provisional arrest
of Diaz Lanz and would request his extraditione In this connection
the above sources on October 25, 1959, advised that Ramos had ,
consulted an attorney in Miami and had brought data alleging two

charges against Diaz Lanz. The first charged, Diaz Lanz with murder

and the second charged him with attempted murder and were based on
two cases.allegedly pending in Havana. The first case allegedly
is pending in the Fourth District, Court of Instructions, Case
Number ‘20 The second case is allegedly pending in the Sixth |
Districts Court of Instructions, Case Number 3007, Reportedly,

the Court.of. Instructions is similar to a magistrate's court where

original complaints are filed. No dates or details were furnished
| by Ramos covering the circumstances surrounding the alleged
offenses. _The attorney reportedly drew up the necessary extra=
dition papers including a@ warrant for the arrest of Diaz Lanz.
“ However, the attorney is uncertain as to whether he should continue
with this matter since it. is obviously a device seeking to return
Diaz Lanz to Cuba for political reasons.
on October 24, 1959. the informant mentioned on page

two of the enclosure to the referenced communication and who _has
furnished reliable information in the past reported that a legflet

in the ‘Spanish language was being distributed in the Cuban colony '

‘in Miami» The recipients of the leaflet. were invited to attend a
meeting at@ peme, October 25, 1959, at the Circulo Cubano (Cuban
Circle), Miami, Florida, a social club, to protest and condemn

the activities which occurred over Havana on October 21, 1959

It was indicated in the leaflets that the meeting was being ;
sponsored by the July 26 Movement (Castro's movement), Miamt.e The
informant learned. that individuals representing various anti~Castro
groups in Miami were planning to attend the meeting, some of whom
indicated they would carry guns, thus giving rise to bloodshed
between the pro~ and anti-Castro factionse The Miami Police
Department and the Dade County Department of Public Safety have
been notified and these agencies plan to take whatever steps are
necessary to insure that no violence will be carried out. © oo

The informant mentioned in the foregoing paragraph

‘learned that, becduse of the furor raised in Cuba during the |

’ past-few days, the air sabotage which had been sehedul ed to

 

a - . RAUL DERE eECRET.

fee ted tl Vi 8 e

 

   

 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32303892 Page 4
