 

   
  

‘SECRET; :
SENSITIVE’

- 8 -

  
 

: exash Garcia may have made an effort ‘to get Bosch out of

Venezuela. It is ‘possible, therefore that Garcia and/or

 

"Morales may have known in advance about the operation which .

£0 the: bombing | of the plane. ;

 

be Relationship with US:

 

    

Felix Martinez Suarez

 

 

“la. ~ Involvement in Crash: None, except by the alleged

association with Ricardo, contained in Fidel Castro! s charges.

 

 

b. Relationship with US: [ |

 

 

   

 

 

 

- castro’ s: allegation regarding CORU: With regard to
castro! s charge on CIA links with CORU, an FBI ‘report “Of

 

~ september 17 states that "a confidential - source abroad" claims

_ to have been told by Roberto Carballo (leader of the Association
e

; an]
'. of Veterans of the Bay of Pigs, AvBC, one of the component, “ene [a

  
 

orga ations of CORU) that in a July of this year Carballo and qi

      

three other Cuban exiles haa been “approached by representatives

: es, -® gzcren ea cee ae
So ee OSL SENGSTTTVR CNR ee ES

HW 50953 Docld:32296782 Page 9

   

 
 

  
   

SECRET.
: SENSITIVE

ae 0

 

 

“to the US, where he is subject ‘to immediate imprisonment for

4 ot)

parole violationLey

 

 

Frank Castro

 

   

ae Involvement in Crash: “Venezuelan officials reportedly

 

“believe | that Castro, (head of” the FLNC terrorist organization, oe,
mo aa
oc @ component group! in CORU) is deeply involved in the crash,

~ ¢ghough we have no details of! his supposed involvement. “Prank

 

| castro was in “Venezuela ‘in late ‘September 1976, and in mid

 

Soa

; : ; Pek |
“October was back in Miami. Prank Castro has admitted to FBI. a |
“agents that he met with Bosch in “Caracas. on september 26 ore

“27, but denies any” personal knowledge | of ‘the Rombing ° of the

   

Cubana plane.

   

a. Se Relationship with US; (Er says there | are no current

“Sor recent agency contacts with Frank castro zs, who. is an

 

uo American citizen. with permanent residence | in Santo - Domingo.

” orlando Garcia and Ricardo Morales Navarrete

 

 

we Involvement in Crash: Orlando Garcia is President 7
Perez! security and intelligence advisor, and Morales is Garcia's *
-  @eputy; both are Cuban exiles who are now Venezuelan citizens.
B CIA sourcefZtains ‘that Garcia was directea to protect and

assist Bosch during his stay in Venezuela. [nother CIA soured |g)

~ escorted him to his hotel. Both Garcia and Morales reportedly

attended the fund-raising dinner during which Bosch allegedly

   

made the remark about the "Letelier job," and after the Cubana :

‘SECRET * re
SENSITIVE

  

\
reported that Garcia and Posada met ‘Bosch upon his arrival and -
!

   

 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32296782 Page 6
 

orlando. Bosch

: crash. ‘In late June, a ‘cra source, reported that an: cons
fe group headed by Bosch planned to bomb a ‘Cubana flight be
‘Panama and Havana. An FBI source. has alleged ¢ that “one
“was made but the bomb did not detonate. A second try: oecnexed)
oe in ‘Jamaica’ on duly 9, but the. bor exploded before the

. Case in which it was carried was: put aboard the plane.

“Andres Perez is’ said to. be sympathetic. to Bosch and has
permitted him to. travel freely in the country and solicit fund
“with the understanding. that Venezuela would not be used as as
base of operations or place of refuge. Bosch reportedly promised
not to engage “in terrorist activity while in “Venezuela and:
received a token $500 contribution from Perez. “Grother CLA

: sourcé] reported that after Bosch's: arrival in ' Caracas in Septenber,

organization ‘has come out of the Letelier job looking good, - wa
are going to try something else. "A. Eew days later, Posada
~ allegedly said, "we are going to nite c Cuban. airlines" and. :

: [Orlando (Bosch) has the details.".

 

   
  
 

SECRET. .
“© SENSITIVE ©

 

 

   
  
  
  
  
 
  
 

 

Sa, Involvement in Crash: As “noted, above, Bosch was!

arrested ‘in Venezuela fox alleged involvement in the Cubana”

G nee
"Recording to (EIA s sources Venezuelan President car los

 

 

he stated during a fund raising dinner that "Now that our

  

   

 

 

be! Relationship with US. (Gra 8 says: there are no 0 current |
S). ; 7

 

“SECRET ee
SENSITIVE

 

 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32296782 Page 7
 

  

terrorist activities by anti-Castro groups.in the US, and .

   

‘Ricardo never repeated the-suggestion..- ¢

 

Freddy Lugo

a. Involvement in the crash: Lugo. was arrested in

 

trinidad with Ricardo: On (Suspe cion of haying, planted the bor

: 6G) :
aboard’ the Cubana’ ‘plane. "ati alleges: that bugo.

   

 

 

apparently was only perip he rall Ly involved in the boitlbing and
is: snot considered to: -be one of the | leading participants, oe
. Lugo, a Venezuelan citizen, is also a photographer

Gs):
~ employed by Posada! s company. “According co G CIA) SOUrCE, he :

   

also worked for’ PIStP und the e _arrangeinents noted above

    

for - Ricardo.

 

b. Relationship withs US: fa states. that it has. had

 

 

7 ) a
“no ‘contact with a name: and phone “nnumbex of US Legal

© ‘Attache Leo were discovered in Lugo! Ss. address: book when he,

ae was arrested in Trinidad. _Beo says that he has naa Of - ax 3

o, contact with Lugo and speculates that his name and phone were

“furnished to Lugo by. Posada.

   

sada ‘Carriles

 

ae. Involvement in Crash: Posada was arrested on.
October 14 in Venezuela along with Orlando ‘Bosch and three
- others accused of conspiring to sabotage the plane. Posada,

a Cuban exile who is now a Venezuelan citizen, is vehemently

 

     
 

n i- ~Castro

 

 

SECRET. 20» oe
SENSITIVE ar eres

 

ay

 

 

 

 

id is suspectéd ‘Of having been the main | supporter

of Bosch during the latter’ s “stay in venezuela prior to being

 

HW 50953 Docld:32296782 Page 5

 

 
 

 

‘SECRET. -
_ SENSITIVE «

: eo ‘gia 7

    
  
     
   
 

  

_arrested in November 1974. ‘Posada was formerly chief of the

" gounterintelligence division of the Venezuelan intelligence

     

‘service, DISIP.

eo be Relationship + with US. ron says. that Posada. was a-

 

 

 

 

 

oe When he lost his position in DISIP in March 1974, CIA ;

 

 

 

   

 

a
4
B
A
4
3
4
i
i

 

ee . when CIA declined to assist Posada on a visa matter 7 oe
: The US army attache has- also used a Posada business.

Moe

“partner (aiso ‘a Cuban exile, whose name we do ‘not have) as

 

“an informant (though 1 not as an agent).

 

, Our ‘Legal Attache (Joseph Leo) became “aequainted: with

 

Be Posada during the ‘latter! s ‘employment [By prstz ana 3 after:

| notes a
“ his resignation, Posada continued to contact Leo on rare’ oe

occasions, usually in order, to obtain ‘personal service in
“regard to visa requests for relatives. and business aeiien,

: SePy ery BE 30,1926 Bue CUBBEAMT IGT» C Q
-the last being Ricardo on Oatober yo. | Leo says he has - ale

  
  
  
 
 
 

“seen Posada on. about three occasions since 1973, the last: being

 

 

in'dune 1976 when: Posada inquired if the» FBI had. interest. in
a Venezuelan who had hired two of his "operatives" as body

guards. 8 - “

eno net aa ig eel

 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32296782 Page 6
 

‘october 19, , 1976

: vo, 5 et re .: oR a ee
ddd tional L Questions (answers. and comments needed aaa

; oy Eats a FOREN “October 26) -

<OCy bere Litapinas

L.: -Has ‘CIA had any relationship with Posada’ s investigative
agency or any other business he may. have had?

2. Ghat was the nature of the ‘contacts CIA had with ‘Posada
after he w. g, terminated? What did the contacts haya to do
with Cuba? ). oe ee en ma ES

3. Gino wi was the visa for that Posada ap xoached the CIA ‘and
the. defense attache about in June: 19762 ») te ae fowagtt wel tea as

4s does the CIA believe that the source of TDFIR DB-315/10256
deliberately, delayed passing. on Bosch's and Posada's.. remarks
about ‘Aitting. a Cuban | iph until” after, the incidents? __

5. “Does the CIA have any ‘additional relevant ‘information
en any of the people named in the draft metoranduu, or any.
other information relating to the sabotage of the plane,
vhich it has not Yet disseminated in TDFIR form? -

6." would CIA please provide whatever information it. has
concerning Orlando Garcia and Ricardo Morales so that para.
b on page a of the Graft memorandum can be completed?

 

 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32296782 Page 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

 

' AGENCY: — FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10218-10058
RECORD SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-2173-1ST NR 130

 

 

 

 

; » DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: DOS
FROM: . SAUNDERS. HAROLD H.
, TO: THE SECRETARY

\ TITLE:

DATE: 10/18/1976
PAGES: 10

‘SUBJECT: CASTRO, FIDEL, SPEECH, ALLEGATIONS, CIA INVOLVEMENT, CUBANA
AIRLINER, BOMBING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW_DATE: — 05/12/1998 UPDATE DATE:

STATUS. — Redact ‘ .
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
JFK Act 6 (4)

 

~ COMMENTS: INC MEMO

HW 50953 Docld:32296782 Page i
 

  
  

SECRET
'., SENSITIVE

 

: by Cuban - counterrevolutionaries. Now we

| a

"decidedly believe the first assumption i ‘correct.
The CIA directly participated in ‘the destruction

of the Cubana aircraft in Barbados.

 

orhe principal leaders. of ‘Cuban exile terrorist’

‘groups’ are closely Linked through the CORU ‘ergani- ;

 

gation to CIA. activities against cuba.

   

In his speech, Castro did not make any specific alle-~
gations concerning a ‘usG relationship with Orlando Bosch, *, a 4
OF Luis Posada (two Cuban exile activists who were arrested

> by Venezuelan authorities in connection with the Cubana’

   
  

~ | exash) . However, ‘the Link with Bosch is implied since. he
is “reported to be chief of CORU, the umbrella organization
"tof Cuban exile terrérists. : oes
Individuals Allegedly Involved
Hernan Ricardo Lozano
ale Involvement in the Crash: - He was arrested in-
-. @rinidad on suspicion of having planted a bomb in the Cubana:

plane. - Caracas radio announced on October. ‘Gs that he.

i
|
|

|
|

4

confessed to sabotaging the airliner. aGuils source. in
of --. Garacas reports that Ricardo may. have been trained in the

~use of explosives and investigative techniques by Luis

 

 

4; Posada.

 

 

 

 

 

ne

 

SECRET.

 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32296782 Page 3
 

  
 
  
  

.. SECRET
| SENSITIVE

te

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  

 

 

  

 

Ricardo, a. Venezuelan n citizeng, 42 “photographer employed :
ne SM...

- Exs source says that Ricardo. is “also a part time employe=

ot the Venezuelan, Intelligence Service (BISIP).. _ He reportedly

 

; gathered ‘photographic material | on groups “and individuals ‘of

: interest to ) DISIP and the Venezuelan Government. : He was
be fio + oe a 1 . ¥ an
hired ‘by DISIP when Pasada_ was official of that organization.

 

b

; ‘The » GrafEource says that. the Wenezuelan Government is ~ -

a
: concerned and would be faced jrith s serious problems if these :

  
     

states it has had no

 

otb. : “Relationship with US: (era

mon contact with Henly The ug Legal. Attache in ‘Caracas,

fo, s :
« Joseph Leo, says that he has had. some dealings with, Ricardo for

7)
in expediting visa application for ‘a’ “DISIP official! s

concel few anne Feo ind werd enriod ussite ene e PaO”

£ He also contacted: en O evo—bimes—to. Eni sned

      
  
   
   
   
   
 
 

   

graphs and biographical data on members of ‘the Cuban .

sy.’ in Caracas. “Apparently, the material came “from DISIP.

MARNE of. oo
during one visit, attempts” to solicit: suggestions ee ;

ot Pye

egal Attache on activities which might be directed | C

. 0!
st the Cuban Embassy by an anti- Castro group to which he !

 

  

SECRET.
SENSITIVE:

   
 

ret se eeameemnetesc: habociee seracrrsemes tile Qk genera aieSemacn tet Ratatat PM wire eit aan weal vt Ain

 

HW 50953 Docld:32296782 Page 4
