J ; of the Drug Enforesment Agency offics3 and Mr. Howard Hushes.

 
     
  
     

1286

   

| MWhat 48 the -and has been the. FBL -relatYonship with the
, Bou Telephone Company and ITT? - .
ve Please furnish all files. |
-What as the doe Ee enforcement : Taterrigence bhite
. Does it meintain files on, U.S: citizens?
- Whiat was the authority?

Does it pass infor mation to State and Local agencies?
oe is this prograis fundea? ;

“Now, with respect to DEA. Please explain the full
nature and scone of ene[ CIA's relationship. with the Drug” ian ap
: Enforeenent. Agency, Anoluding CLA personnel serving vatiben}

Give the committee full data. , 4

. Explain Operation ‘Sliver Dollar and the relationship

‘Please: give this committee ell-fate.
“How many -- ° |
Chairmen Pike. The time of the gentleman hae expived. : Lo
Mr. Dellums. Thanic you 5 Mr. Chairmen. .
Chairmen Pike. Did you wish to make any response?
Mr. Walsh. I cannot mate a a vesyonse, sir. —
i started to sake soma noses, dO2b ‘S am inadequate in
. that regarc. and I would liks to suye 3b, if it is sprecarie
to the Chair, that the guesationus be submitted to us in writing..
Chairman Pike, : That certainly ‘11131 be done in shat

Y

manner.
 

 

 

124-10273-10084

 

 

 

Pe

‘ope: rations?

cat | Within the last decade has FBI initiated any- intelligence

or comnterintelligence programs against labor unions?

Has the Fat ever attempted surrap sitdously to monitor |

. the defense efforts of & federal defendant?

ae he Has te FBI, any egent or informant ever authorizsd .or

‘ directed, suggested or perticipated in an assassination or such

' an attempt?

_ Has FBI ever initLated any operstions ox sfforts agains’

ty

radio sttions, news services or newspapers?

wae

Has the: FBI ever sought or optacne a ilisgal access to
bank records?

Has ‘the FBI ever partieipeted an surreptitious entry

sev. 0.4)

 

“manpower fer COINTEL?- :

—Were—any whbh-or tor ‘tie Se SB-NSA? on |—
Has the FBI ever participated in madd cove 23?
. Is there any PBL program against i arm, the American Indias,
Movement? a . )
“Explain fully. Jbhe apeoite Operavion coinrsn Frogram.—
Are similar programs now in eriotsre? . o
Please furnish files.
‘Were COINTEL | programs aiseussed with QB, the Attorney

General or Congress prior to their initiation?

What suthority was there Yor axpe aditure of funds and ©

 
