 

 
  
 

  

oo

“UNTER STATES co RNMENT 7 7
Memorandum

- pizgctor, FBI @o0-288086)

 
  
  
   

  

   
   
  
     
 

 

 
  
   
 
  

no thhcae Moxie pore ; ANDIOR,
moi Lefeat, Mexico cary (ss-864) IA/ (FORMATION

ECURITY INVESTIGATIONS OF, INDIVIDUALS

 

 

ReBulet 1/29/70 captioned as above, |
Jadvises that material relating to. various individuals similar

  
      
 
 

 
   
   
  
  
   
    
   
   
   
   
 

   

 

   

 

 

yto that enclosed with ReBulet, “should. ‘best: be ncorporated in. As
an LHM under the. captioned: security: subject with whom the SS
\  Qindividual in question was in contact, Sorin al general memoranduna NG
suitable for dissemination: under ‘the c tion," AMERICAN COMMUNIST \
GROUP IN MEXICO CACGM) , SM, - ct Bufil -422116 a
This matter has ‘been: given. ver careful consideration x
‘by this office, -In the: past. this offic s “endeavored to ae
Picontorn with the Bureau's instruc#ionsas ‘set: forth in Bulet ~
2/23/65 captioned "CHARLES NELSON~SMOLIKOFF , SM'~-C' (Bufile a
100-12632);’ BERTHE MAE NEAHAM SMOLIKOFFE,, SM. -.C.(Bufile kay
106- AQLTATYY, in handling communications - relating. ‘to: American aS
residents who-.are.in contact with “ACG. associates: “either. ‘
directly” or by mail, as shown -by ‘our informant. coveragewand - \
the. highly. confidential coverage available through (CTA, ) SS
. a)

   
  
  
  

: In Bulet “of 2/23/65, the attent n. ‘of this’ “office was

“called tothe fact that communications: had! been. submitted under

the ‘caption of the SMOLIKOFFsrelating.-to™ ‘their contacts and

: maunications with other’ individuals wherein, he contents
‘primarily concerned the other. individuals.who “were: located within.

the jurisdiction of the various field offices. The Bureau

> pointed. out that the practice of grouping. ‘4anformation which

S primarily. -concerns individuals other than“the subject:of the
case’ file creates administrative: “prob handling. “that: .

\ information, “poth at the Buréau-and* in “the eld offices having j

woody ivestigative interests in the ‘matter. “The.-Bureau: desired, -|
«therefore, that,.when information. c neerning® “persons .in the

. United States was received incidentalto investigations effecting

\; Mexico’ City subjects, that: informatioi should be. submitted under

. A. the ‘caption.of. the individual’ or ing duals involved ‘and it
rQwas desired, ‘therefore, “that ‘future communications should bear

     
   

 

 

  
    
   

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

| HW 50953 Docld:32311398 Page 2
 

124-40344-10001

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/14/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10314-10001

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 100-12632-NR

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MX
TO: HQ
TITLE :

DATE: 03/10/1970
“PAGES: 8

SUBJECTS :
CHARLES SMALL, SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS OF
INDIVIDUALS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: = Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA ~

 

COMMENTS : MEMO

————— NN
vol 2
HW 50953 Docld:32311398 Page 1

 
 

 
   
  
  
   
   
   
 
    
   
     
         

- MEX 66-364

   

: : Past experience has shown that contact with -ACGM

“sassociates on the part of visitors ‘from the United States

_4i8 frequently of more thai usual significance, As the Bureau

is aware; the ACGM is. not a formal organization and therefore,
has no "members"; The name “American ’Communist: Group in
Mexico’ (ACGM): is a term devéloped by informants:of this office
several years ago -to designate the American communists who had
for one reason or. another left the United States ‘and taken up
residence:in Mexico: ‘Those individuals:'were ‘not merély

‘ordinary cell members of the CP°USA prio » their.arrival in
Mexico but occupied leadership positions. in’ various functions

of the CP USA. ‘While in. Mexico they have- continued to. main-

tain their communist-oriented ideology: and. firm desire to see

_the government. of the United States ‘overthrown, |The bifurcation

Of the communist movement ‘in the. United States ‘resulting from
he development of the Chinese ‘communist “theories and’ programs,

s well as the development of the "New Let

militant black nationalism,

  

 

 

 

‘1 "andthe appearance
sis reflected among. the’ associates
I the ACGM. Although these individuals vary in: their: support
of the ‘Soviets,-the Chinese, the New :Left-and the. militant

_ black nationalists, they still -retain the ommon. denominator

“of dedication to the overthrow ‘of the. U ‘government..

 

  
  
   

n-order to avoid being. expelled by the Mexican government,
chey have continued to su

ited States by giving
byersive groups. ©:

    
   

mn
u

; ; The ACGM is a very tightly-knit ‘er up’ and ‘coverage °.
as wellvas attempts to infiltrate informants into. the ‘group,
‘has shown ‘that -they accept on an equal. ‘basis“only¥* visitors
previously known to them as "fellow revolutionaries".-or who

' come to Mexico well documented and’ recommended by "trusted" :
\ Comrades in ‘the. U.S. ‘any person ‘to whom ‘suspicion is attached".
“through failure to obtain Proper ‘recommendations is ostracized. @(&)

  

Peay In view-of. the makeup of this” grou ; coverage has
been concentrated largely on the principal figures. who. are
contact points: for Americans coming .to Mexico, such as .CHARLES
SMOLIKOFF, and. ELIZABETH CATLETT -MORA (Bufile.. 00=395934)

through ‘highly, onfidential sources ‘available/to-CIA

   

   
     

 

 

 

(| BW 50953 BDoclId:32311398 Page 3
 

   

  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
   
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
   
 
  
 

MEX 66-364

While coverage is concentrated.’ insofar as possible

on the SMOLIKOFFs, the MORAs and the: BELFRAGES,; information

is available through inform coveragefand . ‘confidential.
coverage [maintained . by ‘iE floncernine other associates of

the ACGM Who although ‘not “as prominent” as“contact points: are
Hevertheless as. selective in, the political’: ‘orientation of the
.people they.accept in their homes’ and with “whom they freely
“associate.. Admittedly, coverage isnot: ‘complete enough to
_ reveal all of the subversive statements’ and activities of

othe American visitors who are in contact with. these ACGM
“associates, but-it is believed: that ° ‘their acceptance. ‘by the
‘established ACGM. associates is. ‘a very:: -good.: ndication of the
-political orientation of those visitors:: Since ‘the visiting
‘ Americans come from widely. scattered: parts of the United
“States, this office is inno ‘position’ “to: evaluate their’ sub-
versive. potential in the absence: of. pra va ‘correspondence from
the Bureau or the domestic field. Whenever. * any information is
“received which might assist in’ “ident. fying® the visitor or the
locale from Which he or shé originate nthe U. S., this
-poffice has furnished that information om the’ Bureau and the
_ interested field office for information and: any. action. deemed
- desirable. : Even though the limited: coverage available: to this
' office in. some cases does not reveal’ actual: subversive
activities on the part of the visitors,
accepted as contacts by associates °o
grounds. to alert.the Bureau and. thes .
“concerning the foreign travel of proba 5 suit : j . Qe7

  

 

 
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
   

 
   

. This office remains vi ilant fe) fulfill: the Bureau's
res sponsibilitiés in detecting and:. identifying potential couriers,
Espionage agents and. individuals who might: be-.operating in a
covert intelligence capacity. To satisfy. this. “responsibility,
‘logical sources-are constantly reminded to remain.alert to the
atifieation of. individuals visiting” Mexico and..who contact
ects of interest residing in Mexico. » Because of. the sub-
ive potential of ACGM associates’ and: these visitors, it is
believed that. initial inquiries. by ‘the’ domestic. ‘office involved
would -be desirable whenever possible to’. letérmine. ‘the residence
nd ‘employment of the. visitor ‘and: review records: for previcus
ubversive activity... ’ & determination: as to” ‘whether’, . in ‘the
light of information developed , tt nts a danger

 
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

   
         

 

 

 

 

» BW 50953 DoclId:32311398 Page 4
