 

| program.

Assistant Attorney General —
Griminal Division ae
Re: Mail Intercept Programs > Aerentes ST

«
oF
1

 

NOTE:

The Criminal Division has requested all memoranda,
records, letters and other correspondence from 1951 to date
which the FBI had received or generated with respect to its
contacts’ or involvement with the White House, Atto

 

General ,, Postal Department. or Postal Servic: n
connection with the inception, implementatidi® or ination of
. participation by the FBI in mail intercept programs, The letter .

of 8/13/75 from the Criminal Division: also asked for all infor-
mation relative to the inception, implementation, justification,
and highest level of authorization for institution of am i
intercept (opening) programs cither independently or with #
assistance or approval of the Postal Service or any other
Federal agency from the period 1940 to present. That lette
requested that we advise Mr. Edward Fenig.: or Ronald Malone
Division attorneys, when this information is available,
notification is being furnished by letter to the attention
Mr. Paul Boucher since he is the Departmental attorney who
received information on the Project Hunter program and is
individual interested in ob’ ing information concerning o:
The information referred to in this letter concerts
the Sam Survey and Gus Survey and we still have six more |’
programscabout which to rurnish information to the Departmdént' S

«

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

124-10264-10203

 

Assistant Attorney General ' rid nek
Grininal Division

Attention: fir, Paul Boucher

September 4,. 19

re obo Mr. We Ry Wannall
Director, FDI OX-ES3I75—~ 1 - ve. We 0. Gregar

as a aur 1-Mr. J, P. Lee
vA HATL INTERCEPT PROGRANS

Pa

f
Refexence is mada to youx memoranda of July

and Aupuat 13, 1975, and te our monoranduu of August en 1975.

This will’ confima the fact that on August 22,
1975, Hx, Pawk Boucher of your Division reviewed docunente
in possession of the Federal Bureau of Investigation .
Head quarters (EBIHG) peztaining to the mail intercept.

/ficw Goucher tas furnished with ‘sapies )
Seuments fron that file.

  
 

     

 

   

   

propriate

A review has been complated of documents in the
possession of FBINQ concerning two prograns of mail inter~
ception operated by the FRi,~ In accerdance with your
requests these documents axe now available for review.

It is requested that you contact Special Agent James F. Lee
on extension 4562 at HBLHQ to arrange for a review of these

 
 

 

 

documents.
105-288406
@)-~ 62-116395 GSenstudy +75)
JPL: emg
¢ aie SEE NOTE PAGE TWO
ol a OBE 0g ti)
rere DECLASSIEY OW: 25X
WreRe ShU Wit UiHERWISE?”_., JDK ie

  

ORIGINAL FYLED xy

 

570cT1 1975

    
    
 
    
  
  
   
    
  
   
  
  
   
   

Ca

SO im:
