 

 

a

 

_ | , A. ~2- Gears . my

Lelligence Board and mibecormilides-thich cover! pters such as

“ handling of davecters, “ewodorment of commuter wrong, leaks of clessie
*é

fied inforartion and vrddiction of intelligence studies, Our Leer
taches have reason to cantact CLi on a regular basis, | ‘and ALthoush it nas
beén a smo), volume of business, the Line of com-umication betuecn our de-
mestic offices and Vecal TA represent-tives has been|definitely usezul. NRE
The daily business with GLA relates to hundreds or cases pertcinina to
activities-of all, Comramist-Bloc services, the Mew Left, Black Hation:l-
ists, the Comamist Party ond related org:niaations, and: political crisas,
-in areas such as Viotnan, the Middle Mast, ond latin America, Theoreatic-
‘ally, 211 business e~ild ‘be hondled by madd, but from a orscticel st-nd-
‘point such a crocedure will lesd,to unbelicvedle chaos. There will he
lalmost insurmountable obst= cles if ve ore to discharge our duties 2 bd
"responsi ble manner snd if ve sre to ccunter a relentless one. ywiint
interest of nati: onal security, Because interests of other agencies are
{frequently intertwined with cxses involving the Bureau and CIA, the break
in YBI-CIA liaison will’ adversely affect our liaison with such agencies,

be
uy

 

 

 

 

   

I.thin you will shsre my alarn over the consequences once the
word is received by. the "troops"! in all Uy ,5. agancies thet eBIiond “h.
no longer have any Liaison. Unfortamately, there Wil] be incividyels who
will ni maliciously distort and nisinternret the true facts, <ithin a short
period, there :i11 be stories in the press, ard + sor st of. al, the Cone
nist-floc cervices vill pick un a choice entree for the promotion of sub
tle, skilltulend extrevely harmful. disruntion, I om absolutely convinces
tha the in telligence services of Greit Britain, France, «est Geren. ang
‘others are well penetrated by the Soviets. I can't believe thet the Fail-
bys, the Blakes, the Alcer ilisses were the last of the wencteetions x

_ mention this because iz such penetr.tions exist, the break in relations
betyeen the FSI and CIA will provide a.basis for cromoting further rifts.
This is the first tine in our history thet such an event hes ocevrred, 725

jit is difficult to believe thrt the enemy will not make every effert to
reap the grostest vrofit possible. Briefly, ir. Hoover, I Inve too much
respect for you and our ‘FBI to expose us to a potentially disastrous siiu-
ation,

Although the Denver incident is a blight on the relations te-
tween the FSI and CIA, it would be most unfair of me not ta comacnt on
the dedicated and selfless efforts of numerous individuals in CIA «ho

trived for honest and harmonious relaticns. As a result of their en-
deavors there have been many services rerformed in behalf of the Bures:
including notabie and outstanding nccemplisnaents, ‘We have been furnis:
- sources, inform-nts, solid‘hroductive cases, technical advice and equip
ment, . and there hve been instances of cooperation which led to substen-
tial saving of Buresu funds.. fnere also have been exariples of alertness
on the part of CLi employes which prevented Bureau commission of errozs
vand -averted ombarrassrent. Among some of the more significant exarlcs
of cooperation. I cite the excellent and bedly needed assistance of Chi
in the Rudolsh Abel case, I also refer to the Agency's providing us «ith
one of the better criminal informants we have had in recent years in the

 

person of WAME I only refer to the foregoing to cwphasize
that, if at all possinies we should preserve. the good friends and the
supporters of the Bureau ei oot .
. SECRET

It is recopnized thet one c-n f so present a bill of 1 nartic-
wlars relating te cxarples of necr cooperntion and deliberate skuldur-
forv. TI held no brief for those in CIA vho disrupted relations between

 

 

 

)8)

tte

 
- The tro sraneies hee sYomie VedefLor re:
ePareani bes vi

 

 

 

   
  
  
 
 

 
 

ative iden, an
thet an leno
such

  

    
   
   
 

 
 
 
    

 

   
 
 

pase vecdid nat a

  

   

 

 

  

6 Poy baveener- die eophreg, DB get ree nec a cre-*
@: he ervers of the dedies ted mle. fF helicve
y veka at aa ae
wt tine vane hs yer thede ingh
3 fa adso bi licves U
edly coulda np. list os grievences, Lou may not realize bh
years ero ve onjoxrad s.romr vemaintion among CTA ennloves, Te
lapnily, that is ns 4 uno siturtion today, To am confident tict ¥
into say sepmoit of C11, pare snd‘abroad, and you will. Pind thet
ocri
past yorrs prbouarily, aresg fron wmbel Levably poor comamicntion anong in-
8 cojnmmication ans been prestly ibpreved keesuse cf

 

 

ese ; . :
LONG» 0 f thene veya the
Ve vevedd tiet the nee of
véS net ina fovlard cit namicr, and Uhé A
actorined 25 being -é rviows : ont re VAS a deeidnd simogphere of
Bravery, ond Tatesrity: ave sincerely related to the’ VBI, The vrablens in
terested ucrttes. " ths

the effects of meny cadiertcd peaple. Hevertholess, thore is reon Lor

inprover.ait, Tn ow om Surean tnere are nwicrong officials and oloyés
who heve little or no ‘mewledge of the backeound end the vrinciples of
the National Security Act of 197 end of the Zational. Seourity Council
Directives, in addition, these suc vcople have a vague concepticn of
the objectives and fiuncticag ef cn int VLipence: orfenas ation, Sivtlerhy,
within Cli there are very mony “ose concerdion of ‘she YBI, its juris-
diction, its objectives, its lea enfercerent chy rneter, is shocking ot
tines, Tromendous progress has deen mada, but it dis not casy to harccn-
dously coordinate the operations of an organization designed to oncrete
in a clendestine ramier with an asency which is -basic-Dy a lax enforcu-
ment bode, Tis Jhitic: oy he Das Uires hunt ‘Geena OUr TE LALLOUSNLD

stadia 8

still composed of a fragile isbric. Mie incident potentially can de-

   

 

   

   

: stroy years of constructive effort,

in, Hoover » Ll resnectinlly recnest tht you reconsider the
deci sion to sever Liaigen sith the Centred Intelligence Agency, T apmeal
to you to Leave the doer oven for furtrer deliberation bacause I am con-
fident this conflict can be sat

    

tisfzetorily resolved, I believe that ay
removal fro: the secne provides the cevortumity to anroint another agent
who will ucasure up to your desired cabubilities end who will be able to

‘rapidly resolve the problea with a new and frach spproach, Tt is a rood

time to reexamine our relations with CLi end to make adjustments satis-
factory to you, .

‘I sincerely regret thet this situation arose, since I read Ly
apyreciate you are burdened with so many heavy responsibilities, It I
feel that I had a firm oblization ene duby to cermumiante with you be- -
cause of the very nature ot ry assignient these many years and because
of my involvenent in this controversial case. \ :

Ky years with the Buresy gave me mere satisfction then anyone
can imagine, You would have to lmow me better to apnreciate this, I
want to assure you thet wherever I go or whatever I do 1 will be prerared
to be of service in any cause which involvas the preservation of a strong
and respected FBI,

 

Sincerely yours
y y a)

 

 

 

 
 

 

S + ys @PlONal foe wo, 1¢ “ 2010-108
. MAY 198S FOITION

‘ UNITED STATES congguent . - é | .
Memorandum os

 

  

 

 

 

: Mr. ©. D, DeLoach 2 | - pare: 6/26/70
, is eee bob,
FROM + WW, C, Sullivan. at
va wo. a - a
SUNJECT: LIAISON WITH CETL. INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (IA).
WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE ss
‘My attached memorandum, 6/25/79, discussed the rz
operational contacts between the Washin ton Field Office \(2)
(WFO) and CIA's local Meftice. lr. Tolsoa |!
noted "I thought all Stch contacts were to be handled by
letter" and the Director said "I. most,certainly intended
the same." We are instructing WFO accdudingly.

Me - It is possible that other field offices have working~
level -contact with the CIA offices in their territories. If
ithe Darcetor desires, sinilar instructions will be issued to
'them, ;

. ; (1) Attached for approval is a letter to WYO
instructing that all future contacts with CIA are to be
. handled by letter,

 

 

  
 

  

7] (2) If the Director desires, an SAC Letter will be
| prepared containing sinilar instructions, applicable to all
. offices.. a ; ome es
chase WEEE TREN ARI A a ae ries .
Fee 8 Yate vier se

 

Thie document i is prepared ¢ tn ‘reeponse to your request and ts somnt- | .
nation outside your Committee, Its use i: linited to siretete by :
your Committee and the content may not be dis

closed ‘t person
‘ wel without the express approval of the FBI, wed to unauthorized

 
 

* Sion. ae. a ” May —
ok UNITEDISTATES cuv¥ NMENT
-. + Memorand@n
TO, : Mr. C.D. DeLoach "DATE: 6/25/70 |
, a :

 

FROM : W, C. Sullivan
‘

. ¢ , ; : oo Y so
SUDJECT: LIAISON WITH CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) . :
WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE ~ . -

4

twice

The Director has inquired regarding the nature of —-
any liaison existing between the Washington Field Office (WFO)
and CIA, Limited liaison dees exist, being addressed to
specific operational cases and name checks, .

*

 

WFO, of necessity, is in contact ‘with CIA concerning

 

wf specific cases in the espionage field, for example, __ _—--

. _ SPECIFIC EXAMPLE GEV oy 7
. . : we a te . . Loe “4 * 4
In addition; CIA has af “Jottice JHE AB)

 

in the District’ which makes name “checks with WFO and’secures
background information concerning foreign diplomatic personnel,

{| No liaison is conducted with respect to policy matters and the
objective of all contacts is the handling of immediate opera- -
tional matters. oe , ra

ACTION: . mt 2 .
For the Director's information, ay ae
a, NDS COR Coe ee CC ae arg tasasa ete et ae er a 2 a er
er wet Oe wt oe

. ved in response to your request and isnot for diesemt-
This document is prepared i Ite use limited to.of ficia’ 4 ‘oceedings by
nation, mittee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthoriz L persone
hal avithout. the express approval of the FBI .

*
.' dn formation receiyed? fron. his effice should be Anecluéed tn m
aon bres

 

  

Mauer & WS tam! tat

 

Fem

cation going t6 anyone outside the “Burean. NWAME ~~
geeeusee that CIA's. identity in this regard woulc de fuloy

WR CRMAT oY hectiwe Te THE

TERRITORY COVERED. ar THE | Pam anes pun |, jek
OFFicg cA oe ¢ OMTACT ‘s sence} - Cy@

IV Chuniyg WAHES oF. OIA PE PSsouvec,

- @

PIQUEST OF THE Breau: pO , .-
In the’ course of future contacts with ‘GIA in these

¢25b2; it is anticipated thet CIA representatives may at tines
yequest. information relating to Subjects! background, habdivs,
and characteristics, as well as any availabic photographs.

vo The Bureau is requested to adyis e if it will be per- :
‘nissible to orally furnish such background’ information to the

OTA, representative and to furnish copies of PLOCCS, zaphs, if

they. ere avallable. . ay

fhe Bureau is also reduested to advise if the establish-
sent of Service) en the field office level with CIA's| Domestic | SEK

lau

(eentact. Service| enviszges the furnishing of reports anc letler- O
we

mead memes to this Sarvice at thse Pele. orifice lever
have a legitimate interest in the Subject. | -

re
|

\ “oe Bw,
 

 

. . . ' . .
: a . . ' / v . .
ew! Ce
a eo Tate wey soe el oe ‘
yoo.

. BAC, Philadelphia 4 | " . 10/29/65
Direstor, EDIN |
. ’ ee ewes

NIRAL FNTELLIGHICE (CHAP a):

pomEstic cayzacr smvicg). je Cyt’...
ORUATION CONCEMUIEG

: JS

# Reference 1s mado to your letter dated 10/25/65. OO

Tho Bureau has been following a policy of not disseninating
Boreau information to the(Dozestic Contect Service/at a iccal level.
Tnis policy will continous uoLess you are advised to the contrarys

In the event that the locel CIA office desires infernatios:
concerainy any subject, such requests should be directed by CIA to
Gorean Leadquartergs . mc

NO. |

This document ts prepared in response to your request issembe
é t 3 and
sation putatig your, Committee, Its wae 3 Hmnited to oftiotar ot for dsee by
rc ittee ai é content may nut be discla hori: ersowe
nel without the express approval of the FBI . sed to wnauth aed p

 
 

ee

 

") CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE, AGENCY (CIA) {DomEsTic CONTACT | jee $)
cece = You previously have been informed regarding CIA's} Contact. Q
Division which has had offices in. various U. S. cities and which isopenly
identified as being connected with CIA. This division has been responsible
’ for the overt collection of positive intelligence gained through interviews of
aliens. travelers, businéssmen, etc. The division has not been engaged
in. any operational activity such as the development of double agents. For
your information, CIA has reorganized this division and it is now called

_ the Pomestic Contact Service.| ry Ge) ~

, An examination of CIA s activities in the area of overt collection
of positive intelligence has indicated that'the Bureau can strengthen its
position by haying our field offices’ establish direct contact with the local
offices of thd Domestic Contact Service.| THis.particularly applies to those Jey
situations where the Bureau and CIA both have an interest in Soviet-bloc
and Yugoslav nationals, excluding those who are connected with embassies
or the United Nations. We recognize that CIA has a responsibility for
collection of positive intelligence (i. e. information regarding Soviet-bloc .

’ Capability in a particular research field) which might be acquired from ©

exch visitors hut we cannot condone any CIA activity which might.
interfere with Bureau operations. . You therefore are authorized to J FI a :
establish liaison with local offices of thi Domestic Contact Service. ce. (1) ( iS 3)

9-28-65 ” .
SAC LETTER NO, 65-54 -5-

°

documen d in reeponse to your request and is not for dissems-
ation cuca i or Committee. on uae " limited to official proceedings oy
your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person
pel witkout the express approval of the FBI . . :

: t
 

ae 0271-10058

 

   
    
    
       
    
   
   
  
    
 
 
   
  
    
  

> Memorandum |
To : Nr. sain " “-pare: June 22, 1961 ,

“FROM Of R, 0. LiAllier

SUBJECT: — LIAISON + WITH INNIIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE Tenet

 

LiaiGn with INS has been handled “for the past sev&al
years by SA San{Papich, who also handles liaison with the Central
intelligence Agency. (CIA), The purpose of this memorandum is
to recolinend that SA Papich be relieved of his assignment with
-INS in order to devote full time to CIA.

weeenntiew RELATIVE TE IMS

: CIA continues to be one of the most °
important liaison assignaents as well as one of the most time
consuiing, Proper handling ox this assignment now requires the
full time and ¢tention of A Liaison supervisor and it ‘is believed
that SA Papich should be relieved of his INS assignment in order
to devote his entire attention to CIA,

ec ‘
: ¢

IwroRM atin RELATIVE TO-AGENT. To RE
ASSIGVED To AAVPLE LIAS with —/VS. \

 

a, e

| _

If you approve,. liaison résponsibility for INS will be.
transferred from SA Papich t to’ =WAME

‘Your Committee and the content may not be dnd fo piel pneeed ig oy
s yege le

 

e?

° . .
... : '
.
CLASS Ee? we .
ee. chee ate ae esate Se tntie re Tee eee MAE, Mommie ot 20m Sicha Mei ie Boas ane A age 2

:

Tn each case when you initiate any inquiry or investigation of a visiting JFK
viet-bloc national, you should obtain from the localjDomestic Contact SSO ;
(Servic the nature and extent of CLA interest and all pértinent information |
hich CIA has gained or may acquire in the future relating to our internal
security responsibilities. If you feel that CIA activity conflicts with
Bureau objectives, you should so advise the Seat-of Government, clearly
setting forth your reasons. In this connection; there may be instances -
where continuing CIA pursuit of positive intelligence would conflict with
the Bureau s discharge of its internal security functions. of

-

‘Very ‘truly yours, ,
~ "John Edgar Hoover
. ~, e
Director

8-28-65 , : .
SAC LETTER NO. 65-54 -6- ;
: ; : ’
\ Lot ‘
 

      
   
    

  

SE FR a Seat cts nated waren AQ een eas
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT \
PEMORANDUM bo.
TO : Director, FBI - oe “DATE: 10/25/E5

“590M : SAC, Philadelphia 7 mo

ey de aS Phila elphia

° DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVIGE

*. SUBJECT: (beset INTELLIGENCE AGENGZ = : yee GYR)
_ ERIFORNATION “CONCERNING

Re Section (E), SAC Letter 65-54, 9/28/65.

wAME, ON Ahitedershie offs 2, Cen VF
Sc2i InteDigence Agency (CTA) DezestTe Conract Bezvicey was . C
eentacted on 10/1465 as directed in referenced SAC Letter.

CC WANE advised he had just returned from cenferences at his
agency Headquarters in Washingtcn. where he had been advised
she Bureau was directing its 21d offices to-sstablish lisisen
with the local offices, of the Demestic Contact. Service] f JPeQy ds
MAHE ‘cifered his complete cooperation with this office in mat-
tere of murnal interest. te . os

4 Arrangements were perfected wherein Agents cf this” |
elfice making inquiries or investigations of a Soviet~Broc Na~ -

wad

| faemal cen conmtast WAME ‘ysee]re WLL1 pl&ce then in contact

2 om Bae ak

IY, with the[Demestic Contact Service |representative handling the

waace

 

- sc that informetion of intéTest ta us tap be secured. JEK
v information coming to the attention of the[penestic Contact iG\e
Séervice|relating to our internal. security resptnsibLlities will
te immediately reported to this cfifise. - :

: bd . ~. . . : . .
. MAME Irequested, im view cf his Agener's regu- *
\ ~stlens, that CIA nob, be identified as the source in the event

aoe

-

 

 

your Cox} tts use és Ping, 1 is not for dissems
\ ‘0: eee and the content may not be dent £0 official proceedin og By
express approval of the FBI. Sed to unauthorized persone
