 

 

 

(SYR

ion being conducted by the Bureau for the Vhite House.
2) furnished a signed statement indicating that he per-
sonally

ise) ;

other United States agencies,
Allen Dulles was in Switzerland, Dulles was intimate with a

SERRE
JPEQ)CR) .
2. $$$ . Je“ ayia) |
We received information in May, 1958, that © ;

a CIA employee, was listed as being employed with the Bureau

in the records of the District of Columbia FYational Guard.
The information was developed as the result of an investiga-

cre gene, eee

 

 

ol

ad no knowledge of the existence of the above infor-
mation in the National Guard records,
(Memorandum Roach to Belmont May 17, 1958, “Alleged
Representation by CIA Employee of Employment with FBI")

28, CORNEL MUNTIU

 

 

By letter dated June 10, 1958, we protested to CIA
for not advising us concerning that Agency’ s interview of an ‘
individual who was the subject of a Bureau investigation, We
had been corresponding with CIA concerning the subject, and
the Agency should have been aware of our interests.
(Re: Cornel Muntiu - 105~58749)
29, ALLEGED CIA INCOMPETENCE AND ALLEGED PENETRATION OF
UNITED STATES AGENCIES

By letter dated June 3, 1958, Legat, [ronyo-ft cone
information volunteered to him py (Calonel dames Riles Sears
Riley/was very strong in his denunciation of CIA, reer

hat“the Agency was incompetent and that it was cenetrating

He also mentioned that when

woman, not identified,

The above is being cited in the event we desire to
use this information as evidence for supporting a position of
being circumspect in dealings with the CJA.
(Letter dated June 3, 1958, from Legat, (Fotr03] "Rélations with Se"

“>

CIA")

 

 
 

eee

 

ars

  

po a"

‘

, : - @

30. (GENERAL, REINHARD GEHLEN Ie , .

The Legal Attache, Bonn, advised by letter dated
June 10, 1958, that he had been invited to visit /General Reinhard
Gehlen,Yéthe head of the(West German Intelligence Service JMCIA
becamé aware of this invitation, and an Agency representative
‘informed our Legal Attache that it was not desired that the
Legat visit with Gehlen ur Legat was instructed by the Bureau

_ to accept the invitatidn regardless of the CIA position,

We could evaluate the CIA position in this matter as
being uncooperative. (Memorandum Roach to Belmont June 17,
1958, "Relations with CIA")

31, CIA INTEREST IN (CHINESE]ALIENS £377

* In June, 1958, we raised the question concerning
CIA's failure to adher eyo an agreement relating to CIA's ;
recruitment of[Chinesé]@liens in the United States for over
seas intelligence operations, 2 Under the egrcoment, CIA was
not to approach any [chiness\@ Len without first checking wither
us, A situation developed in illinois indicating that CIA
allegedly had become interested in recruiting an alien and
even took some action without first checking with us. We
expressed our disapproval in a letter to CIA June 12, 1958,
(Memorandu Teeny to Boardman June 9, 1958, "Recruitment
of (Chinesel iens in the United States for Overseas ea
Intelligence Operations’) ;

32. CIA OFFICIAL's CRITICISM OF "MASTERS OF DECEIT"

Qur Legal Attache, Tokyo, obtained a copy of_a memo-

ryandum sent to an official in our_Embassy in Tokyo by =)
In his communication

belittled the value of "Masters of Deceit" as an anticommunist
weapon in foreign countries. He claimed that the book pertained
only to the Communist Party, USA, which he characterized as a
small, ineffective, ffaction-ridden organization. He stated’
that the author of the book. was not an intellectual but rather
& policeman. (Memorandum Roach to Belmont dune 12 and 24, 1958,
"Masters of Deceit.") : . i.

 

 

. ‘
1

Sree eg

Lael gM he ete eee et ee be ee ns

  

   

ke

; te 10 =

 

 

 

 
 

oJ |

‘

seen

 JPLOMAY
©

JECUYA In October, 195%, we received information from
indicating that @bientist then visiting in the United
States might defect. We followed developments through 16)
| and we kept CIA advised. ‘The Agency was fully aware o he
situation and particularly knew that. we were in contact with

23,

 

Jee tmr)
Ss

 

    
  
 

 

seeks We subsequently received information indicating th
Z0¥018)| a CIA employee, established contact with

I. for the wapose of developing information concerning e
) we dentists. A protest was made to CIA for not
eee

bearing in mind

 

properly coordinating their interests with us,
that the action taken by ossibly could
a@ Bureau operation. (Re: |- 105-63094)

 

24, S) IFEQMAY

By letter dated February 10, 1958, we directed a
: ubject Be Ton charging that Agency with interviewing the
e

 

ubject & 2. Romanianjalien, without. first obtaining the nec~-
cesary ¢ (_______] ~ 105~62486)] ©)

A arance from the Bureau,
! J
| 25. FECIYCA)

YX (Re:
ALLEGED IMPERSONATION OF FBI EMPLOYEE

On April 23, 1958, we received information indicating
that a CIA employee allegedly had represented herself as being
ith the FBI when she tried to arrange an interview with

an official of th international Association of
Hachinists in Washington, D. cf gatre “W signed statenenQ ay
in whi he; Jaimed that he had received a phone call from a
: Miss! o said she was with the FBI. Upon checking with
CIA, ‘we were informed that Miss enied that she had made
‘guch representation, (Memorandum Roach to Belmont April 25,
1958, "Unknown Subject; d, S)yeKr Oey

26. Fo sy rea) |

By letter dated May 12, 1958, the Bureau protested
to CIA for interviewing-an alien in the Detroit area without
first obtaining the necessary clearance from the Bureau.

Such clearance was necessary pursuant to established agreement,
(Re: - 105-68013) re :

nn -  REOYD

 

 

an
.
>

we ase, “ <

 

FE Q))

sPuidlg

 

 
 

 

 
     
 

CIA REQUEST FOR TOUR FOR

2i, L
EPRESENTATIVES - 1957

 

 
  
  

In July, 1957, CIA requested a. tour for several
officials who were coming to this country under CIA
CIA was told that n urs would be given to the
because in the past a: mbassador had
grossly instilted the Bureau after wé ‘ested the
ambassador's chauffeur on White Slave Traffic Act charge .§S) (s)

If we so desired, we could give consideration to
‘accusing CIA of trying to impose upon us individuals whom we
considered undesirable in light of the foregoing.
(Memorandum July 15, 1957, Roach_to Belmont F'Representatives |
of oe “Service = Request for Bureau Tour
by CIA")

y REQUEST von SECURITY SURVEY OF COUNCIL: ON FOREIGN
RELATIONS - _NEW YORK CITY ~- 1957 (o 3)
ary

our New. York Offi rea mise FOn—

oa Novemver 16, 1Gs7 ;

tacted by the local CIA. representative who desired to be in-
formed if the Bureau could conduct a security survey: ‘of ‘the
premises of the Council on Foreign Relations which were located
across the street from a building occupied By the Soviet -
United Nations Delegation.. The CIA represemtative indicated
that his visit to our office was pursuant te instructions
received from Allen Dulles who allegedly was concerned about
the possibility of the Soviets establishing coverage of
conversations and discussions which might be held at the Council,
It should be noted that the Council included as members many
well-known personalities, including officials of the United
States Government, ey (o ;

Pursuant to instructions, Allen Delles was informed,
on November 18, 1957, that we did not like the approach used
by CIA in that such a sensitive matter had Been taken up at
the field level rather than threugh Bureau Headquarters.
(Memorandum Roach to Belmont November 19, 1957, re "Council

tt
on Foreign Relations ) €3.(v)

 

 
 

on

oe
wy -@

’

 

us that he had been advised by a CIA official that the FBI

would be furnishing operational guidance to him, We had never

become involved in any such arrangement, and we later determined

that a CIA official had been in error in making the above- .
described misrepresentation. e protested the CIA official's JEECNCR)
handling of this matter. (Re jr. Samuel Abraham Goudsmit S)

Jee CCB)
Jeeenca)

 

 

15. | s) Jee ddce |

s) On July 20, 1956, we 1
Jee) had been in contact with
DA ashington, BD. C.. We further ascertaine

CIA employee. We were informed by CIA o
the Agen had no information concerning
contacts with ter interviewed and

it was indicated that mn fact, had been "in ¢ ct wi nosy
a CIA official concerning his meetings with ilitary @y
Attache. We protested and CIA submitted a téY of Bpology.

]

(Memorandum Belmont to Boardman July 21, 195ef
(S) SEK OB) . se

26. FS) eeu ,

In July, 1956, a statement was made by a State
Department official to the effect that a CIA employee allegedly
had advised that the subject, a Soviet agent, was being per-
mitted to enter the United States so that his activities
eould be covered and so that the Bureau would be in a position
té promote a defection, The Bureau was not in possession of
any information indicating that we had sanctioned the entry
_0f the subject for the purpose described above, The State

“Department official was unable to recall the name of the CIA
employee involved; inquiry at CIA was negative. We were not
in ® position to identify the CIA employee without conducting

investigation Within the A Cc r without the Agency coming .

up with the identity. gf ls eK OYA)

wh sre eo |
' =) :

i By letter dated November 8, 1956, we strongly pro-
tested to CIA because representatives of that Agency had inter=
.wiewed an alien in the United States without first obtaining
clearance from the Bureau. It should be noted that there was
@ well-established agreement whereby it was incumbent upon
CIA to first check with the Bureau before interviewing any }
alien in the United States, (Letter to CIA November 8, 1956,

Fr S) SeRUQAY

| at Saas aa Sa ed ,
ek

   
  
 
   
  

JF ECB

 
  
 

 

 
 

  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

+ repens
¢
4

¥

 

 
 

 

Oa

 

Yeo” ora th: Soviet assigned to the une, Nations. (In December, jexQir)
ex colt) 1956, ade a trip td[Bussi .

foe penimar thet wmtonre sag Fert GEERT ee es ee ee

 

 

; I . (ae eUUN

1s. i)‘ seener ,
J FEOF) Cf JNres a former student at Columbia University

with w we had”been in contact because of his association

 

 

ynere he Wis ‘contacted by
an untden ed vas pe and wa i Tetter indicatin
ed

 

 

that the writer was nd that he wag, JPR CDA).
interested in cooperating with the Uni States. When Cs) SFECM le
returned to the United States, we permitted CIA to. interview ;

the subject because of the Agency' i intelligence inter= ;
‘ests. We subsequently interviewed Kt which time he JCF C1 )cA)
informed us that he had been cautioned by CIA not to furnish

pertinent information to Bureau, CTA deni that any such

statement was made. (Re: E) she CIA)

 

 

 

19, CIA REQUEST FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING A HIGH-SPEED CAMERA~
1957 :

 

The San Francisco Office furnished information
indicating that CIA nad roquosted a firm in California to fur
nish that Agency information regarding ali foreign inquiries
pertaining to a high-speed camera manufactured by the company.
The matter was reviewed because we wanted to be certain that
CIA was not invading our jurisdiction, We did not develop
evidence that CIA had overstepped its jurisdiction, The Director ~
did make a notation, "0.K., but it does sean to me we give CIA
@ pretty wide authority to explore such a fiield, B"

(Memorandum Belmont to Boardman April 10, 1957,{'"'Flow of
Intelligence Information to Soviets and Satellites through
So-Called Channels”) ;

20.7 ts) FEO) GAY 8
On May 28, 1957, CIA advised that one of its_repre- JFE LIMA)
sentatives in the field had interviewed the captioned({ChinesS76S
@lien who had agreed cooperate with the Agency after he
returned to(Rea China, (#§CIA’ conducted this interview withou Sa
first obtaitfing cleara@nce from the Bureau. Such clearance’ was
necessary pursuant to an established agreement. A vigorous
protest was made to the Agency, (Re:/ - 100~385852)[$)

' JFK AYA)

 

ve

he

 

te
, , . » 6 =
a4
Jae)

 

 

2 —— ey
on f -

oO an ® |
5. fisuss sxemsi)(6) Jeeinc®)

By letter dated May 19, 1954, we protested to CIA
for the manner in which the Agency handled the case of the
captioned individual, a Soviet defector who had been placed
under CIA control in Europe. . The Bureau had been interested
in interviewing [Khokhlov s soon as he came to the United States,
and this had been agreéd to by CIA, Withoug notifying or
consulting with us, CIA permitted (Khokhlo arrive in the © JFeancs3)
United States and be placed in the hands of a Congressional

 

 

. committee, We were, therefore, unable to interview the subject

in any detail, (Re: [Nikolai KhokhlovJ34s) © Spe Lie)
4. CIA EVALUATION OF MOCASE

In February, 1954, we complained to CIA because the

Agency had evaluated information coming from the key source

in the captioned case as emanating from a fabricator. We had
disseminated certain foreign intelligence information originat-
ing in this case to CiA, The source was a key double agent

in one oi thé most important cases handled by the Rirean, and
the CIA evaluation was not proper or correct as far as we were
concerned. (Re: MOCASE) :

5. CASE or (SYLVIA pangs) SFE AMO)
JEL Oe) $)

(NS ivia Press} was a CIA employee viom that Agency con=
sidered to be a commuhist penetration. The Agency requested
an investigation which was then initiated by us. We subsequently
learned that CIA had been conducting its own investigation which

even included technical surveillance coverage on the subject,
‘We considered this most uncooperative and ze protested.

Re: [Sylvia Press)}/(6) JFE GB)

°6,. DR. OTTO JOHN, VISIT TO BUREAU = 1954

under CIA sponsorship.’ He was afforded a tour of the Bureau

 

Dr. Otto John, a West German security official,
defected to the communists in East Germany in duly, 1954. A
few weeks before his defection, he came to the United States

and he briefly met the Director.

| ‘It is believed that if all availzble facts were col-
lected, the evidence would strongly indicatte that CIA did a very
ineffective job of assessing Dr. Otto John and permitting the
United States Government to be embarrassed by even promoting
a visit for him to this country. We could consider this instance
an affront to the Director and the Bureau. (Memorandum Roach to
Belmont October 13, 1954, "CIA Tours Afforded by Bureau’)

*

.
i
a . . : ~2-

 

 
24-10185-10098

 

‘ALL INFORMATION CONTAL

 

BaD .

   
  

3, Bureau representatives for the purpose of discussing the
a existing differences. General Smith denied that there was any
re covert hostility egeinst the Bureau and maintained that there
an was @ general feeling of respect for us. -He admitted that
Re. there had been isolated instances of friction for which CIA
ae must accept its share of responsibility.
wm EY : ~
an It is my recollection that the Director and other
Br Bureau officials did meet with General Smith, at which time
ne @uidelines were set forth for maintaining future relations
mee between the two agencies. I was not able to find a memorandum
; of record covering this meeting, (62-80750-1712, 1715, 1716,
nl; 1726, 1728, 1748, 1750)

2. PROSELYTING OF BUREAU PERSONNEL BY CIA

 

 

oo. Cb . \
ila ED BY vale LIST OF BUREAU GRIEVANCES |
BECLASSIFY 9 1 : i

“Ge a

1. ATTACKS AGAINST BUREAU (MEXICO CITY AND FRANCE ~ 1951)

. Although Agent Papich did not begin handling Liaison

_ with CIA until (1952, it is important to refer to highly signi- |
ficant differences with CIA which culminated in a serious
conflict in the Fall of 1951. Our Legal Attaches in Mexico City
and Paris reported that CIA representatives were attacking the
Bureau, were endeavoring to place us in an unfavorable light,
were questioning our jurisdiction, and were making disparaging
remarks concerning the Bureau. Some of this was summed up by
characterizing it as covert hostility within CIA, stemming
largely from disgruntled former employees of the FBI.

In October, 1951, General Walter Beddfl Smith, then c
Director of CIA, asked to meet with the Director and other

‘

 

The Agent clearly recalls that early in the 1950's ‘
We encountered difficulties with CIA because the Agency allegedly
was recruiting Bureau-~employed personnel, We vigorously pro-
tested,and subsequently the Agency advised that it would follow
a policy of not having any contact with a Bureau employee until .
the individual had been separated from the Bureau for a period
of at least thirty days. The Agent could not locate the back-
ground of this matter in the files reviewed by him, It is pos-
sible that the pertinent information lies in the personnel file

     

an of some former Bureau Agent. .

- 7 fe B - ew eee Ss aie
898 calor on OA re
ee oh eronmaty eD- ea . a,
An ang 03 nee cat SEAS 9 BN ie ; > 4 ;

i

 

 
 

 

  

7. CASE OF POLISH SEAMEN - ORS - 1954 |

By letter dated October 13, 1954, a very strong letter ~
of protest was sent to General T. J. Betts of the Interagency ©
Defector Committee at CIA, This letter made reference to
political asylum which. was being considered for certain Polish
sailors who had been seized by the Chinese Nationalist Government,
General Betts disseminated a memorandum indicating that members
of the Committee had agreed that in view of commitments made
by the United States and Chinese officials, that failure to
arrange re~entry for the Polish seamen would have an adverse
effect on the over-all United States Defector Program. We
emphasized to General Betts. that this matter had never been
officially presented before the Defector Committee, He was

j hsorued that his action was not conducive to mutual cooperation.

 

8, CIA INTERVIEW OF ALIENS IN THE UNITED SEATES - DISCUSSION
WITH ALLEN DULLES SEPTEMBER 27, 1955

On September 27, 1955, the Liaison Agent met with
Allen Dulles, at which | time the CIA Director's attention. was
referred lo a maitey Which haa not yet deveFoped into 4 serians
situation but if not properly followed could lead to conflicts
between the two agencies, Dulles was referwed to the contacts
of aliens in the United States made by CIA personnel without
first obtaining the necessary clearance from the Bureau, The
requirement for such clearance was clear-cus and pursuant to an
established agreement. (62~80750; memorandum Roach to Belmont
September 28, 1955, "Relations with CIA")

9, CIA APPROACH OF A NATIONAL ACADEMY GRAIWATE (1955) )
oy

“ In November, 1955, an incident arose when CIA approachead’®

a National Academy graduate to utilize his servicesfin

This approach was made while the graduate was attendihg Nationa

Academy classes. A protest was made to key CIA officials for Co

not having. advised us prior to establishing contact with the
Academy graduate. [ee: © JFe OYCB)

ie Fg OH

oy In December, 2 we received information indicating
that CIA was in contact with an individuai whom the Bureau was
developing for utilization in a double agemt operation. We

aera learned that CIA representatives had established contact with

 

 

and had given him some advice and swidance withoutgane ©)

cal Local checking with the Bureau. We protested to CIA, /(105-19001)
JeeW®) -
em Cte eee pe eee an

Te geri

~b-. *

 

epee soe tet Ce ae

 

 
 

‘a

. resuits of name check requests submitted to CIA,

2p epee pee eee pee

 

      

Ce

11. ALLEGED FABIAN SOCIALISTS IN CIA

) FY ow ie) 1
In 1956(General tradeat} former head of G~2,: made

available to the Bureau on a strictly confidential pasis

detailed information concerning alleged infiltration of the JrybdUp
United States Government by "Fabian. Socialists." |{frudeau $s)
furnished the names of.many individuals whom he considered to

fall into this category. Many of those listed were CIA executives,

This item is being listed in the event we felt that
_it could be used to justify that as of that period there was
_reason to deal with CIA in a very circumspect manner,
(Memorandum Roach to Belmont January 11, 1956, "Infiltration
of Fabian Socialists into the High Policy Areas of the
United States Government")
12. DELAYS IN HANDLING NAME CHECK REQUESTS
By letter dated January 11, 1956, our Washington Field
Office called attention to extreme delays encountered. in obtaining
These deleys
particularly related to investigations of applicant matters
being handled by the Bureau, (Memorandum Roach to Belmont January is,
1956 "Applicant Matters - Record Checks at CIA")
13. WILLIAM P, BUNDY ‘
In March, 1956, Allen Dulles announced that William
P, Bundy would serve as a secretary for the Intelligence Advisory
Committee (IAC), of which the Bureau was a member. Bundy, son~
in-law of Dean.Acheson, admitted contributing toe the Alger Hiss
Defense Fund, At the time of this contribution, Bundy was in
the same law firm with Donald Hiss, brother of Alger Hiss.

Although we did not object to the appointment of Bundy,
this is another item to be kept in mind in the event we desired
to uphold an argument that there was reason to be circumspect
in dealings with CIA.

SELLE ) ‘
14. DR. SAMUEL ABRAHAM GOUDSMIT (S

S . .
J O—A— AEr- Gouasni {] was a leading scientist assigned to the GR
ASpookhaven ational Laboratorye{ He had been used as 2 consultant

by such agencies as the Atomic’Energy Commission (AEC) and CIA,
xis October, sees met a Soviet scientist and, with the know- £)
dge of AEC and A, began cultivating him. (Goudsmit informed,

. voorleg

EEC gEe ee ee

     

 

 

tne tte tetera PH RESON FARO STE HORUSID-ET SHS se ABLE Det II CHR HORE EIRP OMEN EET IT PT OTRO

ae

 

 

 
