, House Select Committee on Intelligence. - ett Lote

- , appreciate it if you would bring this concern to the attention of - ;

’ Washington, D. C...20515
‘Dear Chairman Pike: So Lon Lee - seo a :

’ further instructions from the House of Representatives or Speaker of .-

‘Archivist, highly sensitive classified information is contained in

t
|
|
t
|
|
’ ceived by the CIA from the Select Conmittee for storage at CIA oN |
|
i

   
      
 
   
  
  
   
   
 
   
 
   
 
    
    
   
  
   

; ; mn INTELLIGENCE AGENCY “©
fo . ; . WASHINGTON, D.C. 20903

Cu fs +25 Rebruy 1876 ZL

The Honorable Otis Pike, Chaixman- ar
Select Comzittee on Intelligence . . teed ete
House of Representatives... a

 

   

I hereby acknowledge and accept the tems set forth in your ”
letter of February 20 for safekeeping of the three categories of © -
sensitive classified documents furnished to or generated by the --..

“As to the first category, pursuant to your letter, the “on’
loan" material which-was loaned to the Select Comittee by the

. Executive branch has been received by the CIA and such material be ae _
. has been returned to the originating departments and agencies. *-..-. 0 7.

 

| With regard to the second category of materiels, the trans- = 9 | “*?
cripts of testimony taken from current and former Federal officials . “".
in executive sessions of the Select Committee, it is my understanding .. .- .
that these documents will be placed in the National Archives building —* *< :
for safekeeping in the custody of the Archivist of the United States, —.-
and that no one is to be given access to these materials pending . a

the House. As you indicated in your letter of February 20 to the
these transcripts, and they should be treated accordingly by the .
Archivist. I am also concemmed about any future plans for the dis-° =: . 7°.
position of these transcripts. This material includes information. . =. W|I
involving sensitive sources and methods which I aii-charged by lay 1°... =" {E
to protect from unauthorized disclosure.. I would, therefore, :

the Speaker of the House and request that I be involved in any
decision regarding the future disposition of this material. -

‘Finally, with respect to the third category of materials re- “
Headquarters, we have attempted to reconcile our records of docunents
6a-MEYLY-~ Be.

gruuagies

   
 
TeO1670078]

 

‘

Review Staff

Attachments: As Stated an Do . ’
* Distribution: . :

William Hyland/NSC Donald Alexandér/IRS

John Marsh/White House Harold Saunders/State-INR

Thomas Latimer/DOD . : Donald Ogilvie/omB

Antonin Scalia/DOJ _ . Robert Hampton/CSC

Peter Bensinger/DEA } Benjamin Bailar/U.S. Postal Service’

William Cregar/FBI James Rhoads/National Archives oes

Gerald Nensel/Treasury and Records af Pe

‘ of the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs,

. for a future investigation.

. co, . 7 f - conan * SFEONE)

   
   

eng. INTELLIGENCE AGENCY eo)
= _ WASHINGTON,D.C. 20505 . °°.

27 February 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Executive Branch Departments and “pe

SUBJECT: Classified Documents Returned from t le
- House Select Committee on Intelligence

Chairman Pike has designated the CIA as the interim custodian
of the Executive Branch materials heretofore held by the House
Select Committee pending final determination by the House of
Representatives regarding these materials. Attached for your : }
information and possible future reference is a copy of a letter ons
dated February 25, 1976, from the Director of Central Intelligence :
to Representative Otis Pike, Chairman of the House Select
Committee on Intelligence, regarding the disposition and safe~
keeping of classified materials furnished to or generated by . .
the Select Committee. Also attached for your information are :
copies of Chairman Pike's letters of February 20, 1976, to -

Director Bush and to the Archivist of the United States.

Those addressees whose Classified materials are now stored.
‘at CIA Headquarters should advise Captain John Matheny, Office

‘whether any of their documents are missing. Captain Matheny will
“prepare and maintain a consolidated list of Executive Branch
documents which are listed as missing should this be needed

 

 

 

Assistant to the Director

  

 
 

 

delivered to the Select Committee with the - inventory documents
received for storage at CIA Headquarters , and we find ithat a number

_ of CIA domxents are missing. - The materials transtérse ”
Headquarters. f0r Storage Were initially inventoried. Sealed in -
cartons by’ Executive branch representatives on the premises of the
Select Committee in the presence of Committee staff members during

_ the period of February 18-20. Because a number of documents were

"unaccounted for, it was agreed with your staff representative that

certain cartons should be inventoried again to determine whether

the missing doaments might be.in those cartons. Thus, a thorough

second inventory of certain sealed cartons was conducted at CIA on

- February 21 with your concurrence and in the presence of Ms.’ Jacqueline
- Hess of the Select Committee staff. While a few of the missing

documents were found in the second inventory, a number of documents

are still missing. . :

As soon as a complete list of the missing materials is pre-
pared,-my representatives will seek an early meeting with you to
determine what measures can be taken to account for or locate the ©
missing domments. Other Federal agenties are alsd checking their
records and inventories to detemtine whether any of their documents.

‘ate missing. - . r : -

The foregoing pertains only to the missing materials as we
have no way of eccounting for. the multiple copies of classified

’ documents reprocuced by the Select Committee staff from originals

made available by the CIA and other Executive departments and

‘| agencies. To the extent that ‘the multiple copies have not been
. ‘included in the materials to be stored at CIA or the National

- Archives, I, trust that those documents have been destroyed in ac-
cordance with procedures appropriate for classified materials,’

. The following is a-summary of the third category of material:
now held in sealed cartons at CIA Headquarters pending further in- ©
structions from the House of Representatives or the Speaker of the

House:

“Rockefeller Commission Files 13 Cartons .

oe

CIA Files ° - "32 Cartons |
Dept. of Defense Files “oy -7 Cartons

(1 carton of DoD files labeled
“pending resolution of on loan
. material'')
Co:

    
    

IC Files i
(Carton 2 has partial materials
from: Treasury, Civil Service; : 0 oa, ot
OB, and Post Office) . ee

a)

- DEA Files ., a
Dept. of State Files. |, “4 oe 16 Carton
Dept. of Justice/Atty. General: : . 1 Carton ;
- PBI Files °. | * (7. 1 Cartons °

(Carton 7 has partial files” : ot,
’ | £eom State, DEA, Civil oe oot,
. OB, ‘Treasury/IRS- and” IC) -

HSC Transtittal Books “3. 1 Carton on
Pe TOTAL: _ 6 Cartons.”

. Unless advised by you to ‘the’ ‘contrary, ‘we will assume that this .
breakdown of cartons accords with your records and that the Speaker
of the House has been:so advised. The contents of each carton have

_ been individually inventoried and Ms. Hess has receipted for the .
contents of each carton. Copies of these inventories have been
the Hoos to Ms. Hess for transmittal to the office of the Speaker of

e House. . . : “

' I wish to express my personal appreciation for your = deoperstian ”
in making possible, in the short time available, the transfer of the -
materials ta be heid for safekeeping at the CIA Headquarters.” Jo

. . mo Bot Sincerely, cone an oe
: oe ot . - “Goons aft
’ . ‘Director

ec: Honorable Carl Albert,
- Speaker of the House
of Representatives

ag
