 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
      

the agent, and the preparation of the.agent for his --.:2°"-
Jomext assignnent abroad, an are we

“agent in the United States, CIA will service FBI security
“ or counterintelligence requirements and will provide the

interests,

 

  

cg eee 0 BECREF
a a M ce Fa

entral Intelligence Agency . Ce te
Operations in the United States Syne -

   

assignment, the Bureau will be advised and the two agenciés
will confer regarding the handling of the agent in the
United States, It is recognized that each case will have

  

internal security factors, CIA Will continue its’
-COitractual relationship for the purpose of handling

the training, the procurement of positive foreign
intelligence, the fulf¥liment of CIA commitments to

-(6) In those cases where CIA will be ‘handling its,
FBI all asent information bearing on counterintelligence

identities of the agent's significant contacts, particularly
in the comuufist—bloc field, In such cases where CIA )
Servicing haS bééh Ghadequate to FBI internal. security
the-FBIwill have direct access to the agent. (§)

a

     

 
 

 

124-10274-10004

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

otmoekl 6:
CLASSIFIED BY Sf-

  
    
       
  

fe ania Bmemmme yo ne Sone
. . 1 non

SAEP,
es 7 ~

 

Wu sau ¢ ON

    

Oh 5

20

  

35

 

das Keply. Pleese Refer fo Wa SUINCGTON, DC.

Fit, No. =
ena 1966

February 7,

<

 

  

BLLIGENC
morn nc

doa We

u AGENCY

“CENTRAL INT
JITED STATES

OPER NS Ih

 

 

   

QQ) CIA: will not initiate an investigation of any
foreign official in the United States without the concurrence .
and coordination of the FBI. In this context, the term ?
: "investigation" means systematic and direct inquiries or

vp» procedures (such as physical or technical surveillances
‘| or neighborhood inquiries) aiming at developing . information
concerning an individual's activities or background;
“investigation". does not include the acceptance’ or the .
development of information through social. contacts or contact
e by CIA agents in discharging their cover

normally ma
functions ‘©

 

(2) ora’ will seat | concurrence dnd: ‘coordination of
‘ the FBI before approaching for recruitmént. any foreign
official or communist-bloc visitor in the United States,
“Phe FBI will concur and Coordinate if the proposed action
Goes not conflict with any operation, current or planned,
“including active investigation of the, FBI, ©). :
(3) ‘CIA will advise the. FBI prior to any planned
meeting between a CIA asset and‘a forei gn official or
conmunist-bloc visitor of known or presumed interest to
the FBI (this would include all communist-bloc officials
and visitors) for purposes of assessment and social
developnent.& ) vgs °

 

in

  

& ton

 

 

 

     
  

IA staff operatives,
3 and foreign agents of CIA recruitec
BS abroad who come to thé United States will be identified ts
S| the FBI by name or appropriate description depending on |
Be i the >» national security interest involyed, ) . 3
ov. ‘é ‘*
al ‘ 5) Pursuant to parag raph 4 ‘above, when a CIA agent
>| : arrives in the Gaited | States for 3 visit or for an(S)
“ * SECRET .
: “i. GROgp 1 oo,
: Exclud from automatic

ing and
ification

’ downer
. declas

 

 

 
