 

rr! 3)

The absence of an Xx" in the "Bank! column means that the letter
‘was not opened and that only the exterior is recorded in'our files.

5. Since the hypothetical request was. for mail from(P, KROVAN,
who is believed to be located in(Moscow) only the listing as set out
above would be furnished, since it would not appear thatfParaskoviya
KROVAN,) located in the western section of ina eens SSR) is
identical’ If in connection ‘with future investigat ‘on, or information
otherwise available, you may believe that OVAN)may be identical
with the individual of interest to you, you néed reférence only the
HUNTER report number and request the exterior photographs of
item No. A57C05C3325, which will be reproduced from the original
film and made available to you,

 

“ 6. If the hypothetical request is for any mail from the Goviet
Union to Rose ESTERSON) who resides in Chicago, the reply might .
be as follows:
Date «& Name In Ref Loc Name Out . Ref Loc Ban

A57D23U 57D18 (AVRUNINA, Vera| ( *) Aaa (nsrERson, nos) KKB X

The difference in this Meting from that previously illustrated is as follows:

a
: nyt ig our internal identifying designator. The first date is the date
of the intercept. The second date is the date of the communication
inside the letter. The "K" under the "Ban'' column indicates the letter
was opened. Again this indicator would indicate only a possible identi~

: fication since KKB under "Loc. indicates California. In this instance
upon request, identifying the HUNTER report-number and referencing
both A57D23U and 57D18 mambers, the outer snvelopes: and their con»
tents will be reproduced and furnished to you.

7. Normal service of either of the above requests will be 24 hours,
In an emergency we could. service the request in a few minutes.

‘8 If your first request had been for(KROVAN ; or P, KROVAN,
2 Paraskoviya KROVAN} located in the western section of the

Ukrainian SSR) you would have initially received the phctograph of
e envelope. Likewise, in the second instance, if your request had

3

~ §eeneT

 

 

 
 

 

gees SS

been for ESTERSON, or R, .ESTERSON, or Rose ESTERSON) located
in Chicago, or Illinois, you would initially-have received photographed
~-___Sopies-of the envelope and its contents.
AAS “in order to insure most efficient servicing of your request,
it is suggested that you submit trace requests as follows: List the
last name first with any known first and given names or initials, and

address including state, city and street, if known, If an exact address .

is not known, a probable state or section will be helpful but is not
required, Thé same would apply to the(ussR The above should be
listed on duplicate 3x 5 cards. If only a phonetic name is ‘known,
‘various combinations of spellings would be appreciated, together
with any other data such as probable address or area.. Where an
address is known and there are individuals, other than the subject,
at this address to whom the ‘questioned communication might be .
addressed, their names should also be given, For record purposes |
and in order to facilitate our. answers to your request, would you in
turn number each card as HUNTER Request No. ..
& enero
10. -On each request will you also indicate whether the request
is for a one~time check or whether the name should be put on the
“Watch List. If the latter ; Please indicate the duration of the Watch
List, i,e. 30, 60, 90 days, or "until cancelled". Ifa Watch List is
bl ‘Fequested, you should also indicate the treatment desired when a
possible hit is made, i.e. photograph outside only; photograph
outside and contents; photograph outside, contents, and examine for
S/W or microdots, Specifically indicate any Watch List item which
should not be opened. In this‘connection you may also desire to give:
‘ us a white list of corre spondents of interest to you Whoare not Watch

List subjects but whose mail should not be opened in the course of . 5

our normal openings for spot-checking for operational or intelligenca !
information. In some instances you may desire to indicate that you
are to be informed immediately when a hit is made and prior to the
receipt of the letter by the. addressee. ‘ : :

ll, It is possible to make a special machine run of the names
of all correspondents either addressor, addressee, or both, from
_ any specific area in the (USSR) to the United States or to any specific
state or city in the U.S., or‘vice versa. There are various other
combinations that could be run, such as all letters mailed in Florida
either on a specific date or for any given period. If the above-listed

“

, ar)

eo /, CEPRET

 

Parle ened
 

 
   

‘SECRET

.Date ‘ NameIn _ “Ref Loc Name Out Ref Loc Ban

A 57CO5C3325 fnovan, Paraskoviya i) ABB EVOSWA, Wasyl( ) KM
\ sO .

This reply has the following meaning:
? oar .

TA" has no present meaning, Ail numbers are now preceeded by
"A" only'to-allow for future additional classifications. None are
“presently contemplated. ©. oe °

— "'57COB'is the date of intercept, namely: : gy is the year. "Ci" |
: indicates the month. The code key for months is set out as Enclosure L
toy , nos" is the day: of the month. Thus, "BTGO5" is 5 March 1957,

The group "03325" is .our own internal ‘filing number. .

The "Name In" entry identifies the correspondent inside tae(ussR.) .

The asterisk i in "Ref column indicates that{KROVAN sort the se

‘The entry in "Loc" (ation) column indicates the area or city inside /
the Soviet Union}from which the letter was mailed, In this case it was
léd from thé western séction offUkrainian SSR The code key

tised fox this column is set out in Enclosure 2, This code key is to

be used for all items priot to 1 January 1958, on which date a 4«place
‘code was instituted in order to designate more precisely the localities
within th {ussR} A copy: of this new code is enclosed as Enclosure 3.

‘The ‘Name Out entry identifies the correspondent outside the
(UssR) | In both the "Name, In" and "Name Out" columns, the last or
family name is listed first,

 

The absence of an asterisk in the "Ref" column after EVOSWA
indicates that she is the recipient of the letter.

The entry in the second "Loc" (ation) column indicates the state of
the U.S. (in this case, New Jérsey) to which the letter was addressed.
The code key uged for this column is set out in Enclosure 4. You
will note that some 3~digit entries indicate large cities within a state,
thus KO indicates New York State and KOA indicates New York City.
For your convenience an alphabetical list of the states with their code
indicator is set out in Enclosure 5.

eo on 2

 
 

“4  #

 

.

er
ard : LLIGENCE AGENCY oe
. er \ coms oa 25, D.C. ; ;

 

. merase |

   

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
: ‘ Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: (Mee Ss. J. Papich)

    

NTER Report #1

aha S
- 1. The intercept project thatha s been explaineg 6 : fy to—F
(uc. Papich) will be referred to a? Project. HUNTER Hn correspondence
between thd Federal Bureau of Investigation and this Agenoy.

2. This explanatory: memorandum constitutes HUNTER-Report
« #1. Future disseminations will be numbered consecutively.

3. In submitting possible traces on individuals of interest to.
‘you, reports will be submitted in the following form:

4: a If the individual named i in the intercept appears to be
identical with the individual of interest to"you, you will be furnished
a reproduction of the exterior, and of the contents if the item has been
opened,

b. If the individual named in the intercept is only possibly
identical with the individual of interest to you, only machine rm
listing of the items will be submitted. In such cases a reproduction
of the exterior and of the contents, if the item has been opened, will
be available upon request. . : ‘

N _  . 4 In order to facilitate your reading of machine run entries,
there follows an explanation of the various types of replies which you
will receive in connection with requests, A hypothetical request for

any addressee in the U.S. mail from(P, KROVAN) whose location
a " is believed to be in(Moscow, might result in the foll wing reply:

4 BEG. Bb
GX | BBB LU verb 20 1958 ‘
. Pee SECRET ~~ —

 

   

 
  

   

 

en FCRET @ \
: Off cé “Momarindes EGR ES GOVERNMENT,

‘ALL NU WPORMATION GO CONTAINED We ae
; ts HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
TO : MR. L. Ve BOARDMAN? le gui OTHBANEGEebruary 6, » 1958

  

 

   
   

 

  

er eennemnmerennenerate
. ene

raoM : MR, A, 3 BELMONT

= ae .
sunpet: COVERAGE’ ‘OF MAIL TO THE(G. U.S.S.

. Reference my memo of 1-27- 58 advising of the briefing given our
Liaison Agent by CIA representativés on 1-24-58 as to, the nature and extent of -
4 CIA coverage of mail going to and coming from(Russi Our Liaison Agent
determined that CIA began this coverage approximately a year and a half ago- thro
confidential arrangements made with postal authorities, Initially, this coverage |
involved photographing of envelopes; these envelopes were not to be opened,

 

gh

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

interesi to US. ane
; An analysis h: has been made of CIA capabilities as revealed to the Liaison Agent

 

es

PUDEM:mn (9) © fbn
cc = Messrs ‘{Boardman Belmont
fs v, Branigan Litrento .
‘Sen ¢ Baumgardner ~ JDHondhue
BEARER oMalsRapich. Turner —

' pr information revealing evidence of Soviet intelligence operations in the United States,
CIA has also advised that this program, has not reached its full potential, but that its

‘}types, both that which has been received in the past and that which they will obtain ling,

Aosile agent purposes, x Vos G3BO0FS.

secret writing has been made to a limited extent because the volume of mail has been too
humerous for the establishment of 2 practical system without delaying -movenent of|the .
mail, IA has advised that to date it has not discovered any microdots or secret writing

system of opening mail is rapidly increasing, CIA has expressed a willingness to
furnish us any information. obtained from this coverage which we feel would be-of |v

and it is believed we should request that CIA furnish us information of the following

the future? (Cree
“yy Au correspondence of a suspicious nature, such as that t containing dow
talk, et cetera.

2) All correspondence indicating that the(Goviet) may be utilizing a hostage |
situation, i.e., correspondence indicating presstre being exerted on vied citizens who |
have close relatives in the U.S. or pressure being exerted on individuals in U.S, i

8) Any information appearing in correspondence indicating weaknesses or j
dissatisfaction on the part of any Soviet presently in the United States so that the Bureau |
might give consideration to feasibility of approaching such individuals for a) i

Any information sppenring in correspondence indicating Soviet cofitrol or

airection of.the Cp, USA. an,

     
  
  

 

 

 
 

1 het > . oO tga ta ~ - 7
a *. os eo - . a Seivatle li ra . _ @ ;
Belmont to Boardman (2-68-58) > oe
re: COVERAGE OF MAIL TO Tame. 8.8. »

With regard to the above coverage, it is believed desirable that Liaison make
’ arrangements for us to review at CIA any material of this nature and we will‘then._ .
select that which appears to warrant investigation and then make appropriate ‘che 8.
This procedure will élimindte. having CIA sending us a bunch of worthless material with .
the possible’expectation that we will be running out leads for them. It is believert this
arrangem ent can be. wartkied out with CIA in a proper fashion.

. Jn addition to the above it is believed the folowing arrangements can be
effected with CIA:

js ' “]) * Place stops against names and addresses of individuals possibly ere

 

. engaged in(Soviel) espionage to determine if they are in correspondence with({U. 5.5. R
This would include a check of the back traffic on these individuals also. We vould, ‘Of
course, make these stops on a highly selective basis.

; 2) Request CIA to place stops against. addresses inGoriet Russia’ believed by the
‘Bureau to be mail drops.or suspected mail drops. (It showkd_be noted tliat we alread

. have placed.a stop with CIA against the name and address off 7
ze » Which, according to information received fron & Maui-5,

is a drop utilized by Soviet)illegdl agents “all over the world arranging emergency meet
i

 

 

 

 

: \ We will, of course, continue to analyze this coverage by CIA to see that we
obtain poaximum benefits, . a

 

ReConmnpattons: :
-)) ‘ That information received from this source be hereinafter designated aR
“Bureau Info Records Section has advised that this informant symbol h

not been” previously - ised,

\ a {
4 .

- 2) That this matter and any mail relating thereto be labeled "June" and then ‘
filed and maintained in the{Sovmeé) Unit, Room 1734 (the regular repository of "su j
mail) to afford maximum security to this sources

“ €

3) That our Ldaison-Agent orally advise CIA of the type of data set forth above

“that would be of interest to us and make arrangements with CIA so that we can review.
* this type of information in order to select that which we feel will warrant further i
investigation. Liaison should also perfect the arrangement with CIA so that on a .
continuing basis we can place eae stops withthem.

Srowk ly

. 4) In view of thé extreme sensits ity rot this matter, a confirmatory aan
. & .

 

 

 

——_ willnat he furnished ta CTA wry ?
 

 

 

 

"e
©:
an

 

 

 

we

2

ELT

oLlo0/ ~
 

124-10273-10070

 

      

2 Wrens BOOM Wh Me

ne Office Lhe wut 2 UKE

/
“) SE

To: MR, BOARDMAN yore

i paeex pT LORIE ang
FROM NI —
. fe se ae 2 oar
SUBJRCY: nok OF mai "0 6 fiat 8,8. RY" *

BY Ros

 

ia Tamm|

Nea :
v On January 10, 1958 180, ary saad Sf Rep eeonta- Theehowd .
i Alive with the Bureau, confidentia y advised that higService had Helfoman
La Jess determined that{Soviet illegal agents all over the world, when they want a feed
on riiget with their principal, are under instructions to send a proper communication/-~
i re o"K. S. Smirnov, Central Post Office, Viadimir, U.S.8.R." Mr. Stone]stated@S)
tholRCM rementioned information was being made available to the Bureau and

Blo. On the basis of this information, we immediately instructed the

j Washington Field and New York Offices to institute confidential inquiries with
appropriate Post Office officials to determine the feasibility of covering onfgorns
‘ corfespondence from the U.S. to the(U. 8.8.R.), looking toward picking up 2
1 communication dispatched to the omen d address. .

On January 21, 1958, sa Povers ¥ the New York Office called
advising that his preliminary inquirfes at HifSt disclosed that such coverage
coukt possibly be effected at LaGuardia Airfield, Powers statéd that he subse uently
received a cali from the Chief Post Office Inspéctor who told him that he would not

ls able to make such arrangements and explained that something had happened |in

 

ns enoe menerremenae & Tre a

 

 

 

t
Net
‘
t

Washington on a similar matter and that Bureau Headquarters should take up the
matter with Post Office Headquarters here in Washington, The Post Office
faspector said that it did not involve our agency and because of what. was going ,

on in Washington at the present time, he just couldn't do it on his own. ;

Almost simultaneous with this advice, Mr, James Angleton of CIA

approached our Liaison Agent,{Sam Papich\on a personal basis. He indicated

| that if it were known within CIA That he was volunteering this information to the
Bureau, he would lose his job. Mr. Angleton stated it had come to the attention

oi CIA, through the Post Office, . that we were making inquiries concerning the
| coverage of mail to the{U.S.5.R}, and as a result CIA was expecting to receive
an inquiry in Washington from the FBI, Mr. Angleton then admitted that this

. [|leszersge was one of the biggest and most secret operations being conducted by
CIA. He stated the coverage is 3 ey aay made fh of! Vos Vie the | Post G58 ah

"|; WAB: > ae
( (8) ae Aone il ie ee! epee
. eg: l/- Boardman - “D wg Ee ON eT eben fi
4 ’~ Belmont Pent ne. * vibes 20%

 

 

_ Vey We BraniganS LA PS woe
 

 

—_ + Situaate f
MEMO TO: MR, BOARDMAN
RE: COVERAGE OF MAIL TO ons 8.8. R,)

is an extensive and expensive operation, He indicated that they had to set up an
elaborate array of IBM machines to tally and tabulate the results. In addition
a complicated indexing procedure was involved, as well as complex scientific

examinations of the material, || J

“indicated that thé coverage has been in 1 in existence in excess of a year and he:
stated that the sole purpose for the cove: coverage “was toddentify persons behind the
Iron Curtain who might have some ties in the U.S. and who could be approached:
4in their countries as Contacts and sources for CIA. Angleton indicated that C
‘Thad’ successfully developed several sources through this means. He stressed -|-
the confidential nature of his information and stated that while other officials'of
CIA more directly concerned with the coverage were expecting a visit from the’
FBS he was passing this along for our guidance.

| and in view of the volume of material being sent from the U.S., their coverage

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*

it would appear that our inguiries of the Post Office officials in

New York have flushed out a most secret operation of CIA. The question
immediately arises as to whether CIA in effecting this coverage in New York
has invaded our jurisdiction. In this regard, it is believed that they have a
legitimate right in the objectives for which the coverage was set up, namely, —
the development of contacts and sources of information behind the Iron’ Curtain,
and-according to Angleton they have had some success: in this regard. At the
same time, there is an internal security objective here in which, because of
our responsibilities, we have a definite interest, namely, the identification of
illegal espionage agents who may be in the United States, While recognizing’
. this interest, it is not believed that the Bureau should assume this coverage
because of the inherent dangers in the sensitive nature of it, its complexity,
size and expense, It is believed that we can capitalize on this coverage by’
pointing out to CIA our internal security objectives and holding them responsibl

to share their coverage with us... Of course, we are not interested in the
identities of the numerous persons in this country jee rtnately corresponding
abroad. The Post Office has indicated there are approximately four thousand
x | items of correspondence to th 'v. 8:s, 3) each day. Angleton said they vy have. not

Coie up witha mi¢radot or Sec Yet mes age communication as yet,

ACTION: _ ) a Shae i

1 On the basis of our. 7 inquiries conducted in New York, we are in
a position and should, through Liaison, approach CIA, informing them, that it
‘thas been indicated that their Agency has coverage of mail going to thef¥.S.8. r

We should get from them the details of their coverage and explain our Ynterest in -
{being furnished with the results of the coverage as it might effect internal Security

matters

 

~ ©

|

echakerne eee
 

 

 

MEMO TO: MR, BOARDMAN
RE: COVERAGE OF MAIL TO hin Gas s. R)

mo, 2.. It is believed that we can and should furnish CIA with the name
and Moscow address furnished us ‘by the British,] telling CIA that we want to
be ativised of any communications going 6 that™address, We will not explain
to them our interest in the particular address and, therefore, we will not be
violating the confidence of tne[British | G 5)

2

to

3. In view of the highly. sensitive nature of ‘this coverage, we will |

have Ag work out arrangements so that knowledge of it is strictly confined
within the Bureau, We wili handle this the 1 same as~ ‘ aandle communication:
intelligence data. ; 7 *s

  

co SRG _

»

 

 
