Memorandum Legal Counsel to the Director
Re: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

In his letter of December 13, 1978, Mr. Blakey,
writing on behalf of Chairman Stokes, explained that since
the informant report in question stemmed from Patterson,
it was his (Blakey's)understanding that our release of ma-
terials would include no objection to Patterson having what
he had originally given to the FBI. Mr. Blakey expressed
regret that this instance caused any concern and assured
the Director that the HSCA would continue to afford FBI ma-
terial all measures of confidentiality in compliance with
the Memorandum of Understanding.

Upon receipt of Mr. Blakey's letter, the Director
attached a routing slip, noting "Are you satisfied with this
response? Anything further required?"

Mr. Blakey was contacted on January 11, 1979, and
was questioned whether or not any other material had been
released by the Committee. Mr. Blakey advised that no other
release had been made and that he understood that no docu-
ments should have been released without Bureau approval
pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding. Mr. Blakey
has advised that material of this, ay be available through
FOI/PA.

_RECOMMENDATION :

None. For information.

rege Adm. Serv, Legal Cou

yp Crim. inv. — ~

\ g Director a a

VM assoc. DI “yy ident .

\) Dep. AD oof Tote nn
Dep. AD ING. Laboratory

       
aoe ae Assoc..ifir.
N Dep. AD Adm.
oop at Ke a vee Dep. AD Inv.
UNITED STATES GOVERN:MENT . UNITED STATES DEPARTMuzN Tt OF JUSTICE Asst. Dir.:
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION Aen. fee
Memorandum cn
Intell,
Laboratory

TO : The Director DATE: 1/18/79 Foe kin. :
a Rec. Mgnt. ene
v ech. Servs

. Training
FROM : Legal Couns Public Affs. Off.
Telephone Rm. —
Director's See'y

 

 

 

SUBJECT: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

The purpose of this memorandum is to advise of a
contact with a Staff Director for the captioned Committee
regarding the Committee's unauthorized release of informant
reports and other documents. Pursuant to the request of
Associate Director Adams dated January 11, 1979, Special
Agent Danny O. Coulson of the Legal Counsel Division con-
tacted G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel, captioned Committee.

DETAILS:

By letter dated December 6, 1978 (copy attached),
HSCA Chairman Louis V. Stokes was furnished a copy of an FBI
document dated May 26, 1971, an informant report from the
St. Louis Field Office file of former informant Oliver Pat-
terson. This informant report, along with three related
items of correspondence, was furnished to the FBI via the
Department of Justice (DOJ) by Harold Weisberg, a private
citizen, author and self-styled assassination prober.
Mr. Weisberg received the document from Patterson.

The informant report in question was furnished
the HSCA in response to the Committee's request dated Jan-
uary 26, 1978, for all retrievable information concerning
Patterson. Our letter to Mr. Stokes expressed concern that
a document of this nature entered the public domain in such
a manner and requested that the HSCA, in compliance with the
Memorandum of Understanding, afford proper and necessary
security to our documents during the course of future public
hearings and t eC HSCA EE, report.

nk

“ag ngune - Canes

\ mnol cae - ole lacked £ EGLO St
pie bnthe } pamver & Lge soe

 

ita § - ae |

 

Mr. Adams - Lanne
a Mr. Bassett - Enclosure 4
1 - Mr. Ryan - Enclosure
1 - Mr. Foster - Enclosure
2 - Mr. Coulson - Enclosure —

 

boc Lge ( 7) Dale w ence

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payrol! Savings Plan FBI/DOS

 
~ Sek ores

~ l= 1 -"Mr. Adams
1 - Mr. M@Dermott
. 1 - Mr. Bassett
1 - Mr. santa

Attn, Re Mr. Coul
1 - Mr. Ry yan
sdnaal® 10! O8E95

Mr\. GG. Robert: Blakey
Chieé Counsel and Director

ao

. a

ence is made to your letter_of December 13,
5 Materials furnished te the Fedgtal Bureau
of Investigation XFBI) from Harold Weisberg.——

 

You are cdsrect that the infortiant report in

question was prepared Mr. Pattersop“and given the Bureau
in 1971. However, the MJ-306 cover sheet was attached by
the FEI upon filing and, evefore, did net originate with

Me. Patterson. Further, atthe gime of our release of docu-
ments to the House Seleet Comittee on Assassinations (HSCA)

eoneerning Me. Patterson, unger he Memorandum of Understanding,

these documents could not be publicly diselesed without
prior approval of the FBI,” Since is would include docu-
ments stemming from Mr. Fattersen, your understanding is
incorrect that we de net object to ir \Pattersen having
what he originally £ prnished the Bureau.

tt is refuested that any other FET documents in
your possess ion which may have been similarly.provided to
biz, Patterson @r any other outside party be idémtified,
along with the identities of the recipients.

  

Your reassurance that the Committee will tm the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

f a ae . he
yew future afford FBI material all measure of conficentiahity is
appreciated. .,
Assoc. Dir. —__. “ oy. cc eae ee Ss hacreren
be, AD Adm Sincerely yours, set Tee ia “ my
Dep. ADInv. Z y,
Asst. Dir: a . . c
Adm. Serv. — 2 . DAVe Xo i spent
Crim. Inv. * +s oe
Fin, & Pers. — William H. Webster
tient Director
Laboratory a
Legal Coun. f° ‘es A .
Plan. & Insp. TTA cfb 5 : SEE NOTE PAGE TWO ;
Rec. Mgnt. “SHEROVE DO: Adm. i By
Spec. Inv. a —
Tech, Servs, —— f i not
Training A \ og a thy
Public Affs, Off, y
Telephone Rm. — tay.
Director's Sec'y — MAIL ROOM [1] TELETYPE UNIT [1] *?* geipos

       

canug oo
G. Robert Blakey
House Select Committee on Assassinations
U. S. House of Representatives

NOTE: See memorandum UJ. Ryan to Myr. Bassett, 1/5/79, cap-
tioned “House Select Committee on Assassinations
(HSCA) ," prepared by JTA:cfb.

Adm. Serv.

Crim. Inv, Dea.

      
