E

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

 

2453

to conduct a thorough study of the FBI's Counterintelligence
Programs has reported that in the five basic ones it- found
3,247 Counterintelligence Programs were submitted to FBI
Headquarters from 1956 to 1971. Of this total, 2,370,

less than three fourths, were approved.

I repeat, the vast majority of those 3,247 proposals were
being devised, considered, and many were rejected, in an era
when the FBI was handling an average of 700,000 investigative
matters per year.

Nonetheless, the criticism which has been expressed
regarding the Counterintelligence Programs is most legitimate
and understandable.

The question might well be asked what I had in mind when
I stated last year that for the FBI to have done less than it
did under the circumstances then existing would have been an
abdication of its responsibilities to the American people..

What I said then, in 1974, and what I believe today, is
that the FBI employees involved in these programs did what the
felt was expected of them by the President, the Attorney General,
the Congress, and the people of the United States.

Bomb explosions rocked public and private offices and
buildings; rioters led by revolutionary extremists laid seige
to military, industrial, and educational facilities; and
killings, maimings, and other atrocities accompanied such

acts of violence from New England to California.
smn 8 |

Phone (Area 202} 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

 

 

2454

The victims of these acts were human beings, men, women,
and children. As is the case in time of peril, whether real or
perceived, they looked to their Government, their elected and
appointed leadership, and to the FBI and other law enforcement
agencies to protect their lives, their property, and their
rights.

There were many calls for action from Members of Congress
and others, but few guidelines were furnished. The FBI and other
law enforcement agencies were besieged by demands, impatient
demands, for immediate action.

FBI employees recognized the danger; felt they had a
responsibility to respond; and in good faith initiated actions
designed to counter conspiratorial efforts of self-proclaimed
revolutionary groups, and to neutralize violent activities.

In the development and execution of these programs,
mistakes of judgment admittedly were made.

Our concern over whatever abuses occurred in the Counter-
intelligence Programs, and there were some substantial ones,
should not obscure the underlying purpose of those programs.

We must recognize that situations have occurred in the
past and will arise in the future where the Government may well
be expected to depart from its traditional role, in the FBI's
case, as an investigative and intelligence-gathering
agency, and take affirmative steps which are needed to meet

an imminent threat: to human life or property.
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

smn o

24

25

 

 

 

 

I believe we have lived up to those promises.

The members and staff of this Committee have had unprece-
dented access to FBI information.

You have talked to the personnel who conduct security~type
investigations and who are personally involved in every facet
of our day-to-day intelligence operations.

You have attended numerous briefings by FBI officials who

have sought to familiarize the Committee and its staff with

 

all major areas of our activities and operations in the national
security and intelligence fields.

In brief, you have had firsthand examination of these
matters that is unmatched at any time in the history of the
Congress.

As this Committee has stated, these hearings have, of
necessity, forcused largely on certain errors and abuses. I
credit this Committee for its forthright recognition that the
hearings do not give a full or balanced account of the FBI's
record of performance.

It is perhaps in the nature of such hearings to focus
on abuses to the exclusion of positive accomplishments of the
organization.

The Counterintelligence Programs which have received the
lion's share of public attention and critical comment constituted
an infinitesimal portion of our overall work.

A Justice Department Committee which was formed last year
n

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, 0.C. 20003

 

 

 

_ _ 2451

STATEMENT OF THE HONORABLE CLARENCE M. KELLEY,

DIRECTOR, FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Mr. Kelley. Thank you very much, Senator Church and
gentlemen.

I welcome the interest which this Committee has shown in
the FBI and most particularly in our operations in the intelli
gence and internal security fields.

I share your high regard for the rights guaranteed by the
Constitution and laws of the United States. Throughout my
35 year career in law enforcement you will find the same insist
tence, as has been expressed by this Committee, upon programs
of law enforcement that are themselves fully consistent with
law.

I also have strongly supported the concept of legislative
oversight. In fact, at the time my appointment as Director of
the FBI and was being considered by the Senate Judiciary
Committee two and one half years ago, I told the members of
that Committee of my firm belief in Congressional oversight.

This Committee has completed the most exhaustive study
of our intelligence and security operations that has ever been
undertaken by anyone outside the FBI other than the present

Attorney General. At the outset, we pledged our fullest

 

cooperation and promised to be as candid and forthright as
possible in responding to your questions and complying with your

requests.
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

 

 

 

 

Kelley took charge. : ~

The Staff has advised the Committee that under Director
Kelley the FBI has taken significant steps to rethink previous
policies and to establish new safeguards against abuse. The
FBI is now placing greater emphasis on foreign related intelli
gence operations, and less on purely domestic surveillance.
The FBI is working more closely with the Justice Department in
developing policies and standards for intelligence. These
are welcome developments.

Nevertheless, many important issues remain unresolved.
Therefore, we have invited Director Kelley to share with the
Committee his views on some of the considerations the Congress
should take into account in thinking about the future of
FBI intelligence. Among these issues are whether FBI surveil-}|
lance should extend beyond the investigation of persons
likely to commit specific crimes; whether there should be
outside supervision or approval before the FBI conducts certai
types of investigations or uses certain surveillance technique
whether foreign related intelligence activities should be
strictly separated from the FBI's domestic law enforcement
functions, and what should be done to the information already
in the FBI files and that which may go into those files in
the future.

The Committee looks forward to a constructive exchange

of views with Director Kelley this morning, with Attorney
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

smn 4

 

 

 

 

2450_

General Levi tomorrow, and with both the FBI and the Justice
Department in the next months as the Committee considers
recommendations that will strengthen the American people's
confidence in the Federal Bureau of Investigation. That
confidence is vital for the effective enforcement of Federal
law and for the security of the nation against foreign
espionage.

Director Kelley, we are pleased to welcome you, and if

you would have a prepared statement you would like to lead off

with, please proceed.

 
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, 0.C. 20003

 

 

CONTENT

STATEMENT OF: PACE

The Honorable Clarence M. Kelley,
Direcotor, Federal Bureau of Inve-
stigation 2451
Vol. 20

Che United States Senate

Report of Proceedings

Hearing held before

Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations

With Respect to Intelligence Activities

INTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATION

Wednesday, December 10, 1975

Washington, D.C.

WARD & PAUL

410 FIRST STREET, S. E. .
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003 1 ‘ bet netnes

a . ~

  
  
 

   
  

      
 

 

ZA S
FEI~SAN

  

(202) 544-6000 ANTOR

“oe
AHW/smnl ., : _ — 2447
° .

[=]

ca]

Oo

3 1 INTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATION

g

N

3 2 7S

¢

5 3 Wednesday, December 10, 1975
A ---+
5 United States Senate,
6 Select Committee to Study Governmental
” Operations with Respect to
8 Intelligence Activities,
9 Washington, D. C.
10 The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 10:10
11 o'clock a.m., in Room 318, Russell Senate Office Building,

12 the honorable Frank Church (Chairman of the Committee)

13 presiding.

WARD & PAUL

14 Present: Senators Church (presiding), Hart of Michigan,

15 Mondale, Huddleston, Hart of Colorado, Baker, Goldwater and

16 Mathias.

WW Also present: William G. Miller, Staff Director; Frederidk

18 A. O. Schwarz, Jr., Chief Counsel; Curtis R. Smothers, Minorit

 

19 Counsel; Paul Michel, Joseph diGenova, Barbara Banoff, Frederick
20 Baron, Mark Gitenstein, Loch Johnson, David Bushong, Charles
Lombard, John Bayly, Charles Kirbow, Michael Madigan, Bob

22 Kelley, John Elliff, Elliot Maxwell, Andy Postal, Pat Shea,

23 Michael Epstein and Burt Wides, Professional Staff Members.

 

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, 0.C. 20003

25 The Chairman. The Committee's witness this morning is
n

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000 8

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

N

 

 

 

 

 

2448

the Honorable Clarence M..Kelley, the Director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation.

Mr. Kelley was appointed Director in July of 1973 ina
troubled time for the FBI. His experience as an innovative
law enforcement administrator in charge of the Kansas City
Police Department for over ten years, and his previous work as
a Special Agent of the FBI have made him uniquely qualified
to lead the Bureau.

The Select Committee is grateful for the cooperation
extended by Director Kelley in the course of its inquiry over
the past months. The Committee is also impressed by the
openness of the FBI's witnesses before this Committee, and
their willingness to consider the need for legislation to
clarify the Bureau's intelligence responsibility.

It is important to remember from the outset that this
Committee is examining only a small portion of the FBI's
activities. Our hearings have concentrated on FBI domestic
intelligence operations. We have consistently expressed our
admiration and support for the Bureau's criminal investigative

and law enforcement work, and we recognize the vital importance

 

of counterespionage in the modern world. But domestic
intelligence has raised many difficult questions.

The Committee has also concentrated on the past rather
than on present FBI activities. The abuses brought to light

in our hearings occurred years and even decades before Directo
