 

 

Done - @ | | @

 

SECRET

The FBI, of course, fully realizes the difficult problems
involved in surveilling American Communists in foreign countries,
At the same time, however, it must be pointed out that in the present
emergency each individual Communist investigation, routine or
otherwise, should receive proper attention when the subject concerned
travels to foreign countries, As you no doubt realize, the Communist
Party, U.S.A., represents a potential force as far as espionage
and sabotage operations are concerned. Therefore, even minor
members of the Party could become involved in delicate operations.
As pointed out in the discussions between Mr, DeLoach and representa~
tives of your agency, the travels of Communists from the United
States to Mexico are very likely to become much greater, thereby
proposing a more serious problem than is now faced,

The FBI has for some time utilized the Immigration and
Naturalization Service Watch List as a source of information concerning
the travel of Communists, Although representing an excellent method
of ascertaining this type of information, at the same time the FBI
ja not afforded any advance warning from this source as to the return
of the Communist. Party member to the United States. Therefore, the
investigation of that member becomes. delinquent in view of the fact
active investigation is not initiated at the time of his re-entry.

It is, therefore, believed that this particular source of information
would not be satisfactory in lieu of information from your agency
which would notify us in advance of the return to the United States
of the Communist Party memher in question,

With respect to the FBI advising your agency when the
services of the Mexican Police may,be utilized in individual cases,
this Bureau will be most-happy to advise you of those "sensitive
cases" which are considered too delicate for referral to the Mexican
Police, or foreign factions. With regard to the remainder of
investigations, however, we shall defer to your judgment as to
whether you wish to utilize the Mexican Police or not, The
jurisdiction of the Office of Special Operations in foreign
intelligence matters allows for a more over-all knoprledge of the
Mexican Police than this Bureau presently possesses. Therefore, we
suggest that you weigh the facts in each individual case and consider
whether the Mexican Police showld be called in or not. -

Concerning the ranking importance of cases, it is’ the
opinion of this Bureau that the facts provided your agency in each
individual case will determine the methods of investigation you

. wish to apply. It is not, therefore, considered necessary for the
FBI to point out the importance of seach matter referred to your

agency. . Ln
"” CEPAEF
~ Bow

- a A

 
 

 

[ SECRET | |

As suggested by your representatives, we will be most
happy to hold a conference with your Mexican supervisory personnel
at any time concerning discussions, of investigations in Mexico.

It is additionally suggested, however, that you advise your field
representatives in Mexico City to contact the FBI's Legal Attache
regarding coordination of the same watters in that locality.

ie

ovat

 

 
We
M@)

Telson
ceLoach
Walters

Mohr
Bishop —
Casper
Callahan
Conred

Tele. Room

Holmes —- 3}

Sandy —————_—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

inthe adoption of these suggestions vould in some manner assist them
“cho handling Fonminist, ¢ cases e2 He

 

 

 

| SERRET corpses,

BY SPECIAL MESSENGER

Date: May 1, 1951

Tos Director. ‘
Central Intelligence Agency
2430 EB Street, Northwest
Washington, D, C,

Attention: ifajor General ¥. G. Wyman ;
Office of Special Operations) FK OY

From: John Edgar Hoover, Dixector
Federal Bureau of Investigation

Subject: COVERAGE OF ACTIVITIES OF
AMERICAN COMMUNISTS IN MEXICO

Reference is made to recent discussions between representa~
tives of the Office of (Special Operations-CIAjand Special Agent C. D,
Deloach of the Federal eau of Investigation regarding the captioned
mat it is understood that your representatives pointed out that
the Hexico City station of CIA] with its limited personnel, attempted
to follow movements of American Communists as well as possible,
however, it would be impossible to guarantee an advance report in
each individual case when the Communist member in question is about
to return to the United States,

You will recall that the following suggestions were
offered by your representatives in connection with this matter:

(1) Utilization of the Inmigration and Naturalization
~ Service Watch List. H

(2) Advice from FBI as to whether the Mexican. Police
- could be used in handling cases.

(3) Advice from the FBI to CIA indicating which cases
. . a8Ye most important so that those cases could be
given preferred attention.

Yt was indicated by the CIA representatives that posaibly

he, M Rey; MEktco SECRET
Foreign Service Desk ciotadhod) AIR COURIER

 

PIP. roomf__} TELETYPE uniTL__J

 

 
 

 

 

 

@  @

Memorandum to Mr. C. D. DeLoach
RE: RELATIONSHIPS WITH CIA
BUREAU OPERATIONS IN MEXICO SE a

In 10/51, almost simultaneously, our Legats in

 

reported instances of CIA

 

POS) |

officials openly challenging our operations, generally
on the grounds that we were violating CIA overseas
jurisdiction. Inspectors V. P. Keay and DeLoach personally
and forcefully brought these instances to the attention of
General Walter B, Smith, Director of CIA, in a heated exchange
on 10/24/51, Out of this meeting developed a luncheon on 11/7/51
attended by the Director, Bureau officials and General Smith,
who was accompanied by several officers of his Agency.
According to a memorandum, D, M. Laddto the Directox, dated
11/7/51, CIA recognized our presence abroad and both agencies
pledged cooperation and coordination through greater liaison
so as to prevent conflict and competition in these closely
associated operations, During the ensuing 19 years, the
Bureau continued to operate in and on occasions
moderately expanded its activities in order to meet its
needs, During this lengthy period, there_were no serious
problems with CIA, with reference to our office.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RECOMMENDED ACTION:

None, We do not believe, in light of the facts set
forth, that CIA will make an issue of this matter.

J.
: ype Ay

t

 

 
Memorandum to Mr.
RE:
62~80750

c. D

 

Recently the
Washington has,
indicating the British)
known to the Soviets 4
It is not Saga if the
with CIA,

RECOMMENDED ACTION:

None,

 

RELATIONSHIPS WITH CIA

ade some inquiries relating to

We do
set forth, that CIA will make an issue of this matter.

 

DeLoach

e

EORET = _ ws)
ritish MI-5) representat, ve in JFKU)AY

h) may now believe was either JP cae)
firit agent or was under their control.
xr

 

 

 

 

itis wee discussed this matter

not believe, in light of the facts

Pe

AP

 
 

TO
FROM

SUBJECT:

IFKOYLS)

 

 

 

OPTIONAL one NO, 10 . $010"308 1
MAY 1962 EDITION a ° ~
GSA GEM, AEG, HO. 27 . 1 ‘

olson

 

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT {alters

MORE ee
Memorandum 1 = Mr, DeLoach ei
1 - Mr. Sullivan . Collohos a

Felt
: Mr, C. D, DeLoach pate: 3/9/70 Gole —____
‘ sf Sullivon =
. ; 1 - Liaison | ee
W. C, Sullivan 1 - Mr.. Bermingham Tele, Room ——
Gandy —
\6

RELATIONSHIPS WITH CIA
BUREAU OPERATIONS IN

 
 
 

DECLASSIFIED BY
on cf

 

 

 

 

,

Item number two in the material submitted to the
Director by SA Sam Papich in his memorandum dated 3/5/70 states
that during the 1950's, CIA periodically complained that the.
operations of our office inf jn specifically those
involving the operating of informants and the penetration of
the Communist Party of [_]violated the understanding that
this office was to act only as a liaison post. He also states
CIA has informally raised questions on our running informants
in and. still being’able to comply. with Directives requiring
coordination of overseas clandestine counterintelligence
operations under CIA. He states comments by CIA officials
along above lines have been casual and informal and indicate
the situation has been a potential issue rather than an actual
conflict or disagreement, The essence of his remarks in this
item is that the Bureau is v erable to criticism by CIA
because of our operations in

 

 

 

 

 

Review of our files fail to yeveal receipt of any
formal protest by CIA jin these matters, We have been

operating [alongside CIA\in since 1947 In 1951,
Inspector V, P. Keay, after visiting reported
that CIA was not adequately vibi tine ag aatters in JFKCry (8)

affecting the internal security of the U,S,. and recommended
that after properly advising CIA, Legat,|__|be instructed
to undertake such investigations. The Executive Conference
considered this problem on 4/19/51 and decided we should extend
our coverage in but should not reach any, understanding
with CIA regarding these increased activities, ‘It was_decided,
however, to advise CIA in writing of this problem in
in order to fix responsibility on that Agency and such a letter
was sent on 5/1/51, A copy is attached.

 

 

 

 

 

 

a

Enclosure:

RAB: bsf/wmk une CONTINUED - OVER
(5) ‘

—seift

 

 

 
 

_ oN
~ « .
e OF Sa POEM HO. 10. 5010-106 1
a MAL 747 LOITIGSE
GSA GEN, BEG. NO, 27

ooo

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT totes
7 . MORT cece
. Bishop ————__.

Memorandum | cue

Conrad

. Felt

TO : Mr. C. D. DeLoach SECRET DATE: March 6, 1970 Gale ~~
taeel

: Soyars
FROM : Mr, We C. Sullivan ne

. . Gandy

sexe

 

SURIFCT RELATIONSHIPS. SIXTH CLA

Item number one in the material submitted to the
Director by Spe Special “Agent (SA) Sam Papich in his morandum
3/5/70 discusses the case of af JPECIYUD

 

 

 

 
  

BACKGROUND oF case 7°* a Hollywood motion picture

was disseminated to interested agencies, including the Central
Intelligence Agency, On January 25, 1957, Jack Soble, Myra Soble,
and Jacob Albam were arrested in New York on charges of conspiracy
to commit espionage against the United States,

ol ‘producer, was recruited by S6évieé ntelligence in 1935, From

2s 1947 to 1957 he was operated as a double agent bythe FBI, This
—Gjai was an extremely sensitive counterintelligence operation involving
O22 Soviet intelligence activities in the United States in which
4m © Morros traveled behind the Iron Curtain for meetings with his
Top Soviet principals.
(ED &% OE)
3a < Information obtained by from his Soviet contacts
a2 F
Ed LU
t0Q0

: 5 .
PROBLEM WITH CIA SOG. March 16, 1954, the Bureau disseminated
information received from| _ to heads of the various
intelligence agencies, including,CIA, By letter of March 27, 1954,
Lieutenant General C, P, Cabell » Acting Director of CIA,

criticized the information and, in effect, characterized it as_
"fabrication or the product of a paper mill,’ which conclusion
Cabell stated had been applied to many similar disseminations in
the past from apparently the same source, By letter of April 5,
1954, the Bureau informed CIA that it was believed that no useful
purpose would be served in making any future dissemination to

CIA of information received from this source.

HERRIY 1S UNELASSIFIZD BXQure

ALG INFORMATION CONTALMED
WUERS SHOW QEEEENLSE,,

On April 9, 1954, Mr. Allen Dulles, then Director of
CIA, advised Liaison Agent Papich that he had been looking into the
matter and there was no question in his mind but that his agency
had acted stupidly in transmitting such a letter to the Bureau,

 

 

62-80750
1 = 100-352385 Ture Ciygay
1 - Mr. C. BD, Deloach
L- Mr. W. C, Sullivan " Classified by 6.2 FT
1l- Mr. W. A. Branigan CrERET Exempt from GDS, Cate Category 2 Y3
l= Mr. BD. J. Brennan - Date of Declassification Indefinke
1 =- Mr. L. Whitson
Las 7“(7). CONTINUED - OVER -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A
124-10185-10098

 

—

 

 

 

.

.

TO

FROM : w, C, Sullivah .

 

   

 

OPTIONAL Fota NO, TO

      

01108

<< HOS» ‘ oe ro

77 UNITED STATES C INMENT . é |

A. 4
Memorandum _—

Mr. DeLoach . ) : seg DATE: Jarch 9, 1970

 

DECLASSIRTED BY
seaeen RELATIONSHIPS WITH CIA ow Payal
\ , Reference is made to the memorandum W. C. Sullivan

to C. D. DeLoach dated 3/5/70; captionedias above, At that
time the Director was advised this Division would make an
analysis of each situation cited in the memorandum of

A Special Agent Sam J. Papich relative to grievances which CIA
might hold in connection with relations with the FBI. \

Enclosed will be found an analiysis of 38 items

(2 are contained in one memorandum, making a total of 37
memoranda), In substance our analysis dbes not show any
-real reason why CIA would raise any issue in connection with
37 out of the 38 items. The recommendeali action in each of
these cases would iogicailiy close the mtter,. In one memorandum
the 37th item,5 ; it is recommended that a carefully worded _-
letter to CIA outlining policy and the basic elements of oe
intelligence and counterintelligence wmuk affecting the . “_—
United States be sent to that Agency. The purpose of this is
to protect the Bureau by giving CIA a diance to make any

. comments, if it has any, in regard to tile current utilization

\ ‘pf sources and facilities affecting bodib CIA and the Bureau. 4

\ If CIA replies that it is satisfied wit: the current intelli- ,
gence conditions in this area, we will gut this particular 4
matter to rest and we will have their letter in the file.

\ - This Division will take any wid all steps to comply
whth the Director's wishes in this matier and in any other
con erning which this Division is involved. 3

.

RECOMMENDATION: :
“Bor therinformation of the Dimector.

Classified by a 3 ‘ :
Exempt from GDS\Category 263 coe, 2
Date of Declassificgtion Indefinite ‘ i? Ve woot Woe ee
cain renee yaw; WA eV boas
Somme Ot TO . \
- DD anv Me

 

SEnyE :

oe od

 

 
 

ii f
' ~ é . ie
. .

Memorandum to Mr. C, D, DeLoach
RE: RELATIONSHIPS WITH CIA
~ 62~80750 ;

SECRET

By letter of April 21, 1954, Mr. Dulles stated that
CIA would appreciate it if the eau ld kindly continue
to send reports from the source{ ) which relate JSFEOYY
to matters of foreign intelligence, y letter of April 29, 1954,
the Director expressed the opinion that no useful purpose

would be served by disseminating to CIA information received
from the source in the future,

Nevertheless, memorandum Branigan to Belmont dated
April 28, nin’ the| that when and if the Bureau receives

 

yun ' information in the in the future of a type required
by National Security Council Directixeto be furnished to CIA,
it should be carefully evaluated and a decision made at that time
as to the officials and agencies of the Government to whom it
should be disseminated, The Director noted "OK but before anything
goes to CIA from this souree I want to pass on it. This
restriction does not apply to dissemination to other agencies. H"

 

Subsequent to the foregoing three disseminations were

\ made - rested agencies, including CIA, based on information
GS) from during October and December, 1954, and appropriate
. dissemination was made thereafter with the Director's approval,

As the time grew near for prosecutive action, the
Department requested the Bureau to check with CIA to see if
Department attorneys could interview Soviet int elligence
defector then in custody of CIA naneal JFL)
Accordingly, the Director authovized an ora YLETIing of Mr. Dulles

ow and on 1/8/57 he and James Angléton of his staff were generally
Jr briefed on the and the contemplated prosecution, They were

furnished with background data concerning subjects residing in
woe? France, [ \ CIA was requested to search
a the namesS of individuals involved ain the case and was °
asked regarding identities of CIA employees who might have
information of pertinence concerning inet dare OY)
On March 4, 1957, Mr. James Angleton informed the liaison

agent of resentment on the part of CIA employees and officials _
based upon the following: *. .

 

SECRET

~2- CONTINUED ~ OVER

 

 
 

Memorandum to Mr. C,. D,. DeLoach
RE: RELATIONSHIPS WITH CIA

62~80750 © SECRET

(1) CIA feels it should have been advised much
earlier concerning those aspects of the case relating to
CIA employees,

(2) Leads were given to CIA at the same time the
case was publicized and, therefore, CIA was handicapped.

(3) The failure to coordinate the French aspects
of the case with CIA permitted the French intelligence
agencies to play a dominant role in the European
investigation.

(4) CIA fears the Bureau had not told it all there~
was to know about the case that CIA should have known.

DISPOSAL OF PROBLEM WITH CIA The Bureau took the position
that any necessary investigation looking toward prosecution
in countries where Bureau had a Legal Attache would be
referred by the Legal Attache to the appropriate investigative
agency of that country. In those countries where the Bureau
did not have a Legal Attache, request for investigation would

 

 

 

 

be channelled through CIA, Because the} were in Teka
France, the interrogation of the was handled by
request from the Legal Attache to the French, SPRL LAD

JFeONW) [—] during World War II had been with the
Office of Strategic Services and had contacts later with CIA
personnel, Prior to decision on prosecution we did not JPEG)
disseminate information regarding the{ ____Joecause we
feared the effects of compromise from possible Teaks would
endanger the life of our source, This was particularly true
in view of CIA's expressed attitude in 1954, Some leads had
been given to CIA over two weeks before the arrests of the
subjects in the United States. .Leads were not given earlier

. because of the fear of possible compromise. As far as
coordinating the French aspects of the case were fconcerned,
it is doubted that CIA could have exerted any control over the
French investigation after the French had the information.

There was a distinet difference in this case between
intelligence information and evidence in support of prosecutive
action.

SECRET

~- 3 - CONTINUED - OVER

ee

 
