 

 

 

SECRET

Central Intelligence Agency SFEINC)

. Operations in the United States

assignment, the Bureau will be advised and the two agencies
will confer regarding the handling o£ the agent in the
United States, It is recognized that each case will have
its individual peculiarities, The governing principle will
be positive intelligence interest as weighed against
internal security factors, CIA will continue its
contractual relationship for the purpose of handling

the training, the procurement of positive foreign
intelligence, the fulfillment of CIA commitments to

the. agent, and the preparation of. the agent for his

next assignment abroad, .

(6) In those cases where CYA will be handling its
agent in the United States, CIA will service FBI security
or counterintelligence requirements and will provide the
FBI all agent information bearing on counterintelligence .
or internal security matters, including the scope and
nature of the agent's access to information and the
identities of the agent's significant contacts, particularly
in the communist-bloc field. In such cases where CIA
Servicing has been inadequate to FBI internal security
interests, the FBI will have direct access to the agent,

 

 
 

 
   
 

SECRET
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

     
   

Ja Reply, Please Refer tao : ; WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

File No.
February 7, 1966

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY TEN MW :

(1) CIA will-not initiate an investigation of any -
foreign official in the United States without the concurrence
and coordination of the FBI, In this context, the term .
"investigation" means systematic and direct inquiries or

~ procedures (such as physical or technical surveillances
or neighborhood inquiries) aiming at developing information
concerning an individual's activities or background;

’ "investigation" does not include the acceptance or the
development of information through social contacts or contacts.
normally made by CIA agents in discharging their cover
functions. vo

(2) CIA will se*k concurrence and coordination of
the FBI before approaching for recruitment any foreign
official or communist-bloc visitor in the United States,
The FBI will concur and coordinate if the proposed action

‘does not conflict with any operation, current or planned,
including active investigation of the FBI,

(3) CIA will advise the FBI prior to any planned
meeting between a CIA asset and a foreign official or
communist-bloc visitor of known or presumed interest to
the FBI (this would include all communist—bloc officials
and visitors) for purposes of assessment and social
development,

(4) Clandestine CIA staff operatives, domestic
American agents of CIA, and foreign agents of CIA recruited
abroad who come to the United States will be identified to
\ _ the FBI by name or appropriate description depending on

the national security interest involved,

; (5) Pursuant to paragraph 4 above, when a CIA agent
arrives in the United States for.a visit or for an

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification.

 

 
