 

ay),

of a positive intelligence nature. This requires Bureau action designed to
bring about the necessary coverage. A good example is our involvement

in the development of information relating to the crisis in the Dominican
Republic. From the above you will recognize that there can be "gray areas"
of interest to the Bureau and CIA. It, therefore, has been necessary to
effect t adequate coordinating machinery.

y

The potential for the development of positive intelligence in this
country is vast and varied. Voluminous positive intelligence is collected
overtly through the review of foreign and domestic publications, interviews
of travelers, arriving aliens, contacts with scientists, et cetera. In this
area there have been no serious issues between the Bureau and CIA.

However, in the field of clandestine development of positive
intelligence both agencies have an interest, and there is a necessity for a
clear~cut understanding of jurisdiction and coordination. Particularly is

_ this true in the development of positive intelligence sources who are
employees or officials of foreign governments stationed in the United States
or who are visiting this country on a temporary basis.

For many years the Bureau has had a continuing program of
developing sources in diplomatic installations for the purpose of discharging
our counterintelligence responsibilities and incidentally for developing
positive intelligence information which might assist the Government in
formulating policy. The Bureau, recognizing CIA's need for sources in the
positive intelligence field, has permitted CIA to assess and recruit Sources in
the United States in a limited manner with the understanding that such activities
are fully coordinated with the Bureau. In January, 1964, CIA established
their Domestic Operations Division (DOD) to conduct such operations in the
United States, and certain Bureau field offices were alerted and furnished
the necessary guidance and instructions. The recent discussions with CIA
resulted in a refinement of the understanding of the ground. rules established

in January, 1964.

 

The enclosed ground rules will be applied by the Bureau and CIA
as cases arise. The Bureau position in each matter will be decided at the
Seat of Government. As a general rule, Bureau Headquarters will be informed
by CIA regarding its interest in an individual or a target. Prior to notification
of CIA regarding our position, the situation will be carefully reviewed at the
Seat of Government. This may often include a request to the field for

 

2-15-66 .
SAC LETTER 66-10 -3-

ie

 

 

 
 

 

*

ee

a

 

ve

(gp) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY - OPERATIONS IN THE UNITED

STATES -- The Bureau recently completed discussions with the Central se
Intelligence Agency ‘CIA, regarding that agency's operational activities in

the United States. These discussions essentially dealt with CIA's assessment

and recruitment of foreign intelligence sources in the United States. Enclosed

- for your use is a list of the ground rules which both agencies have accepted

as guidelines for effecting the necessary coordination. In order that you may
be adequately oriented in this matter, the following background is set forth.
The need for the ground rules is related to CIA's interest in developing
positive intelligence sources in the United States and the necessity for
protecting the Bureau's jurisdiction in the counterintelligence field. The
latter.is essential to the adequate discharge of our responsibilities to
national security. ; .

Positive intelligence may be described as a comprehensive product

resulting from collection, evaluation, collation. analysis, and interpretation

of all available information rélating to national security and concerning other

countries where such information is significant to our Government's develop-

ment and execution of plans, policies, and courses of action.. Such intelligence
can be divided into various categories, such as economic, military, scientific,
political, geographic. et cetera. The collection of positive intelligence is
distinguished fram counterintelligence which is primarily designed to penetrate, .
monitor, neutralize and/or disrupt the foreign intelligence and security services.
Counterintelligence further includes other functions of an internal security
nature directed against subrersive groups, organizations, and individuals. By
law CIA does not have any law enforcement or internal security functions. CIA’s
authorization for collecting positive intelligence is predicated on the National
Security Act of 1947 and subsequent issuance of National Security Council
Directives. There is no law, directive, or charter which authorizes CIA to
engage in the clandestine development of positive intelligence sources in the
United States. Therefore, in the absence of any statutory prerogative to conduct
such activity in the United States, it has been mutually agreed by FBI and CIA
that the Agency can only engage in the clandestine development and handling of
posilive intelligence sources in this country by- coordinating with the Bureau,
The Bureau in turn legally has the primary counterintelligence responsibility
in the.U. S.. and is continually developing positive intelligence. It, however,
must be regarded an incidental product to our main objective. The Bureau
does not have a primary responsibility to collect positive intelligénce, but we
do have numerous and very significant obligations in this field. In actual.practice
the Bureau is required by the President and other agencies to develop information

Uta

2-15-66 i ,
SAC LETTER 66-10 ~2-

 

 

 
 

Slee @

observations and recommendations before notice is transmitted to CIA. At
the same time, it is possible that you may be contacted in the field by a
representative of DOD, CIA. If so, you should be guided by the enclosed
ground rules in any discussions, bearing in mind that the approval for. any
particular operational activity is to be made at Bureau Headquarters.

You should hold to the concept that the protection of the internal
security of the United States involves very basic clear-cut responsibilities
of the FBI. This should be kept in mind in each case and in any contacts
which you may have with CIA representatives. There is to be no interference
with or infringement upon our jurisdiction. It is recognized that unforeseen
developments may create situations not adequately covered by the ground rules.
You, therefore, should report such matters to the Bureau setting forth -
complete details with your recommendations. ~Although we Have been informed
by CIA that the Bureau's jurisdiction and operational interests will not be --
interfered with, we cannot discount the results of past experiences stemming
from CIA's operational and organizational deficiencies. We have no reason to
believe that there will be a revolutionary change of these conditions. It is,
therefore, incumbent upon you to be extremely alert for any breakdown of the
adherence to the ground rules. I emphasize that this is an area of activity
which must be closely monitored by each Special Agent in Charge. You
‘should be certain that your personnel is adequately oriented so that the Bureau
can have the full benefit of any constructive suggestions pertaining to this
entire matter.

Very truly yours,
John Edgar Hoover

Director

Enclosure for (B)

2-15-66
SAC LETTER 66-10 -~4-

 
