Doc ID: 6598321 : » ) ee Nek
. : : e 2 cf klk
. ; GAUSC2IOTENGNEND)
National Security Agency ; October 2, 1981 b(v)
Attention: Q32 .
Mr. Charles Sullivan
Fort George G, Meade, MD 20755

wy

Dear Mr. Sullivan: sO , ; J

Thank you for your letter of September 25
regarding my FOIPA request of September 8.

Under the provisions of the. FOIPA, I would
like to reformulate and renew my request, and provide OY :
some additional information that may perhaps assist you :
in locating the material I.requested. While your letter

AF
stated that a thorough search had failed to locate any ope OO Lee
information pertaining to my request, I tend to believe pe

 

that the material I am requesting has somehow been thet?
overlooked during your search. Aan A
Since my request was very broadly worded, pepe
and since your letter made no reference to claiming YP»
any exemptions, I gather that you were simply unable ~ AY !
. to find any material in NSA ‘files pertaining to my 210
request. .

Yet, let me reiterate that I believe such
material must -exist somewhere within your agency. I can
specifically state of my own knowledge that in a letter
of October 7, 1980 to Congressman Louis Stokes (the former
Chairman of the House Select Committee on Assassinations),
Robert L. Keuch (the Special Counsel to the Attorney General
and an assistant Attorney General ) wrote that in late 1979
the Department of Justice did in fact request NSA advice and
assistance in regard to the House Committee's acoustical
evidence relating to the President's murder. Mr. Keuch's
letter to Congressman Stokes specifically stated that
NSA was "asked to assist in a review of acoustics reports
relevant to the Kennedy assassination." The Special Counsel
to the Attorney General went on to write that "NSA informed
the Department that they did not possess the specialized
equipment or expert personnel to assist in such a review."

Thus, it seems apparant that NSA was in fact.
consulted by the Department of Justice, and that NSA's
technical personnel did in fact review the request and
reach a determination.that they were not qualified to
become substantively involved in analyzing the acoustical
evidence. Thus, I gather that there must in fact be a
certain amount of file material or documents within your
agency pertaining to: the Department's request and its
handling by NSA. That is the material thet I am again
hereby requesting.

 
Doc ID: 6598321 ,
Date: 12/16/97
Pace: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10215
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : MICHAEL EWING
0: NSA

TITLE :
FOIPA REQUEST RE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

DATE : 10/02/81
PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :
JFK RECORDS

DOCUMENT TYPE : LETTER
CUBE OHRICTIONS : 1A
DATE vial PAST REVIEW : 03/12/97

OPENING CRITERIA ;:
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released on 11-01-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

.
Doc ID: 6598321 ® @

Mr. Charles Sullivan
October 2, 1981
Page Two

In renewing and reformulating this request,
I am specifically requesting that (if you have not
already done so) you check with your agency's liaisons
to the Department of Justice and House of Representatives
(including former liaison to the Select Committee on
Assassinations) to see if they can assist in locating
the material I am requesting. Perhaps that is where
the paperwork on this matter would be located,

Let me also apologize if I seem to be ©
badgering you on this request, but it seems to- me
that there must in fact be some material responsive
to my request that exists within the agency. And I'm
sure you can understand the importance that those of
us who worked on the House Committee attach to obtaining
and reviewing as much information as we’ can obtain regarding
_the acoustical’ evidence that we believe establishes a high
probability that two gunmen did in fact fire at the President
on November 22, 1963. .-

Thank you again for your assistance.

MW,
: ,
Michael Ewing

P. O.. Box 288.
Norwalk, Iowa 50211
te wa, ae

Doc ID: 6598321 @ 7 } ~

 

National Security Agency . ; September 8, 1981
Attention: Q32 :

Mr. Charles Sullivan

Fort George C. Meade, MD 20755.

Dear Sirs:

Under the provisions of the Freedom of
Information and Privacy Act, as amended, I’ am requesting
copies of some files of the NSA.

Specifically, I am requesting copies of any
and all file material - anything the NSA has in its
possession - relating to any work or review conducted
by NSA in response to the Department of Justice's ;
request for assistance in 1979 regarding the acoustical
evidence on the assassination of President Kennedy
set forth by the House Select Committee on Assassinations.

I am a former staff member of the John F.
Kennedy Task Force of the Select Committee. It is
my understanding that the Department of Justice
requested NSA to review the acoustical evidence relating
to the President's assassination, and make recommendations
‘as to whether NSA could perform any additional work on
this material. I believe this occurred in the fall of 1979.

In any event, I am requesting copies of any and
all file material or other material that NSA-has relating :
to this proposed acoustical work, as well as any additional

information it may possess regarding the Kennedy assassination
acousstical evidence.

While it is my understanding that NSA declined
to become involved in handling the acoustical evidence,
I am requesting copies of all material relating to this
request from the Department and the NSA’s handling of it.

. In accordance with the provisions of the FOIPA ~
law, I shall expect an initial response to this request
within ten working days after you have received it.

Thank you for your assistance,

Sincerely,

Michael Ewing
P. 0. Box 288
Norwalk, Iowa 50211

 
