Doc ID: 6598243

[| . 3 /of_\'72455-63

at present that. JOHNSON may continue the policy of his: ‘predecessor
toward us. He may be encouraged to do that. by the” “[Part 22]
positive results achieved by the policy of his ‘predecessor in this
regard and by. the supporters of this policy both in‘and outside’
the government,-the most important’ being Secretary of State RUSK
and FULBRIGHT, Chairman of _the- Senate Foreign Relations

Committee, a confidant cf ‘JOHNSON - and one of the fist ones who
supported him asa candidate for president in the 1960 electiuns.

at ®

((A)) Obvious omission,

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)
b (iii)

om fd)
Doe ID: 6598243 |
4 44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)
op a)

weeeerrte 1?
| | ve 2/0(—}r2455-6
to. the dconomic syst ; enterprise and, therefore,
is more inclined to eight wing (Part 183 and closer to the
conservative policy and the past generation and further from the
leit wing which is more intellectual and possesses long- range
imagination and which KENNEDY had led--despite this, ‘it is [1 wd @G]
at present to make any predictions about the final course which the
new President will follow, The prevailing view here ds that there
will be no: basic change in KENNEDY's poliey until ‘the presidential
elections abe held-the.end of next year, Nevertheless, it depends
on the development of events, {Part 19!, :

  

   

 

D. signs that KENNEDY's policy will be continued apvear
in the sprech of’ \fhe new President before Congress, the statements
of top officials here in the State Departuent, ghe writings of top
writers and the retention, so far, aed the members of KENNEDY’s
cabinet and his top advisers and confidants in’ ‘She White House,
the Stzte Department and other departments.

E, Then,’ the many complications domestically and exter-
nally would make any minor, change, particularly! toward Mosgow, easy
practically but dangerous real Listically. [Part 20] .

vr

Since it is likely that’ the new President will be less (B val
able) te resist pressure than his predecessor and since, because
of his long service in domestic politics, he may by nature be more
prone te keep considerations of domestic politics in mind and to
proceed in éonformity , with their (B val requirements) and to endeavor
to satisfy them and because his philosphy and his methods are
different from thos¢é of his predecessor, It would therefore be
to our interest until the presidential elections are held to follow
a policy which would not expose him to préssure or embarrassment so
as not to enable our enemies to draw him [Part 21] over to their
side, This isthe essence of the matter at present, It would appear
that our opponents will:try at the first opportunity to complicate
matters between us and the new administration by exploiting: the
situation, ‘dn Yemen; 3; or the Algerian-Moroccan dispute and our
position “toward it; or the Arab-Israeli dispute if they find a
chance vto raise it; etc, R

Ae

fn the light of the above paragraph, it would appear to us

 
Doc ID: 6598243

Lt] | 3jof_)r24s5-63 |

\g ‘Secretary of State, Tt is well know that JOHNSON éspecially

abpre tiates RUSK.
“\

“‘\Political circles here also believe that (Part 1 he will
continue the domestic policy of his predecessor, at léast until the
presidential elections, It is,.therefore,. (B val supposed ) that he
(B val Weil ‘eetain) most of his Cabinet and will enter the election
campaign \ ‘on the basis of KENNEDY's program. Also, they think it
most likely chat JOHNSON will be the candidate“of the: Democratic
Party in the, coming presidential elections at the endiof next year,
They think that the chances cf @LDWATER, the right-wing Republican,
have iessened ° ‘and ‘that the Republicans might nominate |ROCKEFELLER or
NIXON and that te latter! s chances have increased, (Part 12]

N

It is risky t to\mae any predictions now about the! results of
the coming 7 presidential’ ‘campaign, Nevertheless, it appears that
it will be between JOHNSON and a middle-o£-the-road Republican
not a vadical right-wingkr x5, because the prevailing sentiment of
public opinion is a demand’. to repair the breach and cidse the- sound
and to raise [to higher priority] the policy of reconc#iiatio
atid interest in domestic affairs,

Jo a

Some of Peking's supporters “in North Viet Nam, Laos and North
Korea are reiterating chat KENNEDY! murder reveals a victory of
reactionary trends, It is to be noted that at present there is an
increase in the activity of the Viet ‘Gong forces in South Viet Nam.
{Part 13] Alsc, the press of North Korea, and the Pathet Lao in
laos have intensified their attack on Washington, They explain the
position of Peking and its supporters that on the one hand, their
view may be represented in [the statement] that the policy of the
new President will be less flexible than that of his predecessor but,
on the other Anand: perhaps the attack is a means of. testing the’ ,
rigidity of. the new American administration , : :

 

Some cizcles in Britain believe that JOHNSON. is an astute
politician who is skillfel in figuring and evaluat ting anda con-
servative who is practiced in conducting a policy of conciliation,
[Paxt 14]. :

 

KHRUSHCHEV, on the surface, appears sympathetic but» he hides

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)
(iii)

 
Doe ID: 6598243

ON? gy re

aN : 44USC2107(5)(g)(2(D)
\\TII, Fhe Embassy’s observations: pai)

\ Vi

NC A. KENNEDY'’s death has: created a new situation’ 3 ‘in America
and on the iuternational scene, the landmarks of which’ are at
present unclear, Therefore, it appears to us that the position
which prevails in Western and Eastern diplomatic cixeles and in the
neutral greup: Ais one based on watchiul ness and acting with extreme
care and caution and attempiing to begin a careful operation to
disclose, on the ‘one hand, the real leanings [part 15] of the

new administrati ion\and its method cf operation and the forces which
can influence it, wilile working on the othet hand to establish
friendly, constructive relations with £. far as possible.

B. This has bedh, Clear in tip/ contacts of MIKOYAN in
Washington and his statements about his government ’s desire to
continue the policy ef zreaching an sinder standing and in the reports
of some Russian diplomats that “KHRUSHCHEV and JOHNSON must meet, etc.
The same attitude is to be noted“with the British, the French,
the Yugoslays, etc, [Part 16) SK

  
 

 

GC. Matters will npliain unclear as long as the circume
stances, motives and forces behind KENNEDY's death remain
undefined, Then, any basic surprise in this regard might have a
long-range effect on domestic and external ° “conditions. The present
{situation] is that KENNEDY and his top aides, sensed the toughness,
and (B val despair) of the forces which opposed their liberal,
realistic policy anid , therefore, hed not concealed that from us,
something which xe had explained fully to the Ministry,

C. tte) Despite the obvious difference in ‘the
personalities’ of KENNEDY and JOHNSON-the former was a blend
[Part 171 of idedli sm, and realism, rare intelligence,. broad
knowledge , deep understanding of the developments of history
and the Secrets cof human psychology at its highest and lowest,
loyalty ‘to the welfare of the world and his country and of: courage
and fidelity te the rule of reason and the bond of fri endship;
alse, he [1 wd G] drawing around him domestic and foreign policies
while JOHNSON has more of an inclination and adherence than KENNEDY

a5= |

FOP SECREF PINAR
Doe ID: 6598243

CI - WS 17544~17567 3/of yx2455-63 .
- be, Is 17 Dec 22257 P

 

Dist: HCF
ST 300

EVALUATION OF JOHNSON, AND HIS

“s.29 Nov 63%

 

(22-part message complete] ia ~ Fausczt07eyayeno)
. b(ii)
I. KENNEDY's murder and its causes, :

A. Since the announcement io the assassination, there
have been rumors in diplomatic circles, and in somé of the newspapers
and radio broadcasts and various other quarters .about the facts and
motives of the event and the position ‘of the Dallas aubhonitien
toward it, etc. .

Some are of the opinion that the crime was ‘arranged
by some radical right-wingers who had-been aroused by KENNEDY’ s
policy which advocated tacial equality, by his position: toward some
of the big industrial forces, particularly steel, and by his
strategy which [Part’2] called for a truce with the Soviets and
for finding spheres’ of co-operation with them, Others'believe that
the crime was set ‘up by the ‘radical Communists who oppose the policy
of peaceful coexistence, .- ‘One faction of that [group} said that the
crime was an individual: act conmitted by a fanatic or a ‘deranged
person, J ao ; ‘

/ ‘ .

BA The Xilling of OSWALD, who was accused of KENNEDY 's
murder, and the’ circumstances under which it was committed and the
new suspicions it raised in and outside of America [1 wd G]
Presidént JOHNSON (B val to instruct) the [Part 3] FBI and the
Department of Justice to mke a comprehensive investigation of the
matter,dnd not to be content with the investigations which were
being’ made by the state in which the crime. was committed | It was.

CI : s/o miss. 63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 7 PAGE(S) -

Released on 11-01-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)
 
 

Doc ID: 6598243 BATE: 03/25/97

PAGE:

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10103
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : .,

b iii)

DATE : 12/17/63
PAGES :

: a [RI
R [RI

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT

CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/93
OPENING CRITER
ORIGINATING AGENCY § DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS ;:

Released on 11-01-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

 
Doc ID: 6598243 . ;
[| 3/0, _ )72455-63

the fe

 

 

also reported today th; ate Judiciary Committee would in
tur request an investigation of the mtter and also’ ‘discussion. of
legislation ‘ko make the murder of a President a federal crime

which would not. felt under the legai jurisdiction. aE 5 any state,

 

Gc. It is s hoped that the coming investigations will reveal
the following: [Part - a c-

was OSWALD ehia’ ‘killer and what were his totives? Tf
OSWALD was not the killer, who ‘committed the crime? Was ita
conspiracy or an individual act?” ‘Wes it an American or an inter-
national conspiracy? 4

The prevailing view among citeles known £dr conger=
vatism is that it is essential to make a meticulous and. public
investigation to forestall rumors and in order te dispel unjustified
suspicions, elevate the power (ef the law and protect Américan honor
in the eyes of the world and history, .

. ; 2 . [auscaor era

Il, The new President and his policy; [Part 5] foi

cia - 7

The leaders of Congress from both parties and the top officials
in the government and the press and radio worked energetically
to prevent division and cenfusion({(A)) life to normal, after it had
almost come to a standstill, by supporting the new President and
advocating unity and working for the future, In order to restore
confidence and clarify mtters, the President hastened to announce
his domestic and foreign policy in a speech which he delivered to
Congress in joint session, with the chiefs of the diplomatic
missions and representatives of the international and American press
also present, (Part 6]

He announced that his foreign and domestic policy would be a
continuation and implementation of the policy of his predecessor:

A. From the international standpoint, he stated that he -
supported the policy of seeking peace and exploring spheres of
co-operation, even with antagonists, offering aid to emerging
nations, bolstering the Western alliance and fulfilling America's

obligations from South Viet Nam to Berlin, Ha summarized his foreign
I

o2= i

FOP -SEGREF DAR
Doc ID: 6598243

 

[| sof pass 63

policy by saying that America would be ready for esice or war.

. B, From the domestic standpoint, he aiso atihered to
KENNEDY *s program and urged [Part 7] Congress to hasten to enact
the racial equality bill, the tax reduction bill, the’ “education law,
etc, ee ; a

| This spdech is the first official document” “Gntcti, at least on
the surface, reveals that the new President will adher ze to KENNEDY's
foreign and domestic policy. The view which’ is current in some
Western dirlomatic circles is that the new “President is an expert
in the methods and. the directing of American partisan: policy and
that he wage extraortlinary in his handiing of the various currents
in Congress; however}, [Part 8] he has not been sufficiently exper=
denced in Sereign affairs and he leans more toward thd conservatives
than the liberals, Som of these, ircles have also stated some
apprehensiens about him and have- said that he is from ‘the re-
caléttrant, conservative South. and that his connecti on: with the
coilmen in Texas is weil known’ ‘and that his long service in the Armed
Forces Committee in the. Senate has mde him closely connected with
the top men cf the armed. forcas, and these persons do not like
KENNEDY 's policy which sdvocated _trying. to reach an understanding ;
with the Riiésians. Then , his friendship with the American Ambassador
in Bonn, [Part 9] Mr, MCGHEE, whe leans toward ADENAUER's views on
Moscow, might make him more inclinéd toward a policy oe toughness,
not truce, with regard to the Communids t CAMP ».

 

Some Br itons - thinie it possible cha KRRUSHCHEV will have no
confidence in him and that DE GAULLE may.seize the. oppottunity to
activate his. plans in Europe, They, therefore, advocate that
Britain take the initiative in playing a more prominent ‘role in the
Western camp ‘in the directing of internationa 1 b policy.

nevertheless » the prevailing view here at’ C present =-if nothing
happens to force him to changee-is that he will ‘not change KENNEDY's
foreign policy Le lPert 10] nor in method and[___]to give
assurance, He, eréefore, will retain most of KENNEDY ' s:advisers,
the most important being his ‘number-one adviser in| 3aternational
affairs, BUNDY, Since the new President has a propensity for
domestic political affairs, they expect him-to, rely tore ‘on the

aZa

"TaUsenore
FOP-SECRET DINAR [EEE i OO)
