have been used as partial offsets to operating costs. Aggregate
profits over the years have been relatively small. oniy two proprie-
taries have shown significant profits: the Air America complex in
fulfilling mostly Government contracts in Southeast Asia, and the
insurance company handling trust funds and insurance (MHMUTUAL).

The air proprietary overview, infra Section IX., details the dilemmas
posed by size. Moreover, it sheds light on questions concerning
whether commercial viability became more of a bronze god-than was
necessary to maintain adequate cover.

Operating proprietaries may be large or small in terms of capital-
ization and total assets, depending upon the functions they perform.
When the commercial purpose of an operating proprietary is incidental
to its CIA mission -- such as an export-import firm which engages in
commercial operations only to the extent necessary to provide cover
for a CIA officer in a foreign country -- a minimum capitalization,
usually in the neighborhood of $25,000 or less, is all that is required.
Examples of an operating proprietary in which commercial operations

are incidental to the Agency mission are:

 

 

 

 

HW 50955 DoclId:32423532 Page 9
A foreign travel service company which operates in a Southeast

Asia country and provides cover for an agent targeted. against

the local Communist Party. The company was established in 1973

with an initial investment of $5,900. ;

Operating proprietaries whose commercial purposes are in themselves
essential to the CIA mission require much larger capitalization and
investment. They are staffed by Agency personnel plus cleared commer-
cial employees as required. Among the Agency's operating proprietaries
of this type are four management companies which provide commercial
assistance to other proprietaries and an audit firm which conducts
commercial audits of operating companies and those non-operating
proprietaries with substantial assets. The Agency's largest operating
proprietaries are Air America, an insurance complex, and the aviation
facility, Intermountain Aviation, Inc. The assets of Intermountain
have been sold, with operations ceasing-on 28. February 1975; and:the--
corporation is in the process of being dissolved.
Air America, the Agency's largest proprietary, which is in the
process of liquidation, provided aircraft in support of Agency operations
in Southeast Asia. This support has been under cover of a commercial

flying service in fulfillment of U.S. Government contracts. Corporate

Headquarters has been in Washington, D. C., with field Headquarters

 

 

in |

 

The insurance complex provides a mechanism for the payment of
annuities and other benefits to sensitive agents and for self-insurance
of risks involved in covert operations which, for security reasons,
cannot be attributed to the U.S. Government or handled through private
firms. The complex was formed in 1962 as a clandestine commercial
support mechanism to provide death and disability benefits to agents

or their beneficiaries when security considerations precluded payments

HW 50955 Docld:32473532 Page 10
-~3-

need for proprietaries has declined as a result of a general shift in
emphasis away from covert action; transfer of Radio Free Europe and
Radio Liberty to the Board of International Broadcasting with funding
through State Department; continuing liquidation of the assets of the
Air America complex as requirements for CIA support in Southeast Asia
have diminished; the sale of Southern Air Transport and the continuing
liquidation of assets of Intermountain Aviation with their exposure
in the press and the decreased need for contingency air capabilities.

The evidence establishes that activities of all proprietaries,
directly or indirectly, support the Agency's foreign intelligence collectio:
or covert action missions. Some of these proprietaries are located
within the United States for reasons of operational or administrative
necessity, but their ultimate impact is overseas. Some of the question-
able domestic uses of these entities is dealt with in the sections of
the Report on "Chaos" and related programs. And in one area, MHMUTUAL,
serious questions remain as to the propriety of using such a mechanism
to provide insurance and retirement benefits. This problem is detailed
later. (See Section VIII).

A, Operating Proprietaries

As discussed in greater detail later, operating proprietaries
conduct business in the commercial sphere, but they are not in direct
competititon with privately owned corporations to such a degree as to
deprive the private companies of legitimate income. There is no doubt,
however, that they were and are in competition. The Agency has been
careful to limit the amount of commercial business engaged in by these
proprietaries to only that necessary to support the viability of the

commercial cover and keep it alive in the commercial world. Revenues

HW 50955 Docld:32423532 Page @
and covert activities; and they provide services not securely available
through normal commercial facilities. Because these instrumentalities
are established as private organizations, they must be established

and managed, to the extent possible, in accordance with practice and
requirements that are normal for the types of enterprises they give

the appearance of being.

Of the legally constituted entities, the Agency uses the corporate
form in most cases because of the advantages and flexibility of corporate
Management control. These corporations are legally organized under the
Laws of a state, country, or other jurisdiction and are either wholly
owned by CIA or controlled through majority stock ownership. Services
of bona fide businessmen are enlisted as nominee officers, directors,
and stockholders.

The Agency generally has employed proprietaries when it was the
only way, or clearly the best way, to achieve an approved objective.
Under Agency rules proprietaries are established or allowed to continue
in existence only so long as they contribute to accomplishment of the
Agency's mission and remain the most advantageous operational means of
achieving certain particular and necessary objectives. Current policy
calls for limited use of operating proprietary mechanisms. The capa-
bility to use the mechanism is to be retained (this the Agency terms
its "capability in being"), and smaller entities used.

A review of Agency files shows that the number of operating
proprietaries has been consciously pared by about 50 percent since the
mid 1960's. These reductions began as a result both of the Katzenbach
guidelines associated with the National Student Association affair in

1967 and the CIA's own IG survey in that same year. In addition, the

HW 50955 Docld:32423532 Page 7
(ii)
V. The Disposal of Agency Proprietaries ............. eee 59
a. An Overview oo... ccc cece cece cece tenes dees 59
Entities Dissolved Se eee ee ee ee eee eee ee eee eee 63
Entities Sold 2.2... ccc ee eee es 68
Entities "Otherwise Disposed Of" ................... 71
Description of Disposition of Entities Sold or

Otherwise Disposed Of .......... eee eee es 74

b. The Sale of SouthernAir Transport, Inc.: A Case
Study In Disposal of a CIA Proprietary ............. 89-1
Background ..........000eeee eee ees veeeeeees 89-1
The Sale . 2. e eee e eee e ene 89-4

Declassification of Relationship With CIA ...89-14

Conflict Of Interest ....... ccc cere ee eee ees 89-15
Conclusion ste eee e eens Lecce eee eee 89-17
VI. Project MHBOUND ............. cc cece eens See eee eee 90

VII. Beyond "Doing Business": . Peak Non-Government Security
Investments by Proprietaries Active as of December

31, 1974 .........-- eee eae ee eee eee e eens eneeeee 95

VII. MHMUTUAL: The Insurance-Investment Complex ............. 99
a. A Brief History 2... .. eee cee ee eee eee eee 99

b. Current Status 2.2... cc eee ee ee tee eens 106

Stock Portfolio Performance Chart ............... 108

IX. The Air Proprietaries ....... cece cee eee 113
X. Issues Posed, Conclusions, and Recommendations ............ 129

HW 50955 Docld:32423532 Page 5
 

I. INTRODUCTION AND PHILOSOPHY OF USE 7

Questions have arisen as to CIA's use of proprietary mechanisms
to help carry out the Agency's missions. In particular, concerns
have been expressed about the Agency's financial and management control
over these entities and about the treatment of funds related to such
entities. A careful review of these entities has revealed that CIA's
proprietaries are appropriately limited and controlled with careful
consideration given to their use within the spirit and letter of the
law.

Proprietaries fall into two main categories:

1. Operating companies that actually do business as
would any private firm; and

2. Non-operating companies or entities that appear to
do business under commercial guise.

These entities may be legally constituted as corporations, partner~
ships, or sole proprietorships; or they may have no such legal standing,
i.e., they may be "notional" entities which have bank accounts and
backstopped addresses controlled by the Agency. Corporate proprietaries
are incorporated in accordance with the statutory provisions of the
jurisdiction of incorporation, are subject to the same review as -any
corporate entity within that jurisdiction, file applicable state and/or
federal tax returns, and obtain the necessary licenses to conduct their
normal business. The purposes served by them are two-fold: they provide

cover, attribution for funding, and administrative assistance to agents

 

QC ee
HW 50955 Docld:32423532 Page 6
AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

SSCIA

AGENCY INFORMATION

157-10014-10144
MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

07-M-49

00/00/76
263

SSCSGO, REPORT

REPORT
SECRET
REFERRED

POSTPONED IN FULL

01/05/99

Date
Page

08/07/95

HW 50955 Docld:32423332 Page 2

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED
{571004410144

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

WH2015

 

Agency Information

SSCIA
137-10014-10144

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

07-M-49

 

 

Document Information

SSCIA

00/00/1976
263

SSCSGO, REPORT

REPORT
Secret
Consulied
Withhold
01/05/1999

 

vo.L

HW 50955 Docld:32423532 Page 1

 
NOE Gotten

SEORET SENSITIVE
TABLE OF CONTENTS

PROPRIETARIES
-I. Introduction and Philosophy of Use .......... 0.0. eee eee , 1
A. Operating ProprietariesS 1.0... .. cee cee ec 3
B. Non-Operating Proprietaries ................. eee 7
II. Statutory Authority for Proprietaries .............00000. 9
III. Specific Controls Lee ee eee ee ee eet eee reece eens 10
A. Agency Regulations and Policies .......... cc cece eee 10
B. Project Reviews and Control ............ been eens LL
C, Financial Controls/Operating Companies and Non-
Operating Companies Keeping Books of Accounts ...... 11
D. Financial Controls/Non-Operating Companies Except
Those Keeping Books of Accounts ..............--05-- 13
E. Treatment of Profits 2... ccc ccc eee eee eens 14
F. Disposition of Funds Returned from Proprietaries ... 16
G. Disposal of Proprietaries 2... 0... eee eee eee ee 16
H. Relations with Tax, Regulatory, and Other Agencies . 18
Iv. A Description of the Various Proprietaries ...... sees eee 21
Proprietary List ............. eee eee eet ee eens 24
Employees of Proprietaries as of October 1975 ......... 41
Funding and Payroll Mechanisms ........... eens reer eens 42
Description of Major Headquarters-Controlled
Proprietaries as of September 1975 ............05005- a 43

Listing of Proprietaries During the Period 1952 through
1974 (Total 399) ... ccc ccc eee eee tee eee

HW 50955 Docld:32423532 Page 4
