OF ae

LW SeeKE)

‘II. Interest of Intelligence Community in Oswald Prior to’ Assassination
A.. Summary of Oswald's Activities of Interest to Intelligence
Community Generally

While the Select Committee's investigation focused on the
CIA and FBI because these two agencies were most involved in the
assassination investigation, many other intelligence agencies had
been involved in investigating Oswald's activities prior to the
assassination.

In September 1959, Oswald received an early, hardship
discharge from the Marine Corps, claiming he needed to support his
mother, but instead he left for Europe shortly after being. dis-
charged. On October 1959, he showed up in Moscow. After a reported
suicide attempt, he went to the U.S.-Embassy in Moscow seeking
to renounce his U.S. citizenship. He also informed Embassy officials
that he planned to disclose to the Soviets certain classified
information he had on Marine Corps radar equipment.

Upon learning this, the Office of Naval Intelligence reviewed
Oswald's access to classified information and determined that any
disclosure he might make would do little harm... This_fact.was-
corrétrmed—bithe—Maxrinesaiterthe—assassi ion heheh

 

tr~O-s 4 a U- sooo

. _—_— . :
Japan, he did net-have-aceess—to—any Classified informaeron abote
thet™2. Ecula's half brother, John Pic, who was a sergeant in
the Air Force, then became alarmed by Oswald's defection and
submitted voluntarily to a background investigation by Air Force
intelligence. By March 1960, the military concluded that there was
‘Little cause for concern about Oswald's defection, although the

Marine Corps

HW 50955 Docld: 32423526

 
my
~

   

Relevant’ documents on Oswald were circulated throughout “tHe
intelligence community, so that by late 1960, the Department of -
Defense, CIA, State Department, FBI, and I&NS all had intelligence
files on Oswald. .

Oswald spent two and one half years in the Soviet’ Union work-
ing in a television and radio parts factory ‘in’ Minsk. In 1961, he
met Marina and marriéd her. They had one child born in the Soviet
Union, and a second child born’ in the United States about a month
‘before the assassination.

Oswald wrote his relatives while in the Soviet Union and
these relatives passed some of this information on to the intelli-
gence agencies. Oswald also wrote the State Department and the
Marine Corps on several matters and this correspondence was duly
included in intelligence files. “CIA's mail intercept program
also acquired correspondence. Information obtained from this .
correspondence was given to the FBI after the assassination.

By early 1962, it was learned that Oswald planned to return
to the U.S. with his wife and daughter. ONI, FBI, I&NS, and State
Department were all involved in determining when he would return.
Oswald, in fact, returned by ship, landing in New York on June 6,
1962. There he was interviewed briefly by an I&NS agent. Oswald
and his family then proceeded to Fort Worth, where he was inter-
viewed by the FBI in late June and again in August. Neither ONI's

ye

nor CIA's files indicate their contact with Oswald after his return.

 

m5 1 apopbaoay bot (at AS hibi thalt dhe beth.
 

extensive assassination investigation.
The.following report of the subcommittee details the
evidence developed by the subcommittee's review of intelligence

agencies in connection with the assassination of President

 

Kennedy.
It seems clear that a atisfactory explanation of the

assassination may never be lpossible. Doubts will probably
_ continue; and all questéons can never be answered.

weRyen |

' The subcommittee! no AG evidence. tu-tontradiemethe
Lind Pccetee™ i Peta lemty toa Sie aan lk fee
Ee

pet ay) PSA Bio otienr. It did obtajn, evidence which tends

it h he. by which soak ame
to impea the process by whic ~ Sees

cnforradorn @ Es Mtl. CprrrnegeePrr «
' It is “the subcommittee’s recommendation that this evidence.

impeaching the process.of the investigation, should be further

 
 

explored. For, if the intelligence agencies cannot be relied

upon to investigate fully and to report candidly to a specially

constituted body like the Warren Commission, then there is

doubt as to whether these agencies can ever be relied upon to

investigate their own operations and their own performance in

eritical situations. Moreover, if the agencies withheld infor-
mation from the Warren Commission, or if their investigation of

the assassination was deficient, the Warren Commission may have

been precluded from determining the true circumstances surrounding

the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

HY 50955 Docld:32423526 Page 8
HY 50955

  
 

  
   
 

 

oe cco Badal 1

gence agencies relating to the assassination, the subcommittee, with

‘Given the tremendous volume o thdyincel 1i-
limited staff and time, could.obviously not attempt to duplicate
the work of the Warren Commission.

Instead building on the other work of the Select Committee and
utilizing its access to the agencies and its expertise in their
funetion, the subcommittee examined how those agencies reacted
to the Warren Commission's investigation «a.

“It must be remembered that the purpose of chesommittee's
inquiry was to allow for an evaluation of the performance of
the intelligence agencies (both prior and subsequent to the

assassination). and the process by which information was provided

 

It should also be remembered that all of our intelligence

agencies were operating under tremendous pressures after the
assassination. Literally thousands of persons contacted the CIA and
FBI within days of the assassination, offering information which
they believed to relate to the assassination. Much of the informa-
tion so provided was irrelevant or of doubtful reliability. The
agencies failure to follow,a given lead or adequately investigate

COV :
a leadfunder these circumstances, ts=in-most—instanees-umderttaundabte.

theWommi ttee is not now attempting to look back with twelve years

of hindsight and criticize these agencies. Nor is our discussion

  
 

of the assassination investigati

ntended to minimize the agencies’
aN - ee an

 

 

Docld:32423526 Page 7
Z -

-

numerous rumors and theories the public interest in insuring the
truth could not be met merely by adopting the.reports or the
analysis of Federal or state agencies."

When. it -began work in earnest in. mid-December, .the Commission
was: supplied with a.tremendous number of reports from various
Federal and state agencies. By far the greatest number of reports
emanated from the FBI; of particular importance. was the five
volume, December 9, 1963, Report. summarizing the Bureau's immediate
post assassination investigation. Subsequently, the Commission
requested and received the field investigation reports upon which
the December 9, 1963, report had been based. The Commission stated
in its report:

; As these investigative reports were
received, the staff began analyzing and .
summarizing them. .The members of the: legal
staff, divided into teams, proceeded to
organize the facts revealed by these in-
vestigations, determine the issues, sort

out the unresolved problems, and recommend
additional investigation by the Commission

After reviewing the accumulating ma-
-terials, the Commission directed numerous
‘additional requests to Federal and State
agencies. (Report, p. xii)

The Commission's Report also states:

Because of the diligence, cooperation, and
facilities of Federal investigative agencies,
it was unnecessary for the Commission to em~
ploy investigators, other than the members of
the Commission’s legal staff. (Report, p. xiii)

BON pen Len
; ne,

Fi
£

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423526 Page 5
 

With only isolated minor exceptions, the entire body of
factual material from which the Commission drew its findings was
supplied by the intelligence community, and, primarily, the FBI.
Even when material | was provided by an agency other than the FBI,
however, the record reflects that the agency usually first checked
with the Bureau ‘before supplying information to ‘the Commission.
Moreover, FBI memoranda indicate that CIA and Secret Service
personnel reviewed pirector Hoover's Commission testimony prior
to the testimony of their respective agency head, for the stated
purpose of “ensuring that there were no conflicts in testimony."

Thus , by its own admission, the Commission was dependent
upon’ the intelligence agencies for the facts. As a second step,

“the Commission and its staff did analyze the material and fre-
quently requested follow up agency investigations. However, if
the Commission did not initially receive any evidence on a parti-
cular point, the second step would obviously not -be reached, and
the Commission's findings and conclusions would necessarily be

drawn without the benefit of any information on the omitted point.

‘The Select Committee's investigation of alleged assassination
attempts against foreign leaders raised questions as to possible
connections these plots and the assassination of President
Kennedy. and as to-whether information about these plots was
provided the Warren Commission. Thus, in accordance with its
mandate to review the performance’ of the intelligence agencies,
the Select Committee established a subcommittee of two Senators

to investigate the role of thoseragencies in-events leading..up
: t oy .

    

“to the assassination of the Preside

rid in the ensuing investigation.
HW 50955 Docld:32423526 Page 6 “ews to AE

 
Date

08/07/95
Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10014-10138
RECORDS SERIES : MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 07-M-43 A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :

TITLE : COMMITTEE REPORT: THE INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES AND THE
ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

DATE : 00/00/75
PAGES : 170
SUBJECTS : SSCSGO,: REPORT

KENNEDY, JOHN, ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED :
CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/05/99
OPENING CRITERIA ;
COMMENTS : CCBOX 353

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
HW 50955 Docld:32423526 Page 2
157-10044-10138

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA ;

COMMENTS :

vO}

JFK Assassination System Date: TWH2015
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

SSCIA
157-10014-10138

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

07-M-43

 

Document Information

SSCIA

COMMITTEE REPORT: THE INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES AND THE ASSASSINATION OF
PRESIDENT KENNEDY

00/00/1975
170

SSCSGO, REPORT
KENNEDY, JOHN, ASSASSINATION

REPORT
Declassified
1B; 1c
Redact
03/21/2000

HW 50955 Docld:32423526 Page 1
doe 353 ©

COMMITTEE DRAFT: “CHE INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES AND _K 7 /
THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY" / 4 3

Table of Contents

 

Vv.

VI.

Introduction

Interest of Intelligence Community in Oswald Prior
to the Assassination

The CIA's Role in the. Investigation and the FBI's
Assassination Investigation

The 1967 Investigation of Allegations of Castro's
Connection with the Assassination

Discussion

Appendixes

 

oy 53

 

 

HW 50955 Docla:32423526 Page 3

Lhe
 

“INTRODUCTION |

Legally, the assassination of President Kennedy and the °
subsequent murder of Lee Harvey Oswald, the suspected assassin, was
within the jursidiction of authorities of the State of Texas.

But many Americans were questioning how a President could be
assassinated despite the vast’U.S. intelligence apparatus. Many
were also openly skeptical of the FBI's stated findings that Oswald
was the assassin and that he acted alone.

Congress and the President felt that public concern could
only be assuaged by what they believed was a thorough and independent
investigation of the assassination. Two resolutions were submitted
in Congress calling for congressional investigations into the
circumstances “surrounding the assassination: The State of Texas
set up a Commission for the same purpose. President Johnson, in
establishing the Warren Commission by executive .order on

November 29, 1963, preempted the field.

‘The President's publicly stated reason for establishing the
Commission was to “ensure a thorough and independent. investigation
of the circumstances surrounding. the assassination." In that the
only investigations of the assassination on record were the invest-
igations that had been conducted by the Dallas Police Department
and the Federal Bureau of Investigation -- and taking into account
the public criticism and skepticism directed at these two agencies --
it can be inferred from President Johnson's public statements that
the Commission's investigation was to be independent from the

HY 50955 rReptas3242 3th cBaser He Commission's report noted: "Because of the
