of these things and the pressure of the times -- this is where
hea is very qood -- he talks about the intense desire to do
something about Cuba, 90 miles off the coast and so on, that
there was pressure, Very ‘atense pressura vithin th. poveran.i
to mount operations and get things done.

Senator Goldwater. Would you yield at that point?

Mr. Miller. Yes, sir. ;

Senator Goldwater. 1 think it will be very helpful to
this Conmittes if we could, in some way, have Mr. Helms explai:
the philosophy that is wrapped up in the President knowing or
not knowing. This dant confined to this Committee, this is
international and I think they have to protect the President.
And when Bissell said in effect, yes, I would lie, { would «to
it to.

Mr. Miller. He got into that question yesterday.

Senator Goldwater. If we could develop that philosophy,

because I don't think enough of the staff or enough of the

i Metbers have ever been exposed to that kind of thinking. In
other’ words, is it batter to have One man assassinated or have .
to qo to war and all of us qet. back {ato the business of killis:
thousands.

Mr. Schwarn. Ne certainly says that there was intense
pressure and he explicitly naid that there ware no Limitations.

expressed with reqard to that prassura. On the specific of

810 Font Stemer. SE. Wavhengion. OC. 20003 |

assasainations, he gaid that may have been discussed as an

TOP SECRET

 

 

HW 50955 DBocld:32423463 Page 9
TOP SECRET
option but he is very fussy whan you gat down to was it
actually discussed.

Mr. Smothers. What is very helpful, I think, and we spent
noma tima with him yesterday, on simply qoina through his
impressions of how Mongoose developed and how he shad cone to
the feeling that he articulated very clearly that there was no
doubt in nis. mind about what his marching orders. ware about
what ‘they wanted done, they being the President on down.

We talked ahout the question of tha various sources of thir
kiad of Ampresaton, meetings he-had with Cabinet people, meatiian
that Mr. McCone would have, his conversations with McCone.

While not explicit, it is very clear that all of these meetinis

17

WARD & PAE

appear to him to be consistent.

“1 think tha other thing that may be very heleful for us
to try to gst a close look at is the nature of tha coordination,
again as raflucted by Mongoose. Here wu nave a pulling tode*har
of ‘essentially all of tha government agencies in an effort to
H get a task done, and if wa focus on gonethind like, Ome,the

7 Attorney General's involvement, it appsars as he said vesterday

that the wholes concept of the Special Group Ausmented was to

‘allow for the Attorney General's input, aad also to provida
for the stewardship of Lansdale who, for the first time, whose role
boconss a@ little clearar hers 43 we Look at why Lansdale comes

out of nowhere.

 

410 Fost Steeet, $8, Warrenton, OC. 20003

I think if we really pursue, the quastion of how this

TOP SECRET

 

 

BW 50955 Bocld:32423463 Page 10
project lasted into 1973 in New York and was just starting on
his authority in San Francisco at the very time he was writing
President Nixon saying 4t had been discontinued. .

“phat ta worth having him explain.

The Chairman. Nas he axplained that to you previously?
Mr. Schwarz. He didn't, because we didn’t have this in
mind until afterwards. That is essentially it on the Castro.

The Chairman. What did ha say on the question of

Presidential authority in assassination?

Mr Schwarz. Well he puts it in this senne, Senator.

 

Anything goes, and wa knew the President wanted the qovernman’

ovarthrown,

ia]

The Chairman. Nothing mors specific?

wAsD & PAUL’

Mr. Miller. I disaqrev. If I might, 1 think this might

an

help, Fritz.’

4

Yesterday in the discussion we followed the thema that was

7

raised by Bissell without stating whera -- in fact, we did
; express the notion of plausible dental.

‘Mr. Schwarz. Yes; we should discuss that with hin, whae
‘doua 4 insau and so forth.

Ne. ‘tiller. And we came baldly out with the question,
could this have happaned without the President's approval. An!

1 think, it is my impression and there mav be other gradings

 

 

on this, because he was very careful in his answer, was he Aid

210 Fart Stewet, $ E. Wrengion, OC. 70003

 

not think so. The President and the Attorawy General wete aWate

TOP SECRET :

 

HW 50955 DocId:32423463 Page 6
B20 Font Steet, $.€, Wownengton. OC. 20003

HW 50955 Docld: 32423463

Personally told about and had been told additional details

One

I think he will say the memo is accurate, We will discuss

what he did after the memo was written telling paople to destrcy

certain documents relating to the memo. We will have to. take

‘i him through the parts of tha .memo which say he decided or he

f agreed with Harvey's decision not to brief MeCone. But that is
stated on threw occasions in the memo. 1 think he will testify
either he remembers no such thing. That is what he said
yesterday and what he said to the Rockefeller Commission.

Moreover, I think he's going to disagres with “cCona's
testimony, about NeCone'n attitude toward assasuination, and
at least say that he neVer heard “cCone expresa any doubts abaut
assassination, A, and B, that if McCone had such doubts he would
have heard them,

Senator Baker. What's'ha going to say, Fritz -- well, t
thought you were finished. Go ahead.

Mr. Schwarz. Another thing on Castro. On the general
subject of disclosures to President, I have a book on mati
opening which ws should aot get into the details of but is
relevant in this sunse, in the so-called Huston Plan which h-

and J. Edgar Hoover, Gaylar and Bennett, General Yeannete,

 

 

signed thers was a flat statement, and this was in June 19709,
that mail opening has basn discontinued that was siqned by Air

and submitted to President Nixon. In fact, the mail opanina

TOP SECRET

 

 

Page 7
The Chairman. I am going to ask Fritz Schwarz if he would
give us a short rundown on what it is wa intend to focus on
in the questioning today, what we expect to cover, what we hone
to gat, and anything, I supposa, Mr. Smothers, that you would
like to add, just to give us a sense of direction in connection
with the proceedings this morning.

Mr. Schwarz. Mr. Helms was Dissell's Deputy during the
period that the Bay of Piqs was planned. Ile apparently was
kept pratty much out of that, that 1s both consistent with what

he said yesterday and with what the writtsan record appears to

show.

i
©

¥
2
«
a
a
e
&
‘a
B

Ne took over as Daputy Diractor of Plans in the winter o°
(1962 and remained in that position essentially until he becane
the head of the Agency in 1946.

The first thing that I think that we should cover with
him ts to go through his perspactive on what was happeaing
i with respect to Cubs geansrally without gatting to the assastine-
| tion question. On that ha's qoina to say, T believes, based c:.
interviswina him yesterday and what he said to the Rockafeallar
Coinnission, that thera was continuing latense pressure to do
* something about Castro or get rid of Castro or overthrow the
Communist yovernmant in Cuba.

I think ha will say that in that connaction, in affect,

 

 

410 Fans Steeet, $.€ . Wavmengion, O.C. 2000)

anything gous. OF, 48 Sunator Goldwater put the question the

TOP SECRET

 

HW 50955 DBocld:32423463 Page 5
‘other day, there were not any limitations, But it's going to
be worth @ little bit exploring with him and understanding what
he means. Does he mean that the CIA could have dropped bombs,
could have blown up ships in the harbor? What does he mean bv
anything goss and what does he mean by there ware no -limita-
tions?

When we come to the subject of, 5 ination, I think.
you will sve his testimony kind of -boithce hack and forth. On
the ons hand, he £8 qoing to be saying, well, anything goes,

and that ia something. On the other hand,..he's going to be

re
.)

saying, I think, wall there really wasn't anything solid in the

assassination araa.

~ OF

lig Will admit that he knew ahout Mr. Roselits he will

BY

edmit, I believe; that hs, indeed he and his man Harvey took.

:
3
<

«
e
8
&
«
B

Over Koselli. ‘But 1 belfave you'll find the tastimony, based
on what he said to the Rockefsller Commission and what he said
yesterday, quite vague 6n that aubjact.

Ne will turn on that subject: hbafora too long to the 196°
memo which is the most complete description of the avents in
connection with Castro, Me had that. prepared becauns Presiden?
‘Johnson asked him to brief Prasident Johnson on tha allasation”
abuut Castro that were appearing da the Praas. Then Johnson

va hin own added Trujillo and Diem.

 

Senator Saker. Is this the Praw Pearson article?

Mr. Schwarz. Yas, which President Johnson had heen

TOP SECRET

410 Fant Steet, SE. Wamnngton, O 6. 20003

 

 

 

HY 50955 DoclId:32423463 Page 6
The United States Seitate
Hem

ND

OCENTO RICO

Report of Proceedings ow Bld,
oy Che. tere

—
Hearing held ‘before

Benate Select Committee to Btudy Governmental |
Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

md

Friday, June 13, 1978

Washington, D.C

——

pe and Waste turned over -

(Stenotype Ta
@ for destruction)

to the Committe

WARD & PAUL |

aio FIRST BTREET, 8. BE

WASHINGTON, D. C, 20003
a

(202) 644-6000

“Top SECRET

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423463 Paye 2°
>

157-10014-10075 vo

 

 

    
    

Date : 08/06/95
Page : 1

  

AG:
AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10014-10075
RECORDS SERIES : HEARINGS
—& NUMBER : 10-H-07
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM : HELMS, RICHARD
TO 3
TITLE :
DATE : 06/13/75
PAGES : 131
SUBIECTS : ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
CIA
OPERATION MONGOOSE
DOCUMENT TYPE : TRANSCRIPT
CLAS No: UNCLASSIFIED
Ri : 1B
CUR L : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 67/21/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Box 3

(CTED

    

{Ri - ITE

HW 50955 Docld:32423463 Page 1
 

TESTIMONY OF
Mr. Richard lielms
AFTERNOON SESSION = p. 93

| Mr, Richard Helms -- Resumed

Lad & PAu

an

= Wasnergton, OC 20003

 

 

B10 Faw Steet. SE

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423463 Page 3
EXECUTIVE SESSION

Friday, June 13, 1978

United States Senate,

Salect. Committee to Study Governmental

Operations with Raspect to
Intelligence Activities
Washington, D. C.
The Committees mat, pursuant to notice, at 10112 o'clock
a.m, in Room $-407, The Capitol, Senator Frank church
(Chairman), presiding. ,
Present: Senators Church (prusiding), Morgan, flart of
Colorado, Baker, noldwater, Mathias and schwatker.
Also present: wilidam Miller, Staff Director;
Frederick A. O. Schwarz, Je, Chiaf Counsel: Curtis &. Smothers.

Minority Counsel; and Charles Kirbow, William Bader, Michael

Madiqan and David Aaron, Profussional Staff Members.

 

410 Fant Seeeet, $f, wastengion, OC, 20007

TOP SECRET

 

 

HW 50955 DocId:32423463 Page 4
