COS recalls raising the subject of assassination with
Gottlieb on subsequent occasions outside the Congo only in the
context of his (COS's) feeling: "Thank God I never had to use it."
cOS did not remember if Gottlieb mentioned Richard Bissell as
a source of authority or approval for the assassination operation.
COS~does not recall that anyone other than the President and the
DCI were indicated as the source of authority for the assassination

operation. -

O'DONNELL IS DISPATCHED FROM HEADQUARTERS TO THE CONGO

COS recalled the fact that Justin O'Donnell arrived in the
Congo from CIA Headquarters approximately in October of 1960. COS
said that O'Donnell “came to eliminate Lumumba."' COS did not re-
call whether O'Donnell recalled a conversation with Richard Bissell.

COS said that, in anticipating O'Donnell's arrival, he-had
the impression that O'Donnell was coming to aid in the removal of
Lumumba. COS said, "I wondered if Headquarters thought I was drag-
ging my feet and that I might be relieved."

COS said he did not remember discussing his meeting with
Sidney Gottlieb with O'Donnell but he simply does not have a
specific recollection. COS said he would not dispute O'Donnell's
testimony that COS had made O'Donnell aware that a poison virus
was-in his safe. COS said that assassination was "not excluded"
as one of the means of removing Lumumba that O'Donnell might use.
But coS said that he was not certain that assassination was included

as one of O'Donnell's tools. ‘COS said that he may have discussed

HW 50955 DBocld:32423566 Page 9
with O'Donnell a plan to snatch Lumumba from “protective custody."
But he does not specifically remember this.

COS said that "O'Donnell did not seem to do anything most of
the time, and I didn't take him very seriously. He spent a lot of
time drinking." COS said that he was not aware of any action
O'Donnell took to carry out an assassination or a "snatch" of
Lumumba. .

COS said that the assassination plan had struck him from the
beginning as a bad idea, so he moved slowly on it. "I showed some
action to Headquarters by sending cables, but never pushed it."

COS said that he asked-O'Donnell to clear with him any major
actions he was contemplating in the Congo. COS believes that
O'Donnell was in the Congo from September until approximately

Christmas.

LUMUMBA's ESCAPE

COS said that Lumumba's escape from "protective custody" was
a surprise to him. He said that the CIA Station had nothing to do
with it, although they investigated the incident.

COS said "I was in touch with many official Congolese about
where Lumumba was and how he got out. But I did not get much good
information. It was assumed that Lumumba was going to Stanleyville.
‘The Congolese flew troops to points that he would have to pass on
this route. I remember reviewing maps of these routes with the
Congolese." .

COS added, "I left the Congo for Rome because of the prospect

that Lumumba might start an uprising against ‘white devils.’ But

HW 50955 Docld: 32423566 Page 10
think I agreed to use it."" Although he also said that he did not
tell Gottlieb that he would refuse to use it.

COS said that even though Gottlieb had told him that clearance
for the assassination of Lumumba had come from the President and
the DCI, he wanted verification from Headquarters of an assignment
of such magnitude. COS said: "I responded to Headquarters with a
double-talk message, saying that I had met the messenger and re-
questing confirmation. I then received a cable containing double-
talk confirmation, something like ‘your assumption confirmed.'"

COS said "I never knew who was sending me these cables. They
also said 'Director' and I sent my cables with a special slug. My.
cables were probably marked to 'Director" which is never actually
seen by the DCL. COS thought that he destroyed his copy of cables
on this subject on instructions contained in those cables. He said
that only a single copy of the cables had existed at the Congo
Station. COS said that he was instructed by Gottlieb that he was
not to discuss this assassination mission even with his own deputy.
COS said that he did not discuss the operation with Glenn Fields.
He also said that he would not have discussed the operation with
Dr. Lester Houck because Houck was removed as Branch Chief in early
fall due to dissatisfaction with his performance.

cOS said that he thought an assassination effort was "a bad
idea, both morally and practically." However, COS said that he
may not have expressed his grave concern to Gottlieb because he was
so taken aback at receiving the assignment. COS thought that he

told Gottlieb that he did not have.a good means of access to Lumumba.

7

HW 50955 DBocId: 32423566 Page 6 a
-4-

he was not awaiting any further "go signal" in order to proceed
with the assassination operation. .

COS said that Gottlieb told him that there was to be no connec-
tion with the United States if the biological agents were to be
employed. COS had an asset in the Congo that he considered for
use as an intermediary in this project, although he never moved
forward to make the asset knowledgeable of the project. COS said
that, whether or not he used an intermediary to accomplish the
assassination, Gottlieb made it clear that "I was to do it or find
a way to do it."

COS asked Gottlieb when the lethal biological agents would
lose their potency. Gottlieb said this would happen over a long
period of time. COS said that he did not remember exactly what
the substances looked like, nor whether Gottlieb brought it in his
bag, and this would not be surprising because “in those days there
were no customs checks in the Congo."

COS locked the virus in a safe at the Station to which only
he had access. He remembers taking the virus from the safe sometime ©
later -- probably after the arrest or death of Lumumba -- to dispose
of it by burying it near the Congo River. COS said that he had no .
training in chemistry and felt ill-equipped to deal with poisons.
COS asked Gottlieb if the poison left traces. Gottlieb told him
that it left the traces of a normal disease.

COS said he was never subjected to great pressure to use the

poison. COS added that, when he spoke with Gottlieb, "I don't

HW 50955 DocId: 32423566 Page 7
After his return to the Congo, probably in early September,
COS received a cable from Headquarters that said, in his words,
“someone I would recognize would appear to give me instructions for
a mission I would carry out." Soon thereafter Sidney Gottlieb
arrived in the Congo to meet with COS. COS recognized Gottlieb
from the Technical Services Division at the CIA, and it was made
clear that Gottlieb was the messenger referred to in the cable.

Gottlieb and COS met in COS's new apartment. COS dated this
meeting by the fact that he had moved into this apartment in early
September, 1960 . COS said that Gottlieb informed him that lethal
biological agents had been developed for the assassination of
Lumumba... COS believes that Gottlieb brought a poison virus and
probably two other lethal biological agents with him in his bag.
But COS said it was possible that the biological weapons arrived
shortly thereafter. COS said that Gottlieb also provided rubber
gloves, a gauze mask, and probably a hypodermic syringe -- equipment
for administering the poisonous substances. The poisonous substances
were to be injected into food, drink, toothpaste, or anything else
that Lumumba might ingest. COS did not remember the appearance of
the biological agents themselves, but he did recall that there were
approximately three different types of lethal substances provided
to him.

COS said that he was "taken aback" by Gottlieb's assignment
to him of the assassination of Lumumba. COS said that he was a
junior Chief of Station, and he wanted to make sure to “pin down"

the chain of authority for this assignment because "I had never

HW 50955 Docld:32423566 Page 5

 
=3-

heard of anything like this." COS's best recollection was that he

had the following interchange with Sidney Gottlieb:

cos: Where did this brilliant idea come from?

Gottlieb: The top.

cos: Who at the top?
Gottlieb: The Director has instructions from President

Eisenhower. —

COS said that he could not recall the exact language of the
interchange, although this was his best recollection. He said
Gottlieb made it clear that the President wanted to find a way to
remove Lumumba from the scene. He said that when Gottlieb explained
the source of authorization for the assassination plot, he made it
clear that the President was the source. COS said it was possible
that Gottlieb used a euphemism, but it was more likely that he
mentioned either “President Eisenhower" or "the President." In
response to a question from the staff to paraphrase again the import
of Gottlieb's instruction to him, COS said that Gottlieb told him
something to the effect that "I am giving you instructions on highest
authority to assassinate Lumumba any way you can." COS said that
Gottlieb did not insist that the assassination had to take place by
means of the biological agents he was supplying.

COS said that this was not an exploration of the possibility
of assassination or the establishment of a mere capability for assassi-
nation, "They were serious about it .. . it was clear that the

policy decision to assassinate Lumumba had been made." COS said

 

HW 50955 DoeTd:32423566. Page 6. | .
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date
Page

08/07/95
1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

SSCIA
157-1001

AGENCY INFORMATION

4-10178

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

07-M-83

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE
DATE

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

ee 90 62 08 20 20 26

00/00/75
161

LUMUMBA, PATRICE, ASSASSINATION

cIaA

CASTRO,

- REPORT

FIDEL

TOP SECRET
REFERRED

POSTPONE
01/19/99

CC Box 7

D IN FULL

3

{R] ~ ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DBocld:32423566 Page 2
157-10014-10178

 

JFK Assassination System Date: VT/2015
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

AGENCY:  SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: = 157-10014-10178

RECORD SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 07-M-83

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:  SSCIA
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 00/00/1975

PAGES: 161
SUBJECTS :
CASTRO, FIDEL ;
LUMUMBA, PATRICE, ASSASSINATION
CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : — Declassified
RESTRICTIONS: — 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 05/31/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : CC Box 73

 

vod 1
BW.50955 DoclId:32423566 Page 1
 

 

 

       
 

- DATE-TIME-LOCATIONS | August 20, 1975 _ - 12:30-3:30 p.m

Roon - 608, Carroll Arms

- PRESENT! Burton Wides, Rhett Dawson, Frederick ‘Baron

EXECUTIVE SESSION: ___YES _% NO

two

HY 50955" “Doe!
‘MEMORANDUM . =
TO: ' Files

FROM: Frederick Baron :

DATE: August 20, 1975

SUBJECT: Interview with Congo Chief of Station: Lumumba Assassination
Plan and Related Events in the Congo

Staff Members Present: Burton Wides, Rhett Dawson,
Frederick Baron

The following is a summary of the contents of an interview
conducted with a former CIA officer concerning a period (1960-1961)
in which he was Chief of Station in the Congo. The interview was
conducted from 12:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. today in Room 608 of the
Carroll Arms Hotel.

At the request of the Chief of Station (COS), we agreed to ~
take his testimony under alias. He will be referred to hereinafter

as "COs".

COS GOES TO CONGO AND RECEIVES MESSENGER FROM HEADQUARTERS

coS said that he arrived in the Congo.as Chief of Station in
early July (probably the 10th or 11th) 1960. COS said that before
he left Headquarters for the Congo he did not talk with either
Richard Bissell (DDP) or Bronson Tweedy (Chief, Africa Division)
about the prospect of assassinating Patrice Lumumba. Soon after
arriving in the Congo, COS was asked to return to Headquarters in
late July for briefings. He said there was no talk of assassination

at those meetings, either.

HW 50955 DBocld:32423566 Page 4
