r ~4-

 

_The hearing record includes some _ pages of sworn testimony from
witnesses*during shearing days as.well as numerous staff interviews.

The documents which the Committee obtained included raw files from the

agencies and departments, from the White House, and from the Presidential

libraries of the’ Administrations of former Presidents Eisenhower, Kennedy

Kennedy and Jolinson.**
We obtained evidence of two general types: first, evidence

which related to the overall setting of events, the national policy of .
: ; :

the time, and descriptions of normal operating procedures including

channels of command and control; and second, evidence relating to specific
: : ; “ee

events.

A Senate Committee is not allcourt. It looks to the past, not to
i .

determine guilt or innocence, but in order to make recommendations for the
. : a
future. Therefore, where we found the evidence to be ambiguous-~as we did

on sone issues--we have set out both sides, in order that the evidence may
speak for itself. ‘
Despite the number of witnesses and documents examined by the

Committee, there were the following shortcomings in the evidence available

to us: Jt

*

The names of the witnesses are set forth in Appendix A.

** The Committee served both general and specific document requests upon
the Executive Pranch and the Administration represented to the Committee that
it did not know of any additional relevant documents, except, of course, for
the possibility that the "Nixon papers" (which the Committee is attempting

to obtain) may contain material relevant to the allegations relating to Chile.
. . NN

 

1

 

HW 50955 DBocld:32423539 Page 9
 

 

under consideration occurred as

Yt
uy
'

Many of the events’

long as fifteen years ano. With one exception, they
occurred during the adriinistrations of Presidents now dead.

Other high officials, whose testimony might have

additional light upon the thorny issues of authorization
ihe
i

and control, are also dead. Woreover, with the passage

of time, the memories of those still alive have dirmed.
cag

fhe Committee often faced the difficult task of dis-

tinguishing refreshed recollection from speculation. In
. ve

|
vt
many instances, witnesses were unable to testify from in-

dependent recollection and had to rely on documents con-

temporaneous with the évents to refresh their recollections.
4 .
While informed speculation is of some assistance, it can

i
. seal . oo . «cs
only. be assigned limited weight in judging specific events.
ae 7

Assassination is not a subject on which one would

expect many records or/documents to be made or retained.
Hl
In fact, there were more relevant contemporaneous documents

then we had expected, and the CIA in 1967 made internal
u

study of the Castro, Trujillo and Diem assassination allega-

 

tions. That study was quite useful, particularly in
: : .
suggesting Leads for uncovering the story of the actual

assassination activity. Unfortunately, some material

 

* Those studies were made at the direction of CIA Director Richard Helms
to provide him with information.to respond to questions put to him by
President Johnson. The. President's questions, as to Castro, were provoked
by a Drew Pearson newspaper column of March [6], 1967, which had alleged
CIA attempts on the life of Castro using the Mafia. “

‘ .
The President asked Helms at the!/same time to provide information
ii ’

BW 50955 Bocld: 32423539

about Trujillo and Diem.

Page 10
 

nittee Decision To M

is Report Public

 

ieve that the public is entitled to know what certain instrumentalities

M their Government have done. Further, our, récommendations can only be

‘

Fsudped in light of the factual record. Therefore, this interim report

snould be made public.
Because of. our faith in the democratic system, and the paranount
; 7 :
importance of strengthening the institutions of this country, the Committee

 

believes ‘the truth about the assassination allegations should be told.

Democracy depends upon a well-informed electorate. Truth underlies both

- snes rhe
justice and freedom. : ; . reer Wei
; ALTA ADA
that 1T

kept secret because they are embarrassing to the United States. Despite cK~ wl;

he don6

“We reject any contention that the facts disclosed herein should be

the possible injury to our national reputation, the Committee believes that
foreign peoples will, upon sober reflection, respect the United States nore

for keeping faith with its democratic. ideal than they will condenn us for

the misconduct itself.

The fact that portions of the story have already been publicly dis-

closed only accentuates the need for full disclosure. Innuendo and mis-

I .
leading partial disclosures are neither fair to the individuals involved,

nor a responsible way to lay the groundwork for informed public policy

judgements.

Cc. The Scope of the Committee's Investigation

The investigation of the assassination issue has been an unpleasant
duty, but one that the Select Committee had to meet. The Committee has_

compiled a massive record in the months that the inquiry has been underway.
| :

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 8
 

In depth treatment of the assassination question has lengthened
the Committee's schedule but has greatly increased the Committee's awareness
of the hard issues it must face in the months ahead. The Committee intends,
nevertheless, to complete, by February 1976, its main job of undertaking the

first comprehensive review of the intelligence community .

A, The Committee's Nandate

 

Under Senate Resolution 21, the Comittee was instructed to in-
vestigate the full range of governmental intelligence activities and the
mxtent, if any, to which ‘such activities were "illegal, improper or un-
ethical”. In addition to that very broad general mandate, the Coumittee
was required by the Senate to investigate, study and make recommendations
concerning various specific matters, several of which relate to the assassi-
nation issue.*

Although the Rockefeller Commission conducted an inquiry into
reported assassination plots, the Commission declared it was unable, for
a variety of reasons, to complete its inquiry. “AL the direction of the Presi-
dent, the Executive Branch turned over’ to the Select Committee the work

the Commission had done, along with other documents relating to assassina-

tions.

 

* For exaaple, S. Res. 21 requires the Committee to study and investi-
gate the following: ©

the extent and necessity of . ... covert intelligence activities
 . » abroad"; :

“[the] nature and extent of executive branch. oversight of all

United States intelligence activities": : :

"the need for improved, strengthened, or consolidated oversight
t of United States intelligence activities by the Congress"; and

the need for new legislation.

a

HW 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 7
@ ‘most Members of Congress, called for vigorous ‘action to stem the
“Communist infection in this hemisphere. These policies rested on
-wideSpread popular support and encouragement.

ThEoughoiur this period,. the U.S. felt impelled to respond to
‘threats which were, or seemed ‘to be, ‘skirmishes in a global Cold
War against Communism. Castro's Cuba raised ‘the spectre of a. Soviet
“outpost at America' s doorstep. Events in the Dominican. Republic
appeared to offer more such opportunities for the Russians and their
“allies. The Congo, freed from Belgian rule, occupied the strategic
ceenter, of the African continent, and the prospect of Communist pene-
‘tration ‘there. was viewed as.a threat to American interests’ in “emerging
“Africa. : Americans are well aware of. the ‘powerful reactions set off
“in the: United States in the 1960's by the domino theory in Indochina.
an “And, even .the election in’ 1970 of a Marxist president in Chile was .
: —

‘seen by. some as a threat similar: to that of Castro’ s takeover in Cuba.

The Committee regards the unfortunate events. dealt with in this

 

Anterim Report as an’ aberration, explainable at least in part, but

 

“hot: justified, by the pressure’ of events at the time. . The Committee
rr .

believes that ait is still in the national interest of the United

 

(States to do what it can. to heyg nations resist Communist dominatio

   
  
  

‘but. it is clear that this cannot justify in the’ future the kind of.
a abuses covered in this report. Indeed, the Committee has resolved

“that steps must be taken to prevent them from happening again.

 

| ; : : J, chet then
eo oo oe a ln. Fret fevr-

DOC M4 ATI

 

Je Bee ce
BR 50955 ° Docld:32423539 Page 5
ii tnad

 

 

Agreed to by Drafting Subcommittee
on August 27, 1975*

 

L.  TNTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY,

This interim report covers allegations of United States involve-
ment in assassination plots against foreign political leaders. Of equal
significance in this report are certain other cases where foreign political
leaders in fact were killed, where the United States was in some manner
involved in activity leading up to the killing, but where it would be
incorrect to say that the purpose of United States involvement had been
to encourage assassination.

The evidence establishes that the United States was implicated in

a
several assassination plots. The Committee believes that the use of assassi-
nation as a tool ef foreign policy is incompatible with American principles,
international order, and morality. It should be rejected.
_ Our inquiry also revealed serious problems with respect to United
States involvement in coups directed against foreign. governments. Some of

these problems are addressed here on, the basis of our investigation to date;

others we raise as questions to be answered after our investigation into

‘covert: action has been completed.

We stress the interim nature of this report. In the course of
the Committee's ‘continuing work, other alleged assassination plots tay
surface, and new evidence concerning the cases covered herein may come to
light. However, it is the Committee's view that the cases covered herein
have been developed in sufficient detail to clarify the issues which are
at the heart of the Committee's mandate to recommend legislative and other

reforms relating to the vital matters discussed below.
a :

 

* The Vice Chairman reserved as to ‘the first sentence in the discussion
of the similarities and differences among the plots. (See p.

HW 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 6
Date

08/07/95
Page. 1

ee oe

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157~10014-10151
RECORDS SERIES : MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMIITTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : SELECT COMMITTEE ASSASSINATION REPORT
DATE : 09/01/75
PAGES : 560’
SUBJECTS : SSCSGO, REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT

CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET .

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/08/99
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 Bocld:32423539 Page 2
157-10014-10151

 

JFK Assassination System Date: WTH2015
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: — 157-10014-101SE

RECORD SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMUTTEE

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 07-M-56 .

 

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA ;
FROM: |
TO: :

TITLE: © SELECT COMMITTEE ASSASSINATION REPORT

DATE: 09/01/1975
PAGES: 560

SUBJECTS :
SSCSGO, REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE: | REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: — Declassified
RESTRICTIONS: — [B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact :
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 03/21/2000 ;

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.) i
HW 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 1
 

September 1, 1975

SELECT COMMITTEE ~ ASSASSINATION REPORT

Tab A: PROLOGUE
wTab B: Part I: Introduction and Summary
Tab C: -Part IT: Covert Action as Vehicle for Foreign Policy Implementation
Tab D: Part III/Cuba .
Tab E: Part III/Dominican Republic
Tab F: | Part ITI/Chile at
Tab G: Part ILI/Congo

Tab H: Part III/South Vietnam

Tab I: Part IV: Findings and Conclusions oT

Tab J: Part V: Recommendations

 

 

HW 50955  Docld:324293539 .Page 3
ye

Agreed to by Subcommittee

@ . BS " October 8, 1975
PROLOGUE

“The events discussed in this Interim Report must be viewed in
the context of United States policy and actions designed to counter
.the threat of spreading Communism. Following the end of World
‘War II, many nations in eastern Europe and elsewhere fell under
‘Communist influence or. control. The defeat of the Axis powers was
“accompanied by the rapid disintegration of the Western colonial
empires. The Second World War no sooner ended than a new struggle
‘began. “The Communist ‘threat, emanating from what was: then called
ithe "Sino- Soviet bloc," produced a policy of. containment intended ©
: @ to ) prevent further encroachment by Communism into the "free world."

: United States strategy for conducting the Cold War called for
‘the establishment of’ interlocking treaty arrangements and military.
bases throughout the world. Our concern over the expansion of an
aggressive Communist monolith ded, the United. States to fight two

: ‘major wars in Asia. In addition, ait was considered necessary to

. 4
wage a relentless cold war against Communist expansion wherever

it appeared in the "back alleys of the world." This called for a

  
 

. full range of clandestine activities in response to the operations:
» of Communist clandestine services.

The. fear of expanding Communism. was particularly acute when

 

.

“Fidel Castro emerged as the leader of Cuba in the late 1950's.
His takeover was,seen as the first significant penetration by the

QQ Comments into the Western Hemisphere. U.S. leaders, including

ne ‘0955 “Doclda:32423539 Page “4

oh
4a

fo
of.
