aL TOP SECRET a

 

1 program. I don't know whether the memo referred to it as
21 such and I am sure, therefore, that the program in the sense
3 of the original structure and action to consider what could
4 be done to weaken the Cuban regime was authorized by the

 
  
 
   

President. I don't wish to imply that whatever actions we

5

6 took, and I have lost recollection what they were -- I

7 don't want to imply every one of those individual actions
8 was authorized by the President. I doubt it very much.
9 Mr. Schwarz. Was a program to overthrow the Castro
10 regime authorized?

ll ‘Mr. McNamara. t think one would phrase it somewhat

12 definitely. I think a program to weaken the Castro reg

with the hope that it would be overthrown was authorized.

 

 

 

13

14 .I think that was the objective.

15 I tried to recall as best I can what the objective was

16 and I think that is the best expression of it.

17 Mr. Schwarz. There is a memorandum which is: dated

18 April 13, '62, it in the Taylor Book generally here or not?

19 Senator Morgan. No.

20 Mr.Schwarz. I can read the whole thing into the record.
ay It is a memorandum from Maxwell D. Taylor for the record

22 April 13, '62. ‘Subject: Operation MONGOOSE, and it refers

23 to you, Mr. Secretary, and I would like to ask you to explain,
24 if you can, what you understand the position attributed to you

 

to be after it had been read into the record.

 

 

 

 

25
HW 58955 Docfd:32493626 Page 9 mes comm we ee
   

wee TOP SECRET vo

Mr. McNamara. I can't refresh my memory any more than
I have as to what Gilpatric said.

Mr. Smothers. Let's not make it a tradeoff. My

concern is that, going back to that 30 May conversation, you
recall you said this guy Lansdale, who did he work for.

Mr. McNamara. That is right.

Mr. Smothers. And again Mr. Gilpatric said to you what,

 

as best you can recall?
Mr. McNamara. I will refer to my notes again. I
would like to be precise on this. Gilpatric said that in
August of '62 Lansdale was not working for either Gilpatric
or McNamara, he was working for a committee that had something
to do with MONGOOSE, or what I know called MONGOOSE. He
said I think Cuba covert action. -:
Mr. Smothers. Cuba covert action?
Mr. McNamara. Covert operation, something like that.
Mr. Smothers. You had also testified earlier that you
had had a conversation with several other persons in an
effort to put together the circumstances surrounding this
August affair?
Mr. McNamara. That is correct.
“Mr. Smothers. And you mentioned General Taylor, Mr.
Bundy, and Mr. Rusk. Again recognizing the purpose is not to
have you testify or reveal any confidence, I wonder if you

could recant briefly for the committee the substance of those

 

 

 

 

: ja2s626 Page 10 at na CEFPPper

 

 

 
TOP SECRET 53

Senator Baker.. Mr. McNamara, tell us who those people
were that told you who Lansdale worked for and who they claimed
he worked for. . ;

Mr. McNamara. F talked to Max Taylor or Roswell Gil-
patric and to Ed Lansdale himself. The three of them, before i
I called the AP, and the reason I did, I was going to ask the

newspapers to correct my statement, what I thought was a mis- |

 

statement. - |
Senator Baker. Who did they say he worked for? - Ou
Mr. McNamara. Well, I would rather leave it that they

said he didn't work for me. |
Senator Baker. No, no.
Mr. McNamara. Max Taylor tole me he worked for hi

don't want to draw Max Taylor into this.

 

The Chairman. General Taylor told us the same thing.
Mr. McNamara. All right.
Senator Schweiker. He has been here.
The Chairman. He told us that.
Mr. McNamara. I am not trying to broaden the net. I
don't want to blacken anybody.
Senator Baker. We don't want to blacken anybody. Who

else, if anybody?

    
  

Mr. McNamara. Well, all I can tell you, Max Told me that

|Lansdale worked for him at the time. Ros Gilpatric told me

a

that it was his understanding he worked for Max at the time.

 

 

 

 

| easen ‘Page 8 TOD GECRDET
 

 

 

 

{

 

 

Page 28, line 24. Mr. Wallach. Do you recall
what Gen. Lansdale's relationship was with the CIA
when he worked on the Cuban operation?

Mr. Gilpatric. I never detected
any friction or any difficulty between them. It
certainly didn't exist in the Agency, the same sort
of distrust or question about Lansdale as expressed
in the State Department, as I explained earlier.

Despite our questioning and document review, it
is difficult for me to understand Mr. Gilpatric's immensely
increased recollection. Apparently Gilpatric did discuss
certain of these matters with McNamara over dinner on Mon-
day evening. It would also appear that they reviewed
McCone's 1967 memorandum. However, based upon McNamara's
present recollection, and upon the length of time McNamara
and Gilpatric spent together Monday evening, I would not

think that the dramatic change in Mr. Gilpatric's recollec-

tion can be attributed to an evening with McNamara.

50955 DocId:32423626 Page 7

 
testimony would be of little, if any, value to the Com-

 

mittee. However, in order to ensure that Mr. Gilpatric's
recollection (or lack thereof) was made a matter of record,
we scheduled:single Senator testimony for the morning of
July 8, 1975.

As I mentioned yesterday, Mr. Gilpatric's

 

recollection of certain of the aforementioned topics was _
substantially greater at his July 8th deposition. Indeed,
Mr. Gilpatric recalled a great deal about Gen. Lansdale's
participation in Cuban operations (i.e.,° Mongoose) and

numerous details relating to Special Group [Augmented]

 

activities. Surprisingly enough, Gilpatric's recollection
was refreshed as to matters that were neither discussed :
during the prior day's interview nor set forth or reflected

in the documents we reviewed with him during the interview.

 

For example, Gilpatric testified in detail as to operational —
aspects of the Special Group [Augmented], the implementation a,
and various stages of Operation Mongoose, and Administration
pressure to "do something about Castro". However, what
looms even larger is that Gilpatric -- who only a day prior
to his sworn testimony told us that he did not recall Gen.
Lansdale being involved at all in Cuban operations -- was

able to testify to, inter alia, the following:

 

 

  

HW 50955 Docld: 32423626 - Paye -5-.¢-.""
~4-

Page 23, line 4. Mr. Wallach. Mr. Gilpatric,
going back to the conversations that you had
with Mr. Smothers yesterday, is it correct
that before we actually showed you documents ——
and refreshed your recollection that you really .

had no recollection that Gen. Lansdale was in-

volved with any Cuban operations.

 

Mr. Gilpatric. That is right.
I had lost track in my own memory of the fact that
after he finished up the Vietnam job for me in the
spring of 1961, and left off that assignment, that : !
he was later on brought back and made Chief of —
Operations. : :

 

Page 24, line 16. Mr. Wallach. Was it really,
then, the function of the Special Group [Augmented]
to come up with ideas or to receive ideas from the
Agency and to consider them?

Mr. Gilpatric. It was generally
to stimulate a more vigorous course of action than
had been followed prior to this augmentation. . .
{[A]nd Lansdale in his position as Operations'
Director had a large part in stimulating thinking
among the group and the ideas that were sent out
to the Agency for further study and work. :

 

Page 27, line 1. Mr. Wallach. Do you recall if
Gen. Lansdale had his own staff?

 

Mr. Gilpatric. He had an office
with a number of assistants. I don't recall any
names except the name HAND which -came up yesterday
and came back to my mind as a result.

Mr. Wallach. Do you recall how
large the staff was?

Mr. Gilpatric. It couldn't have
been more than half a dozen, because he drew ‘on ‘
the resources of the various elements in the Pentagon, i
including the Joint Staff or the Air Force if he need-
ed more assistance.

 

 

 

 

 

NW “S0955. Dackd:32423626, Page 69° 0. 27 ee
Date
Page

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

f

08/08/95

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY INFORMATION

SSCIA

157-10014-10238

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
07-M-143

FROM

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

eo of 90 08 06 ce ee

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

SSCIA
WALLACH, PAUL
SMOTHERS, CURT

07/16/75 °
296
GILPATRIC, ROSWELL

OPERATION MONGOOSE
cIA

LANSDALE, EDWARD
REPORT

TOP SECRET
REFERRED
POSTPONED IN FULL
01/21/99

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 Docld:32423626 Page 2
157-10014-10238

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

BW 50955 DBocld: 32423626

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

TIT2015

 

Agency Information

SSCIA
157-10014-10238 “

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

07-M-143

 

 

Document Information

SSCIA
WALLACH, PAUL
SMOTHERS, CURT

07/16/1975
296

CIA

OPERATION MONGOOSE
LANSDALE, EDWARD
GILPATRIC, ROSWELL
REPORT

Declassified

1B; 1C

Redact

03/17/2000

 

Page 1
July 16, 1975

 

To: Curt Smothers

From: Paul Wallach

Re: ‘Roswell Gilpatric: Comparison of Staff Interview -
- : (7/7/75) and Sworn Testimony
(7/8/75)

 

Set forth below are certain observations and
comments based upon our July 7, 1975, interview of

Roswell Gilpatric and his sworn testimony I took the

 

very next day.
Our initial questioning revealed that Gilpatric =

literally has no present recollection of Operation Mongoose

or, for that matter, any U. S./Cuban operations undertaken

during his tenure as Under Secretary of Defense with the

 

exception of a vague recollection of sabotage operations
targeted against Cuba. Indeed, Gilpatric did not recall

either that there was a Chief of Operations for Cuba or

 

that his old friend Lansdale "directed" Cuban operations
for the SGA.
My notes indicate that during the course of our

July 7, 1975, interview, Gilpatric indicated that he had

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423626 "Page. 3...
no present recollection of:*

 

1. Gen. Lansdale playing any role whatsoever

in U.S./Cuban operations during his tenure as Under Secre-
tary of Defense. (Gilpatric restated this under oath on
July 8; see Testimony, p. 23.) After reviewing numerous

documents which demonstrated Lansdale's participation,

 

Gilpatric surmised that his lack-of "Lansdale recollection" et
stemmed from Lansdale's "low profile" at Special Group
[Augmented] meetings and Gilpatric's preoccupation with
(other matters;

2. Gilpatric has no recollection whatsoever

 

of the. term "Mongoose";
3. Gilpatric could not attribute any special
meaning to the Special Group [Augmented]. However, he did

recall that there were certain Special Group meetings

 

where Robert Kennedy was in attendance.

Despite our reviewing certain relevant documents
with Gilpatric, his recollection was not substantially
refreshed. After some two hours we reached the determina-

tion that in view of his "diminished recollection" his :

 

* It is instructive to note that Gilpatric's recollection
coincided with that reflected in the Rockefeller Commis-
sion's interview summary dated June 3, 1975.

 

 

 

Hi-50955aBdc1d; 374239070 | Baye ©
