_- view _of the Captain'sknowledge of the cargo on board
the S@St Hous#engand his probable knowledge of
@ : the use for which the cargo was intended, it
would create a serious security hazard if he was
released, and especially, if he should return to
Cuba. . It was decided that there were 3 possible
ways of handling the matter. First, to release
him , and permit him to remain in the area run-
ning the risk that he might contact his wife and/
or return to Cuba. This was ruled out on security
grounds. Secondly, to-force him aboard the
vessel and place him under the custody of the
Captain replacing him. _This was believed too
riskyisince it was feared the crew would be more
loyal'to him than to his replacement. Further-
more, if he should regain command of the vessel,
he might divert the craft to Cuba. Thirdly, to
detain him until after the invasion.

    

 

"The above situation was discussed telephoni-

cally with Headquarters personnel , on the

night! of 28 March 1961. Subsequently, authoriza-

tion was received from Hqs. to incarcerate the >
* Subject.

“At approximately 2330 hours on 28 March 1961, a
: and the reporting _ :

    
   

& ; Special Agent ©
agent were.
io3
to the Headquarters of the U.S. Border ratror;
wherethe Capt. was being held in custody. He
was placed in the rear Ago of Seiter deputies '§ auto-
mobile between the/Poth €Uhe reporting agent, and

transported to a spot Mi@emmrne. Naval Air Station Li
Ar Pewver Class Wehraia

SET LOUamas,) where he was handcuffed
and transferred to the rear of the panel truck.

An MP assigned to the Security
Office, drove the truck and iMepu tye oherift

rode} in the front seat while the Special Agent and the re-

ting agent rode withthe Capt. in the rear.
. preceded the truck in his
patrol car to the yailtas Dore Sulphur, Louisiana &

a distance of approximately 40 miles. He Was ~

placed in the jail on the ing of 29 March 1961.
The jailer, » was

instructed to do evéerytning pos ible to make him

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       
   

 

 

 

HW 50955 BocId:322303837 Page 9
: l 4
he might need as well as magazines and newspapers

to help him pass the time. The jailer was re-
quested not to provide him with a local news-
paper since it would reveal his location. An in-
quiry was made as to whether or not_a radio station
was located in the town fof? Port. Sulphuy. When it
was learned that no such Station existed, the Captain
was informed that a radio would be provided for
him at a later date. He was visited approxi-
mately two times each week at which time he was
provided with English and Spanish newspapers and
magazines. A staff employee,
acted as interpreter on three of the visits.
Subject was permitted to write letters to his
wife, one of which was mailed after being censored. —
; An inquiry was made, at the Subject's
request, through his office in New York City, re-
garding his wife's health. When it was learned
that she had given normal birth to a son, Subject
was so informed.

@ : comfortable and to purchase the necessary clothing

‘Subject was very cooperative during the period

of detention, from 28 March 1961 to 20 April 1961,
and approximately one week before he was released,

@ he was provided with a two band, eight transistor
radio. This radio was subsequently given, to the
jailer in appreciation for his cooperation and the
services he had provided, not only for. Subject, but
in handling three other trainees who were subse-
quently placed in jail. A receipt obtained from
the jailer for the radio is attached hereto as
Exhibit No. 1. Food forSubject and the three
trainees was purchased, as ordered, by the jailer
‘from a local restaurant.

"subject's personnel effects we ubsequentl

d over to the
firm. Approximately a week later, the re-
ng agent assumed custody of the effects, con-

sisting of a large suitcase, a leather briefcase,
a small cloth handbag and a red, metal tool box.
The above items were placed in the vault at the

base for safekeeping.

i

HW 50955 DBocld:32203837 Page 10
Ae me Aime

 

e ° loading ammunition on vessels at the Migathehwaite 9
Docks, telephonically advised the reporting agent
that a crew member from thefkake Chamies} and the
Capt. from thef iortstem had jumped ship after
the vessels had loaded and anchored downstream Bin
Pthé: MPs sis sip p Raey The individuals were iden-
tified as ee approximately 44 years old,
a former American who had renounced his U.S. citi-
zenship and who is now a naturalized citizen of

Captain of the

snd

     
  

   

anchorage point downstream. A subsequent check
with _ the | District Director,
I&NS, revealed that had been granted polit-
ical asylum by I§NS at New Orleans on 28 March
1961, and, according to I§NS records, he had de-
parted GLSumOnLeansy presumably by bus, at 1000

. hours on 28 March 1961, enroute to Miami, Florida.

: I§NS records listed forwarding address as
Miami, Florida. The informa-
- tion regarding was furnished telephonically

to Headquarters, on the night

of:28 March 1961, in the event Headquarters de-
cided an attempt should be made to apprehend
on his arrival in Miami. ,

 

   
 

  

"According to Mr.L____| Capt. _ left the
pSrelouscong on 28 March 196 after which he re-

  
 
 

 

AD

ported to his employer,
Wwicnporrrecse ain’ New Orleans?
to the vessel. The captaininsisted that his reason
for leaving was the fact that his wife was preg-
nant and expecting to give birth to a child in
approximately 10 days. He was afraid the birth
would be by caesaeran section and he was concerned
for her safety. He wanted to return to Cuba at
the earliest possible date.

 

"The District Director ‘was contacted telephonically by
the reporting agent. He was advised that in

o a :

HW 50955 DocId:32203837 Page 8
+

periodic patrols to the front and rear gates
of GNOVENt o keep fishermen and poachers out
of the base and reporting local gossip re- .
garding speculation as to the type of activity
conducted within the base.

“On 28 February 1961, the
Chief Patrol Inspector; oo Assist-
‘ant Chief Patrol Inspector; and
senior Patrol Inspector, U.S. Border Patrol,
NEN Onc Mouisiimay, were briefed regarding
the MNNOWEF activity but not CIA sponsorship. "

 
        

=

"Subsequently, the Border Patrol was very
helpful in forcing fourteen crew members who
had threatened to "jump ship," to stay aboard
Geared after it had loaded at the §

eae]
Also, they assisted by taking into
_and holding Captain of the
5 Pehousieom, until | INBOWS] security representa-
tives could assume custody.’

& - "On 16. March 1961,

District: Director, (Immigration & Naturalization
Se vice), with offices in eneRiasonires puailal j
- eSB was briefed regarding the gon
activity and Agency sponsorship as per Head@uarters
instructions. He and the
Deputy District Director, subsequently provided
valuable assistance to fRSOey in apprehending and
detaining the Captain of the
; “who was ‘subsequently placed in jail at ¥
: : ieee, until after the ill-fated inva- ‘
- + Sion on the target area. In addition, the Deputy District Director
provided the reporting agent with the name of
the District Director of Immigration &
Naturalization Service, New York City, as the per-
son to contact prior to the release of the Captain,
This matter will be discussed in more detail later
in this report."

    
   

 

  
    
     

  

__ DETENTION CASES:
"At 1500 hours on 28 March 1961, we.[
[| Logistics representative, in charge o

HW 50955 Docld:32203837 Page 7
, bead bbb &
( €

for the purpose of returning to

Havanna to join his wife, who was

pregnant. Through the cooperation

of the I&NS, the Border Patrol, with

whom liaison had previously been
established, the Captain was apprehended,
and withthe assistance of the

 

   
 
    
 

was confined Ne
until after the invasion. —

removed from jail and flown to New York
City, where he was granted a thirty-day
extension by I4NS to await the arrival
of his wife and newborn son, before pro-
ceeding to his home @imgSpaim. Additional
liaison was established with the Navy,
Coast Guard, Army Armed Forces Police
Detachment fil pOmleans!, all of whom |
provided invaluable SUpport during the
operation." ;

 

  

& 2. Subject is the subject of Office of
Security file number 40. BS4 The file reflects that he
was retired from the Agency on 8 June 1973 but contains no
information relative to the foregoing. However, from March
1961 through May 1961, he was assigned to DDP/WH Division,
PT OVS CORINA ewe Omhe ; isiany

eByancted

 

 
       

   

   

Volume 16, Office of Security file number @isiog0] .
GEWESIA concerns’ Project@Seau, containing information con-
cerning Office of Security operational support of the DDP
relative to the Bay of Pigs invasion. (For facility of
further access, copies of all pertinent documents from this
file relative to the matter at pand have been placed in

    
   

   

 

 

   

tile contains a copy ofan memorandum prepared by Subject

dated 12 May 1961, captioned "§NNOME' directed to the
Chief, WH/4/Security, reporting on activities at (MMOMEY from
14 February 1961 to 21 April 1961. The following are verbatim
extracts from this memorandum:

@ SECRET

HW 50955 DBoold:32203837 Page 5
Wid saie £

 
  
 
  
  

"LCDR. _James E. PHILLIPS, M.D., (U.S. Naval
poi arranged for and

trainee,
genera] medical care for trainees at oN
d number of trips to the j

to examine trainees

who were in detention there.

   

"During the latter ‘part of F
liaison was established with thel

 

 

 

   

~ > were briefed
regarding theé Wee activity and the nationality
of the trainees. They were not briefed as to CIA
sponsorship. was questioned re-

& i: garding the possibility of utilizing a local jail

  

. in the event it became necessary to incarcerate
one or more of the trainees at some future date.

, ised that he had a jail i
which he would make available
the neéd should arise. He explained that the

jailer, , was Eaiepmeyeas) i a) and

 

  
 

the jail would afford privacy since few prisoners
were placed there. It was also agreed. that there
would be no records maintained if trainees were
incarcerated and that members of his staff would
deny that such trainees had ever been incarcerated
in the event of future inquiries by representatives
of the news media.

 
 
   

“During the (OY Eeactivity, members of the

: were most helpful, especially,
in assisting with
the handling and jailing of the above individuals;
providing escorts for trainee and cargo moves
Lk FAG) or vice versa; conducting

HW 50955 BocId:322303837 Page 6
‘Project JMMOVE 4

The following is a summary of the attached extract of the OS files
pertaining to the incarceration of four persons in 1961. :
Project(JMMOMS is an Agency cryptonym covering paramilitary training
activities at a location in fouisana # This training activity took place during
the period 12 February 1961 through 12 April 1961 and was in support of the
general Agency effort culminating in the abortive Cuban invasion. In support
IMMOVE( mission a holding facility was required for dissident trainees,
The holding facility was a jail which was turned over for exclusive Agency
ea) During the course of the training atGMMOVE} j
four ‘individuals were “involuntarily detained in this jail. The individuals were
three Cuban trainees held in the jail from 9 April until 20 April 1961 anda
@Spanish ship captain held from 29 March 1961 until 20 April 1961.

 

  

 
 

The captain, who jumped ship on 28 May 1961, was in charge of a ship which
was transporting ammunition in support of the Cuban invasion. It was deter-
: mined that the individuals knowledge of theffMiM@\WE4 operation presented a

o security problem for the entire Cuban invasion operation. The captain was
taken into custody by the United States Border Patrol in New Orleans who,
upon instruction from the District Director, Immigration and Naturalization
Service, turned him over to the custody of Agency representatives. The
captain was then transported to the jail where he remained in the control of
the deputy sheriff in charge of the jail until 20 April 1961, After 20 April 1961,
the captain was transported to New York City where he was turned over to
I & NS who took custody of him until he left the country on 19 May 1961.

 

The three Cubans were jailed for several reasons, all relating to their
reluctance or inability to carry out their training. Release from the project
site was determined to create a security hazard and they were also held in
the jail until after the invasion. Upon their release each of the individuals
was given a small amount of money and allowed to return ta their choice of
residence in the United States.

The foregoing is a summary of several Office of Security reports attached,
which were written after the fact, These reports and other Office of Security
files do not document the precise level of approval for the operation, insofar

1A HAS NO OBJECTION TO
SECT ASSIFIGATION AND/OR

@ RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED -—
3 MAR 4

NE) #) 4 SEGHET =

HW 50955 Docld:32203837 Page 2
157-10011-10069

 

Date:10/06/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

© : IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA-
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10069 _

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM : KNOCHE, E. H., ASST. TO OCI
TO : BELIN, DAVID W. EXEC. DIRECTOR

A TITLE :
LETTERS TO ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION FROM CIA

DATE : 05/00/75

PAGES : 21

SUBJECTS :
PROJECT JMMOVE [R]
CIARDS EXTRACT, ALLEGED ILLEGAL DOMESTIC ACTIVITIES fr]

BAY OF PIGS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
~c- RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
SSCI Box 287, Folder 9

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 Docld:32203837 Page i
 

te €

as it involved the detention of these individuals. It is clear however, froma
. review of the files, that the jailing was the subject of a variety of correspondence
VEY Headquarters, and the Miami Station. In the case of the
‘ship capta “the operation from his apprehension until the time he left the
United States appears to have been accomplished in a close coordination with
T&NS.

   

(NOTE: Reference to CIARDS in Para | the attached memorandum refers to
the Central Intelligence Retirement and Disability System. Employees may
qualify for this program if they have 5 years overseas service or an equivalent
amount of domestic service determined to meet certain criteria of hazard

or uniqueness, Initial information regarding the subject of this report was
obtained through a general review of employees CIARDS applications. }

(NOTE: The following cryptonyms are used in the attached extract. }

OS crypt referring to the OS support of DDO Miami based
Cuban operations

Cuban Operations
Cuban infiltration team originating at uwisher aah
Unable to identify. From the context in which it is used

in the attached extract it appears the crypt refers to another
group of Cuban trainees.

  

Paramilitary training base GtUNS§

 

A SEGHET 5.

HW 50955 Docld:32203837 Pate 3
¢ SECRET ¢

1 May 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Alleged Illegal Domestic Activities
(CIARDS Extract --

1. Reference is. made to an undated, blind memorandum
from the Inspector General containing certain information
extracted from the CIARDS applications of Office of Security
personnel. The following is an extract from the CIARDS
application of o/s employee:

. ; "This activity involved establishing
& . and maintaining liaison with the Super-

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

whose cooperation and assistance proved |
invaluable in handling black movements
of trainees, movement of ammunition and.
high explosives, to and from the base.
The at my
request, made available a holding -
facility which consisted of an entire

jail and jailer

for the incarceration and retention of
hard-core or troublesome trainees who
threatened to leave the Base, he jail

was also utilized to hold a Spanmsinj Captain

of one of the which had been
loaded at the! Dock on the
with fuel, ammunition,

“high explosives and other equipment for
the invasion. The Captain jumped ship

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 063994

SEGHET

HW 50955 Docld:32203837 Page 4
