Phone (Ares FOZ) $44-4008

 

WARD @ PaUL

 

 

later to the question of the appropriateness of these actions
before completing my statement.

I believe General Lansdale had been attached from the
assignment in the Defense Department to serve as Staff
Director of thie group beginning sometime in late ‘61 or
early ‘62. In August '62 several meetings of the group were
held. On at least one occasion principals, including Secretary
Rusk and myself, were in attendance.

In one or more of the meetings of the group the subject
of assaesination of Premier Castro was apparently discussed.
Some news reports have asserted the subject was advanced at
the August lOth meeting in Secretary Rusk's conference room
in which I was present, and one news source asserts I
raised the subject myself.

The report does not state whether I supported or

opposed such action. I have no recollection of even discuss-

ing the matter.

No one of the senior officials present at the meeting
with whom I have talked recalls me discussing it. Mr. McCone'>»
recollection in his file memorandum prepared sometime five
years later, on. April 14, 1967, is that the subject was
probably raised at another meeting in the Jcs conference a duy
or two before the meeting I attended.

In any event, apparently everyone agrees the subject was

dismissed, It appears, nevertheless, that General Lansdale

TOP SECRET

450955 Docld:324273461 Page 9

 
 
  
  
     
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

£

    
included a request for contingency plans for the assassination
in the memorandum he later prepared in his capacity as

Staff Director to the inter-agency group and addressed to

the CIA laaisun officur, Hi. Nar.ey. Todid act san the Lane-
dale memorandum when it was prepared and didnot learn of

its existence. until Mr. McCone telephoned me about it when

 

4t was brought to his attention.
At that time I expressed opposition to any assassination

attempt and I agreed with Mr. McCono no such planning should

 

be undertaken, I understand the memorandum was modified.
I. have no knowledge or information about any other plans
or preparations for a possible assassination attempt against

Premier Castro.

Fa
>
¢
e
«
iJ
&
«<
&

I believe now and I think Mr. McCone's memorandum
supports my recollection, that I believed then that the
U.S. Government should not undértake or encourage assassina-
tion openly or secretly as an instrument of national policy
against people with whom we are not at war,

It may be argued that given the extensive program of
covert action against the Castro regime in which the U.S.
“government waa engaged at the time that it would only bea

short term to attempted assassination but I can't accept that

Nereet OE Wastinetan OO FOORT

argument on its face. Bribery and industrial sabotage arv
not the same things as murder, But having said that I want

to conclude this portion of my statemont by saying that I

TOP SECRET

 

Neat

50955 Docld: 32423461 Fage 10

 
envisioned the whole spectrum of plans from overthrowing the
Cuban leader to assassinating him, although the then Attorney
General it was said never used the word assassination.
| Lansdale was reported to have said he developed the plans
without the knowledge of myself or Mr. McCone, but that we
both had become aware of the planning later.

Later news stories state that Lansdale modified his
statement to say “perhaps some place in the plans there was

something to do about the leader who had threatened the

 

lives of millions of Americans", and to claim that he, Lansdale,
“ruled out assassination” because “that is not my bag anyway”.

Since reading these press stories I have tried to recon-

2
>
4
ry
4
a
e
«
LJ

struct the actual sequence of events and I have refreshed my
recollection from documents in your committee's possession,
from conversations with other persons involved, and from a
file memorandum written in 1967 that Mr. McCone was able to
produce for me.

Ast reconstruct it this is what happened,

Following the Bay of Pigs and extending throughout the
spring and summer of 62, there was a good deal of concern
within the U.S. Government about attempted subversion of Latin
American Governments by the Communist regime in Cuba. To

thwart these attempts the continuing program of covert ac-

tivities directed against the Castro regime was mounted under

BIO Fey: Street GE Rater gto DC 20001

the direction of an inter-Agency group. And I want to return

TOP SECRET

 

HW 450955 Docld: 32423461 Page &
   

  

a It seems to me the seriousness of, the repeated or reported

!

2 seriousness of, the charges your committee was examining outweighed

   

Prone {Aces 767) 544-4088

“ any question of the appropriateness of my testifying, given

   

‘ |

   

my obligation as an international civil servant.

6 ‘The first thing I want to say is that I have no knowledge

   

6 or information of any proposal for the assassination of Premier

   

4
7 | castro coming from President Kennedy or Robart Kennedy. In

     
 

8 fact, I would regard such a proposal as totally inconsistent

9 || with everything I know about the two men.

    
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 

.- ac Secondly, it has been asserted in the press that in a

 

¢ 1: meeting I attended on August 10, ‘62, with Secretary RusK,

“John McCone, then Director of Central Intelligence,

warn & FauR

 

and McGeorge Bundy, the question of assassination was raised

c 14 and diamissed but that shortly after meeting a memorandum

ie was circulated by Major General Edward Lansdale calling for a

 

ae : number of actions relating to the situation in Cuba, including

~
pe the preparation of contingency plans for Castro's assassina-
Ve tion; that when a copy of the memorandum recahed Mr. McCone 4
§ de he called me and I agreed with him that an assassination k
2 :

‘ atttempt should not be considered and the item was in

 

fact eliminated from the memorandum.

Sh masingten,

   

Other press stories appearing since my testimony wasn

   
   

scheduled before you have quoted General Lansdale to the

    
 

effect he had been requested by Robert F. Kennedy to develo:

aioe

assassination plans: for disposing of Castro, and the project

TOP SECRET

  
   

HW 50955 Docld: 32423461 Page 7
Chairman. All right. The hearing will come to order.
Mr. McNamara, would you please stand and take the oath. :
Mr. McNanaara. surely.
The Chairran. Do you swear that all of the testimony you
are about to .efve in this proceeding will be the truth,
the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you Goa?
McNamara. I do.

Chairman. Mr. Schwara will commence.

TESTIMONY OF ROBERT 8. McNAMARA

 

Mr. Schwarz. Mr. McNamara, I understand you have 4
| prepared statement. Before making that could I just put a
couple of things on the record.

First, your name and address, if you could.

Py
3
«
ty
«
°
«
<
8

Mr. McNamara. Robert S. McNamara, 2412 Tracy Place,
Washington, D. C. ,

Mr. Schwarz. Now, further, as a procedural matter, we
always go through this with all our witnesses and you know
you have the right to counsel -~- a right to counsel.

Mr. McNamara. I do.

Mr. Schwarz. And if you want to stop to obtain counsel
at any time you have that right?

Mr. McNamara, I understand.

Mr. Schwarz. - And you also have all of the Conatitutiona:
rights, including those under the Bill of Rights.

Mr. McNamara. 1 read the rules of tha Committee and

TOP SECRET

 

   

  

HW 50955 Docld:32423461 Page 5
think I am familiar with them.

The Chairman. Your Constitutional rights are not ex-
tended by virtue of any committee action.

(Laughter)

The Chairman. But if you do have a prepared statement,

Mr. McNamara.

Mr. Schwarz. Do you have extra copies?

Mr. McNamara. I unfortunately don't. I gave one to the
counsel afew minutes ago. It is a brief statement, three

and a half pages.

 

 

The Chairman. Would you commence with the statement?
Mr. McNamara. Yea.
On June 6, Mr. Chairman, ag you will recall, I wrote.
“to you saying, and I quote, “I want you to know that although
I doubt that I have anything to contribute to your investigation
‘4 your staff or your committee wishes to question me about
my knowledge of the events you are investigating, I will be
_ very happy to respond."
My letter was written because my name had been associated!
in the press with repeated discussions within the Government
in the summer of 1962 of a possible assassination attempt
against Premier Castro.
The Chairman. Did you mean to say repeated or
reported discussion?

Mr. McNamara. Beg your pardon. I meant to gay reported.

TOP SECRET

 

HW 50955 Docld:324273461 Page 6
Report of Proceedings.

Hearing held before

Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental

Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

Friday, July 11, 1975

Washington, D.C

(Stenucype Tapa and Waste turned over
to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL

410 FIRST STREET, 8. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C, 20003

(808) 644-6000

TOP SECRET

 
157-10014-10073

 

Date
Page

08/06/95

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10014~-10073
RECORDS SERIES : HEARINGS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 10-H~05

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM : MCNAMARA, ROBERT

DATE : 07/11/75
PAGES : 145
SUBJECTS : OPERATION MONGOOSE
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

MCNAMARA, ROBERT

cIA

DOD
DOCUMENT TYPE : TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW 07/21/98
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS :; Box 3

oe oe

BW 50955 Docld:32423461 Page i
TESTIMONY OF

Robert S. McNamara

EXHIBITS
NUMBER ©

McNamara Exhibits Noo. 1, 2, 3 and 4

 

McNamara Exhibit No. 7

Fa
3
«

ay
e
J
cs
«
i

 
EXECUTIVE SESSION

Priday, July 11, 1975

United States Senate,

Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations with Respect to

Intelligence Activities,

Washington, D. C.

The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 2:05 p.m. in
} Room §-407, The Capitol, Senator Frank Church (Chairman)

presiding.

Present: Senators Church (presiding), Hart of Michigan,”

z
3
«
e
e.
6
«
<
&

‘Mondale, Huddleston, Morgan, Hart of Colorado, Baker Mathias
and Schweiker.

Also present: William Miller, Staff Director; Frederict.

 

 

 

A. O. Schwarz, Jr., Chief Counsel; Curtis R. Smothers, Minority
Counsel; Elizabeth Smith, Joseph diGenova, Charles Lombard,
Frederick Baron, Patrick Shea, Robert Kelley and Michael J.

Madigan, Professional Staff Members.

TOP SECRET

 

‘Docld 32423461 Page 4

 

HW 50955
