Prone (Aree 202) $464-8000

rf
‘
@
«
s

 

 

 

that Dr. Gottlieb went to the Congo,

, :

IT was merely telling you, at that time, what I coulda
remember, and there was an awful lot that [ did not and do not.

Mr. Baron. To move to the period when you were Chief of
the Africa Division and Richard Bissell wags NDP in the sumrer
of 1960, did you have conversations with Richard Bissell where
the subject of the assassination of Lumumba arose?

Mr. Tweedy. Yes, I did. In fact, the first conversation,
as I recall it, that I ever had on the subject.was one he

initiated with me, and, as If think I told you, ¥ do not recall

exactly what was said, but there was no quastion about it but

“what Mr, Bissell was saying to ma was that there was agraamant,

§ policy sqreamant in Washington, that. Lumumba must be removed

from the position of control and influence in the Congo or that

{| the Congo was going to be in serious trouble and thus Africa,

i at that stage of its development; and that. among the possibil~

ities of that elimination was indeed assassination.

In terms of the detail of that conversation with Mr. Kissell,
I really cannot. go any further than that. This cartainly was
the dist of it.

Mr. Baron. Was Mr. Bissell any mora specific at any point
with you about the policy level whers the consideration to
assassinate Lumumba had bean made?

Mr. Tweedy. No, sir. Tha most authoritative statement o:

that was a cable that went out to tha field from the Nirector,

TOP SECRET

 
7
Mr. Dalles, which implied to me there was policy agreement in

Washington. When I say policy agreement in Washington, I cannot

|
|
'
|

Prone (Ares DOP) $44-4000

be more specific because I naver knew any more specificity.
However, it’ was perfectly clear that the Agancy felt that it
had some sort of policy consensus in Washington about the need
for the removal of Lumumba. When I gay removal, I mean by

whatever means; this does not necessarily have to be confined

to assassination, a political way of doing it, or anything

 

elses.

 

Baron. It did not excluds assassination?
Tweedy. No, indead it did not.

Mr. Baron. You are referring to the cabla of August 246th
from Allen Nullas to the Chief of Station in the Congo. Ited
you seen that cable shortly after it was sant?

Mr. Tweedy. I suspect, aqain I cannot be sure, I suspect
that I saw it when it went out. At this point, I could not
evan tell you. On instructions, I might even have drafted it,
this seems odd. I might have done, or had a hand in drafting
it, I do not know. Tt was basicaliyv Mr. Dulles' cable exores-
sing to the Station the tynpa of authority that he had to pass
such a massage to the field. I cartainiv¥ would have geen it
on its way out.

Mr. Baron. When you spoke to Mr. Rissell, either in the
first talk or in any subssquent talks --

The Chairman. Whera is this cable?

TOP SECRET

 
Prone (Aras 202) 946-6000

 

 

 

morning but did not get a chance to get through it. ‘There seams

to ba something incomplete with that answer of mina, however,
thera is no question in reading the documents that 1 read this
morning, which I had not seen in the better part of fifteen
years, that a man did go out from Headquarters and was provided
with material which you mentioned and had a discuesion along
these lines with the Chief‘of Station.

Na did not, however, go out with instructions to the Chief
of Station without further reference to Headquarters to set
about assassinating Lumumba.

Mr. Baron, Tn your answers that we have just reviewed in

» Your first examination, you indicated that you had no knowles
4

y . A
of «a mission by Pr. Gottliab to the Congo and that there was

aw

y nothing in your experiance in the Agency that would really bear
on the question whether such a mission was undertaken or what

) the character of it was.

Has the review of the documents today refreshed your
recollection to some substantial degree?
Mr. Tweedy. What T wes certainly trying to say the first

time, and I repyat it, I said T had no recollection of tir.
esa

Gottlieb goina to tha Condo, but if the Chief of Station saia

-

he was there, I was perfectly prepared to believe the Chief of
Station.

T have now reviewed these documents, I recall the etreum-

i stances in which thes4 things occurred, and there's no question

TOP SECRET

 
At page 30 of the: transcript of your examination on {
i

September 9th, I would like to ask you whether today's review of |

Prone (Aras 202) 344-6000

documents has changed your answar to this question. At that
tima I asked you: “Do you have any knowledge of a messenger
from CIA Headquarters having co qo to the Congo to provide the
Chief of Station in the Congo with instructions to carry out
the assassination of Lumumba if possible, ‘and also provide him
with the tools to carry out such an assassination, namely
poisons and medical equipment for administering then?"

You said, “No, I do not.”

 

Later on in your testimony of that. sama session when you

| were asked your opinion as to the truth of testimony we had

raceived from Dr. Gottlieb -- axcuse me, from tha Chief of
a

——

.

« Station, who was in Leopoldville at that time, about a visit

| that he received from pr. Gottliab, where the Chief of Statior.

 

' tastified that he received poison and instructions fromjDr.

1, Gottlieb, when asked your opinion about the truth about the

: . . °
testimony of the Chief of Station, you responded that “Thare
is nothing in my experience with the Agency that would really
bear on that point whatsoever." And thet was at paqe 39 in
your trauscript.

Have your answars to those two questions changed in liaht

of your review of the documents today?

Mr. Tweady. { heve not had a chance to raad tha transeris?

of my first testimony. As you know, I started reading it this

TOP SECRET

 
DIENGS
The Chairman. Would you please take the oath?
Do you solemnly swear that all the testimony that you will
give in this proceeding will be the truth, the whole truth,
and nothing but the truth, so help you God?

Mr. Tweedy. I do.

 

 

 

TOP SECRET

 
TESTIMONY OF BRONSON TWEEDY
The Chairman.. Would you please state your

Mr. Tweedy. Bronson Tweedy.

Prone (Ases 20?) SA4-2000

The Chairman. Mr. Baron, ara you going to commance the
questioning?
Mr. Baron. Mr. Tweedy, are you aware that you have the
counsel?
Mr. Tweedy. I am.
Mr. Baron. You are appearing voluntarily today without

counsel?

 

 

 

Tweedy. T am.
Baron. Are you also aware that vou have the right.

at any -point to cease answering questions in ordar to consult

with counsel?

Mr. Tweedy. I am.

Mr. Baron. Are you finally aware that all of your Consti-

q tutional rights are intact before the Committees, including vour
Fifth Amendment rights?

4r. Tweedy. T am.

Mr. Haron. Mr. Twesdy, the Committee has been informed thet
wa have gone over your testimony on the Lumumba case in some:
detail in two sessions, one today when you raviewed some docu:
ments that we obtained since your first examination. And 1

, would like to baqin by reading a quotation from your first

examination before you had saen these documents.

TOP SECRET

 
pigee i
‘a Bubject

Report of Proceedings

Hearing held before

Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental

Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

Thursday, October 9, 1975

Washingtwun, D.C

(Stenotype Tape and Waste
to the Committee for des

WARD & PAUL.

410 FIRST STREET. S. E
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003

(202) G44-Gout

 
157-10044-10068

Date 08/06/95

Page

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER 157-10014-10068
RECORDS SERIES : HEARINGS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 09-H-09

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA_ ,
FROM : TWEEDY, BRONSON
TO :
TITLE :
DATE : 10/09/75
PAGES : 45

SUBJECTS : CONGO

ASSASSINATION, LUMUMBA

OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

CIA
DOCUMENT TYPE : TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/25/98

{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
HW 50955 DocId:32423456 Page 1
Fx °

ee |

TESTIMONY OF

Bronson Tweedy

Prone {Aras 207} S44-B000

 

 

 

TOP SECRET

 
 

 

qc ae

RET

COMMITTEE MEETING
Thursday, October 9, 1975

United States Senate,
Salect Committee to Study Governmental
Operations With Respect to
Governmental Activities,
Washington, D.C.
The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 4:00 o'clock
: P-m. in Room 407, The Capitol, the Honorable Frank Church,
Chairman of tha Committee, presiding,
Praesent: Senators Church (prasiding), “Mondale, Huddleston,
"Hart of Colorado, Bakar, Goldwater, Mathias and Schweiker.

Also present: Frederick A. 0. Schwarz, Chief Counsel;

> Curtis R. Smothers, Minority Counsel: Charles Kirbow, Frederick

|| Baron and Rhett Dawson, Professional Staff Members.

TOP SECRET

 
