INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY

Regarding FBI service and support to other agencies,
Hoover was "goddamned careful".
to any "risks" and thus any request for FBI support
Hoover never
responded "let them do it" within the United
States. Hoover did not give other agencies any

ion e domestic
th fficia

In both the FBI and the CIA, Papich stimilated
interest in covering and recrud

had to be established firmly.

blessing or approval for quest
activities such as the case of
mentioned above.

the United States, for’ example

He

The CIA wanted to use its sourdes®™?

foreign officials in the United States
officials went home. These officials,ée
spies, therefore, when the CIA asked

recruit them, Hoover said no.
ups and downs, depending on th

times Papich did convince Hooy

recruit a foreign official

9 Hoover treated State Depg

 

to the Attorney Ge .

: loover sometimes refused.
based his. evaluat the feasibility of the
operation. Neitne| nor State had their own
capabilities and there“Was no formal discussion

of their developing it. Papic
Hoover treated State, CIA, and

There were flaps in the 1950's when the CIA
up ing with the FBI. The x6 Y
ced by FBI officials whether

   

recruited without cl
asked for FB
times. PapiclT

  
 

the pone on went to the Attorney General directly
fox Wauthority. Papich says this may have We
happen not to his knowledge. Few Attorneys

General ould have stuck their neck out. It was a
possibility with McCone and Robert Kennedy, where
, WaS unusually close. Papich = Gy

the wwelationsh ip

   

  

HW 50955 Docld:32281992 Page 9

Th
e

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  

was sensitive

 

 

h _

ould only have happened once or
ce BI would have detected it most of
& the time. If it was done it would be through CIA

       
 
  

He

essed that
each differently CS) (ae
INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY

Office of Security, although that office had an
excellent relationship with FBI. Allan Dulles
would not have condoned it since he had great
respect for the FBI. Papich believes the same
is true of McCone and Helms. Papich also con-
cedes the oe pose aay of entries by the CIA,

opposed goi sD
; in a jo
WO .

kice.

  
 
 
 

 

  
 
    
   

 
   
 
 

 

United States. CIA tried t

the 50's. FBI involvement :

some thought a new FBI dg Asp would be needed

for it. The FBI as cons
trained personnel or cag& gity to develop foreign
targets. The CIA had this capability. Papich

) proposed that FBI permit CIA to recruit in the
United States. CIA would advise FBI of its interest
in a target, the purposes of the contact, and any
results. If the FBI had no interest in the target,
that is, an interest in a KGB contact for example,
it would OK the CIA contact. FBI required that
CIA furnish it any information relevant to its
needs, that is regarding KGB contacts (the New Left
was handled separately from the memorandum of under-

standing procedures). &

 

Alan Belmont headed the FBI Intelligence Division
before Sullivan. A capable administrator, he
operated behind the scene, stayed out of politics,
had good rapport with agents, and was able to
handle Hoover. When Belmont retired, the FBI:"lost
a rudder". This was a crucial point in FBI history,
with Hoover getting old. Belmont stressed to his
subordinates the need to develop a strong case for
any proposal going to Hoover. Once that case was
ready, Belmont would push it hard, but Papich and
Belmont did disagree on such matters as counter-
intelligence operations against the KGB.

 

HW 50955 Docld:32261992 Page 10
8

HH 50955 Docld:32281992 Page 6

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page © of X/

had not been eliminated in 1967 the intelligence
community could have dealt with the New Left
later. The CIA would have had assets to assess
the issues. Such questions involved New Left
travels overseas and | relationships with foreign
agents.

The FBI and CIA did discuss..developing a cover
in the U. S. to get int raveiers gainea(S) (Fat) LR
very little. The immediat@ problem was the pro-
posal for a joint approach. When Papich was there,
it got no further than discussion. If the CIA did
set up cover in the U. S., the FBI provided no
support. However, if the CIA desired to use a
company it would ask for a check of FBI files. u-s
Papich is not aware of any political organizagMong
created by the CIA, although it may have b
in the 50's or 60's. There was discussip&
FBI about creating its own group aimedg! .
and discussion of whether or not to, eer
Rat with
noreate
ecision would

 
 
     

 

   
  
   
   
    
 

know about it. There had to be co
CIA. Papich does not know if pg
organizations were implementeg
have been at Hoover's leve
FBI informant travel overse@awas limited mainly

to CPUSA members. The FBI wold not tell CIA

about informant trips to Moscow or Paris before-
hand. The reason was that the CIA would have
notified its field agencies that the informant's
life should be protected. Instead, the FBI informed
the CIA of the results upon the informant 's return.

The FBI liaison section was made up of six or seven
agents. Papich and Bill Creager handled the CIA.
Creager dealt specifically with USIB, the Security
Committee, the Interagency Defector Committee, and
the Office of Security. Papich and Creager backed
each other up in their respective areas. There
were several ilaison agents at the Pentagon. The
liaison at State was Oren Bartlett. The other

liaison agents were not so deeply involved in in- .

elligence operations as was Papich. FBI liaison

at NSA was nl although Papich was also 73, # FI)
) St,

involved wit
INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY

 

 
 
   

other countries’ agents
@e/Dulles stressed that ©)

  

when epee. EBS, a When Hoover objected
to the plan, Dulles dropped it. Another example:
Angelton might be disturbed about our lagk.o

information about KGB operations out of Ny embasay,. Kt

He would discuss with Papich how to pene# jecne
KGB.

Friction would develop in "the gray area" of posi-
tive intelligence. For example, a top foreign
official came to the United States for medical
treatment. The CIA knew he was coming to the U. S.
.and wanted to know his relationship with Communists
and wanted intelligence on the instability in the
country. The CIA wants him surveilled to find out
his contacts, what he's saying, and a wiretap or
bug. The FBI would not do this since he was not
an intelligence agent and not within BBI Jurisd
tion. The CIA would be upset.
cases like this, one involving
Over the years, Papich sold Hoover on
but it was always a gray area.
tion never worked with the FBI

 

 

In summary, the sources of Fig

warfare by CIA, and (3) the CIA desire for positive
intelligence gathering in the U. 8.

There was no major issue regarding CIA's desire to
develop "frtendst-in the U.S. Papich recalls no
more than three to six instances of disagreement.
The FBI never helped the CIA create an organization
for deep cover. It never needed FBI heip because
it moved on its own. The CIA Office of Security
advised Papich that they had a relationship with

~€he National Student Association. This never gave
the FBI a problem.

The Katzenbach report would not give the FBI prob-
lems but many good CIA contacts overseas went down
the drain when contacts through student groups were
‘curtailed. Papich believes that if these contacts

@

HW 50955 Bocld: 32261992 Page 7

Page < of ZA

 
  
  
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
    
  
  

   

The NS fd oordina-

(1) the OSS experience, (2) “pig cal and psychological
 

 

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page 3 of </

In 1943-45, the government began looking toward
a worldwide intelligence system. The alternatives
were the military, OSS, State, and FBI. FDR
allegedly assured Hoover that he would be respon-
sible for setting up the post-war system. Papich
never saw any documents showing that Hoover wanted
this job. The Latin American operation was
successful but Hoover never understood or had a
feel for the problems. He felt insecure. He never
traveled outside the U. S., and only saw things
from Washington, D. C.

Under President Truman, Hoover did not have a

"warm" relationship with the President. When the
Central Intelligence group was formed and the 1947
Act drafted, Hoover's attitute was mistrust and
lack of confidence in the group creating CIA.
were a different type of people, not law-
oriented. Ivy League students of fore
did not speak Hoover's language. r

 
  
 
  
  

 

Papich states it was a "b oy eT gy Toover did
not get the job. Hoover ® ;
confronted with worldwide ; He did not under-
stand relationships and ope@at ions abroad. In the
U. S., for instance, if Hoover had a problem with

a police chief, he just cut off relations. He
couldn't do that with foreign police. A foreign
intelligence service cannot operate like a domestic
intelligence agency.

In 1952, when Papich became FBI-CIA liaison, rela-
tionships between the agencies were a mess. Beedle
Smith was CIA director. There were many flaps
between FBI and CIA over CIA political and psycho-
logical warfare, especially regarding the funding
of labor groups, student groups, and political
parties. At the time of the 1947 Act, these tech-
niques of "covert action" were the subject of
tremendously heated battles between CIA and State.
There were fewer flaps in the counterintelligence
field.

In the field of political and psychological warfare
operations, the CIA didn't want stereotyped people.
The CIA was not disciplined and ignored jurisdictional
agreements. It would contact a U. S. newsman about a

_ | SERRE

BW 50955 Bocld:32231992 Page 5

$9
&

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page Ps of £1

possible assignment, the newsman would contact
the FBI to ask what was going on, this would go
to Hoover, who would raise hell with the CIA
director. But Beedle Smith was tough. Communi-
cation between the FBI and CIA was almost non-
existent by 1952.

Papich had no CIA counterpart since the CIA is

so compartmented. He had contacts at all levels,
exchanging ideas for operations. He would push
CIA ideas in the FBI. Flaps would come up. He
would stamp them out and say "get on with the job".
The FBI was easier to control since it was ceng
tralized. Papich's relations with Hoover wo
go up and down. He frequently asked to gage

 
 
 
    
  
   
 

him there. But by the 1950's, most
foreign intelligence talent had did

Re
n the FBI

No formal consideration was :
ed @cement. Tolson

to limiting its role to
probably thought it shouldgipw,
expressed a desire to give nis intelligence
job. Nobody, including Tolson, knew Hoover's
reasons for doing what he did. He had his own
conversations and contacts in the White House,
Congress, and his personal sources. He knew what
he was doing and had "a nose and ear for the
political climate in Washington". This was true
for "risky" operations.

Papich believes it would be disastrous to give
both foreign and domestic intelligence duties to
a CIA. While there would be advantages in
coordinating fragmented sources, it ls a risk to
liberty, like a national police.

Papich did not recall any significant plan to
improve coordination in 1958 when FBI joined USIB.
FBI was part of the USIB predecessor group.

The CIA would suggest joint field operations but
Hoover would rarely buy it. This was like his

reluctance to join any operation with any other
agencies. He thought the FBI should always have
control, a commanding role. For ex
Dulles discussed @@meyayreheeam

     

   

  

     

HW 50955” DocId: 32281992 Page 6

Bhi =*’ scorer. (S) | (i)
TTERVIE! AWD MEETING SUTAR SECRET

&. _ INTERVIEW WITH: Sam Papich
; ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT,
REGARDING! WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

DATE-TIME-LOCATION: May 2 1975; a.m.; Carroll Arms

PRESENT: morning: John ELLIFF, Mike Epstein, John Bayly

afternoon: John ELLIFF, Burt Wides, John Bayly

HAS OR SHOULD BE DIGESTED:

     

FOLLOW UP REQUIRED:

MATERIAL SUBMITTED BY INTERVIEWEE(S):

ramet BY FBiJeK tanan
ON Clerc "
AT RE ais | in £4 : is

{l RELEASE i
PART
Q TOTAL

 

 

EXECUTIVE SESSION: _ YES __ {10
ths

     
 

He ay SU ade

EO) sear,

HW 50955 Docld:32281992 Page 2 s)

 
157-1000210152

 

oe Date:10/05/93

 

Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
ee AGENCY INFORMATION —_ 7
AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10002-10152
RECORDS SERIES : °
INTERVIEW SUMMARY
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : -
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM : »
TO: :
TITLE

INTERVIEW WITH SAM PAPICH
DATE : 05/29/75
21

 

PAGES :

SUBJECTS :
PAPICH
FBI
CIA
OSWALD, LEE HARVEY
CUBA
CASTRO

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

Box 256
Folder 4

 

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 Docld:32281992 Page i
INTERVIEW AND MEETING “wer @ceRET Page (_ ‘ AL

FILE:

Papich began with a brief summary of his experi-
ence in the FBI. During World War II and there-
after he ran certain operations in Latin America.

In 1945-47, he ran counterintelligence operations

in Brazil against the Communist Party of Brazil

and bloc intelligence agents. In 1952 he became

FBI liaison with CIA charged with coordinating

and planning, including the development of sources.
He also had special assignments overseas for Hoover.

Papich presented the following overview of the
issues. He has a high respect and regard for the
Soviet intelligence service, its efficiency, andg@
effectiveness. He must be shown that their :

philosophy has changed since 1970.

  
 
  
 
 
    
    
 

KGB and GRU is very limited.
the U. S. intelligence community
lieved was good information oy, @
This had to be readily revi ge(l Gy
and new operations succeed@
premises were false. Papig ed "they've taken
us to the cleaners in the las® few years". There
is no estimate of how many Soviet illegals are in
the United States. The old view was that illegals
would aim at middle-class government and business
positions. .It has been discovered that they take
jobs like dishwasher to develop an employment
background. There is no knowledge of Soviet
objectives. Illegals may do nothing for years so
they can be tapped for the future. There may be
100, 500, or 5,000 of them. Some were sent in as
» They are the Rudolph

early as the 20's and 30's
Abel-type. His network was never identified.

Therefore, Papich is clearly unhappy with U. S$
results in identifying Soviet cperations in the

United States.

Papich stated that he played a controversial
"devil's advocate" role between the FBI and the

CIA. He did not confer with Attorney General
Mitchell after Helms called his name to Mitchell'
attention. Papich assumes Helms wanted Mitchell

to get a review of the history of FBI-CIA relations.

Papich would not have gone to Mitchell without
‘checking with-other FBI officials.

defectors
pwing that the

K FORCE

Y

VED BY FBiy

-
Q RELEAS

awh,

FOL
REVIEY
ON

EA PUTO T)

   

‘ae

 

HH 50955 Docld:32261992 Page 3

 
    

FK TAS
%

 
 
    

PART Cee taba.

E IN FULL
[) ToTat DENIAL

)

AP RELEASE jy
INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY page £_of </

FILE:

To understand decisions in 1966 or 1970 it is
necessary to go pack to World War II, according
to Papich. President Roosevelt got the FBI into
the foreign intelligence Field in World War II.
Overnight the FBL had to generate the capability
to move into Latin America against the German
espionage operation which included business covers,
radio networks, and influence in Latin American
governments. The FBI had no precedent or guidance.
Assistant FBI Director Hugh Klegs conferred with
the British in London for assistance. FBI agents
went into Latin America first under business covers,
then in the embassies, which was thin cover. The
legal attaches established official liaison wight
. loeal authorities. The FBI's role was pring
counterintelligence but some positive ig
was gathered about the stability of
FBI agents learned on the job. Mog
headquarters was ridiculous until
were reported pack. -

   
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
 

 

© The OSS ran operations j\OREE eA and Asia as well
as Latin America. Donovaitea BD ran undercover
operations in the United states. See the book
by Donald Downs. oss had a very close relation-
ship with MI 5 and MI 6. The British also ran
operations in the United States in 1939-41. No
one knows how many- They saw the FBI as neophytes
knowing little about the business. The British
developed closer relations to oSS than to FBI.

At first, Donovan ana Hoover were friendly but
Hoover received complaints of OSS operations in
th United States._—fam-example the OSS bugging IB "
of Other complaints came from (S (Fat)
Latin America. ans“ypastion petween Hoover and
Donovan is important packground for Hoover's view
of the CIA. Donovan would recruit persons regard-
tess of their background if he thought they had
the capability to penetrate the access: The OSS
use of Communists “shook the hell" out of Hoover,
as did OSS discussions in Moscow of cooperation
with the NKVD. Hoover would never work with
Communists. Hoover saw CIA roots in OSS. Papich
stressed that oss had some great people, extremely
capable and dedicated, but OSS nad an element that
@ Hoover would never puy.

HW 50955 Docld:32281992 Page 4 CEGREE }G
