SEGRET/SENSITLVE . -~4-

b. Project CAPUSTO (8 Ball): Employee associating with former defector
was surveilled.

c. Project TOMCAT: An associate of CAPUSTO was surveilled.

pr crte Lngo reee REN RRR

‘d. Project MONEY: A former employee planning to attend the SALT talks
with his new boss was surveilled.

opr

    

come

-e. Project SIESTA: Surveillance on a former employee and the suspected
Castro agent she was living with.

 

f. Project PINEAPPLE: Surveillance of a former employee living above his
means. Washongton Field Office sutveilled outside D.C. Anderson
Associates surveilled in D.C. and at subject's Arlington home. Wash-
ington Field Office did not participate in any break-in of subject's
apartment.

 

g. Project AMOS: Former employee surveilled to Champaign, Illinois.

he. Project PIXIE: (last job): Two employees and son of another surveilled

for suspected drug use and/or sale.

i. Project PARAGON: Informer who reported threat against Director Helms

and Vice Presigent Agney surveilled in New York and Detroit.

 

 

MARCHETTI: Former employee threatening to publish classified material
(which he co':ld not have obtained during the course of his employment)
was surveillod. Three cars were used in surveillance. No police cover.

Lets

 

2. Surveillance of Newsmen (to determine source of security leaks)

 

0 publishing of classified information. Mr. Brewer ques-
tioned his Superior (John Hutchinson) about the case. He wondered why
the FBI was not involved and understood that the FBI didn't want to

; ase (rumor). Along with |
' and { -were surveilled.

,d. Mr. Brewer also questioned this surveillance, but not z
: strongly asi was relatively unknown. Further, he really didn't :
; |

know the reason why __—_—siwas. being surveilled until later.

 

 

 

 

 

|
a. Brewer knew that surveillance was to determine source

 

3. Other Surveillances

a. A nephew of an assistant to Director McCone was surveilled after he
went berserk and threatened to go to the Russians. He was surveilled
for two days. .

 

SECRET/SEXSITIVE

BW 50955 DBoclId:32203834 Page 9
SECRET/SENSITIVE - 5 -

In all cases of surveillance, photographs of the subject and his contacts
were taken. Further, the identity of the contact was also ascertained and
reported to headquarters. No surveillance was ever placed on a Congressman,
Senator, Judge or Justice or other public figure except the newsmen previously
mentioned. Mr. Brewer believes that there were no cases of surveillance —
undertaken by his Unit which did not involve either (1) a threatened security
leak' to newsmen, or (2) a potential security violation, except Project
PARAGON.

The records kept on surveillances include the letters assigning the surveil-
lance to the Unit, the agents! logs, photographs taken and the final report
of each project. This information was all sent to Headquarters. The Field
Office would also retain copies but never made any use of these files.

Break-Ins:

Mr. Brewer's Surveiliance Unit was only involved in one break-in in connection
with Project SIESTA, involving a former employee living with a suspected
Castro sympathizer. A photographic studio, jointly operated by the employee
and her Cuban boy friend, was broken into. This didn't bother Brewer, as
there was strong eviclence suggesting a possible security violation. Further,
the suspected pair was soliciting passport photo business at CIA,which would
give them information about the travels of CIA agents. A second break-in

was effected by Anderson Associates (a CIA proprictary) in Project SIESTA.
Brewer doesn't know who headed up Anderson Associ-ites, He believes that

Ralph True, Joe Langon and Don Connor may have hac. some connection with it.

Mr. Brewer's Surveillance Unit was disbanded in June or July of 1972. Brewer
is not sure why the Unit was disbanded. The Washington Field Office still does
training surveillance and surveillance of defectors. There have been no in-
stances (to Brewer's knowledge) of potential employee security leaks since the
Surveillance Unit was disbanded.

Activity with Dissident Groups

 

On three occasions (in 1969, 1970 and May 1971) the CIA participated with the
Washington police in monitoring peace and anti-war demonstrations. In each
case @ request was made by the Washington Police Department (MPD), through

| for assistance. The Washington Field Office of CIA
furnished six vehicles with communications gear and men to operate the gear.
Mr. Brewer believes that two CIA agents and one police officer occupied each
car. (More CIA agents than police were utilized,as MPD didn't have the neces-
sary manpower.) The only purpose of this operation was to monitor the move-
ments of the crowds. There was no attempt to penetrate any dissident organi-
zation or to photograph the crowds. The CIA agents involved in the May 1,i971,
operation carried police ID's. CIA also provided a fully-staffed communics-
tions center at MPD to receive communications from the cars. This provided
MPD a second radio frequency and Freed HPD's own channels for other police
business,

 

 

SECRET/SENSITIVE

HW 50955 DocId:32203834 Page 10

 

 
SECRET/SENSITIVE - 3+
7. A hotel room in Los Angeles was bugged by Brewer several years ago. It
was to be used for some kind of interview.

8. -A-home-in Bethesda, Maryland, was also bugged before being occupied by a
Cuban National.

JSPR 9 ENN TN TREN TST ETE

e

|
In all, Mr. Brewer believes he was involved in more than ten technical opera-
tions, but less than 100 prior to 1968. In all cases he was merely supplying
technical support for operations at the request of his superiors, and was not
witting to the actual operation. In each case he assumed the propriety and
lawfulness of the operation. :

Since 1966, Mr. Brewer has been engaged in only one technical operation

(Operation PARAGON~-threat against Director Helms and Vice President Agnew).
When that threat was made, Brewer suggested that a line be run into the in-
forming agent's apartment. Such a line was run from that agent's telephone

(a telephone tap). This operation was approved by higher authority.

 

Surveillance

Surveillance was conducted off and on through the period from 1960 to 1973.
However, active surveillance did not begin until 1968 when the Surveillance
and Technical Unit" was formed, Prior to 1968, surveillance was restricted
to training exercises and surveillance of defectors. Mr. Brewer estimated
that he engaged in about ten such operations prior to 1968, Training sur-

( veillance continued after 1968, but only one surveiilance of a defector was
made during that time.

In 1966 Headquarters requested that the Washington Field Headquarters form a
sophisticated surveillance unit. Such a unit was not really created until
Brewer took over the "Surveillance and Technical Unit" in 1968, After 1968
surveillance took up @ large part of the time of the "Surveillance and Techni-
cal Unit's" time. The Unit consisted of 14 support agents and was expanded
to 20-24 men during some surveillances. The Washington Field Office did
surveillance for the entire country with regard to Security Office matters.

If a surveillance was conducted anywhere in the country, Brewer believes he
would: know of it. If surveillance was conducted in the territory of another
field! office, that field office would have been in charge, with the Washington
Office providing the support. The following surveillance was undertaken by
Brewer's Unit: .

1

1. Surveillance of Employees or Former Employces

 

 

 

SECRET/SENSITIVE

 

4

HW 50955 Bocld:32203834 Page 6
HW 50955

‘SECRET/SENSITIVE -2-

"Assistant Special Agent in Charge of Support" at the field office (Mr. John
Hutchinson during most of Mr. Brewer's tenure), who in turn would ask

Mr.

The

Brewer to carry out the request.

following persons have headed the Washington Field Office as "Special

Agent in-Charge":

Charles Kane 1960-1963
‘ Marvin Gentile 1963-1964
John Noble 1964-1968
| Ed Klippa 1968-1975
: Jack Cryer Present

 

 

Covert Investigations by Field Agents

Such investigations were conducted much less frequently than overt investiga-
tions of applicants for employment. Several unofficial covers were used by
investigators to prevent the person being investigated from being exposed as
a CIA contact.

;
Technical Operations

 

Technical operations consisted of the planting of electronic listening devices
(King) and the telephone taps (Queen). No technical devices were planted by

the

Washington Field Office after the formation in 1968 of the "Surveillance

and Technical Unit." However, Mr. Brewer has plaeited technical devices prior
to 1968: . .

1.

nwa

Deeid:32203834 Page 7

In about 1966 Mr. Brewer planted a listening device in an apartment
at the Savoy Apartments in Washington, D. C. (a CIA Safe House). This
device was later removed and Brewer was told it was never used,

About 8 years ago Mr. Brewer placed several bugs in a Washington Safe
House. He believes they have never been removed. They have never becn
used to his knowledge.

About 10 years ago Mr. Brewer was called back from vacation to bug 4
cadillac to be used by two Chinese generals.

At one time Mr. Brewer bugged hotel rooms in the Washington area where
unwitting U-2 pilot applicants were being interviewed.

In 1963 Mr. Brewer placed telephone taps on phones in a home in
Washington (MOCKINGBIRD case). At the time he did not know he was
tapping a news columnist's phone, but he later learned that that had
been the case.

Four houses in Miami were bugged by Mr. Brewer shortly after the Bay of
Pigs incident.

~ SECRET/SENSTTIVE

|
i
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
1

 

 

 
|

SECRET/SENSITI VE _3-

police officers in the Washington, D.C., area for their assistance to the CIA.
Each Christmas a list would be prepared of those individuals from local police
departments who had provided assistance,and appropriate gifts would be given
to these individuals, ranging from candy and liquor to $25 gift certificates.
The money for these gifts was taken from CIA's "Blue Jay" fund, used for mis-
cellaneous je Some police officials would not accept such gratuities.
nea ES ee
Kbver 75 algo aware of one occasion when police officials from several de-
partments were flown to a hunting lodge owned by the Agency in southern Virginia.
Brewer recalls several officers from the Montgomery County, Fairfax County (in-
cluding nd Metropolitan Police Departments(includin

but not -who refused an invitation) attending, as well
as a high police official from Boston. Brewer himself attended this gathering
and indicated that as best as he can remember it was ictly a social affair.
Brewer could not recall ever having agreed to proviael et the
Fairfax County Police Department with an automobile whil was on vaca-
tion in cas ym although he would not deny that he may have done so.
CHY Beg TA
Brewer indicated that all gratuities given police officials were approved by
Headquarters and that none were specifically connected with any particular
request being made of the police by the CIA. Ch )

 

 

(full distribu tion) _

JNR/vnr
SECRET/SENSITIVE

HW 50955 Docld:32203834 Page 5

ee ner er ESSERE GPO
’ * : COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES
Washington, DC 20500

February 20, 1975

SECRET/SENSITIVE

MEMORANDUM FOR: FILE

FROM: _ JAMES N. ROETHE’. 4

SUBJECT: Summary of an Interview with George R. Brewer, Conducted
on Tuesday, February 18, 1975, iA the Offices of the
Commission by James N, Roethe and Robert Olsen

The interview commenced at approximately 4:00 pm on February 18, 1975, and

ended at approximatety 8:30 pm on the same date. Mr. Brewer appeared
voluntarily at the request of the Commission staff, .

 

Background of Mr. Brewer

 

Mr. Brewer is a graduate of the University of Marytand. He has been with

the CIA for over twenty years and is presently Chief of the Director's
Security Staff. The interview concerned itself primarily with the activities
of the Washington Field Office of the Office of Security. Mr. Brewer first
worked in that office from January 1955 to February 1956, -From February 1956
to April 1959 he was on Director Dulles! personal security staff. He served

with the Headquarters Field Office (now defumct) from April 1959 to August 1960
and again served with the Washington Field Office from August 1960 to July 1975,

when he obtained his present position.

Activities at the Washington Field Office

 

 

 

 

 

The Washington Field Office is made up of 35-40 ageits. Clericais bring the
total cf employees to about 100. It is by far the Largest security field
office. The majority of the agents are designated as field agents, whose
primary activity is investigating applicants for erployment with the Agency
and some covert investigations (investigations under cover, such as investi-
gations of contractor's employees or individuals planning to be sent overseas
under cover) . The remaining agents are designated as support a 5 (about §
men) who provide a broad range of support to the field agents. + 1966
Mr. Brewer, a support agent, was designated as the Wasningten Field Office's
liaison with the local police (including the Metrovolitan Police Department,
most Suburban police departments, and the Virginia and Maryland State Police),
In November of 1968, Mr. Brewer was placed in charge of a newly created
"Surveillance and Technical Unit" of the Support Squad. He remained in both
positions until he left the Office in July of 1973. Myr. Brewer emphasized
chat no activity was undertaken by the ficld office without the approval of
eadquarters. Requests for action in Mr. Brewer's areas of interest would be
eceived by headquarters security, generally from the Operations Directorate,
The "Security Support 3ranch" at headquarters would »ass the request on to the

   

        

: _SECRET/SENSITIVE

HW 50955 Doecld:32203834 Page 6

 

 

 
Date:05/30/94
. Page:1
c JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10066

RECORDS SERIES :
MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : ROCK
FROM : ROETHE, JAMES N.
TO : FILE

TITLE :
FURTHER INFO OBTAINED FROM BREWER, GEORGE

DATE : 02/24/75
PAGES : 13

SUBJECTS :
r BREWER, GEORGE

“TECHNICAL OPERATIONS
ASSISTANCE TO LOCAL POLICE
SURVEILLANCE OPERATIONS  ~
CIA - WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 3, DONOR REST., REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/31/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
SSCI Box 286, Folder 11

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DoclId:32203834 Page 2
157-10011-10066

 

JFK Assassination System Date: - — 7/30/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

J

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: = 157-1001 1-10066

RECORD SERIES: MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: ROCK
FROM: ROETHE, JAMES N.
TO.: FILE

TITLE: | FURTHER INFO OBTAINED FROM BREWER, GEORGE

DATE: 02/24/1975
PAGES: 13

SUBJECTS :
ASSISTANCE TO LOCAL POLICE
BREWER, GEORGE
TECHNICAL OPERATIONS
SURVEILLANCE OPERATIONS ©
CIA - WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : — Unclassified ‘
RESTRICTIONS: — Consulted; 1A; 3; Donor Restricted
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 05/31/1994

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : SSCI Box 286, Folder 11

 

v9.1 t
HW 50955 Docld:32203834 Page i
. : : . - oe ce Masel”

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHEN THE UNITED-STATES
Washington, DC 20500 PBb-l{

 

Nelson A. Rockefeller, David W. Betin,
Chairman February 24, 1975 . Executive Director
Yohn T. Connor .
© ee Oe NOTE? Dpesdents css thet Page au mberS
Inrayviry IN. Griswold : rey . . oo
Lane Kirkland WNdcgeted were Net SpPe i freafly
Lyman L. Lemnitzer m ey a i -
Ronald Reagan entrened im the GAS on pt.

Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.

   
 

ve

  

SECRET/SENSITIVE ~ SSCI Box 286, Folder 11 -

 

    

MEMORANDUM FOR: FILE

.

  

FROM: JAMES N. ROETHE — Record Number 157-10011-10066 —
Noe ce ant
SUBJECT: Further Information obtained from George Brewer
(See February 18 interview)

Fa

On Monday, February 24, I again spoke with George Brewer in the Commission
offices from approximately 9:00 am until 10:15 am. The following additional
information was obtained.

Technical Operations

In 1960 and 1961, Brewer was primary involved in Bay of Pigs operations (pro-
viding support to the -liami Field Office in smuggling friendly Cubans into the
United States). Ne was engaged in little technical activity during that time.
Between 1962 and 1965, he was involved in approximately 30 technical operations,
only four of which were telephone taps (the rest were mike and wire cases).
During that same perioi four or five other support agents . were also engaged
in technical activities, each performing approximately the same amount of tech-
nical work that Brewer was performing. Some of the agents doing technical work
were Jack Cryer, and Bill Simpson, the latter being a former in-
structor of Brewer's. Both Cryer and Simpson had been doing technical work for
. quite some time (throughout the 50's). 4

 

cases, technical work performed by Brewer and others at the Washington Field
Office almost stopped completely. Brewer can recall only two taps that were
placed during that period. One of these was placed in a Safe House in the
Washington area, and the other was placed in a New York apartment. in connec-
tion with Project PARAGON. Brewer assumes that the appropriate approvals were
obvained prior to his placing these taps. (rT ya 1149-48)

Most of the technical operations in the early 1960's were performed at the re-
quest of the Operations Directorate. While Brewer was not privy to the purpose
for each technical operation that he performed,he believes that many involved

CIAHAS NO oalecr™ 1
ems iFICATIC a
, —— PEASE OF THIS DUGUWENT

D
es mL MAY 94:

ey)
HW 90955 | DocTa:32903834 “Page 307° 0 re vo BY Oe

 
ee SECRET/SENSITIVE -2-
a

Safe Houses for use by defectors and the wiring of operations assets’ apart-

ments or other premises where conversations with assets| would be forth-

coming. For instance, in 1962 the apartment of a defector (Golitzen) was ‘
wired. It was believed that Golitzen had become unhappy with CIA treatment

and was considering leaving the country. A telephone tap was placed on his

phone to attempt to verify this. Brewer believes that these cases involved
positive foreign intelligence gathering as opposed to being Security cases,

From the names of the individuals whose conversations were to be recorded,

Brewer presumes that most of these technical operations|were directed against

foreigners.

Brewer is aware of a few technical operations relating to security. One in-
volved the bugging of the premises of a former employee] | in
about 1964 because of his questionable associates. Another, in 1963, involved
a telephone tap on a newsman (although Brewer was unaware at the time the tap ,
was placed that it was being directed against a newsman) . (1/49)

 

The Technical Division of the Office of Security may have been involved in og
some technical operations in the United States during the 1960's and earlier. _ {
However, their primary responsibility was counter-audio|/work overseas. Brewer
does not believe that they would have been involved in significant amounts of
technical work in the States. : ste te eye o
Jo ALS Bree eager, FBT eed wa fd frre erred of : eee TE cd : ‘)

y y Surveillance Operations “

 

 

 

surveillance. This generally related to surveillance of defectors and training
operations directed against perspective overseas CIA agents. The purpose of

the training was to assist WFO in its surveillance techniques and to determine
how well] the perspective overseas agents could make contacts and "drops" without
being detected. The Field Office had little equipment to undertake sophisticated
surveillance at that time. (/)u -ae)

Prior to 1968, the Washington Field Office was performing some unsophisticated

In 1968, with the creation of the Surveillance and Technical Unit, a much more
concentrated effort was made in the area of surveillance. (127)

Assistance to Local Police

Brewer remembers that at some point in time two sets of/alias documents prepared
by Technical Services were given to the Metropolitan Police Department. This
included a social security card, driver's license, D. C. permit, etc.

REKKAKREAKRKKRE

I again interviewed Mr. Brewer at approximately 2:30 pm on the same day, just
rior to his leaving for the Commission hearings, at which he was testifying.
indicated that it was the policy of the CIA to offer gratuities to various:

A .

SECRET/SENSITIVE

 

 

HW 50955 Docld: 32203834 Page 4
