 

aan)

tOP

assigned the ZRRIFLE task by Bissell. In any event, he canno

   

  

RILE:
remember asking Gunn to brief Gottlieb, as is suggested in’
the IG Report. ;

We next discussed the notes in the ZRRIELE file. (The
xerox of those notes sent us by CIA is in part illegible.
J returned and took down completely that set of notes which
specifically discusses the executive action capability and
which is the set Harvey identified as his. Appended here-
to ° coe are’ my notes, but _if Harvey is goin
to be questioned about them we would really have to ask CIA

for the file copy before next Wednesday. )

 

The reference to Notes hereafter refers to a package

 
 

of three sets of notes which we had xeroxed by the Agency.
The first two or three pages which are not in Harvey's
handwriting appear to be a draft of what would be the basic
project outline used as a cover for the ZRRIFLE project.

It does discuss QJWIN as the asset and does indicate that
he will be used to spot other criminals for sensitive pro-
jects. ' But unlike the subsequent notes, it does not discus
issues regarding the setting up of an assassination capa- .
bility. The next set|of notes which are in large writing
on pages covered with various doodles are those identifiedty
Harvey as his. From looking at them, he judged that they wer

otes based on two successive conversations. First, with

  
  

s#idney Gottlieb on the 25th of January, 1961 and then on

the 26th of January with ¢ me Harvey concluded

 

that the first conversation with Gottlieb ranged across a

BW 50955 Bocld:32202027 Page FA GFA

 

_u-VERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY page FP of
JERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY

 

    

variety of activities which fell within the framework of | FILE:

Gottlieb's position at TSD. (Harvey speculated Gottlieb
had just become Acting Director or taken over some other
high post in TSD.) His conclusion in this regard is based
in part on references in that first section of his notes
to items which he recalls and which he wuld swear have
nothing to do with ZRRIFLE. For example, there is a dis-

cussion of @ACERRG Sse alciatauerenatsion EREEE

 

The first part of the Notes of the 25th/1 meeting with
Sidney Gottlieb is headed "Executive Action." Harvey could

ot recall what he meant by the phrase "the magic button"

 
 

but said that he assumed this was a euphemism either he or

 

HW 50955 DoclId:32202027 Page 10
_SERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY

   
  
 

 

. d
in the file, infra.) iaes) relationship to the entire PILE:
project was really threefold: (1) he was actively running

QUWIN the asset, (2) QJUWIN was spotting people whom Harvey

action capability, and (3) j did explore the general
concept involved for setting up such capability with Harvey
We next spoke about the portion of the report suggest-
ing that Harvey had been briefed about the technical de-
velopments. of capabilities under the Roselli plot. "Harvey
said that he does not recall the name and is fairly certain

he never met or dealt withl SD the person who

actually made the pills in the TSD. He did know both Sid

 

‘Gottlieb and "Manny" Gunn fairly well. He said that in
terms of his general professional duties as a Station Chief
and counterespionage expert against the Soviets, he had
made it a point of keeping fairly current in background
knowledge on the enemy's capabilities for assassination.

He had therefore discussed the latest state of the art with
the Office of Medical Services (where Gunn was) and TSD
Where Gottlieb was). He said he had also discussed with
those offices medical and other scientific aspects of
interrogation techniques (e.g. truth serum) and control
techniques (e.g. post-hypnotic suggestion for controlling

agents). He had had general discussions, therefore, with

 
 

both Gunn and Gottlieb. However, he does seem to recall
a discussion of specific techniques with Gunn at one point,
although he is not positive this was after he had been

HW 50955 Docld: 32202027 page fac CSEOST
L..wSRVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY

   

included discussions of Trujillo, Castro and Lumumba. He FILE:

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  

simply does not remember and does not think they discussed
the project in terms of likely specific targets.
Either at that first meeting with Bissell or shortly

thereafter, Harvey learned that

 

sjand Sidney
Gottlieb had been "cut in" by Bissell on Bissell's interest
in executive action capability. Harvey thought this was

unfortunate, but it was done. Harvey also thought Bissell

should have known better than to discuss Lumumba with

 
  
  

although Harvey understands and fully respects
i moral s scruples against being involved.

Also, shortly after being asked to set up executive
action capability, Harvey learned about the Cuban operation}
involving the Office of Security and understood that both
J.C. King and J. Esterline were witting, as well as O'Connell

and Edwards. Harvey is not) sure why Bissell would have tol

 

about the executive action project. But he has a
. —__J
vague recollection that at some point Bissell indicated to

   
   
 

him that € 85

     

had an asset who might be useful. (So pre-
sumably Bissell knew about QJWIN, perhaps fro

tse of him in the Congo.)

     

“i in any event, knew: (1) that Bissell was
interested in setting up an executive action capability,

and (2) that Bissell had spoken to Harvey about it. There-

 

Fter he and | spoke about it (see discussion of notes

 

 

HW 50955 DBocId:32202027 Page 7
 

_ATERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY ” : Page 7 of _

 

In early 1961 Bissell asked Harvey to explore an FILE:

   
   
   
 
   

executive action capability. Harvey confirmed and said he
firmly recalls that Bissell on at least two occasions indi-
cated to Harvey that he, Bissell, had been repeatedly im-
portuned by the White House to explore such a capability.
The first time Bissell spoke to him, Harvey thinks, was
early on and at least one other time occurred which was whg

Bissell asked him in the fall to turn ‘the RIFLE approach ¢4

to Castro and pick up the Roselli operation. The first time

 
   
  
 

Bissell spoke’ to him about it, / definitely said he had
enna enn

ee nett te mE NEN MAN Amma

but Harvey does not recall

    
 

been urged by the White House,
eee

Harvey

  

whether he mentioned anyone at the White House.

 
 

thinks that if Bissell had said that he had been directly
“asked by the President, then Harvey wuld have remembered

it even today. His impression is that the implication in
Bissell's conversation with Harvey was that the White House
had initiated it; but he said that he couldn't be sure
whether Bissell had said the White House wanted it set up
to be ready. in being or whether the White House wanted the
possibility explored. Harvey elaborated that the White Housg
might sy "create such a capability" , or might say "deter-
mine whether it would be a good idea to set up such a
capability" or might say "see if it would be possible to
set up such a capability."

Harvey is fairly certain that Bissell did not indicate

 
 

whether Dulles knew about this White House request, nor could

Harvey be sure whether Bissell had indicated whether it was
6 .

someone in the Kennedy White House or the Eisenhower
HW 50955 BoclId: 32202027 Page 5 fwata! erAney
   

FILE:
White House who had made the request. Again, he has the

 
 
   
  
 
 
   

‘impression, although he can remember nothing express, that
at the time he received the distinct impression Bissell's
conversation at the White House had only been a short time
prior to his conversation with Harvey. When pressed, he
said he was not sure and he might even have spoken to Bisse]}l
a short time before the Kennedy inauguration(which would
have meant that Bissell was more likely to have been referring
to the Eisenhower White House as having pressured Bissell
to set up an executive action capability.) On the other

hand, he has the strong impression that the second time he

 
  
 

sas told by Bissell, i.e., in the fall, Bissell again impli¢d
Mthat the renewed préssures had been recent, thereby strongl
suggesting that, at least at that point it was the Kennedy
White House which was involved.

Bissell asked him to explore the current clandestine
services capability to make recommendations on how such an
operation should be set up. He does not recall Bissell men
tioning Castro, Lumumba or. Trujillo, although it is possibl

“that it was at that time that Bissell told Harvey about his

  

approach: tog a (and as noted above, Harvey definitel
remembers that,at some point Bissell did do that). But
Harvey does not preclude the possibility that there was a

general discussion of the kinds of situations when that

   

fpability might be useful to have, and that this could hav

HW 50955 " DocTd:32202027 Page 6

|. .SRVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page 8. of
. ~ERVO

 

   

FILE:

   

Foreign Intelligence Staff, which is the unit basically in

ntelligence and supporting

 

    
    
 

OOUE LETS: and other sensitive methods
of obtaining E
During all. of this period he had ‘many occasions to
work directly with Mr. Helms and had a close working rela-

tionship with him. oe
The beginning of 1961, he was asked by Mr. Bissell to’

explore the possibilities of setting up a “executive action

    

capability" within CIA, In the Fall he was asked by Mr.

Bissell to turn his attention with regard to the general

area of executive action to the specific target of Castro

and, particularly, to take over one ongoing operation from

the Office of Security. Shortly thereafter, but as a distin t

matter, Mr. Helms (who was clearly slated to take over DDP, F222,
even while Mr. Bissell was still its nominal head) Asked ‘a
“Harvey to set up Task Force W, to be the new working group

on Cuban matters. [These items are ahh Biscussed ‘in more de-

. ts \)
tail later on.] UT h»w~ beg ~ orsss
Harvey stayed as head of Task Force W until the spring oento™
; CPN)
of 1963, at which point he turned it over to Desmond Fitz- BEES) iV
oo 5 allt:
rald, served about a month on TDY in Rome, and then in cal
; gett Spe ycemmampee : ( b’
. , : 4

  

n Rome. He return 43

_the vulnerability of CIA installations to “technical coverage.

a4, Se,
cap SEGRE
HW 50955 Docld:32202027 Page 2' ©! &
 

1574000410138} an

Date:07/01/94
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

 

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10138

RECORDS SERIES :
INTERVIEW SUMMARY (EXCERPT)

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
TO:

TITLE :
bo EXCERPT OF INTERVIEW WITH WILLIAM HARVEY

DATE : 00/00/76
PAGES : 10

; SUBJECTS :
HARVEY, WILLIAM
BISSELL, RICHARD
CUBA
CIA
CASTRO
QUWIN/ZRRIFLE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U :
RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED ‘
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/94

 

OPENING CRITERIA :

vs COMMENTS :
BOX 450-4

 

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

“HY 50955 Docld:32202027 Page 1
a

 

£ a
_TERVIEW AND MEBTING SUMMARY Paze 5, of _

Harvey is not sure how much he knew of QJWIN's mission

 

Mj although he thinks that he may

: :
well have signed some of the cables to Leopoldville, since

 

briefed Harvey

 

for the Congo mission.) In any event, §
about it later when they were discussion: WIN as*a possible
ZRRIFLE asset. Harvey does not recall: anything about the
WIROGUE; does not recall anything about ROGUE asking WIN
to participate in an executiton squad, nor does he recall

ever having been told by r anyone about viruses

“Magy )

To summarize at the outset, the following is the thrus

 
 

getting to the Congo.

 

_ZRRIFLE

of what Harvey would testify to regarding QJWIN/ZRRIFLE:
‘Harvey regarded ZRRIFLE as the overall project crypt under

which QJWIN as an asset operation was going forward. He. had

 

discussed with & the general assignment of exploring
executive action capability, and the possibility that eithe
QJWIN or that other criminals whom WIN helped to spot might
be assets. He never did more than review some of them as
possibilities in the course of his taking an inventory.

However, he did not use WIN or anyone WIN spotted in con-

nection with any assassination operations against Castro

 
 
  

or otherwise, nor did he even discuss the concept with any.
of them. He did not stockpile any materials or discuss pre

liminary targets or make plans or evaluations premised on

: particular tentative targets. Essentially, he ¢ assed
HW 50935 Docld:32202027 Page 3 SAR ETAT
 

 

 

HY 50955 DocId: 32202027 Page 4

° {56-4

_« INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY 4

se ee§

war

the technological, human asset, and organizational poten-

  
 
  
   
 
   
  
    

tials in being,or which might be organized, under the cland-
estine services, and came up with a pessimistic report to
Helms and Bissell that the possibilities of effective dis-
creet action were slim. He also concluded that it was
"ridiculous" to try and set up a general reserve capability
in being, aml counselled that the one sure way to do it, or
at least the only one close to having. a chance at secure
success, was to simply appoint a single senior officer to do
everything: to run the operation, kill the person, bury the
body, and-tell no one. In regard to Castro, he had used th
ZRRIFLE project as the administrative hook for his billing
and so forth, and said that at some times there were mix-
ups in terms of the financing offices, so that QUWIN/ZRRIFL
might be used. He did not completely explain why on some
of his own bills he seems to have indicated QJWIN/
LRRIFLE, but we did not have time to pursue this at greater
length, whether he would regard this as his own slip or
indicate that to some extent they were written up by others},
the bottom line is that he would swear that QJWIN was never
involved in an i ro operation -- nor, for
example, ever in the United States, although there is a
plane trip ticket from Miami to Chicago which is charged
to "QJWIN/ZRRIFLE" (Harvey says it was a plane trip of
Roselli's, which was the only thing he ever paid for of

Roselli's.)

 

  

FILE:
