 

the witness may not later contend that the Attorney General's
evidence came from any testimony the witness might give be-
fore the Congressional committee. The statute also pro-
vides that the Attorney General may request twenty more

days, in addition to the ten days which the statute pro-
vides, in which to segregate his files. The Attorney Gen-
eral, however, may waive any or all of the thirty day wait-
ing period. Communication has already been made through

Fritz Schwarz toMr. O'Connor at the Department of Justice.

Maheu's Value to the Committee as a Witness

 

Robert A. Maheu has been utilized by the CIA for a wide
variety of projects and tasks. (The two most important areas
- in which his testimony may be expected are (1) Assassinations
and the Las Vegas wiretap; and (2) domestic CIA activities.
This memorandum will briefly outline the areas of informa-
tion about which Maheu can be questioned and in which Maheu

has knowledge.

(1) Assassinations
Maheu was the person originally contacted by the
CIA in August of 1960 to provide them with an introduction

to organized crime figures in order to accomplish the assassi-

HW 50955 Docld:32423549 Page 9
 

nation of Fidel Castro. Maheu met CIA officer O'Connell
and introduced O'Connell to one John Roselli who was, at
that time, an organized crime figure in Las Vegas, Nevada.
Maheu also was apparently involved in the introduction of
the CIA officials to Sam_Giancana and Santos Trafficanteé.
Roselli was alleged to have had the ice machine concessions
in the gambling interests in Las Vegas; Giancana was one of
the Mafia bosses; and Trafficante was the Mafia leader of
the Cuban gambling interests. It was thought that the
“Mafia would be interested in assisting the CIA in this pro-
ject because of its (the Mafia's) concern for getting rid of
‘Castro who was about to close down their gambling operations
in Havana. After the introductions by Maheu, it is unclear
as to exactly what Maheu's role was during the various
assassination attempts. Maheu is said to have spent much
time in Florida during this period of time, however. Maheu
was involved in the $150,000 offer which was made by the

CIA to the Mafia for the accomplishment of the assassination
of Castro. Maheu may or may not know many of the details
regarding the shipping of the poison pills to various

individuals in Florida in an attempt to have Castro assassinated.

HW 50955 DBocId: 32423549 Page 10
 

federal authorities. Additionally, no information derived |
directly or indirectly from the witness's compelled testi-
mony before a Congressional committee may be used against
him in any subsequent criminal prosecution by either state
authorities.
or federal/ This does not mean, however, that the witness
is "immune" from prosecution for any criminal conduct about
which he testifies. The federal’ or state prosecuting auth-
orities may prosecute the witness if they have independent
information (other than the witness' own testimony) which .
would constitute a basis for indictment of the witness. .
Thus, in essence, "use immunity" merely provides that the
witness' own testimony which is compelled before a Congres-
sional committee may not be later used as the basis for his
own indictment for criminal conduct about which he has testi-
fied before the Committee.

The immunity statute provides that the Committee by a
vote of two-thirds of its members must agree to give the
witness immunity and that notice of the Committee's action
in granting the witness immunity must be filed with the
Attorney General. The immunity statute provides that notice
must be given to the Attorney General so that he has ten
days in which to search his files and segregate dny incrim-

inating information he may have against the witness so that

 

NW 50955 DocId:324293549 Page 6
 

 

The Nature of Use Immunity

In 1970, Congress amended the immunity laws and created
"use immunity" to compel testimony of a witness before a
Congressional committee. The immunity statute is found
in 18 United States Code, Sec. 6001 et seq. The statute

provides in pertinent part:

~ "Whenever a witness refuses, on the
basis of his privilege against self-
incrimination, to testify ... ina
proceeding before . . . a committee or a
subcommittee of either House and the per-
son presiding over the proceeding communi-
cates to the witness an order issued under
this part, the witness may not refuse to
comply with the order on the basis of his
privilege against self-incrimination; but
no testimony or other information compelled
under the order (or any information directly
or indirectly derived from such testimony or
other information) may be used: against the
witness in any criminal case, except a prose-
cution for perjury, giving a false statement,
or otherwise failing to comply’ with the order. "

This statute allows a Congressional comnittee to grant "use
immunity", to any witness appearing before it who invokes his
Constitutional rights under the Fifth Amendment. "Use immun-
ity" means simply that a witness' compelled testimony be-

fore a Congressional committee cannot be used against him

in a subsequent criminal prosecution by either state or

a

 

HW 50955 Docld: 32423549 Page 7
-2-

  

n

A Congressional committee has the power to compel.
testimony from any person who is subpoenaed to appear
before it. This power to compel testimony, however, is
limited by the Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrim-
ination. Succinctly, the Fifth Amendment privilege protects
ja witness against disclosures which could be used against
him in a criminal prosecution, or could lead to evidence

. which could be uséd against him in any such prosecution. It
can be argued that the events about which Maheu was and
will be questioned took place well more than five years ago
and that, therefore, the statute of limitations for any
crime that he may have committed would have run. The argu-

an ment would continue that since the statute of limitations
has run on any possible criminal conduct, Maheu therefore
has no Fifth Amendment right to assert before this Committee
about any question asked of him concerning an event upon
which the statute of limitations has run. -Maheu's counsel,
however, has asserted that notwithstanding that the events
questioned about occurred more than five years ago, he has
advised his client not to answer any questions because of a
fear of a possible prosecution for conspiracy to cover up

those events. While Maheu's arguments for asserting the

HW 50955 Docld:32423549 Page 5 \
 

Fifth Amendment may not be totally persuasive, they are
sufficient enough to create a question which a court would
ultimately have to decide. In short, therefore, Maheu's
assertion of the Fifth Amendment at least has a semblance
of validity.

. In the final analysis, the Committee is faced with
three options with regard to Maheu's assertion of the Fifth
Amendment: . .

(1) challenge Maheu's assertion of the Fifth Amendment
as not well founded under the law and ultimately go to court
to decide whether Maheu's assertion is or is not valid;

(2) grant Maheu "use immunity" (explanation infra)
and compel his testimony to all questions the Committee
wishes to ask which are within the framework of the Commit-
tee's mandate;

(3) not obtain any testimony from Maheu.

Of these three options, it appears that the quickest
and best option is‘to grant Maheu "use immunity" and compel

his testimony.

 

HW 50955 DBocId: 32423549 Page 6
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

«

8/07/95

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY INFORMATION

SSCIA
157-10014-10161
MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

se 09 08 90 00 ce oe

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

SSCIA

MADIGAN, MICHAEL J.
CHURCH, FRANK
MEETING 29 JULY 1975
06/10/75

18

MAHEU, ROBERT A.

MEMORANDUM

TOP SECRET
REFERRED
POSTPONED IN FULL
01/08/99

CCBOX 447

" £R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 Docld:32423549 Page 2
157-10014-10164

 

 

JFK Assassination System , Date:

Identification Form

W7/2015

 

Agency Information

 

 

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: —-157-10014-10164
RECORD SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 07-M-66
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM: MADIGAN, MICHAEL J.
TO: CHURCH, FRANK
TITLE: MEETING 29 JULY 1975
DATE: 06/10/1975
PAGES: 18
SUBJECTS :
MAHEU, ROBERT A.
DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION: — Declassified
RESTRICTIONS: — 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 03/22/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : CCBOX 447

 

S

v9.4
HW 50955 Docld: 32423549

Page 1
 

 

meeting 24

 

        

 
 

MEMORANDUM

To: Senators Frank Church, John Tower, Philip A. Hart,.
Walter F. Mondale, Walter D. Huddleston,
Robert Morgan, Gary Hart, Howard H. Baker, Jr.,
Barry Goldwater, Charles McC. Mathias, Jr.,
Richard S. Schweiker .

From: Michael J. Madigan, Counsel
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence
Date:~° June 10, 1975
Subj: Robert A. Maheu Appearance Before the Committee

 

 

Fifth Amendment Invocation - Congressional Immunity

Robert A. Maheu was subpoenaed to and did appear before
this Committee on June 9, 1975. In response to all sub-
stantive questions put to him, Maheu invoked his Constitu-
tional rights under the Fifth Amendment. Maheu, through
his counsel, indicated that his sole basis for refusing to
answer the Committee's questions was his invocation of the
Fifth Amendment. His counsel indicated that should the Con-

mittee vote to immunize Maheu, Maheu would cooperate fully

with the Committee and answer any and all questions.

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423549 Page 4
