INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page _6 of 6

FILE:

 

In response to a question about NSAM's, Goodwin noted that
these came out of the Bundy shop, which had little formal staff. Good-
win often wrote these documents. They were both general and, on
occasion, specific, indicating groups to be supported and the like.
Kennedy wanted to know the details of American activities in Latin

America.

6. Goodwin Suggestions:

Goodwin believed it impossible to control the activities of
intelligence organizations without becoming involved in their day~to-
day operations. What is required is an active Congressional committee,
on the model of the early Joint Atomic Energy Committee, with an active

staff. Once the President is permitted both to decide what is a major

 

operation, and thus needs to be communicated to Congress, and who to
tell, the game is over. Confidence in men will not do; institutional
checks are required.

With respect to people to be interviewed, Goodwin mentioned
that the Station Chief in Mexico functioned as a kind of regional sub-
director. He also thought we might talk with the FBI person in Puerto
Rico, with Arthur Schlesinger, and with Tad Szulc. In response toa.
question, Goodwin indicated that Nixon had been interested in the Bay
of Pigs through Cushman. He thought that Douglas Dillon might know of

that.

 

HW 50955 Bocld:32281923 Page 7 {
INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page 4 of g

 

 

  
 
 
  

 

 

 

 

  

. FILE:
3% (era Activities in Chile:

The Kennedy Administration decided that left wing democratic
remembered it, the proposals that came to the Special Group were genera
statements, policy ee descriptions of recipients of support or
conduits. In line with oN support was given to left democrati

. 2
political elements. The u.SNicertainly provided assistance to the
@ Christian Democrats im but Goodwin did not know
so 1 “|
how much. |
Gye
ow
Sav
— e

hep Chisbeangellsevengucsmcncy

   

  

“abel siines fhe 1948. Keaton

vantage point in the

%

   
   
 

Johnson was interested only in Mexico--and so knew less about covert

actions in the region. Thomas Mann was left to run Latin American

policy, although the President did become active in the two cri

a

 

conservative elements in Latin American societies, and American support

HW 50955 Docld:32281923 Page 5 - 5
“YNTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY | Page 5 of ¢

oS Be FILE:

Wee sere democratic reform ended. Goodwin professed himself puzzled

by Johnson's. assertion that he had discovered a "murder incorporated"
ais

  
   

only~specific instance Johnson ever cited was

Seine

Trujillo, yet Johnson had kno

in the Caribbean.

   

about the Trujillo assassination from

the very beginning and so could hardly\haVew'di scovered" it after he

 
 

ane

  

became President. |

5. Covert Operations and Counterinsurgency:

When asked about the ethos surrounding covert actions during
the Kennedy Administration, Goodwin responded that the major emphasis
was counterinsurgency, not covert action. There was certainly no
reluctance to use covert action, but no one believed that American

@ objectives could be secured through it. Counterinsurgency. was some~
thing different. A good deal of money was spent training police throug
AID, much more was spent through the Pentagon equipping Latin American
militaries, and there was as well some CIA activity. At that point,
the U.S. really believed that the communists could not get elected to
power and that the threat was subversion. Paramilitary operations
were considered by the Special Group (counterinsurgency) . Latin
American matters were considered there, and in some ways Latin
America was considered a kind of training ground for Southeast Asia.

a

Goodwin believed that in sum U.S. counterinsurgency efforts made little

difference to the course of events in Latin America. Cuba could not
in any case provide support to guerilla movements in South America

without substantial support from the Soviet Union, and the guerilla

ae movements that began had little indigenous support.

HW 50955 Docld: 32261923 Page 6
INCERV EW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page 1 of 6

@ ; INTERVIEW WITH RICHARD GOODWIN ‘| We
Wb UW tb

Date: May 27, 1975 Time: 10:00 a.m. ‘

Place: Goodwin's residence, 1536 32nd St. NW

   

Participants: Sel. Com. - David Aaron, Rick Inderfurth, Greg Treverton
|

Subject: Intelligence Activities in Latin America CIA HAS NO OBJECTION Tt

DECLASSIFICATION AND/O

Submitted by: Gregory F. Treverton MSD Go 4

During the 1960 Presidential campaign, Goodwin did foreign
policy work for John Kennedy, specializing in Latin America. After the
election he moved into the White House to ‘handle Latin America. During
that period he spoke with the President about a Latin American matter
on the average once a day. Goodwin left the White House in the fall of
1962, becoming Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American
Affairs under, first, Robert Woodward and then Edwin Martin. After

o working for the Peace Corps, Goodwin was brought back to the White
House by President Johnson, in the spring of 1964, after the Panama
crisis. At that time, however, he did not specialize on Latin America,
instead writing speeches for Johnson. He left the Administration late
in 1965.

1. Assassinations:

In general, Goodwin had not heard much specific talk of as-
sassination, although it would not have surprised him if it had gone
on. He mentioned one specific instance in which he had heard talk of
assassinating Castro. After the Bay of Pigs, a Cuba Task Force was
established, first chaired by Paul Nitze and then by Goodwin in his
capacity as White House Staff Officer. At a meeting of the: Task Force,

&. held at the State Department, McNamara suggested "getting rid of Castro,

someone from the CIA, perhaps Bissell, then asked if McNamara meant

HW 50955 Bocld:32261923 Page 2 G
157-10002-10083

 

Date:09/30/93
\ Page:1 :
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM :

&e IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10002-10083

RECORDS SERIES : i
MEMORANDUM |

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM : TREVERTON, GREGORY
TO : THE RECORD

TITLE :
INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES IN LATIN AMERICA

DATE : 05/27/75
PAGES : 6

SUBJECTS :
GOODWIN, RICHARD
BB  venneoy ADMINISTRATION
ASSASSINATIONS
BAY OF PIGS
CUBA
CASTRO
MCNAMARA, ROBERT
NITZE, PAUL

  

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT - \

CLASSIFICATION : S via
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

. :P \ 7
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/93 e) :

OPENING CRITERIA :

°

‘COMMENTS :
Box 244
Folder 5

 

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED.

HW 50955 Bocld:32281923 Page 1
INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY , Page _2 of 6

; FILE:

"Executive Action." McNamara responded that he did and stressed his

 

interest in the idea. However, Goodwin did not bring the topic up later
in the meeting after McNamara left. To Goodwin, the idea was not reason
able even apart from moral objections, for the Bay of Pigs had shown tha
Cuba was politically stable; Castro would merely have been replaced
with Raul or with Che Guevara, both worse than Castro. Somewhat later,
Goodwin sat in on an interview Tad Szulc had with Kennedy th which the
President pledged not to kill Castro. Szulc reported that pledge in an
article in Esquire. When he finished his period as Chairman of the Cuba
Task Force, Goodwin wrote a memo recommending that the United States

let Castro alone; anything the United States did to him could only but-

tress his position in Latin America.

During his time at the State Department, Goodwin met every

 

week or so with E. C. King, Chief of the Western Hemisphere Division
of the CIA, and King never mentioned a plan to assassinate Castro. Nor
did Robert Kennedy ever mention such a plan to Goodwin when Goodwin
worked for Kennedy, in 1966 and 1967.

Goodwin did believe, however, that the United States was in-
volved, at least indirectly, in the successful plot on Trujillo's life.
During the Eisenhower Administration, the United States had severed
diplomatic relations with Trujillo and attempted to isolate the Dominica’
Republic. There were frequent reports that Trujillo was about to be as—
sassinated, but the assassination never came off. In fact, the govern-
ment was surprised when it occurred. HenryDearborn, the American Consul

in Santo Domingo, had been charged with staying in contact with anti-

~. Trujillo forces. Prior to the assassination, he had transferred some

 

weapons, presumably handguns, to those forces. Goodwin suspected that

BW 50955 Bocld:32231923 Page 3 5
INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page 3 of 6

the President probably did not know of the gun transfer, but he said
that the assassination and the U.S. role with respect to it would have
come as no surprise to the President. He doubted that the CIA even
would have had to clear the transfer, although a general policy of that
sort might have been passed by the Special Group. .

Goodwin reported no other mention of assassinations. In fact,
he said he once heard a CIA man say that assassination was a bad idea
because once started, it never ended. However, an agent in the field
might regard killings of one sort or another as within his mission in
supporting one political faction over another. And of course someone
might have gotten carried away. It was clear from the Bay of Pigs that

the CIA sometimes acted without, or even against, instructions (e.g.

 

by bringing Batista followers into the Bay of Pigs invasion team). In
general, Latin American work seemed to attract the worst personnel in

all Washington agencies including the CIA.

  

syGoodwin knew little of CIA activities in Brazil. The United
Dy
1

States had@gttongly backed Quadros and never liked Goulart. In the

period before 1964;,.the U.S. gave political support to anti-Goulart

 

 

Brazilian northeast .4

 

 

On the military side, Waltegs>was brought from Rome

  

ad fi .
to keep a contact with the Brazilian military. How~much~further

 

 
  

Walters' activities might have extended Goodwin did not kndw.J

 

HW 50955 Docld: 32281923 Page 4 ¥
