TOP_SECRET eee Be
He knows of no case in which the CIA has made a sweep of any other residences.

It does make sweeps of private firms who have CIA contracts, but always with
the knowledge and consent of the firm.

He states that his Office has never used equipment for counter-audio sweeps for
“positive intelligence."

The sweeps conducted included physical inspection, checking all telephones for taps,
checking desks, walls, ceilings and floors for listening devices or radio
receivers, and may involve such sophisticated measures as counter-laser measures
and the use of a equipped with sophisticated equinment capable

of picking up a radio transmission from.nearby premises.

PRCSRRR OSE IRN Ce HT SREY CES

 

 

 

 

 

Taping Systems in Certain CIA Offices

Mr. Osborn stated that Mr. Helms had authorized for use in his office,

in the office of the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, in the office of
the Executive Director-Controller, in the office of the Deputy Director for
Support (now Administration), in the office of the Director of Security, and

in the office of the Deputy Director of Security a system of telephone taps and
secret microphones which made it possible to record covertly any telephone con-
versation or office conference taking place in those offices. The taping system
could be activated with respect to telephones by depressing a button on the tele-
phone in the office or on the telephone at the desk of the secretary in the
adjacent office. The taping system to record office conversations would be acti-
vated by depressing a button under the carpet in the vicinity of the desk of the
person occupying that office. All CIA officials in whose offices such equipment
was installed were fully aware of its presence and its capability of being acti-
vated only by them.

The recorded conversations from all of these offices, except those in the Office
of Security, were recorded in a central ban of recorders located in the base-
ment of the building. Those emanating from the Office of the Director of Security
or Deputy Director of Security were recorded on twin recorders located down the
hall from those offices.

All recorded telephone and office conversations were transcribed. In some in-
stances the tapes were retained, and in some instances they were erased. It is

not known whether the Agency retains any copies of the typed transcripts. From
time to time, particularly as an official has departed from the CIA, he has
o.dered tapes erased and transcripts destroyed.

Mr. Osborn reports that Mr. Colby directed the removal of the recording and tele-
phone taping equipment from his office when he becam@ Executive Director-
Controller of the Agency and again when he became Director of Central Intelligence.
Mr. Bannerman also had the equipment taken out of his office when he became Deputy
Director for Support (Administration). Apparently all other officials in whose
offices such equipment was installed used it from time to time.

Positive Uses of Counter-Audio Equipment
Mr. Osborn stated that he wishes to clarify his previous testimony that counter-

audio had not been used in a positive sense. What he neant was that it had not
TOP SECRET

 

HW 50955 Bocld:32203846 Page 9
. TOP SECRET -~4-

been used in the positive sense under any of the circumstances referred to
above. There were, however, several situaticns in which telephone tapes and
covert recording devices were employed by the Office of Security:

 

WORE DEEN SERS Re CORT SR

?

 
 

1. A conversation which occurred in a motel between plavetiors
Admiral Rufus Taylor, former Deputy Director of Central” Intelligence, was
covertly recorded. This was a meeting arranced by Admiral Taylor for the
purnose of attempting to persuadeg)ingaNevachsasignot to divulge sensitive
information in a book which he was’ then ing;

   

is}

5

Qu
Comte reer 7°

 

2. Interviews with defectors have been covertly recorded from time to time;

3. With the approval of Attorney General. Katzenbach, a telephone tap was placed
on the telephone of a CIA emplovee who was alleged to be a spy of a foreign
country;

4. Polygraphs of job applicants and some contractors have been routinely
covertly recorded;

5. The field offices of the CIA have from time to time installed covert
recording devices to record cxuversations of CIA employees with others
where there was sone reason to be concerned about the loyalty of such
employees. In each instance the installation of such listening devices
was expressly approved by the Director of Central Intelligence. Mr. Osborn
recalls only three such instances:

 

a. In 1972-73 such a device was installed in an effort to uncover tails
where an old defector was being forced to make kickbacks of his compensa-
tion from CIA to his CIA case officer;

b. At a date which could not be recalled by Mr. Osborn a device had been
installed to record activity of a female employee of the CIA who had ;
become closely and intimately associated with persons believed to be
dissidents;

7

c. In about 1968 or 1969 at the request of Mr. Frank Bartamo of the Depart-

ment of Defense the CIA planted listening devices at the apartment of a

serviceman doing highly sensitive cryptographic work. This was done with

the full knowledge of Mr. William Sullivan of the FBI. Mr. Osborn spear

lates that the CIA was called upon to accomplish this task for the De-

partment of Defense because Mr. Sullivan believed that J. Edgar Hoover,

Director of the FBI, would not approve. '

Mr. Osborn states that there may have been other instances where such listening
devices were installed within the United States, but he does not recall any
others. He is erphatic to the effect that after President Johnson issued an
Executive Order prohibiting telephone taps without the authority of the Attorney
General, the CIA never to his knowledge covertly tapped a telephone within the

: United States except in the one incidence authorized hy Attorney General

ee .

TOP SECRET

HW 50955 Bocld:32203346 Page 10
TOP SECRET -2-

Mr. Debelius stated that he had carefully reviewed his own situation as a
former employee of the Office of Security within the CIA and that he had
concluded that there was no prospect that he would be called as a witness
either bv the Commission or by any Congressional or other committee. Hence,
he did not feel that there would be any conflict in his representation of
Mr. Osborn under the canons of ethics applicable to the legal profession.

 

Background of Mr. Osborn

Howard Osborn graduated from the Vixginia Polvtechnic Institute in 1940 and
shortly thereafter entered the military service. After World War II he was
briefly with Firestone Tire and Rubber Company, and then joined the Central
Intelligence Agency in late 1947. He served in various assignments within
the United States and Furope prior to September 1963, including assignment
as Assistant to the Inspector General and positions within the Directorate
of Plans. In September 1963 he was named Deputy Director of Security. At
that time the Director of Securitv was Rob Bannerman. On July 1, 1964, he
was named Director of Security, and he continued in that position until earlv
March 1974 when he applied for disability retirement and went on sick leave.
He was retired on disability on December 31, 1974, having not returned to
work since going on sick leave.on March 8, 1974. He states that he had no
involvement whatever with Agencv activities after March 8, 1974.

Activities of the Office of Security

The Office of Security provides guards and security personnal to protect the
phvsical facilities of the Agency. It has resoonsibility for overall security
measures for all CIA installations, both in the United States and in foreign
countiuies.

 

Counter- Audio Sweeps

At the request of other departments and agencies of the United States Government
it conducts "counter-audio sweeps" of their offices to protect against telephone
taps, hidden microphones, and other istercepts of audible communications.

In the case of Congressional committees and subcommittees, it conducts such
sweeos of hearings rooms on the occasion of classified presentations bv CIA
personnel. Mr. Osborn further stated that there may have been other occasions
when such sweeps were made of Congressional committee rooms, at the committee
request, where classified presentations were to be made. Mr. Osborn does not,
however, specifically recall such other occasions.

se unter.
It also seems to Mr. Osborn that the Office of Security has made similar Baio
sweeps for one or more individual congressmen or senators of their offices in
the Senate or House Office Buildings, but he again has no specific recollection.
The Office of Security also makes such sweeps of the homes of officials of the
CIA with their knowledge.

TOP SECRET

 

HW 50955 Docld:32203646 Page &
TOP SECRET (XCGDS)
COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

o& i . Washingcon, DC 20500

Nelson A. Rockefeller, David W. Belin,
Chairman

Jonn T. Conner

C. Dougias Dillon February 13, 1975

Erwin N. Griswold

Lane Kirkiand

Lyman L. Lemnitzer

Ronatd Reagan

Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.

Executive Director

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE
FROM: ROBERT OLSEN

SUBJECT: Summary of an Interview of Howard Osborn, conducted on February 10
and 11 in the offices of the Canmission by Mr. Robert B. Olsen

Present throughout the interview, which was conducted from 2:00 pm to approxi-
mately 5:30 pm on February 10 and from 12 noon until 2:45 pm and from 4:45 pm
to approximately 8:00 pmon February ll, was the attorney for Mr. Osborn,

Jack Debelius.

Mr. Osborn ameared voluntarily at the request of the Commission staff. At the
& outset, Mr. Debelius raised a series of questions:

1. He asked us to supply an outline of the authority of the Commission. He
was handed a copy of the Executive Order creating the Commission and spelling
out its duties and powers.

2. He asked whether the Commission had subpoena powers,and he was advised that
it did not.

3. He asked whether the Commission had power to grant immumity to witnesses, and
he was advised that the Commission does not have such power.

4. He asked what liaison has been established, or will be established between the ~

Commission and the various Senate and House Committees which will be investi-
gating the CIA and other intelligence activities. He was told that the Com-
mission expects to establish such liaison, but that none of the ground rules
or arrangements have yet been agreed upon.

5. We asked whether Mr. Osborn would have an opportunity to review the transcrint
of any recorded testimony that he may give to the Commission or to the Com
mission staff. He was told that the Commission staff had agreed upon a policy
of allowing any witness to examine the transcript of his own testimony.

6. He asked whether Mr. Olsen had been cleared for security and whether Mr.
Osborm was free to reveal all levels of classified information in the course
@ of the interview. He was advised that such a clearance had been obtained for
Mr. Olsen and that Mr. Osborn was free to answer fully any questions put to
him within the scope of the responsibilities of the Commission.

ROP SECRET (xXGDS-5B(2) EO 11652
BY MULL

HW 50955 DBocld:32203646 Page 7

|

 
TOP SECRET ~4-

6. Mail Intercept Programs in New York and San Francisco
- P g rR ang oan rrancisco.

7. Cover Operations Using Local Police Cover

Arrangements were made several years ago win

the Fairfax County, Va., Police Department for the issuance o

badges and other police identification for use by CIA security personnel.
This involved about 15 sets of identification.

These badges and othez,identification were never used by the CIA. They
were all returned ;

Similar arrangemezts have been made with other police departments.
Strict orders were issued that the use of identification as local police
officers was to be limited strictly to situations involving actual cover

ao for surveillance purposes.

8. Training of State and Local Police and Other Assistance

Assistance was rendered to many local police departments, including
those of the cities of New York and Chicago, and to the Maryland and
Virginia state police during the period 1965 to 1972. He states that this
program was. vigorously and enthusiastically approved and supported
by Mr. Helms. :

Assistance consisted of training of personnel, the loaning of equipment,
and the declassification of materials and techniques in such areas as
photo analysis, surveillance techniques, metals detection, explosives
detection, locks and picks, hidden microphones, telephotography and
covert photography, and the setting up, handling, and organization of = -
intelligence operations.

This program was terminated upon passage of an amendment to the Law
Enforcement Assistance Act, which prohibited assistance to local and
state police departments by the CIA.

9. Break-Ins Without Warrants

2] Mr. Osborn states that the only break-ins which have occurred to his
knowledge by security personnel of the CIA have been those involving
employees, former employees, or CIA contact agents who were under
investigation for suspected disclosure or classified information.

HW 50955 Docld:32203846 Page 5

 
OO ~s

. : ' : b
@

TOP SECRET -5- . ‘

10, Counter-Audio Sweeps
At the request of other departments and agencies, including Congres-
sional Committees, the Office of Security conducts "counter-audio

sweeps" of their offices to protect against telephone taps, hidien
_microphones, and other intercepts of audible communications.

s.,

TOP SECRET

HY 50955 Docld:32203846 Page 6

 
    

    

0 ae 4

TOP SECRET (xcGpDs)

 

1s reso Ba

~ Record Number 157-10011-10078 ~

@ MAIOR SUBJECTS TO BE COVERED IN THE
TESTIMONY OF HOWARD J. OSBORN
ee OSBORN

February 17, 1975

TRE ST ES ee oe

  
 

reas

Background of Mr. Osborn

See the written statement submitted to the Commission by
Mr. Osborn dated February ll, 1975.

Activities of the Office of Securit Giving Rise to Questions
SSE ie Rise to Questions
1. Taping Systems in Certain CIA Offices

In the offices of the DCI, the Deputy DCI, the Executive Director-
Controller, the Deputy Director for Support (now Administration),
the Director of Security, and the Deputy Director of Security, a
system of telephone taps and microphones has existed. This
system has made it possible to record covertly any telephone con-
versation or office conference taking place in those offices. All CIA
officials in whose offices such equipment was installed were fully

© _ aware of its presence md its Capability of being activated only by them.
Portions of the system have been disconnected in recent yea

2. Covert Uses of Listening Devices by the Office of Security

In each instance the installation of listening devices was expressly
approved by the Director of Central Intelligence:

'

rs.

  

a. A conversation which occurred in a motel between §
and Admiral Rufus Taylor, former Deputy Director
telligence, was covertly recorded. This was a meeting arranged

py Adrmniral Taylor for the purpose of attempting to persuade Mr.

 Merenettt | ot to divulge sensitive information in a book which he

mal Sr
was then writing;

‘poem ners paren I REEL NETS PT ONE PRETO RG IP EL TE

  
 

b. Interviews with defectors have been covertly recorded from time
: to time;

c. With the approval of Attorney General Katzenbach, a telephone tap
. was placed on the telephone of a CIA employee who was alleged to
. bea spy of a foreign country;

. ,
eo] Deg AS NO OBseeriOW 79 TOP SECRET (KGDS 5B(2) EQ 1 652
RELEASE or 7./ON ANDO,

i CATO! By Authority of:
AS Sauitizen 8 DOCUMENT

FAS 94.
HW 50955 Soros Page 2

 

 
 

157-10011-10078

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO:

TITLE
TESTIMONY OF OSBORN,

DATE :
PAGES :

SUBJECTS :
MAJOR SUBJECTS TO BE

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

SSCI Box- 288, Folder 9

Date: 10/06/93
: Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

SSCIA
157-10011-10078

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
UNKNOWN

HOWARD J.
02/17/75
22
COVERED IN TESTIMONY OF OSBORN, HOWARD
PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
REFERRED

09/29/93

 

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 Bocld:32203846 Page 1
~ : : . ‘

TOP SECRET -2-
Go - d. Polygraphs of job applicants and some contractors have been
routinely covertly recorded;

e. The field offices of the CIA have from time to time installed covert

recording devices to record conversations of CIA employees with
others where there was some reason to be concerned about the
loyalty of such employees.

3. , Physical Surveillance

Physical surveillance of individuals in this country has been very rare
as far as the Office of Security is concerned. Circumstances under
which surveillance has been conducted have been limited to the following:

a. CIA employees and contract agents believed to be divulging classi-
fied information to unauthorized persons;

Wistar Marchattil o find out if he was getting informstim from current

employees of the CIA;

 
 

 

 

Ce | and another legman to determine their
f ied information, and a staff writer
{or 3) for the same purpose;

 

 

 

 

  

 

d. A female contact of the Latin American Division (and some of her
associates) who reported to the CIA the existence of a plot to
assassinate the Vice President and to kidnap the Director of Central
Intelligence.

4, Watergate Contacts .

a. The McCord Letters

b. The Pennington Matter

c. Assistance to E. Howard Hunt and White House re Ellsberg

5. Covert Informers Employed by the Agency

a. Within the Agency and Its Contractors
The Office of Security employs a wide range of confidential in-
formers from among the general roster of employees of the Agency.
Included here are plumbers, chauffeurs, guards, telephone main-
tenance mean, electricians, members of the char force, etc. These

TOP SECRET

HW 50955 BocId:322303846 Page 3

i
é
&
Ki
8
3
5
:
F

*

RINE SLEPT

 

\

PNT POT REO BL. DP EI

 
TOP SECRET -3-
employees are paid additional compensation to act as infomers
and to report to the Office of Security on any potential security

problems which they observe among their fellow employees at
the Agency.

° A TIT RINE SE TOL RT IIE

A few outside employees, i.e., non-employees of the Agency, are
also retained for the same purpose. This would include employees
of the telephone company and construction workers engaged in the
construction of Agency buildings. In all instances, however, the
purpose is to maintain security among CIA employees and those
working for CIA contractors.

  

 

 

 

b. Outside the Agency

In 1967 and 1968 the Office of Security arranged for Anderson Security
Associates to have its employees attend meetings and other functions
of various organizations thought to represent potential threats to CIA

. personnel or installations and to report on such threats. A list of

a organizations to be checked for indications of such threats was pro-
vided to Anderson Security Associates, which in turn provided regular
reports to the Office of Security on the activities of the organization
monitored.

There was also coordination between the Office of Security and local
police departments to cover the same activity. An effort was made

to determine the size of anticipated demonstrations and to anticipate
what security forces would be necessary to cope with them.

In 1967 and 1968 the Office of Security directed the field offices to
solicit or report information on anti-war and dissident elements.
The CIA was concerned about the safety of its personnel, such as
recruiters nn college campuses, and its offices around the country.
The field offices were directed at about that time to establish a

. clipping service on campus and other newspapers to report on organi-
zations and individuals who might represent threats to CIA personnel
or offices.

|
:
:

   

As a result of the information fed into the Office of Security relating
to organizations and individuals who may represent such threats. a
substantial number of files were accumulated on individuals and or-

@ ganizations.

_TOP SECRET

SEE ORT 70 POY

HW 50955 Docld:32203846 Page 4
