 

of political conflict and cont:oversy in the Congo.
There was no discussion; the meeting simply moved on.
I remember my sense of that monent quite clearly
because the President's statement came as a great
shock to me. TI cannot, however, reconstruct the
moment more specifically. (Rotert Johnson testimony,
June 18, pp. 5-6)

Concluding Remerk
In his testimony before the Select Committee, Director Colby had
this to say about U.S. involvement in the death of Patrice Lumumba:

Mr. Colby. There are a series of other charges,

Mr. Chairman, about assassination that have been

made about CIA in the past, of Mr. Lumumba. There

is no question about it that at one point there

was a low level discussion that maybe that would

be something that should be dore. There is an in-

dication that a foreigner was recruited to go down =
there, but our records very clearly indicate that

his function turned entirely irto other activities

and things of —

that nature, and there is no irdication of any <<
attempt by us to engage in an zssassination of

Mr. Lumumba. He was actually zessassinated by some

Congolese forces. Clear, that we have absolutely

nothing to do with, so the Lumumba case I think we

can absolutely say we had nothing to do with the .
Lumumba case. (Colby testimony, May 15, p. 65) a

 

 

 

 

 

A,

“Page 9”

 

 

 
 

 

van
io

 

TO? SECRET

October 6, 1961: McCone Cable *egarding Assassination

-58-

  

Mr. Kirbow, The record before the Committee indicates
that reported that he hai recommended to Ambas-
sador Lodge that "We do not se: ourselves irrevocably
against the assassination plot since the other two
alternatives mean either a blosdbath in Saigon or a
protracted struggle which couli rip the army and the
country asunder."

 

Mr. McCone directed by cable t» Saigon of 6 October--
"McCone directs that you withd-aw recommendation to
Ambassador concerning assassin ition plan under McCone
instructions as we cannot be 11 position actively con-
doning such course of action aid thereby engaging our
responsibility therefor."

Senator Schweiker. Would you :xplain what that means?

Mr. Colby. What that means? :t means we don't want
to have anything to do with an assassination plan.

Senator Huddleston. You are e.iminating that as an
alternative?

Mr. Colby. That is part of ou: concept of what to do.
Senator Schweiker. Didn't tha: contradict what you
were saying a few minutes ago? Didn't you say we

were in essence--

Mr. Colby. We were looking to the overthrow of the
government.

Senator Schweiker. I see what you are saying.

Mr. Colby. But not the assass nation in this case of
the brothers Nhu and Kahn.

Senator Schweiker. The other vent forward?
I
Mr. Colby. The other program -continued, yes.
(Colby testimony, June 20, pp. 12-14)
U.S. Involvem-nt
President Diem was assassinate:. November 2, 1961. The CIA

was not involved in the actual murder. liirector McCone's directive

against participation in any assassinaticn attempts or plots, sent to

 

devid:32203360 “Page 10

 

 

 

 

   
—_—_ OF

-41- te SEGRET

i
The Select Committee has been unabl.: to determine how the virus
@ found its way to the Congo and for what ise it was intended. The
Committee has reason to believe the viru: was ultimately returned to

Agency headquarters in Washington.

A Clue to Presidential Involvement
The discussion between Mr. Bissell ind Mr. O'Donnell, as well as
the arrival of the lethal virus in the Congo, occurred during the fall
of 1960. The Select Committee has heard the testimony of one witness
who remembered a National Security Counc .1 meeting in the summer of
1960 in which President Eisenhower made -eference to his desire to see
Lumumba eliminated. This witness, Rober: Johnson, made it clear to the <=
Committee that what he had heard at this meeting should be considered
"a clue, rather than precise evidence of Presidential involvement."
Mr. Johnson. What I am going :o tell you should be
understood clearly for what it is--a clue, rather
than precise evidence of Presi.ential involvement
in decision making with respec: to assassinations.
I would be extremely concerned if I felt that this
information were to be the bas s in itself for

’ conclusions by this committee ur if it were other-
wise to be made public.

@»

 

 

As a member of the NSC staff during the Eisenhower
Administration, I sometimes at ended meetings of
the National Security Council .o take notes on the
discussion.

“ee
I attended one such NSC meetin:; in the summer of
1960. I shoffld note parenthet cally that I have
refreshed my-memory as to the )robable time of
the meetipg by checking the hi:.torical record of
international developments. A that meeting, there
was a discussion of developmen s of what was then
the Congo, now Zaire.

At some time during that discu:.sion President Eisen-

hower said something--I can no longer remember his

— words--that came across to me i.s an order for the
@ assassination of Lumumba who wis then at the center

 

 

 

 
 

 

TOP SERET

Mr. Wides. You assumed--

Mr. O'Donnell. I assumed that he had authority from
Mr. Dulles in such an importan: issue, but it was not
discussed, nor did he purport :o have higher authority
to do it.

@ >

Mr. Wides. Did you then, afte: speaking to Mr. Bissell,
speak to anyone else that even-ng about this request and
your reactions?
MrvxO"Donnell. Yes, sir. An! I went into Mr. Helms'
office, and I said, Dick, here is what Mr. Bissell
proposed to me, and I told him that I would under no
conditions do it, and Helms sad you're absolutely
right.
Now, again, indirect discourse He told me that I was
absolutely right. And I felt ‘hat then I had a senior
man who was on record as far a: my position was concerned.
(O'Donnell testimony, June 9 p>». 11-16)
The Lethal Vi-us
a Shortly after his conversation with Mr. Bissell, Mr. O'Donnell
eo went to the Congo. Upon his arrival, he discovered that a virus had,
” in fact, arrived in the Congo and was in the possession of the CIA

Station Chief.

- Le Mr. Wides. Shortly after that did you, in fact, go to
the Congo? .

Mr. O'Donnell. I went, I woulk guess, within 48 hours.

Mr. Wides. You were there for about three months, the
last quarter of 1960, approxim tely?

Mr. O'Donnell. Yes, that is c rrect.

Mr. Wides. The Station Chief \as who at that time?

Mr. O'Donnell. Mr. Larry Devlin, a very fine, dedicated
person. Mr. Devlin indicated'to me that there was a

virus in the safe.

Mr. Wides. Did he indicate it was a lethal virus?

 

Mr. O'Donnel?. He did not, but I knew it wasn't for
somebody to get’ his polio shot up to date.
(O'Donnell: testimony, June 9, 1. 16)

 

   

, - Ma ttt

NW 47129 DocId:32203760 Page 7

 

 

 
-38- -

 

Mr. Schwarz. Did he tell you le wouldn't do it?

Mr. Bissell. Later he told me that he didn't want
to do it. But he also said tht he thought it was
an inappropriate action, and tl.at the desired object
could be accomplished better ii. other ways.

© )

Mr. Schwarz. Who authorized y:u to tell Mr. O'Donnell
to take steps to move toward a: sassinating Mr. Lumumba?

Mr. Bissell. Nobody.
Mr. Schwarz. Did you inform tle White House of that? —
Mr. Bissell. No.

Mr. Schwarz. To the best of your knowledge, did any~-
body inform the White House of that?

 

Mr. Bissell. To the best of m knowledge, no.

Mr. Schwarz. Why did you seek to assassinate Mr.
Lumumba?

Mr. Bissell. I didn't seek to assassinate him. I told —
a member of the clandestine sei vice to make plans and

develop the capability to do s: if it were approved’ and

ordered.

@>

Senator Goldwater. Approved b: whom?

Mr. Bissell. It would have thin had to have approval
at the highest level of goverment.

 

The Chairman. Where did the ic ea come from?

Mr. Bissell. I don't remember Mr. Chairman. It could
possibly have been mine.

The Chairman. It could possib: y have been yours?
Mr. Schwarz. Did you tell Rosiow that was your initiative?

Mr. Bissell. I told him that the instruction as to O'Donnell
was my initiative.

Senator Baker. How many other: did you plan on, just as
a contingency?

How many other people did you :nstruct to draw up plans

 

 

ty to assassinate?
io Mr. Bissell. I don't believe ihere were any others which
went to the point of instructiig that a man be prepared.

(Bissell testimony, June 11, py .54-55)

 

 

HW 44129 ° Docld: 32203766 Page’ 5° ”

 

 
a

+ ee a

 

 

 

» FOP Skeet

In his testimony before the Select ‘committee, Mr. O'Donnell

confirmed Mr. Bissell's account.

Mr. O'Donnell. — And so he callid me in and he told
me he wanted me to go down to he Belgian Congo, the
former Belgian Congo, and to e iminate Lumumba. I
would also like to add the cau ion that any remarks

I may make about Mr. Bissell o anybody else that it
is all indirect discourse. When I say, Mr. Bissell
said go to the Congo, please dv not include quotation
marks, go to the Congo. It's .:11 Mr. Bissell said,
that he wanted me to go to the Congo.

Mc. Wides. What did you understand him to mean by
eliminate?

Mr. O'Donnell. To kill him am. thereby eliminate his
influence.

Mr. Wides. What did you say to him?

Mr. O'Donnell. I told him tha: I would absolutely
not have any. part of killing Limumba. He said, I
want you to go over and talk t.. Sidney Gottlieb--
And I went over~-he was Dr. -Bo:tlieb at the time and
since--and he told me, I told iim I had been sent
by Mr. Bissell, and he told me that there were four
or five-~-and I use the word four or five advisedly,
I'm not just saying three or fur, as I recall one
of the methods was a virus and the others included
poison.

And I just felt at the time thit with Gottlieb, don't
argue with him.

Mr. Wides. He told you there vere four or five what?
What did he say to you?

Mr. O'Donnell. Let me say letiial means of disposing
of Lumumba. I then left his o fice and I went back
to Mr. Bissell's office and I :old him in no way
would I have any part in the a::sassination of Lumumba.

Mr. Wides. Before you go on any further, did you or
he mention whether there was any higher authority than
Mr. Bissell for this operation either Mr. Dulles or
outside of the CIA at the Pres dential level?

Mr. O'Donnell. No, sir, in no way. I felt-~-again,
this has to be tenuous--but I certainly would not
have done it if I thought Mr. julles was opposed to
it.

 

HW 47129 ‘poctd: 32203760 “Page 6°

 

 
on

a
e

 

Mauser? : ‘
NW 47129 Doecid:32203760 Page 2

 

Castro’s life. The following exchange w: th Richard Helms makes this

point:

 

 
 

-14- TOR See .

od
kt

Senator Hart of Michigan. You tell us that it is your
impression that nothing done w: th respect to Castro by
the Agency was done without authority.

Do I understand that correctly

Mr. Helms. It was done within the guidelines of ap-
propriate authority. In other words, we felt that we

were operating as we were supp: sed to operate, that

these things if not specifically authorized at least

were authorized in general terns. (Helms testimony, p. 61)

Senator Baker. Was it in your view the general policy of
the government of the United S:ates as proposed to be
implemented by the CIA to. kill Fidel Castro?

Mr. Helms. I believe it was tle policy at the time to
get rid of Castro and if killi.g him was one of the things
that was to be done in this connection, that was within
what was expected.

Another witness, Samuel Halpern, re ated to the Committee a dis-

cussion he had had with Richard Bissell, who was then Deputy Director

Plans, concerning a meeting Bissell had ittended in the Cabinet Room

of the White House:

Mr. Halpern. Mr. Bissell said he had recently-~and he didn't
specify the date or the time--iie had recently been chewed

out in the Cabinet Room of the White House by both the Presi-
dent and the Attorney General ‘or, as he put it, sitting on
his ass and not doing anything about getting rid of Castro
and the Castro regime. His or.ers to both[———sijamd_s ‘to
me were to plan for an operation to accomplish that end.

 

Saeed
Mr. Schwarz. Was any content out into the term "get rid of,"
or was that the term that was ‘ised, and only that term?

Mr. Halpern. To the best of m’ recollection, that was it.
There was no limitation of any kind. Nothing was forbidden,
and nothing was withheld. And the objective was to remove
Castro and his regime. (Halpe-n testimony, p. 8)

‘It is clear that the U.S. Governmen. wanted to see the removal of

the Castro regime from Cuba and that the CIA took steps, including

 

 

 

 

 
157-10008-10252

 

 
   

JFK Assassinatio: System : . Date: 2/23/201
Identification | orm

 

Agency Inform tion

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: = 157-10008-10252

RECORD SERIES: REPORT W/COVER MEMORANI'UM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

Document Info mation

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM: MILLER, WILLIAM
TO: MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTE!

TITLE: STAFF REPORT ON ASSASSINA (IONS: AUTHORITY AND CONTROL

DATE: 07/09/1975

PAGES: 73
SUBJECTS :
CIA AUTHORITY
INDERFURTH, RICK.
LEGAL AUTHORITY

MILLER, WILLIAM

PRELIMINARY STAFF PAPER
"ASSASSINATIONS:AUTHORIT™’ & CONTROL"
SPECIAL GROUP

. DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 08/08/1994

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: BOX 439-2'~

 

 

eee

v9.1 4°
NW 47129 Doold:32203760 Page 1

 

 
 

oe

@»

of developing the ZRRIFLE project by Mr. Bissell.

  
 
 
 

sara

NW 47129 DocId

William Harvey confirmed the fact that he had been given the responsibility

oo €E
32203760 Page 3

-32-

    

UP SECRET
Chairman Church. Deputy Direc or for Plans. :
Your record shows that Helms h.d knowledge of the ZRRIFLE
operation, which, among other -hings, was to develop an
executive capability--whatever that means. Presumably
that means a capability to con.uct an assassination if
and when authorized by proper ..uthority?

Mr. Breckinridge. That is my i.nderstanding.

Chairman Church. Is that your understanding?

Mr. Breckinridge. Yes, sir.

Chairman Church. Do your reco:ds show that, or is that —
based upon what has been revea’ ed through your interroga- ’
tion?

Mr. Breckinridge. First, let te go back and clarify,
then I will answer this questicn, if I may.

Mr. Helms approved ZRRIFLE, wh: ch the record shows has
the responsibility essentially.

 

 

 

 

My understanding, from my inte: views, is that ZRRIFLE
had also the responsibility foi executive action capability.
That is a difficult phrase.

The record does not show that lr. Helms knew when he
approved the project that it hid this dual role.
(Colby testimony, pp. 66-67, 6-70)

 

 

Mr. Schwarz. Now, did you have a conversation with
Mr. Bissell at some point in which Mr.. Bissell asked
you to investigate a capability for Executive Action?

Mr. Harvey. Yes.

Mr. Schwarz. In any event, sone time in early '61?
Mr. Harvey. Yes.

Mr. Schwarz. What did Mr, Bissell ask you to do?

Mr. Harvey. He brought up the question of Executive
Action. He said he was concerred about it--about not
only our capabilities, if any, to perform it, but the
basic questions of protections, methods, techniques,
decisions, judgment as to its aivisability in any given
case, and this whole sort of panoply of--again, pardon

 

   

Sua

 

 
@ »

| ap y

NW 47129 Doold:32203760 Page 4

 

Lumumba

The Select Committee has not been alle to determine any direct
link between the CIA and the death of Pa: rice Lumumba. It has, how-
ever, heard testimony to the effect that an official within the CIA
directed a subordinate to investigate th: possibility of assassinating
Lumumba; that a lethal virus was transfe: red to the Congo (now Zaire)
apparently for the purpose of killing Luiumba; that a foreigner was
recruited for a mission in the Congo, with assassination being originally
part of this mission; and that President Eisenhower may have ordered,

at least indirectly, an attempt to be mace on the life of Lumumba.

Investigating the Pc ssibility
The CIA official directly involved :n investigating the possibility
of assassinating Lumumba was Richard Bis: ell, who was, at that time,
Deputy Director Plans. The following .ex: hange refers to a discussion
Mr. Bissell had with Justin O'Donnell, tlen Deputy Chiefof Staff, in
the DDP.

Mr. Schwarz. Did you ask him :n words or substance to
kill Mr. Lumumba? :

Mr. Bissell. I asked him to i: vestigate the possibility
and to make explanation for so doing.

Mr. Schwarz. When did you do | hat?

Mr. Bissell. I don't remember the date of that. I may
have it on a chronology here, tut I image that is a
matter of record, or that he his testified to that date.
I don't remember the date.

Mr. Schwarz. Did you tell him this connection with
making plans to go see the passer of the poison,
Mr. Gottlieb? ~

Mr. Bissell. I think I probably did.

at

 

 

 

 
