 

 

 

EYES ORLY
SECRET
=6-

said ha would check directly with Mr. Goodwin re their status.

18. linvited Mr. Ray and/or Mr. Betancourt to call me over
‘the weekend in case either should want to discusa the matter further.
Thad the feeling that Mr. Betancourt was personally in favor of sub-
‘maitting new a plan covering “short term" needs of their organization
and it may be that such a paper will be submitted after he has an
opportunity ta ) talk with Mr. Ray in private.

 

 

 

 

JAN /dla e.
Distribution: .

nn, -Seiginal & 2 - A/DDP/A

1 - G/WHD
1 - AC/WH/4 & circulate
1 - Manuel Ray 201

 
 

 

 

ee ce ne

 

me anne

 

. unity of the varicus exile groups may well outweigh ita other obvious

shortcomings. However, both feel, and Mr. Betancourt was quite
emphati¢ on thie point, that the Council as a body is not capable of
directing clandestine actions against Castro and as a matter of fact
is opposed to any further efforts at overthrowing Castro by sabotage
and other subversive actions since they are completely "sold" on

the thesia that Castro can only be rémoved by direct U, S. military —
action and therefore a continuation of Cuban underground activities.
¢an only result in needless and futile loss of life. In the fact of thie
attitude, Ray said he does not expect to receive much encouragement
for his plan from the Council, although he is fairly confident that
Dr. Miro's approval can eventually be ebtained. ae

Mr. Betancourt thought that a workable solution might be found
to their problem if the Council would agree to concern itself exelusively

with (a) the current task of unifying the opposition, and (b) planning for

ite future assumption of power as the provisional government. Under
this arrangement, operations aimed at the downfall of Castro could be
entrusted to those leaders and groups (such as the MRP, MRR, and
possibly the MDC) which have both the assete and the will th do tha

job. Mr. Ray thought that it might be feasible to create an operations
planning‘ ‘board or command among the groups with demonstrated assete
and thus avoid unsecesgary duplication and confusion and make possible
overall planning.. It was obvious, however, that he would t prefer toact |
autonomously in the execution of hig program. ; ,

Mr. Ray was very critical of Artime and claimed he was in possession —
of sufficient facts" to convince him that Artime, in collusion with ele-
ments of the camps, were planning to eliminate the MRP and its leaders
from the picture, when the invasion succeeded. He said he "knows"
that Artime was being financially supported by wealthy oz-Batistianos
of the Miami area...

13. Ray hinted at various times that the MRP may at some point
find itself faced with the necessity of withdrawing from the Council and
going it alone. He says that the Council is composed of "good men" bat
they have no assets or significant followings and "have nothing to offer
the people of Cuba” and although the proclamation of the Council, a8
finally dvafted, was 6 good one the “progressive” aspects of the preclam-
ation were forced on the Council by the Americans and do not represent —
the true feelings of the majority of the Council members, He said the

 

~ SECRET:
 

 

9 aly
- SECRET
wSe

Cuban people are not likely te want to risk their ives on the basis of
promises made by the present membership of the Council. He feels

' that acceptance of the Council would be improved by adding to its

imembership two or three more people whose. names would be signi-
ficant and meaningful te the Cuban people. He did not name any
specific candidates. .

| 14, My. Ray let me read a 13 or 14 page report which he had

| just received from the MRP coordinator ia Cuba (Reinol Gonzalez)

which painted a dreary picture of conditions. in Cuba since the failure
of the invasion; was critical of the inclusion of Batistianes and “nines
bonites" in the invasion force; conveyed the strong fealing that the
Cubans had been betrayed by the Americana; and indicated that while
the MRP organization was still pretty much intact physically, morale
was almost completely shattered, Mr. Ray said he would provide me
@ sanitized copy (there were some operational and personal details)
of the report for sur information.

Us. In view of this report from within Cuba, Mr. Ray said that
he will wish to defer submitting his plan for our considaration until
he ie able te receive word from Cuba concerning the capabilities,
willingness and feasibility ef carrying out seme of the aetivities he
has in mind. He said it ie useless to submit a program of action if

the human elements to carry it out are lacking er completely demoral-

ized, He thought he might be able to present his prospectus within
approximately ten days, He said naturally he will not give the people
inside any indiZation that hs has been discussing a plan of action with
us. : :

16. Lurged Ray to consider submitting at least a preliminary and

admittedly tentative preppectus at this time based on the assumption

‘that hie asaets are still intact and will ba willing to cooperate in order
that it may receive early consideration. However, he stuck to his
‘belief that this would nct.be practicable and reiterated the need for
prior evaluation of the strength and morale of his following.

_ 27, Ray asked concerning the detainses at McAlien, Texas, and
wondered if they have beon released. He was told that as far ac i
know they are still under detention. He said Mr. Goodwin had taken
their names snd promised to look inte the matter. Mr, Betancourt

 

 
 

ag

Ceoned , 246 o San tried. PEER sed

a mal 12554

 

12 May 1961

MEMORANDUM F OR THE RECORD
SUBJECT ; : Meeting with Ing. Manuel Ray
PARTICIPANTS: Ing. Manuel Ray

« Ernesto Betancourt
_ Rogelio Cisneros

 

 

 

 

i. Ray did not return to Washington until early morning on Friday,
12 May 1961. He called me at 0700 from the airport. He was unable’
to fiz a definite hour for us to get together due to the fact that he was -
expecting an appointment with a person he did not name some time
during the morning. He later called a number of times from the Hotel
Ambassador to advise me that he still had had no word on his appoint-
ment. At 1145, Mr. Betancourt called to say that he was with Ray
and “Eugenio” (Rogelio Cisneros) and could we get together. 1 sug-
gested they drive out to the Clarendon Hotel Court on Wilson Boulevard

‘where I had taken a room for holding our meeting. They arrived in
Mr. Betancourt's car at approximately 1230 noon time and we first

went to the nearby Hogate Restaurant on Wilson Boulevard for lunch
before we got down to the business of the prospectus.

2. During lunth we did net discuse the plan but I did take the op-
portunity to stress in a most serious way the need for absolute secrecy
concerning our discuasions today and any future diseussions or devel-
‘opments which might take place in the future with respect to our relation-
ship. All agreed on the need for tight security,

3 After lunch we drove to the Hotel Court and from approximately
1330 until 1730, we discussed the proepectus, Using Mr. Barnes’ out-
line as a general guide, | stressed the importance of being able to present

 
 

 

176-10031-10069

 

 

Ww annce

K.-T a.amemAnan

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY :
: 176-10031-10069
: Goodwin Papers

. AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :

TO:

TITLE :

DATE

SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS : :
: 9/22/1998

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA :;
COMMENTS :

NARA

Memorandum for the Record

: 5/12/1961
PAGES :

6
Cuba
Memoranda

: Secret

ic

Goodwin Papers: Subjects: Cuba, Covet Action Box 4, Document 3A
 

 

 

EYES CULY
_ SECRET.
oe

to the proper people at the earliest possible time a carefully thought-
out plan of action which would set forth clearly the objectives -- what
the project hoped to achieve; a statement of the problem; the strengths
of the Castro regime following the 1ll-fated invasion; the status of the
underground and its morale and capabilities; the extent of internal

_ support for and discontent with the regime, ete. » ete.

4. also spoke of the need for describing the kind of activities
which the Ray organisation planned to engage in and the assets and
capabilities which they have or can a¢quire to do the job. The need for
explaining the relationship and coordination of the plan with the Revolu-
tionary Council was discussed at some length.

3, 1 suggested that he include in the pian an itemization of the kinds
of support which he would expect us to supply immediately as well as the
kind and quantity af support which would be required of us as the project
developed. .

6. lalso suggested that the plan include their views on how U. 8.
liaison end coordination could best be worked out; how funds would be
funneled inte the project; what comme and other training would be re-
quired; whether U. &. "real estate" would be needed, etc.

7. Ray outlined some of his thoughts regarding his proposed pian
of action. According to him it contemplates action in three broad fields:

(a) Underground activity o principally sabotage w- in the
urban areas. fim,

fo) Gradual bulldup -- largely y through elandestine infiltra-
tiens of small bodies of men ~~ of guerrilla forces in mountain-
ous and defensible areas.

©) A psychological warfare campaign within Cuba and abroad
dimed at discrediting Castro and at the aame time Providing the
people of Cuba something to fight for,

8. re is Ray's intention to depend aimoat entirely on maritime opersa-
tions for the infitration of personnel and materiel into Cuba. He aleo ~
fules out of hia plan the creation of ansther invasion array but does con-

‘template the training of groups of perhaps ‘Up to 150 men in other friendly

> BYES OULY
SECRET
 

 

EVES ORLY |
SECRET
‘3.

countries of South America (he mentionéd Venezuela as a possibility)
and said hé would explore the possibility of Basing 1 maritime operations

.. | dwynen-U, 5. ports.

: 9. Ray said some means, other than Swan Island, must be found
for teaching the Cuban population by radio broadcasts. He spoke of

‘the possibility of short wave broadcasts fram Venezuela and utiliza-
. “tion of a commercial station in Miami which he understands can he
. clearly heard in Cuba.

30. “Ray spoke of the desireability of stimulating the. organization
of "Pro-True Cuban Revolutionary” student groups.in many countries
of Latin America fhe said a successful organization has been formed

- in Puerto Rice) and of sending qualified representatives to those Latin

American countries where there is Sovist diplomatic representation to
contact student and labor groupe and leaders in an effert to present to

them tha true picture of the sorry state of studente,: workers, and
intellectuals in Castro's Cubs.

tl. Ray is alsa interested in the possibility of putting out a "News
Letter" under MRP sponsorship which would discuse various aspecte of

. the Cuban picture and set forth plans for Guba after the fall of Gastro.
' He thought such a news letter could go a long way towards correcting

mistaken impressions ameng American university professers and in
ather circles ae to the true nature of the Castra regime. He pointed
to the recent lettar from 63 Harvard professors which was recently

. published in the N. Y. Times as a “horrible example" as te how mis-
informed even university professors are on present day Cubs.

22. When the discussions got around te the anced for conducting
operations at least “under the umbreila” of the Revolutionary Council,
and the need for obtaining Dr. Miro's concurrence before the U. 8.
‘would be able to support any operation, it was obvious that neither
lng. Ray nor Mr. Betancéurt holds a high impression of the Council.

_ Both feel that there ia 4 strong possibility that the cloze public

identification of the Council with the recent invasion may well have

discredited the Council to such an extent that it commands no support
or eapect within Guba.

For the sake of argumont they were willing to concede that the

political advantages of maintaining the Gouncil far the purpose of forcing.

+ yES PAN
VES ytd

_ SECRET:

 
