 

lee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ee TUNTOTUD SHL 40. a

 

 

 

     

    

¢

AuvuprT: ‘Aggunay BHL Ag a3tuoo010H4

+ 1F ete eT RE SIS

 

32622644 Page 9

HW 49061 Docla
 

   

 

PHOTOCOPIED @Y T

THE DETERIORATION }

a

HE KENNEDY LIBRARY. DUE TO

OF. THE ORIGINAL, -: -..

 

?

iN

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

4. Pazamilitary warfare, I gather, ie regarded in seme quarters —

* ase purely technical matter, easily detachable Grom policy and there-

fore a proper function ef the Departznent ef Defense. Yet there is
almost 20 CIA function more peculiarly dependant ea the political
coutexs than paramilitary warfare.

There are several reasons for this, Fer ane thing, a pararnilitary :
operation is in ites nature a large and attributable eperation and ther:i+,
as suggested above, clashes with the presuppositions of eur epen
society, (These considezations need not apply, however, te the
training of, say, the South Vietnamese in guerrilla tactics er to the
guppert of already axisting guerrilla activities.) For anether, the

moral and political srice of direct paramilitary failuse ie acute for

us. Communists, when they stimalate peremilitery activity, are
doing what the world expects from them; when we de it, we appear

- to betray our own professed principles and therefore cannet afford to
_tempound delinquency by defeat. Moreover, ag the regent Algerian
' episede showed, ence we conviace the world that we are egunmitied tc a

paramilitary endeavor, we will be blamed fog all certs ef thimgs. And,

' . ag the recent tractora-fer-priseners episode shewed, when we do se::d _

men to possible death, we cannet lightly write them eff and clese the
booke. The Communists, én the other hand, have no scruples about .
Mewidating © looing show. .

 

ni nn lt re a nH Ng a ie La + a me ne a

NW 49NA1

Darld:327672644 Page 10
    
 

LT

OF THE’ Orr

ee ee ee a cain teeta te meee ee eae

ME AaNKS

RARY by

ET

GINAL,

  
   
 

‘ae the reputation of the United States; world public epinion,

™ le

it hag meant too the ihe State Department, often spprised ef an |

eperation only in it» ater stagee, ig under great pressure to

enderge the operatic. ac already mounted because af the alleged

evil consequences a exercising avete, 1 wel] remember Tom

Mann's remark the vay the decisien was made to go ahead on Cuba:

"I would never have iavered initta¢ing thie sperstien; but, since it

has gone as far as it hae, 1 do not think we can risk calling it off.

Moreover, at atime vhen there is incressing premium en activism,

State, when it queet.iene CLA operations or initiatives, caste itself in

a priesy, sissy, negative rele, The advocnte af clandestine activities

seems ‘tough' and realistic] the epponent hae te invake guch intangibles
{ "What

do we gay in the United Nations?", ete., and seems hepelesaly

idealietie, legalistic and ‘soft, '

The result ef CIA's initiative in covert political ‘operations has beea

to create situations chich have ferced policy en the State Departmeat.
This wag not the or:,.nal idea behind CIA. As Allen Dulles wrote

in hile 1947 memorandum to the Senate Armed Services Committ.:c,

“Tne Central Intelligence Agency should have nothing to de with polic;. "
Yet, inthe years since, CIA has, in effect, ‘made’ pelicy in many
parts af the world. <A number af governments still ia power know
that they have even txen targets of CIA attempts at everthraw ~- not

@ state of mind tad Stimulate friendly feelings teward the

- United States. of course, ia a prime ezample. .

 

This experience suggests that the present system by which CIA notifies
State of a projected covert operation la inadequate te protect US
ieterecta, There mag? be same means by which Seeds can be infers ad
_ ef gueb eperations at-an early enough stage te affect the conception
' and preliminary plening of the operation. Otherwise CLA will can-
tinue te confreat State with propesitions having potential impact on
forcign policy but st too late a point to subject that tmpact te reason-

' able control.

 

3.

 

 

 

 

 

Ranta: %9h99h44 Pane 6
. SECRET :
6. Ve

2. Covert politixel operations technically require State

Department clearancy. In practice, however, ClA has eften been
‘able to seize the initincive in waye which reduce State's role almoct

to that of a rubber gta: al

. Thia has been partly : AY) consequence of the superior drive and .
_ activism of CIA perz-unel, especially ae compared with the ditfidersie ®
of State Lepartroent persornel. Yor example, when mes come to Ci’
with the ascigzment uf developing covert politieal campelgne or
organising coups or prepazing for peremilitary warfare, these men
aaturally fall to work with ingéavity and seal; they prebebly feel that
they are net earning thelz pay unless, say, they erganise a6 many
coupe #9 possible, The concept of ‘contingency planning’ has
legitimatised the concrete preparation of operations oti Sy
in @ hypsthetical gtage; people did act st first notice that veaatineeney
iplanning, ' when carried to the stage of recruitment and training of
personnel, creates a vested interest which often transforms centin-
gesneies into spparent necessities. Thus, if a group is sasembied
and revved up oz a contingency basis, thea the failure te carry the
” project through (if le. orgued) will invite the disappointment ead
alienation of the greups ee the pressure inereases to follow through |
on what bad started od a pure speculation. This was a central factor,
of course, in the Cuban decision -- the fact that disbandment of the
Cuban force in Guatemala just seemed te ereste toe many problems and
embarragaments. Having entered inte relsiione with persenalitice in
foreign lande, CIA has sometimes cecmed te feel that we must thoro- -
- after do pretty much what they want -- ar else they will low security
oF even go ever to the Communists. hig, TPProach bag made us ex ;
occasion the prisoners ef our ows agents. ®

 

       
  
   

UE;TO.THE DETERIORATION) ~° ©

    

   
     
  

TBRAR

*, OF ‘THE: ORIGINAL's:.

THE KENNEDV=

_.{PHOTOCOPIED gy ©

Ld

a ‘Jie become prisoners of our agente in enather coupe tea. The Cuban
| episode leaves the strong impreseten thet CIA io net able to control itp -
en low-level operatives. While the CIA people is Washingtea are iron
“ly ed exeeptionally high quality. tha nin aetracted to Beld joke are gars °

 

    
  

Ov gpttmuncnea hh

MW 49061 Docld:32622644- Page. 7
 

SECREN .
. \aw
a>

_ Theva follows from tala, I would think, the conclusion that secret
_ +getivities are permissible eo long as ney de met corrupt the
' principles and practices of cur society. that they cease to be
. : permissible whea their effect ia to corrupt these ai aed
er practices: .
ach form of secre: activity presents ite own problem. Clandestine
innelligence eollecti-;, hae been a traditional function of the national
etate. Hs rules and usages sre fairly well establighed. - in the
- tein, espionage, Uf conducted with discretion, should pragent no.
‘| - great problem, However, when conducted with an epen checkbook
and a broad mandats even espionage can begin to push agningt the
limits of secret aetivity in an open society. I ceusider later, for _
example, the questica of the Controlled American Source (CAS) sid .
whether the averdoing of CAS ts ngt begianing tobaem other ac. uig
: ed the government, - . on

 

Covert political operations present a trickles preblem. Occasions
_@rise when it is necesenary to subsidise newspapers, politicians anc
organisations in other countries, But corruption of the pelitical life
of anothey nation ig not & respensibility te be lightly acsumed. I -
wonder whether CIA tae net dons too much of this fer the joy of it.
Paramilitary activities create an even more difficult problem, if -
enly because the problems of concealment are oo mach more difficult.

In general, I would suggest that any secret operation whese success ie
' depenéent on the suppression of news, on lying te Congressmen and
journalists and on the decegtion of the electorate sheuld be undertaker
only when ths crisis ie so wnsidsrable that the gains really seerm to
_° @agweigh the disadvantages. This suggests that the cise ef the pro-
"+ poeed operation may be of crucial importance. “Small operations can
be dene with 6 minimum ef accompanying corruption. The greater.
’ the visibility ef the eperation, the more ite success depends on |
\ -\* thwarting the impelees and denying the valese of an open society,
‘the riskier ig becemee, sod the more uxgent it {9 thet an overs
_ tase he made for 29 nacegeity. 7 a ”

     

wy 4ONE1 Nosta-29K99K4d) Pane
12. Cperations end oliey

Clandestine activilie sheuld be agsessed net enly ia the context
of their relationship wou, Open society but also in the eentext of thei:
relationship to United. States fercign policy. .

"CIA operations have ot boon held ettectvaly subordinate te U.S
fereign policy.

1, Clandestine ictelligence callection is, by charter, free from
. State Depertrnent contrei, This iset expeses American foreign palicy
to a multitude of emberragsmente when CIA io discovered recruiting
agents or devaloping sources in a friendly country. The recent
Singasore case, when CLA, withaut netics te the Consul General,
tried to subvert & member af the Special Branch of the Singapore
Police providee an instructive example. After complicatians of
. ludievons complexity, inciuiling an attempt te subject the reerait to
& He-deiector test, if turned out thet the recruit had leng since
informed his superiors of the CIA appreach and wes leeding CLA
iste a trap which, whes sprung, produced considerable embarrass ~
ment to relations bateween the US and the Slagnapere governmens.
There have been troubice of a comparable sort in Pakistan and in
Japan (where a group of Chinese Netionals were smaggied inte Sescho
to work in a CLA-NSA operation). . ;

}
|

   
   
 

a

CIA bas said that, in such eases, neither the Embassy nor the Depast-
ment in Washington ie normally infermed ef thie type ef aperstion.
in short, 20 one knows how many potential probleme fer US foreign
peliey -- and how much potential friction with friendly states -- are
being crested at this moment by CIA clandestine intelligence operations.
Suvely there is an srgument for permitting State te decide wheather the
advantage to be gained by the operation (9. g , the information derivatis
‘from en agent within the Special Branch of the Singepore Felice) aut- —
weighs the risk (e, g., exsepersting the iccal government and ehekir,,
ite confidence both in our purpeses aad in our eeaee), Clandestine
” intelligence operations should plainly be cleared beth with the Depart-
ment of State and (save for exceptional inetances ead on agreement of
the Secretary of State) with the lecal U.S, Ambassador,

OF THE GRIGINAL.

 

’

 

4

2
a
al
he
Ss
a
Qo
onl
a
ul
e
[ee
ray
w
x
e
=]
=
nace
AS
Q.
>
ae
<
a
aoe]
-_
ad
"Ds
[=]
Aad
=
2
uw
x
w
tx
fe
>
a
a
ivy)
=
a
S
Q
o
~
a
=
a.

 

 

‘
wr 40NL4 Raolda:29K99hAd Pane &
  
 
   
  
   
  

SECRET SEE SANIT 2EO
.  YERSEoN :
MUAENING 7 Ve

7T :

Sune 30, 1961

. MEMORANDUM FU- THE PRESIDENT

‘' SUBJECT: CIA Reorganisation

   

THE. DETERTORATION

rr

1 submit the following views ‘ae one who worked in GSS @uring the
: war and served ao & periodic CIA consultant in the years since.

 

tn, balance, CIA's record has probably bees wery good. is the

neture uf clandestine operations, the triumphs of an reer ene
- ‘agency are unknown; all the public hears about (or should hear:
“-, about} are its errors, But, again in the nature of the case, an_

“agency dedicated to clandestine activity can afford damned few ~

visible errors. | The ‘important thing te recognise today, - ‘fa my -

“‘fudgment, ie that the CIA, as at present samed and constioaed, has

- about used up its quota. Bs margin for future errer is practically
on ' non-existent. “Cne more CIA debacle will shake faith considerably
°". in US'palicy, at home ae well as abroad, And, until CIA ie visibly
‘ reorgantsed,. i will (as in the Algerian tnstance) be widely © blamed for.
1 Sevelopme nts of which is. is wholly innocent. —

 
   
    
     

     
      
 
 
 

    

    
    

The argument of this memorandum te that ClA's trouble can be traced
© the autonomy with which the agency has been permitted. te opera:
and that thie autenoray is dua to three main causes: © (1) an inadequate
doctrine of clandestine operations; . 42) an inadequate conception of

   
  

 

-{PHOTOCOPIED, 8

  
   
 

NW 49061 DocId:32622644: Pawe

 
 

176-10030-10422

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA .
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10030-10422
RECORD SERIES : Sorensen Papers
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : .
FROM : Schlesinger, Jr.
TO : President Kennedy
TITLE : Memo to President CIA Reorganization
DATE : 6/30/1961
PAGES : 15
SUBJECTS : CIA
DOCUMENT TYPE : Memoranda
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS : 1C
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 8/21/1998
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Sorensen Papers: Classified Subject Files 1961-64 Box 47, CIA,
Document 1a.

WW 49061 Dockd:32622644 Page i
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
    
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  

THE DETERIORATION} :< . °

“In the meantime, CIA grew in olise and power. During the fifties it

_ tection against xicCarthyite attacks, CIA was able to attract and held
- a larga number of edie and independent-minded men, The mere it-.

"yy ins than that Stave had begun to be fully aware of the probieme

 

SECRET . \O

2.

- conception of the. reintionshtp between eperations and intelligence..
". The memorandum also suggests waye in which seme of these probe
lems can perhaps be alleviated:

|b GIA Autonomy
; CIA. ‘conducts three :: ain ferme of eeeret work; claodectice intelll- _

gence collection; eo~ort pelitical operations; and pavemilitary

. activities. it carr::e2 as these fuactions with relative autenemy.

The reasoag for the autenomy are bistorical.

‘“Whea ciA began, th<« State Department, still thinking tes much in
: ‘terms. of its traditienal missions in fereign affaires, losked on this .”
7) new venture with suspicion and renounced the oppertunity te seize
- fivym contrel of ClA. aperationsn. ig did nat, tery example, tryto

establish any effective systern of clesrance for CIA activities; and
some ambassadors frankly preferred not to know what CiA wea up to

°:- dm their countries. After 1953 the fact that the Secretary of State and
"the Director of Central Intelligence were brothers fsrther confirmed .

“CIA's independence trom supervision by State Department desks.

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

began in some areas to cutstrip the State Department in the quality of
ite personnel... Partly because CIA paié higher salaries and even ||”
‘mere perhaps because Alien Dulles gave his people courageses pro-

added brilliant activists te ite stat, the mare meester Hie operstions

  
 
 
 

 
 

exeated by as active-and sutonomous CIA, is had long since miseed
the chances to establish ite. own ultimate authority. | While Btats:' ‘e

   
  
   

HW 49061 Docia:32622644 Page 3°00)...
z. ‘SECRET aCe

Yor its part. CLA hed developed a whele series of functions paral-

leling already existing functions of the State Department, and of

the Defense Cepart::.2nt aa well. Today it has its own political

desks and military -affe; it haz in effect its own foretgn service;

it has (or bes bad) !:6 own combat forces;. i$ even hes ite oun aly

force. Bs aunual Vudget io adout times thas of the State Depart-—

mest, The contemporary CiA poseaares maay of the eharacteristice
ef a astute within @ state.

 

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
 

- IL Dectrine

Theugh CLA's autonu:ay developed for histerical reagans, it has been
able to eadure because there is so doctrine geverning our conduct of .
_ @lasdestine operations, Tae problem of doctrine fer CIA te the extent .
ta which ite various clandestine missions are compantnie with a free :
and open sociery. .

   

0 THE-DETERIORATIONY =. -

lt ig idle to argue that, because the Communists can de ench-and-svch,

_ we are freo to de it tog, Communism is a creed nurtured incon.
spizacy: end the whole point of Communist secial and political orga:.i-
sation ie to make couspiracy effective. If ‘fighting five with fire’ moans
contracting the frecdoms traditiezally enjeyed by Americans in order

| to give more freede: to CIA, no one serlencly wishes te do that. Yet
1 ds. not feel that we have tried rigorously to think threagh the limits .
which the maintenance of an open seciety places on secret activity.
Until thie ie done, CIA's rele will not be clearly defined and under- —
atesd. The problern which must be faced ie: what sest of secret:
activity is conelatent with the preservation of a free social order ?

~ We must begin, I belteve, by accepting the feet that the United States
will continue to be a ustion in which politicians will ask questions and

-. make epesches, reportere will dig ou steries, newspapere will pub- _
lish editorials, individuale, driven by promptings ef censclence, ‘will

blurt’ out things | harmful to the etate, and $0 oz. ' We do net wish t

 

 
    
 

“* efour society... These things make up the framework in which CIA.
“must operate. In abort, they constitute the preblem; ead, as
General Maraball used to say, “There's no point in fighting the

    

aw snare Wa nT ah. PRULNNLAA Bawa 4
