  
  
 
 
 
   
 
 

_ DEPARTMENT OF STATE 0 BO CMO

evr | aes
gore Chl

 

 

     
 
  

  

S

. Department o: of tate “
: pax" “. TEE ee eo Pa ‘dvigraded at Sayer intervales © .
_Declassified 12 years after.

date. of origin

 

  
   
    
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  

  

NAVY

ctA .
ep rm * gao" ss when Peret, col tural Counselor of ‘the Cuban Legation in -
a | BY Vienna, : who defected to Spain, visited the Embassy July 17 and was. -
_ received by | and the reporting officer. © Through |.
the Enbassy had already received a report on a: Spanish ..
police | interrogation of Menendez, held. a few days . sarliers' | : « :

 

. ARMY
—_

 

 

 

Menendéz. jpelated ‘that ‘he. hed held his job in Vienna. since November © .
1961 and that he had left on account of ideological incompatibility. with

the Castro regime. He gave ag the reason for his late defection, the fact
that he was trying to convince his wife to accompany him;.she refused: andy
"as fer as che knows, is still. in Vienna and will return to Cuba.” ; o a

 

 

Se "Recording. to Menendez, ‘there remain three officers: in. ‘the Gaban’
‘Legation: in Vienna, all of them thoroughly convinced communists. .
Charge d'Affaires Amado PALENQUE, a Commnist theorist, was sent. from
~ Havana‘ to replace Fernando GAINZA, who also defected to-Spain (See.
|. Adrgrem 4-520Yf"Airs. Pelenque is also accredited to ‘the. Austrian Govesn~-
“menty. and has the title of Third Secretary. The third officer is Roberto
.BEHAR, First ‘Secretary of Legation, a forceful man of little education. -
: Menendez considers Mrs. Palenque very clever and thinks she xeally. runs |
. the’ of fice. ‘Deseribed as security-conscious, Mra. Palenque has the coys
“$0 the Bates handles all classified correspondence, and is not above a,
“listening in on’ telephone conversations made through ‘the. Legation Switoh-

SAUNDERS - a
She is in charge of the: _twonkey, safes

SCHLESINGER... boards

he’ ‘only other Cuban Government employee ‘pesidinig ‘in ‘Vienna ‘is nis,
Orlando RODRIGUEZ, Cuban Ambassador to the Atomic Energy Commission. . :
Menendez interestingly enoughy described Rodrigues: in terns: similar to -

* "gor DEPT. use ONLY
on fa Hic -

dCinsaiticanca Approves

 

    

  

 

  

 

   

 

By Y NAR Date” gq Siiiel ron
176-10036-10046

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10046
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : Embassy Madrid
FROM : Madrid
TO : DOS
TITLE : Airgram .
DATE : 7/22/1963
PAGES : 3
“SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS : |
DATE: OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA : . .
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 44: Cuba Cables, 7/16/63-7/31/63. Box 1
Page 2
pl aematid

those used by GAINZA during his interview with ‘Embassy of ficéra. Both of then
thought that Rodriguez was a decent-fellow-and-an”axti=édmminist.. However, he | -
was in.11] health and had a wife and a number of children, which made it difficult .
- for him te break with the Castro regime. Menendez expressed the opinion that . :
Rodriguez was saving some money to be prepared for the day when he receives -

“ronders to return to Havana, at which. time he would most likely disregard his -

: inetruction and remain outside of Guba. His wife is outepokenly anti-commnistic. .

 

 

: Menendez described ‘the Legation as not being exactly. a “hotbed of activity.
i. Chores are minor and involve mainly contact with other bloc diplomatic. repre-
= sentatives and increasingly closer contact with the Austrian Commmist Party :
Uhile under Cainza's regima locals were hired by the Begationy: now they are taken Loe
daly upon recommenda ticn by the Austrian CP. : he

 
   
    
  
 
   
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
   
   
   
  
  

 

: * KOPLENIG, ‘FISCHER and other Austrien Communist ‘leaders were * ersquent visitors
to ‘the Cuban Legation, Menendez said, as was an Austrien newspaperman by the name
of ‘Bruno FREY, who-had lived some time in Mexico. Menendez believed that Frey
wes on the Cuban payroll, furnishing political information on the Austrian scene.
Frey's daughter, ‘Elizabeth, was employed by the Legation as a receptionist.
‘Formerly, the Legation employed a Peruvian by the name of Dr. José CALDERGN a:
tranalator. . Calderén, however, stauchly anti-communistic and a good Catholic,

PAE | fas fired... He was replaced by a lady with the first name of DORA, recommended by -
.gy the Austrian CP, Another Austrian woman, whose name Menendez did not recall, -
4jagsists her part time. The Palenques live in the same building in which the 7
x -. Legation is. located, on Wiedner. ‘Beuptetrasse. No. Ate bat on 8 a different floor a

; Behar. lives nearby. a . poet,

    

_ Menendez “aesoribed his own work as “insignificant, ‘and said he waa mainly

_ concerned with the monthly mailing of 2000 copies of a cul tural. magazine, which
was edited in Havana but translated into German by the Legation. Additional copies
“were given out by the Legation to visitors. Moreover, he attended cultural
functions and ‘lectured in Austrian institutes of higher learning on Cuba. He also.
assieted in’ the recent drive of the Cuban Government for the hiring of foreign
“technicians - cand. ‘interviewed. Austrian technicians interested in working in Cube. -
‘He ‘set: the number of those interviewed ‘at sixe Menendez claimed not to have had
access to: Glassified information and said that Mrs. Palenque, who controlled. the
safe. was_so careful,that he was not able to take eny papers out when he defected.
@. “claimed to have had no kmowledge of the intelligence and communications work
effected by the Legation, ‘although he said he was sure that they had no radio ©
‘equipment... Pouches were delivered weekly to the Czech Embassy in Vienne for .
transmittal to Prague and onward’ to Hevena. A Cuban Aiplomatic . courier came once >

a month on a swing ‘through. the’ European capitals . . Slay ee cota!

 

       

': | There was only one ‘Cuban ‘student in Austria. - He was + Davia GARCLA i Santanivia,
tudying in Graze In. Menendez'~ opinion,- Garcia wag. disillusioned with, Castro
and. would’ probably not return: to: Cuba. ae

 
   

'* A-visltor requéntiy s seen’ “in the Legation’ was DOMINGUEZ (ema), a Spanish exile,
“who was active in the World Peace Organization. Menendez recalled also that
- ‘during the last few. months, he had seen three Americans at the Legation. One was a

     
8 we eam oe owe tae

   
  
  
   
 
  

 

Aree, inalEd

student, whom he charac terized asa beatnik type who came with a girl, who

 

_ Probably was also an American, inquiring about the possibility of obtaining a visa

for Cuba. The second man, whose name he believed to have been Robert GOOD; came
five or six times .in-June. He was also interested. in going to Cuba. He thought ,
that Mr. Good was about 30 years old. Finally, about eizht months ago a

elite PORTER called at the Legation. Mr. Porter, who returned. to the Legation in:
‘June, claimed to be an ex-serviceman; to have been in the US Army and to have

 

participated in the Normandy landings. Porter described himself a’ a student of °

‘ Ristory and sociology at the University of. Vienna and ‘asked for. magazines and.
books. about present day, Cuba, . . we :

 

 

Menendez ‘Was reluctant ‘to tell’ anything about his ‘graining for his job,

-|, and claimed to have been-instracted briefly in the Foreign Office by RUIZ DE VELASCO
‘gn cultural affairs. He alleged that he received his position.through a passing

whom he

   
 

aoquaintence with Cuba's present Ambassador: to Bolivia Roberto ‘ATA,
befriended during” the Batista regime 7

 

‘Comments From Menendez’ story end the: Spanish police report it. appears ‘that

. his ‘motivation for defection was only in part-if at all-sconnected with his

- ideological opposition: to Castro. At the Legation, working as a receptionist- - :

 

 

' typist was a Spanish girl, Matilde HERRERA, and it seems that Meriendez got

emotionally involved with her, and when he received orders to return ,he abandoned
his wife and son and followed her to Spain, where she had gone a few days before

him. It would appear ‘that Menendez had a moré active part in the operation of the
 -Legation.than he admits, and at least in the times of Geinza had access to- .
classified material, ‘This he plays dom, because his stay in Spain depends on his

. ability ‘to convince the Spanish authorities that he had never been a Commmist and

that.he is only a. small fish, Additional debriefing on some 2 intelligence oints

\ will. be’ conducted through CAS channels. -

Livingston De Wetrous Ste
Counselor of Embassy  -
.Po.

  
