 

 

éiesemination can be made.
6, Encourage Latin Amotican countries te ongage in
bilateral exchange of intelligence on Commumntct ectivittes.

B, Undertake appropricte aetions hi

bring about the creation, with U.8. participation, of & standing

 

eosaittes of senior representatives of intelligence sad security

geveices with a view te their establishing and guiding the |
aetivities ef an appropriate mechanten for the uultilaterad
exchange of intelligence and couterintelitgence information
vegardiag Comumict subversive ectivities.
E. Cantinue and intensify current efferts te fisyreve
U.8, coammications Zactlittes througheut Latia Anertca.
. BP. Inovesee the dissesination to Lattu Aneriess

governuonte, by al U2. ageneies conecened, of wielgasigied
; PRR LEY NOR OL USYI EEL
“cy - CESARE
: - SEGRET Tb

 

‘suaWenSIvE AGHEVITIES TS 2&8 HESTSPEERE

 

%, HSeture aud Scope of the Probien
A. Pktle there ts sone ingormation avattable in certain
_ countries, the illegal sovesent end clandestine activities of
Communists tn Latin. dnerica, partienlerly these who have been
trained in Cuba, are net adequately covered by cximting tntellte
B.
| | Efderts
are being made by CEA, AID end the 0.8, ailitery services te ~
ingrave this situation, but the progress hae been elew ia most
eases and adnemisteat in others. [Et Ane tesa found tht the
euigting government in seme cauntrics
have no desire to build a cougetent career sceurtty
sexyice, There é¢ spparontly a fear that the extatenca of a
eongetent sorvice would interfere with future political activities
of the nenkure of the oxisting governsent in the event thet they
should Zind theaselves en the outeide leoking in. Thore fe ne
waity of viewpoint esong tho various existing inteLiégence
Gervices, ana many of then have & tendency to yield te the
teaptetien to inbel as “subveroives” thsge of their eum nationals.
| Seeident in neighboring countries who ave oppased te the present
goverment. Hoverthelean, entstiig acrvices of the Latin

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wi annet RNanTa.snennanan ne... 9
 

176-10036-10068

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

. ORIGINATOR :

NARA
: 176-10036-10068
National Security Files

FROM :

TO:
TITLE :

Exchange of intelligence Among Counties

DATE :

PAGES :

4

SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

; National Security Files, Box 59: Cuba Subjects, Cuban Subversion,

3/1/1963-3/14/1963. Box 1

W AQNK1 Ranta. 2WeAAGAN Naw 4 |
 

 

 

Amertesn countries cen produce much useful intelligence on this
subject with an increased effort.

 

 

 

 

®. The only secure and rapid wommmieations factii¢ies ta
Letin Aueetea axe these ef the U.S. Goverment ond walle these
axe beiag improved, the progently authorized sugmntation of
@aciisties tsa net yet been completed.

 

B. |

 

 

 

| | 9.8. militery representatives
have contacts with their counterparts.

. G8. experience im the matter ef tateli{qenes exchange
tm other areas hag ied to the conmclwuoien thet in almost 422
inatences, bilateral arrangauents ere more fruitful thas cuck

 

 

 

 

 

 

bse shove that euch aultileteral arrangeaente cam be usefel,
particularly im creating an avarencas of the need for the

 

 

 

 

qb
 

 

 

 

po Tb

 

 

I% Recgumendad Courses of Action

Certain Courses of detion ckready vecamzended by this Con-
nittes snd approved tg Digher authority in connection with the
eoutrel of travel to Cuba have @ divest hearing upon the matter
ef intelligence exchange, These include (2) the undertaking of
am iamediate etudy.of the feasibility and destrability of

| establishing intelitgence centera at Caribbean Cosusad and

Caviiibean fen Fromtéer; (2) an intensivicntion of our action in
miking svailable to exch country selected intelligence concerning
the extent, neture and taskdicus toplications of Cuban subversive

 

 

 

 

 

Ad@itionsi Cougsse of Action vesomnended are:
4 Snteusigy aad increase

 

 

 

 

 

 

the training and equipping of Latin

 

anerican tgterusl semurity aad intelidgemce services. Eatabhaah
such assistance pregeass in additions! eomtsies vhere it fs

B. fneresse-cud refine the existing flew of cawster~
sutelligence information| |

 

 

 

 

 

jee Carthheas Coaaand to well as to

 

CEA headquarters, gran beth ef which points further eppropriate

 
