 

 

 

Ae

CIA is contributing to these surveys by the assignment of personnel
now in Saigon and by the provision of TDY personnel. It is esti-

’ mated that these surveys will begin early in December and will last
approximately four montha.

6. CIA is also exploring with the Depart ment of State the
possibility of obtaining policy authorization for the use of a small
number of Chinese Nationalist personnel as pilots and Special ;
Forces instructors for covert operations mounted from South Vietnam.

 
 

 

 

"28 November 1961
COVERT ACTIONS IN VIETNAM

1. ‘The following paragraphs summarize the program which
CIA is now undertaking in Nafgon with the Gaverument of Vietnam
(GN). Not included are those purely unilateral activities which
are for the moat part agent penetrations of government and opposi-
tion political parties and of the ministries and security services
of the GVN.

a. Establishment of tatelligence, psychological warfare,
occa unin nes por cing Viet Can

b. Rural reconstruction operations conducted in the
eastern region of Sduth Victnam employing smell teams of volun-
tere engaged in reactivation of village administration, medical
agetatance to villagers, establishment of village defense systems,
and the formation af thtelligenve networks to report sn Viet Cong
genta and activities in viliages.

various :
saritinenns aggtous directed agoinst the Viet Cong in Lace and

’ North Vietnam. In South Laos there are three teams in operation
agsinst Viet Cong feeding stattons and their lines of communications
which transit South Laos inte South Vietuam. Two teams and one
singleton agerit teams are in place end operating in. Nerth Vietaam
collecting information for future action operations. Tentative plans
are under way to add additional sabotage and harassment teama in
Narth Vietuam in December and January.

. ) 121482

TO? SST,
116-10037-10486

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10486
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : WH
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : Memo RE: Covert Actions in Vietnam
DATE: 11/28/1961
PAGES : 4
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA ; . ;
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 195: Countries, Vietnam, General, Memos
& Reports, 11/17/61-11/31/61. Box 6.
 

 

& Training of National Police and Surete Servier
in countetsubversion techniques and support and guidance
nis fun jointly with the NPSS to péndteate the Viet Cong.
chs in South Vietnam. Plans are being developed for .
revit liding a nationwide "Special Branch” for Viet Cong penetra-
tion operations. when fing) transfer of the NPSS to the CIO is
éifected within the very nest future.

(NPSS)
ot

   
 

#. Viet Cong penetration operations run jointly with the
Militaby Seeurity Service (M99) in the Saigon-Cholon ares and

‘training of MSS personnel in countersubversion techniques. —

g. Covert politica? and peyshologiaat ‘a jeriee antiyes
targetted againat the DRV and run jointly with the ames
Nations? Army y Payenologtca) Warfare Directorate vit neee include
“plagk" and "gray" radie operations, propaganda leafiet ‘drops
over North ‘Vietnam temritery, and @ letter-w impatgn
through which antl-DRV propaganda material ia forwarded te
North Vietnam via the international mails.

h. Development of operations. against ‘targets of oppor-
tunity jointly with the Presidential Security Service, alse mown
as the Service d'Etudes Politiques et Sociales (SEPES), and
utiligation of operational, Cl and CE information developed through
Meigon. with this servise in support of alt operations againat the
DRY as outlined above.

t. Speciai Intelligence operations with the gouth Vietnamese
Intercept Service aguinst the DRV and Viet Gong targets in douth
Vietnam.

 

 

 

-3- -
"a1 4R2

Geet ~ 3
 

 

 

2. As an adjunct to these Haison activities with the
Vietnamese, both CIA and MAAG are also now entering into an
expanded program of placement of intelligence advisors into
the military and civilian components of Vietnamese intelligence
and security services. In an effort to improve the functioning
of the NPSS, CIA is in progress of placing one representative at
each of six NPSS Directorates. These CIA officers are to be
supplemented by U.S. Army military intelligence specialists
who will work with and advise the NFSS at the provincial level,
insofar as the NPSS intelligence function is concerned, The
CLA officers at the directorate level will, in addition, regularly
‘visit their provincial counterparts to exchange ideas and to
improve the targetting and conduct of intelligence operations.
MAAG,. on its part, is placing intelligence advisors at General
Stat? J-2, Field Command G-2, Corps G-3, Division GZ, and
Regimental S-2 levels. In addition to and separate from these
advisors, an intelligence staff is being establiahed under Chief,
MAAG to supervise the operations of these advisors and to
process information coming from them,

&. The Evaluation Center, which has heretofore existed
as & means ren all source information for use
in identifying military targets is also being expanded through:
contributions of personnel by ali U.S. agencies engaged in
intelligence collection in Vietnam. A fulltime CIA officer has
been assigned te the Evaluation Center. _

4. In addition, there has been established an intetitgence
committee with representatives from appropriate U.S. agencies
in Saigon, chaired by CIA, the purpose. of which ia ta provide
regular reporting to Washington plus special reporting on
emergency situations as they arise.

§. Provincial surveys designed to assess the eviticalty
of intelligence collection, economic and programs, ete., are-also
now being organized under the direction of Ambassador Nolting.
