J

v

TOP SECRET

Advantages —— : an . e
(1) This would be temporarily economical in terms of funds,
equipment and allocation of forces.

(2). It would demonstrate the US devotion to the principle
of non-intervention.

Disadvantages

(1) This would be an acceptance of a Communist bridgehead
in the Western Hemisphere and an admission that there was nothing

: that the United States could or would do about it.

(2). This would be damaging to the prestige of the United

‘States and would weaken the will to resist or fight against communism

in‘Cuba, Latin America and elsewhere.

(3) It would increase the probability of the establishment of
Soviet military, base(s) in-Cuba which could ultimately prove to be
an unacceptable threat to the security of ‘the United States.

(4) It- would become increasingly difficult to protect the
United States or the Western Hemisphere as. Cuban military force
capabilities increase.

(5) It would prevent the United States.from assuming a posture
which would permit exploitation of any "breaks" that may develop - -
within Cuba.

(6). It would permit. the Castro Communist regime to consolidate
its gains and become even more firmly entrenched.

(7) It might encourage the Communist regime to become
even more bold in exporting communism to Latin America.

(8) It would permit the Castro regime to prepare at its .
own, pace the exportation of their revolution | to other Latin American
countries.

: (9) It. could eventually cost.billions of dollars as US defense
forces would have to.be developed or shifted to meet the increasing

threat from the’ South.

TOP SECRET
‘TOP SECRET

(10) It would virtually assure the permanent existence of
a Gommunist. base for subversion. and espionage ‘throughout. the
‘Western. Hemisphere.

be Exert. all possible diplomatic,. economic, psychological and
other. pressures to overthrow the Castro: Communist regime without
overt us military commitment.

Advantages

(yy Would demonstrate us devotion. to the principle of
non- -intervention.

(2). Would be in accord with the UN--charter and stated US
v policy regarding the non-use of military force: ‘in settling disputes.

(3) . Depénding upon the success of-the pressures, in the
short term, it-would conserve US military forces and resources.

Disadvanteges

(1): ‘Except. in matter of” degree,. this:-has essentially been
v .the US policy since the severance-ofrelations on .3-January 1962,
and it has not been successful.
(2) This. would give the Soviets.time to develop.Cuba as a
base for operations throughout the. Western: ‘Hemisphere.

(3) . It. would give the ‘Communists. further. time to develop
military.bases which could cost the United States billions of
dollars. in.developing. appropriate: defenses.

we (4). This would require that US military-resources and
forces be tied up indefinitely to protect:the Hemisphere against
the continuing Communist.threat.: :

(5) This.would pe rmit the:continued indoctrination of Cuban
‘Youth and. the progressive’ strengthening of the internal police
state and military. forces. These would.combine to make the
threat to internal revolt more Femote and the price of US inter-
‘vention more costly.

TOP SECRET .
: f 4. Estimate of the Potential for Military:

TOP SECRET

- Summary - Our knowledge of Cuban military order of
battle, especially ground order of battle, has dropped off con-
siderably in recent weeks. Changes in unit organization and in
the numbering system as well as the militia nature of the organi-
zation itself make OB material perishable. Until.such time as a
definite target date and objective is set making it possible to
inject a sufficient quantity of trained observers into the area with
specific targets, this situation will probably continue.

 

Should a policy decision be made to militarily, intervene in ‘Cuba, the
U.S. could:

: a. With 18 days of preparation, execute a coordinated airborne-
‘amphibious assault which it is anticipated would gain control of. key
“military installations and the principal centers of population of Cuba
‘within 10 days and result in minimum US and.Cuban casualties.

 
 
 

b. Should the situation demand, ‘a piecemeal.commitment of
US forces could be made with reaction times approximately as follows:

‘'. 2 Airborne Divisions - ' 5 days (para-drop units only)
-. 4 Marine BLTS - 7- 8 days
Following Forces. - 15.- 18 days

- (This operation.would involve a dangerous element of'risk. )

c. In conjunction with either. of the actions described in a and b,
bove, cover and deception plans have been.developed which, if executed,
ould result in prepositioning of forces:assigned to the invasion of Cuba
nd could thereby result.in an over-all reaction time of approximately

12 days for a coordinated assault.

d. Air strikes could be conducted against selected targets in
Cuba within 6, 12 or 24 hours; the. time-dependent upon aircraft
’ availability and desired intensity of attack.

' Je. Air-sea blockade can be initiated. within 24 hours with effective-
ness increasing to a complete blockade within approximately 48 hours.

5. Factors Worth Considerin in Deciding on One of the Following ‘Four
Courses of Action for the United. States to Follow in Relation to Cuba: :

   

a. Cancel ope rational plans; treat Cuba as a Bloc nation;. protect
-Hemisphere from it. ~ 7

TOP SECRET
TOP SECRET

Clandestine operations of Cuban government in the
United States. and other American Republics.

Information on sabotage, dissident activity and
_ defection of Cuban ships and/or personnel.

Restrictive or punitive’ policies to be applied to Cuban
nationals or their Property in Cuba.

Strikes, slow-downs and labor problems.

Location and movements of principal Cuban govern-
ment, military and para -military personalities.

_ Plots against prominent figures.

Reactions to probes, special activities and recon-
naissance flights. n

" Surveillance of the possible operations against Naval
Base at Guantanamo.

Organization, deployment and capability of Cuban com-
munications.

d. Clandestine - The Intelligence Community has put con-

_ siderable effort into improving their clandestine coltection

_capabilities. against the target island. However, these operations
suffer from.the lack of a definite target date and objective. With,
an open-end operation, such as Project Mongoose, specific military
order of battle. information is largely perishable especially when
the Armed Forces are ina constant state of reorganization, re-
groupment and redeployment. About. 25 per cent of all reports on
Cuba received from clandestine sources Prove to be of definite
value.

Collection of information through third-country sources varies
| widely as.to quality. The number and competence of observers

and the specific collection. requirement levied on-the third-country
source determine the value of the information obtained. Some very
valuable information on specific items have rebulted from this
effort and this source should continue to be ‘exploited. .

ie

TOP SECRET
TOP SECRET

and economic interest were provided to the Caribbean Admission
Center, Opa Locka, Florida. All ‘information obtained from these
_ sources. was processed through the InteNigence Community's

‘channels.’ The flow of information concerning Cuba hasbeen
greatly improved as a result of these efforts. However, gaps
still exist, particularly in details of military order of battle. —
Increased efforts.are being made to fill these gaps.

u. Utilization of US Naval Base, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, for
Joint Navy/CIA Intelligence Operations. DOD investigated the
possibility of using Guantanamo as a base of operations for the
collection of national level intelligence, in light of the present
policy limitations and possible policy changes in the future.

v. Establishment of ''Patrol Posts" in the Caribbean. In
response to a request from the Chief of Operations, Operation
Mongoose, DOD examined the possibility of establishing “patrol
posts'' in the Caribbean. - .

w. Psychological Operations: A survey was conducted

’ in an attempt to increase Naval Base Guantanamo's role in
psychological operations. As a result. special OSD funds. were .
made available for Special baseball sportscasts over the base
radio station.

3. Operational Estimate of the Potential for Intelligence Colléction.

‘a. Reconnaissance - a summary of the Cuban reconnaissance
operation is given below:

Completed ,
Vehicle . Code Word. .. Frequency
WV-2Q ; Melrose : 13
A3D-2P/2Q © ‘Fitbolt 4
USS Moale _ Operation 19 Mar --12 Apr 62
RB 47 : ‘ 1 May 62"
Submarine /UDU. . 5 - 6 May 62
‘Continuing. —
F3D-2Q Call Money —_ 6 - 11 per month
AD-5Q Sleepwalker | - 2 per month
C-130 "  “* Quick Fox 10 per month
. A3D-2P an ; 6 - 8 per month
Navy DD - ; daily ;
Navy P-2V ; twice daily

TOPSECRET -
TOP SECRET

In addition to these, there are two special operations per
month.. The results of all this reconnaissance are satis- .
factory as far. as producing air ard navy order of battle
information. However, against ground order of battle,
they are not able to contribute too much.

"bp. Refugee Interrogation - Although the quantity of

| . refugees processed at Opa Locka has not diminished, the

v quality of the information. that they have available is not as
. good as in.the past. Particularly in the area of military
intelligence, very.few refugees.can make major contribu-
tions. Occasionally, they do fill some gaps in military :

Vv intelligence and they make considerable contribution in
other areas. Therefore, this effort should be continued.

c. Electronic Intelligence - The existing program is
' y producing limited information; however, it is. suffering
from not only the insufficiency of the effort but also from
the recent shift to more sophisticated communication
y systems by.the Cubans. The approved new program should
overcome these difficulties. and provide increased informa-
tion in the following. areas:

v Organization. and deployment of Cuban Army, Navy,
Air Force and Militia.

v Troop, ship.and air movements. .
a

Tactics. and training Cuban armed forces.

-. Patrolling and policing information on locations,
installation or equipment. . toe

- Materiel employed by Armed Forces.
| Evidence of Sino-Soviet Bloc technical support,
training, volunteers.and of the presence of Sino=Soviet |
. military materiel (vessels) or aircraft.

Activities of Department of State security.

Evidences of GOC interception of Cuban resistance
forces communications. yo

5

TOP SECRET -
Wome . rooceeit ae eR ett

re “TOP SECRET

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

23 July 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR THE CHIEF > OF OPERATIONS, OPERATION
MONGOOSE

Subject: End of Phase I~

In response to the questions posed i in ‘your memorandum of 11 July
1962, subject: End of Phase I, I have prepared 5 paragraphs each of
which is directly responsive to your questions:

1, Statement of What DOD Hoped to Accomplish During Phase I.

a. DOD hoped to provide all required support to CIA, State
and USIA necessary to the accomplishment of. the objectives of
Operation Mongoose during Phase I.

b. DOD hoped to accomplish all the planning and essential ,
preliminary actions necessary to establishing a decisive capability
for US Military intervention.in Cuba.

2. Accomplishments in Phase I.

‘Establishment of a DOD Working Group. A Brigadier
General was appointed to full time duty as the DOD/JCS Repre-
-sentative to handle Mongoose affairs. Each of the Services,
ICS Directorates and DIA appointed full time representation to

serve on the Working Group. Each of these representatives —
has. direct access to his Chief or,. in the case of the Services,
the Opetation Deputies as well. Office space cleared for Top
Secret information was established in the. Joint Staff area, and
secretarial help was assigned.

b. Establishment and Operation. of an Interro gation Center |
_at Opa Locka, Florida, on 15.February 1962. DOD assisted
‘CIA in-the initial planning for and the establishment of the
Interrogation Center, Since the inception of the Center, the
DOD has provided personnel support to the Center. by furnish-
ing. 26. ‘personnel (15. officers and li enlisted men) out of a total
. ef. 37. personnel. manning the Center.
. . : Excluded from automatic

‘TOP SECRET . dees not apply
176-10011-10063

 

JFK Assassination System Date:
Identification Form

5/5/2016

 

AGENCY :

Agency Information

 

NARA
RECORD NUMBER: _ 176-10011-10063
RECORD SERIES: NSF
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 4
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: DOD
FROM: HARRIS, BENJAMIN
TO: CHIEF OF OPERATIONS
TITLE: MEMORANDUM FOR THE CHIEF OF OPERATIONS
DATE: 07/23/1962
PAGES: 12
SUBJECTS : . .
. ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1C
CURRENT STATUS: —Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 05/08/1998
; OPENING CRITERIA: UPON AGENCY REVIEW

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NSF:M&M:SPECIAL GROUP(AUGMENTED):7/62:BOX 319:PENDING NLK-90-48
CO arg

TOP SECRET

_c.: PT Boats. DOD. reconditioned a PT boat for possible
use by CIA. In addition, DOD obtained certain data on ..
characteristics and costs of PT boats manufactured by other

_ countries.

d. Voice. Radio Broadcasts. froma Submarine, DOD
made a submarine available to CIA for ‘the conduct of voice

radio broadcasts near Cuba by the CIA.

e. Overflights of Cuba. DOD has conducted several

' reconnaissance and photographic missions over Cuba for the

CIA. ;

f. Utilization of AVON-PARK, Florida, by CIA as a Base
for the Training of Cuban Refugees. DOD investigated the
feasibility of using certain facilities at AVON-PARK for the

training of Cuban refugees.in guerrilla warfare.

g- Oil Drum Mines. DOD transferred 40 oil drum mines
to CIA. © : oO a : L

h. Detail of an Officer to CIA. DOD detailed an officer
to duty with CIA to be in charge of small boat operations at
Miami, Florida.

a. Contingency Plan for ¢ ‘Overt US Military Intervention

_in Cuba. In order to insure a decisive US military capability

for overt military intervention in Cuba, CINCLANT's regular
contingency plan for Cuba has been updated. Attempts are
being made to reduce the réaction time required for imple-
mentation of this plan, without piecemeal commitment of US.
forces.

j- Alternate Contingency Plan for Overt US Military Inter -

-vention in Cuba. CINCLANT developed an alternate plan which

accomplished a reduction.in reaction time but requires piece -
meal commitment of forces. In order to reduce the risk in-

‘herent in. such an operation CINCLANT is: seeking means for

reduction of the reaction time without t piecemeal commitment.
k. Cover and Deception Plan. This plan has been developed

for the purpose of covering the prepositioning of forces allocated:
to the contingency plans for overt military intervention. in Cuba.

2 . :
TOP SECRET ©
eo - + .
TOP SECRET

It also. includes means designed to provoke Cuban reaction and
thus act as.a triggering device for US intervention.

l.. Air Strikes Against Cuba. A plan has been developed
for the use of airpower. only following a national policy decision,
to suppress. and/or neutralize Guban forces pending the execu-
tion of an assault or to be.executed in support of an internal
revolt. :

‘? om. Air and Sea Blockade of Cuba..A plan has been develop-
ed for the complete air and sea blockade of Cuba within 48 hours
after decision. . .

_n. Civil Affairs and Military Government. An outline plan
providing guidance for the conduct of civil affairs.and for a
provisional military government for Cuba has been prepared.

 
  
 
 
    

°. DOD's Position as to its Stake and Proposed. Role in the
Removal of the Communist Regime from Cuba. This paper -
included.a statement of-conditions under which Defense believes
that overt military intervention in Cuba could be accomplished
without leading to general war and without serious offense to
public opinion.

t
‘

. ?P BW/CW Capabilities. A paper was prepared listing the
things that can be done against Cuba in BW/CW field.

- q. Air Re-supply. Four aircraft and crews have been
readied for air re-supply missions over Cuba.

r. Risk Estimate. An estimate was prepared concerning
the risk involved in air re-supply missions over Cuba.

s. Manufacture of Soviet Aircraft. A survey was made con-
cerning the US. capability for the covert production of facsimiles
of Soviet aircraft. :

t. Military Intelligence. A detailed list of Essential Elements
_of Information was prepared in February 1962 covering the require-
ments of the Caribbean Survey Group and CINCLANT and was levied :
on the Intelligence Community for fulfillment. Reconnaissance .
activities consisting of overhead reconnaissance, air patrols,
electronic collection and special operations were implemented.
Specific intelligence requirements to be used in the interrogation
of knowledgeable refugees. covering items of military, political

3
TOP SECRET
