(TOP SECRET DINAR | 2 @

' BACKGROUND USE ONLY
LIMITED DISTRIBUTION

14. The effects of US suspension of CIP licensing
are just beginning to make themselves felt. During
the week of 13-19 October, key import prices began
to rise (e.g., sweetened condensed milk up 10 per cent,
wheat flour 33° per cent, cement 30 per cent) with more
modest, rises reflected in chemical products, some :
scarce iron and steel products, and miscellaneous
manufactured imports. This trend continued during
the week of 20-26 October; condensed milk went up
by as much as 5 per cent, wheat flour up an additional
2 per cent, iron and steel products up 10 to 15 per
cent, chemicals up 5 per cent, sugar up 6 per cent.
Fertilizers, cement, cotton and rayon yarn were un-
changed. ;

. 15. Prices of domestic items have also been _
rising, Although the price of perishable food items
has remained fairly steady or has shown only a modest -
decline, the prices of several basic nonperishable-
consumer items, such as soap, charcoal, and Huoc man,
the fish. sauce which is an essential part of the
ordinary Vietnamese diet, were up by an average 20

per cent since the end of September.

16, There has been no appreciable capital flight
from Vietnam, but there has been marked internal

‘ activity which strongly suggests a flight from the

piaster., The black-market rate, which until recent
weeks had remained at about 80 to 100 piasters to
the dollar for several. years, now is fluctuating
between 130 and 180, an all-time high. There is
also evidence of considerable speculative activity
in gold. As of mid-October, gold was reported no
longer available, following a rise in the black-
market price from 5,400 piasters per ounce in June
to 6,800 piasters in early October, A 26 October
Embassy report states that the price:.for, gold and
gold jewelry has risen an additional 30 per cent,

"and gold is now hard to find, even for dentists. Rumors

of devaluation abound ane there are signs of hoarding
and artificial shortages (particularly in the case of
wheat flour and condensed milk), Overall bank liquidity
has been maintained because of the increases in traders'
accounts; but banks report some withdrawals from small
accounts and there are reports of runs on banks in.
Cholon, where the influential Chinese business ‘community

- is: concentrated,

TOP SECRET DINAR
(TOP SECRET DINAR‘

BACKGROUND USE ONLY
LIMITED DISTRIBUTION

C.: Military Developments

17. There has been no dramatic change in the
military situation over the past few weeks, although
significant actions continue to occur, most recently
the 29 October firefight in An Xuyen Province, in
_ which three Americans were reported captured by the
‘Viet Cong: The US army, navy, and air attachés have
all reported this past week, however, that there are
tentative signs of lowering morale among Vietnamese
army, navy; and air units in the Saigon area. More-
over, the leveling out and in some respects reversal
of favorable statistical trends that obtained in the

 -counterinsurgency effort six months ago is continuing.

18, Although these statistics are not completely
reliable or satisfactory.as criteria for measuring
the course of the counterinsurgency effort, they do
reflect general orders of magnitude of various per-.
tinent, factors.

19. While the statistics generally reflected

steady decline in Viet Cong activity from mid-1962

to early 1963, they show a gradual increase in the
number of incidents since this spring. Moreover,
this activity has assumed a more aggressive character,
with the proportion of armed attacks increasing some-.
_ what and emphasis in the category of "terrorist" acts
shifting from "kidnapings" to "harassing fires‘"

Most of ‘this armed activity, as well as the bulk of
propaganda incidents, now appears to be directed at
the strategic hamlet program.

20. Despite this increased activity, Viet Cong
casualties since July have been somewhat. below the.
levels of the comparable period last year. There is
no ready explanation for this phenomenon, unless it
reflects greater circumspection by the Viet Cong in
engaging government regular forces, and improvements
in Communist combat techniques. ~

_ 21, Government casualties, on the other hand;
are running substantially higher than last year. Ac-
cordingly, the ratio between Viet Cong and government.
casualties has dropped from two to one. last year to
about seven to six over the past three months. The
higher government losses can be attributed in part to
an, increased level of offensive activity. by government
_ forces. It may also reflect, however, more effective

Viet Cong operations.

TOP SECRET DINAR
oF (TOP SECRET DINARi

= BACKGROUND USE ONLY
LIMITED DISTRIBUTION

that a "time of austerity" lies ahead. Saigon press
reports, citing “usually well-informed sources,"

assert that the GVN plans to counter US aid suspensions
by causing "controlled inflation," and agent sources
have reported that the GVN has printed a large number

of piasters (more than equal to the number presently

in circulation) for issuance as circumstances dictate.
_It is hard to tell, however, how much of this represents
GVN bluff and how much represents serious GVN planning
to go it alone. One report to the ambassador (from
Thuan) suggests that the GVN has made a serious canvass
of its independent economic capabilities but reluctantly
decided that, after all, it cannot continue without
US aid.

12, There are signs that the GVN is casting about
for non-US sources of foreign assistance. A $10-mil-
lion commercial aid agreement with the French was
signed by the GVN on 9 October. The GVN has-also.just
made its first expenditure under a $14-million French
industrial loan, extended in 1959. Perhaps of even
more Significance was the reported recent precipitate
departure for Paris of Huynh van Diem, GYN Director
General of Plan. The GVN has been making overtures to’
Australia regarding wheat flour imports (normally
financed under PL-480), and to West Germany regarding
the German aid progran.

13, The slowdown of CIP and PL-480 licensing is
already beginning to pose problems for financing the
war effort. A US/GVN project agreement signed on 5
September for the calendar 1963 GVN military budget
included more than 7.5 billion piasters for joint sup-
port, to be financed by CIP-generated counterpart plus
local currency derived from PL-480 sales. However,
after discussion with the GVN, the USOM has deter- .
mined that only 7 billion piasters will be available,
leaving a projected shortfall of more than 500 million
piasters (roughly, US $8 million). Similarly, MAAG
has advised that less than 2 billion piasters cash
are available for release in the Fourth Quarter 1963
against a requested project agreement balance of more
than 2.5 billion. Since the necessary counterpart
piasters obviously cannot be generated without CIP
and PL-480 licensed imports, funding of the joint
US/GVN counterinsurgency effort may soon present
some awkward problems.

TOP SECRET DINAR

+)

co

 
 

 

(TOP SECRET DINAR, ic

‘BACKGROUND USE ONLY
LIMITED DISTRIBUTION

' Although Diem continues to declare the: Bud-
dhist. issue resolved, an official of the new National
Assembly has stated that the Assembly probably will
not resume discussions on amending Decree 10-~the
statute which discriminates against Buddhist organiza-

_tions and which was one of the five specific Buddhist
grievances, Diem, when pressed on the matter by Am- ~
bassador Lodge, merely stated that the decree issue was
"complicated" and outside his authority.

8. Despite persistent rumors that some "reforms"
might be announced in connection with National Day
last week, this has not happened and there continues
to be no sign that the government intends any liber-
alizing measures. Reports that changes in the mili-
tary command, and perhaps the cabinet, are imminent |
seem more likely to be designed to neutralize dis-
affected elements.

9, The effect of Madame Nhu's visit on US-GVN
relations and on US leverage and maneuverability in
Saigon is difficult to assess. If the regime con-.
cludes that it has more popular US support than it
- realized, and if Madame Nhu returns to Saigon deeply
embittered by the lack of any official US attention,
it is likely that Diem and Nhu will become even more
intrahsigent in the face of US demands.

B. Economic Developments

10, The uncertainties created by the current
impasse in US/GVN relations are beginning to have
depressant effects on the South Vietnamese economy.
The economic situation is becoming unstable and there
are signs that serious inflationary pressures are be-
ginning to develop.

11, In response to us suspension of the Commercial
Import Program (CIP), the GVN appears to be tightening
its belt in anticipation of an appreciable reduction
and/or prolonged suspension of US economic aid. The
GVN has begun to earmark some of its own foreign ex-=
change for the import of commodities previously
financed under the CIP (e.g., wood pulp, tin plate,
chemicals, coke, and perhaps sweetened condensed milk).
GVN civil servants have reportedly been alerted to
accept a "voluntary" cut in salary, and there are in-
dications that, in at least some ministries;, this cut

has already come into effect. Diem has publicly hinted -

TOP SECRET DINAR
 

( TOP SECRET DINAR(

BACKGROUND USE ONLY
LIMITED DISTRIBUTION

THE CURRENT SITUATION IN
SOUTH VIETNAM

A. Political Developments

1, There continue to be no indications that
the Diem government is making any major moves to
accommodate US views, although it has reopened the-
university at Hué, transferred additional military
units to the delta, and consolidated certain stra-
tegic hamlets. Diem has made an approach to Ambas-
sador Lodge, under the guise of a social weekend
in Dalat, but his position on issues raised so far
is unyielding.

2. Diem and Nhu continue to appear fully pre-
pared to face prolonged and significant cutbacks in
American aid. Diem, in his 26 October National Day
address, stressed the need for Vietnamese self-suf-
ficiency and self-reliance. During the past week~
end, he casually questioned Ambassador Lodge as to
whether the US was going to suspend or stop commer-

' eial import payments, as if it were a matter of in-

difference, and made no response to Lodge's sugges-. -»
tions of what might be done by South Vietnam to make
such aid acceptable to US public opinion.

3. Although there have continued to be some
US contacts, largely formal, with Presidential Secre-
tary Thuan, Acting Minister Cuu and some lower level
officials, the. invitation to Ambassador Lodge iast
weekend was the only direct communication with Diem
in many weeks. Nhu remains entirely out of contact
with US officials, and has shown no sign of initiat-
ing any overtures. Diem's conversations with Lodge
during the weekend, including a remark that "we" must
get on with the war effort, tend to support the view
that he and Nhu feel confident that the US will ulti-

mately be forced to cooperate with them on their terms.

At the same time, however, Diem raised some charges

of antiregime activity by various US officials. In

short, both sides remain in a state of mutual uncer-
tainty as to respective attitudes and intentions.

TOP SECRET: DINAR

es
(TOP SECRET DINAR(

‘BACKGROUND .USE ONLY
LIMITED DISTRIBUTION

4. During the past several weeks, strident at- |
tacks have continued in the Times of Vietnam, and
to some extent in the vernacular press as well, charg~
ing the involvement of US newsmen and officials. in
subversive activity. Nhu publicly reiterated these
themes in his 17 October press cotiference, and the
' fact that they have been raised both by Aé¢ting Foreign
Minister Cuu and Diem may foreshadow moves to expel
some US personnel. One of the newsmen--David Halberstan
of the. New York Times--has just had his visa renewed
for a month (until I6 November) instead of the usual
three- to; Six-month period. In addition, renewed
harassment has been reported against some Vietnamese
employees of US agencies, and some US officials are
under surveillance. There continue to be rumors, pos-
sibly indicative of a "war bf nerves" campaign against
the US, that anti-American demonstrations will be
Staged in front of the US Embassy or the USIS head-
quarters, A reliable Vietnamese Air Forcé source reports
that the Special Forces are recruiting illiterate peas-.
‘ants;;att unusually high pay, and he speculates they .
are to be used for GVN "dirty work."

5. At the same time, a number of reports assert
that anti-American sentiment is increasing in non-Con-
munist opposition circles, which view official US
statements as evidence of capitulation to Diem and Nhu,
Some sources have even claimed that various opposition
groups are considering the use of terrorism against
Americans to convince the US that the situation is
grave.

6. Although the government has announced the re-
opening of all schools in Hué, including the university,
and claims that only 152 prisoners remain in custody,
it has made almost no effort to regain support of key
urban elements. There has been, in fact, substantial
evidence in recent weeks that searches and arrests
have continued among students and other potentially
disaffected elements, and that tighter controls are.
being exerted on the military, civil service, and or-
ganized labor. The regime's obvious attempts to stage-
tranage the visit of the UN observer group have caused
‘the UN representatives to abandon their government-
arranged schedule, but clandestine sources report
their contacts are still being controlled.

TOP SECRET DINAR /—
2 VO PET EVE USI Tw me 00

on

| TOP SECRET
BACKGROUND USE ONLY

 

 

 

THE CURRENT SITUATION IN SOUTH VIETNAM

30 October 1963

 

“DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS CODE WORD MATERIAL TOP SECRET

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic downgrading
and dectassifieation

 
116-10037-10446

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10446
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : DOS
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : Report Current Situation in South Vietnam
DATE : °
PAGES : 2’,
SUBIECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS : ©
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000 4
OPENING CRITERIA : .
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 201: Countries, Vietnam, General
10/29/63-10/31/63. CIA Reports. Box 6. :
' This document contains classified information affecting the national
security of the United States within the meaning of the espionage
laws, US Code Title 18, Sections 793, 794, and 798. The law prohibits
its transmission or the revelation of its contents in any manner to
an unauthorized person, as well as its use in any manner prejudicial
to the safety or interest of the United States or for the benefit of any
foreign governinent to the detriment of the United States.

It is to be seen only by US personnel especially indoctrinated
and authorized to receive COMMUNICATIONS INTELLIGENCE
- -information;its security must be maintained in accordance with

COMMUNICATIONS INTELLIGENCE REGULATIONS.

No action is to be taken on any COMMUNICATIONS INTELLI-
GENCE which may be contained herein, regardless of the advantages
to be gained, unless such action is first approved by the Director
of Central Intelligence.
(TOP SECRET DINAR( _ GS
: BACKGROUND USE ONLY
LIMITED DISTRIBUTION

SC No. 11704/63

30 October 1963

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
MEMORANDUM:

SUMMARY

There continues to be no indication that the Government
of South Vietnam (GVN) is making any major moves'to. accommodate
US.views, although it has reopened the university at Hue, trans-
ferred additional military units to the delta, and consolidated
certain strategic hamlets. Diem talked with Ambassador Lodge
over the weekend at Dalat, their first contact in weeks, but showed
no sign of yielding on any GVN positions. Diem and Nhu mean-
while continue to appear fully prepared to face prolonged and
significant cutbacks in American aid.

‘The uncertainties created by the current impasse in US-GVN
relations are beginning to have depressant effects on the South
Vietnamese economy. Serious inflationary pressures are beginning
to develop. For example, the piaster black-market rate, which
until recent weeks had remained at‘iabout 80-100 to the dollar for
several years, now is fluctuating between 130 and 180, an all-time
high. The prices of perishable domestic foodstuffs are holding ~
fairly steady, but there are marked rises in the price of nonper-
ishable basic commodities (e.g., soap, charcoal, nuoc mam fish
sauce) and in a wide variety of imports. Awkward.probiems,.iin-
cluding possible shortfalls, are beginning to appear in the financing
of the joint US-GVN counterinsurgency effort.

There has been'no dramatic change in the basic military
situation over the past few weeks. Certain statistical trends, how-
ever--weapons losses, Viet Cong activity, and GVN casualties, .
especially "missing in action''--are becoming disturbing, and var-
‘ious indicators suggest a lowering of morale in the Vietnamese

armed forces.

BACKGROUND USE ONLY
LIMITED DISTRIBUTION

TOP SECRET DINAR

 
