TOP SECRET - EYES ONLY -

   

24, Suggested Approach to Nhu

  
  
  
   
   
   
   
   

Although the agproach by Asta and DOrlandi to Nhu was ‘unproduetive, a

 

a further approach might’ be ‘made by J ohn Richardson: ‘Ts SO, “the apnroach mo. -
. shoule emphasize the strong possibility of aid. cuts by Congress and our
‘decision to cut or redirect aid to. those units. responsible for the raid ¢ on the
a pagodas. along the ines. of ‘Lodge's s conversation with Diem. “Richardson

should then. appeal:to Now to leave: the: country : for a. Jong vacation: Gut. of

 

 

 

loyalty 7: to the family love of country; and to. ‘hake possible continied: US:

 

 
‘TOP_SECREP

Part C, Phase’ I -

_ Congressional Action ~~

A resolution expressing the , "sense of ‘the Senate”.

‘that aid to’ ‘South viet Nam. be. terminated “unless: that reg

“reverses. its: ‘policed of. repression, might be use

fata later date.

 

 
 

 

. " pebsonauities and Keira areas. "Visits Ministers; Ics, General Don, Dinh;

wR casein Fe et Plage oe elton «basalt vale

“American prestige and a. feeling that. we are in charge, ‘Must be carefully

- - “stage-maaged to avoid embarrassment.

v. 8. control, of: approximately: 3. million: U. 8. ‘dollars worth: of. plastres

oe i TOP SECRET = EYES ONLY .

 

a Minh, and others, with the objective of seeking their views ‘and indicating

a : “American ‘iréedorin to talk to whomever we please.” * Purpise is to pila” uD...

  
   

b Direct immediate procurement in. cash, and stofage urider :

  

The purpose Sto make’ bmmetietely available ior essential: on-going counter

 

 

 

 
  
 
   
   
  
  
 

TOP SECRET - EYES ONLY

 
 
  

c. No U.S. participation ‘in any new projects involving Tong =
_ specifically the Hamlet Militia Leader Training Program. “Out refilsal to".

‘participate becausé of Tung. should be. announced unequivocally to the GVN;

 

os we can accompany this by a counterproposal that the oaysDe.  Dinsetonate be ; mo

“iat: in 1 charge since ‘we consider it. a worthy project.

  
   
 

a. Cutting Aid to. the Motion Picture: Center = Direct U:. 8.

sersonnel: at USOM: Mopix Centre and other media activities to. refuse to

  
  
 

  

i dle. or. ‘process: any material prohibited under 1 above: This may caus

   

temporary termination of £ UL S: "participation i in some activities: tinder. GvN

  
 

‘Nhu alicmpts | to sinpede the v war effort, and U. Ss: continuation of fel forts

  
 
  
 

Diversion af Ammunition for Police

   

negligible but poychological effect gonsiderable..

  
  

 

Response to attacks in the ‘Times of Viet- wam, The Ambassador

; does.n ot : wist to. demean himself by protesting officially, however vit ‘the U. s.

   

   

 

   

: does not defend itself, this will be interpreted as a sign of. weakiess~-the,

 

   

‘Suggested counteractions are le reals by

 
  

; u. Ss will: lose face and prestig ‘

   

 

   

. Embassy officials such as wine Ambassador. refuses to" read ths rag b bees

 

  
 

: of its notorious rept tatio

  
 

7 the U s considers the nevisp er ridiculous.

  

mbassador makes unannowticed"

 

 

 
TOP SECRET -EYES-ONLY -

    
  

Part B, PhaseI.

71, Objective :

   

To se oparate the Nhus and their immediate supporters (i. Gi e, Tang So :
Bien of the. Police, Minister Ngo Trong Hieu). we
oo 2. Concept of Operations. “Actions taken should fail short of ‘seriously
damaging the war. effort while. at the same time indicating that the U. a wa
; ot tolerate ‘the. Nius. The importance ot these actions does not He in.
sical damage: done » the. Gyn but in their: psychological effect: upon Now and
ompany, “and upon the potential opposition: These actions must ‘demonstrate
S. determination ¥ not to tolerate the Nhus and their attempts to destroy.
merican. prestige... “For: every overt Action, there should be “correspone i
covert actions designed to split the Nhu power group and further discrédit
hein, : The entire operation should be conceived of as a psychologi¢al ‘warta
campaign designs’ to maintain U. Ss. ‘Prestige by dissociating ourselves ir
‘the Nous ania discrediting them,

“3. ‘specie ‘Recommended A‘ctions, Actions should be pinned to. to reported

minous signs that the v. 8. will not tolerate the repressive actions against

‘the Buddhists or ‘other. citizens and wil not tolerate and support any Berson

 

 

 

 
aS

     

  
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
     
   
   
 

“TOP SECRET. - EYES ONLY

 

     

These ‘supplies will not be used in any way to indicate U. s.
-or GVN support of anti-Buddhist or other unjustified a
repressive actions, or of those persons connected with or oe
directly" responsible for such ‘actions.." . Lat:
- a ‘Comment: No violent ‘reaction from the President is likely if it. is.
“explained to him by the Ambassador, ‘that these steps 2 are absolutely necessary °
to prevent all aid from being severed: Selected instances of this requirement:
should. ‘be: leaked to the. press--alerting them to check: on ‘compliance.: “Instances

rejection of the ‘requirement should ‘be broadly: publicized as evidence of

unwillingness to get on. with the war. This sh ould be very ‘effisctive in n hastening

  

consolidation of, anti-Ntis opinion,

   

” °. oe Termination of CAS Sppor to Vietnamese e speci # Forces by. .

 

projécts may. y'be supported by payment directly to project officers,

provided project is. in mitial best interests. Any Project capable of sétving

      
 

-TOP.SECRET~ EYES ONLY

 

   
Ste Qantized feu
NLK-73- ©
we 7 WLK-GI-Fzant
Coa nea tee ube 62-348 . crown g ie

Purpose : .
The purpose of Phase [ is to attempt to persuade Diem and Nhu

‘separately that the Nhus should leave the country for an extended

period. The means are continuing the Lodge-Diem conversations;

direct approaches to Nhu; “carrot and stick" measures to separate

the Nhus from from their immediate supporters ; and a carefully-

tailored public posture to supplement these efforts.

Part A, Phase I, below, describes a possible Lodge approach to
Diem.

Part B below,describes the actions to be taken to isolate the Nhus
from their immediate supporters, including a suggested approach to
Nhu himself, a .

Part C,below, describes possible Congressional action to produce

pressure on Viet-Nam.
Part D,below,describes the US Government public posture in
‘Phase IJ, including a proposed statement.

_ Part E is concerned with the possible evacuation of dependents as

proposed by Ambassador Lodge.

Come Lean ee
176-10036-10184

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM \
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10184
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO:

TITLE : Phase!
DATE :

PAGES.: 18
SUBJECTS : :
DOCUMENT TYPE : .
CLASSIFICATION : -
RESTRICTIONS : -
CURRENT STATUS : :
_ DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 316: Meetings on Vietnam, 9/11/63-
9/12/63. Box 1
TOP SECRET - EVES ONLY
Part A, Phase I

Pa

Lodge's Approach to Diem,

Lodge should see Diem and convey the following:

. The United States Government feels, as the President
indicated in his TV interview, that Diem must take drastic -
action to recapture the support of his people, repeating
the same approach made by’ Ambassador Lodge in his last
meeting,ie.. a long vacation for the Nhus, actions to.
demonstrate a reversal of the policy of repression, and the
broadening of the Government. . )

However, in the meantime, the United States Government
is faced with a crisis of confidence in the Vietnamese
Government on the part of the American public and more
especially the American Congress. In order to preserve
the aid program to South Viet-Nam, which the President
sincerely desires to do, it has become politically necessary
to disassociate ourselves from suoporting those units
“pesponsible for the raid on the pagodas. Otherwise, the
United States Congress may cut off all aid. Therefore,
Ambassador Lodge must reluctantly notify President Diem
that assistance to Colonel Tung's programs must be terminated.
We will make an attempt to redirect what aid we can on to
programs essential to the war effort if this can be worked
out. .

If President Diem can see fit to take the dramatic actions
mentioned apove promptiy, we feel that we can quickly restore

confidence. But we must warn the President that if the
cal

TOP_SECRET--EYES._ONLY situation
