 

 

1

TOP SECRET EYES ONLY o4e

_ to be oF appear to be instrument of existing government or

instrument of coup.
& Wa have your message about return to Waghington and

if announcement has not already been made, we suggest that it be

‘kept as low-key and quiet as possible, and we also urge that if

' possible you keep open the exact time of your departure. We are

strongly sensitive to great disadvantage of having you out of Saigon
if this should turn out to be a week of decision and if it can be

avoided we would prefer not to see you pinned to a fixed hour of
Pa

  

departure now.

4 ©
 

= ennee

SER SANTILIED .
- NEREOCON NuK-sa ee) 4
: @

1

TOP SECRET EYESONLY - } 10/30/63
VIA CAS CHANNEL oe a

EYES ONLY FOR AMBASSADOR LODGE

FROM: BUNDY “

1 Your 2063 shows important difference in our views and we
must repeat that we cahnot accept conclusion that we have no
power to delay oy discourage a coup. In your peragraph 12 you
aay that if you were convinced that the coup was going to fat)
you would of course do everything you could to stopit. We believe
that on this basia you should do everything. you can to stop or
delay any operation which, in your best judgment, does not give
better than oven prospect of quick succesa.

We recognize the danger of ‘appearing hostile to gencrale,

‘but we do not share implication in your message that only

certain
conviction of dammsiaent failure justifies intervention. We believe

_that your standard for intervention should be that etated abeve.

2. Wf then you should conclude that there ie not a better

_than even chance of quick success, you should communicate this doubt

‘to generale in a way caleulated to perauade them to desist at least

until chances are better. In this communication you should use the
weight of your best advice and explicitly reject any implication that

we oppose the effort of the generale because of preference for present regime.

TOP SECRET EYES ONLY
176-10036-10170

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM -

AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10170
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : WH
FROM : Bundy
TO : Lodge
TITLE :
DATE :
PAGES : 4
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION : .
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA : :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 201
Cables. Box2 — . .

: Vietnam, 10/29/63-10/3 1/63, State
 

TOP SECRET EYES ONLY o2-
We recognige need to bear in mind generals’ interpretation of
U. S. role in 1960 coup attempt and you should maintain clear

distinction between etvong advice ‘given asa friend and choice of

 

cnc. . pidea by USG. .

. 3. We dex continue to be deeply interested in up-to-the-minute
assessment of prospects and are sending this before reply to
our CAS 79126. We hope for continuous exchange latest
assessments on this topic.

4. On commend sacangemente outlined-paragvagh- To clarify

our intent, paragraph 1 5 our 79109 is rescinded and we restate
our deeires as follows: While you are in Saigon you will be chief
ef country team in all circumstances and our only inetruction is
that we are sure it will help to have Harkins fully informed at all
stages and to use advice from both him and Smith in framing guidance |
for coup contacts and assessment. We continue to be concerned
that neither Conein nor any other reporting source is getting the
clarity we would Hke with respect to alignments of forces and

levels of determination.

(b) When you leave Saigon and before there is a coup,
Truchart will be chief of the country team, and our only modification
of exteting procedurds is that in this circumstances we believe that
all instruction and debriefing of Conein should be conducted in immediate

; . \
TOP SECRET EYES ONLY i
TOP SECRET EYESONLY —-3-
consultation with Harkins and Smith eo that all three know what
.. 18 said to Conein and what be reports at all stages. . j

(e). If you have loft and a jcoup occurs, we believe! that auriaen

situation . JS
watbefartbon requires final local U. S, authority to be vested in
most experienced officer with appropriate background and that
officer in our view is Harkins, We do not repeat not intend that
this internal switch in final responsibility should be publicized in

any way, and Harkins will of course be guided in basic posture by

 

our instructions, which follow in parageaph 5. ' ‘Thus we do not
believe that this switch can have the effect suggested in your paragraph 8.
5. ; This paragraph contains our present standing instructions
for U. 8. pesture in the event of a coup.
(a) U. S. authorities will reject appeale for direct
intervention {rom either side, and U.S. ~controlled aireraft and
other resources will not be committed betwoon the battle nes or in
aupport of etthor side, without authortaton from Washington.
{b) In event of indecisive contest, U. S. authorities
may in their discretion agree to perform any acts agreeable to both sides,

such as removal of key personalities or relay of information. In

auch actions, however, U. S, authorities will strenuously avoid

 

appearance of pressure on either side. It is not in the interest of USG

49081 Naota-wenracn -
