VI.

i SECRET Joe

near future in a magazine called America

Latina, intended especially for distribu-

tion in Latin America.
A pamphlet, apparently to be distributed

by the institute, and entitled Alianza para _

el Progreso, will in the words of its

heralds, ‘unmask the economic expansion of
the USA" in Latin America. —

The institute expects to enter into close
contact with the principal Latin American

scientists and academicians during 1963.

One of the most important Communist assets in Latin

America is large number of Bloc diplomatic and Cuban

missions. These missions are used to further Com-

munist subversive activities even in countries where

there are no Bloc diplomatic missions.

A.

As can be seen on this map the USSR, and in some

cases some Satellites as well, have diplamatic

missions in Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay.

The USSR maintains relations with Bolivia but has

no resident mission there. Cuba maintains em-

bassies in Mexico, Brazil, Bolivia, Uruguay., and

Chile. The Chinese Communists, of course, have

nO diplomatic ties in Latin America except with

-8-

SECRET
SECRET

Cuba. That fact alone would make: Cuban missions

important to the Chinese. Only seven Latin

American countries--Chile, the Dominican Republic,

Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Paraguay, and

Peru--have no official ties whatever with any

bloc country.

Uruguay offers a good example of how the Commu-

nists misuse diplomatic missions and the impor-

tance the Communists attach to them.

1.

We have found that: Communist subversive ac-

tivities in Uruguay are not now aimed at pro-
moting revolutionary activity against the
government. In this case even the Cubans
appear to be much more interested in retain-
ing the good will of the government so that
they can continue to use the country as a
base of operations against Argentina, Para-
guay, etc.

Communist diplomatic missions, however, are
active in supporting local Communists and
other pro-Castro groups to retain enough
leverage within the country so as to pre-
vent the anti-Castro groups from forcing a
break in relations. The badly split Uru-

guayan government itself is anti-Communist,

7
SECRET
(| SECRET  ®

-V. Direct Soviet interest in Latin America is clearly

increasing.

A.”

An excellent example of this: was the setting up

early in 1962 of a Latin American Institute in

the Academy of Sciences of the USSR.

1.

The avowed purpose of this institute is to
raise the study of the problems of Latin
America, which in their own statements the
Soviets claim they have neglected, to the
highest possible level.

Teaching of Spanish and Portuguese languages
is to be stressed in the institute and through-
out the school system. .

A list of subjects on which this institute
intends to publish shows that-it is to be
used to attack the Alliance for Progress; it
has already attacked the Alliance program in
Colombia--a showpiece of the Alliance.

We have been reliably informed that posters
have been placed in some Colombian universi-
ties referring to the problems of the "na-
tional liberation and workers' movements in
Latin American countries" as topics which
will be studied by the institute. Results
of: these studies will be published in the

-7J~

- SECRET

 
 

/ 1952.

munist party ‘over the past year.

' SECRET: i

In Brazil an increasing number ‘of leftists
have been appointed to positions of impor-
tance in the government. The government
has recently been loosening its traditional
tiés with the United States and has shown
signs of heading into the "neutralist" camp.
Its dire economic straits make it a likely
target for expanded Bloc economic exploita~

tion,

Bolivia has been controlled by a leftist

movement since the sweeping revolution of
The government continually shows
favoritism to Communists. Vice President |

Juan Lechin, recently made Ambassador to

‘Italy, has naintained “‘Ldaison with the Com-

He is a

leading contender, in the presidential elec-

‘tion to be held in 1964;

In argentina the extremely unstable politi
cal and economic situations provide an ideal

atmosphere for the type of coalition maneu~

_vering in which Soviet-influenced Communists

engage.
‘IV.

SECRET co

1. The Brazilian case is the only clear split

so far noted in the major Latin American
‘parties, but the Paraguayan Communists have
just conducted a purge of some 34 members
and leaders for deviationist thinking.

2. The Ecuadorean Communist Party has dis~
owned ‘two leaders who have attempted to
organize guerrilla bands without party sanc-
tion. “one of then, Manuel Araujo Hidalgo,
returned “in early 1962 from a trip to China
where he reportedly received some support.

3, Other parties have these problems as well,
There are many impatient leaders and more

followers who want to get on immediately .
with revolutionary economic, social and :
political reform.

In spite of ‘differences: over tactics and timing be~

‘tween various Communist groups, all intend eventually

to deliver the Latin American countries into the Com-
munist-socialist bloc. The so-called Soviet. "conserva-
tive". view, as it is now espoused, is more intent on
trying to achieve power by legal. means if possible ‘and

by subversion rather than. by force.

-4-
SECRET
SECRET {

Chile represents an inviting opportunity for the

1.

Communists to take power legally.

The present outlook. is that there is at
least an even chance for election of an-
anti-US, Communist coalition government in
1964,

The Communist party, ‘legal in Chile, is a

"small but ‘influential factor in the organized

opposition to President Allesandri's con-

servative government. . The, Communists effec-
tively control the left-wing coalition of
Communists, Socialists and National Democrats.

Socialist Senator Salvador Allende is this

_ coalition's presidential candidate in the
1964 elections, He was defeated by only a

‘ narrow margin in the 1958 election.

This coalition has increased its popular sup-

port since 1958 by advocating’ wage increases

and social. reform Projects vetoed by Ales-

sandri. on orthodox economic grounds.

“Fro the Soviet point of view other Latin Ameri-

can countries also appear to be drifting in the

right direction.

5a

SECRET
CPM eo wR Kt woy ta Sty i)

1 SECRET

DRAFT BRIEFING NOTES 18 February 1963

-It. .

Til,

RIVAL FORCES IN LATIN AMERICAN: SUBVERSION

Since the October crisis, Fidel Castro has obviously
been trying to straddle the rift between Moscow and
Peiping over global Communist strategy. As Mr, Martin
aptly put it yesterday, . Castro' s heart is in Peiping

- but his stomach is in Moscow.

This. same split between all-out militancy and a more
cautious policy--call it coexistence or "two steps
forward, one step back"~-~is reflected. on the extreme
left in many Latin’ American countries.

Thus Cuba at present not only seeks to serve two mas-
ters, but choose among rival servants in its Latin.

American subversion,

A. Castro's views on what.is good for socialism and

"revolution in Latin America. are more in line with .~
those of the Chinese Communists than the Soviets.
1. Latin American delegates to the East Ger-

“man Party Congress last month told one of

 

our reliable agents in the

 

 

Communist party on their return that most
.Latin American’ Communist party representa- -
tives strongly supported the position of
the USSR regarding the differences between

SECRET
 

 

 

176-10036-10066].

 

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10066
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : Rival Forces in Latin American Subversion
DATE : 2/18/1963
PAGES : 11
“SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :.
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 59: Cuba Subjects, Cuban Subversion,

2/18/1963. Box 1
( SECRET C

it and China. Both the Cuban and Venezuelan
os representatives took a "neutral position,"

that is, they did not support the Soviets.

 

 

2. Last summer-a. group of dissident Brazilian
Communists who had split off fromthe regu-
lar party went to Cuba to seek Castro's sup-

port for their movement. According to one

 

of our established sources

 

 

__/ they got it: Castro advised them
to organize guerrilla activities and launch
a revolution as quickly as possible. ' He
_ reportedly told the group that powerful
revolutionary movements were being built
up in Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, and
Peru,
3. The activities of the splinter-group Com-
munists has so rankled the regular party

that its leader, Luiz Carlos Prestes, a

veteran in:the Communist movement in Latin

2,
SECRET
 

|. SECRET

. America, left on 7 February on a trip to
Moscow, Prague, and Havana: to build a.

- counter-fire against..the dissidents. Ac-

cording td reliable covert sources

 

 

 

| Prestes planned

 

to stop in Prague to arrange with the Chi-
nese Communist Ambassador ‘there to send two
representatives to Peiping to make a direct
complaint about support being given by Com-
munist China to the splinter group. Préstes

. plans to stop on his way back in Havana to
discuss Cuban support for that same splinter

’ group. While in Moscow he reportedly will
discuss the Sino-Soviet ideological differ-
ences and assure the Soviets of his party's

support.

Only the Cuban and Venezuelan Communist parties

are totally committed to. terror and revolution.. Else-
where in Latin America the Communist parties of~ .
ficially support more moderate Soviet views but

there are serious dissensions among some of the
leaders and within the membership, The Cuban mis-

sile crisis exacerbated these differences.

-3- ,

SECRET

 
