S-E-C-R-E-T

Arguments can be constructed for substantial and even fundamental
changes, and while the arguments themselves point in different
directions, each of them constitutes a stronger case than eould
be made @ year ago. We should not expect a smooth and massive
shift onto a new tack; contradictions seem much move likely. ‘But
the contradictions may well be more acute » the policy fluctuations
wider, and the implications for the US more far-reaching than we

have become accustomed to in the years of "peaceful coe:istence."

FOR THE BOARD OF NATIONAL ESTIMATES
. x Sf / ZL.
S PGi e+ Be Dane Ci A

SHERMAN KENT
Chairman

-T-

S-E-C-R-E-T
 

S-E-C-R-E-T

: Anniversary address, suggest no major initiative on the Berlin issue
is contemplated at present. As a temporary expedient the Soviets
may submerge the Berlin question in the broader negotiations over
a NATO-Warsaw Pact detente, thus obscuring and rationalizing their
refusal to take decisive action. If they follow this line, the
Soviets will probably not move toward an early agreenent, until the

general line of their policies is determined.
The Longer Run

ll. Although the immediate Soviet reaction to the Cuban affair
may be an effort to gain time for rebuilding and consolidating, the
‘Cuban crisis poses insistent questions about the future course of
Soviet policy, And these questions have become sharper at the very
time when economic problems are getting harder to solve and the
Sino-Soviet breach widena, Moreover, this whole constellation of
problems must be faced by a leadership which has experienced a
serious reverse, and it is difficult to believe ‘that this experience
left undisturbed the structure of that leadership and the individual

judgments of its members.

12. These considerations suggest that 1963 could be a year

of unusual importance in the evolution of Soviet policy making.

8-E-C-R-E-T
 

S-E-C-R-E-T

is a better time than most for reasons suggested above. The foreign
base question, the concept of the nuclear-free zone, and an attack

upon upon US surveillance policies all might be expected to find

' eonsiderable resonance in the post-crisis period. The outlook is

therefore for a considerably show of activity in this field which

is unlikely, however, to include any substantial changes in Soviet

positions.

Te A nuclear test ban, however, poses a more immediate preblen
for Soviet decision. There is some evidence that prior to the Cuban
erisis and during it the Soviets saw this as an issue which could be
resolved with minimum concessions. If the Soviet leaders feel that
an early move to arrest the arms race and reduce tensions is now
necessary, they may be prepared to give serious consideration to
ending tests, either in agreement with the US or under a general

moratorium.

8. Berlin. One of the most notable features of Soviet behavior
during the Cuban crisis was the fatlure to exploit the Berlin problem
in any way against the US. The Soviets evidently regarded the Cuban
crisis as s0 dangerous in itself that any move to broaden the con-
frontation would bring intolerable risks, With the tensions over

Cuba reduced the Soviets may believe that they can safely revive the
ehe

§-E-C-R-E-!
S-E<C-R-E-T

Berlin issue. They may even be- stimulated to do so by a sharpened
appreciation of the importance of a predominance of pover ‘and tac- —
tical advantage in the immediate area of contention, these factors
being in their favor at Berlin as they were in the US favor over
Cubase Moreover, Berlin would be the most meaningful area for Soviet

action if the USSR is seeking & gain to offset its defeat in Cuba.

9. On the other hand, the Soviets must recognize that the US
has a publicly established and. much firmer commitment in Berlin than

the USSR had in Cuba. Thus they are still confronted with the choice

, of risky unilateral actions and unattractive negotiations. They prob-

ably believe that unilateral encroachments would now be more dangerous
because the US, having prevailed in Cuba, would be encouraged to take

stronger countermeasures. At the same time, the alternative of ne-

' gotiating for a mutually acceptable compromise is perhaps more dif-

ficult for the Soviets than before, because any important concessions
would tend to confirm before the whole world that not only in Cuba,

but in other questions as well, the Soviets were acting from weakness.

10. We believe that the Soviets are likely to reject these ex-
treme alternatives, pending a general re-evaluation of both thelr om
policies and the attitude of the West. Recent public and private

statements by Soviet officials, including Kosygin's Bolshevik
-5 -

8-E-C-R-E-T
NOV 8 - Ry

PENT IED UL OL E51 79 Yoo
( 7 . Zt

§-E-C-R-E-T

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

GFFICE OF NATIONAL ESTIMATES

8 November 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR THE DIRECTOR
SUBJECT: Soviet Foreign Policy in the Wake of the Cuban Crisis

1. The Cuban crisis is not yet fully resolved, and its
further course may {involve prolonged and severe tensions. This
might lead the Soviets at some point to adopt a generally aggres-
sive stance toward the US, which could affect their behavior on

‘other East-West issues. Nevertheless, it now seems possible to.

gauge the general outlines of the policies which the USSR wishes
to pursue in other matters of contention, especially on the questions

of Berlin and disarmament, in the period immediately ahead.

2. The course of the crisis in Cuba has undoubtedly shaken
the confidence of the Soviet leaders. They will feel obliged to
reassess the validity of their own policies and judgments about:
their opponents. This process of reassessment will focus mainly
on the general Soviet posture toward the West. But this in turn

will be influenced by internal Soviet politics, which may already

GROUP 1
-  Exeluded from automatic
S-E-C-R-E-T downgrading and
declassification
 

 

116-10037-10249

 

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY ; NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10249
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files: Robert W. Komer
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :.

ORIGINATOR : NUFK
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : John F, Kennedy document Control Record
DATE : 11/8/1962
PAGES : - + :
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 415: Cuba 11/1/1962-4/30/63. Box 4. -
S-E-C-R-E-T

be in a state of division and confusion, and the status of Bloc re-
lations, particularly the Sino-Soviet conflict which has been notably

worsened by Soviet conduct in the Cuban crisis.

- 3. For the immediate future, however, extreme alterations of
course in foreign policy seem unlikely. Retaliation is of course
appealing, but the mood of the US, the coalescence of support be-
. hind the US, and the temper of the uncommitted world all argue

strongly against it. There has been no evidence of a Soviet dis-
position to seek cecasions for reprisals, and in fact the official
' Soviet position -- that the outcome is a victory for the USSR --

puts a little additional weight against this response. —

!

“4. ‘The chances for an early move toward genuine detente seen
even lover. Soviet bargaining power is at a low ebb, and they would
conclude that, when the West was under little pressure to make conces-
sions, general settlements could only be at the expense of Soviet in-
terests in such matters as Berlin and disarmament. They will alnost
certainly wish, as a general principle, to repair the present dis-

array and find means to restore an image of strength before they

are ready to consider any real diplomatic give-and-take.

-2-

S-E-C-R-E-T
S-E-C-R-E-T

5e Thus the likeliest immediate outlook, in cur view, 1s for.
a period of reconsolidation masked by verbal activity and propagan~
distic initiatives. There are opportunities for limited gains in
thie approach, insofar as the USSR ean play upon the war fears which
heaved up during the crisis, and the general hopes that the super
powers will now have to find a more reasonable way to live with each
other. The newly dramatized issue of foreign bases will evidently be
employed in this connection. But in general we believe that the USSR
will find this a poor time to alter its positions and a good time to
talk for talk's sake, ‘espectally om such prime issues as disarmament

and Berlin.
Disarmament

6. There is as yet noe evidence to suggest any change in the |
Soviet position on general disarmameut, and some reason to expect
that none vill soon cecur. In the Cuban affair, the USSR has sought
to avoid the principle of. inspection and to insert in its place the
principle of verification of completed disarmament measures, thereby
staying in line with its stated position. The less the Soviets want
to negotiate seriously, however, the more important they find it to
- pose as the champions of negotiations, Disarmament has always pro-

vided a ready forum for the agitational abuse of diplomacy, and now

~3-

S-E-C-R-E-T
