_ 2 8 = . oo.
reconciliation ana seintegration, would be the. only’ rational

Z choices left to bin.

 

“ho steps voquired to atrengthon the Contre doveransat

ard cot forth in TAB C, .

ia general, walle Adoula 4s not an dave oboico, ue believe
ha is the best. individual available to hold the reins of govermmnt

fin Leopoldville and, oven with Erliamont dismissed, he would enjoy

the vietus. af. having taken office legitimately. fhe questi on
“ef 1 maintaining a “coup” group in power would iavelve the. CIA to

i a certain extent. For. obvious reasena, wea would prefer te keep

 

  

| the! entixe operction as overt as possible, and the fact that Easaruba
can legally proregua Parlicnont for thirty days faoilitates this.

mn this ‘semmeotien,. wo would expect Adoula to establish a mere
effeative azacutive branch. While wo have considered giving.
“eaé8égonal assktence.: tothe G0C in establishing its om aie capability,

"hile: coquiremmt would, foe the tino boing, Bo redundant in view
"02 the strengthentg of the Ui air fore. This, too, would
seduce the ‘nocd Sor es te expand oer eovert operations with the |
, constant Pisk of expocure. _

en | Tho dotaiiod + agenda « of stops roquirea to ‘available e Antood,
fe all t too fen lsar. ‘But in a new etmoophore protuscd by a now

 

 
a oo @:9 6.

taken immediately: — |
. Adovla. could order the standstii1 with minimun aietioulty
if assured of this ‘more fortheoming US/UE support. Moreover, .
although the EK is. now negotiating the subject with Pehambe,
| When it is faced with us dotmination to end secession, this might
stimulate them to turn over immediately thelr taxes and foreign

. exohangs to the Monetary Counci2 with op without Tebombe’s

agreemant. Working out the egroed dzision of powar between the

, Central, Governniont and the Ketenga and arrangements for military
integration would be a more complex task We think this could

best be. achieved by having vu Thant personaliy fly to the Congo arid:
‘negotiate a final. ‘séttlement. with. Adoula. and ‘Pehombe on these questions.

_ Both aides would ‘be: given to understand that we vould tolerate

. no, nonsense in. firming up specific arrangements based upen
the-négotiations that have already been held. )

a. .

10 UuPsstece/Suffun.
10 sHCleveland smtb
 

Our willingnoss. to do this would. bo very well racoived by

a great majority ef the UN manbers » end. especialy by members ee ‘the

. Genge Aévisory Comittee. fo the Socretary Gonsral, ae wenld symbolize

and demonstrate in a practical may our earnest . resolve to see this

- thing through and aveid « major féLLure by the UN ia its largest
- peacekeeping attempt.

_ Headless to. say, the: presence of U.S. forces o or even ths

“olear Imowledge that U.S. foress were available for this ‘purpose © °
; would be a significant pressure on Pshombe and hie asstciates. Tehonbe

could interpret this decision in-mo other wey thon as prog? that

eng. ‘resistance on his part te the Ww, oF any attemp? to destroy

Eubopsen fedlition in Ratamgty would be. mot by a ‘devastating |

counter’ blow. wee
“Wo are suggesting a bullae of v.8. miivery # forces under

' : : - $6 Fee

 

integrate the Katanga. ‘Ths 4dea ‘de_not ‘chat the United States or ,
the UN “‘weald tales a military initiative | to destroy @phombe"s

oo government. But tho US, with U.S, backing, would be placed ina
‘position whore the alternative of military resistence was no longer

open to Tohombo and political negotiation Joading toward .
 Fesenci ation
 

 

© sees .

 

om 2 “Following through 4 an, ali of the present arrangements

 

to beet up the: tit air forces in.the area with Sweai sh. Italian, -
Iranian, | and, Ethoptan oqutpment; and. Personnel. _-

 

in Anenhesh, fighter unit.

“It would be 4 departure from the: ‘original Hammarek jold policy.

for the United Yations-to accept an American “unit as a part of the

regular wuoc Force, which has been made up of contributions from -

countries who are not permanent members of the Security Council.

Moreover, it raises’ the question of the. command relationship of the

US unit to UHOC. Under existing State-ses arrangements the vsaF
transport alroraft flying in stipport. of UNOC » the CINCEUR representative

‘in Leopoldville retains. operational control, The Indian, Ethiopian
anid Swedish alr units: are, of: course, under direct UNOC command. The-

‘syd would ‘find: it easier to. accept. a US unit if its command relation-

: ‘ship with’ Noe was tie Same as the air. contingents of other nations. -

| should be sought

standpoint, we believe. this would be in the US.
deus of the Seorstary of. Defense and the SCs

From, the: poldtte
Anterest, ‘bu

     
 
  

po Se - Qur'willingness:
 

i as @ a nejer ebjoctive & to  dovoiep @ edera and moderate Gentral

"Government in the Congo, to got Katenga reintegrated into the

 

‘Gongo and te provont a Soviet presence in the Congo. We recamend _
inmsdiate steps both to move vepidly toward these objectives gad
. to demenstate that wo have in faet taken tais decision end are
“prepared to backs, it with tho Sarl wolgnt of United States POW.
| & Democracy eannct biuge. unless at moans it. £2 wo. meas it,

end ae it is clear to all concerned that wo naan ite we ¢an use the

pesaibility of ow faller interventien ‘later to accomplish our

‘purposes \ with, less. intervention now.

   

~ Ve ‘recommend ehree kinds of stops. to move stead, on. eho
essunpticn that wo really meen ats ;
(a) Fhe UH forces in ths Gonge should | be butt up
to the poimt sro it would clearly be ridiculous for
‘Fohoubs's Retengen forces to challange them.
(db) Coavines Adoula to Prorogue the Parliomat, —
: - te govern with a backing of a procwastom group headed by
". Mobatu, and to establish more effective atinistration with .
wo U.3. and ‘Belgian assistance. ,
| te) Continue to pursue vigorously tho most feasible
. elomuts of. the Thent Phen, . notably ‘the: division ef revenues
(witkens further consultation with @shenbe, > if necessary)
ghe Central Goverment’ s amesty » the mildtary stenistii2
) do Worth Katanga, and om attempt to force yan agrocd
) | division

my

 
 

obo
' aivision of powers and the beginnings. of military integration
; between the Central Governnent. and the. Katanga. -

In these cireunstances, we recomend ‘three major steps:

1.

 

at ‘the present ‘time, our. aséesdnent is that, with: the new -
Indonesian battalion (one of them sunpee edly. a paratrooper battalion)

 

. Air Force , - to permit the destruction in the.
) air or on ‘the ground of Ratdngese ‘air foree planes with combat
) capability, ‘ar any of these planes. engages in a hostile act. a
This would “Involve due justification and public warning wfore
such action was undertaken, fshembe would be told that, if any.
of his planes 4s positively identified. as engaging in hostile
. action in Nerth Katanga or South Katanga, UNOC would consider
‘itself justifies not only ‘din attacking the plane ‘in question,
but da. attacking and destroying on the ground, after due warning
- 30 as to limit civilian casusltios, all Katangan air force
planes with combat capability. a : ae noe
ee 2, Bollewing

 
. “6 aan 7 | ; - — NEO 3- Tha; ev 7 : - | No

a re | i Copy #/t-of 25 copies gerkes A.
- | oe ad tesgt 2, P13, 1962

MEAORASDON vor - restau

 

 

‘We ase seeking to prevent an incroass.in Comumist snfiuanse
-im the. Congo, te vointograte tha Beenga, and to strangtkes end mainteia -
a ‘moderate goverazent, in Leopoldville that cam in fact run ths .
“ somntry. Without roinviggration, our present poliey cannot eohiere /

these y onde. :

 

unable, « with a hostile Perlianont aroimd his neck to take stope fo

. ‘meseasary for reeonoiliation aR retatagrasion.

 

pooetbaitey, ‘But how amoh n inteterive® the Soviats take will ‘Be
‘Airoctly related ‘to their assossnant of ow will to act as Central
Afvisa. hole disadvantages, ia erying to operate ia Central Africa .

. Se 8O great that thoy will act move umlessa ate appears we are disq ©

Uns tea i Bation: as, , with Limited finenoial resources and 1 probebly

   

. oarty withdrawals of Indien troops, cannot romain in the Gange mot

longer be. en effective forces.

Because: United States and UH polioy/ter’s all practical purposes
‘beon Andietinguisbable, the Organisatian's failure ia the Congo —
would be a major failure ‘ef this Adwini stration’ s policy and weald —
sortously undermine the peacekeeping ‘pole of the United Natieno. oo
 

176-10036-10346

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA -
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10346
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files: William H. Brubeck
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : .

ORIGINATOR : NUFK
FROM :
) TO: .
TITLE : John F. Kennedy document Control Record
DATE : 12/13/1963
PAGES : KI
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION ;
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS : .
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA : ,
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 382: Congo 12/62. Box 3.
pe sopryeim in oee scmnaumemeneso mg

 

| the basie assumption of our present Congo policy ‘ds that |

"we could get Katanga reintegrated into tho Oongo and an effective
noderate govermont established and” functioning in Leopoldville, -
- by persuasion end diplomacy ‘packed up by threats of econanic astian.

This assumption has turned out to be uPreng. ze ia urong. because

“‘Thsombe and his supporters are olearly net geing to reintegrate unles.
they have- to and ‘nothing we have done convinces Tshanbe thas, fa the
last! analysis, he. WAll be forced to it. ,

Te ‘ts also wrong: becawe we are not pudldiag en effective Contra’

: Government dn. Leopoldville. A Largely Srrasponsible, Parlianspt and
 @ flabby administration at not good enous as @ political frameworks

Adoule. ‘4s the best leader oH the. horizon, but | we should be holping.

: - to develop other political leadership.

f

 

* After smsh intemetionel conversation, Foreign Hinister Spaak

has sent a privete emissary to Tohombe to get him to asceps a chengo_

fn the mothed by vaich UNEK mama its paymats. Ths decisien to make

tho payments to the Central Government inatead of to Tehembe should
"have been talon without trying to “clear it” with Psheube, but

Spask elected to consult Pehombo fire Wo de not yet know on what -

. ‘¢orns | Fehoube will accept Speak! proposal. Ye do knew fren.
_ expericnes thet (fit requires eny action on ais part to. carry. out
tha detail, that action wld 1 not be taken.

 
 

oe
Afsiea,: end probably irreparable damage to the UN as a.
pensomenert

 

Africans 6: ‘eomnot handle » At, ‘and this would open. the congo

to eventual Cooma takeover;

(e) Buying Leopoldy ig nao _to Pabonbo*s
, Seeession. Leopoldville cannot be ‘bought so Leg ag it has ‘tho -
' alternetive of Sovist aia; end oN

 

 

 

‘m0 , prospect that Peshombe could: wis enough support throughout,
the Congo to make this a realistic possibility.

 

nat ‘is ureng with the pleture 4 is ‘the absence of a U.S. t
. ; doototen as te what wo would do, in. ‘the final analysie, to prevent.
ohsos, large-scale masseores, and/or 4 major Soviet presence called
in by Pedieal sueeessors $o Adoula, “If ve continus to pursuo
present policies, choy. will result 4n. hardening the — ‘sheds decessicn,
further weakening the position: of Adoula (because of bis: inability to.
solve the Katanga problem, tho: ano big nodern-styis political assus
«ae. Congo pelitics).. zf ve /aota, dows. this.road, wa may eventually have to
, aso. ‘United States; and perhaps: other western foress ‘to- clean. up
a very mossy octave of affairs. © 7

“Ee wo are clear nov that in the ultinate case wo would uso OUP

oma power fa Gentral Africa, ‘thon anything short of that that will.
" provent @ breakiown in the Congo is pragenble to waiting ¢eo Leng .
end. then having to go ia with: too mush.

 

—
