 

 

 

 

eetentien. Mr. Gilgateic nated the waty ctose geisticnehip bcteesn
bie efice and Re Ageney and felt that ke could obtain all the
infesmetion he neaded without secelving a copy of the migutes.

My, Bullet suggested that because of the censittvity af iheve records
and beckuse seme of the references eantaiued therein invalved ihe
use of peeudenyme, the need of the Group might he estistled by
having ciples ef the minutes af etch mesting made avallehie at the
subeequent mecting fos approval. Mesere. Bundy. and Dangae agreed
3 tho cubaigsian of the wingtes fer approval ata subgeenent mecting
but stated that they might Bave « weed for a complete resord immediately
3t fond t seewer any Quoetions put to them by higher quthentity.

THOMAS PB. SCHREYER

4:

 
 

 

wt

Spy

 

MEMORANDUM FOR, THE RECORD

SESIECT: Bimates af Special Groxsp lasettny “s Suse 3981 Py
\ acta agaseernsoesnere

 

3 BMesere. Bewtos, Gilpatric, Bundy, Ralph Bangan, Pulles

| Me. Byagan, Specicl Accistant to the Pregident, participated
ia che Special Group meeting fap the Stvet time.

‘. congo

Mesare. Bootes sad Gilpsteie agreed with the gina for ho
Congo. Bz. Bowles eonditiencd his approval on the accaptance of
tho three gruviciane ect forth in the State Hepartmont interuel .
mecvrandum dated 6 Jeng 1961 (copy attached). Or. Dulles indicated
that these conditions ware -secapted by the Agency but he gaintad out
hantiinsedinupreneywiowne 9h wht p-airrtiabhanabetr saad ue pra alain

 

 

 

 

Big. Bundy fale thet he could
mat spprdes this program without fevauce ts higher authority. ;
Mate wao mado of thie pacsthility thas if Gisongs decided te

particigate in 8 new Leepoliville Goveramant or Parlizment, be hnd
ample reswaraes. aud @ chance eventually te wis emnteal ef the government,

 

 

a Rewtow of Polttical nation Pro

 

r, Bendy stated that because of the special acaaitivity of ;
seae tnvalvtng |

 

 

   

Ughor authority wished to review shem.
Be. Bundy propased Thureday or r Peiday, Sune beth op 16th, for
ie purpose.

 

Mz. Bowles cuggeated ae we o wight aek to have @ general
policy enunciated regarding tic euect. Other meubare af the Greup

 
 

 

 

 

116-410041-10152

 

 

JFK Assassination System : ; Date: 5/5/2016
Identification Form
~ Agency Information
AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: ° 176-10011-10152
RECORD SERIES: NSF
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: WH :
FROM:
TO: THE RECORD
TITLE: MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
DATE: 06/08/1961
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS :
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: = 1C A
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 05/08/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: UPON AGENCY REVIEW
NSF:M&M:SPECIAL GROUP(CI) MEETINGS:6/61-10/62:BOX 319:PENDING NLK-92-104

COMMENTS.:
aa

 

 

teepraee ee

 

suggested that & a gence policy etatament aright net be sufficiently -
Hexible te toke care of apecial aitmations which «itght arise.

Ban. Belles noted that the pertinent RSS paper authorized :
programs such as that under discud#ica, but emphseined dit he

wand only undertake this type of activity if it was fully eupported
by the Department of iste and higher authetity’ Ha stated that be

i fully appreciated the sensitivity of this type of activity. ‘Me. Dulles

gaid, however, that be felt tus Bpocial Group shoeld have come
jatituds to rake decisions on thave matters withia the generat policy

which might d¢ laid dewa-by higher sutharity withont gaferval of

each apecifie. al for spproval. .

" Bes Bundy seated that he would like és. Bungan te work with
oar people de the preparation of the Deleting to bo given higher
authority nant creek.

 

Beeanse of the contingency nature af thie propesn} and because
of the eoowded agende, discussion cf this matier wae deferred to the

 

- ehis fight dee approved with Chiant peesoanst. There wes aoe
discusdian 6s te the desizability of beving Seath Vidmamese conduct
these missions but it wae pointed out that choy did net have the
competence.

5. Cowart Anas, Migtnaas

   

   

: ” "Phis annem was approved. 32 wee noted that a progrods report |
had just been seceived and if wea suggeated that thie repent bp .
distsibutad to membore of the Group.

by Savest Anses, Boroa

 

‘Bae, Bundy veifesated.the deciziaa that covert aumexes chedldé
nat be grocegsed through the NSC machinery. Because of the interest
of bighor sutherlty in political action operations in friendly areas {ece

. ftem 2) and ciace this anses wae written in wather broad terms, bs

weuld Hhe to chech i¢ feather.

 
 

 

 

» TAGES netesioa. asi Dulles dated his opinias Gat the wre of,

 

Me. Bullen stated thet while he wantud tw open diseuasion af
Wis matter at this meting, he id ayt expect & Rawk decizion to be
maids wnt {ibe aad mecsing Bae. Pape Anerylent velieee anal

   

: thoes ames previously. ar

 

, gansidere a desinck ea earveut infsrmation witeh iy. Ms. Clipete

preduce aid suggested the possible ves af U.S. pertaiael far the

   
 

Chingt erawa, ia hin apinten,

wou mines te ite lle Stwas agreed that the prapoanl
wold be tapubenttted tater,

a. , Hivers a
Rae. Dultes sutlined sho antnee mad wale of tho oquigment

 

 

 

jana of the need for negotiating with

 

| Samosa te efient its cucovery. Ho indlented that some quid pre que
wend yeabsbly be involved in nchtewiug an sgreement with Sameia, —
Bée. Bandy stated chat this was a matter that ehould be negetinted
‘betwsen the Agency aud the Department <f Sietd and weed act be again —
vetaneed to the Special Grasp.

 

 

evolved » censiterable amowet of mosey and tet the matte chook’
be venolves ata earty. date. It wie agreed that the Agascy should .
discuss thie matter with Deputy Aasintant Secretary Morales-Corstoa
and cubentt # Sereast senpests ta co aesiy montting of fhe Speciet Geecp

 

iar. Ronily soqnasted that eapiee uf the sntantee of Spnctal Gereap
meetings be foruneded to mombers of the Grvap fer approval aad

 
