 

 

| MEMORANDUM FOR MR.. ROSTOW

 

- _ to express on' the. Memorandum, --- (I subséquently emphasized to.s--
Mr. Cottrell the: fact that this:Memorandum was: being. scheduled.”

, ~ 7 SEGRE
C ; ae C: SEE SAM TZ Bb ;
. . . wee, VE RG 3 re g
May 17,.1961
 Exemereo
hel we Nile Wo

SUBJECT: Meeting of . ‘the Viet Nam Task Foreé on
: Monday, May. 15, 1961,

After briefings on the military-and political situation :
in Viet Nam and surrounding areas in Southeast Asia, Mr..Cottrell .
summarized actions taken over the weekend, referring to a .

‘series of outgoing and incoming telegrams. These covered the a

following matters:

a. The establishment of the Task Force in Washington -
and a request .to thé Ambassador in Saigon to form | a .
‘similar Task Force. there. ~

d. A message to. Saigon containing ‘the substance of
NSC Action Memorandum No. 52 and indicating that these.
actions would be reviewed further at an NSC meeting: on
may 198 . . :

 

A. message to Saigon summarizing the substance - ‘of
- the. Fask - Force report for the field. advising . that. the»
report itself would ‘be Pouched s .

    

soe ‘A-message “to Saigon: indicating’ that’ the “ICS was oo
making the. study called for by paragraph 4 of. the Action .* -
-Metiorandiim (relating to commitment of U. S.. forces) « 0

 

. The Secretary of State had atithorized the. ais-.
patch of” 93 additional MAAG personnel from Clark ‘Air
Force Base in- the Philippines | to Saigon.

I asked whether. the’ status of the Task Force report, faa

  

beet clearly indicated.in sending it to the field. It” de-.:.

Veloped that the status had not beén indicated in the messages

.and I was asked to prepare a brief statement of: the points: :~-
that needed to be made. for inclusion, ina subsequent. message.

 

In connection ‘with the reference to’ “NSC discussion of ‘the
Action Memorandum, Mr...Cottrell asked that’ agencies: thake known .
at the Wednesday! neeting.of . the. Task Force .any views. they plans = °

 

 

on the agenda: for information and that it’was intended that.
the Memorandum” should ‘stand. and’ ‘that there would be no dis-/-

_cussion of. it in the NSC ‘unless . an agency. hada serious point. |
‘that it wished. to - argue ‘in “front of the” President. Mrs Cottrell
agreed to make: this point. to ‘Defense’ ‘and at the beginning of uo
Wednesday's Task Force meeting.)

 
 

 

116-10036-10072

 

 

moannare

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10072
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR :
FROM : Johnson
TO : Rostow
TITLE : Meeting of Vietnam Task Force May 15 1961
DATE : 5/17/1961 -
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : . \
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 193: Vietnam General 5/8/1961-
5/19/1961. Box 1
 

’_ particular item inh .an NSC document” ‘and : had: the author

; plementation.

‘cc: Mr. Smith

OEUNE fF

“Mr. “Cottrell | referred to ‘the ‘fact that it was. planned to
add an ‘additional individual to”the Public Relations: Staff of
the Far East: Bureau to “handle. public relations on Viet Nam;
that is, to put out information on South Viet Nam and to be

‘available to answer questions. ‘In response to a question,

Mr. Cottrell. indicated that there would be no connection be-
tween this ptiblic relations man and-the Task Force. .
Mr. Cottrell also noted that this Task Force would be running
the Viet Nam desk, although the former Assistant Desk Officer
would now be amed the Desk Officer and would handle routine
matters. : : .

 

Mr. Cottrell asked. me whether the planned weekiy”

- status report’ should not be so timed that it could be -

scheduled on a Friday NSC agenda. He also noted that’ a :
separate status report would be prepared. on covert activities
and transmitted to the NSC. I pointed out that there was no.
established meeting. time’ “for the NSC and that, therefore, it
would be difficult to relate work ‘on the report to NSC:
meetings. T° indicated that I would check on the matter of
scheduling such reports on NSC agendas. (This matter sub-
sequently taken” ‘up with, you” and with Mr. Bundy.. ) fs

A “question was raised as to! ‘whether. portions of | thie: mask
Force report could be downgraded or de-classified. I. pointed |
out that-we ‘ordinarily proceeded, in handling Nsc documents;.
on the principle - that the agency having primary ‘Yespon. pildty
should make ‘determination as to:the:classification of a:'

   

ty .to.
downgrade’ or de-classify as “necessary” in the. ‘course of. ima. |

 

    

vf Reference - 13° made . to the fact ‘that a meeting \ was eo
n the. White, House on Thursday (under Mr. Dutton's

scheduled: i
leadership) ‘to ‘discus’ ‘the fate of “Project | Hope", - Although

 

 

 

' this hospital . ‘ship is ‘supposed to be a private enterprise, ‘the.

Government’ “(ICA) has been- picking up the tab for some time.

_.It is said to have ‘considerable public. relations value; but

there is. considerable doubt as to whether it makes economic. .
sense -— At. costs $5,000.a day to operate. the ship. “It-was

the consensus of the meeting | that, in -view of. the preparations |
that had been made to receive the. ship’ in Saigon, ‘it‘would -

not be desirablé to cancel.the stop*i Saigon, although, AP.
necessary, it could be kept short.

  

Rust H. Johnson

Mr. Komer

 

SECRET

 

 
