ww ame

Co | 7 oto
. : an

(39)

SE ; ——

 

He said that their mission was to establish a base camp

in the Isabella mountains, Department of Jinotega, in
order to indoctrinate the peasants and to train them in
guerrilla tactics. He admitted that he had received six
months' guerrilla warfare training in Cuba and that other
FLN leaders had received similar training. He also said
that the FLN training camp in Honduras was near El Lagarto,
on the Patuca River.

4. Transfer of Funds

 

 

 

 

General

Reports continue to be received from many places
indicating that the suitcase full of currency is still one
of the most common methods used by the Cubans for trans-
mitting funds for use in supporting subversive activities
throughout the hemisphere. Instances where such funds
have been confiscated by the police have occurred recently
in El Salvador, Panama and Ecuador.

 
oa

SECRET
-4&-

Brazil

 

Cuban Ambassador to Brazil, Raul Roa Kouri, is
reported to have attempted to encourage peasant league
leader Francisco Julio to revitalize the leagues in
northern Brazil. According to some reports efforts are
being made to unify the leadership and bring dissident
elements under the general direction of Juliao. Other
reports indicate that, although the Cuban Embassy is
providirg guidance und possibly financial support to the
movement, it had not yet resolved the internal dissension
in the leagues.

Colombia

Fron Colethia reports have been received of incre-
asing Cuban assistance, primarily in the form ef training
courses by instruetors who have been trained in Cuba,
to the Worker-Studen:-Feasant Movement (MOEC). A small
guerrilla band encountered by the Colombian axzy in
July 1963.was broken up when five members of the land
were killed and two others captured. A smali quantity
of arms and a considerable amount of books and pamphlets
on revolutionary warfare, photographs of Fidel Castro,
Camilo Cienfuegos and Mao Tse-tung, and bulletins of
the MOEC were found at the camp site. Recent reports
have indicated an increase in the terrorist efforts of
the MOEC and increased promises of assistance from Che
Guevara with regard to the training of additional MOEC
members. :

Costa ‘Rica |

There have been a number of unconfirmed reports
alleging small-scale training of revolutionaries on
Costa Rican territory for guerrilla activity in
Nicaragua. For example, in mid-July an increased number
of guerrillas were reportedly being trained in Costa Rica
by Adolfo Garcia Barberena, well-known Nicaraguan
revolutionary leader and member. of the FLN (National

bb.

(33)

Libération Front -~- a Communist-dominated, Cuban-supported,

SECRET.
| By

SECRET
-5-

anti-Nicaragua revolutionary group). In early August,
Alberto Serrato, leader of the FLN in Costa Rica, ©
(reportedly left with a group of Nicaraguans for the
Costa Rican-Nicaraguan border. Another report indicated
that Hector Bogantes Zamora, Costa Rican agitator was
supposed to have left San Jose in mid-August for the
Nicaraguan border to supervise the passage of Nicaraguan
guerrillas from Costa Rica into Nicaragua. Bogantes,

who xsecently returned from attending the May Day celebra-
tions in Cuba, is said to have been assigned this
responsibility by the Costa Rican Communist Party.

’ So far as we know, the GON, which is normally well-
informed and highly sensitive to such activities on its
borders, has not made any complaints or otherwise signified
concern or awareness of these reported activities.

Handuras

The Honduran armed forces began to move against a
group of pro-Castro guerrillas operating against the
Nicaraguan Government and.active in the vicinity of the
Nicaraguan-Honduran border. The Nicaraguan National Guard
has been conducting operations on its side cf the border
against the insurgents since July. The dense jungle and
difficult terrain, however, will impede the efforts of
both forces to eliminate the guerrillas.

Information on the guerrilla force is scanty and
conflicting. It is apparently composed of members of the
National Liberation Front (FLN), a Communist-dominated
and Cuban-supported revolutionary organization active
primarily in Honduras and Nicaragua since the fall of
1962. The strength of the force is not known.

Nicaragua

A captured guerrilla of the FLN (National Liberation
Front - a Communist-dominated, Cuban-supported, anti-
Nicaraguan group) confessed that he was a member of a
group of 46 who entered Nicaragua from Honduras on 22 July.

SECRET.
e aang

YRNEN \vev UL Ql Uae: a 4' \
, SECRET (3¢
ANNEX A

CIA Intelligence Annex

1. Travel to and from Cuba

Brezil have become a major means. of transporting non-Cuban
Latin Americans to and from Cuba. The five such flights
‘since late July have carried nearly 400 non-Gubans.

The first of the recent series -- on 25 July --
brought 71 Letin American passengers to Havana for the
26 July celebrations. The other four flights <-- on 15,
22, 28 and 29 August -- transported over 200 Latin
Americans to Brazil from Havana. Some of the aixcraft
involved returned to Cuba with smaller numbers of passen-
gers. Many of the 200 Latin American passengers had
been delegates to the 26 July ceremcnies, but others had
apparently been in Cuba for longer periods and some had
probably received training there. Of the passengers on
these four flights to Brazil, 75 were natives of
Caribbean area countries. Their circuitous travel through
Brazil was evidently designed to help conceal the fact
that they had been in Cuba.

Costa Rica

Two Costa Ricans were among the passengers on a
chartered Cubana plane which was turned back to Havana
at Grand Cayman on 11 July 1963. One was Luz Marina
Hernandez Salazar, the only Costa Rican woman known to
have been sent to Cuba for training as a guerrilla.
warfare instructor. She had been in Cuba since September
1962. The other Costa Rican passenger was Carlos Guillen,
former head of the Costa Rican Society of Friends of
the Cuban Revolution, who had been in Cuba since November
1962.

SECRET

Neola accnanas awn 9
 

 

 

 

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10069
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : CIA intelligence Annex
DATE : .
PAGES : 6
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
. COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 60: Cuba Subjects, Cuban Subversion,
8/63-10/63. Box 1 ,
ax ennre

 

 

i]
nN
t

Ecuador

 

 

 

 

|The activities of Cuban subversives
in Ecuador, at least for the present, have been greatly
inhibited by the mass arrests of Commumists and pro-
Cubans and by the outlawing of the Communist Party by
the junta.

 

Honduras

It is reported that the Bonduran Communist Party
has issued orders to its members not to attempt to
travel to Cuba at the present time. This action is
apparently the result of the increasing vigilance of
the Honduran govermmert and the greater implemertation
of stricter travel controls.

2, Movement of Cuban Propaganda
Guatemala

According to an unconfirmed report received in July,
a Bureau of Information of the Communist Party of
Guatemala is being formed in collaboration with Prensa
latina and is to be managed clandestinely. It expects

bulletins for distribution by radio stations. This may
indicate a pattern by which Prensa Latina will attempt
to distribute on a more clandestine basis in other areas
in Latin America..

Honduras

It was reliably reported that in mid-July 1963, a
small coastal freighter landed 14 large boxes of Communist ©
propaganda on the northern coast of Honduras, the boxes
having been transferred at sea from a larger vessel. The
report has not been confirmed.

SECRET
cy

be

fey
Ry

SECRET
-3-

3. Movement of Guerrillas and Arms

Argentina

Extremist members of the Peronist Party, apparently
under the leadership of such figures as Hector Villalon
and John William Cooke, were reported to be receiving
“ennovragement and promises of large sums of money from
Cuba in support of their efforts to train and crganize
subversive groups in Argentina. Villalon has stated
that: his plan cails for expanding and accellerating
subversive activities in Argentina culminating in a
complete take over within two years. There is no indica-
tion that Peron himeelf has agreed to this pian. It has
been renorted that leaders of the Communist Party of
Argentina have been greatly annoyed by the tendency of
the Castro resime to support the revolutionary Peronists
without having consulted the Communist Party of Argentina.

It is reported that the so-called Army of Wational
Liberation (ANL) of Argentina, which is a relatively
small Castroist organization directed from Cuba by
John William Cooke, has in recent weeks been negotiating
for the purchase of arms and has been offered submachine
guns, bazookas and other weapons by two or three private
suppliers. It was reported, however, that the ANL was
having difficulty getting enough dollars from Cuba to
make significant purchases possible.

Bolivia

The Bolivian Ministry of Foreign Relations on 23
August protested formally to the Cuban Chargé d'Affaires
-in La Paz against the Cuban Embassy support to the miners
during the recent crisis. Subsequently, however, Foreign

Minister Fellman informed the Cuban Chargé that he need
not fear that the Government of Bolivia would break
diplomatic relations with Cuba. There has, in fact, been
no ‘hard information linking the Cuban Embassy with the
present mining crisis in spite of some unconfirmed
reports of Cuban support.

SECRET
