 

 

G. the Wi etthiravel, copied with dintuished Gestem grenttes
ond & more effective WR presence might remilt dn eteppadeng efferte
by eedienls ant neticssitets to Mboerabe sensing co
by vistont means. the effect would probably %
fuente xian fae GEA ee boca sling eimai atatet tn fete
ssh cee Wy enna t Sora wt ety

 

   
 

 

 

q. W ovente Giilovtng Ui withdeared pmduned Beth @ rex.
action in the tatinawe of the teat end en tureege im the wel a?

 

vaca bts frei seetton ed tt Lity stows inte
semoating taxltuctet. EL gruskan Savio Seendem of estan

wna eewe supper’ Seon thes gavernment, the Cams woud teceue o aah
ni Ye wl te a et okey es
cortah wo of te a — ats creed wi veflettateGttn .
tent har of wt st a aro

 

 

 

   

whe |
SFORET
 

 

SECRET

S. We Relieve that the Covieta waka be Mhety to nove
fairly dlgdty and that the reaction to thoveiGutcend of Uy trope
‘wold be deen ont. Gn balance, houeteny the UT yemmimes han
sepreaented a comeitistt af the Uset to order end stebiitty tn
Control Atetos anil te witidravel would be Laaly te encomage a
grado slide in the cther airoction.

 
 

 

| SeoRer

CBNGRAL ZRTRLLIGEREE AGENCY
G2?IGE OP RATIONAL Bans

suRIECT: Ceti gence o be thr of aes

; To exsees (eq) the Likely courses of davies motion in the

evenb of WH within fran the conms ena (0) the efteet on

other dfvican etimtfons es a seault of 6 witharaval.

2. he Guvfet Unfon etilL regards the Congo os a potentially
cumactty to mihence Sts goattion tm Ateiae he the exme tne,
ef offaetive patétient action in the Ganges | mcm, § eons
the Soviste vould epgitaud the U's exit ss & euthack fur the Heatip
tie YEER Steel? veslé be wiry of mabing tev comiteante in the

 

 

| Ging, tearing exother Gap rentutcsd of ish inte vich £2 sath

SECRET
 

 

116-10036-10337

 

 

AGENCY : NAR
: 176-10036-10337

: National Security Files: William H. Brubeck
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : |

FROM :
TO: a
: John F. Kennedy document Control Record
DATE :

PAGES :

SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES

TITLE

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

NARA

12/11/1962 .
5

9/10/2000

National Security Files, Box 382: Congo 12/62. Box 3.
 

 

SEERET

2. Is alittion, tho reticence @ wot Ateteas gtates te
auirttoe of the Cold War inte the conts neat, ead
Soret comers that tte poltetes are nat 20-aaseed with tas ania

   

ereum of Adriven epénton, wuld sarvé as imortant Mattettons on

probably muck fixab to otliet euppart for ite policies trom reliant

Asetemnp vio wuld hoge to grotit most dn the Gouge <» eegey Heath

 

| -e@ Greop wivkitta.

3. Soviet vepyouse to UN eithévamel wuld ales hinge on the
political: eriantaktcn af the Congulesy erieminent. Us vitndrerat
wonld probabty precipitate Aduuile'a Gemfall, He wuld probehty te
casdieetul ty axtrectete euapathetio t Aivicen vetiadlten ant sonty
to ccaapt toviat help. In the event af Admin's dante, 2 mane
¢o reauont conmtitenity to coviet mirioe, muck lesn achtevs polities’.

  

 

 

Re Despite tess heute, 4 S9 alewst sertata gaat the WR

wuld offer atiitery ist comonie nesiohenoe te any Congpless gyearer -
nant in the vole of UT daparture, Homver, given the eafuston aid

uneqrtatnties n the ettuatien end togkatts dat other pechimae,

‘ii
 

 

 

sanbility of remaining US om Belgien influence,
de fovtat eftiet te Unsty to be tmutative ash antective, without
major comitments ¢f mea of materiate. Sertet uilitery asctatenios
vould probably take the form of ere and the provision of adifears
enh gone tactchents Say ndeht ever gr et fer ax to provide &
fev pitota. ‘he USA's sim wild prébelily be te build @.mose qube
40 igmeuver fer wlventege without tacusing cumteted to the emcee
of the goverment or siy faction, meamiite hoping that sme vink=
fall, would enihle £6 to gain & yocktins of dastatve tntense tm the

 

@) 5. Atvteon roscbion to a witninea’ of the UF farce én the
Coags would be wlan Ge Adeicens eee the US presences us 6 med
cbitgatties of the 02 ant of the Veut gn gem, Gio falsttinend of
wtih a emnteh tr aoaty tn the Cone and ta 8 patie
why wn eh tn en fa dk
wnrenponatvencie te Aidea's uneds ont dte-qm ebidgebtons, other
teen = toate eet, fo ot
tay arte mea ash of stn conte 6 tetionh yt

   

 

 

 

om g-.

aesney
