 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

' TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

“To
largely unknown. The program, which makes use of Cuban exiles and which
is-not yet fully underway has already achieved a degree of success -- e.g.
in demonstrating to Cubans that Castro is not invulnerable, in foxcing
Castro to divert valuable resources for defense against covert activities,
in inflicting small, but cumulatively significant « economic damage, and

perhaps in stimulating to some degree the insurgency which is evident in

Cuba. As yet our covert program has not been directed in such a way as to

inflict serious economic damage on Cuba. ‘There are those who believe that
much can be done in ‘this regard, as well as in stimulating further resistance,
af Lead te Wewkehiow =
severakrendizapens

But our covert program presently operates under

present policy prevents,air attacks on Cuban targets and prevents free-lance

. exile raids on Cuba from U.S. territory.

Ill. Where are We Going?

In theory, at least, our present offensive measures, vigorously |

pursued and,. to a degree, complemented by our defensive measures, could

lead d finally to one of the following three eventualities, each of which con-

stitutes a removal of the Soviet satellite from the Hemisphere.

A. Overthrow of the Castro Regime

Most Cuban experts in the U.S. Government regard this as the most

likely of the three eventualities. Hopefully, by exerting maximum pressure
by all the means available ‘tq the U.S. Governments, short cf military force, -

"we will be able to bring about a degree of disorganization, uncertainty, and

‘discontent in Cuba which will predispose elements in the power centers of the

 

 

 
 

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE
so 8
regime to bring about the overthrow of the Castro/Communist group and_-

the elimination of the Soviet presence in Cuba; at some stage of the revolt, .

it is likely that direct, or indirect U.S. support will be needed to ensure %.:

‘its success. Theoretically, the Cuban people, tired of economic hardship,

lack of freedom, and isolation from their Latin American brethern, will

embrace the revolt.

B. “Accommodation with Castro on U.S. Terms

Under this eventuality, Castro would agree to break his tie-line

with the USSR, stop his subversion efforts, and perhaps renounce the Com-

munist ideology. While highly unlikely, it is not inconceivable that such
factors as (1) U. S. isolation and covert measures, (2) further Cuban
economic deterioration, in spite of Soviet aid, and @) distrust of the Soviet
intentions will lead Castro to believe he has no choice but accommodation.

Indeed, there is evidence that Castro may already be thinking along these

lines. In the past few months he has made a number of accommodation noises

_and since he undoubtedly has a pretty good reading of our minimum terms,.

these noises could conceivably indicate that he is willing to go a long way

towards meeting them, . Che Guevera's reported nervousness at Castro's
. : : : that. :

- accommodation tendencies substantiates the view :/ Castro's desire to ©

negotiate is genuine and not a ploy to reduce U.S. heat on Cuba.
But there are obvious major problems with this alternative. Not the

least of these is whether the American people would tolerate accommodation

 

sete mete Ser AP enPU DER TRO. ACERS D2 ERCP PE DEPTS SETS TS TOTP PTT PAP PME PH ATOPY AOE SO IRS UTEP
 

 

 

‘TOP SECRET -SENSITIVE .

~b=
_(2) Covert Measures -- Our covert program over the past year

has covered essentially six areas. First,’ through a variety of techniques,
we have collected intelligence for both U.S. strategic requirements and for
operational requirements; the quantity and quality is good but there is: always’
a ‘roorn for improvement. Second, CIA-controlled radio programs and other
propaganda media, directed at Cuba, have been used to encourage low “pak;
: simple sabotage and other forms of active and passive resistance,. and to 7
stimulate tension within the regime. and between Cuba and the Soviet Bloc.
Third, CIA has “worked with State and other agencies to deny to Cuba com-
modities which it urgently needs, Fourth, we have been trying to identify,

seek out, and establish contact with potentially dissident non-Communist |

 

elements in the power centers of the regime, with a view to stimulating an
internal coup which would dislodge Castro; we currently are in direct contact
with several people in Cuba who may be of significance. Fifth, we have )
directed four small-scale externally-mounted sabotage operations for the
purpose of stimulating resistance and bts Sa es, , Sixth, in
order to expand sabotage and resistance ‘activities we have been involved in
aiding autonomous Cuban exile groups and individuals, who will probably be

. ready to begin infiltration and sabotage in mid-J anuary, and who will not
necessarily be responsive to our guidance. (A financial breakdown of CIA's
covert Cuban operations since 1960 is attached at Tab 1)

' The most outstanding characteristic of our covert action program. so _

far is that its potential for bringing about a basic change in Cuba is still

 
 

 

 

 

TOP SECRET ~ SENSITIVE.

-5-

ALT Leben? of

Ame ricans have had to travel to and from Cuba via Prague. , Free World

Ly. a ae
rie ace in 1963 is running at roughly 40% of 1962 levels. Prospects ;

for further reduction are good since we now seem to be making good

progress with the three principal shipping countries -- Greece, Lebanon;-:

and the UK, In this regard, the Greeks have recently issued stiffer laws

to prevent their ships from going to or from Cuba, while the Lebanese,

have drafted (but have not yet enacted), legislation to the same end; and some _
important British shipping companie) have finally decided
that they should play ball with us. . ,

But there is plenty of room for improvement. There are still roughly
30 Free World ships per month in the Cuban trade. Free World countries ~
still send many Costenttialen to Guba phic Cuba needs de sperately. And
there are still air routes between Cuba and Spain and Mexico. ,

The effectiveness of our isolation policy in hitting the target is
impossible to gauge accurately. .While Hurricane Flora, in a few days,
probably hit the target more squarely than our isolation measures did in a.
year, it is generally agreed that the. economic chaos ‘which now in fact exists
in Cuba and the enormity of the Soviet aid bill is, in part at least, due to

our efforts. Castro's. repeated and loud public protestations about our

" isolation policy and his serious and energetic efforts to break at of Free

World isolation substantiate the view that the isolation measures probably,

hurt him, econoinically and politically.

 

DERE Bee aT RR ATE EE BP

 
 

 

 

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

fy 735
(3) Subversion -~- We have been intent on impeding and if possible
stopping Cuban based and supported subversion in the Hemisphere. To
this end we have made a spe cial effort, bilaterally and in multilateral
forums, to direct Latin American attention to, and to assist (materially
Ao . . . of
where appropriate) Latin American efforts in the problem of controlling
internal insurgency and in controlling the subversive movement of people,
funds, arms, and propaganda between Latin Ane rica and Cuba. , On the orie
hand we have had some success -- there is now an increased awareness in ,
Latin America of the extent and nature of the threat along with an increased
capability and will in Latin America to do something about the problem. ,
_ One measure of our success is Venezuelan readiness, in contrast to a :
previous reluctance, to make an international issue out of the aemmmuseke
discovery!| Another small measure of this success is that primarily through
the use of travel control’ by Latin American governments, there has been a
50% drop over the past year in the number of Latin Americans traveling to ’ ot
Cuba.
On the other hand, with Castro, still exceedingly intent on producing
"another Cuba'' in the Hemisphere; and with many Latin American govera-
ments still unwilling or unable to cope effectively with subversive efforts, .
much remains to be done. In this regard proper exploitation of the recent

discovery of the Cuban arms cache in Venezuela might take us a long way

towards getting wholehearted Latin American, cooperation in the fight against

subversion. Such cooperation is a vital key to success in this field, .

 
 

Py

  

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE -
. ; 4
B. Offensive Measures ;
Offensively, our ultimate minimum target ist to remove the Soviet
satellite from the Hemisphere. We hope to achieve this by concentrating
mainly on three intermediate targets -- intensifying Cuba's already-serious

economic difficulties; increasing the cost and unpleasantness to the Soviets

of maintaining Cuba; and stimulating direct and indirect internal resistance -

to the regime, Our chief weapons for achieving these offensive targets are
two -- isolation measures and covert measures (which ‘also have an impact. :
on our defensive targets, particularly Cuban subversion).

(yy Isolation Measures =- The most outstanding characteristic of our :

isolation measures is that they have been exceedingly difficult to implement

ise primarily. because implementation depends on the cooperation of others

and not merely on U.S. will alone. Neverthele SS, while one could have .

reasonably expected our isolation . policy to break uP as the world moved

. away from the heat of October, 1962, in fact, this has ‘not happened.

Instead, while far from performing <plemcanly over the past year, :

our isolation policy gene rally h has held the ground already made in some

fields, while making further progress in others. About a year ago, only 5

OAS countries maintained diplomatic relations with Cuba; the number not

only remains the same now, b but anticipated OAS reaction to, the discovery -

. of the Cuban arms cache in Venezuela gives some reason to hope for further

ruptures. The low level of Free World trade with Cuba reached in 1962 has
generally been maintained in 1963. Air isolation of Cuba has been fairly

successful; a dramatic demonstration of this is the fact that many Latin

  

 
 

 

2 I ee yee >

“TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE ©

 

_MEMORANDUM, FOR THE PR ESIDENT
' SUBJECT: + ABB Mecting on Cuba -- December 19, 1963 |
_ At il: 00 A.M. on Thursday, you will be meeting primarily with - _
State, Defense, CIA, to discuss further possible measures we can take .
against Castro, which stop short of invasion and blockade. The. following 7
' is an attempt to describe the Cuban-problem asa whole -- where we have
“been since January, 1963; where we are now; and where we seem to be headed.
The paper ends with a brief description of a number of further possible
measures we can take against Cuba. ‘State, Defense, and CIA, which, by
- and large, have reserved thei positions on these measures, will be prepared
to discuss them with you in detail at the meeting. a
I. Current U.S. Policy - °
. The bare minimum objective of our policy is a Cuba which poses no
‘threat to its ‘neighbors and whitch is not a 1 Soviet satellite. in moving towards a
this objective we have rejected the options of unprovoked U.S. military inter= .
- vention in Cuba and of aneffective, total blockade around Cuba a primarily .
because they would risk another US/USSR confrontation, Instead, we are engaged

in a variety of unilateral, bilateral, and:multilateral measures, both defensive

 

“and offensive, ‘which stop short of these drastic measures. :
I. Review of U.S. Measures Against Cuba Since January, 1963.
On January 9, 1963, the White House set up an Interdepartmental task - oe

force, headed by State, to coordinate all matters pertaining to Cuba.

 

 
 

176-10038-10036

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10038-10036
RECORD SERIES : The Personal Papers of Gordon Chase
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : :
“ORIGINATOR : -
FROM. :
TO: .
TITLE : Memorandum for the President
DATE : 12/15/1963
PAGES :42 23.
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Gordon Chase, Box 1: “Chronological fi file 8/63-12/63, Box 1. Box 8.
 

 

  

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE
. -2-

'. With the establishment of the Cuban Coordinating Committee, our post- :
missile crisis measures against Cuba began. ‘These measures have been’
essentially either defensive or offensive in nature,

A. Defensive Measure s

 

Our defensive measures. have primarily aimed at three targets:
AE ape

fa
(1) Cuba, the Military Threat -- We have been intent on ensuring that

 

Cuba does not become again an "offensive weapons" ‘(e. ge missiles) threat to the :
U.S. or Latin America. To this end we have conducted intensive air and sea )
surveillance around and over Cuba and have collected intelligence from within.
Cuba. So far as we know, we have’ been, entirely successful in this effort and
Cuba is not now an "offensive weapons" threat to either the U.S. or to Latin
America. i
But even without “offensive weapons" Cuba remains a powerful military
“establishment in Latin Ame rica, To discourage possible Cuban military attacks
against ite neighbors, we have put ourselves clearly on record that vsumaitingmenerst
any such Cuban moves amd will have extremely dire consequences for Cuba. - : i
(2) Soviet Troops a We have been intent, for domestic political, as well i
as national security reasons on, effecting the removal of all Soviet military person-
nel from Cuba. To this end we have made it eminently clear to the Soviets on
_numerous occasions that we cannot tolerate the permanent assignment. of Soviet
military personnel to Cuba. As a result of Soviet self-interest and our pressures, !
there are now 4,000 to 7, 000 Soviet military personnel (mostly advisers and :
technicians) remaining in Cuba, representing a drop of about 65% to 75% from the

peak reached in the autumn of 1962; a net outflow appears to be continuing. How-

ever, the issue remains a delicate one. At any moment the Russians ‘could

 
 

oo

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE
- 2(a)-

arbitrarily decide to send more troops into Cuba. Also, the fact that volatile :

,

Cubans will probably control the , Surface-to-air missile sites by mid- 1964 is

disturbing,

\

 
