T-0-P S-E-C-R-E-T

Thus while some savings night be effected in various areas, we
think that any pajor upward revisions in individual prograxs
could only be accomplished through roughly equivalent increases |

in total military spending.

13. The question of the Soviet long run nilitary reaction
to the cuban affair may be posed in terms of whether the
Soviet Union will continue to concentrate on dominating Europe
and the Eurasian periphery with strategic weapons and large
ground forces, with their intercontinental weapons systems limited
to some sort of minirnm deterrent level, or will initiate a
basic change in its strategy and attempt to achieve parity or even
superiority in weapons systems for intercontinental thermonuclear

war. We can also look for sone intermediate alternative.

“14, One plausible option would be to continue what appears
to be the current strategy with such modifications as hardening
a larger portion of the ICBM force, possible some upward revision
‘of the force level, and ABM deployment far a nucber of the larger
urban areas -~ say 20 to 25 ©= togéther with the maintenance and
continued modernization of the ground and associated naval and
air forces at about present levels. Military space systens night

be linited to modest reconnaissance and early warning forces.

-8-

[-0-P S-E-C-R-E-T
T-O-P S-E-C-R-E-T

15. A second option, at the other extrene » would be ‘to enter
into an ICBM race with the US with the object of achieving parity
or marked superiority in the number of launchers operational and
in the yield and accuracy. of the systen. A large submarine-
launched long-range ballistic missile force would likely be part
of this option. This ICBM force would be supported by extensive
deploynent of reconnaissance and early warning space systens.
Carried to its logical extrenes, this option would also inelude
large-scale ABM deployment, say 25 to 30 urban areas as a ninimun,
and onintenance of ground and naval forces at something like the

present levels.

16. Under either option, limited orbital borbardment and
other offensive space systens night be added to supplement the
other forces and to maxinize the political effect of Soviet nili-
tary posture. (The USIB is currently giving intensive study to
Soviet military space objectives; its conclusions will appear in

NIE 11-1-62, "Soviet Space Programs," due Noverber 1962.)

17. If the Soviet leaders seek an option falling between
these extremes we believe that.it will emphasize diversity, seek
to create an image of technical superiority, and to maximize the

political effects which are offered by very large weapons and by

-9-

[-0-P S-E-C-R-E-T
T-0-P S-E-C-R-E-T

‘intelligence estimtes a steady butLdup in numbers of ICBMs
and missile-launching submarines, although the numerical in-
crease estimated in delivery vehicles is not so steep as that
programmed for US forces. In addition, survivability will in-
prove as missile sites are hardened and the subrarine fleet
becomes larger, while the warheads yield capabilities for all
systems will increase. In strategic defense, the major new -
element is the anti-nissile progran, where deployment of one
system has already begun at one location (Leningrad) and re-
search and developnent work toward a more advanced capability

is continuing.

12. In any reconsideration of defense programs, we think
it very unlikely that the USSR will abandon the concept of balanced
forces in an effort to maximize one particular kind of capa-
bility, say long-range attack. The Soviet military leadership
places @ high value upon theater forces and has already succeeded
in undoing Khrushchev's plan launched in 196, to reduce then.
With respect to air defense, the traditional Soviet concern with
defense and the great seale of the USSR's anti-missile efforts to
date persuade us that this program will not be abandoned or

érastically cut back to provide resources for competing programs.

-T-

T-O-P S-E-C-R-E-T
T-0-P S-E-C-R-E-T

valid. This might be an interception over Sary Shagan or
' possibly Kamchatka, accompanied by as much publicity as was con-

sistent with security requirements.
Real Inprovenents in the Near Term

10. Soviet strategic capabilities are of course constantly
being strengthened, but a number of immediate measures are
available to improve the “‘USSR's present military posture. These
include putting more submarines on station within striking dis-
‘tance of the US, dispersing mobile MRBMs, and establishing a
higher level of alert and dispersal for the Long Range Air Force.
The USSR probably believes that these noves, all of which could —
have been made at any time in the recent past, would come to the
attention of the US government, which would then conclude that
it faced a greater strategic threat , but not one which gave the
USSR a clear strategic advantage. Neasures of this sort would

not reach the world public.

Real Inprovenents in the Long Run

ll. Existing National Intelligence Estimates project a
continuing improvement in Soviet long-range striking forces and

air defenses over the next several years. In the offensive field,
-6-

T-0-P S-E-C-R-E-T
 

T-O-P _ S-E-C-R-E-T

simultaneously a delivery capability for a very high yield war-
head. ‘They could probably do this now, usinc an existing ICEM
to launch and detonate a 100 MT weapon over Novaya Zemlya. Or
they might choose to detonate a missile= delivered lower yleld

weapon (around 25 MT) over the Pacific.

6. Anti-Satellite Copability. ‘There is some chance that
the USSR now has a capability to shoot down an earth satellite,
either its own or a US one, and this chance will grow in the
coning year. The Soviets would probably believe that such a
denonstration would increase general respect for their power and
fear of their determination. On the other hand, they would take
on themselves the onus for making the first military use of
space and, if they considered bringing down a US vehicle, they
would have to concern themselves about possible US reprisals

against Soviet vehicles or other countermeasures.

7. Orbital Borbardment Capability. ‘The USSR can at any
tine claim that a newly launched earth satellite is. carrying ©
muclear weapon, arguing that US sczressivencss must be curbed by
such special means. ‘The US could not make a convincing denial,

and the USSR would probably expect to win some credibility for

-k.

{-0-P S-E-C-R-E-T
T-O-P S-E-C-R-E-T

its claim. Again, it would incur some general blame and might

provoke US counteraction. .

8. Global Rocket. The USSR probably is capable ntw of sub-
stantiating its clains to a "global rocket" which avoids EMEWS
detection by firing a missile (with a reduced payload) on a
southerly trajectory to impact in the southern or western Paci-
fic. A prior announcement establishing an impact area would in-
erease the credibility of the demonstration. The effect of this
demonstration could be increased if instead of using a ballistic
trajectory, the vehicle was fired into orbit and then brought

down in the announced impact area.

9. Anti-~Missile Demonstration. The USSR is in a position
to stage a denonstration in which an anti-missile intercepts and
destroys an incoming ballistic nissile. This sort of accomplish-
nent might commend itself to the Soviet leaders as a tans of
switching attention from strategic striking power to strategic

defense capabilities, where the USSR has a better chance to make

eredible claims of superiority. Photographs , films, news stories,
and leadership statements could be used to sustain clains in this
field, but the chances of inpressing world opinion would be

greatly improved by an actual achievement generally accepted as
-5e.

T-0-P S-B-C-R-E-T
TROUT Hey em we ee wee
(- of i

T-0-P S-E-C-R-E-T
Soe me TSA 85487

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
8 November 1962

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT: Possible Soviet Military Reactions to the Cuban
Outcome; Gimmicks and. Programs

1. In putting strategic missiles into Cuba, the USSR
clearly was seeking a major political accomplishment. But the
venture, and the risks which were accepted » Suggest that in
addition the Soviets may have been seeking a way to improve the
strategic relationship between themselves and the US. While
they probably attribute their failure primarily to US local
advantage in the Caribbean they also believe that its strategic
superiority bolstered US confidence in responding to the local
challenge. At any rate, the outeone certainly has not reduced
thelr desire to find some Way, in real terns > to counter or off-
set US long-range striking power. And their desire to do this
“in apparent terms has doubtless grown, since the course of the
crisis has led many in the world to wonder whether the USSR

backed down because of strategic weakness.

Group 1-
: Excluded from automatic
[-0-P S-E-C-R-E-T downgrading and
OO declassification
 

 

 

116-10037-10245

 

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10245 ;
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files: Robert W. Komer
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : NUFK
FROM :
TO:
‘TITLE : John F. Kennedy document Contra Record
DATE : 11/8/1962
PAGES At L
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
. RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 415: Cuba 11/1/1962- 4/30/63. Box 4.
T-O0-P S-E-C-R-EeT

2. There are some measures, based on existing programs ’

- which could be taken fairly quickly and inexpensively to help

rebuild the world image of Soviet strategic might. These measures,
however, are unlikely to have much effect on US government cal-
culations of relative strength. Changing the real balance is
much harder. Programs of this sort would necessarily be costly;
they cannot all be pursued simultaneously; any substantial in- |
erease in the present array of ptnerams will injure non-military
objectives; the USSR would have to expect the US to obtain enough
knowledge ‘of new efforts to begin countermeasures before they are
completed. Fourthernore » only Lmitea measures can be taken
quickly. It would be virtually impossible » for example, for the
USSR to acquire within the next year any significant new ICEM or

missile submarine capability over that presently planned.
Demonstrations in the Next Yea# Or So.

3. A nupber of military and space accomplishments are now
within Soviet capabilities, and some demonstrative feats were
probably scheduled well before the Cuban crisis. None of these
represents a radical advance, and none is ‘likely to change the
world opinion about, relative US-USSR strength. Some have inportant

political drawbacks. Nevertheless » the Soviets may believe that

= 2-

[-0-P S-E-C-R-E-P
T-O-P S-E-C-R-E-T

continuing accomplishments of this sort would help to restore the

power image tarnished in the showdown over Cuba.

4. Space Feats. A series of space accomplishments during
the next year was certainly progremmed before the Cuban crisis,
but the USSR might try to accelerate its earlier schedule in~
hopee of off-setting the impression of inferiority left by the
outcome. In 1962-63 y the following individual space missions
will probably be within Soviet capabilities, although it is un-
likely that they can all be accomplished during this ‘period:
multi-meanned satellite; rendezvous and possible docking of two
satellites; a ten-day manned satellite 3 unmanned circumlunar
flight; unmanned satellite placed in lunar orbit; soft lunar

landings of instrumented packages; planetary probes «

5. Very High-yleld Weapons. The USSR can at any tine

detonate a nuclear weapon ylelding over 100 MT and expect Western
verification. Soviet spokesmen could go on to imply that many

or all Soviet long-range nissiles are equipped with this warhead.
Such a demonstration would conflict to some extent with Soviet .
protestations of peacefulness and concern for disarmament. Morem
over, it would not be a radical advance on previous. demonstrations

_ and claims. The Soviets might therefore choose to demonstrate ,

(-3-

[-0-P S-E-C-R-E-T
