Soe, ‘ tae By ene” Ss
. ; . \ Nee 7S 770

i , - w
| ; . ; syzed CIA revi
. ‘ . : = Aan ‘ Ghia

SECRET - EYES ONLY , January 19, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. BUNDY
SUBJEGT: Cuban Coordinating Committee

The following are some further thoughts on the work of the Committee:

1, Future Policy Toward Cuba = As I mentioned to you. it my

memorandum of January 18, Secretary Vance submitted a paper to the

; Gommittee which identified two possible courses of action in ‘trying to
ovérthrow the Castro/Communist regime in Cuba; (1) a policy of apply-
ing increasing degrees of political, economic, psychological and mili-
tary preseures, and (2) a policy of applying political, economic,
poychological and.military pressures as appropriate opportunities
present therigelves. in pregenting the paper to the Committees, Secre-
tary Vance. made it abundantly clear that while he had identified an
alternate course of action, the identification did not include an endorgse-
ment -« «he had not yet reached & decision on that question. .

 

While, on the surface, Bob Hurwitch seems to have accepted
the consideration of an alternative cource of action in the policy paper,
hesundoubtedly views it coldly. He bellevee atrongly that such factdre*~"~-
as (1) our hope to act with full OAS support, and (2) Presidential etate-
mente about our non-aggressive intentions, necessarily limit our policy
to one of applying préasures ag opportunities. present ‘themselves; thia
ig neither a “hard nor "soft" policy but the only politically realistic
policy. Deep down, § think he regarda the consideration of the so-called
“active policy,“ at best, as a useless exercise and waste of time and,
at-woret, as an insidious attempt by DOD dreamers to bring to life a
policy which will earn battlefield promotions at the expense of U.S.
national interest. I can't say: yet how far Mr. Cottrell goes along with
thie view.

 

On this one, I'm with Secretary Vance. The alternate course
of action is substantively worth focusing on. Also, the educational aspect
is important. Both Mr. Cottrell and Secretary Vance are new at the
Cuban bué¢inees. If they are to be really effective in their new roles, it

SECRETSEYES ONLY

 
 

 

176-10036-10026

 

 

 

 

ORIGINATOR :
FROM. :
: Bundy, McGeorge
TITLE :
: 1/19/1963, ae
PAGES : 7
_ SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
_ DATE OF LAST REVIEW :
" OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

TO

DATE

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :
RECORD SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM ~

176-10036-10026
National Security Files

Chase

Cuban Coordinating Committee

2

9/10/2000

National Security Files, Box 37: Cuba 1/63. ‘Box. 1.
SECRET-EYES ONLY -2-

. seema worthwhile that they think through basic courses of action which
may appear to others to be unattractive. The process need not tura
aut to be either very time-consuming or dangerous.

After you received the phone call-‘from Secretary Vance, I passed
your meseage to Mr. Cottrell. He and Mr. Vance planned to meet late
Saturday afternoon to thragh out the policy paper.

2. CIA vis-a-vis the Miami Office (Mr. Crimmins) -- I mentioned
<toyou in a previous memorandum that at one meeting, Mr. Cheiver;the
"CIA representative, viewed: the work of the Miami office in a narrow
sense} he obviously was reluctant to see Mr. Crimmines getting involved
in CIA business; Bob Hurwitch tells me that this problem is under
control. He said (1) that Mr. Cheiver had simply not gotten the word,

(2) that Mr. Fitzgerald and others in CIA do have the word, and (3) that
there ig no need at present to make an issue of this point.

a

 

 

3. Timing of Meetings

The following meetinge on Cuba are scheduled for this week:
' Monday, 2:00 PM - Cuban Coordinating Committee at State

Wednesday, 10:30 AM - Mr. Cottrell, Secretary Vance,

Mr. Helms, Mr. Dungan, with you in your office
Thureday, 10:00 AM - ExCom

4. Papers

Papers for the ExCom meeting will be étstetmutea on Tuesday
afternoon.

Gordon Chase.

SECRET-EYES ONLY

 
