 

ZOP SECRET - EYES ONLY

 

4, Suggested Approach ¢ to Nhu
Although the approach by Asta and D/orl endi to Nhu t was ‘unproductive, « oe
a further approach might be made by John Richardson, If so, “the approach a
should emphasize the strong possibility of aid cuts by Congress and our oo
decision to cut or redirect aid to those units responsible for the raid on mee : |
pagodas along the lines of Lodge's conversation with Diem. “Richardson | :
‘. should then appeal to Nhu.to leave the country for a » Jong vacation out of - |
. loyalty to the family, love of country, and to make possible continued us 7

‘support of the war effort. :

 

 

 

NW 49061 Docld:32626060 Page 9
TOP SECRET = EYESONLY .

“part C, Phase I

i _Congréssional Action . - a ’

 

A. resolution expressing the "sense of the. Senate"

ve

, that aid to South Viet- Nam be terminated’ ‘unless that regimé-

 

a reverses its policies: of repression might be useful

  
  
  
  
 

a anmunition for Ambassador Lodge , if at ‘were passed by aos

we substantial margin, With. tacit Administration approval,.

 

the Churéh-Carison vesolution has. good prospects for passage!”

 

 

In: terms ' ‘of géneral’ strategy, on the foreign aid bill, such,

   
   
 

a resolution should be delayed until after senate: passage,”

 

of the ‘aia’ bill. \aTthough a case ‘ean ‘be made for: earlier.

  
 

approval’ of. ‘this: “resolution, what is contemplated: ner

   
 

not averash progran of ‘sudden’ aid termination’ ul "rate

   
 

a carefully phased plan whieh might well benefit. “from

    

tH mn ‘at a ‘later ‘date. .

 
 

see er SL.

9061 Docld:32626060 Page 10
“TOP SECRET = EYES ONLY -
personalities and key areas. Visits Ministers, JGS, General Don, Dinh,
1° Minh, and others, with the objective of seeking their views and indicating _
} .

- American freedom to talk to whomever we please. Purpose is to build up: :

  
   
  
 

= " American prestige and a feeling that we are in charge. “Must be carefully - 2

stage-managed to avoid embarrassment,

 

po - bh, Direct imimediate procurement.in cash, and storage under

-..U.S. control, of approximately 3 million U.S. dollars worth of piastres. we

  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  

“The purpose is to'make immediately available for essential on-going counter 2
‘sasurgency pr programs, -the fuids already authorized. ‘Possibility of { freezing!
. eighter U. 8. or, province bank accounts must not be overlooked...
vo (2) Covert’ ) a

: . a, Suspension of any ‘CAS projects capable of being used d by ivi ‘to
. “asl up his prestigé ana illustrate that the U.S. is continuing to support :

_ him. “CAS should be prepared to offer recommendations in this regard,

 

.». "Set Dirih and Tung against each other by rumors and reports to. ee .
Dinh, that Tung is plotting to assassinate him, etc, .
- c. Set Now against Tran Van Kiem, Mme Nau! Ss brother. (and this °

increase tension between the Nhu! s) by getting ‘word to Nhu of what : Khiem told,

 

_ Warner ‘about Now. * wo nr a, a

a, | Fabricate a document inking ‘Nhu with the DRV thus! diseresiting

e

. him with. tae Generais,

  
  
 
  

Put out our ‘own black. ‘newspaper as ‘a counter to the ‘Times’ of

| Vietname of the velar Vietnamese press.
. TOP. SECRET - EYES ONLY.

 
eS TOP SECRET EYES ONLY et

- No U.S. participation in any new projects involving Tung -

‘, specifically the Hamlet Militia Leader Training Program.. Our. refusal to.

- participate because of Tung should be announced unequivocally to the Gyn;

we can aécompany this by a counterproposal that the 6G/sDC Directorate be”

 

put in charge since we consider it a worthy project.

~ ad. Cutting Aid to the Motion Picture Center-- Direct U.S.: ~ paid’ ‘

personnel at USOM Mopix ‘Centre and other media activities to refuse to

 
  
  
  
  
 
 

(oe the Panett eae Leena terete tanttiemets eur cnast steer $ecvmem Sam tnt fics aout oss

“handle or process any material prohibited under ]. above. This may cause. »

    
   
  
 
 
  

© temporary termination of U. Ss." participation in some activities ‘under GN.

: ontrol, and will certainly evoke inspired local press attacks. “useful.

tivities should be earried on by improvised means, with full publicity for

 

Nhu attempts t to impede the war effort, and U.S. continuation of effort: .

Diversion of Ammunition for Police . - Actual hystcale effect
‘ -negigible but psychological effect considerable.

. i. Response to attacks in . the Times of Viet-Nam. The Ambassatior: :

~ does not wish to demean himself by protesting officially, however, . if the U, s., ,

   

des not defend itself, this will be interpreted as a sign of weaimess--the wo

 

U. S. will lose face and prestige. Suggested counteractions are leaks by!

' Eraoassy officials such as "the Ambassador refuses to read the rag because, hos

 

of its notorious reputation for outright lying", or other. comments indicsting

 
     

 

. the U. 8. considers the riewspaper ridiculous. - 4 i a

   
  

g. Ambassador makes uniannounced" visits on oe Viethamase

TOP SEORET - EYES ‘OnLy.

a

 

en et et rtm aan NA Me aS lb A oe eI RE ET A SRT

 

we ee J

NW 49061 Docld:32626060 Page 7
rate Be C oe © . - . -@
. ee |‘ TOP SECRET - EYES ONLY |
- Part’B, Phasei - . |
1. Objective
To separate the Nous and their immediate supporters (i. eo » Tang
. Hieu of the Police, Minister Ngo Trong Hieu). °

2, Concept of Operations .. Actions taken should fall short of seriously .

“camaging the war effort while at the same time indicating that the U. S. will -

 

. not tolerate the Nhus. The importance of these actions does not lie in . i

 
   
  
  

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 

 

“physi cal damage done the GVN but in their psychological effect upon Nhu ant ;
ompany, and upon the potential opposition. ‘These actions must demonstrate :
U. 5. determination not to tojerate the Nhus and their attempts to destroy : p
American prestige. For every overt action,” there should be correspondirig’
‘covert Actions designed to split the Nhu power group and further discredit:

hem. The entire operation should be conceived of asa psychological wariare a

 

campaign designed to ‘maintain Uz 8.- prestige by dissociating ourselves from
the: Navs and discrediting them.

3. “Specific Recommended Actions. Actions should be pinned to reportedly,
“ominous signs that the US. will not tolerate the repressive actions against |

he Buddhists or other citizens and will not tolerate and support any persons, .

directly res gonsible for “Buch actions (i.e. the Nhus and Tung). A Congressional

: or Senatorial Resolution to this purpose is recommended. (See below).

Requirement for a Sin ed Statement. to Accomp: yU. sz Ai a Lo

“astiuct ail U. s. agencies promptly to answer routine requests, for sivpert on :

 

 

the merits, put to require a signed statement, in substance:.

TOR SECRET - EYES ONLY |

ot. ‘ - a ca
Te Mee yeafpe. Dor, a

 

tp se

WW 49061 Docld:32626060 Page 5

 

 

 
TOP SECRET - EVES ONLY
"These supplies will not be used in any way to indicate U.S. _
or GVN support of anti-Buddhist or other unjustified :
repressive actions, or of those persons connected twit ith or
_ directly responsible for such actions.. n :
Comment: No violent ‘reaction from the President is likely if it is”
: . explained to him by the Ambassador. that these steps are absolutely necessary

“= to prevent all aid from being severed. Selected instances of this requirement:

3

. should be leaked to the press--alerting them to check on compliance. Instances . ,

ue of rejection of the requirement should be’ broadly publicized as evidence ‘of:

  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

oS “unwillingness to get on with thé war. "This should be very effective in » hastening: :

consolidation of anti-Nbu opinion.

mo b. ‘Termination of CAS Support to Vietnamese Special Forces sty.

withdrawing CAS- owed equipment. Announce to Special Foreces that hence.

    

 

 

 

forth no ‘additional funds will be paid through Tung for any Projects waatsoéver .

 

7 Other projects may. be supported by Payment directiy to project officers, oe
provides project is. in mutual best interest. _ Any project capable of serving ve
personal ambitigns. of ‘Nhu or Tung automatically excluded. : Actial harm -

done to war effort or to Special Forces would be slight but it would be ‘a 7 ,
sychological blow of, ‘considerable proportions to Tung whose power ‘rests j in = we

he  eRes | of the Vietnamese, not only upon his conr sections at the Palace but

 

 

“wpon apparent unlimited U. 8. “support for him, -

 

“= "TOP SECRET = EYES ONLY “3

   

'Z..

wen ee ee

fF 49061 Docld:32626060 Page 6

 

a a.
NUS. #478 « Dee Sen zed
oC, MES oye

  
 
 
  
  
  

  

  
 
 

_Purpose_
“The Purpose of Phase J is to ‘attempt to persuade Diem and ‘Nha

“Separately that the Nhus should leave the country for. ‘an extended .

   
 

- period. . The means are continuing the Lodge-Diem conversations;

  
 

direct approaches to Nhu; :” —

‘the ‘Nhus from from their immediate supporters ; and a ‘carefully

  
   
 

tailored public posture to supplement these efforts.

 

 
 
 

Part Aj. ‘Phase L,. below, describes’ a possible Lodge approach! to’

 

  
 

a Part 3 bélow, describes, the actions to be taken to. isolate the. Nhu

  
 

from ‘their immediate supporters,. including a suggested approach ts to:

Nu himsett ut - . a : OT

  
 

’ Part C, below, describes possible ‘Congressional action. to produce

  
 

pressure on Viet-Nam.

  
   
 

‘Part D, below, describes the US Government public posture in -

  
 

. “Phase i, including. a proposed: statement.

  
 

_ Part E is concerned with the possible evacuation Of. dependents. as’

   

_ proposed by ambassador ‘Lodge: i

 

wee LE

WH 49061 Docld:32626060 Page 2
176-10036-10127 !

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10127
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : .

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO:

TITLE : Phase |
DATE :

PAGES : 18
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 199: Vietnam,9/11/1963-9/17/63. Box 2

NW 49061 DoclId:32626060 Page 1
: oe 7 TOP SECRET - EYES ONLY
i 7 whe part A A, Phase I .
. oe “Lodge! s Approach to Diem.

; Lodge should ‘see Diem and. convey” the foLtoning:

Hens oe 7 . The United st tates Government feels, as the’ President

-” indieated ‘in his Tv interview, that Diem must take drastic ete
iste * action to recapture the support of his people, ‘repeating.

the. ‘same approach made by Anibassador Lodge in his last’

   

“meeting te. a long vacation for the Nhus , actions wo

   
  
    
    
    
   
    
    
    
   
   
 

‘demonstrate a reversal of the ‘Poltey of. repression, - and: the: -

 

broadening of ‘the Government. ~~. Se

 

“However, in ‘the ‘meantime, the- United States. Governrient -

especially the American Congress. in order to preserve.

the aid ‘program ‘to south Viet- -Nam, which the President:

  

 

sincerely desires to do, it has become. politically ‘necessary
to. disassociate: ourselves from supporting, those units i

responsible. for ‘the raid on the pagodas. ‘Otherwise, -the.-

  

United States Congress may cut off all aid. ‘Therefore,
“2”. Ambassador Lodge must reluctantly notify President: Diem’ :

that assistance to Colonel ‘Tung! 8 programs. must be - terminated:

   

We will make an attempt, to redirect what ‘aid we can’ “on to
programs essential | to" the war effort Af: ‘this can “be worke

_

out. | ; :
if Presiaént, Dien’ can see fit to take the ‘dramatic ae tions

mentioned above promptly, we feel that we can quickly, “pestoré ©

   
 

  
 

YY ee confidence.” But we. “must. warn the ; President that ir. ‘the

 

fe eirens cannons opty aeeee eee enme ners Me Blame! ae sue ame a hernnen:

. situation’
 SRORbT. EVES: ONLY.

   

ee ete tt ne an ene er

NW 49061 DocId:32626060 Page 3

 
TOP: SECRET - EYES ONLY

 

situation continues as it has been we may have to make ©
“purther ¢ cuts--again in order to avoid: a total cut ad aid.
If this. becomes necessary we’ will endeavor’ to make these

in such away as not, to affect the’ war effort, e. Bes the er
-etes lu”

  

Saigon water works, the ‘Saigon electric power’ plant. .

  

ote

“TOP: SECRET

     

   

 

 

# 49061 Dacld: 32626060 Page 4
