af

 

‘possibly to forestall identification of U. 5. Government support but also | to
i avoid any appearance of U. s. Government control or ultiniate responsibility.
. What will be impossible to disprove is that the Cubaris responsible obtain

é

- help in the U.S.

6. | Air Operations: ‘If the internal resistance grows, it will be. desirable
at some point to undertake air resupply missions. These would be conducted
“by Cuban crews asing common types of commertial aircraft. They wil, be .
‘night missions and would be undertaken’ only if reception parties had been :

identified and-were in possession of agent radio sets and, hopefully, beacons :

 
  
   
   
    
  
 
  

por

* "so. > that. resupply could be carried out with reasonable efficiency. As

 
  
  

. such air: actiyity, proposals have been received for both Jeattet a

 

, bombing raid .d

, One succes sful. leaflet mission: was: recently cont ndu

 

. Cubans from lorida entirely: on their own: after Agency support

‘refused. “Such operations rather: infrequently carvied ‘out. may, h.
: *morale effes

quite, aside; from, international 2 repercussions, would -be. contrapro

eee ON TE cma

“in ite’ effect on'the Cubans. .

 

 

 

 

 
 

mae yt meine

 

 

 

 

. . Guba tov. channels.

: another.

   

_ 8.November 1961

TYPES-OF COVERT ACTION AGAINST THE CASTRO REGIME

le _ Non- Sensitive Activities: A variety of non- sensitive political warfare

and propaganda activities are being conducted outside Cuba. These include: .

(a) working with the Cuban Revoluntionary Council and the number of other

Cuban. groups in Miami in an. effort t to. > improve their competence t to undertake

: action on their own and also to minimize ‘the effects of disunity among the.

Cubans: (b) efforts to induce thie ‘defection of prominent Cubans from the Castro :

 

eg me; (¢) black operations. -with the dbjective of having Castro’ s diplomats

Ag

  
  

 

There 6 Believed to be little risk that these activities: -

  

The following parée’ aphe- j

    

 

 

 

 
 

 

176-10010-(0002

 

 

 

JFK Assassination System : . Date: 5/5/2016
Identification Form i

ernment Pennant CC

Agency Information

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: = 176-10010-10002

RECORD SERIES : ' POF

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: WH
FROM:
TO:

TITLE: MEMO ,

DATE: 11/08/1961
PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS :
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL.DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: — IC
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 05/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: UPON AGENCY REVIEW

COMMENTS : POF:CO:Cuba, Security, 1961:Box 115
 

a4

oo

G

2. . Agent ‘Training: ‘There are currently : some 90 Cubans already trained

 

or now in 2 training as activists who can be infiltrated to organize: the resistance
and to develop sabotage a activities. In addition there are some 22 Cuban

“students in training for infiltration to conduct. Agit/ Prop activities. For the

most t part the training is being done in Florida. The men are trained in.

 

po compartmentedsemall groups; the largest single unit, already. trained, “numbers .,

 

. 35. ‘No subsed ent group will be as large. The candidates < are “of, .coursé:

 

‘voluateers and ,

   
   

re. from, a number of thé political groups with which we. are ain

 

 

.

“ _contact.

     
  

 

3. infiltration) Exfiltration: We: maintain and. employ: for training ‘and

   

 

a Sperational pur] oses a. fleet of some 7 craft, They. are used prima? y, oF. hb

   
 

 

‘when this becomes feasible. No. Americans are allowed on an

 

 

going within the i2-mile limit around Cuba Many. infiltration! extfiltyation ;

re > coe eo

 

‘maintenance of. communication with internal resistance: leaders. Byers effort.

 

 

aos — ne _ ea

 

 

 
time consumi: 8: effort: to build a secure ¢ underground organization, 5

: conceived opera ons are: > proposed by.

 

. facilities to conduct the actual infiteration itself, and resupply following.

__to conceal Uz s. geographical origin. But every effort

 

. establishing effective ‘secure communication with internal resistance leaders.

The "objective will be to. develop o one or more nets ‘of f dependable sympathizers
\ .

and the means ‘of communication: both among themselves and to the outside.

In the first instarice such internal as sets, to the extent to’ ‘which they, are’
“subject to control. from outside, will be used for intelligence colléction,

- further clandestine ne recruiting, assisting, in infill éxfiltration opérations, and
‘mounting 1 low risk sabotage operations. They will be deliberately réstrained

‘in this phase from exposing: themsd ves by operations involving igh risk |

or the 2 absembly § ih. one operation of any ; sizeable number of the resistance,

 

5. | Accelerated Resistance. Acti: ties: ‘in parallel with » heigecessarily

       

 

 

t ia:now. :

° planned to support in the next few months larger scale. infiltrations of mea .

y.

   
  

 

   

the country ‘or are s requested by- the r

 

- Casés the’ sponsorship. and ultimate: responsibility for ‘such operations will .

‘rest with: Cubans. and the Agency’ 8 ole will be that of furnishing support i in

 

the form of funds, ‘training; equipment, communications, frequently: the :

   

oe

  

infiltration if required and feasible. These will. necéas atily be higher risk ~

: be made : not’ only

 

27

d

“and arms. fox reshotage and perhaps ultifnately guerrilla activities when. well- . a
: putabli, opposition, leaders: now outside ce

tance leadership from: thin. In most e

operation in which some casualties: must be anticipated. RG will be impossible :

vy

 

 
