235
C ; .: SRE SAnitiZec Ww
VEG SION

THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

SECRET , Fess ‘For GA GSE r
November 21, 1961

MEMORANDUM TO THE PRESIDENT
FROM:

SUBJECT; Viet-Nam Status Report.

There is attached the first status report on recent decisions
with respect to Viet-Nam, This memorandum is designed to supple-
ment that status report by providing additional clarifying information,
covering subjects not covered in the report and bringing it up to date
where additional information has been received.

The Military Situation. There has been continuing deterioration,
but no major change, in the military situation. The crisis described
in the Taylor Mission Report has not been reversed. There has been
a recent step-up of Viet Cong activity in the Delta and GVN analysis
suggests that the VC plans to broaden the area of Zone D north of
Saigon. Though the Government has taken some military initiatives,
its military operations have produced no significant results. There is
one bit of evidence indicating that the Cambodians may have tightened
their border somewhat and that the VC are raiding Cambodian border
villages in retaliation.

Casulty rates remain at the higher level inaugurated in September,
when the VC stepped up their offensive.

The Flood Situation. Each new report on the flood emphasizes
the fact that its effects will not be so severe as had been feared
initially. However, estimates of rice requirements which have
fluctuated up and down have now been firmly estimated at the relatively
high figure of 220,000 tons. Action to deal with this problem is
reported in the status report. Meanwhile, Diem has established his
own flood relief and reconstruction organization under an official who
is well regarded by the American Embassy.

SECRET
176-10036-10082

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10082
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : WH
FROM : Rostow
TO : Kennedy, John F .
TITLE : Vietnam Status Report
DATE : 11/21/1961
PAGES : 3
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
; COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 195: Vietnam Memos and Reports,
11/17/61-11/30/61. Box 2
(C:

SECRET
~2-

U.S, Economic Aid. AID in mid-October approved a level of
$140 million for non-project aid (commercial imports) for FY 1962.
Because of the floods and General Taylor's visit, this figure was
never given to the Vietnamese. The Ambassador on November 16
requested that this level be increased to $160 million on the basis of
new requirements created by the flood, particularly the need for rice.
Today he has sent a new message to the personal attention of Fowler
Hamilton requesting expedited action on this request on the grounds
that it would be of great help in=his current negotiations with Diem
and is crucial to Vietnamese action to carry out exchange reform
and other measures which were agreed in comnection with the Staley
Report. The request-is receiving urgent consideration in State and
AID.

The Civil Guard and Self Defense Corps. The item on this
subject at the bottom of page 2 of the status report actually deals only
with the Civil Guard. We have not yet reached agreement with the
Vietnamese Government on a plan for the training of the Self Defense
Corps. The Government rejected a MAAG proposal that members of
the Corps be trained in the Civil Guard training centers on the grounds
that such action would leave a security vacuum in the provinces. The
GVN proposed instead to bring 3 to 5 thousand Nationalist Chinese
military to Viet-Nam to provide ''on-the- spot" training. We are
planning to make a counter-proposal for training of the Corps at thirty
provincial training centers.

The Geneva Accords. As anticipated, we are already having
some difficulties dealing with questions from newsmen and others on
the relationship between our actions and the Geneva Accords. The
problem has been contained for the moment, but can be expected to
become more difficult as additional large items of military equipment
are delivered. :

New Management of the Surete. The Embassy is seizing upon
the opportunities provided by change in leadership of the Surete. It is
planning to propose development of a "National Communist Party
Penetration Service" with CIA support down to the provincial level and
an improved police program with the support of the USOM. °

SECRET
SECRET
-3-

Organizational Questions. General Taylor has been consulting
with General Lemnitzer on the question of organization of U.S,
military activities in Viet-Nam. The question of Washington
organization for implementation of the action program is under con-
sideration between State and Defense in consultation with General
Taylor. :

Weed Killer. You will be receiving papers from Defense and
State soon raising the question of whether we should support the use
of a weed killer to attack crops in the plateau area on which the VC
feed and to clear jungle paths, notably for an attack on Zone D. Your
decision is required because this is a kind of chemical warfare.

SECRET
