 

 

TI.

A.

c SECRET C

that this woman is a cut-out in the communica~

. tions between. the pro-Conmunist Peasant Leagues,

which havé run . the ‘camps , and the Cuban, embassy.

‘The principle that guerrillas must be self- sustain-

ing has obviously been applied to finances. as well.”
"Communists have staged waves of bank robberies in

- Venezuela, Peru, and Argenting.

‘The most spectacular hold- -up was that of a bank
ina ‘Lima suburb last year which netted almost

$100, 000. . Some of the participants have been .

caught ‘and are ‘being tried in the mass trials .

of. more than 200 Communists just starting in

Peru, We know that the hold-up was carried out’

‘bya combination of guerrillas’ and ordinary

_‘¢rimindls, who divided the loot fifty-fifty.

a Some of the share of. the common criminals has

: té

been recovered, but the Cotimunist half is. be-
lieved: to have reached the sizeable guerrilla

forces of Hugo Blango in the: ‘Cuzco valley.

Just last week a bank in an outlying Venezuelan

 

  

a was robbed. of $25, 000 by men wearing FALN

armbands:

_ Argentine | police last July. raided a Buenos Aires

warehouse and ° found evidence that. it had been

the headquarters for. a gang of terrorists--ap-

: parently working: ‘with both the, Peronists and the

. mhn . .
SECRET:

 
 

 

wee secret

Conmunis ts--responsible for a wave of ‘nold- ~UPS ,
burglaries, and attacks ‘on police posts designed

to obtain funds, weapons, and explosives.

' 5-

‘SECRET

 

 

 
 

SRM Le we trem owt wae wie

conte : on SEGRET ee G .

DRAFT BRIEFING NOTES © 18 February 1963
FUNDING

I. Cuban financing of subversive operations in Latin

America is, easy to-secertatiani-tardto document,

our evidence shows that it is generally effected

by couriers carrying cash.

A. A Venezuelan politician, Fabricio Ojeda, re-

vO turned from Cuba in March of 1962, and was seen
by several witnesses to have large quantities
: of US currency stuffed in a false-bottomed con-.
partment of his suitcase: There is no law
against bringing currency into Venezuela, so
that authorities could: not even determine how
“much he had brought in, Ojeda later was cap-
tured, tried, and sentenced for guerrilla” ac-
_ tivity. )

B. A ‘Nicaraguan exile, “Julio Cesar Mayorga Porto
carrera, was ‘flying from Mexico to Honduras in
September, 1961, when weather forced the plane
to overfly Honduras and land in Nicaragua. He
was found to be carrying $3 ,600 in cash from
Cuba’ for Nicaraguan rebels in Honduras.

Cc. Last March Ecuadorean troops raided a guerrilla

training camp in the nouiltains west of Quito and.

SECRET

 

 
 

1764003640068]

 

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :
RECORD SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO:
TITLE :
: 2/18/1963 :
25
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

DATE
PAGES

2/18/1963. Box1 -

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

NARA

176-10036-10065
National Security Files

Draft Briefing Notes: Funding

9/10/2000

National Security Files, Box 59: Cuba Subjects, Cuban Subversion,
 

© SECRET

: arrested some 48 members of the URJE. (onion of

Revolutionary Rouadorean Youth) + The ‘leaders: “of

the group admitted having received guerrilla

training in Cuba, but there was’-no other evidence.

at the time of any Cuban involvement. The URJE;

however, was a Communist-front group whose leaders

had thrown off the discipline of the regular Con-_

munist party, and this January the Communists ‘man-

aged to have a URJE convention, run by Young Com-

.. munists, expel the leaders. They were accused,

_ according to published accounts, of having wasted

$44, 000 supplied by | Cuba for guerrilla activities.

One of our reliable sources in the Communist Party

 

 

has informed us that the’

 

: next-to-last Cuban chargé in Quito blamed the

fiasco on the fact that his successor had passed

’ the money to the URJE without coordinating with

_ the regular” ‘Communist party.

A highly placed Guatemalan Communist who defected

- last November has given us a specific account of

procedures by which Cuba sent cash to Mexico to
buy weapons which were then smuggled into Guate-

mala.
~2-

SECRET

 

 
 

 

Ce SECRET G.

oo We also have considerable evidence ‘of ‘involved: -

bank ‘transfers’, by - which Cuban money eventually - .

Feaches: tatin American ‘front groups to. pay for

political and propaganda activity. - In some

countries where ‘the Cubans still have diplomatic

missions, we have. obtained photos tats showing.

that Cuban diplomats paid for printing - of front-

group propaganda .

Just last month, one of the first Brazilians to |

- receive guerrilla warfare training in 1961 was
: picked up-with a suitcase full of ammunition. he
was carrying to some of those same guerrilla

training. camps exposed when the Varig plane

crashed in Peru, Interestingly enough, the

Brazilians believe ‘that ‘the money’ "Cuba had been
providing’ for. ‘the camps ‘actually came from Com-

‘munist China. ‘Since the — ‘exposure of the varig

 

' documents--and probably Since the guerrillas
. first reached the Cuban embassy in Rio with
their complaints about mismanagenent, confusion,
“and | corruption--the Cubans have apparently
° stopped financing this operation, but the evidence
“shows it is still limping along. The man with’ .
"the suitcase fall ‘of ammunition, said that a woman

‘attorney. in Rio had given him the money to” ‘buy, a

large hacienda as a new guerrilla camp. We know

a

. -3-
SECRET ©

 
