 

 

Current Situation Eval detoa

 

fhe principal remaining issues before the Geneva Gonference ’ | including
-SEATO, having. been resolved. it is anticipated that the new Accords may be
signed next week. There is nevertheless one sericus stumbling block, which
endangers the satisfectory conclusion of the Conference, i.e., the possible
refusal of the GUN to sign. The GYN's position stems from its belief that
so many concessions have been made to the Commnists that the security of
SYN is gravely threatened. We are, however, hopeful that Diem will still
be persuaded that we have achieved the best obtainable compromise for Lacs
and that we stand firm on our commitments to SYN. ;

 

There has been little progress on our. action program. We are con-
centrating at present on the following problems :

1. Economic Assistance. Elaboration of our future aid to Laos awaits
the visitof Souvanna Phouma to Washington, tentatively scheduled for
July 25-27. In the meantime, we seek to spread the burden of providing
Souvanna with the material assistance he requires ‘by enlisting contribu-
tions from other Free World natious.

2. RIG Diplomatic Relations. The RLG's decision to recognize 5 bloc
countries and accept an exchange of Ambassadors poses a major problem with
respect to the GUN, GRC, Federzl Republic of Germany and the ROK. Further
action by the RLG is deferred until Souvanne's return to Laos. In the in-
terim we are attempting to assist the pro-Western countries involved in
establishing or maintaining satisfactory representation in Laos.

3. ICC. We have asked our Geneva delegation to request the ICC to
prepare a detailed budget and list of equipment needs so that we will be
prepared to meet quickly our share of the requiremants. With regard to
the essontisl heavy equipment ~ helicopters and light aircraft = we are
taking steps to make it immediately available to the ICC.

4. WMAAG Withdrawal. With the signing of the Accords, we will seek
Canadian cooperation in utilizing to the full the 75-day period for the
withdrawal of foreign military personnel. This will give us the maxinun
possible opportunity to determine whether the DRY is abiding by its
commitments and whether the Soviets as Co-Chairman are. carrying out
their undertaking. ;

SECRET
Current Situation Evaluation

The internal situation remains unstable. This fact. was highlighted
by incidents on duly 7 and 8 when student demonstrations led by pro-
Communist organizations were ruthlessly repressed by the police ard ary.
These incidents could well lead to increased public disaffection with the
Ne Win regime and to a rift between the regime and the opportunistic
leftist groups who have, heretofore, been its only outspoken eivilian
political supporters.

Internal security conditions are apparently continuing to deteriorate,
though not dramatically. A especial Government amnesty offer expired June 30
without preducing significant response from the insurgents.

Progress on Action Program
1. Political

It has been confirmed thet Brigadier Tin Pe of the Union Revolutionary
Ceuncil will come to Washington for medical treatment as planned probably
in late July, although precige datea have not been determined.

2. Economic (AID)

No new developments.

a. The Burmese are ready formally to accept. the FY 1962 military
"gales" program. State and DOD have agreed to accelerate deliveries of MZ
carbines as requested by the Burmese, to the extent production facilities
permit, in order to contribute to planned post-monsoon counter-insurgency
operations. This action will also, hopefully, earn some political credit
for the United States.

b. Embassy Rangoon has confirmed that United States training
for Burnese officers will be continued under the FY 1962 program. 117
prospective students heve been processed for the coming year.

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET -
-6-

THAILAND

“Current Situation Evaluation

fhe RIG has accepted the International Court decision awarding the
disputed Phra Vihern Temple to Cambodie. Thai delegates attended the
Geneva Conference on Laos, which reconvened on Jaly 2, but the RTG has
act yet announced ite intention to attend the next meeting of the SEATO
Council of Representatives in mid-duly..

On July 2 the US begen the redeployment of 1,000 Merines from the
Third Merine Expeditionary Brigede 2t Udorn. Possible Thai concern over
this move wee leasened by our informing them at the same time of a US-
financed program to improve logistic facilities in Theiland (see belox).

On June 29 police arrested one suspected Communist in Chiengrei and
one in Lempang, both in the North of Thailand. The Thai press reports
that subversive documents were confiscated at both locations. According
to unconfirmed reports these documents originated fron

 

 

 

 

 

Progress on Action Program

1. Improved Logistic Facilities -

We have outlined to the RIG our proposed program to improve
logistic facilities in Thailand. The program would consist mainly of
a POL pipeline to Korat in the northeast, rolling stock, airfield im-
provement, storage areas, and propositioning of heavy. military: engineer-
ingéquipment. fhe Thai have agreed to the proposal in principle although
Sarit reserved his decision on our request that the RTG provide the right-
of-way for the pipeline and in-country transportation.

2. Internal Security Plan

We have instructed Embessy Bangkok to cable surmaries of those
portions ef the plan which will not have been pouched in time to reach
the Department by July 11. This will permit consideration of the basic
componente of the entire plan during Secretary McNamera's forthcoming
trip to Honolulu. :

SECRER
SECRET
Se:

wer effort. Eight posts have reported favorably on the effort, imticating
no difficulty in placing the photos in leading newspspers.

28. Establish Network of USIS Sub-posts.
The GUN has agreed.to the establishment of virtually eny nanber

af USIS sub-posts throughout the country. Negotistions.on locations and
physical arrangements are underway. ;

SEORET
 

SECRET
3.

. (b) Third Country Aid. The United States has suggested a
Saigon, and poss: a later” ington meeting of donor country repre-
sentatives to coordinate aid to Viet-Nam. The intention is to stimulate
more third country aid if possible, and to make sure that current third
country contributions are being effectively applied. To date, Australia
and New Zealand have indicated willingness to participate in such meetings,
Germany will take part in informal Saigon meetings but would not attend
any formal Washington gathering, and the Japanese are "proceeding with
caution" because of the expressed fear that too close identification
with the U.S. will open up Japanese technicians in Viet-Nam to Viet Cong
reprisals. Canada has declined to participate because of its membership
on the ICC. The Belgians. French, Italians and the UK have not yet
responded .

Negotiations for the integration of Australian trainers into
our MAAG apnear near completion. The GVN has indicated its willingness to
receive a New Zealand medical team at any time and the details are being
worked out with Wellington and Saigon.

10. Military Civic Action

The 3lst Engineer Battalion assisted the lecal population at
Cheo Reo in Pleiku Province in the construction of a Buddhist temple.
In addition to the 150,000 copies of a news sheet distributed weekly by
soldiers to the local civilian population, 35,000 copies of the sheet
were also air dropped.

 

12. Develop and Implement Mutually

Operations Binh Minh and Hai Yen. Saigon reports both clear-
and-hold operations con ng to make progress without serious WC reaction.
Increased contact with the WC is reported in the Hai Yen area, however, as
the military move into WC territory.

: Hamlet Councils have been elected in the Hai Yen area, but the
Embassy notes a sericus problem in the fact that a hamlet Council member
receives only 300 piasters (about $4.00) per month for what is theoreti-
cally e full time job. In Operation Binh Minh, an effort will be made to
induce the people to move voluntarily into the fourth village to be set
up there. Ths plan calls for extensive propaganda and explanations in ~
advance of the move. establishment of military control over the area so
that the people will be free to move voluntarily, and up to 15 deys to
accomplish the move itself (previous regrouping actions allowed only a a
very short period for the physical move).

Montegnards. Latest information developed as a result of joint
surveys indicates the Montagnard situation is more a long term problem
than an emergency. There has in fact been a movement of some 17,000 Hon-

‘tagnard as a reaction to VC pressures, and this movement will probably

continue, particularly if the GIN provides adequate food and security.
SECRET

 
 

SECRET a i
abe’

Almost all Montagnard refugees are at least temporarily resettled and re-
ceiving minimum food, shelter and secirity.

The Embassy comments that while this information somewhat reduces
the urgency of the problem, it does not change the problem's magnitude or
importance. Difficulties stemaing from the absence of a well directed,
national Montagnard relief program, limited relief resources , and the Viet-
namese prejudice against the Montagnard continue. But the principal and
most encouraging agpect is the fact that the Montagnard have fled the ve
pressures and more may do so.

   

Ham], am. The second ten day training coarse for
@t cadres was “Gnaugurated by Ngo dinh Nhu in Seigon duly 2.

   

490 strategic hemi

 

 

Future Plans. According to CAS, L

 

 

 

 

 

'15. Provide Increased Technical Assistance.

Villege Radios. As of July h, 817 of the plenned 2500 village
radios were inetatied and operating. Tests of radios for use on trains
were started.

Defoliation. The Embassy has proposed a test of the effectiveness
of defoliaate against VC food patches in the mountainous area of Operation
Hai Yen. Governor Harriman opposes the use of defoliants on food crops be-
cause of the effect on Asian opinion.. Decision and action will be delayed
until the Governor's return fron Geneva.

20. Integrate Economic Measures with Counterinsurgency Bffort.

Agricultural Extension. A pilot training program for agricultural
efforts associated with counterinsurgency plans opened July 3 in Qui Nhon.
One hundred farmers will study farming and stock raising nethods for one
month, including the use of fertilizers and pesticides. on

Provincial Hospitals. Construction of four of the 25 planned
hospital surgical suites began on schedule.

Anti-Rat erogrer The USOM-supported rat destruction campaign was
carried out in northern provinces June 12-22, resulting in the destruction

of an estimated 15-20 million rats or 20,000 per village.

   

25. Publicize the War Within Viet-Nem and Internationally

 

Viet-Nam Photo Service. USIS Saigon ig sending out a veekly packet
of photos designed to enlist third country interest and support for the GUN

SECRET
  

STATUS REPORT
ON

SOUTHEAST ASIA

JULY U,1962

PREPARED BY:
TASK FORCE SOUTHEAST ASIA

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

SECRET -

 

coMéy
 

176-10036-10179

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA ‘
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10179
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : :
ORIGINATOR : DOS
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : Status Report on Southeast Asia
DATE : 7/11/1962
PAGES : 10
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 203: Vietnam Status 7/11/63. Box 1 —
SECRET
VIET-NAM

Current Overall Evaluation :

i The general trend appears slightly ‘fevorable, with the GVN continuing
té*improve its military, and to a Limited extent, its political and econs=
mie position. Basic problems are being eroded but quick and decisive

action is rare, There were no major breakthroughs or important victories’ .

and nowappear likely in the immediate future, The Viet Cong show no
weakening in strength or determination despite reportedly heavy losses.

On the military side, Operations Binh Minh and Hai Yen continued

well, Viet Cong casualties were up and their activities dom (there is ~
an unconfirmed news report that a major battle took place July 3, however,
in which the VC defeated a regular army battalion}, This may be due to
reorganization and weather rather than GYN successes, The GVN took several
good but minor:steps to increase popular support for the war effort, and
several rural s.cfal and economic programs moved ahead significantly. On
the international front, there were some favorable responses to our efforts
to set up an aid coordinating group of donor nations, Economic conditions
improved somewhat, with atable prices, credit a little less tight, consu-
mer goods sales and tax collections up, and rice deliveries contimed good,

Fearing that the prospective law settlement will facilitate Viet Cong
activities and that it may presage a U. S. move to neutralize Viet-Nam it-
self, the GUN has made difficulties at Geneva over several issues and
threatens to boycott the conference. President Kennedy has sent Diem a
personal letter stressing the importance we attach to a Laos settlement
and our determination to continue to help Viet-Nam defend itself, There
is no response as yet,

Progresas on Action Pr Ly

1, W Activity

Viet Gong activity continued at a relatively low level, with arned
attacks falling to the lowast point over a year, 60, for the period 20-27
Jane and rising only slightly to 75 for the period June 27 - duly i, The
lack of W aggressiveness is likely due to the rainy season and their
efforts to regroup in order to counter the improved mebility and perfor-

_ mance of the GUN forces, Observing that this appeara to be a period of

yC reorganization and assimilation of recent infiltrators, COMUSMACV ree
ports indications that VG units which previously operated as separate
platcons and companies are now being formed into battalions. Infiltration
evidently continues, but good intelligence is scarce, MACY Jo2 estinates
sntdiltration in May at 800-1,000 and 800 for the first three weeks of June,
but this information is unconfirmed and there are no reports of infiltra-
tion since, ;

' SECRET
SECRET ~
-2-

In spite of reduced VW activity, VC casualties were high and included
some main force personnel. For the peried 20-27 June the VC suffered a
reported increace of casualties of almost 25 per cent over the previous |
reporting period. Killed in action for the two week period were 865 VC
end 141 friendly forces. , :

Reports continue to indicate a critical VC shortage of medical supplies.
Unconfirmed reports rsise the possibility thet the VC are attaining an enti-
sircraft capability. |

‘(PolLowiog items are keyed to the VietNam dreft ection program of
daly 3)

2. Strengthen populsr suggort. The GVN took several stess to generate
more popular support in the last two weeks. These include the July 7 release
of 79 priscners in connection with the celebration of the "double seven"
holiday (anniversary of Diem's coming to power), a stepped-up drive to root
out low-level corruption and abuse of power by GUN officials, and a Presiden-
tially proposed amendment to the Constitution permitting the questioning of
Cabinet Ministers both by Committees of the National Assembly aad by the
Natioval Assembly in plenary session. ‘he prisoners released may include
leading oppositionist Phan Quang Dan, who has been in prison since his par-
ticipation in the attempted 1960 coup, We have urgad the last item on Diem
in the past in an effort to imcrease the powers and prestige of the National
Assembly. :

Another favorable development is increased emphasis on working with anc
for the people in the current training program for strategic hamlet cadres.
Ngo dinh Nhu (President's brother in charge of the stretegic hamlet program)
is concerned that the program win genuine populsr support. He favore the
election of hamlet officials by secret bellot instead of by customary show
‘of hamis. This is now being done in some hamlets.

k, Seek International Support

(s) Cambodian Relations. The GVN replied mildly to the Cambodian
note concerning the ARVN border incursions of June 16. but did not apologize
or offer indemnities. The note ingists that all precautions sere taken to
avoid crossing the poorly marked frontier, admits thst in spite of these pre-
eatitions the frontier may have been violated. points out that any such inad-
vertent crossing wae not motivated by hostility toward Cambodia, denies the

” arrest of or harm to Cambodian inhabitants, and propeses a mixed border con-

trel committee ts etudy frontier incidents and provide for future border
cooperation.

. Ancther source of GYN-RKG friction, disputed coastal islands.
was the subject of an exchange of notes which threatened to stir up further
trouble between Cambodia and Viet-Nam, :
