 

 

296 Develop

Suspended: Security conditions make this type of project dire
cult. & US-financed center near My Tho is in
eperation, however, with IVS personnel (who have
been fired on by the VG). Ten pilot agricultural
stations are conducting tests and demonstration
work in crop and livestock development.

 

     

30. plot. t_rehabtittetion of wee prigoners and broadcast their

to Communist ‘areas.

Continues: The GVN does not have a well-defined rehabilita-
tion program for VC prisoners. (See Action 68). "
It has been reluctant to make prisoners available
for interviews. Interviews with refugees from
Communist NVN have been made and. broadcast, how-
ever.

3l. Provide funds for US participation in Saigon trade fair.

   

Cancelled: The fair was called off.

32.
levels.

   

Covert action to be carried forward and coordinated at appropriate

’ Continues.

336 President reserves ju mt on levels of fund roposed.

. No Task Force. actéon re wired.

B. Joint Action Program (Staley Report)

3k. Provide e ment and assistance in training for an increase in
armed forces from 170,000 to 200,000. To increase effectiveness of increase,

mutually

SECRET
( _ SECRET
Jeo

mutually agreed geographically phased plan, understanding on traihing and use
of 30,000 additional men, and regulation of rate of increase for most effi-
elent absorption should be accomplished.

Gontimes: The force level now stands at 197,000. We have
encountered difficulties in setting up and implee
menting a geographically phased plan. The Delta
plan meets this requirement, but we are not sure
that it will be completely implemented.

 

Achieved: Force levels now stand at 197,000. The ultimate
“ target is 225,000 by the end of FY 6h. On the
Self-Defense Corps and the Civil Guard see Action 55.

 

Continues : ‘The commodity import ‘target: for FY 62 was set at
--$135 million. The Vietnamese economy has been
able to absorb only $110 million. Other external
resources, 1.e. equipment for economic and mili-
tary projects, have been provided as needed.

 

‘Continues: ‘The. Gy instituted fiscal reforms, including what
amounted to a devaluation, in January 1962. These
reforms are a direct result of U.S. urgingss

Internal tax receipts have increased over .
1961. Plaster revenue remains inadequate, however,
to. cover counterinsurgency needs. The GVN has
been unwilling to use deficit financing to met
this shortfall and has requegted & cash grant

from US. The problem is under negotiation.

, 38. Strongly

SECRET
 

industrialization. U.S. aid continues to make
important contributions te education, medicine,
and other social services.
25. fssess economic implications of an ARYN force increase of |
170,000 i ae

Achieved.

     

26. sssist OVN public information programs to build public under-
standing of actions required toc om WO and increase public confidence

 

' Continues: USIS has ‘worked closely with the cw to develop its
information program, Accomplishments include the
establishment of a radio net serving; the entire
nation, production and distribution of films, and
the development of rural. newspapers. We are cur=
rently negotiating for the establishment of joint
branch USIS-VIS posts throughout the country.

a.
facts of |

throughout the world ae

Continues: The.US publication "4 Threat to the Peace" and
Under Secretary Ballts speech on Viet-Nan, pub=
lished by the Department in June, brought the
evidence of Commmist aggression to the attention
of an international audience. USIS in Saigon
works with jhe Vietnamese authorities on a con<
tinuing basis to collect and cross-file such
information for use in media throughout the world.

  

28. In coordination with Cia and GW, USIS will L publicise unfavorable.
conditions in NW.

Continues: Information which can be declassified is not plenti-
. ful, but USIS continues to cross-file stories on
_ wnifavorable conditions whenever available.

29. Development

SECRET
 

 

   
 

     
  
 
 
  
 
 

 

C
i
SECRET
bo
Continuss: Contingency planning is under continual reviews
22. zee ean economic an@ fiscal experts to work out
Sehieved: The Staley Mission completed its work in June of 1961.
Its plan was adopted as the Joint Action Plan (SEE
Actions 3) through lh below).
23. ICh (ADD) is authorized to undertake rural development - civic
action programs. —

Continues: The January 4, 1962 Joint Commmnique outlined these
programs, USOM/Saigon has mounted an impact crop |
protection pbro; ea, including rat destruction and.
eradication stroying insects, which wild
directly benefit-50,000 families. A program’ for
Montagnard relie ad.resettlement is under ways.

The Internat: Juntary Service under: contract
to AID has bee mded to 69 people. ~
Civic action in connection with the two clear-
plus the country-wide strategic
in tuaing, ‘both agricultural development: ‘and |
: Eby stetelteation

 

 

—,
SECRET
abe

| - ;
.. 8. Assess political implications of increasing GYN forces from 170,000
to 200,000. —

Pachaiacnts Pas
Achieved: The current strength level is over 197,000.

9o Request_recommendations fron Nolting to accomplish actions 1 and 2.
‘ eved, : ee

 
 

| "1.102. Install redar to obtain warning of overflights for intelli-

Kehieved: Tenporary installations were set up and operational at
- Danang.in October 1961. Permanent installations are
under construction with a target date of. early Spring
19630

 

12. Inerease MAAG as necessary for 20,000-man ARVN imerease.
Achieved.

Consider case for increase ARVIN ngth 270,000.

Achieved: Current ARVN strength is 397,000. Target for the end
“of Figeal Year 1964 4 is 225,000.

   

1. Provide MAP support for Civil Guard Force of 68,000.

Kchieved..
15. Expand
 

abe

15. Expand MAAG responsibilities ‘to include support and advice to Self=<

Defense Corps.
Achieved.

. 16. ‘Provide MAP support for Vietnamese Junk Force, including training
of junk crews. ; :

Continues: See Action Sy.

17. Ascelerated Special Forces Training.

Continues: Eleven Special Forces teams are engaged in training pros -
: grams in Viet-Name

18, Collaborate with GV in use of military, health, welfare and public
works specialists for activities in villages.

Continues:. With U.S, assistance, ARVN's Civic action Program has
improved steadily. However, this psogram still requires
a great deal of effort to realize its full potential.

19, Study jointly with GUN border control techniques.

Continues: The use of defoliants, dogs, portable radar, invisible
: chemical markings and other devices and techniques
are undergoing study and tests at the combat develop=
ment test center in VN. See also Action 65.

' 20, Consider establishment in SEA of testing facilities for new technic es
against Conmunitst aggression.

' Achieved: Combat test development centers have been established
and are > in operation in VN and Thailand.

2. Full

SECRET
 

tee . AIL O er en : SECRET

we treges &

” COPY L.0F Zo COPIES

“FINAL REPORT - TASK FORCE VIETNAM
_aRily.2, 2962

& Presidential Program (Initiated May 23, 1962)

le

   

Achieved.

Continues:

 
 

Seek to increase GVN confidence in US by Vice-Presidential visit.

aisal and negotia-

 

Our attempts contime, but Diem's popular support has
decreased.

The January h, 1962, GVNGUS Joint Commmique spelled
out a program’ ‘aimed’ at providing every Vietnamese with
a atake in thd outcome of the war. The communique ré=
sulted from negotiations which began with Vice President
Johnson's visit and the Staley Mission. Negotiations
aimed at producing action which will increase popular
support continue.

‘The Decenber hi, 1961 Memorandum of Underst
between Diem and Nolting specifically recognized the:
importance of developing democratic institutions, _
‘The GVYN has taken a number of actions following from.
and related to this understanding which are calculated
to increase popular support. These include the estab-
lishment of Provincial Councils, a National Economie
Council, a Constitutional Court, a national flood ren
lef organization (which included oppositionists),

' continuing purge of officiels charged with various

abuses, an organization within the Presidency charged
with the responsibility for collecting and acting on
popular complaints, the continued toleration of at
least a minimm of opposition activity (example: the
opposition candidates in the 1961 Presidential elections
ave at large and have organized a Democratic Bloc; ane
other oppositionist group has been permitted to set up
the Front for National Unity which has pean demanded
a forum and legal status for cpposition groups :

4 more vigorous civilian civic action program has.
been set in notion, Combining the personnel of the.

former.

SECRET

 
 

176-10036-10182

 

 

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
(DENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA ~
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10182 _
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : DOS
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : Vietnam Status Report
DATE : 7/1/1962
PAGES : 17
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 203: Vietnam Status 4/4/63-7/11/63. Box
 

Suspended 8

 

Continues 8

“nego! tations lookie ng

SECRET

=2o

former Youth, Information and Civic Action Ministries.
U. S. officials have influenced this program through
constant colitact and assistance to the information
program and “to the civic action aspects of counterin-

surgency plans.

towart. sbilateral arrangement with VN.

   

The Décenber b Menorendun ‘of Understandin » Plus our
onegoing joint programs constitu equate bilateral
"arrangement" for realizing our objectives in WN. A

-pilateral treaty would probably bring us into conflict

with thé provisions of tha Geneva Accords, commit us
irrevocably, and Diem has show little interest in such
a treaty since General Taylor's visit, and the increased
fmeri¢an assistance which resulted, :

 

vtetaceeou Gaoatan relations continue to be bad. In

apite of*many US efforts to bring the two parties to-
gether, little progress has been registered. VN's stand-
ing in world opinion has probably improved as a result.
of clearer international understanding of the nature of
the ‘postilities there.

: In contacts with other governments, the U. S. has
consistently sought to present the facts of the Viet=
Nam situation. In December 1961, the US published the
evidence linking the DRV with the VC and documenting
DRV aggression against SVN in our report “A Threat to
the Peace”, At our suggestion, President Diem on

, 1962, sent a letter to all heads of Govern-
ment and Chiefs of State, outlining the facts of the _
DRV attack on his country.” The June 2 ICC Report’ .
charging the DRV with a deliberate campaign aimed at ..

‘the violent overthrow of ‘the GVW has been used by our

diplomatic Missions” to focus world attention on the. .
DRV attack. :

5. Strengthen
‘SECRET i

¢
a : fon

SECRET
<3e

Se Strengthen border control arrangements with Cambodia.

Continues: In spite of repeated efforts by the US, joint Ve
Cambodian control has not been effected and incidents
are frequent.. This continuing friction and the
absence of effective joint border controls has helpsd
the VC.

 
 

.. 60, Cogperate with GYN in f ig effective use of assistance from

Continues: The British have sent a special advisory mission ta Viet-
Nam under R. G. K. Thompson. Im cooperation with the
Thompson Mission, the US and the GVN have worked out the
Delta Plan. The Australians have agree to send a mili-
‘tary training mission which will be integrated into MAAG
activities. The Koreang have sent a military survey
mission, the Thais are being approached to send observers.
We intend to approach New Zealand. Malaya has trained
several hundred Vietnamese in counter-guerrilla opera-
tions.

. The US is currently seeking to coordinate economic
assistance to Viet-Nam by means of a special’ coordination
group of donor nations. We are urging other countries

t increase their assistance to VN, particularly in the
form of commodity imports formerly financed by the US

aid program,

Over the past few years economic aid from countries
other than the US has amounted to more than $108 million,
including both grants and loans. Donor countries include
Japan, France, Germany, Australia, United Kingdom, New
Zealand, Gemada, China, and The Philippines. —

ng for commitment of U.S. _forces to VN.

 

Suspended: * accomplished by the Taylor Mission. The present level of
U.S. assistance, i.e. training and logistic support plus
some limited operational forces, appears to be tne most
effective "mix" at this time.

8. Sgsess

SECRET

 
