 

 

 

TOP SECRET ~ SENSITIVE
7 #6« ,

go down te Cuba during the Christmas holidays and that Justice Department
recommends that we Hft our travel restrictions. Hf we dont, we will probably
be obliged to put many of the students in jail when they returh; this will be
embarrassing. Mr. Ball added that the State Department ia tentatively opposed
to Hfting the travel rastrictions because of the effect it will have on Latin
American countries. We have been trying to get the Latin Americans to impose
restrictions on travel to Cuba; if we Mft our own restrictions, our position will

-be considerably weakened. Mr. Ball said that he would be meeting with. the
Attorney General later in the day to talk about the subject.

Tentatively, the President indicated that he favored maintaining the travel
restrictions and a policy of selective prosecution.

Gorden Chase

TOP SECRET « SENSITIVE
 

 

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE
, a

Mr. Bundy noted, and Mr. Fitzgerald agreed, that these groups operate a
long distance away from the target; we cannot expect tdo much effect from
their raids.

2. Mr, Bundy gave a very quick briefing on some other aspects of the current.
Cuban situation. (The group paused to read the attached CEA situation brief. )

(a) With respect to Soviet /Cuban military strength on the island, Mr.
Bundy noted that one of our primary objectives is to ensure that there is no
reintroduction of offensive missiles. The camera is our best inspector and, so
far as we know, there are no offensive missiles now in Cuba. Mr. Bundy added
that we are concerned about the transfer of SAM control to the Cubans in about
mid-1964, and we will have to watch this development carefully. As for the
Soviet troops, the general consensus of the group was that the big withdrawals
are over and that, from here on, the withdrawals will proceed more slowly.

(b) Mr, Bundy noted, in passing, ovr anti-subversion efforts. The key to
the problem is to build up the will and capabilities of the Latin American
countries to counter the threat. Our efforte in the field of controfling travel
between Latin America and Cuba are also important.

(c) Mr. Bundy described briefly the very tenuous, sensitive, and marginal
contacts we have established with Castro himself, The initiative is on Castro's
part and we are essentially faced with a decision as to whether or nat we are
prepared to listen to what Castro has ta say. Mr. Ball noted that such U.S. /
Cuban rontacts could have an unsettling effect on Soviet /Cuban relations.

3. Mr. Bundy described several unilateral and bilateral courses of action we c
can take in the future to make life difficult for Castro.

fa) Air attacks, unleashing of extles {allowing them to use U.S. territory
as a base for attacks on Cuba), and low level flights are aggressive-~type acts
which have distinct advantages but which are similar in that they affifend to
raise the noise-level. Low level flights, for example, would provide us with
more intelligence and would irritate and harass Castro. At the same time, they
could precipitate the shooting down of a U-2.

(b) Mr. Bundy said that we can take further unilateral! shipping measures
-- e.g. close ports and deny U,S. -financed commodities to lines engaged in
Free World shipping to Cuba. He noted, however, that we have found through-
past experience that bilateral measures are more effective in reducing Free _
World shipping to Cuba. At the same time, we should not deceive ourselves.

TOP SECRET = SENSITIVE

 
 

TOP SECRET « SENSITIVE.
: aSe

We should recognize that the Soviets are capable of handling all Cuba's
_ shipping needs even if we are ablo to eliminate Free World shipping to Cuba.

(c) Mr. Bundy said that the President could make a public staternent in
the near future, taking a more vigorous Line than we have in the past. He noted -
that in his Novernber 18 speech, Preaident Kennedy made two pointe about Cuba
«- the first was designed to encourage anti+Castro elements within Cuba to
revolt, and the second was to indicate that we would not permit another Cuba in
the Hemisphere.

(d) Bilaterally there are possibilities of increasing our pressures againet
Free World trade to Cuba. Spain should be a high pricrity target.

NOTE: At this point the President isft the recom and there was a brief discuesion
about the exiles in Florida. Mr. Crimmino said that resettlement remains our
basic policy. It is-true that the exiles feel that the pressure for their resettie-
ment is intense. In fact, it is no more intense now than it hae been for some time.

5. On the President's return to the room, Mr. Bundy introducad the aubject of
the discovery in Venezuela of the Cuban arms cache.

(a) Mr. Heims gave a graphic presentation of the link between the arma
cache and a plot to upset the elactions in Caracas.

(b) Myr. Martin explained the status of the OAS investigation of the arma
cache. The evidence is convincing in showing that the arma were from Cuba.
The OAS investigating team is still working on ite report. Hopefully, it willbe _—
able te tie the arms cache into a general plot to subvert Venezuela. The repert ~
should be ready by about January 10. ,

(c) Mr, Bundy described the typos of action | we can hope to get in the OAS

-" aga result of the discovery of the arms cache. The most interesting is the

 

surveillance action where we have essentially two basic choicea -- we may want

to pusf for a system whichiinvolves search and seizure of Cuban vessels on the

high seag; this implies the possible use of force. Or we can push for a system

involving the search and seizure of Cuban vessele in territorial waters; this
evades the issue of force. Mr. Bundy adtied that {t ie etiil too early to know

_ hew far the Latin Americans will go in support of force against Castro. We

have put out feclers.

6. Mr. Bundy brought up the problem of lifting ‘travel restrictions on Americans
who wish to goto Cuba. Mr. Ball noted that a great number of students want to

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE
 

ad a ar nr ae

Nee: 1d. OO li ws he. , . )

TOP SEGRET - SENSITIVE

December 27, 1963

MEETING WITH THE PRESIDENT - December 19, 1963 - 10:55 A.M.
SUBJECT: Cuba .

Others Present: Acting Secretary Ball: Ambassador Thompsons Deputy
. Under Secratary Johnson; Assistant Secretary Martin;
John Crimmins; Acting Secretary Gilpatric; Secretary
' Vance; General Wheeler; Secretary Dillon; Acting
Director General Carter; Richard Helms; Desmond
Fitzgerald; Deputy Director Wilson; McGeorge Bundy;
William Moyers; George Reedy; Gordon Chase.

The primary purpose of the meeting was to brief the President in depth about
somie of the hadtc Cuban issues. Essentially, the discussion described where
we have been oince January, 1963, where we are now, and where wé can go.
{An outline which was prepared for the discisesian is attached. ) :

1, A large part of the meeting wae devoted to a briefing by Mr. Fijzgerald
and a general discussion on CIA's present covert program and on the U.S..
Government's economic denial program. Egsentially, this part of the dis-
cussion covered 6 areas.

(a) Mr. Pitagerald described covert: intelligence activities directed
against Castro's regime, incleding the numbers, characteristics, and geoe
graphic spread of CLA assets within Cuba. |

(ob) Me. Fitzgerald described ClA-controlied vadio p programs and other
propaganda media directed at Cuba which have been used to encourage low
risk, simple sahotage and other forms of active and passive resietance, and
to stimulate tensicn. within the regime and between Cuba and the Soviet Bloc. .
He noted the recent increase of apantaneaus antieregime Propaganda inside Cuba.

{c) Mr. Fitzgerald said that CLA has worked with State and other agencies
to deny to Cuba commodities from the Free World which are critical to the
economy. The results have been mized. For example, while we have been able
to penetrate certain European firme which deal with Cuba, we alse knew that
equipment vitally needed in Cuba, some of U.S. origin, reaches the foland via
Canada and Great Britain, :

\ TOP SECRET - SENSITRRE
116-10038-10035

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10038-10035
RECORD SERIES : The Personal Papers of Gordon Chase
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ‘
ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO:
3 ‘TITLE : Meeting With the President-December 19, 1963
DATE : 12/27/1963
PAGES : 6
_ SUBJECTS :
- DOCUMENT TYPE :°
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA : . :
COMMENTS : Gordon Chase, Box 1: Chronological file 8/63-12/63, Box 1. Box 8.
 

 

 

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE
; . ~2-

The group agreed that this is not an easy problem; Mr. Ball said that our
allies have always been reluctant to interfere with private traders and have
always had a different view of Free World/Bloc trade than we have had. .
Nevertheless, it was also agreed that we should intensify our efforts and that
there are still things we can do. First, Mr. Crimmins noted that we could
consider ways in which the new amendment to the Forkign Assistance Author-
ization Act (prevents assistance to any country whose planes or ships carry
commodities to Cuba) cam be used to reinforce our economic denial program.
Second, Mr. Ball said that the question of Canadian trade in sensitive itemo
would be taken up with the Canadian Minister of Economics and Trade on
December 20; fater, Mr. Ball will talk to other appropriate Free World gov-
ernments also. Third, the President directed that the agencies prepare a
detailed memorandum {including the names of compatiies and commodities in-
volved in Free World trade with Cuba) which, inter alia, will be useful for his
forthcoming taiks with Prime Ministers Home and Pearson. :

 

. (a) Mr. Fitzgerald spoke about CIA's program to identify, seck out, and
establish contact with potentially dissident nan-Communist elements in the
power centers of the regime with a view to stimulating an internal coup which
would dislodge Castro. Our effort is based on the premise that a popular up-
rising in Cuba is unlikely, primarily because Castro is capable of controlling
such an uprising. Instead, we are trying to penetrate the Cuban regime's
power structure. In this regard, we have had only limited success. On the
one hand, we have been able to make an important penetration in the Cuban
army. On the other hand, the dissident elements, while willing to act, are not
yet willing to act together. They simply don't trust each other, mainly because
Castro has been succesful, im the past,. in. penetrating dissident groups.

The President asked whether there is any significant insurgency within Cuba.
Mr. Mr. Fitagerald said there is some but that there is no national movement on
which we can build. Mr. Bundy noted that the insurgents generally seem to suf~
fer heavy fosses at Castro's hands.

(e) Mr. Fitzgerald said that CIA has directed four email seate, externally
mounted sabotage operations for the purpose of stimulating reaistance and
hurting Cuba economically. The discussion then focussed om a proposed attack
ona major.target ~- the Matanzas power plant. Mr. Fitsgerald noted that this
would have a significant favorable impact, psychologically 2s well as econamé
ically; the dissidents would view the attack as evidence that the Johnson Admin-
istration is not giving up the fight for Cuba.

. &PP SECRET - SENSITIVE
 

Le

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE
-3-

But there are a number of disadvantages to the power plant attack. First, the
chances of total success (e.g. target destroyed, no one caught) are less than
50-50 while the chances of partial succesa {target destroyed, people caught) are
only somewhat better than 50-50. Second, if the raiders get caught, they will
undoubtedly admit their CIA connection. (General Carter believed this point

was weak -- we get blamed for everything that happens in Cuba anyway.) Third,
such an attack will be highly visible and will have a high noise-level. In this
regard, Mr. Bundy said that we might want to lie low for now so that Castro,
presently under a strain because of the arms cache discovery, will not be able
to shift the accusing finger in our direction. Fourth, Mr. Ball said that it might
slow up the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Cuba. Fifth, Ambassador Thompson |
said that the timing seemed bad <- the Soviets now appeared to be in a situation.
where they may be thinking of cutting back aid to Cuba. They will draw a fot

of conclusions from the first acts of President Johnson. An attack on a big -
Cuban target could give Castro important leverage in his negotiations for more —

‘Soviet aid.

General Wheeler thought that, to improve the chance of success, we might want ~
to try to hit the Matanzas power plant fram the air; it should be noted that there

"have already been some free-lance raids over Cuba. Alexis Johnson pointed out

that an air atdiike might cause retaliation against one of our U-2 flights.

In response to a question, Secretary Vance indicated that he was in favor of an
attack on Matanzas. :

it was decided that there will be no air or ground attack on the Matanzae power
plant at this time, primarily because of its high probability of faifure and be- .
cause of the Soviet dimension. However, if was agreed, in principle, that low- —
risk sabotage efforts could go forward along with the planning necessary te
develop an air atrike capability.

(f} Mr. Fitzgerald described CIA's program in aiding two aufmnomous ;
Cuban exile groups, which will be operating from outside the U.S. One group,
which is headed by.Manuel Artime, will start operating out of Costa Rica and
Nicaragua in February; the other group is headed by Manolo Ray who is some-
what to the teft of Artime, but probably has the best following within Cube. Both

_of these groups will conduct externally mounted raids on Cuba, and will send
‘teams inside Cuba to conduct internal sabotage and te establish contact with dis-

sidents. Mr. Fitzgerald added that there are some disadvantages in these oper-
ations ~- the groups aren't trained by CIA and they operate outside of CIA control, |
But there are advantages too -- they operate fram outside United States territory
and we will have relatively little troubt denying U.S. association with theee groups.

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE
