 

the Indians consider that in the absence of sanctions
the ICC is powerless to accomplish anything without the
full cooperation of both sides.

6. The recent adoption by Indian officials of a more
cooperative attitude toward problems in Vietnam suggests
that New Delhi may be taking a less detached and--from our
viewpoint--more realistic approach to a deteriorating
situation, While this could be intended merely to re-
dress the balance upset by recent bloc gains, there is
little question that Chinese Communist pressure along
India's own frontier has greatly sharpened New Delhi's
appreciation of Peiping's ambitions, Indians fully share
the US objective of securing genuine independence for the
nations of Southeast Asia, but, convinced that freedom
cannot be “imposed from outside,” they expect serious dif-
ferences to arise over tactics. As long as India sits on
the ICC between two firmly “aligned"™ powers, it seems
unlikely to forsake its accustomed mediatory role despite
a growing realization of the long-run threat to Indian

interests in Southeast Asia.

- 4 =

SEGEET © NOFORN
Y¥EMVUING his» Se Sa A
/ - .

AS

 

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Office.of Current Intelligence

27 July 1961
MEMORANDUM
INDIAN ROLE IN VIETNAM

1. Two concepts color Indian thinking on divided
Vietnam: colonialism and balance of power. While New
Delhi has modified its outlook considerably since it
became directly involved in the Indochina problem in
1954, these old preoccupations still strongly influence
Indian views.

2. The Saigon and Hanoi regimes have little sub-
stance in Indian eyes; they are regarded as instruments
of the Cold War powers. New Delhi finds it difficult to
accept South Vietnam as a bona fide member of the inde~
pendent Asian community, viewing US influence--no matter
how well-meaning-~as a vestige of Western imperialisn.
Moreover, Diem is not progressive enough for Indian tastes,
Ho Chih Minh was long regarded as more representative of
the mainstream of Vietnamese nationalism, but in recent
years New Delhi has come to regard North Vietnam also as
subject to colonial control-~in the form of a new Chinese

imperialism.

SEGRET NOFORN
 

 

 

176-(0036-10076)

 

 

_JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM.

AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10076
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files:
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : Indian Role in Vietnam
DATE : 7/12/1961
PAGES : 4
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS ; National Security Files, Box 193: Vietnam General 7/27/1961-
7/31/1961. Box 1
 

 

NOFORN

3. Of more immediate importance in Indian policy-
making is New Delhi's assessment of Vietnam as a Cold War
battleground where a local war could quickly involve all
of Asia. As in the case of Laos and the Congo, the Indian
Government relates conditions and developments in Vietnam
to the East-West struggle and generally responds in accord-
ance with its overriding objective of reducing world tension.
The result is a kind of balancing act, in which Indian
representatives attempt arbitrarily to maintain an equilib-
rium between the opposing sides. by preventing either from
gaining a decisive advantage over the other,

4. Nowhere is this policy better illustrated than in

“the performance of Indian chairmen of the ICC for Vietnam,

on which Canada and Poland are also represented. India's
action, or more often inaction, in connection with in-
spection and control of violations of the 1954 Geneva accords

is often viewed as support of the Communist position, It

‘would be more accurate to describe Indian policy as support

for neither side, but aid offered alternately as needed to
keep the scales in balance. It is probably a futile exercise
to try to find logic in the Indian chairman's fuzzy arguments
and phony explanations. The present representative, Gopala

Menon, an unimpressive functionary who is long on promises

- 2 =

SECRET NoFoRn
 

Ep) ET NOFORN : | ~

and short on performance, is probably more interested in

‘following Indian policy than in making sense. Frequently

it is assumed, probably erroneously, that Indian representa-

tives who act this way lack specific instructions from

New Delhi and are free-wheeling... Nehru does give a few
individuals considerable latitude, as in the case of
Krishna Menon, but they appear to be exceptions. According |
to the Indochina desk officer in the Indian Ministry of
External Affairs, the government keeps in close touch with
its ICC representatives to reduce free-wheeling; the chair-
man in Vietnam once told his Canadian colleagues that every
decision he made had the consent of Nehru. New Delhi’ is
neither naive nor uninformed on these matters, although
there is some evidence it is sometimes misinformed by
representatives trying to justify their actions.

5, The key to understanding Indian behavior in Vietnam
lies in New Delhi's interpretation of its role as ICC chair-
man. By their own admission, ministry officials see the
Indian representative's mission as one of reconciliation, not
participation as an active third party ruling solely on the
facts as he sees them. These officials are equally frank to
admit their belief that both the Western and Communist parties

try to use the ICC to advance their own aims, Furthermore,
-3-

LOFORN

 

 
