 

 

SECRET

 

 

 

 

SECRET
 

SECRET

 

 

 

 

 

4. Paramili i warfare, 1 gamer, to tegsnded in éome quartere

  

There ave severst yeacgas for this. Por one thing, s pavomiliey
aperatian £9 tn (ta nature @ lange end attetbutahle epersticn and thereby.

 

 

 

_ or
Ga the recent teactera<for-prleanere episode ehowed,. when we do gend
men to posatble death, we cianct lightly write thom off ant close the
_ beoke, The Communists, on the other hand, have no sevuplos about
iquidating @ tesing ehowy,

SECRED
- SECRET

it has meant too tiat the State Bogartment, oftea apprised of an
operation only in ite tater etagea, ie under great pressure fo

éndoree the operation 66 dlgeedy mounteg because of the elfegad
evil conséquences of exercising a veto. I well remember Tos
Mann's remeek the dey the deciaton wes auide te ao ahead on Gubat

. ©" would never have favored initiating thie operations but, since it

- hag gone a6 far ac i6 hse, f do nat think we con rigk calling it off, “
Moreover, at 6 time whan theve ic intreaging premium on activien,
State, when it queations CYA spevations o initiatives, caste itech? in
8 prigay, Hasy, segstive yole. The advocate of clandsatine activities
seome ‘tough’ and realietic: the opponent bso to iavake such totangibive
a9 the réputation of the United States, world public opinion, *

"do we say tp the Waited Rattone?". ete.» cnt aegina nepeiseely
idralistic, legalistie and ‘gefe. '

tho resuls of CIA's taltigtive in covert political operations hae been

 

 

 

 

 

woltminary planuing of ff _ Mhorwise CIA will eq
Kaus to confront Suste wth propositions Raving pubeasits a temgeat 8

 

 

 

 

 

49061 Dockd:32629331 Pana a
 

 

 

 

SECRET
6.

 
 
 

gationge techaiesily require State
practice, however, CLA has often been

iy ement clearance,
able to scize the initiative in ways which eeduce State's eale almeodt

to that of a rubber étamp.
This bas been psrtly the consequence of the guperior drive and

.getiviam of CIA personnel, eapecially ee compared with the dididence

of Stats Department pergoanel. Yor example, whon mon come to CIA
with the aseigument af developing covert political campagne or
organising coupe or preparing for paramilitary wasfave, these men
natuvally fall to worl: with ingenuity and geal) thoy probably feel thet
they ave ogt earning theiy pay unteso, say, they oxgsaize as many
coups es poseible. The concept of ‘ceatingency planning’ hae

tet potent eonerdte preparation of operations sll presumably

and wevved up on 9 contingenty baste, then the failure to carry the
project through (It te argued) wild invite the disappointment end
alienation of the grdug} do the peeaaure increases to fellow through
On whet had etarted da a pure speculation. This wae @ centeal facter,

e course, in the Cuban decision «« the fact that dighandment of the

Guhgn force in Guatemale just seemed te create foo many probleme and
émBarrasgmente. Having entered inte reletiqns with personalities in
fogcign lands, CLA hae eomotimes ceemed to feel thet we must therce
popilend-sebies Aare thd-lnes irene fpnachonl Arne eieartied
or oven go aver te the Gommuniatgy. Thie approach hee made ua on

_ Seasaten the petegncrs of cur own agents, bd

 

Swe become prisuncya of ouw agente in angibor causa too. The Cuban
episode leaves the atreng impresuten that CIA fc nat able te control ite
own tow-level operatives, While the CIA people in Washington are mea
of exceptionally high quality, the men sttracted ts ficld jobs are came~
times tough eel oven victoug peapic motivated hy Grives af thelr owa
and net neconaartiy in political or even merel eympathy with the purposes

 

 

 

SPR GSE,

SECRET
 

 

SECRET

There follows ftom this, & would think, fie sonciubion Sas gongct
ts 4 miscibic | g a tang a8 Shey So oot gerne t the

    

Each form of éecset activity predente ite gwn problem. Clandestine
intelligence collection hae heen a treditional function of the agtional
etete. Be rules and usages ore fairly well cotablighed, In the
main, eaptonage, if conducted with discretion. shoulé present no
grest problem, Howevet, when conducted with gn opee chewltigak:

ofthe goverament,

Covert polities! cperations present a teicher probtem, Gecasions
aviee when it fe necesesey to subsidice mewepapers, politicians and
otganiaations in cther cuantvies,, Bus covrugeion ofthe political life
of anuther uatton fe not @ esapensihility to he lightly assumed,
one, ne aren tme acah of Cue tne tho Joy of ts
Pagemilitary activities ezeate an even more difieult problem, if
sly because the problems ef concealment are eg mach mere Giffioult.

ts geneval, fwoulé suggest that any eecret operation whone encosss ta ;
Grcandant on the suppreacton of newe, a. eo tyteg to Congeeeemeen and
jousnalieta and on the deception of the electorate chould be unfertaken
aaly when the celete te co cpnctdarable that the gains really seem to —
eutwoigh the GisaGvaniages, This auggeste thet the of the prae
posed operation may be of crucial importance: ‘eperations caa
bo dane with @ minimum of aecompanying corruption. fhe greates
the vieitiitty of the cpesetion, the mare ite eucesss depends on
Ciwerting the tmpulaes and denying the velues-cf an epan ecelety,

the siskier t¢ bacomem, dad the more urgent tt ts that aa overwhelming
eage be meade for ite neesaalty,.

In chost, chen confeonted with & proposed eporaston, @e must not only
ask whether the operation te technically fenaitio te tte own terme; wo
must oak whether ste Guecess requieas our epon cociety to be in say
certous way Sales to fee dum principlog,

SECRED
 

 

 

anace

 

SECRED’) b&b

6

Clandestine activities Ghoulé be asaessed not only | in the contoxt
of thele relationship (6 an epen society but aldo in the context of their
velationghip to United States foreign policy.

GIA ogerations have aot began held effectively eubordinate to U.S.
foreign policy.

  
 

State Department cGutvol "This tact axpoces American foreign poltey
tes a maultitads of embastascmente when Cla te dige pvered recruiting

   

 

 

 

GIA has entd that, ta euch ceases, neither the Embugey nor the Departe
rent in Washingtes is acrmally informed ef this type af eperation.

fa short, ne ene knews haw many potential pechiome for US foreign .
policy -~ and how much patential friction with friendly states ~- are
boing created ef thig maement by C1) clandestine tatelligence onorations.
Surely there ta an argument fer permitting

advantage to be gained by the eperatios

weighs the rick (e.g). exaaperating the local goverament and shaking
ite confidence both in cur purpeded and in guy genee}.. Clengestine

intelligence operations should plainly be cleared both with the Depart-
ment of State and (eave fer cxeeptional inetances and on egreemont of

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

the Secretary of State} wish the leeal U.8;. Ambassador,

A

SECRET | |
 

 

SAENITIGED Mut te dovaA Sir

SECRET - asa -

June 30, 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE PRESIDENT

SUBJECT: CIA Reorganization

f aubmit the following viewa ag one whe worked in OSS during the
war and. served as @ porviadic CLA consultant in the years since.

Qn balance, CIA's record has probebly been very goad. In the
nature of clandestine operations, the triumphe of an intelligence
agency are unknown®; all the public heare dhout (or ahould haar
about) are its errera. But, again in the nature of the case, an
agency dedicated to clandestine activity can afford damned few
vigible errorg. The important thing to recognize today, in my
judgment, i¢ thet the ClA, as at present named and constituted, has
about used up ite quote. Re margin for future error is practically
mon~vexietest. Gace mere CIA debacle will shake faith considerably

in US policy, et he until CIA is vieibly
reorganized, it will be widely blamed for
Gevelopmente of which If 16 whally Inngeent. .

fhe argument of thie mensqrandum to that CIA's trauble can be traced
te the autonomy with which the agency has heen parmitted to operates
and thet thid cutenemy fe dus to three main caugag: {1) dn inadequate

aactrine of clandestine eporations; (2} an iasdequate conception of
the relationship between operations and policy; (3} an inadequate

 

 

_ Or should he «« a gros aad repeated GEA felling had been ite
eccadional readiness to succumb to the temptations of favogabie
publicity. The Guatemalan and iranian operations were almost
nullified by the flood of self-congeatulatory publicity whitch followed
them (e.g., the articles by Richard and Gladye Harkness, “The
Mysteriqus Doings of CIA, “ Saturds r Eve Post, Get. 36, NN, 6,
43, 1984).

  

SECRET
 

AGENCY :
: 176-10033-10145

RECORD SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

RECORD NUMBER

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :

TO:

_ TITLE :

: 6/30/1962
PAGES :

SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
: Declassified
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

DATE

CLASSIFICATION

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

NARA

Church Committee
WH

Schlessinger, Jr.
Kennedy, John F
CIA Reorganization

15

Paper, Textual

2/14/2001 .
 

canception of the selatignghip between operations and intelligence.
The mamorandum Shao saugests waye in which Gome of thage prab-
leme can pethapa be

1 GLA Autonomy

GIA conducts three main forena af aecuet work: elendestine intelite
genee collections covert political operations; and

feremilitery
- getivities, i cavvies on thege functions with relative autonomy.

The reasons for the sufsnonsy are Matericat.

Whea CIA begen, the State Department, atith thinking teo mach to
teemse of ito traditional mivetane in foreign affateds iooked on this

the Dinector of Contrat Intaligence ware brothers further confirmed
GtA'e independence from eupervision by State Depastment decks.

is the meantins, GIA grew tn stse and pawes. Basing the Mites
beges in dome areas te outatelp the Sate Dopertenens to toe nity of

 

tection againet a“
a laege number of pe at : =I ieG men, 7

aGSeG beilllact souieiate tg tis ehath, tho mre wouontatura 160 cpavasions
Sevetoped, ond the grater rote it played in the tnttiatton of paltay.
by to uno in ato hd bepen to be ey met ote ® Beciterag

 

tained @ nomtash aapervtaion aver covert political opetetions,, tite
te seme degree offet by ¢ Cin‘ wendecy to prone progecd pecan

 
 

Glandeatine intelli "eoiaetioas and & had leet ground ia sech
arene oe overt ple repeting ed even tn the mioenenco of
overt diplomatic contactay.

ma

SECRET i
 

 

SECRET,
3

For ite part, CIA had developed ¢ whole aeries of functions paral-
leéling elvesdy existing functions of the State Departement, aud of ©

the Defense Depavtment ag well. Today it hag ite own political
deake and military etaffa; it hae in effect ite own foreign services

it has for bas had) ite own combat forces; it even has ita ows air
force. kg annual budget i about times that of the State Depart.
mént. The contemporary CLA pogsdaces many ef the characteriatice
of a state within a efate.

I. Doctrine

Though CIA's autonomy developed fer histerical reseons, it hee been
able to endure becanuge there ip no doctrine governing our donduct ef
élandeatine operations, The problem of dactyine for CIA te the extent
to which ite various clandeatine missions are compatibie with a free
and open society.

is ig idle te argue that, beeauce the Comrmuntete can do such-snd-quch,
we are free te de ittes. Communiom fe a crced nurtured in cone
epiracy! and the whale point of Gamnvuntst eacial and pliant ergent=
gation i¢ to make conepleacy effective. W ‘fighting fre with tire’ means
eontracting the freedoms traditienally enjayed by Americans in order
te give more freedom te CIA, ne one sericualy wiches to do that. Yet
2 do not feel thet wo have tried rigorously te think through the Limits
which the maintenance of an opes ceciety places on aucret activity.
Untit thie te done, CIA's vole will uct be clesrly defined and under
@teed. The problem which must bs fsced ig: what adet of secret
gétivity ie constesent with the preservation of a free gecial order?

We muet begin, 1 believe, iy Aer Sum dover penaher-toreieaamee heaps
will contiaus to be @ nation in which politicians will.aek questions and
make speeches, roportere will dig out storied, aewepapere will p ube
Heb editetiale, individyala, driven by pramgtings ef cangcience, will
blurt out things harmful tot the atate, and seam We do act aish to
change these thinge aaé could not do eo without viciating the essence
af our eocisty.. Thene things make up the framewor? le which CIA
raust operate, In dharé, they constitute the protiem: dad, ac
General Maeshalt used to say, "Fheve's ug point fe fighting the

. prediera,

 

SECRET

 
