YP SeGREt 7: | a es we ce | Mr. McGeorge Bundy
~_ SENSITIVE

OPERATION MONGOOSE
Main Pointe to Consider
26 Gétober 1962

t. What is the Policy Objective? We needa sharp focus an
exactly what we hope to get from Mongoose now. Thies will determine

how best to employ these unique U.S. resources -- cither te support.
¥.S. military operations or directly to commit against the Gommunist
regime immediately.

le the end objective the removal of the Gastro/Communiat
regime or to bring it to ite knees? Should Mongoose help generate
a popular revilt with the probable need for overt U.S. military help
ag the régime movee in to crush it? Or, is the aim that ef maximum
harassment, toe make Guba a maximum burden for the Bloc?

Undoubtedly, most people in the world now expect us to move
tewards removing the Castvo/Communist regime. Certainly the
Gubans in exile and inside Cuba, who are the msin covert asaets af
CIA, now expect this policy goal ae the price of risking their Hves.

2. Mongeose Actions —
a. Haraesment of and resistance to Cuban regime.
Statug: 3 teams (2- to 5-man) en route by small craft
- teday. 6 teams by submarine, starting temerrow. One
more team being readied te go in by emall craft. 10 more
teams being readied te go by eulunezine chertly. One team

now in Oriente and onc team in Pinay del Rio. All teame
have wit, arms, explosives.

Ox _b. Guban-owned shipping (22 ships). Sink in Cuban or Blee
- ports, or high eas. Sabotage cargees. Make crewe inoperative.

Status: CIA has li aesete aboard Cuban-owned ships.
Action orders have gone to Hambarg, fer action. Other

action pending.
. Propaganda delivered to Cuba by balloon from chip.

Status: GLA dees aot have capability yet.

SENSITIVE
TOP SECRET menor; ee

Sant ven Mui tl-6? WA

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC. -

 
176-10033-10160

es annce

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY :
: 176-10033-10160
: Church Committee
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :

TO:

TITLE

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NARA

Attorney General

: Operation Mongoose: Main Points to Consider
DATE :
PAGES :
‘ SUBJECTS :
: Paper, Textual
: Declassified
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
: 8/28/2002

10/26/1962
3 .

Rear. anranane ome *
Tap SECRET
| SNSIIVE

d. Major scts of aabotage againat Neted targets of ore
production, POL storage, power plants, transport, communteations.

Statug: Teams being trained for majs? sabotage were
made part of teame now being sent in by submarine. (SAM
sites de Soviet technicians are not targets.)

e. Minor acts of sabotage, by ali Cuban people. Requires
delivery of instructions, of how to de it, te Guban people.

Status: No current capability indicated by CLA. Teams
going ia g is for any purpose at this time should have thie aasiga-
ment.

f. Sabotage of suger production and delivery.

. Statust Ne current capability. Now trying to act against
shipments of jute bagging.

g- Befect "nsmo" personages ef regime, te fractian the
regime, te exploit for political and peychelegical ends.

Statue: Minsr diplomats being defected. Actions with
rasjov personages unsucceeefel co far. Special affort te
indicated.

: kh. Help the Cubans te help themsctves. This means greater
.S. aupport of Cuban greupe to take actions in Cuba.

- - States: Under study. Ne iiem plan yos fer dotag.

- 4. Bemoenstrations ef workers and farmers in Cube, in
Latin America, against the Gastre-Cemmuniet regime. Such
demonstrations in Guba weuld abhvn the regime to its core.

Status: Internationa) Longsheremsa's Association now
a refusing & work. Gubon cargeds. No means yet for demonetra~-
Ny _ _— tdons tnaids Cubs. Special State/CIA action fe indicated.

}. Ezpose sesponsible individuate in the Csstro/Communtat
vegime, ae 4 means towards relaxing police-state controle. Indicet
“peepics criminals" fox Justice after the goverament ie returned to

‘\ the peaple.

SENSITIVE :
{UP SECRET
TOP SECRET
"SENSITIVE

Statue: No activity on specific eperation. Howaver,

Vv CIA now completing "black Mast" of known Cuban intelligence
and security officials, ia support of possible U.S. military
eporation. About 5,000 names.

k. Give Guban resistance popular symbols. Songs. Visual.
Status: No song yet. Visual symbol fa "gusano libre. *
1. Political planning for post-Gastro pericd,

V _ Status: Ne firm planning reported from State. The need
V for clear U.S. policy objectives ia basic here.

 

m. "Grusade" for human Hberty, to make maximum use of —
epititual appeal. Prayers, such aa by Bishop Boza Masvidal, widely
publicised inside Cuba. Take use of memery of Marti away from
Cemmunigts and give it te Cuban “freedom fighters. "

Status: Sporadic activities, not a "crusade, "
nm. U.S. or Free Cuban radio and TV broadcasts into Guba.

Status: USIA making maxtmum use of medium and short
wave radio facilities, including CLA and commercial resources.
Ne "Voice af Free Cuba" short-wave broadcast scheduled
immediately. New 50«kw redio transmitter expected to be

~ gperational in Florida Keys next waek, TV broadcasts from
alreraft new under davelopment, (Being developed outside

Mengoese. )

SENSITIVE
TOP SECRET
