 

 

 

26 July 1962

Zr

 

leaves Ds tart,

eactment
(SC No. 05855/62, 5 pp & map)

bee “Gotonel Legere
Mr. ‘Parrott

 

WDTsar

SERRET

 
 

o2Q<

 aifficulties lining my path, I still have confidence in the future of
, my country when I consider the efforts which your Government and.you do

'- not cease to expend in our behalf. I know also that your. task is not easy.

 
  
 

  
   
   
  
  

: Several of your ‘countrymen did not always understand the p :

Congo. I know eleo that. my policy of ‘non~alignment is ng: always understood

 

_ "by the tax-payliig Americans but the acts which I present ‘ghould suffice to
‘clarify opinion;

democracy which ‘reign in the free world. I would not wish to inject a

eince I have never renounced the principles of liberty and

pessimistic tone in ny letter in saying that if a positive result was not
obtained in the coming weeks I would be perhaps forced to submit my
__ resignation to the Chief of State. This would be the result of the un-
fortunate efforts of those who in desiring happiness for: the Congolese people -
. continue to pursue their own interests,
I would be illemannered in ending these dines af did not reiterate —
/ to you in my name and in the name of the Congolese people the feelings of
. a gratitude which we owe to you personally as well as to the American people |
= . for the material and moral support which you have not ceased’ to furnish us.

f Believe mes, my dear President,

  

Tours very sincerely »

 
  

fay
Tt GL eee

Qh
Samiritées Mia: la ire ca
THE WHITE HOUSE .
WASHINGTON

 

26 July 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. DUNGAN

I am enclosing a copy of a memorandum General
Taylor prepared based on his discussion today with
the President.

I have asked Mr. Parrott to obtain an additional
copy of the Central Intelligence memorandum which will
be sent to you immediately on receipt.

|
Your suggestion re Colonel Greene proved to be

most valuable.
a W. H. BAGLEY

Commander , USN:

 

 
ce ost

    

 

id

esi OFFICIAL COMMUNICATIONS TO” ( a mo . (
WICIECRETARY OF STATE * : .
- WASHINGTON 25, 0. c.

 

 

ao — Lo
J DEPARTMENT OF STATE Durgan.
. oe a - . WASHINGTON . . .
a conr ENTIAL 7 Foo —
7 “July 2h, 196
MEMORANDUM FOR MR. wecomg snr) Dit Aq
THE WHITE HOUSE .

‘SUBJECT: Letter.from Prime Minister Adoula

 

The enclosed hand-written letter to the President from
Prime Minister Adoula of the Congo was handed to Ambassador
Gullion for delivery just before his departure from Leopoldville

_ . for Washington on consultation. A translation is also enclosed.

“A suggested. reply will shortly be transmitted to you.

 

wade Brubeck

Executive Secretary |

Enclosures: :

0 4,. Letter from Prime Minister Adoula.
“ 7 ze Translation of letter..

  

 
 

116-10037-10336

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10336 ;
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files: William H. Brubeck
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : NLIFK
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : John F. Kennedy document Control Record
DATE : 7/26/1962
PAGES : AG
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
‘CLASSIFICATION :.
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS «:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA : : .
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 382: Congo 5/62-7/62. Box 5.
 

 

 

CO

ty Beor Preakdonts ;

isaring that Astagsedor Gullion wis called ta Seshingten 1 wished
ts profit fron ke tein te addrada ts yen tide very geresnal eter

Hea havo falleved the dovelopzont of the situation im the Gsnge siace
the last talks whieh I had with ar. Yohacibe ip Lespelville. ea bave
eertaialy boon appetaed of all the efforts wick I have usde, first of ol
to avoid o gupture in the talka -- 4 rupture whieb Gr. Gehombe detixed ab
ang price <= god then in order to cerive at 2 peatefsl svlation fo tho
Xatenga problem eves whom the aszdate vested in 0 by ¢he serliguent wac
net slusys cespested. fhe goint of whew of the Central Goverment use
rovesled to ysa 1 belisve by Secretary ef State teas Susk after the maoting
whieh he hed iu Uashingten with Rintoters Benate ond mxitata, ths
digsppatetacntsunieh 3 om cacessingly cenfrented with in ths affeie hare
escaidarchly sffested ny aorele. Hy political opvonents are prosating fram
¢tem 46 créer te propapandice against the Goverment to the extent that the
papuletion nere sod mere io lesing cenfidence. for ay port, 2 en becoming
possinistie, ££ not deugerate. 1 voner Af it woakd aot oven Be preferable
te obtieate oy duties if @ eslation fe not forbiscaing in the next wonth,

&t the sano ties, conseless of the meesasity of sparing the Congo @
sow crisis which weold enly tare grievous repercuscions on world peana, I
stragglo etill against cy esoseisneo te kecp ay courage and sy serve.

You are not snavarc, ay Soar Preaidunt, of bow mek tho protles of
the Estangn 4e tled te pease and easpeaially of the eoneaquimees thet @
fallace of t2e UE operations ecald engenter ast only for the Conge bob elep
foe alk these who heve sippurted thie opcrstion. setaitheteniting the munvreng,

DECLASSIFIED Giticalties . »/

PUBLISHED IN FRUS, 1961-1963
VOL. XX _poc# AL
By NARA, Date to/ it.
 

a

 

@Acfioukties Mnlog ay path, 1 still have ecnfidesce ia the future of

By coumtry chen i eonsider the efferte which your Sorerument and you €9

nat cosse to oxpend in oar bebel?, 1 know alea that goer teat is nat enaye
Several of your cuuntyyncn did ast elwsys witerstand the proleas of the
feege. 1 Ena chao thas ay paltey of mavalignnent 19 nub alvsye amtersteed
by the tex-paying tnericang dat the acts which I present should suffice te
clarify eotrizn, glece I dave aever rencinecd the priscigies af iMrerty ond
descercey wideh roign in the free world. 1 would not wish to tagect a
ponsintstic tena im ay letter in acying thad 17 a pasitines reaukb wee not

‘epteiesd ia the ceming wacko I weld be perhaps forced to subake ay

Fosignation to the Shief of Ststc. This uauld ve tha remit of the mm
fortunate efforts ef those who in desiring hazpiness fercthe Congolese poophs
gontince te parece thets oun intareste. |
3 would bo iMenennered 4a ending these Mines af I did not reiterate
te yuu in ay nano oad in the nane of the Comeless pesple the fechings of
gretitude viich wo exp to you personally os well se to tae Aseriean people
fen the materiel ond mara) support whieh you have eot ceased te fumtsh wa.
Seldew mon, uy der Precident, oo

 
