It is not certain that the Secretary-General would accept such an
offer, but making it would be 2 concrete indication of our determination
_to see the UN's policy succeed, We have considered and discarded the
possibility tnat such an offer would result in a counter-offer of the
Soviet Union's being accepted. .

The above course of action raises serious issues requiring at the
appropriate tine full consultations with Congressional leaders, the UN,

and our allies, particularly the United Kingdom and Belgium.

MiiCMcOhee/IO:HCleveland/I0:UNP :JJSisco:¥RBuffum/ck
December 13, 1962

~Z6P SECRET
, Peng Copy 0d deqet ten]
: _
(not just in words) been achieved.

The major reauirement of such a policy would be the creation of
adequate UN military strength to make the possibility of 2 forceful
solution of the Katangan secession problem credible to Tshombe and
evidence of our determination to use it, The use of such a strengthened
DN position, both as a deterren% and as a force, should be adjusted to
a graduated scale of pressures, For example, if negotiations failed,

“the UN could stop all rail traffic in Tlisabethville,. If this did not
achieve its desired result, the UN would announce that it planned to
extend its perimeter to include Jadotville and Kolwezi in order to bring
about control of Katangan exports so that payments required under
Congolese law would be paid to the GOC. .

While the UN will have adequate groand forces during the next six
weeks to carry out such missions, a substantial increase in the TN air
arm would be required. . - — .

A number of additional planes from UN members are on the way's However,
it is doubtful that there would be enough to perform the task adequately
and a contingency decision is required now. that. the United States would,
in the last analysis, use its own power in order to prevent chaos,
largee-scale massacres, and/or a major Soviet presence called in by radical
successors to Adoula. This would mean in practice, Bhat the United States,

once it has decided that prectical progress is stalled, would make available
to the UN a fighter unit for use in the Congo which should have both psycholog=
ical and military value to the UN force. This squadron would be under UN Command,

it is not
Te et EEL DS T
( Parks Chi cv Be ey
. , oo : . . pan 4, stp,

a

This document consists of —- pages;
Cepy #L of rs copi es5 Series A,

- E82 SECRET Brcembed (3, /46v

MEMORANDUM FOR THT PRESIDENT

Subject: Recommended Course of Action on the Corige,

1, We are seeking te reinteorate the Katanga, to strengthen and
maintain a noderate government in Leopoldville that can, in fact, run
the country, and to prevent an increase in Communist influence in the
Congo, ,
. 2. Efforts to reintegrate the Katanga have bogged down as a result
of Tshombe's intransigence and Adovla's rigidity. However, what could
prove a major breakthrough occurred yesterday with Tshombe voluntarily
agreeing that the UMAK should turn over its foreign exchange and revenues
to the Monetary Council for division between the Centrai Goverrment and
the Katanga. (Some of Tshome's conditions ; may be troublesome, but we
are taking his reply as acceptance and are proceeding accordingly.)
3. In light of this development, the following course of action is
recommended for the immediate futures
(a) Adowla should ve persuaded that this is a sigsificani development
Which he should seize upon as a besis for re-entering negotiations
with Tshombe on the other mejor elements comtained in the UN
Reconciliation Plan (division of powers between the Central
Government and the Katanga, an amnesty, military standstill in
North Katanga), In shis connection, we should seek to re-establish
discussions between ELisabethville and Leopoldville through an
acceptable intermediary, presumably Gardiner, “Eto accomplish this,
if necessary

SSP SECTET
176-10036-10001

 

- JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10001
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
_ TO:
TITLE : Recommended Course of Action in the Congo
DATE : 12/13/1962
PAGES : 4
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Congo Cables; restriction information innacurate/missing; box 1
 

if necessary we should insist that Adoula proregue the Parliament
and govern with backing of a pro-Western group headed by
Mobutu.)

(>) To restore GOC confidence in its position and exert additional
‘pressure on Tshombe, we should seek U# agreement that if Katangan
military planes continue to attack, not only will the UN interdict
tham in the air, but also destroy them on the ground.

(c) We should also support advance staging of a "GOC air force" through
additional CIA efforts.

hk. Given the UN's financial plight and the anticipated decrease in

ite military strength wwith the scheduled withdrawal of Indian troops in
January, very little time remains to achieve our objectives. Ve believe
that a maximum of two weeks can be allowed for the working out of the
payments scheme and substantial progress on other elements of the plan.

if, in fact, the payments plan does not euccsed;and if the other practical
aspects of reintegration are not accomplished within this period, we should
be prepared to move on to stroncer measures than purely economic. The
economic measures contemplated beyond the UMHK scheme are likely to be
drawn out and ineffective and would require considerable and probably
unproductive consultations with our allies,

S. In these circumstances 9 We Should decide now/a contingency plan

for the adoption of stronger measures by the UN and the United States to be
put into effect in two weeks if significant progress has not in fact

(not just in

‘6 SECRET
 

(not just in words) been achieved.

The major requirement of such a policy would be the creation of
adequate UN military strength to make the possibility of e forceful
solution of the Xatangan secession problem credible to Tshombe and
evidence of our determination to use 1%, The use of such a2 strengthened
un position, voth ag a deterrent and as a force, should be edjusted to

a graduated scale of pressures, For example, if negotiations failed,

“the UN could stop all rail traffic in Tlisabethville.. If this did not

achieve its desired result, the UN would announce that it planned to

extend its perimeter to include Jadotville and Kolwezi in order to bring
about control of Katangan exports so that payments required under
Congolese law would be paid to the: coc.

While the UN will have adequate ground forces during th next six

weeks to carry out such missions, a substantial increase in the UW air

‘arm would be required.

A number of additional planes from UN members are on the way, However,
it is doubtful that there would be enough to perform the task adequately.
and a contingency decision is required now.that. the United States would,
in the last analysis, use its own power in order to prevent chaos,
large-scale massacres, and/or a major Soviet presence celled in by radical
successors to Adoula. This would mean in practice, thet the United States,
onee it has decided that practical progress is stalled, would make available
to the UN a fighter unit for use in the Congo which should have both psycholog-
ical and military value to the UN force, This squadron would be under UN Command,

Et is not
