SEGRE

 

25 September 1963

SUBJECT: Variations in Vietnamese Attitudes

 

_ , SOURCE «: Bight CAS officers during dinner discussion

_. °-d,. The consensus was that the recent. Buddhist disturbances and the |.
repression thereof had had little effect in the provinces outside Saigon.
There was some awareness of these developuents, however, and their effect

in the provinces may be expected to grow.

 

2. In Saigon there ig only moderate basis for the public attitude
of concern over repression, but the public attitude on the subject is

> most intense. despite this limited basis, Despite this concern the

normal civil servant or liaison official is doing -his job in the govern-
nent’ at about the same pace as formerly.

3. “Some liaison officials have taken a very cautious approach
toward their American counterparts and are avoiding intimacy or even
an uncosperative spirit.

4. A senior Vietnamese official sympathetic to Dien pictured the

- current problem by the following analogy. Vietnam was like a child

lost in the jungle and saved from tigers by a friendly father Zigure.
This father figure raised the child but at maturity insisted that the
child be a musician for which the child had no inclination or desire,
This divergence of views and the fact that Diem's insistence on certain

policies seemed, in this Vietnamese official's eyes, to be similar to the

present problem, The Vietnamese people, as the child, retain such :
respect for the father but find themselves unable to accept his injunc~
tion. - . ; . ue _

5. The students an general, as a result of recent events, will
_, be more vulnerable to ant i-GVN appeals and activity, not solely of a
. Viet. Cong nature,

6. One source has’ indicated that the Viet cong ean be expected
te react to the present situation by turning to a more vigorous
political as distinct from military actioa as the political dield is
now more fertile for their sowing.

7. The analogy was suggested that the danger of an expicsion in
Vietnam is somevhat dinilar to a diesel cylinder. The air would be

represented by tho degree of erganization of the students and of the

political elezénts, The feul would be represented by the degree cof
moraie, discipline, and tactical ability of the police and military
forces of order, These two clements would then be subjected to.the
* pressure of a cylinder, representing the degree :of governmental |
repression and ‘bubls ic opposition makes The consensus ef. these

SE BRET i
176-10036-10192

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10192
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : -

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : Variations in Vietnamese Attitudes
DATE : 9/25/1963
\PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW ; 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, File 11: Vietnam
 

 

officers was that the present situation dees not offer the element:
of an explosion in that the students ave relatively disorganized and

-.. only reasonably intense, the morale; discipline and tactical efficiency
“ of the police forces is reasonably good and there is.an awareness that

' the real repressive acts are relatively limited, although there is

considerable rumor and seme feeling about more dramatic repression.

 

 

 
