SECRET

D, Training

1. The scope of training varies with the time
One agent

 

 

 

 

received basic training
covering cross-country movement of guerrillas, use
and maintenance of weapons, and basic guerrilla
tactics. Another clandestine source
devoted more than

10 weeks of training to weaponry, communications,

the fortification of defense positions, combat tactics,
general strategy, map-reading, security, and sabotage,
Both men reported considerable time devoted to polit-
ical indoctrination and physical conditioning.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. One controlled agent reported that his en-
tire group was. required.to fill out..an extensive ques-
tionnaire aimed at developing targets in the homeland
for sabotage, subversion of military and police, il-
legal entry and movement, operation of dummy business
concerns to cover clandestine operations, and possible
zones for air-drops.

3, Extensive use is made of Che Guevara's book
on guerrilla warfare, The trainees also use a hand-
book. by Alberto Bayo, former colonel in the Spanish
Republican air force who trained the original guer-
rilla group with which Castro invaded the Sierra
Maestra. Thousands of copies of these books, in Span-
ish or in Portuguese, have been printed or mimeographed
and are circulating in Latin America. Some have been
specifically revised for individual countries.

4, We also have reports of related courses of
instruction, lasting as much as six to eight months,
in such fields as espionage, psychological warfare,
political action, agent communications, and military
medicine, Some of the trainees are women.

5. Most of the instructors of the guerrilla
warfare courses are Cuban. There are some reports
of Spanish instructors. Del Bayo himself is too
old to participate actively, but apparently has an
"emeritus" connection, General Enrique Lister has
been reported to be associated with guerrilla training.
There have been a number of reports, without hard con-
firmation, that Soviet and satellite instructors han-
dle some of the more sophisticated training in such
matters ‘as sabotage and espionage.

-5-

SECRET

HW 50955 DBocld:32283208 Page 9

 

 
SECRET

6. Reports of trainees indicate that weapons
training is confined to weapons they will be able
to obtain, maintain, and replenish in their own
countries, We have reliable and corroborative re-
ports that trainees and sponsoring leaders alike
have been told Cuba does not intend to supply ap-
preciable quantities of weapons because a guer~
rilla must be self-sustaining. It should be noted
that while Cuba does supply some funds, guerrilla
handbooks also suggest that bank robberies make
guerrillas self-sufficient in this respect. Leftist
militants have in fact resorted to robberies in
Peru, Venezuela, and Argentina

E. Subsequent Employment and Countermeasures

1. Clandestine reporting has established a
number of incidents of sabotage, terrorism, guer-
rilla activity and other subversive action in which
individuals known to have received training in Cuba
have participated, The clearest cases involved the
establishment of local guerrilla training camps by
Ecuadoreans and Brazilians returning from training
in Cuba. In each case, however, our evidence of -
the guerrilla training in Cuba comes from clandes-
tine sources, there is no legal evidence of such
Cuban instruction, and there has been no move to
prosecute. All 48 arrested in Ecuador were re-
leased after short detention. Two individuals ar-
rested in connection with the Peasant League training
activities in Brazil are still known to be detained.

2, The records maintained by Latin American
security services are inadequate and far from stand~-
ardized, so that it has been difficult to establish
a statistical approach to arrests for all types of
subversive activities. Available reporting indicates
at least 11,000 such arrests since 1 January 1962,
but a survey shows that most of these arrests amounted
to little more than detention and some interrogation.
There were relatively few trials and convictions, prob-
ably not exceeding five per cent of arrests.

3. Some of those arrested were released for lack
of evidence, In other cases, for example in Ecuador,
Brazil, and in Peru until last January, there has been
little evidence of any inclination on the part of the
government to prosecute. In cases where trials have
taken place, the local security services have frequently

y -6-

SECRET

BW 50955 Docld:32283208 Page’ i0

 
SECRET

to land at Recife, Brazil, en route to Havana, and
may have picked up some passengers

8. Controlled sources who have undergone guer-
rilla training, and a comparison of inbound and out-
bound travelers identified by travel controls make
it clear that at least in the case of guerrilla
trainees one leg of the travel is often by way of
bloc countries and Western Europe. We know of Latin
Americans given Cuban training who appear on no
travel controls, suggesting that travel in both di-
rections was either by way of the bloc or completely
surreptitious.

9. A center providing funds and forged pass-
ports for travel to Cuba is known to exist in Monte-
video, Uruguay. The Cubans are known to provide
forged passports for some of the returning trainees.
One group of Argentines returning through Prague and
Western Europe was furnished with both Cuban and
Ecuadorean passports, to be surrendered in Monte-
video prior to re-entering Argentina.

C. Numbers of Trainees

 

1. Our estimate that 1,500 to 2,000 Latin Amer-
icans have received subversive training in Cuba is
derived from a combination of travel information, de-
briefing of controlled sources who have taken training,
penetrations of sponsoring organizations, and in a
few cases from the records of cooperating Latin Amer~-
ican security services.

2. Monitoring of travel into Cuba gives some
indication of how many have stayed long enough to
receive training, but does not permit differentiation
between military training and political indoctrination.
We cannot establish a hard total or be certain about
length of visit because of travel via the bioc. Forged
documentation obscures an accurate nationality break-
down of the travelers.

3. The hardest figures on guerrilla trainees by
nationality are obtained from established and reliable
sources who have access to such information through
sponsoring organizations and in a number of cases have
themselves taken such training in Cuba. We do not,
however, have enough such sources to provide independ~
ently a comprehensive total of Latin America. Only a
few of the local Latin American security services have
adequate assets for contributing such information.

-4—
SECRET

HW 50955 BDocId: 322383208 Page 6
i SECRET

case of legitimate passports, most Latin American
countries have inadequate personnel and adminis-
trative machinery to scrutinize the passports of
returning travelers.

4, Travel control in Mexico City logged
4,912 legal travelers to Cuba in 1962, and 969
in the first two months of 1963, (These figures
do not cover access by other routes prior to the
quarantine in 1962, and include Cubans as well as
all other nationalities, Accordingly they do not
correlate with totals for legal and illegal travel
to Cuba derived from available reporting in the in-
dividual Latin American countries. It should also
be noted that a "legal" traveler in Mexican reporting
may be listed as an illegal traveler by his homeland,
either because he had no authorization to visit Cuba,
or because of fraudulent documentation.)

5. Anniversary celebrations, goodwill tours,
and international conferences afford pretexts for
travel to Cuba ostensibly unconnected with subver-—
sive training. Identities of trainees are usually
protected by pseudonyms, at least during actual
training, and the guerrilla candidate may return to
his Havana hotel every few days to maintain a fic-
tion of sightseeing. There have also been reports
that trainees have for cover purposes attributed ex-
tended stays in Cuba to detention by Cuban police.

6. Prior to the October crisis, there was
some direct travel to Cuba from Central American
countries, and. occasional Cubana charter flights,
but the main jump-off points were Mexico City,
Curacao, and Trinidad. A Canadian non-scheduled
airline has operated a few flights between Canada
and Havana, carrying both personnel and cargo. Cu-
ban freighters call fairly regularly at Mexican
ports, and some Latin American trainees could reach
Cuba aboard Cuban ships picking up rice in British
Guiana. There is small ship traffic, of unknown
put limited extent, between Cuba and neighboring
islands.

7. Soviet and Czech airlines continue trans-
atlantic service to Cuba, and Iberian airlines on
11 February announced resumption of a schedule of

two flights a month to Havana via the Azores, Aero-
flot has occasionally sought and received permission

-3~

SECRET

HW 50955 BocId: 322383208 Page 7

 
OCI No. 0515/63

27 March 1963

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

MEMORANDUM: Cuban Training of Latin American Sub-
versives

SUMMARY

1. .We estimate that at least 1,500 to 2,000
Latin Americans have received guerrilla training or
political indoctrination in Cuba.

2. We have recorded the travel of 5,059 Latin
Americans to Cuba in 1962, and reporting to date in-
dicates that at least another 417 went during the
first two months of 1963.

3. Field replies to a survey estimate that there
were about 11,000 arrests in Latin America during the
past 15 months for terrorism, sabotage, guerrilla ac-
tivity, or other subversive activity. Only a small
percentage of those arrested, however, were brought to
trial; almost all were released after varying periods
of detention.

4. Current efforts to improve and exploit re-
porting on travel to Cuba had not made themselves
felt during the reporting period. The security serv-
ices of Latin American countries accordingly were un-
able, with isolated individual exceptions, to estab-
lish Cuban direction, instigation or training of ar-
rested subversives.

5. Incidence of guerrilla, terrorist, and sab-
otage activity at present is highest in Venezuela,
Peru, and--in the form of largely non-political ban-
ditry--Cofombia. There is sporadic guerrilla activity
in and around Nicaragua and Guatemala, and a guerrilla
potential in Ecuador and Brazil.

SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32283208 Page 5

 
SECRET

DISCUSSION
A. Recruitment of Trainees

1. Candidates for subversive training in Cuba
are selected by the leftist organizations sponsoring
such activity in their homeland. These organizations
are not always Communist, particularly in countries
where the regular Communist leadership is less mil-
itant than other extremist groups. One training
group of Argentines included Peronists, Trotskyites,
and Vanguard Socialists, A Peruvian group has sent
to Cuba for extended guerrilla training youths who
are not members of any organizations but have ex-
pressed leftist ideas,

2. In countries where there is Cuban diplo-
matic representation, candidates are screened by
the embassy's G-2 officer. We have no information
on how approval is granted in countries which have
no diplomatic relations with Cuba.

B. Travel

1. There is a concerted effort to conceal or
obscure the amount of travel to Cuba, the identities
of the travelers, and the length of their stay. Docu-
ments are falsified and such devices as detachable
visas, circuitous travel, and some surreptitious bor-
der crossing are used.

2. Since the October crisis, the only Western
Hemisphere access to Cuba by scheduled airline has
been through Mexico. Throughout the reporting period
Mexican authorities have been photographing passports
of travelers arriving from or leaving for Cuba, and
relaying the information to interested OAS members. .
In some cases the travelers themselves have been pho-
tographed,

3. Cuban embassies, however, have been issuing
visas on separate sheets of paper to avoid any re-
cord of Cuban travel in the passport. In addition,
since some passports are fraudulent, the Mexican re-
port of Cuban travel may neither reach the correct
country nor permit identification. At this agency's
suggestion, Mexican travel control authorities late
in February began stamping passports to show arrival
from or departure for Cuba. While this effectively
counters the device of the detachable visa in the

Zum

SECRET

 

HW 50955 DoclId:32283208 Page 6
 

SECRET
SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32283208 Page 2
177-40004-10305

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE;

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

|

8/26/201

 

Agency Information

LBJ
177-10001-10305

VP SECURITY FILE, CUBA, MISC. PAPERS, 5/61 & 11-12/62, BOX 9

 

 

Document Information

CIA
CIA

03/27/1963
44

NEED SUBJECT ASSIGNED

REPORT
Unclassified
1B

Redact
06/04/1998

DOC, #2

31

HW 50955 DoclId:32283208 Page 1
THIS MATERIAL CONTAINS INFORMATION AFFECT-
ING THE NATIONAL DEFENSE OF THE UNITED STATES
WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE ESPIONAGE LAWS,
TITLE 18, USC, SECTIONS 793 AND 794, THE TRANSMIS-
SION OR REVELATION OF WHICH IN ANY MANNER TO
AN UNAUTHORIZED PERSON IS PROHIBITED BY LAW.

HW 50955 DBocId: 322383208 Page 3
 

SUMMARY

SECRET
27 March

CUBAN TRAINING OF
LATIN AMERICAN SUBVERSIVES

ee © -@ © # © © #@° 8 © 2» &» © ©

DISCUSSION

B. Travel, . 2. 2. 2» 5» » » » @ »
C. Numbers of Trainees .. . >. »
D. Training. . . 2. 6 ©» «© es we
E. Subsequent Employment and
Countermeasures . . . e .
F,. Purpose and Propaganda. .. +
ATTACHMENTS
Argentina . 2... 6 6 2 © ee we
Bolivia . 2. 2 « 2 6 © © © © © ow
Brazil. .. oe
Chile . 2. asa 5 2 © oo @ ew ww
Colombia, . . 2. 2. 2. s © © © ew @
Costa Rica. . . 1. 2. » «+» se eo
Dominican Republic. . . 2. . « « «
Ecuador . 2. 2. 2 2 © © © © © wo ow
El Salvador . . . .« « 6 © © » © ©
Guatemala . . 2. 2 2 » 2» © » se 6
Haiti . 2. 2 2 0 2 © 0 © @ eo we
Honduras. . . 2 « © © © «© we ww
Mexico. . 2. 2. 2 2 2 2 © © © @ ©
Nicaragua . . 2. . » «© © « ©» » «
Panama, . . 6 1 «© © © © © © @ @
Paraguay. 2. « © © «© © » © © © @
Peruse 6 « «6 «6 © 0 © © © © @ ow ow
Uruguay . . »« « © «© © © © © ww
Venezuela . 2. 2 2 2 © «© © © cee
Others. . 2. « « © © © © @ ew wwe

HW 50955 “Docid: 32283208 Page 4 ~~

Recruitment of Trainees

SECRET

-1963

eee ¢ © © © © © © ee eo © ew ew ee Ow

ee ee

ee © © @ © © © © © ew © 8 ee eo we ee

~Page 1

eee 2
oo oe 2
oo o 4
oe e O
oe « 6
oo oe 7

eo 8 @© © © © © © © © eo ee ew ew ee
eee 8 © © © © © ow oe we ew he
°
bo
on

 

 
