 

|
]
\
i

nw 50955" Docld: 32205112 Page 5

@2- |

. contribution. Mexieo is making renewed efforts to promote

private enterprise and we also want to encourage Mexico
along this line. We should continue te ¢ooperate with
Mexico in malataining financial stability and promoting
economie development.

4.

 

There remain séveral tracts on the Rio Grande over
which sovereignty is in dispute. We desire to have the
{international Boundary and Water Commission study these
problems and recommend a solution.

 

Mexico and the United States are cooperating in
eontrolling the importation of naveotics and dangerous
drugs into the United States. We should strengthen this
cooperation in the mutual interest of both countries. We
hepe therefore that Mexico will agree te periodic meetings
ef the highest law enforcement officers of the two countries.

 

An appraisal report by Interfor shows that this is
the most economical way to supply water to Tijuana. We
are preparéd to go ahead with a feasibility study if
Mexico desives and will share the cost.

 

The Mexican President wants a reaffirmation of Presi-

' dent Kennedy's commitment "to réach a permanent and effeect-

ive solution at the earliest possible time" of the salinity
problem. We ean agree but, should avoix eon ment
timing. I£ Lopez Mateos raises the related problem of the

 

groundwater

SECRET

 
aJe

groundwater vecovery program at Yuma, we agree that the
Boundary Cowmission should study the problem. Farmers

in the lower Rio Grande Valley are seriously concerned
about saline dyainage discharged into the river by Mexico
and want the Boundary Commission to achieve an early
golution to this problem.

 

23

 

|
i . .

; The Mexican Government is privately seriously
| strong and we ¢a

disturbed about the termination of this program. {on-
al opposition to it 4 cannot comm

   

MO! it
our 3 t aa the program. We are looking into the
problem to see if anything can be done to help Mexico. One
; possibility is an expanded community development program
in Mexico through private channels (F.L.460 foodstufis
through U, 8. voluntary agencies) if Mexico is interested.

 
   

     

 

 

Mexico is concerned about United States restrictions
or threatened restrictions on textiles, lead, zinc and
meat and other products and United States cotton policies
which it claims hut Mexican cotton exports to the world
market. We recognize that we are natural markets for each
other. We desire to expand trade, promote competition and
develop markets. We want to maintain er expand the present
level of aecegs to each other's market but we would not be

 

 

Lopez Mateos wants to be reeorded in history as the
man whe returned the Mexican flag to the Chamizal. He
wants a ceremony at the Presidential level at EL Pase-Giudad
Juarez before December 1964 to symbolize the Chamizal settle-
ment. We showld only agree to consult later im the year on
an appropriate ceremony and a possible date.

 

NW 50955 DocId:32205112 Page 6
ADDRESS OFFICIAL COMMUNICATIONS TO.
‘THE SECRETARY OF STATE . gq
WASHINGTON 23, D.¢.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE } uk we
WASHINGTON
We Pui,
ne Gry © Dengan/

SECRET FEB 18 te4

  

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE PRESIDENT

Subject: Your Meeting with President Lopez Mateos

We do. not expect to make any major political decisions

but want to give new emphasis to the friendly relations
which exist between Mexico and the United States. These

relations are now at an all-time high. Mexico felt it had
a réal friend in President Kennedy. they feel the same
relationshi but it to b ad

 

§
warm Texas handshake and abrazo when you greet Lopez Mateos
at Los Angeles would symbolize the continuance of that
relationship.

We want to stress the igentity of interests of our two
countries and our ability to work out in the “spirit of
El Chamizal" any problems that may arise between us.

Despite the informal atmosphere of the visit, we
should give . give serupulous attention to Mexico's extreme

sensitivity on sovereign: equality and Mexico's strong
desire to avoid any appearance of subservience to the
United States.

Lopez Mateos speaks for the Mexican Government and
no important decision is made without his approval. He

has followed an “independent” foreign policy but knows

that good relations with us, especially in the economic -
sphere, are essential to his country. At times his foreign
policy has been too independent-~for example on Cuba and in
commercial and cultural relations with Communist China.

But
SECRET
GROUP 2
Exempted from

HW 50955 DBoclId:32205112 Page 2
477-10002-10069

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 8/26/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

AGENCY:  LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: _177-10002-10069

RECORD SERIES: | NSF, COUNTRY FILE, MEXICO, LOPEZ MATEOS VISIT, BOX 61

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: = STATE
FROM: DEAN RUSK
TO: THE PRESIDENT

TITLE :

DATE: — 02/18/1964
PAGES: 5

SUBJECTS :
NEED SUBJECT ASSIGNED

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: — 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 04/21/1998

_ OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: DOC. 49

vo. ’ 12
HW 50955 Docld:32205112 Page i
      
 

found hin un, fing and wi ing to. be helpful--controlling
travel of Gastre agents, on-recognition of Red China, offer-
ing help on Panama. .

Lopea Mateos has chosen his successor, Gustavo DEAZ
Ovdaz, who will take office in December 1964 after elections
in July. Bower is, therefore drifting toward Diaz Ordaz.

   

Enclosed is a paper on points whieh Lt ia suggested
you raise at the meeting, and those which it is believed
Lopez Mateos will raise,

ds] Dean Busk

Dean Rusk

 

Enclosure:

Paper on points to be
raised at the meeting

SECRET

HY 50955 DocId:32205112 Page 3
 

 

 

We desire te continue close working relations with
Mexieo both within and outside the OAS and the UN.

: We hope Mexico will continue to use its key political
i and geographic position to help control Castro/Comunism.
| ico i it_publicizing its cooperatio

   
   

Mi "gs attention. We weleome Mexico's assistance within
an OAS context.

2. Red China

The coming visit of De Gaulle te Mexico and Brazil in
March has prompted speculation that these two countries
are about to recognize Red China. Lopez Mateos has given
us secret assurances, | that he has
no intention of recognizing Red China. We do not desixe
to raise this issue, but if Lopez Mateos raises it, we
should let him know we are aware of his assurances.

 

 

 

 

Mexico's participation in the Alliance is essential
to its success. Mexicé has played a leading role in IA*ECOSOC
and has named thé Director General of the Bank of Mexico as
i. ite representative te CIAP. It has cooperated with us in
providing extensive training facilities for Latin American
technicians, We want to encourage Mexico to make a greater
1

contribution

SEGRET

50955 Docld:32205112 Page 4
