xJJ-

On December 29, 1960, the Deputy Director for Plans

presented the Special Group with a program for covert action
SSS

 

_to b: bring about Trujillo's overthrow.

 

 

Two weeks” later, the Department of State, on its ow

 

 

 

‘motion, obtained Special Group consent to have the internal
. t

dissidents furnished “limited supplies of small arms and other
equipment," meaning explosives, subject to the condition
* . ae .
that these materials be provided to the dissidents at a point

outside the country itself. The internal State Department

memorandum which led to this proposal stated there would be
no. thought of toppling the government by any such "minor
measure," put some sabotage potential would be placed in the

hands of the’ pro-U. Ss. opposition with a corresponding boost

to their morale and their opinion of the united States. The

station and the consulate were informed of the Special Group

action on January 19, 1961, the last day of the Eisenhower

Administration. President Kennedy was informed of the Special

 

Group action not later than mid-February. .

     

HW 50955 Docld: 32112922 Page 93

 

2. DHL WOus. 1d030LeHEa—~-—

_ KAWaGIT quod: ‘ay aTwag
ing of assassination weapons. However,

of the planned assassination and armed uprising.

- took no active role in the development of plans, they did

 

 

HW 50955

-78-—

The Commission finds no reason to believe that any
. . . ; "y
member of the Special Group intended to authorize the £urnish-

those CIA officials

who had been involved in dealings with the dissidents very

likely believed that the Special Group had: authorized support

 

las Revolvers
During the early months of 1961 the CIA Station

 

 

and the consular officials in kept in close touch

and they were aware of their various schemes

 

-with ‘the dissidents,

to assassinate Trujillo, Although these officials apparently |

on occasion discuss and criticize plans developed by the
dissidents. In mid-February, two members of the dissidents’ -
“Action Group", which was to carry out the actual assassination,
came to the United States, They met with both CIA and State

Department officers. During ‘these meetings they stated
repeatedly that the key to the success of the plot would be the

assassination of Trujillo. The evidence is insufficient to

. permit a conclusion how far this knowledge went within the

State Department.

    

Docld:32112922 Page 10

-AMWdATT Caod- 7B OTvas5—aHE- HONE AAUSOLOHA

H

 

 
officer who served as Deputy Chief of Mission before the

It was his recollection that the dissidents. had no definite

- assassination plans

 

HW 50955

“Prujillo.

confirm this recollection.

-76-

c, Explosives

On June 24, 1960, Trujillo sponsored an unsuccessful
attempt on the life of the President of Venezuela; as ae .
result the United States and other OAS countries severed

diplomatic relations in August. Consular relations were

 

retained.

The Commission Staff interviewed the foreign service

severance of relations, and as Consul General thereafter,
in mid 1960, although they did ‘speak of
that course as the only way out of the conditions under which

they lived. It was not until early 1961, as he recalls, that

+4. CTWIaD-aHa,-HOwS—AEODOTONE-

the dissidents began formulating specific plans to FLL

The cables and memoranda of the period tend to

Nevertheless, the CIA continued at intervals during

.. KAW4GT1. cao -

1960 to discuss with the dissidents means for the assassination

of Trujillo. ‘A memorandum in October 1960 reflects that the \ :

Gissidents planned to kill Trujillo with a bomb, detonated from

-a remote point, and then to take over the nation by means :

, of an armed uprising, coordinated with other paramilitary

A more detailed proposal-along similar lines appears

oo

action,
to have been provided by the dissidents in December.

     

Docld:32112922 Page 8
=75-

. !
b. The Rifles

i
'

 

oo In May the American Ambassador to the Dominican Re-

public returned to Washington for consultations. Both State Départ-:

ment and CIA files indicate that he ‘reported the dissidents

needed weapons, particularly a "small number of high-powered

rifles with telescopic lenses." The Ambassador has no present

recollection of any such request. He is confident that he

made no serious effort to obtain them, Nevertheless, the

request went forward, Near the end of June, according to

CIA files, the Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-
‘American Affairs approved the provision of "a small number
of sniper rifles or other devices for the removal of key

Trujillo people from the scene," and requested that they be

supplied at the earliest possible moment, Neither the CIA

-officer who obtained this approval nor the, Assistant Secretary,

now both retired, has any recollection of this meeting.

:
:
aa
2
:

 

   

HW 50955 DoclId:32112922 Page 7?
 

  

-73-

2. (Pronosed) General Conclusion and Recommendation

 

whe Comission concurs in the position taken in the

policy statement. We have concluded that there was an

improper level of American involvement in the death of

Generalissimo Trujillo. That is so even though the assassins

might have been able to procure equivalent weapons f£xom

other sources. We also conclude that despite the apparent -

_ good faith of the persons concerned,-there was inadequate

‘consideration of the risks of such involvement and inadequate
supervision and coordination of the operation. , -

We recommend that in the future, weapons should be

supplied to plotters of a coup oF revolution only in,the

rarest of circumstances, if at all. In passing on such

“activities the approving authority should consider carefully

the potential damage to the foreign relations of the nation and
the feelings of the american people if such activities become

In our judgment eventual disclosure is inevitable.

known.
ures of the CIA should be modified to re-

‘the proced

ence of the Department of State before weapons,

quire the concurr

ammunition, explosives, and similar items are transmitted by

3.

“@iplomatic pouch. ations of the U.S., including

The treaty oblig
“particularly those under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic
Relation should be ‘observed and fulfilled in good faith

 

HW 50955 Docld:32112922 Page 5

1

 

“a GIWAGD “WHE WONT AGODOLOHAa

| RaVAGIT og ~
‘attempts to overthrow the government, sponsored by other

. downfall but to identify, develop, and encourage a-.moderate

. group which would take power in the event of Trujillo's death,

 

 

HW 50955

Clearly required by treaty, convinced many Latin Americans

~74-

3. The Chronology
a. The Background | . . . j

 

Rafael Trujillo came to power in the Dominican Re-
public in 1930. By 1960 he was notorious because of the corrupt. and,
regressive nature of his regime, because of his systematic
use of torture and murder as tools of government, and because

of his intervention in the affairs of other nations. The

country was in considerable turmoil as the result of. several

Latin American countries.

The policy of the United States at the beginning of

1960 was to refrain from actions which would hasten Trujillo's

flight, or overthrow. This policy of non~intervention, although

‘that the United States supported and maintained the Trujillo
regime. Leaders such as President Betancourt of Venezuela,
whose support the United States badly-wanted in connection. with

operations against Castro, conditioned their support’on U.S,

“assistance in toppling Trujillo. In April the President approved

contingency planning for a more active U.S. role in the event

the political situation in the Dominican Republic continued to...”

 

   

deteriorate.

Docld:32112922 Page 6

- REODOLOHE —

D- Tb NOt

AUWAGIT aod +e -aTwuw

i
!
i
{

 
oo 7 cpp, TOP SECRET 2s toseonye

‘DRAFT
GRAY/sln : 178-10003-10387

5/22/75

‘ ae .
kg. |The Dominican Republic

 

i. Summary and Conclusion
In late 1960 ana 1961, the United States, having .
abandoned its policy of nonintervention in the Dominican
Republic, sought to bring about the overthrow: of the regime
_of. Generalissimo Rafael Trujillo and the establishment of

-a moderate successor government. To accomplish this result

4 GIWYIS AHL HOUT AdOOOLOHa

several measures were undertaken on the diplomatic level

and the Special Group (predecessor of the Forty Committec)

approved a program of covert action as well. At their

‘@irection the CIA. encouraged a group of internal dissidents

AMWddIT auodg

along with several exile organizations. On May 30, 1961,

“members of the internal group assassinated prujillo.
os ghere was no direct American participation in the
assassination. The idea originated with the Dominicans;
‘they acquired some of the weapons on their own; and they
They were never subject to

_ &id the detailed planning.
, ; \

“american supervision or control. \

 

     

HW 50955 Docld:32112922 Page 2?
178-10003-10387

JFK Assassination System Date: 8/27/20
Identification Form

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

 

Agency Information

CAR/HARDY
178-10003-10387

SUBJECT FILE
BELIN ASSASSINATION DRAFTS

Document Information

ROCK
GRAY, MARVIN

E. THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

05/22/1975
20

ASSASSINATIONS, FOREIGN LEADERS
CIA

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

GRAY, MARVIN

ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
TRUJILLO, RAFAEL

REPORT
Top Secret
Consulted
Withhold
07/29/1993

Part Il of 2-part draft--Dominical Republic only.

 

HW 50955 DocId:32112922 Page i
-7F1i-

On the other hand, CIA and State Department officers

in the Dominican Republic were in regular contact with the

plotters before the assassination, and they were well aware

of the group's lethal intentions. The CIA had told the group

of practical problems with several earlier assassination plans;

it had offered to train a member of the group in the use of

explosives to kill Trujillo.

“As a gesture of American support, three revolvers and

three carbines, along with jimited supplies of ‘ammunition,
- were passed. to the plotters about two months before the

assassination. One of the carbines was reportedly left at

‘ _, the scene of the crime. Four submachineguns were also sent.
- to the Dominican Republic by diplomatic pouch, They “were with-

tters because of last-minute State Dep

held from the plot artment

objections. ;

- . It appears that high-level state Department and’
White House officials first learned guns had been provided to
potential assassins some six weeks after the transfer, and
about two and a half weeks prior to Trujillo's death. A state-

ment of policy was prepared and approved by the President,

; axeading "ye must not run risk of U.S. association with

: ‘ political assassination, since U.S. as 4 matter of general
policy cannot condone This last princs iple is

in doubtful situations. The

 

overriding and must prevail
the required coordination,

preparation of this message, and

HW 50955 Docld:32112922 Page 3

 

AUWAGIT GUOd “YX CTwuTa aRL- HOws-RAOOOTONA.

assassination.
~72-

consumed about two weeks. There is no evidence of any
effort during this period to recover the weapons or other-
wise interfere with the assassination plans. The policy

statement was cabled to the Dominican Republic on May 29,

the day before the successful assassination attempt. Both

the Consul General and the CIA Station Chief in Ciudad
Trujillo promptly protested this change in the policy which
‘they had followed in the belief it had been approved by

appropriate authority. Before these cables were received

Lin Washington, Trujillo was dead.

 

‘

HW 50955 DoclId:32112922 Page 4

 

 

 

AMVddTT GdOX *-ad- GTWYaD AHL WOUd. AdODOLOHG
