 

 

 
      
   

 

 

 

 

| Mr. Bundy said that he had no worries about

any such sabotage which could clearly be made to appear as the result

of local Cuban disaffection or of a natural disaster, but that we must |

  
 

 

avoid , unless

 

   
    

 

‘they could be completely covered up.

5. A suggestion was made that small explosives or incendiaries which

could be distributed to Cubans should be infiltrated. General Carter

explained that the problem is not one of such supplies, since they can
be easily improvised, but rather that the people have shown no inclinatior

to use such. materials despite many exile claims to the contrary.
)

6. It: was-suggested.that.the matter.of.attacking and harrassing of
Sadie iad ce

‘

, Soviet personnel within Cuba should be considered.

7. The Attorney General and Mr. Bundy said that no reprisals against.

exiles who undertake active operations on their own are contemplated.

8. It was suggested that the possibilities of counterfeiting be looked

-inta further.

9. General Carter urged again that a decision be reached as to how
much latitude would be allowed the operating elements of the government,
within broad policy lines. The Chairman indicated that it would not be
a simple matter to delegate responsibilities of this kind to any great

degree. .

10, Mr. Bundy then raised the basic question of the entire spectrum

of other contingencies beyond those envisaged in the MONGOOSE program.

Photocopy ~~"

from
HY 50955 Docld:32204525 Page 5 Gerald R. Ford Library
He mentioned as examples what the’ U.S. response should be in the event
‘of a revolt and whether or not a naval blockade should be mounted.
, - The Group agreed that such planning, in addition to the military continger
: “plans already prepared, must be pursued.
| . : ; Although recognizing that this type of activity is not within the
: . MONGOOSE framework, Mr. Bundy Oe ae General Lansdale's group,
. particularly the State representative, fase do the initial exploration
. of possibilities for later consideration by the Special Group, the
Secretary of State and higher authority. On the other hand, General
Carter felt strongly that if General Lansdale and his associates
‘ were given the responsibility for developing the spectrum of possible
; decisionsof£ this kind, it would inevitably detract from the time

available for MONGOOSE operations. Thie matter was left open for further

-consideration at a meeting next week.

B0- Ga Praedte - drained aleles - pom _

Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library

HW 50955 Docld:32204525 Page 6
=
a
oS
oe
coal
i
ey
=
i)
=
et
t
io)
é
=

 

178-10004-10264

endian Ronee i . ae
DEAT MONGOOSE Minutes - 9/6/62

ny oe O

‘MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD ~ he ty

. oo ~
SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group (Augmented) on
‘Operation MONGOOSE, 6 September 1962 : ,

PRESENT: Mr. McGeorge Bundy; the Attorney General; Mr. Martin;

Mr. William Bundy, General Decker, General Lansdale and
General Harris; General Carter; Mr. Murrow

1. Sabotage Operation

General Carter reported that information should be available by

Sunday as to the success of this -_previously-approved operation. Mr.
. Bundy requested that the White House be informed as soon as the

dnformation is obtained,

2. General Lansdale commented in general on his paper of August 31st.

“He noted that some of the operational representatives -had “questioned

 

tM
- whether this was responsive to the changed situation ehgéendered by the

issuance oF NSAM 181, but said that ‘this plan had been ‘prepared within

the framework of the previously-approved guidelines (those of August 16).

.Mr, Bundy noted that most of the paperwork in response to. NSAM 181 has
_ been done and the President's statement of Tuesday night had clarified
-the situation to a considerable degree. He thus felt that‘the approach

-ctaken in the August 31st paper was satisfactory.

‘3. The following specific comments were then made on Activities
. Usted in the paper: (It should be noted that final approval was not

«piven to the paper at this meeting.)

a. Mr, Martin said that number 20 (balloons) was tricky and that

’ he thought a very careful look should be taken when a specific proposal

Ls SS Photocopy
_ UNMARKE ; Gerald R. Ford Library
1 “NATIONAL | SECURITY INFORMATION ne

 

HW 50955 Docld: 32204525 Page 2
478-10003-10090
JFK Assassination System Date: 8/27/20 1
Identification Form

 

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: KISS/SCOW
RECORD NUMBER: — 178-10003-10090

RECORD SERIES: CHURCH COM.

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: — 7506462 (2)

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: = NSC
FROM:
TO: RECORD

TITLE: | MINUTES OF MEETING OF SPECIAL GROUP (AUGMENTED) ON MONGOOSE, 9/6/62

DATE: 09/06/1962
PAGES: 5

SUBJECTS :
"CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

OPERATION MONGOOSE
CUBAN EXILES
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: > MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION : — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1C
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 07/16/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Attached to 1781000310069. Unmarked but probably TOP SECRET.

 

v9.1 16
HY 50955 Docld:32204525 Page 1
 

 

-2-

is prepared. After considerable discussion, it was agreed that

details should be presented to the Group, to include the content of

the leaflets which would be dropped, and specifics as to the method

and place of launching, the technical details of the release of
“leaflets, etc., etc.

b. Mr. Martin felt that number 25 ("discovery" of caches of
arms) involves an important aspect of timing. He said, and the Group
agreed, that any such action should be coordinated with U.S. objectives
toward Cuba rather than confusing it with activities in connection with
a third country. Mr. Bundy emphasized that any such undertaking should
be done with: the-idea of providing ‘a-pretext--for further action, : :

‘ c. In answer to the Chairman's question, Mr. Murrow, supported .
by State, said that Radio Swan (number 23) should be continued even
though it is not entirely effective. This led into a discussion of

’ the possibilities of intrusion into radio and TV channels in Cuba. Mr.
Murrow explained the far-reaching reactions that the Cubans could mount
against U,S. radio stations, and said that he felt on balance it would.
not be profitable to provoke this kind of electronic warfare. The Group

_ asked, however, that a detailed paper on the pros and cons of such
intrusions, to include the legal aspects involved, be prepared,

d. At General Carter's suggestion, number 21 (propaganda directed
at Bloc personnel in Cuba) was assigned to USIA and CIA, rather than

- just to the latter.

e. On number 28 (sabotage of assets outside of Cuba), the purpose

was changed from crippling to harrassing Cuban coumerce.

. Photocopy 1
from ,
Gerald R. Ford Liprary

HW 50955 Docld: 32204525 Page 3
£, General Carter pointed out ‘that reference to support of all
Cuban exile groups (number 48) is -tmpractical., The word iwas changed
-to selected.
‘ge Mr., ‘Martin cautioned that results of number 50 (actions to
be undertaken by ‘other ‘Hemisphere governments) would mot ‘be expected
overnight.
. : - ih, General Canter wrged that, dm cenoection wwii mumber 22
- (submarine tbroaicasts)., General llansdaie should be gitven:more latitude
. dn working wp other deception possibilities. Mr. Bunthy Felt, on the
other ‘hand, that particularly ‘because of tthe possiibde Cuban counter-
| mepeured which tad been aut‘lined iby Mr. Murrow, ithe Group should look
at other possibilities in same detail.
4. General Carter felt that a determination should “be made as
tip thow far the WS. is prepared tte gp in economic Ihanmansing actions.
He emphasiond that sabotage operations euch as ithnse unter number 27

WLLL mot dm themeelwes ibe especially effective in , the Cuban

coor fittest bho

      

   
 
   
  
    
 
  

 

STE TT EST TATE

4, Whe Group ithen turned ito a discussion of

General Carter emphasized the extreme senpitivity of any

 

 

such operation and the disastrous results ‘that would flow from some-
ithing going wrong, patidcularily LF there wene obvious attribution to

the W./S. ‘He went-on ho say,, however, that it would ibe possible to

‘axccomplish tthis ‘purpose ‘by methoils more subtile than tthose indicated in

ithe paper. He mentioned specifically ‘the possibility qf

ANCA ER OR EPH PHT

Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library

HY 50955 Docld:32204525 Page 4
