37I-

On December 29, 1960, the Deputy Director for Plans
presented the Special Group with a program for covert action
to bring about Trujillo's overthrow. A portion of the program

called for Agency and consular officials in Ciudad Trujillo .

 

to continue to work with the internal dissidents to promote
an uprising and the establishment of a moderate pro-U.S.
successor to the Trujillo regime. The plan, as initially
approved by the Special Group, contained no provision for

supplying arms or explosives to the internal dissidents.

Two weeks later, the Department of State, on its ow

‘motion; obtained special Group consent to have the internal

f

dissidents furnished "Limited supplies of small arms and other

equipment," meaning explosives, subject to the condition

that these materials be provided to the dissidents at a point

outside the country itself. The internal State Department

memorandum which led to this proposal stated: there would be

KaWdGIT quod: *y aiwaqa.

no thought of toppling the government by any such "minor
measure," but some sabotage potential would be placed in the
hands of the pro-uU.s. opposition with a corresponding boost
to their morale and their opinion of the United States. The

‘station and the consulate were informed of the Special. Group

faction on January 19, 1961, the last. day of the Eisenhower

 

Administration. President Kennedy was informed of the Special a

 

Group action not later than mid-February. .

      

EW 50955 Bocld:32203993 Page 9
-78-—

The Commission finds no reason to believe that any
i a . ‘4
‘member of the Special Group intended to authorize the furnish-

ing of assassination weapons. However, those CIA officials

who had been involved in dealings with the dissidents very
likely believed that the Special Group had: authorized support

of the planned assassination and armed uprising.

{
_ de ‘Revolvers.
During the early months of 1961 the CIA Station

 

and the consular officials in Ciudad Trujillo kept in close touch

with the dissidents, and they \ were aware of their various schemes

to. assassinate Trujillo. Although these officials apparently |

took no active role in-the development of plans, they did: oy
on occasion discuss and criticize plans developed by the

dissidents. In mid~ February, two members of the dissidents’

~RUVAAIY.UOd- “a -CTWUES-AHI- HOM -KAOSOLONT

"Action Group", which was to carry out the actual assassination,

_ came to the United States. They met with both CIA and State

Department officers. During these meetings they stated

repeatedly that the key to the success of the plot would be the

assassination of Trujillo. The evidence is insufficient to

, permit a conclusion how far this knowledge went within the

 

state Department,

     

BW 50955 Bocld:32203993 Page 10

 
. ; . -76-

¢. Explosives

“On June 24, 1960, Trujillo sponsored an unsuccessful)
attempt on the life of the President of Venezuela; as a

result the United States and other OAS countries severed

 

diplomatic relations in August. Consular relations were
retained.

The Commission Staff interviewed the foreign | services
officer who served as Deputy Chief of Mission before the
severance of relations, and as Consul General thereafter.

Tt was his recollection that the dissidents. had no definite
- assassination plans in mid 1960, although they did speak of

-that course as the only way out of the conditions under which | ~

+Y. CTNRIO-aHE:-ROus—AUODOLOHE

' . they lived. It was not until early 1961, as he recalls, that
the dissidents began formulating specific plans to KELL
“Trujillo. The cables and memoranda of the period tend to

confirm this recollection.

RAWAGLT..daoa

Nevertheless, the CIA continued at intervals . during}

,

1960 to discuss with the dissidents means for ‘the assassination

of Trujillo. ‘A memorandum in October 1960 reflects that the-

dissidents planned to Kill Trujillo with a bomb, detonated from

a remote point, and then to take over the nation by means

, of an | armed uprising, coordinated with other paramilitary

aétion. A more detailed proposal along similar lines appears

 

to “have been provided by the dissidents in pecember.

   

HW 50955 DBocld: 32203993 Page 6
. t
b. The Rifles
8 - In May the American Ambassador to the Dominican Re~ |

public returned to Washington for consultations. Both State Départ- |

 

ment and CIA files indicate that he reported the dissidents
needed weapons, particularly a "small number of high-powered
rifles with telescopic lenses." The ambassador has no present
recollection of any such request. He is confident that he
made no serious effort to obtain them, Nevertheless, the
request went forward. Near the end of. June, according to
CIA files, the Assistant Secretary of State for Intexr-
American Affairs approved the provision of "a small number
of sniper rifles or other devices for the removal of key '
Trujillo people from the scene,” and. requested that they be
supplied at the earliest possible moment. Neither the CIA
-officer who obtained this approval nor the Assistant Secretary,

now both retired, has any recollection of this meeting.

2
8
@
g
Ce)
ed
g
7
ke
:

    

HW 50955 Docld:32203993 Page 7
we, -73«

2. (Proposed) General Conclusion and Recommendation \

 

The Comhission concurs in the position taken in the

We have concluded that there was an

policy statement.
in the death of

improper level of American involvement.
_ That 4s so even though the assassins

“a CIWYIS “SHE WOUT KGODOLOHa |

Generalissimo Trujillo.
uivalent weapons from

 

might have been able to procure eq

‘other sources. We also conclude that despite the apparent -
good faith of the persons concerned, there was inadequate
-.consideration of the risks of such involvement and inadequate

“supervision and coordination of the operation. , ; a

We recommend that in the future; weapons should be

supplied to plotters of a coup or revolution only in, the

‘xarest of circumstances, if at all. In passing on such
activities the approving “authority should consider carefully
the potential damage to the foreign yvelations of the nation and

American people if such activities become

RaVdaIT cos

the feelings ‘of the
In our judgment eventual disclosure is aL

he procedures of the CIA should be modified to re~-

nourrence of the Department of State hefore weapons,

known. nevitable.

quire the co
ammunition, explosives, and similar items are transmitted by oy
at ' giplomatic pouch. The treaty obligations of the U.S., including

hose under the Vienna Convention ‘on ‘Diplomatic

 

 

af “particularly, t

 

ed in good faith

  

- Relation should be observed and fulfill

 

HW 50955 Docld:32203993 Page 5
~74-

3- The Chronology

a. The Background : . :
Phe Packground ; :

 

Rafael Trujillo came to power in the Dominican Re-

public. in 1930. By 1960 he was notorious because of the corrupt. and:
regressive nature of his regime, because of his systematic
use of torture and. murder as tools of government, and because
of his intervention in the affairs of other nations. The
country was in considerable turmoil as the result of. several

- attempts to overthrow the government, sponsored by other

Latin American countries. 7
; 7 . . . . '
The policy of the United States at the beginning of

TWUHD- THd--HOUF--AGeoTOHa—

1960 was to refrain from actions which would hasten Trujillo's
downfall but to identify, develop, and encourage a moderate
» group which would take power in the event of Trujillo's death,

flight, or overthrow, This policy of non-intervention,. although

FIVAGIT cod -a-@

clearly required by treaty, .convinced many Latin Americans
‘that the United States supported and maintained the Trujillo

regime. Leaders such as President Betancourt of Venezuela,

whose support the United States badly wanted in connection with
operations against Castro, conditioned their support’ on U.S.
" assistance in toppling Trujillo. In April the President approved ;

*. contingency planning for a more active U.S. role in thé event.

    

 

the political situation ii the Dominican Republic continued to.

 

deteriorate.

~

HW 50955 Bocld:32203993 Page 6
 

-70-

‘DRAPT
. GRAY/sln : oO 178-10003-10244

5/22/75

‘ tos .
Rm. The Dominican Republic

 

 

Ji. summary and Conelusion ;
In late 1960 and 1961, the United States, having
; abandoned its policy of nonintervention in the Dominican ,
Republic, sought to bring about the overthrow of the regime
of. Generalissimo. Rafael Trujillo and the establishment of

a moderate successor government. To accomplish this result

several measures were undertaken on the diplomatic level
‘and the Special Group (predecessor of the Forty Committec)

--approved a program of covert action as well. At their

‘direction the CIA encouraged a group of internal dissidents

AUVdaIT Guod -a aiwag5 aHL WOWd AdOOOLOHA

along with several exile organizations. ‘On May 30, 1961,
members of the internal group assassinated Trujillo.

* There was no direct American participation in the
assassination. The idea originated with the Dominicans;
they acquired some of the weapons on their own; and they

They were never subject to

\

“Samerican supervision or control,

did the detailed planning.

 

me

     

HW 50955 DBocld:32203993 Page 2
178-10003-10244

 

JFK Assassination System : Date:

Identification Form

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

“AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

 

v9.t

HW 50955 DBoclId: 32203993

Agency Information

KISS/SCOW
178-10003-10244

MURPHY/ROCKEFELLER,

ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION--UNLOGGES...(5)

8/27/201

 

Document Information

ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
GRAY, MARVIN

E. THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

05/22/1975
20

GRAY, MARVIN

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

CIA

ASSASSINATIONS, FOREIGN LEADERS
ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
TRUJILLO, RAFAEL

REPORT
Top Secret
Consulted
Withhold
07/20/1993

Part Il of 2-part draft--Dominican Republic only.

22

Page 1
~J1-

On the other hand, CIA and State Department officers

in: the Dominican Republic were in regular contact with the

plotters before the assassination, and they were well aware

of the group! s lethal intentions. The CIA had to1a the group

of practical problems with several earlier assassination plans;

it had offered to train a member of the group in the use of

explosives to kill Trujillo.

As a gesture of American support, three revolvers and

three carbines, along with limited supplies of ‘ammunition,

- were passed to the. plotters about ‘two months before the

assassination. one of the carbines was reportedly left at

‘ . ‘the scene of the crime, Four submacHhineguns were also sent.

to the Dominican Republic by diplomatic pouch. They were with-

s because of last-minute State Department

‘held from the plotter

objections.

It appears that high-level State Department and

White House officials first learned guns had been provided to

potential assassins some six weeks after the transfer, and
about two and a half weeks prior to ‘Trujillo! s death. A state-~

ment of policy was prepared and approved by the President,

;reading ‘we must not run risk of U.S. association with
as a matter of general

® > ' political assassination, since U.S.
policy ‘cannot condone assassination. This last principte is

doubtful situations." The

 

overriding and ‘must prevail in

preparation of this message, and the required ‘coordination,

HW 50955 DBoclId:32203993 Page 3

 

AUWAGIT GUO “A CIVUES. aL -WOus-REOOOLONT——
-72-

‘consumed about two weeks. There is no evidence of any
effort during this period to recover the weapons or other-
‘4 wise interfere with the assassination plans. The policy

statement was cabled to the Dominican Republic on May 29,

the day before the successful assassination attempt. Both

the Consul General and the CIA Station Chief in Ciudad
Txujillo promptly protested this change in the policy which
‘they had followed in the belief it had been approved by

appropriate authority. Before these cables were received

Lin Washington, Trujillo was dead,

 

   

HW 50955 Docld: 32203993 Page 4

 

 

kUVAGIT God “a GIWYED FHL WOUs. KAODOLOHG
