Secret

OMS support of the type mentioned above was phased out about 1964.
Since that time, OMS relationship to any Agency activity in Miami has been

rare.

 

 

Personnel

The Office of Personnel conducts or has conducted normal personne! activities
including: recruiting, position surveys, and contract preparation. Correspondence
is carried out with personnel in the Miami area relative to: retirement benefits,
insurance, disability and casualty claims, and the shipment of employee household
effects and automobiles.

Security .

 

 

 

 

 

7 Photocopy
from
Secret Gerald R. Ford Library

HW 50955 Docld:32105602 Page &
Secret

 

 

 

 

 

Medical Services
"Bay of Pigs" Project.

The Project Medical Advisor made two TDY trips to Miami prior to the
Bay of Pigs to discuss medical training plans with Cuban medical personnel.

A four-man evaluation team from OMS made at least two TDY trips
to the Miami area to medically evaluate Cubans as cadre personnel for the
invasion brigade.

The Assessment and Evaluation Staff (A&ES) sent teams to Miami during
the same period for psychological evaluations.

A Medical Technician from the OMS was also temporarily assigned to
Miami for first aid and medical training for the project activities in the Miami
area.

Post-Invasion.

A Medical Technician from OMS was assigned PCS to JMWAVE in Miami
from September 1963 to June 1966.

During this same period the A&ES (by then part of the OMS) would,
on request, occasionally send a psychologist to Miami for psychological
evaluation for these continuing WH operational activities.

Photocopy

from
Gerald R. Ford Library
Secret

HY 50955 Docld:32105602 Page 7
Support Activities
in the Miami Area
Communications
Prior to 1968.

From the late 1950s through 1968, CIA communications activities in
iami orted DDO covert action against the Cuban government.

 

 

 

 

Apart from, Cuban’ operations, some high’ requency ‘Morse and
S swere exchanged between: the’ Miami: radio: ‘base. station and
selected CIA ‘field stations in Latin America. In 1964 ‘thé! CIA Latin ‘American

      

 

area electronic equipment repair facility was relocated

 

 

 

 

 

Miami-based CIA communications personnel were responsible to the DDO
for training staff and agent personnel and for equipping teams and boats with
the means of maintaining communications during operations directed against
Cuba.

Liaison was conducted with the FCC, the FBI, the Department of State,
- and the Department of Defense.

Other non-communications liaison existed between the Miami

 

communications facilities and various organizations: |

 

 

 

From 1968 to Present.
The focus was on communicating with CIA agents in-place on the island

of Cuba or in Latin America. Communications links were established with
foreign police authorities in several countries during this period.

4 Photocopy
from
Secret Gerald R. Ford Library

HY 50955 Docld:32105602 Page 5
Secret

 

 

 

 

 

Provisions were made to provide the Secret Service with name trace
information on foreign nationals on a timely basis during the 1968 Republican
National Convention and the 1972 Democratic and Republican National
Conventions. In the latter instance, requests were made by Secret Service
Headquarters to CIA Headquarters and communicated to CIA/DDO, Miami,
for action. :

 

 

 

 

Liaison was conducted with the FCC, the GSA, and the Army for

purposes [ _ nd with the Armed Forces Courier Service.

Although very little communications support for Cuban operations was
provided after 1968, on one occasion an anti-Castro group was given support
in the form of radio signal plans and technical guidance on how to best install
radios in small boats. :

 

 

 

 

5 Photocopy
from
Secret Gerald R. Ford Library

HW 50955 Docld: 32105602 Page 6
. + 178-10004-10416

Appendix J

' THE MIAMI STATION

In March 1960, President Eisenhower approved the project later to become
known as the Bay of Pigs. In April 1960 a Western Hemisphere Division Forward
Operations Base (FOB) was established in South Miami, Florida,. for the purpose
of coordinating all support, training, and preparatory activities for operations against
Cuba. The FOB simultaneously supported our busy Havana Station which was
operating under difficult circumstances, including ‘inhibiting surveillance of our
officers by Castro security services. After the Station was closed in Havana when
US diplomatic relations were broken with Castro's government in January 1961,
it was envisioned that selected personnel assigned to the Miami Base would, upon
the overthrow of the Castro government, become a nucleus to reopen the Havana
Station. During the Bay of Pigs landing, the FOB provided support for the
operation.

In September 1961, the Miami Station was established at.a new location,
replacing the FOB. About 300. persons were assigned to the Station at one time;
Headquarters responsibility was in an autonomous group until 1965, when the
Western Hemisphere Division resumed charge.

Utilizing former Cuban assets in Havana who had fled to the United States,
indigenous Cuban organizations were formed to continue the overt struggle against
the Castro government. In addition, a Cuban Intelligence Organization in exile was
formed to collect information on the activities of militant autonomous Cuban exile
groups in the United States who were not affiliated with the US Government effort
against the Cuban regime. The Cuban intelligence organization in exile participated
in a number of activities including the issuance of anti-Castro publications,
maintaining relations with anti-Castro governments and groups in the Caribbean
and Latin American countries, and debriefing Cuban exiles arriving in the United
States for positive foreign intelligence and counterintelligence to identify Cuban

agents being infiltrated into the United States via_ the Cuban Freedom Flights and

small boats.|

 

 

 

 

which was manned by indigenous Cuban
exiles. Close working relations were maintained with US Government agencies in
the Miami area such as the FBI, INS, Coast Guard, Customs, Navy, Air Force,
etc., to coordinate activities. A small support base was established in Key West.

 

Secret Gerald R. Ford

HW 50955 Docld:32105602 Page 2
1781000410416

JFK Assassination System
identification Form

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

 

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :

, RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.4
HY 50955 Docla:32105602

Date:

$/27/201

 

Agency Information

ROCKCOM
178-10004-10416

TESTIMONY SERIES

COLBY STATEMENT--APPENDICES

 

Document Information

CIA

THE MIAMI STATION

O1/13/1975
7

BAY OF PIGS
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
CIA

PERIODICAL, RAMPARTS
MIAMI, FL

CUBAN EXILES

REPORT
Unclassified
Consulted
Redact
11/06/1995

Appendix J to Statement of William Colby to Rockefeller Commission, 13 January 1975.

wd

Page 1
Secret

During the period 1962-66 the Miami Station engaged in classical intelligence
operations directed against the Cuban regime. Radio Americas was established and
broadcast daily from Swan Island in the Caribbean. Psychological, economic, and
political activities were: undertaken in an effort to undermine confidence in the
Castro government and underscore the Soviet presence and total Cuban dependence
on the USSR. Maritime operations were also undertaken. Among other missions,
Cubans who desired to escape from the Cuban ‘mainland were assisted.

In late 1966 a substantial cutback in the pace of operations began and a
reorganization of the Station was undertaken as a result of a review by higher
authority (303 Committee). Many cover entities were terminated and personnel —
reassigned. Increased emphasis on the collection of intelligence and
counterintelligence through operations in other foreign areas, limitation on maritime
activities, and consolidation of written and radio output achieved considerable
savings in money and manpower.

In early 1968 it became apparent that as a result of sustained operational
activity in the Miami area over a period of years the cover of the Miami Station
had eroded to a point that the security of our operations was increasingly
jeopardized. This erosion was more significant following the Rampartsexposure of
CIA_ operations and the possibility that the location of our Station on property.

 

 

At the same time, it became apparent that activities would ‘have to
be reduced drastically for policy, budgetary, and operational reasons. It was decided
to deactivate the Miami Station and replace it with a smaller Station which would

-be better able to respond to current needs. Security had deteriorated seriously
at the large Station (then 150 persons) which was under commercial cover near
Homestead; the new Station of about 50 persons had good official cover on a
government-controlled area in a run-down part of Miami Beach. It was felt, also,
that the new Station could facilitate adjustments in the objectives and targets of
Miami-based operations and enable the new Station to reduce our dependence on
those Cuban exiles who were no longer in tune with current or future needs.

 

In August 1968 the new, smaller Miami Station was activated, and during
the ensuing months the maritime activities were terminated; a new and much smaller
media operation was activated, and intelligence collection was expanded to include
| increased emphasis was given to third-country
Cuban operations {agent recruitment and technical operations against Cuban
Embassies abroad) under the guidance of the new Station. The Cuban emigre
organizations supported by the Station were drastically reduced and activities were

 

 

 

Photocopy

from
Secret Gerald R. Ford Library

HW 50955 DoclId:32105602 Page 3
Secret

  

phased down. Ing 1974; responsibility for the residue Cuban operations was
transferred to Headquarters and the remaining Cuban emigre organizations were
terminated.

 

 

 

 

3 Photocopy
. from
Secret Gerald R. Ford Library

HY 50955 Docld:32105602 Page 4
