 

 

MY .

, “Lact take. one step back: and steps*forward, and hold‘ on’ to
. the Cuba real estate*as.a. prope ganda and - insurgency base,

“as a means of keeping! astro‘urdér-control, or in order to.

retain a capability: for ‘quick: estoration ofia Soviet offensiv
capability. The kind“of concerted" intelligence’ action which -
the DCI had in mind: would 'jncli.de*(1)penetration: of vthe-Castr
government regime, (2) ‘the placement of additional agent’ teams
in Cuba, (3) the continuation’ «f efforts to obtain the assistanc
of | : epresentatsres i, ai (4). the.

“possibile obtaining or useruri telligence from

 

 

 

 

 

 

useful.intorm: tion fromT
with Castro and who _

yesterday. asked to ‘seé telligence officer,’ .°'

 

 

 

“ Mr, Pace asked whether Mr,.-McCon would favor the use of
Guantanamo Naval Base as @ base ‘for launching intelligence .and

related operations against Cubz. Mr, -McCone said that he would

not be in favor of this because if we were caught using Guantanamo

for intelligence operations ‘Cas tro would obtain UN and other support.-:
for Cuba's demands for U,.S. evacuation of the Naval Base. ‘ ‘

. Answering General:Doolittl« 's question, the DCI stated that’.
-U-2 overflights of: Cuba were: gcing: at the rate of two a day, re-.-
“sulting in coverage of all targets once & week and in coverage of

some important targets’ (e.g., jrarbors) more often, Mr. HeCone said
that COMOR and USIB. list..the ;taurgets and that he then est blis
flight schedules. ee NE

1 Going back to the subject:of. Guantanamo, Mr, .Pace .asiced whethe
the DCI had made a study of the expected intelligence return’ that!
-would ve obtained if-intelligence operations were’ conducted’ from.
“the Base -- Mr. Pace:adding thit. he thought such a study should .be*
“was reached, ..Mr.«McCone said.
He, added: that in-August the
MONGOOSE. Group that Guan
posed at the policy leve
ppesed toa restudy .of. th
rerKillianis inguiry;,"Mr

 

 

 

Ro
ABs
rs galore

 
cn Scan
Se Mr. .Murphy’ asked , the-.DC Eto

“B PLUS", Mr, MeCone explained .

was originally conceived -that

intelligence on the possibiliti

of resistance groups within Cuba,’
"successful" because: Castro has. 30me. 100,000’ informers’
Cuba and exercises internal’sec irity controls through a sy
ration cards, and therefore, CI4 did not get as many teams’ into .
Cuba as had been hoped. On Augist 10, -Phase II was reached with
MONGOOSE planning: for, (a) .violeat actions {b) a relatively high

“ leyel of actions, or. "B-PLUS",“and lesser act-ens, or "B MINUS"

Mr, McCone said that he’had not: been prepared to endorse propose
"mB pLUS" actions in the absence of plans for military backing, ‘|
because of his own speculation that the U.S. would be faced with «+
MRBMs in Cuba. In any-case,'.the MONGOOSE effort became diverted
vy considerations of Sov -ties in Cuba, Mr. McCone stated,

tn answer to a question fron Mr. Murphy “as to who chairs the ©) *- [ae
MONGOOSE Group at this time, Mr. McCone said that he did not ymow% «i
whether Mr. Bund r the Attor General, was now serving as. eae
Chairman, he ERR AB we a be

With reference to the abserce of photographic evidence of Soviet

offensive missile deployment p2ior to October 14 photography, Mr.
McCone said that if one looks <t photography of Cuba obtained on
September 5 it is possible.to, spot evidence of activity at the San
Cristobal MRBM site, but this <«ctivity could have been that of
agricultural workers and the evidence did not then point to missile
activity. Dr. Killian noted tle Board's concern that Soviet cam- ~
ouflage operations may be deceiving us, Mr, MeCone expressed his
own great concern that the Soviets are deceiving us by camouflage
methods, Acknowledging that our intelligence estimates leave a
certain margin for error, Mr. HeCone noted that it is nevertheless
impossible for us to say that ye know all that is going on in the }
_USSR with respect to missile activity, In response to Dr, Killian's.~
comment that public discussion: ,seem.to indicate that U. S. missile
capabilities are superior.'to..those of. the USSR, the DCI considered:
that any such conclusion is‘ernoneous and dangerous and could lead-
. to a complacency which.might well result in curtailment. of.the.U, S$
-missile program. by’ an economy-riinded Congress.» Hr. McCone,-added ;
that in his; presentations® to. sclect Committees of the-Congress he
: ations AconcerningiU.'.S.“missile, superiori

“ Dr,’ Kiliszan3wo : ‘Secretary. of’:
efense ,,and -thezCon, $ : thate
, an} ;

 
‘The Chairman asked}thei DCI whether the MONGOOSE -acbivity
presented any particular“intelligence problem inthe’ Cuba. ,
situation. Mr. MeCone:said‘‘hat.it had not. He said-that. -
in the MONGOOSE activity’ the’ Special’ Group and the Attorney
General had given a great deul offconsideration to the need
for intelligence collection ith: respect to Cuba, but “che
intelligence needed. was primirilysfor"covert ‘action rathe
than other purposes. | Nevertheless, the MONGOOSE activity’
contributed to the over-all :ntelligence collection effort *
on Cuba. ic. MeCone recalled) that there was a hiatus in the
collection of intelligence.on-Cuba, after the Bay of Pigs in-
vasion,7and when he-cvook: off:.ce in’. November 1961 ‘Mr. MeCone -

-was surprised to learn*that*no-interrogation of Cuban refugee
was aking places” Thereafter, following discussions with

-. the President and the :Attorney,General they got the refugee

-.. interrogations under, way soles Mote .

Mr. Murphy wondered why there had been a let-down in -
intelligence gathering after the Bay of Pigs incident, Mr.
MeCone said that this took place before his time, but he
assumed that the reasons had to do with discouragement and |" -"
other psychological’ fectors. In response to Dr. Killian's
question as to whether another intelligence let-down was in
store in the wake of the Cubs crisis, "Mr. McCone said that
there was in fact a great danger of such a development followin
what some officials consider was an “intelligence victory" iy
for the United States. Mr.“leCone, noting that the Soviet
SA-2's remain in Cuba,’ said le-had brought this up forcefully
a week ago at an MSC Executive Committee meeting, and:the. °
President had agreed to get sord to the USSR that any inter
ference with our aerial recounaissance of Cuba would be *
considered as being most grave -- and Messrs. MMeCloy. and
Stevenson have passed this.word. to Kuznetsov. . Mr. McCone.’:
added that while’ low-level* reconnaissance flights. have been
suspended, should any“,ominous. development ‘occur it wlll .be

- necessary. to obtain) ] ; 1.tals approval. of ‘the ‘sum
of-low-level'flights: : :

kag
: r. Pace inquired
on’ the conduct of intelligence’ operations with regar

 
ecg
ees

cane

. As to the Board's¥study’, ‘told Dr, Killian -that.
the Board snould include“in its*review discussions with the
Secretaries of State and Defense and: the Chairmen of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff -- Mr. Bundy “ind: cating that the Secretary of

Defense has particular’ reservaticns about ‘the DCI's report,
an PONTR rae :

Another matter mentioned by. Mr, Bundy was his belie? that
the morale of the intelligence, community as a vihole stands to
suffer jin the absenee.of a carefully done review and report
which is being expected from the Board, . ; wt
. no eS . s

With regard to the interim ceport which the Board has under." —
way, Mr, Bundy informed the Chai:man that the report could be
delivered to hin or Lt could be presented to the Cre ident directly,’
and ir, Bundy thought it important that the Board pr
the President in person,:” Onefotier matter discussed
coneern abouts any intelligence 1let-down in the wake of the Cuba ..--
erisis, it being ir. Bundy's pel.ef that no such let-down is in
prospect if present diredtives and discussions on the subject have
any effect in Government ee .

(At the conclusion of the..Ciaimman's account of his discussion
with We, Bundy, the Board recess:d-for lunch.) : . .

At 2:30 p.m,, the Board was briefed on the world situation by
Nir, Thomas Lawlor, senior iritelligence officer in CIA's Office of.
Current Intelligence (Mr, Ray Cline, Deputy DCL/Intelligence was.
on vacation leave and not availaole to be present at this Board —
meeting). li, Lawlor explained. chat his own responsibilities in-
cluded the handling of current iitelligence matters, the’ selection :
and write-up of current intelligence items {e.g., in the CIB’and in..
memoranda for the White House),* and the preparation of internal in- 3.7
telligance nutes for use at the SIA working level, Mr, Lawlor
pointed out that his duties were in the areas of analysis an.
production, not the collection, of intelligence. His briefing of
the Board: includeéed,-the fol g.subject matters:

id

USSR/Chicom relations: ec ciminations between the USSR and
Communist’ China are the greatest in the history of their. disp

resen
f,tne,:Cub

2
¢

idibeda ,

anne!

 
   
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

THE WHITE HOUS

WASH NGTON

    

- DECIR

MEMORANDUM YOR ‘THE FILE Je mn secre

 

eo ‘ suBJECT: Board Meeting of December 27 - 20,

The Board convened at 9:(0 a.m, on Decomber 27. * Those
present were Dr, Killian, Chairman, Board members Langer, Murphy,
Gray, Doolittle, Pace and Ciiiford and Messrs, Coyne and Ash,

Dre. Killian suggested thet Board members read tre draft
report which had been furnished to the Board on the preceding
day by Mr. MeCone, the Directcr of Central Intelligence, setting
forth the results of the all-source review which the Board nad ‘
requested concerning U. S, intelligence community activities with
respect to tne Soviet military buildup in Cuba during the 6-monthe
preceding Cctober 22, 1962, ‘The Chairman asked that Boarc members
: make note of any comments and questions they might wish to raise
for discussion during this twc-day meeting. Dr. Killian said that
nly he wags not sure the DCI's repert had the approval of the intelli-

: genee comaunity at this point, for he understood that Mr. McCone

: was at that moment reviewing the draft report in Seattle, and it

- vas possible that some of the conclusions and factual details

might not have yet received final approval by the agencies whien
contributed to the preparatior of the report (CIA, DIA, State and
NS&). Accordingly, the Chainran noted the importance of the
Giscussions which the Board would have on the following day witn
heads of the intelligence agercies, The Chairman also thought
that the Board should ajm for the preparation of a Board report
to the President at the close of this @-day meeting.

  
 

Dr. Killian said that he had very recently talked to Mr.
MeGeorge Bundy who hopes that the Board will take the time it needs
to produce a solid report on the handling given by U. S$. intelli-
gence agencies to the Soviet military bulldup in Cuba. Mr. Bundy
assured that the President will understand that tne Board is going
into the subject deeply and otjectively, About 10 days ago, the
Chairman related, he had received a telephone call from Mr, Bundy
who said that he had seen an carly draft of the DCI's report (from
a confidential source) and was concerned vecause the report did not
get to the basic issues, and Mr, Bundy expressed an intention to
talk to Mr. Mccone about this. Dr. Killian stated that he had an
appointment to see Mr. Bundy later in the morning at which time he
would ask Mr, Bundy to meet with the Board during the course of

this meeting. . .

    

 

* Board members Baker and Land‘ were unable to attend,

aide via BYEMAN
_Systen::
siraiGge VR,
arts

‘oladay stay in Cubajtand vou: NE s"equally in“the dar

arouts Soviet and Cuban plans” or further activities ‘involving :
other countries in this: Hemisphere, “Also we-are! lacking -intel- .
ligence on Cuba/Communist China iiscussions., ir, Murphy reiterated
his concern that our lack of information on such matters as these’, ;
indicates the absence of an adequate intelligence capability to °
keep our Government informed abot developments in Cuba at the pre- -
sent time and in the future, © Soe, :

Dr; Killian at. this.point r2ported to.the Board on’ the con-~

versation which he hadtjust-had sith Mr, ‘Bundy, ‘According to”

- Mr, Bundy, the Presidentris fully“aware that the Board 1s: con-
ducting its veview of ‘the Cuba situation... The President wants
an objective report ‘from,a-group'ofscitizens ‘who have-no ‘axe to
grind, and he is’ placing ‘great store on this effort of "the Board.
The Chairman said that Mr. Bundy was’ obviously concerned about ©
the prospect that tne Congress will make inquiries into the Cuba
matter. However, Mr, Bundy feels there is a pare possibility that -
Congressional investigators will be more hesitant to raise hypo-
thetical questions if they learn of the existence “of a study having *
been made by a group such as the Board, It is Hr. Bundy's hope
that the Board will cevefully coisider the preparation of a sanl-
tised version of the report, but if ‘the. Board end tne President feel
chat this cannot be done’ then-the-Board should try to prepare ‘a

revort which’ could be.used in ex2cutlve session of a Committee of
the Congress, Benes os

4 be

Dr, Killian went on to report other matters which had been
covered in nis discussion with . Bundy, He said tnat Mr. Bundy-
nad expressed concern aver the failure of the DCI to accept the
5 estion that there be submitted a move adequate report than the
one which the DCI forwarded to tie Board cn December 26. Nr, Bundy
noted in this connection that the DCI's report assigns to policy
makers prime responsibility for any failures with respect to
intelligence handling.’ Bes .

On-the question, of;
purposes of the Board‘sstudy, Mr. Bundy informed the, Chairman
that certainly the Board should ixamine such records and that
_ they could be obtained, from.Mr, Parrott’ (Mr, Bundy commented: that
the 5 . nly,cé ‘oup: whic. can have. this lind .ofvaccess)

 

 
Lamba renrteemna matte Fn

a

 
 

 

178-10004-10054

 

 

JFK Assassination system ; Date: 4NF201
Identification Fur

 

Agency Informat on

AGENCY :-

ROCKCOM |
RECORD NUMBER: —178-10004-10054
_ RECORD SERIES: - ASSASSINATION FILES
AGENCY FILENUMBER: MISC. ROCKEFELLER COM. AND CIA FILES (3)
Document Infomation
ORIGINATOR: PFIAB
FROM: KIRKPATRICK, LYMAN
TO: RECORD
_ TITLE: | MEETING OF THE DCI WITH PBL\B, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 28, 0930 A.M.
DATE: 12/28/1962
PAGES: 10
SUBJECTS : . °
_ ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS
PFIAB
: MC CONE, JOHN
OPERATION MONGOOSE
CUBAN EXILES
DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION : — Top Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/09/2016

OPENING CRITERIA: ~

COMMENTS :

 

Wt 52879 Docla:32112782 Page 1 oa
Soon Cuban Arms

John Het

rt

on the Cuban

3 Over

FO
£,
GO (LE.

 
    
    
 

 
  

cataipanaiattca mab Pane

   
     
     
    

CY CONPIDED

   

      
   

aeutive Of fics Budlding

elon ffwwF

wbton of Prien-Board

 

“ 2130 aout
YOO - 2ya0
weeds

“ye

  

 

2:40 - END

  
  

 

 

Budldup and ©
Repert to the fros

Bans

. COMPIDENTIAL

 

 
