 

HW 50955 DocId: 42204636

Page 5

 
 

that Castro cannot be tolerated and the final chapter to;
this has not been written. Hr, Rob Kennedy indicated that.
J. F. Kennedy made this report at an NSC meeting. Mr. an
Bob Kennedy will be watching conduct and the progress of this _
project. The group will be required to make periodically

reports to the 5412 Group, If it does not go, you the

members of the Caribbean Survey Group are responsible.

“Imagination, ideas, thoughts and these are to pe forwarded
to General Lansdale. These are important to the project.
Members of this group must not wait and react only to.
Lansdale's guidance they must produce ideas and thoughts of

their own.

The big bird is on your shoulders, you members of

FHL WOW AdOOOLOHA

  
 

the group.’ There is no question but that you must see

that absolutely nothing stands in the way. We must do

»

this job now. We cannot stand by and set on our -~~+

We must get going now. This is not a 3 or 4 year project 2

put an immediate. one that must show results nov. pach ry

of you as Senior representatives of your department has :
Lad

full authority. Mr. Rusk, Mr. MeCone, Mr. McNamara all

understand this. You have absolute authority in your

respective agencies where this project is involved, and if

you are held back on anything by plocks within the Departments

T want you to tell me or General -Lansdale and he will tell

me. I will see that the blocks are moved. There will be

 

no excuses if the project is not successfully accomplished."
Bob xennedy, there is no ms
. Qo

After the above orientation by Mr.
ibbean Survey Group has

  

doubt in my mind but that the Car

the full backing of the president of the United States.

  

   
 

19 Janasiry 1962 j

prepared and dispatched memorandum Gen. Lansdale.

Situation at quantanamo, ‘See copy in Record.

Subject:
Prepared Memorandua for Record of tne eonference with

Nr.. Bob Kennedy.

£02,
e o

“eek Alo
Layuat>

 

AUVAGIT GUOd *U GIWURD AHL Howd KdOD0LOHA

 

PRC ULES FPO CDS

       

poe . + an
bus web, bene

 

HW 50955 DocTa: 32204636 Page 6
-178-10002-10479

O

 

HW 50955 DoclId: 32204636 Page 2

 

19 Janvary 1962

Notificd at 1015 of meeting in Mr. Bob Kennedy's office
at 1100 attended by Lansdale, Woodward (State), Helms (CIA), |
yilson (USIA), Craig (DOD) at loth and Constitution, 1100,
Mr. Kennedy's office. _ Personnel ‘actually attending the
meeting were: Lansdale, Craig, Hand, Patchell, Mevanis, (CIA),
Helms, (CIA), Wilson. State Department representative failed
to report. Meeting opened with Lansdale oovering 32 tasks
given various departments, Reported to Mr. Kennedy that the
project was in slow motion. We must get things off dead
center.. Mentioned there were many taskings, some of which
may or may not work. It is high time the US Government gave
this project and the tasks involved a fair trial. It is .

high time the United States gets busy. Something to be

“HY G@IVURD FHL KOwd LL.

generated in the form of assets, etc. around the Caribbean

basin. Lansdale reported that at the Special Group meeting "3
yesterday, General Taylor asked if the tasks had been 8
oo.
accepted by various departments, Lansdale had replied that =]
TINE
most had been accepted but not all. One task was the [oPO%
. fz e
éefection of top Cubans in the Castro regime. This is a g ry,

(

thing CIA could handle and must. US got a MIG aircraft
that way-once. Lansdale will be adding tasks from time to
time. Deadlines in the plan issued and distributed yesterday
were developed carefully not haphazardly. As we become

ready in any phase we should push ahead. Lans@ale expressed oe
his concern regarding the absence of State representative at
the meeting. He does not feel that State realizes the .
importance of this project. State should give this project
more emphasis. Lansdale mentioned Interrogation Center ‘
Opa-Tocka and ask Mr. McMands to give Mr. Kennedy a brief
report. Requirements have been developed and submitted

to J-5, Joint Staff which is considering the. support

required from the military. 11 CIA people are involved.

Plan is that CIA people will absorb military personne’, The ©
tnlorragation Center will be ready on schedule, but this

Vous not moan that an underground can be put into Cuba

; EXCLU [KOM GDS

“oF a re

 
178-10002-10479

 

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

8/27/201

 

: AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

Agency Information

ROCKCOM
178- 10002-10479

ASSASSINATION FILE
ASSASSINATION MATERIALS--MISC. ROCK/CIA (7)

Document Information

CIA
19 JANUARY 1962

01/19/1962
5

KENNEDY, ROBERT

DOD

CIA

CARIBBEAN SURVEY GROUP
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

MEMORANDUM

Top Secret

Consulted

Withhold \

07/14/1993
NQJOINT STAFF OBJECTION
TO DECLASSIFICATION

ii Salada

ove 2

26

HW 50955 DocId: 32204636 Page 1
 

HW 50955 DocId:32204636 Page 3

‘who have already escaped from Cuba.

“October.

find the key Communist informers in each village and

  
  

PE WHITE, HOUSE

simultaneously. We-must first get the mass of information

-before we can develop the necessary dope for underground.

Detailed fnformation for establishment of successful under-
ground is necessary. Mr. Wilson indicated that as the
Interrogation Center gets information available, USIA

can use it for broadcasts, news items, eté. The Attorney

" General asked what is being done with the people, i.e., refugees

McMands replied CIA

trying to get people particularly who have come out since

Mr, Kennedy feels that the people who have escaped in
the last 6 months are important. His view is that we must
province who back the Communist regime. We must find out
how the operation was conducted 6 months ago. How it‘is

conducted now. What changes. What those changes imply.

We must determine those people who are potential assets,

   

Or "a OTWaaDS aHL HOW AdOOOLOH

those unfriendly to Castro. Mr. Kennedy stated that

money is no object." MeMands reported that US has a base E
of 400 Cubans with knowledge. Mr. Kennedy referred to a &
recent project involving placement of 3 operators into Oey
Cuba recently which were picked up within 3 days. He 2
stated that if the United States had known the facts RY
or had full information, we could have avoided this _

failure. Mr. Kennedy indicated that people involved required

for the Interrogation Center as interrogators, etc. should moe

be no objection. We will get the people no matter where

' they must come fron. We must cause Castro trouble that

is meaningful. Lansdale brought up necessity for military

 

personnel operating in the Interrogation Center wearing
civilian clothes. Mr. Kennedy did not comment on this.
Neither did Mr. McMantis. USIA feels that Interrogation

‘Center will be very useful to the USIA. Lansdale brought
up the necessity for getting names of relatives of Cubans
who have becn nersecuted or exccuted by tne Communist and
propaganda in Cuba. Kr. Kennady concluded the meeting by

summarizing the situation as follows:

 

roy

 
 

HW 50955 Docld:32204636 Page 4

  

ane
base, bda lies
N\

   
 
 

 

Fives ‘y Ou
i .
He stated how the project Caribbean Survey Group got

THE WHITE

started. Immediately following the April fiasco, the US
government had to lie low for obvious reasons. During this co.

_ interim period first. the middle class refugees and then the

farmer refugees stated out. General concensus of these
refugees that a strong feeling is. cropping up against

Castro within Cuba but, also the Cuban military is getting
stronger day by day and Castro's control is drawing tighter
and tighter. Time is decidedly in Cuba's behalf. With this
in mind the government decided to do something. General

Lansdale was told to make an appraisal at a meeting at.

!

wvdaIT quod “a aIwaao gHL Hout AdODOLOHd

the White House. Two week survey was made and ‘Lansdale

 
 

reported to the President in late November. “Results were
that Lansdale was directed to go ahead. A major effort

was definitely worthwhile. A real drive and real effort can
provide meaningful results. We must cause Castro. trouble
and worry regarding the retention of his control of Cuba. a “
This will not give him time to cause-trouble in other LF

Latin American countries, since he will be busy trying to

teyage’

assure his official and personal survival.

When the President had asked President Diem of South Vietnam
what he wanted most from the United ‘States, he indicated
he wanted General Lansdale. This caused a competition
between State, Defense, and the White House. State wanted og
Lansdale in Southeast Asia. Mr. Kennedy felt sure that 7
State wanted Lansdale in Vietnam because Diem wanted him

there ~ and for no other reason, Mr. J. F, Kennedy wanted

 

 

him working onthe Caribbean Survey Group. This project
has priority and General Lansdale was placed on it. _

Initially, Mr. Kennedy had honed we could get something cc
going to harass the work of the Cubans in harvesting their

sugar, We still have the problem of interfering with the

|

sugar harvest.
This project is-first priority of all projects under way
by the United States of America. Time, effort, manpower,

dollars are not to he spared, The President has Indicated
