CEUAEI/ SENSE

opposed any effort to interfere with the constitutional process, #
The conspirators hoped to kidnap and detain Schneider long ,
enough to permit anti~Marxist forces to take over power in Chile,
The 22 October kidnap attempt, which resulted in Schneider's
death, was badly executed; General Schneider drew his pistol and
in turn was shot and fatally wounded by the kidnappers.

Following the 4 September 1970 presidential election, in
which none of the three candidates received a majority of the
popular vote, the Agency was instructed to try to determine
whether sufficient organized strength could be mobilized in
Chile to prevent Allende from assuming office as President on
4 November 1970. In carrying out this mandate, the Agency did
make contact with the military-civilian group which was actively
plotting a coup d'etat. As the first step in their coup attempt,
this group had planned to abduct Schneider on the evening of
19 October. This plan aborted. The Agency was also in contact
with representatives of General Viaux (the latter subsequently
admitted "intellectual authorship” of the 22 Octobér kidnap
efforts), but had withdrawn from contact after detérmining that
the Viaux group lacked the organization necessary for any :
effective course of action, It is not known whether any leaders
of the military~civilian group authorized the 22 October attempt,
although available evidence makes it appear likely that Viaux
acted on his own initiative in a last-ditch effort to provoke
military intervention. The Agency provided the military-
civilian group with three weapons and six gas masks and cannisters
which were never used; the weapons were subsequently returned,
No military hardware was prdévided to Viaux. The death of
Schneider, which was totally unplanned and unforeseen, resulted
in the. collapse of all efforts to prevent Allende from assuming
the Presidency.

Rafael Trujillo

_Rafael Trujillo, the Dominican dictator, was assassinated
by Dominican dissidents on the night of 30 May 1961. Although th
Agency was involved in supporting those planning the overthrow of
Trujillo, as a part of authorized. government policy, the actual
assassination was a local affair. Of the weapons taken to the
scene of the assassination, it’ is probable that at least one of
the carbines had been furnished by CIA, but. there is no evidence
that it was actually used in the shooting. The assassins who
were. apprehended and interrogated spoke only of the firing of a
sawed-off shotgun, revolvers, and pistols. Those who were
plotting Trujillo's overthrow were divided into two" groups: the
"political group" which was in frequent and close contact with
the American Embassy, and the “action group” with which the CIA
station was in contact primarily through an American business-~.
man in Ciudad Trujillo.

 

 

““ad GIVWIS FHL WONT AdODOLOHa

agIl qaoa
We

apie

   

_f 4 . SPCaeT ORR!
A review of relevant Agency files revealed only one

mention of an assassination plot. On 5 October 1963, an Agency
officer cabled from Saigon that he recommended to senior

Embassy officers that "ye do not set ourselves irrevocably
against the assassination plot, since the other two alternatives
mean either a bloodbath in Saigon or a protracted struggle which
could rip the army and the country asunder." The Agency reaction
to this recommendation appeared in a cable of 6 October 1963 that
forcefully stated that "McCone directs that you withdraw recom-~
mendation to Ambassador [concerning assassination plan] under
McCone instructions, as we cannot be in position actively con-
doning. such course of action and thereby engaging our responsi-~

bility therefor."

Francois Duvalier

There is no record or reference that the Agency’ ever con~
templated any action in Haiti that would involve the assassination
of President Duvalier, although there were plans to overthrow his

On 23 May 1963, National Security Memorandum No. 246

regime.
le force to challenge the

instructed: the CIA to develop an exi
Duvalier regime in Haiti'and suggested that the Dominican Republic

offered the most feasible staging area. In response, the Agency
"proposed to develop a covert relationship with President Bosch

Le of the Dominican Republic for the purpose of creating a Haitian

“ exile military force in the Dominican Republic to overthrow
Duvalier. Upon approval of this proposal on 20 June, CIA repre~
sentatives discussed the matter with President Bosch, who declined®
for various reasons. On 18 July the CIA presented another pro-
posal to Special Group 5412 recommending that the CIA discontinue
development of a Haitian exile force in the Dominican Republic,
but that it implement a program of coordinated political action,
intelligence collection and paramilitary operations from other
bases instead: This plan was approved by the Special Group on
15 July and by President Kennedy on 19 July 1963.

GiwadS gHL Wow kdOD0L0Ha

AUVdGIT quod

Following three abortive Agency sponsored incursions in
August and September 1963, U. S. policy was changed and called
for limited accommodation with.the Haitian Government whitey
tting the training of a‘small cadre of exiles in the
states: Impatient for action, around June 1963, members of the
Haitian Youth Movement (MJH), without.sAgency’ knowledge, made
contact with Father Jean Georges, a former Minister of Education
who had a large student following. Later, the same.month,
Pather Georges dispatched an invasion force by sea. Although it
failed, the invasion galvanized the Haitian exile community,
especially the young people. Between 14 and 30 July 1964, MJH

members left New York singly.or in pairs for Jamaica, with plans, *

to travel on to Haiti to engage in guerrilla action against

 
     

er
Pp ies

 

. Duvalier. Of the 13 men who made up the invasion team, eight ”
im . J : :
Pr UPR
COREE TINS ST

HW 50955 DoclId:32112932 Page 5
 

SEG NET/SE.
/ \had received Agency training; the remaining five were simply
_MJH members. There was no Agency sponsorship of this invasion,
nor was the Agency aware that it was being planned, During
the ‘summer of 1964, the major project set up. to encompass
policy guidance and funding authority for integrated political,
intelligence, and paramilitary training activity against the
Duvalier regime was terminated, although the official. termination.
date was not until 30 June 1965
Headquarters : case officers ¥
formerly included in thi's, PEO :
these assét's” were: ‘yédirectéd and those who, had: a: ‘continuing
value to the Agency were absorbed into other ‘projects, .

    
 
 
 

On May 20, 1968 ‘there was another unsuccessful invasion of
Haiti by Haitian exiles from the Bahamas. While some members
of the Haitian Coalition,tai comert’ actiontactivitty, sored by
the Agendey. * took part in the invasion, the Agency d “not partici~.
pate in the invasion or in its planning. .

  
    

Duvalier died of a massive heart attack and arteriosclerosis
on 21 April 1971, He was 64,

Patrice Lumumba.

! md According to statements made to the Inspector General in
. 1967 by a senior CIA officer, consideration had been given in
. 1960 to use a clandestine asset in Europe to assassinate Lumumba
in the Congo. He further stated that the proposed operation was
never carried out because the designated CIA case officer declinedy
the assignment. According to available records, there is no
mention of any assassination plot against Lumumba, and it seems
quite clear that the clandestine asset in question was primari
ainvolved in finding safecrackers who: would. steal ‘foreign; cip

  

 
 

i “Although the exact circumstances of Lumumba's death remain
a mystery, it is clear that he expired in or around Elizabethville
in, early 1961 while under detention by Congo authorities. The
clandestine asset had left the Congo in December 1960.

Ruvaart Ga0d °ad GIWHD FHL Noud “RaooonoHa

N

. General Rene Schneider

General Rene Schneider, Commander-in-Chief of the Chilean
Army, was killed in late October 1970 as the result of a kidnap
attempt carried out by a.band of anti-Marxists under the direction
of retired General Roberto Viaux. General Viaux was in contact
with a larger military-civilian group that was trying to prevent
the accession to power of Marxist Salvador Allende. General
Schneider was a major obstacle to their plans, since he firmly :;

“

 

HW 50955 Docld:32112932 Page 6
 

. on
— a ~ h/)
— Q®
/ C4
THe WHITE House ® Qs.
Crlby's gw SUMIEY.
OF agsags | aTlOAe, : —
b/d | =

    

bupnsched

Counsel on tfta/7*

% Noe
a & s
8
ABWdGIT GuOr “EY GIVHIO FHL MOUZ AdOSGT OH?

HY 50955 Docld:32112932 Page 2
{78100030377

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

8/27/201

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :

. RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

 

v9.1

HW 50955 Docld: 321123932

Agency Information

BUCHEN/DAN
178- 10003-10377

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Document Information

CIA
COLBY, WILLIAM

ASSASSINATIONS

06/16/1975
5

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

COLBY, WILLIAM

CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

CIA

ASSASSINATIONS, FOREIGN LEADERS

REPORT
Unclassified
Consulted
Redact
09/01/1995

Includes handwritten note by Buchen.

55
Page 1
ee von

 

tO ASSASSINATIONS

We have been unable to find any evidence to suggest that
the Agency has ever been directly involved in the assassination
of any foreign Veader. We do know, however, that the Agency did
consider a number of assassination schemes against Castro and did
provide weapons to Dominican dissidents who were responsible for
the assassination of Trujillo. With respect to other foreign
leaders whom the press has identified as assassination targets
of the Agency, we have heard that some thought was given in the
Agency to the possibility of assassinating Lumumba and we know
‘that an assassination plot against Diem was mentioned in a cable
from the Saigon Station. All we know about Lumumba is that’ one
Agency officer is said to have declined an assignment to partici--
pate in an assassination plot against him and that Lumumba was
killed by Congolese acting independently. In the case of Diem,
the DCI-cabled the field. that such a course of action could not
be condoned by the Agency. . .

There follows .a summary of all information pertaining to
the question of assassinations that we have been able to uncover
from a review of numerous Agency files. We have tried to be as
inclusive as possible, and accordingly have even listed incidents
/.° that could be characterized as preposterous, as in the case of
\ DeGaulle. : . . : :

Fidel Castro . : . .

During the period beginning about March 1960 and extending
through June 1965, the Agency engaged in a series of schemes to
bring about the death or incapacitation of Fidel Castro. The
early schemes were aimed only at discrediting Castro personally
by influencing his behavior or by altering his appearance,
whereas the later schemes were developed in response to White
House urgings to do something about Castro.

AUWdGIT ayod -y GWaaS AHL HOYT AdODOLOHA

Schemes considered prior to August 1960 included the
contamination of the air of the radio station, where Castro
broadcast his speeches, with an aerosol spray of a chemical that
produces reactions similar. to those of LSD, and dusting Castro's
shoes with thallium salts. One proposal provided for the impreg-
nation with botulinum of a full box of Castro's favorite brand of
cigars.

In August 1960, the Agency, through a cleared ‘contact,
approached US criminal elements that controlled the gambling
casinos in Cuba in an attempt to assassinate Castro by putting
botulinum in his food or drink. The administration of botulinum |
was again considered by the criminal elements in April 1962 in
eee dealings with a Cuban exile leader. .

 

HW 50955 Docld: 32112932 Page 3
Ps : . TROT TF Ban TH yp mee
18 yo, . s ta 4 th ts oe de
. - ‘. va, wo Sai rg
So SLU /Stie3i bal ibe ;
( 4 . cabo we ee “ .
Ne In.early 1963, at about the time oF th -Donovan~-Castro
negotiations for the release of the Bast of Sane prisoners, a
pian was devised to have Donovan present a contaminated skin
diving suit to Castro as a gift. There was also a scheme for
doing away with Castro by means of an explosives-rigged sea
shell. None of the above-mentioned schemes advanced very far

beyond the planning stage.

 

In March 1961 the Agency first met a leader of an anti-
Batista group who had entered into an alliance with Castro and
subsequently became disillusioned with him. The subject of poart.
Castro governments was discussed with him in meetings over the
next 18 months. This eventually led to his request for assassiu
nation devices. . , : .

An Agency officer gave him a ball-point pen rigged to serve
as a hypodermic syringe in Paris on 22 November 1963. Since he
did not think much of the pen device, the Agency arranged to have
a Cuban exile give him-a silenced pistol and a silenced rifle.
The Agency also put down two caches in Cuba for him, one with
rifles and one without. He was arrested in 1965 and tried
publicly... ", . 7

Charles DeGaulle

7 NS On 25 May 1967, a French citizen, who had had contact with
the Agency since 1955 and was recruited in Africa in 1958,
.Signaled his case officer by means.of an accommodation telephona
in Germany for an emergency meeting. He was met the same night
in Rome by his case officer. The French citizen had long been
distressed with DeGaulle's foreign policy in Africa and offered
to take advantage of his invitation to a reception for DeGaulle
‘on 30 May 1967 in Italy.to shake DeGaulle's hand, wearing a
poison ring if we cared to provide one for the purpose, The ca;
officer immediately treated the proposal not only as not meriting 2
serious consideration but also stating that he did not engage iy
such activities. In a dispatch dated 8 June 1967, Headquartera
replied that the case officer's "response to [the] proposal
related in [the cable] and his handling of the situation was
correct and fitting."

Ngo Dinh Diem

The successful coup against the Diem regime in South
Vietnam, which resulted in the deaths of Ngo Dinh Diem and his
brother, Nhu, began on 1 November 1963. Three senior Agency
officers who were most intimately involved with Vietnamese
affairs throughout 1963 have testified that they knew of no CIA
assassination schemes against Diem -- other than the role played!
by CIA in maintaining contacts, by direction, with the Vietnamese

L generals. - : n

IT quod °a diva SRL ROYA AdOOOLOHA

®
a

&K

.

 

HY 50955 Docld:32112932 Page 4
