| SECRET

Project Management within CIA.

 

From its outset the project was characterized by a compartmentation that
was extreme even by CIA standards. Only two or three Agency officers at any
given time were cleared for access to Fort Detrick activities. This work was
managed first within the Biology Branch and later in the Chemistry Branch of
TSD. Because of the sensitivity of the activity, queries by operations officers
as to the availability of materials and delivery systems of the type being
developed at Fort Detrick were automatically turned away by TSD unless initial
approval for contact had been given by the Deputy Director for.Plans. Even
when this was the case, the Chief of TSD often referred the operations ‘officer
directly to one of the cleared officers dealing with Fort Detrick and was never
informed as to the nature of the discussions. © This method of procedure has’ been
confirmed both through interviews and by the IG report on assassination planning.
No written records were kept. . Though some CIA-originated documents have been
found in the project files, it is clear that only a very limited documentation
of activities. took place. No records on such things as material control, receipt,
delivery, destruction, etc. can be found. No documents relating to any possible
operational use of the material have been found. The files as they exist are quite
different from those normally maintained in the course of a typical CIA R&D
project. As noted above, funding to the project was provided simply on the basis
of augmenting the level of effort established by Army funding. There appears
to have been no relation of funding to specific tasking, nor cam any strict
accounting of funds on the basis of effort expended in the Agency's behalf be
found. Project officers with whom discussions were held stated thac the funding

was simply provided to maintain the availability to the Agency of the capabilities

Photocopy
from
Geraid R. Ford Library

 

HY 50955 Docld:32112749 Page 9
of SOD. Finally, there is little evidence of much specific program definition

on the part of the Agency. Though occasional specific requests for material

or for investigations relating to the solution of a hypothetically posed
operational problem can be found, the Agency with one or two exceptions through
the years appears to have ridden on a program generated internally by SOD largely
on the basis of Special Forces requirements. There are one or two exceptions

which will be discussed below.

Activities of Peculiar CIA Interest.
Though discussions with people associated with the project reflect an
overriding interest in incapacitants, particularly: in later years, available

records make it clear that CIA interests included maintaining a stockpile of

lethal materials and delivery systems. [
ornat materials y sy j

 

 

 

 

 

 

Primary Agency interest seemed ’to- relate to the development of dissemination
equipment to be used with a standard set of agents kept on the shelf. A number of
such dissemination ‘devices appear to be peculiarly suited for the type of clandesti
use one might associate with Agency operations. Some of these were included among
hardware stored for the Agency at Edgewood Arsenal subsequent to the closure of

SOD: attache cases rigged to disseminate an agent into the air, a cigarette

7
SEBAET
Photocopy
fram
Geraid R. Ford Libraty

HY 50955 Docld:32112749 Page 10
SeGnkT

estimated to have been somewhat more than $3 million. These funds were
apparently used to generally augment the level of effort undertaken by SOD.
Agency requirements for specific R&D were not levied in any programmatic way,
but rather the Agency identified particular work being done by SOD as part of its
program supporting the Army Special Forces as being of interest and then levied
requirements for the customizing of such developments for Agency use. Through
the course of years, Agency objectives in the project became better defined.
Thus a project approval memo of 1967 identifies the four functional categories
of project activity:

a. Maintenance of a stockpile of incapacitating and lethal -

agents in readiness for operational use;

b. Maintenance, assessment and evaluation of a designated

balance of biological and chemical disseminating systems for

operational readiness;

 

 

 

 

d. Provide technical support and consultation on request to meet
ad hoc requirements related to offensive and defensive .BW/CW.
In the later years the activities dwindled to the point of simply maintaining

a stockpile of agents and delivery systems for possible Agency use.

~ . Photocopy
SECRET om
stead Gerald R. Ford Library

HW 50955 Docld:32112749 Page &
 

developing special applications for BW agents and toxins. The principal customer
of its activities appears to have been the U.S. Army Special Forces. Its concern
was both with the development of suitable agents and delivery mechanisms for
Special use in paramilitary situations. These applications clearly included
one-on-one situations in which clandestine delivery was a concern. Both standard
BW agents and biologically derived toxins were investigated by the Division.
Discussions with former Fort Detrick employees indicates that SOD was first
established as a distinct, highly secure activity within Fort Detrick in about
1948, though no records going back that far have been found. The Division was

_ abolished in 1970 or 1971 as the Fort Detrick operation was terminated.

CIA Relationships with SOD. -
The CIA relationship with SOD was formally established in May 1952 through

a memorandum of agreement with the Army Chief Chemical Officer for the performance
of certain research and development in the laboratory facilities of the Special
Operations Division of the Army Biological Laboratory at Fort Detrick: The animus
for establishing this relationship seems to have been a belief in OTS that the
Special capabilities of the Fort Detrick group and its access to biological
materials of all sorts provided the Agency with expertise and capabilities which
were appropriate to its function and not otherwise available.. Discussions
indicate that the perception of the requirement for such capabilities was tied to.

, earlier: OSS experience, Initial funding was at the $200,000 a year level which
grew to a high point in FY 1958 of $390,000 and then dwindled to $75,000 a year:
in the late 1960's. Though there appear to be some gaps in available funding

records, total Agency funding in the period from FY 1953 through FY 1970 is

 

Photocopy
from
Geraid R. Ford Library

HW 50955 Docld:32112749 Page 7
Photocopy
SEGHET fa aca
Gerald R. Ford Library

detection and did not carry the serious implications of the IG's report. It had

in any event been terminated some years ago. The A/DDS&T was satisfied with this

response. When new and more disturbing information about the nature of the Fort

Detrick activity emerged, however, the words of the IG Survey tended to give it

credibility. Thus, late in April 1975 a search was begun for any records or other

information available on the project. Difficulties were imediately encountered
because the project cryptonym could not be identified. The search for records

of fund transfers to Fort Detrick did ultimately produce information in that

regard, however, and checks by the Office of Security on one of the individuals -

identified as having been involved in Fort Detrick activities did provide the

MKNAOMI cryptonym. This enabled OTS to recall the proper files from Records

Center; two MKNAOMI files were retrieved.. Some additional information was also.

produced from the Office of Logistics files. This collection of material largely

confirmed the nature of the project as reported by the informants and identified
q a number of people involved in the activity. Additional cause for concern _
resulted from the association of several of these people with specific. assassinatic
plans as revealed in the IG's report on that activity.

A major concern after the discovery of the records involved the disposition
of a stockpile of BW agents and toxins maintained by Fort Detrick for possible
Agency use. It was not known whether or not these materials had been destroyed
along with the Army's BW stockpiles in response to Presidential Directives of
November 1969 and February 1970. An unsigned memo raising the question of the
disposition of Agency materials maintained by Fort Detrick posed the option
of having it stored in a commercial laboratory. It was the impression of those
in OTS who were familiar with the-project that the material had in fact been
destroyed but no records confirming it could be found. In an attempt to find

such confirmation, laboratory storage facilities in OTS were searched and in the

9

HW 50955 Docld:32112749 Page 5
SECRET

course of that search about 11 grams of shellfish toxin and 6 mg of cobra venom
-~ but none of the other materials -- were discovered.

Subsequent to the decision in late April that a full investigation of the
Ft. Detrick project was needed, all information uncovered was passed to the DCI,
to Staff members of the Rockefeller Commissizn and to the White House staff
handling Intelligence Community investigation matters. In June, Senator Church
was informed by Rod Hills of the White House that a sensitive activity was under

investigation.

Sources of Information.

This summary report on the activity is based upon an investigation utilizing:
(1) the files and documents uncovered as a result of the initial search which are
limited and contain only a small number of Agency-originated documents; (2) -the
material found in OTS storage which includes the shellfish toxin and several.
pieces of delivery hardware; (3) interviews voluntarily given by current Agency-
employees who had some knowledge of the project and by a number of retired
employees indicated by the records as having been more deeply involved at stages

of particular interest. (Included in the latter category are

 

 

 

Tom Karamessines, Cornelius Roosevelt, Ray Treichler, | ray

 

information contained in the iG‘s Report on assassination Planning and (5)
information developed by a DOD investigation initiated as a result of conversa-
tions with the White House about the matter; this information was only recently

received and has not been widely incorporated in this report, however.

Special Operations Division of Fort Detrick.

The Agency association with Fort Detrick involved the Special Operations

Division (SOD) of that facility. This Division was apparently responsible for

3
23s py Photocopy
Gerald R. Ford Library

HW 50955 Docld:32112749 Page 6
178-10004-10087

 

HW 50955 Docld:32112749 Page 2?

   

ad 10 July 1975 §
DATE: __ as

Office of the DD/SeT

SUBJECT: Attached Report

 

 

. REMARKS:

Phil:

I stressed objectivity and tried to assure
that no persons who were potentially a party
to the activities in question had any
Opportunity to destroy information or Material
which might be related,

My Associate Deputy Director, Dr. Sayre Stevens,
was the prime _invasti wrewith technical
advice from\_ NT an MD with an
outstanding Feséarch background but hired by

      
  

het tea acecpet mytuge ete saree mennmarintpimane iene ane gfesak
Bde wa aa ee oad Sit oh Rae 3
178-10004-10087

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :

* RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

1 COMMENTS :

eee NN

v9.1

HW 50955 Docld: 32112749 Page 1

JFK Assassination Svsiem Date:

Identification Form

8/27/2601

 

Agency Information

WILDEROTTE
178- 10004-10087

ASSASSINATION-RELATED MATERIALS
ASSASSINATION-RELATED MATERIALS (3)

Document Information

CIA
CARL, OFFICE OF THE DD/S&T
BUCHEN, PHILIP

[Restricted]

07/10/1975
{7

CIA
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

REPORT
Secret
Consulted
Withhold
08/06/1993

Transmittal memo and 15-page report.

}
7
CIA only a couple of years ago and could not
possibly have had any prior knowledge or
involvement. Additionally, I used personnel
from my own staff to assure that compilation of
inventory, etc. was done in presence of people
representing me, who again could have had

no prior involvement.

As I noted earlier, we are continuing our
investigation internally as well as jointly
with DOD. We will keep you informed.’

Lae

 

Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library

HW 50955 Docld:32112749 Page 3
SENSITIVE SEBRE;

SUMMARY REPORT ON CIA INVESTIGATION OF MKNAOMI

Project Discovery.
The initial identification of the relationship between the CIA and the

Army Biological Laboratory at Fort Detrick as a possible questionable activity
requiring further investigation occurred in late April of this year. It
resulted from information provided by a CIA officer not directly associated
with the project in response to. the repetitive appeals of the DCI that all
past activities which might now be considered questionable be brought to the

attention of Agency management. .As a result of the information provided by him

and by two other officers identified as having some awareness of the project,

 

 

 

 

Concern about these assertions was heightened because the A/DDS&T had noted.
in a recent review of the 1963 IG Survey of the Technical Services Division (TSD)
that approximately $90,000 in that current fiscal year was spent at |Fort Detrick
"for the maintenance of a BW capability". This statement appeared so important
that a quick check was made to determine its significance. In response to
questions about the activity, the cognizant officer in TSD -- now the Office of
Technical Service (OTS) -- reported that a small effort had been carried on at
Fort Detrick, but that it related to the development of incapacitants and BN/CW
E2 IMP DET

Photocopy
; . from
Gerald R. Ford Libeary

 

 

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld: 3211274

  
