Of course,
of the AML
questioned.

Page 21, Draft report states tha

IUr Scunt

the reference to especial relevance
ASH operation in thig context is

that the Bay of Pigs invasion
sponsored by the CIA," Our
accepted this Fesponsibility a
Program. How and in what forum was the stated

t President Kennedy did "admit

was in fact an Operation
impression was that he
s.his, for a government

renewal of contact with AMLASH/I the
draft says ", .°, the exact purpose the CIA. had for

» but there is no evidence
to use AMLASH in an,

@ out of Cuba in September

was the first chance since August 1962

eded no mysterious
rrect to state that

nceof intent to use him ag an
rather, the circum.

that followed suggest just the Opposite,

er did not say, as stated

5

meeting with AMLASH |

the first step of any

coup was assassination. While AMLASH's views were

admission?
Page 27,
(numbered 29)
Speaking of
renewing contact is not known
that CIA intended at this time
assassination operation, ;
When AMLASH cam,
1963, it
to see him. Recontact ne
"exact purpose." Jt is co
there was"no evide ;
asSassination operation;
stances
Footnote: The case offic
‘in the draft, that the basis for
was the belief of AMLASE that
known, as shown by the eviden
4° rejected at least during t

ce his views were.

he critical period,

Page 29, The opinion expressed in the draft report, in relation
. ; to the Harker: interview, about.

a terrorist, ''

EW 50955 Bocld:32204058 Page 9

"AMLASH not b eing

is correct. Should it be reconciled
with statements on Page 8? ©

a aivago gHE WOUd AdODOLOHA

| RAWdEIT auog
Page 33,

Page 34.

Page 41.

Page 47.

Page 53,

PUP OLUNel

The report also says, here, "none of this other
activity would seem to warrant Castro's associating
that activity with U.S. leaders to the extent that he
would threaten the safety of American leaders aiding
the plans." We note without exception, :

‘Footnote *, The Cuban Coordinating Committee wag:

a group for coordinating implementation of established
programs. By memorandum of 22 May 1963,. McGeorge
Bundy, Special Assistant to President Kennedy for
National Security Affairs, designated the State Depart-
ment Coordinator of Cuban Affairs as Chairman of the
Interdepartmental Committee on Cuba with the specific
responsibility for the coordination of day~to-day actions
regarding Cuba. Membership of the Committee con-
sisted of representatives from State, USIA, DoD, CIA,
Justice, Treasury and ad hoc representatives ag
necessary. :

Footnote **, This seems to indicate that the PBI
learned/of CIA's operations on 10 October 1963.

~ (a new date?) and that this led to termination of the

AMLASH operation. Of course, that happened much ;
later. -

"Special Affairs Staff" should read "Special Activities
Staff," . Oo ;

SASICI should read SAS/CI,
Testimony of Karamessines is quoted, in which he is

asked a hypothetical question about use of AMLASH,
and that he answered hypothetically, but the presentation,

‘seems to treat it as fact.

Reference to CIA "technical" collection capability in”
Mexico City should be deleted. Simply delete the |
word "technical."' This small point is a sources~
and-methods question.

HW 50955 DoclId:32204058 Page 10

a dIwugS FHL WOUd AdODOLOHa

RUWAGIT ayos
Page lo. .

Page 12.

- Page l4.

Page 15.

iS

PUL  Ubewiiees

says". . . within weeks of this meeting CIA escalated
the level of its covert operations, telling AMLASH

the United States supported his plan,"

This misrepresents what AMLASH/1 was-told
at the 2g October 1963 meeting, which was that
he would receive no support unless he was

- “successful in a coup of his own. There is no
planning relationship between the inconclusive

_ status of the understanding with AMLASH/1 and.
what was going on under MONGOOSE.

"Oswald contacted a known KGB agent" with the Soviet
Embassy in Mexico. While it is known that Oswald
contacted the Vice Consul at the Soviet Embassy in
Mexico City, it is believed that it was for the purpose

of obtaining a visa for the Soviet Union. The fact that -
the Vice Consul happened to be a KGB officer complicates
the matter but there is no evidence that Oswald knew .
this Soviet was KGB. Therefore, recomunend this
sentence be modified accordingly.

"Hoover and other senior officials first learned of
plots ‘to assassinate Castro in July 1964." Did they?

"Moreover, there is evidence that CIA's investigators
‘made requests for files which should have given ;
knowledge of the AMLASH operation, but for some
reason they did not acquire that knowledge. '! -

A quick review of CI Staff files, in the time |
available for this review, disclose no requests
that, of themselves, would praduce information ,

on the AMLASH operation.

The draft report raises the question of what was
furnished investigators, which raises the question of ~
what was requested, by whom?. (See cornsnent on item

on page 14).

HW 50955 DocId:32204058 Page br]

AUMWdaIT Guod *y aIwagD FHL woud AdODOLOHA
TOP SECRET | Ps 185247 - Tab 2

Series A - Copy lof!

Item Comments on Draft Report of SSC Subcommittee

Page 2.

Page 7.

Page 8.

Page 9.

‘to CIA staff employees.

Line ll. The word "agents" may describe FBI
employees, but it is not a term ordinarily applied

2nd complete paragraph, 2d line. The phrase
“backed by CIA, '‘in describing the Bay of Pigs
operation, is imprecise. CIA was the government
instrument for conducting the operation, but there
was considerable other participation in what was

_.an operation "backed" by the U.S. government,

The statement that the FBI knew about these plots
by at least May 1962 needs some elaboration. |

These plots (assas sination) did not involve AMILASH/1

at that time, and what the FBI knew may have heen
about aspects of contacts,the nature of which it did
not know. (Need this be reconciled with the state-
ment at page 12 giving the date of FBI's learning
whatever it learned in July 1964?)

and and 3d paragraphs. It is noted that operational

activity in June 1963-~the date given--was that there was.
ino’ /activity with the criminal Syndicate (this having

been ended several months earlier), and there had
been no contact with AMLASH/I since August 1962.

Statements by Castro about “terrorists'! had to apply

to other activities.

Paragraph at bottom of page (continuing over to
page 9). References by Castro (12 September 1963)
to "covert activities'' undoubtedly referred to not~
so-covert activity of MONGOOSE. .

Bottom of page, speaking of 29 October 1963 meeting
between AMLASH/I and Fitzgerald, the draft report

— TOP SECRET —

BW 50955 Bocld:32204058 Page 7

AMWddIT Quod -yY aiwagD aHL Wows AdQDOLOHA

Mingel liad thew Senna |
TOP SEORCT

The 13 November memorandum also stated that:

“Nothing of an operational nature was discussed
at the FitzGerald meeting. After the meeting
(AMLASH/1) stated that he was satisfied with
the policy discussion but now desired to know
what technical support we could provide bim."

On 14 November 1963 a Cuban exile in New York {the source
of the original introduction to AMLASH/I) stated to a CIA case
officer that AMLASH/1, while: "..- satisfied...as far as policy

was concerned, ...was not at all happy with the fact that he
still wae not given the technical assistance. for the operational.

plan as he ‘saw it...He could not understand why he was denied
certain small pieces of equipment which permitted a final

solution to the problem, while, on the other hand, the U.S.
Government gave much equipment and money to exile groups for ,
their ineffective excusions.,..'! The report of that meeting.

also stated: ¥...if he does not get advice and material from a
U.S. Government technician, he will probably become fed-up
again and we will lose whatever progress we have made to date,"

On 19 November 1963 a CIA memorandum records FitzGerald's
al of a cache for AMLASH/1 inside Cuba, with high-powered
During the period following 19 November ,

n Paris on 22 November, a ballpoint pen
mic syringe with which AMLASH/1 could

administer a poison. The case officer arrived in Paris on

22 November 1963 and met with AMLASH/1 on that date. AMLASS/I1
was shown the ballpoint pen device but did not accept it. He also

of the arms cache he would be provided,

approv
rifles and scopes.
and prior to a meeting i
was rigged as a hypoder

was told
The record is quite clear that AMLASH/I had no grounds,

er 1963, to believe that he had any support

ations involving the assassin-

he had no advance support for .

a coup, however he |might attempt it. This is emphasized by

his recorded complaints on the subject, clearly reflecting his

understanding that such was the case. His complaint on 14

November 1963, as reported through an intermediary, may have

led to the decision on 19 Noversber 1963 to provide him with

prior to 22 Novemb
from the United States for oper
ation of Fidel Castro. In fact,

te Be

TOP SECRE

HW 50955 Bocld:32204058 Page 5

AUWdSIT Guod “Y GIWYS FHL HOYT AdODOLOHd
 

token support that he could interpret as the support he ‘had
been requesting unsuccessfully. That decision was taken

19 November 1963 inside CIA Headquarters by FitzGerald and
formalized by a memorandum written the same date.

Prior to 22 November 1963 CIA had refused to give
AMLASH/I any support prior to a successful coup in Cuba. -
That he recognized that this specifically included a refusal to
participate in the assassination of Castro is reflected in the
description of a July 1964 report by the FBI, quoted in the SSC
Subcommittee draft, in which AMLASH/1 stated that Robert F.
Kennedy had refused. support for the assassination of Castro.

As the 29 October meeting with FitzGerald is the one at which
he understood he was meeting with a representative of Robert F.
Kennedy, it confirms the description in the 1967 IG Report.

Whatever the relationship with AMLASH/1 after 22 November,
the evidence is unequivocal that AMLASH/I had no grounds prior
to that for believing that he had CIA support for his vaguely defined
course of action. He knew nothing that, had it leaked, would have
served to motivate a Cuban retaliatory strike against President

Kennedy.

Finally, it is significant that the transcripts of AMLASH/1's
1966 trial contain no reference to his activities prior to 1964; i.e.,
before. President Kennedy's assassination. The transcripts suggest
that, to the Cubans' knowledge, AMLASH/I.was not in touch with CIA.
before November 1964. Nor did the book which Castro provided to
Senator McGovern in 1975, which purported to be an inventory of all

" known plots against Castro's life, contain any allegation of AMLASH/1

anti-Castro activity prior to late 1964. The book mentions travel by
AMLASH/1 to Madrid "where he was recruited by CIA agents. '' This
travel occurred in November 1964. The above two instance’s strongly
' suggest that Castro was not aware that AMI. ASH/1 bad any:contact
with CIA prior to November 1964; ji.eé., One year aftes President

Kennedy! s death.

The reported AMLASH/1 notoriety in the Miami Cuban exile
community did not occur prior to President Kennedy's death, This
developed after the 1966 trial and to some degree after AMLASH/]
met with Cuban exile leaders in Madrid in late 1964 and early 1965.
This was after AMLASH/1 was informed in 1964 that the U.S,
Government had severed its relationship with him.

i

The most recent information available indicates that AMLASH/1
is still in jail, where he is serving a thirty year sentence.

 

EW 50955 Bocld:32204058 Page 6

AUVdGIT duod “Y GIWNFD FHL woug AdOODOLOHA
“ ~” “a . WASHINGTON,D.C, 20505 f
RS é on ~ oo
Wel a “10 June 1976 ;
a S&S “ y,
s Z : Jom
2 Mr. William G. Miller. nally
% / Staff Director
/ Select Committee to Study Governmental

° 1Ur OCUNLI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Pa

Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities
Room G-308
Dirksen Senate Office Building
Washington, D. C. 20515

Dear Bill:

Forwarded herewith are comments on the draft report of
the Senate Select Committee's subcommittee on the question of
support by the intelligence agencies for the Warren Commission
inquiry. These comments have been prepared under a tight
deadline, which has limited the ability to research all the questions
raised in the draft report.

The attachments to this letter are in two sectiong.. The first
is a summary of considerations relating to the relationship between
CIA and AMLASH/1 prior to the assassination of President Kennedy
on 22 November 1963. ‘The point is that the record of what was said
to AMLASH/1, and specific reporting of what he understood, makes
it clear that there were no grounds for him to believe, and he did
not believe, that he had CIA support for an assassination plot against
Castro in the period preceding President Kennedy's death. The.
second attachment is an item-by-~item series of comments, ranging
frorn minor editorial notations and comments, to factual corrections

and security points.

“Ag there is a basic difference between the interpretation of
facts in the draft report, and the facts as we know them, it would be
appreciated if there could be.an opportunity to address the question
with the members of the Subcommittee. It is my opinion that it would
be a disservice to the public to issue the report as now written, ©

Sincerely,

Oe

S, D. Breckinridge

 

WTO,
& Ve,

"a dIVYIS AHL wows AdODOLOHA

Series A- Copy lof

- KAWdGIT auog

HW 50955 Bocld:32204058 Page 2

Attachments:
As stated

TOP. SECRET.

Claseified by Signeos

‘ Deputy Inspector General =
- 9

re

%
74. nw
776.4

 

 
178-10003-10179

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

- AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

 

vo.)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

KISS/SCOW
178-10003-10179

CHURCH COM.
7602957 (9)

Document Information

CIA
BRECKINRIDGE, SCOTT D.
MILLER, WILLIAM G.

06/10/1976
14

CIA
CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

CUBAN COORDINATING COMMITTER
CUBAN EXILES :

CHURCH COMMITTEE

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

AMLASH

CUBELA, ROLANDO

WARREN COMMISSION, INFORMATION WITHHELD FROM

WARREN COMMISSION

FAIR PLAY-FOR CUBA COMMITTEE
FITZGERALD, DESMOND
KENNEDY, ROBERT

LOPEZ, GILBERT

OSWALD, LEE, TRIP TO MEXICO

LETTER
Unclassified
Consulted
Redact
09/01/1995

Attached to 1781000310177. Includes two attachments: AMLASH Operation, and Item Comments on
Draft Report of SSC Subcommittee. Count does not include “tab” marker.

69

HW 50955 BocId:32204058 Page i

Date:

8/27/201
mol renner TS 185247 ~ Cab}
a " ~ : Worth.
wh . TOP SE0n) SEP YWKOOR KOK XX

Series A copy 1 of 2
AMLASH Operation

The objective of the AMLASH operation throughout its
existence was the formation of a nucleus within Cuba to organize
an internal coup to replace the Castro regime. . AMLASH/1 held
a position high in. the Cuban government. He was disillusioned
with the Castro regime and was considered as a possible political.
action asset. The Agency had a series of meetings with birn —
during the 1961-62 period, the last of which was in August 1962
prior to his departure for Havana, He was never a fully recruited

agent.

In September 1963 AMLASH/1 was met in Brazil, the first
time since the August 1962 meetings. During the September 1963
meeting with AMLASH/1, he said that there were two ways to
effect a coup; through an outside invasion {which he recognized
was out of the question at that time) or through an “nside job"!
(i, e.- internal coup via military overthrow), He indicated that
he was waiting for a plan of action from the United States
Government. By this he meant high-level assurances of support
for a successful coup. The same cable which reported the results
of the meeting also indicated that AMLASH/IL ‘will always be a

control problem."

AMLASH/1 then went to Paris, France, where he was met
again, Meetings with AMLASH/1 in October 1963 consisted of
exploration as to what he might do, and requests by him for
U.S. support. In response to his seeking high-level assurances
of U.S. support, Desmond FitzGerald met with him on
29 October 1963. The plan for that meeting is described in
writing in the file as follows: :

AMWdaIT quod “wy aiwags SHG Woda AdCODOLOHd

\ . "FitzGerald will represent self as personal
: representative of Robert F. Kennedy who
traveled Paris for specific purpose meeting
(AMLASH/1) and giving him assurances of
full U.S. support if there is change of the °

, ' | present government in Cuba." (Emphasis added).

TOP: SERRET Classified by Signer

HW 50955 Docld:32204058 Page 3
 

TOP S26

A memorandum for the record of that meeting, dated
13 November 1963, contained the following summary:

"FitzGerald informed (AMLASH/1 that the
United States is prepared to render all
“necessary assistance to any anti-communist
Cuban group which succeeds in neutralizing
the present Cuban leadership’ and assumes
sufficient control to invite the United States
to render the assistance it is prepared to
gives It was emphasized that the above
support will be “forthcoming only after a

real coup has been effected and the group
involved is in a position to request U.S.

(probably under OAS auspices) recognition

and support. It was made clear that the U.S,

was not prepared to commit itself to support--

ing an isolated uprising, as such an uprising

can be extinguished ina matter of hours if

the present government is still. in control in
Havana. As for the post-coup period, the

U.S. does not desire that the political clock be
turned back but will support the necessary economic
and political reforms which will benefit the mass of
the Cuban people. '' (Emphasis added).

 

In 1967 the Inspector General of CIA conducted an inveati-

gation of the AMLASH operation, and. interviewed Mr. FitzGerald
‘and his exécutive officer (who had been kept thoroughly farniliax
‘with developments). FitzGerald recalied that AMLASH/1 époke of
the need for an assassination weapon, particularly a high powered
rifle with telescopic sights or some other weapon which could

be used to kill Castro froma distance. FitzGerald rebiffed

‘this request and instructed the case officer who served as an
interpreter to tell AMLASH/I that the U.S. simply did not do
.such things. FitzGerald's executive officer, though not pre-
sent, had the same recollection. Mr. FitzGerald assured
AMLASH/1 of full U.S. support "if there is a change of the
present leadership. me

oo TOP SECRET

HW 50955 DBoclId:32204058 Page 4

" RUWAGIT auoa -y aTWHa9 FHL WOYX AdODOLOHA
