 

 

 

use ot Cuban pilots weuid involve a delay of some monthe due to the
preciae crafaierg required. - Genergi Cartes polated out that we are

: "oroverflirhts {n anv case and thac the possibility
nests sheali sot dissusde us from making these flighes
: types of phota-
Piapoiacios critical targets, dow. not Rive:
precise toentirtoatian of cerrata trpes of equip-

  
 
 
    

  
   

 

éfter some: discussion, the Group agreed to take cognizance of

   

Bo .an

has matter and requested tnat te be reopes Appropriate tine
When specific targets and information neecs could be identified,

 

, Te was agreed that the Agency weuld Present @ paper concerning
Action Asatsat North Vietnaw at next week's meeting.
_—

we Re

General Taylor did not have an opportunity to review these minutes
prior to his departure,

    

 

4020
& & i ‘, .
‘o 7 ‘
i > we ad _
< =
%, ~ Julfan J, Bweil
a: Colonel, USA .
Dstrtbucian
Mey Jonson

Mr. Gilpacrte _
General Carter :
General Taylor

i

; i

Sky ae
bee iawt bas

HY 50955 Docld:32204599 Page 5

Ke
m
©
3
©
Q
~ oO
Wg
re
3
o
K-
8
es
i Os
|
”
as)
é
ao
as!
w
5
s

 

 
   

'178-10003-10016 30 August 1962

 

MEMOXANDUM FOX RECORD

3 SVEJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 30 Auguse 1962

i ; :

h refSEri. Gin ral Taylor, Mr. Johnson, Mrs Gilpatric, General Carter,

8 Genecal Leunttzer, and Hr. Bundy

i ‘

A Colonel Steakley was present fur Items 1 <5

i : tue

i Hr, [-ford Herbert was present for Items 4-6, - “,

i} : 2)
- < ~

c \o FS

i 1. Reconnatssance 3 y

A. poo Peripheral Flights

The peripheral flights were approved as presented. It was
noted that LOLLY weuld-invelve only a single aircraft as opposed to
the previous two olene flights in this area. As to LUCETTE and MICHELE,
ic wis pointed out thac these flights would not be flowm while the
Soviet niclear test prohibited zone wag atil) in effect. in response
to a gucacion fron Mr. Jonnson as to why these flights were 40 rather
thaa 59 ntles off the const, Colonel Streakley said that che distance
selectec wag 6 variable, depending on the purpose of the flight end
other conditions,

Be Laos.

Generel Taylor asked if anyone cared to reopen this inatter,
Mr. Gilpatric presented the Defenne position, In view of the Soviat
transport eirerafe stand down and the indications that the Communists
were at least going through the motions of narrying out the ogreemanc,
Defense was in favor of not reopening the matter uacil the 75 day
withdrawal period was ever ang an avaluution hag been made of the degree
of Conssunist complianee. Genersl Lemnitzer, while willing to taka the
risk of waiting, said he vould like to make fe clear that from the
military point of view it vas most important that we have good informa-
tion on Communist activities. Thera Flights are our prime source of
chard infornation. The consensus of the’Group was that this wubject would
not be reopened until after the 75 day withdrawal period was over, :

AUWdGIT quod *w aTwaao FHL HOUS  AdODOLOHA

 

c. Cueifitshts of South Laoy

 

(i) Coienel Steakley pointed out that there was one problem. e
in connection with « flat prohibition on photo flights over Laos, At '
present, PF-10L's bused {n Thailand must overfly the southern panhandle’ *

oe AA PERE ERE, FOIE EE ETE ISO
en een oe ee ne cn ee pent en ene eee es at

rr]...
_ UNMARKED _
NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

 

HW 50955 Docld: 32204599 Page 2
1781000310016

JFK Assassination System
identification Form

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

ROCKCOM
178- 10003-10016

ASSASSINATION FILE

ASSASSINATION MATERIALS--MISC. ROCK/CIA (10)

 

 

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

CIA

MINUTES OF MEETING OF THE SPECIAL GROUP, 30 AUGUST 1962

08/30/1962
4

CUBA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

Consulted

Withhold

07/15/1993

Date:

8/27/201

 

 

v9.1

HW 50955 Doclad: 32204599

25
Page 1
  

generch policy te wocifiled to permit high eleicude overflights (35,000
feet) te asd trou South Vietnan, by planes based in Thailand. Ic was
brougat out that the average activity level was about two missions about.
‘every three days. There wig agreement thet photo reconnaissance in
Reneral cyainst guerrilla tarpets uss ditficulre bur that thia made it
ali the more tmportant co do ail that-we cun, These flishts are
essentinily covert, as, current sgreemeats preclude the filing of flight

- plans for photo aircraft. Mr. Jonson eald that the Department was
willing to go along with this activity, but felt that thea matter had
‘to be reviewed by At,uver auchority cue to hie very explicit previous
dnsvructions to the contrary. The Group's ceciaion to approve thin
spoons exception to the prohibieion against photo flights over Laos
was later reported to higher authority,

(2) In discussing the matter above, the desirability of
redeploying the aircraft to South Vietnia was wenctioned, This matter
was referred to Defense for-furcher examf{nstton. It was also recognizad
that the South Viletnsmese might well be eiven some indigenous capability
for photo reconnaissance. It was elso sucuested that possible Luog
overfiights, after the 75 day perfod hac ciapsed, wight vell be pac in
the suandurd overFiigic category rarher then being naodied as a separate

 

. . eo'y
é
sik
enroute to execute missions in South Vietnam, He proposed that the

rae
atc,

Dd, The ELINT flights: from Thailand were discuss ed and approved
with the understanding that they would use the specific routes indicated.

ai “HY GIVYAD FHL WONT AdODOLOHAa

“E, The Agency's monthly forecast wee reviewed and nored. All
of the flights conteined thercin had been previously approved. General
‘ Carter mentioned that there. might be an acditional requirement for

{lights over Cuba,

RaWdaIT ayo

F. The dastroyer surveillance mirsion DESOTO was discussed and
approved. It was pointed cur that the ship generally operates 20 wiles
ffshore, but closes to 12 miles under certain conditions. The Group
reqiested that they be informed (f any of the various ELINT operations

picked up unusual indications,

 

G, The Group reviewed certain submarine activition and spproved
them as presented.

2. Resupply of the Mecs

 
   

\

“ General Carter raised the quastLon of exactly how approval should «
, 2 obtained for ares and ammunition resupply aissions to the Meoa. Ie 7

‘ was agreed that thin was a watter for censulcation betwsen the Department
\ of State and CLA, and nead not be referred to the Group for decision... ~

a :

 

HW 50955 Docld: 32204599 Page 3
   

3. Sovirt Signal Intelligence Snios

Tne Grouo considered an outline plan for “commnication” with
Comaunise crewa, Ine general consensus was that chis plan dtd noc
fall within the purview of the Special Grovg, It waa referred back
to 13 for further cevelopaent, The matter will be discussed at a
State-JCS meeting to be hald in the naar fucure. Mr. Glinatric also
expenased inter.st in seeing a wore datailed daveloraent “ff the con
cept, Me, Bundy polnred cut thor we should be careful where such
activitic.s are pursued, Generally speaking, they should ba limited to
the high seas or international air space, General Carter raised the
point thar this concept should not be seretched to incluca defection
operations on lsnd, Thia fs a highly skilled operation which reguires
special attention ard control. The Group took no particular position
for or against the concept in referring-4t back to Defensa.

 

4, Chile ’

 

 

The Group revieved the| | Mr. Johnson strange

the necessity for | and
also expressed some concern Bbout che possibility of the tadicals
— ous prematurely and bringing the vovernment dovn,

they would he aware cf the future polf{tical arranges

meats which it ts felt would be t6 the comson interests of Chile aruf
the United States, fhe Group approved the recommendation in paragraph
5 on page 7.

"5, Poninican Republic

The Croup noted thie paper. General Carter urged tho Penartment
of State to continue to press the interia goverrment on the desirability
of holding early elections.

 

 

 

 

AUVdGIT GUO -u GIWYES FHL HOUT AdODOLOHA

6. Parrna

Mr. Johnson said ther State cozsurred in the general thrust of
this paper, but would like to limfe the continuation of the progres to
a three-month period during which time it would be reviewed in detail by
State end CIA. The Group approved the proposal with this reservation.

7. eneral Lemnftzer stated that Ur. McCone had called him and posed
\ a possible requiremmat for low-level photography of critical Cuban
| Cargeta, General Ieunttzer said thet frou che wtlitary point of view
\ thie was feasible, utilfiving etther R¥-101 or FOU adrcrafe flown by
i U.S. pilots from various bases of carriers in the Caribbean 6rea. tho

  
 

fd

 

‘ ‘ NR ES Oo mee aa ES ENE ATE GREED MOTTO ICID ATEN PERO OIREENEES ESS SSA MOP TIN 8 f hS AROE RCRD tS

HW 50955 DoclId:32204599 Page 4
