Of course, the reference to especial relevance
of the AMLASH operation in this context is
questioned,

Page 21. Draft report states that President Kennedy did “admit
Lo that the Bay of Pigs invasion was in fact an Operation
sponsored by the CIA,' Our impression was that he

~ ae accepted this responsibility as. his, for a government
program. How and in what forum was the stated
admission? . s
. Page 27.

(numbered 29) _ . ots Dt
ae Speaking of renewal of contact with AMLASH/I the -
draft says ", . . the exact purpose the CIA had for
renewing contact is not known, but there is no evidence
that CIA intended at this time to use AMLASH in an
‘assassination operation. Se

 

When AMLASH came out of Cuba in September a,
1963, it was the first chance since August 1962 : Lo

“to see him. Recontact needed no mysterious
"exact purpose." It is correct to state that
there was"no evidence’ of intent to use him as an
assassination operation; rather, the circum-

. stances that followed suggest just the opposite,

 

 
 

- |» Footnote: The case officer did not say, as stated :
“in the draft, that the basis for meeting with AMLASH :
. was the belief of AMLASH that the first step of any | |
coup was assassination. While AMLASH's views were
known, as shown by the evidence his views were
rejected at least during the critical period,

  

Page 29. The opinion expressed in the draft report, in relation
oe : to the Harker interview, about "AMLASH not being
a terrorist, is correct, Should it be reconciled
with statements on Page 8? .

; : Pretocony - : TO P S$ ECR ET

from
Gerald R. Ford Library

HY 50955 Docld:32105738 Page 9
The report also says, here, "none of this other
activity would seem to warrant Castro's associating
that activity with U.S. leaders to the extent that he
would threaten the safety of American leaders aiding
the plans. "'- We note without ex <ception. :

Page 33. Footnote *, The Cuban Coordinating Cornmittee was

. a group for coordinating implementation of established
. programs. By memorandum of 22 May 1963,. McGeorge
“Bundy, Special Assistant to President Kennedy for
National Security Affairs, designated the State Depart-
- ment Coordinator of Cuban Affairs as Chairman of the
‘ Interdepartmental Committee on Cuba with the specific
responsibility for the coordination of day-to-day actions
regarding Cuba. Membership of the Committee con-

sisted of representatives from.State, USIA, DoD, CIA,
' Justice, Treasury and ad hoc representatives ¢ as :
necessary. oo:

“Footnote | xs, This seems to indicate that the PBI
“Jearned| of CIA's operations on 10 October 1963
“(a new date? ) and that this led to termination of the ;
CAMLASH. operation. Of course, that happened much -
later, . : vos : ee

 

     

no, ; Page 34, : ‘Special Affairs ‘Alfairs Stare should: read s "Speciat Activities
. : 7 a Staff. it . ooo . _

    

Page 41. — “SASICI should read SAS/ cL .

Page 47. “Testimony of Karamessines is quoted, in which he is
Pet! asked a hypothetical question about use of AMLASH,
‘and that he answered hypothetically, but the presentatich,
seems to treat it as fact. , ee

 

Page 53.

 

4
-~4-
7 . DB) ‘SE ass ny - -]
Photocopy T G f Zi ie
from
Gerald R. Ford Library . PS

HW 50955 Dockd:32105738 Page 10
HW 50955

Page 10.

 

 

 

 

 

Page 15.

Photocopy

says ", . . within weeks of this meeting CIA escalated

the level of its covert operations, telling AMLASH
the United States supported his plan. n

This misrepresents what AMLASH/1 was told
at the 2g October 1963 meeting, which was that
he would receive no support unless he was
-, successful in a coup of his own, There is no
planning relationship between the inconclusive
‘ status of the understanding with AMLASH/1 and
what was going on under MONGOOSE.

, "Oswald contacted a known KGB agent" with ‘the Soviet

Embassy in Mexico. While it is known that Oswald

contacted the Vice Consul at the Soviet Embassy in
' Mexico City, it is believed that it was for the purpose

of obtaining a visa for the Soviet Union. The fact that
the Vice Consul happened to be a KGB officer complicates

- the matter but there is no evidence that Oswald lnew
| this Soviet was KGB. Therefore, recomuriend this :
. : sentence be modified accordingly.

: "Hoover and other senior officials first learned of

plots ‘to assassinate Castro in July 1964,'' Did they?

“Moreover, there is evidence that CIA's investigators woe
. "made requests for files which should have given ve
. . lmowledge of the AMLASH operation, but for some

‘veason they did not F acquire that knowledge, "

A quick review of cl State files, in the. time

: .. available for this review, disclose no requests
‘that, of themselves, would produce information
"on the AMLASH operation. ; :

: The draft report raises the question o of what was |

furnished investigators, which raises the question of
what was requested, by whom? (See comment on item

. on page 14).

-2-

“Gerald Rod Lbrey i G P 8 EG R El

Docld: 32105736 Page 6
a a {UP SCOR ti . ao so vuiEt = Lava ;

Series A - Copy lof

Item Comments on Draft Report of SSC Subcommittee

Page 2. Line ll. The word "agents" may describe FBI
. employees, but it is not a term ordinarily applied
to CIA staff employees.

Page7. and complete paragraph, 2d line. The phrase
"backed by CIA," in describing the Bay of Pigs -
“operation, is imprecise. CIA was the government
instrument for conducting the operation, but there
‘was considerable other participation in what was
an operation "backed!' by the U.S. government.

- wn. Page 8. The statement that the FBI knew about these e plots
, — by at least May 1962 needs some elaboration. ;

These plots (assassination) did not involve AMLASH/L

_ at that time, and what the FBI knew may have been
‘about aspects of contacts,the nature of which it did
not know. (Need this be reconciled with the state-

- ment at page 12 giving the date of FBI's learning

. “whatever it learned i in Jaly 1964?) :

' and and 3d paragraphs. It is noted that oper ational
activity in June 1963--the date given--was that there was.
ino“ /activity with the criminal Syndicate (this having
been ended several months earlier), and there had
been no contact with AMLASH/I since August 1962,
'-. Statements by Castro about "terrorists'! had to apply
, to other activities. . .

Paragraph at ‘bottom of page (continuing over to
page 9). References by Castro (12 Septernber 1963)
to "covert activities" undoubtedly referred to not~
50- ~covert activity of MONGOOSE.

; Page 9. Bottom of page, speaking of 29 October 1963 meeting
‘ ; : _ between AMLASH/1 and Fitzgerald, the draft réport J

naw TOP. SECRET

Gerald R. Ford Library ©

Minn aifiad bee Slaw ne

HW 50955 Docld:32105738 Page 7
The 13 November memorandum also stated that:

"Nothing of an operational nature was discussed
at the FitzGerald meeting, After the meeting
(AMLASH/1) stated that he was satisfied with
the policy discussion but now desired to know
what technical support we could: provide him, '

On 14 November 1963 a Cuban exile in New York (the source
' of the Original introduction to AMLASH/1) stated to a CIA case
officer that AMLASH/1, while: ", «+ Satisfied... as far as policy
was concerned, ...was not at all happy with the fact that he
still was not given the technical assistance. for the operational
plan as he saw it...He could not understand why he was denied
, certain small pieces of equipment which permitted a final
solution to the problem, while, on the other hand, the U.S.
‘Government gave much equipment and money to exile groups for
their ineffective excusions.,."' The report of that mecting.
also stated: ",..if he does not get advice and material froma
U.S. Government technician, he will probably become fed-up
again and we will lose whatever Progress we have msde to date, !t

On 19 November 1963 a CIA memorandum records FitzGerald's

' @pproval of a cache for AMLASH/1 inside Cuba, with high-powered

rifles and scopes. During the period following 19 November toe

and prior toa meeting in Paris on 22 November, a ballpoint pen

was rigged as a-hypodermic syringe with which AMLASH/1 could
.administer a poison. The case officer arrived in Paris on

22 Novernber 1963 and met with AMLASH/1 on that date. AMLASH/L
was shown the ballpoint pen device but did not accept it, He also -

wes told of the arms cache he would be provided.

‘The record is quite clear that AMLASBH/1 had no grounds,
“prior to 22 November 1963, to believe that he had any support
from the United States for operations involving the assassin~
ation of Fidel Castro. In fact, he had no advance Support for .

@ coup, however “he [right attempt it. This is emphasized by

i : his recorded complaints on the subject, clearly reflecting his -
i . understanding that such was the case. His complaint.on 14
November 1963, as reported through an intermediary, may have

led to the decision on 19 November 1963 to provide him with

 

. a
Photocopy
from ; : .
Gerald R. Ford Library gp Ore ney
U ble

HW 50955 Docld:32105738 Page 5
token support that he could interpret as the support he had
been requesting unsuccessfully. That decision was taken

19 November 1963 inside CIA Headquarters by FitzGerald and
formalized by a memorandum written the same date. :

: Prior to 22 November 1963 CIA had refused to give

AMLASH/I1 any support prior to a successful coup in Cuba..-

That he recognized that this specifically included a refusal to

W : , participate in the assassination of Castro is reflected in the
description of a July 1964 report by the. FBI, quoted in the SSC
Subcommittee draft, in which AMLASH/1 stated that Robert F,

to Kennedy had refused support for the assassination of Castro, er

i v As the 29 October meeting with FitzGerald is the one at which

j. he understood he was meeting with a representative of Robert F,

‘ Kennedy, it confirms the description in the 1967 IG Report,

Whatever the relationship with AMLASH/1 after 22 ‘November,
. the evidence is unequivocal that AMLASH/1 had no grounds prior:
' to that for believing that he had CIA support for his vaguely defined .
course of action. He knew nothing that, had it leaked, would have :
served to motivate a Cuban retaliatory strike against President

%

| Kemnedy. ; re ; rr

 

po Finally, it is significant that the transcripts of AMLASH/1's

es _ 1966 trial contain no reference to his activities prior to, 1964; i.e.,
; so, .. before President Kennedy's assassination. The transcripts suggest

a ‘that, to the Cubans! knowledge, AMLASH/1 was not in téuch with CLA
me before November 1964, Nor did the book which Castro provided to

. Senator McGovern in 1975, which purported to be an inventory of all

. known plots against Castro's life, contain any allegation of AMLASH/}

Pe -  anti-Castro activity prior to late 1964, The book mentions travel by.

; oo. AMLASH/I1 to Madrid "where he was recruited by CIA agents." This

so / travel occurred in November 1964, The above two instances strongly
suggest that Castro was not aware that AMLASH/1 had any contact
with CIA prior to November 1964; i.e., one year after President
Kennedy's death. . Sot : .

 

The reported AMLASH/1 notoriety in the Miami Guban exile. °
community did not occur prior to President Kennedy's death. This
developed after the 1966 trial and to some degree after AMLASH/I1. <
met with Cuban exile leaders in Madrid in late 1964 and early 1965.
This was after AMLASH/I was informed in 1964 that the U, Ss, ;
Government had severed its relationship with him. °

. +

The most recent information available indicates that AMLASH/}
is still in jail, where he is Serving a thirty year sentence,

Photocopy Xr ~
from uP Sfrary
Gerald R, Ford Library

HY 50955 Docld:32105738 Page 6
Bn te cee

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY Series A - Copy Lc

WASKINGTON,D.C. 20505
oo FJ Mathers

10 June 1976 if ta

Mr. William G. Miller. a a

Staff Director
Select Committee to Study Governmental
. Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities -
Room G-308
Dirksen Senate Office Building
Washington, D. GC. 20515

 

2
69
nv
°
wh
st
2
2
3}
re
00
N
=

. Dear Bill:

mas, | Forwarded herewith are comments on the draft report of

the Senate Select Committee's subcommittee on the question of
support by the intelligence agencies for the Warren Commission
Lo _ inquiry. These comments have been prepared under a tight

~ ; . deadline, which has limited the ability to research all the questions
to raised in the draft report. :

“The attachments to this letter-are in two sections. The first
. is & summary of considerations relating to the relationship between
_ CIA and AMLASH/1 priur io the assassination of President Kennedy
. . ¢ on 22 November 1963. The point is that the record of what was said
7 = = te AMLASH/1, and specific reporting of what he understood, makes
; ' it clear that there were no grounds for him to believe, andhe did |
not believe, that he had CLA support for an assassination plot against
’ Castro in the period preceding President Kennedy's death. The
‘second attachment is an item-by-item series of comments, ranging
from minor editorial notations and comments, to factual corrections
and Security points. : ,

 

 

: - As there is a bagic difference between the interpretation of
facts in'the draft report, and the facts as we know them, it would be
appreciated if there could be an Opportunity to address the question

» with the members of the Subcommittee. It is my opinion that it would
be a disservice to the public to issue the report as now written,

 

a : : : ot i Sincerely,
t — . : . SS
: {Photocopy - esa TIO,
2 tom } S, D. Breckinridge & Ye,
 M@eralid R. Ford Library ' Deputy Inspector General = ge} fide &
. : SS AS OE
, & mwesy
Attachments: . “by es

As stated ; rg?

TOP. SECH RET Classified by Signes

 

HW 50955 DoclId:32105738 Page 2
478-10004-10280
JFK Assassination System Date: 8/27/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: MATHENY
RECORD NUMBER: _ 178-10004-10280

RECORD SERIES: SSC SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: REPORT RE JFK ASSASSINATION (1)

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: BRECKINRIDGE, SCOTT D.
TO: MILLER, WILLIAM G.

TITLE:

DATE: 06/10/1976
PAGES: 14

SUBJECTS :
WARREN COMMISSION, INFORMATION WITHHELD FROM
FITZGERALD, DESMOND
OSWALD, LEE, TRIP TO MEXICO
LOPEZ, GILBERT
KENNEDY, ROBERT
AMLASH
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
CHURCH COMMITTEE
CIA
CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS
CUBAN COORDINATING COMMITTEE
CUBAN EXILES
CUBELA, ROLANDO
FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE
WARREN COMMISSION

DOCUMENT TYPE: LETTER
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: — Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/01/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Includes two attachments: AMLASH Operation, and litem Comments on Drait Report of SSC
Subcommittee.

vot 16
HW 50955 Docld: 32105736 Page i
HW 50955

EME SILA iLEL :
2GUPSK WE NIOE NS

Series A copy loi

The objective of the AMLASH operation throughout its
existence was the formation of a nucleus within Cuba to organize
an internal coup to replace the Castro regime. “AMLASH/1 held
a position high in-the Cuban government. He was disillusioned
with the Castro regime and was considered as a possible political
action asset. The Agency had a series of meetings with him ,
during the 1961-62 period, the last of which wes in August 1962
pricr to his departure for Havana, He was never a fully recruited
agent. .

aw In September 1963 AMLASH/1 was met in Brazil, the first
time since the August 1962 meetings. During the September 1963
meeting with AMLASH/1, he said that there were two ways to

_ effect a coup; through an outside invasion (which he recognized
was out of the question at that time) or through an "inside job’!
(i. e.- internal coup via military overthrow). He indicated that
he was waiting for a plan of action from the United States
Govérament. By this he meant high-level assurances of support
for a successful coup. The same cable which reported the results
of the meeting also indicated that A MLASH/L Msihh always be a

’ control problem,"

AMLASH/1 then went to Paris, France, where he was met
again. Meetings with AMLASH/I in October 1963 consisted of
. exploration as to what he might do, and requests by him for |
U.S. cupport. In response to his seeking high-level assurances
of U.S. support, Desmond FitzGerald met with him on,
29 October 1963. The plan for that meeting is described in
writing in the Gle as follows:

“pitzGerald will represent self as personal
representative of Robert F. Kennedy who ;
.traveled Paris for specific purpose meeting Sn,
{(AMLASH/]) and giving him assurances of ,

foll U.S. support if there is change of the.

 

 

Se, i... present government in Cuba." (Emphasis. added). my

’
Photocopy
from in
Gerald R. Ford Library
TAB Crpper . Classified by Signer
Beil edinasitr ? 2

Docld: 32105738 Page 3
A memorandum for the record of that meeting, dated
13 November 1963, contained the following summary:

"YitzGerald informed (AMLASH/I that the
United States is prepared to render all
necessary assistance to any anti-communist
Cuban group which succeeds in neutralizing
the present Cuban Jeadership and assumes
sufficient control to invite the United States
to render the assistance it is prepared to

‘give. It was emphasized that the above

support will be forthcoming only after a
’ yeal coup has been effected and the group
involved is in a position to request U.S.
me, (probably under OAS auspices) recognition
: . and support. It was made clear that the U.S.
was not prepared to commit itself to support-°
ing an isolated uprising, as such an uprising
. can be extinguished in a matter of hours if
the present government is still in control ia
Havana. As for the post-coup period, the
U.S. does not desire that the political clock be.
turned back but will support the necessary economic
and political reforms which will benefit the mase of
the Cuban people." (Emphasis added), Se
‘In 1967 the Inspector General of CIA conducted an investi-
gation of the AMLASH operation, and interviewed Mr. FitzGerald
‘and his exécutive officer (who had been kept thoroughly farniliar
with developments}, FitzGerald recalled that.AMLASH/L spoke of
.. the need for an-assassination weapon, particularly a high powered
rifle with telescopic sights or some other weapcn which could © ,
be used to kill Castro froma distance, FitzGerald rebuffed
‘this request and instructed the case officer who served as an
interpreter to tell AMLASH/I that the U.S. simply did not do
such things. .FitzGerald's executive officer, though not pre- ;
sent, had the same recollection. Mr. FitzGerald assured oe
AMULASH/1 of full U.S. support "if there is a change of the .
present leadership." : .

. -2-
Photocopy

from
Gerald R. Ford Library

TOP SECRET

HW 50955 Docld: 32105738 Page 4
