t :

AB la.

4, Classgifrec CLA Decuarat

15. lead. Comey gas 7)
We Clagsitie CYA Document MRASEIY IR Ma 144

a «Dee IG

 

1@s leg.

: By tn.

. Coggs f) eae Maxs S749, Ww 43949 :
22, CLA Docwmert 2D Mae Id

 

4

. 23. Geter, Clansiirese CLA Document, Perso ndrty File Achon Request
1 Decembe 1463, HOI-TH Goo.

24. Classificen Cra Documest
1B. \et-
abe ba.
8/2b/o4 .
2H FB Beport , AAU RAL, Septad los-iZtt OT IR p,.

2g. bia. ax

a, prc, oak
 

30. Ibi ot

HI. or

32. \bia, o&

33. lor. ok
8H,

we.

+e.
49,
w

4q Nbr. ax

: ‘ i Selechve.
rag te Loper's FB 4 le he reg Teed pith the ;
sey Key wae om July 27, Meo ena Loos cess heat 4-F

on Febrvery VD I%e. due te ~ long ueze, harper,
QUBAM AMERICAN FOOrUOTES

L, The Investigation ct the Agsagy iAction & Presiaedt John
JF Kseansaty: Performance of the letetlis ence Acencids |
Book V, Select Comm.te Study Government Operant ons,
t/23/76, pl, Senete Report No. AWATSS | p

2. ld,
2. HA Booument Mex IND2615 3 Dee 18
3. Chass fivest. (wy whee en ,
4. let.
~ “Checeihr eek

SeCia Doeumertt Mer In 7ig2i 3 Dec 1963

©, Clercehieen CUA, Docur?nt pec G3

 

Fla,
* Ceserey eat CLA Doement
“Megs 125%, IN 74227, FUYS/63
lo. td.
ays COBRA Lana. 22579,

It. Cleves eat CLA Doc urerst TAL y, RDOrarteg "1245/6.

IZ.-la.
SOZNZ

which was in the nature of an informal reminder, which stated that the man was

16 reported/ to have "looked suspicious"; but this formulation never found its
way into the more careful statements that usually characterize official re-j
porting. The point is that the observaiton was cryptic and impresionistic,
rather than constituting a tangible basis for dramatic activity or, final
conclusions.

There is one piece of reporting that could confuse those reviewing the
record, but which is essentially resolved when considered in the context of
known facts. On 19 March 1964,7(MNTY-0829, VIN 43193, 3/19/64) Monterrey Base J
cabled that a source of a localj{ (Monterrey) agent of the federal judicial
police" had information on a man; the description seems to have the same
Cuban-American in mind. The following should be noted about the report:
it misspelled the man's name; it offered a bare statement that he "was
involved in Kennedy assassination"; it states that he entered Mexico “on
foot" from Laredo, Texas (according to the SSC Final Report, the FBI con-
cluded that he entered by automobile); it asserts that he stayed at the
Cuban Embassy in Mexico City (while the dates and times of his registra-

Mo tion and check-out at a specific hotel in Mexico City, where he stayed,

Ayer! were known); it gave an incorrect number for his passport; and, it stated

. that his Mexican tourist card was issued in Nuevo Laredo (when it was known
to have been issued in Tampa, Florida). The report, on its face, was factually

_ incorrect on a number of known points. The source patently was extensively
misinformed, the hard facts of his report being in error. The Chief of Base 7

at the time, when queried about the report in the course of the present
review, could not recall it.

17 There is one additional aspect of the matter, in which the record is
confused. If we are to comment negatively on the presentation by the SSC
in its emphasis on report, we must point out that the Mexico City Station's
response to the Monterrrey. report contributes to such confusion as may exist
on the matter. When Mexico City received the Monterrey cable the Deputy
Chief of Station replied (MEXI-8740, IN 43940, 3/20/64)that the information in
the report "jibes fully with that provided Station by (Mexico City source)
4 December 63." It did not jibe in most respects, other than the date and
place of entry into Mexico. The mistake of that cable cannot be explained
today, but wrong it obviously was. It does, however, serve to highlight
the basic unreliability of the report and indicate how it shouls be consid-
ered responsibly.

Implicit criticism of CIA's not collecting more information on the man
is not well founded. It had no real sources with access to information
concerning him; when a defector from Cuba became available with such in-
formation he was queried and the results were provided the authorities.
 

we

 

 

agence Pot ptthnds Fe. he &aAoo,

fe steht othe gedtty wae a

. vale. Arta. gle Parrett... jes a nthe. Cake, -
ai a watts... het... the, iat
. pong we Arne... a Aberin. ON. enna hel, Aad Sok

ca Y

The aH hag hee

feted... ae ee hana. Bcky. wt the boat pre
 

13

14

165

from TAB B 77 IGR. LOZ(I2

The Passenger on the 27 November 1963 Flight

At pages 61-63 and 104, the SSC Final Report describes in considerable
detail information concerning a Cuban-American who came to the attention of
the CIA and the FBI in the period following the assassination of President
Kennedy. The introductory comments of the SSC Final Report state that:

" ... One source alleged that the Cuban-American was ‘involved!

in the assassination!"

The SSC Report states that the CIA reported the case to the FBI "almost
immediately," but that the Bureau did not conduct a follow-up investigation
“as part of (its) work for the Warren Commission." Further down the same
page the SSC Report states that "(t)he FBI did investigate this individual
after receiving the CIA report of his unusual travel." At page 63 the SSC

. Report observes that "...the suspicious travel of this individual coupled
with the possibility that Oswald had contacted the Tampa chapter (of the Fair

Play for Cuba Committtee--FPCC) certainly should have prompted a far more
thourough and timely investigation than the FBI conducted..." We do not
know just what the Bureau did in thsi respect, nor have we tried to resolve
the apparent inconsistencies in the SSC Report noted above, but the SSC
Final Report contains considerable detail] about the man, presumably re-
Flecting the results of FBI inquiries.

While this section of the SSC Report is directed primarily at the FBI,
we reviewed the reporting because of CIA's initial role in reporting about
the man. There is also one implicit criticism of CIA, which will be noted.

Book V of the SSC Final Report has the following summary statement at
page 104, in the chronology section: .

“December 5- Mexico Station cables that someone who saw the Cuban-

American board the aircraft to Havana on November 27 reported that

he ‘looked suspicious'..."

At page 61 it states that there "is no indication that CIA followed-up

on this report (that the man was "involved in the assassination"),

except to ask a Cuban defector about his knowledge of the Cuban-American's
activities." (sic.)

The presentation of this matter in the SSC Report contains some
inaccuracies. First, the Mexico City Station did not cable Washington that
the man "looked suspicious." There was a cable, (Mexi-7253, IN74227, 12/5/63)
dated 5 December 1963, but it reported that the man had “crossed at Laredo,
Texas on 23 November," that he registered at a certain hotel in Mexico City
at a certain time and departed for Havana "as only passenger on Cubana
Flight on night 27 November," and that there was a good photograph of him
taken at the airport. This was followed by a dispateh ffomiaz2si9] 12/5/63)
the same date, repeating the basic information in the cdble, enclosing the
photograph, and containing the following cryptic statement:

“Source states the timing and circumstances surrounding Subject's

travel through Mexico and departure for Havana are suspicious."

This comment is cryptic, at least, and--given that dramatic moment in history
--doubless reflects a preliminary comment of a person who was on the alert
at that time for anything that might be construed as possibly unusual. The
above quotation was the Station's actual report of the observaiton by the
Source, and is what was reported to the FBI; it differs from the quotation

in the SSC Report. There was an internal memo (See Memorandum for the
Record, 3 December 1963) in the Station that was even more cryptic, but
ae

were Set hye

Punter, Bawrtn, ms de ee § g che, eat,

[Dave teow BaciccPound |
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reo-i00T6t]

DRAFT

deMohrenschildt (Cont'd)

(Insert A)

chy

 

190- 1014 3-015}

 

 
 

nye?

CD Fach P fanse Def”
062104

. Oh | i eel ce 4g. Bork an 3 he.
enue Ayr tlge wen Cormanttin Fink Reppert , Aafrrecee. caw
rade Gy nape mee de € Lervbs
ren Yo rag hie to Are —thebaee on J w& Cohen fg
bee Wee Cli - ( ; * ‘ c
if ° 4 | te Merworret Fhe. kevenninnes % Prracderct
j Kesrmedy ? Cemet nchvcwn , 22 Nivember (163. The Acts

Seeman prt oo fewrereded pho Cobee dareregh prtthn ct .

: Cov-wr)

. abe
cmmayhrannged CIA Sa aapgerunt wife, _ ey tthe ug by

j ata hat The CHA cand mot pyle 0h the fone g te .

atncy 2 the peek , ahy Here Wao mer priced Q pepe
{ ; y 0
a Aevteck avfithgewee ne o-7977. Alb RO ahglewe

id de, . CSTHE reper dy Senate
fe, » abtthinieg . plane. whe mu precrdide » Asegwat, Lettie Fron Cra fo Scene

Envemmence Comm tic, Hula)

f
Las . ;
[je Parvinthnnne enw c TiFiRE) . that rhatewik ] armed

nan ites rome Groton. eye g \peght

mafia, The Weteenns  anthenteef QF Yor a
oo ZO

 

aS peragias Po gree oe Kogte 2 geesansir.
| Batt tira [ae  Kikeghavas tag. ogee Chiewver) 3.
[Mange omens. ore vB’ Office “aN

; . :
c [toh . Fae e oe a ah Ones L. am. hams Gh ie XO... cc eeneee
an ond | ’
PE wrth Lae ot 126, ieanen Sane aie wae

ras tte s pee Lina |

Peni my oa al ge “Harewer,..

at ae to. hwo ak the acenege Aad Pelee pg fie potion.
. jearkan i. By 208s hero IL, Liab Fae ver) es wees

i”
|
H
|
i

7 Fhe Cokes git | Woo on  ghe. (frie. Wliiece | ae
