 

 

 

 

 

 

  

; . 380
Gt ur. Anderson. Is that the Fred Hampton case?

Mr. Sprague. Yes, it is, sir. We are in the process of
at least looking that material over. And if I may at the |
next session I will at least prepare a summarization
with a recommendation to the committee.

~ Chairman Downing. All right. That will be fine. |

_Mr. Sprague. The next housekeeping chore that To
just want to bring to the attention of the comiitted is this:
“Tt has been suggested that assuming this investigation. .

“

proceeds, and that there are hearings, that they are on such

 

a historical, note that either we arrange for a videotaping
Of them, just the keeping of them as a permanent record,
or make arrangements with the news media, who undoubtedly
will be televising them, for obtaining their records. ~ ate of
/I just throw that out, because I do not know what your ee
thoughts are on that. .
Chairman Downing.- Are you talking about a videotaping
of the entire session? . 7
Mr. Sprague. Of what is our public hearings, where :
witnesses are presented. : .
; Chairman Downing. All right.

Mr. Sprague. I.am not making any recommendation... z

 

“am just bringing it to your attention.
Chairman Downing. That -is not a matter we have to resolve

right now. All right.

 
 

 

381
FG] we. Sprague. Mr. Chairman, with regard to the investiga-
tion in more detail than we have gone into, I would start with
the Kennedy assassination. |
It has come to our attention that. in the area of the

finding of the bullet which allegedly went through President
"Kennedy and through Governor Connally, the following situation
at. least had existed?

The bullet was found on a stretcher in the Parkland.

Hospital... The sequence of events was that upon the “shooting, -

 

the bodies of President Kennedy and Governor Connally were -
rushed to the Parkland Hospital. ' President Kennedy was on
a stretcher wheeled into what is cated jfrauna oom No. 1,
‘Governor Connally into a.room right across from that,”

Trauma Room No. 2.

 

_. President Kennedy's condition was such that there was
“nothing further that would or could be done. However, Governor
Connally was within a short. space of time wheeled out of.

pleswina Floom No. 2 down a hallway to an ‘elevator and up two.

 

‘flights to a holding room for subsequent operation. x a
Now, the stretcher that President Kennedy had been on
at some point was taken from ffrauna, oom No. 1, and taken,
down this same hallway, ‘and placed against the wall, / really
just before this elevator that goes from the basenent™ to

‘the’ second floor.

 
 

 

would, because we may wish to think of the procedure we

 

one

may want to follow on in January.
Gp mis was a simple House resolution. We may wish

to file another for the sake of having immediate full House

consideration, so as to not lose too much time. and in that

respect, I am trying toget the picture from the Parliamentarian.
So I for one would be very grateful if you would, and we

could look it over next week. eee

- ‘Ghairman Downing. Without objection, counsel is

directed to draft a preamble and/or a resolution for presenta-

tion at the next meeting of the committee.

. Mr. McKinney. Mr. Chairman, Congressman Dodd could not

be-hers today, because he had to go back to Connecticut.

He asked me if I would make sure the counsel. ed Keep, in’
retained the option

the wording which of looking ‘into the ‘othe

 

assassinations. He is not suggesting we should, but he feels.

 

perhaps we might want i tom sa at least put
a protective hold on materials pertaining to other political
aggassinations.

oS Mr. Sprague. “Mr. Dodd so advised me. And the other ais
matter that I would want to bring to the atterition. of. ‘the
committee a although we are reviewing it zs there has been
a letter submitted by the Civil Liberties Union in Chicago’
requesting that we look into what they allege’ is the assassina-

‘tion of two people of the Black Panthers.

 
 

 

378
what I think will be a preamble there which I think would
then save this resolution, the wording of it, from subsequent
attack. .

Gh we. thone. Does this come down to whether or not that

resolution directs itselfg

 

enough to.
a legislative purpose?

Mr. Sprague. Legislative and oversight purposes, because
qr think there would be problems the way it is presently -
worded. 7 .

- Mr. Gonzalez. — Mr. Chairman, let me give you a little
history, because this is something that bothered me at
‘the very beginning. . . -

"the wording that finally resulted in this resolution | .
was very hastily prepared, présented to me by the perk of
_the Rules Committee. I raised the point immediately, and he
said, "This is what I have been ordered to arrange. : .
Do’ you have any suggestions?" : ane

Well, there was one sentence that I knew was at first:
Slush violative a7 "So scratch that out." And r sala,

"The rest I have my doubts, but my gosh, you want, this in
‘today, so you can have something to meet on tomorrow. " ana that
“is: the way it got submitted. :
Now, I didn't ask him what the history of the drafting’
haa been when he presented it. ‘But since then, I, have been

going into that. And I for one would be very grateful if you

 

 
 

    
   
   
  
    
  
  
  
    
    
   
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
   
  
  

Nab STATEMENT OF RICHARD A. SPRAGUE, CHIEF COUNSEL AND
'. DIRECTOR
we. Spague. Mr. Chairman, before I. commence that, may
Ir bring up two other matters, first, on which I would like
t9, ‘get some direction from the committee.

As I understand it, there is going to be another “meeting
of this committee for purposes of presentation of the, ‘report

‘that will be submitted to the Congress, this Congress.

Chairman Downing. “That, meeting will ‘be next Friday, at.

  

108 a.m., “that is the ‘L7th: of December, ata place to be.
decided.

Mr. McKinney. Mc. Chairman , could we have feo
lsat olereck? Would anybody object? Is it going to be a long
“meeting? . eee
Mr. Sprague. I ‘would not think so.

; Mr. McKinney. I find myself in an embarrassing position val

 

being ranking member of the Economic Stabilization, Committee,

 

Bill Moorhead has moved the steel price meetings three”
times to accommodate the Minority side of the aisle.
Chairman Downing. I certainly have no objection to.
‘L980 o'clock. Anybody else? cee

‘The committee will then meet at les ° ‘clock. . That is-

  

W Friday, | December 17.

 

SS Me, Sprague. What I would like to bring, to the -

“attention of the committee, if I may, there is” a question.

 

| MW 50953 Docid:3
 
    
 
       
   
   
   
   
   
 

377

“in my mind, as your chief counsel, with regard to the present
“regolution that exists concerning the authity as the base
For this committee to operate on. There is in my opinion.
a grave question of constitutionality, not with regard to_

the ability of the Congress to be investigating, but with

regard to the way in which the resolution that presently °

 
    
  
     
       
     
   
   
    
    
     
     
   
   
   
    
    

exists is worded.

A eranxay, because of that, I have seen that no sonipens

 

was issued that was other than what I call a friendly
suniena, because I did not want to get in the posture where
‘someone was attacking it ait, , and taking us into court | on the
comes i that exists. io

And what am seeking guidance on a I would Like to :

be able to ‘prebent to the committee, at the next session,

a
vo

a. sort of préaitble to the resolution stating what r submit |
would be the. appropriate basis for this investigation, sO” that

[ae and, when the matter of the constitutionality arises, we “ a

 

“are properly and fully bottomed. But I would. not do- that unless

given such direction by the committee.

 

a Chairman Downing. - Well, I “think if any ‘question exists ©
“in your mind as to the constitutionality of the section of “
the resolution, certainly you should draft a preamble, along wit

a proposed resolution, which will, of course, have to be

 

“submitted in the next session of Congress.

 

Mr. Sprague. At the next session I would Like ‘to "present
EXECUTIVE SESSION

: EXECUTIVE SESSION _—
O HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

HEARINGS

BEFORE THE COMMITTEE

on

_ SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS':

Thursday, December

Washington, D.-¢.

Official Reporters to Committees

 

Gro 16—75107-1

EXECUTIVE SESSION

_ HW 50955 BDoclId:32266459 Page 2
nnn En ese tisha ae nena

 

 

180-10116-10104 -
7 JFK. Assassination System Date: ‘10/13/20
Identification Form
Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: — 180-10116-10104

RECORD SERIES: | NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 014697 Ce,
TT

Document Information

‘ ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: SPRAGUE, RICHARD
TO:

TITLE: BUSINESS MEETING

DATE: — 12/09/1976

PAGES: 50
SUBJECTS :
CIA
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
FBI

CONSPIRACY THEORY, SINGLE BULLET

_ DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/27/1996 .

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : MLK material withdrawn, pp. 386-412. Box 279.

 

eee
v9.1 ] /
HW 50955 Docld:32266459 Page i :
 

_EXECUTIVE SESSION
01 Conny TEE

   
  
 
 

 

“Thursday , December 9, 1976
Kurn--S

u.SHouse of Representatives, iEsd]
: Select Committee on Assassinations, B
Vm
Washington, D. €. a
Nene

‘The committee met at 2:45 p.m., in Koom. 227,. Reybum

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

: House “Office Building, the Honexabke Thomas N.° Downing . Pat

'

: ‘iphaizmany presiding. .

  

‘Present: Representatives Downing (presiding) , Gonzalez,
McKinney, Preyer, Thone, Stokes, Anderson, and Fauntroy. : :
_ Also Present: Richard A. Sprague, ghiet dounsel and’ :
f
pixector: Thomas Howarth, + oaget gfficer, and Donovan Le Cay

a
Chief pesearcher .

   

(eS

 

EXECUTIVE SESSION

66459 Page 30

 
 

375

 

 

- Gf chairman downing. The committee will come to order.

Mr. Sprague, the next time we have one of these |
executive meetings, Mr. McKinney made what I think is an
excellent suggestion + that when we go into executive session
we find some suitable room that we can adjourn to, to carzy on |
the executive session, and we won't have this delay. .

” Mr. Sprague. Mr. Chairman, I think it would be a great
“idea to try to have an alternate room to move to. :

. Chairman Downing. Now, will everybody in the room not

a member of this committee staff identify themselves? »

 

Mr. Hutton. E. M. Hutton, the phairman's staff.~
_ Mr. Levin. Jay B. Levin, Congressman Dodd's staff.
Ms. Caldwell. Bonnie Caldwell, Congressman Gonzalez' .-

‘staff. |

 

Mr. Burgess. Quentin Burgess from Congrésswoman Yvonne
Burke's office.

“Mr. Harvey. Percy Harvey, from Congressman Ford's staff.

 

“.Mr. Spring. Hank Spring, from Mr. McKinney's staff.

 

 

- Chairman Downing. All right. Close the doors...

Mr. Sprague, suppose you begin your presentation. mo

 

 

66459. Page 4.
