Page eight

The Report states
An asset of the Miami Station reported that. a and
a wanted to defect and needed help in escaping.

 

¢ was the gangster's'man inside Cuba’ with access
to Castro in lethal pill operation- Phase One.) Headquarters
expressed interest in exfiltrating and - - Called

off because of report that Cuban police knew. ( This is one

of three name-links found in AMLASH file between and
persons involved in gambling syndicate episodes......If

was in fact one of the gangsters' assets inside Cuba, that

fact was unknown to either the CIA officers running the gangster
episodes or to hose handling )

(p80)

On Page 91 of the Report in states that under the date Nov 20, 1963
Thus far, this account of the project has been based
almost wholly on documents found in the project file. Beginning
here is an account of an episode in the operation on
which there is no documentary evidence. has a record
of nine contacts and their dates; otherwise, this summary is
drawn from the recollections ofthose involved.

Amlashes case officer, Sanchez, distinctly recalls that didn't think
much of the device. (p93a)

 

On December 27, 1964 (ARtime) and Noel) or (Cubela) met for the first
time in Madrid. On Dec, 30, 1964 they met again. On March 15, 1965

The cabled that one
had arrived in Madrid from Cuba on March 18 and had been
introduced to af J officer. ; claimed to be

in in contact with a group of Cuban military leaders who were
planning to eliminate Castro and take over the government.
It quickly became clear that he was referring to .

said that he had always been publicly
identified as a close friend of » whome he last
saw in Havana on March °. said that he had been the
lawyer for the Capri Hotel in Havana. He was jailed for 75
days in July 1962 for defending 7, a U.S. citizen and
‘ ex-manager of the ~ _ gambling casion.wwho was kicked out of
Cuba.
(Comment: This is another name-link between Cubela and the
gambling syndicate plots reported upon earlier in this report.
was one of the principals in Shef Edwards' phase
one of the Operation. He presumably was not involved in Phase
Two under Harvey, but we cannot be sure of that. After all,
was the man who brought into the operation

late in Phase 1, and was one of the main players in Phase 2.)

 

   

seg:
 

Page nine

People involved in plot to kill Castro as reported from first
day trial proceedings and dispositions;

Ramon Guin Diaz-25 years

Rolando Cubela Secades-25 years

Jose Luis Gonzalez Gallarreta~ 20 years
Alberto Blanco Romariz- 20 years

Juan Alsina Navarro- 10 years
Guillermo Cunill Alvarez- free

Angel Herrero Veliz~ free

Page 111-

DELETED

entitled "Discussion of Assassination at High-level meetings"

P120- O'Connell briefed CIA on source of Pearson's story.

j-

2-
3-

4-

Maheu briefed Edward p. Morgan on Maheu's participation

in phase one

Maheu knew nothing of Phase 2

Morgan and Roselli were acquainted. Roselli was steered to
Morgan by H.M Green spun, editor and publisher of Sun
Garrison, Morgan and Roselli were all in Las Vegas at the
same time March 1967. O'Connell stated "It is our impression
that Greenspun was also involved in the conversations."

The Report blames Roselli for the leak.

The Report concludes with a discussion of what should be done.
One question is asked- "Should we try to silence those who are talking

or might later talk?”

The answer begins "It appears to us that this tactic offers little chance
of success. For one thing, the story is already out and probably in about
as full detail as it ever will be." (128)

 

 
Page seven

g-September 1962- Harvey says Roselli was in Miami on September 7th .and llth.
ready to send in another three man team to penetrate Castro's
bodyguard.

 

h- Sept. 1962- Jan 1963- Harvey was in Miami between 22 Dec and 6 Jan.Says
Roselli and Maceo met with him many times. Harvey and Roselli had telephone
discussions of operations between January ll and l6th. The Report states that
“as far as Harvey knows, three Militia men never did leave for Cuba. He
knows nothing of what may have happened to the three reported to have been
sent to Cuba." (p52)

i-February 1963- Harvey in Miami Feb 11-14. Left word for Maceo that there
was nothing new and it looked like it was all over. Feb 15 Harvey left
Miami to meet Roselli in L.A. Roselli agreed that he would continue to
see , gradually reducing the frequency of contact until there was none.
j-June 1963- Roselli met with Harvey in D.C.-Dulles Airport. Stayed with
Harvey.

k- People knowledgeable of Phase «II;
Helms, Harvey, O'Connell, Edwards, King, Harvey's deputy in 1962, Chief
of JM/WAVE, TSD, > , Maceo.
1- Operation linked perhaps through:
Roselli to Maheu; Maheu to Morgan; Morgan to Pearson; Pearson to
en Warren to President; Warren to Rowley; Rowley to Pat Coyne; FBI to
Pe Ramsey Clark (p56)

 

m- Late 1961- Early 1962- Wiretapping incident.
n- May- June 1966- Long Committee

Page 72 is missing or deleted-can't tell.

Page 71- Maheu's backgound- he was hired in 1954 and 55 by Greek shipping
magnate, Niarchos to help in a "£inancial tussle"with Onassis.

Page 72-"0'Connell stated that af'one point in the negotiations with the Long
Committee Maheu indicated that he might brief his attorney, Edward P. Morgan,
fully about his post activities so that Morgan would be able to decide how
best to represent him."

cated

Schemes in Early 1963- Fitsgerald took over Cuban Task Force- Jan 1963
skin-diving suit

booby trapped sea shell

Amlash - March 9, 1961 and March 28, 1961

 

 

      
 

 

 

Page six

c- February-March 1962- Harvey recalls first meeting with Edwards on subject
of Castro operation. (After Harvey left Task Force W and was winding up he
wrote a memo to Chief, FI staff, dated June 27, 1963 stating that the original
justification for employing QJ/WIN no longer existed and raising the question
of QJ/Win's termination. QJ/WIN was terminated 21 April 1964) (p40, 41)

d-April 1962
Harvey briefed Helms on meetings with Roselli.(p41) "Edward’s records show
that on 14 May 1962 Harvey called Edwards ‘and indicated that he was dropping
any plans for the use of Roselli for the future." (p42) Harvey believes he
took over "a going operation." O'Connell now believes there must have been
"something going on between april 1961 and April 1962." (p43). On April 8 and
9, 1962 O'Connell and Harvey met Roselli at the Savoy Plaza Hotel in NYC.
O'Connell says Maheu was present but Harvey disagrees. (p44) There is a large
deletion on page 45 following the statement mentioning Phyllis McGuire,
Dorothy Kilgallen, and Liberace at the Copacabana.
Harvey recalls another meeting of O'Connell and Roselli in D. C. im April 14.
O'Connell was in Miami with Roselli and Harvey as late maybe as April 27.

O'Connell was assigned on June 1962 PCS to {3-17
Harvey says he arrived in Miami on 21 April and found Roselli already in
touch with » the Cuban exile leader who had participated in phase one.

(p47). Santos and Giancana were no longer involved. "Roselli now had a
man known to Harvey as Maceo, who also used the names Garcia-Gomez and Godoy.”

He was a Cuban who spoke Italian. (p48)

When the pills were given to through Roselli, requested arms
and equipment needied for support. Harvey with the help of » the chief
of the JM/WAVE station, procured explosives, detonators, 20 .30 caliber rifles,
20 .45 caliber hand guns, 2 radios, and one boat radar. (p49) Harvey and
rented a U-Haul truck under an assumed name, loaded it with arms and equipment,

and parked it in the parking lot of a drive-in restaurant. Keys given to Roselli
for delievery to Maceo, to » or to . "Evidently Harvey and
Roselli had not yet come to trust each other. Perhaps fearing a double-cross,
each set about independently to assure himself that the equipment reached the
proper hands. After parking the truck,Harvey and kept the parking lot under
surveillance until the pass was completed. Roselli, accompanied by O'Connell,

did the same. Neither pair knew that the other was watching. Eventually the
truck was picked up and driven away. (Does not say by whom). It was returned
later, empty, and with the keys under the seat as prearranged. Harvey retumned

it to the rental agency. Harvey says that never knew to whome delivery was
made nor for what purpose. was merely called upon to furnish support for
a headquarters operation from which he was otherwise excluded." (p 50)

e~ May 1962- Roselli reports pills were in place.
f- June 1962- Roselli reports to Harvey on 21 June that had dispatched a team
of three men to Cuba. —

 

      

 
Page four

"Tt appears that Edwards and O'Connell did not know at the
time of 's fall from favor..... It seems, though, that
the gangsters did know that had already lost his access
to Castro."

The June 24, 1966 summary memorandum, referred to on page three of this
memorandum, states that "when asked out of the assignment he

suggested another candidate who made several attempts without success." Edwards
and O'Connell do not know the replacement. \

h- March-April 1961

The Report states -
"Following the collapse of the channel, Roselli
told O'Connell that Trafficante knew of a man higher up
in the Cuban exile movement who might do the job. He
identified him as
was of the Democratic Revolutionary Front, a
group supported by the Agency as part of the larger Cuban
operation. O'Connell. understood that was disatisfied
with the nature and the extent of this support and that
JM/WAVE suspected that was not keeping his
bargain with the Agency." ( p29)

 

a This statement is followed by a lengthy comment.

~ "(Comment: Reports from the FBI suggest how Trafficante
may have known of . On 21 December 1960 the Bureau
forwarded to the Agency a memorandum reporting that efforts
were being made by U.S. racketeers to finance anti-Castro
activities in hopes of securing the gambling, prostitution, and
dope monopolies in Cuba in the event Castro was overthrown. A
later report of associates with those
schemes. chad hired Edward K. Moss, a Washington
public relations coungelor, as a fund raiser and public
relations adviser. Bureau Report alleged that Moss Mistress
wasJUlia Cellini, whose brothers represented two of the
largest gambling casinos in Cuba. The Cellini brothers were

\ believed to be in touch with through Moss and were
reported to have offered large sums of money for
his operations against Castro, with the understanding they
would receive privileged treatment "in the Cuba of the Future."
(p30)

 

v

 

     
 

 

 

 

 

 

Page five

03 -.

. was granted covert security clearance in March 1959 for use by NE Division
in his role as consultant to a In November 1962 for use by CA

staff under Project {2R/MAJOR} program for explitation of political consultants.
ol

The report states that Trafficante approached and told them that he had
clients who wanted to do away with Castro and they would pay big money. was
very receptive. Roselli was to deliver money to —- for expenses .According
to O'Connell it was $50,000. (p31) i

The Report adds a Comment.
(Comment: As a sidelight, Esterline says that, when he
learned of the intended use of » steps were taken
to cancel the plan. was one of the key figures in the
Revolutionary Front and was heavily involved in support of the
approaching Bay of Pigs operation. If steps were in fact
taken to endAparticipation in the syndicate plan, they were

ineffective. It is clear that he continued as an integral part of
t the syndicate scheme.) (p32)

The Report states that "Little is known of the delivery channels beyond
was believed to have an asset inside Cuba....."(p32)

i- April-May 1961- The operation was called off after the Bay of Pigs, and

remained dormant until April 1962.

Page 34 of the Report refers to a memorandum of 14 May 1962 in which Edwards

states that knowledge of the operation was limited to six people.
Dulles, Cabell, Bissell, Edwards, O'Connell, Esterline, Chief TSD,
Satta » Chemical Division, TSD, Chief, Operations Division,
Medical Services, William Harvey, Chief, FI/D, and Special
Assistant to the DDP.( name was encounted repeatedly in this inquiry,
but he denies knowing of the Operation in 1960-61.), Bannerman,DDS, J.C. King,
Robert Maheu, Roselli, Giancana, Trafficante., the man originally
selected to poison Castro, Cuban exile leader,the of
who is known to have been involved with him closely during this time. (p35)
In May 1962 R.Kennedy and Lawrence Huston learned of the operation.
Those now knowledgeable- Edward P. Morgan, Drew Pearson, Jack Anderson,
C.J. WArren, Rowley, Pat Coyne, executive secretary of PFIAB, Ramsey
Clark and various members of the FBI .

PHASEIL

a- Harvey was briefed in Feb. 1961 and placed in charge of developing an Executive
Action capability- ZR/RIFLE. The asset was QJ/WIN who had been recruited

earlier by for use in a pecial operation in the Congo (the assassination
of Patrice Lumumba.)

b- On November 15, 1961, Harvey has a note that on that date he discussed with
Bissell the application of ZR/RIFLE to Cuba. Harvey took over Cuba Pek force. (p
3

 

 
To: G.B. Blakey
From: Leslie Wizelman

Date: 1/10/78
Re: Notes from the 1967 IG Report

 

The 1967 Inspector General's Report begins with the statement

This Reconstruction of Agency involvement in plans to
assassinate Fidel Castro”is at best an imperfect history.
Because of the extreme sensitivity of the operations being
discussed or attempted, as a matter of principle no
official records were kept of planning, of approvals, or
of implementation. The few written records that do exist
are either largely tangential to the main events or were
put on paper from memory years afterward...

The Report states that “We can identify five separate phases in Agency assass-
planning.."(p2) and “Each phase is a reflection of the then prevailing
Government attitude toward the Cuban regime."(p3).

The Five phases are:

l- Prior to August 1960 during which all "identifiable schemes" with the
possible exception of onere, were aimed at discrediting Castro
personally by influencing his behavior or altering his appearance.

2-August 1960 to April 1961-plots were “aggressively pursued."

3-April 1961 to late 1961- a major scheme begun in August 1960 was
called off after the Bay of Pigs and remained dormant for several
months, “as did most other Agency operational activity related
to Cuba."

4-Late 1961 to Late 1962- The August 1960 scheme was reactivated

5-"Late 1962 until well into 1963"- Aug 1960 scheme was terminated

Two other plots originated but impractical and “nothing ever
came of them."

On page 4 the Report makes 3 points:

lj- The elimination of a dominant figure may not change the government.
This point was stressed by an internal CIA draft paper of October
1961.

2- The bringing about the downfall of a government always risks the
the resort to assassination.

3- Synecdoche~ the mention of a part when the whole is to be
understood, or vice versa, meaning when"the getting rid of Castro"
statement is made, the speaker may not mean the assassination
of Castro, but may mean a change in the government of Cuba. Semantics.
The report implies this has led to some misunderstandings.

>

 

Page 6 discusses the delivery of the pen to Cubela.

Page 7 discusess a meeting of the Special Group (augmented) in Secretary
Rusk's office on August’ 10, 1962 when McNamera brought up the “Liquidation
of Cuban leaders. Followed by the preparation of the Project Mongoose

“een nse reece yews THIS COPY IS NOT
FOR RELEASE.

aoe

 
[ant OAtR) Poe 1 £3)

a Nowa tea. CULES NO.OBIEeTON:
oo BECASSFCATO a
BRLEASEOF DIS si
OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

DATE JanlO, 1978 TIME 2:39

 

 

I. Identifying Information:
Name Central Intelligence Agency Telephone
“ Address Langley, VA
Type of Contact: _ Telephone
_X Person
Ir. Summary of Contact:

Reviewed the 1967 IG Report. See attached memorandum. It should be

 

 

noted that I reviewed the Report on Jan 5 but I did not receive

 

my notes until Jan 10.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘
\

 

Tri. Recommended Follow-up (if any) :
Obtain and Review an undeleted version of the report and, if possib:

 

 

obtain and review the memoranda referred to in the report which are underlined in the

 

 

attached memorandum. : ;

Signature: jhe ave. HETURN TO CIA
Backg round Use Only
+ po Not Reprodce ~

1 -J04 06

Form €5

 

      

 

 

 
&

 

page 2

Another meeting was. held on July 31, 1964 to duscuss a Cuban exile plot. The
Report states that the CIA refused funds and had no involvement.

On page 7 the report states that the CIA twice (early 1961, early 1962) supplied
lethal pills to U.S. ganbling syndicate members. When the plot was aborted

in 1961 the pills recovered. In 1962 the pills were passed by a gambling
syndicate representative to a Cuban exile leader in Florida, who had been

them sent to Cuba in May 1962.

In June 1962 the exile leader (Verona??) reported that a team of three men

had been dispatched to Cuba to recruit for the operation.

Miscellaneous Schemes Prior to August 1960

 

A. March to August 1960- During this period there were three or four schemes. The
Report states that "None of those we interviewed who was first assigned
ot the Cuban task force after the Bay of Pigs knows of any of. these schemes."
The Report does not specifically state who was interviewed. -J. D. (Jake)
Esterline was the head of the Cuban task force prior to the Bay of Pigs.
One project discussed was an aerosol attack on a radio station, but
nothing came of it. Consideration was also given to"psychic energizers."
The contaminated cigars project was never carried out, according to
Esterline, because of the "danger of blowback on the Agency."
The use of a dipilatory was also considered.

B. Gambling Syndicate operations- The Report states that "The first seriously
pursued CIA plan to assassinate Castro had its inception in August 1960" and
involved the gambling syndicate. Theré were two phases: August 1960 to
late April or early May 1961 and April 1962 to February 1963.

 

Phase I
a- In August 1960 Richard Bissell- DDP- asked Edwards, Director of

Security if he could “establish contact with the U.S. gambling syndicate

that was active in Cuba. " The objective was stated as "clearly

the assassination of Castro."

b- the idea originated with J.C. King
c- Maheu, Robert- contacted by Edwards. Maheu was described as a

“private investigator wha-had done sensitive work for the Agency."

He opened a private offite in D.C. in 1956 after being a special
agent for the FBI. arranaged to subsidize Mahue to the
extent of $500/month. The report states that "Over the years he has
been intimately involved in providing support for some of the Agency's
more sensitive operations."

At this point the report notes that they are "struck" by the fact
that many of the names appearing in this report once worked for the
FBI and lists » Maheu, Harvey, O'Connell, and E. Morgan.
Page three

The Report states that "Maheu was authorized to tell Roselli that his
“olients' were willing to pay $150,000 for Castro's removal." (p16)

d- September 1960- O'Connell was Roselli's case officer and met with Roselli

and Maheu in New York City on September 14. Roselli agree to introduce Maheu
to "Sam Gold." At this point the Report refers to a memorandum prepared

by Edwards, dated 14 May 1962, re money not paid to Giancana or Roselli.
As of late September, 1960, Edwards, O'Connell, and Bissell were the only
ones in the Agency who knew of plan against Castro involving the Mafia.
Edwards briefed Allen Dulles and General Cabell. Bissell committed
$150,000 for the support of the operation. On September 25, 1960,
O'Connell and Maheu went to Miami where Roselli introduced Maheu to
Giancana at the Fountainbleau. O'Connell never met Joe (Trafficante)
or Sam. The Report referes to an Office of Security Memorandum to the
DDCL, dated 24 June 1966 which contains a summary of the operation.
This memo is also referred to on pages 28 and 29.

 

 

 

 

e- Key dates- Jan. 7 1959- Casinos closed
Jan.13 1959- Casinos opened for tourists
Feb.17 1959- Cabinet (Cuban) authorized reopening
Sept. 30, 1961- New York Times announces the last of the
casinos were closed.

f- Fall and Early Winter 1960- On August 16, 1960 the Chief of OD- Office
of Medical Services received box of Cuban cigars to treat.
reported the cigars were ready for delivery on October 7, 1960.
His notes show delivery on Feb. 13, 1961 (p22)

g-January-February 1961- Pills were chosen to kill Castro. The Report states
that "Trafficante was in touch with a disaffected Cuban official with access

to Castro and presumably of a sort that would enable him to
surreptitiously poison Castro. The gangsters named their man inside
as who was then of the prime
minister (Castro). Thesgangsters said that (Orta) had once been in
a position to receive kickbacks from the gambling interests, had
since lost that source of income, and needed money."
(Page 25)
Page 27 is missing

On page 28 the report states

(Comment : lost his position in the Prime Minister's

office on , while planning for the operation was
still going on in Miami and in Washington. He took refuge in

the Embassy on and became the responsibility of.
the Embassy when broke relations with Cuba in .

. Gastro refused to give him a safe conduct pass until
when he was allowed to leave for Mexico City. He
arrived in Miami in early .

   
