page 9--Hidalgo Interview.

to A-1 on or about 1] May 1964. Mr. Hidalgo said that he was not
present during administration of the polygraph but that ar. [Swenson 1
and the polygraph operator were present. Mr. Hidalgo did recall reading
the results of the polygraph but did not recall whether Lee Harvey Oswald
was discussed. It was his belief, however, that Oswald would have been
discussed because of the length of the polygraph session. Mr. Hidalgo
also stated that he believes{ John Whitten} C/WH/3, would have been given
access to the polygraph results on a need to know basis.

Mr. Hidalgo was again asked to describe the information which aA-1
provided concerning Lee Harvey Oswald. Mr. Hidalgo again deferred to Mr.

( Senson Jor such information. In an effort to refresh his recollection,

Mr. Hidalgo was asked to examine a 5 May 1964 CIA blind mew prepared
by mr. [Swenson. | This memorandum in summary fashion set forth A-l's
knowledge about Lee Harvey Oswald and the JFK assassination. Mr. Hidalgo
remarked that he may have seen the memorandum previously. He stated that
he did not know who wrote the memorandum but was confident of its accuracy.
He stated that he did not recall reading any other reports similar to
this one and did not know if any other reports of thsi kind had been
prepared. (In fact, such reports were subsequently prepared.)

Mr. Hidalgo was next shown a CIA dispatch,[~__[[7763, 1 May 1964,
indicating that twenty-two reels of tape recorded debriefing sessions
of A-lwhile in| __ rere being forwarded to Chief, Special Affairs
Staff, fram the Chief of station,| Mr. Hidalgo indicated that he
had seen some of these reels. However, he said he did not know the
Agency filing procedures for such tape recordings. He further stated

ae
he did not recall seeing the English translations of these reels.
page 10-~Hidalgo interview.

Mr. Hidalgo was next shown a 17 gully 1964 CIA contact report of a
meeting with Al, written by Joseph Piccolo. The report identified mr.
Hidalgo as being present at the meeting along with another CIA agent,

. { aaue/1. | the report reveals that ANMUG/1{ and AMNIP/ 1phaa been shown
a “Cuban mugbook" in order to identify various Cuban Intelligence Service
officers and diplamats. Mr. Hidalgo stated that the report was accurate.
When asked to identi tyf aMNe/1 for. Hidalgo refused. He explained that
fanaurP/1 Joas also a DGI officer but that he had died at age 28 of an
apparent heart attack. ( eure/1 naa no history of heart disease, however,
and Mr. Hidalgo evidenced the belief that{aMvrP/1's death was fashioned
by sinister hands.

Mr. Hidalgo further related that he could not recall whether a
photograph of a red-haired negro had been shown to either AMMUG/1 or [avatP/1 }
during the session. He also said that he did not know how such a report
would have been filed. He did not deal with filing procedure. When he
could show that he needed a certain file a girl brought it to him. That's
all he knows about filing.

Mr. Hidalgo was next shown a 9 April 1971 CIA contact report from

[Eustace D. Kloock indicating that AMMUG/1 had again been shown the “Cuban
mugbook" and had identified various Cuban personalities. At p. 3, the 8th
name from the top of the referenced contact report, Mr. Hidalgo was asked
if the name Amdre Nicolas Aroma Ramos was familiar to him. He replied
in the negative. He did recall, however, hearing the pseudonym "Ernesto"
used in relation to DGI personnel in Mexico City.

In response to the question of whether he had known AMLASH/1 or ever
acted as AMLASH/1's case officer, Mr. Hidalgo replied in the negative.

When asked the same questions about[aMROD ris response was the same.
page 8--Hidalgo interview.

Mexican Communist Party. Mr. Hidalgo stated that it was his understanding

 

that (this wonan regularly reported on . Duran. { this woman 1[ite. "Hidalgo stated,
was a close associate of Silvia Duran's. It was his belief that [this
agent Jhad not worked in the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. When asked to
reveal [the agent's fuame, Mr. Hidalgo responed that he could not recall the
name. He did remember that [the agent's Mexico City Station case officer
had a hair lip and spoke with a lisp. When asked if this person was
[Robert Shaw] Mc. Hidalgo responded that it might have been Mr.[Shaw;]

3) William Harvey--Mr. Hidalgo stated that he was acquainted with Mr.
Harvey. Mr. Hidalgo stated that he had been involved in operations with
Harvey, but that he had never heard of "ZR" or “ZRRIFLE". The details of
the operational cover of “ZRRIFLE" were sketched for Mr. Hidalgo by Mr.
Hardway. When asked if he had ever been involved in anything of that
nature Mr. Hidalgo responded that there was no way that he would talk
about something like that;

4) Frank Sturgis-~Mr. Hidalgo knew of Mr. Sturgis, but had no personal
contact with him;

5) Tony Varona-~Mr. Hidalgo knew of Mr. Varona as the result of past oper-
ational contact.

Mr. Hidalgo was next asked to examine an A-l CIA debriefing report
of 30 April 1964. This debriefing report identifies Alfredo Mirabal,
Manuel Vega, and Ricardo Concepcion as DGI officers at he Cuban Embassy
and Consulate in Mexico City. After examining the report, Mr. Hidalgo
reiterated that he had no personal knowledge of these persons. He did
state that he had previously seen the debriefing report, a verbatim trans-
lation from Spanish which Mr. Hidalgo had himself translated.

Mr. Hidalgo was questioned concerning a polygraph test administered
page 7~-Hidalgo interview.

knowledge. When asked if this meant that he was ninning venetration
agents into the Cuban Embassy Hidalgo refused to answer. When asked if
this meant that he had done a surreptitous entry into the Cuban Embassy
“he also refused to answer. Mr. Hidalgo did state that while in Mexico
he had been in contact with the Mexican federal police on one occassion.
Mr. Hidalgo was asked whether he knew Maurice Bishop. He responded
affirmatively but indicated he did not know him as well as either Win
Scott or David Phillips. Mr. Hidalgo said he became acquainted with Mr.

Bishop at CIA headquarters. He stated that he did not know Mr. Bishop's

 

Agency responsibiliti k i i o/) Rather, he
explained that he knew Mr. Bishop as just another person who worked at
CIA Headquarters. Mr. Hidalgo indicated that he knew Mr. E. Howard Hunt
in much the same manner as he knew Mr. Bishop. However, when Mr. Hardway
continued to question Mr. Hidalgo about Mr. Hunt, Mr. Hidalgo countered
by asking why the subject of Mr. Hunt Ala been brought up. He declared
that. the HSCA was "spinning its wheels" if it was investigating Mr. Hunt.
At this point Mr. Hardway queried Mr. Hidalgo on his knowledge of the
following persons:
1) The true name of (Daniel Carswel1-fite said he knew Me. (Carswell ut,
would not discuss him;

2) Silvia Duran--Mr. Hidalgo said “sure do (know her) but I sure don't

 

want to discuss it". He did state that he had had indirect contact with

 

Ms. Duran but doesn't recall when this indirect contact occured. He

explained that he had received information concerning Silvia Duran from
a

 

 

aa CIA agent Jin Mexico. I Hidalgo said he put this informatjgp into report

 

 

fomn. [ me CIA agent Jwas[a woman who maintained direct contact with the
page 5--Hidaldo interview.

Mr. Hidalgo refused to describe the operational uses to which A-1
was put by the CIA. Mr. Hidalgo also pointed out that as of Noverber 2,
1964, he no longer maintained operational contact with -A-l.

Mr. Hidalgo was asked to examine| fa 68894, 24 April 1964, a

 

 

 

 

CIA cable from{ the station [which provided additional
information on A-l and his knowledge of the DGI. This cable identified
certain DGI officers stationed at the Cuban Embassy and Consulate in
Mexico City. Mr. Hidalgo stated that he had reviewed the above-referenced
cable upon its receipt at CIA headquarters. Mr. Hidalgo refused to identify
the cable's author nor would he provide any information on the DGE officers
named on page 2, paragraph E, of the cable. Mr. Hidalgo declared he “just
knew what the Agency knew at the time." He stated that he had no personal
knowledge of the persons cited therein. At this point Mr. Hidalgo weakend
his previous position as to his knowledge by stating that he was aware in
1964 of the DGI status of the two persons referred to, Alfredo Mirabal

and Manuel Vega. He stated that he probably knew what their specific
responsibilities were when the cable was disseminated but that he could not
presently recall this ‘information.

Mr. Hidalgo was then referred to page 3, paragraph 6, ofthe
cable wherein it states that A-1 had brought out DGI documents from Cuba
upon his defection. Mr. Hidalgo was asked if any of thes DGI documents
referred to or concerned Lee Harvey Oswald or the JFK assassination. He
responded that he had not reviewed all these documents but that those he
did review did not refer to Lee Harvey Oswald or the JFK assassination.

He did indicate, however, that the subject matter of these documents may
hve been of interest to Oswald's case or the JFK assassination. Mr. Hi-

dalgo once again deferred to ttr.{ Swenson en asked to elaborate on this point.
page 6--Hidalgo interview.

Mr. Hidalgo next. examined an 8 May 1964 CIA Memorandum entitled:
“AMMUG/1 Debriefing Report # 65", which detailed DGI responsibility for
issuance of visas to persons séeking entry into Cuba. Mr. Hidalgo did
confirm that itr. Swenson had written the above-referenced memo and that
the memo was an accurate summary of then available information.

In reference to the DGI visa issuance procedure, Mr. Hidalgo stated

that a would be traveler to Cuba when seeking a visa at the Cuban Consulate

 

 

would not necessarily have been in personal contact with a DGI officer.
<=

 

The DGI officer, however, would have been made aware of the traveler's

 

presence due to DGI interest in all travelers to Cuba. He further stated

thag“& DGI officer would have reviewed all visa applications. >

 

Mr. Hidalgo could not recall if any specific word such as "Mauricio"
was used in Mexico by visa applicants to indicate their affiliation with
Cuban Intelligence.

When ask 1 ted which DGI officer Lee Harvey Oswald

had dealt with in Mexico City, Mr. Hidalgo would not answer. Mr. Hidalgo

Stet nt

 

also would not answer if he had been stationed in Mexico. He did
state that he had been in Mexico prior to 1965, probably during 1963, but
not during September or October of that year.

Mr. idalgo’ was asked whether while in Mexico he knew either Win
Scott or David Phillips. He responded in the negative and stated that
Win Scott may in fact have been unaware of Mr. Hidalgo's presence in
Mexico City because Mr. Hidalgo never went near an American installation
in that city. He further stated that he did know Scott and Phillips and
had been involved in operations with them. Mr. Hidalgo explained that

he had contact with the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City but not to their
page 2r-Hidalgo interview.

Mr. Hidalgo indicated that at the time of President Kennedy's

assassination, he was a CIA case officer working at Agency Headquarters
—— eee eee Se

 

on Cuba related matters. When asked to identify his specific responsi-
bilities as a case officer, Mr. Hidalgo responded that he had no specific
xesponsibilities. Rather, he said that he was assigned to various Agency
components on a day to day basis, traveling at the discretion of his
supervisors. He related that he had been of use to Agency components
concerned with foreign intelligence, counter-intelligence, and propoganda
and psychological warfare. ‘Moreover, Mr. Hidalgo did indicate that his
work had taken him to Mexico during the years 1963-1964. Mr. Hidalgo
refused to be more specific about his activities in Mexico.

Mr. Hidalgo explained that he had worked at times specifically on
Cuba-related matters. In this regard, Mr. Hidalgo declared that he had
been involved in the Bay of Pigs operation as the counter-intelligence
officer for the Brigade, \ He stated that his work was both in the field
and at Headquarters. . He stated that he had been indirectly responsible
for Brigade 2506. He stated the 2506 designation represented the sixth
person he had interrogated and cleared for operational use in the Brigade.

2506 had subsequently met an unexpected death resulting in his operational
designation being adopted by the Brigade as its name. It was Mr. Hidalgo's
belief that the Castro government had effected one penetration against

the Brigade. However, though once known to him, he could not recall the
name of the penetration agent. Mr. Hidalgo said that the invasion site ,
was changed because this agent had found: out the information about the
original site.

Mr. Hidalgo stated that in his work for the Agency, he “Nad traveled

to both New Orleans and Miami. He stated that he often used New Orleans
180-10142-10076

 

me)

fiox 22
Fulke >
ae

7 August 1978

 
 

Summary of HSCA Interview of Balms Nieves. (Barney) iid
Headquarters, 28 July 1978, 10:00 A.M. Charles Berk and Dan
Hardway representing the HSCA. off .

On 28 July 1978 at 10:00 A.M. Charles Berk and pan Hardway of the
House Select Committee on Assassinations conducted a three hour interview
at CIA Headquarters with Barney Nieves Hidalgo, Junior. Mr. Hidalgo was
provided with a copy of the CIA omnibus release letter prior to the
beginning of the interview. Upon reading the release letter, Mr. Hidalgo
stated that whatever Admifal Turner may seem to pennit by the release letter's
wording, the letter did not release Mr. Hidalgo from his self-imposed
secrecy standards. Mr. Hidalgo further stated that he had heard of such
a release letter in the press although he had not seen this specific release
letter prior to the interview. .

Mr. Berk explained to Mr. Hidalgo that whatever was discussed during
the interview would be treated as confidential infonmation. Nevertheless,

“ir. Hidalgo replied that he might not respond to the questions asked of

him. At this point Mr. Hidalgo was asked if he had discussed this inter-

view session with anyoune prior to the beginning of the interview. Mr.

Hidalgo said that he had not discussed the interview with anyone other

than the CIA's contacting him in order to arrange a time and aplace for the

interziew.

Mr. Hidalgo stated that he has no present connection with the CIA
haveing retired from the Agency in 1970. When queried whether he is
presently employed, Mr. Hidalgo would not respond to the question. He
also would not provide his current address when requested to do so by

Central intelligence Agency
has no Objection to Release
Bate. PAS SANAT/2 eD
JO]4a- |007% 2003

Mr. Berk.
page 3--Hidalgo interview.

as a transfer point. However, he said this work had little to do with
the Bay of Pigs activities. Rather, these trips involved the handling of
a CIA agent who had been in the Cuban Intelligence Service (DGI).

Mr. Hidalgo recalled that during his CIA career he had succesfully
developed expertises in a number of operational procedures. When asked
if his expertise included interrogation and surreptitious entry, Mr. Hidalgo
would not give a direct response. He explained that he would not answer
a question if he believed his answer would threaten the lives of otheres
or would endanger the national security.

When asked to define what made him successful at his various CIA
endeavors Mr. Hidalgo replied that his success was measured by the fact that
he was never caught. He further remarked that if we thought Espionage is
a gentleman's game we are wrong; it is not a gentleman's game.

Mr. Hidalgo was queried whether he recalled the CIA cryptonym “AMMUG/1".
He. stated that the cryptonym was familiar to him. He further stated that
he recalled AMMUG/1 defected from the DGI to the CIA in April 1964. At
this time Mr. Hidalgo was shown DIR 16369, 23 April 1964, a CIA cable
describing AMMUG/1's defection inf rite enroute to Prague, Czech-
oslovakia. This cable indicated that AMMUG/1 was knowledgeable of DGI
operations and personnel. After reviewing this cable, Mr. Hidalgo was
asked to assess the significance of AMMUG/1's defection to the CIA. Mr.
Hidalgo refused to answer this question. (Two hours later in the inter-
view, this qusetion was again posed to Mr. Hidalgo. He then responded
that AMMUG/1's defection was of great significance to the Agency. How-
ever, he would not further elaborate.) Mr.” Hidalgo did state that he

was not sent tof to bring AMMUG/1 back to the United States. That
page 4--Hidalgo Interview.

task was handled by[Harold Swenson, [chiet WH/SA/CI,. Hidalgo's immediate
superior. Mr. Hidalgo refused to provide any information about tte. Swenson’ s ]
present whereabouts to the HSCA staffers. .
Mr. Hidalgo was asked to describe Mr. Swenson's [relationship with
AMMUG/1. He responded that it would be best to ask mr f Swenson /that
question. Mr. Hidalgo was also asked to describe the relationships of
{ Daniel Flores fand Joseph Piccolo (both CIA case officers who handled
AMMUG/1) to AMMUG/1. Once again, Mr. Hidalgo deferred to[swenson for an
answer to this question.
Mr. Hidalgo was next asked what specific information AMMUG/1 provided

the CIA concerning Lee Harvey Oswald.| Mr. Hidalgo replied that he would

rather not answer that question. Mr. Hidalgo was then asked if he knew

 

 

whether Mr.[ Swenson had tape recorded his debriefing sessions of AMMUG/1
while nf | Mr. Hidalgo stated that this would have been standard
Operating procedure in a case of this kind. However, he said that he
‘could not recall whether he had listened to the above referenced tape
recordings or had read the transcripts of the debriefing sessions.

Mr. Hidalgo was next queried about when he first learned of AMMUG/1's
deffection. He indicated that he first became aware of AMMUG/1's defec-
tion when he read the cable which described the defection on 23 April
1964 was circulated through the CIA Headquarters. Mr. Hidalgo said that
hsi first personal contact with AMMUG/1 took place after AMMUG/1 was
transported to Washington, D.C. during the last week of April 1964.

Mr. Hidalgo stated that he debriefed AMMUG/1 (Hereinafter “A~-1") during

———

A-l's residence in Washington which he believed to have been for approx-

 

imately six months.
OO
