 

 

 

 

 

the Warren commission staff and those representatives of
the CIA who played significant roles in providing CIA
generated information .to the Warren Commission. The
general consensus of these representatives is that the
“Warren Commission and the CIA enjoyed a successful working
“relationship during the course of the,Commission's investi-
gation. (HSCA Class. Depo. of R. Rocca 7/17/78, p. 18.)

(See also Exec. Sess. Test. of Richard Helms, 8/9/78,
‘pe 24.) William Coleman, a senior staff counsel for the.
Warren Commission, who worked closely with Warren Commission
staff counsel W. David $ lawson on matters which utilized
the CIA's resources, characterized the CIA representatives
with whom he dealt as highly competent, cooperative, and
intelligent. (See HSCA staff interview of William Coleman,
8/2/78.) Mr. Slawson expressed a similar opinion regarding
‘the Agency's cooperation and guality of work. (Executive
Session Testimony of W. David Slawson, 11/15/77, p. 17,

see also JFK exh, 23.)

J. Lee Rankin, General Counsel for the Warren Com-
mission, testified that the warren Commission and its
ofasoured fs

staff were assure that the “Agency would cooperate in the Commission’

work. {(HSCA clase. Depo. of J. Lee Rankin, 8/7/78, p. 4.)
“ " a 8 Sohn MeCong ,8(17/78 PF )
John McCone, Director of Central Intelligence at

the time of President Kennedy's assassination and during

eqns

  
 

 

  
 

 

 

the Warren Commission investigation, supported Mr. Rankin's
testimony in this regard by characterizing the CIA's work
vis a vis the Warren Commission as both responsive and
comprehensive. (HSCA Class. Depo. of John McCone, 8/17/78,
p. 5.) Mr. McCone was responsible for ensuring that all
relevant matters were conveyed by the CIA to the Warren

qigommission. (Ibid. pp. 5-6.) In this regard Mr. McCone
nS —

testified that:

The policy of the CIA was to give the Warren

Commission everything that we had. I person-

ally asked Chief Justice Warren to come to my.

office and took him down to the vault of our

building where our information is microfilmed

and stored and showed him the procedures that

we were following and the extent to which we

were giving him--giving his staff everything

that we had, and I think he was quite satis-

fied. (Ibid. Pp- 9.).. at ei ‘ . Ledarch Maker’ als Wee to

Ci Wank EOS WE BEE ahi fe pred BAL EaSine -
Mr. Raymon Rocca, Gne-ef-the Gtats key representa-

 

tiveS) to the Warren Commission during its investigation,
a#ee characterized the Agency's role as one of full sup-
port to the Warren Commission. Mr. Rocca, who served as

the Chief of the Research and Analysis Division for the

, a Hates
Counter-Intelligence Staff of the CIA ,rgeatied under oath

that Richard Helms had given the following directive:

All material bearing in any way that could be
of assistance to the Warren Commission should
be seen by CIA staff and R and A and marked
for us. He issued very, very strictly worded
indications--they were verbal in so far as I
know--that we were to leave no stone unturned.
(HSCA Class. Depo, Of Raymond Rocca, T/1L7/78,
a os “

  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

key Warren Commission staff and members and
former or present CIA representatives in an
effort to resolve questions that are not
“addressed by the written record. The results
of the Committee's efforts to chronicle this
aspect of the working relationship between the
Warren Commission and the CIA will be a subject

for discussion herein.

_A Lnsect seution an Org. o€ CIA waveste 5050 oN

Peskored)
Warren Commission Relationship With CTA Regarding

 

Information Made Available By CIA To Warren

 

Commission
B apiniesas ok Wortlin Gmmni SSION and& Cif Re pre we

aA nay Darlene m miss ion- CLA Rel ehionsynrP
The Committee has contacted both representatives of

a

  
 
   

 

Finis
“EN a@dttien. < —
KAMAL TRH Srolleding edge ks A & ARCO
the Connnn ite! w gids ae oe TAA, ROR an Re
- Sean
elie eo ta ekos st ve CIAls 1 apestionh oo
} et Presrasat weane “S ATPASE HN 6G
2) whe Woo ckice cei sey she of AN dies
Commnissre < ne FEE Aaa bk, canna tee IAG ey
Oak Cat, TAR OAL ONE cad ines ( We
3) VAs opacducks ot inrestiaekt c aye

whe WS rN Copenh ass Dey ee PEE Peles
ah Whe og whit Ak y wANKi ty pein “
a, of &FN u iS tye en ae
Step tt a Bulgqig ChA to he, We
Q yo etects ay ok cts stash
4) VAd cp Als concern hoy waveeraen
SOARS page pret AS IARC 2 Oe OY pean <8
[ane Ne CONCEEN ap? Wha DOA TIEN ‘ 2
- ok re" . cent’ OR ee vee
pandestes LNW ; oe Ne
Ss) AS Sub stunet® wd J aders, at kore 10-8 ee
3) to NA Dar len Co PRON SS bes Vea Ne CSAS oF

gates at CAAA ETO RPA REO
Ce mam 181s er eS te
Sascha peed & Navtmbsr Ga, 1703,

 

 
 

 

 

 

relevancy adopted by the CIA and this Committee,
certain files requested by the Committee for
review have either not been made available to
the Committee or have been made available to

- the Committee in a sanitized fashion. Therefore,
to the degree reflected by the Agency's denial
of access and/or santization of certain materials,
this study's conclusions are based upon the

best evidence available to the Committee though
this may not be ail relevant evidence to which
the Agency has access.

One must, moreover, give due consideration
to the role that oral discussions, oral briefings,
and meetings of Warren Commission and CIA
representatives may have played in the supply of
assassination-related information by the CIA to
the Warren Commission. The subject and substance
of these discussions; briefings, and ‘meetings
may not always be reflected by the written
record made the subject of this study.
Therefore, the Committee has conducted interviews,

depositions and executive session-hearings with

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

3) Agency dissemination to the FBI et al
regarding rumors and allegations
regarding President Kennedy's
assassination

4) Memorandum submitted by CIA to the
Warren Commission on Rumors and
Allegations Relating to the President's
Assassination (77 IGR, Introduction
to Tab E.)

These compilations were reviewed by a staff

member of the Committee who focused upon those
CIA materials which the 77 IGR documented as having
made available in written form to the Warren
Commission. .

During the course of this study, additional
Agency files have been reviewed. These files have

been examined in an effort to resolve certain

issues created by the review of the Agency's
compilations discussed in this report. Where
apparent gaps existed in the written record,

files have been requested and reviewed in an effort

to resolve these gaps. Where significant substantive

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

   

issues have arisen related to the kind and

quality of information provided the Warren
Commission, files have also been requested and

. reviewed in an effort to resolve these issues-

As a result, approximately thirty files, comprising
an approximate total of ninety volumes of

material have been examined and analyzed by a

staff member of this Committee in preparation

of this report. .

The findings set forth herein are subject
to modification due to the following considera-
tions. During the course of-the past fifteen
years, the CIA has generated massive amounts of
information related to the. assassination of
President Kennedy. In spite of the Agency's
sophisticated document retrieval system, certain
documents requested by this Committee for study
and analysis have nct been located. Whether these
documents merely have been filed incorrectly or

aestroyed, gaps in the written record still do

exist.

Secondly, due to dissimilar standards of

 

 
 

 

 

by which the intelligence agencies
arrived at their own conclusions
about the assassination, and by
which they provided information
to the Warren Commission. This
evidence indicates that the
investigation of the assassina-
tion was deficient and that facts
which might have substantially
affected the course of the inves-
tigation wére not provided the
Warren Commission or those
individuals within the FBI and
the CIA, as well as other agencies
of Government, who were charged
with investigating the assassina-
tion. ($$C, Beek %, pe)

This Committee has sought to examine in
greater detail the general findings of the SSC.
The Committee has particularly focused its attention
on the specific issue of whether the CIA or any
employee or former employee of the CIA misinformed,
or withheld information relevant to the assassina-
tion of president Kennedy from the Warren
Commission. In addition, the Committee has
attempted to determine whether, if the Warren
Commission was misinformed or not made privy to
information relevant to its investigation,

whether the misinforming or withholding of

evidence from the Warren Commission was the

 
180-10142-10025

 

 

FOR RELEASE.

THis uur tv! :

 

\

\

FOR

“THIS COPY IS NOT

 

 

Berk-Write-Ups

 

Purpose and Scope of Study

 

The Central Intelligence Agency's performance
in its role of support to the Warren commission
has been a source of controversy since the
inception of the Warren Commission. Critics.
‘have repeatedly charged that the CIA participated
ina conspiracy designed to suppress information
relevant to the assassination of President Kennedy,

“During 1976 the critic's

assertions were the subject of official inquiry
by the Senate Select Committee to Study
Governmental Operations (hereinafter SSC). The
ssc, in its report regarding "The Investigation
of the Assassination of President John F, Kennedy:
Performance of the Intelligence Agencies" reached
the following conclusion: a4

The Committee emphasizes that it has

not uncovered any evidence sufficient

to justify a conclusion that there was

a conspiracy to assassinate President

Kennedy.

The Committee has, however, developed
evidence which impeaches the process

     

   

foi41- lools

 
 

 

  

result of a conscious intent to do so by the
Agency or its employees.

The Committee has sought to examine the
issue detailed above in both an objective
and disciplined manner. In order to accomplish
this goal the Committee has utilized a 1977 -
Report by the CIA's Inspector General (hereinafter
77 IGR). This “Report was highly critical of
the SSC findings and asserted that the SSC
Final Report conveyed an impression of Limited
effort by the CIA to assist the Warren Commission
in its work. The 77 IGR was in fundamental
disagreement with this characterization of the
‘ssc findings and noted that "CIA did seek and
collect information in support of the Warren
Commission. Additionally, it conducted studies
and submitted special analyses and reports."
(77 IGR, introduction to Tab E.)

in order to demonstrate further the scope
of support provided by the CIA to the Warren
commission, the 77 IGR contained a comprehensive

listing of CIA generated material made available
 

 

 

 

to both the U.S. Intelligence Community and
the Warren Commission regarding the assassina-—
tion of President Kennedy. In this respect,
the Committee agrees with the 77 IGR wherein
it is stated that "This compiliation (of
CIA generated material) is appropriate to
consideration of the extent of the CIA effort,
to, the extent that it reveals something of —
the results of that effort." (77 IGR, Introduction
to Tab E) .

In examining the Agency's comprehensive
listing of CIA generated material referenced above,
the Committee has paralled its review to the
structure given to these material by. the 77 IGR.
In this regard the 77 IGR detail four inter-
related compilations of Kennedy assassination
material. These four compilations are:

1) Agency dissemination of information

to the Intelligence Community (Formal
and Informal Disseminations)
2) Dissemination of material to the

Warren Commission

       

 
