DRAFT ~- Manuel Ray Rivero
Page 9 Classification: |

Ray's pied agradid at Hirer ag eral eottiss atictsd time he quit
his job in Puerto Rico and’ dropped out of sight: His in-
filtration plans were known throughout the Miami Cuban exile
community. ’®goon the story spread to Cuba where Castro ordered
a full-scale military alert and rounded up scores of suspected
Ray supporters. 79 ,

After several days of bad weather and dodging Cuban patrol
boats, Ray and his crew of seven, including a reporter-
photographer team from LIFE magazine, &4 landed at the 7
Anguilla Cays, 40 miles off the Cuban coast. °? “There Ray

intended to make a final ‘equipment ‘check and a final radio
. oo . 83
transmission.
Because of their proximity to Cuba, the Anguilla Cays
7 were heavily patrolled by Castro forces and by the British who
., owned them, °4 The British discovered Ray. and his group and
their cache of weapons and explosives, arrested them for illegal

entry , into the Bahamas and | took them to Nassau.°° The minimal

fine of. $14 was levied on ‘each member of the group and each..

 

was admonished to never tresspass again.®®
Upon his release, Ray said that he was as determined as
ever to infiltrate Cuba: "Fidel knows me," he said, “and he

87
knows I'm coming*

Classification:
2001093 | Classified by derivation:
47 Le &— LY SF £F FF SF &F a

‘
é

 

 
DRAFT O Ctabsifitdtion:

Page %'10

(This form is to be used for material extracted |
Compound itagm Rays oproled GBaunean,) the reyelation by the FBI
. ' ;

and U.S, Treasury that Rogelio Cisneros had illegally purchased

$50,000 worth of arms for JURE from a California arms manu- |

facturer, It also caused the CIA considerable embarrassment™

The agency: denied knowledge of the purchase to Revenue. |

officials and, because of the autonomous nature of its relation-

ship with. JURE, did not make. any attempt to stop Reyenue's

investigation.°%” the ‘agericy: now, however, told Ray that he ,

would have to move all his operations outside U. S. territory. :
In order to shore. up his waning credibility within the .

Cuban exile community, Ray again tried to infiltrate Cuba in

July, 1964 but, again, his boat developed motor trouble and |

the plan was aborted.” the failure this time led three

exile groups to withdraw: from cURE. BS. |
All these events, from May through July, resulted in a.

CIA decision ta stop financing Ray until he. ceased all

activities from the. u.s, mainland. The Agency authorized a |

final payment of $75,000 to the group to facilitate the move, a

thereby “closing the Books on JURE. % |
. go97 -
Ray kept his organization together until August, 1968

although. it was relatively ineffective. He personally main- |

tained an interest in anti-Castro activities, In 1969, he

_— Classification: - - |
2MNVINO4 os ,

; | Classified by derivation:

EME ME LE EE LE

 

 

F BB BBBBE EE BEE
 
 

 

 

  

i.

.to move their operations to Costa Rica

‘began’ to. formulate ‘plans for his own infiltration ‘into “cuba

amma Ft eee nee ee _.

DRAFT — MANUEL RRS IRRGHON: 11/3/78

Page 8

(This form is to be used for material extracted .
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Under his interpretation of the "Rules of Engagement of
the Autonomous Operations", Cisneros felt that JURE was not
obligated to report its military or political plans to the
CIA but that the Agency was obligated to finance JURE's
purchase of military equipment. ©9 Oo

By the fall of 1963, Ray was devoting his full time to
guRE, /° traveling extensively in Latin American countries to
gain support which would allow JURE to mount. resistance
operations inside cuba? Ray told this Committee that he
and Cisneros were in Caracas for. this purpose on November 22,
1963. He remembers that the assistant to the President of
Venezuela came into the JURE meeting shortly after lunch that

day and announced that President Kennedy had been shot. 7?

 

‘In January, 1964, Ray's organization was making plans —

73 and, at the same time,

establish a guerrilla training base ‘in Venezuela. /4 He also_

-75°

‘declaring that he would turn the operation of JURE over to

Rogelio Cisneros during his absence. /°

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

i

i

LF LF LF LE LE LY ME
a a7 «ay «ws | | |

DRAFT -. MANUEL CHA BRU on 11/3/78

Page 7

(This form is to be used for material extracted = >
Although freniGbetodirdiedalogivents3tional leadership of the

MRP in April, 1962, 56. Ray’ began formulating plans for a new

anti-Castro organization, Junta Revolucionario Cubana (gURE) >?
which, he said, would be only political in nature.>® _ Ray

freely admitted that.this group, organized in guly, 1962 59

i= WEA ‘GA.

“would cooperate with the CRC but ultimately hoped to dominate

it °°

Concurrent with his JURE activities, Ray began

 

 

 

 

 

The. degree of Ray's successin this area.is

 

not.,documented, but his efforts: continued into the summer of |

 

1963 and involved [ ae and—

a The Chief of Station in was so impressed

by Ray's abilities that he recommended he be used more

 

 

 

 

a

extensively in this capacity.©° J

 

In June, 1963, the CIA inaugurated the concept of
"Autonomous Operations", under which JURE could be financed
independently, not through the crc. °® Military operations

coordinator. °<lassification:

~ 2001030 | Classified by derivation: _

é were also initiatea®/ with Rogelio Cisneros as JURE military
ba A 4 LF PF £9 £9 I £7 &F .
a soe y LY 4 SSF EP  <F x

Classification:

DRAFT - MANUETTIRA¥OREVERO be dehd 467 Snaterial extracted

Page 5 from ClA—controlled documents.)

£

Ray withdrew from the CRC shortly after the Bay of Pigs
invasion. Ina Miami news conference on May 28, 13961, he said

the major reason for’ the MRP break with the CRC. was that the

Council had failed to live up to the written promises given

i

it in March, outlining conditions Ray had insisted upon before

40 whe first condition had been that

joining ‘the organization.
the Council was to give first priority to the underground
fighters in Cuba during the Bay of Pigs invasion. Secondly,

Ray had insisted that anyone too closely associated with the
Batista regime would not be used in the invasion. Also, he
said, he was to have been allowed prior approval of any appoint-

ment of invasion military leaders. “1

“newsmen that his ‘program to overthrow Castro was based on

Ray told the assembled

maximum mobilization of the discontented people inside Cuba,

 

and that he thought the leadership of ‘this underground should

“leome.. “from Cubans | “who ‘could: | prove they ‘had access “to ‘such a.
42

 

potential force.
Ray sought CIA support for the MRP independent of the

1,43

Counci claiming that the group had an effective underground

44

organization but needed material and financial support. Ray

felt the MRP.had to be allowed to plan its own operations and
broaden its base of financial support to include sympathetic

Latin American governments. 45

46
te
ssification:

; 2004089 | Classified by derivation:
LP LF SF £5 £F £9 £2 & & sz

He was totally opposed to another

large invasion,at

 
p
6
f
§
p
a
a
4
4
p
fe
a

 

DRAFT - NANUEL. Ofeisglf#Fion 22/3/ 78
Page 6

(This form is to be used for material extrocted

The Miami femCldcaventsnllersasumenttved Ray be given an *
initial $50,000 for operational expenses .47 Reaction at
CIA headquarters was immediate: Within 24 hours a Memo for
the Record was circulated, objecting to the Miami Station's
recommendation and claiming that Ray did not ever produce any
substantial military actions against Castro.48 Ray was told
to submit a "prospectus" of his plans for the MRP and advised
that no financial help would be forthcoming until such a plan
was reviewed.49

Ray went to Puerto Rico about July, 1961, where he
received sympathetic support for the MRP from the Governor
of that island, Luis Munoz Marin, who personally liked Ray .70
While Ray was in Puerto Rico, a member of the MRP underground
in Cuba reported to the MRP Executive Council that he had been
in contact with the CIA and was told by the Agency that no
material resources would be available for the group until
Manuel Ray was dismissed as general coordinator.°1 Charging
the CIA with repeated interference in the affairs of the MRP,
Ray resigned so that there wouldn't be any obstacle to the
group's cohesion. 52. °

In October, 1961, the Puerto Rican Planning Board an-
nounced that Ray had accepted a $12,000-a-year position as
consultant to that Board.>3 ‘Although there was no evidence
that the Puerto Rican government was supporting the MRP, Ray

was looked upon with great favor by Puerto Rican officials 54

and he endeavores SSefiggtion: creme wrer-cuban exiles residing
there. 55 2004089 | Classified by derivation:

 

LF SF LF LE 9 LF I LT LF

+ omens, were,
i

RAPT ~ 11/3/7ClageiFieaHiBW: Ve°

B. Palmer - page

(This form is to be used for material extracted
definite reasofrofctiAthdbetralbsdcioemamttas been documented but,

according to one source, Ray did not leave Castro because ’of

ideological or policy discrepancies but rather because of a

st

may personality clash with Castro's Minister of Labor who almost
6 . shot Ray after a stormy Cabinet meeting. °® Another theory
about his leaving was that he opposed Castro's plan to declare
6 Hubert Matos a traitor and execute the Cuban revolutionary
hero with whom Ray had been associated.”
6 For whatever reason, Ray aia continue. to permit his name
to be associated with the Castro regime’° until May 1960
when he formed the Revolutionary Movement of the People (mrp}t
The MRP wasanti-Castro organization which believed that.

the ideas and aims of the democratic left best suited the

needs and aspirations of the Cuban people. 14 “It did not wish

    

‘to reinstate the 940 Cuban Constitution, rather it ‘favored
continuation of the laws passed by Castro at the beginning of

his. xegime*? and. ‘advocated. the regulation | of, ‘private. investment

 

and nationalization of all utilities.14 Associated with Ray
in this underground organization were Raul Chibas, Ramon

Bargquin, Rogelio Cisneros,?5 Rufo Lopez Fresquet and Felipe

Pazos./®

Organized in each of Cuba's six provinces, the MRP was
17 Working
in tightiy organized cells, the leadership in one province

was unaware of the identities of their counterparts in other

Classification: - RETURN TO © cA
OOS Background Use Only
, 1085 | Classified pyiaWetReprocuca

LF LF LI LF LI LI MIMI LI

6 considered the most important underground group.
 

“
180-10143-10455

 

 

    
    

“DRAPT = 13

 
   
 

B. Palmer
. assification:® TH ciecie . nen
ao i ged?

tu ~

(This foMANDRG BA YscBTNERRaterial extracted OF 2s oS

from ClA—controlled documents.) an = E} =

Qa ao

When he first came into Prominence asa Cuban exile 26 28

sO
leader, Manuel Ray Rivero was described as “softspoken and s s= 2
O = be 7
zk on
unassuming", a person ‘of “highest intellect, sincerity and eB8ut
L =Sh=
conviction" -- in other: words, a natural leader. En. is7 Be
‘ @ Oo gt.

the 23-year old Ray was granted a scholarship by the: Cuban

; Ministry of Public Works to ) study civil engineering at the
2 .

University of Utah. Ray was in the United States for two!

years before. returning to his native Cuba in 1949 | and

 

obtaining various positions in the engineering ‘field, one of

which was project manager for the construction of the

Havana Hilton Hotel.” . ;
Reacting, to the excesses of the military rale of

Fulgencio Batista, Ray organized the Civic Resistance Movement

 

in 1957) and began supervising sabotage and acts of terrorism
against the government.” His political posture and active
resistance to Batista was recognized by Fidel Castro who,

upon assuming control of the government ef Cuba, appsintea

Ray his Minister of Public Works in February 1959.” Within a
few months of his appointment, Ray confided to two asti-Castro
Cubans that he had recognized the symptoms of Communism ih

the Castro regime but was not prepared to conspire against

“El Lider Maximo."

Ray's tenure in Castro's government was short-lived, He

7
was relieved of his official position in November .1939..”. ‘No

a RETUR)
Classification: = Backaround Use

20040824 ©" BONot Reproduce
| Classified by derivation:

all MF LIF I 7 4 LE LF Le 4 A
. | SO-f{1¥3-10 4“

v “A @ A A A A SB
 

 

 

  

 

é
so
A
a
p
s
4
4
4
g
6

 

2nn48a3 Classification:

DRAFT ~ MANUEL. RAY RIVERO - 11/3/78
3
Page Classification:

in other provitthiestos® is, oebdNGdefs agerdridineanked of sabotage

. from ClA—controlled documents.)
and was supplied with explosives sent by launches from the

Florida Keys. ;

Having waited until May, 1960 to organize his resistance
group, Ray was. criticized as being suspiciously tardy to the .
anti-Castro movmement.7° Charges of "Pidelism without Fidel"
were made against him and the MRP because of their leftist
"ideologies. ** Perhaps for these reasons, Ray's background

was questioned by some in the State Department22 and the Miami

CIA station”? when, in the summer of 1960,‘ he was being re-
cruited by the CIA in Cuba to become a member of the Frente |

Révolucionario Democratico (FRD), a newly formed anti-Castro
24

organization sponsored by the CIA. The Agency considered him

an important political asset?” and facilitated his clandestine
entrance into the United States?° on November 10, 1960.27
Nevertheless, there was internal conflict within the
CLA about Ray's political compatibility to United States
government policy. In a CIA Memo for Record, dated November 21,
1960, one Agency officer declared, "... Ray did not politically
represent anything to cheer about. «28 A CIA officer who met
privately with Ray in November, 1960 noted that his political
posture was “doubtful" as far as U. S. government acceptance
was concerned, 29 and a further assessment portrayed Ray as so
far “left in his thinking that he would be as dangerous to

U. S. interests . as castrd?°

 

| Classified 4 by derivation: —____

LI I LI LI I LE a a
 

 

a ay A I LP ES a <a N
DRAFT -. MANECRRES FIGEAPon: 12/2/70

Page 4

(This form is to be used for material extracted ~
Some pronfiqneStA-Cubatrolledidgarents}.s0 expressed’ negative

opinions about Ray, among them Dr. Jose Miro Cardona, president
of the FRD. Miro opposed Ray because he considered his
program too Marxist?! ana declared that Ray was bitterly
anti-American as well as probably totalitarian in his think-
ing.32 Manuel Artime, head of the Movimento Recuperacion
Revolucionaria (MRR), noted that Ray's group was opposed to
banning the Communist Party and in favor of "nationalizing
everything. "33 Although aware of his controversial political
philosophy, the CIA continued to agtively recruit Ray to join
the FRD34 because the White House and State Department pushed
for his inclusion.35
Ray received full operational approval as a "political
asset" on February Te 196136 but resisted joining the newly
formed Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC) just as he had
_ resisted inclusion into the FRD. He said he felt the members
-. Of .the CRG were tdo restrained and he didnot want to become - .

a part of a situation in which someone else was running the

show.for-the exiles.37 @owever) Fhree weeks before the Bay of

Pigs invasion,“ Ray was persuaded to join the CRC as a show of
unity.38

In recalling the events of this period, Ray told HSCA
investigators that he was aware of the fact that certain in-
fluential and wealthy Americans, among then former Ambassador
William Pawley, were opposed to him and that a lot of heavy
propaganda wat lassification: a accusing -him-of being a
Communist. 33 2001037 : | Classified by derivation:

SoMa a ee.

 
