 

Saban eneness

 

 

 

At 2:30 p.m., Agent Martinez telephoned Capitan

Ventura to report on his progress, pertaining to his work
with the HSCA [nen Martinez told Ventura that he had
ee oy. \

located Alberue, Ventura asked him if his was alone. When
Agent Martinez lied and stated that he was alone, Ventura
told him that he should under no Gircumstances allow us
to interview Alberue. When Agent Martinez completed his
phone call, he said, "I don't understand why nobody wants
you to talk to him." 7

At 9:00 p.m, August 11, 1978 ommittee staffers |

2

interviewed Ernesto Lehfeld Mille See Ernesto Lenfeld

|“ Midter interview -WEIES=0p. )

At 11:15 a.m., August 12, 1978, Committee staffer

Lopez called Luis Alberue Suoto at his home. When Mr.

‘Lopez identified himself, Mr. Alberue jnmmediately stated
that he knew nothing [ He further stated that he never worked
for the Cuban Embassy. When Lopez explained to him that

, employees at the Cuban Embassy had “stated that he had been

employed’ there, Mr. “Suoto hung up. ' Mr. Alberue' Ss voice

~ quivered | throughout the short talk. -

a At il: 45 a: Mey ‘Silvia Tirado called Lopez. and ~ stated

-that she had ‘thought all night about travelling to Washington.
She said she had seen a report in the newspapers in which

Azcue had stated that ‘the man who visited the Cuban Consulate

Classification: |

Sey re

i Classified by derivation: __ .

 
 

     

 

fhis form is to

frou ClA—-conire

  

in 1963 was not Lee Harvey Oswald. She stated that Azcue
had only seen Oswald once while she had seen Oswald fat

least three times.” When Lopez said, "at least three
stated Atree times ‘

“times?” Ms. Tirado s#id.—"“Phree—times,—you--’now?" “She Hs. Durem

further stated that if she testified in Washington and

. the Committee concluded that she was lying she would be

 

| crucified when she returned to Mexico. Mr. Lopez reassured

“her and explained that when he returned to Washington he

would send her a long letter explaining procedures.

At 12:05 p.m., Agent Martinez met the Committee
staff members at the airport. He stated that Contreras
and Calvillo had not been located. The Committee staffers
gave Martinez a list of questions to ask Oscar Contreras
Lartigue. Agent Martinez stated that he would mail the
results of the interview to Lopez at the Committee offices
in Washington. The Committee never received any interview
‘reports from the Mexican government.

. The Committee: stafé members left Mexico City at
1:55. p.m. “and arrived at Washington* Ss Dulles Airport at

10:35 p.m...

 

 

 

i

i Classified by derivation: -

 

 

 
Necedaneenine te

Seiten e

-whether she would be willing to testify sor

 

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA——controlisd documents.)

300

entranceway door was no longer in place. At 1:55 p.m.,

 

Agent Martinez telephoned Luis Alberue sutoto. J During the
phone conversation f Alberue denied that he had worked at
the Cuban Embassy in the Sixties, }tated that he knew
nothing about the assassination, and declinecé the Committee
staff members’ request to interview him.

At 2:00 p.m, August 11, 1978, Agent Martinez tele-
phoned Silvia Duran.’ Agent Martinez then gave the tele-

phone to Committee staffer Lopez. Mr. Lopez ask Ms. Tirado

  

ime in Septem-
ber at a Committee hearing in Washington; s>¢ answered
affirmatively. She stated that September 1ith, 14th and

rican Revolution

 

15th. would not be “good days" because the ?
celebration would be taking place and she “as a planner and
participant. When Mr. Lopez asked Ms. Tirato if she knew
Mr. Ernesto Lehfeld Miller's phone number, =ne stated that
she did not., but she state@ that if we telephoned her ex-
husband Horatio. at either 516-0398 or 515-2221, he would

be able to help us.

 

At 2: 45 p- Mey Committee ‘staffer Lo oLez telephoned

“Horatio: Duran, who gave. him ‘Ernesto Lehfeiz Miller's of-
fice phone number, 548-4839. At “2: 20 poem. . Lopez telephoned
‘Mr. Miller and arranged a meeting for 9:67 z.m,. that evening.

Classification:

 

 

 

 
 

to reach by telephone Silvia

 

her bome to ask her whether she would be wil-

 

ling to travel €o Washington to testify at a HSCA hearing
she knew where Mr. Ernesto Lehfeld Miller 4
could be located. She was not at home, however.

Agent Martinez explained that he would attempt to
locate Oscar Contreras Lartigé © aE at the hotel where

8 : CLasttetmel Rrecvlean 2-4)

the Partido Republicano Institucional was holding its con-
vention early the following morning; after which he would
meet the staff members at 9:30 a.m. at their hotel room.

At 9:45 a.m., August 11, 1978, Agent Martinez
met Committee staffers at their hotel room and explained
that he was unable to locate Mr. Contreras Lartigue at
the convention. Mr. Martinez then left to check the
whereabouts of mr. Alberue suoto fang Silvia Tirado Bazan.

At 12:30 p.m., August 11, 1978, Agent Martinez re-

turned to. the Committee staff members’ hotel room. He tele-

 

phoned Mrs. Contreras in Tampico who stated that her husband
chad | not telephoned her. since she had last spoken to Agent
Martinez. At i: 50 pom me, another agent, Honorio- Escondon,
telephoned Agent Martinez at the Committee staffers’ hotel |

“room to. inform. him n thaff ois Alberue suoto}must be ‘back in

 

town because the scotch tape placed at the base of his

 

Classification:

 

Gd : - | Classified by derivation:

 
 

      

 
   

5 4 do for material extracted

Gutierrez and Attorney General Licensiado,
Manuel Calvillo's "pen name" was given to the Mexicans
who stated that they would check it with the landlady
at his alleged apartment building.

Committee staffers returned to their hotel room
with Agent Ciprianio Martinez Novoa after the meeting.

Agent Martinez attempted without success to telephone

Oscar Contreras Lartigue to inform him of our visit.

 

At 3:30 p.m., Agent Martinez finally reached Mr. Contreras'

child who informed him that Mr. Contreras was not in
Tampico. He had traveled to Mexico city for a Partido
Republicano Institucional convention. When Agent Mar-
tinez asked the child if he knew where his father was
staying in Mexico City, he responded that he did not.
Agent Martinez explained to the child that he would call
at a later time to speak to his mother.

Agent Martinez telephoned Noe W. Palomares at 4:00
p.m. and arranged an interview for 6:30 p.m. that even- ~

ing. Mr. Martinez asked Committee staff members to

meet him at his office at the Procuraduria General at.

 

 
 

 

 

   
   

Gc cocuments.)

DIC

At 6:60 p.m., August 10, 1978, Committee staff
members met Agent Ciprianio Martinez at the Procuraduria
General. Martinez then drove the HSCA representatives
to Mr. Palmoares' office. At 6:30 p.m., Committee

. oO
staff members interviewed Noe W. Palomares.’ (Gee=ttue
Wpalomares intérvier—write—up. )

Following the interview,Agent Martinez returned
to the Maria Isabel Hotel with Committee staff members.
He attempted to reach Mrs. Contreras telephonically at
Tampico twice without success. At 9:45 p.m., he finally
contacted her. Mrs. Contreras told Agent Martinez
that Mr. Oscar Contreras had told her that he would
try to get a room at either the Hotel Regis or Hotel
San Francisco. Mrs. Contreras explained that since
there were a few conventions scheduled in Mexico City
that weekend she could not assure that he would be at
either. Mrs. Contreras told Agent Martinez that she
would notify him if her husband should call.. .

Mr. Martinez called both hotels and quired whether

Oscar Contreras Lartigue was registered. He was not

registered at either; they were completely booked up.

 

 
  

72781, on June 27, 1947. She entered Mexico through
Nuevo Lardo, Texas. She requested but was denied
permission by the Mexican government to represent the
magazine, Modern Mexico. On June 21, 1948, she re-
ceived a courtesy permit, number 25556. She disappeared
in 1954 and never returned to Mexico.

The Committee staffers did not tell the Mexicans
that the House Select Committee on Assassinations had
evidence from review of June Cobb's 201 file that she
was in Mexico in the Sixties.

Eunice Odio Infante, a Costa Rican, received a
three-month tourist permit from the Mexican government
on February 9, 1964. She remainea in Mexico, illegally
residing at Nacas-45-a, until 1972. She applied to
write for the Excelsior magazine on many different oc-
casions, but was rejected every time. In 1972, Ms.

Odio married a Communist painter, Rudolfo Sanabria Gon-
zalez and moved to Rio ‘Meba-16 Apartment 40. On May 24,
1972, Ms.- Odio was found dead in her bathtub. The offi-
cial presiding at nér autopsy | cone luded that Ms. odio:

had poisoned herself.

Emilio Carballido Fontanes was in Caracas, Venezuela,

on vacation and scheduled to return to Mexico in early

 

 
 

Ten :

180-40142-(0070] wow

  

 

bagt fyepetad
miiarial eavirutred

   

caareneds.)

293 .
to alert him that the Committee would request the Mexi- a
can officials to make Silvia Duran available in Washing-

ton for an HSCA hearing. Mr. Howard explained that ‘

 

once we had permission from the Mexican government, the
State Department would insure that she was in Washington
when necessary. : “

At 11:00 a.m.,; August 9, 1978, Committee staff a
members met with Dr. Jesus Yafieg and Ciprianio Martinez
Novoa. Mr. Yaneg told Committee staff members that
Ciprianio Martinez Novoa, the Mexican agent in charge,
would try to aid us in all our interviews. Mr. Martinez
then briefed the Committee staff members on their up-to-
date progress:

Oscar Contreras Lartigue had been located and pre-
interviewed by Mr. Martinez in Tampico, Mexico. ReThe Com mittee
would fly to Tampico on Friday, August 11, 1978 at 7:35
a.m. to interview him. ©

Noe W. Palomares had been located and could be

    

interviewed during the afternoon of Thursday, August 10,
1978 at his office, Cerrada de la Presa 4. Hi
number, 595-0891, was made available to the Committee.

June Cobb Sharp received a tourist permit, ntwmher

  

Pent th pei Maes
WPS SSS: :

Classified by derivation:

 

142-1070

      
 

 

 

 

Lae ae re ee ole re” wee eae Pee se Tal

 

 

iis form is te be used for material exteacted

 

2 ClA~-conivaled documents.)

295
September. His address is Constituyentes 207. His
phone number is 515-8345.

{Consuelo Esperon's Jersonnel record in Mexico
could not be located. When the Mexican officials in-
quired about nerf at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City }
peter to the Committee's trip, no one at.the office
remembered that she had worked there. Committee staff
members were told thai{ Esperon was probably dead. No

basis was given for the Mexican government's conclusion.

 

 

 

 

Carlos Jurado 3. belmar_ fas born in Cuba on

 

 

 

 

 

De entered Mexico July 1, 1965 and
taught[ Graphics anid Art at U.N-A.M. fontil January Il,
1968 when he disappeared. The Mexican officials assume
that he returned to Cuba.
. . iat ¥

General Jesus Jose Clark Flores died in the early

1970's. |
att

Ernesto Lehfeld Miller; Academic Coordinator at

the School of Interior Design, had not yet been located.
c Luis Alberue Suoto lives at Michelet #7, Apartment

#301, Colonia aneura,| Mexico City. His phone number is

545-9947. } The landlady at his apartment explained to

 

 

i Classified by derivation:

 

senate

weer,

SEO,

ETT

SEO

RECT Seo | ETA

IMA,

aren, P seqeenesen,

REP TON,
mI

i
4
3
kd

 

 

  

ete

the Mexican officials tharf Mr. Alberue iad left town

hurriedly on Monday, August 7, 1978. Mr. Martinez, —
wishing to know when he returned, had placed a piece of
scotch tape on the bottom right edge of his door. Mr.
Martinez explained that he checked it every four hours
and would notify us iff alberue returned before we left.
Manuel Calvillo did not live at Cuahtemoc 877-5

as the Committee had stated. The landlady for the past

twenty-five years at the apartments told Mr. Martinez

that Manuel. Calvillo had never resided there. Committee
staff members explained that Calvillo went by a pen name
which would be forwarded to the Mexican officials the
following morning.

When Committee staff members inquired whether
Ms. Silvia Tirado Bazan could testify at an HSCA hearing,
the Mexican officials stated that they would have an
answer for the staffers by Friday morning. The Mexican
officials explained that they would have to speak to

her to insure that she was willing to travel to Washing-.

ton.

On Thursday, August 10, 1978, .at 11:00 a.m. the
Committee staff members met with Dr. Jesus Yanez, Agent

Ciprianio Martinez Novoa, Captain Florentino Vertura_-

wt

Classification:

 

‘Classified by derivation:

 

 

 

,

sect eem,

weer,

sapereinereg,

SQUAT EN,

rey

ERE EE,

“per,

Ne re,
