 

PAGE TWO.

 

Mr. Munro said that

 

 

with whom he worked, were excellent. He said that he ran the LITEMPO

_project and that Phillip Agee's presentation of this project is

accurate. This was the only project that he worked on during his
whole tenure with the CIA in Mexico. The only people who knew of

his role in Station operations was Win Scott and Ann Goodpasture.
Other people may have known that he was working with the station but
Mr. Munro did not believe that they would have known what he was doing.
Mr. Munro added that David Phillips was a very close friend and would
have also known what he was doing.

Mr. Munro stated that it was his personal belief.that Oswald
was a Cuban agent and that his trip to Mexico had been an attempt to
lay an escape route. He stated that this belief was based only on
logic and inferences from his discussions with Rolf Larson and that
he had no knowledge about the trip or Oswald that was not in the
public domain.

Mr. Munro denied having anything to do with the arrest of
Silvia Duran and claimed that he had no knowledge whatsoever about

the arrest. He stated that on important matters Win Scott usually

 

dealt directly with | and it would not

 

be unususal that he had not informed him (Munro) even though:he (Munro)

was responsible for the day to dy{  tti‘SCSCSCs*”
Mr. Munro said that Win Scott was a master intelligence

operator. He said that Ann Goodpasture was one of the best case officers

he has ever encountered and that she was very, very professional.
     

pO . @ KENNEDY
i

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Name George Frederick M . ; Date 6/1/78 ss Time «2:00 P.M.
He started working for the CIA in Mexico City on 1 September 1960. He

   

 

 

Address American Embassy, a _ Place Mexico City.
Interview:

Mr. Munro was interviewed by HSCA Staff members Gary Cornwell,

“ Dan Hardway, Edwin Lopez and Harold Leap. Mr. Munro said that’ he had

retired from the Federal Bureau of Investigation on 31 August 1960.

retired on 31 December 1970. From 1960 to 1970 Mr. Munro said he worked
on one primary project for the Mexico City Station. He stated that he
had worked under deep cover outside the Embassy.
Mr. Munro stated that he had had nothing to do with the surveillance

operations directed at the Soviet and Cuban Embassies in Mexico City.
t

 

Mr. Munro stated that he worked outside the Embassy

 

 

 

 

 

He stated that in the course of his

 

job he did not learn anything about the assassination nor was he involved .—
in any aspect of the post assassination investigation. All he knows about
the assassination and the Mexican investigation he learned from Rolf

Larson, an FBI agent who was in Mexico after the assassination to coordi-
nate the investigation. Mr. Munro said that Rolf Larson is now deceased.
He also said that. he thought that Clark Anderson is alive.

(more)
Interviewer Signature

Typed Signature Dan Hardway

 

Date transcribed Co G 7

By? ss Form #4-a

, 3274
Pog 186 -0/43-/0/44
 

PAGE THREE.

Mr. Munro stated that he had no knowledge of any unilateral

Mexican surveillance operations but that he did know that they had

the capability for unilateral wiretaps.

 

Mr. Munro stated that his psydonym was and

 

 

that he never authored cables. and rarely used the psydo.

Mr. Munro was shown the CIA omnibus release letter and stated
that he understood it to release: him from any secrecy agreement that he

may have signed during the course of his employment with the CIA.
