y°

 

-5-

for Presentation to the Warren Commission outlining various

positions adopted by the CIA vis a vis its investigative

efforts and assistance to the Commission. (Brief, May 14,

1964, FOIA 695-302A
= Le

+
‘At Tab E of MeGone+s brief it states:

Within the past week, significant information
has been developed by the CIA regarding the re-
lationship with Oswald of certain Cuban intel-
ligence personnel in Mexico,City and the reac-
tion in Havana within the Cuban Intelligence
Service to.the news of the assassination of
President Kennedy. The Commission Staff is in
‘the course of being briefed on the Cuban as-.
pect (cite supra May 14, 1964 FOIA 695-302A).

The significant information referred to therein is
the information A-1 provided. —7# eorclutory

On May 15, 1964, the. day of gre ? Mel ankil. interview,

the Warren Commission received its first formal communica-

tion regarding A-1. However, the Agenfy did not at that
time identify A-l by his real name or cryptonym nor did
the Agency indicate that the. source of this ‘information
was a defector then residing under secure conditions in

the Washington, D.C. area. (See May 15 Letter from Helms

to Rankin FOIA__). The May 15 communication did state that

Se

 

bs

the Agency had established contact
"with a well-placed individual who has been
' in close and prolonged contact with ranking
officers of the Cuban Direcion General de
Intelligencia." (Cite)
Attached to the May 15 communication was a copy of

Langosch's above referenced memorandum of May 5, 1964 re-

 

 

 

 
 

-- 6 -

garding R@1's knowledge of Oswald's probabl@ contact with
the DGI in Mexico City. (Cite above.) The attachment
made no reference to the source's status as a defector
from the DGI~ Pig fiomce ©

. As set forth in the section of the report concerning
Luisa Calderon, on June 18, 1964, Howard Willens of the
Warren Commission reviewed Langosch's May 5 memo and
the questions upon which the information set forth in the
memo was elicited. Neither the questions? the memo shown
to Willens made reference to the source's status as a de-

a

fector collaborating with the CIAN, (Cite Arthur Dooley
— ; a. pf , fore
memo, 19 June 1964, FOIA 739-319). t wd Mop ate

rr nels;

Based upon review of the Langosch memoranda, the Com-

mittee has determined thatSignificant information-yegard-
poe et

ing Luisa Calderon was withheld from the Warren Commission

>
,

 

(Cite Calderon section). This information was derived Ce,
: | fo

from Juv. debriefings of A-l. (Cite May 7 and 8 Langosch

 

memos.) From the Committee's review of the A-1 file pro-

 

 

vided by the CIA, the Committee has not found any credible ras

evidence indicating that other information provided by A-1 [iy

to the CIA was relevant to the work of the Warren Commission.

However, in its review the Committee has determined that
specific documents referenced in the A-1 file Y& not present

in that file.
One

 

 

 

1S . .
®He missing item+of considerable concern to the Committee ;
 

is a bona fide defector or that.he has
furnished us with accurate and valuable
information concerning Cuban intelligence
operations, staffers, and agents. (Langosch
memo to Director of Security, 23 June 1964)
As an officer of the DGI, A-1 from August of 1963
until his defection was assigned to the DGI's Illegal
fi whieh :

Section B N 68894 24 April 64)... Phis—seetien .
was responsibile for training agents for assignment in
Latin America. His specific responsibility pertained to
handling of agent operations in El. Salvador. (Personal
Record Questionnaire 4 June 1964; Otta In 68894 24 April
64) ue cla

| dent Med Soc Nee
A-1l knew-who-were the Cuban “intelligence officers

assigned to Mexico City. In this, regaxd he intially

identifiod aLéredo MisebaTy Manuel. fy ated Rogel i driguez
and the sitércial attactie as DGI officers posted at the
Cuban E yin Mexico City. (supra) Langosch described

- A-1's knowledge of DGI operations in Mexico as follows:

In Mexico City, he knows who the intelligence
people are. One is the Cuban Consul Alfredo
Mirabal. He is called the Chief of the Centre.
That is his title but he is actually the
intelligence chief, or at least he was until

the 16th of April at which time a replacement
was sent to Mexico to take over. This fellow's
name is Manuel Vega. The source says that the
Commercial attache whose name is Ricardo Tapia
or Concepcion (he is not sure which is an intel-
ligence officer) and another one is Rogelio.

(I might say that some of these names are familiar
to me.) (p. 5 or reel 4, 23 April 1964, debrief-
ing of A-l, 30 April 64) :
   

- response to these requests. / It was Ronis‘ recollection
that the above-cited domestic exploitation section was

a task force within the Special Affairs Staff. He also

 

stated that in 1963 the CIA's Domestic Contacts Division
might have been requested to locate Luisa Calderon's sis-
ter. Ronis told the Conn#tee that he had no recollection
of recruiting any person associated with the Cuban Intel-
ligence Service. He did recall that he had recruited
women to perform tasks for the Agency. However, he did
not. recall ever recruiting any employees of the Cuban
Embassy/Consulate in Mexico City. Finally, Mr. Ronis.
stated that he had no recollection that Luisa Calderon
was associated with the CIA. (HSCA Staff Interview August
31,-1978)
Various present and former CIA representatives
y were queried whether Luisa Calderon had ever been asso-
\F " ciated with the CIA. The uniform. answer was that no one
recalled such an association. (Cites: Helms, Hearing, August
9, 1978, p. 136; Rocca, Dep.-p.148, July a7, asigy re
a Interview of August__, PRecolO Interview of)
awl Aero
Thus, the Agency’ file’ Soa the testimony of former
a CIA employee? Yovea tho connection Calderon SF the
ee Yet, as indicated earlier, this spfile ip sngomp ld &
pst Oren Ta
the most glaringemission beingfth® tuemipanimems Cadderor' s

heyeryptic remarks following the assassination of President

Kennedy.
  

Ye

os

Ke

me

fi- her

 

Calderon

and a second Cuban Intelligence officer believed We to

be a CIA operative. It is possible that this information

ee
was not provided the Warren Commission either because i Y
there was no basis in fact for the allegation or becaus pou “
the allegation was in fact true. Ie the allegation Bie.
were true, the consequences for the CIA would have been oh

serious, for Tt woud demonstratedthat a CIA operative, > L4
well placed in the Cuban Embassy, may have possessed in-pwv! |

formation prior to the assassination regarding Oswald
. . . . vic eo
and/or his relationship to Cuban Intelligence“and that

‘ .
Services possible involvement in a conspiracy to assassinate

President Kennedy. ‘
an $

Regarding e~ possible association with the ‘CIA,

e. manna eiere am Ase—y

 

avy escd

v
g, \2£6 “reveal@ no ostensible connection between Calderon and

the CIA. However, there are indications that such contact
between Calderon and the Agency was contemplated. A

September 1,. 1963 CIA dispatch from the Chief of the Spe-

yA cial Affairs Staff to the CIA's Chief of Station in Mexico

states in part:

“...Luisa Calderon has a sister residing in
Reynosa, Texas, married to an American of
Mexican descent. If (CIA asset) can further
identify the sister, our domestic exploita-
tion section might be in a position to follow
up on this lead...Please levy the requirement
n. “F A asset) at the next opportunity.
io 935, Sept. 1, 1963)
 

An earlier CIA dispatch from the CIA Chief of
Station in Mexico City to the Chief of the CIA's Western
Hemisphere Division records that: ~

Wilfredo of. the Cuban Consulate, Tampico,

reported that Luisa Calderon has a sister

residing in Reynosa, Texas...Luisa may go

up to the border to visit her sister soon-—

or her mother may make the trip--details

not clear. 1049, July 31, 1965)

At the very least, the above dispatcheG evidenceA
an interest in Calderon's ‘activities and those of her
family. Whether this interest took the form of a clan-
destine-agent relationship is not revealed by Calderon's
201 file.

The Committee has queried the author of the above-

cited dispatch requesting that Calderon's sister be con-

tacted by the CIA's "domestic exploitation section."

 
 

“David Ronis, the-dtspetcirswaurthor, was a member

of the CIA's Special Affairs staff at the time he wrote

‘the dispatch. He worked principally at CIA headquarters

and was when responsible for_recruitment and handling

of agents for collection/intelligence data. Mr. Ronis,

when interviewed by this Committee, stated that part of

his responsibility was to scour the Western Hemisphere

division for operational leads related to the work of

the Special Affairs staff. Ronis recalled that he normally

would send requests to CIA field stations for information

or leads on various persons, [agai he would receive no
WULF porprr >

aroued bq pbs a ere >
 

cae . i october £ 7 setike <
Se

offered money while at the Cuban Embassy and the general
state of affairs at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City
following the assassination. (Slawson memo of April 22,
1964, pp. 45-46).

T Ke Comen ethee!s
dh  & review of CIA files

 

qo" if providea to and reviewed by the Commission. 3% On
ww fe ; sugpet ke Slawson's pecord iS

era ac document * blind memorandum #@ entitled "Material

1]
wr ed from P-8593 shown to Warren Commission" (Station Oswald
(i : . .

v uv File) and is dated April 10, 1964. (FOIA 653-828). This
jp document records ‘that the Warren Commission was shown calls

fe wl made by Oswald to the Soviet Embassy. These includedthree oth

; nor COP BES AK LOANS

ut

eomugmmentcomenané.. September 27 Tisted above, one call of

SEE ee 28, two calls of October 1, and one call of

  
     
  
 
 
 
   

da Cea
V a While thig~does not correspond to the listing of
J
A

, calls. set forth ‘e Slawson, it does independently establish

sty Po. + Keen

+ that ‘no calis November 22, 1963 were shown to
i K

he Warren Commission.

Lads dae

we “tn addition, this document corroborates the showing &

aaa of the two Dorticas“Armas conversation$o£ November 26, d

 

representatives in an effort to determine if a transcript

y of the Calderon conversation was ever shyjpn to the Warren
180-10142-10057], »

 

 

   
 

con Tighe eo
! BQO
pie ~ elton Lafi whey ot HO ORs
"bette? As discussed in an earlier section of
the Warren Commission did not gain access to the CIA's
production fro
in Mexico City until an advancei/stage in its investiga-

tion. The record reflects that Mssrs. Willens, Slaw: on,

 

N \ | Feber 33

FrorlpAiatees Pe apret can

and Coleman did not review the production‘until they
visited Mexico City on April @,.1964. At that time,. they
reviewed a number of. om the Soviet and Cuban
Embassies. These , \includea one call to the
Soviet Embassy on September 2 21g believed to have been

made by Oswaldy two calls made by Silvia Duran from the

Cuban Consulate to the Soviet Consulate, and one call a

the Soviet Embassy to the Cuban Embassy, made by an uni-
i -

dentified caller. (Cite son memo of April en

   
 

On September 28 th cetordéda
r

call by Silvia Duran at tHe Cuban Consulate to the Soviet \

Consulate. (Cite.) . .

On October 1 +f weep eg jeoraed two
calls made by a persom la _ ified as Lee Harvey
Oswald to the Soviet Embassy. (Cite.)

The Commission representatives were also supplied

two conversations that

  

w transpi d between the Cuban President Dortic@Sand the
per Cuban Ambassador to Mexico, Armas. These conversations

(AG { concerned Silvia Duran's arrest, whether Oswald had been
ye

Pty \ . rs vay

1o/Y7-(O05Q

Fhe

Clofos
ae) Ae,

WD ay
\ Prt gy
Gwe |
AS)

 

 

 

 

Cea

 

Commission. The response @n both accounts has uniformly
been that the Calderon conversation was never made avail-
able to the Commission nor was its existence ever made
known to the Commission. (Rankin dep; Slawson interview,
Willens response to letter, but see Rocca deposition
wherein he states that he is sure the Commission knew of
it, Helms hearing.) In addition, the Calderon 201 file
bears no reference to the conversation nor does it indi-
cate that it was ever made known or provided to the War-
ren Commission for its analysis.

ter, “The available evidence supports the conclu-
sion that the Warren Commission was never given the informa-
tion or the opportunity by which it could evaluate Luisa
Calderon's significance to the events surrounding Presi-
dent Kennedy's assassination. Had the Commission been
expeditiously provided this evidence of her intelligence.
background, association with Silvia Duran, and her com-

mentary following the assassination, it. may well have

Potten At wf

‘given more serious investigative consideration to her ged ;
Kno ledge bs Oswald Grr the Cob aN QovEernmanks

PAS lel

   
 

‘ prsibhe involvement in a conspiracy to assassinate President

N

 

Kennedy. ;
(Quote Rankin on Wiitwe would have been done.)
Two difficult issues remain which are raised by

the Committee's finding. First, why didn't the Agency
 

uN e,

 

provide the Calderon conversation to the Warren Commis-
sion; secondly, why didn't the Agency reveal to the War-
ren commission these full knowledge of Calderon's intel-
-Ligence background, her possible knowledge of Oswald and
her possible ‘connection to the CIA or some other American
intelligence apparatus.

wa - The first question can be explained in benign terms.

It is reasonably possible that by. sheer oversight the

br qoonversation was filed away and not recovered or recol- No

0
pe

 

i ee lected until after the Warren Commission had completed 7
f

its investigation and published Var However, this x
conversation could have also bee with ld @eliberately:

 
   
 

  

  
    

 

has deen nnolole ni Hoe
The Committee, hiteesseqi=meaits eee: peste bresoriaoaadeane giaEri-
we kplan akira Soe Hs ty anmacthiet )
theieenpecedebsabeeioy . The Committee can state, however, that N ,
eee ~ Calaeron occur Lg
<whatever the truth may be? the conversation did eee

 

We - pee and the transdipet was not provided the Warren Com-

mission. .
As for tno questi Ab Sing Ke withholding Fb
of information concerning Calderon's intelligence back~- .
ground, the record reflects that the Commission was merely
informed that Calderon may have been a member of the DGI.
(Cite 5 May memo.) ‘The memoranda which provided more ex-
‘tensive examination of -her intelligence background were
not made available for the Commission's review. Signifi-.

. ; ; Wesept dry os

cantly, the May 8 memorandum written by <a te-

following his debriefing dt AMMUG-1 indicated that AMMUG-1
