 

 

 

 

 

First Draft
Page Nine

or , he would be able to help us.

At 2:15 P.M., Committee staffer Lopez telephoned

 

Horatio Duran, who gave him Ernesto Lehfeld Miller's office

phone number, At 2:20 P.M., Lopez telephones Mr.

 

 

 

 

Miller and arranged a meeting for 9:00 P.M. that evening.

At 2:30 P.M., Agent Martinez telephoned Capitan
Ventura to report’on his progress. When Martinez told Ventura
that he had located Alberue, Ventura asked him if he was
alone. When Agent Martinez lied and stated that he was alone,
Ventura told him that he should under no circumstances allow
us to interview Alberue. When Agent Martinez completed his
phone call, he said "I don't understand why nobody wants you
to talk to him."

At 9:-0 P.M., August 11, 1978, Committee staffers
interviewed Ernesto Lehfeld Miller. (See Ernesto Lehfeld
Miller interview write-up.)

At 11:15 A.M., August 12, 1978, Committee staffer
Lopez called Luis Alberue Suoto at his home. When Mr. Lopez
identified himself, Mr. Alberue immediately stated that he
knew nothing. He further stated that he never worked for the
Cuban Embassy. When Lopez explained to him that employees at
the Cuban Embassy had stated that he had been employed there,
Mr. Suoto hung up. Mr. Alberbue's voice quivered throughout
the short talk.

“At 11:45 A.M., Sylvia Tirado called Lopez and stated
that she had thought’ about traveling to Washington, all night.
She said that she had seen a report in the papers where Azcue

had stated that the man who visited the Cuban Consulate in 1963
 

 

 

 

First-Draft
Page Ten

was not Lee Harvey Oswald. She stated that Azcue had only seen

him once while she had seen him “at least three times". When

Lopez said, "At least three times?", Mrs. Duran said, "Three

times, you know?" She further stated that if she testified

in Washington and the Committee concluded that she was lying

she would be crucified when-she returned to[”] Mr.

Lopez reassured her and explained that he would send her a

long letter explaining procedures when he returned fo Washington.
At 12:05 P.M., Agent Martinez met the Committee staff

members at the airport. He stated that Contreras and Calvillo

had not been found. The Committee staffers gave Martinez a

list of questions to ask Oscar contreras Lartigué. Agent

Martinez stated that he would mail the results of the interview

to Lopez at the Committee offices in Washington.

 

The Committee staff members left at

 

 

 

1:55 P.M. and arrived at Washington's Dulles Airport at 10:35

P.M.
 

 

 

 

 

Pir'st’ Draft
Page Eight

was unable to locate Mr. Contreras Lartigue at the convention.
Mr. Martinez then left to check on Mr. Alberue Suoto and Sylvia
Tirado Bazan. ; -

At 12:30 P.M., August 11, 1978, Agent Martinez returned

to the Committee staff members’ hotel room. He telephoned

Mrs. Contreras at. who stated that her husband had not

 

telephoned her since she had last spoken to Agent Martinez.
At 1:50 P.M., another agent, Honorio Escondon telephoned Agent
Martinez at the Committee staffers' hotel room to ififform him
‘that Luis Alberue Suoto must be back in town because the scotch
tape was no longer in place. At 1:55 P.M., Agent Martinez
telephoned Luis Alberue Suoto. Alberue denied that he had
worked at the Cuban Embassy in the Sixties, stated that he knew
nothing about the assassination and declined the Committee
staff members' request to interview him.

At 2:00 P.M., August 11, 1978, Agent Martinez telephoned
Sylvia Duran. Agent Martinez then gave the telephone to
Committee staffer Lopez. Mr. Lopez asked Mrs. Duran whether
she would be willing to testify sometime in September at the
Committee hearings in Washington; she answered affirmatively.

She stated that September 13th, 14th and 15th would not be

 

 

"good days" because the | celebration would

 

be taking place and she was a planner and participant. When
Mr. Lopez asked Ms. Tirado if she knew Mr. Ernesto Lehfeld
Miller's phone number, she stated that she did not. She stated

tht if we telephoned her ex-husband Horatio at either |

 
 

First’ Draft
Page Seven

staff members interviewed Noe W. Palomares. (See Noe W.

Palomares interview write-up.)

After the interview Agent Martinez returne@ to the

 

|with Committee staff members. He attempted

 

 

 

 

 

to reach Mrs. Contreras at twice with no luck. At 9:45

 

 

 

P.M., he finally contacted her. Mrs. Contreras told Agent

Martinez that Mr. Oscar Contreras had told her that he would

 

try tg get a room at either the |

 

 

[| Mrs. Contreras explained that since there were a

few conventions scheduled in that weekend she

 

could not assure that he would be at either. Mrs. Contreras
told Agent Martinez that she would notify him if her husband
should call.

Mr. Martinez called both hotels and inquired whether
Oscar Contreras Lartigue was registered. He was not registered
at either; they were completely booked-up.

Mr. Martinez attempted to reach Sylvia Tirado Bazan
at her home to ask her whether she would be willing-to travel
to Washington for a hearing date and to ask whether she knew
where Mr. Ernesto Lehfeld Miller could be located. She was
not in.

Agent Martinez explained that he would go to the hotel

 

where the was holding its

 

 

 

convention early the following morning; after which he would
meet the staff members at 9:30 A.M. at their hotel room.
At 9:45 A.M., August 11, 1978, Agent Martinez met

Committee staffers at their hotel room and explained that he

f
:

say
First Draft
Page Five

Carlos Jurado J. Delmar was born in Cuba November

3, 1927. He entered Mexico July 1, 1965 and taught Graphing

 

and Art at U.N.A.M. until January 1, 1968 when he disappeared.
The Mexican officials assume that he returned to Cuba.
General Jesus Jose Clark Flores died in the early
1970's. .
Ernesto Lehfeld Miller, Academic Coordinator at the

School of Interior Design, had not yet been located,

 

 

Luis Alberue Suoto lives at| |

 

 

| His phone number is

 

 

door
The landlady at his apartment explained to the

 

[sjofficials that Mr. Alberue had left town hurriedly

on Monday, August 7; 1978. Mr. Martinez, wishing to know
cu when he returned, had placed a piece of scotch tape on the
bottom right edge of his door. Mr. Martinez explained that
he checked it every four hours and would notify us if Alberue

returned before we left.

 

 

Manuel Calvillo did not live at Jas

 

 

the Committee had stated. Mr. Martinez spoke to the landlady
at the apartment for the past twenty-five years who said that
no Manuel Calvillo had ever resided there. Committee staff
members explained that Calvillo went by a pen-name which would
be forwarded the following morning.

When Committee staff members inquired whether Ms.

Sylvia Tirado Bazan could testify at the hearings, the[_|

 

officials stated that they would have an answer for the staffers

by Friday morning. The Mexican officials explained that they
 

First Draft .
Page Six

would have to speak to her to insure that she was willing
to travel to Washington.

-On Thursday, August 10, 1978, Committee staff members
met with Dr. Jesus Yanez, Agent Ciprianio Martinez Novoa,

Capitan Florentino Ventura Gutierrez and Attorney General

=.

 

 

Jat 11:00 A.M. The same

 

 

 

 

information listed for the 11:00 A.M., August 9, 1978,
meeting was reviewed. Manuel Calvillo's “pen-name" was given

to the who stated that they would check it with the

 

landlady.

Committee staffers returned to their hotel room with
Agent Ciprianio Martinez Novoa after the meeting. Agent
Martinez attempted in vain to telephone Oscar Contreras
Lartigue to inform him of our visit. At 3:30 P.M., Agent

Martinez finally reached Mr. Contreras' child who informed him

 

 

 

that Mr. Contreras was not in He had traveled to

 

[ti“‘ééé*ilOr a pabpido Republicano Institucional convention.
When Agent Martinez asked the child if he knew where his

father was staying in } he responded that he did not.

 

Agent Martinez explained to the child that he would call ata
later time to speak to his mother.

“Agent Martinez telephoned Noe W. Palomares at 4:00 P.M.
and arranged an interview at 6:30 P.M. that evening. Mr.

Martinez asked Committee staff members to meet him at his

 

office at the [ Jat 6:00 P.M.

 

At 6:00 P.M., August 10, 1978, Committee staff members

 

met Agent Ciprianio Martinez at the | and

 

 

he drove them to Mr. Palomares' office. At 6:30 P.M., Committee
a ‘| First Draft
» + + Page Two

In one room, (Ramon Alvarez Durant frouta sit, Committee staff
members would sit in a second room and two CIA personnel

officers would insure that the equipment worked properly in

‘a third room. (————Jenen phoned Mr. Niles Gooding,
fa :
who had been sent|to the Jexom Headquarters |

to arrange the procedures. Mr. Gooding explained that in

 

 

 

1977 Stansfield Turner had created a new position at Head-
quarters. He explained that his position, which he never

fully explained though asked, was created to insure”that

 

important sensitive meetings were within the guidelines set.
Mr. Gooding stated that the Central Intelligence Agency had
been under greater Congressional scrutiny the past two years.
Mr. Stansfield Turner, wishing to show the Agency's good
faith, had allow the Army to lend them a retired officer to
act as liaison at sensitive interviews. Mr. Gooding then ex-
plained that we would be escorted py [two CIA personnel \to
our interview with[Ranon Alvarez Durant.

At 10:55 A.M., August 8, 1978, Committee staff members

interviewea{ Ramon Alvarez puranef (see(anon Alvarez Durant )

interview write-up.)

 

At 12:30 P.M., Committee staff members telephoned
Captain Fernandez Ventura Gutierrez. His secretary explained.
that Mr. Ventura was not in the office, but that she would
have him call us when he returned. At 6:30 P.M., since Mr.

Ventura had not yet returned the staffers call, they again

 

called his office. His secretary apologized for Mr. Ventura
and explained that he had not yet returned to the office and

she assured us that he would telephone upon his return. At
 

mmr Ths documpud vequices JFK ay Feller
.”. phase prarr Special: yoxee c ok
of Teo ye: to LITAMIL-9 whee *

House Select Committee staffers Edwin Juan Lopez

and Harold Leap traveled to[ ‘Jon August 7, 1978.

 

The staff members were met by |_ | at the

 

 

 

 

airport at 10:15 P.M. “ then checked the staffers

 

into room 1754, already chosen, at the Hotel in
told Committee staffers that

rishea to see us at 8:30 A.M. the following morning.

On Tuesday, August 8, 1978, Committee staffers met

wel iv)

He informed the staffers that the two individuals the Committee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

wishes to interview, anny Flores, [

vere ready.

At 9:30 A.M., August 8, 1978, Committee staff members

 

 

 

 

 

 

interviewed[Danny Flores.} (See write-up of anny Fores]

interview.) The interview ended at approximately 10:15 A.M.

 

Committee staff members returned tol

office, tated that it appeared that the

| had only located two witnesses for the Committee,

 

 

THIS COPY IS NOT
FOR RELEASE.

 

 

Oscar Contreras Lartigue and Noe W. Palomares. He asked who

the staff members wished to speak to. Committee staff members

explained that they would at some time like to interview
[[zichant I, Licookie I, LiHuff.1I, Litamil 7 and Litamil 9. Mr.

btatea that it appeared that the House Select Com-

mittee on Assassinations had already asked the to

 

 

locate them.

 

 

 

| aistavea that the HSCA's interview with
[Ramon Alvarez Durant\fwas considered “highly sensitive". He

explained that three rooms at a nearby hotel would be used.

/O(YA~/0399 -
 

 

 

 

First Draft

- Page Three

9:15 P.M. Dr. Jesus Yahez, the Assistant to the Oficial Mayor,
telephoned the staff members explaining that Mr. Ventura was

very busy on an important assignment and asked us to visit

 

 

the General at 11:00 A.M. the following morning.

 

 

At 10:15 A.M., August 9, 1978, Committee staff
members met with State Department Official Richard Howard to

alert him that the Committee would request the officials

 

. -_- .
to make Sylvia Duran available in Washington for the hearings.
Mr. Howard explained that once we had permission from the

government the State Department would insure that she

 

was in Washington when necessary.

At 11:00 A.M., August 9, 1978, Committee staff members
met with Dr. Jesus Yanez and Ciprianio Martinez Novoa. Mr.
Yanez told Committee staff members that Ciprianio Martinez
Novoa, the agent in charge, would try to aid us in all our
interviews. Mr. Martinez then briefed the Committee staff
members on their up-to-date progress:

Oscar Contreras Lartigue had been located and pre-

 

interviewed by Mr. Martinez in We would

 

 

 

fly to[[7Jon Friday, August 11, 1978 at 7:35 A.M.
Noe W. Palomares had been located and could be inter-
viewed on Thursday, August 10, 1978 in the afternoon at his

office, His phone number,

was made available to the Committee.

 

 

 

 

 

June Cobb Sharp received a trovfist permit,- number 72781,

 

on June 27, 1947. She entered [7 7) through

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

First ‘Draft
Page Four

 

 

 

She asked, but was denied, permission to represent

the magazine, i On June 21, 1948, she received

 

 

a courtesy permit, number 25556. She disappeared ih 1954 and

 

 

never returned to

 

 

The Committee staffers did not tell the[- |

that the House Select Committee on Assassinations has evidence,

 

her 201 file, that she was in the Sixties.

 

 

 

Eunice Odio Infante, a Costa Rican, received a three-
month permit on February 9, 1954. She remained in Mexico, il-
legally residing at Nacas-45-a, until. 1972. She applied to
write for the Excelsior magazine on many different occasions,
but was rejected every time. In 1972, Ms. Odio married a

Communist painter, Rudolfo Sanabria Gonzalez and moved tof]

 

| } On May 24, 1972, Ms. Odio was found

 

dead in her bathtub. The official presiding at her autopsy
concluded that Ms. Odio had poisoned herself.

Emilio Carballido Fontanes was in Caracas, Venezuela,

 

on vacation and scheduled to return to in early

 

 

 

September. His address is Constituyentes 207. His phone
number is 515-8345.
Consuelo Esperon's record in [__] could not be

located. When the [~~ ~~]officials inquired about her at the

 

Cuban Embassy no one at the office remembered

 

 

 

that she had worked there. Committee staff members were told

that Esperon was probably dead.

Al Wichtrich worked at Royal Crown Cola until 1968

 

when their offices closed.

 

 

 
