 

Classification:

? (This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Soviet Russia division's American Legal. Traveler program,
which. utilized Americans traveling in the Soviet Union

as a means of obtaining information and identifying

possible subjects for recruitment, informed the Committee

 

that they met with each person involved in this activity

| oO and that Oswald was not one of then. These Agency officials
also advised the Committee that only "clean-cut" college

| : graduates were used in this program, and that Oswald did

not meet this criteria. Finally, the Agency officers in

charge of the Soviet Russia division's research section

in support of clandestine activities indicated that, had

"See eee

Oswald been contacted by the Agency, their section would |
2 probably have been informed, but that this, in fact, never

occurred.

"Nation bese a

Classification:

 

 

| Classified by derivation:

 
; Classification:

 

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

J Ie > 10 a
| 2. cra personnel ff]

The Committee investigated the allegation of former

CIA employee who testified in executive

‘session that shortly after the assassination of President

 

Kennedy he was advised by fellow employees at the CIA's
on

that Lee Harvey Oswald was a CIA agent who

i. had received financial disbursements under an assigned

see i

 

cryptonym. explained that he had been employed

 

“Neegte ee

by the CIA as a finance officer from 1957 until his resignation
from the Agency in 1966. In this capacity, he served zs a
: 13-.

fiscal account assistant on the support stafe( Cid
) from June of 1960 to June 1964. advised

that in addition to his regular responsibilities, he had

 

 

Mae aetie,

served security duty on his off-hours in order to supplement

his income. This additional job put him in contact with

Classification:

 

|O. ; : Classified by derivation:

   

Nery,

4

 

 

 
 

’ American legal travelers,-and research in support of

 

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CiA—controlled documents.)

clandestine activities.* The heads of the clandestine
activity section stated during this perioa the CIA had

very few operatives in the Soviet Union and that Oswald —
was not one of them. “Moreover, they stated that because of
his obvious instability, Oswald would never have met the

Agency's ‘standards for use in the field.** The heads of the

*For the unit that was responsible for American legal
travelers, only the years 1959-61 were covered. However,
since every American legal traveler who was involved in this
program was recruited before his trip to the Soviet Union,
the relevant year for Lee Harvey Oswald was 1959, because that
is when he departed from the United States.

**One officer ‘acknowledges the remote possibility that an
individual could be run by someone as part of a."vest pocket”
operation without other Agency officials knowing about it, but
even this possibility, as it applies to Oswald, was negated by
the statement of the deputy chief of the Soviet Russia
clandestine activities section who commented that in 1963 he we
involved in a review of every clandestine operation ever run
in the Soviet Union, and that Oswald was not involved in
any of. thése cases. :

Classification:

 

| Classified by derivation:

I FT FF ks a

 
 

be

Faken teeta

“. .
Nine ae

 

Classification:

 

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE

 

1. CIA Personnel in the Soviet Russia Division

In addition to obtaining testimony from former
directors John H. MeCone and Richard M. Helms, the
Committee interviewed individuals who were chiefs of the
CIA's Soviet Russia division during 1959-1963.* These
individuals categorically denied that Oswald had. ever
been associated in any capacity with the CIA.

To investigate this matter further, the persons who

had been chiefs and/or deputy chiefs during 1959-62 of the

‘three units within the Soviet Russia division which were

responsible respectively for clandestine activities,

*The chief(s) of the Soviet Russia. division from August 1962
to September 1963 was not interviewed by the Committee.

Classification:

 

I. Classified by derivation:

 
atte

 

“Ae ae sule

Me

Suite Nec Nt Nea

 

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

materials requested from the Agency were, in fact, provided.

Accordingly, any finding which.is essentially negative in

nature, such as that Lee Harvey Oswald was neither associated
with the CIA in any way nor ever even in contact with that
institution, cannot be rendered in absolute terms.

To the extent possible, however, the Committee's
investigation was designed to overcome the Agency's

institutional obstacles that potentially impede effective |

external scrutiny of the CIA. The vast majority of CIA.

files made available to the Committee were reviewed ir

unsanitized form. These files were evaluated both for their

substantive content and for any potential procedural

_ irregularities suggestive of possible tampering. After

review, the files were used as the basis for examination

and cross-examination of present and former Agency

Classification:

 

Classified by derivation:

  
 

 

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

" employees. Because of the number of Agency personnel who

were queried, it is highly probable that. any significant

inconsistencies between the files and the witnesses’

responses would have been established-

Classification:

 

i Classified by derivation: .

 
saemeienin Nee

gua «er acy

 

a Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—<ontrolled documents.}

further efforts by the warren Commission to investigate
this matter.

The Committee sought to resolve the issue of Oswald's
alleged association with the CIA by conducting an inquiry
that went beyond the threshold level of obtaining statements

from two of the Agency's most senior officials.. Instead, |

| @ more analytical investigative approach was utilized.

First, an effort was made to identify circumstances either
in Oswald's life or in the manner in which his case was
handled by the CIA which were potentially suggestive of an
intelligence association of .some kind. then, an intensive
file review was undertaken which included both the CIA's
144-volume Oswald file and hundreds of others fron the CIA,
as well as the FBI, State Department, and the pepartmerit of

Defense. __/ Based upon these file reviews, a series of .

Classification:

i, : Classified by derivation: ee

 

ice AS nd Fc eeatieadll Aa

 
 

180-10147-10163

ume ee cee

oe ess , CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
+ ‘Classification: ——_—RECLISSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT eh

BAAS TT
{This form is to be used for material extrocted,

from ClA—<ontrolled documents.)

| ~ . ; Borg, 6)
In 1964, the CIA advised the Warren Commission” that lar |

]

 

oe . . . . “De be

i the Agency never had a relationship of any kind with Lee

i : " - -
Harvey Oswald. Testifying before the Commission, John

A. McCone, who was then Director of Central Intelligence, -

indicated that Oswald “was not an agent, employee, or

Ne ne te

informant of the Central Intelligence Agency. The Agency

+ mactennads

never contacted him, interviewed him, talked with him, or
i , solicitea any reports or information from him, or communicated
il . with him directly or in any other -manner...Oswald was never °
associated or connected directly or indirectly in any way
po whatsoever with the Agency." ys. McCone's testimony was
corroborated by Richard M. Helms, then the Agency's

4 Deputy Director for Plans and therefore the person directly

; _ responsible for clandestine operations. _/ Once these

 

assurances had been received, _/ the record reflects no
Classification:
(O147-} M63 i Classified by derivation: .

 
 

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material: extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Ned

interviews, depositions, and executive session hearings were

conducted with both Agency and non-Agency witnesses. ‘The

Naas Site

contacts with present and former CIA personnel covered a

Serer

broad range of individuals, including staff and division

chiefs, clandestine case officers, area desk officers,

Niminindsttees

research analysts, secretaries, and clerical assistants.
“In total, more than 125 persons, including at least 50
j present and former CIA employees, were questioned

regarding this issue.

The results of this investigation confirmed the

Warren Commission testimony given by Messrs. McCone and

 

Helms. There was no indication in Qswald's CIA file
i. suggestive in any way that he had ever had any contact with
the Agency. Moreover, the Agency employees who would have

been in a position to know if Oswald had been associated

Me with the CIA uni ormy denied that he had been an agent
ne ssification:

i ' Classified by derivation: _-

 
A.

Newitt,

Natta

 

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—<ontrolled documents.) :

or connected with the CIA in any other capacity.
Finally, taken“in their entirety, the items of circumstantial

evidence that the Committee had selected for investigation

as possibly indicative of an intelligence association did

not support the allegation that Oswald had an intelligence
agency relationship of some: kind.
This finding, however, must be qualified because the

same institutional characteristics, in terms ofthe Agency's

_extreme compartmentalization and the complexity of its

enormous filing system, that are designed to preclude

‘penetration by foreign powers have the simultaneous effect

of making Congressional inquiry very difficult For example,

 

CIA personnel testified to the Committee that a review of

Agency files will not always indicate whether an individual |

was affiliated with the Agency in any respect. Nor was

there always an independent, means of verifying that. all -- .--
Classification:

 

| Classified by derivation:

 

 
