   

The letter which Ms, Garro said was the first
written by the young man to her daughter bore the date
September 1, 1963 and the Mexico City Post Office postmark
September 2, 1963. When Ms. Garro was told this she
commented that Gtobabip>the Communists have facilities
for falsifying postcards. (IBID)

To €urther investigate Ms, Garro's stor ythe Federal
Bureau interviewed Ario Alejandro Lavagnini Stenius on
November 27, 1964, (xa2p8) Lavadnini recalled that there
were approximately thirty people at the Ruban Duran. Party,
few of whom he knew. He ‘recalled having met a Mexican girl
who, had recently returned from living in France, He was \
unable to fix the date of the party, but felt it was
probably early in September because of a heavy rain which :
occurred as they were leaving the party about 2:00 a.m. !
(IBID. p. 4)

Lavagnini noted no Americans Present at this party,
He was familiar with the appearance of Lee Harvey Oswald
because of publicity following the assassination of President
Kennedy but otherwise had no knowledge of him and had never

seen him except for mews photographs fobloving, Ss gegnggioe

tion, wee’ Be 4) ol gg i ow wo tecodenahtie, pan

There is no indication on the document that this

information| was given to the Central Intelligence Agency's

Mexico City Station.

 

 

 

 

 
 

  

 
 
 

§:

po

 

en Chacles Thass coe ; ec
‘ , : «, He ne Le. vey
First Meeting With eleva Gana uw —& 4¢
(0 OSA LD rs. DEscrssep,
EE ES EL ES ED

On 12/10/65 Charles Thomas, a Political officer

at the American Embassy, wrote @ memorandum about a
Conversation with Elena Garro de Paz. (cta #586-587,

WX-7241 Entry No. 425, p. 91, CIA No. 718.) the meeting

with Elena had been about other matters but she mentioned |

knowing Oswald. Thomas noted that she was reluctant to
talk but dia, C164)

Elena's story reported here is the Same, but with
° dated eelsled
more details, as that given in the] zrcooxze Jeng” She
Sese Sesus (a Feicad of Ruben D.mn's)
Said that General Clark Plores, Silvia Duran, Eusebio ;
Chaban Consul in Menice Cte) CA Bree Commonist weiter totem’ of the Doras 1
Azcue, Emilio Carballido, and a Latin American Negro man
: CenidentFied

with red hair were at the Party. aA marginal comment by this

entry in Wx-7241 Says; "How did Elena know. about a red-haired

Negro?" Elena also told Thomas that she had later learned

that Silvia Duran had been "Oswald's mistress while he

was there." (a note by this entry in Wx-7241 says "How

did Elena Garro know about Silvia being the mistress of
a ic Care : : a
Oswald?? This is 1965.) 5k Mey, CA] Stele dik met Keay

   

  

 

  
  

oo | sstoaes wi KES craiwe rs] wee * acenete TL + prt tht hak :

   

 

 

  

Elena told Thomas that she and her daughter had

. 24 ;
gone to the Cuban Embassy @n November 1963, Gnesmietde
: aad ,

the gateserey shouted "assasins" and other insults at

Peed 4 see-sk7, Wureds, Ente, Ue-uzs, p.1, ch Me WED :
— ta a
the Embassy employees. That Sawe day : :

friend, Manuel Calvillo, an official in the Gobernacion,

 

took her and her daughter to a small hotel: in the center

 

 
 

Llc whine tet dofa St A tay

eget Ochna. © the tegel alharke si, AAS Wwe —Ckearacbee Loh an

 

 

 

 

 

a
|
I
| |
a [onten—y prccinndhacde pcrte pce —_ pay orga ae
|
| 3, 0.ctielerere |__ov__0. vel a 180d (861 tete n2sc6s Rage Die ie

 

: WAGE ebhlehe tee Mase Oaanatd, Pal] he _oregyerthe perch —______
——— rch Se ae tel __sfas- Hesscoting
ee set ke ane
— Sno rere earners thease

7 inde Octrbew | or. Ockrbew 2,146 3_5_)
61 Tose e289 oa tet a Dee. M1GY enteblel bee &é. ep Oswacn, eH :

 

 

  

by yn nf 20 seman

Dedehes! 2, Lie. Ihe Pacy —_phartede that cba fraane cet

   
  
 

ad

    

 

 

 

- Elena was questioned regarding the identity ‘of other
persons attending the party at the Ruben Duran home who
might have been in a position to observe the three Americans.
Elena stated that in the course of the party her daughter
met a young. mal named "Alejandro" at the party and danced
with hime” He was, apparently quite smitten with the |
daughter and ‘tried to’ call her on several occasions after
the party.’ behe daughter did not take the calls and as
a result "Alejandro" wrote several letters to the daughter.

Ms. Garro exhibited two of the letters, as well as a

 

business card: which identified the young man as Ario Alejandro

aria

I . tavagnini Stenius. . _ (BID Rs)

i

 

 

 

 

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

  

EJL First Draft
g Page. 3

Before her disappearance from Mexico, Elena was
a

well disposed toward the United States and had been

 

friendly with Embassy officers. Her broad range of signifi-

cant personal friends, the views of many important to the

   
  
  
  
  

American Embassy, made her a useful Embassy target.) Through-

 

out the early 1960's she was carried as a target in the
Embassy's Youth Program. .

American Embassy employees dealing with Elena

 

believed that despite her access to the uriderground happenings

 

 
  
   

 

in Mexico, -ineitiding-psasant=s fs c 3 a
while she cepected , Lee gee nett
to romanticize developments in-xeperting—en—them made it

te edaluate hee ovecail coedi bility.
difficult at—times—te—determine-what—degree—of—eredence

ye cared seas «eed _: to mectt fea quent contact,
enough , . embessy ofhierals
tithes Witte 9 ec vnurttin be doth frmericne ~ y

 

 

CoA set Corbassy target is a Gerson deemed iacpertent beemuse
 

 

 

 

ae Oehee HIN 61A Mena coe rhe Recoe D.

 
 

 

 

 

eee |e haley fbn. _Chéay Gp Corvin. Arter | Ls
; toe | Aart tae woe. pe, erates. — tye Ache. Abeer tecetley. Agree — thnk
ll Elana — Henao Ae rhe, eter, AE Ro Fett  Erarractcte.. Caleta, - |

 

 

 
 
 

a oo = ae Pad aie “acan. na

 

 

 

 

 

“the story is not as detailed. as the 10/5/64 version.

There is no mention of Deba Garro Guerrero Galvan.
story,

The
perhaps because it is third hand, differs from the

Previous story in two areas § 'The party was at the Cuban

 

Embassy not at Ruben Duran! sy Elena talked to a Cuban

 

 

"Embassy official not one of her cousins about the three

i
Americans. . ‘ : ,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
    

Lops

 

en nv Deere dewrtchiwa. heb lap Se. on tej te anneal,

{
|
i
i

_ -

f

|

 

 

|

Soe peeps

SSIS RSSLL LE Ss arta

 

 

ee ton nan emer they pent tech —dcwena. Pttesante. o PAMN, a OA

fp ce he Ot, gprs. poten par ofa

 

 
   

Lt. wt). a
wal

SS. ‘ak Slee

Ageaten Tarrect Eamon ¥ jhe coptnng 2. LiCoa Kit. TZ prhin._ thee ee

ee ye fle -Atang [. anneal . foe 4]

  
 

 

byl A 2 pty Lea. fee ~Reeweseleetdetmea

og gtaaye
. we Colt

ee ee |

poor pg —_Lt enn pice Dale athena. aan on
- ttt the aire

   

 

 
180-10142-10139

 

 

cil ¥ 7a; 3

oO WR TEL py Cotta Babe r
Bhd. Ame. dicted, tefs]o¥, cia #816). On a a

 

 

 

Ipcnme ee ey

ea

 

a As. 2.

    

~.. Stoey.... October S, 1964 2

Re. pected. eee

       

len fh.

      

nn cr erence ST eeeecnee
. 7 ee ; + Champane Aonmar dar Fame
io Sve plana Dir oo prin Lach, few Dent oety at

a 4 Cer whe fest Sarda

 

 

a he deme that Ge ud ta a oo Sat OO SS oe
ee eet ae tae (SRR
MoD rite

| Tae Cn ak Dabs parr he

 

WMA jolla
pth. CUA... pw 1476,).. She Watocdinndtttonhox.4 pre Dacamtin ,

CSE DE eas Ge tote ba
1965, NSU remand CUA Seed She homes ha

| |

[jeu he “tentacle 72! Cpeey ens me). The Cowctin

! ; ght phe pmeme Jor

|| Renae APE. Sere tle te dition perfects ree ee,
| . ‘

1

uy
:

   

 

Biography by
Jha stony Bow Soe?

Elena Garro de Pazjias born of Spanish parents in

are 4 é 4 d4
+ Sr anne Soe repay D on deo pee pared by
Puebla, Mexico on December 11, 1917. “Ms. Gard ketended eherles

the National Autonomous University of Mexico and later Thewetd
did graduate work at Berkley in California and at the
University of Paris. In 1963, Elena had long been married
to Octavio Paz, a career diplomat who is also one of
Mexico's finest poets and leading intellectuals. When
Octavio’ was named Mexican Ambassador to India, the couple
separated by mutual consent. Elena's daughter, also
named Elena, has always resided with her mother.

Since Elena spent seventeen years of her early
life in Europe she had a rather un-Mexican objectivity
about her native land and had a reputation for being one
if its more articulate detractors. At the same time, Elena
was considered emotionally committed to many aspects of
Mexican life and made an important contribution to its
artistic development.

In the 1960's Elena became a significant writer.

Hogar Solido, El’ Rey Mago, La Senora en su Balcon, Ventura |

' Allende, Andaise por las Ramas, Parada Empresa, and El Viaje

are plays that have had appreciative audiences in Europe,
where they were translated into German, as well as in Mexico.
Ms. Garro's short stories are collected in a volume called
La Semana de Colores. The Literacy Supplement of the London

Times has called her novel, Los Recuerdos de Porvenir, “a
 

 

 

 

 

4.

‘

  

EJL First Draft
e .

splendid success." , Critics have: said of her: "For
Elena Garro, there is no frontier between reality and
fantasy; in any case, the latter is a second reality--
perhaps more intense-- to which one may penetrate without
passport or forewarning, thanks to the effectiveness of

a literature fired with passion, flavor and life." C vany
people who knew Elena have asserted that the frontier
between reality and fantasy is also difficult for her to

. . aa Elen Case be hr
distinguish in real life. [Sisgcaphy Dota Ferm prepared by Charles Themes |

Ms. Garro, for many years, was an active worker in
the Confederacion Nacional Campésiina (CNC), the agrarian
arm of the Partido Reformista (PRI). Because Ms. Garro
was a tireless propagandist and agitator on behalf of the
poorer Mexican peasants, she was on close personal terms
with and enjoyed the respect of peasant leaders. from all
over the country. C ct)

Elena was considered a witty, urbane and opinionated
woman with an unflagging sense of humor. Her forthright
opinions and sharp wit tended on occasion to ruffle feathers
in Mexico, but her important social, literacy, and political
connections rendered her fairly immune from serious counter-
attack until 1968. Then, Ms. Garro was forced to flee the

country with her daughter, Elenita and her sister, Deba

‘Guerrero de Galvan, in the midst of the student strikes.

The House Selvet Committee on Assassiaetions has been unable te

detecmine the eyact ceasemn MarGacre had Sn Fleeing Mexico.

 

 
