 

Cuban-American...page 9

Rodriguez told the FBI that Lopez left Key West

  

in, late 1963 to go to Tampa with the hope of being able

to return to Cuba. 48/ Rodriguez said he believed Lopez wanted \

to return to Cuba because he was afraid of being drafted into

the U.S. military. 49/ Rodriguez said Lopez was not involved

in any pro-Castro activity while-living in Key West, but that

Lopez was "definitely" pro~-Castro. 50/ Rodriguez recounted that

in one instance he and Lopez actually had a fist-fight over

Lopez's pro-Castro sympathies. 51/-

In a report in March 1964, the FBI reported that Lopez

had attended a meeting of the Tampa Fair Play for Cuba Committee

63
on November 20, 192. 52/ The report also stated that at a

meeting of the group on November 17, 1963, Lopez stated that he

had been refused travel back to Cuba. He said at that time

that he was waiting for a phone call from Cuba to get word on

his departure

to Cuba. 53/

According to that report in March, 1964, a member of the

Tampa FPCC stated that she called a friend in Cuba on December 8,

1963 and. was told that Lopez had arrived safely. 54/. The member

had attempted
Lopez had not
in Florida as

also that the

approximately

to locate Lopez in Cuba through friends there because
delivered gifts to persons in Cuba from people

he had promised to do. 55/ The member stated

Tampa chapter of the FPCC had given Lopez

9190 for the return trip to Cuba. 56/ The member

said that Lopez had gone to Cuba by way of Mexico because he did

not have a passport. 57/

 

 

 
 

Cuban-American...page 10

The March 1964 FBI report listed Lopez's passport. as
#310162, which had been issued in January, 1960, and his
Mexican tourist card as "M8~-24553, issued November 20, 1963
in Tampa. 58/ It stated that Lopez entered Mexico by private
auto at Nuevo Laredo on November 23, 1963 and departed for
Havdna on November 27 as the only passenger on a Cubana flight,
carrying a Cuban courtesy visa. 59/

According to the FBI file, Lopez*s mother, Esperanza
Rodriguez, was born in Key West, Florida. 60/ The file .
listed three cousins and four uncles who resided and worked in
“the Key West area with their families. 6l/

Lopez's FBI file contains a memo from the Tampa office
dated October 26, 1964 which states:

It is felt that information developed
regarding the subject is not sufficient
to merit consideration for the Security
Index. 62/

The only information transmitted by the FBI to the Warren
Commission on Lopez concerned a check at the Passport Office. 63/
Tne information the Bureau did send to the Commission a bout the
Tampa chapter of the FPcc did not include any information on
Lopez's activities. 64/ The CIA apparently did not provide ,
any information on Lopez to the Warren Commission: As pointed

out in the Senate report, this omission is made more egregious

 

 
 

 

Cuban-American...page 8

 

Lopez's wife told the FBI that Lopez began suffering from
recurrent attacks of epilepsy and had to be confined at Jackson °
State Hospital in-Key-West in early 1963. 36/ She stated that
“he was treated by doctors from Coral Gables and Key West for the.
epilepsy. 37/ She stated that she did not believe he had a
history of epilepsy before coming. to the United States. 38/

She believed his convulsions were brought on by nervous’ tension
and worry over his family in Cuba and may have been a reason
for his return to Cuba in 1963. 39/

The wife said that in approximately November, 1963,
she received a letter from Lopez saying he had returned to
‘Cuba. 40/ The wife stated that she was surprised he had returned
but that he had mentioned he was going back to Cuba when he
left for Tampa in November, 1963. 41/ ‘The wife gave her opinion
that he returned because of his close relationship with his
parents. 42/ The wife stated that she received another letter
from him later from Cuba. 43/ According to the letter, he was
working as an elevator operator in Havana. 44/ In that letter
Lopez said he had received some kind of financial assistance
for the trip from an organization in Tampa. 45/ According to the

wife, Lopez did not have sufficient personal funds to pay the

 

expenses to Mexico and Cuba. 46/ She said that he had never had

contact with Cuban refugee organizations to her knowledge. 47/
 

Cuban-American...page 7

- which had been carried out in Key West, Florida. The report
stated that Lopez's counsin, Guillermo Serpa Rodriguez, told the.
FBI that Lopez came to the United Stated for the first time some |
time after Castro first came to power. 27/ He stayed approximately
one year and then returned to Cuba. 28/ Rodriguez stated that
Lopez returned to Cuba because he was homesick and missed
his family; he had parents and four brothers who still resided
in Cuba. 29/

: Rodriguez stated also that Lopez's brother Selito was
a member of the Cuban militia at that time. 30/ Another
brother, Raimundo Policarpo Lopez, had reportedly been
sent to the Soviet Union to study by the Cuban government;
according to Rodriguez. 31/

Rodriguez told the FBI that Lopez returned to the United
States in 1960 or 1961 because he was afraid he would be drafted
into the Cuban militia if he remained in Cuba. 32/
The FBI learned that Lopez married an American woman in Key

West in August, 1962. 33/, According to Lopez's wife, he worked
for a time with the Pepsi Cola Co. in 1962 and at the Molina
and Murgia Bakery in Key West, which was owned by cousins. 34/
She said that he also worked for a construction company in

Tampa in. June, 1963. 35/

 

 
 

Cuban~American...page 5

 

. She Ser oi le .
Also on GSSREESE 5 15GH cra headquarters cabled the
; Mexico ity station and identified this Cuban-American as
Gilberto Policarpo Lopez, who was born on January 26, 1940. i4/
It stated also that Lopez was not identical with a Gilberto ‘

Lopez who had been identified as active in pro-Castro groups in

x, a
f an
March 49, 1964, .
classified message (to headquarters that (Enrique Ruiz Monta

lve,

Los-Angeles. 15/
f

 
 
   

an agent of the Mexican Federal Judicial Police, had 3 fife

Cinformed the CIA Jthat one of Ruiz's contacts reported

in late February, 1964, that an American citizen named Gilberto

 

Lopes was involved in the Kennedy assassination. l6/ The message
said Ruiz's contact reported that Lopes entered Mexico on

foot from Laredo, Texas about 1200 hours on November 13 carrying U.S.
passport #319962, which was issued July 13, 1960. 17/ According

to the dispatch, the contact related also that Lopes proceeded by
bus to Mexico City “where he entered Cuban embassy"; it said that

he left the Cuban Embassy on November 27 and was the only .
passenger for Cuba on flight #465. 18/ It said the contact

reported that Lopes was issued Mexican travel form B, #24553, at

Nuevo Laredo. 19/ According to the dispatch, Ruiz reported

 

that he could not verify the contact'’s information,
but thought it might be of interest to the United States

government. 20/

 
 

Cuban-American...page 6

The cable stated also that background information
ee i nme Mperr
concerning the (Monterrey base' 's contact, with: Ruiz) was
Sipe t nn A
contained ina dispatch dated March 18 which was being pouched
a

 

to headquarters,jon March 20? 21/

nn Thi WORT AM &

On March athe Deputy Chief of the Mexico Gty Station
cabkted a classified message to headquarters in which it was
stated that the information contained in the earlier dispatch

PRE PPD PUAChA,

which discussed RuLZ" Ss” contac Caan jives fully with that provided
[sevnce] -

station by (LITEMPO D early December 1963." 22/
A 201 file was opened on Gilberto Policarpo Lopez by ,
Agency headquarters on December 16, 1963. 23/ At that time his

records indicated that no earlier 201 file had existed. . The

file contains a "Review of 201 file on U.S. Citizen" by

on
Barry Gibsomp an operations officer for the LAM/FI component

of the Agency. 24/ In that review the file was classified

as a "counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign intelli-

gence or security service)." 25/ The date of entry of that
category in Agency records is indicated as January 22, 1975) in

Lopez's file. 26/

“FBI Investigation

 

In a report dated August 26,:-1964, the FBI documented

the results of its investigation on Gilberto Policarpo Lopez

 

 

 
 

Cuban-American...page 2

A chronology of ‘the activities of thé FBI and CIA

on this lead amplifie

    

information which was. in the

possess} the two agencies.

 

CIA Investigation

The first information on the travel of the Cuban-
. iN CA 1
American appeared .orr, December ‘ 1963. At that time the

Mexico Station of the CIA sent a classified. message

 

to CIA headquarters that a source ddentified as “Tenubo%D) naa
bs

 

requested of the Mexico City Chief of Station at 1300 hours
on that date "urgent traces on U.S. citizen Gilberto P.

Lopez." 3/ The source said Lopez arrived in Mexico on
November 23 en route to Havana and that Lopez had
disappeared with no record of his trip to Havana. According
to the message, Lopez had a tourist card, carrying number
24553, which he obtained in Tampa on November 20, 1963 and

his passport number was 310162. The message stated that Lopez

left Mexico for Havana on November 27 via Cubana (Airlines).

 

 

 

The classified message listed the eryptonym LIFIRE as thease pvd/,

source of information on Lopez's travel. It indicated the Mexico

CLG station had no traces on him. 4/ . :
: ofthe thi SAPS fS
In another classified message dated December 3, 1963) from

 

the México C&S station to CIA headquarters, the station
reported also that the FBI office in Mexico City had been
advised: by Mexican authorities that Lopez entered Mexico on

November 27 at Nuevo Laredo. 5/

 

 
 

 

 

 

7e0-40141-10000)

 

DRAFT.

   

 

Cuban-American

in Book V of the final report of the Senate Select

Committee to Study Governmental.Operations on the performance \

of the intelligence agencies in the investigation of the
assassination, the FBI and CIA are criticized for their
apparent failure to fully pursue leads surrounding the
assassination of President Kennedy and then to fully report

to the Warren Commission the results of the investigations

they did undertake. . One such lead concerned the travel

from Texas to Mexico City of ap-unidentiffea Cuban- ier
American on November 23, 1963, and then his flight to Havana on
November 27. 1/ The lead was made more “interesting” by

the fact that the Cuban-American reportedly attended a

meeting of the Tampa chapter of the Fair Play for Cuba
Committee on November 17, 1963. 2/ The House Select

Committee on Assassinations examined the documents connected

to that lead to determine: (a) whether the facts which were

known by the FBI and CIA about that individual warranted
further investigation and what investigation was undertaken;

(b) whether any of that information was reported to the Warren

 

Commission; and (c) whether the known facts suggest any

involvement in the assassination of President Kennedy.

 

 
 

 

Cuban- American....page 3

 

get the WexT ty ,
In another classified message Gated December 4, 1963 4¢
to the Mexico EG station from CIA headquarters, the Agency
reported that the State Department check on Lopez had produced ndthinc.

yet because of the difficulty in tracing records using. only

a name and passport number. 6/ The message contained this

paragraph:

6.
We assume you have not told cee Dewnee]

that Lopez flew to Cuba on 27 November
because you do not want to blow the |
LIFIRE operation. This problem is up
to you. 7/

 

The LIFIRE operation referred to in the classifi dm ssage
thi obthaedZ o Mana ad ov

to the Mexico Station involved cooperation between “the Set

 

conn ee Smee teeter 4 ep etna

CTA “and Mexican “federal officials who. participated in a.

i]
\ plan of photographing! passengers of flights departing for Havana,

i pee et ramen be eww
Cand obtaining the P ssenge:

 

“Mexican officials also had their own program to , photograph the oo

passports» of the _passengers arriving from Ri - 8/ ee wee

 

 

On aoe 3 .1963 the Mexico City Station reported
LLLOPAG
that the EITENO/D) source had stated that Gilberto Lopez. had -

crossed the Mexican border at Laredo, Texas on November 23,

 

1963 and registered in the Roosevelt Hotel in Mexico City on
. she ABORT nt ZF Sout cu .
November 25 at 1600 hours in Room 203. 9/ -LITEMPO7also

reported that Lopez departed on a Cubana flight on

 
 

Cuban-American...page 4

November 27 for Havana. That classified message stated
Pent cc

additionally that GITENBO7® haa “goa photograph of
Lopez. 10/ a a

. The photograph of Lopez contained in his CIA 201 file
has "27 November 1963" stamped on the back. In the photograph

Lopez is shown wearing dark glasses and the background in

the photograph is dark and jndistinguishable.
Ba, Mea: ge Way f
In a dispatch Gated Decéiibéer” r 5, 1963 )from the Chief of

 

Station in Mexico UES to headquarters, copies of the

photograph of Lopez were attached and the dispatch stated

 

bLhrerl ese
that the photograph was taken én “the night of November” uae ane

 

ett ‘=: sen y
1963 at the Mexico City. ‘airport by Mexican authorities as

Lopez was boarding _ a Cubana flight. Ly The dispatch gave

   

the previously reported information of the numbers of Lopez's
passport and tourist card and his entry
into and departure from Mexico. The dispatch contained the
additional information that Lopez was (Gated 85) the only
passenger on Cubana flight #465 on November 27, 1963 to Havana;
the flight contained a crew of nine Cubans. It said he used
a U.S. passport and a Cuban courtesy visa. 12/ The dispatch
had the following message: "Source states the timing and

_ circumstances surrounding subject's travel through Mexico and
departure for Havana are suspicious." By The dispatch
said also that the source "urgently" requested all available

data on the individual.

 

 
