Included in DeM's 201 file is a complete third agency listing which is available
from me if you need it for any reason. There is also a list of associates which
may or may not be as complete as the one in the paper entitled "George DeMohren—_
schildt". This is also available.

It may be advisable to obtain the files on the following people:
J.W. Moore~Agency personnel
Dorthe Matlack - Army Intelligence
GC. Bouhe~ctiggesenane -gmsnnsasameml W. Galeki - Polish contact of DeM

Dabney Austin : Jean and Suzanne Saurel -former Pan Am employees

C.J. Charles-Haitian Banker Henry Klepak

Col. Orlov-retired Marine Sydney Schine

J.M. Bunce : Hugh Aynsworth-Dallas reporter knowledgable about DeM

Gom Sands-Aspen Supply Jack Horton-dallas reporter
~ - Allen Olmstead

Who is Mrs.Finkelstein? Name is mentioned several times in files.
All of the above names appear in the DeM files as deletions with the exceptions: of:
~ Dorothe Matlack : :
Col. Orlov
J.M. Bunce
Tom Sands
W. Galeki
Jean and Suzanne Saurel
‘Henry Klepak
Sydney Schine:
Hugh Aynsworth
Jack Horton ;
Allen Olmstead
State Department has files on DeM.
It may be worthwhile to question Jeanne DeM about Mrs. Matlack ‘and C.J. Charles in
particular, and then any of the above mentioned names.

Follow-up after that could be in terms of the relationship between C.J. Charles
(who is labeled as a source for the CIA) and DeM and his wife.

.

Also, Any of the above mentioned people could be interesting to talk ERXRXXXEE
to if they are still alive and in the area, either by phone or in person.

There are also ten pages of notes at the CIA to be sanitized and should be
returned at the committee within a reasonable amount of time. They concern the
meeting between matlack and Charles in detail. Mrs. Matlack is linked with
ACSI-Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence (army)

HW 50955 DoclId:32260991 Page 9
. | files contain no information pertinent to this investigation
George DeMohrenschildt is referenced in the Richard Mann file ~

. HW 50955 Docld:32260991 Page &

  
“. Vol 2
DeM had applied for Selective Service in NY on Oct. 16, 1940-classified IV-4-
for hypersensitivity.

NAVY FILE OF DEM

‘Ref. ASD (ISA)Memo of Aug. 5, 77

DNI Memo of Oct. 31, 1977 , :

‘Copy of: NAVINVSERV Report of Investigation ‘of Jan. 22, 1968 Subject : Mann,
Richard Tucker i CCN 01-12~68/08-0072-3x (NS) } ,

Enclosure one is maintained on a NAVINVSERV investigation file on Richard Tucker:

Mann, who was of security interest to the NAVY during the late 1960'2. It was not pro
ided with reference (b) because it was not cro~s- “referenced to the NAVINVSERV file he
headings on LHO.

, The balance of the documentation referred by the FBI consisted of one Navy
originated document and 2 FBI document portions of which contained Navy originated
information. The Navy-originated document is an ONI/District (DIO-Third) 3x5 card.
dated Sept. 1, 1942. It indicated that DeM was suspected of possible subversive
activity(not defined) while in Mexico and provides and adress. for him in New York
City. : :
Review of ONI file related to association with Lila Pardo V. deLarin and.
allegations made against him. @nd . FBI Document dated 2/12/78 contains synopsis
of information in enclosure one (1).No record of Lila.in NAVINVSERV, Richard Mann-
no information pertaining to DeM :

No ONI file on DeM-preumed destroyed during routine purging.

ONI-Richard Mann: 1/22/68

By Special Agent NC Hill, Subjects father, Harold J. Mann (known Communist):
pumping two students of the Russian Language at University of Texas-Arlington,
Texas regarding Prof. DeMohrenschildt-purpose unknown-implied he represents the
Warren Commission in some manner regarding JFK investigation.

Interview of Charles McDowell (Col. USA Ret.) Dean of Student Activities
University of Texas-Arlington,: Texas. Unusual behavior on part of. student, Harold
Mann. ‘Two Russian language students, Barbara Warner, 1519 College apt. 203,
Arlington, Texas and Pat Elena Parker, 1024 Linda Lane, Arlington advised that
‘Harold Mann, 4424 E. Lancaster ave, Fort Worth Texas asked numerous unusual -
questions about DeM: :
Questions included: There is a conflict in the testimony by

G. DeM and Jeanne to the Warren Commission .
. Does this not seem to be a reflection on
his character?
--Did DeM tell dirty jokes in his classroom?
--He's not much of a teacher, is he?

NISO NEw Orleans File reveals prior investigation of Subject under CCN 12-20-651

_ 11£0163-3a which investigation was conducted to determine the extent of :
influence over subject by his mother, Betty Jean Mann and Stepfather, Harold J.
Mann both of whom are believed to be Communists. (communist Party has been cited

by USAG as a subversive organization pursuant to E.O. 10450. NISO New Orleans

HW 50955  DocId:32260991 Page 7

     

 

     
*

Memo, 3/18/77 from Dallas Field Office

(deleted) and Sirkin meeting-Sirkin advised (deleted) that -a Cuban had reported
that he had met with a Cia agent named Morris Bishop and LHO at 505 N.Ervay

Street approximately one month before the JFK Assassination. Sirkin said it was
common knowledge that the CIA had offices there and that Morris Bishop was an alias
‘for (deleted) : .

State Airgram no A-406 11/4/63 from Port-au-Prince. Subject: US Businessman
signs contract with Haitian Gov't and local bank.

Arrived at Port dec. 21 no year luggage not checked.
DeM discussed residence and activity of citizen Mohammed Fayid without encouragement

Alexandra had been dating him and DeM did not trust him.
speculation-DeM's association with Mohammed seemsprofessionally necessary but dangerot

 

 

May 21, 1963-DeM drops into (code word) says Charles has returned to haiti and is:
seriously being considered as the next president.

FBI Memo from Hoover to Rainkin 3/23/64
"Reference is made to your letter dated 2/12/64 wherein you requested a full scale
intelligence type investigation concerning G. DeM. :

In view of the present residence of the DeMs in Haiti and their previous: travels
through Mexico and. South America you may want to contact the CIA re DeM.

Report #CS 3/449, 717 Infor Report Noforn

subject: Intelligence Activities of Al-Nasir Trading Co. June/July 1960- -profits of
Nasir were being transferred to a special fund of the gov't for financing

clandestine operations. UAR Gov't used company for ‘illegal’ transactions such as
trade with France on basis of commission fee of 10%. Lt. Col. Mohammed Ghanina,
director of Company, reported to have inkeitiigunzr engaged in intelligence operations
during previous assignment as Manager of Niel Com. (spelling?)

Memo 7/30/42 from Ensign Horrigan to Commander Vanderbilt, oss
DeM said that he was

a .rep.for an Irish film company distributing films taken
under the auspices of the Irish government during the Spanins War. His uncle's place
was raided after that at the suggestion of a friend of mine and found many films of
a pro Nazi nature which are intended to show force and effectiveness of the German
army.

Office of Strategic Services June 26, 1942 "It is impossible for us to advise you
definately for another week or two. In the meantime, if you decide to accept the Mexi
offer, please advise us where you can to reached." letter to Dem from Vanderbilt

June 23, 1942 Letter to Vanderbilt offering services and resume Mentions new and
exciting enterprise in Mexico.
resume states that DeM was a foreign correspondence of 2 polish newspapers
and collaborated with Polish official press.
1941 -collaborated with Department of Economic Info and French Gov't

May 19, 1942 From Robert Alcorn to Vanderbilt, "Here is another non-citizen who
looks like good material. ,

HW 50955 Docld:32260991 Page 5
Mohamed Fayid 1/12/64 siad to have connections with Castro represents General Commer
and Navigation Co. of Kuwait

FBL Report 1/3/67 Dallas DeMs close contact with Haiti is Wlodzimierz Galicki-
polish commercial rep in Haiti. Subject (deM) has also been on clos terms with
(deleted)

DCD Volume May 6, 1963 we had private conversstion with (source) -"if Duvalier
learned of his contact with US gov "t it would cost his wife’ s life.

information re: picture taken of (deleted) per request of HSCA investigation —
Charge made on WFAA-TV, LHO was employed by the CIA and (deleted) knew LHO

Bob Sirkin-WFAA-TV advised that a Cuban had reported that he met with a
“CIA agent named Morris Bishop and XKXXXKHEXWHE LHO in the 505 N. Ervay Building.
approximately one month before the JFK assassination and ‘at the time the CIA
agent offered money to LHO to kill Kennedy. Sirkin said it was common knowledge
that CIA had offices in the 505 N. Ervay Building at the time of the Assassination,
and that Morris Bishop was an alias used for (deleted)

. (deleted) service in Dallas as overt employee in 1954 except 1972-72 when he ‘served
at DCD Headquarters.

Routing a-d Record Sheet-refers to DeM as a former contact of the dallas office: on wh
there is a headquarters file.

Possibility that the NY office wanted a copy of the security check on DeM.

DeM. had been in D.C. re: report stating, DeM acknowledged to the WC that during WWIL
he worked in the US on behalf of the French Intelligence, a fact that perhaps was
not known at the time of our contact with him in D.C. and NY.

"Obviously Dem" s acknowledgement of his ‘addiliation with the French Intelligence:
and his friendship with (deleted) of Haiti indicate the necessity for reviewing
our friendship with them. Should we meet with (deleted) in NY if he requests am
interview? What should we do if (source) shows up in the company of the G DeM
couple? Please advise.

John Hall was a classmate of DeM.

Telegram: From New York April 26, 1965 Vol 5.

"Now understand alleged agreement with man called Moski , who smal] travel agent
who depends on others for financing. Most ulikely that he could offer, let alone
implement mentioned terms. Please telephone collect. Regards, Manfred

In early 1964-DeM received a postcard marked Ceylon from Erik E. Lehmann-
...Best greetings from other side. Hope all is well with you-Has there been any:
progress in our matters?

Letter from "Sam"- Dec. 8, 1964 ...Priscilla Johnson was with Marina the night
you appeared on CBS and she reports that Marina felt 'J' is jealous since
George has camel (could be carnal) feelings toward her

 
Play

veidstconsenszat File Review : pep ar f
Beth Anne Lichtenfels . : Vaud ss

vw

During the last week in May, 1978, I examined the files of George DeMohren~-
schildt at the request of staff attorney Mickey Goldsmith. The following isa
summary of the available files on George DeMohrenschildt.

The bulk of the files indicate a cloudy summary of DeM's past, his involvement ©
with his various wives, his occupations and his relationship with LHO.
Sas Kk poierd By fer S/R/ ie yp
In February of 1963, DeM asked a Judge Duvall if he could help a young man
get his discharge changed. Stated that the young man was from Fort Worth, had
defected to Russia and had returned. An attempt was made to reach the young man
but failed. The matter was dropped.

 

 

During a trip to Mexico City, date not given, DeM claims to have met a ‘high
ranking Russian official. (possibly *ekoyan ?
Ca! Ley cgfreel Ye Sle dk
thes DeM attdepted to borrow $100,000 from Rai gorodsky to develop a
corporation which would develop commercial resources in Haiti .

D

The DeMs entered Haiti without a passport, but rather used a tourist card.
In an interview with Gary Taylor, DeM claims to have worked for the State
Department in the mid 1950's. . :

A Mr. Bunre (spelling ?) recalled a conversation with DeM in which
he (DeM) Stated that he had been forced to join the Communist Party while. living,
in Russia ,a dn the alternative was death had he not complied.

A Mr. Tom Sands, manager of Pithin County Commission and owner of Aspen
Lumber and Supply Co. said that there never has been any organization known as’ the
Rangely Supply Co. in Aspen. -

A

  

; PEE pra, .

Report by James Wood 3/14/78 Dia 4, wf. ph We

On 1/63 he wrote a letter to an aquaintence stating. that he had been informed
by the FBI that LHO was. harmless, was interview at Port-au Prince and said that Max
Clark told him that LHO was o.k. and was of the impression that Max Clark had been
-with the FBI. ;

Bi Lege LPO ES

LH icd Mr. (déleted) met LHO in 1962. LHO had arrived at the DeM home in the middle
of dinner. LHO, DeMs and (deleted source) went to a house or nearby building in
Dallas and showed a film covering the entire trip to Mexico. (deleted source) did ,
not talk to LHO or see him again.

Col Orlov_ stated that DeM casually stated that he and some others were
trying to arrange for a divorce for Marina from LHO .

; DeM's resume states that he had special connections in Government circles in
Cuba, etc. fe

In 1963, members of the staff of a large unnamed business firm attended a
discussion group and LHO was there.

FBI Report 2/28/64-— DeM contact with Fedor Alekseevich Garanin, a Soviet Diploma

in D.C. Alekseevich was also a member of the Soviet State Security Force and had:
served in Cuba . ,

HW 50955 Docld:32260991 Page 2
180-10105-10060

 

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

10/2/201

 

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1
HW 50955 Docld: 32260991

Agency Information

HSCA
180-10105-10060

NUMBERED FILES
013784

Document Information
HSCA
LICHTENFELS, BETH ANNE

05/00/1978
8

CIA

DE MOHRENSCHILDT, GEORGE; ASSOCIATION WITH
OSWALD

OSWALD, MARINA; ASSOCIATES AND RELATIVES
OSWALD, LEE; POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD; ASSOCIATES AND
RELATIVES

DE MOHRENSCHILDT, JEANNE

SUMMARY.
Unclassified
3

Redact
09/27/1996

Box 241.

Page 1
April 7, 1969 ~ DeM showed (deleted) a card from President Francois Duvalier with
: ‘which he said he could travel anywhere in the republic without a problem,
F April 21, 1964 --Letter to (deleted) questioning whether we (CIA?) had a hand in
’ biackballing DeM.

DCD documents-report stating that (source) wanted to deal with U.S. gov't. officials
without DeM.

Memo- Subject (deleted) May 20, 1963, according to Mrs. Matlack, subject had
appointments to see V.P.Johnson, Sen. keating and Congressman Rogers.

Security Files on DeM

 

Sept. 28, 1967 - Memo, Subject, Garrison Investigation, p.6, Queries from
Justice Department:
“Any CIA association with DeM?—No
Ex FBI Agent W. Tucker-DeM may have. been LHO's CIA babysitter in Dallas

-CIA ‘COnnection---- : . :
disproved for OSS employment-suspected of Nazi agent
July 18, 1962 : : oO

August 13, 1958-derogatory information furnished to contact office interested
in interrogating him.
Jeanne DeM-employed as receptionist by a covert project NCFE from 1950-1951

DeM's brother, Dimitri approved for exploitation, April 11, 1950 as contact ‘for forei
intelligence on a limited basis-not to receive classified info above confidential
KEMEXREXNNKEXNRERX | ane :
DeM Investigated by the FBI, 1941, 42, 45, 47, 57
1940-42, Considered to be pro~German, suspected of
being espionage agent :

WC Testimony-DeM did not associate with LHO after 4/19/63 when they left for NY, Phil
and D. Cc.

Request for information on DeM made by Gale Allen, 4/29/6

request made through Anne Panor (DOD). Interesting that Allen's interest in DM
coincided with earlier portion of this trip and information would suggest that
possibly Allen and DM were possibly in the same environment in D, around April
26/1963

State department airgram Nol-153 12/22/63 contains results of 2nd interview with

DM Also indicates that Marina lived with Mellers (Anna Méller)

Ruth Paine is the daughter of Wm Avery Hyde 0SC-157435 who was considered for covert
use by 10 division but did not receive security clearance.

Message from Port~au-prince, Oct. 19, 1966 - J and G DeM left for Haiti aboard the
Mona One- G listed as a sailor on crew and his wife as a cook. G told

officer his Oct. 10 plans. Return Dallas had left for Haiti with several months
rent unpaid.

Memo 3/18/77 from Dallas Field Office

@eleted) and Sirkin meeting~Sirkin advised (deleted) that a Cuban had reported
that he had met with a CIA agent named Morris Bishop and LHO in 505 N Ervay Bidg.
approximately one month before the JFK assassination. Sirkin said that it was common
knowledge that the CIA had offices there and that M. Bishop was an alias of (deleted)

HW 50955 DocId:32260991 Page 3
“Marilyn Wilcox, Pan Am employee--stated that she learned from Jean and Suzanne
. Sawel. (spelling ?) that DeM was a good friend of Robert McElhannon a top Pan Am
official.

 

At 0830 on May 7, 19--, a call was made to a Mrs Matlack to confirm that
Charles would be in D.C. on that day and that a meeting had been arranged with an
agency representative for 12 noon. Mrs. Matlack retorted that Jeanne and George
DeM had called her that previous evening to confirm a lunch appointment for 12 noon.
(alson but not included in this specific report, Mrs. Matlack had been asked by the
Dems to reserve rooms for them at a hotel She attempted to do this but had problems
because apparently the reservations were to include a black. She finally was able
to secure rooms at Alban towers.) Mrs. Matlack was concerned that the Cia and the
Army should not be working at cross purposes. She had received authorization from
ACBI to meet Charles at lunch and felt that it would be impolite to withdraw since
the Army considered her their point of contact with Charles. WH division then
wanted the meeting changed to the late afternoon. Mrs. MAtlack believed that due
to conflicting instructions she had been placed in the middle.

 

 

 

 

MATLACK-Domestic Exploitation Sec. ACSI

Diary Exerpt 4/4/77 -Dennis Berand planned to call (deleted) in Dallas re
the Reader's Digest Article by J. Epstein. "Sooner or later E will get into out
Dallas office, find (deleted) was there and try to make a connection" Dennis just
wanted to alert: us.

Another reference to the trip 4/19/63 to NY, Philly, but does not mention D.C.

(illegible) mentions that Jeanne DeM saw gun in Apartment in Oakleaf, a Dallas
suburbs NY Times article 12/20/63 arrest of Russell McLarry on charges of ©
threatening JFK. Lived in Oakcliff section of Dallas, a sprawling area where LHO’
lived. ;

DeM is said to have signed the Marion Anderson petition-believed to have high
percentage of Communists in D.C. area and is said to be on the list for the
advancement of blacks.

DeM is said to have detailed photos of harbor defenses at Corpus Christi.

Division of operations-Article written for Le Monteur, 3/31/63
states that DeM was awarded $280, 000 plus a 10 year contract for a concession
on . DeM claims to have done geological work for Meek Corp., in offshore
oil , the Arabian Peninsula and in mentioning this, DeM looked around the room and
over his shoulder and said, "my connection with this, is, of course, confidential".
Worked through the Minister of Finance, Herve Boyer, to gain concession.

(deleted) said Charles and DeM were anxious to develop a number of business
interests in Haiti including an office in DeM's bank which would enter into car
Financing and'would buy some of the banks commercial paper. (deleted) said that
M. Charles made an unusual statement announcing that the 3rd partner in addition
to Charles and DeM-a frenchman was coming into NY on Monday and that a meeting
had been ser up for (deleted)to meet him . M. Charles said, "It is not appropriate
for a banker to ask for Money." (deleted) said that DeM sought every available
handout in his office. —

application for federal employment, May 1, 1964 (7?)

 

On May 10, 1964, Irwin B Bornfruend saw Jeanne DeM and Galicki at Kyona Beach
35 miles outside of Port-au-prince :

HW 50955 DocId:32260991 Page 4.
