HW 50955

OOPtOt

Interview of Doug Gupton, 8/22/78.

Douglas Gupton was interviewed by Dan Hardway and Gaeton Fonzi at
9245 AM at CIA Headquarters at Langley. He was shown the letter of release
(omnibus) and stated that he understood it.

. Mr. Gubton said that he was born on 5/9/29 and that he is currently

retired and living in

Mr. Gupton stated that he was an operations officer of the CIA in _
1963 assigned to either the Covert Action division or the
desk. Mr. Gupton said that he left Miami in mid 1961, one or two months
after the Bay of Pigs. Mr. Gupton.stated that he subsequently worked on
the Covert Action Guidance staff which provided support for CA projects.
He stated that Mexico City CA projects would habe been reviewed by the
CA Guidance Staff. _

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mr. Gupton served with the CIA from 12/51 to 6/30/78. Prior to 1960
Gupton worked in . He stated that he did not know Joseph B. Smith
or Frank Fiorini Sturgis. He did know E. Howard Hunt.

‘Mr. Gupton stated that he was in charge of propoganda operations in
the JMWAVE station. He said that he was often meeting Cuban agents directly
and that he also had a couple of Case Officers wou worked for him. He
provided guidance for those CO/s. He pointed out that his efforts were
limited to propoganda. Mr. Gupton stated that he was not involved in radio
Swan at all; that operation .was handled directly out of Washington by
David Phillips. Gupton stated that Roberto Espin did not work on Radio
Swan but that he.did do radio propoganda for a cousin of Raul Castro's wife.
These were commercial broadcasts from Miami on Agency purchased time. Mr.
Gupton said that he gave Espin “general guidance” but gave him pretty much
free reign otherwise.

Mr. Gupton stated that he communicated with Dave Phillips, his boss in
Washington, by telephone and cable. He said that Phillips visited Miami
quite often.

Mr. Gupton said that his relationship with his Case Officers was informal.
He said that he would discuss: things with them rather than exercise formal
leadership.

Mr. Gupton was asked about the control the CO's exercised over the various
Cuban groups. Gupton said that there was a mutuality of interest and that the
exiles had a good respect for the U.S. and realized that we were their only
nope for the future. Gupton added that most of the exiles were sincere
patriots.

Mr. Gupton recalled the DRE and stated that he often met with the leader
of that group. He could not recall having met Salvat but does remember hearing
of him. Gupton said that he was personnally in contact with dozens of Cubans
ranging from representatives in media, labor, students, women, politics,’ etc.
Mr. Gupton said that with some of the CUbans he had daily contact. . He said
he was dn contact with Espin on the average of ‘three times a week.

Gupton said that he did not coordinate nis operations with Hunt whom he
met occassionally but more with Bender.

Docld:32263529 Page 2 ee,
180-10110-10124

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

 

v9.1

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Agency Information

HSCA
180-10110-10124

SECURITY CLASSIFIED FILES
155-JFK

Document Information

HSCA

08/22/1978
2

CIA, ADMINISTRATION

SUMMARY
Unclassified
1A

Redact
06/13/1997

Box 5.

HW 50955 DBocId:322363525 Page i

Date:

10/21/20
HW 50955

Gupton-2 . poze

Gupton does not recall] either Hunt or Phillips ever using the name
"Knight".. Gupton stated that he never met agents together with Phillips
and that he does not recall hearing Phillips use any name other. than his
own.

Gupton did discuss his problems with Phillips but more often with the
Chief of Station.whom he thinks was Bob Reynolds. Gupton said that his main
concern was to keep Phillips informed and that he tried to solve his problems
himself.

- Gupton said that he did not work with San Jenis.

-Gupton stated that Ross Crozier was one of the Case officers who worked
for him. He said that he saw Crozier daily. He does not remember that
Crozier handled the DRE. He said that he would know what Crozier was doing
in general but not in detail. He said that there were periods when Crozier
would disappear for several days.

Gupton said that he was aware of the leaflet drops over Cuba after bhey
had occured. He was not involved in the operation which Phillips had ran
out of Washington. Mr. Gupton pointed out that. not all the propoganda was
coordinated in that Phillips did a lot of things on his own out of Washing-
ton that he did not let Gupton in on. Gupton stated that he had never met
Pedro Diaz Lanz. Gupton stated that there were two sets of operations.

His operations were ran out of Miami and he kept Phillips informed. Phillips
ran a second set of seperate operations personnally out of Washington and
he did not keep Gupton briefed on these operations. Gupton said that. the
FRD also ran independent propoganda operations. Gupton stated that Phillips
used many of his old contacts from Havanna in his personal operations during

the Bay of Pigs. He said that one.of these people was Luis Conte-Aguera.
‘Gupton:;said that Phillips did not.do his trouble shooting for him and he does

not recall Phillips ever using the name Maurice Bishop. When confronted
generally with Crozier's story Gupton said "Well, maybe I did. I don't
remember." Gupton said that the sketch of Bishop did not look like anyone
he knew. He said that he had never heard the name Bishop in Miami.

He does not know Paul Bethel but remembers the name. He does not
know Companda. .He did not meat Ted Shackly until he became chief of the
Division. He said that the name Salvador Diaz Verson was familiar and
also that of Jerry Buchanon but he does not remember that they were ever
used ‘by the Agency.  Gupton did state.that Hal Hendrix was a friend of
Phillips. Gupton said that Phillips met him in Havanna and that Phillips
often used him to place articles in the Miami News.

Mr. Gupton stated that he had never heard of Celluma Fantasma.or-

Alpha 66.

Gupton stated that he did not know Max Lesnick.

DoclId:32263529 Page 3
