. Patrick Carp tier | "
d1 5, 1978 @ a . ©

   

 

7) “fhe CIA's written statement replying to the Committee's
Son of February 21, 1978 for an explanation of the
ing the years T8S58-64 was not responsive to our inguiry
\ because the CIA's w. Peten Statement dig not focus on the

relevant time period. Acc sdingly, I am renewing our
request of February 21, 1978. Trthe event that there
were no criteria governing the openin= such files

éuring that period, the Committee would appresigce =
written statement indicating that this was the cass

 

 

 
  

 

8) CIA document #£563~-810 indicates thal/eiere are 37 Gocu-
‘ments that should be in Lee Harvey Oswaid's 201 file
but which are missing from the file. Furthermore, this
document also indicates that there should be a machine
listing of these documents attached as part of document
. 563-810, but no such listing appears in the file. The
Select Committee on Assassinations requests that the
CIA provide a listing of such documents as well as a
written explanation of where those documents are lo-
cated and why they do not appear in Oswald's 201 file.
Pursuant to my letter of December 27, 1977, I would like
to note that the document referred to in this paragraph
is a classified document. :

  
   

 

     

ble to her

    
 

  

cy Act, it is apparent +
ilable to the Commit

is. As the Committee has
already requested all TNibemation contained in vour
files on the individuals who”ane the subjects of our
‘requests, Please review the files™shat you have pre-
viously made available to us for the Pucvose of ensur-
ing that all of the information pertainirg-<o the
individuals involved has, in fact,been provided

tt
+ (DM

ox

Pe
Po

is

°
ct
wR
ts

I

 
 
  

\h who served_as case officers in the Soviet Russian Division of

VW the CIA's Station for the period 1963 through February
a | 1964, as well as the Chief(s) of Station and Deputy Chief(s) of
Station for that period. The Committee requests that the CIA *

 

y f/O Finally, the .Committee would like to interview all persons

 

 

 

 

 
 

   
 

7

. . . . ‘ aed
A er ae
_ Sa rats ne, > baa OWE, CHIO ‘
cee pemoren . ay ;
Coan Riiercen, NOT, . “

HAROLD 3. BAWYER, MAC

Fiero a. rita Ino, . Select Committee on Assassinations

PONENT W, EDGAR. PA ;
(202) 225-4628 GL. House of Representatises -,
3331 HOUSE CFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

April 5. 1978

Mx. Patrick Carpentier ‘ -
Office of the Legislative Counsel 74S
Centrai Incelligence Agency .
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr.. Carpentier:

In connection with its investigation into the circum-
stances surrounding the death of President Kennedy, the Select
Committee on Assassinations requests access to all files and
file references pertaining to the following individuais:

/. . 1) . Edward Jay Epstein
a. 2) ‘Marvin Kantor

3) Charlotte Bustos

Te eer

4) Annie Goodpasture.

 

'In addition, please provide the Committees with accass to
the following information: :

5) Any an@fali investigative reports prepared by'E.
Howard Hunt pertaining to the John F. Kennedy assas-

\ sination. (These reports were not necessarily pre-
> . pared during the period of Mr. Hunt's employment
of with the CIA)._
. 6) The file that was prepared by the CIA in reference to
a —> E. Howard Hunt's alleged Watergate-reiated activities.

The Committee previously requested access to all CIA files
pertaining to E. Howard Hunt in its letter to you of Jahvary 6,
1978. However, Roger Gabrielson, of your staff, has requested |
that the particular requests identified above, be put in writing.

The Committee would also appreciate a response from the
CIA regarding the following matters: :

 
  

sow. M-, “Patrick Carpentier
- April 5, 1978
Page 3° ; ‘ .

either make these persons available for our stafi to in
or provide their last known address so that we can cont
directly. : : .

nterview
act them
Thank you for your continuing cooperation.

Sincerely,

72 Neer Peabo

G. Robert Blakey
Chief Counsel ana Director

GRB : bwd

   

IS TE

 
