 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-~ 24 -

On February 1, 1964 Helms appeared before the
Commission (see above) and likely discussed the memoran-
dum of January 3/ , 1964. On Feburary 10, 1964, J. Lee
Rankin wrote Helms in regard to the CIA memorandum of
January 31. A review of Rankin's letter indicates that

Ars we iting toe

@imeckeeet as Of Ghemtzeemem@ewe, the Warren Commission
had no substantive knowledge of the telephoné¢surveillance
operation or the production i.e., the tapes and trans-
cripts, from that operation. Rankin inquired in the Feb-
ruary 10, 1964 fatter whether Oswald's direct communica-
tion with employees of the Soviet Embassy (as stated in
| of the January 31 memorandum) had been facilitated
by telephone or interview. Manifestly, if the Warren Com-
mission had been informed of the telephong surveillance
operation and its success in tapping Oswald this inquiry
by Rankin would not have been made.

Raymond Rocca's testimony tends to support this
conclusion. It was Rocca's recollection that between
the time period of January 1964 - April 1964, Warren Com-
mission's representatives had visited the CIA's headquar-
ters in Langley, Virginia and had been shown various trans-
cripts resulting from the CIA's telephon& surveillance
operations in Mexico City. (Rocca dep. p.89) However,
Mr. Rocca did not personally make this material available
to Commission representatives and was not able to state
under oath precisely the point in time at which the Warren

Commission learned of these operations.
   

-~ 25 -

On February 19, 1964 the CIA responded to Rankin's
inquiry of February 10. The Agency response did indi-

cate that Oswald had phoned the Soviet Consulate and was

 

 

also interviewed at the Consulate. However, the Agency did
not reveal the source of this information in its response
to the Commissioggpr indicate that it would be revealed

by other means (e.g. by oral briefing).

Vv. During the period of March - April 1964, David
Slawson drafted a series of memoranda which among other
issues concerned Warren Commission knowledge of and access
to the production material derived from the CIA telephon¢e

surveillance operations in Mexico City. A review of

 

these memoranda ten@to support the Committee's belief

that the Warren Commission, through Mssrs. Slawson, Coleman,
and Willeys did not obtain access to CIA telephone surveil-
lance materials until April 9, 1964. At that time, Coleman,
Frwson and Willens met with Win Scott, the CIA's Chief

of Station in Mexico city Bit trovided them with various
transcripts and translations derived from CIA telephone
taps of the Cuban and Soviet Embassy/Consulates. (Slawson
memorandum of April 22, 1964, subject: Tr,

Apri
HeWere r , Prior to AEG it appears doubtful

that the Commission had been given even partial access

 

to the referenced material. Nevertheless, by March 12,

 

      
~ 23-

“oo
“The CIA's meal to inform the ‘Warren Commission

  
  

 

~

 
 

vestigation. t

 

Tr oaaasi aaseelnenbhieninmeneen is’ a source \°/

. Agen
of concern to t is committee. | wt is indicative of an” cgimlepims .
. Woeq dh esinnedt Ske) in tf favor the potas

an WRC Lalt snennrtebl
“substance ci, information oe Provided

tt

“ “the Warren Commission. (See Scelso debty = “This process

 

"might well have hampered the Commission's ability to pro- =”
ceed in its investigation with all the facts before it,

Sak
even np thosS which might have meant exposing ‘certain sensi-

   

_tive operations to the Commission. |
ee ; 7 i As noted previously,. on January Ble 1964, the CIA
. _ provided the Warren Commission with a -jiemozandum that
- chronicled Lee Harvey Oswald's Mexico Gity visit¢ during
; . September 26, 1963 - October 3, 1963. . That memorandum ~-
—- —sveemastilonaniont -
_ we noffen tion Oswald's various conver
. sations with the Cuban and’ soupe Embassy/Consulates had * :
_ been tapped and subsequently transcribed: “Furthermore,
4 7 ot that memorandum aod ndffenticn eemmmee that the CIA’
_ had tapped and transcribed conversations between Cuban.
. _ EMbassy employee Sylvia Duran and Soviet officials at:
. the Soviet Embassy/Consulate nor was mention made of the’

. conversations between Cuban President Dorticos’ and Cuban .

 

C1
“Ambassador to Mexico which the CIA had’ also tapped and

whe

transcribed.
 

Iv.

22 -
sas te lee ay ake con Fhe vs0ul
the form of this presentation Ee ] pro-

tect the CIA's Mexico City Station's sources and techniques.

(CIA Cable Dir. 90466, FOIA 420-757, 20 Dec 63)

Telephone Taps and Photo Surveillance

 

Mr. Helms offered testimony regarding the CIA's

reticence to inform the Warren Commission, at least during
fhe Gorn SS pon $ ussahtde
the initial stage of the CIA's telephonic and photo sur-

veillance operations in Mexico City, (ito esiemtis
SoTL, Helms testified:

The reason for the sensitivity of these tele-
phone taps and surveillance was not only be-
cause it was sensitive from the Agency's
standpoint, but the telephone taps were run- 4
ning in conjunction with the [Mexican authori-
tieS]and therefore, if this had become public
knowledge, it would have caused very bad feel-
ings between Mexico and the United States,

and that was the reason. (Helms Exec Session
hearing, pp.51-52,

) OT ,

 

Nevertheless, the CIA had provided information to
the FBI regarding the Mexico City surveillance operations
prior to the assassination_and during the post-assassination

SOPs | 63 feof OL Facthtcen~are
). ine, aS

 

of November 28, 1963 the White House, through information

made available by DCI McCone to National Security Council?
ad Pte AS 7

Director McGeorge Bundy, "8M aware that the CIA had tele-

phone taps in operation against the Cuban and Soviet Em-

bassy/Consulategand that through these taps Oswald's pre~-

sence in Mexico City prior to the assassination had been

corroborated. ai ke (Me Coag Ems Yr Me Gee op bees wo
 

 

 

 

- 18 -

rounding™photograph now referred to as that

of the "Mexico City Mystery Man"
Each of these concerns will be examined Samrat
Grerein.

The CIA's concern for revealing the existence of

sensitive technical operations, as outlined above, was
e

evident from the gdbception of the Warren Commission.
Mr. Scelso commented that "we were not authorized at first
to reveal all our technical operations." (Scelso dep.
p.158) Scelso further testified:

We were going to give them intelligence re-

ports which derived from all our sources, in-

cluding technical sources, including the tele-

phone intercept and the information gotten

from the interrogation of Silvia Duran, for

example, which corresponded almost exactly

with the information from the telephone inter-

cepts. (Ext to Scelso quote, all of p.5)

Mr. Scelso's characterization is supported by
examination of the background to the first major CIA
report furnished the Warren Commission rggarding Lee Harvey

Bt Daun menve
Oswald's trip to Mexico City. ‘(Cite.}) Much of the informa-
tion provided to the Warren Commission in this report was
based upon sensitive sources and methods, identification
of which had been deleted completely from the report.
b

me boricy Sump limiting Warren Commission know-
ledge of CIA sources and methods was articulated as early
as December 20, 1963, at which time a cable was sent from

CIA headquarters to the Mexico City Station which stated:

Our present plan in passing information to the
Warren Commission is to eliminate mention of tele-

   

 
- 19 =

phone taps, in order to protect your contin-
uing 6p$ . Will rely instead on statements
of Silvia Duran and on contents of Soviet
Consular file which Soviets gave ODACID
(CIA cable DIR 97829 FOIA 498-204, 29Jan1964)

 

The basic policy articulated in the December 20,
1963 cable is also set forth in a CIA memorandum of |
December 17, 1963. In that memorandum, Birch O'Neal
S ptcid Trvestigead los Group”
of the CIA Counterintelligence/$taff wrote that he had
been advised by Sam Papich, FBI liaison mea to the CIA,
that the FBI was anticipating a request from the Warren
Commission for copies of the FBI's materials which sup-
ported or complimented the FBI's five volume report of
Decmeber 9, 1963 submitted to the Warren Commission.

Papich provided O'Neal with this report which indicated

that some United States Agency was tapping telephones

 

in Mexico. Papich queried O'Neal whether the FBI could
supply the Warren Commission withMource of the telephone
taps. (The FBI had knowledge of CIA's telephone surveil-
lance operations in Mexico City, see CIA SQCI-3/779/510)

she ws : oo.
O'Neal's memorandum \aEMM@EM that he discussed this matter

 

with Scelso who in turn, after a discussion with Helms,
was directed by Helms to prepare CIA material to be passed
to the Warren Commission. O'Neal wrote:

He (Scelso) was quite sure it was not the
Agency's desire to make available to the Com-
mission at least in this manner--via the FBI-
sensitive information which could relate to
telephone taps (Birch O'Neal, Memo for File,
20 Dec 63, Subj: Lee Harvey Oswald)

 

 
 

 

are
Patdor ag

ag Perbe rPiype

  

12) PRIS. 5 TOES |

poe

Eye Cesculestimens of Kikev Helms, e/4/ 2,
= Y, exalle SCA Class. Depo ETAL Scalry

/' [78 P. (38)

: 4 re (orien Crnemeoeeon. IPS cA Chas.

, Dye of Rayment Poca pple-izd, Leocen
- = bdehtahn ntemoans

 

bh bi a mare AO
GPFLOR plirae Katha CLetae) User XW
jst ee er
?. (uk he pretence
ae a The here ven ZA T
a | Couey
= RETURN TO Gia

BE Not He Use Only
jot Reproduce

 
 

 

_ LSA Chest, Depo eC Tih n Seeley.
//2 Zrec Session FZ ,

) Tethmong of Rr chard Helins, 3/2/75,

7 joa. Garkes AOOALEL ThA LO Cdn Chars od

    

7 OR WRAL

/

Crretin, LSS Book®, pas

MOL Sele fun Tek = ef Soha Scetro Why 28y Ppl Je
ia LEE eng st hrched Melyns Ya bs ph tts)

Chur’. [een tn ek _

 
 
  
  

a)
‘

af

|

 

A _ oe HH oowy

 
 

 

 
ia

 

 

Yue

Thas Qo amit HE
wf Conc

- Areas d
~te

’ po -~ JJ -

Mr. Rocca, as the day to day CIA working level
contact with the Warren Commission stated that on the
average it took less than one week for the CIA to transmit
its information to the Warren Commission, after such in-
formation had been processed by the Agency. (Rocca dep.,

pp.66-67) (Add the opinion of WC staffers.)
Hi rnd:

However, S, Gar ee rape —
Conthien Pot protecting its

ei! the CIA's senstived sources and methods, caused

the Warren Commission to experience greater difficulty

evar

in getting (mm information than when the protection of

such sources and methods was not at issue. J. Lee Rankin

expressed the opinion that the Agency's egggggy to pro-

tect its sensitive sources and methods did gsamert,c
coh toh
wun effect emmgn the quality of the information to Sigumm@eer

 
  
 
   

the Warren Commission and its, en access.

mepreromnsigg ith helt hmm

rg Aes re

(Rankin at p-23) Jo fn some instanc&

 

   
  
   

a <D
3 on od “Wha seetpnipnggeen re
Agency wamtiammaisic unilateral decisions emempemigaisiagesdsbeemere] c—
vgs b access tecst b
Bese) came ogi materials japgemine quumiiaioae the Commission. (Scekso dep.
be 68
—$Sue
OTE
3th
— UTE
20 §
34 §
Ee
a) 3
ga3
t ‘ 57 . .
0 operations of the CIA's Mexicof City Station
34 elles of
3% 2) As a related consideration ,the~controversy sur-

  
 

 
