 

-208=

with Lee Harvey Oswald on several occasions
when the latter was in Mexico is probably
new, but adds little to the Oswald case.
Second the Mexican police did not report
the extent of the Duran-Oswald relationship:
to this Station. ¥ 747

of such a relationship between Oswald and Duran. Elena

    
 
 

This was not the first report

bpd ; .
GarrdYreported the same information to Charles Thomas

  
  

That the Mexican government did not disclose all the
ne w Amincan Authorikins

1) the Mexican government did not want to disclose that
eS , ; ;
one of €heiz citizens had had intimate relations with
the assassin of John Kennedy; or
: Ve
2) Silvia Duran was a Mexican penetration agent in the

Cuban Consulate and the Mexican government was protecting

‘informant by minimizing her relationship with-
: eee faked.

     

erg fete goth as Gere me ee ae

b. The possibility that Silvia Duran was an
agent for either American, Mexican or Cuban
Intelligence.

Since the publication of the Warren Commission

Report in September 1964, critics. have written about

the possibility that Silvia Duran was an intelligence

   
8

 

~209-

agent@ for either the Americans, Mexicans or Cubans.
ASSE*+ OR Sovace

(1) was Silvia Duran an agent,“Eor Mexican or
American intelligencege-°
In an effort to resolve this question, the House
gh Prssassivations

Select Committee’reviewed the United States investigative
agencies' files on Silvia buvan! The Committee found
no evidence in this file review that Silvia Duran was
either an American or Mexican intelligence agent.

In addition, the Committee has interviewed most

of the Mexico City Station employees about the possibility.

. wh
Only David Phillips, Chief of Covert Action and the sitihe aaa
ager we A
: og
Cuban Section in the Mexico City Station in 1963, consit

: RSOURCL
dered that Duran was possibly an agent’ Mr. Phillips

stated that "at one time the agency pitched almost
WS x

everyone at the Cuban Embassy," (Pirtttips™srrervites,

DA cepleslsieepe time 8, " Bibleerechlninsenitens ict admiry ere E Eat O
SLL Sa aise ert Hadencbclcanndatl 2} Mr.

Phillips stated that he had first heard a s

 

“name from thef telephone intergcept transcripts. ™ aieiaie)

But Mr. Phillips asserted that the CIA had no interest

in use Duran because "She wasn't friendly with anyone."

(Ibid.) Mr. Phillips had previously mentioned the CIA

Mexico City Station's interest in recruiting a former

Cuban Ambassador to Mexico named Lifchuga. Mr. Phillips

was shown a memorandum written by W. David Slawson of

the Warren Commission Staff regarding ‘kis trip to Mexica,
Gy WARRER
Comms 4a

SHAFER
h me

   
 

 

-207~

we bid
received a call from Silvia Duran. ~~ [ telephone. tap. on
‘UurkING/3"s s Jeerepnone] contirmea that the Sait had sou
Luiving] we ?

-—— (Laminaes ) [LIRING/3 reported that he had visited
‘Silvia to renew acquaintances, G64.) During the visit,
Duran tola(LIRING/3 that che fiadynet Lée Harvey Oswald
at the Cuban Consulate when hea applied for a visa and
had dated him on several occasions, siete ) Duran
admitted that she nadtieimate relations with Oswald,
but insisted that she had no idea of his plant (Birr: )
In addition, Duran told{ LIRING/3 Jehat when the news of
the assassination became public knowledge, the Mexican
government arrested her and during the interrogation
beat her until she admitted that she had had an affair

a4 “4 74%
with Lee Harvey Oswald. (dbith) [Rowton™ (SERENA

Caveofficerse~psemionyn) counseled LIRING/3 against
any further contact with Duran because the Cubans or
the Mexican police might become suspicious of him a? a
3ieet.') There is no indication in[Rowton' 8 report as
to why contact with Silvia Duran would make ‘the Mexican
Bolice suspicious[of the agent. | The report also notes
that Ms. Duran Says that she has not had congact with

Y ® Sri. )
the Cubans since the time of the assassination’ / There
is no indication in the report as to why[LIRING/3's ]
contact with Duran would make the Cubans suspicious.
The CIA Mexico City Station reported this information

to Headquarters:

First that Silvia Duran had sexual intercourse

fa

   
 

 

eee cereneecammmence nee ; ; 7 . : ian"
Ge © SR

  

~206-

73! ;
Eusebio Azcue of the situation. joc berepmapsre .)

Azcue had been in his private office which he shared
with his upcoming replacement, Alfredo Mirabal. (Sime ,
“TE ) Azcue politely explained the requisites for an
intransit visa to Oswald.) teiadnep—omnnepec! .) When
he noticed that Oswald was a- stubborn man he told Os-
wald that he was obviously not a friend of the Cuban
revolutiongs because he would otherwise understand that

Cuba had to be extremely careful with the people it al-

4%
lowed in the country. (etda—prws) Azcue and Oswald
ast
yelled at each other. ¢ 7 De ©) Then Azcue went
ast

to the door, opened it and asked Oswald to leave. (¢#bid.,

pe-S54.) Oswald did not revisit or telephone the Consu~

197
late. (Boravypovsst) Ms. Tirado described Lee Harvey
SPRRSE
Oswald as approximately five feet six, with” blonde hair,

ent» 739
weighing about 125 pounds, Gy pitty vew Lien

(Betdss pr st. )

 

2. CIA information not available at the time of
the Warren Commission investigation.
a.[1iRine/3 [attegation.
In 1967 a report that Silvia Buran had had
intimate relations with Lee Harvey Oswald came to the
attention of the Central Intelligence Agency's Mexico
City Station. 7 Ties : ith

fisaane rer pier—ter oom ) The source [ LIRING/3, eee OES

the-Ghrretred-extxenetp-tettabste) stated that he had recently

et

J
ot
te -

Oswald

   

      
  
     
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
        
     
 

returned at approximately 1:00.
al
(Heke 5h

Ms. Tirado typed the application in dupli-

p-m. with four photographs.

cate, stapled a picture on top of each and

; We
had Oswald sign each in her presence. ftritk=p

preSey—Ga) As identification, Oswald showed

her documents he had brought: his Russian

‘|labor card, marriage certificate with the.

name of his Russian wife, his American Com-

munist Party membership card and his "Fair
yp?

Play for Cuba" membership card. (Tettcypp-53.1)

Ms. Tirado found Lee Harvey Oswald's be-
havior suspicious because normally a Communist
traveled only with his passport as belonging ©
to the: Communist Party was illegal in Mexico

vats |
in 1963. (ford —p$3.2..)

There was a procedure whereby the American
Communist Party would arrange visa matters for
uF
\their members with the Cuban’ Communist Pa x

rty.
Sere ase) The American would then

 

When. Tirade. asked Oswald 1 why he did not have
“the American Communist Party arrange his trip

x
Tote Cuba). he stated that he had not had | the time.

Tuts a

7 (thrid p22 2) _

 

 

 

 
 

|
i
i
1
:
1.
i
i

b
0
Y-

After explaining to Oswald that he had to ac-
quire a Russian visa before he could receive a Cuban
visa, Tirado jotted her name and business phone number

on a piece of paper and gave it to Oswald who then left
ye 7 UR

to get his Russian visa. Choke Sh ge BL, )

Oswald returned to the Cuban Consulate between

5:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m., which was after normal working
12> 4

hours, J10:00 to 2:00 p.m.¥ bbe —pemiide ) The guard

called Tirado, stating that someone who did not speak
aty ey
Spanish was at the gate inquiring about a visa. (ibid.

pH Sdaede ) As routine procedure, ‘she, asked the guard
as +

-to escort the individual to her office. (Trrtds spb, )

Teh
Oswald told her that he had acquired a Russian visa.

Laeoepermbded) Since he did not produce it when asked,

” my Ve

She called tH’ Russian Consulate. (fbtd-s—-p7 ~) The.

Consul told Duran that Oswald had been to the Consulate

requesting a visa and had been told that the reply would
92 ; .
take approximately four months. (Ebi -pe=8p) When

she relayed. the message to Oswald, he got very excited,

in isting ‘that as a person. who had-been in jail because

229
1e Cuban Revolution. he should receive a visa. ttbidhe

 

  

— Pte “Oswald. stated that he could not wait that long

 

23° ea

, because his Mexican visa “expired in three days. ~Ebid ,

, mete) At this point, Ms. Tirado informed Consulg2

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

“him?

of Oswald as blonde and short. (&@amzmmm.) It had also.

teed. the stetrements been

seamed ws
Cenelugions Wevis net heve

 

apr
-¥ -

angry, and accordingly, the affiant called
Consul Ascue (sic),*** (who) came, out and
began a heated discussion in English with
Oswald, that concluded by Ascue telling him
that "if it were up to him, he would not
give him the visa," and "a person of his
type was harming the Cuban Revolution rather
than helping it," it being understood that

-in their conversation they were talking about

the Russian Socialist Revolution and not the
Cuban. Oswald maintained that he had two rea-

‘sons for requesting that his visa be issued

promptly, and they were: one, that his tourist

permit. in Mexico was about to expire; and :
the other, that he had to get to Russia as j
quickly as possible. Despite her annoyance,

the declarant gave Oswald a paper***in which

she put down her name, "Silvia Duran," and

the number of the telephone at the consulate,

which is "11-28-47" and the visa application

' Was processed anyway. It was sent to the

Ministry: of (Poreign) Relations of Cuba; from
which a routine reply was received some fif-
teen to thirty days later, approving the visa,

“but on the condition that the Russian visa

be obtained first, although she does not re-
call whether or not Oswald leter telephoned
her at the Consulate number that she gave

     

. 10S . .
The. Central Intelligence Agency ‘had relied on

Duran's statements but had delted Duran's description

Toe :

-aski
Ze W964 vo

   

   

 

an

   

'

pom S
iweluded He Warren Commisire
we 3

strony arenes ,

 
 

Ls

 

MN ep anes
THIS COPY iS NOT | fs,
FOR-RELEASE, _

When ‘the Central Intelligence Agency forwarded

  
 

iy
ENT
A od

mAgyt
YES st

Oh

 
     
 

to the Warren Commission a copy of Duran's signed state-
ment. It read as follows:

»»-She remembered...(that Lee Harvey Oswald)
-was the name of an American who had come
to the Cuban Consulate to obtain a visa to
travel to Cuba in transit to Russia, the
latter part of September or the early part of
October of this year, and in support of his
‘application had shown his passport, in which
it was noted that he had lived in that country
for a period of three years; Ws labor card
from the same country written in the Russian i
language; and letters in that same language.
He had presented evidence that he was married
to a Russian woman, and also that he was ap~
parently the leader of an organization in the
city of New Orleans called "Fair *** (Play) for
Cuba," claiming that he should be accepted as
a "friend" of the Cuban Revolution. According-
ly, the declarant, complying with her duties,
took down all of the information and completed
the appropriate application form; and the
declarant, admittedly exceeding her responsi-
bilities, informally telephoned the Russian con-
sulate, with the intention of doing what she
could to facilitate issuance of the Russia visa
to Lee Harvey Oswald. However, they told her.
that there would be a delay of about four months
in processing the case, which annoyed the appli-
cant since, according to his statement, he was
. in a great hurry to obtain visas that would
enable him to travel to Russia, insisting ‘on
his right to do so in view of his background
and his loyalty and his activities in behalf.of |
‘the Cuban movement. The declarant ‘was unable
6 recall accurately whether or ‘not the appli-
ant told her he was’a member of the Communist
arty, but he did say that his wife***was then
-in:New York City, and would follow him, ***
-. (Senora Duran stated) that when Oswald -under-
-.stood that it was not possible to give him a
Cuban visa without his first having obtained
-othe Russian visa,***he became very excited or

 
 
  
  

 

 

LY2— 003!

   
 

 

    
  
    
  
    
  
   
    
 
   

The Warren Commission Staff was not completely.

satisified with Ms. Duran's ten page signed statement

obtained by the Mexican authorities. W. David Slawson

wrote:

We then discussed ... the problem of (inter-
viewing) Silvia Duran. We pointed out that

our only interest in witnesses (in Mexico)
other than Duran was to get their formal testi-.
mony for authentication purposes....This was
not true of Duran,

been interviewed on

that we would li

further. On the essential point of whether
or not his contacts

of anything other than an attempt to travel
to Cuban, Silvia Duran's knowledge has probably
been exhausted.) * 70

(Prerrenr terete crated TOT

 

   

 

’ : : real
in-the-oxigéwel.) ‘The Warren Commission staff's attempts
. . . 707
to interview Ms. Duran never succeeded. (Memoremtun—foar
t =: ; : eto : : ny,
. : . : Ve
0 S884 e+e) Ms

Duran was’ not interviewed by Americans |

- aes] 1976, when two reporters from the.Washington: Post .

  
   

   

be Rd

       

?

  

 
 

). On June’ 6, 1978, representatives °-

    
 
 

: gmmittee on’ Assassinations inter--

   

 
 

OT a cena cette

‘ , : vi. Information ‘not available at the ‘time of the
INVES T\G RY+Lord

1 Warren we wte A
. Oo (wex, Duran)

Tie

   
    

A, Silvia ‘Suten

  
  
  

1. House Select Committee on Assassinations 6/6/78

interview of Silvia Tirado

oi: ici capa

Ms. Tirado SGU divorced Horatio Duran in 1968)
was never questioned by american officials in 1963. Thus,

_ the Committee established contact with the Mexican go-

" vernment and requested that the Mexican government make

3!
Silvia Triado available for an interview. frettexeGon

ROE EC OE NRE a ST) i

The Mexican government complied on 6/6/78. Ms. Tirado

   

told the House Select Committee on Assassinations the
following:

: ; Lee Harvey Oswald visited the Cuban Con-

 
     
 

 

sulate thrée times on September 27, 1963, not

twice as the Warren Commission previously re~
eh ,
Ported.”

 

     
   

4 h Swed her some, documents, then, left to ob-

te ain Photographs needed for his application.
wy

 
