Vi. Information not available at the time of the
Warren Commission

A. Silvia Duran

~N

1. House Select Committee on Assassinations 6/6/78

Interview of Silvia Tirado

Ms. Tirado (Duran divorced Horatio Duran in 1968)

was never questioned by American officials in 1963. Thus,

the Committee established contact with the Mexican go-.
vernment and requested that the Mexican government make
Silvia Triado available for an interview. (Letter HSCA
to Mexican government, , JFK Doc. # )
The Mexican government complied on 6/6/78. Ms. Tirado
told the House Select Committee on Assassinations the
following:

Lee Harvey Oswald visited the Cuban Con-
sulate three times on September 27, 1963, not
twice as the Warren Commission previously re-
ported. (HSCA interview of Silvia Tirado, 6/6/78,
JFK Doc. p- } Oswald first visited the
cuban Consulate at approximately 11:00 a.m.,
requesting an intransit visa to Cuba with Russia
as the final destination. (Ibid., 523-526) He
showed her some documents, then, left to ob-
tain photographs needed for his application.

(Ibid., 523-526)
 

 

-~ 10 -
Oswald returned at approximately 1:00
p-m. with four photographs. (Iibid., p. 526.)
Ms. Tirado typed the application in dupli-
cate, stapled a picture on top of each and
had Oswald sign each in her presence. (ibid.,
p. 527-8.) As identification, Oswald showed
hex documents he had brought: his Russian
labor card, marriage certificate with the
_ name of his Russian wife, his American Com-
munist Party membership card and his "Fair
Play for Cuba" membership card. (Ibid., p. 531)
Ms. Tirado found Lee Harvey Oswald's be-
havior suspicious because normally a Communist
traveled only with his passport as belonging
to the Communist Party was illegal in Mexico
in 1963. (Ibid., p. 533.)

There was a procedure whereby the American
Communist Party would arrange visa matters for
their members with the Cuban Communist Party.
(Ibid., p. 532-533.) The American would then
come to Mexico, visit the Cuban Consulate, and
receive his visa immediately. (Ibid., p. 533.)
When Tirado asked Oswald why he did not have
the american Communist Party arrange his trip
to Cuba, he stated’ that he had not had the time.

(Ibid., p. 532.)

 
angry, and accordingly, the affiant called
Consul Ascue (sic),*** (who) came out and
began a heated discussion in English with
Oswald, that concluded by Ascue telling him
that "if it were up to him, he would not
give him the visa," and “a person of his
type was harming the Cuban Revolution rather
than helping it," it being understood that
in their conversation they were talking about
the Russian Socialist Revolution and not the
Cuban. Oswald maintained that he had two rea-
sons for requesting that his visa be issued
promptly, and they were: one, that his tourist
permit in Mexico was about to expire; and
the other, that he had to get to Russia as
quickly as possible. Despite her annoyance,
the declarant gave Oswald a paper***in which
she put down her name, "Silvia Duran," and
the number of the telephone at the consulate,
which is "11-28-47" and the visa application
was processed anyway. It was sent to the
Ministry of (Foreign) Relations of Cuba; from
which a routine reply was received some fif-
teen to thirty days later, approving the visa,
but on the condition that the Russian visa
be obtainea first, although she does not re-
a call whether or not Oswald leter telephoned
_ her at the Consulate number that she gave

him. (CE 2120 p. 37-40.)

 

The Central Intelligence Agency had relied on
Duran's statements but had delted Duran's description
of Oswald as blonde and short. (Supra.) It had also
excised Duran's statement, “The only aid she could give
Oswald was advising that he see the Soviet Consul, and
calling the person in charge of that office" which
alluded to Oswald asking for some type of aid at the

Cuban Consulate. (Supra, p- )

oe

 

“©
When the Central Intelligence Agency. forwarded
to the Warren Commission a copy of Duran's signed state-

ment. It read as follows:

 

...-she remembered...(that Lee Harvey Oswald)
was the name of an American who had come
to the Cuban Consulate to obtain a visa to
travel to Cuba in transit to Russia, the
latter part of September or the early part of
October of this year, and in support of his
application had shown his passport, in which
it was noted that he had lived in that country
for a period of three years; hs labor card
from the same country written in the Russian
language; and letters in that same language.
He had presented evidence that he was married
to a Russian woman, and also that he was ap-
parently the leader of an organization in the
city of New Orleans called "Pair ***(Play) for
Cuba," claiming that he should be accepted as
a “friend" of the Cuban Revolution. According-
ly, the declarant, complying with her duties,
took down all of the information and completed

“cing the appropriate application form; and the

ae declarant, admittedly exceeding her responsi-
bilities, informally telephoned the Russian con-
sulate, with the intention of doing what she
could to facilitate issuance of the Russia visa
to Lee Harvey Oswald. However, they told her
that there would be a delay of about four months
in processing the case, which annoyed the appli-
cant since, according to his statement, he was
in a great hurry to_obtain visas that would
enable him to travel to Russia, insisting on
his right to do so in view of his background
and his loyalty and his activities in behalf of
the Cuban movement. The declarant was unable

\ to recall accurately whether or not the appli-

cant told her he was a member of the communist
Party, but he did say that his wife***was ‘then
in New York City, and would follow him, ***
(Senora Duran stated) that when Oswald under-
Stood that it was not possible to give him a
Cuban visa without his first having obtained
the Russian visa,***he became very excited or

 
received a Russian visa. She gave Oswald her name
and business phone number but never gave him her ad-

dress because she had no reason to give it to him.

 

She knew that phoning the Soviet Consulate was not one
of her duties and that if she did so she did it only:
to Help Oswald. She gave Oswald her business phone
number only because he would have to call subsequently
to check whether he had obtained a visa. He never called
back." Silvia Duran was released November 24, 1963
and rearrested November 27, 1963, when the Mexican go-
vernment alleged that she was attempting to leave Mexico
for travel to Havana. (Cable from Mexico City Station
to Headquarters, November 27, 1963, MEXI 7101, CIA #493.)
Pe According to the Mexican officials who detained Duran a
: second time, there was no addition to her story. (Cable
from Mexico City Station to Director, December 12, 1963,
MEXI 7364, CIA No. 557-558.)
The Mexico City Station forwarded Duran"s ten-page
signed statement to headquarters on November 27, 1963.
(Cable Mexico City Station to Headquarters, November 27,
x 1963, MEXI 7105, CIA No. 479; Chronology of Anne Goodpasture,
November 27, 1963, entry no. 127, CIA No. 656.) the ,
following day Headquarters sent a clarification cable to

the Mexico City Station seeking to insure that neither

 
 

 

Silvia Duran nor the Cubans would have a basis for con-
cluding that the Americans were behind her rearrest.
(The cable stated, "We want the Mexican authorities to
take the responsibility for the whole affair; Cable
from Headquarters to the Mexico City Station, November
28, 1963,.DIR 85371, CIA No. 464; Chronology of Anne
Goodpasture, Nov. 28, 1963, WX 7241, entry no. 141, CIA
No. 658.) .

When the Central Intelligence Agency began to
work with the Warren Commission, Headquarters cabled
the Mexico City Station that their plan in passing in-
formation to the Warren Commission was to eliminate men-
tion of telephone taps in order to protect their con-
tinuing operations. (CIA Cable from Headquarters to
Mexico City Station, December 21, 1963, DIR 90466, CIA
No. 549; Chronology of Anne Goodpasture, December 21,
1963, Entry No. 268, CIA No. 682) Headquarters cabled
that the would rely on Silvia Duran's statements and on
the Consular files which the Soviets gave the State De-
partment (Ibid.); (Headquarters stressed that exact,
detailed information from LITAMIL-7 and LITAMIL—9--pene~-
tration agents in the Cuban Embassy--on what Silvia Du-
ran and other officials said about Oswald's visits and
his dealings would be valuable and usable corroborative

evidence.)

 
 

-2-

At this point, the Mexico City Station determined
that it would request the Mexican government--with whom
it had a good relationship--to arrest Silvia Duran (as
Silvia Duran was a Mexican citizen, she did not have di-
plomatic immunity) because she might shed some light on
the circumstances surrounding the assassination.

The Mexico City Station sent a note to the gober-
nacion head, Luis Echevarria, with Silvia Duran's ad-
dress, her mother's address, her brother's address, her
license plate number, her home phone number, her place
of work and a request that she be arrested immediately.
(Note to Luis Echevarria, November 23, 1963, CIA No. 444;
Cable re Oswald-Duran, MEXI 7029, November 23, 1963, CIA
No. 441; Anne Gocdpasture Chronology, WX 7241, Entry 36,
November 23, 1963, CIA No. 635.) The Mexico City Station
also suggested that Duran be held incommunicado until
she could be questioned on the matter. (Ibid.)

The Mexico City Station did not receive prior au-
thorization from CIA Headquarters to request the arrest
of Silvia Duran by Mexican authorities. (See below.)
Headquarters feared that such a request would jeopardize
the clandestine relationship between certain Mexican go0
vernment officials with the CIA, if it was disclosed

that Americans were behind Duran's arrest. (Note written
 

 

180-10141-10494

 

 

 

, It <>
oo Feder &

 

Cc. Silvia Duran |

When President John F. Kennedy was assassinated
on November 22, 1963, the United States investigative
agencies--FBI, CIA, Secret Service, etc.--were asked to
investigate the assassination. When the Central Intelli-
gence Agency Mexico City Station learned that Lee Harvey
Oswald had visited Mexico City during late September
and early October, it reviewed the electronic surveil-
lance files and found evidence of phone calls to the
Soviet Embassy made September 27th,. September 28th, and
October lst, that could have been made by Oswald. (See
Electronic Surveillance Section.) Review of the electro-
ics surveillance files also produced phone calls on
September 27, 1963 between the Russian Consul and Silvia
Duran, a secretary at the Cuban Consulate, where Oswald
appeared to have been discussed. (See Soviet Electronic
Surveillance Section.) In addition, the Mexico City Sta-
tion found a September 28, 1963 phone call from Silvia
Duran to the Soviet Consulate, where Silvia Duran stated
that there was an American citizen at the Cuban Consulate
who had previously visited the Soviet Consulate. (See
Soviet Electronic Surveillance Section.) A final phone
call was made on October 3, 1963 where the “alleged"
Oswald identified himself was also found. (See Electronic

Surveillance Section.)

‘

‘

loa 1044
-~ 3 -
by Winston Scott re phone call with Jack Whitten,
November 23, 1963; Chronology prepared by Anne Goodpas-

ture, WX 7241, entry 37, November 23, 1963, CIA No. 635.)

 

Jack Whitten, Chief of Western Hemisphere/3, stationed

at Langley Headquarters, telephoned Winston Scott, the
Mexico Chief of Station, requesting that Silvia Duran

not be arrested. (Ibid.) Scott told Whitten that he

could not rescind the request and that Headquarters should
already have received a cable stating that Silvia Duran
had been arrested. (Ibid.) After Winston Scott's con-
versation with Jack Whitten, Scott called Luis Echevarria
and stated that the Mexico City Station desired that all
information received from Duran be forwarded immediately

to the Mexico City Station and that her arrest and state-

 

ments not be communicated to any leftist groups. (Chief
-of Station phone call to Luis Echevarria, November 23, _
1963, CIA No. 440; Flash cable from Karamissines to Mexi-
‘co City Station, November 23, 1963, DIR 84916, CIA No.
403), Chronology of Anne Goodpasture, entry 46, November
23, 1963, CIA No. 636.)

On November 27, 1963, the Mexican government for-
warded to the Mexico City Station a copy of Silvia Du-
ran’s ten-page signed statement. "(Blind Memo re Lee
Harvey Oswald and Silvia Duran, November 26, 1963, CIA

#473.) She said, “Upon learning about the assassination

 
 

- Ae

Silvia Duran and her husband speculated that President
Kennedy might have been assassinated for racial reasons.
When she became aware that the assassin was Lee Harvey _
Oswald, she ascertained that it was the same man who
approximately two months prior had been to the Cuban Con"
sulate to solicit an intransit visa to Russia. Having
taken his name from the special documentation he presented
she knew that he was married to a Russian woman and be-
longed to the “Fair Play for Cuban Committee." She
checked the data in the Consulate archvies and became
certain that. it was the same individual who was blonde,
short, dressed unelegantly and whose face turned red

when angry. The Consul had denied the visa because to
obtain an intransit visa from the Cuban government, it
was imperative that he previously obtain a visa from the
Soviet Consulate. Since obtaining a visa from the So-.
viets took four months and Oswald's Mexican visa expired
soon Oswald became excited and Duran had to call the Con-
sul who had an argument with him. The only aid she could
give Oswald was advising that he see the Soviet Consul,
and calling the person in charge of that office. The
Soviet official told her that they would have to consult
Moscow which would take four months. That afternoon,
Oswald returned to the Cuban Consulate and Silvia Duran

confirmed that he could get a Cuban visa only after he

 
