elt AL Pe a wa ba ods

4 fa 4b

 

‘ vos wi citer Cat Gg

‘on October 5, 1964, eleven days after the piiblica-
tion of the Warren Commission Report, a story alleging
lee Harvey Oswald's presence at a party in Mexico City
attended by Cuban government personnel came to the atten-

tion of the Central Intelligence Agency (wx7422 p.94, -entry

   
  

7430, CIA #721; Blind memo dated 10/5/64, CIA #576).

   

tion of this type, if true, could negate arren

 
 

Elena’s Story as Reported October 5, 1964

'

. € .
geo es itepe yee ‘ *c ten?
Bee aan

Elena Garro de Paz and Deba Garro de Guerrero Galvan,
first cousins £6 Horatio, Ruben and Lynn Duran were invited
to a twist party . at the home of Ruben Duran in the middle
of the week in the fall of 1963. Lee Harvey Oswald was
alleged to have been at this, party in the company of "WO.
other beatnik-looking boys." (Ibid.) The Americans re-
Mained together the entire evening and did not dance,

When Elena tried to speak with the Americans, she was
"shifted" to antoher room by one of her cousins‘ (the

memo does not state whether Elena had mentioned which cousin
had not allowed her to speak to the Americans.) One of
Elena's cousins told her at the time that (he or she) did
net know who the Americans were except that Sylvia Duran

(an employee of the Cuban Embassy and the wife of Horatio

Duran), had brought them to the party.

 

 

 

 
 

The day after the party, Elena and Deba saw the

three Americans on the Insurgents, a main avenue in Mexico
city. the Garros claimed that they had recognized Oswald's
photograph when it was published after the assassination i: 4)
Sylvia Duran's arrest "underlined the Garros’ certainty"

that the man had been Lee Harvey Oswald. (Ibid.)

Deba added that Lynn and one of the Duran brothers

 

had made trips to~Texas. (Ibid.) She added that, even
though the Duran brothers had always been poor before
the assassination, they were both driving expensive new
cars. (Ibid. )

the Gource of the memo}was a witting Central Intelli-
gence Agency asset known by the cryptonym LICOOKIE, I whom) .
the Committee identified as June Cobb Sharp while receiv-
ing (ICOOKTE" 5 file. According to Elena, Ms. Cobb was

sent to her house shortly after the assassination for a

 

few days, by a mutual friend, a Costa Rican writer Eunice
Odio. (CIA No'ts 580-583; WX-7241, Entry #427, p. 92, CIA
#719) Ms. Garro asserted that while at her house, Ms.
Cobb expressed interest in the Kennedy assassination. One

night Elena's sister Deba, who was visiting, got drunk and

told the whole story. (Ibid.) Claiming to be a CIA agent,

 

Cobb suggested that Elena and Deba go to Texas to tell
their story. (Ibid.) Elena stated that when Cobb's sugges-

tion was rejected, Cobb stated that she would arrange a meet—
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

; | | : — —

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

|

She. Wha becteee Coy Sthetamae —_frrantrtcres Dita Fete: a

 

 

 

 

ws sy | then teeter. — Comtemnnettie a Meeed gotten — cnblah thes Water ~ Chy.. Sth. :
, Phat... thet. - gta. Lane Jr.

 

dX» AN) ete ws, ee ty LAN Oy, ese). wns
}

-- Gsidpastee.,

al age (halimsirR Fe pn tanner Vows PAYAKOS. AC Cable Whiten

| Pay Statee nia pee —Menntenedatcr 82 4463. Whake 219.8", St Ade, APF.
eee 9 downer Hrclcclanse »— teeta 221963, sila. oe

CCAM. 4.

 

   

 

— eon

ey,
DIR BSS, CLA Ma. eH. ga Chraneleyy of. Anne... Coed parte, bee? ©

athe amg dope BE pele pects.

Whar Ho Content

a Caemcane campeon... Rett. the Wann ~ Compara. bi
Woe Aetorict —metans A atipdimte cage — ordi cte ape thin. —

4
d

vo ett rete... C Cia Cabby, pottery. Fahad Coby

. Stet y Darember,. AU 1963), DID F6,

OLA MoS. HF

at, finn...

Ms, 86K, C14 ds. 682) Meade tirliny, ck hat:

panCheomaleg y

Decent ber ah, C963, ey

i
|
i
!

Jte. the Srpatte Jor the. Shite Dept Libid ; CMa set
| eR weak. detent.”

«delat kines. an aa oa ned bitin’. Fu. To. gemetnten

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

i
a

       

Hats, lun. le , Dara, wv... Ae. & ‘ «a

unex. EITHER. The. CENTRAL.

 

 

 

 

 
     
 
 

— — c Cae | _ Spe fe [evant that, virion At. Meee Beye

 
 

- penenze . B. ther... Whafleele. oh, Stetina ompheryita atncd

= ee eggs St Bot Bee

oe as oben, ached) Soler Pode vata ras tlen

one ft Phithys. phhodke. hate" Se mee “Hoe

tocnntinnnennnt | Desedeperl LC Pytebed V5.0 tere used. wey HH CIA Ay beng hee

ooh aang dt. tenet ironic SC abn he stinger Ate

ol Ccdenene Bro om Case. sFbtrcrsatand... Dante Platbags., 1A, 9. 63 | bX...

nS Oe aa” OTE Orta tect ade... Syl Dee AOD). pereer ect __
- ee ae Jtanne _Ae..strdiom (Hectic. an Stim | ceBt hh es SS

p CHSeA atom pot Plays,
a CE eee oe rk tthe thst a mB. aren te ate dente. Jee

ao Hen. Pete hen edie say ty tga teen fn. uted. Lo.

 

   

 

 

    

 

   
 

 

 

 

 

ti

“h - _—. i ieee eee
a . ra lip ey Stetine. ae fer. Ae ati. eet teh. gph esctcttcts ne
an : (eee oa dasa Cchisinnaiin: peated See Orddvtns. yonabea.. pent he. re. _
| fortbcdadae hte. ~Aaatihias and douse wnwdetere Srticteat.. obrhen.. Oe .

rn et a eee pareve ~ ests de a, mp bh Stents “ithe... Tpecbow.

: | AcBren — fote Tena nsec ataal 6 NO patecky a

a . #SS2.) CoA Ae. wees Cable AE ATSORD: DVRAM, AGEL TORY... NON OM ACL 25, L183
+ Y

 

 

 

 

 

_ —_— CLANS. Uf 5 fant. Seed. pars.tees. Ghesorlr gy bib Vat, Anton 3h, (M8 Mem bee a3

 

_— aloe ee CUA NB. bed, Q. The Whe peeae. Coby ow oe anther departed... tebert
veces ol f° where’. late. Anabde dere comsnnaren deve, anaetithe cater 1 Ort dy hee | ee

onl pee smnathest_. [ae >

 

 

   

ce Ae le pene Coby. wy bit led wl cee ren nn.
i
. Ate thew vedi. . os OTA. Baeble voles sty 2 fee geet Abe a rneat: a Sylvan.
\ Cs<cbelwod Pact anette i wd é
| D Weta be 4- Nha hot nd hornden | a SOP — Se re Od thick.

ine aenienae ean ania wbatesdied, grants fhe claalitn pulhinnly ae
i
rn Phin ett Naps nattanoma effete anetl thon cia.

i. . Arrett canes
aenen |e Oe erie wth Cased. wptradt, pobee.. a eee ithe. a Arecherns, con

aug’ a
i!

the cds fdestern Viemiapaete/3]

ray .
bee whatton}: thant, Splint ot. deg Dcbyitrien Yeliy bemnd.. a

wand ee ete ee eer ee
v

wate tien Retr teal

   
  

 

 

af Wawa bay weet cael, fhe Weal Sobran, Go Pt pan ONL. a, gecihitin cat tres Soy besnn 7:
: ee ee

 

i aia ee

DMA em lee ee eG OE Wet dle bey Warciilerne Semler gcbmnte oo.
i

. ie wd weet (rou. td we), » biveebee 3, 1 Te oy . Cherry far aya pepe Ab 3

pose Weel ot Wa 28 EL. 2 Attleg 32, Mivensber 23, 1963, GIA Als,

 

 
180-10142-10190) .

 

Cc. 15, lia” DrRav

THIS COPY IS Noy me
FOR RELEASE. sm He

 

 

 

 

LS Pane Cade ctertlirmt Yt E— Keng cone AED ae earn pom co ae

 

ae Lane.

ne peennctnent FT Cad AS etna tt. ote, cn bathed Oncacherde,
. €

Pie es lea — hg so Cente tu arterte len 0 eee a

wots erent eee Ap tidbp emer Orrin. ~Weyetar a

 

Mrerranmdtere A 2; L. feb thee Mehl Seb. on vas adbsinet een
” fi

 

Ay SA Thee, Mere... wthenct. or Cre

 

ween ee | Pte name de ee ee ae wot Ee Ml he gltectiate EU... ~ acca ne eS Oe
meets pagel. Berth, tal 2 Ohba, npn. ald tettitendl ay <1 oe Cos wath sca\ fee Sess ncc nn sneeoe

 

ff antenna ttanee).. pra teat. ar Oe | ee ae .. ghee. .

 

nna oe - tathe,... tee. ote. Amiseth. werent pat. «Mi Gharmbars, ATE. ane

1
i
{

wean eg Beowideee? = aAatane oe CaCO RY eT Oe Aart plemins -

 

ste onsen opted ng Os on Or oe Crate). Aeacrantrllerntetate Aether)

cee teenie ene le mig 3 L963 NON Sasa Renato . Cama ameden,

yey

conn tn bee dineecraedead. gg ee) on Sretion).. oda. adedecheers apo.

1 Beweeat

| tie

 

Ah Wefan

nn | 07 ae

 

  

e che wee ua: hey

| Ptr theteen. bee. ctclerteey ppicerdecce, _ pte cena

 

 

Co apy eh the Coban Corin |

a Stinkicres.. pn, Angbeamlitse AX, LIb beanies, cote
S ieecct i

   

wettee cee Argbain ee. wn phe ve Phat cthinte pare aoe, oO rt tebe ~a Hts biig on cen cad

see tee eet ey coe ee pm hee. Corres. Cerrearall he ithe phd... mightier ater tid then.
4

lo

ope hehe ae — ng: A pbk “ue: fs

 

dime. Crabstle,.. Lo. ee. Se dict (eectanie) Seeceilone, ve ee Lo

fete me Duk 3D.
cath, opt the. athe need Opnmtade det seco ae web toy

— wl See... aim tram. Josette feeeceee eee ttn ee ny eee
. Pape ah S trelen! cape ~

 
    

nel whe... blegeconete. ween gph, On.) ae

= ns <a eee oe: aa Sy ay fonien. we Dit, Cas

 

Ag Ditton. re co a OD at lexan Phe dade tale. ae

_ sigh paninc) Beene -_ rssh vlad Pronticnes Laat bth OM oes
ee ‘the 2

 

 

 

Ww

i
1
i

1

the. a nae oe oe vecaedi 2 tee al

hit OR on PRAM oh, dow,

¥

    

10142-/or 9o
 

 

 

 

 

 

1 Stee —_deeinud. Sexton 9 CO ee Pastner bre. fovutnnted
emehy che Han apna i Sits eee An anne

   
 

  

 

 

 

- owl (Botta cP Nee. porter dy te etegy nn Slltcch.. aie ee

oe LE Chief Stetiomns,.. gene uf ete Echiravneee. Drew. 2B IIE ECLA.

 

ee ae i 2 2 tO OO Ow foe —Kartonnintiartes,.. de Vk er... ~- Cay. Sten _,

 

Sry Space

ne al 23, 1463. DAR. BN GAC). 6A. Ao¥o3).. -Chramebsy ot Anne Card pestre,.,

alle He, Mate 23,1463). 1A Ale, eel) _

| -
moon] [neem oO he a anetenedtne 29, (AGS Whee ge see he cee
i. fe) Viwtiowhew 29 : Boveemerh fret ~

 

 

 

   

6.0

sheset: 7 Upon learning about the assassination \ghe and her
husband speculated that President Kennedy might have been
assassinated for racial reasons. When she became aware
that the assassin was Lee Harvey Oswald, she ascertained tree
that it was the same man that approximately two months
prior had been ‘to the Cuban Consulate to solicit an intran-
sit visa to Russia, Having taken his name from the special .
documentation he presented she knew that he was married to
a@ Russian woman and belonged to the "Pair Play for Cuba oo
Committee." She checked the data in the Consulate archives a
and became certain that it was the same individual who was
blonde, short, dressed unelegantly and whose face turned red

when agry. The Consul had denied the visa because to

 

   

 
 

\

7

!

i
cote
i
oT

  

 

 

obtain an intransit visa from the Cuban government, it

was imperative that he previously obtain a visa from the
Soviet Consulate. Since obtaining a visa from the Soviets
took four months and Oswald's Mexican visa expired soon
Oswald became excited and Duran had to call the Consul

who had an argument with him. The only aid she could give
Oswald was advising that he see the Soviet Consul, and
calling the person in charge of that office. The Soviet
official told her that they would have to consult Moscow
which would take four months. That afternoon, Oswald re-
turned to the Cuban Consulate and Sylvia Duran confirmed
that he could get a Cuban visa Only after he received a
Russian visa. She gave Oswald her name and business phone
number but never gave him her address because she had no
reason to give it to him. She knew that phoning the Soviet S
Consulate was not one of her duties and that if she did
so she did it only to help Oswald. She gave Oswald her
business phone number only because he would have to call

subsequently to check whether he had obtained a visa.. He

. uw . ,
never called back. (Biind=Mene-Tre- hee eevey-Oswerid_and

 

| ooo Aylm.. Dien. we porereet.. thenaraend, Yoarermber AY AWD od
|
i

. peered Tevet, BT, NT pth thee heey Beri ure, the Hot.

:

ate CA. Stator... to Meaebpn imine, ~Nevembon 21, 19638, WAN Mod, Ad. 48.2;

i Cotte. frre Matern — City Statin tp. Seapets tbentraine 21, ADD Wheghaeo.

: Me, bey CAA BID i eee mei lens,

COD fas eat Heres CH Chebive Bint Deemer ire3 | Hess asey, Crt No, 597

 

9. £3)

  
