 

 

 

 

DRAFT-MDC

Page 9

and equipment into Cuba to form a nucleus of guerrilla bands-
who, once they got adequate arms and ammunition, planned to
go into the mountains of Cuba. ©3
The MDC eventually suffered the fate of other anti-Castro
organizations -- finding it increasingly difficult to finance
infiltration and sabotage missions, and experiencing in-
creased surveillance by U.S. authorities determined to limit
their activities. The organization's activities gradually
declined, Batista Falla eventually gave up his anti-Castro
activities, moved to Washington, D. C. and received a doctoral

64

degree in political science. In the spring of 1970, he

moved to Venezuela.
FOOTNOTES

MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANO (MDC)
CIA/Deputy Director Operations, Movimiento Democrata
Cristiano (MDC) Volume 3, Objectives of MDC
Ibid
HSCA #009538, Item 4, p. 2, FBI #105-87909-5, 1/30/61)
Ibid
CIA/DDO, MDC Volume 3
HSCA #009538, Item 4, p.2, FBI #105-87090-5, 1/30/61
Ibid

Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library
Edition, pp. 43-44.

Os
CIA/Domestic Contact Division aocunent [ffose Ignacio rascoq )
Information Report 00-K-3,233,366, 8/16/62

Ibid
Ibid
Ibid
Ibid

HSCA Security File #092, Senstudy Document, Volume 32,
Item 1, #97-4110-72

Ibid
HSCA #009303, FBI #97-4623-149, Section V

HSCA Security File #092, Senstudy Document, Volume 37,
Item 4, #105-95461-15, p. 4 :

HSCA #009303, p. 6, FBI #97-4623-149, Section V

a
CIA/Office of secugity {(Eaureand , Operational

Approval form] )
HSCA #009303, p. 4, FBI #97-4623-149, Section V

 

x
 

 

 

 

DRAFT-MDC
Page 8
the Cubans would have a moral superiority over the rest of
Latin aAmerica.?°

Another offer of help came from Luis Somoza, former
President of Nicaragua, who provided the MDC a base for
operations in that country.>! Venezuelan President, Romulo
Betancourt, allegedly also offered to make a base available
for the MDC and provide it with personnel and supplies. °°
Recognizing that these Latin American bases of operation
were important to the MDC, Batista Falla nonetheless pre-
ferred to work out of the Miami area. Its proximity to
Cuba, good facilities for operating boats and the availability
of a large number of Cubans to serve as mechanics and do other
necessary labor. made Miami more desirable than the Latin
American facilities.” The major drawback in Miami was the
presence of U.S. government officials determined to strictly
enforce the Neutrality Act and other Federal statutes.

U.S. Customs raided MDC headquarters in Miami on
April 21, 1964 and confiscated a large cache of arms and
ammunition. ©° Undeterred, the MDC simply relocated the
military section in separate headquarters, continued to store
materials for infiltration and attack missions against Cuba?

. tas a 62
and conducted study courses in military training and theory.

In July, Batista Falla and Victor Paneque infiltrated men

Ca)
DRAFT-MDC
Page 7

truck aud instructed Davis to take it to the camp and teli

the Cubans "that the invasion is on.“ Davis complied, and

 

the Cubans loaded their gear, jumped in the truck and were
brought to the Greyhound bus terminal in New Orleans. Each
was given a one-way ticket to Miami plus a small amount of

cash and told they would get their orders when they reached
Miami. Looking as though ready for war, with knapsacks and

guns bulging from under their clothes, they boarded the bus.

 

That was the last,De LaBarre said, he saw of them.
The last he heard of Davis, he said, was in 1964 when
one of De LaBarre's friends reported he had gone into business
with Davis and was left with a lot of bills.>4
Other than providing the manpower for the training camp,
wee Batista Falla was not involved in this episode or was the
MDC as an organization.

Concurrent with his involvement with leaders of other
exile organizations, Batista Falla was dealing with foreign
governments in an effort to gain support for his faction of
the MDC. After the World.Congress of Christian Democrats in
Strasburg, France, two West German officials of the Christian
Democratic Party conferred with the MDC in Miami .°> According
to one of the officials, the West Germans, after months of

study, had decided to help finance the MDC, not because they

were particularly fond of them, but felt once Cuba was liberated

 
DRAFT-MDC

Page 5

of Batista Falla and contacted him because, he said, Batista
Falla was in a position to recommend men in the Miami area

42
who needed work. Davis claimed he could provide employment

 

for a small group of Cuban emigres. He said he had entered
into a business deal with geologist David L. Raggio and

a wealthy, right-wing New Orleanian, Gus de LaBarre, forming
the Guatemalan Lumber and Mineral corporation. > It was their

intention to train the Cubans on some land in Lacombe, Louisiana

 

to which De LaBarre had access through his nephew, Frank
de LaBarre.*" After a necessary training period, the group
was to be sent to Guatemala to cut mahogany trees, he claimed.
A group of about 18 Cubans did arrive in New Orleans in
the summer of 1963. Leading them was a well-known Cuban
ae exile, Victor paneque > who used the military code name of
"Commadante piego"."° Paneque was closely associated with
Batista Falla in the military activities of the mpc. *” Davis
later admitted to the FBI that the men had arrived dressed
in khakis © and thought that they were to receive military

Lo. 49
training.

 

 

In the latter part of July, 1963, the FBI conducted a
raid on property near that. of the “lumber company" training
camp. The Bureau seized a cache of dynamite and other ex-
plosives.” This raid, according to Davis, unnerved his

5
trainees, and they elected to return to Miami.

 
 

 

 

 

DRAFT-MDC
Page 6

A somewhat different version of this episode comes
from Gus de LaBarre's nephew and attorney, Frank de LaBarre,
who first related his story in 1966 to his former law school
classmate, Jim Garrison.

De LaBarre said his “Uncle Gus" had introduced him to
Davis, whom De LaBarre described as a "floater." They came to
see De LaBarre about drawing up articles of incorporation
for the Guatemalan Lumber Company and that is when he says
he learned of their plans to bring unemployed Cubans from
Miami to train as lumberjacks. Uncle Gus sent provisions to
the exiles on a daily basis and solicited money for food and
clothing from friends and relatives.

Although he suspected that military training was being
conducted at the camp, Frank de LaBarre said he didn't pay
much attention to the activities of the group. However, when
he heard on his car radio that the FBI had seized a cache of
ammunition at a house in Lacombe, he immediately called his
uncle. Although receiving assurances that the lumber group
was not involved, De LaBarre called the officers of the
corporation together and insisted that the Cubans be taken
out of there. Davis, however, told him that the Cubans did
not want to leave, whereupon De LaBarre said he had to do

some real "brainstorming." He rented a Hertz ton-and-a-half
" DRAFT-MDC

Page 2

“The clandestine faction operating in Cuba was lead by Pepin

Fernandez Badue who used the alias "Lucas". 1+ When Fernandez
arrived in the U.S. in October, 1961, he presented his
credentials to the Cuban Revolutionary Council, (CRC),
claiming he was the representative of the MDC movement in
Cuba. +? Council president, Dr. Miro Cardona, accepted him
into the CRC hierarchy.!? The “Lucas" faction remained with
the Council but its role was ineffectual because Fernandez
eventually failed to hold the group together.!4

The "Rasco" faction of MDC had as its Military Chief an
independently wealthy young Cuban, Laureano Batista Falla.?°
Free-spirited and under no financial pressures, Batista Falla
organized and partially financed the infiltration attempts

of the moc. +® It was one of the most active and effective

underground groups in Cuba during the early 1960's.+?

ee

From 1960-1962, 74 _ |

a 74k 9 ~
| il He trained

at the | |

 

 

 

 

 

prior to the April 1961 invasion? and made many trips from

this camp tof

 

 

 

21

 

 

At that time, most underground groups worked together,
: : 22 .
sharing supplies and information. However, the repressive
measures of the Castro regime after the April 1961 invasion

caused members of the Cuban underground to live in fear of

7.
 

[sotto].

   
 
 

CIA HAS NQ D8 ; a)
, ae es
DRAFT — MDC OLA RET ct
DRT URNTO CIA FO a

ckground Use Only

Betsy Palmer Do Not Reproduce oe 2

MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANO (MDC)

After Castro's assumption of power in 1959, it became
evident to many Cubans that political parties were being
surpressed and the 26th of July Movement was being infil-
trated by Communists. This political atmosphere gave rise
to the creation of underground organizations such as the
Christian Democratic Movement of Cuba (mpc) .+ Proclaiming
the doctrine of Christianity as its foundation, the MDC
published a manifesto in March, 1960° denouncing Communism
and strongly advocating the free enterprise system. > One
of the founders of the MDC, 35-year-old law professor,

Dr. Jose Ignacio Rasco, was elected head of the organization*

Bess and immediately criticized the violence prevalant in the
Castro regime.” This public criticism produced pressure on
him to leave Cuba and he arrived in Miami on April 22, 1960.°
By June, Rasco had allied himself and the MDC with the Frente
Revolucionario Democratico (FRD) ’ and thus became one of the
five original exile Cuban leaders brought together by the
State Department and the CIA to form the nucleus of a Cuban
government-in-exile.®

After the Bay of Pigs invasion, the MDC split into factions.”
Rasco remained head of the largest faction and organized

. 10
delegations in Miami, New York, Chicago, Venezuela and Cuba.

THIS COPY [S ROE
FOR RELEASE.

DIY) 404
 

 

 

DRAFT-MDC .
11/14/78
Page 3
discovery and made inter-group liaison extremely risky.7?
Despite the inherent dangers, the underground movements of
the MDC and Movimento Revolucionario del Pueblo (MRP)
worked jointly for an all-out sabotage effort in the fall
of 1961.°"

The “Batista” faction of the MDC (so named after the
youthful military chief rose to the position of president
in 1962)°> entered into similar cooperative alliances with
other exile groups for the purposes of propaganda, sabotage
and supplying the Cuban underground. Many MDC members joined
the Cuba Committee in 1962 which was formed to counteract
the propaganda of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee, a pro-
Castro organization in the u.s.°° The MDC and the Directorio
Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) worked together to formulate
plans for an underground organization to infiltrate Oriente
province.” The active operations between the MDC and other
anti-Castro groups peaked in the year 1963. One involved
the MDC, the Movimento Insurrecconial de Recupueracion
Revolutionaria (MIRR) and the Movimento Recuperacion
Revolutionaria (MRR). In April, Frank Sturgis, Miami-based
soldier of fortune, supplied information that Batista Falla,
Orlando Bosch Avila, Manuel Artime and Alexander Rorke were
jointly planning an air strike over Havana on April 25.28
According to Sturgis, the strike was to originate from an
airstrip in Puerto Rico and the target was a sugar refinery .-?

. 30
The bombs were homemade, assembled by Batista. Rorke
 

 

 

 

DRAFT-MDC
Page 4
publicly announced that the strike had taken place as scheduled,
which took the other planners by surprise.- Sturgis claimed
the strike was still in the planning stage and financial
backing had not been completed. >” This incident created a
stir and resulted in an intensive FBI investigation of Rorke's
allegation. *> Since Radio Havana, contrary to usual policy,
made no immediate protest over the bombing, the FBI concluded
that Rorke's story was probably untrue?” and, according to

,
Sturgis, merely a publicity stunt.>

In early June, 1963, the MDC made a unity pact with
Commandos L in which the latter group was to provide training
and assistance in military intelligence and the MDC to provide
three small boats and a team of men to infiltrate Cuba.” The
MDC also made a pact with Dr. Carlos Prio Socarras, former
President of Cuba who donated $50,000 to the group for military
aid in return for its promise of political support.

Richard Rudolph Davis, a Cuban alien,>” had a preipheral
association with the MDC through his contact with Batista Falla
in the summer of 1963. This association was noted in Book V,
Final Report of the Senate Select Committee to Study Govern-
mental Operations.

Davis was residing in New Orleans and, although not an
MDC member, claimed to have once been a “coordinator" for the

41 ;
group and the New York Police Department. He was a friend
