   

 

(This form is to be used for maierial extracted
from ClA-—controlled documents.)

¢ teen field ] 2aqi

“He asked the staff members,whom they wished to speak,

The Committee staff members explained that they would

like to intervien[tichane 3 Ligogkis. ri fem)
IL

aid 121 (a tw!
[nitamai 7 aei[Litamil 9. Seatnficrapitatea that

   

it appeared that the House Select Committee on Assassina LWA
the indindoali | LAM”

tions had already asked the Mexicans to locate them. Usted khve

eo ite Steinfield|stated that the HSCA's interview

. with [Ramon Alvarez Duran Jwas considered "highly sensi-

tive." He explained that three rooms at a nearby hotel

would be used. In one room, (Ramon Alvarez Durant would

sit, Committee staff members would sit in a second room

and two CIA personnel officers would insure that the

equipment worked properly in a third room. Mr [ Stein-

  
 

field’ fen phoned Mr. Niles Gooding, who had been sent
Y | to the [Mexico city Station) from Headquarters to arrange
the procedures for the interviews. Mr. Gooding explained
that in 1977 Stansfiela Turner had created a new posi-
tion at Headquarters to insure that important sensitive
meetings were within the guidelines previously arranged.
- Gooding. stated that the central Intelligence Agency
had: been under greater Congressional scrutiny tag the

past two years. Therefore, Director Turner, in order to

 

demonstrate the Agency's good faith, had engaged a retired

:

 

Classified by derivation:

ae

  

ns

 
0401240084),

 

 

 

 

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA~-conirolled documents.)

   

AQT

Appendix 3: HSCA Procedural, Write-up Mexico Trip 2

House Select Committee staffers Edwin Juan Lopez

 

-and Harold Leap traveled to Mexico City on August 7,

rtment
1978. The staff members were met by David T. Patton, * stele BRS,

os at the Mexican aixport a 10:15 p.m. Mr. Patton |b
. 2
then checked the staffer into Room 1754 Ate the Maria vf

fhe: Pepa wnkerhed the SieFF members Larry.
Isabel Hotel, Stetagiold [cra Chief of Station in

Mexico city,) wishea to see us at 8:30 a.m. the following
morning. .
‘On Tuesday, August 8, 1978, Committee staffers
met with{ Larry Sternfield. ] He ‘informed the staffers
that the two individuals. the Committee wished to inter-
view, [Daniel Flores* aka Luis Aparicioandf Ramon Alvarez
1

Duzant, were now available.

At 9:30 a.m., August 8, 1978, Committee staff mem- ; t

ters weewten nny one Ton wasn fe
Flores} interview. ) The interview ended at approximately

10:15 a.m.

 

  

Committee staff members returned tr Sternfield's oi £ iy
. a Coverapent en ;
offices, ur[ serntieia}seated that it appeared the ec , MHC?
had only been able to locate two witnesses for the Com—
c7]
vy
mittee, Oscar Contreras Lartigue°and Noe W. Palomares-

___ 00 NOT REPRODUCE
_ RETURN FO.CA

? aa ae
1YR—SOOSY

W al

   

   
 

 

 

 

  

ra

form is to be used for moterial extracted
» ClA—controlled documents.)

292

Army officer to act as liaison at sensitive interviews

by Congressional - representatives. Mr. Gooding then ex-

he A gto ld
plained that we would be escorted by two CIA personnel

we , .
to Gee interview with [Ramon Alvarez Durant. }

At 10:55 a.m., August 8, 1978, Committee staff mem- |

aeF
bers interviewed(Ramon Alvarez Durant. J (SeesfRemen—AL-

 

At 12:30 p.m., Committee staff members telephoned
Captain Fernandez Ventura Gutierrez. His secretary
explained that Mr. Ventura was not in the office, but
that. she would have him call us when he returned. At
6:30 p.m., since Mr. Ventura had not yet returned the
staffers call, they again called his office. His se-
cretary apologized for Mr. Ventura and explained that he
had;not yet returned to the office and she assured us
that he would telephone upon his return. At 9:15 p-m.,

‘Jesus Yaneg, the Assistant to the official mayor,
telephoned the staff members explaining that Mr. Ventura
was very busy on an important assignment and asked us_

whice Shalftin  Kaswn as the
to visit the \Procuraduria General) at 11:00 a.m. the

following morning. ‘
“At 10:15 a.m., August 9, 1978, Committee staff

members met with State Department Official Richard Howard

 

 

  

Cc ied by derivation:

 

 

 
