 

recently told Espin that now he thinks they were the only
two "stupid Cubans." Neither of them, he said, stole a
penny of Agency money.

Early in 1962, said Campana, he was asked by the Agency
to go to the Dominican Republic and prepare @ report

on the possibilities of Fallado becoming president there.
The station chief there, said Campana, had been submitting
reports on the likl thood of that. Campana said that
after he investigated the situation he reported that

Juan Bosch would become president and take an anti-U.S.
posture. That later came to pass. He said he doesn't
remember the name of the station chief, only that he was
a young, German fellow. At any rate, he said, when he
returned to the United States he was given a routine

lie detector test about his activities in the Dominican
Republic. After that, he said, he was not given any
more CIA assignments. He said he was never told the
reason for it. "lt was mad as hell because | was always
faithful to the Agency," he said. His activities on
behalf of the Agency were terminated in 1962,

Other information related by Campana:

-Following the assassination of President Kennedy, he was
never questioned by the FBI or the CIA in relation to
either his own activities or those of Cuban groups with
which he was associated.

~A good person to speak with concerning ClA-Cuban activities
in Miami would be Gus Villode, a close friend of Alfredo
Duran's. Vilfodo, Said Campana, "was a very active member
of the CIA."

 

-~He knows Frank Fiorini Sturgis but never worked closely
with him Tn anti-Castro activities. He said Tony Santiago
knows him very well and he will provide an in¥roduction
to Santiago.

 

-He is a very close friend of Rolando Garcia, who was also
very active with the CIA and Is now chiet of security for
the Venezuelan secret police.

~He never worked with Eugenio Martinez but saw him once
operating a CIA boat in the Florida Keys.

-~He has only this information about CIA agent David Morales
aka "El Indio": When his good friend and anti-Castro feader
Plinio Prieto was captured by Castro, he arranged for his
wite and children to escape to Miami and be put up ina
mote!. Campana said Morales showed up at the motel and
attempted to have an affair with Prieto's wife. Campana said

HW 50955 Docld:32249669 Page 5

 
 

at one point he was fooking for Morales with a gun in
order to shoot him.

~Campana said he had no association with any activities
originating in the New Orleans area.

-~Campana said he was told but has no specific information
about the fact that Oswald was not only in Miami at
one point but actually went to Cuba for a conference
with Castro. He said he feels personally that Castro
did not directly order Oswald to kill President Kennedy
but may have subtly planted the seed in his mind. He
: says he has no specific evidence for that theory, only
his personal knowledge of Castro's character.

-He could provide no information about the true identity
of Maurice Bishop or any possible leads because, he

said, he was never involved with Alpha 66 or Antonio
Veciana,

HoH

HW 50955 DBocId:32249669 Page 6

 
 

006022

JFK Routing Slip

 

Gary Cornwell
Kenneth Klein
Charlie Mathews
Jim Wolf

Tiny Hutton
Jackie Hess
Cliff Fenton

 

Team #1

Team #2

 

 

 

JFK Routing Slip JFK — Routing Slip

 

 

 

 

NO. NO.
DATE DATE
Ipocument I.D. 6
Document I.B
INDEX COPY _TO

 

Robe rt Blak INDEX COPY TO

' 20) ake —— Se

Gary Cornwel Wa lp yy oy Robert Blake
LA Matlae— Charlie tathess Site (lesa Kenneth Wen

— — , Charlie Mathews

] vi
J im Wolf . 7 - Jim Wolf
os Tiny Hutton WiatiLeg Tiny Hutton
Vb 7 Jackie Hess - 7 Jackie Hess
/

 

 

Cliff Fenton Cliff Fenton

  
  
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

Team #1 Team #1

Team #2 Team #2

Team #3 Team #3

A JNM) Team #4 Team #4

 

 

 

FS

. Teami5 Team#5
ages Form #2 0 -— : S Form #2
36 Page 2 /

eee «= Gartial Tnastructions:
 

180-10082-10227

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

rn

vol

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

HSCA
180- 10082-10227

NUMBERED FILES.

006022

 

Document Information

HSCA
FONZI, GAETON
BLAKEY, G. ROBERT.

INTERVIEW DELFIN J. CAMPANA.

00/00/0000
1

» ACTIVITIES.
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES.
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES.

OSWALD, LEE; POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, POLITICAL AND

SUBVERSIVE..

CIA.

FBI.

CAMPANA, DELFIN.

MEMORANDUM.
Unclassified

1A

Redact

01/01/2003

Box 118.

HW 50955 Docld:32249669 Page i

Date:

9/30/201
 

 

o06eze

MEMORANDUM - February 28, 1978

 

TO: G. Robert Blakey

FROM: Fonzi & Gonzales

RE: Interview Delfin J. Campana (Team 3-issue B)
Background: Reference was made to Deifin Campana by

Ross Crozier, former CIA case officer assigned to

the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE).

 

Crozier said Campana was an employee of the CIA and
worked as a "singleton," that is, not a case officer
handling Cuban groups but an individual given a

variety of assignments. (+ was suggested that he might
possibly have knowledge relative to the identity of
Maurice Bishop and information concerning the alleged
association of Oswald with Miami Cuban groups,

Details: Campana said his association with the U.S.
government began in Cuba in the mid-1950s when he

became a member of the Buro de Represson Anti-Communista
de Cuba (BRAC), an organization which, he said, was
formed by the American Embassy in Cuba and trained by
the FBI there. (The name of the FBI agent he recalls was
Nacho Caranza (phon.) fs such, he was involved in
anti-Batista operations tn support of Fidel Castro.
Campana said he knew Castro personally as a result of
having been close to the family of Castro's wife.

 

Campana said he regularly reported to the CIA in Havana
to keep the Agency current on his anti-Batista activities.
His contact was Among the operations he
informed the CIA about prior to conducting was what later
became known as one of the most siaqnificant of Castro's
military victories, the capturing of a large train joad
of arms and ammunition between Havana and Santa Clara.
That seizure was supposed to have been coordinated with

a political uprising and declaration of independence

of all the provinces in the eastern half of the! istand,
with Carlos Prio appearing in Santa Clara as the new
leader. Prio, however, refused to leave Miami and the
plan failed, said Campana. That, he said, would have
forestalled Castro from eventually taking control.

~-more~

HW 50955 DoclId:32249669 Page 3

 
 

Associated with him in the capture of the arms train, said
Campana, was ansindividual known as "Diego." Campana
confirmed that Diego's true name was Victor Paneque.

He believes Paneque fis now in the Miami area and said

he would be willing to help locate him.

Campana said that his later anti-Castro activities
consisted of involvement with the Triple A organization
(working with Sanchez Arango, Tony de Verona and Tony
Santiago), and of masterminding the escape of key
anti-Castro leaders on an individual basis. He was
able to do this, he said, through his contacts on
the ship, Rio Escondito, which was tater involved in
the Bay of Pigs operation. Finally, in July, 1960,
after having been informed that Castro had become
aware of his activities, Campana himself fled Cuba
aboard the same ship.

Campana first landed in Jacksonville when he escaped

from Cuba. There he was immediately greeted and

debrief by an FBI agent whose name he doesn't recall

but describes him as being of average height, weli-built,
and having red hair and reddish complexion. This FBI
agent took him to Miami and had him report to the

Immégration and Naturalization Service and tell the
fabricated story that he arrived on a boat through
Key West.

Campana said he was then introduced to an agent of the

CIA whom he knew only as "Bob." This "Bob" told him he
wanted him to relax in Miami for a couple of months before
beginning operations for the CIA. "Bob" invited him to

his home in the Southwest section of Dade County, a very
large house on Le Jeune Road, a number of times for dinner.
"Bob" was married and then had two children. He was provided
with cars and a chauffer by the CIA, said Campana, who
described him as having thin, light-brown hair, brown eyes
and a wide forehead.

Eventually, said Campana, "Bob" introduced him to Doug
Gupton, the cover name of the individual handling
propaganda operations at the JM/WAVE station. Campana
said he worked with Gupton on propaganda programs for
the Bay of Pigs operation.

Among the other CIA agents he worked with was Roberto Espin,
who worked under Gupton in charge of Radio Swan. Both he
and Espin were, at one time, both invotved in dispersing
CIA funds to Agency operatives on @ monthly basis. He
would, for instance, said Campana, be given perhaps $80,000
in cash in a bag and distribute it as payroll! to Cubans
involved in anti-Castro activity in Miami. He said he

 

NW 50955 Docld:32249669 Page 4

 
