 

 

General at 6:00 p.m.

At 6:00 p.m., August 10, 1978, Committee staff
members met Agent Ciprianio Martinez. at the Procuraduria
General. Martinez then drove the HSCA representatives
to Mr. Palmoares' office. At 6:30 p.m., Committee
staff members interviewed Noe W. Palomares. (See Noe
W. Palomares interview write-up: )

Following the interview Agent Martinez returned
to. the Maria Isabel Hotel with Committee staff members.
He attempted to reach Mrs. Contreras telephonically at
Tampico twice without success. At 9:45 p.m., he finally
contacted her. Mrs. Contreras told Agent Martinez
that Mr. Oscar Contreras had told her that he would
try to get a room at either the Hotel Regis or Hotel
San Francisco. Mrs. Contreras explained that since
there were a few conventions scheduled in Mexico City
that weekend she could not assure that he would be at
either. Mrs. Contreras told Agent Martinez that she
would notify him iff her husband should call.

. Mr. Martinez called both hotels and niquired whether
Oscar Contreras Lartigue was registered. He was not

registered at either; they were completely booked up.

Classified by esr

 
   

 
 

This form-is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlied decuments.}

Mr. Martinez attempted to reach by telephone Silvia
Piardo Bazan at her home to ask her whether she would be wil-
ling to travel Zo Washington to testify at.a HSCA hearing
and to ask if she knew where Mr. Ernesto Lehfeld Miller
could be located. She was not at home, however.

Agent Martinez explained that he would attempt to
locate Oscar Contreras Lartige Lartige at ‘the hotel where
the Partido Republicano Institucional was holding its con+
vention early the following morning; after which he would
meet the staff members at 9:30 a.m. at their hotel room.

At 9:45 a.m., August 11, 1978, Agent Martinez

met Committee staffers at their hotel room and explained
that he was unable to locate Mr. Contreras Lartigue at
the convention. Mr. Martinez then left to check the
whereabouts of(Mr. Alberue suotd) and Silvia Tirado Bazan.

At 12:30 pem., August 11, 1978, Agent Martinez re~
turned to the Committee staff members' hotel room. He tele-
phoned Mrs. Contreras in Tampico who stated that her husband
had not telephoned her since she had last spoken to Agent
Martinez. At 1:50 p.m., another agent; Honorio Escondon,
telephoned Agent Martinez. at the Committee staffers' hotel |

“room to inform him that Taig Alberue Subto) must. be back in

town because the scotch tape placed at the base of his

Classification:

   

. | Classified by derivation:

 

 
 

 

Gutierrez and Attorney General Licensiado,

Manuel Calvillo's “pen name” was given to the Mexicans
Who stated that they would check it with the landlady
at his alleged apartment building.

Committee staffers returned to their hotel room :
with Agent Ciprianio Martinez Novoa after the meeting.
Agent Martinez attempted without success to “elephone
Oscar Contreras Lartigue to inform him of our visit. .

At 3:30 p.m., Agent Martinez finally reached Mr. Contreras'
child who informed him that Mr. Contreras was not in
Tampico. He had traveled to Mexico City for a Partido
Republicano Institucional convention. When Agent Mar-
tinez asked the child if he knew where his father was
staying in Mexico City, he responded that he did not.
Agent Martinez explained to the child that he would call
at a later time to speak to his mother:

Agent Martinez telephoned Noe W. Palomares at 4:00
p-m. and arranged an interview for 6:30 p.m. that even-
ing. Mr. Martinez asked Committee staff members to
meet him at his office at the Procuraduria General at
6:00 p.m.

At 6:00 p.m., August 10, 1978, Committee staff’

members met Agent Ciprianio Martinez at the Procuraduria

 

 
nade occa

- the Mexican officials stated that they would have an
her to insure that she was willing to travel'to Washing-

Committee staff members met with Dr. Jesus Yanez, Agent

    

 

 

fihis form is in

  

from ClA--con

ou

the Mexican officials that{ Mr. Alberud) had left town

 

hurriedly on Monday, August 7, 1978.. Mr. Martinez,
wishing to know when he returned, had placed a piece of
scotch tape on the bottom right edge of his door. Mr.
Martinez explained that he checked it every four hours
and would notify us it (aipete) returned before we left.

Manuel Calvillo did not live at Cuahtemoc 877-5
as the Committee had stated. The landlady for the past
twenty-five years at the apartments told Mr. Martinez
that Manuel Calvillo had never resided there. Committee
staff members explained that Calvillo went by a pen name
which would be forwarded to the Mexican officials the
following morning.

When Committee staff members inguired whether

Ms. Silvia Tirado Bazan could testify at an HSCA hearing,

 

answer for the staffers by Friday morning. The Mexican

officials explained that they would have to speak to

ton.

_On Thursday, August 10, 1978, at 11:00 a.m. the

Ciprianio Martinez Novoa, Captain Florentino Ventura

 

 

ve lussified by devivation:

 
 

 

 

(This form is ta be

 
 

Lees Cig -
fea CIA ear

72781, on June 27, 1947. She entered Mexico through
Nuevo Lardo, Texas. She requested but was.denied
permission by the Mexican government to represent the
magazine, Modern Mexico. On June 21, 1948, she re-
ceived a courtesy permit, nuinber 25556. She disappeared
in 1954 and never returned to Mexico.

The Committee staffers aia not tell the Mexicans
that the House Select Committee on Assassinations had
evidence from review of June Cobb's 201 file that.she
was in Mexico in the Sixties.

Eunice Odio Infante, a Costa Rican, received a
three-month tourist permit from the Mexican government
on February 9, 1964. She remained in Mexico, illegally
‘residing at Nacas~45-a, until 1972. She applied to
write for the Excelsior magazine on many different oc~
casions, but was rejected every time. In 1972, Ms.
Odio married a Communist painter, Rudolfo Sanabria Gon-

zalez and moved to Rio Neba-16 Apartment 40. On May 24,

 

1972, Ms. Odio was found dead in her bathtub. The offi-
cial presiding at her autopsy concluded that Ms. Odio

had poisoned herself.

 

Emilio Carballido Fontanes was in.Caracas, Venezuela,

on vacation and scheduled to return to Mexico in early

 

 
Nedeemmas one

hs

 

September. His address is Constituyentes 207. His
phone number is 515-8345. a
(Consuelo Esperon's)personnel record in Mexico
could not be located. When the Mexican officials in-
quired about her at the (aban Embassy in Mexico City)
to the Committee's trip, _no one at the office
remembered that she had ae there. Committee staff
members were told that(nsperbn)was probably dead. “No.
basis was given for the Mexican government! s conclusion.
Al Wichtrich worked at Royal crown Cola until -
1968 when its offices in Mexico closed.
(carlos Jurado 3° petmax)was born in Cuba on
OS ember 3, 1927) He entered Mexico July 1, 1965 and
taught (Graphics and Art at a A.M} until January 1,
1968 when he disappeared. The Mexican officials assume
that he returned to Cuba.

General Jesus Jose Clark Flores died in the early.

1970's.

Ernesto Lehfeld Miller, Academic Coordinator at
the School of Interior Design, had not yet ‘been located.
108 :
(Luis Alberue Suoto lives at Michelet $7, Apartment

#301, Colonia Aneura) Mexico City. His phone number is

(545-994). The landlady at his apartment explained to

 

 

 
 

 

 

oe
Sada ON

i
2
i
3

 

 

 
 
  

G'

sR
NENT
He asked the staff members whom they wished: to speak to.
The Committee staff members explained that they would
a Be ee ; cr
like to intervieuf df Hl ,
[ Janaf d. Mr. Steinfield stated that : 1

it appeared that the House Select Committee on Assassina-~
‘tions had already asked the Mexicans to locate them.

Mr. Steinfield stated that the HSCA's interview
with |Ramon Alvarez puran) was considered "highly sensi-
tive." He explained that three rooms at a nemyey hotel
would be used. In one room, (Ramon nlvaree burant)would
sit, Committee staff members would sit in a second room
and two CIA personnel officers would insure that the
equipment worked properly in a third room. Mr. Stein-
field then phoned Mr. Niles ‘Gooding, who had been sent
to the Mexico City Station from Headquarters to arrange
‘the procedures for the interviews. Mr. Gooding explained
that in 1977-Stansfield Turner had created a new posi-
tion at Headquarters to insure that important sensitive
meetings were within the guidelines previously arranged.
Mr. Gooding stated that the Central Intelligence Agency
had been under greater Congressional scrutiny than the

past two years. Therefore, Director gurner, in order to

demonstrate the Agency's good faith, had engaged a retired

| Classified by derivation:

 

 

 

 
 

[ene] —<— <—— ay rT TF SF a reed
. J¥K|WscA Rey ee? FVD

 

an Classification ss

 

 

Appendix 3: HSCA Procedural Write-up Mexico Trip 2.

House Select Committee staffers Edwin Juan Lopez

and karold Leap traveled to Mexico City on August 7,

1978. The staff members were met by David T. Patton,

a State Department official, at the Mexican airport

at 10:15 p.m. Mr. Patton then checked the staffers into
Room 1754 at the Maria Isabel Hotel. Mr.

Patton informed the staff members: that Larry Sternfield

CIA Chief of Station in’ Mexico City, wished to see us

at 8:30 a.m. the ‘Following morning.

On Tuesday, - August 8, 1978, Committee staffers
met with Larry Sternfield.. He informed the staffers
that the two individuals the Committee wished to inter-

‘view, Daniel Flores, 1207/ aka Luis Aparicio, and Ramon
Alvarez Duran, 1208/were now available.

At 9:30 a.m., August 8, 1978, Committee staff mem-
bers interviewed Danny Flores. 1209/ The interview
ended at approximately 10:15 a.m.

Committee staff members returned to Mr. Sternfield
office. Mr. Sternfield stated that it appeared that the

Government of Mexico had only been able to locate. two

ore

  
 
 
 

Classificat

 

ssified by derivation:

 

(0143 - (60 23
Neat asses oe

"bebe see eos

 

 

 

Army officer to act as liaison at sensitive interviews
by Congressional representatives. Mr. Gooding then ex-

plained that we would be escorted’ by two CIA personnel

. to our interview with{Ramon Alvarez Duraht.\)

At 10:55 a.m., August 8, 1978, Committee staff men-
bers interviewed(Ramon Alvarez podand. (See (Ramon Al~ olf
varez Durant) interview write-up.)

At 12:30 p.m., Committee staff members telephoned
Captain Fernandez Ventura Gutierrez. His secretary
explained that Mr. Ventura was not in. the office, but
that she would have him call us when he returned. At
6:30 p.m., since Mr. Ventura had not yet returned the
staffer's call, they again called his office. His se-
cretary apologized for Mr. Ventura and explained that he
had not yet returned to the office and she assured us
that.he would telephone upon his return. At 9:15 p.m.,
Dr. Jesus Yanez, the Assistant to the official mayor,
telephoned the staff members explaining that Mr. Ventura
was very busy on an important assignment and asked us
to-visit the Procuraduria General at 11:00 a.m. the .
following morning. .

At 10:15 a.m., August 9, 1978, Committee staff

members met with State Department Official Richard Howard

2

 

y Siativa tion:

  

   

ord

 

 
 

 

 

  

to alert him that the Committee would request the Mexi-

can officials to make Silvia Duran available in Washing-

ton for an HSCA hearing. Mr. Howard explained that

once we had permission from the. Mexican government the
State Department would insure that she was in Washington
when necessary. _

At 11:00 a.m., August 9, 1978, Committee staff
members met with Dr. Jesus Yanez and Ciprianio Martinez
Novoa. Mr. Yanez told Committee staffé members that

Ciprianio Martinez Novoa, the Mexican agent in charge,

would try to aid us in all our interviews.. Mr. Martinez

'then briefed the Committee staff members on their up-to-

date progress:

Oscar Contreras Lartigue had been located and pre-
interviewed by Mr. Martinez in Tampico, Mexico. We
would fly to Tampico on Friday, August 11, 1978 at 7:35
asm. to interview him.

_Noe W. Palomares had been located and could be

“interviewed during the afternoon of Thursday, August 10,

1978 at his office, Cerrada de la Presa 4. His phone

number, 595-0891, was made available to the Committee.

_June Cobb Sharp received a tourist permit, number

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
