COMMITTEE SENSITIVE
Phillips, page 3,

Bill Kent was: cunning nae BLLL Kent gor to the point. where. Hie. felt he
would like a Little weight,“ Sometimes: Re went down to’Miamt on a

r ; . . :
"trouble shooting" mission, ag uhen:probllens ‘developéd with a. comercial

radio station the. Agency-was funding,

Mr, Pha

 

ips stated that he. had had no #ecent contact with Mr.

 

‘ Ként relating, to’ ‘anyehing Being: done. ‘By ERAS" Compkttee, “He did. state
that, ‘approximately a- month. ago when Mr, Kent retired from. -the CTA, He
received a call fvom.Mr, Kent, He satd that Mr, Kent: said that. He was
setting up an executive employment. agency: and iad ‘asked for. Mr, Phillips
Welp in finding jobs for former employees’ of the agency: as: well as
referring people, for: specific skilled jobs, They: did net discuss: the
HSCA at all, according te Phillips,

Mr. Phillips. stated that it would be accurate to state
that there were two "sets" of propoganda activities during
the Bay of Pigs; one that was run out of the Miami offices
coordinated by Bill Kent and a second set that he personnally
ran without coordinating with Mr. Kent. Most of Mr. Phillips
prior established assets were in the second set of propoganda
operations. .

Mr. Phillips said that even after he became Chief of
Cuban Operations in Mexico City he still worked very closely
with the propoganda shop, and his successor as head of that
shop, James Flannery, in propoganda operations.

Mr. Phillips said that his "Cuban shop" covered the
activities of the Cuban Embassy and that a special group

covered the airport. He said that a good deal of time was

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE:
HW 50955 DocId:32263505 Page 9
: @ORMAITTEE SE.
Phillips, page 4. & SENSITIVE

spent looking for opportunities to recruit Cubans who came’ to
Mexico City. The shop also ran a debriefing center for Cubans
who left Cuba by way of Mexico. . He also said that one of the
primary activities of the Cuban shop would have been to identi-
fy the DGI officers in the Cuban Embassy and their functions,
duties and assignments whenever possible. Mr. Phillips said
that he was still involved in propaganda activities at this
time specifically recalling a Mexican broadcaster whose radio
station could be heard in Cuba. Mr. Phillips pointed out that
he had been a close friend of Mr. Flannery's and that Mr.
Flannery was made Chief of Covert Action in Mexico on his,
Phillip's, recommendation.

Mr. Phillips' said that he had "quite good". relations
with Win Scott and that he reported directly to him as opposed
to reporting through the Deputy Chief of Station which would
have been the routine manner. Mr. Phillips stated that he thought

~ that Robert Shaw had been in charge of the Cuban photographic
surveillance operations and that they had two penetration
agents in the Cuban Embassy. He stated that he could not
remember the names of the penetration agents and was not sure
of the cryptonyms.

Mr. Phillips was asked why his name came up so infrequently
in a review of Agency documents of this period from Mexico
City. He said that his name should appear on any "formal
project" he had going, but that he "did like to delegate work."
He said that his name must be on many papers.

Aaniayerer SENSITIVE

1
HW 50955 DoclId:32263505 Page 10
Phillips, page 2. COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

though. he was: not handling them on a day to day. basis, He stated that at

all times he had at least one [ _—_—offtcer-working:

[lana that, sometimes, he had two such officers,

 

Mr, Phillips stated that he did have access, and did “use in some of
his propoganda activities, agents: who were lecated outside of Mexico,
Mr, Phillips also stated that he did use a few: assets that he had developed
prier to His transfer te Mexico City; he specifically recalled aman
named [frre fad Been a newspaperman in cuba and went to work: in
Mexico City, He satd that while he had been a propoganda officer for
the JMARC operation he had used assets that he had developed during his
prior tour of duty in Hayana, Mr , Phillips said that such assets were
usually handled. by him.personally. during the Bay. of Pigs.

Mr, Phillips stated that during the Bay. of Pigs. operation he :
trayelled to Miami "fairly- frequently; every 6 weeks, 3 weeks, 5 weeks."
He. stated that responsibility for propoganda oferation’:w were divided

u

subordinate in Miami, William Kent, When asked to

  

explain that division Mr, Phillips: stated?
Kent reported to-my- shop in Washington, He had. day. to,day-
contact with. the groups:.we were supporting down there, the
student group and the doctors or ‘whatever, and tte people
involved in Radio Swan,

 

 

 

 

Phillips stated that Radio Swan was run out of Miamd,

 

 

[ ] He did say: that he was

 

in contact with: the agent. who ran Radio Swan, He said that he felt uncom=
‘ fortable naming than agent and- suggested we ask. the Agency: for his identity,
Mr, Phillips. stated that when he traveléd to Miami he often went

to see the people. he knew from Hayana, including those ie was: running

as: agents himself, He would also,’ on occassion, meet with agents whiom

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE
HW 50955 DocId:32263505 Page 8

 
COMMITTEE. SENSITIVE 24 august 1978 Uiagade

HSCA Interview of David Atlee Phillips at HSCA offices, 8/23/78, 1:20 to
4:35 P.M., by Dan Hardway, Charles Berk, and Gaeton Fonzi.

Mr. Phillips was reminded that the CIA omnibus release letter still
applied to our discussions and that he should feel free to answer. our
questions in spite of any secrecy oath that hé may have executed during
iis employment with. the CIA, He was asked’ if Ke remembered and under-
stood the letter and if he wanted to review the letter again, Mr, Phillips
stated that he tememered the letter and did not think it necessary to
see the letter again,

Mr, Phillips was- asked about. his activities: in:‘Mexico that related
to his: job as Chief of Covert Action in the Mexico City Station from
1961 to 1963, Mr. Phillips: was asked how many persons were in his
propoganda shop in Mexico City, He said that it was manned only by:
fiimself, a case officer under his: direction and a secretary, He later

added that there was: also one other case officer under his direction who

 

 

 

worked Mr. Phillips stated that

 

from 1961 to 1963 he ran only about 6 or 7 operations or projects. He

added that there. would. have also been many. "ad hoc" actions. Under
questioning, Re stated that it is possible that he was responsible for
ag many. as 14 to 17 ongoing operations and 3 to 6 developmental stage
operations, Most of these. operations were directed at the Cuban target
and “the great percentage of them had an anti=Cuban or anti-Soviet bias."

‘

Mr, Phillips wag asked about the handling of agents, He stated that
he himself. Handled “yery-very- few" agents, “Usually I -met with someone

who was: working and they: in turn would handle several agents."

 

1

Mr, Phillips did recall handling one agent personally, a radio-TV
broadcaster, .He also said that he would often meet with other agents even

GOMMITTEE SENSHTiVE

HW 50955 DBocld:32263505 Page 7
* On or about

9/30/63

Morne.

 

   
 
  
   

Goodpasture ties in 9/28
~ Soviet conversation re:°
address.

10/7/63
10/8/63

10/10/63

10/16/63

10/18/63

HW 50955 DocId: 32263505 Page 5

 

this may have happened —

MCS recieves a transcript in which ‘Silvia
Duran discusses an American and his prob-
lem with a Soviet “Coxnsel. Win Scott —
“! Can. we, identify?" on {transcrip

 

 
  

notify’ Flick of any conversation involving
in: English atc, Howsvite®

 

  

ID himself as Oswald.
and marks it "urgent"

He pulls the’ tape
and notifies

. Goodpasture that they have an ID on

an American. The tape is delivered to
Tarasoff for immediate transcription.

It is recieved late this day or early on
the second by Goodpasture. Disposition

of tape unknown, could "urgent" tapes

have been routinely retained for Longer
period? Goodpasture now has ID but does
not know for sure that it is the one that
Scott has asked about. The guy in the

9/27 conversation sounds real interesting
but there is nothing in this conversation, % ai
that. clearly connects. She discusses
reporting it with Manell. There is some
disagreement over whose responsiblity it

is to report. Either decgsion is made, or
conflict continues until photos. is checked.

ra)

Photos from 10/1, 10/2, 10/3, 10/4. (7?)
are recieved in base from Soviet Embassy.

B. Manell drafts report cable. Goodpasture

adds paragraph 2. :

(in interim: Goodpasture tries to ID

MMM photo? how?) HQ response recieved.

Descriptions don't match. Controversy in :

station on whether, Oswald’ s, s same. 9/274 7/2

conversation tiedMir ‘tc £8 "Lio" during this stent

SEeaheane toners atone ARE VAL
OMPARIS ON

oswald "p" file opened.

by this time photo of MMM recieved at
Station. Goodpasture picks up on it.
This MMM photo one from Cubemb on 10/15.

 
  

10/21/63 ee 10/15 MMM shown to penetration agents
i ee “" by this time. What response?. MCS
_ : cables HQ asking for a photo of LHO. _
or what purpose? Was “it just to: compare ~

g.

 

   

evel was high--so what eons were .
taken? ‘ : .

 

 

  

 

HW 50955 Docld:32263505 Page 6
Les . pak . . :
ann can at Saat | . nny fe
o am me “ . : — awe n b j R afore -
; SCENARIO . j . 7
CHRONOLOGY OF OSWALD'S VISITS TO THE SOVIET AND CUBAN EMBASSIES. ;

September 26, 1963 A man claiming to be Oswald vists the Cuban
Thursday @Embassy between 10:00 A.M. and 2:00 P.M.
The visit probably occurs around: one o'clock:
"Oswald" is ‘discribed as 5'6" tall, blond hair,
sunken cheeks, very thin, aquiline nose, very
straight eyebrows, approximately 35 years old
ve - and wearing a light blue Prince of Wales suit. ©
eS He was said to look very cold with a hard face
and a penetrating cunning way of looking at you.
"Oswald" was seeking an intransit visa to Cuba
on his way to Russia. He displayed documents
that showed his membership in the Fair Play
for Cuba Committee and the Américan Communist
Party. He was told that he would have, to
first obtain a visa to Russia before he could
be issued an intransit visa. He is also told
that he should return to the Cuban Embassy
with his passport and a copy of a photograph
in order to fill out the visa application. -

 

September 27, 1963
Friday

Circa 10:30 A.M. "Oswald" calls the Soviet Military Attache (SMA)
aoe = with whom he speaks in Spanish. He telis the
SMA that he is looking for a visa to Odessa.
The SMA tells him to call the Consulate. "Oswald"
asks for directions to the Embassy and recieves
‘them. i

of "Oswald" calls the Soviet Consulate and asks to
«at speak to the Consul in Spanish. He is told that
the Consul is not in. He is told that he can
call back at 11:30. "Oswald" says that he is
looking for a visa to Odessa. .

10:37 A.M.

\~

circa 11:30 A.M. "Oswald" goes to the Russian Embassy where he
on once. again exhibits the documents he has already
ule e) shown the Cubans as well as other documents such.
4 OY? as his and Marina's marriage license. "Qswald"
discusses his situation with someone at ‘the
Embassy and comes away with the understanding
that everything would be expeditiously handled.

circa 12:15 P.M. Someone from the Soviet Embassy calls Azcue
wre” whom he is aware of because of what "Oswald"
Pe led ~ has told him, and tells him that they have to

get authorization from Moscow to grant him a
visa and that it will probably take four months.

circa 12:45 A.M. "Oswald" returns. to the Cuban Embassy with ‘the

 

 

 
180-10110-10100}

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 10/20/20
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: —180-10110-10100

RECORD SERIES: SECURITY CLASSIFIED FILES

AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 125-JFK

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE: 00/00/0000
PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS :

OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, TRAVEL, TRIP TO
MEXICO

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 01/01/2003

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Box 4.

v9.1 i

HW 50955 Docld:32263505 Page i
 

Page Two.

; 9/27/63 —
12:45 (cont'd)

$

1:25 P.M.

4:05 P.M.

 

4:26 P.M.

“Night

HW. 50955, DocId:32263505 Page 3

ger

anne

ye

whl?

photo and completes the visa application,

‘stating that he would like to leave in three

days. He asks Azcue about how long it will
take to get the visa. Azcue explains his
misconception to him, an argument results and

‘Azcue throws Oswald out. \Duran feels sympathetic

to Oswald, gives hin { ss, and promises wit
to help in any wayshe-cany She feels that

Oswald should have been granted the visa with

no problems and that Azcue's actions are wrong.

Oswald calls the Soviet Consulate in an attempt
to find out what has gone wrong with the arraing-
ment he thought he had. In Spanish, he asks for
the Consul. ‘He is told that the Consul is out
and that he can be contacted between four and
five on Mondays and Fridays. [This call may have
been from Duran's phone.) If it was he then told
her that he could get hold of the Soviet he had

his deal with and would she be kind enough to

talk to him.. She said that she would and to
come back at four o'clock. If the call was not
made then Oswald got this message to Silvia and
the same arraingments for Silvia's four o'clock
call were made. ,

Silvia Duran calls the Soviet Embassy. She
tells them the American citizen, the one who
wants a visa to Cuba in transit to Russia, is
there. She asks who he talked to at the Soviet
Embassy when she sent him there to get a Soviet
visa so he could get an intransit visa to Cuba.
She tells the official she is speaking with that
the man seeking the visa wants to know with whom

‘he spoke because he had been assured that there

would be no problem. The man at the Soviet
Embassy puts another man on the phone and Silvia
goes through it again. He tells her that her

‘call will be returned.

A Soviet Official returns Silvia's call. The
situation is explained to Silvia. She realizes
that she cannot give him a visa because of the
delay on the Soviet end and the fact that he

.does not know anyone in Cuba. What does Silvia

tell Oswald who is still setting there waiting?
In light of subsequent events it was probably
something that would keep his. hopes up.

Oswald goes to a party at Rubin Duran's with .
Silvia and two American friends. This may have
been, more likely was, the night of the 26th.

He is seen by Elena Garro de Paz. He spends the
night with Silvia. : :

i
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

page Three.
September 28, 1963
Saturday

circa 11:00 A.M.
11:51
circa 12:00

afternoon

September 29, 1963
Sunday Morning

Sunday Afternoon/
evening and night

September 30, 1963

Mordor

October 1, 1963
10:31 A.M.

Tu sedty,

\@

10:45 A.M.

\an

‘later or earlier

later or on the 2nd.

Wedrindn,

oA GRE SAE CA SARI EARS I GANA AA

Oswald is back at the Soviet Embassy bugging
them to expedite his visa. They send him back
to the Cuban Embassy to get an address.

Duran calls the Soviet Consulate and puts Oswald
on the phone. He tells them that he is returning
to the Soviet Embassy with the address. | :

‘Oswald returns to the Soviet Embassy and is

assured that a telegram will be sent and that
it will be handled as quickly as possible.

Oswald decides that he needs more help and

‘tracks down a revolutionary, pro-Castro Cuban

group on the campus of the University of Mexico.

.Maybe he hopes that he can find someone who

will say they know him in Cuba. In any case,
he seeks some sort of assistance from these
Pro-Castroites. He spends the night with them.

Oswald spends the day with the Pro-Castro group.

oo)

? Note: the association with the Cuban group
could have been anytime between the afternoon.
of 9/28 and the afternoon of 9/30. Contreras.
said that he met Oswald in the afternoon and
spent the rest of the day, that night and part
of the next day with hin.

Oswald calls the Soviet Military Attache
inquiring about a telegram. He is refered

_to the Consulate.

Oswald calls the consulate with the same inquiry
and learns that the telegram has been sent but

“no reply has been received. He is discouraged.

Obyedkov hangs up on him.

‘Oswald calls the man with whom he had made ‘his

“arrakngement" and discusses the assistance that
was prdmised him. He is dangled and the man
eventually hangs up on him. :

Oswald leaves Mexico.
