Wizelman

Page 8- Artime (Continued)
Volume 8- May- July 1963
1. Memo for Record dated 3 May 1963, Subject- meeting with Artime, By Alfred

7 Rodemeyer. Meeting of Artime and Chief of SAS. Chief came forward with a proposal
of cooperation based on the following understanding: Loe

 

1. That we would furnish advice.

2. That this might be only one of several groups with which we would work.

3. That Artime's activities must be based outside the USA

4. That we would furnish funds for his operations. Note: At this point
Artime asked if we would furnish arms. He was told that arms would be
made available; that is, they would be close enough for him to "reach
for them."

+++. In general, Artime was made to understand that the hand of the U.S. Government
_ cannot and will not be revealed, but at the same time we would be willing to unofficially
' and informally assist, however possible.... MRR was to continue to receive $4000/month
SAS Chief met with Artime as Don Archer. :

2. Cable WAVE 8132 Artime returned to Maimi on May 4, 1963 Stated HOS
officials authorized monthly payment of following to MRR- Clandestine Fund $4000,
Salaries, $1650; Office Expenses $600; MRR Newspaper $400.

3. Progress Report Dispatech on Arthime, Dated 9 May 1963.
Artime as obtianed a secretary to keep track of everything he's doing. On 21 April
a meeting was held between Andrew K. Reuteman, Stanley R. Zamka, Nelson L. Raynock
| and Artime. The role and oblicagions of Artime and his organization were spelled out.

 

4, Operational Meeting with Artime. Dated 15 May 1963. Re meeting meeting
referred to above.

5. Artime's Progress Report for May 1963. Dated 12 June 1963. WAVER OAS
During May, Artime went to HDQ re Haitian matters, and after reutrning to the WAVE ¢€eF @
area, left for Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama and points outh. UFG a?s

6. Controlled Dissem. Report No. TDCS DB- 3/655,239, Precedence:Routine
Date of info 23 June 1963; Subject: Current Activities of Frank Fiorini
Source: An American Observer(c) from Frank Fiorini.

"On 23 June 1963 Frank Fiorini said that he had met with Manuel Artime Buesa
on 22 June and that, as a result, Fiorini would be leaving for Dallas, Texas, to
inspect airplanes and other equipment available there which might be purchased for
Artime."

"Piorini also said that within the next two weeks he wouldbe involved in
an airstrike agianst cuba. He said that the strike would originate outside the United
States and that it was not connected with his proposed activities in Dallas for Artime.

"Pield Comment: the same source reported on 3 May that Fiorini had agreed
to assist the Diaz Lanz brothers in planning and executing an air strike which was to
take place on an unspecified date. Fiorini advised that he would rent a plane through
indirect channels.

 

Source was Am/Clatter-l- Barker.
Page 9
(Artime , Vol 8, continued)

| 7 7. Cable, 27 June 1963, DIR 50360 Artime expected in D.C. on July 1, 1963. Will be
Se contacted at baggage pickup by Mr. Raul Hernandez, CIA staffer, who will use
alias Mr. Martin Ferrer.

8. Memor for Chief of SAS dated28 June 1963, from Henry D. Hecksher, Notes
for meeting with Artime during week fran 1 July 1963.
Guidelines for AMWORLD project-

All contacts beteen Artime and WAVE personnel will have to be terminated.
Payments of MRR set-up in Miami should be effected through AMWORLD
facilities i.e. via a bank account to an occuount in the
Bank with which HOS Monetary Branch maintains special relations.
I, representing you, are Artime's sole contact. :

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9. Memo for Record , 9,July 1963, Meeting between Chief, SAS and Artime on July 1,
Present: Henry D. Hecksher and Raul Hernandez.
Re establishment of a base in Nicaragua. Chief, SAS gave Artime a dtailed
briefing on our sabotage planning and listed the following categories in order of
priority: electricity, patroleum, transportation, general industry.

9. Memo for Record Dated 15 July 1963, Re Telephone conversation with AMEMBER~1
about meeting with Luis Somosa on 10 July. Ember called to tell about lunch
-. with Domosa. and said they discussed certain Cuban refugees who seemed to be gearing
up for action in regard to Cuba. Names cited were Veciana, and Artime.

 

 

 

 

10. Memo for record, dated 25 July 1963, Conversation between Artime and
Raul Hernandez on 18 July. Artime told that he should anticipate when large sums
of money would be needed in order to allow time to process the request. A balance of
$25,000 each would always remain in the accounts of "El Protorriqueno" (Sixto Mesa)
and Artime.

 
contract for use under TYPIC and is tob e charged against station overhead. Effective
: date of oral contract is 1 Feb 1963, and it shall continue for an indefinite period
unless terminated by either party at an earlier date. Artime to receive $400/ month.
Also subject will be reimbursed for operational travel and expenses. And will be given
$100 monthly for an operation expense account to cover cost of car rental, typewriter,

stationary, etc. "This account will be non-accountable in order to raise his prestige."

 
 
  

| 13- Dispatch to Chief of SAS from Chief of Station, JMWAVE, Dated March 13, 1963

_ | Subject: Typic/KUWOLF/ Operational, Artime Progress report, Feb 1963.

Artime assures that he is a loyal CIA agent with a relationship of service going back
to before the Bay of Pigs. "He is presently being used for propaganda and information
purposes, and a product is received at littel cost." In addition to $400/ month

plus $100/ month expences, Artime is authorized to rent a safe house, presently $150
monthly plus utilities, where he meets the case officer and does his writing." "The

only two immediate plans. for Artime are to exploit the book he is writing, and, secondly,
-|to continue to use him as a source of information."

 

14- Memo for Record by Hunt dated 2 April 1963, re Convesaton with Artime and
Manolin Hernandez~ 1 Paril 1963. Artime visited Hunt on April 1, 1963. Artime stated
he had just returned from a long trip through the countries of Central America, that
he was bringing a message from Iuis Somoza for Attorney General Robert Kennedy,
and had an appointment to see the latter on 2 April. Artime is scheduled to appear on
Today show on 4 April. Then Artime is considering going to Spain to talk with Franco. His
apparent contact with the Spanish Govt is via the one-time Spanish Charge’ in Havana
(whose name escaped me) but who, Artime said, was at one time of great
assistance to Jack Stewart in Havana.... Artime said he had heard that Jim Noel was now
in and I said that if Artime wanted to check, all he had to do was to call the
upon arrival. Hunt asked about Jose Perez San Roman and learned from
Artime that Pepe had suffered a mental breakdown, that the Robert Kennedys had rented
a home for Pepe, his wife and two children in the McLean area and that Artime had been
with them during the day when Mrs. Kennedy had come to the San Roman home and seen

Artime.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: 15- Memo fpr Record, 5 April 1963, by Alfonso Rodriguez. re Meeting with Artime

on 3 april. Upon request of RPK, met with Artime. Artime stated that in a previous
meeting with the Attorney General in Washington, he advised Artime to come and see him
whenever he had a specific plan of action. Artime stated he now had a plan and that it
is essentially one of clandestine opertions against the south coast of Cuba.

 

\16- Dispatch, Chief , Special Affairs Saff, from Chief of Station, JMWAVE,
. Progress report on Artime, dated March 1963, dated April 9, 1963.. Evaluation
of subject has not changed substantially.

 

 
 

Page 6, artime file, yolume 7 (continue

85. Cable, Wave, 3128- Jan 9, 2963

CRC received request from Artime's prospective mother-in-law for back salary
due Artime for period of imprésonment. CRC records show that although Artiime MRR
delegate to FRD at approx $400/month untill few months before invasion during
which he in direct contact with CIA. Evidently Artime only member brigade for
whom no prior finan arrangements made. CRC proposes settle matter with payment
$3500 which equivalent basic brigade salary of $175 (martially illegéble)
for 20 months without allowance since Artime's parents not dependent. Artime
accepted $250 bonus frum CRC with considerable reluctance and told WAVE he prefers
decline back salary for political reasons.... To aboid criticism Artime not treated
fairly WAVE authortizing CRC offer check for back salary but also instructing
ARTIME decline on basis his acceptancd would create misunderstnad ings . As equity
WAVE covert payments to Artime will be generous.

 

6. Document Cross kReference. 18 Jan 63- Artime released from Jail in Cuba and
arrived US on 12/39/é 62. Artime on speakers' platform with JFK at Orgnge bowl.

i

- 7. Memo for record byRobert Moroney, 23 Jan #963

On Jan 22, writer met with Artime and Roberto Perez San Roman in Washington, D.C.
They were in D.C. to see the Attorney General and hopefully, Mr. Cottrell of
the State Dept. Both Artime and Peeez stated that they regarded Robert Kennedy's
recent interviews with the press concenring the Bay of Pigs to be prompted by
internal U.S. political considerati ons. Both men, without solicitation, volunteered
the opinion that the Agency had suffered gravely for the Bey of Pigs, and they
stated that the Agency, in the persons of the Agency personnel whom they knew, was
not responsible for the failure. Artime stressed respect with which he viewed
the majority of Agency personnel with whom he had dealt.

."From a long-range Agency viewpoint, it would appear that our interests nogw

are parallel, and he may be expected to wokr with us as long as they remain parallel."

i

8. Memo for Chief, CI/OA from William K. Harvey, Chief, jTask Force W, Dated
Jan 23, 2963. Requests Artime's provisional operational approval be reinstated for

 

period of 6 months. "It is planned to use Artime in the WAVE area and throughtout
Latin America as a PA-PROP asset.”

we

| 4
' 9. Operational Approval granted Jan 31, 1963'

 

 

 

 

i
af #10. Memorandum for Chief, SAS Provisional, Attn. Seymour Bolton, From (Hunt)!
Jan 31, 1963 Hunt relates his contact with artime after the invasion.
Hunt states that On 6 Jan 1963 he left Washington for TDY in India, returning on 20
January 1963. On Jan 21, Artime called and that evening visited Hunt. Artime
toid Hunt “that he was, in effect, under the wing of Mr. Robert Kennedy, the Attorney
Genetal, who had counseled him not to accept money from the CRC, saying that money
and travel expenses would reach him by another channel. I asked if Artime had a Miami
contact and he said that he now had one and was xeceiveing funds as the Attorney
General had indicated."

11. Memo by Hunt to C/SAS/ PROV/PAP, Attn. Seymour Bolten. On 3 February 1963

' Hunt had lunch with Artime. (memo dated 4 Feb 1963.) Artime told Hunt that he

and others, presumably San Roman and Oliva, ahd been guests at a luncheon tendered them
the day before by the Robbert Kennedys at Hickory Hill....Artime mentioned 1 meeting Jaun
Bosch in NYC and said that they had gotten along well.

 

       
  

Volume 4- Sept-DecIAco.

Volume S = Jan- Fe ite!

 

Actime BoP adi Jan 193a

received. BS. from Ravane Un (uersihy 1d,
lketter in fle menhons &@. PRD Generel Fi fe, 4-9-1.
i) Clume © March - Dec 1461

 

 
  

LD p2el man

DDO
_s- 8/2/78
volume Yar - January ea - Apr *63
@.memo- ia/maren/19GA Fur Chief Lor/ysem, Subject) Artime

advances inthe amount of #4 ,103.78. “by PS. Maggi
Advances foc travel expenses to Artime. by Mexice
City during Go, ;
[- BD April 1400 — #3 609.748
a- Is May leo S00,00
@ memo soe Cnef Wrst /Finence) ja March 146% by
(Cheries Wormer. states +nat A, teok part in

Aerit, (tol. invasien Gnd was Captisrec &€ nowin prison

micuba., Travel advances shouich be written of & to
EXPENSE ,
@. Cable WAVE a435- Te DIF From TMwAVE =[- 1-63
es . :
ON Hec a7, 1%eA Zamka mer Prmyme. “Subs appearer.

 

extiemely willag continue coopertie with CLA. Suprect more
umahared, still enetgenc and. apead hue same arwe

and pilihcal qmbihins 4s bebre. "

@ Capita WAVE, 305% I-G-63
reports frecontact of Artime by Hunt. GALE ony wanis |
ar comastr with AL YTS causing Wave sume embarassment
hus wrile understand nm, rruatis interest Artimers wel .
fore wen their psgt. relanrunnip wish pont.out continuect
cooniact Can only have detrimental eflect on wae

Mahunysn am wrrh Artime .

 
 

 

the Cuban situahen. ve. there Sra considers hy mussten

lind tssolubly. thed.up wrth cIA ,which in Men afer

ee a STcang element of cetvtrol over nis achurhes .

Sub). has no cover.

 

coniest of AM WORLD progect only pecnle who nus af -
Actimets assoc, & & Mer. Ratae|~ Quintero ana De.

Cesac Baro. .

! ‘ Under auspices of AMWORLID Subs. was. trainect inthe
; “use of the cne-timne. pact. He underuscent extensiwe. parcarn itary
and imelligence training auring Foo ATE uv

| Preview achuity @ CLA!

: IMATE - thy respensib i gs lag IM the acten, nvt
rhe coNlechen fetd. He hey eurveyect on aceon wn “polrhiceal
Amiel igence , but steicth ay. Ard aw by~ Product.” .

Fi “He nos been permihecl to infer that yes pasyee, To
ane. eoNcy- meal ing compunen is cf the WS LGourt.”

. ‘ Veoh be wecdar @® the erinceal on PVOORLD ,
& Pararnribtary PTOQFAMY , Ves NE him wirkhe inypertenT

000 independent rerspunsvibiney . ,

Artime tnows Desmond Fitggeraid , James Soith (onreF oc /00)
Richera Geal (say, Rau\ Wernande2 Csps) , Ven Og Rech s het (SAS)
“Subjects termuincnon World ineolve ameqor ely
deck tA on ANG levet of the UL. Government, %
®@ CABLE HALA 204A dDecis, 195%,

Actime & Varuna lef Haun, HA SS. Veramer

PON Deci¥ 1934, eta tamer !¢ dec. Ex i tratea by

OAR rAAN
 

180-10142-10307

 

Re

  

L. Gore lman -
BDO
€11/%

7 . THIS COPY IS NOT
Manuel Arte FOR RELEASE.

Vol A. - podale t© Dec 189

@M: aol Fle request 1g )Juj ss

Artime - Guesa, Nanuet Francis

Pom —
te Gd Mocen - Camequey Prounle | cura DOR ~

1/39 /3%

opened by martha. Thorpe

@: PRO —Pact a>
Cryprony nm - AMBIDDY- |

‘conta - development - EN Wovember ITTF , firtime weo hiding 19
Yacaaa after duaflechen with Castro gov't Anddesiredto
ackecy - Subj. Brought in® contact with Cod. Morales Crue)
a9 Havana disgused a) Cuban prert. Subsequently ex fi tratect to
‘Mexi and later te WAVE. Sritiql interat was for
KUCAGE, EXPLOITATION ,
Sub yect's loyotty, toward CLA hes ,oer a periodof
years ) become. inshhohunelizect and ne Gasly adapts to revo

\

cose. offices .
: CASE OFFICES!
Or, DavichL Merale as "ODF. Gonzate 2”
Housard Hunt . 'Edmarde”
Gerald Drollec “Frank Benae «’/
Mand numerous other CLA represenrcctues involved in.

JIMATE uno wed assumed names , but some ot whan 4 @ bniun

to him big the;r trae dontih,.

eh “Subject ULi€uss hb associahen asiThH CLA as indupemable in

L vecms of EAGKHAG him YO bag AbOok deculue Channes in

1&O-1014Q-102079
  

 

@ | memo to D.cf Sec. Frem TC, Frag I-L4-@o ”
Aitime & varenea exhltrated from Cuba.on $H-Dec ltT9

Rep wed Taompean le Dec 1485 .

@.,.memo foc comefef Wry from Clarice Simmeny . | Feb 196)

Becavre cf comments made by Pedto Diaz Lanz on
43 Jan 4el t ef ect that A. may be comm.agent,
cPActimets le was reviewer, Cenciudedh no suppert fer

: banzs allegs hens,

@cavle Feb av, ideo Mexi SIA

“Betis ~ leader of Curban Catholic University QylorP.

i
i
i

@© tapte a-d7-Go Mexse 8199

Atteme tef+ Mex! Feb &Y —> Geer. | hour —> San Jae.

Bes}
© san Jos. Cable @eet- 3-H~e6e0
f Artie leaving SA9 jose march. & 3
i

© Cavie - 2-14-60 Cite Die 14LP To Havans
i

“Ongineting tear & Edmura.

' “Follow ng info in cef given General dissem by Has
i Stale Erlocas y Far
‘antistanen aareck pass same te opmcr® ,ODENLY Ga Cartro

extremely worcied over effechueness Aretime offurts to ducredit

“a

‘8 gout abroad Gad NAS Qiven orders Chiminede nim.

 
 

  

(ccue c fficec )
Request Tr approval). ie Mar LWe@O From Toseen $. Precalo.

“Sub ect unill be wen fe 1A PP oPetahcn.anaLto

 

i
| SUPALY iafiemanmnen an counter -~ (2vobuherre ly
a achune) .” a, eu Ses ene wanna
7
i :
|
©iCovble HAVA 38eF 3-B4-GO TO Dir.

 

4 Poss Arhime messane:

. wo an
i . Ficte | Castes Nas Wsued ofders elimninele you.
t

Bo not reveal name cf any MRR. personeli ne: now

Wcetect In Cube to anyone, Watch yur perez security,

lot see qua RPC. By march.”

F
f
@® Provisiunel operahiune! Prpecova | 42 AN march 1VEO

ia
in

Granted.
l 3-Fe AG-60 :
(@®, Cable Pir Qane- Crypt assiugneu— AMBrDddY-|

spol 3 Qu- 5e@0

M' Request for operatine: approval = Fre TMARC Le Mayed-

request. chenge of OR to cefiect we in PM Cadre,
