 

=,
*

“ur. Pa
Apfil
Page 2

trick’ Carpeatier
5, 1978

-7) The CIA's written statement replying to’ the Committee's

request of February 21, 1978 for an explanation of the
criteria that governed the opening of a 201 file dur-
ing the years 1958-64 was not responsive to our inquiry
because the CIA's written statement did not focus on the
relevant time period. Accordingly, I am renewing our
request of February 21, 1978. In the event that there
were no criteria governing the opening of such files
during that period, the Committee would appreciate a
written statement indicating that this was the case.

8) CIA document #563-810 indicates that there are 37 docu-

who se
the CI
1964,

Statio

ments that should be in Lee Harvey Oswald's 201 file
but which are missing from the file. Furthermore, this
document also indicates that there should be a machine
listing of these documents attached as part of document
£563-810, but no such listing appears in the file. ‘The
Select Committee on Assassinations requests that the
'CIA provide a listing of such documents as well asa
written explanation of where those documents are lo-
cated and why they do not appear in Oswald's 201 file.
Pursuant to my letter of December 27, 1977, I would like
to note that the document referred to in this paragraph
is a classified document. : :

9) After having reviewed both the documents contained in
the CIA's files on Priscilla Johnson McMillan and the
materials that were independently made available to her
under the Privacy Act, it is apparent that the files

' which were made available to the Comaittee did not in-

..Clude HTLINGUAL materials. -As the Committee has
already requested all information contained in your
files on the individuals who are the subjects of our.
requests, please review the files that you have pre-
viously made available to us for the purpose of ensur-
ing that all of the information pertaining to the
individuals involved has, in fact, been provided.

Finally, the Committee would like to interview all persons

rve se officers in the Soviet Russian Division of
A’ station for the period 1963 through February
as We Ss the Chief(s) of Station and Deputy Chief(s) of

n for that period. The Committee requests that the CIA
180-10147-10049

*

a

ca at 5,” Lours sromns, oie, cos _ - €
” RIGMime tom PREV ER, HC, - Samuen\  AvINK, GMO. .
. WALTER Zt. PAUNT ROY, Dc, STEWAMIT &, MC bitPMEY, COMM.
‘Wong a iarewasrar BURKE, CALE, CHARLES THOME, NEEM,
*  ChRETORHE® J. DOOR, Conn. HAROLD 5, SAWYER, MeCN. . . .
PUD ad PITH ae tna Select Committee on Assassinations

U.S. Wouse of Representatives - _ _
3331 HOUSE OFMCE BUILDING, ANNEX 2 NTO

 

- (202) 225-4628

| THIS COPY IS NOT | WASHINGTON, B.C, 20513 | psig ANDVOR

FOR RELEASE. = 5. “re a bon Se

Mr. Patrick Carpentier ; oo “on -
Office of the Legislative Counsel ete. 7# (45's
Central Intelligence Agency . an
Washington, D. C.

 

Dear Mr. Carpentier:

1) Edward Jay Epstein
2) Marvin Kantor

3) "Charlotte : Bustos J
4) Annie Goodpasture.

In addition, please provide’ the Committee with access to
the following information:

5) Any and all investigative reports prepared by E.
Howard Hunt pertaining to the John F. Kennedy assas~
Sination. These reports were not necessarily pre-
pared during the period of Mr. Hunt's employment
with the CIA). :

6) The file that was prepared by the CIA in reference to
- Howard Hunt's alleged Watergate-related activities.

pertaining to E. Howard Hunt in its letter to you of January 6,
1978. However, Roger Gabrielson, of your staff, has requested —
that the particular requests identified above, be put in writing.

The Committee would also appreciate a response from the
CIA regarding the following matters:. :

10149-10049
« ° soe

_ Mer. Patrick Carpentier
April 5, 1978
Page 3

+

either make these persons available for our staff to interview
or provide their last known address so that we can contact them
directly. : . .

Thank you for your continuing cooperation.

G. Robert Blakey _
Chief Counsel and Director

Sincerely, :

GRB:bwd Oo Le

 
