Lesnik said he is linked to many different Cubans

of various political factions, some of whom are

involved in narcotics and terrorism, because the

U.S. agencies do not know the historical nature of Cuban
politics. He said it is unlike U.S. politics where
political opponents rarely meet and do not get together
or associate with each other. In Cuba, he said, political
opponents often got together in some public place or,
more likely, in the newspaper's office where they would
argue for hours. "That is the way it is here," he said.
"Everyone comes here because they all want me to do
something for them, write stories about them or publish
their statements. That's why Bosch would come here and
Aldereguia, who they now say is a Castro agent, would
come here and Veciana would come here. And many others.
They would be here almost every day, but the FBI would
see them come in and say, ‘Look, they are conspiring
with Lesnik!' That's why my files are so thick.”

Lesnik said he remembers that when he first heard about
the assassination of Kennedy, his first reaction was
that Kennedy was a victim of a right-wing conspiracy.

He said he stiflt feels that way but he hag no [Information
to support his feeling. He said he does not believe
that Castro would have killed Kennedy. He does remember
that prior to the Kennedy assassination there weee
rumors about in the Cuban community that there would

be a coup d'etat, but he did not give them much thought
because "the Cuban mentality at the time was always
thinking about plots."

HW 50955 Docld:32241839 Page 6
was that of Rogelio Cisneros, who took over as head
of the MRP when Ray left Cuba.

Lesnik said that almost all his anti-Castro activity
has been in the public relations and propaganda end.

In fact, while still! in Cuba, he said, he was doing
radio broadcasts openly for Castro in support of the
Revolution but at the same time he was covertly

editing and publishing a small anti-Castro pub!sication.
He said he started Replica in 1966 as a two-page
propaganda sheet paid for by the MRP and Aipha 66.

He said Menoyo and Ray paid him to publish the
newsletter on a strictly cost basis. He said they

did not pay him anything because he iemiemke insisted
on remaining independent. "I told them," he said, "you
do not tell me what to write and.| will not tell you

how to conduct your military operations."

Lesnik said he had no contact with Orlando Bosch in

the early 1960s. "At that time," he said, "Bosch
was working with people who were our enemies, the
Batistianos and right-wing people. It wasn't until

1968 or 1969, when he started Guban Power, that he
came to me and asked me to publish statements for
him."

When Bosch made his famous bazooka attack against a

Polish ship in Miami harbor, he immediately afterwards
went to Lesnik's home. "i asked him when he told me,

‘Why did you do that? Do you belong to the CIA?" He

said no, he didn't belong to the CIA. Then | said, 'Well,
you are going to be arrested. In this country. you cannot
blow up a ship’ unless you belong to the CiA.'"

Lesnik said, however, that as a result of his attempt to
help Bosch by publishing his statements, the FBI and the
CIA and other U.S. agencies have begun a campaign to

get him. He said there have been attempts to link him to
narcotics and terrorist activities and, he said, an FBI
informant has more than once attempted to entrap him.

As a result, he says, he knows*his files at the FBi and
CiA are thick with misinformation about him. He has been
attempting for more than a year to get them through FOIA
and has not been successful. He said as soon as he gets
them he is going to publish them completely as they are.
He said the one who is the key man in misinforming the FBI
about him is Riccardo Morales Navarette.

~more=~

HW 50955 Docld:32241339 Page 7
After they were released from detention in Texas, Lesnik
said he became inactive in political affairs as a result
of a difference of opinion between him and the other
SNFE leaders, mainty Eloy Guitierrez Menoyo. Although

he has always espoused a political philosophy of
democratic socialism, he said, the smear campaign
conducted against him and the other SNFE leaders by

E. Howard Hunt and his right-wing cohorts led many

Cubans to distrust them and consider them as Communists.
Menoyo, said Lesnik, took the position that it didn't
matter, that they should carry on their anti-Castro
military activities anyway and when they were successful
at it the people would see that they were not Communists.
"My argument," said Lesnik, “is that we could not fight
on two different fronts. We could not fight against Castro
and at the same time against the Batistianos and those
who were accusing us of being Communists. | told Menoyo
that we should win the support of the Cuban exiles first.
Why should | risk my life if | was not going to get any
support?" oO

It was at that point, said Lesnik, that he dropped out of
being politically active with any exile organization,

He did, however, get into radio broadcasting and helped
some organizations with their public relations and
Propaganda.

I't was also at that point, he said, that Antonio Veciana
came along and with Menoyo founded Alpha 66. Later, he
said, when the Batistianos and right-=winger: Cubans who
had joined Veciana found out that Menoyo was involved,
they split away and formed Commandos L. Veciana then
regrouped with Menoyo. :

Lesnik said that he never heard of Veciana'ts association

with Maurice Bishop until he read about it in Jack Anderson's
column. He was aware, he said, of the Castro assassination
attempt in Chile in 1971 but, he said, Veciana told him at
the time that it was his own plan. He always did think, he
said, that Veciana must have had some high government
contacts, probably CIA, because he was able to get the

AID job in Bolivia,

Lesnik was shown a sketch and given a description of Maurice
Bishop. He said he did not recognize him as anyone familiar
to him. "As far as | know," he said, "Il only met two CIA
men that | know inewmy life: and Mike Ackerman."
{Ackerman is a Miami area resident who quit the CIA and

has been prominent in the local media as one of its public
defenders. J

 

 

 

 

-more-

HW 50955 DocId:32241839 Page 5
Lesnik was asked his opinion of Vecian&'s credibility.
He said: "Well, you are asking me if | believe what

Veciana says. Is Veciana an honest man? Yes, | betieve
Veciana is an honest man, very trustworthy and
very dedicated. At times! say to myseif, Yes, | believe

Veciana. At other times | am not so sure. For instance,
do you believe Veciana when he says it is not true about
the narcotics charge? If you ask me, | would say Veciana
is not the type of man who would have anything do with *
narcotics. Not at all. Yet, on the other hand, | know
how dedicated Veciana is, | know that more than anything
else he is dedicated to overthowing the Revolution and to
killing Castro. So the question is, could it. be that

he might have thought that the money that could be gotten
from narcotics could be used to a more noble purpose?

| don't know. But | do know that Veciana is a very
honest and dedicated man."

Lesnik said the only significant contact he has had

with the CIA was through[ in Havana. When
he was in Havana in 1958 a friend told him that an
American at the Embassy was interested in what was going
on in the Escambray. That's how he met He
has not beennin touch with him in recent years. Lesnik
said he was not receiving any CIA assistance or financial
aid when he was doing his radio broadcasts on WMAE in
Miami. He said he paid for the broadcasts by selling

his own advertising. He said’ he never met David Phillips
or Doug Gupton or anyone named Choadan.

 

He also said he never met E. Howard Hunt. He said his
business associate, Reinaldo Pico, had worked for him
before he started working for The CIA. He said Pico
thought he was working for the CIA when Hunt asked

him to take part in the Watergate operation.

Lesnik said he know Frank Fiorini Sturgis but he never
worked with him in any anti-Castro activities. He said
he met Sturgis occasionally at the studios of television
Channel 23 where Sturgis would come to pick up his wife,
who also worked there. He said he doesn't think Sturgis
would have anything to do with him because of his
reputation as a liberal.

Lesnik said he met Manolo Ray in 1960. Ray had been one
of the early members of the Ortodoxo Party but had not
become active in politics untif £957. tn 1960, Ray

was a minister in Castro's government when he broke with
it and went into hiding. Menoyo put Lesnik in touch with
Ray and gave him names of anti-Castro Cubans who would
help him. One of the names that Lesnik says he gave Ray

~more-
HW 50955 Docld:32241839 Page 6
poses?

MEMORANDUM = May 30, 1978

TO: G. Robert Blakey

FROM: Fonzi & Gonzates

RE: : Interview with Max Lesnik

Background: Max Lesnik is the editor and publisher of
Replica, a Spanish-language week magazine prominent in

the Miami Cuban community. 1+ regularly carries statements,
proclamations and letters from the key Cuban activist and
terrorist leaders, including those from Orlando Bosch in
prison in Venezuela. The office of Replica is a regular
gathering spot for many of Miami's Cuban political leaders,
including Alpha 66's Antonio Veciana. George Volsky,

a freelance correspondent for the New York Times and formerly
with the U.S. Information Agency at the American Embassy

in Havana, maintains a desk at the Replica office. Reinaldo
Pico, in on the first entry with the Watergate burglars,

is an employee of Replica. The Replica office has in the
past been the object of Bombings, usually with !ittte or

no damage, but reportedty the result of Lesnik's espoused
"liberal" political teaning. Lesnik himself is one of the
founding leaders of the Second National Front of the
Escambray.

 

 

Details: Max Lesnik was interviewed in his office at
Reptica, 2994 N.W. 7th Street, Miami (305-643-5481) on:
May 25, 1978,

Lesnik said we could best understand his place and role in

the Cuban political situation If he provided us first with

some historical background. in the middie of 1951, he said,

the ruling Autentico Party government of Carlos Prio was

being strongly challenged by the Ortodoxo Party's dynamic
leader, Eduardo Chibaés. The son of a wealthy family, Chibas

had given most of his money away to the poor and had a regular
Sunday evening radio broadcast during which he hanangued against
the corruption of the Prio government. He was so pepular

with the people in the villages and rural areas of Cuba that

it was generally believed he would walk away with the election
for the presidency in 1952. However, in August of 1951, to
demonstrate his sincerity and dramatize his charges of govern-
mental corruption, Chibas publicty committed suicide on his
radio program. To some extent, that created a power vacuum

in Cuban politics, said Lesnik, but it made the election

victory of the Ortodoxo Party a certainty in the 1952 elections.

-more~

HW 50955 Doocld:32241839 Page 2
180-10065-10373

 

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

Agency Information —

HSCA
180-10065-10373

NUMBERED FILES
008888

Document Information

HSCA
LESNIK, MAX

05/30/1978
7

ALPHA 66

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
PRIO, CARLOS

CUBA

LESNIK, MAX

CHIBAS, EDUARDO

SUMMARY
Unclassified
3

Redact
10/16/1996

Interview with Max Lesnik. Box 161.

HW 50955 Docld:32241639 Page i

9/21/201
That is why Fulgencio Batista, convinced he would lose
the election, engineered a successful and almost bloodless
coup dtetat on. March 10, 1952. Carlos Prio was forced to
fiee the country. And although, says Lesnik, Batista
promised an honest administration and eventual return to
constitutional government, his dictatorship soon became
characterized by corruption and brutality. it was that,
Lesnik claims, together with the vacuum left in the people's
desire for a dynamic leader by the death of Chibas, which
seeded the situation forthe coming to power of Fidel Castro.

Lesnik said that both he and Castro were among those
most politically active in the Ortodoxo Party at the
University of Havana but, he said, they were not close.
Castro came from a wealthy family but Lesnik said he always
objected to the way Castro wanted to,contro! the Party in
his personal manner, rather than have the: members of the Party
decide its direction. Nevertheless, on July 26, 1953, Castro
took a party of 120 followers from Havana to Oriente Province
and attacked the army barracks at Santiago de Cuba. His
arrest, subsequent trial and sentence to 20 years in prison
then made him, said Lesnik, the most well-known opposition
leader against Batista.

Although Lesnik was not directly involved in the attack
on the barracks in Santiago, he was arrested and sent to prison
with Castro. But because Satista would have recurring demonstra-
tions of benevolency, Lesnik was released in three months and
Castro within two years. Castro went to Mexico while Lesnik
remained at the University of Havana. in a meeting with Castro
in Mexico in 1955, Lesnik said Castro told him he would continue
fighting against Batista until he won or he died.

By March of 1957, with Castro in the mountains again with

a small band of guerillas, Lesnik had become very active with
the Directorio Revoluccionario Estudi@il (DRE) at the Univerity.
With Lesnik as one of fits organizers, the DRE mounted a major

assault against the Presidential Palace. The teader of the
assault was Carlos Gutierrez Menoyo, who was killed along with
many of his men. Those who survived fled into the Escambray
Mountains and set up a permanent guerilla camp there. That

led to the founding of the Second National Front of the
Escambray by its teaders: Carftos’ brother Elo utierrez Menoyo,
Max Lesnik, Armando Fleites and Nazario Sargen (presently

head of Alpha 66).

Lesnik said that as a result of the Second National
Front of the Escambray (SNFE) ensconced in the central part
of Cuba and Castro's 26th of July group in the Sierra Maestra,
there wasn't significant coordination at the time of the
Revolution in January, 1959. Although, said Lesnik, Castro‘

\HF 50955 Docld:32241839 Page 3 -~more=~-
offered SNFE leaders major positions in the new government,

he insisted, at the same time, that the organization be.
dissolved. For that reason, many of the SNFE leaders,
including himself, says Lesnik, remained apart from the
Revolution and Castro. Then, when it became apparent

that Castro was embracing Communismi-- the final manifestation
of that for SNFE leaders, said Lesnik, was when he executed
his close associate, Major Hubert Matos, who had tried to

warn him about Communist infiltration in the government --~-
Lesnik and the other SNFE leaders began a counter-Revolutionary
campaign against Castro. Because of that, Lesnik and 12

other key members of SNFE, were forced to leave Cuba in
January, 1961.

Lesnik said that he and the other SNFE leaders arrived in
the United States by boat at Key West on January 26, |96I.
He said they had absolutely no contact with or help from
any U.S. government agency. In fact, he said, they were
immediately arrested and sent to a detention camp in
MéAllen, Texas. At the time, said Lesnik, neither he

nor the other SNFE leaders knew that the Bay of Pigs
invasion was in the final stages of preparation.

Lesnik and the other SNFE teaders were not released until
July, §961, three months after the Bay of Pigs. Lesnik
said they were not asked to participate in the invasion
because E. Howard Hunt, whom Lesnik described as the

chief planner of the invasion, had told everyone that
they were Communists. Asked how he knew that, Lesnik said

ecome close personal friends with
in Havana during his anti-Batista activities.
was, 0 i » In the U.S. Embassy's political

section. When heard that Lesnik and his associates
were being held in Texas, he attempted to get them released.
Failing that, he sent two emissaries -- |
whom Lesnik says he never knew the real names of --
to explain to them that they weren't being asked to take’
part in the Bay of Pigs because Hunt was saying that they
shouldn't be trusted and that they might be Communists.

 

 

 

 

Lesnik said, however, that even if they had been asked to
participate in the Bay of Pigs, he and his SNFE associates
would have refused because they would not have wanted to be
aligned with those who were taking part in it. He said while
in detention in Texas, he discovered there were many Cubans
being brought there who had run away from the training camps
in Guatemala and he was told by them that the Cuban leaders
of the invasion were Batistianos and those who had been

associated with casinos and gambling. "The closest associate
of Hunt and Artime,~ for instance," he said, " is Bernard
Barker," ;

\ ~more=

HW 50955 Docld:32241839 Page 4
