 

 

a a ar

SECRET 9 of 9 pages

Classificcition: :

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

while he was living in the Soviet Union. Casasin said he doesn't believ
we were able to monitor him inside the USSR. He said it would have
» been too risky

Ld

I asked if Oswald's threat at the Embassy in Moscow to reveal
milit ary secrets to the Soviets wouldn't’ have made Oswald of more
intelligence interest. Casasin said if he had revealed secrets he
would have been of interest for security.

 

 

 

I asked Casasin if a memo would have existed from the time of
the conversation referred to in his 1963 memo about interest in Oswald.
He said he doesn't think so; he said it was not customary to write
Memos about such leads which were discussed and not followup. He does
not remember preparing any such memo.

 

Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

ee ae
SECRET 8 of 9 pages

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

block on the form, Casasin said he does not know what it stood for.
I asked him if he understood why some of the notations were crossed
out and new notations had been made; he said he could not explain that.
He said -he thought the Permanent Charge notation meant that the file
would stay in the Office of Registry and that the file therefore had no
_ operational significance. In this file he said he thought it would be
routine to open a file on defectors such as Oswald, so it may have had
some other office charge because of that. He said did not
. have an interest in the Oswald file.

 

 

-I asked how he would ‘have come across the State Department commu-
nications on Oswald. He said the normal distribution of such State
Department information would mean that the dispatches would be circu-
lated for information and then routed back to registry where they would
be kept on file as Third Agency documents. He said he believes from
the dispatches he saw on Oswald that they were in a consecutive series
as received from the State Department. He believes from the memo that
he must have seen several such dispatches with information about Os-
wald.

 

Casasin explained the operational interest various divisions
within the agency might have in this way:

 

 

 

 

He said he believes the 201 Personality form in Oswald's file is
» passive and not operational and sees nothing to indicate operational
interest. He said the above scheme means that only the line divisions
would carry the operations, and he does not see any indication of such
an interest on the form. The fact that only Counterintelligence is
indicated on the form seems to preclude any operations.

 

Casasin talked further about suspicions about Oswald. He expressed
the feeling the Oswald and Marina got their visas to leave the Soviet
Union too easily. He expalined the "unusual behavior" of Oswald as
being his defection: his reasons.were unknown, he seemed disoriented,
he married a Russian. Casasin said that while he does not believe Os-
wald was sent back to the United States by the Soviets, he cannot pre-
clude that possibility.

 

I asked if the Americans were able to follow Oswald's activities
SECRET
Classification:

j
:
)

  

| Classified by derivation:

LY LT ME LE EL La
BO Classification: SECRET 7 of 9 pages

(This form is ‘to be used for material extracted
from CiA—controlled documents.)

ultimately was of only marginal interest to the agency.

Casasin said it was normal to not make a check for a 201 file
on a person like Oswald, meaning that it was not unusual that he did
not check for Oswald's 201. He said this was eBsecially not unusual
since they had made the decision not to use Oswald. It's possible
that a colleague of Casasin's might have checked, but Casasin said
he doesn't recall any such check.

Casasin said his subordinates in
a man named Richard, last name possibly
was the liaison with the Technical Supports Di
- He said deputies in t
or three or four months), (possibly
stayed on in the. branch and CasaSif béltéve he could be oF more
in remébering details about the branch; also, Becky Balaban, who is
married to Rudolf Balaban.

 
 
  

 

 

 

 

   
  

 

Casasin said that the purpose of a 201 is to indicate that a
request had been made for provisional Operational approval. He said
the file would indicate operational interest and would then refer one
to the specific office with the interest in the individual. He said
he doesn't know Ehat actual criteria for opening 201's. He said also
that after initial interest was shown in an individual by the opening
of a 201, the number might remain with the individual without the
persen actually being developed as an asset.

Casasin mentioned that agency people were assigned to the military
Casasin referred agin to the “Harvey Story" reference in his memo.

He sated that "Whatever I meant by Harvey had nothing to do with him
(Oswald) ."

aA GA Ys GA.

I showed Casasin the Personality (201) File Request form from
Oswald's 201 file. He said he had never seen it before and did not know
there actually existed a 201 file on Oswald. Referring to the source
of the form, CI/SIG, Casasin said Ci stood for Counterintelligence.

. He said he thought SIG stood for Signal Intelligence, but he was not
sure. He said that notation would mean that NSA or the military had
picked up Oswald's name in some type of transmission. He asked if Oswald
had access to any type of radio transmissions. He said he thought the
201 section of the Registry Office could answer questions about the
notations on the form.

 

 

Referring to the "AG" notation in the Other Identification

> “GA “GAA

 

OOF OATA Classification: ___ SECRET

| Classified by derivation:

a a eh 4
LT Te ee ew ae

5 of 9 pages
Classification: __SECRET

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

travelled through Europe on leave with his family until Spetember,
1960. He said therefore the conversation could not have taken place
in the summer of 1960 as the memo states. He said he used the wrong yea

aa

. in the memo.

 

 

Casasin identified KUJUMP_ as the Operations Division. He said it
cnas a_contacts division

 

He said he believed he had

 

 

CIA's evaluation of Oswald. This was based on the fact that he was

 

received maybe one State Department dispatch on the returning American.
He said the dispatch probably originated if Oswald had given up his
passport at the Embassy in Moscow and had had to reapply to the embassy
to be able to return to the United States. Casasin said he believes
Oswald's contacts with the Embassy in Moscow were initiated by

Oswald. Casasin said he only knew whatever appeared in the State Depart
ment dispatches about Oswald.

a

He said his statement in the memo that Oswald looked “odd" was the

allowed to live in the Soviet Union and permitted to marry a Soviet
citizen. Casasin said he believed some type of controlled intelligence
station should approach Oswald; they would be able to contact and talk
to him in a perfunctory manner for debriefing purposes.

Casasin said that during the period 1945-60 no more than 10
American defectors came to their attention from the State Department
and the military.

 

 

Casasin identified the REDSKIN cryptonym as the
program. It involved

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Casasin said

 

 

 

 

 

He

 

 

believes therefore that if Oswald had been debriefed he would have seen
the information in that form.

Casasin said he believes it is inconceivable that Oswald would
have been any type of operative of the CIA. However, he also gave his
opinion that the nature Of KGB operations made it conceivable that Os-
wald could have been a “lay-low" Soviet operative.

 

 

 

 

 

SR. SA, iN A, SEE, aa, SEA,

ORTA2n Classification: SECRET

| Classified by derivation:

MI I I I a a
ae a a ee a a

6 of 9 pages
" Classification: ___ SECRET

(This form is to be used for material extracted — f
from ClA—controlled documents.) :

 

 

Casasin said he
is confident that Oswald was not working in any type of security faci-
lit

 

 

 

 

 

 

I asked Casasin what the reference to the "Harvey Story" in the
last line of his memo referred to. He said at first that it must have
been some kind of cryptonym he was using at the time. He pondered a
while. hen he said he would need some kind of prompting of his
memory. He said he doubts that it would have been someone's true name.

Casasin said he has never been contacted by anybody, including
the Warren Commission, about the memo.

He said that his interest in Oswald as expressed in the memo was
just a lead. He said the fact of no follow-up on that lead was not
unusual. He said Oswald's going to the Soviet Union was unusual, but
that left him open to the possibility of KGB contact. He therefore
SECRET

 

Classification:

j
}

SOLO B
| Classified by derivation:

bh LI I MI ME LL A Ma ;
ae a a a a a a

- 2 of 9 pages
. Classification: __ SECRET pag

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—<controlled documents.)

military. He said it consisted primarily of briefing the military on
items of mutual interest. He said the CIA had tried to work with clan-
destine units of the military, including the Army (he said the Navy
had no clandestine units), but it was the opinion of the CIA that the
military had too low a degree of professionalism for the successful
operation of clandestine projects. Casasin stated that during this
time the military said it was actually running operations, but it was
never confirmed by the CIA and they found no evidence of such military
operations.

Casasin identified two_military intelligence ersonnel in the
area when he was stationed [ OSI, and
Army head. :

 

 

 

 

 

 

Casasin said, however, that the Navy did provide some operational
support for his base. It consisted of providin for persons
running operations against the Soviets.

Casasin said he cannot recall any specific information that the
military was using American military personnel in any of its operations
He said, however, that there Was. occasional rumors that an American
serviceman was trafficking with suspected foreign subversives. He said
the individual intelligence agencies would have handled any such cases.
He stated that he never heard any concrete information of American
contact with the Soviets.

, — a ow Ow Ow om

 

Casasin could not recall the name of the Chief
he believed the man was a_retired vice admiral and at
his last name began with the letter "0." succeeded that
person in 1957.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

asasin said that most of his communications during that time from
went back to headquarters. He explained that_thel

 

 

 

 

 

at that time was tied up with the situation

 

 

 

 

 

 

'
Casasin said that he does not know who had the oversight —If
bility or authority for the U-2 program. He cited that as an example
of how well compartmentalized their work was. He said he never learned
who was in charge of the U-2 program out of Japan. He said that he
assumed it was some type of paramilitary operation. He said the
base ran no paramilitary operations and that most such
ts usually did not.

 

 

Casasin said_he does not recall any discussions concerning the
possible use of the Soviets. He said
one reason for no interest in Such USé Was probably that the First

 

fags Classification: _ S&CRET

| Classified by derivation:

WS a ae ee ae

Ge
 

ee ea ‘

Classification: SECRET 1 of 9 pages

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

INTERVIEW OF THOMAS CASASIN
: AUGUST 17, 1978
: AMERICAN. EMBASSY,

 

 

 

 

 

By surell Brady

Casasin stated that he retired from the Central Intelligence
Agency in 1973. At the time of the_assassination of President Kennedy
in Noveinber, 1963 he was statione he was working in the
area of Soviet operations, but had He arrived

in September, 1962.

 

 

 

He stated that in September, 1960 he was assigned

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as Chief. He worked for two years in -
Casasin said that during his assig he had not
infrequent contact with the CIA station He estimated that
the contact occurred every two and a half weeks. The contact was made
on the outside by telephoning a person with cover. He said he

never made written contact with the station.

 

 

Casasin explained that the function of was operations
in support of the Soviet Russia Division of the CIA. He said the
__work consisted of amassing information in support of the SR Division;

 

 

 

 

 

 

Casasin worked rom to | He served
i i He said his

 

 

 

 

Casasin said that his base had extremely limited work with the

ope . RETURN TO CIA
Classification: SPCR" gackeround Use Only

Do Net Reproduce
| Classified by derivation:

a MY LY LF £7 LF PP SS

lo (¥3-/6 aa

  

 

 
 

4
J

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

x

3 of 9 pages

we

Classification: __ S=CRET

(This form is to be used for material extracted - , f
from ClA—controlled documents.)

 

Chief Directorate of the KGB would suspect

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

He said the CIA at that point knéw
a lot about the KGB and its thinking because they had

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were much

 

Casasin explained further that American intelligence interests 6

He sal at was simply

 

“Sesssssasecssesasozssenne sass sssessosaazana-sessossscsssesssougresesseossscossenssssosssesseesooser~ = ~~ : .
not the American way of conducting intélligénce and that that thinking

precluded such programs.

Casasin said lessening of tensions between the United States and
the Soviet Union from such things as the Spirit of Camp David did

 

 

 

   
   

 

 

i referred Casasin to CIA Document 435-173-A, which is a memo
dated 25 November 1963 from Thomas B. Casasin to Walter P. Haltigan
on Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald. Casasin says he does remember the memo.
I asked him to explain the cover memo dated 12 December 1963 by Robert
G. Lamprell to Chiefs of SR and WH re: GPFLOOR-Lee Harvey Oswald.

Casasin explained that Lamprelil (whose real name was
he died of cancer a few years ago) was one of Casasin™s

 

 

 

 

contacts He_sai Lamprell was the Senior Officer in

the Soviet i¢é in Station, and served as the second_in :
d. Casasin said that Walter Haltigan (whose real name wasp
was his normal contact He surmised that his memo

Was Sent out by Lamprell because Haltigan might not have been available
He does not know the reason for the delay between the date of his
memo, 25 November, and the transmission by Lamprell, 12 December. f

Casasin said he recalls that he wrote the memo spontaneously
when he heard a news cast about Oswald after the assassination. He
recognized Oswald when he heard the news information that Oswald had
lived in Minsk in the Soviet Union and had married a foreigner. He
remembered those details from State Department information he had seen f

Casasin explained the cryptonym REDWOOD as clandestine operations;
the Chief of the SR Division was responsible for that project. He
explained that was separate from the REDCAP program, which was operatio,
against Soviets outside of the USSR.

 

Casasin explained the relationship of

Classification: __ S=CR=T ;

 

 

 

 

| Classified by derivation:

ia
 

kT a a a a a a a a ‘

Classification:. SECRET 4 of 9 pages

(This form is to be used for material extracted f
from ClA—controlled documents.) :

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Casasin said he cannot remember who served as Chief of the
|while he was there. He said the deputy
chief was an older woman near the age of retirement. He said that
Rudolf Balaban worked with him and is still at the agency; he could
probably remember the names of the others in the section.

 

 

I asked when Casasin recalled the discussion took place which he
refers to in his memo. He said it was the last days of his work with
the section; he assumes it was the third or fourth week of July, 1962
when he left the section, so he believes the conversation about Oswald
took place the first week of July, 1962.

Casasin said at the time he assumed Oswald had been sent out of
the Soviet Union by the KGB, so he exercsied caution and did not
attempt to debrief Oswald.

Casasin gave the following dates in an effort to pin down when the
conversation took place. He said he left and

 

 

 

 

dee ce SECRET
Classification: __-—

a BN Ga Gia NEE,

 

| Classified by derivation:

AT LE LE LE SE a
