at . . .
an LOUIS SvoRES, cM, CHAIMMAN
"RIG DHT som PREVER, WC SAMUEL. Bf, OMG

WATER &. FAUNTROY, D.fic STEWART B. MC Kinney, COMM,
Vi OHNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF, CHANLES THO, NEmM, Lo 7 . 7 -
CHMSTOPHER J. DOOR, Conn, HAROLD &. BAWYER, Mice \ . . wt ; . on
vovoLrmanior ' 2 Select Committee on Assassinations
ROSERT W, EDGAR, PA, coos . : - a . . /

: (202) 225-4028 oo. , GS. Touse of Representatives - _ -_

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

April 5. 1978

Mr. Patrick Carpentier oe -
Office of the Legislative Counsel 7 (LSS
Central Intelligence Agency LO - ;
Washington, D. C. ‘ : :

‘ .
‘Dear Mr. Carpentier: : oe oO . Dek

‘In connection with its investigation into the circum -
stances surrounding the death of President Kennedy, the Select
Committee on Assassinations requests access to all files and
file references pertaining to the following individuals:

1) Edward Jay Epstein —
2) “Marvin Kantor -

3) Charlotte Bustos -

4) ‘Annie Goodpasture. -

In addition, please provide the Committee with access to
the following information:

5) Any and all investigative reports prepared by E.
; Howard Hunt pertaining to the John F. Kennedy assas-
sination.. (These reports were not necessarily pre- fa
. pared during the period of Mr. Hunt's employment -L
. with the CIA). . wot ce es

6) The file that was prepared by the CIA in reference to 4 C-.
E. Howard Hunt's alleged Watergate-related activities.

‘The Committee previously requested access to all CIA files °~
pertaining to E. Howard Hunt in its letter to you of January 6,
1978. However, Roger Gabrielson, of your staff, has requested |

“that the particular requests identified above, be put in writing.

  

The Committee would also appreciate a response from the
CIA regarding the following matters: 2.0.5: tes

 

   
  
   

sRicadnAsy

iosemasiriey Ly yee (1 CONFIDENTIAL
eeuk ese. DUTING AND RECORD SHEET _

 
  

(0 secrer ©

 

         

 

“COMMENTS (Number each cominent te shaw from whom
“fo whem, Drew @ line across column after each comment.)

SA/DO/O Take ‘DX6 Voy. Attached “is a letter |
Bie ae from the House Select... °°

Committee on Assassinations
dated... 5. April- 1978 -- :

Please respond as soon as «:

possible

       

   

 

a ‘SECRET 0 Ue Ny

 

sr 6]

 

 

 

 
-, or ae

. Mr. Patrick Carpen_ser
April 5, 1978
-+ Page 2_ oe

   

7) The CIA's written statement replying to the Committee's
request of February 21, 1978 for an explanation of the
eriteria that governed the opening of a 201 file dur-

_ing the years 1958-64 was not responsive to our inquiry —
\ because the CIA's written statement did not focus on the
ol relevant time period. Accordingly, I am renewing our
"request of February 21, 1978. In the event that there
were no criteria governing the opening of such files
during that period, the Committee would appreciate a
written statement indicating that this was the case.

 

8) CIA document #563-810 indicates that there are 37 docu-
. =: Ments that should be in Lee Harvey Oswald's 201 file
oy but which are missing from the file. Furthermore, this
gh document also indicates that there should be a machine _
aon _ listing of these documents attached as part of document |
| #563~810, but no such listing appears in the file. ° The
Select Committee on Assassinations requests that the
_. CIA provide a listing of such documents as well as a
“f° written explanation of where those documents are 1o- a
- cated and why they do not appear in Oswald's 201 file.
Pursuant to my letter of December 27, 1977, I would like
to note that the document referred to in this paragraph ~
is a classified document. | Oo ; . ;

‘9) After having reviewed both the documents contained in
the CIA's files on Priscilla Johnson McMillan and the
,vAY materials that were independently made available to her
yi , under the Privacy Act, it is apparent that the files
- which were made available to the Committee did not in-
( -'.. @kude HTLINGUAL materials. As the Committee has.
~~ already requested all-information contained in your
files on the individuals who are the subjects of our
_ xequests, please review the files that you have pre- a
_- wiously made available to us for the purpose of ensur—_
-. ing that all of the information pertaining to the =“ _
| individuals involved has, in fact, been provided... os 0 fs
Finally, the Committee would like to interview all persons |.’
who served as case officers in the Soviet Russian Division of a
| al? the CIA's[ ss |Station for the period 1963 through February °°
oP

1964, as well as the Chief(s) of Station and Deputy Chief(s) of
Station for that period. The Committee requests that the CIA +.

   
either make these persons available for our staff to interview
or provide thets last known address So. that \ we can contact them

CG. ‘Robert Blakey.
Chief Counsel and Director

 

 
