Cuban-American...page 8

_ Lopez's wife told the FBI that Lopez began suffering from
recurrent attacks of epilepsy and had to be confined at Jackson

_ State Hospital in-Key—West in early 1963. 36/ She stated that

he was treated by doctors from Coral Gables and Key West for the
epilepsy. 37/ She stated that she did not believe he had a
history of epilepsy before coming to the United States. 38/

She believed his convulsions were brought on by nervous tension
and worry over his family in Cuba and may have been a reason
for his return to Cuba in 1963. 39/

The wife said that in approximately November, 1963,
she received a letter from Lopez saying he haa returned to
Cuba. 40/ The wife stated that she was surprised he had returned
but that he had mentioned he was going back to Cuba when he
left for Tampa in November, 1963. 41/ The wife gave her opinion
that he returned because of his close relationship with his
parents. 42/ The wife stated that she received another letter.

. from him later from Cuba. 43/ According to the letter, he was
working as an elevator operator in Havana. 44/ In that letter
Lopez .said he had received some kind of financial assistance
for the trip from an organization in Tampa. 45/ ‘According to the
wife, Lopez did not have ‘sufficient ‘personal funds to pay the
expenses to Mexico and cuba. 46/ She said that he had never had --

contact with Cuban refugee organizations to her knowledge. 47/
Cuban-American...page 9

Rodriguez told the FBI that Lopez left Key West
in late 1963 to go to Tampa with the hope of being able

to return to Cuba. 48/ Rodriguez said he believed Lopez wanted

‘to return to Cuba because he was afraid of being drafted into

the U.S. military. 49/ Rodriguez said Lopez was not involved

in any pro- Castro activity while living in Key West, but that
Lopez was "definitely" pro-Castro. 50/ Rodriguez recounted that
in one instance he and Lopez actually had a fist-fight over
Lopez's pro-Castro sympathies. 51/ ;

In a report in March 1964, the FBI reported that Lopez
had attended a meeting of the Tampa Pair Play for Cuba Committee
on November 20, 1085, 52/ The report also stated that at a
meeting of the group on November 17, 1963, Lopez stated that he

had been refused travel back to Cuba. He said at that time

_ that he was waiting for a phone call from Cuba to get word on

his departure to Cuba. 53/

. According to that report in March, (1964, a member of the
Tampa FPCC stated that ‘she called a friend in Cuba on December a,
1963 and. was told that, Lopez had arrived safely. 54/. ‘The member | -
had attempted to locate. Lopez in Cuba through friends there * Peesure
Lopez had ‘not delivered gifts to persons in Cuba from’ peog
in Florida as he ‘had ‘promised to do. 55/ The “member stated
also that the Tampa chapter of the FPCC had given Lopez
approximately $190 for the return trip to Cuba. 56/ ‘The member
said that Lopez had gone to Cuba by way of Mexico because he dia

not have a passport. 57/
Cuban-American...page 7

which had been carried out in Key West, Florida. The report
stated that Lopez's counsin, Guillermo Serpa Rodriguez, told the.
FBI that Lopez came to the United Stated for the first time some 7
time after Castro first came to power. 27/ He stayed approximately
one year and then returned to Cuba. 28/ Rodriguez stated that
Lopez returned to Cuba because he was homesick and missed
his family; he had parents and four brothers who still resided
in Cuba. 29/ . . .
. Rodriguez stated also that Lopez's brother Selito was
a member of the Cuban militia at that time. 30/ Another
brother, Raimundo Policarpo Lopez, had reportedly been
sent to the Soviet Union to study by the Cuban government,
“according to Rodriguez. 31/ ;
Rodriguez told the FBI that Lopez returned to the United.
States in 1960 or 1961 because he was afraid he would be drafted
into the Cuban militia if he remained in Cuba. 32/
. The FBI learned that Lopez married an American woman in Key
West in August, 1962. 33/  Accoraing to Lopez's wife, he worked

for a time with the Pepsi Cola Co. in 1962 and at the Molina

 

and Murgia Bakery in Key West, which was owned by cousins. 34/
She said that he also worked for a construction company in

Tampa in. June, 1963. 35/
Cuban-American...page 6

The cable stated also that backyround information

cf Os: ye pe 7

” Sipquat a
contained in a,dispatch dated March 18 which was being pouched

to headquarters, 21/
TA WERT At
<On March ge, the beputy Chief of the Mexico EES seation

. cabled a classified message to headquarters in which it was

 

 

stated that the information contained in the earlier dispatch

dehAtpor ie
which aiscussea Coe Afoontaced "jibes fully with that provided:
[Useunce]
station. by GrtENPO S early December 1963." 22/ :

A 201 file was. opened on Gilberto Policarpo Lopez by
Agency headquarters on December 16, 1963. 23/ At that time his
records indicated that no earlier 201 file had existed. The

file contains a "Review of 201 file on U.S. Citizen” by

f

o— an operations officer for the LAM/FI component

of the Agency. 24/ In that. review the file was classified
asa "counterintelligence case (i.e. , involving a foreign intelli-
gence or security service) - " 25/ The date of entry of. ‘that

category in Agency records is indicated as January 22, as) in in oo

Lopez's file. 26/ ; ee a ee - - . - o me -"

FBI Investigation

 

 

In a report dated August 26, 1964,. the FBI documented

the results of its investigation on Gilberto Policarpo Lopez
Cuban-American...page 4

November 27 for Havana. That classified message stated
Seut oc. ae

additionally that GITEMPO7D had, = ceurstet photograph of
Lopez. 10/

The photograph of Lopez contained in his CIA 201 file
has "27 November 1963" stamped on the back. In the photograph ©
Lopez is shown wearing dark glasses and the background in
the photogravh is dark and indistinguishable.

“Ina dispatch see er-5, 1963}from the Chief of
Station in Mexico KES to headquarters, copies of the

photograph of Lopez were attached. and the dispatch stated

  
 

 

 

— . ete
1963 at the Mexico City airport = Mexican a thorities as &
, hopes was boarding a Cubana flight. flay The dispatch gave ;

the previously reported information of the numbers of Lopez's ©
_passport and tourist card and his entry

into and departure ‘from Mexico. The dispatch contained the
additional information that Lopez was (isted as) the only

passenger on. Cubana: ELight #465 on November 27, 1963 to Havana;

the flight contained a’ ‘crew of nine Cubans. tt said he used

a u. S... passport and a “cuban courtesy visa. 12/ The dispatch -

had the following message: "Source states the timing and
circumstances surrounding subject’ s travel through Mexico and
departure for Havana are suspicious." 13/ The dispatch

said also that the source “urgently” requested all available

data on the individual.

 

ant
+ Cuban~American...page 5

Shy, Fider~
Also on(Decméber 5,

 

) CIA headquarters cabled the

' Mexico(City/Station and identified this Cuban-American as
Gilberto Policarpo Lopez, who was born on January 26, 1940. 14/
It stated also that Lopez was not identical with a Gilberto

Lopez who had been identified as active in ‘pro- Castro groups in.

Los Angenee iby . zy dardgupatecd serve’
GB varcn AS) 1964 c

classified message (to — ter that (enrique Ruiz Montalvo, i

Ga. agent of the. Mexica:! Federal Judicial Police] had) stote cl

os
informed the CIA Jthat one off Ruiz’ s fontacts reported

in late February, 1964, that an American citizen named Gilberto

 

Lopes was involved in the Kennedy assassination. 16/ The message
“saiaffuiz' s} contact reported that Loves entered Mexico on

foot from Laredo, Texas about 1200 hours on November 13 carrying U.:
passport #319962, which was issued July 13, 1960. L7/ According

to the dispatch, the contact related also that Lopes proceeded by
bus to Mexico City "where he entered Cuban embassy"; it said that
he left the Cuban Embassy on November 27 and was ‘the only |

_ passenger for Cuba on flight #465. sy t said the contact,

  

“reported that Lopes | was issued Mexican travel form B,. #24553, at
Nuevo ‘Laredo. 19/- According to the dispatch Cn

. that he could not verify the contact's ‘information,

but thought it might be of interest to the United States

government. 20/
\

rc

 

Cuban-American

In Book V of the final report of the Senate Select

Committee to Study Governmental Operations on the performance

of the intelligence agencies in the investigation of the
assassination, the FBI and CIA are criticized for their
apparent failure to fully pursue leads surrounding the _
assassination of President Kennedy and then to Eully report
to the Warren Commission the results of the investigations
they did undertake. One such lead concerned the travel
from Texas to Mexico City of aprunidentiffed Cuban- .
Amexican on November 23, 1963, and then his flight to Havana on
November 27. 1/ The lead was made more "interesting" by
the fact that the Cuban-American reportedly attended a
meeting of the Tampa chapter of the Fair Play for Cuba

Committee on November 17, 1963. 2/ The House Select

Committee on Assassinations examined the documents connected

to that lead to determine: .(a) whether the facts which were

known by the FBI and CIA about that individual warranted |

 

further investigation and what investigation was’ undertaken;,

(b) whether any of that | information was reported to the Warren

‘Commission; and (c). whether the known facts suggest any.

involvement in the assassination of President Kennedy.
;
:

180-10147-10164)

 

o

,
f
sp
p
#6
#
ob
pe
‘a
6
s-
p

TM a I IT a a a a

 

+ "Classification: Secrep )
a Box’ A}
; r
(This form is ‘to be used for material extracted Fu eo
from ClA—controlled documents.) b i

Cover Sheet

Tne attuched package of paper is the property of
se Select-Comnittee on Assassinations, and is
to CIA under an agreement whereby CTA is not
soduce or ccepy the draft or any portion thereof.

  
 

‘Notes may be taken on materials in this packege,

and rough notes flay be prepared as a basis for informal

and oral exche s with HSCA representatives. These

notes, however, are to be held as though controlled and
D “Qostroyed under agreed conditions with HSCA

© e copied or excerpted and are to be

instructions are received for

 

8

  

rs have been numbered for accountability
sordingly. They are to be handled on
as though constituting sensitive papers
w basis.

  
 
  
  
 

receipt
cure basi

 

 

Classification:

 

 

TLY49- Joules i _ Classified by derivation: __ _

ME LS SF SI FT DI FF LF FF .
on this lead amplifies.

Cuban-American...page 2

  
   
  
  

A chronology of the activities @ FBI and CIA
information which was in the

possessi the two agencies.

CiA Investigation

The first information on the travel of the Cuban-
: tnd £4
American appeared oebhoomver Gf 1963. At that time the

Mexico Station of the CIA sent a classified. message

to CIA headquarters that a source (dentified a (Lirempo/4 had

requested of the Mexico Cit} Chief of Station at 1300 hours —

on that date "urgent traces on U.S. citizen Gilberto P.

Lopez." 3/ The source said Lopez arrived in Mexico on
November 23 en route to Havana and that Lopez had
disappeared with no record of his trip to Havana. According
to the message, Lopez had a tourist card, carrying number

24553, which he obtained in Tampa on November 20, 1963 and

his passport number was 310162. . The message stated that Lopez

left Mexico for Havana, on November 27, via Cubana (Airlines) .

The classified message ‘listed the eryptonym(LIFIRE )as encengi/

source of information on 1 Lopez' s travel. rt indicated the ‘Mexico

it Station had no: traces on-him. 4/

In another classified message ( ated December 3, 1963)from

the Mexico Station to CIA headquarters, the station

 

reported also that the FBI office in Mexico City had been
advised. by Mexican authorities that Lopez entered Mexico on

November 27 at Nuevo Laredo. 5/
Cuban- American...page .3

. set ths wexr Sin ;
In another classified message Gated December 4, 196 ;

to the Mexico EG station from CIA headquarters, the Agency
reported that the State: Department check on Lopez had produced nothi
yet because of the difficulty-in tracing records using only
a name and passport number. 6/ The message contained this
paragraph:

We assume you have not 201 EEO)

that Lopez flew to Cuba on 27 November

because you do not want to blow the

(LIF IRE peration. This problem is up
to you. 7/

sou ee]

tne Gazss) opera referred to in the Buassiti d message > ;
thiobhhawny of wm fapp nya od

to the Mexico Station involved ooperation. betweén the
CIA and Mexican federal officials who articipated in a .

    
  
  

Mexican officials also had their own program to photograph the
_8/ ae

passports of the

   

assengers arriving from Havana.

 

On December: 5, 1963 the Mexico. City | Station reported
OAT DP ls
that th LITEMPO/4 source had stated that Gilberto Lopez had .. =
crossed the Mexican border at Laredo, Texas on November 23,
1963 and registered in the Roosevelt Hotel in Mexico City on
eae Renae Jove oQ
November 25 at 1600 hours in Room 203. 9/C- lso

reported that Lopez departed on a Cubana flight on

oid
