 

 

Piccolo Interview, Page 9.~

target for recruitment by the CIA. However, Mr. Piccolo declined to
discuss further Ms. Proenza's relationship with the CIA unless HSCA could
demonstrate the relevancy of the questioning.

lastly, Mr. Piccolo was asked to examine CIA dispatch HMMW-11935,
1 September 1963, regarding Luisa Calderon. Mr. Piccolo indicated that
the desicnation therein of SAS/EOB represented Cuban Task Force/
External Operations Branch. OB, he stated operated outside of Cuba.
Furthermore, Mr. Piccolo stated that he knew the author of the

dispatch, Dave Ronis, whom he stated had retired from the CIA.
Piccolo Interview, Page 8.

a soft file basis.
Mr. Piccolo was next asked to examine CIA debriefing No. 65 of A/1
pertaining to the duties of D&r officers in the field regarding visa applicants.
Mr. Piccolo did not recall ever reviewing this report. He indicated that
the debriefing report appeared accurate. He further stated the DGI
used extensive consulate cover in its operations. Mr. Piccolo stated
that he believed Eusebio Azcue, form Cuban Consul in Mexico City, to have
been a DGI officer.
Mr. Piccolo was queried concerning his knowledge of the diagraph frawe. )
Specifically, he was asked what significance the notationf en ia when
placed next to the names of DGI officers Mirabal and.Vega as occurs in a
30 April 1964 excerpt from a CIA debriefing report of A/l. Mr. Piccolo
stated that thef an probably stood for [zr0stcx, project designed to identify
the clandestine Cuban intelligence network.
Mr. Piccolo next examined a 17 July 1964 CIA contact report -#hai—he
hile. _ Mr. Piccolo verified his authorship of the contact report and further
stated that the Cuban defecto nean/1 faenti fied in the report had been
a Cuban G-2 agentwho had defected in 1962 or 1963. Mr. Piccolo further
indicated that fhe photographs examined by A/1 an ance} as reported
in the contact report, probably originated with thd LIONTON surveillance }
operations. :
was

Mr. Piccolo next/asked to detail his knowledge of Teresa Proenza Proenza.
He stated that she was related to the manager of Cubana Airlines in
Mexico. He further declared that he had no knowledge that Proenza had

ever been associated with the cra

J He did not know if she had been a

 

 

 
wee

Piccolo Interview, Page 7.

had read the files. He was asked how he knew that we had read the files.
He stated that some of the cable traffic passed across his desk.

Mr. Piccolo was next asked if he could identify the function of the

 

CIA component known as cll He responded that it was his belief that

 

 

 

 

 

probably
CIA fdealt with because tha designation seemed to imply that it
was a Intelligence Group or a Intelligence Group.

 

 

 

 

At this point in the interview Mr. Piccolo was asked to examine a
5 May 1964 CIA debriefing report of A/l reporting A/1's knowledge of
Oswald's possible contacts with the DGI. Mr. Piccolo stated that he
does not recall ever seeing this report or the information contained in
it. He had no recollection of Rogelio Rodriguez, Luisa Calderon, and his
recollection of Manuel Vega was poor. Mr. Piccolo was next asked to
examine a 7 May 1964 CIA memorandum prepared by[tiarota ovens] which
elaborates on A/1's knowledge of Oswald and the JFK assassination. Mr.
Piccolo stated that he had never seen this memorandum and that it did not
refresh his recollection regarding Iguisa Calderon. Mr. Piccolo was then
asked if A/1 had been questioned during his polygraph session in 1964 about
his knowledge of Oswald. Mr. Piccolo stated he did not know that he did
not see the polygraph results but does recall that two persons were
present during the polygraph session.

Mr. Piccolo was then asked if he could define a Black Tape 201. He
stated that such a file has been retired and is black taped to hidegeither
an operational relationship or other sensitive matters. This file is
enveloped and sealed with black tape. He indicated that a name trace
should indicate if a file has been black taped. Moreover, he stated that

it would be a very rare occurrence for an agent file to be maintained on
 

 

Piccolo Interview, Page 5.-

 

hisknowlerse cancerni.

Mr. Piccolo was questioned about what-he-knew-aboat the Finding of
the surveillance photographs of Oswald. He stated that he did not have
first hand knowledge of that but that it was the type of thing, a’ coup,''
that would have traveled through the Agency "grapevine". Mr. Piccolo
stated that he had heard stories about a surveillance photograph of Oswald
being found both in Mexico City and at CIA Headquarters in Langley. He
said that Ann Goodpasture may have been the person who found a photograph

of Oswald in Mexico City. He stated that he has heard several times that

 

  

“in house" investigation a couple of years ago. He said that they were

talking about the case because of the HSCA's release of several photographs
to the press with a request that anyone able to identify those photos
contact the Committee. Mr. Piccolo stated that during the course of

this discussion{ _———_—étated that [chartotte pustos4 "the gal at

the Mexico desk", had found the surveillance photographs of Oswald. Mr.

Piccolo stated that he assumed that had become aware of

Ms.. Bustos' fcoup through his research into the Oswald case.

 

Finally, Mr. Piccolo speculated that any photographs of an American
from Mexico City surveillance operations would have been sent to Headquarters
and that he presumed someone would have found the photo of Oswald ina

file made up of these photos.

   
te

Piccolo Interview, Page 6.”

Mr. Piccolo was next. asked whether he is acquainted with the following

people:

1) kno.

2) Douglas Gupton-no.

 

3) David Phillips~yes.
4) E. Howard Hunt-yes, but not well.

5

a)

Maurice Bishop-no.

6) Ross Crozier-no.

7) Antonio Veciana-no.

8)p Stanley Watson~yes.

9) Clare Boonstra-yes.

10) Silvia Duran-no recollection.

11) Manuel Calvillo-no.

12) Ann Goodpasture-yes.

3 Cirine/s}es, but can recall nothing.

14)! Win Scott-yes; Mr. Piccolo was queried whether Me. Scott maintained
a personal safe in Mexico City while he wae Chict of Station thm. Mr.
Piccolo responded that restricted materials would have been kept in a
safe in Mr. Scott's office. Mr. Piccolo defined restricted materials as
being very sensitive; i.e., not finding its way into the routine files
and indexes. Mr. Piccolo stated that he does not know who would have
had access to the safe other than Mr. Scott and, further, he has no idea
about what happened to it when Mr. Scott retired.

15) (cxmvnty9 pin true name-no.

16) Lerma /9 Piccolo responded that we (meaning interviewers) knew

who that was. He was asked how he knew that we knew. He stated that we

 

Ama He.WaS~ ARE ehesk
Piccolo Interview, Page 2.

Cuban counterpart for external security and counter-intelligence operations.

Mr. Piccolo stated that he did not participate in the initial handling
and debriefing of A/1 but became involved in this case during the summer of
1964 when he first met A/l. At that time, Mr. Piccolo was assigned to
"handhold" A/l; i.e., to ensure that A/l was properly accomodated and
escorted and to provide companionship for A/1l.

Mr. Piccolo recalled that A/1 had been debriefed fin canada patter his
defection. He stated that the objectives’ of the initial debriefings would
have been to gain biographic data on persons associated with the Cuban
Intelligence Service and information on persons who might collaborate
with the CIA. He indicated that he ceased contact with A/1 prior to 1966
and the last information he had was that A/l was residing infMiand , J
Florida and was adjusting well to life in this country.

As for the filing of the debriefing reports, Mr. Piccolo said the
filing procedure would habe been dictated by the manner in which the case
was handled; i.e., by subject or cryptonym or personality. He did state
that debriefing reports would hake initially been held in the office
handling the case. ‘These reporS would hale been “held tight" to allow
time for operations to be developed while security risks Boo at a minimum.
However, not
Wan Mr. Piccolo said he did*know where such debriefing reports would now
be located.

Mr. Piccolo later became responsible for debriefing A/1l. Mr. Piccolo
was not able to recall the exact time period during which he debriefed

whr& continues tor : ;
A/1 fi approximately a four to six month period. Mr. Piccolo stated that

[taroia Swenson, Barney Hidalgo and Dan Piores fiso debriefed A/1.

Mr. Piccolo was queried as to the responsibilities of we, the
 

Bk ds Fhbe ig Sd 74,

 

House Select Committee on Assassinations conducted a two hour interview
with Joseph Piccolo, Jr. Mr. Piccolo, age 43, is presently an employee
of the CIA working as an operations officer in the Deputy Directorate of
Operations. He joined the CIA in 1957 and, with the exception of one year
of duty with the Air Force, has continued until the present time in his
employment with the Central Intelligence Agency.
Prior to the beginning of the interview Mr. Piccolo was asked to read
the CIA's omnibus release letter of 23 March 1978. After his examination
of the letter, Mr. Piccolo indicated that he fully understood the letter's \
meaning. Mr. Berk then explained to Mr. Piccolo the mandate and: purposes ct
of the Select Committee.
Mr. Piccolo stated that at the time of President Kennedy's assassination
he was a support assistance analyst in the DDO. His responsibilities
lols included maintenance of records, running of traces, and Spanish language
analysis for purposes of operational support. Subsequent to this position
Mr. Piccolo undertook training during the spring of 1964 to become an
operations officer. Mr. Piccolo further stated that his professional
areas of interest were mainly concerned with Latin America. He also in-

dicated that he served in thd cra's Mexico City Station fro{ sd

 

Javgust 1965 to January 1968.) It was further

 

 

ascertained that Mr. Piccolo was involved in some Agency operations
' directed against Cuba during the time periods 1962 to January 1968,
January 1969 to January 1970, and a three month period during 1975.
Mr. Piccolo was asked if he was familiar with the cryptonym AMMUG/1.
He responded affirmatively and stated that A/1 was thefirst Cuban Intel-

ligence Service (CUIS) defector from the then newly formed DGI, the CIA's

| (olf2~/ OBS 3
Piccolo Interview, Page 3.

“CIA component responsible for the A/1 case. He indicated that this component,

“ whose chief waq Harold swenson porkea against the CUIS. He further indi-

cated that WH] to carry out its function, probably ran CFT

operations.

 

Mr. Piccolo was next queried whether he recalled a CIA component
referred to as the "domestic exploitation section". Mr. Piccolo stated
that this terminology was not familiar to him but that domestic exploitation
would most likely have been located in a positive intelligence section of
the Agency such as the Domestic Contacts Division. He did state, however, -
that recruitment or contact of persons in this country for utilization in
foreign operations would have been the responsibility of every operations
officer. He doubted that the Western Hemisphere Division would have run
such an office but that operational recruitment would hae been handled
as part of a specific project or program.

Mr. Piccolo was queried whether A/1 providied any information to the
CIA on Lee Harvey Oswald and his possible contacts with the DGI. He
responded that he’ recalls no A/l debriefing reports providing such infor-
mation nor did A/1 provide such information to him. Mr. Piccolo further
declared thar{ nssrs. Swenson, Hidalgo, and Flores} never indicated to him
that A/l had ever provided any information on Lee Harvey Oswald.

Mr. Piccolo was next queried as to the meaning of the term "Special
Intelligence." He indicated that the term usually applies to the inter-
ception of communications, e.g., signal intelligence which would include
radio waves and radar but would not have included electronic surveillance.

Mr. Piccolo further stated that special intelligence would haife been

handled »f_____} special unit segregated from other agency

 
vee

 

Piccolo Interview, | Page 4.

components.
Mr. Piccolo was next asked if he had ever seen any photographs of Lee
Harvey Oswald resulting from the photographic surveillance operations con~

conducted by the CIA Mexico City Station. He responded in the affimative

: Arce hath iates re,
stating that he had seen two photographs #42 the person who showed pigem 7 7”
00, Piteafm~

to him said were taken in Mexico City. M® said that the ‘person, whose
identity he was unable to recall, had shown him the pictures saying:
(paraphrase) “These are the pictures of Oswald that we got in Mexico."

He stated that he was led to understand that these two pictures had been
taken of Lee Harvey Oswald either entering or leaving the Cuban Embassy/
Consulate in Mexico City. The first picture was a 3/4 full shot of
Oswald exposing his left profile as Oswald looked downward. The second
photograph which Mr. Piccolo recollected seeing was a back of the head
view of Oswald. At this point in the interview Mr. Piccolo was shown

CE 237, the Eamous photograph of the Mexico Mystery Man. All printed
identification bordering fhe photograph was covered prior to Mr. Piccolo's
examination. Mr. Piccolo was then asked whe the man in CR 237 was. mr.
Piccolo responded that he did not know but that the person was nor Oswald.
Mr. Piccolo was asked if this was one of the photographs he had seen and
he responded in the ndgative. Mr. Piccolo was next shown a full frontal
photograph of Lee Harvey Oswald. This photograph also had all printed
material bordering its surface covered. When asked who the person in

the photograph was, after a moment's pause, Mr. Piccolo correctly identified
the photograph as orRof Lee Harvey Oswald. Mr. Piccolo stated that he |
could not recall where or when he had seen the surveillance photographs

or Lee Harvey Oswald but was certain of their presentation to him as such.

 
