Pe, “ _ - . = _ : oo ae a
- Mr... Patrick carpfeatier . ke
April 5,.1978
Page 2_

 

-7) The CIA's written statement replying to the Committee!
request of February 21, 1978 for an explanation of the
criteria that governed the opening of a 201 file dur-
ing the years 1958-64 was not responsive to our inquiry
because the CIA's written statement did not focus on the
relevant time period. Accordingly, I am renewing our
xequest of February 21, 1978. in the event that there

xX Were no criteria governing the opening of such files
during that period, the Committee would appreciate a
written statement indicating that this was the case.

 

te

8) CIA document #£563~810 indicates that there are 37 docu-
ments that should be in Lee Harvey Oswald's 201 file
but which are missing from the file. Furthermore, this
document also indicates that there’ should be a machine
listing of these documents attached as part of document
£563-810, but no such listing appears in the file. ‘he
Select Committee on Assassinations requests that. the

“CIA provide a listing of such documents as well as a

“1 written explanation of where those documents are lo-
“cated and why they do not appear in Oswald's 201 file.
Pursuant to my letter of December 27, 1977, I would like
to note that the document xeferred to in this paragraph
is a classified document. . ;

9) After having reviewed both the documents contained in
the CIA's files on Priscilla Johnson McMillan and the
materials that were independently made available to her
under the Privacy Act, it is apparent that the files

' which were made available to the Committee did not in-

'+. Clude HTLINGUAL materials. -As the Committee has
already requested all information contained in your
files on the individuals who are the subjects of our
requests, please review the files that you have pre-
viously made available to us for the purpose of ensur~
ing that all of the information pertaining to the
individuals involved has, in fact, been provided.

Finally, the Committee would like to interview all persons

who served. as se officers in the Soviet Russian Division of
. the crate ___Petation for the period 1963 through February
1964, as as the Chief(s) of Station and Deputy Chief(s) of

Station for that period. The Committee requests that the CIA *
 
 

i

°

enh ia “9 PREGA samuel vine, ome . € / fo 7

 
  

 

ae bows srones, ota, CHane/”

VIALTRG Z, PAUCTROY, OC. STEWART B, BC KIMeHEY, Cored. cokes
WVONNE ARATHWAITE DAKE, CALIF, CHARLES THOME, MEER, - .
CHM ETOPHER J, DOGG, Coes, _ HAMOLD B, BAW YEH, Morte, - . . . .
: . Select Committee on Assassinations C lone

(ap asasaa : SLS. Bouse of Representatives - Le

v
3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20315

. GIA HAS NO OBJECT
April 5. 197 8 DECLASSIFICATION 10N To
RELEASE OF THis pocune
. Mr. Patrick Carpentier oo ee
Office of the Legislative Counsel TY (LSS

op it, BBE

Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Carpentier: _

in connection with its investigation ihto the circum -

' stances Surrounding the death of President Kennedy, the Select

Committee on Assassinations requests access to ali files and
file references pertaining to the following individuals:

DO NOT REPRODUCE
RETURN TO CIA

1) “Edward Jay Epstein
2) Marvin Kantor

3) Charlotte Bustos
4) Annie Goodpasture.

In addition, please provide the Committee with access to ~~
the following information:

5) Any and all investigative reports prepared by E.
Howard Hunt pertaining to the John F. Kennedy assas—
sination. ‘(These reports were not necessarily pre- .
pared during the period of Mr. Hunt's employment ‘i:
with the CIA).

6) The file that was prepared by the CIA in reference to )”
E. Howard Hunt's alleged Watergate-related activities.

The Committee previously requested access to all CIA files
pertaining to E. Howard Hunt in its letter to you of January 6,
1978. However, Roger Gabrielson, of your staff, has requested |
that the particular requests identified above, be put in writing.

The Committee would also appreciate a response from the ae

‘CIA regarding the following matters:

2
Sage

“

SF Kl
VO )O/L/ = (Alls

   
Mr. .Patrick Carpentier :
‘April 5, 1978.
Page 3

either make these persons available for our staff to interview
or provide their jast known address so that we can contact them
directly.
Thank you for your continuing cooperation.
, Sincerely,

Aa Mota Beales .

G. Robert Blakey
Chief Counsel and Director

GRB :bwd en .

 

|
\
i
|.
|
