Classification: a

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

"Moscow had given him the authority to

give Americans visas without prior appro-
from Moscow. He (Golub) stated that

this wou make his job much easier, and

as long as he was convinced the American

was “all right" he could give him a visa ;

in a matter_of minutes...."* wf

C (QFHA-3962,,)17 July 1959)

emphasis

The second[_|Dispatch dated October 9, 1999, one

day prior to Oswald's arrival in Helsinki, illustrates

that Golub did have the authority to issue visas without

delay. The Dispatch discusses telephone contact between

Golub and his Consular counterpart at the American Embassy

in Helsinki. In part the Dispatch discloses:

*

Kk

SF SF LE LE LE LL aa

",..Since that evening (September 4, 1959)
Golub has only phoned (the US consul) once
and this was on a business matter. Two
Americans were in the Soviet Consulate at
the time and were applying for Soviet visas
thru (sic.) Golub. They had previously
been in the American consulate inquiring
about the possibility of obtaining a Soviet
visa in one or two days. (The U.S. Consul)
advised them to go directly to Golub and
make their request, which they did. Golub
phoned (the U.S. Consul) to state that he
would give them their visas as soon as they
made advance Intourist reservations. When

they did this, Golub AM Ado OM /
their visas.... (OFHA-4132, J9 Oct. 1959)** /
Seneca ne reaceRN ULCER em prac’ AE of

The Dispatch does not define the meaning given by Golub

to the term “all right."

Evidently, Oswald had made arrangements with Intourist because
upon his arrival at Moscow railroad station on October 16, he
was met by an Classifica representative and taken to the Hotel

Classificatio
Berlin where he issification: - a Student. (Wo p. 691)

LG 4 Pa fat | Classified by derivation:

§
:
,
,
p
p
é
p
p
p
p
p
Ty —y— —€" ma ema guy emp wey <n
aaa Classification: | ~6 ~

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Thus, based upon these additional two factors: i)

 

Golub's authority to issue visas to Americans without prior

this
approval from Moscow, and 2) a demonstration of eee authority, as
Ce ported fa wl spat é
approximately one month prior to Oswald's appearance at

Serene
evidence tends to support the conclusion that “Oswald's

tourist visa within two to four days after his appearance

Lat,

 

| the Soviet Embassy, the Committee has found that the available
6 ‘ at the Soviet Consulate, * were somewhat suspect, does not

warrant the belief that Oswald's travel into the Soviet
6 Union was assisted by others, particularly the Soviets.
However, the possibility of assistance cannot be dismissed
due to Golub's probable connection with the KGB and the

Nee’ S Sarg

lack of ether substantive information avaidabic to. definitely
confirm that Oswald's visa was handled in a manner similar
to that of the two American students whothad entered the

oo o 7
Soviet Union with Golub's assistance via Finland.

Pitan Paes Classification: = t—“‘i‘

| Classified by derivation:

LF LF LI LI £7 £9 LT 9 FF

 

’

> a ee ee ee ee NN NN
‘

Classification: ___- 2 -

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Thus, the issue has arisen whether Oswald's receipt

 

of a Soviet visa prior to his entry into the Soviet Union
was an “odd happening". as Anson characterized it; circum-

stantial evidence tending to show that Oswald had received

During the course of its investigation the Warren Commission

shared Anson's concerns. In a letter to the CIA dated May

 

25, 1964 3. Lee Rankin ingidred about the apparent speed
with which Oswald's Soviet visa was issued: Rankin noted

that he had recently spoken with Abraham Chayes of the

: special assistance in order to enter the Soviet Union.
4

thet
State Department whc contended“at the time Oswald received

. an
: his visa to enter Russia from the Soviet Embassy at Helsinki,
Pe at least one week ordinarily transpired between the time

of a tourist's application for a visa and the issuance of

 

* (continued from previous page)
that visas during the 1964 tourist season were being granted
in about 5 to 7 days. . -

 

L This information from the Department of State and the Central
Intelligence Agency thus suggests that Oswald's wait for a
visa may have been shorter than usual but not beyond the

: range of possible variation. The prompt issuance of Oswald's
visa may have been merely the result of normal procedures,
due in part to the fact that the summer rush had ended.

" It might also mean that Oswald was unusually urgent in his

' demands that his visa be issued promptly. Oswald himself
told officials at the American Embassy in Moscow on October
31, when he appeared to renounce his citizenship, that he had
said nothing to the Soviets about defecting until he .arrived
in Moscow. In any event, the Commission has found nothing
in th gipcumgtances, of Oswald's entry into the Soviet Union

H257 "Classification: -
which indicates that he was at the time an agent for the
U.S.S.R. (WCR, p. 258)<steer |

 

a, > > > Sn So Vn Ve Vn VS hl CN

Classified by derivation:

WW WwW ee .
 

180. 11a. ze alll El ey, —==Z-| E-|  —_-y ———- «a <a

 

Classification: _ ah. yoy

(This form is to be used for material extracted
> Y from ClA—controlled documents.)

   

Robert S. Anson, author of “They've Killed the
President! The Search for the Murderers of John F. Kennedy,"
offered a critical appraisal of Lee Harvey Oswald's travel
through Western Europe prior to his appearance in Moscow
on October 16, 1959. Anson expressed particular concern
over the issuance of a Soviet tourist visa in Helsinki,
Finland to oswaia prior to his entry into the Soviet Union.
Anson wrote that "fo 7n Monday, October 12, Oswald went
to the Soviet Consulate and applied for a visa. It was
granted two days later” (Anson, p.- 159) “Anson concluded:

,

Oswald also managed to secure a Soviet
visa in record time. The CIA told the
Commission that under ordinary circum-
stances obtaining a visa in Finland
took one or two weeks; Oswald got his
in two days. (Ibid., p. 160)* _--—

 

* Anson was referring to the Warren Commission Report where it
is stated:

The Department of State has advised the Commission
that it has some information that in 1959 it usually
took an American tourist in Helsinki 1 to 2 weeks to
obtain a visa, and that it has other information that
the normal waiting period during the past 5 years has
been a week or less. According to the Department's
information, the waiting period has always varied fre-
quently and widely, with one confirmed instance in 1963
ef a visa routinely issued in less than 24 hours. The
Central intelligence Agency has indicated (continued)
4Q% ope . . .
2004499 Classification: = -

| Classified by derivation:

LP MS 4 & & & YY I & |.

18192-1635)

 
 

 

 

Classification: ___-_3 -

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—<controlled documents.)

the visa. Rankin contended that if Chayes' assessment

was accurate, then Oswald's obtaining his tourist visa

4
in from two to four days might have been very significant £3. Lee Cantina
Kr te
Rankin also stated that from CIA material supplied anima A)
2676

to the Warren Commission, the Commission had concluded
that Oswald arrived in Helsinki by plane from London on
Saturday, October 10, 1959, and that Oswald had received
his Soviet tourist visa on Wednesday, October 14, 1959,
departing by train for the Soviet Union on October 15.* Catwalv
Rankin noted that the Commission was interested in
learning whether Oswald did in fact obtain hig tourist
visa more quickly than was Bose] at that time.fexr—the
Loew et
Souie+Embassy—in—Hetsinki. (We-letter—by-J+—hee-Rankin to
Richaed-Heims,—DDP4=-2676, 25.May1964)

The CIA responded to Rankin*s request- for, information Aa
eo : Se

oa Ge

on July 31, 1964 :
Richard Helms wrote to Rankin that the Soviet..Consu-

late in Helsinki was able to issue a transit visa (valid for

  
 

24 hours) to U.S. businessmen within five minutes but if a

longer stay were intended at least one week was needed to

process a visa application and arrange lodging through

* Assuming Oswald arrived in Helsinki on October 10, under normal
conditions the earliest he would have been able to apply for

a Soviet tourist visa would have been the first working day
ater October 12, i.e. October 12.

Classification: tC;

| Classified by derivation:

LL MT I MI Ma a
Classification: | 7 4. =

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CiA—controlled documents.)

2 ov eT potter

INTOURIST. (Richard Helms to J. Lee Rankin, DDP4-3916, 31
July 1964) A second communication from Helms to Rankin
dated September 14, 1964 added that during the 1964 tourist
season, Soviet Consulates in at least some Western European
cities issued Soviet tourist visas in from five to seven
days. (hetterd of Richard neimd fo 3. Lee Rankin, DDP4-4775,
14 September 1964) .

In an effort to resolve this issue, the Committee

os ae a
‘has reviewed adept filef maintained by the CIA which

sheds further light on the circumstances surrounding issuance
of Oswald's Soviet tourist visa. Th¢sCIA file concerns
Gregory Golub, Soviet Consul in Helsinki at the time Oswald
was issued his tourist visa. (CIA poes(erua-3939,] 2 July

1958 [ocon-2745] 21 April 1959, orna-4132 79 October 59)
Golub's file reveals that in addition to his Consular acti-

vities, he was “believed to be an officer of the Soviet KGB.

[scow-2907, 26 June 9sof OFHW-2937f, 21 September 1959)

Two dispatches from Helsinki concerning Golub

 

are of particular significance with regard to the time neces—
sary for issuance of visas to Americans for travel into the
Soviet Union.

The first dispatch records that Golub disclosed dur-

ing a luncheon conversation that:

i ee Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

SY MM EE ME I ME A

 

“Sm “ER “SIR “En “a “I “SE “Sa “ “GE “Se. “G.
