yo
() It

SFeREt
Alberto Fernandez fue nelp. Fernandez has setup @&
Guerla -gegamratien. A 13 Feb 146) repurt stats ihat
According to Alexander GB Rorke,Te. ,wnitehowe has
(70 plots aguaiiable and ceady to take drashe achen agent
Castro and have worked uwt o “dehme plan of achun”

tr accomphth “Cattra's overthrow,”

N.oriando Piedra
Pedra was furmerlig incharge of the Dept. of Ta vesh gahon
under Bahsta. A & Tan 1%6O report states that

accordma@ te enrique Fernandez Pacajom porn ne anck
% 4 aE A\OO

 

Pedea Gre heading the "Military Sechon” of the cuunter—
revalunorerty group which is feceiving monetary supp ort
froma Bahste AY march 1%69 report ‘ndicahes Piédra
“mer or planned to meer with General Jose Pedrarta ure ng.
He lakers Uisit te Wahingrn  — Pledra ts described a ce
omember of BRAC Who fled Cuba an Tan 1, 1435,

Relerence % made tH G New Orleans FRX repucr daterK
MarR AT,1VGI, On OCF AASG there vy a repure That

7 Preara receivea rcers by Bansta thee Tae Suarez Myunt® ts

Limmedialely consahdak anh -Cartra forces,

I. mMoranda Fernandez - Ynere 13 one report, 2-G-6l whith

States Miranda Adm Heck seenbteieemereata® ty furnishing aid

to Rolando masferrer 1A IASS- 1960. Ye shalt he now
“providing aA and assistance to hus Femer mrivrary
Xegiment wo oes in Cubce working against Castro ,
Ye thnks the Group SECRER with FRD,

EVO

 
  

SECRET

CTOOE TET
A Seps 37,1260 cable 7 the Birectuc frum mAs Cosas)
StO%0. timate "|, FRY has adused of approach made to Frank
Figcins fue procurement ot hoo MEG arcraft which would be
brought te states py one Creech and one Cuban pilot. Approach
made by worman Rathman who fs hooctk indicted foc
gun running and stolen bones currently out on $50,000 bond »
“2. FBT contact lt Rothman interest was straignt proht mohveo™
nope for {auorabie treatment re above fap. Contact siatea no
-onancé. whatever later @na that nad aduised Fiorini that Fed
COU not handle sich adeal. bat woul& peas ho. other ipereseek
WS. goo agency. Said that inspre of abae detag, vio. believed, Rathrnan |
COUR Uer ym probably. proauc é. 0 -- |
"3. Bos Has. Gnu ioterest Pursue.”
Headquarters responded om Sept a&, 1990 (Die 02472)
Ian gy, STt Ref paGra4 plan involves defechon of MIG
6nd @ Czech pilot From Cuber Has. vialy interes hea.
ARause all gectnent details.”

IMASH respondedk on Oct 1,19 60 Cmast,o84)):

 

"OO \Wrew Rorhman forthcoming, amnal.i1ocal FBX feels
Jushce Department ve advised procany crA contact Subs. 4
This t prevent ang complcahon prosecuhun if op succeeds k
OAA Ro¥hmMaM atlempts Make deal re possible. prisun termr,

2. Pec telecon aA Se@t | MASH “ aduned -HQs. Sanhago __
Rey alo GUpproachea bye Rothman wo irh Same Plan fet A
[miserane] . TF HQs decide go ahead withops, MASH Plan
make contact through ey. “ ;

Thrs cable was followed b 4 another cable 4 the Diteckr |.

: :
foe mash dalled oct a6, 14 Carpe pF }16a) s tuhng ;
 

  

©

risa: SECRET

agents and material assets. betecummenals that there be no

further Aiscusson with Cothman ce these @ cltinns.

Jnores From this meehno qive mcConnel\'s

AAdATESS 4S Charioh€, Caroling , This -memo inchides

 

ddadvnunel comaments made by foxnman — f :
a- Claims to know Pro , Betancourt 2
be “Suspects Farricl op a being funny and ii-aduwed.”
¢- 3 Ahe Lost year Rothman nas met Arango d0-aS time, 1
Rothman Knows fiends) “Gara” ana “Ti " he
d- Rushn Young % Rethman's personal eiiot ,
@- He last visited che Domminican Rep. sn 1ayse 4r the
-purpore of communicahng wih axsers anck contacts Son nA bbes

wkend Rothman dao Job"

Tne fle also comtains some informathiun on Eduardo
Whitthowe, Orlando Pedra. and miranda Fernender,

T wat Eduardo Tuo Whitehowe Iniuce (008 3u-INY oe

 

aka Teddy” . Whikhowe 4 decmbed &5 a comoatriot uf Ruther,
An Fprl S,14@O report stax. that whikthowe and Elliot _

Spinning mnended to take oO 8-26 to Vera Cruz. Sam Rubin

 

(weheved t be idenrcal with Sam "Stretch Qubin , chief
doorman at the Biltmore Terrace Hore |) war reporied ty be
the owner of dhe B-26( Reg NBAWE). A dec, 31,1459
“report INdiCats that Us. Customs sened & B-Abat Miami anc
another (wasei@) Gt Vero Beach, when Whilehave an’
Spyaning oatemnred to moe them. A 1a Dec 1760 repart -
states that Lohitehouse wow respunssble — far se Wing, Sire

to Ane JuQar-crops an ea \QE BRET States he ww area b 4 i
ie

4447000;

SECRET

bac plan fee Assassincthon of Cartro. the plan called fur an

Air attack with napalm agaynsd Castra when he was addressin 9

A tally. He has 100 pilots Wro had parhapalkau in the.
Auasion of Cuba and. ale now working. for the canqolese Par Force.

Rothman would nor ent hy the pilots,

& RoPmman said he hack many agents GONG 19 aNd out of Cube,

Re is in contact with 6 agent arthy tre. re agents
ore im the tourist travel business or impor t-ex port busines).

HANA Enlec the US. theough 3rd countries.

7- He Knows of many. Chinese communists Gone 1990

Canada fram Cuba.

S- Rothman expresse& cesentment over Qun-run ning

schacges We Saick "that crA used the same people in these

UN tanning ACtUhHe and the same houwres br wrick he
i) & 2

(me. @othman) was being prosecuted by the Federal Government.
Fe sad that he had superuiseh YO ship aperathuns on behalt

of the Frenie against Cuba. He sarc that CEA ujowld trucic

the stuff to the pant of ship pick-up, wrere he Cmr, Buthmnan )

would Superuise the loading af the shes Ye sava that he

hak purchased +he aot ship "eee fer “which was the hrst

boat to Support the undergrouncl in Cubs. Ho udded that
he kMew everything the CLA planrecl in marrhme operarhony

and for the muasion. ”

4- Rothman staked he w® a close frrend of Fonn Abbes

Garcia , Cmef of Oommican Pepubhe Securihy ,

AY the conclunon of the memorandvm (| fkommenty

that he did not veneved EER Bhan’ 3 elas af controlling

  

 
 

feported to the FBT. He Went to ALY. in November and med
-RO*HMAN and the other principals of the deal ,& mary
Talley and a De. Philhp Paneth de Panay. Largely
sbecawe of Grinnan's suspicions the deal was never
-eansumased .”

h.° Ps of December 1460, Rothman w% WwIng IA

Dallas, Texas.”

The second memorandum fe +he record (Buty io, i461)
Contains addshone) background infrmahon and an updateck
locahon on Rothman. The memo sindicats Bethke during
the Bahsta reqgame , Rothman was the supervisor of
“Slot machines in Cam @.quey province uncer the Nach one!
Supervisor | Alberto Praura Mouc,, who was one of “owners )
oF the Tropicana migntclub in pavang. The memo stakes

Rar recent reports place Rothman yn miami

Tne fle aso contains a memorandum foc rhe
-tepury Cmel of the Wwesetn wmisphere Division from[Ciar \e
W.Simmons ] fe a meeting with Rothman ana Davia M.,
-McConnen. The memo 1s chated June 30,196). The meehng ;
occurred on Wine a4, 1%), at the Deputy ARorrey Cenercel's office
and was wr the purpose of  evdluahng "“Rothman's claim +o
Opérahonzl assets side Cuba ana elbeuhere in the Cambbean

McConnell
Ore. An agreementy was made tat Belpre udou ld b-2
nothed of Rothmants "gperchonz) potenhal in Cuban affairs ” on
$, (rece \ Forge 1 Kye of tees
TWhy ( ere Wy WG Rah sre hie ogee ony

furthec compmunicahiun wits metonnell),

   
   

SECRET

aggre et

Ax the beginning of the meeting melonne spore yf i

privately. Melonnell describea rime Os a “leading poles }

 

figure in the Bemocrahc Parhy mathine 19 A. Caroline,” ack
StTONA NE Was acquainkea with fobert Kennedy , General Taylor, and
Genero) van Feet, Melonne\i is a corporate -tax attorney Gna
Was concerned about +he embarassment + the Kennedy
ddrimsiTahu caused by the Cuban “hasco.” fe statea that
Rothman claims t havé 4ssets ancl capabilines which woulol

eng le Rothman to destrow the arms dUMYPpsS an the
plantahun of ex-presdent Cardenas of mexice jt setup
6perahonz| bases in “the Yucatan “at & cost ot BSO-H1, OO ,to

sabatoge targels in cuba idenhhea by the. US. govh

»

09K to proude posthue inie\ligence on the achwhe of

Chinese Communist Groups wn the western Hembipref ¢.

queshon ek byf fe

'- Castro mad execuheck three of his close frrenay.:
(Francisco war name

Rogelio Gonzalez, Sori Marin ,andk Efrgento Fernender |

a- Rothman has the operahme) capadihhy to detroy arms

wnen Rothman was

 

made the followng poms!

 

dumps of Cardenas, Kk has agen? assets IN MEXICO Wirth Whan he
be made contact 4 % S monn: ago.

d- Re had andians construct an airstnp in the Yucatan |
Gne 8-26 haa lanaea ynere.

4- YR 1S wel acquam#a with sanchez Argan Oo anc
Considers hirn A Close personel fryend + He last met Arango 6
weels age,

S- He has the personnel and copabs hes to aflacle or

savatoge Gru ta°q er af o SECRET. mm Cubs. He has go a

 

 

 
Be SECRET
co ? —2-

A9tSCCO~

(Mctenden Coontim uc )
© (SB Memo dateq 3-27-78 - fernyos stahng ian bec ies

i Hine Ditectocate of Operahcns again requested o Covert Securm ty

 

Approval on Subject in ne eosther with

CT O™O™OOOOSOSCSC‘CSC*WY Fei inueaingathon wood” bos icoblay

Senocaiole”
Mennons a adi. WIA

 
 

 

180-10143-10179 , Looe ee
ae . Leshie Wizelman

 

 

eee yl, ; .
CR SECRET on
: 44490009 - bifteain
Gordon Barton McLendon ts 23
. Dredg |

@:% dare 2A/Aa7ISAa*. subject is pres. of aco [which will proude.

 

 

 

 

i) Mildarg History,
14ya- Eolecre A Nayy Japanese language Schoo!
IG43- Graduated Navy Japanese. Language Schoo
1944 -Commissicned u-d- Mavy - Assignect os TInieiligence
Officer, ONT Discharged ar Lr
42° \ANG- RHenclecd Warvard Law Schoo!
lwieis the daugner of Tame A, Noe, former Qovernepn

vee __ THIS COPY IS NoT
rmcetiowrecma cewmes oes EQR RELEASE,

@O Enevpe- Bra Aggncuy.
@ Bactgrounct inveshgahen dto Januacy 166
© OMT Background iMvehgehin - Ars! 1543
© Ciwil Seruce Lommiassien Backgrouncl inveshgahen ata

 

May ted .
@ Fez Recut ,y/aa/SS Tle! Gorcten Metenden + Howard W,

Davis --Uich ps

© rer wet YWia/sy The Ps Aabure

® memo atd 7/ay/SR reflechng wdentrhy of contdentiel
infocmnant iN IAs a Backgrounk =wnresngania
Background J Nuesthigeha OFA Ten]e 452.

8 GN Background avesngathen Are Aoril 1943 (same

as abas.)

SEGRE 1 YO -10143-101 79
 

“Request ceplier tm rets Ceeterences are masis O6as 'y
mash O8 91), FBT still hay open ase core Ret A and ha
callech several hme, Also device give parhue answer to
San hago Rey, on ref @, ” No responding cable froma Wao,
uM Comtaned in this fle.

The file contained two memorenda for +e record .pre pareck

dy | Jaatec Ture 30,1961 and Tuly 10 Go),

Tre Mune 20 memo contains the following informanmn!

 

a- Rothman's DOB is ae Dec 1414 ) POB rs Gromx ,NY.

b- “When Rothman first came te CLAS AHEMhUN in
Seet. 1938) he way hoing in Dallas Texas and was
allegedly, engaged in public felahons worl. According to his wie, |
Gloria, he made a one-week trip m9 Los Angelos in September
99 UNdscloea business, ”
c- En Oct 1954, Rothman way mManagina the Biltmore
Terrace Hotel 1A Miams trom usmvch he was reporiedtiye the FEL
i> be supplying an anh-Castro organmizahon woiharms whith
he obtainca Aneough U3. qgangsiers.... “

d- Following, Prisburgh conuichon, Rothman went to
Chicago , Where he surrendered oncherge of playing atey rie
1 ome of the biggest robberies in modern eriminel history , the.
HIBS million looting of a Canadizn bank. ..., "Robbery was
touched of f When the Canadian brancn of the mafie received a

hurry -up otdee fron’ the Caribbean tur arms , the Canadien

maha ad aot have. the Mone +9 buy arnns but it yw ew how

* get hangs on the contents of the Brockville ,Oniario bank.

Tt called upen the US. Maher arene sand 14 ways then
Oe

thay Rothman entered the a) + usas cher ged.” Subsequently

   
 

   

SECREI

meriiaaas

-pothors of look turnea up in Shanghas \ Rrgenhn 4, Cub, ,
ank Australia.”

2” Before Rothman was tracked down in connechan unth the absve
COME), he was feported py rhe Fer as traveling to Yucatan to
S€2K a base of operathuns against +he Castro govt. In this enier—
prise he was associated wn (Tedd us Watehowe Insua, formerly
of the Cuban Ciuil Aeranauwhca! Associzhun', ex-Colone |
Orlando Pedra, Negueruela. v former member of BRAG anck

head of Cuban Bureau of Cnueshgorhens "and Colonel Roberto

Fernandez Miranda brother-in-law of Bathsta and former

 

commander of the presidenna! guards as well as president

of the NahOn2) Sports Commissian . While no menhun is mede

 
 

of Rolande Masterrer in rhy connechun, Rothman hes Engagecl _
in meny exploits and deals with Maslerrer.”
£." EA Sept 1960 Rothman shil out on #50000 bond :
made an approach te Frank Fiorini’, soldier of fuctune,
Sfering to obMin Noo. Migs - one Flown by a Czech
and another by a Cuban. Fiorini felt that Pothman's ynteres +
Was shrmulated By a straight prodt mohve of by hopes
fe favorable treatment fegarding, the Fed. cate against him,’
g-" Tn Oct. 1900, Rorhman AgO'7 appeared in Dallas,
where he aperoached Aobert §. Grinnan , ans oa]
contract OFOMehON man. Rothman clasmeck ts. heve

Connections 41th Nor-Rorh Industries of M.Y.C ancl stated

 

that cheats of his had an interest in purchesing Amillion
| metrrc tons of dhesal fuel oil and.) millon metric tons
of crude orl 46 be dehvered over & five-year period.

| t>  hamb ecg, Germany, OrSbORELariea by the offer |
