"Stet tewerihinen

(This form. is tobe, used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

"Moscow had given him the authority to
give Americans visas without prior appro-
from Moscow. He (Golub) stated that
this would make his job much easier, and
as long as he was convinced the American
was "all right" he could give him a visa
tora. a. yatese of minutes...."* . Jf
Or Hal : ,

Mw
Sethe 96 24 47 July 1959)
The sSéona CIA Dispatch dated October 9, 1999, one

day prior to Oswald's arrival in Helsinki, illustrates
that Golub did have the authority to issue visas without
delay. The Dispatch discusses telephone contact between
Golub and his Consular counterpart at the American Embassy
in Helsinki. In part the Dispatch discloses:

“...-Since that evening (September 4, 1959)
Golub has only phoned (the US consul) once
and this was on a business matter. Two
Americans were in the Soviet Consulate at
the time and were applying for Soviet visas
thru (sic.) Golub. They had previously .
been in the American consulate inquiring .
about the possibility of obtaining a Soviet ora
visa in one or two days. (The U.S. Consul)
advised them to go directly to Golub and
make their request, which they did. Golub
phoned (the U.S. Consul) to state that he
would give them their visas as soon as they
made advance Intourist reservations. When

they did this, Golub J
their visas.... PH 4132, 9 Oct. 1959) ** »
NN EE TTD Aasig S ak heol

43

a

* The Dispatch does not define the meaning given by Golub
to the term "all right."

** Evidently, Oswald had made arrangements with Intourist because
upon his arrival at’ Moscow railroad station on October 16, he
was. met by an Intourist representative and taken to the Hotel

Classification:
Berlin where he velit aS 4 student. (We p. 691)

ne VOR | Classified by derivation:

eevee

a

BR

WS ND WER, wen , “Gam. eR A. “ith. Se

SOD,

NRE.
!
j
3

 

 

Neue a PP a a I ee

— oi
(This form is to be used for material extracted”
from ClA——controlled documerits.}

; Thus, based upon these additional two factors: t)
Golub's authority to igsue visas to Americans without prior
approval from Moscow, and 2) a demonstration of 245%, authority, as
potted iA a Cl hil peadteh ,
approximately one month: prior to Oswald's appearance at
the Soviet Embassy, the Committee has found that the available
evidence tends to support the conclusion that“Oswald's
tourist visa within two to four days after his appearance
at the Soviet Consulate, were - somewhat suspect, does not
warrant the belief that Oswald's travel into the Soviet
Union was assisted by others, particularly the Soviets.

However, the possibility of assistance cannot be dismissed

due te Golub's probable connection with the KGB and the -

Aes PS Saee
lack of etker substantive information asmadieeid to definitely

confirm that Oswald's visa was handled in a manner similar.

to that of the two American students whothad entered the

Soviet Union with Golub's assistance via Finland.

Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

 
  

4

x

““eThis form .is- to be. used for material. extracted “>.
Noe i a
from ClA——-controlled documents.) .

| Thus, the issue has arisen whether Oswald's receipt
of a Soviet visa prior toe his entry into the Soviet Union
| was an "odd happening" as Anson characterized it; circum-

‘stantial evidence tending to show that Oswald had received |

 

| special assistance in order to enter the Soviet Union.
7 During the course of its investigation the Warren Commission

shared Anson's concerns.: In a letter to the CIA dated May

"Naaman

25, 1964 d. Lee Rankin ingu&dred about the apparent speed
with which Oswald's Soviét visa was issued... Rankin noted

that he had recently spoken with Abraham Chayes of the

he
State Department whe contended*at the time Oswald received
. ; - an
! his visa to enter Russia from the Soviet Embassy at Helsinki,

-at least one week ordinarily transpired between the time

of a tourist's application for a visa and the issuance of

Fe ee ene Rt

 

* (continued from previous page)
: that visas during the 1964 tourist season were being granted
{ _ in about 5 to 7 days. -'
?

This information from the Department of State and the Central
Intelligence Agency thus suggests that Oswald's wait for a
visa may have been shorter than usual but not beyond the
range of possible variation. The prompt issuance of Oswald's
visa may have been merely the result of normal procedures,
due in part to the fact that the summer rush had ended.

It might also mean that Oswald was unusually urgent in his.
demands that his visa be issued promptly. Oswald himself
told officials at the American Embassy in Moscow on October
31, when he appeared to renounce his citizenship, that he had
said nothing to the Soviets about defecting until he arrived
in Moscow. In any event, the Commission has found nothing
in, the gixcumesances of Oswald's entry into the Soviet Union

ATO Classification: $= |

Ne i on.
“URRTERED,,

al
~

ene e

SS, tis

which indicates that he was at the time an agent for the : i
| Classified by derivation: __

 

U.S.S.R. (WCR, p. 258)<===

 

 

 
 

 

7 J cClassification:.

A 1 : (This form is to be-used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

; .
HELSINKI 6° (V 1 .

 

 

Robert S. Anson, author of "They've Killed the

 

President! The Search for the Murderers of John F, Kennedy,"
offered a critical appraisal of Lee Harvey Oswald's travel
through Western Europe prior to his appearance in Moscow

on October 16, 1959. Anson expressed particular concern

over the issuance of a Soviet tourist visa in Helsinki,

Ninian te

Finlan@ to Oswald prior to his entry into the Soviet Union.

Anson wrote that "/o /n Monday, October 12, Oswald went

enneerons

to the Soviet Consulate and applied for a visa. It was

"Nace dra

granted two days later.” (Anson, p. 159)/ Anson concluded:

i

Fi Oswald also managed to secure a Soviet
4 visa in record time. The CIA told the
Commission that under ordinary circum-
stances obtaining a visa in Finland
took one or two weeks; Oswald got his
in two days. (Ibid., p. 160)*  ~—

RS,

 

NOE,

 

f

;

2 * Anson was referring to the Warren Commission Report where it
is stated: oo :

that it has some information that in 1959 it usually
took an American tourist in Helsinki 1 to 2 weeks to

\ obtain a visa, and that it has other information that
the normal waiting period during the past 5 years has
been a week or less. According to the Department's
information, the waiting period has always varied. fre-
quently and widely, with one confirmed instance in 1963
of a visa routinely issued in less than 24 hours. The
Central Intelligence Agency has indicated (continued)

2-18? Classification: RETURNTOCIA
. Background Use Only
| Clossifiealag NeVinnpoduce

10.197-(0175,

RA,

| The Department. of State has advised the Commission

SEERA.

earners

'
 

 

 

 

 

Classification: rr

 

(this form is to. be used for material: extracted no ; ¢
from ClA—controlled ‘documents.) .
the visa. Rankin contended that if Chayes' assessment 6
was accurate, then Oswald's obtaining his tourist visa
in from two to four days might have been very significant £5.tec lt
Meice +0
. Rankin aiso stated that from CIA material supplied ary -f
a opens jet)
to the Warren Commission, the Commission had concluded
that Oswald arrived in Helsinki by plane from London on :
Saturday, October 10, 1959, and that Oswald had received
his Soviet tourist visa on Wednesday, October 14, 1959, f
15.4 CHwisd &

departing hy train for the Soviet Union on October

Rankin noted that. the Commission was interested in  g
: Sov ew

learning whether Oswald did in fact obtain his tourist : g

visa more quickly than was OSS ceal at that time.fexr—the
Sk 4

Saviot-Eabacsy—in—Hersimki. ( (Werdctiben by-dEee-Ranicin to
Richaxd-Hetme,—DDP4=2676, 25-May-1964)

The CIA xvesponded™t @-po Rankims-request for, informacyon a

Provan wit |

on July 31, 1964 . Peas
Richard Helms wrote to Rankin that the Soviet Consu-

late in Helsinki was able to issue a transit visa (valid for

veneers,

  
 

 

24 hours) to U.S. businessmen within. five minutes but if a

longer stay were intended at least one week was needed to

ication and arrange lodging through

process a visa appl

* Assuming Oswald arrived in Helsinki on October 10, under normal
conditions the earliest he would have been able to apply for
a Soviet tourist visa would have been the first working day

ater October 12, i.e. October 12. -

Classification: ________

| Classified by derivation:

 
Nccpinesamss Nts Re ck

Ne ae

“Nk ipn

inet hen

Nee:

Ne ae nt

aera] et : / , petite

aA,

: Golub's file reveals that an addition to his Consular acti-

 

“Gregory. Golub, Soviet Consul. in Helsinki at the time oswald

me catecd “X koa i?
vasses: he was “believed -to- be- an officer of the Soviet KGB..
é (Scou}}2907, 26. June 1959, 2937, : ptember 1959)
Two CIA dispatches ncerning Golub

.sary for issuance of visas to Americans for travel into the

Classification: _ ~4-

 

(This form is ‘to be used for material extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.)
INTOURIST.\/(Richard Helms to J. Lee Rankin, DDP4-3916, 31
July 1964) A second communication from Helms to Rankin -
dated September 14, 1964 added that during the 1964 tourist
season, Soviet Consulates in at least some Western European
cities issued Soviet tourist visas in from five to seven
days. (Letterd- of Richard weims “to 3. Lee Rankin, DDP4-4775,
14 September 1964) .

In an effort to- resolve this issue, the Committee

has reviewed 1 adeemommreng fileg maintained by the CIA which
sheds further light on the circumstances surrounding issuance

of Oswald's Soviet tourist visa. -Th@CIA file concerns cra
aster,

was issued his tourist visa. (CIA docs i. 2929, 2 July
OD
1959, (Soars, al April 1959, rag a138; 9 October 59)

in
\

 

 

are of particular significance with regard to the time neces- ©

“Sim “Ga Wa

Soviet Union.

The first dispatch records that Golub disclosed dur-

Sa,

ing a luncheon conversation that: oo . “A

pea Classification:

 

R

| Classified by derivation:

i

   
