 

:. James Wilcott interview...page 7

Elsie: Bill Dougherty.

Wilcott: Yeah

Elsie: Bill Brayton

Wilcott: You're thinking of Bramer ~~ George Bramer.
This was '63, huh?

Leap: Yes. 1963.

Wilcott: Funny Randall wasn't on here. I don't see
Randall on here. When did he come? He may have come...maybe
after...This is -- let's see now, it goes down to where the end
of Japan Station? This is all Japan Station here?

All of this is Japan Station too, huh?

Leap: yes

Wilcott: I see.

Leap: They are the people that was working for AID at
the time. This would be the U.S. Army.

Wilcott:

U.S. Army

Elsie: Are all the names

Wilcott: I'm trying to see if there were some first names
I could recognize.

Leap: Jim, in our previous conversation you told me that
you overheard conversations that indicated that Oswald
was a CIA agent.

Wilcott: That's right.

Leap: Do you recall who these individuals were -- where

the conversations took place that you referred to?

HW 50955 DoclId:32253349 Page 9

 
 

. James Wilcott interview...page 8

Wilcott: The conversations all took place in Tokyo. The
circumstances of these conversations were,a lot of times, while
I was on security duty. The case officers would be coming back
from. various operations that they were carrying on in Tokyo.
They would come back to the Station, either waiting for their
wives to pick them up or waiting for a call from an agent that
was operating somewhere in Tokyo, or something like that, and
we'd pass the time. Usually I had a pot of coffee going for them
and most of the time these guys'd come in after drinking and so
a lot of times we got into conversations about politics and things
and about various operations that were going on. And that's how
most of these conversations came up. And it was usually just
between me and one person. And I think that's why, perhaps, I,
you know, got maybe a lot more information than I normally would
have. And I think more on security duty than anyplace else.
Well, then that usually gave me some basis on which to ask questions
when we were, you know, out drinking in or someplace
like that.

Leap: If possible, we would like to identify these people.

Wilcott: With a list of Tokyo Station personnel I think I
could identify them. I know Jerry Fox, who worked in SR and was
a good friend of Pete Martin, who was deputy chief of finance.
And that's really how I came to know Jerry Fox pretty well.
Jerry was involved in buying information from the Soviets, and
that's how -- you know, would you like me to go into that other?

Leap: Yes.

HW 50955 DBoclId:32253349 Page 10

 
 

“James Wilcott interview...page 6

Elsie: 1954

Leap: I see. And she went abroad with you?

Wilcott: Yes.

Leap: And also worked for the agency?

Wilcott: Yes.

Leap: And she also had security clearance?

Wilcott: Yes.

Leap: If I would show you a roster of the Tokyo embassy
in 1963, would you point out to me the individuals that you
were acquainted with and knew and whether or not they were
working for CIA?

Wilcott: Certainly.

Leap: This list not only covers the embassy employees
at the time but also covers military personnel.

Wilcott: Mm-hmm. Well, here's William D. Brohn. Elsie,
you probably would know more. Do you want to identify Elsie on
the tape?

Leap: Yes, we have,

Wilcott: Pete Wheeler

Elsie: Mm-hmm, Bob

Wilcott: Bob -- yeah

Leap: Now, all of these people you're naming...

Wilcott: Ralph Morgan

LeaP: ...worked for the CIA.

Wilcott: That's right. They were regular intelligence

officers. John P. Horrigan, I remember him.

HW 50955 DoclId:32253349 Page 68

 
 

“James Wilcott interview...page 5

Leap: Yes

Wilcott: And then on Saturdays and Sundays...

 

Leap: Bringing your attention to your tour of duty in Japan,
what was the date, sir?

Wilcott: Tt was, let's see now, June of 1960 to May, I
believe -- wasn't it May, Elsie that we left? -- May of '64 that
we left.

Leap: Who was chief of Station at that time?

Wilcott: When I first -- when -- for the first two years --
about the first two years, Pete Wheeler was chief of Station, and
then after about a year and a half or two years, Bill Brough took
over as chief of Station.

Leap: Who were the case officers assigned to the Soviet
branch of the Tokyo Station?

Wilcott: I can't remember all of the people -- I've forgotten
a lot of the people, a lot of the names -- of the stations. I
know S.R. Satellite was Reid Dennis, who I worked with on an
operational thing 'till we proved that Yugoslav to spy on me and
onthe Russians. And Elsie also was secretary for Reid Dennis and
Chief of S.R. Satellite. So I remember Reid better. As far as
the other people I've sort of -- with a list -- for
instance, with a list of the Station people, I could...

Leap: Now, Elsie is your wife?

Wilcott: Yes

Leap: Yes, when were you married?

Wilcott: We were married in -- what was it, '54, Elsie?

HW 50955 Docld:32253349 Page 7 _

 
 

 

 

“James Wilcott interview...page 3

Present: Staff Investigator Harold Leap
Staff Researcher Betsy Wolf
Mr. James Wilcott

Leap: Jim, will you give us your personal history record,
starting with your date of birth.

Wilcott: Okay. I was born September 27, 1931 in Cleveland,
Ohio. I went soon after I was born to Utica, New York; spent most
of my life in Utica. I spent three years in the Army, three years
and eight months, from 1947 to 1951. From there I went to college
for two years and then to business school in Syracuse, New York,
where I was recruited by the CIA. I spent three years at headquarters
in Washington with the CIA, four years in Tokyo, another year at
headquarters in CIA, and another year in Miami, where I resigned
from CIA.

Leap: What were your positions within CIA?

Wilcott: My positions were, for the whole nine years in
CIA, in Finance. I worked in payroll, headquarters payroll; I
worked as a cash disbursing person for 1 Tokyo Station; and then
I worked again in payroll at Miami.

Leap: What were your duties as cash disbursing agent?

Wilcott: I have a full list of -- you want to hold on just
a minute and I'll get it for you.

Leap: Alright

Wilcott: Okay. My duties at Tokyo Station were daily cash
disbursements; the cash count, daily cash count at the station;
recording on the cash -~- it's the cash that was

disbursed for various projects, etc.; the posting of vouchers --

HW 50955 DocId: 322533439 Page 5

 
 

“James Wilcott interview...page 4

it's the -- giving the leave balances, maintaining
leave balances, etc. That was daily. On a weekly basis, I
prepared housing and vehicle records, posting vouchers, housing cash
count, auditing of housing, vehicle records, posting of advances
and posting of statistical material, then recording in housing and
vehicle books the expenses for housing and vehicle basis. Ona
monthly basis, auditing from TA's, posting to leave cards, computation
of payroll, preparation in payment of payrolls, making of posting
vouchers, and let's see, scheduling of expenses, preparation of
accounting for funds, and leasing of funds-- that's
State Department funds. Annually, reports to headquarters of

, leave cards, new payroll sheets, etc. And then we
did quarterly also, did a quarterly report.

Leap: In the course of your duties in disbursing this
money, did you become acquainted with the case officers and the
projects they were working on?

Wilcott: Yes, I did. And also I became acquainted with
them through night duty -- we called it night duty -- that's
security duty at the station in Tokyo where I pulled a lot of
security duty. Everybody in support at the station was required
to pull security duty unless they could find somebody to pull it
in their place. Well, I was interested in making some money,
so we were paid time and a half for five hours, from 5:00 to 10:00,
and then after 10 o'clock I'd go to sleep in a little room right

by the door that's

HW 50955 Docld:32253349 Page 6 —

 
906446 —

JFK Routing Slip

NO.

pare Sy [2

Document Z.D. INVESTIGATIVE INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

PUP / JCER,
INDEX COPY TO
Robert Blakey
(jeben vt: Cees Gary Cornwell
oO Kenneth Klein
( tet A: Loe. ‘e — Charlie Mathews

Jim Wolf

Ce ry Tiny Hutton

)2 ; Oe Jackie Hess
LM =p CLIf£ Fenton

 

 

 

_ Team #1
Team #2
Team #3
_ Team #4
Team#5
Special Instructions: Form #2

 

Ny)

HW 50955 Docld:32253349 Page 2
 

 

 

180-10089-10407

JFK Assassination System Date: 9/30/201
Identification Form

 

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: — 180-10089-10407

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 006446

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: WILCOTT, JAMES
TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 01/28/1978
PAGES: 56

SUBJECTS :
ACTIVITIES
OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, POLITICAL AND
SUBVERSIVE..
LEADS AND INFORMATION
CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY
CLASSIFICATION : — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 01/01/2003

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Interview. Box 125.

 

v9.1 1
HW 50955 Docld:32253349 Page i
 

fe KENNEDY

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS 8 06 4 4 6

Name James Wilcott Date _ 1/28/78 Time

 

 

Address _ 2761 Atlantic St. Place Residence

 

 

i Concord, Calif.

 

SUA ae 7

ons

| Interview:
j oe On 1/28/78 staff investigator Harold D. Leap and staff

| researcher Betsy Wolf interviewed subject at his home in Concord,

California relative to the assassination of John F. Kennedy.
Subject's wife, Elsie, also a former CIA employee, was interviewed
concerning her knowledge on certain issues discussed during the
interview.

The interview lasted about four hours. All but a small

portion of the interview was taped. Notes were taken by Miss

Wolf concerning the portion of the interview which was not recorded.
The main purpose of the interview was to determine if

Wilcott had first-hand knowledge that Oswald was a CIA agent.

Subjects covered during the interview are as follows:

te

Wilcott's personal history, employment, association and position
with the CIA, harassment by CIA and FBI after Wilcott resigned,
Wilcott's belief that LHO was a CIA agent, identity of individual
CIA employees who discussed the oswald-agent issue with Wilcott.
For details, please refer to tape recording identified "James

Wilcott, 28 Jan. '78,HL
Interviewer Signature

 
 
  

 

a
Typed Signature y Leap/B. Wolf

 

Date transcribed 2/21/78

. By: am Form #4-A
HW 50955 Docld:32253349_ Page 3 :

 

 

 

 
 

pols

i James Wilcott interview...page 2

Wilcott which is an attachment to this memo.

For the convenience of researchers, the list of CIA
employees that Wilcott listed as having conversation with him
concerning the Oswald-agent issue is as follows:

1. George Breen - Registry (Wife Eleanor)
2. Frederick Randall - Dep. COS

3. Jim Delaney - CO in China Branch

4. Jerry Fox - §.R.

5. Robert S. Hashima - Fuji Shoji Co. Ltd.
6. Chester Ito - writer for Japan Times

7. Elwood Pp. Martin

8. Bob Ojiri - C.O. Logistics

9, Jack Randall - C.O. Finance

lo. Kan Takai - Japan Branch

11. Larry Watanabe - finance (wife Doris)

12. Jim Woods ~ Registry (wife Louise)

13. Shizuo Yamada - Logistics

Wilcott maintains that one of the above individuals
specifically told him that Oswald was a CIA agent and gave Oswald's
cryptonym. This individual also advised Wilcott that he (Wilcott)
had issued payment for the project that included Oswald. Wilcott
does not remember the cryptonym nor the identity of the person

at this time.

HW 50955 Docld:32253349 Page 4

 
