 

   

Sylvia Duran Statements
Page 9. .

that Oswald had been to the Consulate requesting a visa
and had been told that the reply would take approximately
four months. (Ibid., p.545) When she relayed the message
to Oswald he got very excited, insisting that as a per-
son who had been infait because of the Cuban Revolution
he should receive a visa. (Ibid, p. 546) Oswald stated
that he could not wait a long period of time because his
Mexican visa expired in three days. (Ibid., p. 546) At
this point Ms. Duran called the Consul, Eusibio Azcue,

who was in his office accompanied by his upcoming replace-
ment, Alfredo Mirabal. (Ibid., p. 546) Azcue politely
explained the requisites for an intransit visa to Oswald.
(Ibid., p.. 546, 554) When he noticed that Oswald was a
stubborn man he told Oswald that he was obviously not a
friend of the Cuban Revolution, because if he was a friend
he would understand that Cuba had to be extremely careful
with the people it allowed in Cuba. (Ibid., p. 554) Azcue
and Oswald yelled at each other. (Ibid., p. 551) Then
Azgcue went to the door, opened it and asked Oswald to
leave. (Ibid., p. 554) Oswald did not revisit or tele-
phone the Constilate because if he had she would have re-
membered it. The Consulate did not have many American

visitors who had been to Russia and had married a Russian

 

 

 
 

   

Sylvia Duran Statements
Page 10.

woman visit their offices to get a visa and then get into

an argument with staff personnel.

HSCA INVESTIGATION OF SYLVIA DURAN'S ACCOUNT OF LEE HARVEY

OSWALD'S VISIT TO THE CUBAN CONSULATE IN MEXICO CITY

To investigate Sylvia puran's account of Lee Har-
vey Oswald's visits to the Cuban Consulate the Committee
sought the cooperation of the Cuban Government. The Com-
mittee traveled to Cuba twice interviewing most of the
Cuban employees at the Cuban Consulate and Embasssy in
Mexico City in September 1963. (See Procedural Writeups
‘Cuba Trips 1 and 2) Only two individuals remembered Oswald,
Eugbio Azcue Lopez and Alfredo Mirabal Diaz. Only Eustbio
Azcue personally dealt with Lee Harvey Oswald. Afredo
Mirabal could only state that he never doubted that the
Lee Harvey Oswald who visited the Consulate was the same
Lee Harvey Oswald shot by Jack Ruby in the basement of the
Dallas Police Department.that he caught only glimpses of

him. (HSCA Interview of Alfredo Mirabal Diaz, p.

also
For this reason,only Eusebio Azcue Lopez and Sylvia Tirado

Bazan's accounts will be dealt with in detail.

 

 
 

  

Sylvia Duran Statements
Page 8.
Party was illegal in Mexico in 1963. (HSCA interview: Ibid
p. 533) There was a procedure whereby the American Com-
munist Party would arrange visa matters for their members
with the Cuban Communist Party. (Ibid. p.532~533) The
American would then come to Mexico, visit the Cuban Consulate
and receive his visa immediately. (Ibid., p.533) When
Duran asked Oswald why he did not have the American Com-
munist Party arrange his trip to Cuba he stated that he
dia not have time. (Ibid., p.532)

Duran explained to Oswald that he had to acquire
a Russian visa before he could receive a Cuban visa.
'(Ibid., p.534) Duran jotted her name and business phone
number on a piece of paper and gave it to Oswald who
then left to get his Russian visa. (Ibid., p.549, 534)

Oswald returned to the Cuban Consulate between
5:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m., which was after normal working
hours, 10:00 to 2:00 p.m. (Ibid., p. 543) The guard
called her stating that someone who did not speak Spanish
was at the gate inquiring about a visa. (Ibid., p. 543-4)
As routine procedure, she asked the guard to escort
the individual to her office. (Ibid. p.544) Oswald told
her that he had- acquired a Russian.visa. (Ibid., p. 544)
Since ‘he did not produce it when asked she called the

Russian Consulate. (Ibid., p.545) The Consul told Duran

 
Sylvia Duran Statements
Page 7.

Lee Harvey Oswald visited the Cuban Consulate
three times September 27, 1963, not twice as the Warren
Commission previously reported. (HSCA interview of Sylvia
Duran, 6/6/78, JFK Doc. Pp. ) Oswald. first visited
the Cuban Consulate at approximately 11:00 a.m., requesting
an intransit visa to Cuba with Russia as the final destina-
tion. Oswald showed her some documents, then, left to
obtain photographs needed for his application. (HSCA inter-
view of Sylvia Dura, 6/6/78, JFK Doc. ps. 523-526)

He returned at approximately 1:00 p.m. with four
photographs. (HSCA interview of Sylvia Duran, 6/6/78, JFK
Document # p. 526) Ms. Duran typed the application
in duplicate, stapled a picture on top of each and had
Oswald sign each in her presence. (HSCA interview of Sylvia
Duran, 6/6/78, JFK Doc. # + Pp. 527-8) As proof Os-
wald showed her special documents he had brought: his Rus-
sian labor card, marriage certificate with the name of
his Russian wife, his American Communist Party membership
card and his "Fair Play for Cuba" membership card. (HSCA
interview of Sylvia Duran, 6/6/78, JFK Doc. # '
p-531) Ms. Duran stated that she found Lee Harvey Oswald's
behavior suspicious because normally a Communist traveled

only with his passport because belonging to the Communist

—

 

 

 

 
 

Sylvia Duran Statements
Page 5.

obtain an intransit visa from the Cuban government, it

was imperative that he previously obtain a visa from the
Soviet Consulate. Since obtaining a visa from the Soviets
took four months and Oswald's Mexican visa expired soon
Oswald became excited and Duran had to call the Consul
who had an argument with him. The only aid she could give
Oswald was advising that he see the Soviet Consul, and
calling the person in charge of that office. The Soviet
official told her that they would have to consult Moscow

which would take four months. That afternoon, Oswald re- =

 

turned to the Cuban Consulate and Sylvia Duran confirmed
that he could get a Cuban visa only after he received a
Russian visa. She gave Oswald. her name and business phone
number but never gave him her address because she had no
reason to give it to him. She knew that phoning the Soviet
Consulate was not one of her duties and that if she did
so she did it only to help Oswald! She gave Oswald her
business phone number only because he would have to call
subsequently to check whether he had obtained a visa. He
never called back. (Blind Memo re Lee Harvey Oswald and
Sylvia Duran, November 26, 1963, CIA #473).

Sylvia Duran was released November 24, 1963 and
rearrested November 27, 1963, when the Mexican government

alleged that she was attempting to leave Mexico and travel
 

Sylvia Duran Statements
Page 6.

to Havana. (Cable from Mexico City Station to Headquarters,
November 27, 1963, Mexi 7104, CIA #482; Cable from Mexico
City Station to Headquarters, November 27, 1963, Mexi 7101,
CIA #493). The Mexican officials told Sylvia Duran that
they were detaining her to protect her. (HSCA Staff Inter-
view of Sylvia Duran, 6/6/78 p... JFK Document No.
Subsequently about her second detainment, Duran stated, ~
"They were very rough this time...they repeated the same
questions but they were more, how do you say, evil. And
they...wanted to know exactly what I have done in Cuba,

the people that I met there, everything. They were asking
me questions about all the people that were working the
Embassy and this time I wanted to go to the bathroom and
they wouldn't let me and it was longer, because it was

from 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. (HSCA Staff Interview of

_Sylvia Duran, 6/6/78 p. JFK Document No. )

According to the Mexican officials that detained Duran

a second time she remembered Oswald perfectly and denied
he wore glasses. Otherwise there was no addition to her
story. (Cable from Mexico City Station to Director,

December 12, 1963, Mexi 7364, CIA No. 557-558).

C. Housé Select Committee on Assassinations Interview of

 

Sylvia Duran 6/6/78

 

Sylvia Tirado Bazan told the House Select Committee

on Assassinations staffers the following:
   

a

Sylvia Duran Statements.
Page 2.

presented evidence that he had been in Russia for three
years, that he was married to a Russian woman and also

that he was the leader of an organization in New Orleans
called "Fair Play for Cuba." Sylvia Duran stated that
Oswald stressed that his visa application should be accepted
as he was a friend of the Cuban, Revolution. (Ibid. p. 39)
Sylvia Duran stated that there, in compliance with her
duties, she had Oswald fill out the appropriate application
(Ibid. p. 39). Oswald then left and returned in the after-
noon with the necessary photographs. (Ibid. p-. 39) Ms.
Duran stated that at that time, exceeding her duties,

she telephoned the Russian Consulate because of her interest
in facilitating the handling of the Russian visa for

Lee Harvey Oswald. (Ibid. p. 39) The Russian Embassy told
Duran that there would be a delay of approximately four
months in processing the case, which annoyed Lee Harvey
Oswald since, according to his statements, he was in a
great hurry to obtain a visa to travel to Russia. He

insisted on his right to obtain a visa in view of his back-

ground and activities on behalf of the Cuban movement. (Ibid.

p. 39) When Oswald understood that it was not possible

to give him a Cuban visa without previously obtaining a

Russian visa, he became extremely angry. (Ibid. p. 39)

 

 

 
     
 

‘[rea-10e2-0301]

 

SYLVIA DURAN'S PREVIOUS STATEMENTS RE LEE HARVEY OSWALD'S

VISIT TO THE CUBAN CONSULATE IN MEXICO CITY

On November 23, 1963, one day after the assassina-
tion of President John F. Kennedy, the Central Intelligence
Agency's Mexico City Station suggested to Mexican officials
that they arrest Sylvia Tirado de Duran. (Mexi 7029 to
the Director, Nov. 23, 1963; Note to Luis Echevarria,
November 23, 1963) The Mexico City Station asked that
Sylvia Tirado de Duran be held incommunicado until she told
the Mexican officials everything she knew about Lee Harvey
Oswald. The Mexican government arrested Sylvia Tirado de
Duran the same day. Captain Fernando Gutierrez Barrios,

Assistant Director of the Federal Security Police, interro-

gated her at 6:00 p.m. that evening. (CE 2121, p. 35)

A. Version of Interrogation Given to the Warren Commission

 

By The Mexican Government

 

Ms. Duran stated that she became secretary to the
Consul, Eusebio Azcue, three months prior to the assassina-
tion of President John F. Kennedy, due to the death of
Maricarmen Olivari. (Ibid. p. 37) She stated that in late
September of early October of 1963 a North American by the
name of Lee Harvey Oswald appeared at the Cuban Consulate
and applied for an intransit visa to Russia by way of

Cuba. (Ibid. p. 39) Duran stated that Oswald presented

 

Central intelligence Agency
has no Objection to Release
—Datemgs say /7r2 eb

- 180 7OW2 */030! -

2003
 

   

Sylvia Duran Statements
Page 3.

At this point Ms. Duran stated she called Consul Azcue,
who, at that time was in his private office accompanied

by his upcoming replacement Alfredo Mirabal. (Ibid. p. 40)
Mr. Azcue came out of his office ana argued with Oswald

‘in English. (Ibid. p. 40) Ms. Duran stated that Mr.

Azcue told Oswald that a person like him instead of aiding
the Cuban Revolution, did it harm. (Ibid., p. 40) Oswald
at that point stated that he had two reasons for request-
ing his visa with such urgency: one, that his Mexican per-
mit expired soon; and two, that he needed to reach Russian
soon. (Ibid., p. 40) Sylvia Duran stated that in spite

of the argument she gave Oswald a pice of paper with her
name and Consulate business phone number (11-28-47) (Ibid.,
p-. 40) Ms. Duran stated that she also initiated the handl-
ing of his visa application by sending it to the Cuban
Ministry of Foreign Relations, from which a reply was re-
cevied in the normal manner some fifteen to thirty days
later approving the issuance of an intransit visa on

the condition that he previously obtain a Russian visa.
(Ibid. p. 40) Mrs. Duran stated that she does not recall
whether Oswald subsequently called her on the Consulate
phone number which she had Given him. (Ibid. p. 40) Syivia
Duran stated that all the conversations that’ Eusebio Azcue

and she had with Oswald were in the English language since

 
   

Sylvia Duran Statements
Page 4.
Oswald did not speak any Spanish. (Ibid. p. 40) Finally,
she stated that upon seeing Lee Harvey Oswald's photograph
in the newspapers, she immediately recognized and identi-
fied it as being the same person that she remember as Lee
Harvey Oswald. (Ibid. p. 40). .

At the time of Sylvia Duran's detainment her perti-
nent statements about Lee Harvey Oswald were written by
the Mexican government and given to Mrs. Duran to read

and sign.

B. Original Signed Statement of Sylvia Duran Interrogation

 

By the Mexican Government

 

Upon learning about the assassination she and her
husband speculated that President Kennedy might have been
assassinated for racial reasons. When.she became aware
that the assassin was Lee Harvey Oswald, she ascertained
that it was the same man that approximately two months .
prior had been to the Cuban Consulate to solicit an intran-
sit visa to Russia: Having taken his name from the special
documentation he presented she knew that he was married to
a Russian woman and belonged to the "Fair Play for Cuba
Committee." She checked the datain:the Consulate archives
and became certain that it was the same individual who was
blonde, short, dressed unelegantly and whose face turned red

when agry. The Consul had denied the visa because to

 

 

 

 
