Siragusa said he does not know the details of their
release, nor does he recall their names. He said the
name of Daniel.Carswell only "sounded familiar." He
failed to identify a photograph of Carswell. He could
offer no other information concerning the incident but,
he said, he has a file box of index name cards still at
his old office in Chicago and, he said, when he

returns there in May he will review the file and
refresh his memory on any names.

Siragusa confirmed the information provided in the
Anderson column concerning the interest of a CIA
official in forming a "hit squad" for standby
assassination duty. He said he doesn't recall whether
it was Sheffield Edwards, Vincent Thill or John Mohr (or
Morse) who put the proposition to him. He said he was
told that since he had a lot of contacts in the underworld,
would he put together an assassination squad. which would
be paid $1 million a hit. Siragusa said he at. first
thought the CIA officer making the proposition to him
was joking but as the conversation progressed he

decided that he was not. Siragusa said he immediately
declined the proposition and told-his contact "no

dice." He said he told.him that it would "be different
if it were war time,” but he wouldn't consider it in
peace time. Siragusa said the conversation took

place sometime in the “early 1960s."

Siragusa said that most of his underworld contacts
had come from the Chicago area, but that he never met
John Roselli or Sam Giancana. He also said he never
heard of Jack Ruby or Rubenstein in Chicago. He said
the first time he heard of the name of Ruby was after
the Kennedy assassination and that he knows of no
connection of Ruby to the narcotics business.

 

 

In relation to QJ/WIN and WI/ROGUE, Siragusa was asked

if he was familiar with any undercover agent or informant
‘who was used by the Federal Narcotics Bureau and then
subsequently given to the CIA for its use. (Re Senate
Select Intelligence Committee. Report on ‘Alleged
Assassination Plots Involving Foreign Leaders.") Although,
Siragusa said, his position should have given him such
knowledge of an agent transfer, he. does not recall any.
He said, however, that the CIA would often come to him
for credentials from the Federal Narcotics Bureau for use
by the Agency's agents. "A lot of guys were floating

around Europe with phony narcotic agent’ credentials," he

said.
+ / -more-

HW 50955 Docld:322347462 Page 5
5. . ee we
| vis

Siragusa said it was also possible that the agent transfer
could have been handled by one of hi/s supervisory employees
who was surrepticiously working for/the CIA. One such
possibility, he said, was. Paul Knight, his Narcotics
Bureau agent in the Middle East. Siragusa said he put
Knight in charge of the Beirut office. in 1955 and the
Paris office in 1958. He said Knight later resigned

from the Narcotics Bureau and officially went to work

for the CIA. He said Knight was fluent in French, German
and Arabic, and is today in his late 40s or early 50s.

 

Another individual who may possibly have knowledge of
QU/WIN and WI/ROGUE, said Siragusa, was a close friend

and associate of his in.Europe, Henry Manfredi, who

died in 1966 or 1967. Manfredi, he said, was formerly

with Army CID and later with the Narcotic Bureau. Siragusa
thinks he.joined the CIA in 1958. His widow, Dorothy
Manfredi, currently lives at 1373 Canterbury Way,
Rockville, Md (424-5142).

Siragusa also mentioned a CIA agent he met through
Manfredi in Europe. He recalled only that his first
name was Bob and that his last name sounded Irish.
Bob was subsequently sent to the Congo by the CIA
and the last Siragusa heard was that he was in Madrid
running. an import-export business.

Siragusa said he was unfamiliar with all the other
CIA officials whose names he was asked about. He was
also unfamiliar with all the organized crime and
Cuban figures whose names he was asked about.

HW 50955 Docld:322347462 Page 6
MEMORANDUM - February 5, 1978

EAg
TO: G. Robert Blakey 8 9 3 g 6 r4
FROM: Fonzi & Gonzales
RE: Interview with CHARLES SIRAGUSA ga canRtre c/GARS-

Background: On January 4, 1978, a syndicated column
by Jack Anderson was published in the Miami Herald.
The column reported that a former Federal Narcotics
Bureau official named Charles Siragusa was approached
by a CIA official "around 1960" in Washington with
the suggestion "that Siragusa, drawing on his
knowledge and contacts in the underworld, would

 

 

€
recruit a crew of Mafia torpedoes for standby ee
assassination duty." The CIA official reportedly Raa
told Siragusa that a "bounty" of $1 million would y e>
be paid for each "kill." The Anderson column also ~ 4
reported that Siragusa had been involved in at least £ & ey

two other operations with the CIA: One was in helping 4
to gain the freedom of three CIA operatives imprisoned
in Cuba; the other was in helping establish a “safe ~ Pg Pe

S
house" in Greenwich Village which was alledgedly 2 a & y.
turned into a "sex trap for foreign diplomats." —™s £ Fe
ree
* . : : . ‘s
’ Purpose of interview: To determine if Siragusa had “4

any direct knowledge of any CIA relationships with

any assassination operations beyond what was reported

in the Anderson column; if his knowledge of organized
crime figures or activities included any relationship
with the John F. Kennedy assassination; if his activities
with the Federal Narcotics Bureau included an association
with the CIA that led to.the recruitment and employment
by the Agency of QJ/WIN and/or WI/ROGUE; and if Siragusa
had any additional knowledge concerning Daniel Carswell,
one of the CIA agents he reportedly helped get released
from Cuban prison.

Details: Charles-Siragusa was interviewed on January 30,
1978, in his seasonal residence at 4215 Wilkinson Drive,
Lake Worth, Florida (305-965-2523). He also maintains
a residence in Chicago (312-634-3432). Siragusa said
he had been a narcotics agent in New York before being
assigned to Europe in 1950 by the Federal Bureau of

HW 50955 Docld:32247462 Page 2
180-10077-10020

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
_TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

 

v9.1
HW 50955 DBoclId: 322347462

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

HSCA
180-10077-10020

NUMBERED FILES
005062

Document Information

HSCA
FONZI, GAETON, AND GONZALES
BLAKEY, ROBERT G.

02/05/1978
5

SIRAGUSA, CHARLES, INTERVIEW
CIA

MEMORANDUM

. Unclassified

1B
Redact
01/01/2003

BOX 105. FOLDER TITLE:

Page 1

Date:

10/1/201
Narcotics. In 1955 he was appointed supervisor of

a territory which included Europe and the Middle East.
He was stationed in Rome and supervised branch offices
in Beirut, Istanbul,. Paris and Marseilles. In 1958

he was transferred back to Washington as a field
supervisor. In 1962 he became the Deputy Commissioner
of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics, a position he
described as "the number two slot." He retired from
the Bureau of Narcotics in 1963 and became executive
director of the State of Illinois Criminal Investigations
Commission. He retired from that post in 1975. —

Siragusa said he held the rank of Lt. Commander in

the U.S. Navy during World War II. However, he said,
he was actually in the Office of Strategic Services,
Counter Intelligence. He said his immediate superior
was James Angleton. .Siragusa said that when he was
reassigned from Europe to Washington in 1958, he resumed
regular contact, including frequent luncheon meetings,
with Angleton, then Chief of Counter Intelligence of
the CIA. Angleton subsequently introduced Siragusa to
other CIA officials, including Dr. Ray Treichler,
Vincent Thill and a fellow whose name he doesn't
recall.with certainty but says might have been John
Mohr or Morse. Siragusa said that it was with Dr.
Treichler that a “safe house" was established in
Greenwich Village. Siragusa said he also worked

with Dr. Treichler on an anti-opium operation involving
the the passing of CIA funds to the Mexican Federal
Police.

 

 

 

Sometime in 1960 or 1961, according to Siragusa, he
was told by John Mohr (or Morse) that the CIA had
three agents in Cuban prison who had "pulled a
Watergate" on the Chinese News Agency in Havana.
Mohr told him that one of the agents was especially
important because he knew the names of a "couple

of hundred" other agents and, if Castro discovered
that, the agent would be pressured into revealing
them. Siragusa said that Mohr told him the CIA was
willing to pay $1 million to anyone who gained the
release of these agents from Cuba. As a result,
Siragusa said, he went to Miami and obtained the
name of an informant from the Federal Narcotics
agent in charge of that office, Eugene Marshall.

aX

“NW 50955 DocId:32247462 Page 3
(The name of Eugene Marshal had, coincidently, been
provided by Gerry Patrick Hemming in a discussion
with him at his office on January 20, 1978, with
Team Leader #3 Bill Triplett present. Hemming
mentioned Marshall as someone who could confirm the
attempt of Lee Harvey Oswald to join his No Name
Key group in Miami following the group's arrest

in December, 1962. According to Hemming, Marshall
was an associate then of attorney (now California
radio personality) Charles Ashman, who. had arranged
for the group's accommodations in the Miami motel
where Oswald appeared. . Marshall was subsequently
dismissed from the Bureau of Narcotics for illegal
activity. Hemming says he is currently working for
attorney Melvin B Belli in California and that Bill
Turner can arrange. an interview with him.)

 

 

- Siragusa said that Marshall put him in touch with -
a Cuban informant who reportedly had-the contacts and
ability to obtain the release of the CIA agents. Sira-
gusa does not. recall the name of the informant, only that
he had a small private detective agency in Miami,
was a fast talker, was about six feet tall, weighed
about 240 pounds and had a very unattractive wife
who worked with him. Siragusa.said that the informant
claimed he could get the job done, but after a
few ineffectual attempts it became obvious that he
couldn't. Siragusa then went to Chicago and contacted
an old informant he refused to name. That informant
put him in touch with a Chicago attorney he also
did not name. That attorney, who Siragusa said was
a Greek, was a personal friend of Raul Castro.
Siragusa took the Greek attorney to Washington for
a meeting with an attorney named James Murphy,
whom Siragusa assumed was working for the CIA.
(Siragusa said he had known Murphy from his OSS
days when Murphy was with him in the "X~-2" counter
intelligence branch.) Siragusa said that Murphy
gave the Greek lawyer $10,000 on each of two
occasions for trips to Cuba. Eventually, says
Siragusa, the Greek lawyer obtained a Havana lawyer
to negotiate the release of the three CIA agents.

 

 

-“more=

HW 50955 Docld:32247462 Page 4
