Page Nine

SECRET

The real problem with Shimon's story is that the
pills were returned to the CIA for a few weeks because Orta ~
could or would not attempt the poisoning; a fact apparently
unknown to SHINO Before his "leak" to Anderson and his
Senate testimony.) “ ed 0

   

(Comment: One additional fact concerning Orta's in-
ability to carry out the mission ties in with the final thesis
of this report. Orta "lost his position in Castro's office
on 26 January 1961, while planning for the operation was
still going on in Miami and Washington"...It would seem though
that the gangsters did know that Orta had already lost his
access to Castro. (1967 I.G. Report, p. 27)

With the failure of Orta to produce the desired results,
the project was at a standstill until, once again, Santo
Trafficante assumed command. Roselli told O'Connell that
"Trafficante believed a certain leading figure in the Cuban
exile movement might be able to accomplish the assassination.
(1967 I.G. Report, p. 29; Interim Report, p. 80)

(Comment: The exile leader was, of course, Tony de
Varona, who was the subject of speculation in an FBI memorandum
of 18 January 1961 associating him with receiving financial
aid from American gangsters for anti-Castro activities which
pre-dated the CIA operation.

At the time of his introduction into the CIA-mob plots,
de Varona was already being funded by the Agency through the
Revolutionary Front and was heavily involved in CIA planning
for the Bay of Pigs invasion which was imminent.

Interest in de Varona was also being expressed in
1960-61 by Mike McLaney whose advertising agency was engaged
in promoting Varona's image in collaboration with McLaney's
friend "Chirri" or "Chilli" Mendoza (Mendoza is described in
Trafficante's FBI files as a close Cuban associate.))

Completing the picture of support for Varona is the
promotional efforts of Dino and Eddie Cellini, McLaney and
Lansky business associates, who were reportedly working
through a Washington, D. K.
Moss and Associates. Mos and
was supposedly acting as a conduit for funds supplied by the
Cellini benefactors with the understanding that this group
would have "privileged treatment ‘in the Cuba of the future.'
Attempts to verify these reports were unsuccessful." (1967
I.G. Report, p. 30)

 

6002158 oo. |

 
Page Ten
SECRET

The Lansky influence using the Cellini brothers
as a "front" is particularly interesting in light of Varona's
admission that Jorge Pujol arranged a mutiny in Miami in
approximately 1960 wherein Meyer Lansky offered to financially
"back" Varona's efforts to "educate the American people about
Castro, which may be a euphenism for anti-Castro plots.
(See Varona transcript.)

The logical inference to be drawn is that both the
Agency organized crime, and other persons interested in
removing the Castro regime, had settled upon de Varona, pro-
bably independently, as an individual who had the potential
of uniting the multitude of exile groups who were in a continual
internecine turmoil. De Varona was understandably pleased
to permit both the U.S. Government and criminal syndicate to
offer him support and asked no questions as to the source of
the funds or the motives of his benefactors. (See Varona
testimony). :

Although de Varona has no specific memory of meeting
Trafficante, the Tampa crime boss admits that he acted as an
"interpreter" in several meetings attended by de Varona,
Roselli, Giancana and other exiles. These meetings were ar-
ranged by Rafael “Macho” Gener, a Trafficante gambling partner
from Havana who continued to serve Trafficante in Miami during
the 1960's. Trafficante claimed that Roselli had previously
recruited Gener, but this appears unlikely in view of Traf-
ficante's long-standing friendship with Gener in Cuba, and
Roselti's admission to O'Connell that Trafficante would pro-
vide the replacement for the ill-fated Juan Orta, who had
escaped to the Venezuelan Embassy in April 1961.

(Comment: Paralleling the situation at the Senate
hearings during 1975 when Roselli's description of Trafficante's
role changed from his "courier" characterization in 1960-61
as reported by the Agency to Trafficante's “interpreter" state-
ment, is the recent interview with Gener who agrees with
Trafficante's Committee testimony that he was an intermediary
with de Varona only for Roselli. The net result in both
instances is to minimize Trafficante's exposure. (Cf. Fonzi
interview with Gener, May , 1978 and Trafficante testimony,
October 7, 1977.))

-

If ambiguity exists as to the specifics of the intro-
duction of de Varona into Phase One of the Castro assassination
plots, more confusion surrounds de Varona's actual participa-
tion prior to the Bay of Pigs invasion. The I.G. Report indi-
cates that de Varona attempted a second poison rs before
the Cuban. invasion but Roselli was positive that only one at-

tempt? tbtta 's) was made. He was also positive that he delivered

OOG24 5g

 
So4.co00

Page Eight Ornajws
SECRE]

: l. Criminal syndicate may well have had some independent
activities of its own prior to CIA involvement in late
1960. Also, could have been on-going, when CIA reactivated
plan in 1962, April.

2. Syndicate operators could have had activities
such as these in New York Daily News stories in 1975 and 1976.

3. Frank Sturgis seems to have had contacts with,
but not a member of the syndicate. Could well have been used
by the syndicate.

4. Sturgis has not been a reliable source. He pro-
bably knew Orta in Cuba but he was outside Cuba when Orta
assumed role of assassin. .
t

If there was an earlier operation with Orta, it was
not CIA; could have been earlier operation of syndicate.

Sturgis could have known or been involved in syndicate
operation, or picked up gossip from Miami in 1965 after Orta
returned there.

Neither the 1967 I.G. Report or the SSC Interim Report
can pinpoint the precise date on which the Agency processed
the poison pills which O'Connell delivered to Roselli. © (In-
terim Report, p. 80) The chain of custody, according to the
1967 I.G. Report was for the lethal pills to be delivered
from Roselli to Trafficante. Although the next intervening
steps remain a mystery, Roselli reported to O'Connell that
the pills had been delivered to Orta in Cuba in late February-

 

-@arly March 1961. (Interim Report,. p. 27; Interim Report,
p. 80)

(Comment: The Senate Interim Report reported the version
of Joe Shimon whose memory was that the money and pills for the

operation were delivered at a meeting at the Fountainbleau

Hotel on March 12, 1961 attended by "Maheu, Roselli, Trafficante
and the Cuban." (Interim Report, p.81) Shimon's story is
filled with vivid details, which are documented on p. 82 of

the Report, but his credibility is subject to serious question
as his account is not shared by anyone else connected with

the plan nor is his relationship with Roselli, Giancana, or
Trafficante appear as "cozy" as he would lead one to believe.

It is also apparent that Shimon was a source for Jack
Anderson's column of January 19, 1971, which fixed the date
of the passage of the poison at the Fountainbleau by Roselli
as March 13, 1961, and contained the report that Castro became
ill a few weeks later.

po
Page Seven , ~

(Comment: The observations quoted above of the 1967
I.G. Report are extremely significant in several respects.
First, the poison pill modus operandi originated with.Gian-
cana, not the Agency, a point which is crucial to the final
conclusions presented below. Secondly, Trafficante is
identified as having access to and providing for the putative
assassin in Cuba which is inconsistent which his self-serving
role description of “interpreter”. His ability to recruit
Orta apparently was directly tied to his former gambling
empire associations which formed a constant pattern for all
his alleged conduct both during and after his Cuban days.)
(See Trafficante profile.)

(Comment: Speculation concerning Orta's role arose >
during the Agency's 1977 Report when it was forced to address
a problem raised by an April 23, 1975 article, concerning Frank
Sturgis, written by Paul Meskill of the New York Daily News.
Sturgis was quoted as saying, "the third (assassination) .schene
involved planting a bomb in Castro's office. I had acce&s to
the Prime Minister's office," Sturgis said, "I knew Fidels'
private secretary, Juan Orta. I recruited him to work with
the Embassy." (American Embassy in Havana).

What was disturbing to the writers of the 1977 Report
was the fact that Orta's name had surfaced in connection with i
a Castro assassination plot, before revelation of the CIA-Mafia “
connection by the Senate Intelligence Committee. The Report
references news stories linking Sturgis with Trafficante and
with a "gambling partner" of Trafficante's, Norman Rothman.
(See Rothman profile) Coupled with Sturgis' alleged mob rela-
tionships is the allegation that Sturgis had a role in inspecting
the gambling casinos in Cuba on behalf of the Castro government
and could have developed an interest with Orta in receiving 5
gambling kickbacks." .

A. second aspect of Meskill's news series concerned a
claim of Marita Lorenz that she had acted on behalf of Sturgis
in 1960 in attempting to poison Castro, which dovetailed with -
the 18 October 1960 FBI memorandum on Giancana's electronically
surveilled conversation in which he stated that "the assassin
had arranged with a girl, not further described, to drop a
‘pill' in some drink or food of Castro's". (Memo, Hoover to
DCI A.H., DD 10/18/60)

GGecON0

The tentative conclusions advanced in the 1977 Report

are as follows:
\

(p.21) It is obvious that many lines of speculation can be
developed, not the least of which is that the Agency did not
know the full extent of syndicate activities...”

Additional considerations:
 

Page Five . '
SECRE

In Anderson's sources for this article were Roselli
and William Harvey, who was not privy to the details of
Phase I, it is another example of serious discrepancies which
exist between the CIA, Senate, and Anderson versions which
all purport to depend, in varying degrees, upon Roselli.

3. The alleged "surprise discovery" by Maheu and
O'Connell as-to the true identities of "Sam Gold" and "Joe"
is really suspect. First, although it is possible that the
Senate Committee staff overlooked the specific Miami news-
paper Sunday supplement (Parade) which purportedly included
pictures of Giancana and Trafficante, thus graphically showing
Maheu and O'Connell the nature of the people with whom they
were dealing, it is a relatively easy matter to research
Parade magazine for the months of October and November. It -
would appear that O'Connell and Maheu were looking for an ex
post facto reason for continuing the operation after the
introduction of two of the top Mafiosi in the United States.
O'Connell testified that his discovery was after "we were up
to our ears in it" which is difficult to fathom since the
operation was in the embryonic stage and no pills were de-
livered to Roselli, et. al, until approximately March 1961.
Whatever, the reason, the Senate staff insists it could not find
the Parade article. (Interim Report, p. 77, fn. 1)

The principals in Phase I of the operation also dis-
agree as to the roles which were to be played by both "Gold"
and "Joe" in the pre-Bay of Pigs phase of the operation.

"Although Maheu described Giancana as playing a 'key'
role, (Maheu, 7.2.975, p. 34) and discussed his job as "to
locate someone in Castro's entourage who could accomplish the
assassination", Roselli downplayed Giancana's part to that of
a "back-up" man. (Roselli, 6/24/75, p. 15) (Whether Roselli
received a "message" from Giancana's murder four days before
Roselli's Senate appearance is open to question.) Roselli's
Senate characterization of Giancana's role as minor is in contrast
to his alleged recountment of Giancana's due to his "knowledge
of the Cuban crowd" which the 19 November 1970 memo recorded.

Trafficante(s) involvement in Phase I is even more
jumbled by the available evidence. The 1967 IG Report and
Senate Interim Report state that “'Gold' identified ‘Joe’ to
Maheu as a man who would serve as a courier to Cuba and make
arrangments there". (IG Report, p. 19; Interim Report, p. 77)
To support the description of Trafficante as a courier, the
Interim Report quotes p. 19 of the 1967 IG Report in stating
that, "At that time, the gambling casinos were still operating
in Cuba and Trafficante was making regular trips between Miami
and Havana on syndicate business".

 
py econ

Page Six : =,
Pane
Cune

(Comment: This factually unsupported assertion runs
contrary to the evidence available through official govern-
ment records of other agencies. As an example, State Depart-
ment files reflect that Trafficante applied for a passport
in Cuba on October - , 1959, and received that document in
Havana on February “ , 1960. (See Trafficante file, State
Department) No records available to the Committee from INS,
State Department, or FBI record any later 1960 travels even
though the Bureau maintained decent surveillance on Trafficante
during this period. In his Committee testimony, Trafficante
recalled that he made two trips to Cuba after his release
from prison in August 1959 and placed these sojourns within
two or three months after his release from prison. (Testimony,
pp. 4-53, Oct. , 1977) His testimony has some logical
credibility in that all of the casinos in Havana were either
closed or operating in the red by mid-1960, and law enforce-
ment reports placed him in the Tampa-Miami area consistently
during the pre-Bay of Pigs period.) :

i

By the time of the Senate testimony of Roselli, however,
Trafficante's role had diminished to a point even below Gian-
cana's. He had been reduced from “courier” to a mere "trans-
lator" and was needed only to facilitate conversation between
Roselli and the Cubans who had been recruited for the actual
assassination. Interestingly, Trafficante and Roselli's 1975
and 1977 Congressional appearances dovetail well but remain
in contradiction to the facts as they were being reported in
1963 by the principals.

(Comment : The Senate testimony of Trafficante and
Roselli needs to be outlined with a view to contrasting the
“courier vs. interpreter" role. My memory is that the Senate
did not vigorously cross-examine either man on this discrepancy
nor did the Interim Report "hint" at the problem.)

Once the actors had been assembled for the launching
of the enterprise, a discussion began as to the method to be
employed to accomplish the foal. The Agency took the simplistic,
straight-forward approach of shooting Castro, but this plan
was rejected by Giancana. In a comment to its 1967 Report,
the Inspector General noted that “Giancana was flatly opposed to
the use of firearms. He said that no one could be recruited
to do the job because the chance of survival and escape would
be negligible. Giancana stated a preference. for a lethal
pill that would be put into Castro's food and drink...Trafficante
(Joe, the courier) was in touch with a disaffected Cuban
official with access to Castro and presumably of a sort that
would enable him to surrepticiously poison Castro. The gang~
sters named their man inside as Juan Orta, who was then office
Chief and Director General of the Office of the Prime Minister,
Castro. The gangsters said that Orta had once been in a
position to received kickbacks from the gambling interests
but had since lost that source of income and needed the money.
(I.G. Report, p. 25)
 

Page Two SE
ECRET

It is not the purpose of this analysis to detail
the conflicting viewpoints of the SSC and CIA with regard
to the significance to the work of the Warren Commission
of the CIA's Castro assassination attampts and to resolve
the parties controversy as to the operations’ importance.
Instead, this paper seeks to present 4 comprehensive review
of all the facts, drawn from a variety of sources, of
organized crime's involvement or potential involvement in
the CIA operations against Cuba during 1960-1963. Certain
influences and conclusions will then be drawn upon the nature,
scope, and motivation of the syndicate participants in the
operations.

INVOLVEMENT OF ORGANIZED CRIME IN CIA PLOTS
TO ASSASSINATE FIDEL CASTRO i

The genesis of the utilization of the United States
criminal syndicate by the CIA to attempt to assassinate Castro
is placed by the 1967 Inspector General's Report as occurring
during a conversation between the Deputy Director of Plans,
Richard Bissell, and the Director of the Office of Security,
Colonel Sheffield Edwards. (1967 IG Report, p. ; Interim
Report, p. 74) Edwards assigned the specific tasks of
locating the right party to "eliminate or assassinate" Castro
to James "Big Jim" O'Connell, who was the Chief of the Opera-
tional Support Division of the Office of Security. Both men
agreed that Robert A. Maheu, who had been previously
utilized by the Agency in several sensitive covert operations,
would be contacted to recruit the necessary personnel.

Although Maheu and O'Connell differ as to who initially
brought up John Roselli's name for consideration, there was a
meeting between Maheu and Roselli at the Brown Derby Restaurant
in Los Angeles in early September 1960. (Interim Report, p.
75)

Comment: Maheu seems the logical person to have
thought of and contacted Roselli for several reasons. In the

 

ae Maheu's CIA history and relationship to o'Connell
are detailed on pp. 74-75, Interim Report.

0002450

 
 

 

$80-10445-10205 ,

, - SECRET

BACKGROUND

In April, 1976, the Senate Select Committee to Study
Government Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities
(SSC) published their Final Report (Book V). which in essence
faulted the CIA for its errors of ommission in not informing
the Warren Commission of the Agency's on-going plots against
the revolutionary government in Cuba and its attempts on the
life of the premier, Fidel Castro. The Committee's rationale
is detailed on pages 6-7 of its Findings, but one paragraph
succinctly sums up their position.

"Senior CIA officials also should have realized that
their agency was not utilizing its full capability to investi-
gate Oswald's pro-Castro and anti-Castro connections. They
should have realized that CIA operations against Cuba, par-
ticularly operations involving the assassination of Castro,
needed to be considered in the investigation. Yet, they
directed their subordinates to conduct an investigation with-
out telling them of these vital facts. Those officials,! whom
the Warren Commission relied upon for expertise, advised the
Warren Commission that the CIA had no evidence of a foreign
conspiracy." (p. 7, Book V)

Stung by the Senate criticism and the "rippling effect"
that Book V occasioned in the media, the CIA prepared a com-
prehensive report in 1977 designed to answer, at least within
the Agency, the critical questions posited in the SSC Final
Report. However, even. the CIA's 1977 Report tacitly recognizes
the inadequacy of the CIA's narrow response to the Warren
Commission's quest for all possible relevant information.
("Relevancy" is, of course, the "buyword" upon which both
the Senate and Agency each base their position on the importance
of the anti-Castro plots to the Commission's work.) On page |
10 of the Agency's conclusions, the 1977 Report acknowledges |
that:

"While one can understand today why the Warren Com-
mission limited its inquiry to normal avenues of in- -
vestigation, it would have served to re~inforce the
credibility of its effort had it taken a broader view

of the matter. CIA, too, could have considered in
specific terms what most saw in general terms -- the
possibility of Soviet or Cuban involvement in the
assassination (JFK) because of tensions of the time.
....The Agency should have taken broader initiatives,
then, as well." (p. 10, 1977 Report)

 

SECRET

 

0U02149

we

180- 10143-0225
Page Three

Office of Security file on Ed Morgan, Maheu's attorney, there
is a memo to the DCI dated 19 November 1970 which reviews
the Mafia operation. Paragraph 5 states that: "Mr. Maheu
advised that he had met one John Roselli on several occasions
while visiting Las Vegas. He only knew him casually through
other clients, but was given to understand that he was a
Anigh ranking member of the syndicate and controlled all the
ice making machines on the Strip? Maheu reasoned that, if
Roselli was, in fact, a member of the clan, he undoubtedly
had connections leading into the Cuban gambling interests.")

(Comment: Confirmation of the earliest Maheu-Roselli
contact is gound in Roselli's FBI file and consists of an
alleged telephone call in 1959 from Maheu to Roselli.) (See
Roselli Write-up)

(Comment: Maheu and Roselli had mutual contacts in
Las Vegas prior to 1960, including Hank Greenspun, editor of

the Las Vegas Sun.)

Roselli, although apparently skeptical at first, agreed
to a meeting in New York City with Maheu and O'Connell to
discuss further details. (Interim Report, p. 76; Office of
Security memo from Morgan file, dated 19 November 1970) Al-
though the Inspector General's Report placed the meeting at
the Plaza Hilton on 14 September 1960, Roselli recalled that
the discussion took place during Castro's visit to the United
Nations which began on September 18, 1960.

(Comment: Tony de Varona admits going to New York City
at the time of Castro's visit, but it is unlikely that he was
in contact with Roselli at this time or (*éStimony of de
Varona) that his visit had an assassination motivation. Ac-
cording to a 19 November 1970 memo to the DCI, it was at this
September meeting in New York City, that Roselli “agreed to
introduce him (Maheu) to a friend, ‘Sam Gold', who knew the
Cuban crowd.") ‘

6002151 (Comment: The timing of the introduction of both
Gianeana ('Gold') and Trafficante ('Joe') is important to the
analysis of the "true" role of the mob in the Castro assassina-
tion plots. According to the 1967 IG Report, the entrance of
Giancana took place "during the week of 25 September 1960"...
(1967 IG Report, p. 18))

In contrast, the SSC Interim Report at p. 76, does not
fix a date certain for Giancana's initial appearance but (al-
though it was "certainly prior. to October 18." (p. 76)) be-
cause of conflicting evidence between the 1967 IG September
date and Maheu's Senate testimony which set the initiation in
November 1960. As a compromise, the Interim Report reasoned
that Giancana had been introduced to Maheu “prior to October
‘Page Four
SECRET

18" because (1) the Las Vegas wiretap occurred on October

30, 1960; and (2) DDP Bissell had received an FBI memo, dated
18 October 1960, which revealed an FBI ELSUR quoting Giancana
as discussing his involvement in an assassination plot
against Castro". (FBI memo dated 18 October 1960 from Hoover
to Bissell, Interim Report, p. 79)

(Comment: Each of the dual reasons listed in the
Interim Report on p. 77 are subject to critical analysis
which will be dealt with separately below.)

(Comment: Although the 1967 IG Report stated that
"Maheu pointed out 'Gold' to O'Connell from a distance but
O'Connell never met either ‘Gold’ or ‘Joe'", the Interim Report
disputes this observation by apparently quoting from O'Connell's
Senate testimony and stating that “the Support Chief, who
was using the name ‘Jim Olds'," said he had met 'Sam’ and
'Joe', once, and then only briefly. (0.C. 5(30)75, pp. 26-
29; Interim Report, p. 77))_ :

(Comment: Conflicts appear also on several relatively
minor points surrounding the September 1960 meetings in New
York City and Miami. For instance:

1. Did Roselli know from the beginning that the
Operation was CIA?

a. O'Connell stated that Maheu told Roselli that
they were representing international business interests
whereas Roselli testified that Maheu told him that
O'Connell was CIA (Interim Report, p. 76). Also, foot-
note 1 on page 76 indicates that Roselli told O'Connell
"about three weeks after the New York meeting", which
is during the Miami involvement of Giancana, that "I
am not kidding. I know who you work for."

- The importance of Roselli's recognition of CIA
he4 59 initiation is that it is doubtful if Giancana and
» GbUeTAZ Trafficante could have been enlisted unless they could
. be sure of government protection. This theme will be
developed mo re fully below.

2. Roselli told his Cuban contacts that he was an
"agent of some business interests of Wall Street that had...
nickel interests and properties around Cuba..." (Roselli; 6/24/

75, pp. 9, 17)

Cf. Jack Anderson column of January 19, 1971, which
stated that "Could the plot against Castro have backfired
against President Kennedy?....None of the assassination teams,
however, had direct knowledge of the CIA involvement. The CIA
instigators had represented themselves as oilmen seeking revenge
agsinst Castro for his seizure of oil holdings.”
