: * ‘Secret. oo

 

“hig: feom ie 1 be used fer etre aig pot
IR CrA—controlled decuments:) °~ [ o Ar

| rear 10) a

or oeecticd of its’

 
  

~ sensitive” sources ana methods and the.
consequent effects of this concern —
upon the Warren Commission investigation;
and .

5). the” substance and quality. of. information .

 

“concerning ‘Luisa: ‘Calderon passed to the
Warren Commission “and the results of this

Committee! s investigation of: Calderon .
and her significance to the events ‘of.

uP November 22, 1963.

 

/ IT ‘ Zolect Coma itiee SF hee sot -

—- : or eee - —_

Information Made Available by CIA to Warren

 

. Commission.

gee cif Pose ‘gooostt yakeo
SOC beginning of thé § seotion

 

rs

 

e

 

 
 
 
  

"he

   
 

=| Seiten, Cork.

     
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
     
 
 
 

hit oon ig 19 be bed fer rraterial extracted
Tem CA=contrelled aeeurient) oe
To be inex Ted price +s section qr

“Ti. Organization of ‘CIA Investigation.

 

of President Kennedy's Assassination

In his Executive Session testimony before the Select
Comnittee, Richard Helms, the CIA's Deputy Director for
Plans during 1963, described the cat s role in the .

"investigation of President Kennedy ' Ss assassination as
‘follows:
This Grime was committed on United
S States soil. Therefore, as far’as _the
“Federal « government | was ‘concerned, the. -pri-
mary investigating agency would have been
‘the Federal* Bureau of Investigation without
any question. The. role of the. CIA would
have. been entirely supportive in “the sense . !
of what material we are (sic) able to we a
acquire outside the limits of the United

States with reference to the investigation. ° -

«.- For investigative purposes, the Agency

 

 

999099.

Seid by ee

 
   
  
 

i RBH TO) le deeuments

-8-

Ae i 5 es, fot m td enrestee ;

key Warren. ‘Commission staff and members: and, ae

 

| former « or present ‘cra representatives in an-

“effort to resolve questions that are not.
addressed’ by the written record. ‘The results’
of the Committee! 8 efforts ‘to. ‘chronicle: this - ;
aspect of. the working relationship between the :

” Warren Commi sion. and the: CIA will: -be a “subject

 

"for discussion t herein.
In addition, this report will examine the -
following. subjects generated ‘by the ‘Committee’ s
study as outlined above, in the » following: general

. order, of discussion

   

“ay the organiz tion: of the cIAt s investigation
of President Kennedy' s assassination; ,
“2) the working relationship of the Warren -

Commission staff and those’ CIA representatives.

concezned with the” Warren ‘Commission: inguigy?
3) the standards. of investigative cooperation : °
. which the Warren Commission staff believed
to: govern the quality and quantity of:

information supplied by. the CIA to the

 

ae

. Warren Commission;

   
 
 

900607

E a.

    

eat by devvatign, Berk

 
    
 

 

¢

, SECRET

; - Classification:

    
 
   
  

 

Therefore, _
to the degree reflected by the Agency’ s denial
of access and/or Santization of certain materials,

this “study! 8, conclusions are ‘based. upon the

 

 

‘best evidence: available to the Committee th! Cough
this 1 may’ not be all relevant evidence to which -
the Agency has. access. 7 ;

: One’ must, ‘moreover, give. due consideration.
to the role that, oral discussions, oral briefings,
and meetings of Warren. Commission. and. CIA

“representatives may have played in the supply of

_ assassination-related information by the CIA to.
_the Warren: Commission. The subject and substance.
of these discussions, briefings, and meetings — - wd
may not always” be. reflected by the written ae o" ,
record made the ; . subject of this, study.
Therefore, nee has conducted interviews,

depositions -and executive session hearings with |

 
 

ponuoe ¢

    

 

a 2iA Giles ering Si

“a: sonal 3
ana) in ent Chiat sion

© the Pe ore Ck
SECREL

  
 
  
   
 

 

  

    

“Classified d by derivation

 
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 

CIA materials which the 77 IGR documented as having -

 

" SECRET

Classification:

“(this form is to be used 4 tof’ moterel extracted
from ClA—controlled documents. )

3) Agency dissemination to the FBI et al”

, regarding rumors and allegations .

 

, regarding president Kennedy! s
assassination
4) Memorandum submitted by CIA to the
. Warren Commission. on Rumors - and
Allegations Relating: to ‘the President's

Assassination. (77 TGR, Introduction ME

 

“to Tab E.)

: “) in reviewing these “compilations;

the ‘Committee - ‘Eocused | upon. enone

made available in written form to the Warren ors

  

commission.
‘During the. course of tnis study, additional
Agency files have’ been reviewed. These “Elles have
been examined in an effort to resolve eertain |
“Yssues created by. “the | review. of. the” ‘Agency! 4 re
“s ’
compilations discussed in this ‘report. Where *.
apparent gaps existed in ‘the written record,

files have been requested and reviewed in an effort 7

to resolve ‘these gaps. Where ‘significant: substantive

  
 

Classification: Z

  
 

Classification: _

  

(This form i is to be used tf ‘material ‘extracted .
“from ClA—<controlled documents.) : .
issues have arisen related to the kind and

  
  

quality of information provided the Warren’

 

Commission, files: ‘have. also ‘been requested. ‘and.

 

“reviewed in an effort to resolve these issues. io
As a’. result, approximately ‘thirty. files, comprising oo
an approximate total of ninety. volumes: of
material have been examined sand vanalyzed

: g fog in ‘preparation of this. report...

    

The. findings | set forth herein. are | subject,
: to modification due to the following considera- os
tions. During the = course of ‘the past. fifteen

years, the CIA has ‘generated. massive. amounts of.

 

information related to ‘the assassination of
©. President Kennedy. In. ‘spite of the, agency
VAyeus . mane Man Cornp

Asophisticated document retrieval system, certain

documents requested by this: Committee: for study

 

“and analysis have not been. located.” _Whether these. . ae

  

 

  
 

  

o documents merely have been filed incorrectly or /
g es destroyed, gaps in. the written record still do wo tad
5 exist. 0996 95 ©
J \ a ; oe . Secondly, due’ to dissimilar. standards - ofgnvestisating

  

: de pri the Rackefller

5
cal Ci

 
 

    
   

 
    

With inv, ating the assassina
tion. (ssc, Book rPGyrr os:

This Committe

e@

 
 

7 greater detail the ge

  
    
   

 

‘the Committee hag o/.-:

 

. ee
a

ther, if the warren

a
ct
&
wu
ct
be
a.
3.
“GR.

the misinforming Or withholding of”
“evidence from the Warren Commission was the’

Ws,

 
 

 
 

(This form is to. be used for material extracted _
. from CiA—controlled documents.) :

 

_ Purpose and Scope of ame

 

in’ its role (of support to the Warren commission
has been a Source. of controversy. since the’

inception of the Warren Commission. Critics’

in-a conspiracy designed to suppress ingormation

assertions were the subject of. official inquiry

by the Senate Select Committee to Study Side

 

Governmental Operations (hereinafter, ssc). The

        

 

“the following gonclusion: us .
The Committee emphasizes that it has:.
not uncovered any evidence. sufficient
to justify sa conclusion that there was |
a conspiracy to assassinate’ President
Kennedy. i :

_ The committee has, however,. developed
evidence which impeaches the process.

1o1y72/0 18 2.

 

a have > repeatedly charged that. the cra. “participated | 7

‘relevant to the assassination of President Kennedy. “

During, 1976 the. critic! Ss

“Ssc,. in its report regarding “the Investigation .
of ‘the Assassination of president John Fe Kennedy: .

Performance: of. ‘the Intelligence Agencies" reached nye

  
    
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
 

       
  

; ns 3- : .
Classification: - SECRET.
(This form is tobe used for material extracted” .
from ClA—controlled documents.)

7 result of: a conscious intent to do so by the

 

“agency or. its: employees.

‘the Committee has- sought to examine. ‘the

~ issue detailed above in both an objective

and disciplined manner. ‘In. order to accomplish »
this goal ‘the committee has utilized a 1977

_ Report by the CIA's Inspector. General (hereinafter

"this: 5 Beport hl criti al’ of a
ee Si i .

the. ssc. “findings jan asserted that the ssc.

17 TGR): 3

   

Final Report, conveyed « an impression of Limited
effort. by the cra to assist the Warren Commission

ain its” work. ‘The 7 ‘TGR was ain fundamental

   

. disagreement, with ‘this characterization of. the

 

: ssc. findings. and noted. that "CIA did. ‘seek: and
~ collect information in support of the Warren.

commission. Additionally, it conducted studies

 

; and submitted special analyses and reports." a

 

a”

UD, WER YR. WPA SER GR, GE WER. ‘am, WAR

7 IGR, Introduction to Tab E.) ve : te
In order to demonstrate further the scope.

of “support provided by the CIA to the. Warren

Commission, the 77-IGR. contained a comprehensive

listing of CIA generated material made available

NH.

 
 

 

 
    
    
 
 

   

-4-

 

hectic SECRET.

Classification: “=
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

to both the U.S. Intelligence. Community and

‘the Warren ‘Commission ‘regarding. the. assassina
| tion of President Kennedy. “In this, respect,
“the Committee agrees with ‘the 77 IGR wherein

it is stated that "This compiliation (of

CIA generated. material). is. appropriate to 7
consideration: of the extent of the cia effort,
7 to. the extent. ‘that’ ait reveals something of. :

the results of that effort." : (77 TGR; Introduction
to Tab E)- 7
In examining the Agency ' .S “comprehensive.
Listing of ‘CIA generated material xeferenced above, .

“the Committee has: paralled. its’ review to: ‘the |

   

 peructire $f given to. these materials by the a7 IGR.

In. ‘this. regard the 77 IGR details four ‘inter-

” related compilations of Kennedy assassination

~ material. _ These four compilations ‘are: |

vA). Agency dissemination Of. emia
‘to the Intelligence Community (Formal ,
ana Informal Disseminations)

2) Dissemination of material. to the

Warren Commission

 
  

- Classification: —

  

Classified by derivation?

 
