 

"HT.

KIL.

‘MW 50955 Dovld: 32263550 page ne boa,

“Recommended Follow-up (if any):

KENNEDY

 

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT : 014168

 

DATE 9/26/78 | pCELO 00°

identifying’ information:
DEN

 

 

SNA
Name DONALD ME _ Telephone

: Former ‘employee of Soviet Russia Division of CIA.
aAddress_
Type of Contact: __ Telephone

x Person

Summary of Contact:

  

specifica

Deselmya explained ‘that in 1962 and 1963 he was employed as an
administrative aide _to-work at totitsin

first defected. Deselyna's work involved assisting Colitsin. in
THe sait-e-

was not aware that Deselyna had an Agency connéction, because

Ghad_notliked_itwhen—he—tearned

was in fact ‘employed by the CIA. However,. Deselyna reported back

EMSS DELVE Sone Sa poe’s 3 ——

 

G's debriefing sessions.

 

Deselyna said that in one debriefing report whe read G had told
the CIA that.the Soviets we

for the assassination of Richard Nixon if Nixon were elected .
president, The plan was in existence prior to the 1960 election.
Deselyna said he could remember no details about the plan and.
did not know what other specifics G had provided. He said this
debriefing info was corroborated by Deselyna's

case officer, who also told him G had given information about

 

 

 

 

the €xistencé Of such assassination Plans.

 

Desetyna said he was prompted in part to come forth to the Co

mittee with this information because of his belief that the’

 

Hart was not an accurate characteriza-——
tion of G or the information he provided to the CIA. He gave his
epinien-—that—C-_was—remarkabty-know!
probably more so than any other KGB defector. the CIA had received.

 

CONMIGKES SFNSTIVE

 
180-10110-10145

 

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

c ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

 

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

 

v9.1

Agency Information

HSCA
180-10110-10145

SECURITY CLASSIFIED FILES
JFK-171

Document Information

HSCA

09/26/1978
3

CIA, ADMINISTRATION

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT
Unclassified

1A

Redact

06/13/1997

Box 5.

HW 50955 Bocld:32263550 Page 1

10/21/20
; .
vw.“ Daselyna interview

aan Page 2 . nc

He said G had an excellent memory and also that none of the information
ever provided by G had been disproven., He said much of it was so
intricate and involved that it was only years later that the full im-
pact of what he had reported began being known.

Deselyna explained that G's brief stay with the British was brought

on by the deteriorating relations with his CIA handlers, and not
through G's paranoia." Deselyna said G had angered and frustrated some
of the higher-ups at the agency because he often went.over their heads.
Deselyna gave as an example of the deteriorating trust that it was
knwon that when the CIA received word that the KGB knew G was living

in the Washington area and were likely to try to kill him, the CIA
filtered the word down to G's babysitters that if the KGB tried a hit,
the CIA men were not to stand in the way.

Deselyna said that ‘another position he held in the SR Division was in
Foreign Documents; his job was to maintain files on all of the techni-
cal and scientific industries in the USSR and to translate scientific
and technical materials from Russian to English..In that capacity he
was routed a contact form in July or August 1962 which related that a
former Marine Corps officer ,- Deselyna thought the rank was either
"Cpt." or "Cpl." - was redef€ing to the U.S. with his family. It said
the defector had lived in Minsk and worked in a radio factory there.
The report contained information provided by the defector about the
size of the Minsk plant, number of employees, type of work, etc. He
said the Agency also had other information on that Minsk plant from
the Industrial Registry Office at the agency; he said it is possible
this contact report on the Minsk information could be located there.
He said the contact reports often do not contain the name of the in-
dividual being contacted, and this one did not. He said the origin of
the memo was the New York contacts office. He said that meant either
. that it originated from a contact in New York, or quite possibly
that it had been pouched over by the American Embassy in Moscow. He
said the memo did not contain any type of crytonym or codes which
might indicate a particular project or interest.

-Deselyna said he testified about this contact memo before the Senate
Intelligence Committee in 1975. He said he thought the Senate had. not
been able to confirm this information. He said also that he had heard
in 1975 about a memo in which some CIA employee discussed the possi-
bility of debriefing Oswald upon his return to the U.S. Deselyna sug-
gested that we contact the writerof that memo to determine if he knows
about this contact report. (NOTE: We did not inform Deselyna that we
have interviewed the man who wrote that memo.)

Deselyna said other persons he worked with in the SR Division should
be able to confirm the substance of G's debriefing reports; it should
be contained in the initial debriefing reports. He identified John

Mc Mann, a Mr. Whtiehead, who may be retired, a man-named Polling
and Howard Osborne. He said he would not mind it if we mentioned his
name to the CIA or Golitsin when we follow-up on this. He said G

Knew him as Donald Denison.
COMMIEIEE: SENSITIVE

 

95 Bacld: 32263550 Bage 3
an

a COMMITTEE SENSITIVE
a a

I asked Deselnya if he knew the name Talbot Bielefeldt; Bielefeldt

has been idéntified as a friend of Ruth Paine whom Ruth's mother
contacted when they were in Washington, D.C. in 1964 to testify before
the Warren Commission. Deselnya said Bielefeldt was the head of

the Soviet branch of the Foreign Documents Division when he was there.
He said he did not believe Bielefeldt had any operational activities
at that time, but that he did not know what type of work Bielefeldt
moved to next. He said the Foreign Documents Division did not actually
run. any operations that he knew of. He said if they ever received any
reports which reflected any operations or sources, that fact was
always disguised or the source of the document would be dummied to
hide the real interest. : :

We asked why G would not have told us this story about the Soviet
plan to possibly assassinate !Nixon when we interviewed G. Deselnya
said he did not know why, but that it is possible he was "warned off"
of discussing certain areas by the Ageomy, although Deselnya said he
did not know what G's present relationship with the CIA was.

Possible follow-up:
1. Reinterview Golitsin about the Nixon plan

2. Get access to the debriefing reports on G which mention the plan
or cover the initial time periods he was being debriefed

3. Interview and/or depose the responsible CIA officials to determine
a) what action was taken on this information; b) whether this
information was disseminated to the Warren Commission

4. Locate through the Industrial Registry or the Foreign Documents
Division the memo about. the debriefing of the defector
. (NOTE: Casasin said also that he thought a file or index was main-
tained on the industries in. Minsk; he thought the information would
have been kept in the Office of Research and Reports; I do not
believe it still exists, but Ted says info from that old office
has been farmed out to several other components)

 

5. Interview and/or depose the responsible CIA officials on
a) the locat¥ion of this memo; b) whether it was ever disseminated
to the Warren Commission; ¢c) what action was ever taken on it

6. Attempt to locate the individuals who conducted the debriefing

Team 5 (CIA) has also spoken with Deselnya.

COMMITIER SENSIINE

HW 50955 DocId:32263550 Page 4
