 

 

ah ‘iS a debriefing report of A-'. entitled "The Oswald Case."

cif Dow
(Dispatc °-B035, 23 March 1965} On March 23, 1965, a

CIA dispa ch records the transmittal of the report, along

EtD?
with eleven other A-1 debrie:iing reports. rete,

Next to the listing of the "Oswald Case" debriefing report:

is the handwritten rkation * "ST." A CIA employee who has
“fol A 2 Commstee

worked tensively with the agency files system balioued :

. Stadt ember watehatymb sf fa.- [enon aS
' this notation +s stand—fer the CIA component Special In-

[ye ‘7 telligence. OUNEXUIS7TEpKE enpatinespeieved-the pe.
aus —-tHianto-stand-Sar_the Clase sonent-Saceietinseltayent,
jo Other CIA representatives be!.ieved the notation was a re-
f~ Af ference to the Counterintell:.gence component CI/SIG. ; In :
~ S a CIA memorandum dated sit t#e stated:

vor?
la “4 § quote Barbara's memo. 5
ad .
wey ;
; perk . .
pt : ' The Agency ‘has been unable to locate this ‘document

and therefore the Committee cannot pass judgerient | upon the

‘. substance of the missing materials. .

 

. The Committee has: querivd A~l's case officers regarding :
additional information. that ii-1 may have supplied Seti :
Oswald. Joseph Lanogsch when interviewed by the Committee
stated that (aScA staff inte:-view, | Joseph Langosch, | August |
21, 1978) he did ‘not have contact with the Warren Commission

and does not know what iriforation derived from Ael's de-

     
  

 

briefings was supplied to the Warren Commission. ( ite ‘also -,
behaeen eater ieee ed . ..

 

Hidal ) ape Piccolo.) He also stated that he does not os

 

NW 47055" Docld:32271334 Page 9:
  

“recall “ehatpity ‘provides an any other nepal ed 17, eortt
rmatic
oe e
contact with the DGI other than ma ees i
eh pieh ECE

Ina further effort to c! sanity the substance of informa~ .

 

tion that -ABMBe provided to ‘the CIA regarding Oswald, the
(of Foommittee has attempted ‘to lovate, fish. The CIA has also.
pe Ly? i Fieas-

fs Og I UK He
Wn ns “Jatvonptpa to to ae ;

, “TF ta ca! é
ker Beek iy ho As) to nei keen ne, his Brogent, yher ak ene Hee.

ye zk Trhts, vate 2 hie 3048 > itn Sa “7°
have supplied the CIA. abe X
Split esas -

 
 
 
     
  
  
     
  
  
   
 
 
 
    

4

"however, The sey as noted earlier, aia not reveal to :

D. C. area and, under control leé. “conditions ppccessibie & to ‘the
hv ergs Cons, Leredion
‘Comission. : ‘won-considering. the CIA's serious oncern

“tor protecting ‘dts. sources

' not | disclosed Gnasicaea.

 

 

 

: yo a a | possible ‘option, i. 1e. ‘to

 

; a 2. hey : as te ‘concerned Oswald and the:
vy Ka this issue, as the written rtog ord a Sopa

oh

\ y if unilaterally resp cted the pet ’

      
   

— " Laght Of the éatabiishient of A-1's bone fides
B ite Langosch's quote supora) his proven reliability and -
s, depth of knowledge Cuban intelligenc ebeGsagne k peas

, Meret Wg pr ere VB vey pe ae as { Pere | Wace, Cormeette4d-

  

Pe

NW: 47055. Dobra

    
   

Pa2|
 

; garding eL's knowledge of ‘Orwala's: ‘probable contact with

  

” the DGr in Mexico city. eit e-abever) The attachment

made no reference to the sou ce! 8 status as a defector

from the DGI ae

 

As: set forth in the sect ton of the: report. concerning :
Luisa Calderon, on. June 18, 64, Howard Willens ‘of the

Warren ‘Commission reviewed Li angosch's May 5 memo and

: ‘the questions “upon which the information set “forth in the | :

memo was elicited. ‘Neither the acene memo shown

: ‘to Willens made reference to the source’ s status as a de~ ; :
ee

   

fector collaborating with th the ¢ ; teiteactipoorey .
crh

7 a ne
“Beno, 1% June 1964, (FOIA 739--319), sy Hae)” cope ue, >

: Based upon review, of the Langosch memoranda, the the Com~

: mittee has. determined thi ined engi S gniticant. information peqagas)

. ing Luisa casero vt i was. with la from the Warren Commission wy

             
 

led aber ,

  

1 Lect

 

3-4 missing. ‘itemoe considerable « concern ‘to the Comittee . .

 
 

4

 

 

“for ‘Presentation ‘to the ‘Warren Commi sion outlining various

‘positions adopted by the CIA vis a vis its investigative

Cit Poe FOIA GIS -: “2A

“ efforts and assistance to the Commission. (Bries, Mer Les, 17647

<Se Tab E of uckonets brief it states: i

bo :
1 within the past week, si gnificant information
T | chas been developed by the CIA xegarding the re-
+

      
  
 
     
   

“lationship with Oswald cf certain Cuban intel-
igence personnel in Mesico City and the reac-
don in Havana within the Cuban Intelligence
ervice to the news of the assassination of .
resident Kennedy. The Commission Staff is in
the course of being briefed on the Cuban as~

pect. (cite-supea May 1d, 1864 BOER SIT TOIML T br d, rabee J

‘the’ 1 aren Comission received, its first formal communica~
; “esl Dec Fe, AGCS7-244, IS Pay gg q)

ion pegarding a-l. ne However, the ‘gent did not at that

  

fetter £ CLbs ras

 

pred Ligencia." .

  
   

  

hus, Ani was able te Provide the cra TA soon after
his defection with accurate information regarding ‘Dex
operations and DGI employees . in Mexico. City. .
The Committee thas reviewed the CIA's files con-
.s cerning Ani. ‘This examination was undertaken to deter- .
| mines L)whether A-l had provided any valuable investiga~ .

tive leads to the CIA pertaining to the assassination

of President Kennedy; and 2) whether, if such leads were
7 provided, these leads and/or ‘other significant informa-
tion was made available to the Warren Commission. .
“the ‘Committee’ s intial: review of ‘the materials
provided by the CIA to the ‘Warren Commission did not -
” ” @iselose the existence of ¢ Aumuc files. However, the

dunn thecouret ©
‘Committee did* reviewva nite containing material passed

  
 
   
    
   
  
   
  

eo the Rockefeller Commissicn: That file einboined re-

: acthis ile was .
ference to AMMUG~1. _iresciircluded*a memorandum of May 5,

Eten’ ‘by Soseph Langesch which concerned informa~ ae
1 A-I- provided about the Oswald c se. ((citeSStpra FOIA a i.

Lod 0 Ih, MBps Cardhidicon y SS iy ioed
68-2904" “Also Contained with in this. file were the A-1 de-~

 

 

briefin memorandum of Ma 7 and May 8 1964 reyjous1

ng : vie May 8, 1964 prey (5 PBLatake se
; regard to Luisa. Calderon. eke) Following:
o review of the memoranda, the Committee requested access

te all CIA files concerning #” referring to A-l..

 

; From review of these materials, the Committee has»
: determined that ‘the Warren Commission did learn during

nid-hay ‘1964 that Lee Harvey Oswaia Probably had come in:
 

    
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
 
    
  
     
     
   
   
  

: ‘contact with DGI officers in Mexico City.

a a ie ee contact

with DGI officers, James Angleton, Chief of the CIA's

~~

_ Counter Intelligence Staff passed an internal memorandsm
_ | to Raymond aces also of th: Counterintelligence staff,

: ww
Angleton wrote in-the-memora idum that he had been informed .
by. the DDP, Richard Helms, ‘tiat J. Lee Rankin had contacted.

a John Mocone to request that the Director consent to an
: jolt
-interview4y the Warren Commission on May 14, 1964. (3.

o Edgar Hoover also _appeared before the ‘the Commi ion on that
“date prior to ‘Mecone” 8 ‘appearancé. EK anbieten also wrote: . Hen a“
~ . poe
z discussed with Mr. ‘delms the nature of the
‘recent information which you ar {processing | wot
which originated with the sensitive #irtte
| Bevee source. I informed him Ahat in Noee Me
_. wiew this would raise a numbef of new factors. . otal
“-. with the Commission, that it/should not go to. oe
‘.- the Commission prior to the/Director's appear- °
ance unless we have first jhnad some preliminary
Yeaction or made sure th the Director is fully
‘aware of the implicatiors since it could well
‘serve. as the basis for Metailed questioning... : :
The DDP stated that he would review. this care- —
fully and made (si ietaitie 87 Pen atone ot Sura Ask
question of timings & ‘May 1 E% cd.
OERCEI=Z98) : a2

 
  

ndoubtedly ‘the. Wee Ct ouse ‘source referred to

‘in’ Angleton's memo aS A-l. Ths conclusion is based in

 

part ‘Upon the date of this nemo which my quite close in
ime to ael's defection. In addition, on May 14,1964,

Divector-McCone aid appear t efore-the Warren-Commission. .

At_angleton'szequest, Rocce 's ‘staff prepared a Brief
Z Welng Yipee Abe ae We :

 

 

 
 

MIRA Oe,
Ate we | |
ae

ar a/fest] RG
 

180-10142-10030

Status in System:

v09-16-96ccr
JFK REC RDS

Cross Reference: None

 

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER :
RECORD SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
Other Agency Equity:

HSCA ;
180-10142-10030

CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION
22-13-02F

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

. PAGES
DOCUMENT TYPE
SUBJECT (8S)
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW
COMMENTS

Date in: 01/26/96

BO 8 46 oF oe 40 40 oe

te oe en ae ae

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

HSCA
CIA

06/00/00

8

REPORT

2 ¢ 3 AMMUG;
UNCLASSIFIED

3

POSTPONED IN PART.
08/07/85

Box 10

NW 47055 Docld:32271334. Page 1
 

( CIAHASNODBIECTION TO CT Ca gr ate pie
 DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
. RELEASE OF THiS DOCUMENT

AS REOACTIER eo’ - o
. ‘ Leet on This Co amt 08 Fy neste ch

- ; — SHE
petaaccetennntemeees 0 Luisa Calderon, a defec
een

tor from the Cuban Intelliger ce Services provided the

 
        
  

 

   

: CIA with significant informat i ion about Lee. Harvey Oswald's

 

. contacts ‘with the DGI in: Mexico. City. — This defector ; :
was assigned the CIA cryptorym AMMUG-1. (A~1 hereinafter). we
CIA files reveal that A-1 defected from the DGI_

 
    
   

on April 21,1964 in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. When -

he defected, A-1 possessed ; a number, of -DGI documents which
C100 o :

were subsequently turned over to the CIA . No 68894, ,
24 April 64) Following his éefection, a ‘eIaA officer,

Joseph . H. Langosch, went € : ° meet A-l, debrief -

‘him, ‘and arrange for A-1? avel. into the United States. .
CLBIP 7
(sSo-eupeecites) On May 1, 1964, 22 reels of tansSins

 

     
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
 

debriefing of ‘Bel were forvar das to the Chief of the CIA's

Special Affairs Sta ‘om the! eibas
( mS IA DK, WPA TE Ted, Ang ted)

 

 

Effective yl, Ami wee sees contract, with |
the CIA for operational purposes.
ficer meno, 6 May 64). . By. June 23
convinced that Bl would be of gre’

 

te He stated:

- ‘There is _no question ‘in By ei

ait is now known that A-1 did provide significant - ‘leads “to

the CIA regarding Luisa Calderon.’ “It is further apparent
.that little of this information was made available by the
CIA to the Warren Commission. . Therefore, the possibility
exists that A-1 had provided other information to the. CIA
. that was relevant to the Warren Commission’ s work bet~that chs
was nat Properly Feported tc ‘th Commission.

 

 

NW 47055 Doclda:32271334 Page 3°”
 

   
   
 
 

is a bona fide defectcr or :that he ha
‘furnished us with accurate and Valuable
information concerning Cuban intel

'-. Operations, staffers, and agents. (Lan
_, themo to Director of. Security, 23 June

        
  
   
      
   

SE

Sch .

As an officer oe the IGI,. aA-L ‘from August, of | 963

 

‘until his defection was assigned to the Pet's | Illegal
A :

: Section B fore a 68894 24 Ppril 64) "Bhis-seetion

was responsibile for training agents for assignment in

 

 

Latin america. Bis + specific responsibility pertained ‘to ;

 

 
  
 
   
   
 
  
 

 

That is his title but he is actually : ‘the:
| intelligence chief, ox at least he was: until
“the 16th of April at which time a replacement
“was sent: to Mexico -to take over. .This. fellow!
'. mame is Manuel Vega. The source ‘says | that the
: } Commercial attache whese name is Ricardo Gapia
or Concepcion (he is rot sure which is an ‘inte
Jligence officer). and znother one is Rogeliov:

ee (I {z night ey has of ghese names rere Se ar

so ing’ of A~1, .30 April

 

 

     

 

 

RW 47055° DocId:32271334° ‘Page-a"!
