 

 

 

 

 

The opinion expressed by Scelso as of December 17,

1963 was set forth on January 14, 1964 in a formalized

    
 
 
   
    
 

. © your Bureau.
© FBI, CSC1-3/779/510)
whee Helms, @ expressed

~

concern regarding exposur@Sof Agency sources(by the FBI

to the Warren Commission. Helms wrote that the CIA had
become aware that the FBI had already:

called to the attfpeion of the Commission,
through its attorney, that we have informa-
tion (as determined from Agency sources) coin-
ciding with the date when Oswald was in Mexico
City and which may have some bearing on his
activities while in that area. (CSCI-3/779/510)
Mr. Helms further indicated that the CIA gam be

called upon to provide additional information acquired
from checks of CIA records and agency sources. He usr
suggest @lthat certain policies be employed to enable CIA

to work with the Commission and with the Commission's

cooperation protect CIA information, sources and methods.
Helms c—larmoaA io onrle

Among the policies articulated ms two which
enabl@@ the Agency to control the flow of information

he CIA?
originated by it ger Tn this way“check the possibility of

revealing its sources and methods inadvertantly. The poli-

cies articulated were:

 
- 21 -

; ; _ &
1) Your Bureau not disseminatéggr information re-
ceived from this Agency without prior concur-
rence

2) In-instances in which this Agency has provided

 

information to your Bureau and.you consider

that information is pertinent to the Commission's
interest, and/or compliments or otherwise is
pertinent to information developed or received

by your Bureau through other sources and is being
provided by you to the Commission, you refer

the Commission to this Agency. In such cases

it will be appreciated if you will advise us

of such referral in order that we may anticipate

the possible further interest of the Commission

?

and initiate certain preparatory to meeting its

 

needs. (CSCI -3/559/710)

 
   

one belicy amnion eliminating @ reference to
Agency sensitive sources and methods is further revealed
by examination of an Agency cable, dated January 29, 1964,

s sent from CIA Headquarters to the CIA Mexico City Station.
.That cable indicated that knowledge of Agency sources and
techniques was on that date still being withheld from the
Warren Commission. Therein, it é&S§stated that on Saturday,

February 1, 1964, CIA @#Sto present a report on Oswald's

 

Mexico City activities to the Warren Commission. However,

 
 
 

- 19 =
fh F
Av Vee ; \in order to protect your contin-
uing 6ps . “Will rely instead on statements
of Silvia Duran and on ets gag Soviek opt
0

Consular file which Soviets gav

(CIA cable DIR 97829 FOLA 498-2 vosandei”

The basic policy articulated in the December 20,
1963 cable is also set forth in a CIA memorandum of
December 17, 1963. In that memorandum,

Special Crest > .
of the CIA Counterintelligence/$§taff wrote that he had
been advised by Sam Papich, FBI liaison mem to the CIA,
that the FBI was anticipating a request from the Warren
Commission for copies of the FBI's materials which sup-

ported or complimented the FBI's five volume report of

Decmeber 9, 1963 submitted to the Warren Commission.

 

Papich provided with this report which indicated

 

 

 

 

 

that some United States Agency” . )
in Mexico. Papich queried whether the FBI could
supply the Warren Commission withheburce of )
( ) (the FBI had knowledge of CIA ;
| n Mexico City, see ‘CIA Sqer-3/779/510)
sha ws

memorandum a) that he discussed this matter

 

 

 

with Scelso who in turn, after a discussion with Helms,

\ was directed by Helms. to prepare CIA material to be passed

to the Warren Commission. wrote:

He (Scelso) was quite sure .it was not the
Agency's desire to make available ‘to the Com-
mission at least in this manner~--via the FBI-

sensitive infoxmation which could relate to
(c0 ver: (SF memo for File,

20 Dec 63, Subj: Lee Harvey Oswald)

 
~ 18 -

 

rounding™photograph now referred to as that
of the "Mexico City Mystery Man"

Each of these concerns will be examined gig
Grerein.

The CIA's concern for revealing the existence of
sensitive technical] operations, as outlined above, was

; &

evident from the g@pception of the Warren Commission.
Mr. Scelso commented that “we were not authorized at first
to reveal all our technical operations." (Scelso dep.
p.158) Scelso further testified:

We were going to give them intelligence re-

ports which derived from all our sources, in-

cluding ‘«crricgy ‘sources, including thet )

( nd the information -gott

from the interrogation of Silvia Duran, for
example, which corresponded almost exactly

with the information from thef \
( ) (Ext to Scelso quote, 4ll of p.5)

Mr. Scelso's characterization is supported by
examination of the background to the first major CIA
report furnished the Warren Commission rggarding Lee Harvey

Bt oy nen

Oswald's trip to Mexico City. (Cite.) Much of the informa-
tion provided to the Warren Commission in this report was
based upon sensitive sources and methods, identification
of which had been deleted completely from the report.

met Pr sey Quuaamigep limiting Warren Commission know-
ledge of CIA sources and methods was articulated as early
as December 20, 1963, at which time a cable was sent from
CIA headquarters to the Mexico City Station which stated:

Our present plan in passing information to te
Warren Commission is to eliminate mention o
 

 

 

 

 

lil.

 

- 16 -
the light of history.
What I can't accept is that leads were
deliberately or otherwise ignored. (Rocca dep.,
p.45)
John Scelso, the above-cited CIA desk officer
who ran the CIA's initial investigation of President Ken-

nedy's assassination until that responsibility was given

to the CIA's counterintelligence staff, offered a highly

critical appraisal of Helms' non-disclosure to the Warren

Commission:

Mr. Goldsmith: Do you think Mr. Helms was acting properly
‘when he failed to tell the Warren Commission
about the assassination plots?

Mr. Scelso: No, I think that was a morally highly re-
prehensible act, which he cannot possibly
justify under his oath of office, or any
other standard of professional public service.
(Scelso dep., p.153)

Introductory Section/SS+M

 

The length of time required by the CIA to respond
to the Warren Commission's requests for information has
been shown to have been dependent upon 1) the availability
of information. and 2)the complexity of the issues pre-
sented by the request. On this point, Mr. Helms testified
that when CIA had been able to satisfy a Commission re-
quest, the CIA would then send a reply back:

"and some of these inquiries obviously took
longer than others.

For example, some might involve
checking a file which was in Washington.
Other inquiries might involve trying to see
if we could locate somebody in some overseas
country. ;

Obviously, one takes longer to per-
form than the other. (Helms Exec. Session
hearing, p.25)

   
 
 

- 17 -

 

aad
Mr. Rocca, as the day to day CIA working level

 

contact with the Warren Commission stated that on the
average it took less than one week for the CIA to transmit
its information to the Warren Commission, after such in-

formation had been processed by the Agency. (Rocca dep.,

pp.66-67) (Add the opinion of WC staffers.)

ad ries
However, aREEREElEeeeere 5s, eoeeteeeeemee —
enhirn Fol prote chins rts

. @ ;
wee the CIA's senstived sources and methods, caused

the Warren Commission to experience greater difficulty

_ celewai . . .
in getting jm information than when the protection of

such sources and methods was not at issue. J. Lee Rankin

a efter tT
expressed the opinion that the Agency's egggpmmmg to pro-

tect its sensitive sources and methods did gaE=eRRumeesc

wh aN
ews effect emmmm the quality of the information to @aigmmemir

ye GiUEN access.
(Rankin at p.23) J#jn some insvancth As » vesun) tr g fro™

on adn Whe _ oes thhel hint
Agency woudeimmmmme unilateral” decisions emompmidsisagandnbeomee] c—
access te cs
cumey canner ialS japeming emmaiieaoes the Commission. (Scekso dep.

Ps toaay

the Warren Commission and i

  
 

8

   
 
  

rg hese

Huy
moth,

od &

Ly ed
Agen
we

(SS 1OA jn yest

¢

aden
ich Ye

Kas
im Whi
trek, oun!

send vf

in which

CRS AW.

 

    
 

 
   

1) 8 : in
. dith HOPALAE Akkoereduns
pene tthe photosurveillance and/
Of the CIA's Mexico city Station

‘ o€-
) As a related consideration ;the“controversy sur-

(A autem Carn oN

f

,

AOR;

aft concern

odct vis

eibred
Q5Se

T has Q's Pxena +fee
 

 

 

 

- ll -

Mr. Rocca added that, to his knowledge, Mr. Helms’
orders were followed to the letter by all CIA employees.
(Ibid. p. 24.) Mr. Rocca concluded that on this basis:
“the CIA was to turn over and to develop any information
bearing on the assassination that could be of assistance
to the Warren Commission." (Ibid., p. 26.)

A different view of the CIA's role regarding the
supply of CIA's information to the Warren Commission was
propounded by Richard Helms. Mr. Helms, who served as
the CIA's Deputy Director for Plans during the Warren
Commission investigation was directly responsible for the
CIA's investigation of President Kennedy's assassination
(Ibid. p. 23.) He testified to the Committee that the
CIA made every effort to be as responsive as possible to
Warren Commission requests. (Exec. Sess. Text. of Richard
Helms, 8/9/78, p. 10.) Mr. Helms added further testimony
regarding the manner in which the CIA provided its infor-
mation to the Warren Commission. He stated:

An inquiry would coffe over (from the’ Warren

Commission). We would attempt to respond

to it. But these inquiries came in indivi-

dual items...Each individual item that came

along we took care of as best we could.

(Ibid., pp. 10-11.)

However, it was Mr. Helms' recollection that the

CIA provided information to the Warren Commission primarily

on the basis of the Commission's specific requests. Under

   
 

 

 

 

    

of the U.S. Intelligence Community.* a»

As a visual aid to the analysis of the materials
contained in the four compilations discussed above, a
chart has been prepared which illustrates the flow of
written information from the CIA to the Warren Commission
and the U.S. Intelligence Community concerning President
Kennedy's assassination. This chart sets forth the C IA's
designation for each document listed and lists the subject
matter of each document-and the date of each document's
dissemination. The chart also indicates whether the document
was made available to the Warren Commission, the U.S.
Intelligence community or both. A secondary purpose of
this chart is to indicate for selected subjects the volume
of information provided to the U.S. Intelligence Community
as opposed to the Warren Commission.

During the course of this study, additional Agency
files have been reviewed. These files have been examined
in an effort to resolve certain issues created by the re-
view of the Agency's compilations discussed herein. Where
apparent gaps existed in the written record, files have
been requested and reviewed in an effort to resolve these
gaps. Where significant substantive issues have arisen
related to the kind and quality of information provided

the Warren Commission, files have also been requested and

 

10/43-16.65te
 

 

 

 

 

 

oe
% 4 Lye8 14 -

Cee

effect. The following exchange between Committee Gounsel
: ayit
and Mr. Helms illustrates the acutesitles Ye the Agency's

compromise:

Mr. Goldsmith: Mr. Hens , I take it from your testi-
mony that your position is that the
anti-Castro plots, in fact, were rele-
vant to the Warren Commission's work;
and, in light of that, the Committee

. would like to be informed as to why
the Warren Commission was not told by
you of the anti-Castro assassination
plots.

Mr. Helms: I have never been asked to testify before
the Warren Commission about our operations.

Mr. Goldsmith: Ifithe Warren Commission did-not know
of the operation, it certainly was not
in a position to ask you about it.

Is that not true?

Mr. Helms: Yes, but how do you know they did not know
about it? How do you know Mr. Dulles had
not told them? How was I to know that?
And besides, I was not the Director of i
the Agency and in the CIA, you did not go.
traipsing around to the Warren Commission
or to Congressional Committees to to any-
place else without the Director's permis-
sion.

Mr. Goldsmith: Did you ever discuss with the Director whe-
ther the Warren Commission should be in-
formed of the anti-Castro assassination
plots?

Mr. Helms: I did not, as far as I recall.

Ne Mr. McCone testified that he first
became aware of the CIA's anti-Castro assassination plots
involving CIA-Mafia ties during August 1963. He stated

that upon learning of these plots, he directed that the

Agency cease all such activities. (McCone deposition, p.13)

   

(fA
 

 

 

 

- 15 -

sowawen:, Gifen asked whether

 

the CIA desired to withhold information from the Warren
Commission about the Agency anti-Castro assassination plots
to avoid embarassing the Agency or causing an international
cris@$ he responded:

"I cannot answer that since they (CIA employees
knowledgeable of the continuance of such plots)
withheld the information from me. I cannot an-
swer that question. I have never been satisfied

as to why they withheld the information from me.
(McCone deposition, p.16)

; had

Thus, the evidence indicates that @@ Helms #esres=e

+o discuss informing Yo.

of pastankengens CIA
ep Warren Commission emg d@imm anti-Castro assassina-

 
 

  

approached McCone

 

: i. cost
tion plots’ might have_geeewe Helms
Todeose Would had® ean”
his jobe ims informéda McCone that plots were still being

considered by the agency {| Buk saz ttelms testimony ~~ mY

Regarding the relevancy of such plots to the BEES i .
Warren Corarni SSiomGeuwnrsels Mopioconandk

 

Commission's work,

 
  
 

    

  

tiem were in agreement¢ (Slawson dep., p.2:

such information s

that

 
  

have been reported to the Warren

Commission.
oo. Beem dhe CIAls parspe ti
p-i7iy Mr. Rocca testified that had he known of the anti-

See also Spector, .p- 46) (But see Liebeler agZpo.
Castro assassination plots, his efforts to explore the pos-
sibility of a retaliatory assassination against President
Kennedy by Castro would have been intensified. He stated:
. ",..in light of what has happened a completely
different procedural approach probably would

and should have been taken. I mean, there
are any number of things that one can say in

    
