 

 

 

JURE Draft
Page @

good. He is honest and at least the money will be largely
spent for the purpose he wants to achieve. Whatever Ray may

ever say, he was treated the way he asked to be treated. We

have played the game ina manner beyond - -reproach." 48

49
JURE continued in existence until August, ‘1968 but

 

was ‘relatively ineffective in its latter years,
 

 

i7.

18.

19.

N
oO

   

FOOTNOTES ~ JURE

CIA/DDO, JURE, Volume I, Cable to Director (Erom San soan)
7/25/62 :

CIA/DDO, Manuel Ray Rivero (Ray) Volume VIII, Information
Report, September 1962

‘CIA/DDO, JURE, Volume I, Information Dispatch, 7/11/62

-CTA/DDO, Ray Volume VIII, Junta Revolucionario Cubana -

‘Declaration of . Principles a

 Cra/pDo, Ray Volume XVI, Memo to Director from ‘Chie£/WH

Division, 9 July 1964, Subject: Chronology of Concept of
Autonomous Operations and Summary of Financial Support to
Manuel Artime.

Ibid

Ibid

Ibid

Ibid |

Ibid
CIA/DDO Ray Volume X, Cable to Director from JMWAVE, 9/11/63
CIA/DDO Ray Volume XI, Cable to Director from JMWAVE,10/11/63

CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XI, Dispatch to Chief, Special Affairs
from CS/JMWAVE, 10/21/63

CIA/DDO Ray Volume XII, Cable to Director from IMWAVE, 1/10/64
CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XIII, Cable to Director from JMWAVE, 1/30/64
CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XIII, Cable to Director from JMWAVE, 4/26/64
CIA/DDO Ray Volume IX, Dispatch to Chief, Special Affairs

Staff from Chief of Station, JMWAVE, 7/22/63, Subject:

Manuel Ray Rivero's Opinion of CIA

CIA/DDO Ray Volume VII, Cable to Director from JMWAVE, 8/15/62

HSCA 005990, p. 4, FBI File #97-4546, Section 1 =
Correlation Summary 5/30/63

Ibid, Item 2, page 4
JURE Draft
Page 67
Another episode in May, 1964 compounded JURE's problems. .
Rogelio Cisneros had obligated $50,000 of JURE money to an
El Monte, California, arms manufacturing company for - “weapons

to be shipped to Florida.‘ The Revenue division of. the

_. Treasury Department, ‘planning- a raid on . the arms company ,

asked the CIA if it had any knowledge of this ‘purchase, “1

which was illegal under U.S. laws. Working under the
“autonomous operations" guidelines, the CIA denied any
involvement and advised JURE to make use of one of its Latin
American connections to facilitate the shipment outside the
U.S. 42
At this point, there began a general disintegration of
JURE membership?? Rogelio Cisneros informed the CIA on
August 24, 1964 that he was resigning from the organization.
He contended Ray was incapable of directing both political and
military activities. 44. Then another key leader, Carlos
Zarraga, resigned in September. >
JURE was given $75,000 by the CIA during the period
of October lst to December 3lst, 1964. The money was meant
as a final payment to help JURE move its activities outside
the United States -° The CIA had reached the conglusion that
the JURE books should be closed permanently .*/ Ray's liaison

officer noted at the time: “If Ray is successful in Cuba he

will not need our help; if he is not, our help won't do much
 

 

JURE Draft
Page 6

Carlos Zarraga of Cuba Libre became the JURE Chief of
support-> and was responsible for acquiring most of the JURE
arms and the large supply of explosives which were stored in
Miami and Puerto Rico.

Manuel Ray again began formulating plans to infiltrate
Cuba in March 1964. He planned to accompany two teams of
commandos into Oriente Province and, once successfully inside
Cuba, initiate continuous bombings of strategic and non-
strategic targets.” Ray's plans, however, were delayed and
a new target date of May.was set.

Ray's seriousness of purpose was open to question at the
time because he permitted persons from the media on his infil-
tration attempt. >> Andrew St. George, on assignment with Time-LIFE
magazine, planned to accompany Ray, as did Tom Duncan, then a
LIFE photographer. 38 Rogelio Cisneros received word on
May 30, 1964 that the JURE boat to be used by the infiltrators
had developed motor trouble. °° Ray's group was arrested by the
British near Cayo Largo and ‘taken to Nassau.

Ray's failure to infiltrate Cuba severely damaged his
credibility within the anti-Castro community. Some exiles
felt his grand infiltration scheme was a publicity stunt and
others considered it a joke. °° JURE members were confused

and undecided over how to defend Ray.
 

. vessel was low on gas ~ which was a doubtful explanation.

.

The Agency noted that the ship was able to arrive at Puerto Limon,
Costa Rica, on November 27 as scheduled. 7°!

Ray was not physically scheduled to be on the boat
during Operation Bola, “his activities during the latter part
of 1963 being political in nature. He was, at this time,
conferring with Robert F. Kennedy~>tapout the Cuban situation2°™
and travelling extensively in Lating America seeking support

for JURE. 25n
- Miami and Puerto Rico.

JURE Draft .
Page 5 . ; —_—. oo

\ ¥ apkre documentation has been ‘found to substantiate the success

,or failure of any of the JURE raids or infiltrations during

this period, but by January, 1964, the organization had gained

aepense strength to induce several other Cuban exile organizations

to merge with it. 26 The largest of these groups were the
27
Ejercito Libertador de Cuba (ELC) and Cuba Libre.~. The
ELC's union with JURE brought to the organization former veteran

rebel army officers in exile and had the potential of giving

JURE the best military expertise and support in the entire
exile community. 28
Carlos aarraga of Cuba Libre became the JURE Chief of
support” and was responsible for acquiring most of the JURE
arms and the large supply of explosives which were stored in

30

Manuel Ray again. began formulating plans to infiltrate
Cuba in March 1964.77 He planned to accompany two teams of
commandos into Oriente Province and, once successfully inside
Cuba, initiate continuous bombings of strategic and non-
strategic targets. >? Ray's plans; however, were delayed and
a new target date of May was set.

Ray's serious of purpose was open to question at the time
“because he permitted persons from the media on his infiltration
attempt. 2, Andrew st.’ “George, on’assignment with Time-Life
magazine, “planned to! “aécompany Ray, >" as did Tom Duncan, then
a Life photographer’ 25 Rogelo Cisneros received word on
May 30, 1964 that the JURE boat to be used by the infiltrators
had developed motor trouble. 7° Ray's group was arrested by the
British near Cayo Largo and taken to Nassau>’

Ray's failure to infiltrate Cuba severely damaged his
credibility within the anti-Castro community. Some exiles
felt his grand infiltration scheme was a publicity stunt and
others considered it a joke. 78 JURE members were confused

and undecided over how to defend Ray.?°

  

 

 
   

JURE Draft
Page 2

guidance to independent and uncontrolled Cuban leaders such
8 . .
as. Ray. Autonomous operations were approved by the CIA

in June, 1963.”

 

The “Rules of Engagement" under which. the operations
_ functioned get. ‘forth the following guidelines:

1. Operations to be executed exclusively by Cuban
nationals dedicated to the idea that the overthrow
of the castro/communist regime must be accomplished ©
by Cubans inside and outside Cuba working in concert.

2. If the effort to overthrow the Cuban regime became
too costly - in human lives, the U.S. would withdraw
‘financial support and would not consider resumption
at any future date.

3. All operations had to be mounted outside the territory

 

of the United States.

4. I ever charged with complicity, the U.S. government
would publicly deny any participation in the group's
activities.— 7 .

5. The CIA's presence and direct participation would be
kept at an absolute minimum. An experienced CIA
liaison officer would be assigned to each group to
provide general advice, funds and material support.

6. No fixed time schedule would be given to these

operations.
  

 

180-10142-10229} -

Bex 23
Betsy Palmer . yo ; . FOePER. a2¢

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIO CUBANA (JURE) a /7

of
DRAFT 11/1/78

In a Miami press interview on July 23, 1962, Manuel Ray .

Rivero announced the formation of JURE, an anti~Castro Cuban

 

exile group designed to unite all the popular splintered
factions outside Cuba into an effective working organization.1
Other key leaders involved in the new organization included
Felipe Pazos, Raul Chibas, Rogelio Cisneros, Ramon Barquin and
“Justo Carrillo.2 Although Ray felt. the Cuban Revolutionary
Council:was no longer effective, he attempted to receive
financial assistance Erom it until JURE gained momentum. 3

As its opening promotional salvo, JURE issued a
"Declaration of Principles." It called for free elections,
the restoration of human rights and social justice, new

economic development programs and agrarian reform, breaking

 

relations with the Soviet bloc, restoration of legitimate
property, proscription of the Communist Party and release ‘of
poli tical. prisoners.4

Ray's group was considered an "autonomous" anti-Castro
Cuban group by the CIA. -The concept of autonomous operations
was conceived by Walter Rostow, State Department counsel. ®
Rostow proposed a "track two" approach to Cuban operations to

i 7

parallel regular CIA-controlled Cuban teams. This approach

would enable the CIA to give financial aid, advice and

 

pORBA
 

JURE Draft
Page 3

Possibly because of this loosely structured control over
JURE, the CIA had the day-to-day activities of the group
closely monitored by individuals identified in CIA files only
by cryptonyms .._. guRE member, (Rogelio Cisneros} for instance,
was in frequent contact with an individual identified as
(rave /AJana supplied him with a variety of confidential
information about SURE which (smonue /2) reported to the CIA.
From this source the CIA was able to learn about the substance
of Ray's meeting with Robert F. Kennedy in September 1963;/+

cogs “ 12
Ray's negotiations on behalf of JURE: secret JURE

meetings; 73 allegations that the Governor of Puerto Rico was

purposely sidetracking an FBI and INS investigation of illegal
arms possessed by JURE; ~* JURE animosity toward Manuel Artime
and the mer; +> and the location of JURE training bases. 1°

Manuel Ray himself was personally critical of the CIA
and told one JURE associate that he thought CIA agents "...were
more dangerous than the Kennedy Administration." He maintained
that, "The Kennedy Administration would end but CIA agents
always stayed, and their memory was longer than the memory of
elephants and they never forgot or forgave."

During a JURE meeting in Miami in August, 1962, Ray
claimed that JURE had arsenals in Venezuela and the Dominican.
Republic; a B-26 airplane, territory available for training
in Costa Rica; and support through indirect means from the
United States. re According to an FBI report, JURE was

considered one of the five major exile groups with clandestine
 

JURE Draft
Page 4

assets’? and the CIA was interested in the group because of
its potential for infiltration into cuba. 7°

Because of its size and Ray's dynamic leadership, JURE
seemed destined for a role of some > importance in the anti-

“castro, movenent.77 ‘The ‘group set.a target date of October 31,

1962. to raise $100, 000.” ‘The ‘money would be used to “recruit

 

“new members, begin a - propaganda campaign - cagainst ‘Castro and
purchase arms and supplies :?? Within a year, JURE had
membership delegations in 12 cities in the United States, a

. chapter in Puerto Rico, and 12 delegations in foreign countries,

: : ‘ 2
mostly Latin American,

In August, 1963, JURE planned to sabotage a power plant
in Havana” and Ray requested that the CIA cache certain
high explosives and grenades inside Cuba or San guan.?” The
plan was code named "Operation Bola" “and Ray's case officer
recommended the request be granted in order to test Ray's
capabilities. Ray acquired a 25-foot boat for infiltration
and exfiltration purposes and expressed a desire to purchase
another vessel which would enable him to extend operations
along the south coast of cuba’

Plans were made with JURE to deliver military equipment
brought by a CIA vessel and transferred to JURE which would
transport the material into cuba? ?* The operation, originally
scheduled for November 23, 1963, was moved up two days. °° The
CIA boat,. Rex, completed the cache and kept the appointed area
under surveillance for 3 days. The JURE boat failed to make

25
the scheduled pick up Sand Ray offered no satisfactory

25h
explanation for this failure to perform. Ray claimed the
