7) Was the information in the possession of the
CIA Mexico City Station reported to the CIA
Headquarters accurately and expeditiously after
the assassination?

8) Was the information developed by the CIA in,
Mexico City communicated to the Warren Commis-
sion in an accurate and expeditious manner?

9) Did the CIA photo-surveillance of the Cuban and
Soviet diplomatic compounds in Mexico City, if sua

Phovosyeve args it} existed, obtain a photograph of Lee Harvey

Oswald? -If so, what became of that photograph?

B. Differences Between the Warren Commission Investi-
gation of Lee Harvey Oswald's Activities in Mexico
City and the House Select Committee on Assassina-

tions Investigation.

The approach taken by this Committee's investigation
(differs from that of the Warren Commission primarily in
‘terms of scope. The Warren Commission and the investiga-

‘tive agencies ‘at its” disposal went to great lengths to

 

“establish Oswald’ s travel to and from Mexico, but devoted

 

minimal effort to evaluating Oswald! s contacts with the

 
  

~ Cuban and soviet Consulates. _ It is the conclusion of

yf) this committee that the. Warren Commission. established

“that Oswald had indeed traveled to ‘Mexico city, Hence,

 

this Committee has chosen not to reinvestigate Oswald's tra-

vel to and from Mexico City. Instead, the Committee's approach

* De ae Be eT er R Neree TAL eR Rant ante Trt th RRA
 

 

 

 

a

Soviet and Cuban diplomatic missions in Mexico City and
on evidence that was not available to the Warren Commis-
sion that could possibly shed light on Oswald's activi-
ties in Mexico City outside of the Soviet and Cuban in-
stallations.

“The Warren Report limited its discussion of Oswald's
contacts with the Soviet and Cuban diplomatic missions to

information. obtained from Sylvia Duran and the Cuban Govern-

ment. (See Warren. Report, pp. 299-304, 733-736, ‘In sup-

    

 

port of ‘the account of Oswald's contacts with the So-

 

viet and ca n diplomatic missions the Warren Commission
published the following as exhibits:

1) A note from the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Affairs
to the Swiss Ambassador in Cuba. (Commission Exhibit
2445) .

2) Lee Harvey Oswald's visa application and the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs of the’ Public of Cuba's letter
denying the visa. (commission Exhibit 2564) ~

3) Letterhead ‘Memorandum to J. Lee Rankin from Richard

Helms re: “Technical Examination of Photgraphs of
Lee Harvey. Oswald’ s Application for a Cuban Visa."
“(Commission Exhibit 3127)

4) The pages of Lee Harvey Oswald's notebook with the —

_ telephone numbers of the Cuban Consulate, the Soviet

Consulate and the Soviet Military Attache's office.

(Commission Exhibit 2121)
I. INTRODUCTION.

A. Issues Addressed.

The House Select Committee on Assassination's inves-
tigation into Lee Harvey Oswald's activities in Mexico
City has been directed at answering the following ques-
tions:

1) Did Lee Harvey Oswald visit the Soviet and Cuban
Consulates or Embassies in Mexico City? .

2) In addition to the visits which may have been made
to the Embassies what were Lee Harvey Oswald's ac~
tivities while he was in Mexico City?

3) Was Lee Harvey Oswald alone in Mexico City? If not,
who were his associates and what were their activi-
ties?

4) Did the Central Tn¥clhagece Agency maintain any
suxveillance operation(s) aimed at the Cuban and Sov-
iet diplomatic missions in Mexico City? If so, what
kind?

5) What information, if any, “about Oswald” s stay in Mexico

was: known by the CIA. Mexico city Station prior to

‘the: assassination and “what was the source of that |

“information?” a Co te, . :

6) Was the information, if any, in the possession of the
CIA Mexico City Station reported to the CIA Head-
quarters accurately and expeditiously prior to the

assassination?
4

ee
7. December 27, 1965, Legal AttCthe memo to the U.S.

Ambassador re: Elena Garro.

8. CIA investigation of Elena Garro's allegation that
she created a disturbance at the Cuban Embassy on
November 23, 1963.

9. Legal Attache February 23, 1966, memo to the
U.S. Ambassador regarding Elena Garro's allegation.

10. Legal Attache memo re: Elena Garro's assertion that
she had stayed at the Hotel Vermont.

11. Charles Thomas' September 30, 1969, letter to the
State Department and the Legal Attache's response.

12. House Select Committee on Assassinations investi-

gation of Elena Garro's allegations.

     
   
   
   
     
 
    

Oscar Contreras Lartigue.

  

D.

VII. Analysis of Lee Harvey Oswald's activities in Mexico City.

A. Introduction.

B. Did Lee Harvey Oswald or an Imposter Contact the Cuban
And Soviet COnsulates in Mexico City?

c. Other | ‘phan His Visits to the Cuban and Soviet Consulates,

“What were. ‘Lee  Haivey oswaia’ Ss activities in. Mexico City?

     

  

. Was “Lee Harvey iogwala travelling alone in Mexico?
3. When were the intercepted conversations linked
“to Oswald? .
4. The photograph of the Mexico Mystery Man.
ACTIONS OF TRL CIA
Ty. Reconstruction of theYCIA Mexico ‘City Station and’ Head-
quarter®s &CERSES Prior to the Assassination of Presi-
dent John F. Kennedy.
‘A. Introduction - CIA Interest in and Liaison with FBI
Regarding American Citizens in Contact. with ‘Soviet
Bloc Embassies in Mexico City.
B. Natative.
V. Mexico City Station Reporting of Information Concerning
Oswald After the Assassination of President Kennedy.
A. Reporting of Information Concerning the Mexico Mystery

Man.

  
    

Reporting of Infornation(t m the Electronic Inter-
cept Operation Aimed Jat the Soviet Embassy.

C. Silvia Duran.

 

 

 

; = .
[7 is Concerning Oswald's Actiypties in Mexico > woes

  

  
 

 

   
 

a gE on
ae f ot! aveingyyd at the Fine of the Marren Commission. .. fof fo
Wy ia le fo SY Jf KF
ad in A silvié. Duran. / ; Sf ff: Lhe f
: [fp Jos / Jf Of LY
Jus if / B “Th oft Mifabal. 7. fo Sf fo ;
LZ Pe eS /- an fff. :
| fs. Arca coe Paz. , Va - / Lf /
jos / : a : “7 L “
i i “4 } “ / a, :
| i? al Oscar Copttrepas Lartigue. A . / Loe / A
a
i

a . is i of TAS Ve
A. Introduction?
-SA-

VI. Information Not Available at the Time of the Warren

Commission Investigation.

A. Silvia Tirado (nee Duran)

1.

House Select Committee on Assassinations interview

of Silvia Tirado.

CIA information not available at the+ime of the

Warren Commission investigation.

a (irainc/2)aitegation.

b. The possibility that’ Silvia Duran was an-agent
for either American, Cuban or Mexican intelligence.
(1) was Silvia Duran an agent for American or

Mexican intelligence

(2) was Silvia Duran a Cuban intelligence agent

B. The Cubans.

1.

2.

Eusebio Azcue Lopez.

Alfredo Mirabal Diaz..

C. Elena Garro de Paz.

1.

Elena's story as reported October 5, 1964. ~

October 12, 1964, CIA memo for the record.

November 24, 1964, CIA informant report.

November 24, 1964 meeting between Elena and Legal
Attache officers.

Chales Thomas' first meeting with Elena Garro where
Lee Harvey Oswald is discussed.

Chales Thomas' meeting with-.Elena Garro on December

25, 1965.
 

  
     

3. Objectives of operation.

    

4. Scope of coverage provided by the operation.
5. Procedure and timing involved in processing the
production from the operation.
6. Responsibility for operation.
7. Coordination of photographic and electronic surveil-_
Jance operations.
\c.(Etectronic Surveillance of Telephones at the Soviet
: and Cuban Diplomatic Compounds 2
1. Existence.
2. Responsibility.
a. General.
b. Analysis and reporting of information obtained.
3.(Tetephone lines covered.
4. Production from operation.
a. Types.
b. Handling procedures.
(1) resuma
(2) Cuban tapes
- (3) Soviet tapes.
Lt (a) general handling”
-(b) retention and re-use of tapes —

(c) English language conversations

(4) handling bf(tarasorts)
a
$80-10142-10162) ; i

 

. LEE HARVEY OSWALD, MEXICO CITY AND THE CENTRAL fr 1"

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (OR: "IT'S AN UNTIDY WORLD"). ses ]

 

 

I. Introduction.
A. Issues Addressed.
B. Differences Between the Warren Commission Investigation

of Lee Harvey Oswald in Mexico City and

the House Select Committee on Asssassinations' ,

davestigation.

-
oO

Conclusions.
D. Structure’ and Relevancy.
Il. Central Intelligence Agency Surveillance Operations in

Mexico City in September and October 1963.

THIS COPY IS NOT
FOR RELEASE.

A. Photographic Surveillance Operations Aimed at the
Cuban Diplomatic Compound.

/ 1, General introduction.

, 2. Physical layout of diplomatic compound and surveil-

lance bases.

    

Scope of coverage tncluding equipment and prece-

     

dures utilized.

Objectives of the op
5. Disposition of production: from the operation.

B. Photographic Surveillance Operations Aimed ‘at the

\ Soviet Diplomatic Compound. |

 

1. Introduction.

2. Physical positioning of surveillance: bases.

1014 2-10 [4
(e) expedited procedure for English Tan-
guage conversations or other conversa-
tions of special interest

(f) handling in the Station

(g) format of transcripts

c. Voice comparisons. .
III. Information about tee Harvey Oswald's Stay in Mexico
MRAZ Known by the CIA Mexico City Station Prior to
the Assassination and the Sources of That Information.
A. Information That Was Available.
l.Tpmemahion availabls to ‘the Mexico City Station
from(electronic surveillance aimed at) the Soviet
Consulate and Military Attache's office.
a. September 27, 1963.
b. September 28, 1963.
c. October 1, 1963.
d. October 3, 1963.
2. Information available to the Mexico City Station
“from CIA Headquarters.
- Information avaitable to the Mexico City Station

 tron(etectronic surveillance aimed at)the Cuban

 

“diplomatic compound.

    

“Information available to the Mexico City Station

 
 

- from photographic. surveillance of the Soviet and

     

Cuban diplomatic. compounds.
Tree rE Me

oe ge ARE RET OE RAE EN NN AONE RO EE TOUT iS BO

sonamensii op a LS 8 OY RR NEE 18:

  

 
  
 

    

  
  

5. Possibility that additional information from
(ihe electronic surveillance 0 ) the Soviet com-

pound was available to the Mexico City Station.

 

6. Possibility that the CIA photo-surveillance ob-
tained a photograph of Lee Harvey Oswald.
a. Missing materials.
b. Liklihood that the photo-surveillance operation
would have missed Oswald.
c. Reports of existence of a photograph.
(1) Phillip Agee allegation

are “Javtegation

(3) Joseph B. Smith. allegation

 

 

(4) Joseph Piccolo allegation

(5) statements of

d. HSCA investigation of the possibility that the

 

 

Mexico City photo-surveillance operation pro-
duced a photograph of Lee Harvey Oswald.
(1) introduction .

avestigation of the allegations

 

  

‘fptbaguction ;
2. Information available (roa, the Soviet oiesy
taroima +O i ne
fey tay s_conmected—with or Jovotved Lee Harvey

Oswald.

 
