EJL First Draft
Page 9

On 12/10/65 Charles Thomas, a political officer
at the American Embassy, wrote a memorandum about a
conversation with Elena Garro de Paz. (CIA #586-587,
WX~7241 Entry No. 425, p. 91, CIA No. 718.) The meeting
with Elena had been about other matters but she mentioned
knowing Oswald. Thomas noted that she was reluctant to
talk but did.

Elena's story reported here is the same, but with

ptt wh levy. J
more details, as that given in thel temo She

said that General Clark Frores: Silvia Duran, Eusebio
wu ha?

Azcue, Emilio Carballido, and a Latin American Negro man
vibe LA? ,
with red hair were at the party. A marginal comment by this
entry in WX-7241 says, "How did Elena know about a red-haired
Negro?" Elena also told Thomas that she had later learned
that Silvia Duran had been "Oswald's mistress while he
was there." (A note by this entry in Wx-7241 says “How
did Elena Garro know about Silvia being the mistress of
Je) what?
Oswald?? This is 1965. “Station heard fron[LIRING/3 in
es 8
July 67; see also WX-7241, Entry 613, p: 116, CIA No. 743. Ga
US

 

~~

Elena told Thomas that she and her daughter had a

dh

w z
gone to the Cuban Embassy @n November 1963. Omee-ineide i

e),

the-gates—ehey shouted “assasins" and other insults at oye
that Same day

the Embassy employees. i nt a

friend, Manuel Calvillo, an official in the Gobernacion,

took her and her daughter to a small hotel in the center
 

_ EJL First Draft
, Page 10

of Mexico City. They were kept there for eight days
under the pretext that they were in danger. Elena
Claimed to have told Calvillo that she wanted to tell
her story to the American Embassy. Calvillo dissuaded
her by telling her that the American Embassy was full
‘| of Communist spies. Elena said that some of the other

| people who had been at the party were taken to Veracruz
|where they were "protected" by Governor Lopez Arias.
She said that Ruben Duran, reportedly “protected" by

General Clark Flores, was very prosperous and was driving

Buti baw & wy Thopst’ perme Arno aad aia
ca th :

The Cos wrote a note on the memo which says: “What

a big car.

an imagination she has!?! Should we send to Headquarters?"
The Officer replied, "Suggest sending. . There have been
stories around town about all this, and Thomas is not
only person she has talked to...If memory serves me, didn't
{Tferer to Oswald and the local leftists and Cubans
in one of her squibs?" (CIA No. 588, note from SW to COS.)
bi The information in Thomas' 12/10/65 report was
wv \ cabiea to CIA Headquarters (Cable from Mexico City to the
Director, Mexi. 5621, date cut off my copy; CIA Nos. 584-585.)
This cable reports that Elena is the wife of the “prominent

Mexican poet Mexican Ambassador Delhi Octavio Paz Lozano."

 

(IBID.) e cable informed Headquarters of the substance

wi +. of Thomas '

   
 

 

  
a i EJL First Draft
Page 8

 

t a

Lavagnini Stenius. (IBID)

The letter which Ms. Garro said was the first
written by the young man to her daughter bore the date
September 1, 1963 and the Mexico City Post Office postmark
September 2, 1963. When Ms. Garro was told this she
commented that probably the Communists have facilities.

for falsifying postcards. (IBID)

td further) investigate Ms. Garro's story, the Federal
ph yee rCfurthe® investigate Ms. carrots story,
Pp Preas interviewed Ario Alejandro Lavagnini Stenius on
is
November 27, 1964. (rBrpt4 Lavadnini recalled that there

were approximately thirty people at the Ruban Duran party,

 

few of whom. he knew. He recalled having met a Mexican girl
who had recently returned from living in France. He was
unable to fix the date of the party, but felt it was
probably early in September because of a heavy rain which
occurred as they were leaving the party about 2:00 a.m.
(IBID. p. 4)

bi 4

Lavagnini noted no Americans present at this party.
He was familiar with the appearance of Lee Harvey Oswald
because of publicity following the assassination of President
Kennedy but otherwise had no knowledge of him and had neyer
seen him except for news photographs following the assassina-
tion. (IBID. p- 4)

There is no indication on the document that this
information was given to the Central Intelligence Agency's

Mexico City Station. —

< fa of upon

 

 

 
' Page 7

fo EJL First Draft Jj ( ae
Bt, ad

 

Sooner va 1964 Elena and her daughter met
with Mexico City representatives of the Legal Attache's >?
- TE State AZ ttote
Foe office. They recounted the same story previously given ““~ lat
s . Onn

cof The date of the party was given as September

30, October 1 or October 2, 1963. (FBI 105-825555 Report,

Dec. 11, 1964 entitled Lee Harvey Oswald, P.1) The agent.

 

who wrote the report noted that the FBI investigation of

the John F. Kennedy assassination had established that Lee
Harvey Oswald had departed Mexico City by bus at 8:30 a.m.
on October 2, 1963. ee Harvey Oswald could not have been
identical with the American allegedly observed by Mrs. Paz

at the party if this party were held on the evening of 4
- ecavte howe! act havebere ta Megan Octece tO when Hs Poa sted d

| > he saw OSes wasking
nore October Lr October 2, 1963. (IBID. p- 3) ‘ oa Zn soe gtato$.

Elena was questioned regarding the identity of other

 

 

persons. attending the party at the Ruben Duran home who

might have been in a position to observe the three Americans.
Elena stated that in the course of the party her daughter

yours .
met a group man named “Alejandro” at the party and danced

with hime” he was apparently quite smitten with the
“3 daughter and tried to call her on several occasions after
€ the party ("the daughter did not take the calls and as
S a result "Alejandro" wrote several letters to the daughter.

Ms. Garro exhibited two of the letters, as well as a

business card which identified the young man as Ario Alejandro
EJL First Draft
Page 5

The Garro's claimed .that they had recognized Oswald's
photograph when it was published after the assassination.
The arrest of Silvia-Duran “underlined their certainty"
that the man had been Oswald. (IBID.)

Deba added that Lynn and one of the Duran brothers
had made trips to Texas. She also said that, even though
they were always poor before the assassination, they were
both driving expensive new cars. A notation on the memo

says that; never xegained contact with

Elena Garro de Paz. (IBID.)

Le,
W ee [ni thef hemo was not in either the Elena Garro

Few or Lee Harvey Oswald "P" files but in a project file. It
in bg phon 2 .

wer /
Bh, was found in December, 1965. See wx 7241, p. 94, CIA #721.)

 

 

A marginal notation on WX 7241 says, "Why was this not sent an
LIE corn Lowe al phar -

to Headquarters??" (p. 87, CIA #714.) “ : wh dn f7sT t

Aen ph wa fet om

fief of Covert Action, ar a a

wrote a memo for the record. (10/12/64 memo, CIA #596;

 

 

On 10/12/6

    

WX-7241, p. 87, CIA #714.) Thts—memo reports’ that Elena

Garro de Paz hag told her story to Eunice Odig who—relayed
3 cid , L pot |y >
oe it tof TICHR on 10/9/64. aii |

     
 

The SEOry is not as detailed as the 10/5/64 version.
There is no mention of Deba Garro Guerrero Galvan. The
story, perhaps because it is third hand, differs from the
previous story in two areas. The party was at the Cuban

Embassy not at Ruben Duran's. Elena talked to a Cuban
i
{
|
i

 

 

 

 

br,

coke me to send the gist of this to Headquartérs?." Scott
&. fe

fen

EdL First Draft
Page 6 -

Embassy official not. one of her cousins about the three

Americans. wste [pon Peter
; Cw «A ste fern COTS

Spt A-nete, Attached to the memo, te the Chief of ged lou
iy

Ah
Station, Winston Scott, , "Do you want

 

replied “Yes, but we should follow up first." N)

ts then wrote: “Nothing further." Scott then noted that

be the memo should be filed. The file indications show that

fe 3 ¢
“the memo went into the Oswald "P" file and the Elena
w

ain

+4
~
on

A

Cc

 

fe corre "Pp" file. (IBID.) LM econ
ji On 24 November 1964 a CIA informant reported some

&

 

¢ :
wy information he had learned from| ] (temo frga
ah ie Loin

on
ae

a) Win Scott to the Files, re: June cop! 11/25/64, CIA Nos.
5 592-593; WX-7241, p. 88, Entry #404, CIA #715.) dune Cobb
is an “American Communist" who rents a room from Elena
Garro. Elena to1af that she tried to talk to
Robert Kennedy when he was in Mexico because she had met
Oswald “and two friends (Cubans)"“ at Horacio Duran's house
at a party. Elena also said that she had told her story
to an American official, at the Embassy, who claimed to

represent the Warren.Commission. The COS noted that he had

asked the informant to get{ Jto pursue the story.«,

het
(IBID.), there is no indication that] i pureueathe

story: ety Conpliet arr’ ploy Get

 
|
|
|

 

 

EJL First. Draft
Page 1 ; Lye foots

splendid success.“ Critics have said of her: -"For

Elena Garro, there is no frontier between reality and
fantasy; in any case, the latter is a second reality--
perhaps more intense-- to which one may penetrate without
passport or forewarning, thanks to the effectiveness of
a literature fired with passion, flavor and life. Many the"**
people who knew Elena have asserted that the frontier

between reality and fantasy is also difficult for her to
distinguish in real life? Cred )

Ms. Garro, for many years, was an active worker in
the Confederacion Nacional Campisina (CNC), the agrarian
arm of the Partido Reformista (PRI). Because Ms. Garro
was a tireless propagandist and agitator on behalf of the
poorer Mexican peasants, she was on close personal terms
with and enjoyed the respect of peasant leaders from all
over the country fA Citd)

Elena was considered a witty, urbane and opinionated
woman with an unflagging sense of humor. Her forthright
opinions and sharp wit tended on occasion to ruffle feathers
in Mexico, but her important social, literacy, and political
connections rendered her fairly immune from serious counter-

attack until 1968. Then, Ms. Garro was forced to flee the

country with her daughter, Elenita and her sister, Deba

_jcaty Date §
c Bir yrlatey chert

£

al
Don ae Cee TR

Wve.

Guerrero de Galvan, in the midst of the student strikes. .
HscA Cas watts by ’ pit pesemn Whe. Aare Aan fn o
Aq © ne ree hick. :
(180-10442-10136

  

7 hiion > co Leh y of fx < fri eid
Be OL 7 oh,

Biography Central Intelligence Agency
he Ae has no Objection to Releasg «ay!
Date: ROOF a.

Elena Garro de Paz was born of Spanish parents in
Puebla, Mexico on December 11, 1917.. Ms. Garro attended
the National Autonomous University of Mexico and later
did graduate work at Berkley in California and at the
University of Paris. In 1963, Elena had long been married
to Octavio Paz, a career diplomat who.is also one of
Mexico's finest, poets and leading intellectuals. When
Octavia was named Mexican Ambassador to India, the couple
separated by mutual consent. Elena's daughter, also
named Elena, has always resided with her mother.

Since Elena spent seventeen years of her early
life in Europe she had a rather un-Mexican objectivity
about her native land and had a reputation for being one
if its more articulate detractors. At the same time, Elena
was considered emotionally committed to many aspects of
Mexican life and made an important contribution to its
artistic development.

“In the 1960's Elena became a significant writer.
Hogar Solido, El’ Rey Mago, La Senora en su Balcon, Ventura
Allende, Andaise por las Ramas, Parada Empresa, and El Viaje
are plays that have had appreciative audiences in Europe,
where they were translated into German, as well as in Mexico.
Ms. Garro's short stories are collected in a volunie called
La Semana _de Colores. The Literacy Supplement of the London

Times has called her novel, Los Recuerdos de Porvenir, “a

 

IS1NA* 101 See
EJL First Draft
Page. 3

Before her disappearance from Mexico, Elena was
well disposed toward the United States and had been
friendly with Embassy officers. Her broad range of signifi-

cant personal friends, the views of many important to the

  
    
  

 

American Embassy, made her aCuseful Embassy target Through-

 

 
 
 

out the early 1960's she was carri 3 i

pee Lh bure
chau fy wht aan

: American Embassy employees dealing with Elena 7~~<<~ 67

Embassy's Youth Program.

believed that, despite her access to the underground happenings
re

in Mexico, ineiuding—peasant—unrest, sinee—she-hadya tendency

to romanticize developments te eoponeing oe ee

difficult at_times—te—determine what—degree_of credence

to ion.

 

fo conta ben pureuth pudtilty
:y : EJL First Draft :
Page 4 . gh Shel f

for Livkb
qu terHt oS
er - ‘ fa, On CA SF, Jog Chewae Legs of &

bam atey. +
oh Eh ple pittochn J re Nh, A Ateey Berek a llegirs a
a

Elena's Story and American Government Agency Follow-u up. Long ny ~
LO ON peta by

Elena Garro de Paz' story first came to the American /

 

intelligence agencies’ attention on October 5, 1964,. a
eleven days after the publication of.the Warren Commission J ben
ates brea As bet Petteng > weet, “2 tte frit . 4
= baler J ~.

) Report. 4 The source of The Bfind % Memo. Wasa Con teat SI y
Intelligence Agency asset known as (Wx7241, P- 94,

v" \\ Entry #430, CIA #721; Blind Memo dated 10/5/64, CIA #576) |

: \. we The memo reported that Elena Garro de Paz , her daughter

\yy y and Deba Garro de Guerrero Galvan discussed meeting Oswald

in Mexico in the fall of 1963. The discussion was, reportedly,

4
¥ t sparked by the newspaper coverage given the Warren Report.

5 ok Elena and Deba are the first cousins of Horatio, Ruben
v
a y ‘ and Lynn Duran. Elena, her daughter and Deba were invited
ora
x toa “twist party" at the home of Ruben Duran. The-party

\ .
¥ A Waee- in the pete ofa week in the fall of 1963. Lee Harvey

x da buwwe Cte
xs Oswald ale cae party in the company of "two other

wd
ae beatnik looking boys." (IBID.) The Americans remained
v - ;
x, together the whole evening and did not dance. When Elena ye
X tried to talk with them, she was "shifted" to another room.”
\ CR LL pret 6H LAL cre at testy) C by thems?
ye One of Elena's cousins told her at the time that he (or she)

A

ot Vai not know who the Americans were except that Silvia Duran
oA had brought them to the party.
x The day after the party,Elena‘and Deba saw the same
t

x three people on the Insurgentes, a main avenue in Mexico City.
