 

Naa ect,

 

?
3
1
4
Lj

 

 

  

 

saa ae Ma ET Mie ee Aare camiceieat Pend Abeta

Classification:

 

(This form is to be used for, material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

or indirectly, in any capacity for the CIA after his~~

resignation on 26 September 1950."

, Sex?
The Committee not regard this explanation as

satisfactory, especially since Snyder's 201 file indicates that
for approximately one year during 1956-1957 he was used by an

Agency case officer as a spotter at Harvard University, because

of his access to other students who might be going to the
. Soviet Union nox was the Agency actually able to explain
specifically why someone considered it necessary to red
flag the Snyder file.

The remainder of the Snyder file, however, is entirely
consistent with his testimony before the Committee concerning
the absence of Agency contacts. In addition, the CIA

personnel officer who handled Snyder's case in 1950 confirmed

that Snyder had, in fact, terminated his employment with the

Classification:

’ Classified by derivation:

i
{
:

 

 

a

 

 

 
  

oe & fine (This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.)

 

Classification:

a)

Nm nes

been recruited as a CIA agent when he was in Japan. -- /

   

 

 

 

 

These persons expressed the opinion that had Oswald been —

STA

; recruited without their knowledge, it would have been a rare

exception contrary to the working policy and guidelines of

 

_ the Station.

 

 

 

 

 

_» Lee Harvey Oswald's CIA File Ss

The CIA has long acknowledged that, prior to the

 

NETRA

President's assassination, it had a personality file on

ED

 

Lee Harvey Oswald. This file, which in Agency terminology
is referred to as a 201 file, was opened on December 9, 1960.

The Agency has explained to the Committee that 201 files are

opened when a person is considered to be of potential

intelligence or counterintelligence significance. The

opening of such a file is designed to serve the purpose of

ringing all of the ras) information pertaining to that 4
aie evten : :
Conde toning Cc ri age . é
fiositication: FS

v

 

 

 

Classified by derivation:

7

    
ad oe omer erent Semele ee ee cet a Soman

 

racy, a : Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted ;
from ClA—controlled documents.)

 

nd

U.S. military personnel in Tokyo6 during the period thas

 

Oswald was stationed there. - An intelligence analyst whom
Wilcott had specifically named as having been involvedgY¥
: g en acme : oR. ak Y/ —
. following—the-assassinationgy in a conversation tegazding—

} the Oswald}eti-agent allegation told the Committee that he

 

4 was not in the Station at that time. A review of this

 

individual's Office of Personnel file confirmed that, in

 

 

 

fact, he had been transferred from the Station to the.

 

 

United States in 1962.

The chief of the| _—|Station from 1961-1965 stated

¥
gee ete?

 

that, had Oswald been used by the Agency within peer
jurisdiction, Gnef certainly would have known about it.
1 Similarly, almost all those persons interviewed who worked : i

in the Soviet Russia branch of that station indicated that

they would have known if Lea-Harvey Oswald had, in fact,

   

 

Classified by derivation:

 
 

 

i
oT
3

 

 

. S bee-Hervey Oswald's CIA File Cc. <T2

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

been recruited CIA agent when he was in Japan. — /

These persons expressed the opinion that had Oswald been © fl
. : LY

 

recruited without their knowledge, it would have been a rare

_ exception contrary to the working policy and guidelines of | - f

 

the ptations « 5.22499 we: (
TOC. Cerne Le set? ARQ MS Qa gna a
wre? Carn Maren EBay oR RsQO . >

woe

    

 

ce ar indivi dod,

 

The CIA has long acknowledged that, pridér to the p

: “ada ebbeF ofweld/ . ‘

C arrestee, a

President's assassination, .it had a personality file on ' ¢
wthadisy @ Pile thast Contain’! age ITOH i

Lheewasvedy oswaia) This file, which in Agency terminology
is referred to as a 201 file, was opened on December 9,. 1960.

The Agency has explained te=the-Committee that 201 files are

opened when a person is considered to be of potential

intelligence or counterintelligence significance. The

SITTIN,

opening of such a file is designed to serve the purpose of

Sper,

bringing all of the CIA's information pertaining to that

Classification: ___
¥

| Classified by derivation:

 
cy

Nerenitiens te

 

 

oN aes

 

 

 

Classification:

: (This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

other employees of the who would come “by the

 

  

 

"We

    

Ae

Kennedy's assassinatio (,) Fre NE was informed ‘by a CIA case

HE
BS Mo
officer that Leo anvey Oswald was A agent.

. further testified that he was told that Oswald had been

, (pee a
assigned a cryptonym and that Wilcott himself had
* . { ~ .
unknowingly disbursed: payments for Osvald"S-projectneing- :
a . AG ipo re oh)
that ucxcyptenym. Although Wilcott was unable’ to “Yaentify the

 

specific case officers who had initially informed him of

Oswald's Agency relationship, he named several employees

 

. of the Station with whom he believed he had subsequently

discussed the allegations.

Wilcott advised the Committee that after learning

Classification:

Classified by derivation: |

 

on the day after President —

Bet cna

seme

creme

_NETE Em,

 
‘/ig0-10142-1008t

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-

Classification:

 

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

; . ee
ar ;
Z CIA Personnel in 5 \Sis -
The Committee investigated the allegation of former
CIA employee Games Wilcott, who testified in executive
: bong nah on 7
session that shortly after the assassination of President

Kennedy he was advised by fellow employees at he, crats >

Station that heoHaswvey Oswald was a CIA agent who

 

had received. ‘financial disbursements under an assigned

cryptonym. CWilcott,explained that he_ had been employed
: von ALE)

Qe
‘by the CIA as a finance officer from 1957 until his resignation

fvonnvtheAgency in 1966. ‘In this capacity, he served asa”
. . & f° aut eed foe Pa

fiscal account assistant on the support staff aGe |

 

 

Rarer,

OTA

_ —_— oD Ms Cerna LO ff
(Stationeron June Gf 1960 to June 1964. ede eo

i Vr >

- . _—
that, in addition to his regular responsibilities, he had

eau

eee Sect i ty duty on his off-hours in order to supplement

New sar comer ntsvirnentancepanementt

his income. This additienai—jeb put him in contact with

"THIS COPY IS Not
Classification: ~——~FOR RELEASE,

Classified + by derivetion:

 

 

! 0OYZ- 100.57

SITET,

Sere,
Classification:

 

 

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CiA——controlled documents.)

 

of the alleged Oswald connection to the CIA, ne (had never f

rechecked the| _—‘([Station disbursement records for...

 

evidence of the Oswald project. He explained that this was

because at that time he viewed the information as mere shop

| talk and gave it little credence. Neither did he report
the allegations to any formal investigative bodies, fobtewing-— :

 

i : wrens annccornninniers : . :
: 3st E as he considered the information to be hearsay.

é
a
E
v

. LED -
i ‘In an attempt to investigate Wilcott's allegations ,
cehege -ning.LeeHar‘ex Oowaldlomralatienship—with~the-GIA, the

Committee interviewed several present and former CIA

employees who were selected on the basis of the position each —

Menten

had held with—thesG@zA during the years 1954-1964. Among

those persons interviewed were individuals whose responsibilities ¢

 

 

 

covered a broad spectrum of areas within the Station ,

 

 

duning this-peritd, including the chief and deputy chief of

 

Classification:

 

i Classified by derivation:

 
 

as?) - , Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

‘station as well as officers in finance, registry, the Soviet

 

Branch and counterintelligence.  / Phe-Commbtteels.

 

During the course of their employment in the

 

 

 

i.) Station, none of these individuals interviewed had ever seen

any documents. or heard any information indicating that Lee.
. : . ; oo

Harvey Oswald was ets agent.  / ‘This allegation was not.

5 OK Uae GPR lew Ry Rice aR dB
‘known to anyous GntLT Thetlmeratopabiioatioker Wanzen

Commission ceritttcal—Literatuse-~end—the~Gameison~investigations
syne neal . :

é

Cin the late 1960's. / ‘Some of the individuals, including

 

——er

the chief of counterintelligence within the Soviet Russia _

2 . vee

‘
{

Branch inf | expressed the belief that it was possible
OO So Vek
Sy thelkes
\ °° that heewnerey Oswald had been recruited by the\KGB
during his military tour of duty in Japan, as the CIA's

| __|station had identified a KGB program aimed at recruiting

Classification:

 

Classified by derivation: |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
