 

 

7 - Smith interview

might have mentioned it when he came through, talking about
how the Mexico City station was helping out during the
investigation."

Smith was asked if the name of Charlotte| Bustos was familiar.
He said yes, that she was at the Mexico City station when

he was there. She was a Counter Intelligence research
analyst, under WH Division. He described her as a "very
severe person and very diligent and very! much the

Counter Intelligence mentality 1 mentioned before."

He was also asked about Ann Goodpasture., Smith said he knew
her, too. "Annie was another one of Win Scott's case officers.
She was in Mexico City for about 14 years. Annie was what

we called the ‘resource person.' Annie knew everything."

Smith said Scott also had another very knowledgeable woman
who worked with Goodpasture whose name was Leach or Lynch.
She was the woman, Smith said, who was associated with
discovering the photo of Oswald.

 

Smith was asked if he had any recollection of Bustos being
associated with finding the photo of Oswald. He said, "it
could very well have been, and Annie, too. But | thought it
was this other girl, Lynch. But no, | don't think | ever
heard specifically who found the damn picture. 1! guess by
the time |! got there |! didn't care."

Smith said that he heard Leach or Lynch might be in Acapulco,
but a directory of Federal employees he had didn't have
her listed, he said.

It was pointed out to Smith that in his book (page 337), he
writes of Phillips telling him of assets he had "for hits

own direct use." Smith said he had, for instance, the use

of Radio Swan and three or four people who had been radio

or newspaper men in Cuba. He couldn't recall their names,

but, he said, the Whse and Ross book (The Invisktble Government)
mentioned the name of a public relations man who helped him

in New York. He did confirm that Conte-Aquerra, when mentioned,
was one of Phillips! assets.

Smith was asked if he was familiar with a CIA agent named
David Morales, known as "El Indio," who was training
gueriifa Warfare troops In the Florida Keys. He said he
never heard the name. Neither did he ever hear the name
of Cesar Diosdato.

Smith was asked again about the mature of "unvouchered funds."

He said that all of the funds destined for clandestine operations
are unvouchered funds. The salary of clandestine officers,

he said, come from such unvouchered funds. Such funds, he said,

-more-

 

HW_50955 Docld:322344346 Page 9

 

 
 

 

 

RaW

8 - Smith interview

are not really "unvouchered" in the true sense of the word,
since they are strictly accounted for within the Agency,
but that term is meant only to differentiate them from
funds spent on overt operations. The moneys that paid
project activities, he said, are unvouchered funds.

However, he pointed out, the Division chiefs had their own
funds from which they could finance what he called "hip
pocket operations," which usually only were accounted for
between the Division chief and the Deputy Director of Plans.

Smith was asked about the allegation in Hunt's book that
William Harvey got transferred and demoted by Robert Kennedy
because he had a poster on his wall which said, "The tree of
liberty is watered with the blood of patriots." Smith said

he had never heard that and didn't know much about Harvey, had
never met him, knéw only that Ted Shackley had replaced him

in the JM/WAVE station in MiamTl. He remembered that he heard
that Harvey was a short guy who had his desk elevated ona
platform so he éould took down on his visitors.

Smith said he also didn't know much about the John Planck,
mentioned in Huntts book, from Harvard, only that he was” =:
considered the top Latin affairs expert at one time.

Smith recalled that Des Fitsgerald replaced J.C. King as

chief of the WH Division in early 1964, "They sort of ganged
up on King, formed this special Cuban Group and put Fitzgerald
in charge of it. Left old J.C. sitting there with the most
important activity in his areanno longer his responsibility."
Smith said, however, when Fitzgerald visited him in Argentiaa
he expressed disappointment that President Johnson wasnit

as interested in Cuba as Kennedy had been.

Smith expressed anuunfamiliarity with “back channel" communications,
but said that highly classified messages could have a

sensitivity indicator which could be limited to as few as

five people. Whether such communications would be retained

for the record in the message center, he wouldn't know.

He said he is unfamiliar with the organization known as CUSA.
When told of the details of it, he said:"In the early '50s

there were quite a few ties with the professional anti-Communist
types, but, again, given the kind of thinking that Angleton

and some of his people did about those things, they could have
organized something like that without any problem,"

Smith also said he wouldn't be surprised if Angleton knew of
Frank Sturgis's operations with Israeli Intelligence, "tf it
wasn't one of his operations."

Smith said hadn't heard of the association of Manuel Artime

~more-

 

50955 Docld: 32244346 Page 10

 
 

 

6 - Smith interview

Smith was asked about his knowledge of the Swan Island
operation. He said he didn't know much about it because

it was set up by the time he got involved in the Cuban
operation. He didn't remember the name of the case officer
handling ft but knew that its operation came under the
command of David Phillips.

Smith was asked about Justin MéCarthy. He said the name
sounded familiar but he couldn't recall it specifically.
He believes he was "in the task force somewhere,"

In discussing the career of David Phillips and his switch

to Cuban Operations in Mexico City in 1963, taking the place
of Robert Shaw, Smith said he didn't know precisely what

the situation was there at the time. He recalled that

 

Phillips brought up a guy from Bolivia with whom he was
very close, a fellow named James Flannery, who took the
job as chief of covert action, which Phillips had when he

first went to Mexico City. During the Bay of Pigs operation,
Flannery was "special assistant" to Richard Bissell. He

then became chief of station In Bolivia. Then Phillips
went on to be chief of station in Santo Domingo during the
Dominican crisis. Flannery later was chief of Dominican
operations also. When Phillips became chief of WH Division,
he made Flannery his deputy. Smith said he doesn't know
where Flannery is now.

Smith was shown the sketch of Maurice Bishop and asked if
it reminded him of anyone. He said: "Well, the nose is

too thin, but otherwise it reminds me of Dave Phillips."The
eyes are definitely Dave's, and the mouth."

Smith was asked about his recollection during the previous
interview when he mentioned a women who found the photo of
Oswald. He said he doesn't recall! when he heard the story,
whether it was when he got to Mexico City or when he was
still in Argentina. He does recall that the discovery of
the picture was supposed to have greatly pleased President
Johnson and made Mexico City station chief Win Scott "his
number one boy." He said the story was that someone remembered
seeing Oswald's face somewhere in the photo coverage of the
Cuban or Russian embassy, went back through the files and
found the picture.

Smith said he heard that story certainly more than once, at

feast, when he got to Mexico City and perhaps when he first
got into the WH Division. The earliest he could have possibly
heard that story, he said, was when he was still in Argentina,

not too long after the assassination, from someone "coming
through." He said, "Des [Fitzgerald ]"might have even mentioned

it when he came through, which was In early '64, or Gerry Drollerr

-moré-

 

HW 50955 Docld:32244346 Page 6

 

 
5 = Smith interview

Smith said that [the fact that King was funding Batista types]
bothered some people, including Phillips, since the CIA was
supposed to be taking the broad front approach as far as
working with Cubans went.

(In speaking of some of the fatse names he used in the book
to protect his CIA associates, Smith pointed out that the
fellow he described only as "Paul," the chief of Covert
Action on the WH Division staff level, the one who got him
+o come into the Division, his true name was Paul Oberst.
He thinks he retired and may be in California or Arizona.

"Henry" is Henry Sutton, real name unknown.

"Curly" #ssFoster Collins.)

(Paul Oberst became deputy to David Phillips in Cuban Operations
in 1968; in '70 or '71, Phillips went to Brazif and Paul
retired.)

Smith said that many of the CIA officers with right-wing
political leanings, men such as J.C. King and Howard Hunt,
were truly very bitter over the Bay of Pigs operation, even
though they may have a part of the responsibility for its
failure. And that didn't prevent them from advancing in
the Agency because the attitude at the time was that it was
best to keep them happy and quiet. Smith said, "Besides,
Hunt was very bright in this kind of business, he always
had lots of ideas. He was a real dirty trickster and could
always be counted on to come up with some clever scheme."

Smith was asked about the relationship between King, Phillips
and ClA station chief in Cuba, . Did they fit
in the same mold? "Yeah,'! id Smith. "f guess so." Smith
said the Jast he heard of was that he was in Florida

 

and perhaps involved in some business with the Tandy Company.
Besides being chief of station in Cuba at one time, said Smith,

had also been deputy chief of the WH Division under
J.C. King. He was known as "one of J.C.'s guys." He said
King, Phillips and were all fairly close.

 

It was pointed out to Smith that Hunt, in his book, gives

the name of "Knight" to Phillips, yet from the information
developed in Miami, "Knight"wwas the name Hunt himself used

and the name that Phillips used was "Bishop." Smith said:
"Yeah, | think | might have heard that, too, about Phillips

and Bishop." Smith said he couldn't recall where he heard that.

Smith wasn't familiar with the name "Doug Gupton," but thinks
he might have heard of George Witwer.

“more>

 

HW 50955 Doold: 32244346 Page 7

 

 
RW

 

 

| es

3 - Smith interview

Smith said he didn't know how Angleton "got all his power,"

but he knew that many of the people who worked for him

shared his political views and were "confirmed believers

in the wortd Communist conspiracy theory." He said, "These

guys actually believed that the split between the Russians

and Chinese was a great deceptive operation. Colby even

says something more amazing. He claims that Angleton absolutely
believed that all CIA operations were run by the KGB, He

says Angleton believed that every top Soviet defector we

took in was a plant. 1! think that's incredible. But

{| know there were some guys on his staff were his true believers.

As far as the Kennedy assassination goes, said Smith, "The
only !thing | can say now, and, again !'m quoting Colby,
there could have been operations that Angleton staff was
running that he wouldn't even tell the Director. Angleton
did, however, have a special relationship with Allen Dulles
when he was running the Agency."

It was pointed out to Smith that Frank Sturgis has worked
with Israeli Intelligence and that Stugis and E. Howard
Hunt were associated. Smith was asked of the relationship
between Hunt and Angleton. Smith said he thought that Hunt
never worked on Angleton's staff, but that Hunt's fast job
at the Agency as chief of covert operations in the European
Division probably put him in contact with Angleton.

Smith brought up the fact that in our previous interview we
had asked him about the information in his book relating
Frank Fiorini Sturgis to E. Howard Hunt before the Bay of
Pigs operation. He said at the time that he couldn't recall
where he got the information but felt it was from a printed
source and that he would let us know as soon as he discovered
it. Now he said he recalled that he got the information

from Hunt's book, Give Us This Day. Smith pointed out that
Hunt says that Pedro Diaz Lanz and Frank Fiorini dropped

leaflets together over Cuba. It was pointed out to Smith, however,

Hunt specifically avoids mentioning ever meeting Fiorini at
that time although he specifically seeks out Diaz Lanz as

a result of that operation, but he, Smith, says in his book:
"Hunt relied heavily in his lialson with the exile political
leaders on an ex-Marine, Frank Fiorini." And: "Fiorint worked
for Hunt in Coral Gables under the name of Frank Sturgis."

Smith appeared confused, said he thought he had gotten it
from his "old Cuban notes," is "pretty sure" that David
Phillips didn't tell him, but now, again, doesn't remember
where he got that specific information. it was pointed out
to Smith that writer Andrew St. George, In an early Argosy
article, quoted Sturgis as saying he met Hunt before the
Bay of Pigs. Smith said he didn't recall that article.

~more~

50955 Docld: 32244346 Page 5

 

 
 

 

 

4, -Smith interview

Smith was shown a newspaper clipping from the Miami Herald
dated October 2nd, 1976 and headlined: "Despite Denial by
Helms, CIA Eyed Oswald as Source." He was asked for a
comment about that. He said, "Well, | gather that a lot

of secrecy agreements were honored In the Warren Commission
days, but ! don't know anything about that."

Smith was asked to be speculative abaut the situation within
the CIA if Oswald had been a deep cover agent for the Agency.
Smith saTd: “If he had been any kind of an asset, obviously
he would have worked either for the Soviet Division, which
ran operations in the Soviet Union, or the Counter Intelligence
staff. He was obviously targeted at the Russtans and the
Cubans, And there's a possibility he could have been working
for the people who handled Cuban matters, too. Because this
was the hay-day for the JM/WAVE station in Miami, running
those raids on Cuba and a whole host of other things. |
guess this was called WH~4,. Western Hemisphere. WH-1! was
Mexico, WH-2 was the West Coast and WH-4 was Cuba, before
JM/WAVE,"

Smith pointed out that the assumption was that all of

Cuban intetligence's operations are being run by the Soviets.
"IL know," said Smith, "that the Counter Intelligence staff
was very interested in the Fair Play for Cuba Committee and
getting a penetration into it would have been a high priority
effort.”

Smith was asked if he knew anything relative to the fact that
the leaflets Oswald distributed in New Orleans had the address
of a building that appeared to house some kind of intelligence
operation run by Guy Banister, a former FBI agent,

Smith said he didn't know anything specific, but there were
a lot of former FBI men on Angleton's staff and in the old

WH Division, run by J.C. King.

Smith was asked about his reference in his jbook to J.C, King's
relationship to “old Batista interests" and "business interests,"
and whether there was a possibility that the New Orleans
intelligence operation headed by Banister was funded by right-wing
groups through J.C. King. Smith said: "Oh yes, | should think

so. And | do know that the WH Division did have some activities
operating out of New Orleans and | think some of these were

used as fronts for funding. King's friends were mostly
right-wing, certainty."

Asked for specifics, Smith said: "! do know that throughout the
Bay of Pigs period, King did run and fund some Batista types.

| didn't know their true names and | can't Femember their
cryptograms now." Smith said he learned tha enry Sutton

[a false name] and Dave Phillips when he worked with them.

 

 

 

 

-more-
wi_sn055 Docta:32244346 Page 6 -

 
 

 

   

 

 

        

 

 

 

 

 

 

S50955° DoclId: 32244346 Page 2

"Robart Blakey |

Kenneth Klein

Charlie Mathews ©

Jim Wolf. 95 Ot
ak Bidddpgs 5

Jackie Hess -
Cliff Fenton
Mike Ewing
Team #1

 

 

Gary Cornwell |

“7 ci
 

180-10070-10404
—

 

 

 

 

 

JFK Assassination System Date:
Identification Form
Agency Information
AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: — 180-10070-10404
RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 008279 5
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: FONZI, GAETON
TO: BLAKEY, G. ROBERT
TITLE INTERVIEW WITH JOSEPH BURKHOLDER SMITH
DATE: 05/08/1978
PAGES: 9
SUBJECTS : :
SMITH, JOSEPH BURKHOLDER
CIA
DOCUMENT TYPE: LETTER
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: —Redact
DATE OF.LAST REVIEW: — 12/17/1996
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Box 152.

HY 50955 Docld:32244346 Page 1

9/21/201
 

 

AW

50955 Docld:32244346 Page 3

MEMORANDUM - May 8, 1978 008275

TO: G. Robert Blakey
FROM: Gaeton Fonzi
RE: Interview with JOSEPH BURKHOLDER SMITH

Background: Joseph Burkholder Smith is a retired officer
who served 22 years as a covert action specialist in the
Clandestine Services of the Central [Intelligence Agency.
His duties included service in the Far East Division,
stationed in Singapore and Maniia, and on the Malaysian
desk. He also served in the WesteriiHHemisphere Division
as desk chief for Venezuela, as a covert operations
officer in Argentina and as chief of the Propaganda
Guidance Section of the Covert Action Staff, where he
directed*David Phillips, chief of the Propaganda Branch
of the Cuban task force for the Bay of Pigs operation.
Smith has published a book titted: Portrait of a Cold
Warrior, subtitled "Second Thoughts of a Top CITA Agent."
(6.P. Putnam's Sons, New York, 1976)

Smith was interviewed relative to Team Five's CIA Issue.

A preliminary background interview with Smith was conducted
by Fonzi and Hardway on October 20, 1977. (See Hardway
working memorandum that date.)

Smith was interviewed on April 20, 1978 in his condominium
at 1301 S. First Street, Jacksonville,Beach, Florida.

Smith was shown the letter executed by CIA Acting Director
Frank C. Carlucci to Committee Chairman Stokes indicating
access to information within the secrecy agreement and
authorizing individuals bound by such agreements to cooperate
with the Committee.

Smith was asked what significance he thought such a fetter

had in terms of total access to Agency information. He said

it had a lot of significance if the Committee were truly getting
access to project files. "That's where all the information :
is," he said. He said, however, that many files may have

been destroyed in the CIA's reaction to previous critical
attacks on its operations. He said the Agency had a "flap
mentality" to criticism and took to organizing "task forces"

to protect itself against Congressional investigations.

Smith said that as a result of being asked to do a book review
of it, he has had advance copies of former CIA Director William
Colby's new book. "The interesting thing to me," he said, "was
the beating he was taking inside the Agency for being as

-more-

 

 
 

 

El

2. Smith interview

frank as he was." Smith said that one former chief of station
was so upset at Colby's honesty that he raged to a friend; "He's
a goddamn Jesuit! He even goes to confession!"

Smith said that Colby's problems within the Agency stemmed
largely from the conflict he had with James Angleton, former
longtime head of the Agency's Counter-Intelligence Division.
Smith said that Colby says in his book: "I frankly didn't
know what Angleton was doing." Colby, Smith said, doesn't
reveal that he ever found out.

Smith said that despite the stated cooperation expressed

by the top administrators of the CIA, there is still the
possibility of the Committee's efforts to akkarksxka gather
information being blocked at flower levels without the
knowledge of higher echelons, "But,"he said, "if you

have access to project files, you have access to the

guts of the thing." He suggested reading the cable

traffic very carefully, taking note of the euphemistic
language employed.

It was pointed out to Smith that there were two possibly
conflicting statements In his book. On page 15 he wrote:

"One question | could not swallow -- the one about the CIA's
killing President Kennedy -- probably because it was part
of a romantic myth in American politics | deplored.” Later

in the book, on page 400, following the death of Martin Luther
King, he notes telling a class he is teachiing: "What's happening
in the United States these days makes us worse than a banana
republic.... We're turning into a government by assassination.
Smith was asked if he has any second thoughts about the
assassination:of President Kennedy.

He said no, and, as he said in his book, he had notinside
information about it. "The only thing that bothers me now,"

he said, “is, to come back to what | said before, is Angleton's
staff. if Colby can make a statement like this -- and after
all he was the Director -- it makes you wonder."

smith said that Angleton's staff did "strange things. Despite
tthe fact he only had counter-intelligence Fae gtotion,
Angleton, said Smith, handied all Israeli operations, "based

on contacts he had made when he was a young OSS officer in
Italy." Smith said he never knew, and Colby doesn't say,

who or what these contacts were. "This," said Smith, “had

a strange effect on our activities dn the Middle East," because
unlike in other Divisions where station chiefs kept each

other informed, Angleton wouldn't pass information to other
stations in the Arab countries unless "he felt fike it."

-more-

50955 BDoclId: 32244346 Page 4

 

 

 
