 

 

prare-upe Classification: |

Page 8 :
(This form is to be -used for material extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.) .
the Cubans would have a.moral superiority over the rest of
Latin aAmerica.?°

Another offer of help came from Luis Somoza, former
President of Nicaragua, who provided the MDC a base for
operations in that country.>? Venezuelan President, Romulo
Betancourt, allegedly also offered to make a base available
for the MDC and provide it with personnel and supplies. °°
Recognizing that these Latin American bases of operation

were important to the MDC, Batista Falla nonetheless pre-

ferred to work out of the Miami area. Its proximity to

Cuba, good facilities for operating boats and the availability

of a large number of Cubans to serve as mechanics and do other

necessary labor made Miami more desirable than the Latin

American facilities.°” The major drawback in Miami was the

presence of U.S. government officials determined to strictly
enforce the Neutrality Act and other Federal statutes.

U.S. Customs raided MDC headquarters in Miami on
April 21, 1964 and confiscated a large cache of arms and
ammunition. °° Undeterred, the MDC simply relocated the
military section in separate headquarters, continued to store.
materials for infiltration and attack missions against cuba’?

. sa: sos 2
and conducted study courses in military training and theory. °®

In July, Batista Falla and Victor Paneque infiltrated men

Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

Tee Tee we we

Ra Ez Wa.

—__ “RD ER ER Sn AU lc 6lUNA
arart-mpc Classification:

Page 9 : .
: (This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.)
and equipment into Cuba.to form a nucleus of guerrilla bands .-

who, once they got adequate arms and ammunition, planned to
63

 

go into the mountains of Cuba,

The MDC eventually suffered the fate of other anti-Castro

_ TD “GG,

organizations -- finding it increasingly difficult to finance

creased surveillance by U.S. authorities determined to limit

their activities. The organization's activities gradually

 

declined, Batista Falla eventually gave up his anti-Castro

activities, moved to WaShington, ‘D. Cc. and received a doctoral

64

degree in political science. In the spring of 1970, he

moved to Venezuela.

é infiltration and sabotage missions, and experiencing in~
t

 

   

Classification:

 

= Ba DB SS S..ClCUCUE!F.UlUC.CS.

 

| Classified by derivation:

TM MSI I EI I I LE

p
p
p
6
p.
DRAFT-MDC Classification:
Page 7 :

“(This form is to be used for material extracted
truck aud in&émutAedcccitouled doounembd it to the camp and teli

the Cubans "that the invasion is. on." Davis complied, and

the Cubans loaded their gear, jumped in the truck and were

 

brought to the Greyhound bus terminal in New Orleans. Each

was given a one-way ticket to Miami plus a small amount of

in “GE HRA

cash and told they would get their orders when they reached

guns bulging from under their clothes, they boarded the bus.

Pa

“=a VR “GA “=A QS GSA = ~s.

That was the last,De LaBarre said, he saw of them.
The last he heard of Davis, he said, was in 1964 when
one of De LaBarre's friends reported he had gone into business

with Davis and was left with a lot of bills.°4

é Miami. Looking as though ready for war, with knapsacks and

Other than providing the manpower for the training camp,
Batista Falla was not involved in this episode or was the
MDC as an organization.

Concurrent with his involvement with leaders of other
exile organizations, Batista Falla was dealing with foreign
governments in an effort to gain support for his faction of
the MDC. After the World Congress of Christian Democrats in
Strasburg, France, two West German officials of the Christian
Democratic Party conferred with the MDC in Miami .°> According
to one of the officials, the West Germans, after months of

study, had decided to help finance the MDC, not because they

were particularly fond of them, but felt once Cuba was liberated

Classification:

 

| Classified by derivation:

 

aS
DRAFT-MDC

Page 6 Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
A somewhat Gidfiomenied deumben.Jof this episode comes

from Gus de LaBarre's nephew and attorney, Frank de LaBarre,
who first related his story in 1966 to his former law school
Classmate, Jim Garrison.

De LaBarre said his “Uncle Gus" had introduced him to
Davis, whom De LaBarre described as a "floater." They came to
see De LaBarre about drawing up articles of incorporation
for the Guatemalan Lumber Company and that is when he says
he learned of their plans to bring unemployed Cubans from
Miami to train as lumber jacks. Uncle Gus sent provisions to
the exiles ona daily basis and solicited money for food and

53
clothing from friends and relatives.

 

Although he suspected that military training was being
conducted at the camp, Frank-de LaBarre said he didn't pay
much attention to the activities of the group. -Hewevery When
he heard on his car radio that the FBI had seized a cache of

noe
ammunition at a house in Lacombe, he immediately called his

 

uncle. Although receiving assurances that the lumber group

was not involved, De LaBarre called the officers of the

out of there. Davis, however, told him that the Cubans did
not want to leave, whereupon De LaBarre said he had to do

some real "brainstorming." He rented a Hertz ton-and-a-half

 

   

Classification: .

 

EP eT

| Classified by derivation:

g corporation together and insisted that the Cubans be taken

SM MI I SI MI EE a
  

 

p
$
p
p
p

  

 

 
 

p
p
p
4
4

 

DRAFT-MDC

Page 4 Classification:

his forfp is to be used for material extracted
Gebliciyya anndumceA“tbatrotiaedartmaéde) had taken place as scheduled,

31
which took the other planners by surprise. Sturgis claimed

. 32
backing had not been completed. This incident created a

the strike was still in the planning stage and financial ; f
stir and resulted in an intensive FBI investigation of Rorke's j

33
allegation. Since Radio Havana, contrary to usual policy,

. : 34
-made no immediate protest over the bombing, the FBI concluded

that Rorke's story was probably untrue?” and, according to
Sturgis, merely a publicity stunt.

In early June, 1963, the MDC made a unity pact with
Commandos L in which the latter group was to provide training
and assistance in military intelligence and the MDC to proviee
three small boats and a team of men to infiltrate Cuba.*

MDC also made a- pact with Dr: Carlos Prio Socarras, former

President of Cuba who donated $50,000 to the group for military

Richard Rudolph Davis, a Cuban alien,» had a preipheral
association with the MDC through his contact with Batista Falla
in the summer of 1963. This association was noted in Book V,
Final Report of the Senate Select Committee to Study Govern—
mental Operations.

. Davis was residing in New Orleans and, although not an
MDC member, claimed to have once been a “coordinator” for the

41
group and the New York Police Department. He was a friend

Classification: _

38
aid in return for its promise of political support. 6

| Classified by derivation:

ML TL I MT MI
DRAFT-MDC Classification:

Page .5

(This form is to be used for material extracted
of Batista F erbikeCiandcapiatteacdoednaniay because, he said, Batista

Falla was ina position to recommend men in the Miami area

who needed work. ’” Davis’ claimed he could provide employment — :
for a small group of Cuban emigres. He said he had entered
into a business deal with geologist David L. Raggio and :
a wealthy, right-wing New Orleanian, Gus de LaBarre, forming “
the Guatemalan Lumber and Mineral Corporation. "> It was their
intention to train the Cubans on some land in Lacombe, Louisiana
to which De LaBarre had access through his nephew, Frank
de LaBarre. After a necessary training period, the group
was to be sent to Guatemala to cut mahogany trees, he claimed.

A group of about 18 Cubans did arrive in New Orleans in
the summer of 1963. Leading them was a well-known Cuban

; 45 sy
exile, Victor Paneque who used the military code name of

46
"“Commadante Diego". Paneque was closely associated with

later jadmitted}to the FBI that the men had arrived dressed

48 :
in khakis and thought that they were to receive military
eos 49
training.
In the latter part of July, 1963, the FBI conducted a
raid on property near that of the “lumber company” training
camp. The Bureau seized a cache of dynamite and other ex-

50 . . .
plosives. This raid, according to Davis, unnerved his

ee
trainees, and they elected to return to Miami.

 

Classification:

. . 47
Batista Falla in the military activities of the MDC. Davis 6

 

| Classified by derivation:

IM I I I I I

 
       
  

wa

Lf. “DRAFT - MDC cl

og HE,
ssification: ae Oa yl ¢
ff 11/14/78 —G?d, Dé wor me e

Betsy Palmer
MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANO (MDC)

 

After Castro's assumption of power in 1959, it became
evident to many Cubans that political parties were being

surpressed and the 26th of July Movement was being infil-

= “a “Ema.

trated by Communists. This political atmosphere gave rise
to the creation of underground organizations such as the

Christian Democratic Movement of Cuba (pc) .+ Proclaiming

N

the doctrine of Christianity as its foundation, the MDC
published a manifesto in March, 19607 denouncing Communism
and strongly advocating the free enterprise system. ? One
of the founders of the MDC, 35-year-old law professor, .
Dr. Jose Ignacio Rasco, was elected head of the organization*
and immediately criticized the violence prevalant in the
Castro regima.> This public criticism produced pressure on
him to leave Cuba and he arrived in Miani on April 22, 1960.°
By dune, Rasco had allied himself and the MDC with the Frente
Revolucionario Democratico (FRD) / and thus became one of the
five original exile.Cuban leaders brought together by the
State Department and the.CIA to form the nucleus of a Cuban
government~in-exile.®

After the Bay of Pigs invasion, the MDC split into factions.
Rasco remained head of the largest faction and organized

delegations in Miami, New York, Chicago, Venezuela and Cuba. 1

Classification:

= Ga.

 

| Classified by derivation:

ST LF LS LT LF LT FF &F .

 
] fet 2-04 . weeseces ves sr

. Outline Section: y-B-2 Bek ma
, .

    
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
      
 

Approved

initial _

 

Author
Cite Checked

Team Leader

 

 

Billings
Cornwell
Blakey

 
 

RETURN TO CIA
ackground Use Onl
Do Not Reproduce

 

 

 

Form REP-

10144 -(0 408 ©
 

 

DRAFT-MDC  —- Classification:
Page 2

(This form is to be used for material extracted
The clandestirae GAcrsstoladstosemens-lin Cuba was lead by Pepin
_, ll

‘Fernandez Badue who used the alias "Lucas". When Fernandez

arrived in the U.S. in October, 1961, he presented his’
credentials to the Cuban Revolutionary Council, (CRC),
claiming he was the representative of the MDC movement in
Cuba. +? Council president, Dr. Miro Cardona, accepted him
into the CRC hierarchy.?? The “Lucas" faction remained with
the Council but its role was ineffectual because Fernandez
eventually failed to hold the group together. ?4

The "Rasco" faction of MDC had as its Military Chief an
independently wealthy young Cuban, Laureano Batista Falla.?°
Free-spirited and under no financial pressures, Batista Falla
organized and partially financed the infiltration attempts
of the upc. It was one of the most active and effective

underground groups in Cuba during the early 1960's.

From 1960-1962,+

He trained

_——

 

 

 

 

 

at the

 

 

 

prior to the April 1961 invasion”° and made many trips from

 

this camp to

 

 

|**

 

At that time, most underground groups worked together,

. : : . 22 : .
sharing supplies and information. However, the repressive
measures of the Castro regime after the April 1961 invasion

caused members of the Cuban underground to live in.fear of

Classification: @.
| Classified by derivation:

ST LE I I LE a

fore UE ee
   

 

 

6
6

  

  

r
p
4
4

 

DRAFT-MDC
11/14/78
Page 3

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
. from ClA—controlled documents.) 93
discovery and made inter+group liaison extremely risky.
Despite the inherent dangers, the underground movements of
the MDC and Movimento Revolucionario del Pueblo (MRP)
worked jointly for an all-out sabotage effort in the fall
of 1961. 24 .

The "Batista" faction of the MDC (so named after the
youthful military chief rose to the position of president
in 1962)” entered into similar cooperative alliances with
other exile groups for the purposes of propaganda, sabotage
and supplying the Cuban’ underground. Many MDC members joined
the Cuba Committee in 1962 which was formed to counteract
the propaganda of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee, a pro-
Castro organization in the u.s.7° The MDC and the Directorio
Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) worked together to formulate
plans for an underground organization to infiltrate Oriente ,
province.”” The active operations between the MDC and other
anti-Castro groups peaked in the year 1963. One involved
the MDC, the Movimento Insurrecconial de Recupueracion
Revolutionaria (MIRR) and the Movimento Recuperacion
Revolutionaria (MRR). In April, Frank Sturgis, Miami-based
soldier of fortune, supplied information that Batista Falla,
Orlando Bosch Avila, Manuel Artime and Alexander Rorke were

jointly planning an air strike over Havana on April 25.7

According to Sturgis, the strike was to originate from an

2
airstrip in @nsectiz © and the target was a sugar refinery. 9

ion:

: 30
The bombs were homemade, assembled by Batista. Rorke
| . Classified by derivation:

 

}
J

a MR Rm ER EE CU S..UCUE.

ea eT aa ee.
