‘Classification:.

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

- 64 -

to denigrate the value of the information provided on
the unidentified alleged Cubana Airlines and unidenti-
fied passenger do not diminish the apparent negligence
of the agency in seriously pursuing the information as

it was received. The CIA is not to be faulted for the

strength of its intelligence gathering, but rather

for the judgement which kept that intelligence from the

Warren Commission. (The Warren Commission was mandated
to pass on the strength of exactly that kind of informa-
tion.)

Depsite what is now know about the alleged delay

 

of the Cubana Airlines flight and the unidentified pas-
senger, the Warren Commission may have wanted to abrigate
suspicions which would remain, and satisfy itself that
these circumstances did not indicate foreign involvement
in the assassination. The CIA contributed to those
suspicions by not airing the matter and explaining the
circumstances which could shed light on otherwise sini-
ster appearing events.

The Committee has documented instances where the

CIA decided to forego passing information to the Warren

Classification:

 

| Classified by derivation:

LI LI MI ME LE aaa

[FAA AAA @® DW
.

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

- 65 -
Commission out of a desire to not lay bare extremely

sensitive sources and methods of intelligence. The

LIENVOY and LIFIRE operations fall within that category.

Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

LF LF £9 £7 £29 LF £F 57

 

 

 

p
4
p
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
p
ae ae ae ae ae a ae a
‘Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

- 61 -
(Ibid., p. 11) In addition, telephone tap operations
(LIENVOY) against the Cuban Embassy provided transcripts:
of conversations between the Cubana Airlines Office and
the Mexican Airport Control Office. (Ibid., p. 11.)

The LIENVOY transcripts recorded a series of dis-
cussions concerning the status of the November 22, 1963
delayed Cubana flight--when it arrived and when it de-
parted. The transcripts showed that the flight arrived
at the airport at 1620 hours (All times used will be
Mexico City time to avoid confusion) Mexico City time.
(HSCA Staff Review of November 22, 1963 LIENVOY trans-
cripts) Prior to the arrival of the aircraft, one per-
son stated that the aircraft was due at 1630 hours and
"it will go" at 1730, suggesting a quick turnaround that
would have reduced unloading and loading time, as well as
serving of aircraft to a relatively short period. (Ibid.)
However, the only key report on the departure of the air-

craft was a statement at 2040 hours that the aircraft

 
 

had departed for Cuba five minutes earlier, i.e., 2035
hours. (Ibid.)
Based on the above (LIENVOY was the only record

that existed in the CIA files on the arrival and departure

Classification:

~~ “A “RR “ “L “AD “A “A “| “. “Gh. “.

 

| Classified by derivation: __.-

SS I I LE LI LI MMA
 

 

 

 

O-OM] ——r MY
‘Classification: = = o 4!
drut
Lae
(This form is to be used for material extracted f D?
from ClA—controlled documents.)

- 60 -

The Inspector General's report corrected the state-
ment in the Senate report that the "Central Intelligence
Agency had not information indicating that a following
investigation was conducted to determine that a follow-
ing investigation was conducted to determine the iden-
tity of the passenger and had no further information
on the passenger, and no explanation for why a following
investigation was not conducted." (The Investigation of

the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy. Perfor-

 

mance of the Intelligence Agencies, Book V, Select Com-

mittee to Study Governmental Operations, 4/23/76, p. 30,

Senate Report No. 94-755.) The Inspector General Report
stated that the Central Intelligence Agency conducted
regular surveillance of Cubana flights, filing cable
reports to Headquarters (Ibid., p. 11.) There was one
unilateral CIA surveillance team (LIFIRE) that observed
arrivals and departures of Cubana flights, reporting

any unusual recurrences and providing copies of flight
mainfests (Ibid., p. 11). The Mexican government had its
own surveillance team (LITEMPO) at the airport which pro-
vided the CIA with photographs of passports and copies

of passenger lists of individuals travelling to Cuba. _|

Classification:

“a. “ih. Gh “ “Gh Sk “SA “GA. “SE “GE “A “.

 

| Classified by derivation: .

SD LM I LI LE LI LI MA

1OLGY-/0 ASS

"[ MRADLBAE BA A BSB |W A |B
r AA DARA BSBESB SE SW EW

’ Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—-controlled documents.)

- 62 -

times of the Cubana flight) (Neither LIFIRE nor the
Mexican surveillance team reported the arrival or depar-
ture flights of the November 22, 1963 Cubana Airlines
flight to Cuba) then I.G. concluded that there were major
differences between what the Senate Select Committee re-
ported about the alleged delayed Cubana flight and the
known facts. (Ibid., p. 12) The Cuban flight was on

the ground in Mexico City for a total of four hours and
about ten minutes. (Ibid. p. 12) It was not delayed five
hours as reported in Book V. (The Investigation of the
Assassination of President John F. Kennedy, Performance of
the Intelligence Agencies, Book V, Senate Select Committee
to Study Governmental Operations, 4/23/76, p. 30, Senate
Intelligence Report No. 94-755) The Cubana flight de-
parted at 2035 hours Mexico City time, 55 minutes ahead of
the alleged arrival at 2130 of a private flight with a
secret passenger. (Ibid., p. 30) The 2035 departure dif-
fered with the Senate Intelligence Committee Report that
the Cubana flight departed at 2200 hours. (Ibid. p. 31)

In addition, the I.G. staff concluded that in view of

the surveillance coverage of the Mexican Airport by

both the CIA and Mexican government, it was doubtful that

Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

RB BE AA AA BA VW SA SB |SBW

LI LE LE aE LE LE LY LE
_ er EF AEE AEP EP ES EES SEE

- Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

- 63 -

the alleged activity involving the private twin-engined
aircraft and passenger would have gone unnoticed or
unreported had it occurred. (1977 CIA I.G. Report,
TAB B, p. 12.)

Presumably, the discrepancies pointed out by the
Inspector General are meant to explain the fact that
the CIA did not take more aggressive investigative
steps to ascertain whether there might have been some
connection between the delayed flight and the assassina-

tion of John F. Kennedy. In that regard, the 1977 In-

ried the lead as far as it was able by reviewing the

 

surveillance file of the LIFRE and LIENVOY operations and
asking the Mexican surveillance team (LITEMPO) about

any strange occurrences at the airport on November 22,
1963. (CIA 1977 IG Report, p. 12, Tab B.) However,

the CIA's lack of access to further information about the
allegedly delayed Cubana flight and unidentified passen-
ger does not explain either the failure of the CIA to
take more seriously the suspicions of the source, and
most importantly, to report whatever information it had

to the Warren Commission. The Inspector General's attempts

ey Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

I EL LE LE La

, é
p é
p p
p é
p p
f 4
[7
a 4
p §
p 4
p 4
a 6
