Vy

 

 

 

 

 

 

Classification: igh

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
-8-

key Warren Commission staff and members and
former or present CIA representatives in an
effort to resolve questions that are not
addressed by the written record. The results
of the Committee's efforts to chronicle this
aspect of the working relationship between the
Warren Commission and the CIA will bé a subject
for discussion herein.

In addition, this report will examine the
following subjects generated by the Committee's
study as outlined above, in the following general
order of discussion:

1) the _ organization of the CIA's investigation
of President Kennedy's assassination;

2) the working relationship of the Warren
Commission staff and those CIA representatives
concerned with the Warren Commission inquiry;

3) the standards of investigative cooperation
which the Warren Commission staff believed
to govern the quality and quantity of
‘information supplied by the CIA to the
Warren Commission;

y 000607
Classification: ovet

c. Berk

tm WA “i. “GR “GG “GR “A “ER. ‘GER “A “ER “GEE.

 
ra
Classification: Syteee ___

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—conitrolled documents.)

-8a-

4) the CIA's concern for protection of its
sensitive sources and methods and the
consequent effects of this concern
upon the Warren Commission investigation;
and

5) the substance and quality of information
concerning Luisa Calderon passed to the
Warren Commission and the results of this

Committee's investigation of Calderon

 

and her significance to the events of

November 22, 1963.

Ir. Select Commiatiee Study ot

Information Made Available by CIA to Warren

 

Commission

see CIA page 2000517 rata
re beginning of 4NIS section

  

, ‘ GO9G06
Classification: ables

| Classified by derivation: _C. Berk Berk

Toe e ee ee

 

$
$
p
g
4

  

Z_ —__.lC EOF UC CSO..UlUCERO.UlUCYT.lUCUC™Rm..UlUCSECSEE.CCCCS tts “SEA.

|
relevancy adopted by the CIA and this Committee,
certain files requested by the Committee for
review

we have been made available to
the Committee in a sanitized fashion. Therefore,
to the degree reflected by the Agency's denial
of access and/or santization of certain materials,

this study's conclusions are based upon the

 

best evidence available to the Committee thZough
‘this may not be all relevant evidence to which
the Agency has access.

One must, moreover, give due consideration

to the role that oral discussions, oral briefings,

 

and meetings of Warren Commission and CIA
representatives may have played in the supply of
assassination-related information by the CIA to
the Warren Commission. The subject and substance ,
of these disctissions’; briefings, and meetings

may not always be reflected by the written

record made the _ subject of this. study.
Therefore, the Committee has conducted interviews,
depositions and executive session hearings with

900606

-k cIA Liles pertaining +o peanios “lt, Mae Teresa Proenza,
ania) jn Svat personal Saee Nowings v DICLR TAA RD
available +e this Committee Sub tect te Agency
Santti zat on of Hy on are Clad

i
4

 

      
issues have arisen related to the kind and
quality of information provided the Warren

Commission, files have also been requested and

 

reviewed in an effort to resolve these issues.

As a result, approximately thirty files, comprising
an approximate total of ninety volumes of

material have been examined and analyzed

in preparation of this report.-

The findings set forth herein are subject
to modification due to the following considera-
tions. During the course of the past fifteen

years, the CIA has generated massive amounts of

 

information related to the assassination of
President Kennedy. Ln-spitecof the Agency 's
sophi-sticated~docunent-retrieval~system, Gertain
documents requested by this Committee for study
and analysis have not been located. ‘Whether these’
documents merely have been filed incorrectly or
destroyed, gaps in the written record still do
exist. G00005

Secondly, due to dissimilar standards of investigative

* Eat GiA TFKassas. modecals povided the Racksfe ther
Commission, CIA materials Pertaining Te Lisa Cathe ranGacaller ,
Maria Te OSH Porenan , AIMS | (Cub an tat clligence Service Defect),
AMAASH, CIA SoET Flite pertaining fe Lee Hacvey Oswald C/A materials
enerate Pay. WAC en C amnt ss fan bit carryin; Agency AAS rel callon

 

    
 

 

 

 

to both the U.S. Intelligence Community and
the Warren Commission regarding the assassina-
tion of President Kennedy. In this respect,

, . TES ;
the Committee agrees with the 77 FGR wherein
it is stated that "This compiliation (of
CIA generated material) is appropriate to

consideration of the extent of the CIA effort, 3

 
  
 
   
 

to the extent that it reveals something
; TER =
77.EGR, Introduction

the results of that effort."
to Tab E) ;

- In examining the Agency's comprehensive
listing of CIA generated material referenced above,
the Committee has paralled its review to the

; we
structure given to these materials by the 77 See
In this regard the 17 3@R details four inter-
related compilations of Kennedy assassination
material. These four compilations are:

1) Agency dissemination of information

to the Intelligence Community (Formal
and Informal Disseminations)

2) Dissemination of material to the

Warren Commission

00002

  
 

 

 

 

3) Agency dissemination to the FBI et al
regarding rumors and allegations
regarding President Kennedy's
assassination .

4) Memorandum submitted by CIA to the
Warren Commission on Rumors
Allegations Relating to th President's

Assassinatioyw’ (77 IGR, Introduction

   
  

to Tab E.)

~ In réViewing these compilations,
‘the Committee focused upon those

CIA materials which the 77 I 2 documented as having
_made available in written form to the Warren
Commission.

During the course of tnis study, additional
Agency files have been reviewed. These files have
been examined in an effort to resolve certain
issues created by the review of the Agency's
‘compilations discussed in this report. Where
apparent gaps existed in the written record,

files have been requested and reviewed in an effort

to resolve these gaps. Where significant substantive

godbu4

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Berk-Write-Ups

Purpose and Scope of Study

 

 
 
 
  

CIA HAS hy f
DECLASSieStion anr
LEAS IS DOGUsRAy

The Central Intelligence Agency's performance

in its role of support to the Warren Commission

has been a source of controversy since the

inception of the Warren Commission. Critics

have repeatedly. charged that the CIA participated

in a conspiracy designed to suppress information

relevant to the assassination of President Kennedy,

During 1976 the critic's

assertions were the subject of official inquiry

by the Senate Select Committee to Study

Governmental Operations (hereinafter SSC). The

ssc, in its report regarding "The Investigation

of the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy:

Performance of the Intelligence Agencies" reached

the following conclusion:

The Committee emphasizes that it has.
not. uncovered any evidence sufficient
to justify a conclusion that there was
a conspiracy to assassinate President

Kennedy. |

The Committee has, however, developed
evidence which impeaches the process

 

000000

 
Men /-R

 

"(i80-10142-10015

Jain Sk

|
|

 

 

pr lle whey, >

 

A msiastaine ine

blr e 4 Aa ow 2.
port: bib tt

paw t Se fhry we

 

 

 

180 - 1WI4A-jod'5
by which the intelligence agencies
arrived at their own conclusions
about the assassination, and by
which they provided information
to the Warren Commission. This.
evidence indicates that the
investigation of the assassina-
tion was deficient and that facts
which might have substantially
affected the course of the inves-
tigation were not provided the
Warren Commission or those
individuals within the FBI
the CIA, as well as oth
of Governme
_with jatvVestigating t sassina-
tion/ ($3¢, GeeK EPS)

 

 
 
   
     
 
 

This sought to examine in
greater detail the general findings of the SSC.
The Committee has particularly focused its attention

on the specific issue of whether the CIA. or any

 

employee or former employee of the CIA misinformed,
or withheld information relevant to the assassina-
tion of president Kennedy from the Warren
Commission. In addition, the Committee has
attempted to determine whether, if the Warren
Commission was misinformed or not made privy. to
‘ information relevant to its investigation,
the misinforming or withholding of

evidence from the Warren Commission was the

 

FEOCCD

etre

   
result of a conscious intent to do so by the

Agency or its employees.

 

The Committee has sought to examine the ~
issue detailed above in both an objective
and disciplined manner. In order to accomplish
. CA et

this goal the Committee has utilized.a 1977 Task terce
Report bythe CIA's—Inspector General (hereinafter

TS _ .
77 EGR)... This Report was highly critical of
the §SC findings and asserted that the SSC
Final Report conveyed an impression of limited
effort by the CIA to assist the Warren Commission

' Bikes |
in its work. The 77 was in fundamental

 

disagreement with this characterization of the
ssc findings and noted that "CIA did seek and
collect information in support of ft the-widcen
Commission. “Additionally conducted studies
and-- subititeed-speetalla ses and reports."

: eas
.(77 IGR, Introduction to Tab EX).

 

G6 demonstrate further the scope

of support provided by, the CIA to the Warren

Commission, the 77 len contained a comprehensive

listing of CIA -generated material made available

 

600002

 
