8.

what he later discovered, Ray sald, was that WerBell was
conspiring wlth his boat's craw, and mainly its leader,
Jose Rabsl!, to convince them to go to MlamI with the boat
Tnstead of Venezuela. That, of course, aborted the
inflitration operation. "That's how WerBel! stole our
boat from us,” sald Ray. “After that our whole effort to
get going again failed. By that time ! was completely
broke." Ray sald he never did find out why WerBell was -
tn the Dominican Republle or why he stole the boat from :
them. "I bellave he was a CIA man," satd Ray. Ray sald he
eventually wound up giving the boat to Nino Diaz for his
antl -Castro operations. oa

 

 

Ray was asked about the Incldent concerning the visit’ ‘OF
"Leon Oswald" to Silvia Odio. Ray sald that when he was
first questioned about it by the Fel, he was asked mostiy
about his feelings about her rellabi lity and accuracy.
"They told ma that she sald she had met Oswald,” he sald.
"lL dontt remember them telling mo.that the men who came to
her. said they were members of JURE and were Interested In
buying arms. | .don'? think that was told to me. i toid
“them that | knew she had some domestic problems and that
she was under. emotional strain from her divorce when she
was tlving here tn Puerto Rico, but | told them |! would
say she was sane. | think she was a good person, a very
bright ‘Person and a sane person.”

 

Ray was asked If he was ever told that Stivia Odlo's spster
also saw the three men who-.visited her apartment. He
‘seemed surprised. “"L never did know that!" he sald. "That
_to me-has.a-lot of bearing. They never did tell me that.
This ts. the. first time i] learned about. that."

 

Ray sald that at the. ‘time he ‘knew of no members of JURE
going through Dallas: in search of..money of arms, He

doesnot recall. anyone by the name.of Leopoldo.or Angelo.
“assochated with JURE. at the time.’ Ray sald .he- had no
Amerlean:contacts. tne ‘Dallas or major. financial support —
from anyéne there. 7

 

   

 

 

          

: ay: als “sald he did “not recognize or had no “assoclation
with Individuals of the following names: Justin® ‘McCarthy,
Bernardo_ DeTorres, Sam Acosta, Larrle Schmidt, Robert
Morris, Tony Sforza, Warren Frank and David Horales.

He also Sald he had no assoclation with Laureano Batista,
but heard that Frank Florin! was working wlth him at one
me. . . coe ‘ . E a

 

  
     
Ray sald he aiso recal!s that Rogelio Cisneros was at that
JURE hieeting. When told that a fife revlew revealed that
Cisneros was reportedly scheduled to be Involved In a

pick-up of a chebe of arms on Regaldo Cay on November 23,
1963, a date which was changed to November 25th at the

iast minute, Ray said he recalled generally such an :
opeaation, "We had a boat In Costa Rica and we were supposed. -
to pick up some weapons there but there was a mix up. I “
can't recalt the details or the date eaactiy," he sald.
“Actually, Cisneros was the coordinator of such operations.

{ was Informed of them, but he was the direct coordinator
after they were Improved." .

 

Ray was asked about his relationship with Andrew St. George
who, according to file review, was with him on an attempted
tnflitration into Cuba. "I think | first met him In Havana,”
said Ray, "when he passed through there on the way to the
Sterra Maestras to see Castro. ! met him several times tater
when | came Into exile and we exchanged information and
ideas, -He has something about him, a sincerity, that }
tike.™ .

Ray said he was not aware of the close relationship between
Andrew St. George and Mitchel! Livingston WerBell Itt.
Asked If he had ever had any dealings with WerBefl, Ray.
sald: "The sunavabitch. .| would tike to punch him In the
nose, Ff you will forgive my saying that." Ray sald his
feelings about WerBell are based. on an Incident that happened
In the Dominican Republic In 1965, At the time, after two
fallures, a final major inflitration operation Into Cuba
wes belng planned. "This was to be the first of a series
of tong and slow steps to bulld.a permanent opposition ;
movement against Castro Inside Cuba, This’ was supposed to.
be a very signiftcant operation, not Just another quick a
ratd." Ray sald he had already had his share of problems ”
with the operation. before his encounter with WerBell.  Origtnal
It was to be based out:of Costa Rica, but political problem
developed there and he had to move the operation out. -He
made arrangements to send the Inflitration boat, the Venus,
on to the Dominican Republic with Its grew to set up @ base
there. Meanwhile, a supply of arms .that were especially |.
fabricated for JGRE In’ California were selzed In Call fornia F
(They had been financed, sald Ray, by a major "Buy-A-RIfle-Fo
$92" campaign among Cuban exi!es; more than $100,000 was
raised.) Then came the revolution In the Dominican Republic:
.and the appearance on the scene of Mitchel! NerBell. Ray
sald he franticatly made arrangements with the Venezuelan
government to move his base of operations there and sent $750°
of his personal money to the crew of the Venus for fuel to
move the boat as quickly as possible to Venezuela and out from
between the warring factions In the Dominican Repubille. Howevor, —

  
   

 

 

-~more-

   
Ray also revealed another Instance concerning: mention of
assasstnating him. That was shortly after March, F961,
and the formation of the Cuban Revolutionary Counsél was
announced, with Ray as a key member, Ray said he had

a very close friend who had been a detective under Batista
and had also had contact with the-FBI both before and
after the Revadution. Ray chaaacterized the friend as

"a very honest man," despite the fact he worked under
Batista, and one he trusted. After the Councll was
announced, Ray sald, this friend called him and told him

 

‘he had been at a meeting composed of former members of

Batista's Bureau of Investigation, called BRAC, which
Ray characterized as "a repressive organization." Ray
sald: "One of those at this meeting In thls house In
Miami told my friend that they belfleved that Castro was
golng to be overthrown by the United States and that
since | was. getting too much power, they should eliminate
me. My friend warned me that |! should be careful. He
sald they made mention of using an American to do the
job of kifiing me instead of a Cuban. Even now i do not
know If the CHA had anything to do with that, or whether
it was just-thfs group of Batisthites." Ray sald that
at the time he was told that.the leader of the group

was named Faget (first name unrecollected), who Is now
dead. (Ray sald he belleves his son Is working for U.S.
Customs tn Miam!t.?

Ray sald he had heard of Frank Florin! about that time

but he never met him, "Il heard of Flortini," hae sald,

"and |. was’ told that he was something IIke an adventuror,
aman of action with many contacts, but | had no direct
knowledge of him. He was Involved more with.the Batistlanos.”
Ray sald he knows of no relationship between E. Howard

Hunt and Frank Florini at the time. ;

   

Concerning the Castro assassination attempt In Chile tn bO7E
organized by Antonio Veclana, Ray sald he was not associated
with It nor did he know of anyone, except for Veclana himsel
tnvolved with it who had previously worked with him. He was
told, however, that Luis Posada may have been Involved, and
he remembers Posada as Someone Cisneros once recrulted for
an Infiltration misston Into Cuba. "Later," sald Ray, "I found
out he was so close to the CIA 1 decided not to use him
anymore,” Ray sald he does not know Lucifo Pena, or his
Involvement tn the Chile attempt,

     
 
 
  

Spectlating as to who could have Introduced Maurice Bishop
to Veclana, Ray sald there is the possibitity that Rufo
io Fresquettcould have been the tink without knowing
1¥ *Rufo Ts a good friend of mine," sald Ray, "but he

 
6,

usually talks too much to be directly Invo¥ved In
clandestine activity. But at the time Rufo had very
close assoclation with high government offictals and

the CIA and | know that he and Veclana were very good
friends and In the same business sphere. 1 would say he
may have mentioned Veclana'’s name to some of those people
and they contacted Veclana as a result, knowing from

Rufo of Veciana's feeilngs about Castro.” :

 

Ray's feellngs. toward Veclana took a negative turn In 1972, ™.
he sald, when he was organizing the Parte Partido Revoluclonario
«de Pueblo (People's Revolutionary Party) in Puerto Rico.
~ This was, satd Ray, a great effort to reinvigorate the
anti-Castro movement, Ray sald that Veciana wanted to
become part of the group. "At that time," said Ray, "we
knew he was working In Bolivia and traveling around
Latin Amarica‘and we thought he could be of help to us."
Ray sald that Veclans promised that he could get $10,000
to contribute to the movement, but the money was never
' produced. . "A&lmost as soon as he fotned,” sald Rav,
““he began participating In an attempt to divide the
“movement. He made a declaration accusing us of being’
- Un consortment with Castro and he knew that was a fle.
-. Everything he said was Just so unbelievable and he had
_ things printed about me tn Replica accusing me of everything.
He Just made everything up.* Ray blames Veclana for
the lack of success of the movement and says he does not
“understand why he attacked him. Baslcatyy, he sald, he
“belfeves Veclana Is an opportunist. ou.

_ Ray. was asked $f he was famillar with the Moa Bay Mingng
Company. He safd he was. He recalls a meeting around
June, 1959, when hae was stiil In Castro's cabinet. "We
-woéld meet at the Banco International everytThursday tn
the afternoon with-a group that dealt with: the. economic
problems of the new government," he sald, “Lopez-Fresquet |
was the Finance Minister at the time. At one meeting,.t °
remember Regine Boti, who was Minister of Economics, sald
‘that the people from Moa Bay had contacted him to see what
could be ‘done with the government to re-establish thelr
operation... They had about e $70 milllon Investment. But
Castro sald not to deal with them because they had worked

 

 

too close with the Batssta government."

 

  
  
  
  

 

ay was asked If he ‘remembered where ha was on November
22,-1963. Around that. time, he sald, he was spending most
of his time In Puerto Rico but flying regularly to varlous
‘countryes In Latin America. The day that Kennedy was killed,
he sald, he was:at a-JURE meeting In Ceracas.,- Group. leaders
from varlous countries were there, he satd, and he romembers
the assistant to the President of Venezuela coming In after
‘Junch with the news that President Kennedy was shot.

 

 

 

 
2.

Although Ray sald he was not as close to him as he was
to Ira Wolfe, another man who provided anti-Castro support
and was active on his own In anti-Castro activity was
Wolfe's brother-in-law, the brother of his Cuban wife.
Ray sald he didn't at the moment remember his first name,
but his last name was Roselle. Ray sald he had known him
for a number of years because he worked for a firm thet
sold ceramic. tiie and that he had sold the tite for the
tunnel through Havana which Ray had been tn charge of
bullding In the mid-'50s. Roselfo, sald Ray, was somehow
Involved In the sale of weapons to Israel. Ray belleves
that Wolfe's ax-wife, Angela Rosello, may be Iiving In

' the Miami area, . :

 

Ray sald he had been in touch with Indlviduals connected
with the Amerlecan Embassy In Havana both before and after
he Castra_ Revolution. One contact he recalls was with
fAthe first of which was around September, 1958.
~ Ray sald ofd him that he represented an agancy
interested In Intelligence and propaganda and he wanted
to exchange ideas and information concerning the 26th
of July Movement. Ray sald he seemed particularly Interested
tn whether or not there any Communists with Castre In
_the Sferra Maestra,.

to meet wit bout the time he went underground with
anti-Castro activifles. That was a general meeting about

what was happening at the time but ft resulted In the setting
up of a channel for the passing of messages between them later.
Ray said that dei not offer him any financial support

at the time, But he later promised equipment which was supposed
to be air dropped to MRP guerti the Escambray mountains.
The equipment never arrived andl Plater tote bam there

was a "mix up" sald Ray.

After the Revotutiga Ray sald, he recelved another request

Ray sald he was unfamiftlar with and had no contact with
David Phlifips or Col. Sam Kall at the American Embassy.

Ray sald he first met Antonio Veciana In Puerto Rico after
Veclana came Into exifte. Although Veclana was a mehber of
his MRP movement at the time, Ray said that Veclana's
‘attempt to assasstnate Castro tn October, 1961, in Havana
was not offictally planned or sanctioned by the Movement.
Ray explained that, as the leader of the MRP, he did not
belleve that teadership. assassination should be a key part
of the Movement's strategy. ..He sald It had too many “bad
aspects" to It as a strategy, the principal one being It
misted the members of the movement Into belleving that the
movement would be successful as soon as the opposttion leader
was removed. That, sald Ray, has a "weakening effect" on

a movement's over-all. strategy and the reason why he never

 

_~more-

 

 
 

$80-10443-10449 _

- RETURN TO CIA

ae THIS COPY IS Nor — “Eaeetat>

Do Not: ‘Reproduce

FOR RELEASE. #007?

MEMORANDUM - June 28, 1978 CIA HAS NO oBIECTiC.: 10.

 

DECLASSIFICATION As AND/OR
TO: G. Robert Blakey Pee OF THs DocuiEn
FROM: Fonzt & Gonzales AS SANITIZED

RE: Interview with MANOLO RAY RIVERO

dob: June $3, 1924

Manolo Ray was Interviewed on June 7, 1978, in the offices
of Ray and Associates, Eggineering Consultants, San Juan,
Puerto Rico.

 

Background file research tndicates that Ray recelved a:
graduate scholarship from the Cuban Ministry of Public |
Works in 1947 to study civil engineering at the University
of Utah. He returned to Cuba_in 1949 and was appointed

a designer for the Cuban Natlonal Development Corporation
and then chlef of Its structural department In charge of
bridges and highways. In 1952 he bacame project manager
for Frederick Snare Corporation of New York In construction
of the Havana Hifton Hotel. in May, £957, he organized.
the Civic Resistance Movement (MRC), an underground
organization which supervised acts of sabetage against

the Batista regime. Following the Revolution, Ray was
appolnted Hinister of Public Works by Castro In February,
1959, He offictaliy resigned his position in November,
1959,

During the Interview, Ray sald that he had been active In
anti-Castro activity, organizing underground activity In
Havana, prior to his resignation as Minister of Public
Works. His brother, who reportediy tater committed suicide,
had been arrested by Castre tn March of 1959 for counter-
revolutionary activity. Ray sald his anti-Castro
activity eventually fed to his founding the Revoluttonary.
Movement of the People (MRP) around May of -1960.. Among |
those Ray méntloned as betng.also Instrumental. in the
founding of the MRP | were Rufo Lopez— Fresquet and Rogelto.
Cisneros. 7

When, asked, Ray. sald there were no Americans involved in the.
founding of: the MRP, He sald, however, that there was one
who. had been active. with him in antl-Batista operations and =
fater gave hIm support for his anti-Castro activities. His -
name was ira Wolfe. "He was very close to me personalfy and*.
we considered him fike a Cuban," Ray sald. At the time,
Wolfe was a sales representattte for a kitchen equipment
firm and married to a Cuban. “After he left Cuba, -he was
divorced and went to work for what-Ray described as a :
telephone company-related firm In Texas. -He died there about
five years ago at about 55 years old. Ray described Wolfe
-as tall, heavily (bullt, with biack hair and a round face.

130 -lad4! Ok KO

 

 
sponsored a plan to assassinate Castro. "However," sald
Ray, "that doesn't msan we should not take the opportunity:
to do so lf It artses."

Ray sald teat, although he never met Veciana In Cuba, he
knew of him and his support of the MRP at the time. "I know
that he was very closa to Rufo Lopez-Fresquet, the Minister .
of Finance, and that he was working at the bank and that

_ through Lopez-Fresquet he was able to get some contributions:
to the Movement. { know he was very active.”

   

Ray sald that he heard through the underground that Veclana
_was planning the Castro assassination attempt and that he
had gotten a bazooka for It. He later heard that Veclana
himself had left Cuba the day before the assassination
attempt and that he later gave the excuse that he had to
helptsome people excape In a boat and that he had to jump
into the boat himself to do so. "The story was that the
attempt failed because of the confusion that followed after

Lt F
he. teft,"

ata Rav
SG1G Koy. .

 

Ray sald that thdére was no Indication at the time that an
American was behind Veciana's planning of the assassination
attempt. He knew of no Amertcan that Veclana might have
been assoclating with at the time. Ray said he could not
identify Maurlce Bishop, nor did his characterIstics or
sketch resemble anyone he knew, although he-sald there was
some resemblance to a U.S. government official he met In
Tampa-when he first arrived tn exile. He sald he met

at feast four government offictals In Tampa white being

put up tn a motel there, but he wasn't told whether they:
were CIA or FBi. Ray sald he doesn't recall! even the name
given to him of the one who resembled Bishop and he doesn't
recall. that it was "Bishop." a : : ;

 

What Ray does recall about his Initial debriefing tn Tampa
when he entered the U.S. In October or November, 1960,.

was that he was eventually told that a Mr. Frank Bender
_wanted to talk with him. Bender then arrived and he had

a tong conference with him. Ray sald he got the Impression
“that Bender.was mostly..Interested.In his phltosophy about
how Cuba should’ be governadn after-the overthrow.of. Castro,
_but: Ray. sald he-found It a bit strange that Bender was. -
specifically Interested In the future of-the King Ranch.
—Un-Rayts vision of the future of Cuba. "I don't think: |
he ilked my answer. too. much," sald Ray, "because | told *
‘him that the most:Important thing.was to develop the. ~
overall economy ofthe country. and that, although | hado-..
nothing agatnst.the King Ranch, they would have to contribute

 

 

“more to the economy of the country. { don't think he Ilked

  

“that answer too much.” -

  

' o=more-—

     
4,
(When asked, Ray sald he was not famillar with the name

of Jack Malone who, according to a fille review, was associated
with the King Ranch tn Cuba.)

  

Ray sald he subsequently had a number of meetings with
Bender tn Miaml, a few of which concerned his and the
MRP's Jolning of the untted crente prior to the Bay of
Pigs Invasion. Ray was asked Tf he was aware at the
time of the opposition of the CIA's political tlaison,
E. Howard Hunt, to his Joining the Frente. [in his book,
Give Us This Day, Hunt potnts to Ray's Joining the Frente
aS one of the key reasons he resigned his postition.

“Ray sald he was not specifically aware of Hunt's opposition
to him at the time, He said, In fact, that he never met
E. Howard Hunt, or "Eduardo," but knew only that the CIA's
"Golden Boy,” as he was known, Manolo Artime, had the
personal support of a very Influential and powerful government
official who®, Ray said he later found out, was Hunt.

 

“

Ray sald thet Hunt!

eee be oe me oe ae he
S portrayal of hin His BOOK Sid of

his relationship to the Frente was misleading. Ray sald
he was not anxlous to Jofn The Frente and that he resIsted
dolng so for some time. "We were In touch with the leaders
of the front at the time,” sald Ray, "people like Tony
Verona, and we told then, why should we join and be so
restrained as you, why should we want to become part of
the sétuation Just to be lIke a poker chip with somebody
else running the show and not knowing what you are fighting
for?” Ray also sald that because his group was so well
organized within Cuba at the time and had deep underground
penetration, some other exile Cuban groups were also not
_anxtlous to welcome him In the front because they were afrald
he would take control of it.

Ree

 

Ray satd opposition to him also came from. certain Influential
and wealthy anti-Castro Americans who saw the Frente as |
<3: "soctal club” where they could have Infiuenca and, If suce
reap thelr. benefits | ‘later In Cuba. He specifically cited ~
Whiff lam Fawley as one such. Ray sald he met Pawley only once
TAT The Time," he said, "thera was a tot of heavy propaganda
against us going around ‘Miami. They were saying 'Fidellssim
ostn Fidel" and that type of thing, accusing us of betng
‘Communists. One of-the members of our organization happene
to have an office close to Pawley's and got to meat him and
then arranged a meeting between us. ©So | went to meet him,
.It.was very Interesting because ! found the man very arrogant.
‘We started discussing Cuba and- the future of Cuba and so forth,
and then he sald-he:was gofng to be. sincere with-me, He sald
“he belleved that when. Fidel. was overthrown it would be. ‘better
: bet were assassinated | and That. somebody. might. Just do tt. no,

  
  

 

 

 

 
