'

a

‘Cuban-American...page 3

: a
Lopez's wife told the FBI that’ Lhped began suffering from

recurrent attacks of epilepsy and had to be confined at Jackson
| State Hospital in-Key-West in early 1963. 36/ She stated that
‘he was treated by doctors from Coral Gables and Key West for the”
epilepsy. 37/ She stated that she did not believe he had a
history of epilepsy before coming to the United States. 38/
She believed his convulsions were brought on by nervous tension
and worry over his family in Cuba and may have been a reason.
for his return to Cuba in 1963. 39/

The wife said that in approximately November, 1963,
she received a letter from Lopez saying he had returned to
Cuba. 40/ The wife stated that she was surprised he had returned
but that he had mentioned he was going back to Cuba when he
left for Tampa in November, 1963. 41/ The wife gave “her opinion
that he returned because of his close relationship with his
parents. 42/ The wife stated that she received another letter,
from him iater from Cuba. 43/ According to the letter, he was |

working ‘as an elevator operator in Havana. 44/ In that letter

     
  

Lopez said he had received, so

in}

“kina of financial assistance

 

for the trip from an. organization in Tampa. 45/ “According to the

wife, Lopez aid not have sufficient ‘personal funds to pay the :

 

expenses to Mexico and Cuba. 46/ She said that he had never had =

contact with Cuban refugee organizations to her knowledge. 47/
oo? ‘

Cuban-American...page 9

Rodriguez told the FBI that Lopez left Key. West
in late 1963 to go to Tampa with the hope of being able
to return to Cuba. 48/ Rodriguez said he believed Lopez wanted
‘to return to Cuba because he was afraid of being drafted into
the U.S. military. 49/ Rodriguez said Lopez was not involved
in any pro-Castro activity while living in Key West, but ‘that
Lopez was: "definitely" pro-Castro. 50/ Rodriguez recounted that
in one instance he and Lopez actually had a. fist-fight over
Lopez" s Pro-Castro sympathies. 51/ ;

In a report in March 1964, - ‘the FBI reported that Lopez
had attended a meeting of the Tampa Fair Play for Cuba Committee
. On November 20, 1988 "52/ The report also stated that at a
; meeting of ‘the group on November 17, 1963, Lopez stated that he
had been refused travel back to Cuba. He said at that time
that he was waiting for a phone call from Cuba to get word on

his departure to Cuba. 53/

According to that report in March, “1964, a member of the

Tampa FPCC stated that she called a friend in Cuba on December 8,

1963 and. was told that, Lopez had arrived safely. 54/. ‘The member

  

shad attempted to locate: Lopez in ‘Cuba through friends there + bebe

: Lopez had ‘not delivered gifts to persons” in Cuba from peo:

in Florida as he had “promised to do. 55/_ “The member stated

   

also that the Tampa chapter of the FPcC had given Lopez
approximately $190 for the return trip to Cuba. 56/ The member
said that Lopez had gone to Cuba by way of Mexico because he did

not’ have a passport. 57/
Cuban-American...page 7

which had been carried out in Key West, Florida.

. . .
stated that Lopez's coungin, Guillermo Serpa\ Rodrigue

he report

  
   

, told the.
FBI that Lopez came to the United Stated for the first time some +
time (after Castro first came to power. 27/ He stayed approximately
one year and then returned to Cuba. 28/ Rodriguez stated that
Lopez returned to Cuba because he was homesick and missed

his family; he had parents and four brothers who still resided

      

\ Rodrigus Stated also that Lopez's brother(Selito

ca member of the Cuban militia at that time. 30/ Another

brother, Raimundo Poliarpo. “Lopez, -had reportedly been

sent to the Soviet union to study by the Cuban government ,

according to Rodriguez. 31/ ;
Rodriguez told the FBI that Lopez returned to the united

States in 1960 or 1961 because he was afraid he would be drafted

into the Cuban militia if he remained in Cuba. 32/

- ae _The FBI learned. that Lopez maxried an American woman in Key

West in August, 1962. 33/, Recording ‘to Lopez! s wife, he worked

  
 

in 1962 and at ‘the Hovina”

"ana Murgia Bakery in key West, “which was owned by. cousins. 34

 

She said that. he ‘also worked for a “construction ‘company ins

Tampa in. June, 1963. “35/
Cubah-Ame. .can...page'6

The

 

concerning

 

: SBA t Same , .
contained in a,dispatch dated March 18 which was being pouched

to headquarters, 21/ . a
Th wexT Sy OWL of t b .
On March Ze, the Deputy CHEE of the Hel Gity station

Xd cabled a classified message to headquarters in which it was

   
     

stated that the information contained inthe earlier dispatch
which ai scussea er ah coneaey
station. 2 CHEETOS early Decembex 19§3-"-227-—

A 201 file was opened on ciingéto Policared Lopez by

Agency headquarters on December 16, 1963. 23/ At that time his

"jibes fully with that provided’

records indicated that no earlier 201 file had existed. The

- £ile contains a "Review of 201 file on U.S. Citiz n” by y ;
rigones fo
an operations officer for the M/ FI component 4
of the Agency. 24/ In that’ review the file Slassified

asa "counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign intelli-.
gence or security service). " 25/ The date of entry of that .
a
Category in Agency records is indicated as | January 22, .» 1905) § in o

Lopez! s file. 26/ :

 

’ FBI ‘thvesthaction :

   

in a report dated August 26, 1964,

the results of its investigation on cithecto. Policarpo Lopez

 

  
Cuoan-Ame tan...

cel .
oy
a .
- 0
i :

November 27 for Havana. That classified messa e stated

She Foyt to a oe
additionally that iG TERPOTD maa a wnat otograpl’ of

Lopez. 10/

The photograph of Lopez contained in his CIA 201 file

Ree cee en RAN A RR A et

has) 27 November 963" ‘stamped on the back. in the photograph”
ee ee nt en Ee

ao ——— ~ uae
(topes if show} Fearing dark glasses and. the background in

the photograovh is dark and indistinguishable,
Were tos 4 Ay £1

    
    
  
 
 
 

 

 

ee ge OO CL ACL =
1963 at the Mexico City airport{by y taxicab Testor ele

 

 
 

"CO Kb sara

passport and tourist card and his entry
into and departure from Mexico. The dispatch contained the

additional information that Lopez was (listed a5) the only

passenger on Cubana flight #465 on November 27, 1963 to Havana; |

the flignt contained a crew Of 1 nine Cubans. Tt said he used
a u. Ss. “passport and a cuban ‘courtesy visa. 12a “The dispatch,

"Source states ‘the timing and

 

had the following message
cir cumstances surrounding subject! s travel through 3 Mexico and |
departure for Havana “are suspicious." 13/ The dispatch

said also that the source “urgently” requested all available

data on the individual.

previously reported information of the numbers of Lopez's ~

  

Dui
Cuban-American... nage 5
pag

ae AAs Tak ane - bre . :
_ _Also on @ecmeber 5, 196 Ex CIA headquarters cabled the

(Sexico EEPsration and identified this Cuban-American as

ee

Gilberto Policarpo Lopez, who was born on January 26, 1940. L4/ >

It stated also that Lopez was not identical with a Gilberto
Lopez who had been identified as active in pro- Castro groups in

Los Angee i5/

Czy ox brduprbecd wecevel
classified message (Co headquarter> (Co headquarter that /

    

 

e J
nrique Ruiz Montalvg)\>

€ agent of the Mexiéan Federal Judicial Police| nad) 3c.

informed the CIA )Dthat one of(uie" J contacts reported

e February, 1964, that an American citizen named Gilberto

  
  
  

volved in the Kennedy assassination. i6/ The message

‘contact reported that; Lopes entered Mexico on

foot from Laredo, Texas about 1200 hours on November 13 carrying U.S

passport #319962, which was issued July -13, 1960. ly/ According
to the dispatch, the contact related also that Lopes proceeded by
bus to Mexico City "where he entered Cuban embassy"; it said that

he left the Cuban Embassy on | November 27 and was ‘the only

   

_ passenger for Cuba on £ flight | 8465. sy < said ‘the contact #
“repo a Oy 5 /s issued Hexicaa’ ‘eravel fora By. #24553, at
Nuevo “Laredo. 19/ “According to the dispatch Ruiz reported
that he ‘could ‘not. verify the contact's ingormatton, ve

but thought it might be of interest to the United States

government. 20/

 

  
  

 

as
v : . \ ‘ oo. . : 4 ; / ; . ; ; Be ,
ec : . [Reouree 7 Cye@
DRAFT bala .

Cuban-American

In Book V of the final report of the Senate Select -

Committee to Study Governmental Operations on the performance
of the intelligence agencies in the investigation. of the
‘assassination, the FBI and CIA are criticized for their
apparent failure to fully pursue leads surrounding the -
assassination of president Kennedy and then to fully report
to the Warren Commission the results of the investigations
they did undertake. One such lead concerned the travel

from Texas to Mexico City of apunidentities Cuban- .
_American on November 23, 1963, and then his flight to Havana on
November 27. 1/ The lead was made more "interesting" by

‘the fact that the Cuban-American reportedly attended a
meeting of the Tampa chapter of the Fair Play for Cuba
Committee on November 17, 1963. 2/ The House Select
‘Committee on Assassinations examined the documents connected
to that lead to determine: . (a) whether the facts which were
known by the FBI and CIA about that individual warranted | -

further investigation | ‘and what investigation was undertaken; ..

   

(b) whether any of that information ‘was reported to the Warren:
Commission; and (c). whether the, know 1. facts suggest | any. he

involvement - in the assassination of president Kennedy.
 

fBMOATAONE]

    

C$

wir Chassification:

 

 

(This form is ‘to be used for materiol extracted Br r
; from ClA—controlled documents.) gid
om WA HAS.NO OBJECTION TO. p) 2°"

nO, oS peeled Pr ji a
Cover Sheet isa OF NPD, ] pratt

 

The attached package of paper is the property of
the House Select- Committee .on Assassinations, and.is
on loan to CIA under an agreement whereby CIA is not
to reproduce or copy the draft or any portion thereof.

Notes may be taken on materials in this package,
and rough notes flay be prepared as a basis for informal
and oral exchanges with HSCA representatives. These -_
notes, however, are to be held as though controlicd and
_ are to be destroyed under agreed conditions with HSCA. —

They are not to be copied or excerpted and-are to-be .
held until further instructions are received for
_ eventual disposal. — CO , '
These papers have been numbered for. accountability
and receipted accordingly. ‘They are to be handled on :
a secure basis as. though constituting sensitive papers
on 2 need-to-know basis. :

 
   
   

Classification:

  
 

 

 
ca > “4
Cuban-Amex .can...page 2

e@ FBI and CIA

information which was. in the

A’ chronology of the activities

   
  
  

on this lead amplifies

possessj the two agencies.
CIA Investigation

‘The first information on the travel of the Cuban-
tn £ft
American appeared on, December GF 1963. At that time the

Mexico Station of the CIA sent a classified. message

  
  

to CIA headquarters that “a“source

 
  
 

requested of-the Mexico Chief of Station at 1300 hours

  

on that date urgent traces on U. S. citize ‘Gilberto P...

Lopez." af “Phe source said Lopez arrived_in | Mexico on

es lio
wovenbex 23 en route to Havana and thaG Lopez had

disappeared wi

   
  

record of his trip to Havana. According
to the message, Lopez Pad a tourist card, carrying number
24553, which he obtained in Tampa on November 20, 1963 and

his passport number was: 310162. _ The message stated that topes.

     

“left. Mexico for Havana, on November 27, via Cubana (Airlines).

The classified message ‘Listed theGe yetonyn oe gest

ch Gover") travel. Tt indicated | ‘the Mexico

Station had no traces on chim: 4/

In another 4 assified message (dated December 3, iw from

the fiéxico SS stacioh to CIA headquarters, the station

 

   
 
 

   

source of information

St the FBI office in ity had been

  
 

  

advised by Mexican authorities th ed Mexico on

November 27 at Nuevo Laredo. 5/
“Cuban- American...page 3

+ gest rhe alent
In another slash tieaaessage ;
to the Mexico CG station from CIA headquarters, the Agency

i a o
reported that the State~Department check on Goper) haa produced noth

yet because of the difficulty-in tracing records using only
a name and passport number. 6/ The message contained this

paragraph:

  

We assume you have not told CITEMPO Souter
that Lopez flew to Cuba on 2 : .

=) you do not want to blow the
y IFIREJ peration. This problem is up
to yous 7/ .

/the GxrrRr) opetptsc :

ZEEE sarin
eer

   

ed to in the classified message >
oF) ow

Ott NS

    
 
   

      

 

an@ obtaining the pas is of the Cubana flights-
ere ‘meeellinetememne ets

 

(Mexican officials also had their own program to photograph the

   

passports of the aASSENGEers arriving from Havana. )8/

    

   

on December 5, 1963, ‘the Mexico Chey | ‘Station “reported
LTD . : oe

  

crossed the Mexican border fat. Laredo; Texas ¢ on November 23,

1963 and registered in ‘the Roosevelt Hotel, in Mexico City on.
She nae FIs P Sova of
November 25 at 1600 hours in Room 203. 9/ sees

reported that Lopez departed on a Cubana flight on
