 

EJL First Draft
Page 9

On 12/10/65 Charles Thomas, a political officer
at the American Embassy, wrote a memorandum about a
conversation with Elena Garro de Paz. (CIA #586-587,
WX-7241 Entry No. 425, Pp. 91, CIA No. 718.) The meeting
with Elena had been about other matters but she mentioned
knowing Oswald. Thomas noted that she was reluctant to
talk but did.

Elena's story reported here is the same, but with

 

more details, as that given in th She

said that General Clark Flores, Silvia Duran, Eusebio

Azcue, Emilio Carballido, and a Latin American Negro man

with red hair were at the party. A marginal comment by this

entry in WX-7241 says, “How did Elena know about a red-haired

Negro?" Elena also told Thomas that she had later learned

that Silvia Duran had been "Oswald's mistress while he

was there.“ (A note by this entry in WX-7241 says “How

did Elena Garro know about Silvia being the mistress of

Oswaid?? This is 1965. Station heard trom (Erxine/3 fin

July 67; see also WX-7241,. Entry 613, p. 116, CIA No. 743.)
Elena told Thomas that she and her daughter had

gone to the Cuban Embassy in November 1963. Once inside

the gates they shouted “assasins" and other insults at

the Embassy employees. Shortly after this incident a

friend, Manuel Calvillo, an official in the Gobernacion,

took her and her daughter to a small hotel in the center
EJL First Draft
Page 10

of Mexico City. They were kept there for eight days
under the pretext that they were in danger. Elena
claimed to have told Calvillo that she wanted to tell
her story to the American Embassy. Calvillo dissuaded
her by telling her that the American Embassy was full
of Communist spies. Elena said that some of the other
people who had been at the Party were taken to Veracruz
where they were "protected" by Governor Lopez Arias.
She said that Ruben Duran, reportedly "protected" by
General Clark Flores, was very prosperous and was driving
a big car.

The COS wrote a note on the memo which says: "What
an imagination she has!?! Should we send to Headquarters?"

The Officer replied, “Suggest sending. There have been

 

stories around town about all this, and Thomas is not
only person she has talked to...If memory serves me, didn't
[sxcooxiziferer to Oswald and the local leftists and Cubans
in one of her squibs?" (CIA No. 588, note from SW to COS.)
The information in Thomas! 12/10/65 report was
cabled to CIA Headquarters (Cable from Mexico City to the
Director, Mexi 5621, date cut off my copy; CIA Nos. 584-585.)
This cable reports that Elena is the wife of the "prominent
Mexican poet Mexican Ambassador Delhi Octavio Paz Lozano."
(IBID.) The cable informed Headquarters of the substance
of Thomas' report including the fact that Elena claimed

that Ruben Duran later told her that he was not really a Communist
EJL First Draft
Page 8

a

Lavagnini Stenius. (IBID)

The letter which Ms. Garro said was the first
written by the young man to her daughter bore the date
September 1, 1963 and the Mexico City Post Office postmark
September 2, 1963. When Ms. Garro was told this she
commented that probably the Communists have facilities
for falsifying postcards. (IBID)

To further investigate Ms. Garro's story the Federal
Bureau interviewed Ario Alejandro Lavagnini Stenius on
November 27, 1964. (IBID.) Lavagnini recalled that there
were approximately thirty people at the Ruban Duran party,
few of whom he knew. He recalled having met a Mexican girl
who had recently returned from living in France. He was
unable to fix the date of the party, but felt it was
probably early in September because of a heavy rain which
occurred as they were leaving the party about 2:00 a.m.
(IBID. p. 4)

Lavagnini noted no Americans present at this party.
He was familiar with the appearance of Lee Harvey Oswald
because of publicity following the assassination of President
Kennedy but otherwise had no knowledge of him and had never
seen him except for news photographs following the assassina-
tion, (IBID. p. 4)

There is no indication on the document that this

information was given to the Central Intelligence Agency's

Mexico City Station.
 

EJL First Draft
Page 7°

On November 24, 1964 Elena and her daughter met
with Mexico City representatives of the Legal Attache's
office. They recounted the same story previously given

SOOKIE x] The date of the party was given as September

 

30, October 1 or October: 2, 1963. (FBI 105-825555 Report,
Dec. 11, 1964 entitled Lee Harvey Oswald, P.1) The agent
who wrote the report noted that the FBI investigation of
the John F. Kennedy assassination had established that Lee
Harvey Oswald had departed Mexico City by bus at 8:30 a.m.
on October 2, 1963. Lee Harvey Oswald could not have been
identical with the American allegedly observed by Mrs. Paz
at the party if this party were held on the evening of
October 1 or October 2, 1963. (IBID. p. 3)

Elena was questioned regarding the identity of other
persons attending the party at the Ruben Duran home who
might have been in a position to observe the three Americans.
Elena stated that in the course of the party her daughter
met a young man named "Alejandro" at the party and danced
with him. He was apparently quite smitten with the
daughter and tried to call her on several occasions after
the party. The daughter did not take the calls and as
a result "Alejandro" wrote several letters to the daughter.
Ms. Garro exhibited two of the letters, as well as a

business card which identified the young man as Ario Alejandro
 

EJL First Draft
Page 5

The Garro's claimed that they had recognized Oswald's
photograph when it was published after the assassination.
The arrest of Silvia Duran "underlined their certainty"
that the man had been Oswald. (IBID.)

Deba added that Lynn and one of the Duran brothers
had made trips to Texas. She also said that, even though
they were always poor before the assassination, they were

both driving expensive new cars. A notation on the memo

 

7/1 (uicooxrsynever regained contact with
Elena Garro de Paz. (IBID.)

the(Excoox18} nono was not in either the Elena Garro
or Lee Harvey Oswald "P" files but in a project file. It
was found in December, 1965. See WX 7241, p. 94, CIA #721.)
A marginal notation on WX 7241 says, "Why was this not sent
to Headquarters??" (p. 87, CIA #714.)

On 10/12/64 the Chief of Covert Action, FNU Flannery,
wrote a memo for the record. (10/12/64 memo, CIA #596;
WX-7241, p. 87, CIA #714.) This memo reported that Elena
Garro de Paz had told her story to Eunice Odio who relayed
it to (excusoms}on 10/9/64.

The story is not as detailed as the 10/5/64 version.
There is no mention of Deba Garro Guerrero Galvan. The
story, perhaps because it is third hand, differs from the
previous story in two areas. The party was at the Cuban

Embassy not at Ruben Duran's. Elena talked to a Cuban
EJL First Draft —
Page 6

- Embassy official not one of her cousins about the three
Americans.

A note, attached to the memo, to the Chief of
Station, Winston Scott: from Flannery reads, "Do you want
me to send the gist of this to Headquarters?." Scott
replied "Yes, but we should follow up first." Flannery
then wrote: "Nothing further." Scott then noted that
the memo should be filed. The file indications show that
the memo went into the Oswald "P" file and the Elena
Garro "P" file. (IBID.)

On 24 November 1964 a CIA informant reported some

  

 
 

7 (Memo from

 

information he had learned <xon TIN,
Win Scott to the Files, re: June Cobb, 11/25/64, CIA Nos.
592-593; WX-7241, p. 88, Entry #404, CIA #715.) June Cobb
is an "American Communist" who rents a room from Elena
Garro. Elena ee (ocr. ae she tried to talk to
Robert Kennedy when he was in Mexico because she had met

~ Oswald "and two friends (Cubans)" at Horacio Duran's house
at a party. Elena also said that she had told her story
to an American official, at the Embassy, who claimed to
represent the Warren Commission. The COS noted that he had
asked the informant to gex{ixcuann/: fo pursue the story.
(IBID.) There is no indication that rcuawn/1 pursued the

story.
 

 

 

 

 

EJL First Draft
Page 1

splendid success." Critics have said of her: "For
Elena Garro, there is no frontier between reality and
fantasy; in any case, the latter is a second reality--
perhaps more intense-- to which one may penetrate without
Passport or forewarning, thanks to the effectiveness of

a literature fired with passion, flavor and life." Many
people who knew Elena have asserted that the frontier
between reality and fantasy is‘ also difficult for Her to
distinguish in real life.

Ms. Garro, for many years, was an active worker in
the Confederacion Nacional Campesina (CNC), the agrarian
arm of the Partido Reformista (PRI). Because Ms. Garro
was a tireless propagandist and agitator on behalf of the
poorer Mexican peasants, she was on close personal terms
with and enjoyed the respect of peasant leaders from all
over the country.

Elena was considered a witty, urbane and opinionated
woman with an unflagging sense of humor. Her forthright
opinions and sharp wit tended on occasion to ruffle feathers
in Mexico, but her important social, literacy, and political
connections rendered her fairly immune from serious counter-
attack until 1968. ‘Then, Ms. Garro was forced to flee the
country with her daughter, Elenita and her sister, Deba

’ Guerrero de Galvan, in the midst of the student strikes.

 
 

180-10142-10304

 

. CIA
Biography DECLASE:
. ~ pio y
Elena Garro de Paz was born of Spanish parents in

   

 

 

Puebla, Mexico on December 11, 1917. Ms. Garro attended
the National Autonomous University of Mexico and later
did ‘graduate work at Berkley in California and at the

University of Paris. In 1963, Elena had long been married

to Octavio Paz, a career diplomat who is also one of

Mexico's finest poets and leading intellectuals. when

 

Octavio was. named Mexican Ambassador to India, the couple
separated by mutual consent. Elena's daughter, also
named Elena, has always resided with her mother.
Since Elena spent seventeen years of her early
life in Europe she had a rather un-Mexican objectivity
Gi about her native land and had a reputation for being one
if its more articulate detractors. At the same time, Elena
‘was considered emotionally committed to many aspects of

Mexican life and made an important jcontribution to its

 

artistic development.
In the 1960's Elena became a significant writer.

Hogar Solido, El Rey Mago, La Senora en su_Balcon, Ventura

 

 

Allende, Andaise por las Ramas, Parada Empresa, and El Viaje

 

are plays that have had appreciative audiences in Europe,
where they were translated into German, as well as in Mexico.
“Ms. Garro's short stories are collected in a volume called

La Semana de Colores. The Literacy Supplement of the London

 

 

 

 

Times has called her novel, Los Recuerdos de Porvenir, “a

180-1 D/4¢4-/0 a0¢q
 

 

 

 

 

EJL First Draft
Page 3

Before her disappearance from Mexico, Elena was
well disposed toward the United States and had been
friendly with Embassy officers. Her broad range of signifi-
cant personal friends, the views of many important to the
American Embassy, made her a useful Embassy target. Through-
out the early 1960's she was carried as a target in the
Embassy's Youth Program.

American Embassy employees dealing with Elena
believed that despite her access to the underground happenings
in Mexico, including peasant unrest, since she had a tendency
to romanticize developments in reporting on them made it
difficult at times to determine what degree of credence

to place on-what. might truly be useful and concrete information.
 

EJL First Draft
Page 4

Elena's Story and American Government Agency Follow-up

 

Elena Garro de Paz' story first came to the American
intelligence agencies' attention on October 5, 1964,
eleven days after the publication of the Warren Commission
Report. The source of The Blind Memo was a Central

iCOoKtE “Vax 241, p. 94,

 

Intelligence Agency asset known a
Entry #430, CIA #721; Blind Memo dated 10/5/64, CIA #576).
The memo reported that Elena Garro de Paz, her daughter
and Deba Garro de Guerrero Galvan discussed meeting Oswald
in Mexico in the fall of 1963. The discussion was, reportedly,
sparked by the newspaper coverage given the Warren Report.
Elena and Deba are the first cousins of Horatio, Ruben
and Lynn Duran. Elena, her daughter and Deba were invited
to a “twist party" at the home of Ruben Duran. The party
was in the middle of a week in the fall of 1963. Lee Harvey
Oswald was at this party in the company of “two other
beatnik looking boys." (IBID.) The Americans remained
together the whole evening and did not dance. When Elena
tried to talk with them, she was “shifted" to another room.
One of Elena's cousins told her at the time that he (or she)
did not know who the Americans were except that Silvia Duran
had brought them to the party.
The day after the party Elena and Deba saw the same

three people on the Insurgentes, a main avenue in Mexico City.
