 
 
  

, - Gassifcation: _secee
& form fs 18 be used fer. materi anvacted
Oh erk—contraled aBeUmERte:) :

7Ba~

  
 

 

  

mye

 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
 
  
 

 

 

4) the CIA's concern for ‘protection of its
i “sensitive sources and methods arid the
consequent effects of this concern ;
upon the Warren Commission investigation;

and

  
  
  
  
   
 

the substance and. quality of information
concerning Luisa Calderon passed. to the
Warren Commission and the results of this a
. Committee' s. investigation of Calderon

and her significance to the events of

Novenber, 22, “1963. o

 

IT. Select Committee Shag at way -

Information Made Available by CIA to Warren

 

Commission se cin P 2° 2oe0s'7 aera

Sec begi in rata gs of FHS. section

e : C7

 

 

OLS.

  
. gi form 8 19 be ued fer material extracted
om, Ca=sontreted Secure ts)
To ke jase ed price + setter

“Tc. organization of CIA Investigation -

of President -Kennedy' s Assassination a

In his Executive Session testimony before the - Select
Committee, Richard Helns, the rat s Deputy Director for

“Plans during 1963,  deseribed the CIA's role in the

‘investigation of President Kennedy' S assassination as -

: follows:

. | This crime was committed on United
States soil. Therefore, as far. as the
Federal government was concerned, the pri-
mary investigating agency would have been
the Federal Bureau of Investigation without
any question.. The role of the CIA would
have been entirely supportive in the sense ff .

of what material we are (sic) able to .
acquire outside the limits of the United _
States with reference to the investigation.

ose For investigative purposes, the Agency

 
 
  

 

oye a enasted

  

 

ok ey Warren Commission staff: and members and

 

former | Or present ‘CIA representatives in an
“effort. to resolve questions that are not
addressed by the written record. The results

of the Committee's efforts to chronicle this

aspect of the working relationship ‘between the

 

Warren. Commission and the CIA will be: a subject
for discussion hérein. :

tn addition, this report will examine the

 

. following subjects generated, by the Committee’ s : or a : gs
study as outlined above, in the. ‘following general pe ne
order of discussion: - : - oo ~ eo ; i §
: 1y ‘the ; organization of ‘the, crat s investigation: a . ne -

. of President Kennedy ' s. assassination; : ¢
| 2) the working relationship of the Warren ;

Commission staff and those’ CIA representatives, a

 

 

- "_soncerned with the Warren Commission inguigy: ©
3p -the standards of investigative cooperation
: which ‘the Warren Commission staff believed .
7 . to govern the quality and ‘quantity of
- information supplied by the CIA to the

‘Warren Commission;

 
  
      
 
 

   

from ‘ClA~controlled ‘documents. yo ;
relevancy Adopted. by: the CIA and this committee,

ertain files: requested by ‘the committee. for”

a have been made available to! oye. .
, the. committee in a saritized ‘fashion® Therefore,
to, the degree reflected by the, Agency’ s denial
of access and/or. sanitization of certain materials,

this study’ s conclusions are ‘based upon the |

 

; “best evidence, available to’ ‘the Committee ‘th’ Cough
‘this may not be ali relevant evidence _to which -
the Agency. has access.

One. musty moreover, ‘give. due. consideration

to ‘the role, that oral, discussions, oral briefings,

       

and meetings of Warren. Commission and CIA.
* representatives may: have played. in the supply of.

“assaasination-related information by the CIA to

 

the Warren: “Commission. : The subject and substance

: of ‘these. discussions, ‘briefings, and meetings ©

record made the oe . subject: of this. study. a

“Therefore, the Committee has conducted ‘interviews,

o00008.

+ ela Siles ectaininy +o Rminoe -, ara teres Poon)
aed j cssni sa i ? ao
, Pannen :

Saat +1 act fen xe

depositions and executive session hearings with

, may not always be: reflected by the. written

 

 

      
   
 
  

 
 
  

  
   
  
 

i (this: form is to. be’ ‘used for’ mmoterial: extracted
from CIA-—controlled documents. a

 

    
 
 

3) “Agency: aigsemination to. the: ‘FBI: et al

 
 

 

, regardin rumors. ana allegations
; regarding President Kennedy’ Ss:
assassination :
Memorandum submitted by CIA to the
| Warren Commission on Rumors | and

Allegations Relating to the ‘President! Ss

 

   

Assassination (17 TGR, Introduction =

 

to tab BL)

In reviewing ‘these compilations, a

    

the, Committee | aor focused upon. those
. CIA’ materials which the 7 TER documented “as having

made. available: ain written form to the | Warren

 

Commission. FS

7 During the course of! this study, additional.

Agency files have been | reviewed. These files have

  

  
  
  
 
  
   

been examined in an effort: to resolve certain.

issues created “by the review of. the’ ‘agency’ s. — oe

. a Fe See
compilations discussed ‘in ‘this ‘report. Where" o

apparent gaps” existed in. the written: record;

 

: files “have been requested and reviewed in an: effort

to resolve ‘these gaps. Where significant substantive

 
 

 
   
  
   
   

bacwn DgaH

(This form is’ to: be used. “for material ‘extracted
from ClA—controlled docunients.) . :
issues have arisen related: to. the kind and

“quality. of information. provided the Warren

 

Commission, files have also been requested and
~yeviewed in an effort to reigolve these ‘issues.: ae : ..
As a result, approximately thirty ‘files, comprising .
_ an approximate total of ninety volumes:of .
material have been. examined and analyzed

“in preparation of this report. as

The findings’ set forth herein’ are subject ,
to modification due to the following corisidexa- :
. tions. During ‘the course of the past fifteen

years, the CIA has . generated massive amounts of :

 

 

information related to the assassination of
- President Kennedy. In spite of the Agency" ‘s

¢ r | sophisticated document retrieval system, certain
ve .

, mee | documents ‘requested by this, Committee for: study

| and analysis have not been located. ‘Whether these,
BS @

“documents merely have’ been filea incorrectly. or os

destroyed, gaps in the written, record. still do : ; ae §

| exist. 899605
Lo
Vv 2 “Secondly, due to dissimilar’ standards of poe

eb gt Re eng
.

 

Pay A-

or iA SPK Sas. smederials peondaid sheRackef ler
aa iai fyokdisa Sal, Ae vanCacalle va
(Cabaa Tate 7 GerGK | Secvice\ defector),

pr rdinro dears ee Cn

NTA wf

   
 
 
 
 
   

 

 
  

 

 
  

ie : - Classification:

(This form is to be ‘used for material ‘extracted

 

 

e

stigation,
the misinforming or withholding of
evidence from the Narren Commission was the

  

 

 

“Classification:

ee

 

 

 

  
 
  
  
  

80-10147-101

   

8

 

Ve

 

_Berk-nitGlassification: — =

 

(this: form is to. ‘be: ‘used for material extracted
_ from ClA—controlled documents. ) :

   

a

has. been, a source of controversy since the

    

inception of the: Warren Commission. critics

have repeatedly. charged that the cra participated
“ins a conspiracy ‘designed to. suppress, information -
relevant to’ the assassination of President Kennedy,

= “ Py ee ve During. 1976 the critic! s

 

assertions were the subject of official inquiry,

  

by the Senate ‘Select ‘Committee to. Study
‘Governmental Operations (hereinafter SSC).- Bie
ssc, ‘in its report regarding The Investigation:

. of the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy?
Per formance. of. the Intelligence Agencies" reached.

BS pedles ;
. the following. conclusion: ,

 

®
«

The ‘Committee emphasizes - that it has

not uncovered any evidence. sufficient

to justify a conclusion that there was:
a conspiracy to assassinate President
Kennedy. ‘ :

 

The. ‘Committee tac, nowevéis developed oe
. evidence - which impeaches the process:

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only.
D0 Not Rep foduce.. oat

   

    

 
     
 
 

| ‘adie

 
 

 

197-101 &p
  
  
 
  
    

“SECRET

   

: 3
Classification: _

(This form is 48 be used for material extracted mo
© from CiA—controlled documents. ) .

result ‘of a conscious intent to. do so by the.

“agency or its employees.

 

The Committee has sought to. examine the’:
issue detailed above in both an objective ©

and ‘disciplined manner. in order to accomplish ~
this goal the Committee has utilized.a 1977. Tack Pees

ko
Report hy “tae /OINs AnebaetOr-cenexal (hereinafter

77 Hg). This ‘Report was highly critical of
“8 vagy galesrenb AME ASH one :
the SSC : findings” and: asserted that the ssc”

 

 

Final Report. conveyed an impression of. limited:

 

effort by: the cra. to assist ‘the Warren cnineston

ain: its work. The a7 TGR was | in’ ‘fundamental |

 
  

   

© isagreement with this, ‘characterization’ of he
” gsc. findings and ‘noted ‘that, "CIA did seek’ and
collect information, in support “of the warren -
“commission. Additionally, it conducted studies ~

and submitted special analyses “and reports."

   

7 ‘TGR, Introduction to “Tab Ee) pee oe

 

In‘order to ‘demonstrate further. the: ‘scope
of “support provided by the CIA. to ‘the Warren
, Commission, “the 77 IGR. contained a comprehensive

‘Listing of CIA: generated material made available”

  

; - - Classification: 28

 

 

iT “Cente by derivalt 00 0 2.
 
   
    
 

ra _ Classification: —

 

» (This form is to be used for material extrocted:
from ClA—controlled documents.) ~ Loam

4 to both the U. s. ‘Intelligence: Community. and:

wd

“the Warren. Commission regarding ‘the assassin:

 

tion’ of President. Kennedy. - “In this respect,

vt

 

ee)

‘the Committee agrees with: the 77- IGR wherein |
it is stated that’ “This compiliation (of
CIA generated material) is” appropriate to
consideration ‘of the extent of the CIA ‘effort, —

' to the extent. that it reveals something of

    

the results of that effort." (77 IGR, Introduction on
(to fab B) wee

In examining the Agency’ s “Comprehensive

  

   

a Listing of. CIA generated material referenced. above,"

 
   

 

7 the Connittee has paralled ‘its: ‘review to the.

      

structure given’ to these materials by the | 77 Tor.
: In this regard ‘the 77 IGR details four. inter-
related compilations of Kennedy. assassination

material.’ ‘These four’ compilations are:

 

oS 1) Agency dissemination of Anformation yy fe

. ae eee
to the Intelligence Community (Formal: ; So
“and ‘Informal Disseminations) |

2) Dissemination of material to ‘the a

 

: Warren Commission:

      

     

lassification: ___ SE

Bw eQeeeaewaawaawe”

 
