 

Cuban-American...page 9

Rodriguez told the FBI that Lopez left Key West.
in late 1963 to go to Tampa with the hope of being able
to return to Cuba. 48/ Rodriguez said he believed Lopez wanted °
to return to Cuba because he was afraid of being | drafted into -
the U.S..military. 49/ Rodriguez said Lopez was not involved
in. any pro-Castro activity while.living in Key West, but that
Lopez was "definitely" pro- Castro. 50/. Rodriguez recounted that .
in one instance he and Lopez actually had a fist“fight: over
Lopez's pro-Castro. sympathies. ‘51/

In a report in March 1964, the PBI reported that Lopez
had attended a meeting of the Tampa Fair Play ‘for Cuba Committee
on November 20, ioe 52/ The report also stated that at a
; meeting of the group on November 17, 1963, Lopez stated that he
had been refused’ travel back to Cuba. He said at that ‘time _
that he was waiting for a phone call from Cuba to get word on
his departure to Cuba. 53/

According to. that report in March, 1964, a member of the ©

Tampa “FPCC stated that she called a friend in Cuba on 1 December 8,

 

1963 and: was ‘told that ‘Lopez had: arrived Sately: ‘say. . The member

 

 

 

   

 

had attempted to locate Lopez in ‘Cuba through friends t re because

Lopez had hot delivered gifts to persons in Cuba from people

   

in Plorida as he had” promised to do. 55/ The “member stated

also that the Tampa chapter of the FPCC had given Lopez
approximately $190 for the réturn trip to Cuba. 56/ - The member
seid that Lopez had gone to Cuba by way of Mexico because he did

Rot have a passport. 57/
 

Cuban-American...page 10

 

The March 1964 FBI report listed Lopez's passport as
#310162, which had been issued in January, 1960, and his
Mexican tourist card as "M8-24553, issued November 20, 1963.
in Tampa. 58/ It stated that Lopez entered Mexico by private |
auto at Nuevo Laredo on November 23, 1963 and departed for
Havana on November 27 as the only passenger ona Cubana £light,
carrying a Cuban courtesy visa. 59/ -

According to the FBI file, Lopez's mother, Esperanza
Rodriguez, was born in Key West, Florida. 60/ The file |
listed three cousins and four uncles who resided and worked in
‘the Key West area with their families. 61/

Lopez's FBI file contains a memo from the Tampa office
dated October 26, 1964 which states: - .

It is felt that information developed
regarding the subject is not sufficient
to merit consideration for the Security
Index. 62/ .
The only information transmitted by the FBI to the Warren

Commission, on Lopez concerned a check at the Passport Office. 63/.

   
 
 

The. information the Bureau did send to, ‘the Commission a bout hes
Tampa chapter of the PCC did not include any ‘information on
Lopez’ 's activities. 64/ The CIA apparently did not provide :
any information on Lopes to the Warren Commission. As pointed

out in the Senate report, this omission is made more egregious
 

Cuban-American...page 8

 

Lopez's wife told the FBI that Lopez began suffering from
recurrent attacks of epilepsy and had to be confined at Jackson:

" State Hospital in--Key-West in early 1963. 36/ | She stated that’ ~

  

“he was treated by doctors from Coral Gables and Key West for the
‘epilepsy. 37/ She stated that she did not believe he had a - _
history of epilepsy before coming: to the United States. 38/
She believed his convulsions were brought. on by nervous “tension | -
and worry over his family in Cuba and may have been a reason
for his return to Cuba in 1963. 39/

The wife said that in approximately: November, 1963,.

 

she received a letter from Lopez saying he had returned to

‘Cuba. 40/ The wife stated that she was surprised he had returned
but that he had mentioned he was going back to Cuba when he

left for Tampa in November, 1963. 41/ The wife gave her opinion
that he returned because of. his close relationship ‘with. his
parents. 42/ ‘The wife stated that she received another letter,
from him later from Cuba. 43/ . “According to the letter, he was

working. as an elevator, operator in ‘Havana. 44/ In that. letter |

   

 

Lopez said he had received some kind of financial assistance .

for the trip from an. organization’ in ‘Tampa: 45/ ‘According: to the

wife, Lopez did not have | ‘sufficient personal funds to pay the |

 

xpenses to Mexico and Cuba. 46/ She said that he ‘had never had —

contact with Cuban refugee organizations to her knowledge. AT/-
 

Jt

Cuban-American...page 7

which had been carried out in Key West, Florida. The report
stated that Lopez's counsin, Guillermo Serpa Rodriguez, told the
FBI that Lopez came to the United Stated for the first time some —
time after Castro first.came to power. 21/ He stayed approximately
one year and then returned. to cuba. 28/ Rodriguez stated that
Lopez returned to Cuba because he was homesick ‘and missed
his £amily; he had parents and four brothers who still resided
- in Cuba. © 29/ .

. - Rodriguez stated also that Lopez's brother Selito was
a member of the Cuban militia at that time. 30/° Another .
brother, Raimundo Policarpo Lopez, had reportedly been
sent to the Soviet Union to study by the Cuban government, -
according to Rodriguez. 31/ .

Rodriguez told the FBI.that Lopez returned to the United
‘States in 1960 on ‘1961 because he was afraid he would be drafted
into the Cuban militia if he remained in Cuba. 32/

the FBI learned that Lopez married an American woman in Key.

West in August, 1962. 33/ According to Lopez's wife, he worked

   

 

for a‘time with the Pepsi Cola Co."in 1962 and at the Molina ° :

and Murgia Bakery in Key West, which was owned by cousins. 34/ -

 

She said that ‘he also worked for a construction company in. =~

Tampa in: June, 1963. °35/

 
   

Cuban~American...page 5
b

 

She. Bers hte

Canc NT OE a .
Also on(Decmeber 5, 1963) CIA headquarters cabled the

 
 

- Mexico City)Station and identified this Cuban-American as

Gilberto Policarpo Lopez, who -was born on January 26, (1940. 14/.

 

It stated also that Lopez was not identical with a Gilberto
Lopez who had been identified as active in pro-Castro groups in.

Los Angeles. 15/

ca] va ory Ladpupabets 2 het, ecvel

COP March, & 1964, Che Honterre Station sen

classified message (Eo headquarter> (Eo headquarter> ED that Enrique Ruiz Montalvo,

an agent of the Mexican Federal Judicial Police, naa 34a! -

CG

7 Informed the CIA hat one of Ruiz's contacts reported

in late February, 1964, that an American citizen named Gilberto

 

Lopes was involved in the Kennedy assassination. i6/ The message
said ‘Ruiz's contact reported that Lopes entered Mexico on

foot from Laredo, Texas about 1200 hours on November. 13 carrying U.S.
passport #319962, which was issued July -13,.1960. -17/ According ©.
to the dispatch, the contact related also that Lopes proceeded by
bus to Mexico City “where he entered Cuban embassy"; “it said that

he left the Cuban Embassy on November 27 and was: ‘the only

  
 

passenger for Cuba: on Flight | 4465. 18/ ae said the. contact .
reported that Lopes. was issued Mexican ‘travel | form B, #24553, at
Nuevo ‘Laredo. 19/ According to the dispatch, Ruiz reported :
that he ‘could not verify the contact’ 'S “information,

but thought it might be of interest to the United States

government. 20/

 
 

Cuban-American...page 6

The cable stated also that background information
(ipers7—
concerning the fonteExey base’ s contact with! Ruiz),was

- Shodadt Gone .
contained in a dispatch dated March 18 which was being pouched |

to headquarters, 2/ , oo, , . ae
Th WERT oft , 6
On March ye, the soputy. Chief of the Mexico City st Station’ ©.

cabled a classified message to headquarters in which it was

stated that the information contained in the earlier dispatch

She PUAch
which discussed Quiz™s conta S05 ipes fully with that provided

[sovace]
station by (CITEMPO ") early December 1963. " 22/

A 201 file was opened on Gilberto Policarpo Lopez by
Agency headquarters on December 16, 1963. 23/ At that time his
records indicated that no earlier 201 file had existed. The
file contains a “Review of 201 file on U.S. Citizen" by:

Barr Gibson an operations officer for the LAM/FI component
of the Agency. 24/ In that review the file was. classified
as a "counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign intelli-

gence or security service). " 25/ ‘The date of ‘entry. of. that

category in Agency records is’ indicated as “January 22, + 1965) in o.

  

Lopez's file. 26/-

  

“FBI Investigation

 

 

Ina report dated August 26, 1964, the FBI documented

the results of its investigation on Gilberto Policarpo Lopez

 

 

 

 
 

Cuban-American...page 2

A chronology of the activities

@ FBI and CIA

information which was, in the

   
  
  

on this lead amplifies.

possessi the two agencies.

 

CIA Investigation

The first information onthe travel of: the Cuban-
ay CAA
American appeared on, December ‘ 1963.. At that time the

Mexico Station. of the CIA sent a classified message

 

 

 

to CIA headquarters that a source (dentified as LITEMPO/4) had

requested of the Mexico Git} Chief of Station at 1300 hours
on that date "urgent traces on U.S. citizen-Gilberto P.

Lopez." 3/ The source said Lopez arrived in Mexico on

November 23 en route to Havana and that Lopez had

 

disappeared with no record of his trip to Havana. According

' to the niessage, Lopez had a tourist card, carrying number

24553, which he obtained in Tampa on November 20, 1963 and - .

his passport, number was: 310162. The message stated that Lopes,

deft Mexico for Havana, on November 27 via “Cubana (Airlines) .

The classified message. -Listea the exyptonyn LIFIRE as the aepi/4

source of information on | Lopez" s travel. it indicated ‘the Mexico”

as
CL Station had no’ ‘traces on him: Af
oy of tha ee Sle

ated December 3,

   
  

In another classified message
a ;

the Mexico City Station to CIA headquarters, the station
coported also that the FBI office in Mexico City. had been

advised: by Mexican authorities that Lopez entered Mexico on

November 27 at Nuevo Laredo. 5/

 

  
 
   

1963) from
 

180-10141-10499

Co Spayeehion SRK
can ns 0 CRIECTEON 10 FOLDER?

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCU MENT. Te 14
AS SANITIZED

 

 

Cuban-American

In Book V of the final report of the Senate Select oo

Committee to Study Governmental Operations on the performance

 

of the intelligence agencies in’ the investigation of the
assassination, the FBI and CIA are criticized for their
apparent Failure to fully pursue” leads surrounding the
assassination of President Kennedy and then to fully report
to the Warren Commission the results of the investigations
they did undertake. One such lead concerned the travel

from Texas to Mexico City of aprunicentitfea Cuban-

American on November 23, 1963, and then his flight to Havana on
November 27. 1/ The lead was made more “interesting” by

the fact that the Cuban-American reportedly attended a
meeting of the Tampa chapter of the Fair Play for Cuba
Committee on November 17, 1963. 2/ The House Select.
Committee on Assassinations examined the documents connected ©
to that lead to determine: (a) whether the facts which were

known by the FBI and CIA about that individual warranted -

   

further investigation and what investigation was’ undertaken; .
(b)} whether any of that information was reported to the Warren -

Commission; and (c) whether the kno+

 

“facts suggest any.

involvement in the assassination of President Kennedy.

. _ p- 10M4{ - 1049
 

   

Cuban- American...page 3

  

sent the wear do ae
Gated December 4, 19637.

    

In another classified message

to the Mexico Station from CIA headquarters, the agency,

 

reported that the: State Department check on Lopez, had. produced nothin
yet because of the difficulty in tracing. records using. only

a name and passport number. 6/ . The message ‘contained this .

 

paragraph: 7 ve eg a ; :

We assume you have not told ¢ «canis Fensee
that Lopez flew to Cuba on 27 November
because you do not want to blow the |
LIPIRE operation. This problem is up |
to you. 7/. : a

- The LIFIRE operation referred to in the epassiti ssage
P tht obAAAAT Epa, Potent Ds al on

to the Mexico Station involved cooperation between the

     
  

— :
CIA and Mexican federal officials who artici ated _in a -

 

: Oo F Pe : o i re Omn: : :
that the EETENPO7S) source ‘had stated that Gilberto Lopez had -

crossed the Mexican border ‘at Laredo Texas on | November 23,

 

1963 ‘and registered | in ‘the Roosevelt Hotel in Mexico ‘City on-
he AB OAIT dP Sout oR
November 25 at 1600 hours in Room 203. EA ~LITEHPO; also

renorted that Lopez departed on a Cubana flight on
 

   

Cuban-Anerican...page 4

November 27 for Hayana . That classified message stated

FOvt oc, go

eeu

additionally that GIEENPO7D hada good photograph of

Lopez. 10/

. The photograph of Lopez contained in his CIA 201 file

has "27 November 1963" stamped on the back. In the photograph

Lopez is shown wearing. -dark glasses and the background | in

the photograph is dark and indistinguishable.

phe. HMarwies g Sry
Ina dispatch ated Décéiber 5, 1963)from the Chief of

Station in Mexico CES to headquarters, copies of the

"photograph of Lopez were attached. and. the dispatch stated

Wend —

that the photograph was. 5 taken, @n the night of November

     

IS Seat ET Toe

 

ein

 

 

  
 

g_a Cubana flight.;1

the . previously reported information of the ‘numbers of Lopez's”

  

ee
1963 at the Mexico City airport by Mexican authorities as

OR

 

rities as 7
ll/ The dispatch gave

 

passport and tourist card and his entry

into and departure from Mexico.

The dispatch contained the
po

additional information that Lopez was (Gisted 45) the only

passenger on Cubana: Flight #465 on November 21,

‘the flight contained a’ “crew of nine Cubans. tt. _said he used

a U.S...passport and av “Cuban courtesy visa. “ay “The ‘dispatch’

had the following: message: "Source states. the timing ana

circumstances surrounding subject ‘s. travel through Mexico and. _

departure for Havana are suspicious.

said also that the source "urgently"

data on the individual.

13/ The dispatch

requested all available

 

 

 

Ve

1963 to Havana;

 

 
