at th

the 1940
prota

moe

gets

ayorsr dd. tha»

f

 

 

‘ re ht apg pref |
WF pupal Loraperi- a wt 2 Ll, —_— |
| Unageme... - lo Chua Bag. -p- 9) TG |
Debit Y Au feet (frediwic 2 on ow. LISG +
(ysea 08S FFo pet, 0 linn Heelys Cog
Finn OK, ct) La¥ bonitensed
7; me arth Bae 9) centile ee, J |
f ns La - Reple.(nbP||
[Proceed Sipe CHscA. co 700 5) eo One - Calis. '

  

     

 

 

 

 

Gian py hr waht aw
| & avira Ff Us» Cla flee. D00. Ry 2

akd wtitckinn, CO/A1 DDD Ray voh TE , Calle aa <

ee:

|: Vol ar, 9 Gene 196 2 bn) etn. Prepare poe bla
bul Aobemitled

By oe anim Bangin, Rei ar =
7
|

  
  

ed

 

. ‘C@Alpoo Ray VOL TE Ongang ala. GPP) Palo
. Tpke Bare Go YBa vice
+ | Rey “Wwe. i ae Onitiaags de. yo)

Sane wee red 2, cect ie Se mee. i aut
ae Hain, Deptt Aeotogion CCPIDDO Gay voho GrTaek—

¢ oe Eating, Y Gege Coup \rans/eo, —_ ne

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

SuTthrow Caolid rag bagebhes. Cet [Or (eg Vel ty.
Yremo for fee ond Pray. 5, fet, frre alsa, Mee Rar,

 

 

 

 
 

nln 4

 

Aube Zanepr

|. Cobos Aarrago-

 

  

Uke i, cn Sept. 1764. (a 9 ;

0a DDe damage - Bat Ougo R iy 9f23/e4 ) Peper |
 

   

4F|

wie !)

Beowig. their spurs, 1 fae fos .
Asaesnale Babin VAAL OA, SCE se LOO 8 ~
- a acumulic, LeapetA J Beputz Chief , Witksa. Aust Haine,
Wifey, Yypic, bf —Dhem aw undeseoues psases Ue -
aa tefen). jocuap iz i nfo

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

malo :

 

| aud the rer we wens) I

 
 

  

In the Summer of 1960, while still in Cuba, Ray

was actively recruited by the CIA to become a member of the

wey fo
. efe7 7

FRD. His background was questioned by the State De artment

and the Miami CIA office. | Despite their objections, Ray

was granted Provisional Operational Approval by the CIA on

October 25, 1960 and, with the aid of the CIA, he was brought

clandestinely into the United States on November 10, 1960.
Ray's personnel papers at the CIA contain the following

pony assessment: "Subject has definite political action potential,

is a pro-democratic official of government who is not in

 

sympathy with aims of international Communism and is interested
in strengthening ties between Cuba and U.S."

. Not everyone in the CIA {who knew Ray) were in agreement
with this assessment. In a Memo for Record,. dated 11/21/60,
it was reported that, "... Ray did not politically represent
anything to cheer about." Another CIA officer who met privately
with him in November 1960 stated that his political posture
was doubtful as far as U.S. Government acceptance was concerned.

CIA official
Still another/assessment of Ray stated that his action all
seemed directed toward making him the future power in Cuba
rather than overthrowing Castro. It was believed that Ray
fwas so far "left" in his thinking that he would be as dangerous
(or more so in the long run) to U.S. interests as Castro, if
he ever got to be a power in Cuba.
Ray made his political position very clear during a

private meeting with a CIA officer on Névember 15, 1960 - five
days after his arrival in the U.S. Hf said that the MRP did

: and .
not wish to reinstate the 1940 Cuba onstitution/that the
180-10142-10242

 

 

by ral a October 24, 1978

Dearest Chris,
Funny you should have written me asking if I had ever heard
about Manuel Rey -- he has been of interest to me in my work
for nearly a year ~- so here is all you ever wanted to know
but were afraid to ask.
/
Manuel Ray Rivero was born in Cuba in 1924. He has
- been described as softspoken, unassuming, almost humble --
a natural leader of the highest intellect, deepest sincerity
a
and conviction. In 1947, because of his outstanding performance
as a civil engiaser, he was granted a scholarship by the Cuban
Ministry of Public Works to pursue graduate studies in engineering
at the University of utak. Ray was in the United States for
Sys years ue did not complete his work for a Masters pegree.
Sete CaisneTe Bry. SPH
When he eturata to Cuba, he held various positions in the
engineering field, one of which was Project Ménager for the
% 0
construction of the Havana Hilton ‘Hotel.
! In May 1957 he organized the Civic Resistance Movement ,
which supervised sabotage and acts of terrorism against the

i CHSC 009 605"
Batista regime. Fidel Castro appointed him Minister of

Leb) |
4 Castropbe-

Public Works in February 1959 -bea
lay ve he on
hee ~Cptse Of his Goimunist—cemrecttons bedin November 1959, Ra
Ly Was avrgtied.and relieved Of tis—efficia ion.
yee ST ener

‘ founded the anti-Castro Mov

   
    

then

   
    
  

 

ento Revolucionario/del Pueblo

  
    
        
 
 
 

and served as its Chief. Othe individuals goOmpleting the

leadership of the MRP were: Raul pecial Assistant
to Ray; Juan Esteves Ramires, Secretaxy; Ramon Barquin,
Military Intelligence Matters; RogelNo Cisneros, Chief

of MRP in Cuba.

 

ile ee
 

‘
att En

2

"government afterCastro's overthrow, Miro Cardona was opposed

3

(Lar # gps

Castro laws passed at the, bdginning of his regime would be

continued. Ray further statéd’that he believed the State
me

should regulate private invest nts andjutilities should

   
   
  

be nationalized. Charges of/"Fid lismo without Fidel" were

made against Ray's group, fhe MRP, because of these "leftist"

ideologies.
Negative information about Ray was also voiced by
“the Cuban exile community and came to the attention of the

CIA. (He was described by one exilé as highly dangerous

because of his ambition to play a prominent ro
~ a be.

a ote ae

cm

to him on the grounds that his program was too Marxist.and
further stated that Ray was bitterly anti-American as well
as probably totalitarian in his thinking. Manuel aArtime 2”
said the MRP was opposed to banning the Communist Party and
in favor of "nationalizing everything." .

Although aware of his controversial political

philosophy, the CIA actively recruited Ray to join the FRD.

set

le in-the Cuban.

i

Ae

4, The White House and State Department pushed for his inclusion.

CIA

Ray received full/operational approval.as a "political

asset" on February 7, 1961 and accepted appointment to the
CRC in March. He himself had resisted joining the CRC be-
cause he felt the members were too restrained and he did not
want to become a part of a situation in which someone else
was running the show for the exiles. Within a week after
agreeing to join, Ray met with a CIA officer and complained
A Fo berm tend Eee ye}

that Miro was backing away from his commitments and was not

willing to give Ray any voice in the Council. He recalled
 

the events of this period to HSCA investigators in 1978,
stating that certain influential ana wealthy Americans,
among them William Pawley, Opposed him and a lot of heavy
propaganda was circulated at this time accusing him of being

a Communist.

 
