 

 

 

.us to interview Gulibé

First Draft
jPage Nirie

or 515-8621, he would be able to help us.

At 2:15 P.M., Committee staffer Lopez telephoned
Horatio Duran, who gave him Ernesto Lehfeld Miller's office
phone number, 548-4839. At 2:20 P.M., Lopez telephones Mr.
Miller and arranged a meeting for 9:00 P.M. that evening.

At 2:30 P.M., Agent Martinez telephoned Capitan

Ventura to report on his progress. When Martinez told Ventura’

that he had located fAlberuel, Ventura asked him if he was
alone. When Agent Martinez lied and stated that he was alone,

Ventura told him that he should under no circumstances allow

 

e. When Agent Martinez completed his

’ phone Gall, he said "I don't understand why nobody wants you

to talk to him."

“At 9:-0 P.M., August 11, 1978, Committee staffers

- interviewed Ernesto Lehfeld Miller. (See Ernesto Lehfeld

“>Mikler interview write-up.) °.°°

 

 

ae So At- 11:15 A.M, August 12,.1978, Committee staffer

Lopez called ®wWis“Atberue*Suote} at his home. When Mr. Lopez

 

identified himself, Mietbbeique) immediately stated that he

knew nothing. He further stated that he never worked for the
Cuban Embassy. When Lopez explained to him that employees at

the Cuban Embassy had stated that he had been employed there,

 

ePeSWES) hung up. ‘MEY ALberbuetsy voice quivered throughout —
the short talk.

At 11:45 A.M., Sylvia Tirado called Lopez and stated
that she had thought about traveling to Washington all night.

She said that she had seen a report in the papers where Azcue

had stated that the man who visited the Cuban Consulate in 1963
 

 

 

 

 

First Draft
Page Ten

was not Lee Harvey Oswald. She stated that Azcue had only seen

him once while she had seen him “at least three times". When

Lopez said, "At least three times?", Mrs. Duran said, "Three

times, you know?" She further stated that if she testified

in Washington and the Committee concluded that she was lying

she would be crucified when she returned to Mexico. Mr.

Lopez reassured her and explained that he would send her a

long letter explaining’ procedures when he returned to Washington.
At 12:05 P.M., Agent Martinez met the Committee staff -

members at the airport. He stated that Contreras and Calvillo

had not been found. The Committee staffers gave Martinez a

list of questions to ask Oscar Contreras Lartigue. . Agent
- Martinez stated that he would mail the results of the. interview

_, to Lopez at the Committee offices in Washington.

  

‘The Committee staff members left Mexico ‘city at

ods 255 P. .M..and arrived at Washington's ‘Dulles Airport. at 10: 138 |

P.M.
Lise peneesaily

 

 

 

First Draft
Page Eight

was unable to locate Mr. Contreras Lartigue at the convention.
Mr. Martinez then left to check on Mr. Alberue Suoto. and Sylvia
Tirado Bazan. .

at 12:30 P.M., August 11, 1978, Agent Martinez returned

to the Committee staff members' hotel room. He telephoned ©

Mrs. Contreras at Tampico who stated that her husband had not

telephoned her since she had last spoken to Agent Martinez.

At 1:50 P.M., another agent, Honorio Escondon telephoned Agent
Martinez at the ‘Committee staffers’ hotel room to inform him

that alsmambarue Sacto must be back in town because. the scotch

 

tape was no longer in place. At 1:55 P.M., Agent Martinez

‘PBs ydenied that he had

 

telephoned duis “Alberifve Suotol.
worked at the Cuban Embassy in the Sixties, stated that he knew

nothing about the assassination and declined the Committee

' staff members’ request to interview him.

oat 2: 00 Py M, ‘August au, 1978, Agent Martinez: telephoned

Sylvia’ Duran. agent Martinez then gave the telephone to
Committee staffer Lopez. Mr. Lopez asked’ Mrs. Duran whether

she would be willing to testify sometime in September at the
Committee hearings in Washington;.she answered affirmatively.

She stated that September 13th, 14th and 15th would not be

“good days" because the Mexican Revolution celebration would

be taking place and she was a planner and participant. When

Mr. Lopez asked Ms. Tirado if she knew Mr. Ernesto Lehfeld —
Miller's phone number, she stated that she did not. She stated

tht if we telephoned her ex~husband Horatio at either 516-0398
 

 

 

 

First Draft .
Page Seven

staff members interviewed Noe W. Palomares. (See Noe W.
Palomares interview write-up.)
| After the interview Agent Martinez returned to the
Maria Isabel Hotel with Committee staff members. He attempted
to reach Mrs. Contreras at Tampico twice with no luck. At 9:45
P.M., he finally contacted her. -Mrs. Contreras told Agent
Martinez that Mr. Oscar Contreras had told her that he would
try to get a room at either the Hotel Regis or Hotel San.
‘Francisco. Mrs. Contreras explained that since there were a
few conventions scheduled in Mexico City that weekend she
could not assure that he would be at either. Mrs. Contreras
“told Agent Martinez that she would notify him if her husband
should eall.
Mr. Martinez called both hotels and inquirea. whether

Oscar Contreras Tartigue, was registered. He was not registered

   

at either; they were - completely booked-up.

oe Mr. Martinez attempted to reach sylvia Tirado Bazan
at her home to ask her whether she would be willing to travel
to Washington for a hearing date and to ask whether she knew
where Mr. Ernesto Lehfeld Miller could be located. She was
not in.

Agent Martinez explained that he would-go to the hotel
where the Partido Republicano Institucional was holding its
convention early the following morning; after which he would
meet the staf£ members at 9:30 A.M. at their hotel room.

At 9:45 A.M., August 11, 1978, Agent Martinez met

Committee staffers at their hotel room and explained that he
bo,
| oo First Draft
oo Page Five

1908 Iweeco J. Delmesy

    

Wome:

BMESIOO7) He entered Mexico July 1, 1965 and taught oie

x sastuacmuamarnamaignivimenoonnoot . .
fe WM? until January 1, 1968 when he disappeared.

was born in Cub

    

    
 

The Mexican officials assume that he returned: to Cuba.
General Jesus Jose Clark Flores died in the early
1970's.

‘Ernesto Lehfeld Miller, Academic Coordinator at the

School of Interior Design, had not yet been located.

 

Mexican officials that pte SERS) had left town hurriedly
on Monday, August 7, 1978. Mr. Martinez, wishing to know
es mo when she returned, had placed a piece of scotch tape on the’ .

aaa bottom. right edge (of his. door. Mr. ‘Martinez explained that

 

 

he ¢ checked it. every ‘Four: hours” and would “notify us if ilar van 7
“returned before we left. ' ,
Manuel Calvillo did not live at Cuanhtemoc 877-5 as
the Committee had stated. Mr. Martinez spoke to the landlady
at the apartment for the past twenty-five years who said that
no Manuel Calvillo had ever resided there. Committee staff
members explained that Calvillo went by a pen-name which would:
be forwarded the following morning.

When Committee staff members inquired whether Ms.

Sylvia Tirado Bazan could testify at the hearings, the Mexican

 

officials stated that they would have an answer for the staffers

by Friday morning. The Mexican officials explained that they

|
{
.) | Pirst Draft
‘Page Six

would have to speak to her to insure that she was willing
to travel to Washington.

- On Thursday, August 10, 1978, Committee staff members

 

met with Dr. Jesus Yanez, Agent Ciprianio Martinez Novoa,
Capitan Florentino Ventura Gutierrez and Attorney General
Licensiado Dr. _ Breza at 11:00 A.M. The same
information listed for the 11:00.A.M., August 9,. 1978,
meeting was reviewed. Manuel Calvillo's “pen-name" was given
to the Mexicans who stated that they would check it with the
landlady.

: Committee staffers returned to their hotel room with
” - Agent Ciprianio Martinez Novoa after the meeting, Agent
Martinez ‘attempted in vain to telephone Oscar Contreras

Lartigue to inform him ‘of our visit.’ At 3:30 P.M., Agent

 

"Martinez finally reached Mr. Contreras! child who ‘informed him

 

“that. Mr. Contreraé was not in ‘Tampico. “He had traveled to
“Mexico ¢ City for a Pathido Republicano Institucional convention.
“When Agent Martinez asked the child if he knew where his
father was staying in Mexico, he responded that he did not.
Agent Martinez explained to the child that. he would call ata
later time to speak to his mother.

Agent Martinez telephoned Noe W. Palomares at 4:00 P.M.
and arranged an interview at 6:30 P.M. that evening. Mr.
Martinez asked Committee staff members to meet him at his
office at the Procuraduria General at 6:00 P.M.

At 6:00 P.M., August 10, 1978, Committee staff members

met Agent Ciprianio Martinez at the Procuraduria General, and

ha Arnva tham +n Me Dalamavant nAtflian Re 223m TO mF Tint btn
First Draft .
Page Two’

 

In one room {Gancn=nlivarcesburgms] would sit, Committee staff
members would sit in a second room and two CIA, personnel
officers would insure that the equipment worked properly in
a third room. Mr. SteInfield then phoned Mr. Niles Gooding,
who had been sentffto the Mexico City Station} from Headquarters.
to arrange the procedures. Mr. Gooding explained that in
1977 Stansfield Turner had created a new position at Head-
quarters. He explained that his position, which he never
fully explained though asked, was‘ created to insure that
important sensitive meetings were within’ the guidelines set.
Mr. Gooding stated that the Central Intelligence agency had
‘been under greater Congressional scrutiny the past two years.
Mr. Stansfield Turner, wishing to show the Agency's good

faith, had allow the Army to lend them a retired officer to

“act. as liaison, at sensitive. interviews. Mr. Gooding then ex-

 

 

 

‘plained that we would be escorted by ‘two CIA . personnel to

 

our interview with Gai amon “Rlvarez_Daranel|

At 10:55 A.M., August 8, 1978, Committee staff members

    

interviewed [Ram SPpardne, } (see (GnionTAITaRET ADRES J
interview write-up.)

At 12:30 P.M., Committee staff members telephoned
Captain Fernandez Ventura Gutierrez. His secretary explained
that Mr. Ventura was not in the office, but that she. would
have him call us when he returned. At 6:30 P.M., since Mr.
Ventura had not yet returned the staffers call, they again
called his office. His secretary apologized for Mr. Ventura.

and explained that he had not yet returned to the office and

she assured us that he would teleohone uvon his return. At
180-10142-10132

.

 

FERST' DRAPT pene toe SE fo : . Folhn!

House Select Committee staffers Edwin Juan Lopez
and Harold Leap traveled to Mexico City on August 7, 1978.
The staff members were met by David T. Patton at the Mexican
airport at 10:15 P.M. Mr. Patton then checked the staffers
into room 1754, already chosen, at the Maria Isabel Hotel in
Mexico City. Mr. Patton told Committee staffers that Larry
Steinfield wished to see us at 8:30 A.M. the following morning.
On Tuesday, August 8, 1978, Committee staffers met
withjLarry stefneteralf.cra Chief of Station in Mexico’ city)
He informed the staffers that the two individuals ‘the Committee

wishes to interview ffoanny Flores, AKA Luis Aparicigjjand

xin -arvare: Rivarez_DuRane J were “ready. >”

i

(

At 9:30 A.M., August 8, 1978, Committee staff members

interviewed(panny Flores (See write-up offfDanny Fiores]]

interview. ) The interview ended at approximately 10: 15 A. M.

: . Committee staff members ‘returned to, Mr. Steinfield' s
office, ’ Mr. scelnsierd)eates that it appeared that the’
Mexicans had only located two witnesses for the Committee,
Oscar Contreras Lartigue and Noe W. Palomarés. He asked who

the staff members wished to speak to. Committee staff members

explained that they would at some time like to interview

Lichant T]feicooxie rfGinure of: ea] and: cama JQ.
é | :

 

. Steintiely stated that it appeared that the House Select Com-

mittee on Assassinations had alréady asked the Mexicans to

locate them.

 
   

_«& scetneseighseaved that the HSCA's interview with

  

RanG

 

wnvlevere 2~-Dusran Jras considered “highly sensitive". He
explained that three rooms at a nearby hotel would be used.

| OLYZ- /O/32.
i

 

 

 

 

First Draft
Page Three

 

9:15 P.M. Dr. Jesus Yahez, the Assistant to the Oficial Mayor,
telephoned the staff members explaining that Mr. Ventura was

very busy on an important assignment and asked us to visit

the Procuraduria General at 11:00 A.M. the following morning.

At 10:15 A.M., August 9, 1978, Committee staff
members met with State Department Official Richard Howard to
alert him that the Committee would ‘request the Mexican officials
to make Sylvia Duran available in Washington for the hearings.
Mr. Howard explained that once we had permission from the

Mexican government the State Department would insure that she

--was in Washington when necessary. ~~ - . ~

At 11:00 A.M., August 9, 1978, Committee staff members

met with Dr. Jesus: Yanez and Ciprianio Martinez Novoa. Mr.

Yanez ° “told Committee state members that Ciprianio Martinez

~ Novoay: ‘the agent “in ‘charge, would try to, aid-us in all our

 

interviews. Mr. Martinez then briefed’ the Committee staff
members on their up-to-date progress:

Oscar Contreras Lartigue had been,located and pre-
interviewed by Mr. Martinez in Tampico, 7 We would
fly to Tampico on Friday, August 1, 1978 at 7:35 A.M.

Noe W. Palomares had been located.and could be inter-
viewed on Thursday, August 10, 1978 in the afternoon at his
office, Cerrada de la Presa 4. His phone number, 595-0891,
was made available to the Committee. .

June Cobb Sharp received a trovist permit, number 72781,

on June 27, 1947. She entered Mexico through Nuevo Laredo,
 

 

 

 

see Sad Mba $3d5 FO

First Draft
Page Four

Texas. She asked, but was denied, permission to represent
the magazine, Modern Mexico. On June 21, 1948, she received
a courtesy permit, number 25556. She disappeared in 1954 and
never returned to Mexico. ;
: ; : -

The Committee staffers did not tell the Mexicans
that the House Select Committee on Assassinations has evidence,
her 201 file, that she was in Mexico in the Sixties.

Eunice Odio Infante, a Costa Rican, received a three-

month permit on February 9, 1954. She remained in Mexico, il-

legally residing at Nacas-45-a, until 1972. She applied to

.write for the Excelsior magazine on many different occasions,

but was rejected every time. In 1972, Ms. .Odio married a
Communist painter, Rudolfo Sanabria Gonzalez and moved to Rio

~ Neba=16 ‘apartment. 40. On’ May ‘24, 1972, Ms. Odio was found ~~

dead’in her bathtub... The official’ presiding at her autopsy. 9°)

. concluded ‘that Ms. Odio had ‘poisoned herself.

“Emilio Carballido Fontanes was in Caracas, Venezuela,
on vacation and scheduled to return to Mexico in early

September. His address is Constituyentes 207. His phone

number is 515-8345.

 

@Gonsuelo PSperon! record in Mexico could not be
located. When the Mexican officials inquired about her at the
Cuban Embassy in Mexico City, no one at the office remembered
that she had worked there. Committee staff members were told
that EsSperor} was probably dead. .

wee es

RiWechtistveh) worked at Coley until 1968

   

  

when their offices in Mexico closed.
