 

 

 

a member of ths 111th HI Group, Miami. He is personally known to the
source as having been involved in fttelligence oparations in ‘the Miami.

area. The 0/0 is researching Wlth's reaction to the sstablishmant of

Ny, Rodrigues as a contact for aubject for emergency use and will include
that resolé as part of his termination teport and summary of the imprison~
ment and stetus of the prisoners. 6/0 believes that we showld monitor
their status in tha feture and make every effort.to insure that J-315 and
his family-or J+315/23 take no steps to embarrass the U.S. by any apcusa~
tions and/or publicity, In order to do this it may become necessary in
the fubure to have someons contact J~315 or his wife in order to permit
them to express: their concern, fears or sorrow. This will act as a aefety
valve and will enable 0.8, to have advance. notice of any proposed acts on.
their part which may be injurious to the. 0.5.4.

L Incl FRANK GC, ALATORRE
Envelope tontatting Case Officer
bona fide (1 only to Hgs)

    

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED
ON OCT 18 1994
= BY CDR USAINSCOM FOVPO

   

AUTH PARA 1-903 DOB 5209,1-R
 

 

b(iii)

 

GONZALEZ and would like to get together and have some oysters". At meeting
they will match tuo halves of a Guban five peso note (see Incl #1).
ules
De es ee ee
po |

  
 
 

 

   

sae |

= San es _se

peed as

BS ORE Ss es oe ES Eee
Ge ES es ) eee 2 ee

i i eee

 

 

 

sys CORMEATS t
t/O recommends that consideration be given to a telephone, possibly
in Puerto Rico, that the source may tall in e bona fide emergency. One

other consideration might be thet the source esl] former DAC Iuis Rodriguez,

 
 
 

7 :
eqpemmmmmmeenay FECROTS EC ~
we 2a T?R “ON “ocT 18 194

BY COP ie)
AUITH PAS
 

 

 

  

ge Jn3LS. earnestly asked that the organization consider assisting
Him to abbain a permit to carry = weapon in Florida. He shated he had.
obtained a permit.dn Paerto Hies, but that be ‘bad. nd contacts in Miant
to asdist bin as be hai in Puerte Rico. He was efraid that he might be
the object éf an attempt by the GCC to assagsinate him for his invélve-
ment with J=31S/12. He cited the attempt on ex~Castro GAPT Oten PALAD
who #as shot 6 or 7 -times on 16 November, and is in oriticel comltion in
Hist, Je3L5 believes: that he is probably on their list for assaesinabion
atid is ready to defend himself if necessary, He expressed deep concern

of bis being aboard one of the hi~jacked planes because of hie weakly

round=trip between Miami and Sen ‘Duan, Puerto Ries. He added that &f an
attetot fie ever mate te biejack a plage he is eboard, ‘he would resist the
Hiejeckers, for he feats if he lands in Havana, he will be summarily abot.
He dees nob plan to carry a pistol akeard the planse, for he ie amare that,
he may be subject to search 2t any time, At presen’ he fakes baing eme
and carries = omnes aboard, wishfuliy heping, that he sowld wee that to ovér=

‘power any possible hi-jacker.. The C/O replied thab ke wld cheek this

raqnast oub, obtain an answer, whether favorsble or uifeverebls, and inform
the sourse of whatever decision was reached,
Os COMMUNICATIONS:

a. The source was given Y. 0, Hox 9153, Mlexendria, Virginia, win eode
2230, under the meme of Joseph Conley, for his use: to lsen the organization
advieed of the prigoners' statuss

b. C/O established the following bond fides for podeible future contect
With U~3I5,, Person contacting subject will sey "he is a Friend of Rogelio.

Fed

REGRADED UNCLASS ie
ON “ach 18 1994. ©

BY CDR LISA NECOM FOUPO :
AUTH PARA 1-803 DoD §206.1-R

 
 
 
 

ope

 
 

  

6. J=325 said he believed thet the Got did not have much proof ‘of

any serious crime against the prinoners or they would have exaouted then.

The fact that Jo.315/12's eleter, Chucha, an her hushand had been picked
up aad imprisoned in mideHovexber Zor qudstioning indicated that the 60
dyvestigation of J-318/12'e activities had not produced too meh. Thay
appichended Checka probable sine wos his ssoretary st hie clinic.
were progressing better than hoped and that
~ At thie time the C/O brought up the subject

  

the future scensd
of the need for témination of operations, and it dovetailed beautifully,

fox GeRIS bad judi said that he was glad that he had uot been invelved 1a
” WWHI/2d!s owsrt politdcel muhinetions for the last four to five months,
The 6/0 told the subject that he had ‘been directed te temiinete the opera~

tions involving J=315 end the entire operation in. order to safeguard the
lives of the piigeners. Any contiimasnas of intel gente operations
against the GGC would jeopardize their lives if debected, However, the
6/0 desired that even though operations were teminaved Ahab 3-315 pontiter.
the status of the prisoners, ahd keep the 6/O's. organisation informed, In
order to do this, the /0 wan providing J~315 with @ F. 0. Hox in the
Washington, DeCey area eo that-he could teil periedical infermation con-
cerning the prisoners, The C/O stated that ke was also providing 3-315
with an allevante,for aix moriths’ expenses so that J-315 would uot, bear the
cost of monitoring the status of the prigoners alous. The 6/0 sald that he
had roenomented the eu of $125.00 per month which had been approved by
his piperiors. Additiunally, he had recommenied that Jv31L5 be given tuo
monthet salary as severanse pay. 6/0 contimaed, saying that he had best

8 2439 a REGRAPEPU LASSIFIED
wee BY DR USAINSCOM FOUPO
AUTH PARA 1-608 DoD 5206.4-A

    
 
 

  

alerted that be was to trenpfor out af the anda as i happened once before
during their assoclation when Hario {P) hed replaced him as: J~315's
supervisor.

£, g-715 c44 not reast in an adverse manne? to the noties of termina~
tion, He agreed that cessation of operations was very wise and that be
would keep the organization informed by mail. He did, though, earnestly
ask that although he was aware that operations ware ended, that contact
with the arganizetion be contimed through the mail channel so that he
could keep the organization infomied in the future, He also asked thats,
if posmible, he be permitted a telephone mumber to call either in Miami
or in Washington, or elswhere, where be could contact the organization

“4n the case of an emergency or wher ha had information om the prisoners

that needed to be deLivered in a hurry. The 0/0 stated that he would

relay his request to Hie superlors at advise him vie telephone to a

pay telephone booth as had bean done during tlic past three months. g=315
wished the 0/0 well in his mew assigument and ‘hoped that. they see each.

other some: day again, He népsdéthat f he wate ever involved in other

work for the orgatiizabion that he be placed in contast with a mature indivi-
dual whom he. could tel ta with confidence thet he was dealing with an,
experienced man, for el though Narie was a fire individval, obviously dedicated
and sincere, he had found that‘he could not commmieate bis beliefs and ideas
as well ap he could with ‘the present 6/0, 0/0 said that Mario had bean
indesd an excellent individual to work with, bub that sometimes old babile~
weary roosters seem-te work well together.

 
 

SUBJECT: Pérsonal Mesting with J~315 ‘DATE: 6 December 1968
CH NO: 1-B-GR-28)~68
PROSEOT: QUASHED (gy

 

19" Sh CIRCUNSEANCES OF contacrs
& G/O0 met subject. ab. 1330 hours, 3: Decenier 1968, for the purpose of

‘terminating the sourte, Most of the meeting consisted of having dmech

wiitle the 0/0 periitted the source to relieve his desire to talk about
the previous two months? frustretions, unsertainties and fear experienced

‘oy ‘the souree and hie wife, J~315/li, an e-result of the imprisonment of

TnFS/L2 afd Ju31G/13.

‘The source bad bean asking repeatedly during this time for personal
meetings with the G/O. These requests were turned down for teasona of
security until 2t was decided to hold the termination meating. the 6/0
datidad to let thé source unburden bis deéire to talk to the G/o and
thus réelisve his frustrations and geb bim.in a good frame of mind.

c. 0/0 mot the subject at the New England Oyster House, ‘labth Stavet and
Biscayne Blvd. The 6/0 took ain indirect route to the meeting site. After
lunch the G/O aad the source sat in thé subject's vehicle, 1969 Chevrolet
station wagon, Florida License Plate 168321, end sigied the necerssry
receipts and documenta incident to the termination. The gourse then drove
aff. The C/O then entered his car, opérabional vehicle Chevy II, Florida

‘Tdeense LE-7922, and drove to the shopping plaza at 7th avenue and 111th St,

where he talled his office, advised them of his successful end safe termind=

tion, then-took a deliberate and cireuitons route to hie home in Hollywood.

e 2406,

  
  

| (REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED
SON OCT 1814 -

. BYCDR USAF
AUTH PARA *

 
 
 

M FOUPO: \
93 DOD S200, 1A
Date
Page

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER :
RECORDS SERIES ::
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

PROM

SUBJECTS. :

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS: ;

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :
OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

AGENCY INFORMATION

INSCOM/CSF

1.94-10013-10328

FOREIGN PERSONNEL AND ORGANIZATIONS
CB8005823W - PAGES 2406 - 2413

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

: USA

CONTACT REPORT
12/06/68

8 .
{ RESTRICTED ]

“PERSONAL. MEETING WITH J-315

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

| UNCLASSIFIED

   

1B, 2. cesses ua
LEAS LETIONS JFK biiii)
03/07/95
 

 

 

fhe nesting ended at 1625 hours and no surveillente afterwards was detested,
Lunch was consumed in virtual tsoltation, for there were ne other diners
‘within 20 feet.

BO OPERATIONAL DISCUSSIONS;

a, The G/O Tistened to the source?s conversation during lunch and
obtained the news that J<315/12 was tio longer in prison in the G2 offices,
but had been transferred to a large holding camp at. Ta Gabans Prissn as.
part of a group of severel hundred otter prefessioial min duch a¢ doctors,
lawyers, etc. He hed been assigned dutier at the dispensary in tis ecapa-
eity as a surgeon and doctor, and he Wes im good health and was allowed
visitors once @ wék. His wife, J-315/13, had been transferred also to 2
wousn's rehabilitation center et an unknown lotatien on the outaldirte of
Havana. She has also received good treatment, performs no duties, and is
gaining weight. She jost while being quentioned by the G-2.. Both wre
being well treated, have been given permission to write to relatives in
the U.5., and have elreafy dona 80.

b. J-319 seid that he and his wife were very relieved ab the above
turn of events. Both believe that this indicates that their appeals through
the Vabiem (Jesuits) and the medical commnity were instrumental in this

_ decision not to exesute the two.

co. Ja31G believes that hie father-in-law, J-315/12, blamed any wrong-
doing he was. accused of by the GOC on him, J=315. J-315 believes that
J-315/12 probably admitted to sama activity against ‘the GOC, was probably
repentant, and accepted the usual offer of ‘rehabilitation for himgelzsc

ee oe
bis wife, J-315. seemed quite happy that his efforts nell syst tHa xe

» 2AUF “ON OCT 18 1994

    
 

: REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED

BY CDR USAINSCOM FORO
AUTH PARA 1- ~603 DoD. 6200. 1-F
 

 

prisoners. He feels that by permitting the present sitiation ts contime
a few nonths, thus ellowing a tevoling off period", the situation may
bacéne Favorable for further appeals of a humanitarian nature, requesting
the prisoners’ pardon aml possible exit from Guba. Ths 6/0, of course,
agreed that the change ef prison, aseignment to duty and permission te
write, certainly indicated thet the God was not considering. violent action,
and expressed bis own and the organization's gratification at this good.
news. J-315 steted thet whan be felt the cooling off parlod had passed,
he bad some more “aces™ to play, and asked the 0/0's. opinions

a. J-319 stated thet. a friend of his, one Wignel FIGUEROA, “presently
a professor at the University of Puerto Rito, and alo the Guba First
seoretary in Rone during the begiming of World Wer TI, at that time Cube
end Italy severed relations, An a rasult, FIGUEROA was dnternad. in, or
given refuge in Vatican City during the wer years, FIGUEROA baceme
personal friend of the present Pope, to the extent that the Fons became
Ged Father to ona of the FIGUEROA children born in Italy. ‘The two heve:
vemainsd fiends throughout the years, J~315 plans to ask one Juan Jntonio
RUBIO Padilla, a friend of JW315 and relative of J~315/13, to visit the.
Pope the sumier of 1959 and convey FIGUEBOA's personal request that ‘the ° L
Pope combast thie GOG and personally intercede for a possible pardon oe
axile of the prisoners. RUBIO is one of the prominent leaders of Gatholocisn
in the. world today and intimate frienl of Ee FAU Fernandez, the Arch Bishop.
of Cordoba in Spain. J-315 believes auch an appeal bas an expeallent chance
of success, The C/O agreed that this was, a worthy efforb and expressed

his wlah that it sucesed. ? 4 OB

RUSA at aven te

‘BY: Cot BATS
AUTH PARA 1

  
       
 
