2, Malayans: Malaya has faced a preblem of Communist insurgency for

 

a number of years and has effectively diminished this problem both through
overt and covert programs designed to defeat the enemy on his own grounds
and to deny him support of the local populace, Malaya thus has a pool of
trained and experienced covert operations personnel who have faced and who
- have overcome problems not greatly dissimilar to those which face the Viet-
namese today, Malayans have been particularly effective in the utilization
of special counter-subversive police and it is in this area that the Viet~

namese badly need experienced guidance, The Malayan Government has expressed

   

considerable interest in aiding the Vietnamese Government in its fight against

 

the Communists, It is believed that the use of selected Malayan cadre for counter
guerrilla and counter-subversive covert operations training could be accom-
plished through an appeal on the part of the Vietnamese Government itself,

Malayans would need interpreters but their utility on a limited basis should

 

still be considerably high, :

3, MEO: The Meo tribesmen of Laos have proved themselves to be effective

 

guerrilla fighters, Their motivation has largely been the protection of théir
homes and families in Xieng Khouang. Should a "neutralist" Souvanna Phouma
government come to power in Laos it is probable that considerable effort will
be made to destroy the guerrilla potential of the Meo. As an alternative to

their annihilation, the Meo might be persuaded to migrate in significant

 

 

HW 50955 DBoold:32423705 Page 5
 

   

The most important covert operational effort now needed is the observa~
tion and harassment of Viet Cong transiting South Laos into Vietnam. Opera-
tions presently directed against this target, while qualitatively well con
ceived are quantitatively too small in numbers of personnel and striking
force available to accomplish more than a small part of the job to be done,

Operations against North Vietnam are also still small quantitatively, and
their expansion ‘can only be obtained by extensive and costly efforts, ~

A subject eminently related to the improvement of Vietnamese intelligence
collection and covert action operations is the availability of trained and
experienced personnel,

This deficiency can be overcome in part by training of Vietnamese,
Available trained and experienced personnel can also be augmented by the use
of third country nationals. Some of these are:

le (gunese Nationalists. The Chinese Nationalist Air Force and Army
Special Forces have been estensively trained in covert activities and have a
great deal of experience in this field, The Chinese Nationalists have the
best qualified clandestine human resources available in Asia, This is partic-
ularly true with respect to their ability as pilots since one of the major

‘ missions of the Chinese Air Force is covert overflights of Mainland China. ,
Both for low-level navigation and clandestine night flying there are probably
no better qualified pilots any place in the world, Chinese Special Forces
personnel would be of particular value in programs of Rural Reconstruction,
Montagnard operations, etc,, as they live, eat and operate in much the same

‘manner as Vietnamese, avoiding the logistic and security problems' posed by

the Americans, }

memoaussotnea)

HW 50955 Docld:324273705 Page 2

 

OL}
195-10005-10022

 

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 6/16/201

 

Agency Information

 

AGENCY: OSD
RECORD NUMBER: — 195-10005-10022
RECORD SERIES: © MCNAMARA PAPERS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: JCS
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: COVERT ANNEX
DATE: 11/00/1961
PAGES: 20
SUBJECTS :
COUNTERINSURGENCY - VIETNAM
SITUATION IN VIETNAM
GUERRILLA AND COUNTERGUERRILLA OPERATIONS -
VIETNAM . : .
. . COVERT INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION - VIETNAM
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT :
CLASSIFICATION : Top Secret
RESTRICTIONS: — IC
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 69/14/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: REVIEW COMPLETE

COMMENTS :

v9.

BW 50955 DocId:32423705

McNamara Papers, Box 86. General Taylor's Vietnam Trip, Nov. 61. Covert annex re: situation in
Vietnam. Issues discussed include: combatting communist insurgency, covert intelligence collection,
etc.

Page 1
 

 

 

be To consider accelerating the creation of the Clandestine
Action Service by assigning to it ten companies of trained troops
(Rangers, Marines, or Airborne).

4, The following be assigned to MAAG for specific utilization in the

training of the Clandestine Action Service:
ae Two U.S, Army Special Forces mobile training teams.
be Ten U.S. Army Special Forces medical corpsmen,

5. For specific support of the Clandestine Action Service, 2 H-34
helicopters and 2 C123 or Caribou Stoel aircraft, together with spare parts,
maintenance personnel and crews be made available to the GVN,

6. The use of(chinese Nationalists] and Malayans as instructors and
pilot personnel in covert operations in Vietnam be discussed with President
Diem and his concurrence solicited,

7. CIA be given the responsibility for the operational control, cover
and utilization of third country personnel, once committed to Vietnam,

8, Policy clearance be granted for the continuation of CIA operations
aimed at harassment of Viet Cong lines of communications in South Laos
whatever the outcome of the Geneva Conference on Laos or the current
negotiations over a Souvanna Phouma government.

9. Resettlement of the Meo in the Lao-Vietnam border area be con~

sidered in the light of the progress of negotiations concerning Laos.

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423705 Page 3

 
 

 

 

 

URC ETE

 

 

  

 

 

 

32423705 Page 4

HW 50955 DocId
