TOP SECRET

 

e. Summary - Our knowledge of Cuban military order of
battle, especially ground order of battle, has dropped off con-
siderably in recent weeks, Changes in unit organization and in
the numbering system as well as the militia nature of the organi-
zation itself make OB material perishable. Until such time as a
definite target date and objective is set making it possible to
inject a sufficient quantity of trained observers into the area with
specific targets, this situation will probably continue. ;

4. Estimate of the Potential for Militar Operations within Cuba -
Should a policy decision be made to militarily intervene in Cuba, the
U.S. could:

 

a. With 18 days of preparation, execute a coordinated airborne-
amphibious assault which it is anticipated would gain control offkey
military installations and the principal centers of population of Cuba:
within 10 days and result in minimum US and Cuban casualties.

b. Should the situation demand, ‘a piecemeal commitment of
US forces could be made with reaction times approximately as follows:

2 Airborne Divisions - 5 days (para-drop units only)
4 Marine BLTS - . 7-8 days
Following Forces ~ - 15.~ 18 days |

. . io?

(This operation would involve a dangerous element of risk. }

c. In conjunction with either of the actions described in a and b,
above, cover and deception plans have been developed which, if executed,
would result in prepositioning of forces. assigned to the invasion of Cuba
and could thereby result in an over-all reaction time of approximately
12 days for a coordinated assault.

d. Air strikes could be conducted against selected targets in
Cuba within 6, 12 or 24 hours; the time dependent upon aircraft
availability and desired intensity of attack.

e. Air-sea blockade can be initiated. within 24 hours with effective-
ness increasing toa complete blockade within approximately 48 hours.

5. Factors Worth Considering in Deciding on One of the Following Four
Courses of Action for the United States to Follow in Relation to Cuba:
EE SOS Ottow in Relation to Cuba:

a. Cancel operational plans; treat Cuba as a Bloc nation; protect
Hemisphere from it. 7 ;

: TOP SECRET

 

HW 50955 Docld: 32423706 Page 5
TOP SECRET

    

c. PT Boats. DOD reconditioned a PT boat for possible
use by CIA. In addition, DOD obtained certain data on
characteristics and costs of PT boats manufactured by other
countries.

d. Voice Radio Broadcasts from a Submarine. DOD
made\a submarine available to CIA forthe conduct of voice
radio broadcasts near Cuba by the CIA.)

e. Overflights of Cuba. DOD has conducted several
reconnaissance and photographic missions over Cuba for the
# CIA.

. {. Utilization of AVON-PARK, Florida, by CIA as.a Base
for the Training of Cuban Refugees. DOD investigated the
feasibility of using certain facilities at AVON-PARK for the
training of Cuban n refugees in guerrilla warfare.

g- Oil Drum Mines. DOD transferred 40 oil drum mines
to CIA.

h. Detail of an Officer to CIA. DOD detailed an officer.
to duty with.CIA to be in charge of small boat operations at
Miami,, Florida.

in. Contingency Plan for Overt US Military Intervention
in Cuba. In order to insure a decisive US military capability
for overt military intervention in Cuba, CINCLANT's regular
contingency plan for Cuba has been updated. Attempts are
being made to reduce the reaction time required for imple -
mentation of this plan, without piecemeal commitment of US
forces.

j- Alternate Contingency Plan for Overt US Military Inter -
vention in Cuba. CINCLANT developed an alternate plan which
accomplished a reduction in reaction time but requires piece-
meal commitment of forces. In order to reduce the risk in-
herent in such an operation CINCLANT is:seeking means for
reduction of the reaction time without piecemeal commitment.

k. Gover and Deception Plan. This plan has been developed

for the purpose of covering the prepositioning of forces allocated
to the contingency plans for overt military intervention in Cuba.

2
TOP SECRET

 

HW 50955 Docld:32493706 Page ?
195-10005-10023

 

JFK Assassination System . Date: 6/16/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: OSD
RECORD NUMBER: — 195-10005-10023

RECORD SERIES: MCNAMARA PAPERS

_ AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: OSD
FROM: BENJAMIN T. HARRIS
TO: ‘CHIEF OF OPERATIONS, MONGOOSE

TITLE: END OF PHASE 1

DATE: 07/23/1962
PAGES: 12

SUBJECTS :
CONTINGENCY PLANS - CUBA
OPERATION MONGOOSE - END OF PHASE I

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : — Top Secret
RESTRICTIONS: = 1C
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 09/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : McNamara Papers, Box 86 (42), Mongoose. Memo from Harris to Chief of Operations re:

accomplishments of Operation Mongoose Phase I, estimate of potential for intelligence collection and
military operations, etc.

 

v9 . 5

HW 50955 DBoold:32423706 Page i
TOP SECRET

also includes means designed to provoke Cuban reaction and
cf tous act as a triggering device for US intervention.

   

aa 1. Air Strikes Against Cuba. A plan has been developed
for the use of airpower. only following a national policy decision,
to suppress. and/or neutralize Cuban forces pending the execu-
tion of an assault. or to be executed in support of an internal
revolt. | : :

‘m. Air and Sea Blockade of Cuba. A plan has been develop -
ed for the complete air and sea blockade of Cuba within 48 hours
after decision.

 

n. Civil Affairs and Military Government. An outline plan
providing guidance for the conduct of civil affairs.and for a
provisional military government for Cuba has been prepared.

o. DOD's Position as to its Stake and Proposed Role in the

- Removal of the Communist Regime from Cuba. This paper
included a statement of conditions under which Defense believes
that overt military intervention in Cuba could be accomplished
without leading to general war and without serious offense to
public opinion. :

  

  

peek ag aah,

eparéd
iéla.

11% rare

 

p. [Bw/cw=Capab sumeApaperswa'sep
things sthat,cansbevdone™a gainstiGu :

     

/ q. Air Re-supply. Four aircraft and crews have been
readied for air re-supply missions over Cuba. :

r. Risk Estimate. An estimate was prepared concerning
the risk involved in air re-supply missions over Cuba.

s. Manufacture of Soviet Aircraft. A survey was made con-
cerning the US capability for the covert production of facsimiles
of Soviet aircraft.

t. Military Intelligence. A detailed list of Essential Elements
of Information was prepared in February 1962 covering the require-
ments of the Caribbean Survey Group and CINCLANT and was levied
on the Intelligence Community for fulfillment. Reconnaissance
activities consisting of overhead reconnaissance, air patrols,
electronic collection and special operations were implemented.
Specific intelligence requirements to be used in the interrogation
of knowledgeable refugees covering items of military, political

3
TOP SECRET

 

HW 50955  Docld:32423706 Page 3
TOP SECRET

sagynd economic interest were provided to the Caribbean Admission
[oon Opa Locka, Florida. All information obtained from these
Sources was processed through the Intelligence Community's

“ss channels. The flow of information concerning Cuba has been

4 greatly improved as a result of these efforts. However, gaps

; ‘still exist, particularly in details of military order of battle.

: Increased efforts. are being made to fill these gaps..

   

u. Utilization of(uS Naval Base, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, for
Joint Navy/CIA Intelligence Operations. DOD investigated the
possibility of using Guantanamo/as a base of operations for the
collection of national level intelligence, in light of the present
policy limitations and possible policy changes in the future.

 

v. Establishment of Patrol Posts" in the Caribbean. In
response to a request from the Chief of Operations, Operation
Mongoose, DOD examined the possibility of establishing ''patrol
posts" in the Caribbean. :

w. Psychological Operations: A survey was conducted
in an attempt to increase]Naval Base Guantanamo's role in
psychological operations.) As a result special OSD funds were
made available for Special baseball sportscasts over the base
radio station| :

3. Operational Estimate of the Potential for Intelligence Collection.

a. Reconnaissance - a summary of the Cuban reconnaissance
operation is given below: .

Completed
Vehicle Code Word Frequency
“WV-2Q Melrose 13
A3D-2P/2Q ' Fitbolt 4
USS Moale Operation 19 Mar ~-12 Apr 62 .
RB 47 1 May 62
Submarine /UDU 5 - 6 May 62
Continuing
F3D-2Q Call Money 6 - ll per month
AD-5Q Sleepwalker 2 per month
Cc -130 Quick Fox 10 per month
A3D-2P 6 - 8 per month
Navy DD : . daily
Navy P-2V twice daily |

4
TOP SECRET

 

HW 50955 Doold:324293706 Page 4
