SECRET

basis of the nature and incidence of subversive activities in
their respective countries.

8. Encourage Latin American countries to approve the
General Military Plan of the Inter-American Defense Board (IADB),
and, in accordance with Annex 4 thereof, furnish to the IADB

intelligence information and estimates concerning Castro-Communist
subversive activities.

9. Undertake action in the OAS to establish a Security
Intelligence Advisory Committee consisting of senior representa-
tives of the appropriate services of each government to deal
with all major aspects of subversive activities in their respec-
tive countries, consider new coordinated plans of action to
counter and neutralize subversion, and implement necessary
actions to insure the most effective and timely exchange of
information between the governments on subversive activities.

SECRET 7

HW 50955 DocId:32424000 Page 9
SECRET

5. U.S, Government communications systéms throughout
Latin America are being expanded and impro¥ed upon on a high
priority basis.

6. Programs now exist under AID, CIA, and DOD for the
training and equipping of Latin American internal security and
intelligence services. Additional programs could be established
in other countries where it is found to be in the best interests
of United States and acceptable to the country concerned.

7. All information received by CIA concerning travel to
and from Cuba is put into a computer system capable of producing
lists by name, by country, by point of travel, or sorted on
various other bases.

Iv. New Actions Recommended

 

i. Reinforce the present procedures for bilateral exchange
of intelligence, as described in Section III. 1. by recommending
that the U.S. Ambassadors utilize the existing Country Team
mechanisms as an intelligence advisory committee to coordinate
procedures for ensuring timeliness, completeness and freedom
from duplication or false confirmation in the bilateral exchange
with the host governments.

2. Encourage Latin American countries to engage in bilateral
exchange of intelligence on Castro-Communist subversive activities.

3. Arrange for the rapid dissemination to appropriate
Latin American governments of daily summaries of radio broadcast
material as monitored by the FBID of CIA.

4. Make available to as many countries as security per-
mits, the appropriate sanitized results of the extensive travel
coverage obtained by the Central Intelligence Agency, already
processed by machine, listings of which can be made available
veadily. (See paragraph III. 7.)

5. Increase where feasible emphasis on the provision of
U.S. intelligence advisors to Latin American countries. Dis-
courage the employment of intelligence advisors from nations
other than the U.S. except in instances where the U.S. can
arrange to provide for the training and control of any third
country intelligence advisor.

6. Arrange for the preparation by CIA of periodic studies
of Castro-Communist subversion in Latin America which can be
disseminated to selected Latin American governments.

7. Undertake action in the OAS to stimulate governments
to keep the Council and the SCCS fully informed on a continuing

SECRET 6

HW 50955 DociId:32424000 Page 8
SECRET

Since the Punta del Este meeting, thé'OAS has been making
slow progress in the countersubversion field, but there
has as yet been no significant exchange of intelligence
through its machinery.

h. The Inter-American Defense Board (IADB) has also
demonstrated an awareness of the need for exchanging intelli-
gence regarding communist subversion. Annex 4 of the
General Military Plan prepared by the IADB requests the
American States to report information to the Board and to
establish agreements among themselves for exchanging infor-
mation of collective interest. The United States has
approved the General Military Plan, but similar action has
not been taken by all member countries.

i. This brief summary serves to illustrate that there
is much room for expansion of bilateral intelligence
exchange arrangements among the Latin American nations
themselves, which is now minimal at best, as well as a
need to create an expanded program for bilateral intelli-
gence exchange between the United States and individual
countries, and finally, a requirement to develop the possi-
bilities of a multilateral approach within the recognized
limitations involved.

III. Existing Programs.

1. Bilateral exchange of intelligence is now being conducted
by CIA, DOD, and other U.S. agencies with their Latin American
counterparts in instances where it has been found possible to
establish appropriate arrangements for exchange of selected
information consistent with security requirements.

2. A study is currently underway to evaluate the feasi-
bility and desirability of establishing military intelligence
centers of the Caribbean Command and the Caribbean Sea Frontier,
Atlantic Command, for further dissemination of intelligence as
appropriate in conjunction with our Military Alerting System,
for rapid processing and dissemination when appropriate, of
intelligence on subversive activities directly to the countries
concerned through the U.S. Ambassador.

3. Intelligence is being provided to the Caribbean Com-
mand by CIA and other elements of the U.S. Embassies in Latin
America as well as to CIA Headquarters for further dissemination
as appropriate.

4, Various agencies of the U.S. Government are now dis-
seminating to Latin American governments unclassified studies

and reports and other non-sensitive information concerning
Castro-Communist subversion.

SECRET 5

HW 50955 Doocld:32424000 Page 7
HW 50955

| SECAET

:
y
i

b. Intelligence information reports - Unevaluated
information derived from clandestine collection operations
or confidential sources reporting on plans and activities
of Cuban or communist connected subversive individuals or
groups. Because continued receipt of such information by
the United States is dependent on careful protection of
sources and methods of collection, the exchange of this
information with other countries must be carefully con-
trolled by the collecting department.

ec. Intelligence studies - Evaluated intelligence pre-
pared by an appropriate element of the US government in a
form which is releaseable to other Latin American countries.

d. Selected overt materials - Articles or news stories
drawn from press, periodical and other overt publishers.
Selected for maximum impact on other countries particularly
where such information is not freely availiable to security
services, as in the case of foreign broadcast reports.

3. Current Exchange Arrangements.

a. At present there is little organized exchange of
intelligence among the Latin American nations. There is
@ limited amount of informal exchange, orten on a basis
of personal relationships between government officials
having a community of interest with respect to a particu-
lar matter.

b. The Central Intelligence Agency has established
working liaison arrangements in those Latin American
countries where such relations have been considered to be
in the best interest of the United States. Most of the
intelligence concerning subversion in Latin America avail-
able to the CIA is derived from covert operations or
through contacts with another intelligence or security
service. This inhibits the passing of such information
to agencies of a third country. There is, however, a
substantial amount of intelligence available from overt
or non-sensitive sources which can be provided to other

coun s. In 1962, CIA received information reports
fron services with which liaison is maintained in Latin
America and released reports to recipients. Intelligence

 

items exchanged included collated Studies, weekly intelli-
gence reviews, name traces and travel reports. .

e. The U.S. Army, through its attaches, currently
has an informal arrangement involving bilateral exchanges
of intelligence with Argentina, Colombia, Ecuador, Uruguay,
Peru, Paraguay and Venezuela. Information provided by

SECRET 3

Docld:3242740008 Page 5
SECRET

the Army has been concerned with subversive personalities,
communist infiltration, weapons movements and related
matters. Reciprocal intelligence received has been of
small value. The Army also provides selected information
on subversive activities to Brazil, Chile, Guatemala and
Mexico, without reciprocation. The Navy has established
a Navy-to-Navy program for the exchange of intelligence
among nine South American navies, the Mexican Navy. and the
U.S. Navy. ~ :

d. Exchanges of information are also effected from
time to time through channels of the Department of State.

e. As yet, however, the program for the provision by
United States agencies of information on subversion to
Latin American governments has not been developed to an
adequate degree. Since the United States possesses the
most extensive acquisition capabilities, as well as the
only secure and reliable means of rapid communication
throughout Latin America (currently in process of improve-
ment), the development of an integrated United States
system for bilateral exchange offers the greatest possi-
bility of achieving the resuits desired. :

f, United States experience in the matter of intelli-
gence exchange in Latin America, and in other areas of the
world, has led to the conclusion that bilateral arrange-
ments are more fruitful than multilateral arrangements
such as those established within the framework of NATO,
CENTO and SEATO. Nevertheless, this experience has shown
also that multilateral arrangements can be of some use,
particularly in creating an awareness of the need for
intelligence exchange.

g. The concept of an exchange of information among

members of the OAS with regard to subversive activities
has been put forward at numerous Inter-American meetings,
but has not been implemented, largely for the reasons set
forth in Section II.1. Under the Punta del Este decisions,
the OAS members were urged to cooperate in strengthening

5 - their capacity to counteract threats or acts of aggression,
subversion or other dangers to peace and security. The
Council of the OAS is charged with maintaining vigilance
over Castro-Communist subversion, and a "Special Consulta-
tive Committee on Security (sccs}" is established to give
technical advice on request to governments and the Council
on matters relating to subversion. Ail American governments
have been asked to furnish information on Castro-Communist
activities to serve as the basis for studies and recommenda-
tions by the Council of the OAS on how to counteract them.

SECRET , 4

HW 50955 DocId:32424000 Page 6
HW 50955

SECRET

bets JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

SUB-COMMIT?Z£ CN CUBAN SUBVERSION
THE JOIN? Sisasey
22 March 1963
MEMCRANDUM TO COMMITTEE MEMBERS

1, Attached is a redraft of the intelligence paper,
prepared by CIA in accordance with the agreemeit reached
by the Cottrell Committee last week. The paper is
identical with the version which we agreed upon, with
two exceptions:

a. A section has been added (Paragraph 2, page 2)
on categories of exchangeable intelligence; in other
words, a delineation of the scope of the paper.

b. Certain of the actions proposed in our agreed
paper, which are in some degree in progress now,
have been withdrawn from the action category and
restated as "Existing Programs," (Section III,

page 5)

e. The President, at San Jose, committed the U. S.
to participate in a multilateral discussion of intelli-
gence exchange in the Ministerial Meeting which will
take place in about ten days at Managua. Therefore,
it will be necessary to move this paper forward rapidly,
get the necessary approvals, so that the intelligence
element of the Managua agenda may be prepared and our
ambassadors in the countries concerned notified of its
content. I therefore propose that our Committee come
to a conclusion on the subject at its meeting on Satur-
day, 23 March.

YY a Sa (
V. H. ‘ KRULAK

Major General, USMC
Chairman

SECRET

Docild:32424000 Page 2
198-10007-10007 ~

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

~ JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

- Date:

6/24/201

 

Agency Information

ARMY
198-10007-10007

“CALIFANO PAPERS

 

 

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

vod

Document Information

Jcs a {
V.H. KRULAK BRE ey be
COMMITTEE MEMBERS

CUBA: THE EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE CONCERNING COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE

ACTIVITIES

03/22/1963
8

COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
INTELLIGENCE SHARING, LATIN AMERICA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

IB

Redact

02/10/1998

Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder 10. Memo to members of the JCS Sub-Committee on Cuban
Subversion transmitting revised paper on the exchange of intelligence concerning Cuban subversive

activities.

SEK Kav awd

Department of the Army EO 13526 |
SiDeclassify [ Exclude Exempt
Authority.

 

 

 

19

BW 50955 DoclId:32424000 Page i
SECRET

CUBA
THE EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE
CONCERNING COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES

I. Introduction

In combatting Castro-Communist subversion throughout
Latin America, there is a fundamental requirement for intelli-
gence -- 2 requirement which involves the timely acquisition

and processing of information as well as its rapid dissemination,
on a selective basis, to countries concerned. While efforts are
now being made by CIA, AID, and the U.S. Military Services to
improve Latin American intelligence systems, success thus far
has been limited, and much remains to be done. It is not with
this broad problem, however, that this paper is primarily con-
cerned, but rather with the narrower matter of the need for a
stronger program of exchanging essential information regarding
Communist subversion in Latin America among those who need to
know it.

II. The Nature and Scope of the Problem
1. Limiting Factcrs

a. There are many inhibitions which tend to discour-
age the exchange of intelligence on an international
basis, even among allies. National privacy with regard
to the inner workings of an intelligence system must be
preserved. Compounding the problem further, where Latin
America is concerned, is the divisive influence of the
long history of rivalries, wars, jealousies and disputes
which have characterized relations among the nations con-
cerned. The wounds of past conflicts among pairs and
groupings of nations are not completely nealed. There is
lingering hostility between Peru and Ecuador deriving
from their boundary war. Chile and Bolivia continue at
odds over the Rio Lauca and the question of Bolivian
access to the sea, and, even now, Nicaraguan insurgents
are harbored within the borders of both Costa Rica and
Honduras. It could hardly be expected that these countries
would be eager to exchange intelligence on a full and
frank basis.

b. Beyond this, Latin America is not a homogeneous
entity in social, political, or economic terms, and
attitudes toward the Castro-Communist subversive menace
vary widely. A completely unified approach toward
exchange of intelligence concerning this menace, therefore,
cannot be regarded as attainable.

SECRET

HW 50955 Docid:32424000 Page 3
SECRUL

Cc. Additional impediments to indetiigence exchange |
are the generally low level of competence of most Latin
American intelligence services, their lack of rapid, secure
means of communication, the absence of adequate security
systems, and the lack of security consciousness. Deficien-
cles in security safeguards must necessarily limit the
exchange of intelligence obtained covertly by any of the
nations involved, and particularly the United States, which
has the most sophisticated system and hence the greatest
need for protection.

ad. These defects promise to persist, since the govern-
ments of some countries have little desire to develop a
competent career security service. There is a fear that
the existence of an efficient service would constitute a
threat to further activities of members of the existing
governments at such time as they might find themselves
out of power. Moreover, many Latin American intelligence
services tend to label as "subversives" those of their own
nationals resident in other countries who are opposed to
the existing government.

e. These realities all underscore the fact that multi-
lateral intelligence exchange must be approached on a most
circumscribed basis. It should not be concluded, however,
that nothing of value can be accomplished multilaterally.
With proper definition, limiting the problem of exchange
to matters directly related to communist subversive
activities, such as the movement to and from Cuba of sub-
versives, the production and movement of propaganda
materials which threaten internal stability, the movement
of arms, and the movement of funds, it should be practi-
cable to marshal a useful measure of cooperation. In
pursuing this effort, it will be important to draw a sharp
distinction between secret intelligence gained by covert
means and information obtained openly. The former involves
the requirement to protect national secrets both as to
sources and acquisition methods employed. The latter,
which can be of great value, can be exchanged without fear
of compromise.

2. Categories of Exchangeable Intelligence

a. Travel information - Unevaluated information
devoted solely to rapid reporting of the movement of indi-
viduals between Latin America and Cuba or Soviet Bloc
countries. Such reports can be reduced to a few elements
such as identification of the individual, point of depar-
ture, date and time of departure or arrival, destination,
and carrier. When presented in an abbreviated form such
information offers minimum security problems with respect
to exchange with one or more countries.

SECRET 2

HW 50955 DociId:32424000 Page 4
