 

 

 

  

 

lpoliee
af the Stete of Guanabars seized large quantities of prepa:

 

 

ganda brought inte Brazil ty paesengere on the spectel Cubena_
flights. For exemple, some 50 pounds of printed propaganda
wee taken from the various passengers whe ererived on the 16
Aoguet Cubana flight. .

3. SGontwol af ©

  

 

 

i surveillance of the ares surveunding Cuba
during the sonth of July at the seme cage and with the sane
eupheeis as price to 1 July 1963.

b. Continued to maintein 0.5. Forces, primarily from
within the Atlantic Command, available te assist other Caribbean
governments in the interception of suspicious craft in

 

territorial waters, as might be requested. Ne eueb requests were
veeeived from any other goverument during the period covered by
this report. However, U.S. Forees did keep track of the
lecation of the Soviet merchant freighter MITCHURINGE, which

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424014 Page 9

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

wes suspected of carryiag subversivas and eras fram Guba to
British Gales in uld-July. MITCHURINSX was under U.S.
gurveilicace feom ite departure from Havana eatil Gelted
Kingdom forces assumed the task of keeping thie ship under
survelllance upon its approach to Georgetewa, Britieh Gutana.
Subsequently, Britich police search of MITC)

 

MUSING in Reteish
Galsne waters revesied nothing of a suspicious nature.

 

 

 

 

the Peruvian Covernment law in Auguet published a new anti
terrorists law providing a penalty of oo lese than five years
iuprisoumert. for persens who pertieiate in euercilla activities
oc in the illegal maufecture of weapone or ezpLosivat.

The Peruvian National Iateliigence Service is working
on @ leed furnished concerning 2
200 tom vessel reportedly involved in ares traffic.

 

 

 

 

 

Tnetzucted our Consulate General in Gourgetewa ta
investigete reports that coamercial cargoes (which could conceal
iliteit axms traffic wut of Cube) hed developed betwean British —
Golene end Cube. Investigetions to date have been. negetive.

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424014 Page 10

 
 

 

 

 

wmged the government of Chile to refuse vieas to Cuban delegate
ing fer the TE latin Aweriean
Youth Congress scheduled for August in the Chilean capital.
inabliicy of Cuban delegates to obtain Chi i@an vieas for this
ng is one of the contributing factors to the Cuban sponsors
ng during August that the meeting had been pastponed.

 

 

 

& Sent general inetructioss te eur atesions im aeaiainal

which garticipate in the International Unten of Architects asking
then to urge the cooperation ef govermental authorities in
preventioag er discouraging the attendance of thedy citizens to
the VEE UIA Congress in Eabena, Septesber 29-Octeber 4, 1963.
Fellewed thie up with fastructieous te individual peste to try
where feseible to dinsuade arthitects fron free world countries
frow serving on the jury for the selection of a Bay of Pigs
menument.

re ate te block @ glen to
commence food pares shipments to Gite, on a femerctal busts,

 

| that warld heve vequired the establicheent ef scheduled weekly

eharter flights by Canadian planes.

f

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424014 Page 6

 

 
 

 

 

non reported that either the Cuben nor the Beitish
6 had vised the issue of Landing <ights with

  

he Ueged the governments of Hexic, Canada, Jmneioa
aad the Wetherlands to refuse to aasiee the Guban government
in 1€s efforts to find a short route for recurnyfthe 58 Anerican |
stedents who illegally travelled to Cuba. Also informed |
American Airways that we were opposed te a Guban eequest for
@ PAA charter flight te fly the studente fron Habana to Sew York,
a. Instructed our afesions et Port of Spain and |
Barbades on several eceasione to approach these governments to
eaprass the concern of the 0.5, dt indications of Cuban interest
_ im the use of theater aviation faeilities.
Subsaey Fort of Spain discussed with the Foreign Secretary
of Trinidad various legal moves evailable that would enable
GOTT te conttel movements of aixeraft within their terrltory,
iting emamples o€ euch controle tnstieuced by Hextee, Canada.
end irelend, He indicated teceptivences to the prepesal thes
the iiet ef suggestions be made available te the aviacion effictals

 

 

 

 

 

j. During a previews reporting period Embassy Santiago

HW 50955 Docld:32424014 Page 7

 

 
 

 

 

emthl such tine as the Soviets develop their om refueling facilities
ot Conakry,
b. Enettwueted Eobessy Rio te epproec

 

 

authorities to express cur deep concern at the growing frequency
of Cubin noteschedulad flighte to Beastl and request thete
cooperation in curbing then, Also instructed our Hubasstes

 

 

in several latin Acerfcan countiries to work with CIA atatdon

ebiets da fur the aaues of nationsle of those conntrics

 

travelling on these flighte to lecel euthorities aad urging
them: (2) to inseLeute tighter controle on theiz own cltizens
saved Ming to Guba, and (2) to express theiy concern to the
py) GovéRum ENT
sf Brentl’Sver Cuban use of Brazil ae a way station

for transporting gubversives,

 

6. As a result of representations made te the British
pgeversnent ehaut Guben flights to che Cayean Lalande weneyiog
latin dmerican subversives, the British develo;

achene whieh will effectively prohibit the uae of Britieh
Gevitbemn dependencies by Subans ag transit points for passengers.
The Bedeieh intend co require transte visas of passengers passing
through thelx dress, and to reject applications for auch visas

 

 

eucepe in certain @peelal cases, Ferséne not posesesing vieas
would ba prevented from lesving theirs airereft, o¢ would be

 

 

ws
|

HW 50955 Docld:32424014 Page 5
 

 

 

 

 

 

aden

geturned te theis point of origin,

d. Instructed Bubecey Kexizo Gaty on Auguet 25 to
iaferm the Mextoan aizline MA that the United States is
opposed te @ proposal that GMA operate charter flights to carry
fefugees from Havana to Contrel America, iA, as a result,
stated thet they had no intention of proceeding further with
“thie project.
e, Inetructed 0.8. Misefone im Cur

 

aepo and the Ha gue
éo investigate a report that ELM was planniag to renew sh
ocheduled Curacac-Habans flights and to reiterate US opposition
to resumption of air service vo Cuba, KIM assured eur Eubassy
chat thera io no plan to initiate sewvles, schedwled or none
acheduled, te Hsbana,

£, Inetwucted Eabadsy Ottawa to express our otrong
objections to @ proposal that « Cubans charter @light pick wp
&@ seeond group of U.S. students ie Mentres te fly them to Cuba.
The fidghe was not authorized,

& Instructed Consulate Georgetown te ievestisate
Cubana approaches to secure flight facilities. Miesioa reported
on August 1 that the Governor had no knowledge of any talks
between the B.C. Ministry of Conmunications and the Cuban Covern-
ment regarding landing rights for Cubana planes. The Covernor

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424014 Page 6

 

 
 

 

 

 

SECRET
September 36, 1963
TO: Members of Subcommittee on Castre-Communist .
Subversion.
PROM: Chairman, Subcommittee on Cuban Subversion

SUBJECT: Report for July - Auguet on Actions Taken to
Combat Castro-Communist Subversion,

Attached ig a dyaft of the Subcommittee's report for
July and Auguet on actions taken to counteract Gastro-
commmist subversion in the hemisphere. ‘The draft has been
prepared on the basie of the material which you furnished
with certain modification, The CIA members will note that I
have extracted from his submission the iteus of action taken
and pleced these in the body of the report. The intelligence
information conteined in the submission I. have made inte an
annex, I think it is vary useful to have the intelligence
data form part ef the report, and request that in the future
the CIA member prepare his submisiien in two parts.

May I have your comments on the draft by close of
business Getober 1, 1963,

Coples to: CIA - Mr, Wheeler (2)
DOD - Col. Haig (2)-—7eG, > ¢
USIA ~- Mr. Wagley (1)
RAR - Mr, Hart (1)
Justice - Mr. Geogheghan (1) Zz LF b 2 ~_

Lafte Catldh
\ te Sllilad adtrsid cle. hij nf
, ARA:WCBowdler:jg VB her GG ~ eg

sean downgrading ya vonatta
Ceclassizication a

|
|

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424014 Page 2

 
198:10007-10021} -

 

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

6/24/201

 

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

ARMY ~
198-10007-10021

CALIFANO PAPERS

 

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA : .

COMMENTS :

Document Information

ICCCA
CHMN, SUBCMMT ON CUBAN SUBVERSION
MEMBER OF THE SUBCOMMITTEE

REPORT FOR JULY-AUGUST ON ACTIONS TAKEN TO COMBAT CASTRO-COMMUNIST

SUBVERSION

09/30/1963
23

ENHANCEMENT OF INTELLIGENCE ON CUBAN
SUBVERSION

STRENGTHENING OF COUNTER-INSURGENCY
CAPABILITIES

CONTROL OF TRAVEL TO AND FROM CUBA

CONTROL OF TRANSFER OF FUNDS

SURVEILLANCE OF CUBAN DIPLOMATIC, COMMERCIAL
AND CULTURAL MISSIONS

CONTROL OF CLANDESTINE MOVEMENT OF GUERILLAS
AND ARMS

CONTROL OF MOVEMENT OF CUBAN PROPAGANDA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B; 4

Redact

04/08/1998

Califano Papers, Box 2, Folder 26. Memo from Chairman, Subcommittee on Cuban Subversion to the _
members of the Committee re: Report for July-August on Actions Taken to Combat Castro-Communist

Subversion.

TJEK Lores

pariment of the Army EO 13626
SAdecassiy 3 Exclude © Exempt

Authority,

© Refer To -
Review Date 20/5 By —

 

 

v9.1

HW 50955 Bocld:32424014 Page 1

 
 

 

 

 

DRAPT ; SECRET Le ef ft copies
GRoup T__"
fxeludea f.
3 downgrading ans q vonatta

 

declassificatiog »

a

 

a. Developed highly eseful information en frequency
of Cuban “chartered” flights to Brezil, names and nationalities
of passengers and crew, and lag medeures of eenteel followed
by Brazilian authorittes. Transmitted this infermation to
tation chiefs in the Letin dmerican countries of the aga
Brazilians travelling on these flights.

'b. Maintained clese wateh over travel to and from
Guba. See Annex B fox table of bmewa travel ef Lattin Americans
during Joly and Agger.

©. As @ gesult of information furnished by hin by the
CIA Station in Buenes Aires |

 

 

 

 

 

HW 50955

|indicated that he would make
every effort to prevent Argentine delegates from attending the
international Uniew of Avchiteets Congress in Havana.
ad. At the weging ef the CIA Station and the Eubasey
the Bolivien Minister ef Interior leeved in aldsJaly an order
prohibiting the granting of travel permite to Cube on other

bloc comertes to Belivien nationale.

 

 

Bocld:324274014 Page 3

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a,

 

 

 

the Cevermzent of Chile prohibited the

 

 

 

entry into Chile ef organizers of the Cuben sponeered Second
latin American Youth Gongress, which had been acheduled to take
place in Sentiage in August. Thie wee one ef the feetere which
led to postponement ef theConpr

£, Alter considerable prodding by the CIA Station
sad the Gebsasy the Minister of Public Security ef Costa ica
tam presented legislative proposais to the Costa Ricen Assenbly
which will require 011 gersons intending to travel te Communist
‘@ounteles te have theis travel approved by a newly created

 

Coste Riese seeurley agency.

g. CEA Station in Hexieo Clty developed information
concerning the clandestine arrival ef passengers im Vera Cruz
en Cabana werehant ships. Ueforts are belng made te obtain more

4nformation and te encourage stricter controls by the Moxtean
authorities.

 

#, neteusted Embassy Coankry to try to persuade
Guinean authorities to deny use of airport facilities by flights
on Habena-Veseed route. These efforts achieved a temporary
withholding of permiceion for future ragular flights, at least

HW 50955 Docld:32424014 Page 4

 
