 

   

MEMORANDUM

TO : Justin F. Gleichauf

Frou: (
SUBJECT: Type of Cuban Refugees Arriving

1. It seems obvious that the Cuban Government
is utilizing the Red Cross transportation facilities
to foist off on the US great number of undesirables.
As has been well documented in reports secured from
the arrivale themselves, (and the newspapers), the
majority of the passengers on the "African Pilot"
and the "Shirley Lykes" had little or ne connection

with the Invasion Prisoners, At the most, the “good”
ones could ascribe their departure from Cuba to the
fact that they had property the Cuban Government
wanted. At the worst, the "bad" ones would appear

te be Castro agents, Communists, nationalists, cri-
minala and physically disabled.

2. The arrivals on the Red Cross plane of 25
Jan 63 were just about the dregs of Cuban society.
The passengers made accusations agalast their fel-
low passengers,. and from the reports secured from
individuals, it was apparent that many of them were
would be Castristas, necphyte Communists, or genuine
Castro agents.

3. The arrivals on the plane of 1 Feb 63 were
the worst collection of human beings it has ever
been my misfortune to view. There were four or
five honest hardship cases of very old persons.
There were some who were obviously physical wrecks,
there were a number of mentally deficient, and there
were some who were obviously seriously ill] with
disease. In addition te those there were extremely
low class people, there were almost illiterate negroes,
and there were self admitted Fidelistas, and Nacional-

; : 961. invasio:

 
 

4, These people are not, in my mind, genuine
refugees. They are (1) cast-offs of the Cuban
society, (2) arrogant Castro agents, or (3) people
se devoid of political conviction that they could
owe no allegiance to any country.

5. The wave of indignation experienced by the
Immigration and Customs Inspectors is most revealing.
These men, veterans of long years of experience in
dealing with all types of humanity, ave reached the
point where they make open statements that "such trash
should never be admitted to the US," and before {I
go on admitting people like this, I'l] take my re~-
tirement." .

8. Somehow, something should be done to call
the attention of Washington to this most gerry state
of affairs. This sovereign nation should say when
peopie will enter this nation, and should also say who
should enter this nation, regardless of how much the
do~geoders howl about “humanitarianisa.” It is my
opinion that until facilities are again set up
properly to screen thege arrivale at Opa-Locka, no
more refugees should be allowed to come to the US,

7. ‘The other members of the Miami Field Office
Staff are in:full ‘accord with these recommendations.

 

 

 

 

 
eae ea

e

 

“

   

‘ &. Seenllece Eguch ty sousary @

 
 
 

ngasenger
esticusia ge:

g

    
 
 

few,
eae

    

 

 

  

, £28 4 » CIA demd Repose (25
Febeuery 7, £965.

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

00D (S) 3-251

 

,472

ptact Division 7 February 1963
: ODA(z) - 6295

 

‘ef, Miami Field Office

Type of Refugees on Red Crosa Flights

1, From 18 Jan ~ 1 Feb 63 we have had five Red Cross. flights~
arriving in Miami from Cuba carrying "US no: tionale." Presumably
official Washington believes that these people are in truth hardship
cases, of US nationsie whe were prevented from leaving Cuba before
this date. in reality the passengers reflect more Cuban nationais
than US, and represent to a very large degree Cuban nationals
arriving in the US on the coat-tailis of minor children who vere
born in the US, The specific figures for the month of January
are 276 Cuban nationals and 217 US nationals, There were 198
children,

2. The Miami Field Office has been covering all Red Cross
flights at the airport, and has interviewed all male adults, The
results have been extremely poor, based on a large degree on the
very low caliber of the individuals who are coming in. Appended
is a memorandum prepared by eee omer ins the type of
refugees who are arriving, and we think it is completely accurate
based on our own observations while covering these flights,

3. While we do not believe that we have any influence over
continuance of Red Cross flights, we do feel that we should registey
our opinion concerning the type of individuals who are being permit-
ted entry into the US under the guise of being US nationals and
hardship cases, :

; 4, mentions a number of mentally deficient. This

has been quite true of the passengers on board the Shirlay Lykes and
the African Pilot. The Biscayne Boulevard Office withTa the Taste
week has interviéwed three individuals who had been confined in
mental hospitals prior to their departure for the US, I encountered
a fourth case on a recent Red Cross flight. Castro is obvicugely
getting rid of his undesirables.

 

 

 

 

  
   

 

 

         

ap Lae BG wie BEtyees <a Bae
: apd Shape

hy Be Bote

  
 

e ys

Be Ba cad paged s. SEAS a
great SME C ef uaengere
: Hee. wie A

 
 
 
 
   
  

 

ates ta
4 gemoleded Ghe
ae Gee ee ee eo
& ao eppxeslabla REAP
glace fetelar ah nenpars

 

 

 
 

Beichner tae
nes BBs Bee apace anierrs ae . of be
vepigemeeta et the Beles gel else mei th oe hare
saterice tw avt ep B ie jemigwetion Imeru :

 

  

   

She Lomiareties eam dasoralsest ioe Bowvies
& Pewee emmey Glee: at ahh petchangers ca

 

 

 
 

 

 

i
    

“has grater
me ERE,

   
  
 
 
   

&:

ROR Pree

  

 

Ba & 2 BERweid wheea eh

 

 

 
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF THE ARMY
. WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

 

February 26, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. CALIFANO

SUBJECT: Refugee Handling

This paper, prepared by HEW, points up the problems of
refugee handling and recommends that only one plane petabe authorized
in the event flights are resumed. . This.recommendation 1s based upon
the ability of HEW to handle that number of refugees through an expanded
resettlement program (previously two or three planes per day. were
arriving). :

There is no direct involvement of the Department of Defense
in this program, The major.issues are as follows:

: a. . The aidstomy of syphoning off resistance forces
versus the normal u. S. assistance to refugees.

b, ‘The didstomy of assimilating refugees versus ‘their
desire to be ready: to return to a "new" Cuba.

c. The problem of establishing an additional refugee
center to take the burdens off of schools, housing, municipal
services, employment, medical and health and community
relations in the Miami area (the pros and cons of’the establish-.
ment of a second center are outlined in the enclosure to. the
paper).

There are. intelligence and security implications ; in the estab-
lishment of a second center which are not fully. reflected in the enclosure.
I suggest you-take your lead. from CIA and Justice on intelligence and
security matters (Defense could be involved if we were required to estab-
lish a second screening point, however, this is of lesser importance).

There is no. indication that HEW or Labor have sought.assistance
from private institutions other than those presently operating in the Miami
area which include one Catholic organization, one Protestant organization
and one interdominational organization. :

HW 50955 ‘Bocld:32424020 Page 2
198-10007-10027

 

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

6/24/201

4

 

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR: -
FROM:
TO:

 

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA >

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

ARMY
198-10007-10027

CALIFANO PAPERS

Document Information

ARMY
JAMES Kk. PATCHELL
MR. CALIFANO

REFUGEE HANDLING

02/26/1963
24

CUBAN REFUGEES

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Confidential

IA

Redact

04/08/1998

Califano Papers, Box 2, Folder 13. Memo from Patchell to Califano re: handling of Cuban refugees.

NK Roviag,

Department of the Army EO 13526

Deciassify [I gy ra)
Authority clude Exempt
Refer to___

Review Date (a By,

 

 

 

v9.1

HW 50955 DoclId:32424020 Page 1
CAUTION:
Although it is not our business, suggest that care be exercised
in your placing your stamp of approval on any program which restricts

the. inflow of refugees as this is against our fundamental principles.

Many of the problems are essentially economic and political
-and we would do best. to be listeners rather than givers.

kb, Cdewre
ee s K, Patchell

Lt. Colonel USA

WEXT ATTACHED IS Previous ActioW

on REFUGEES AND en cdoss FUGHTS
Awo Sires, (INFO ONLY ~ VT CouLD

GET NTO CaNVE SATION ),

HW 50955 DBDoold:32424020 Page 3
 

Gublewt: Guben Befugess on Amexieen Red Cross ;
: Fiiente ai Raige , a

 

eevee io epoleced 6 ameras eerteialng replies
te tae Preostdemk’s Qlwest telepheas iaguisy ragerdings
i) when sere & gagugess ave eupeetadg 2) tha
seveening paotcespes ef Cpeclacka, ext 3) tha
ignuereatiess te the Swilas ise deavlesg Bad
Svecs eaip and eleplens pastangura.

 

 

 

   
     

é

  

u 2 ieiee yap das
tea the Preaidant's éiwecet
ealeghene imysire ¢! Peiewery 14,

 
