 

SECRET

 

Station and Embassy are continuing pressure on Cuban.
government in this regard. Names of travellers to Cuba
are being passed to. the Ambassador, who furnishes them

to President Alessandra (who has asked that this collab-
oration be kept secret). Information from CIA unilateral
operations against Cuban Embassy is being used by.a newly
ereated Chilean surveillance team in checking out purpose
of travel projected and in following up on returnees from
Guba. The station has an agent. in daily contact with
-leaders.of. the extreme militant left and is exploring the
possibilities of sending three station assets to Cuba
_forvtraining and intelligence missions. A Cuban First
Secretary was declared persona non grata during April for
using false identity documents, and the Cuban charge
d'affaires was subsequently reealled by his own government.

 

5) Colombia - Chief of Customs has indicated to

 

 

 

his willingness to institute an improved travel control
system. One station asset expects to.travel to Cuba
in the near future. Station believes it has identified
a courier operating between Colombia and Cuba and. has
mounted an operation to uncover his Colombian contacts.

6) Costa, Rica - Station reports. little pro-Castro.
activity during April. No recorded. travel to or from .
Cuba has taken place. Local authorities appear inelined.
to cooperate in control program. a

7) Dominican Republic + Efforts to get Juan Bosch to
take active steps against Communists and travellers to
and from Cuba have been fruitless to date, as have been
efferts to establish a.new and effective. internal security
organization in the Dominican Republic. Bosch appears
to have lost his previously stated enthusiasm for such
a service, but efforts to persuade him to approve a
proposed budget for the service are continuing.

8) Ecuador - Station reports that, largely as a result
of both overt and covert propaganda activities of U.S.
agencies in Ecuador, the public awareness of Cuban sub-
version has changed from apathy to genuine concern, The .
government, however, is no more inclined to take action
than before. The National Director of Immigration has
stated that he-personally would like to do whatever he
ean to. stop travel to Cuba, which he realizes is for
subversive purposes, but present laws do not pemit him
to impede travel via third countries, He is exploring
possibilities of reprisals against’ citizens who return

SECRET 2

HW 50955 Docld:32424012 Page 9
HW 50955

tw

 

SECRET

from Cuba; He has checked a list of names and passport
numbers obtained from airline manifests in Mexico,
and reports that not one name or passport number corres-
ponds with official Ecuadoran records, indicating the
possibility of fabrication of passports by Cuba,

 

 

 

 

A recent Ecuadoran returnee from Cuba, recruited by
the station, lost his hand in testing a homemade bomb
made in accordance with. instructions received in .Cuba.

He made a public statement and wide publicity was
arranged by the station and USIS. Plans are to keep: this
incident alive as proof .of revolutionary training’ given. :
in Cuba for terrorist activity in Ecuador.

The station chief has accompanied the American
Ambassador. on visits to the Ecuadoran Ministers of Defense
and Government to stress the threat of Cuban backed
subversion.

 

Approximately 7,000 pounds of Communist propaganda
are being destroyed monthly as a result ofa unilateral
operation of the CIA Base in Guayaquil.

9) Haiti ~ Station reports that several assets have
travelléd to points. outside Port-au-Prince in an effort
to learn of possible travel to and from Cuba. Reports
from. areas of Cape Haitien, Port de Paix, and La Gonave
and La Tortue Islands, were negative.

10) Honduras - The government has. shown little inclina-
tion to tighten upson-travel control. A travel control
system presented to the Minister of Government has been
fully approved by him, but not yet put into effect.

Several known Honduran Communists have recently travelled
to Cuba. Information as to their identities is being
furnished to President Villeda through the. U.S. Ambassador.

11) Mexico -. A CIA source states the Cuban Embassy has
issued 10-15 visas during April on pieces of paper
separate from the passport, but the government's practice
of stamping all passports to show. travel to or from Cuba
has largely nullified this effort by travellers to avoid
the stigma of travel to Cuba, All Cubans arriving in
Mexico, whether in transit er otherwise must have Mexican
visas, This is not true of other nationalities, who need
no. visa. if in transit. The government continues to
confiscate. propaganda material from Cuba sporadically at
the airport. The government recently refused visas to.
five Cuban doctors who wished to attend a Urology Congress _

ECRET 6

Docld:324274012 Page 10
SECRET

 

1). Argentina ~ Station; in conjunction with the
Embassy, has continued to press the Argentine govern-.
ment.to enact effective travel control legislation and
to adopt measures recommended by the Special Consultative
Committee on Security of the OAS Information on Argentines
travelling to Cuba is. being furnished. to.the Argentine.
government by the station, Several potential travellers
to Cuba have been spotted and are being assessed by the
station. Information from three recent returnees. from
Cuba is. being obtained through debriefings. Station .re+
ports that because of increased Mexican controls;.all
truly clandestine travel to Cuba from Argentina is now via
Prague. Che Guevarats mother was. arrested om 23 April
upon. her return to Argentina. for imperting Castro. propa+
ganda.

2) Bolivia -.Statién and Embassy have been urging ~
Bolivian government to adopt stricter travel controls,
without apparent results.so far. Names of travellers
known to have returned from Cuba are being. furnished to.
the Bolivian government. Thus far,-no action is known
to. have been taken by the Bolivian government on the |
strength of such information. Station comments that. prob~
lem with Bolivia is. not in lack of information available
to government on Cuban subversion, but in getting Bolivia:
to do something about it.

3) Brazil - Information -on Brazilians who have received
subversive training in Cuba has been made available to
the Brazilian Foreign Office, through the American, Ambassa--
‘dor, and to the National Security Council

 

 

 

 

 

An asset of the CTA station in Rio is in a position
te harass and delay Cuba+bound travellers in those
instances where the station.is able to tip him off re-
garding their destination. He.can also harass. returnees
when informed in.advanee. ‘The station is taking steps to
get appropriate information to him promptly.

4) Chile = Chilean internal security authorities,
are. trying to impede. and harass

travellers to and rrom Cuba. Government is now requiring
passport applicants.to-state déstination; and passports
must be turned in after travel, The Foreign Minister
has. stated much progress is being made, with cooperation
of the Mexican government, and that travel of Chileans to
Cuba has been dramatically reduced in “recent weeks.

 

SEGRET 4

HW 50955 Docld:32424012 Page 8
” SECRET

4, Established: oh’.11 April a U.S. military alerting
system operated by CINCARIB and.CINCLANT. Pursuatit to the
request of the Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee on
Cuban Affairs the Department of Defense has suspended the
use of the Military Groups in the alerting system and is
working with CIA to reduce duplication of effort to.a mini-
mum.

.e€, Alerting U.S. forees, for. the most part within the
Atlantic Command, to be prepared to provide U.S, assistance
in.the final.interception of shipping in territorial waters
upon request by the country concerned. Currently, forces
are assigned by the unified commander involved, to meet. the
singular problem. encountered. . ;

f. Ordered to the Canal Zone .a Coast Guard Mobile
Training Team for a period of six months, beginning 15 May
-1963, to provide training, in Spanish, in boat handling
and maintenance together with survelllance techniques to...
those Central American countries having 40 foot Coast Guard
Utility Boats. In addition, thé Mobile Training Team*will
assist as. required in. establishing .a- permanent Small. Craft -
Training and Inspection Facility im the Canal Zone. One
40.foot utility boat has been permanently assigned to. the
U.S, Naval Station, Rodman; Canal. Zone for use by. the MTT and
will be delivered there about 20 June. ;

3, The Central Intelligence Agency has:

a, Completed its efforts to-improve U.S. government
communications in Latin America by the installation of the
‘remaining two. commercial Teased circuits into Guatemala
City_and Managua, and.the stationing on.a permanent basis
of CIA radio operators in Latin America in replacement.
of temporary duty personnel, In November 1962, CIA's active
radio facilities in Eatin American capitals were augmented
with on-line cryptographic facilities and temporary personnel
to handle the bulk of all.U.S. government communications in
the area, These facilities; know as Joint Communications:
Centers, are now being operated by CTA on a 2h-hour basis,
as a service to.all U.S. government agencies. Latin American
traffic handled.by the CIA base radio. station near Washington
has increased frown 3,000,000 groups handied in October 1962
to.15,000,;000 groups handled in March 1963.

 

 

 

 

b. Increased its efforts designed to control the. movement
of persons, arms and propaganda materials to.and. from Cuba.
A summary of actions by country is provided below:

f

SECRET — 3

 

HW 50955 DoclId:32424012 Page 7
SECRET

PROGRESS ACHIEVED DURING APRIL IN IMPEDING TRAVEL TO CUBA

1. The Department of State has:

a, Participated in the drafting of a resolution passed at
the 3-4 April Managua meeting respecting discouragement of
travel of Latin Americans to Cuba for training in subversion.
The text of the resolution is appended hereto.

b. Headed an interdepartmental team currently visiting
the Isthmian capitals with the objective of securing, where
feasible, the fullest and quickest implementation of all the
recommendations agreed on at Managua. Prior to the depar-
ture of the team, Department of State posts were instructed
to inform the host governments of the trip and to encourage
them to identify the kinds and extent of technical assistance
it would be most useful for the United States to furnish.

c, Caused to be noted in U.S. passports since 1 April that
they are not valid for travel to Cuba.

d. Following an indication that the Bolivian Government >
might be willing to increase efforts to impede travel of its
nationals to Cuba, instructed the U.S. Embassy to recommend
that the GOB:

 

(1) Ban travel to Cuba by Bolivian nationals except
for official or special purposes apr ones by the GOB, and
establish legal penalties for violations

(2) Require Bolivian citizens to have a passport or
other GOB document to travel abroad;

(3) Make such document invalid for travel to Cuba
unless specially endorsed;

(4) Seek arrangements with third countries which are
important transit points under which third countries
will assist the GOB in preventing unauthorized travel
by Bolivians and will help identify violators.

e. Drawing on the recommendation in the paper on "The Move-
ment of Subversives and Subversive Trainees" and other sources,
prepared telegrams to the non-Isthmian posts, instructing them
to encourage host governments to take additional counter-
subversion steps. Each instruction was tailored to the local

tT

 

ECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32424012 Page 5
SECRET

situation in the recipient country and included appropriate
suggestions as to strategy which might be used in securing
implementation of the desired actions.

f. Requested posts in Latin America to encourage host
governments to take appropriate measures to discourage
participation of their nationals in Cuba's May Day cele-
bration, and to prevent charter flights from their country
to Cuba for the celebration.

2. The Department of Defense has:

a, Continued the U.S. sea and air surveillance of the
area surrounding Cuba until 25 April 1963, at the same rate
and with the same emphasis as existed prior to that date.
Since 25 April 1963, additional sea surveillance has been
realized between Cuba and Haiti, due to the stationing of.
the Caribbean Ready Amphibious Squadron at the entrance-of
the Gulf of Gonaives occasioned by the deterioration -of
internal conditions within Haiti. .Reports of subversive
movement, or suspected subversive movement, obtained by
U.S. surveillance are available for immediate transmittal
through the U.S. military alerting system,

b. Flowing from recommendations by the committee,
greatly accelerated current programs for the installation
of military communications facilities in Latin America.
-As of 1 April, a commercial submarine cable from Florida
to Panama became operational. This cable gives reliable
voice and teletype communications to CINCARIB including
both classified teletype and voice. Negotiations are con-
tinuing in Honduras, Colombia and Ecuador for the instal-
lation of military radio facilities. Installation of a
multi-channel radio station has been completed in Costa
Riea. A similar facility in Nicaragua is scheduled for
completion by 1 July 1963.

c. Established an Intelligence Center at CARIBCOM:
Headquarters, in connection with the program of surface
surveillance of the Caribbean, for rapid processing and
dissemination to countries concerned, via the American Am-
bassadors, .of intelligence on the movement of subversives.

 

SECRET

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424012 Page 6
 

THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

SUB-COMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION

 

THE JOINT STAFF

i, SACSA-M 286-63
4 14 May 1963

. if
MEMORANDUM FOR THE INTERDEPARTMENTAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE
' GN CUBAN AFFAIRS

Subject: Overview Paper on Caastro-Comnunist
Subversion |

}

1, At a reeent meeting the members of the Sub-Committee
on Cuban Subversion discussed the critical need for an
everview of the Castro-Communiat subversion situation
in Latin America, in light of the many actions which have
been proposed or adopted in recenS months. It was
envisioned that such a pyesentation would be designed on
a country-by-country bagis, giving factual evidence of

_@hange in the situation in each country, and expreased
in terms of the topics upon which we have recently
developed studies.

2, The analysis should be developed from information
largely available in Washington, as oppesed to requiring
special reports from the field; and should be prepared ag
of i dune, to be avallable not later than 1 duly.

3, The Committee authoriged me to recommend to you
that preparation of a paper of the scope outlined above
be required.

¥. @, KRULAK
Major General, USMC
Cheirman

DOWNGRADED AT 3 YEAR INTERVALS;
DECLASSIFIED AFTER. A
DOD DIR 5200.

     
  

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424012 Page 2
98-10007-10019

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

JFK Assassination System . Date:

Identification Form

6/24/201

 

Agency Information

ARMY —
198-10007-10019

CALIFANO PAPERS

 

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

 

Document Information

JCS
V.H.KRULAK
ICCCA

OVERVIEW PAPER ON CASTRO-COMMUNIST SUBVERSION

05/14/1963

13

IMPEDING TRAVEL TO CUBA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1C; 4

Redact

04/02/1998

Califano Papers, Box 4, Folder 17. Memo from Krulak to the ICCCA re: Overview Paper on

Castro-Communist Subversion.

ov

TFEK Revved

bee of the Army EO 138626
Deciassify Exclude [ Exempt

Authority.

eS Pouce 1S Exempt
Refer To
Review Dare] 2 PaB by LEE

NO STATE OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION
BY. DATE A

 

 

 

v9.1

HW 50955 BocId:32424012 Page i
.

SECRET
SUB-COMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION
9 May 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE INTERDEPARTMENTAL COORDINATING
COMMITTEE ON CUBAN AFFAIRS

SUBJECT: Second Progress Report, Sub-Committee on Cuban
Subversion

ENCLOSURE: Progress Achieved during April in Impeding Travel
to Cuba ~ .

1. The enclosure hereto summarizes progress made by the
several departments and agencies, during the month of April, in
executing the actions approved by the President on 8 March 1963,
to control the movement of subversives and subversive trainees to
and from Cuba.

2. In addition to the program on control of subversive travel,
action programs were completed in all of the companion areas, and
were forwarded for approval on the dates indicated below:

a. Controls on Movement of Propaganda Material - 14 March 1963
b.. Controls on Movement of Arms - 14 March 1963
c. The Organization of a Caribbean Surveillance System -
15 March 1963
d. The Exchange of Intelligence - 25 March 1963
e. Controls on Movement of Funds - 10 April 1963
f, Training of Latin Americans in the United States -
26 April 1963

3. A significant development during the month of April bearing
on the action programs proposed by the Sub-Committee was the .
Ministerial Meeting held in Managua, Nicaragua, on 3-4 April. The
Managua meeting produced a set of eight resolutions which, when
implemented, will proceed along the same major avenues as the

GROUP-1
SECRET an ; EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
- DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

HW 50955 DBocld:32424012 Page 3
SECRET

action programs proposed by the Sub-Committee. An interdepart-
mental team is currently visiting the Isthmian capitals, consulting
with Ministers of Government and authorities designated by them in
the fields of immigration control, customs control, coastal sur-
veillance and the organization of a local counter-subversive agency.

For the Sub-Committee:

v. H. KRULAK
Major General, USMC
Chairman

SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32424012 Page 4 J
