are

29 March, 1963
LIST OF "REBEL ARMY" OFFICERS AMONG CUBAN EXILES

The attached biographic sketches include names shown on
"List B, Officers of Rebel Army’ transmitted by Memorandum for
Mr. Joseph A. Califano, Jr., dated 12 January, 1963, Subject:
"Praining of Cuban Officers in Exile." but thirteen of the names
‘on that list are not included in the.attached biographic sketches.
It 1s believed, however, that the missing biographic sketches
were included with the ones I transmitted by Memorandum for Mr.
Joseph Califano, Jr. , dated 23 January, 1963, Subject: Trans-
mittal of List of Officers of 2506 Brigade and Biographies of
Officers on Lists A, B and Cc. . .

Attached are biographies of:

Ricardo Lorie Valls

Laureano Felipe Gutierrez Palla
Rafael Ribas Hechavaérria .
Eduardo Gutierrez Falla

Rafael German Candia Cervera
Juan Tamayo Cardoniz

Pedro Salas

Salvador Aldereguia Orse

Luis Barcena Serrano

Rafael Cieza Diaz

Eduardo Martinez Munoa

Jose Manuel Santiesteban Pavon
Jorge De Moya Fernandez Marcazo
Mario Gutierrez Mir

Jose Antonio Lao Coba

Blas Gilberto Pascual Salvador
Iuis C. Posada Carriles |

Juan Manuel Rodriguez Pineda
Pablo Manuel Duasso Delgado
Esteban Bernabe Sanchez Poccio
Fernando Ojeda Alvarez

Jaime Gomez Veraz

Antonio Crespi Larralde

Genaro Arroyo

 

 

 

HW 50955 DBDoold:32424019 Page 5
Miami, Florida
29 March, 1963

Dear Mr. Califano:

In my conversation early this week with Dr.
Miro Cardona and Dr. Ernesto Aragon, who has been spending a
few days here, I was told that you were under the impression that
you did not have a list of "Rebel Army" officers and their bio-
graphic sketches. As you have been told Dr. Miro would like to
have a few of them included in the training of Cuban officers.
In my various memoranda to Washington on this subject I have
made recommendations in this regard and have sent lists and bio-

yrehies.

With all the various lists and categories of
Cuban officers that have been discussed and included in memoran-
da.to you, it is little wonder that you should be confured on
this matter and not realize that the names of a number of these
officers were among those sent to you, along with my memorandum
to you of 12 January, 1963 and the one of 23 January, 1963.

However, as these lists and bhographic sketches
may have been sent on to ofher offices or erronhously filed, I am
including herewith copies of the biographies which I have had
made, these being split into two groups for the reasons indicated
on the covering memos. I am also including a paraphrase of my or-
iginal memo of transmittal on these, dated 12 June, 1962.

In my memorandum of last fall, I listed the
names of several officers among the "Rebel Army" category who
Dr. Miro considers would be suitable to send to. the anti-guerilla
operations course in Panama. I do not seem to have a copy of
that memo but I recall that Ricardo Lorie was one of those he
recommended. I suggested that four to six officers be sent to
that course, including some regular(professional) officers and
sfome "rebel" or"Liberation Army" officers.

If I can be of further assistance, please
call on me. .

ery truly yours,

 

HW 50955 DBDoold:32424019 Page 2
198-10007-10026

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/24/201

Identification Form

 

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

Agency Information

ARMY
198-10007-10026

CALIFANO PAPERS

Document Information

CIA
[Restricted]
MR. CALIFANO

BIOGRAPHIC SUMMARIES ON OFFICERS OF THE CUBAN REBEL ARMY IN EXILE AND
RECOMMENDATION FOR THEIR TRAINING IN U.S. SERVICE SCHOOLS OR TRAINING
CENTERS

03/29/1963
4

CUBAN OFFICERS IN EXILE - TRAINING

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Not Marked

1A

Redact

04/08/1998

Califano Papers, Box 2, Folder 11. Letter from [withheld] to Califano re: training of Cuban officers in
exile.

mua Kavieg,

Department of the Army EO 13528

P&Deoiassify Exclude Gl Exempt
Authority.

©] Refer To

Renew oe IVES BL TIUZ ng

 

 

35

HW 50955 DBocld:32424019 Page i
Miami, Florida
29 March, 1963

Subject: Biographic Summaries on Officers of the Cuban Rebel
: Army in Exile and Recommendation for their Training in
u.S. Service Schools or Training Centers.

Following is a paraphrase and summary of a memorandum of
transmittal which I sent through my channels to Washington on
12 June, 1962, along with biographic sketches of "Rebel" officers,
copies of which are enclosed herewith: Dr. Jose Miro Cardona,
President of the Cuban Revolutionary Council has declared frequent-
ly that he would like to have some of the officers of the Duban Re-
bel Army in Exile trained in U.S. Service Schools after or during
the training of regular officers of the Cuban Armed Forces, who
are now in exile.

On 29 May at a meeting in Miami with a Representative of the
Department of Defense and Dr. Miro, the matter of training officers
of the Rebel Army (Army that fought in the campaigns against
Batista, under Castro) who are anticommunist and are now in exile,
was discussed briefly. a

A few days later, Dr. Miro and his military assistant, at
that time Captain Ernesto Despaigne, brought me biographical sketch-
es of 48 officers of the Rebel Army, who are now in exile, almost
all having participated in the campaigns of Castro in 1958, and
some also saw action in the 1961 invasion of Cuba.

These officers occupied positions from end lieutenant to
captain and two were majors (comandante) in the Rebel Army. Their
educational background is extremely varied. Some are university
graduates, some had a year or two of university, some finished se-
condary school. On other biographiesr no education entry is shown;
this may be an oversight in some instances, but in many cases it .
may indicate little or no education - possibly only a few years of
primary schooling. There are, however, enough of these men with
adequate educational background to be able to attend and profit
from a training course. Several of those in this group could
readily take an officers' course at a school such as the Infantry
School, Ft. Benning, Georgia.

: Although it seems desirable to train the maximum number of prof.
Cuban Army officers, it would undoubtedly be advantageous for the
future of Cuba and for such action as may be taken at a future
date against the Castro-communist regime, to train some of these
officers who must have shown leadership ability in the revolution-
ary campaigns. Hence it is recommended that consideration be giv-
en to training some of these officers in training facilities of
the U.S. Army, such as Fort Benning, Georgia and the courses for
Latin American Officers in jungle warfare and anti-guerilla opera-
tions in Panama.

Inclosure: Biographies of Cuban "Rebel Army" officers.

HW 50955 DBocld:32424019 Page 3
 

29 March, 1963

ADDITIONAL LIST OF "REBEL ARMY" OFFICERS AMONG
CUBAN EXILES .

The attached biographic sketches were among the 48 trans~
mitted to Washington, 12 June, 1962, but were not included in
a revised list and biographies forwarded in November, 1962, re-
turned to Miami, subsequently, and then resubmitted directly to
Mr. Califano by memoranda of 12 January, and 23 January, 1963.
Accordingly it is believed that this list of names and the at-
tached biographies, corresponding thereto, should not be given
consideration for training, at least not until after those on
List B submitted on 12 January, 1963, and followed by biographies
therefore on 23 January, 1963.

Attached are biographies of:

Roudo Rosell Del Rio

Manuel Rodriguez Treto

Jorge De Moya y Fernandez Marcado
dose Antonio Rodriguez Del Rio
Aristedes Mendoza Amita. ;
Jorge Marban Leyva.

Eugenio Albo Perez

Jorge Roberto Arencibia
Eduardo Perez Gon#alez

Rodolfo Betancour y de Mateo
Arnaldo Gaston Bringuez Fernandez
Antonio Bustillo Perez

Osvaldo Carrasco Leon

Ariel Diaz Arce .

Francises Diaz de Armas

Gaspar Gimenez

Jorge Gomez Vera

Hector Hoces

Jose Lopez Castille

Roberto Parson Ramirez

Jose Orlando Rivas Melo

Juan Tamayo Cordoviz

Oliverio Tomeu

 

HW 50955 DBDoold:32424019 Page 4
