o ®
SECRET

Communist embassies with a view toward: prohibiting
abuses of diplomatic privilege for subversive
purposes.

ec. As applicable and feasible, induce Latin

American countries to:

' (1) Adopt adequate internal security legis-
lation which would provide severe penalties for
any person engaging in dissemination of Cuban
Communist propaganda aimed at the overthrew
of the legal governments by force and violence.

(2) Preclude attendance of Cuban delegates
to international meetings held in Latin America.
(Delegates are propaganda disseminators.)

2. Intelligence Actions

a. Continue U.S. intelligence efforts in each
country to identify individuals, organizations and
facilities involved in propaganda importation, repro-

_ duction and/or dissemination; make available to each
country selected intelligence concerning these individuals,
organizations and their activities.

b. Encourage each country not having a legal
Communist Party to offer rewards for information lead-
ing to interception of Castro Communist propaganda
materials considered dangerous to the country's tran-
quility.

SECRET 6
HY 50955 DocId:32423822 Page 9
m © @
SECRET |

c. In separate diplomatic approaches to each
country, urge full and effective cooperation with the
appropriate organs. of the OAS, and bilaterally among
the several nations, in the interchange of information
concerning movement of propaganda materials.

dad. Persuade Latin American countries to report
promptly to the diplomatic mission of the country
concerned, the identity of any national of that
country who arrives from Cuba and who is discovered
to have been carrying propaganda materials.

3. Covert Actions

a, Cause disruption in the reproduction and
distribution of propaganda materials, and in the
procurement and delivery of related supplies and
equipment.

b. Induce Latin American printing craftsmen to
deface, destroy, or misprint Castro Communist propa-
ganda in the process of reproduction.

ec. Disrupt Castro Communist sponsored labor and
youth congresses, industrial and agricultural exhibits
in Latin American countries.

a, Maintain or increase economic pressures on
media owners, local advertising agencies and film
producers and/or distributors who accept Communist

’ materials.

SECRET 7

HW 50955 Doocld:32423822 Page 10
® @
SECRET

It will be seen from this brief review that Latin
America is the target of a broad scale propaganda program,
comprising not only propaganda materials but including also
the ideas, the knowledge and the funds which are necessary
to make those materials effective.

Tir. ‘Direct Actions to Impede Legal Movement of Propaganda
Materials.

Presented below is a summary of actions contemplated
to impede legally executed movement of propaganda materials
from Cuba to and within Latin American countries. For the
purpose of this paper, legal movement is characterizéd as
movement by recognized private and governmental carriers
and communications, as well as postal systems and diplomatic
pouching.

The following actions offer promise of contributing
to the production of early and effective results in selected
Latin American countries. It is recognized that they do not
necessarily have universal application and that those which
are effective in one country may not pe feasible in another.

1. Political Actions
a. Induce the countries in which Prensa Latina
operates to limit or exclude its activities.
b. Persuade those governments which receive
Cuban and Bloc diplomatic missions to maintain close
surveillance over the propaganda activities of the
SECRET 5

HW 50955 DocId: 32423822 Page 8
HW 50955

SECRET

Latin America. It operates openly, but not entirely without
restriction, in ten countries -- Bolivia, Brazil, Chile,
Colombia, Ecuador, Costa Rica, Honduras, Mexico, Panama and
Uruguay. Although its users are chiefly leftists or overt
Communists » in some countries there is fairly extensive
unattributed use of Prensa Latina releases, especially in
radio,

Radio

Shortwave radio is the principal direct mass audience
medium available to Cuba to carry subversive propaganda
to Latin America, and extensive use is made of it. The Castro
regime has constantly increased Radio Havana's shortwave
proadcasts to Latin America to a total of (115:30 hours per
week. Communists have had little success in placing radio
and television material on local stations in Latin America.

Cultural Activities

Penetration under the guise of "cultural" activities
is a favored Communist propaganda technique in Latin America,
There are 64 binational centers and friendship societies
in the area.

Films.

Feature films and short documentaries produced by the
Cuban Institute of Motion Picture Art and Industry (ICAIC)
play a direct propaganda role. Their showings have been
focused on binational centers, pro-Communist labor and student
groups, and on private or clandestine meetings.

SECRET 4

Docld:324273822 Page 7
. ‘ © @

susceptibility of the Latin American people tg communist
propaganda remains high, The basic social and economic
factors which have made this so in the past have not greatly
changed, and the variety and quantity of propaganda materials
with which the Latin Americans are beset is impressive, as
examplified in the million dollars which the
communists are reported as investing in the project annually.
The program presents a continuing threat to the tranquility. of
Latin America.

. For the purpose of this paper, propaganda materials
include radio program scripts, tapes and recordings, printed
materials, (posters, pamphlets, magazines, leaflets, books,
newspapers, news service output), motion pictures, duplicating
or reproducing equipment, electronic communications equipment,
spare parts and supplies therefor and printing resources,
particularly paper stockpiles. To be complete, moreover,
“movement of propaganda materials" must extend to small
quantities, of selected publications which are hand-carried
into a country by legal or illegal travellers for subsequent
reproduction. It also includes materials transmitted through
Cuban and Soviet. Bloc diplomatic installations, shipments
via postal channels, quantities introduced through smuggling
operations, oral transmission of propaganda guidelines by _
individual travelers or by Radio Havana, and the dissemination
of slanted news by Prensa Latina, the official Cuban news
agency, for pick-up and reproduction by local outlets.

SECRET 2
HW 50955 Docld:32423822 Page 5
@ 6
SECRET

Finally to be considered is thematic guidance which can

be exploited locally by returning trainees, front groups

and sympathetic publications; and in some countries such as
Mexico, Argentina and Uruguay, the products of those commercial
establishments which regularly print or broadcast pro-Castro
materials as a matter of police or ideological conviction.

Press and Publications

There are 326 Communist and pro-Communist newspapers
and periodicals in Latin America, Infiltration of the
democratic press and the non-critical attitudes of some
newspapermen help give wider diffusion of the Cuban propaganda
line. In addition, there are 228 comminist oriented publish-
ing houses and bookstores which serve as outlets for 30
different Cuban periodicals and other Communist books in all
Latin American countries except Dominican Republic, Paraguay,
Nicaragua, and Venezuela. Many of them offer books and
publications at very low prices or give away two or three
books with the purchase of one, and easy credit terms are
available. ,

Decrees banning Communist activity and propaganda have
not prevented the continued clandestine publication and
distribution of a number of periodicals, books and other
printed materials in come countries, notably Argentina.

Excluding TASS and New China News Agency (NCNA),

Prensa Latina is the principal Communist news agency in

SECRET 3

HW 50955 Doold: 32423822 Page 6
 

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423822 Page 2

C)

 

 
198-10006-10007

a JFK Assassination System Date: 6/24/201
Identification Form

 

 

 

Agency Information +

AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: — 198-10006-10007

RECORD SERIES: = CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: — JCS
FROM:  KRULAK, V.H.
TO:

TITLE: FIRST DRAFT: CUBA - MOVEMENT OF PROPAGANDA MATERIALS

DATE: — 03/12/1963
PAGES: 12

SUBJECTS :
COUNTERING CUBAN PROPAGANDA
PROPAGANDA MEDIA
KRULAK COMMITTEE
CUBAN SUBVERSION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 12/11/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder 11. Draft of Krulak Committee paper on the movement of Cuban
propaganda.

pias A ssesSincfen Recoids kev eJ

 

 

partment of the Army EO 13526 No viene STAFF
. Declassify Exclude © Exempt Bihan OBJECTION
uthority, DECLASSI FICATION
© Refer To
neces St pai KTR = MAR OG
a
NO STATE OBJECTION
TO DECLASSIFICATION
BY. DATE, Mig
lo P

HW 50955 DBocld:32423822 Page i
(SECRET
SUBCOMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION

12 March 1963

TO JOINT STAFF, SERVICE AND OSD CONTACT POINTS:
This is our next draft of the paper on Propaganda.

Please submit any views you choose to turn in by 1700 today.

MN.
Vv. HH. ite
Major General, USMC

SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32423822 Page 3
SECRET
FIRST DRAFT
CUBA
MOVEMENT OF PROPAGANDA MATERIALS
I. Introduction

The actions proposed herein are designed to impede
the movement of Communist propaganda materiais from Cuba
to and within Latin American countries. Actions contemplated
to control the movement of propaganda are closely related to,
and in some cases identical with, those which control the
movement of persons. As in the program which addresses
the problem of movement of subversive trainees to and from
Cuba, the successful execution of the proposals will materially
reduce the flow of propaganda, but will not eliminate it
entirely.

Communist Cuba has many legitimate outlets through
which propaganda materials flow. By eliminating these oute-
lets, and by physically isolating Cuba from the remainder
of Latin America, Communist propagandists and their sympa-
thizers will be forced to rely more heavily upon production
and dissemination of propaganda materials in a clandestine
environment within each Latin American country, with a
consequent increase in difficulty.

II. Nature and Scope of the Problem
While the Castro image has probably diminished in

Latin America, by virtue of his own imprudent actions, the

SECRET

HW 50955 DocId: 32423822 Page 4
