 

 

 

id} Toke weavers te contre entey tate Gute.
SGP Rg: Btete
fo} EdeestelMish a UG. Counter foam do Dahon,
BG eiete
iieres This avelistion ae taesd upon the aueemebien thet

the abovesdigerited mietma deairebie. Mionlemd iMtauy
attestden bas been aeliivved,/ wee

ee |

 

te Boe

 

‘The Telted Stato gtepa proposed cheve are euilable fer
the: outlet, oradiestion tho Cowive vagiac ani dle ropleccmt
Ye ee wit. te cen fovea ao uy aiken Shan

  
 

 

Re FF

She gregened stony ave feecibia. Che legisiies grokion
ke whe he ace of the geoxizlty of Cuba ta the Matted
Staten end tte i‘ Ggtenss to the Rie, Ce ove the
grepnderaics of wiisteeey al genienin power to cele cet the.
toet quiebigs

Guba ke not heliowed de be ieetanh enengh to the Ceviet
; Se fagtlfy tho viek of 2 mafer wey Mereeror, bes GAR
enznot ftieygly a niga fleet feree eves teng seo nee
ageing the bosiilo navy. Thorefers, the Sen elk eet interns Abed
eelorily, The US mer ineceses ihe preegane tn Berlin, ees
op gthot parte cf the vortd, tat will chee ehert of a dinees
wager contrortaties with the Gaited States.

    
  

   

 

     

 

 

taj

 

 

Gesteots armed forces mow howe the eblifty te iettiet
gtguifiess leesse apes an invading Porn, We bollewa,
housver, that Queues would be aceaptetle given thw sive
fg pinto of j Aisin ‘so ro of the va te ee ery ommeed

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423818 Page 9

 

 
 

 

 

The feiients aocmesy den gustan aay cme Intarvesdtie
Ra Gabe aed the &

 

 

 

The political ponahties videh the ".0. will easier ae
a rgult of Bevieg towaded fel fe Vieletion of LE,
inhevnaitene) nag yang Si ineiads ; theses te “the US and
Wit, apo severe, bal gen be serleas oribioiss
a2 the U8. vile vill be svoused wy ‘this Giegei and
iubigventioniet act e121 be offset by the remerrie of
gree WELL which the Het, eniuga Ukvewghoet the roe Nock.
Hitheagh ths 6.9. anne’ defend this aetion aa Justified
mudeir interaniddas! bor, vo oan gtyaoe the dereliiy of
the gotlen ep the apts ‘thot « cheotie, neat civil wa
eitentios extets off oe shares where silitem of
aoe gemiag freadem by threwing ¢ff the Uemuniot
end tave roquegiad aur aseivtanse.

 

 

 

 

The destemstion of a Goewntet gegies aed ota
eeplecemen’ by a frlendly eereroesst will reer a throat
tg the posed end eedurity of te Texiegiere ami will westen
the Qeliot thet the Ceewmiel Bled in the averted) vine
of the york’ gteaggle ani sheald thevetars bo glaected
rather Ubes oppsited.,

Gur teletion: wlte felendig notiets wlit har neord suite
after povbsge a eifgnt deterioration in eaphein inetances
Meoriesn Lywetuente wk aot far tn ihe dora run. the
Aliianen Pop Prepress pragram whll net eneaunker porioan
galas nea ae & roel o@? this ciion, If the operation is

aby acooaplicned, the peli tien)
demage desoge ott eo sevronpontanly & edna a

Hideswreed atguuised 3 © Usturianses wil eeeur
ienedtately tut the were quietly the Oseive papioe to

 

 

 

 
   

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423818 Page 10

& poagren of vehakd Mintlen in

 

 
 

 

 

 

fe} OGrpantiee portielextion of anidefastre fences ani cesedinets
shot aetuvition with CUMIANS,
AITO: BO, CTA, Beste

(8) Suemeh alleout poyehelogien! warfare and prepagenia caspedga
for oh gechers, eteanding Ube weesldty of the ieterventien.

AGSI@ GatenlGTA, O24 and Bop

je) ‘ee diglecatie action to reduce epitietes of U0, netton
insofar ag goscible,

 

MPT: State

we) Segant.os o6vil gevermmet with pertiadgation of designated
Cee «

ASTI POD, Srete, ETA

ig) Seerlde progrea for duuadiate am ? eonlsteme to
ell popdleon. on

sOPR, BOD, Pate

{h) Seeanse for gurtiotestics esd eoppirt by other Ld, foress
voleh say to tedeced to Join.

AOI TGis POR, Conte

 

(a} Geck ont and elinizate pro-Comemint reoletanse.
AGERE BOR, OTA
(b} Soutinue copapaliion in farce 24 repines, ae Seaotbla,

nidttery governtiet testalied dering feraston vith
previntonel Guten gorarmant

 

 

 

 

MRT State, Fa, BOD

fe) Teeridoe plun fer Jongerengs ecegonle anetginnes..
(Seo Amex B)

AGU tate, AM
ta) Toke

 

HW 50955 DocId:32423818 Page 8

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

5

fa)

fe)

2)

 

   

Sound out the Ohtegea af Stale at two en
goeslBle we of token formon with dae me
(éanon 6)

sont Siete

Welnete ant duglyete aneng Cutan exiles and udlereronn’
gqrenga Uneee indivivuels whe could ast porticligete ia She
formation of aa 4 - Cuban pation, proviectal, asd
Samdieigsl ge

  
 

aStTO8: Gtete (euttes), O14 tuntererosnd)

Review end legrevd as paewssary tuteting atiutiane fee
Liateds and deepdimntion within the Seeeubive Peerteort
te deegre Ghat COMES o Hep aeate of oth sapeota of the
polities) and iiiites whtustion, Sagrent GERHART ty. ateté,
as aedeasary.

  

APE: Stete, definoe, GFA

ley gtoteiver! fer parckoie
tion orogens fer terasten

aGlTGly Gtateetezs

cogenaany ‘ourat wataekton § " "cate

AOPION: hate

   
 

i veriare api press interme

 

 

 

Tuvade » Cite wits SG. forces under OO MPT.
ACIYG3s 800
bfort 1.4, Geretamints Get tavesten. is euderusy and umes

thea Gey cat shortly oxpet eted vielen
in thelr courtrlet. Invite theater eupoart ona offer thea

 

   

gupietente.

SOEL8s hate
fe) tegantae

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423818 Page 7

 

 
 

  

tie Ginesdevie: Rios wold net ase mlidhery foree
am Gaba tat mtant apply preaows as other omni,
Comune eopwrates weld attach To.

: The Glee wale Labvetace
or puppart fe the SE a reselutéon wan se tae
Ueltee

  

 

 

A enjori’y ef the noview? metdene on ¥2lk 2s
tegortant sectors of the pegdlaties walk peoblicly
donde the (fe, Must of the neetirele would
auppemt a Dlsolienived US vesclubion charciee the
Gees with bowing viebated Its comltaaiise ta Ue
8, {for these cooltcente seo donee F)

Seow Ss SHESREARR- BOSE LBSLBRI 488

 

(4) See

the ieante stemeing Sean Captre's Chath sould arents
a & Gevtile aitméies where fa) Che sunessanr ant
weld porpetente wider  oigenitios egniset its
oun peoples (b) veaiatance would be pen and wlduepecaiy
{e) Giasidente weld tele ext appone be ke aa m pankthen
es ee cere Sere see Cibed territeey, ot
shite) prosp of Giveldente walle eakl fet
oatetde sesintenee.

 

 

 

{2}

 

intin Aapiean Gevovemsits woald be in a pagitles to
vesiel intemal gregsutas So unlerioke aia pwpeed
aeii-l,8, meggeres beth dematlusily ani '
on,

  

@)

 

aotlens

 

we

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423818 Page 5

 

 
 

  

(8) Begena

UG. Semppsdwlénal and gublide aptinion vauld gx may
puppet’ the President ts cetion, She @.he
would hers five days aotice before belag a %
idteqvebe fo @ifer to eagerly reauledte tents 8a
acucwilish ie stesten.

RRR PERE RRR RE eR RSH Be Hee

 

   

 

(i) Riplonaite taftaence

G) Ssontnie sepeuwese to aeefat felendiy gavemmorh

OB Pepeholegien) warfare

eg; Satetoble ninerity of intin bertenw esuntetes

‘ Porobis Sinerity in rast of wri

) Beestble tat lapse tohta niltiesy support fron L.A.

 

fa) aba forsde, Cuban Ggenuntst agperetas, acd meiink publtc

_ eae
Gs) Samantst interaaiteual apparatus iepeet from et kblery dehere
eenidon to abs}

  

iveicoarsa wae Guide ubliterr and permiiliery essere
ia) te Aa detepaatdanel tegenioations of 1,2.

splsnnd denamminations it fatte nina agntect
asnvioans ane ‘egakort aniistesmmiat @

fe}

 

 

 

fo} Gueate the shevesdageetied alate destrabte ania tions § in
Guba (asa Ble), page a abave) :
_ SREEs. Sy Om, :

  

 

i
HW 50955 Docld:32493818 Page 6

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

So determing tim fouters aad ceurues of section relettag te 0.2,
intervention with fret preferably wlth token letin Ain Lean euppert
in Gube in the event of tnstro'e aeet® de oney te oneure the replngen
sent of the Centre ragim with a frlesliy curerment,

 

 

Gasteo Guha, dondested by the SiaoTeviet Blas,
poses devious thvest te She poate and eceariiy af the
ronieghera. Withia Cube, the Caetre veins dc Suocimtore
ing eunontly serious eapaenie diffienities. If the
wogies sulnteine ite present fire polities’ costed] of

4 the fetand, houover, end if there Ia a couténecd hagh
/ level af Plos agsistanes, comiitiens oould begin te
( iupeove after 1968, (ee amex 4)

 

 

Rive Latin Seordean uatiou ye lenge cobetain

Giglemtie relations vith Cute. The wero inparient sate
suerioan meMans, howyver, madniein relations aed are for
& veriaty of reusens offla relastant te beech velations
with om dete ie eGilestive action agaiueh Cuba,

canoe By

fo)

 

Destragtion af the Gapte megize at of the Coneunket
apparatun fe tn the €.6, ontienas teterce®, -

(a)

 

ne eee pulitieal ent soonenle and atidtery 4 uppe %
to the Csatee regine ts promete Rive chjeutives tu Talin
fmiries. Ye de get believe the EinoSeviet Klos would
defend Gabe ailiter(iy, altuongh thoy hove the capabd ety
he &6 at, .

 

fe)

 

Aine ond Afplean soutrele aro gemurelly eplit on the
Ceatea Inews while Bad and GLAS allies akare U2, aviue~
then of the probes but regerd {6 ag a U.S. roepanibliiey.

- . 2. sngnent:

   

HW 50955 Docld:32423818 Page 2

 
 

 

 

198-10006-10003]

 

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

 

 

6/24/201

 

Agency Information

 

 

AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: — 198-10006-10003
RECORD SERIES: . CALIFANO PAPERS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : _
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: = STATE
FROM: HURWITCH
TO:
TITLE: US INTERVENTION IN CUBA FOLLOWING THE DEATH OF CASTRO
DATE: = 11/09/1961
PAGES: 10
i SUBJECTS :
CASTRO, FIDEL
CONTINGENCY PLANNING - CUBA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL:-DOCUMENT

 

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

Secret

1B

Redact
02/06/1998

Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder 2. Interagency staff study on post-Castro Cuba.

26
nt of the Army EO 135:
Secassly tT Exclude Exempt

Authority

© Refer oe 9
Review Date LIUE)S _By.

 

v9.1

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423818 Page i
  

The tomuuiel Pephy vesdd anieteth control, faethe

would protably continue ou Vrowldunt aud Rael costes
hires gecbably soemin tie Prostesehte, The Guben
i cane, She levgest ont ean ee mee Sones

» WOWIA weepon’ gramily te Bewi's dese etal

Heorsinte viehowsr sesttess? metieeie of
reasetanes aay Rowe cooareed, The eubesesar? vetga

n Cooter veld quickly extabldsh She susesaser rarine
Ast eontred and wold creak ew hope of affeetive 3,4,
islervntion shear of « seeslve acmellt. The deronse
é? Gobe welor tech wohl eratebly te rethiess end
guubed te even eventer oxtewses than unter Mac,
Vie cuscensur vegies would, regerdiges of 2.3, astions,
Vieme She U.5. fer estate fenth avd would leach «
Wallet apiielestys proagandea ssapolgn, There vortd
wot 0G on abiedh aesinet Comieneme, {See denex €)

 

   

  

 

o Governments onl gublde apintan eankd
gonoratly telieve thes the U.Ee Wee eoennesigle for
Copivg'a death, latin duorlean Governments ond
teportent esebure af the popiletics wold nevepthelaes,
eth ee, ahaliongs our otetanent of deaoeeses.
Commit acd snk peo tomnuk. ¢ Slonenia aa welh 8B oxtrans

See :
abe extabiag gine
sate loan. ma dlomes

ion Pam deen

 
 
 
  

 

camel ghh Gd primal Leebude _ ;
amd attscks ageimes Udy off te beetcevin wee ue one
hove vould bi mo stanittennt changes tai tte weber
ee eattens: 7" do met nelntnte golnsions wlth Cote,
6 snoee 2.

 

SS
HWY 50955 Doclda:32493818

 

The Soper Gasive for viguwous aghien agitent fabs
viowld dnereass ae & senult a? the daben gee bon te
theiy ochiows fotlewlug faetwete death,

 

 

Page 3

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

ot weld iniveede the whemees eenmetion
Fa (hiet States, peesioly dneiadiag Seoeete
mititaay support wniek the Bice weld ost eupolys

is}

     

aatienn. ‘The tale eoatd be widely wkewodl for
Covieets dosh.

 

Tho pagina wold aebitine af] ie: fessor ont vould
atten’ t& oy public euppert. Poel af the enone
wenld patcdvely walt to sen whet happend. Hany
soreens eewld d8fect from the Cietre fopend aed the
Setoraresnt wogld (aeons cere aative. The slesante
ight, aml mimes
gegiet gnidl slgetestie

  

 

  
 
 

 

aso teu telin descas Geeerineete aed tegetisat
ont af the pigwlatties uswld aviewtely «lecee tha
ee antdon of comminker fren Gaba, they vould gubltaly
Riliter ashien af imteneenticn and ooo
peg 4 flageaat vlolutieg of 1k. cesaliacaty
aa the G6 (for chaos ccemitnedia, see Sener 2),
big Gongs? end grecinatos tenitie pl eh bechor’ a8

 

 

   

 

oautant at serhouely Geoutaning the mabildty ot Ome
a and/or obtainiay poblie deeunetabion af

the Hebe fellow’ in cow teetences be anacurde egateet,
¥.8. getional istereste in thee cowetriss, dosletine
privete Gueeliece Lovestnents aed the Alifencs: fir
SPoghese pragrem, One ar eéra atin Amoviean aebtoar

Might pragene C60 ection adverad te Tt, intematay,
wiol the Ua. aeake peitebly dela,

  

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423818 Page 4

  
 
 

 

 
