 

 

 

C O

SECRET

(1) Adopt adequate internal security legislation
to provide severe penalties for any person engaging
in dissemination of Cuban-Communist propaganda
which inspires terrorism or proposes the overthrow
of the legal government by force and violence.

(2) Preclude attendance of Cuban delegates at
international meetings held in Latin America.
(Delegates are propaganda disseminators. }

“2, Intelligence Actions

as Continue U.S, intelligence efforts in each
country to identify individuals, organizations and
facilities involved in propaganda importation, .
reproduction and/or dissemination; make available to
each country selected intelligence concerning these
individuals, organizations and their activities.

b. Encourage each country in which the Communist
Party is illegal to offer rewards for information
leading to interception of Castro-Communist propa-
ganda and, in countries where the Communist party is
legal, for conviction of persons supplying or
disseminating propaganda materials considered dan-
gerous to the country's tranquility.

ec. In separate diplomatic approaches to each
country, urge full and effective cooperation, with
the appropriate organs of the OAS and bilaterally
among the several nations, in the interchange of
information concerning movement of propaganda
materials.

d. Persuade Latin American countries to report
promptly to the diplomatic mission.of the country
concerned, the identity of any national of that
country who arrives from Cuba and who is discovered
to have been carrying Communist propaganda materials;

3. Covert Actions
a. Disrupt the reproduction and distributien of

propaganda materials, and the procurement and delivery
of related supplies and equipment.

SECRET 5

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HW 50955 DoclId:32423819 Page 9
 

 

 

 

bs. S@ek opportunities to induce Latin American
printing craftsmen to deface, destroy, or misprint
Castro-Communist propaganda in the process of re~
production,

ec, Disrupt Castro~Communist sponsored labor and
youth congresses, industrial and agricultural
exhibits in Latin American countries.

d. Maintain or increase pressures on media owners,
local advertising agencies and film producers and/or
distributors who accept Communist materials.

e, Dissuade US and local business firms from
advertising In Latin American media which carry
pro=Communist materials; provide informally to
US firms, for information, lists of such media
in order to encourage their support of a non-
Communist press.

f. Inhibit the spread of Cuban and Bloc binational
centers and Friendship Societies in Latin America by
an active program to expose their subversive activities
and objectives,

@. Where it can be determined that expenditure
of the funds is clearly justified, provide financial
support to selected non-Communist news media requiring
assistance in order to compete with Communist-
aligned publications which have significant cir-
culation or impact.

h, Induce Latin American countries to organize
surveillance over in-country sources of newsprint
and related supplies, and deny or inhibit the use
of these supplies for printing Communist. materials,

IV. Direct Actions to Impede Illegal Movement of
Propaganda Material .

Many of the actions outlined in Section III related
to the legal movement of materials will serve also to
restrict illegal movement. Additional measures designed
specifically to impede clandestine traffic are enumerated
below. :

SECRET OO 6

 

 

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423819 Page 10

 
 

 

C)
O

SECRET

Films

Feature films and short documentaries produced by the
Cuban Institute of Motion Picture Art.and Industry play a
direct propaganda role. These films are shown primarily in
binational centers, pro-Communist labor and student groups,

-and in private or clandestine meetings.

It will be seen from this brief review that Latin
America is the target of a broad-scale propaganda program,
comprising not only propaganda materials but including

also the ideas, the knowlédgé. and the resources which are

necessary to make those materials effective.

III. Direct Actions to Impéde the Legal Movement of
Propaganda Materials

Presented below is a summary of actions contemplated
to impede the legal movement of propaganda materials from
Cuba to and within Latin American countries. For the pur-
pose of this paper, legal movement is defined as movement
by recognized private and governmental carriers and communi-
cations, as well as postal systems and diplomatic pouching.

These actions offer promise of achieving early and
effective results in some Latin American countries, but
they do not have universal application, and those which may
be feasible in one > country may not be necessary or feasible
in another.

1. Political Actions .
a. Induce. news media to diminish the utilization of
Prensa Latina. »

b. Persuade those governments which receive Cuban
and Bloc diplomatic missions to maintain close
surveillance over the propaganda activities of the
Communist embassies with.a view toward prohibiting
abuses of diplomatic privilege for subversive
purposes. ;

 

ec. As applicable and ‘feasible, induce Latin
American countries to:

babe

SECRET a 4

 

 

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423819 Page 6
 

 

 

 

Co O

SECRET

 

Every Latin American country except the Dominican
Republic, Paraguay, Nicaragua, and Venezuela permits
these bookshops to operate. Many of them offer publi-
eations at very low prices or give away several books:
with the purchase of one, and easy credit terms are
available.

 

Excluding TASS and the New China News Agency (roa),
Prensa Latina is the principal Communist news agency in
Tatin America. It operates openly, although not.entirely
without restriction, in ten countries -~ Bolivia, Brazil,
Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Costa Rica, Honduras, Mexico,
Panama and Uruguay. While most users of Prensa Latina
releases are covert or overt Communists, some non-Communist
media make unattributed use of Prensa Latina releases.

This. is especially true of radio broadcasts.

All of this publication activity is essentially
overt. However, decrees banning Communist propaganda
have not prevented the clandestine publications and distri-
bution of periodicals and books in some countries, and
propaganda materials continue to seek entry through the
mails. In Panama, for example, postal and customs authori-
‘ties destroy an average of 12 tons of Cuban propaganda per
month. -Another.ten tons per-month is seized and. destroyed
in Costa Rica. This suggests the further quantities, per-
haps larger, may be finding their way into these and other
countries.

Radio

Short wave radio is the principal direct mass audience
medium used by Cuba to carry subversive propaganda to Latin
America. The Castro regime has constantly increased Radio
Havana's short wave. broadcasts to Latin America to a current
level of 115:30 hours per week. :

Cultural Activities
Penetration under the guise of cultural activities is
a favored Communist propaganda technique in Latin America,

where there are now some 64 Cuban binational centers and
Friendship Societies.

SECRET 3

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423819 Page 7

 
 

 

 

 

 

C }O

CUBA

i

MOVEMENT. OF PROPAGANDA MATERTALS

 

T. Introduction

aa The actions proposed. herein. are designed to impede
the movement of Communist propaganda materials from Cuba

to and within Latin American countries. They complement
the basic actions relating*to control of movement of sub-
versive trainees to and from Cuba,.which actions are gen-
eraily applicable in the solutic nm of: this problem as well.
As in the companion measures for-control of the movement

of subversive trainees, successful execution of the actions
proposed below will reduce che flow of propaganda materials
but will not eliminate it:entirely.

 

 

 

Communist Cuba has many legitimate outlets through
which propaganda materials flow. As.these legitimate
outlets are blocked by the initial steps herein proposed,
it will be necessary for the Cuban propagandists and their
sympathizers elsewhere to turn from the mass exportation
of materials to the production and dissemination of the
same materials in a clandestine environment within the
several Latin American countries, Of the two threats, the
illicit production’ of:propaganda materials in each country
will be by far the more difficult to abate, :

In combatting these threats, one of the most power-
ful factors is the:influence of our own information and
counter -propaganda. efforts, which USIA and CIA have in-
creased greatly during, thé-past two years. This paper,
however, is concerned wholly with direct actions; actions

. designed to impede. the movement of propaganda materials
to and within hatin: America.

If. Nature and Scope. cof the Problem

_ While the castro image has faded somewhat in Latin
America, and the attraction of. Cuba as a model has dimin-
ished, the susceptibility of the Latin American people to
communist propaganda.remains high. The basic social and
economic factors which have'made this true in the past
have not greatly alteted, and the variety and quantity of
propaganda materials. with which the Latin Americans are
now beset are impressive, as exemplified in the many
millions of dollars which the communists are estimated to
be investing in the. project annually. It is a large pro-
gram and it presents. a... continuing threat to the tran-
qutlity of Latin América.

SECRET

 

 

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423819 Page 5

 

 
 

 

C C

 

SECRET

Our efforts to combat the problem, moreover, are
complicated by the fact that freedom of thought, express-
ion and press are generally highly regarded in Latin
America, albeit not universally honored, and any proposals
to. reduce the flow of Castro-Communist subversive materials
must be influenced by this fact. Otherwise the United
States may find itself indicted for fostering police-
state methods, a charge which could alienate many of the
Latin Americans we seek to influence.

; For the purpose of this paper, propaganda materials
include radio program scripts, tapes and recordings, printed
materials, (posters, pamphlets, magazines, leaflets, books,
newspapers, news service output), motion pictures, dupli-
cating or reproducing equipment, electronic communications
equipment , and printing resources, particularly paper stock-
piles.

However, to be complete, "movement of propaganda
materials" must. extend also to publications whtéh are hand-
carried into a country by legal or illegal travellers for
subsequent reproduction. It must also include materials —
transmitted through Cuban and Soviet Bloc diplomatic —
channels, shipments via postal channels, quantities intro-
duced through smuggling operations, oral transmission of
propaganda guidance by individual travellers or by Radio
Havana, and the dissemination of communist oriented news
py Prensa Latina, the official Cuban news agency, for re-.
production by local outlets. Finally to be considered are
thematic guidance, which can be reproduced and exploited
locally by returning trainees, front groups and sympathetic
publications and, in some countries such as Mexico, Argen-
tina and Uruguay, the products of those commercial estab-
lishments which regularly print or broadcast pro-Castro~
Communist materials as a matter of policy or ideological
conviction.

Press and Publications

There are 326 Communist and pro-Communist newspapers
and periodicals in Latin America, and infiltration of the
democratic press, coupled with the non-critical attitudes
of some.newspapermen, increases greatly the ‘diffusion of
the Cuban propaganda line. There are 228 Communist-oriented
publishing houses and bookstores in Latin America, serving
as outlets not only for 30 different Cuban periodicals, but
for a large variety of other Communist printed material.

SECRET 2

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423819 Page 6

 
 

 

{ ‘

HW 50955 DocId: 32493819 Page 2

()

 

 
 

198-10006-10004

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/24/201

 

Agency Information

ARMY
198-10006-10004

CALIFANO PAPERS

 

 

 

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
Document Information
i ORIGINATOR: JCS
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: CUBA-THE MOVEMENT OF PROPAGANDA MATERIALS
DATE: — 02/15/1963
PAGES: 10
SUBJECTS :
COUNTERING CUBAN PROPAGANDA
KRULAK COMMITTEE
PROPAGANDA MEDIA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: = 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 02/04/1998

COMMENTS :

 

v9.1

OPENING CRITERIA :

Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder 11. JCS study on the dissemination of Cuban propaganda and possible

US moves to counter it.

SEK, Aesessivaton Recolle eure!

26
Department of the Army EO 135
‘Declassify “I Exclude “4 Exempt

Authority,

Refer To G, .
Review Dat Satan Tt on

 

 

 

uw

HW 50955 Docld:32423819 Page i
 

 

 

a C O

: / A 2

SECRET
CUBA
THE MOVEMENT OF PROPAGANDA MATERTALS
GROUP-1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

SECRET ‘ DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

 

 

Le

 

 

 

 

 

 

BY 50955 DocId:32423819 Page 3
 

 

 

 

SECRET

Iv.

SECRET

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Introduction - --------.

Nature and Scope of the Problem

Direct Actions to Impede Legal Movement

of Propaganda Materials—- - - + +

1. Political Actions - ----+-
2. Intelligence Actions - - - -

3. Covert Actions - ------

Direct Actions to Impede Tllegal Movement

of Propaganda Materials -~ 7

1. Intelligence Actions “as +

Surveillance and Reporting Action - -

2
3. Political Action =----+--
4

. Technical Assistance Actions

 

 

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423819 Page 4

 
