~ gkoRRT sd ®@

Havana's short wave proadeasts to Latin America to a
eurrent level of 115:30 hours per. week,

Cultural Activities

Penetration under the guise of "cultural" activities
is a favored Communist propaganda technique in Latin America.
There are 64 Cuban binational centers and Friendship Societies
in the area.

Films

Feature films and short documentaries produced by the
Cuban Institute of Motion Picture Art and Industry (IcaTc)
play a direct propaganda role, These films are shown primarily
in binational centers, pro-Communist labor and student groups,
and in private or clandestine meetings.

It will be seen from this brief review that Latin
America is the target of a proad scale propaganda program,
comprising not only propaganda materials put including also
the ideas, the knowledge and the resources which are necessary
to make those materials effective.

TII, Direct Actions to Impede Legal Movement of Propaganda
Materials.

Presented below is a summary of actions contemplated
to impede the legal movement of propaganda materials from
Cuba to and within Latin American countries. For the purpose
of this paper, legal movement is defined as movement by
recognized private and governmental carriers and communications,
as well as postal systems and diplomatic pouching.

SECRET 5

HW 50955 Docld:32423821 Page 9
"!.” SECRET @ @
Lo ‘ ‘,

These actions offer promise of achieving early and
effective results in some Latin American countries. They do
not have universal application and that those which are
feasible in one country may not be so in another.

1. Political Actions

a. Induce newspapers in countries in which
Prensa Latina operates to cancel their subscriptions
to the services, on the basis of its subversive
character.

bh. Persuade those governments which receive
Cuban and Bloc diplomatic missions to maintain close
surveillance over the propaganda activities of the
Communist embassies with a view toward prohibiting
abuses of diplomatic privilege for subversive purposes.

ec. As applicable and feasible, induce Latin
American countries to:

(1) Adopt adequate internal security legis-
lation which would provide severe penalties for
any person engaging in dissemination of Cuban
Communist propaganda which inspires terrorism
or proposes the overthrow of the legal govern-
ments by force and violence.

(2) Preclude attendance of Cuban delegates
at international meetings held in Latin America.

(Delegates are propaganda disseminators. )

SECRET 6

HW 50955 DoclId:32423621 Page 10
SECRET °

Excluding TASS and New China News Agency (ona),
Prensa Latina is the principal Communist news agency in
Latin America, It operates openly, put not entirely without
restriction, in ten countries -- Bolivia, Brazil, Chile,
Colombia, Ecuador, Costa Rica, Honduras, Mexico, Panama and
Uruguay. Although its users are chiefly leftists or overt
Communists, in some countries there is fairly extensive un-
attributed use of Prensa Latina releases, especially in
radio.

All of this is essentially overt. However, decrees
banning Communist activity and propaganda have not prevented
the clandestine publication and distribution of a number of
periodicals, books and other printed materials in some
countries, notably Argentina, and propaganda materials
continue to seek undetected entry through the mails. In
Panama, for example, postal and customs authorities destroy
an average of 12 tons of Cuban propaganda per month. Another
ten tons, from the unknown quantity which enters Costa Rica
each month, ig identified in the post office or the airport
and destroyed.

Radio

Short wave radio is the principal direct mags audience
medium used by Cuba to carry subversive propaganda to Latin

America. The Castro regime has constantly increased Radio

SECRET 4

HW 50955 Docld:32423821 Page 8
SECRET

propaganda guidelines by inatviailad travellers or by Radio
Havana, and the dissemination of slanted news by Prensa Latina,
the official Cuban news agency, for pick-up and reproduction
by local outlets, Finally to be considered are thematic
guidance which ¢an be reproduced and exploited locally by
returning trainees, front groups and sympathetic publi-
cations and, in some countries such as Mexico, Argentina
and Uruguay, the products of those commercial establishments
which regularly print or broadcast pro-Castro materials
as a matter of policy or ideological conviction.

Press and Publications

There are 326 Communist and pro-Communist newspapers
and periodicals in Latin America. Beyond this, infiltration
of the democratic press, coupled with the non-critical
attitudes of some newspapermen gives wider diffusion to the
Cuban propaganda line. In addition, there are 228 communist
oriented publishing houses and bookstores in Latin America,
serving as outlets not only for 30 different Cuban period-
icals, but for a large variety of other Communist printed
material. Every Latin American country except the Dominican
Republic, Paraguay, Nicaragua, and Venezuela permits these
pookshops to operate. Many of them offer publications at
very low prices or even give away two or three books with

the purchase of one, and easy eredit terms are available.

SECRET 3

HW 50955 DocId:32423821 Page 7
oO a8 @ @

SECOND WORKING DRAFT
CUBA
MOVEMENT OF PROPAGANDA MATERIALS
I. Introduction
The actions proposed herein are designed to impede

the movement of Communist propaganda materials from Cuba

to and within Latin American countries. Actions contemplated
to control the movement of propaganda are closely related to,
and in many cases identical with, thosé which control the
movement of persons and arms. Ag noted in the earlier paper
which addressed the problem of movement of subversive trainees
to and from Cuba, the successful execution of all the pro-
posals expressed below will materially reduce the flow of
propaganda materials put will not eliminate it entirely.

Communist Cuba has many legitimate outlets through

which propaganda materials flow. As these legitimate out-
lets are blocked by the initial steps herein proposed, it
will be necessary for the Cuban propagandists and their sympa-
thizers elsewhere to turn from the mass exportation of
materials, and to rely more heavily upon production and
dissemination of the same materials in a clandestine environ-
ment within each Latin American country. Of the two threats,
the illicit production of propaganda materials in each

country will be by far the more difficult to abate.

SECRET

1889

HW 50955 Docld:32423321 Page 5
* ! 7 SECRET @ @

II. Nature and Scope of the Probiem
While the Castro image has faded somewhat in Latin

America, by virtue of his own imprudent actions, the
susceptibility of the Latin American people to communist
propaganda remains high. The basic social and economic
factors which have made this true in the past have not
greatly altered, and the variety and quantity of propaganda
materials with which the Latin Americans are now beset are
impressive, as exemplified in the one hundred million dollars
which the communists are estimated to be investing in the
project annually. It is a large program and it presents a
continuing threat to the tranquility of Latin America.

For the purpose of this paper, propaganda materials
include radio program scripts, tapes and recordings, printed
materials, (posters, pamphlets, magazines, leaflets, books,
newspapers, news service output), motion pictures, duplicating
or reproducing equipment, electronic communications equipment,
and printing resources, particularly paper stockpiles. To
be complete, moreover, "movement of propaganda materials”
must extend to small quantities of selected publications
which are hand-carried into a country by legal or illegal
travellers for subsequent reproduction, It must also include
materials transmitted through Cuban and Soviet Bloc diplomatic
channels, shipments via postal channels, quantities intro-

duced through smuggling operations, oral transmission of

SECRET 2

HW 50955 Docld:324236821 Page 6
 

vam

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423821 Page 2

 

 

oN

 

 
{98-10006-10006
JFK Assassination System Date: 6/24/2014

Identification Form

 

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: — 198-10006-10006

RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

 

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: ARMY

FROM: CALIFANO, JOSEPH
TO: JCS

TITLE: = INTERDEPARTMENTAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF CUBAN AFFAIRS: MOVEMENT OF
PROPAGANDA

DAT! 03/13/1963
PAGES: 13

 

SUBJECTS :

COUNTERING CUBAN PROPAGANDA
KRULAK COMMITTEE
PROPAGANDA MEDIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 12/11/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder 11. Memo transmitting the Krulak Committee's paper on the
dissemination of Cuban propaganda and possible US moves to counter it.

T Fie Pesasan ater Le eords Kevied

partment of the Army EO 19826
Deolassity | Exclude 2 Exempt
Authority,

& Refer To
aeview Dato SALAS py aes one ~

 

NO STATE OBJECTION

TOD DATEa y
BY. DATES OYE

 

 

v9.4
HW 50955 Docla:32423821 Page 1

wa
we . 'BECRET
j ideeeh 19, 1940

 

 

 

SEG SD. 1 POR SERA. haan &. We

  
 
  

eke oe eA
ee : AL €. ‘exupe, ‘wae

MAgOR GERRAL. oo G@. CARPETS, IM, U6Ar
SRIGAMISR GAXEZAL A, ot. BLwOOb, Pee

SURI20T: dytordeyertwentel Coordiesting Committee af Orban Affaien:
Rinederead oF Pe

 

édteched le ibe intest dealt. of the paper on the mnyeuent of praga~
gomda inatioss pregused by the Gubcommnlites de Sabvereion of the avaines
tt Eee, :

5 indicated in Mameoraatuen Me. 1h, i ig seqeueted thes your
tecnmoents on thie paowr be cuibuehitert ha ame aoe Later than, 1760 houra thie
gvewing. This will be tho dest appertuniiy 4
i ie preeunted to The Pevsidont.

 

Fosagh A. Galifan, Jz.

ipenial doriatant to the
Gacvotery of the Aguey
Atiagiment
so Sieted
ae. ABE aS Ok oAWEE
(tp nes age se
ee: ne
Mr. Califano {avs \3 ' 1 8 3 @
Li. Col. Patchell :
Lit_Cob-Prede—<i-—-_ (04 AEB ;
ASG EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC REGRADING

"eat 5200. ES NOP APPLY
SECRET DOD DIR 5200.10 DOES NO

HW 50955 Docld:32423821 Page 3

 

 
‘ @ @

“SECRET

SUBCOMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION

13 March 1963

TO COMMITTEE MEMBERS:

This is our final working draft on the paper on
propaganda. I have sought to work in your contributions

wherever feasible. Please submit your views by 1700

today.
V. H, KRULAK
Major General, USMC
oo GROUP-1
SECRET EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
< §8U
gh, ASG Control NES A. 1

!

HW 50955 Docld:32423321 Page 4
