HW 50955

SECRET

intelligence on subversive activity directly to the
countries concerned through thé U.S. Embassies therein.

3. Increase and expedite the existing flow of in-
telligence .on subversion from CIA and the other elements

of the American Embassies in Latin America to Caribbean

Command aswell as to CIA headquarters for further
dissemination as appropriate.

4, Inerease the dissemination to Latin American
governments, by all U.S, agencies concerned, of unclassi-
fied studies, reports and other non- sensitive information
concerning. Castre-Communist subversion.

5. Encourage Latin American countries to engage in
bilateral exchange of intelligence on Castro-Communist
subversive activities.

6. Continue the development at high priority: of
U.S, communications in Latin America.

. 7. Inerease where feasible emphasis on-the prevision
of U.S, intelligence advisors to Latin American countries.’
Discourage their employment of intelligence advisors from
nations other than the U.S.

8, Intensify and increase as applicable existing AID, ~
CIA, and Military programs for the training and equipping _.
of Latin American internal security and intelligence services.
Establish such programs in additional countries where it _
is found to be in the best interests of the United States
and acceptable to the country concerned. .

9. Undertake action in the OAS to stimulate govern
ments to keep the Covinc{1 and the SCCS fully informed ion :
a continuing basis of the nature and incidence:.of sub--
versive activities in their respective countries.

10. Encourage Latin American countries to appreve
the General Military Plan of the Inter-American Defense
Board (IADB), and, in accordance with Annex. 4 thereof,
furnish to the IADB intelligence information and estimates
concerning Castro-Communist subversive activities.

SECRET 6

Docid:32424002 Page 9
 

SECRET

ll. Undertake to arrange for regional meetings of
senior intelligence and security service representatives
of Latin American countries and the United States for
the purpose of fostering the exchange of intelligence
concerning Castro-Communist subversive activities .and
developing the necessary mechanisms and procedures there-
for.

SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32424002 Page 10
HW 50955

SECRET

"Special Consultative Committee on Security (SCCS)"
is established to give technical advice on request
to governments and the Council on matters relating
to, subversion. All American governments have. been
asked to furnish information on Castro-Communist
aétivities to serve as the basis for studies ‘and
recommendations by the Council of the OAS ‘of how

to counteract them. Since the Punta del’ Este’ meet-
ing, the OAS has.been making slow progress in the
countersubversion field, but there has ag yet been
no significant exchange of intelligence through its
machinery. :

h. The Inter-American Defense. Board (IADB): has ©
also demonstrated an awareness of the need for
exchanging intelligence regarding communist’ sub-
version. Annex 4 of the General Military Plan
prepared. by the IADB requests. the American

. to report information to the Board and to’ es!

agreements among themselves for exchanging informa-
tion of collective interest. The United States has
approved the General Military Plan, but similar
action has not. been taken by all member countries.

 

 

 
 

i. This brief summary servés to illustrate that
there is much room.for expansion of bilateral .in-
télligence exchange arrangements among the Latin
American nations themselves, which is now minimal
at best, as well as a need to create an’ expanded

. program for bilateral intelligence exchange be-
tween the United States and individual countries,
and finally, a requirement to develop the. possibili-
ties of a multilateral approach within thé récog-
nized limitations involved. : :

IIIT. Actions Recommended

1. Incréase the existing bilateral exchange of in-
telligerice conducted by CIA, DOD, and other U.S. agencies,
where it is found possible to establish appropriate |.
arrangements for the exchange of sélected information con-
sistent with security requirements. De

2. Complete. current priority project t6 evaluate
feasibility and desirability of establishing military
intelligence centers at the headquarters of the Caribbean”
Command and the Caribbean Sea Frontier, Atlantic’ Command,
for further dissemination of intelligence as appropriate
in conjunetion with our Military Alerting System, for
rapid processing and dissemination when appropriate, of

SECRET ; 5

Docld:324274002 Page @
HW 50955

 

2C RET

with subversive personalities, communist.infiltra-
tion, weapons movements and related matters.
Reciprocal intelligerice received has-been of small
value. The Army also-provides selected information
on subversive activities to Brazil, Chile, Guatemala
and-Mexico, without reciprocation. The Navy has
established a Navy-to-Navy program for the exchange
of intelligence among nine South American navies, the
Mexican Navy and the U.S. Navy.

d. Exchanges of information are also effected
from time to time through channels of the Department
of State.

e. As yet, however, the program for the provision
by United States agencies of information. on. subver-
sion to Latin American governments has not been
developed to an adequate degree. Since the’ United
States possesses the most extensive acquisition
capabilities, as well as the only secure and re-

liable means of rapid communication throughout Latin

America (currently in process of improvement), the

development of an integrated United States system
for bilateral exchange offers the greatest. possi-
pility of achieving the results desired.

f£. United States experience in the matter of intel-

ligence exchange in Latin America, and in other areas
of the world, has led to the conclusion that. bilateral
arrangements are more fruitful than multilateral
arrangements such as those established within the’
framework of NATO, CENTO and SEATO, Neverthéless,
this experience has shown also.that multilateral
arrangements can be of some use, particularly in
creating an awareness of the need for intelligence
exchange.

 

g. The concept of an exchange of information.among
members of the OAS with regard to subversive activi-
ties has: been put forward at numerous Inter-American
meetings, but has not been implemented, largely’ for

the reasons set forth in Section II.1. Undér the -
Punta dél Este decisions, the OAS members were

urged’ to cooperate in Strengthening their capacity
to counteract. threats or acts of aggression, sub-

version or other dangers to peace and security.

The Council of the OAS is charged with maintaining
vigilance over Castro-Communist subversion, and a

SECRET 4

Docld:32424002 Page 7
HW 50955

SECRET

Bolivian access to the sea, and, even now,
Nicaraguan insurgents are harbored within the
borders of both Costa Rica and Honduras, It
could hardly be expected that these countries
would be eager to exchange intelligence on a
full and frank basis.

be. Beyond this, Latin America is not a homo-
geneous entity in social, political, or economic
terms, and attitudes toward the Castro-Communist
subversive menace vary widely. A completely
unified approach toward exchange or intelligence
concerning this menace, therefore, cannot be re-
garded as attainable.

ce, Additional impediments to intelligence ex-
change are the generally low level of competence

of most Latin American intelligence services,

their lack of rapid, secure means of communication;
the absence of adequate security systems, and the
lack of security consciousness. Deficiencies in
security safeguards must necessarily limit the ex-
change of intelligence obtained covertly by any

of the nations involved, and particularly the

United States, which has the most sophisticated

system and hence the greatest need for protection.

d. These defects promise to persist, since
the governments of some countries have little desire
to develop a competent career security service.
There is a fear that the existence of an efficient
service would constitute a threat to.further ac-
tivities of members of the existing governments
at such time as they might find themselves out of
power. Moreover, many Latin American intelligence.
services tend to label as "subversives" those of
their own nationals resident in other countries
who are opposed to the existing government.

e. These realities all underscore the fact
that multilateral intelligence exchange must be
approached on a most circumscribed basis, It
should not be concluded, however, .that nothing
of value can be accomplished multilaterally.

With proper definition, limiting the problem of

SECRET

exchange to matters directly related to communist
subversive activities, such as the. movement to

Docild:32424002 Page 5
‘SECRET

and from Cuba of subversives, the production and
movement of propaganda materials which threaten
internal stability, the movement of arms, and the
movement of funds, it should be practicable to
marshal a useful measure of cooperation. In
pursuing this effort, it will be important to ;
draw a sharp distinction between secret intelli-
gence gained by covert means and information
obtained openly, The former involves the require-
ment to protect national secrets both as to
sources and acquisition methods employed. The
latter, which can be of great value, can be ex-
changed without fear of compromise,

2. Current Exchange Arrangements

a» At present there is little. organized ex-
change of intelligence among the Latin American
nations. There is.a limited amount of informal
exchange, often on a basis ef personal relation-
Ships between government officials having a
community of interest with respect to a parti-
cular matter,

b. The Central Intelligence Agency has estab--.
lished working liaison arrangements in some Latin
American countries where such relations have been
considered to be in the best interest of the United
States. Most of the intelligence concerning sub-
version in Latin America available to the CIA is
derived from covert. operations or through contacts
with another intelligence or security service.

This inhibits the passing of such information to
agencies of a third country. There is, however,

a substantial amount of intelligence available

from overt or non-sensitive sources which can be
provided to other countries, In 1962, CIA received

information reports from| services with which
liaison is maintained in“Datin America and. released
reports to recipients. Intelligence items ex-

 

changed included collated studies, weekly intelli-
gence reviews, name traces and travel reports.

c. The U.S. Army, through its attaches, currently
has an informal arrangement involving bilateral
exchanges of intelligence with Argentina, Colombia,
Ecuador,. Uruguay, Peru; Paraguay and Venezuela...
Information provided by the Army has been concerned

SECRET : 3

HW 50955 Doold:32424002 Page 6
SECRET

CUBA
THE EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE
CONCERNING COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES

mle
Pe. Cha
wut awrnitied — cent Oh SU

— SWURUWA

AG NAL
Qn. \@ Ware, ah

 

GROUP ~ 1
-EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC. DOWN
SECRET - - GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

HW 50955 Docld:32424002 Page 2
498-10007-10009

 

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

JFK Assassination System - Date: 6/24/201
Identification Form :
Agency Information .

ARMY
198-10007-10009

CALIFANO PAPERS

 

 

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
: TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

 

Document Information

CIA

CUBA: THE EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE CONCERNING COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE
ACTIVITIES

00/00/0000
9

COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
INTELLIGENCE EXCHANGE, LATIN AMERICA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B

Redact

02/10/1998

Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder 10. Draft paper re: the exchange of intelligence concerning Cuban
subversive activities.

Daparimant of the Any EO 19526
Declassify — Exclude — Exempt
Authority.

© Refer To

Review Date LROSIS BiAsAcateny?

 

HW 50955 DoclId:32424002 Page 1
SECRET

TABLE .OF CONTENTS -

I. Introduction
It. Nature and Scope of the Problem
1. Limiting Factors

2. Current. Exchange Arrangements
IIT, Actions Recommended

SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32424002 Page 3
HW 50955

SECRET

CUBA

 

THE EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE

 

 

 

 

CONCERNING COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES

I, Introduction

In combatting Castro-Communist subversion through-
out Latin America, there is a fundamental requirement
for intelligence -- a requirement which involves the
timely acquisition and processing of information as well
as its rapid dissemination, on a selective basis, to
countries concerned. While efforts are now being made
by CIA, AID, and the U.S, Military Services ‘to improve
Latin American intelligence systems, success thus far has
been limited, and much remains to be done. It is not
with this broad problem, however, that this paper is
primarily concerned, but rather with the narrower matter
of the need for a stronger program of exchanging essen-
tial information regarding Communist subversion in Latin
America among those who need to know it.

Il. The Nature and Scope of the Problem

1. Limiting Factors

a. There are many inhibitions which tend to
discourage the exchange of intelligence on an
international basis, even among allies. National
privacy with regard to the inner workings of an
intelligence system must be preserved. Com-
pounding the problem further, where Latin America
is concerned, is the divisive influence of the
long history of rivalries, wars, jealousies and
disputes which have characterized relations among
the nations concerned. The wounds of past con-
flicts among pairs and groupings of nations are
not completely healed. There is lingering hos-
tility between Peru and Ecuador deriving from
their ‘boundary war. Chile and Bolivia continue
at odds over the Rio Lauca and the question of

SECRET

Docid:32424002 Page 4
