 

 

 

 

Prom Colenbia eepocta bave been secelved of inereesing
Cuban assietance, primarily in the form of training courses by
iustevetors whe have been trained in Cuba, to the Vorker-Student-
Peasant Movement GIORC), A amall guerrills band encountered
by the Colombian army ia July 1963 wae broken up when five
members of the band were killed and two others captured. A
suall quantity of aras and 4 consid ie anount of books and
panphiese- ot revolutionary warfare, photographs of Bidei Castro,
_tantio Clonfueges and Mao fsertung, and bulletins of the HOZC
were found gt the camp wlte. Recent wepoves have indicated an
dneragse im the-cerreriat efferte of the MOEC and increseed
- promises of aceietance fram Cha Guewdra with regard to the:
txaining of additional MOEC mexbersa,

 

 
  

 

in mid-July an increased mumber of guerrillas were

véeportedly being tvained in Costa Bica by Adolfo Carcia Rerbexena,
well-kaown Micaraguen vevelutionavy leader and member of the.
an G@ational Liberation Front =~ 2 Comuundst-doninated, Cuban-

tad, entieNicaragua revolutionary group). In carly
Auguet, Albevte Serrate, leader of the TLS in Cesta Rica, lefe
with a group of Miearaguans for the Costs Rican-Nicaraguan
border, The purchase of arms and supplice and the recruitment

ok Nlearaguana for @ movement against Nicaragua are aleo reportedly

unervay in Costa Rica,

Hector Bogsntes Zewora, Costa Riean agitator, left Sean Jose
in mideAuguet for the Tiearaguan border te guperviee the passage
of Micaraguen guerviliae from Costa Rica into Mesragua.
Segantes, who recently returned from attending the May Day
eelebrations in Cuba, was aseigned this responsibility by the

' Gosta Rican Comte: Party.

‘the Honduran armed forces began to wave against a group

@€ pre-Cascro guerrillas operating dgainat the Nlearaguan Govern- -

ment and active in the vicinity of the Niesraguen-Honduran border.
The Nicavaguan Netienal Guard has been conducting operations

on. ite gide of the berder againet the inaurgents eines July.

The dense jungle and diffleult terrain, however, will impede the
efforcs of both forees to oltatnate the guerrillas,

HW 50955 Docld:32423829 Page 5

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Front ~ a Communist-dominated, Cubsan-supported, anti-Niearaguan

HW 50955 Docld:32423829 Page 6

ea : oe. .

Information on the guerrilla force is scanty and
conflicting, It te apparently composed of member's of the Natdiensi
idberation Front (FL), a Commmnist-dominated and Cuban-supported
vevolutionary organization active primarily in Honduras and
Nicaragua since the fall of 1962, The strength of the force
is aot known.

Micaragua
A saptured guerxille of the FLY (Nerienal Liberation

gwup) confessed that he was a member of. a group of 46 whe
entered Nicaragua from Honduvas on 22 July. He sald that their
mission was to establish a base camp in the Isabella mountains,
Department of Jimotega, in order to indectrainate the peasants
and to train them in guerrilla tactics. He admitted that he
had received six months’ guerrilla warfare training in Ciba and
that other Flat leadere had received similar training. He alec
gaid that the FUN training coup in Honduras was near EL Lagarte,
on the Patuca River.

4&, Zeanefer of Funds
Beitich Culans

In British Guiana, Guiana Import-Export Corporation
(Gimpex) received a one million dollar advance payment deposited
by the Cuban Aldmpex Corporation for goode to be delivered to
Cuba in the future. Gimpex hes, im turn, loaned this money to
the Government of British Guiana, Cheddi Jagan's People's.
Progressive Party is the major stockholder in Gimpex. Mohewmed
Kassim, Manager of Gimpex, has indicated that Gimpex will be
able to secure additional leans from Cuba in amounte sufficient
to tide the Jagan government over any foreseeable crisis. It
was also xeported that Gimpex plans to buy alreraft, spare parte
and other machinery in the United States for reshipment to Cuba...
General . |
Reports continue to be receivad from many places indicating
thet the suitease full ef currency ia still eae of the most
common methods used by the Cubans for transmitting fumds for
use in supporting subversive activities throughout the héolaphere..
Ingtences where such funds have been confiscated by the police
have occurred recently in £1 Salvador, Panama and Ecuador.

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

woe. greg

‘from autonatifa _
. : ugtading and
declassification, Pr fg
_ ai AMEX 4.

 

 

Bragil

won Chartered Cubana Airlines flights between Cuba and
Brazil bave become 4 major means of transporting non-Cuban
Latin Americans to end frew Cuba. ‘The five such flights since
late July heve carried nearly 400 non-Cubans. -

Tha fiest ef the recent series -~« on 25 July -- brought
71 latin American passengere to Havana for the 26 July celebra~
tions. The other four flights «- on 15, 22, 28 and 29 August <«
transported over 200 Latin Americans to Brazil from Havana.
Some of the alrerafe invelwed returned to Cuba with smaller
munbers of passengers. Many of the 200 Latin Ameritan passengers
hed been delegates to the 26 July ceremonies, but others had
apparently been in Cuba for longer periods and some had probably
vecelved training there. Of the passengers on these four flights
te Brazil, 75 were natives of Caribbean area countries, Their
elveultous travel through Bragll wae evidently designed to help
concesi the fact that they had been in Cuba.

Costa Rica

Two Gosta Ricans were among the passengers on a
chartered Cubana plane which was tured back to Savane at Grand
Cayman 6a li July 1963. One was Lue Marine Hernandez Salazar,
the only Costa Rican woman know: to have been sent to Cuba for

duing ao a guervilla warfare instructor, She had beer ia
cuba Since September 1962, The other Costa Rican passenger was
Carlos Guilien, former head of the Costa Rican Society of
Feiends of the Cuban Revolution, who had bean in Cuba since
November 1962.

Beuador

The CIA Station in quite reports that the military
junta, which eegumed power im Beusdor on 11 July, can be expected

Ee:

 

a

HW 50955 Docld:32423829 Page 2 ra)

 
198-10006-10014

 

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/24/201

 

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

ARMY
198-10006-10014

CALIFANO PAPERS

 

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
“CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document information +

CIA

CIA INTELLIGENCE ANNEX

00/00/1963
5

CUBAN PROPAGANDA
LATIN AMERICA
TRAVEL TO CUBA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B; 4

Redact

02/06/1998

Califano Papers, Box 4, Folder 6. Intelligence report outlining travel to and the movement of

propaganda from Cuba.

TFK Levi e/

pe partment of the Army EO 13626
sity [I Exctude I Exem
Authority et

ee
© Refer To ;
Review Date By,

 

 

v9.1

HW 50955 DBocld:324238293 Page i
 

 

 

 

to follow the guidance of the ee
controlling travel te and from Cuba and the Soviet bloc, ‘The
metivitles of Cuban eubversives in Reuador, at least for the

present, have been greatly inhibited by the mass arreete of
Communists and pro-Cubens and by the outlawing of the Communist
Party by the junta,

Honduras

‘Te 1a reported that the Honduran Communist Party hes
iesued orders to ite members not to attempt te travel te Guba
at the present time, Thie action is apparently the result of
the increasing vigilance of the Honduran goverment and the

greater implementation of gtricter travel controls,

 

 

 

; According to an unconfirmed report received in ys
@ Bureau of Infomation of the Communist Perty of Guatemala 18
being formed in collaboration with Prensa dgtioa and ie to ba
minaged clandestinely, It expeets to recelve news by shortwave
xadio fron Cuba and print bulletins for éietribution by radio
stations, This asy indleate a pattem by which Prensa Leti
will attempt to distribute on a more clandestine basis fa other
areas in Latin America,

Bonduras
Te was reltably reported thet in mldeduly 1963, a
emall coastal freighter landed 14 large boxes of Communist

propaganda on the nerthern coast of Honduras, the bozes having
been transferred at sea from a lagger vessel,

 

, Sutwentet members of the Peronist Party, apparently
under the leadership ef euch figures ag Hector Villalon and
Joho William Cooke, are apparently receiving encouragement and
promises. of large sums of woney fron Cuba in support of their
efforts to train and organize subversive evcups in Argentina.

HW 50955 Docld:32423829 Page 3 n

oo |

 

 
 

 

 

 

 Willelon has stated that bis glen eplie fer expanding and
aeecllevating aubversive activicies ia Avgentine culminating
in 2 complete teke over within tuo years. Thera ie ne indlea«
tion that Peron hdeself has agveed te thig plan. ie has been
fveported that leaders of the Commmatet Party of Avgentina bave
been greatly amaoyed by the tendeney of the Cagire regime to
suppert the revolutionary Peroniets without having coneulred
the Communist Party of Argentina.

it is reported thee the so-called Amy of Metienal
Liberation (AML) of Argentina, which is a relatively euall
Castrolst organization direeted from Cuba by John William Cooke,
has im recent weelts been negotiating fer the purchase of arms
and bas been offered eubmachiine eung, baaeokas and other weapons
by tuo or three private suppliers, Ic waa veported, however,
that the AML was having difficulty getting encugh dollare from
Guba te make significant purchases possible,

Bolivia,

The Bolivian Ministry of Foreign Relations on 23
Auguat protested formally ta the Cuban Chargé d'Affatvee in
ia Paz againat tha Cuban Eubassy support to the miners during
the gesent crisis, Subsequently, however, Foreign Minister
Felinan informed the Cuban Chargé that he need not fear that
the Goverment of Bolivia would break afplomatic eelations with
Guba. There has, tm fact, been no havd infermatien Linklag the
Cuban Embasey with the present mining crisis in spite of some
unconfizmed veporté of Cuban support.

—Baeet)

cuban Awbassador to Bracti, Raul Rea Kourl, is reported
te have attempted to encourage peasent league leader Francisco
Jullee te vevitalize the leagues in northern Brazdl. According
te some vepowts efforts are being made to unify the leadership
and bring dissident elements under the general direction of
‘Julieo. Other reports indieate that, although the Cuban Swhasey
is providing guidance aud possibly financial support to the
movement, It bad net yet resolved the internal dissension in
the leagues.

HW 50955 Docld:32423829 Page 4 , n

 

 
