SECRET _

3. Intelligence is being provided. to the Caribbean.
Command by CIA and other elements of the U. S. Embassies
of in Latin“America as well as to CIA Headquarters. for. further.
dissemination as appropriate. :

 

4... Various agencies of the U. S. Government are now. L
disseminating: to Latin American governments, unclassified studies
and’ reports and other non-sensitive information concerning
Castro-Communist subversion.

5. U.S. 6 vernment communications systems ‘throughout
Latin America aré being expanded and: imporved upon ona
high priority basis. ,

6. Programs. now exist under AID, CIA, and DOD for the
training and equipping of Latin American internal security .
and intellig mce“services. Additional programs could: be:
established ‘in other countries where it is found. to be in.
the best interests: of the United States and acceptable, .
to ‘the country: concerned.

 

7. “Aly information received: by CIA concerning travel
to and-from Cuba is put into a computer system capable —
of producing. lists by name, by country, by point of travel,
or sorted on. ‘various other bases.

Iv. New Actions Recommended.

1. Reinforce the present procedures for bilateral |
exchange of intelligence, as described in Section. III. 1; by
recommending an Embassy intelligence committee to coordinate
procedures for ensuring timeliness, completeness and freedom ’
from duplication or false confirmation in the bilateral exchange
with the host governments. vs

“2. Encourage Latin American countries to engage in
bilateral exchange of intelligence on Castro-Communist. “
subversive activities.

SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32423998 Page 9
SECRET

3. Arrange for the electrical dissemination to
appropriate Latin American governments of daily summaries
e of radio broadcast material as monitored by the FBID of
; CIA.

4. Make available to as many countries as security permits,
sanitized results of the extensive travel coverage obtained
by the Central Intelligence Agency, already processed by
machine. (See paragraph III. 7.)

5. Discourage the employment of intelligence advisors
from nations other than the United States except in instances
where the United States can arrange to provide for the
training and control of any third country intelligence
advisor.

6. Arrange for the preparation of periodic studies of
Castro-Communist subversion in Latin America which can be
disseminated to selected Latin American governments.

7. Undertake action in the OAS to stimulate governments
to keep the Council and the SCCS fully informed on a
continuing basis of the nature and incidence of subversive
activities in their respective countries, |

8. Encourage Latin American countries to approve the
General Military Plan of the Inter-American Defense
Board (IADB), and, in accordance with Annex 4 thereof,
furnish to the IADB intelligence information and estimates
concerning Castro-Communist subversive activities.

SECRET

-8-
HW 50955 Docld:32423998 Page 10
SECRET

counteract them. Since the Punta del Este meeting,
the OAS has been making slow progress in the
-countersubversion field, but there has as yet been
no significant exchange of intelligence through
its machinery.

h, The Inter-American Defense Board (IADB) has
also demonstrated an awareness of the need for
exchanging intelligence regarding communist sub-
version, Annex 4 of the General Military Plan

- prepared by the IADB requests the American States to
report. information to the Board and to establish
agreements among themselves for exchanging infor-
mation of collective interest. The United States
has approved the General Military Plan, but similar
action has not been taken by all member countries.

i. This brief summary serves to. illustrate that
there is much room for expansion of bilateral
intelligence exchange arrangements among the Latin
American nations themselves, which is now minimal
at best, as well as a need to cr@ate an expanded
program for bilateral intelligence exchange between
the United States and individual countries, and
finally, a requirement to develop the possibilities
of a multilateral approach within the -recognized
limitations involved.

III. -Existing Programs

Enumerated below are the principal programs now in
Progress. They are subject to continuing improvement,

0

1, Bilateral exchange of intelligence 1s now being
conducted by CIA, DOD, and other US agencies with their
Latin American counterparts in instances where it has
been found possible to establish appropriate arrangements
for exchange of selected information consistent with
security requirements.

2. A study is currently underway to evaluate the
feasibility and desirability of establishing military
intelligence centers of the Caribbean Command and the
Caribbean Sea Frontier, Atlantic Command, for further

‘ dissemination of intelligence as appropriate in con-
¢ junction with our Military Alerting System, for rapid
processing and dissemination when appropriate, of
intelligence on subversive activities directly to the
countries concerned through the US Ambassador.

SECRET 6

HW 50955 Docld: 32423998 Page 8
SECRET

ds Exchanges » of information are ‘also ‘effected
from time to’ time through channels. of the Depart- .
iment. of State,

; . e, As ‘yet;. however, the program for the pro-
oye -  .- -yigion by United States. agéncies ‘of information on
so . subversion to: Latin American governments has not
: a ; been developed to an adequate degree, Since. the
a, United States possesses the most. extensive
—_ ce “ acquisition capabilities, as well as the only
- gecure and reliable means of rapid communication
. throughout; Latin America (currently in process
“.. of improvement), the development of an integrated
United States system for bilateral.exchange offers
- the. greatest ‘possibility of achieving the results -
-desired,.

f. Untted States experience in the matter of.
; intelligence exchange in Latin America, and in
-- other areas of the world, has led to the conclusion |
that. bilateral | ‘arrangements are more fruitful than
multilateral arrangements such as those. established.
within the framework-of NATO,.CENTO and SEATO,.— .
Nevertheless, this experience. has..shown also that. °
multilateral arrangements. can be of. some use,
‘particularly in creating an awareness of the need
for. intelligence exchange» os :

a -&. The concept of an exchange of ° “information
“among members of the OAS with regard to. subversive °..
-aetivities has been put forward at numerous Inter-

American meetings, but has not been implemented,

-, largely for'the reasons set forth in Section II, 1,

_ Under the Punta del Este decisions, the OAS members
were urged to cooperate. in strengthening their. .
capacity. to counteract threats or acts of ag@ression,
subversion or other. dangers to peace and security,
The Council of the OAS’is charged. with maintaining .
Vigilance over Castro-Communist. subversion, -and.

"Special Consultative Committee.on- Security (scos)"
‘ts established to give technical advice on request
‘to- governments and the Council on. matters relating
to subversion, All American governments have been”
asked to furnish information on Castro-Communist

‘aetivities to serve as. the ‘basis for studies and
recommendations by the Council of the OAS on how. to

13a)

SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32423998 Page 7
SECRET

gained by covert means and information. obtained
“,openly. The former involves the. requirement to
“pretect national secrets both as to sources and
' acquisition methods employed. The latter, which
ean be of great value, can be exchanged without
fear of compromise.

26 Categories of Exchangeable intelligence

The following describe generally ‘the categories:
of exchangeable matter, and exemplify the types of material
: under: each: =

a. Travel information - Unevaluated information
devoted soleky to rapid reporting of the movement.
of individuals between Latin America and Cuba or
Soviet Bloc countries. Such reports can be
reduced to a-few elements such as identification
of the individual, point of departure, date and
time of departure or arrival, destination, and
carrier. When presented in an abbreviated form
‘such information offers minimum security. problems
with respect to exchange with one or more countries,

pb. Intelligence information reports - Un-
evaluated information derived from clandestine
collection operations or confidential sources
reporting on plans and activities of Cuban or
communist connected subversive - ‘individuals or
groups; on movement of arms, propaganda and funds;
on shipping and air movements and on results of
surveillance efforts. Because continued receipt
.of such information by the United States is dependent
on careful protection of sources and methods of
collection, the exchange of this information with
other countries must be carefully controlled by
the collecting department.

ce. Intelligence reports and studies - Evaluated
intelligence in all of the above areas, prepared
by an appropriate element of the US government in
a form which ts releaseable to other Latin American
-countries,

d. Selected overt ‘materials ~ Articles or news.
stories drawn from press, periodical and: other
_ overt publishers. Selected for maximum impact on

SECRET 3

HW..50955 DocId:32423998 Page 5
SECRET

other countries particularly where such information is
not freely available to security services, as in. the
case of foreign broadcast reports,

oe : 3. Current Exchange Arrangements

a. At present there is little organized exchange of
intelligence among the Latin American nations. There
is a limited amount of informal exchange, often on a
basis of personal relationships between government
officials having a community of interest with respect
to a particular matter. :

b. The Central Intelligence Agency has established
working liaison arrangements in those Latin American
countries where such relations have been considered to
be in the best interest of the United States. Most of
the. intelligence concerning subversion in Latin America
available to the CIA is derived from covert operations>
or through contacts with another intelligence or security
service. This inhibits the passing of such information
to agencies of a third country. There is, however, a
substantial amount of intelligence available from overt
or non-sensitive sources which can be provided to
other countries In.1962, CIA received information
reports from services with which liaison is re

 

 

 

 

 

tained in Latin America and released reports .to
recipients. Intelligence items exchanged include
collated studies, weekly intelligence reviews, name
traces and travel reports. :

e. The U.S. Army, through its attaches, currently
has an informal arrangement. involving bilateral ex-
changes of intelligence with Argentina, Colombia,
Ecuador, Uruguay, Peru, Paraguay and Venezuela. Infor-
mation provided by the Army has been concerned with
subversive personalities, communist infiltration,
weapons movements and related matters. Reciprocal in-
telligence received has been of small value. The Army
also provides selected information on subversive. acti-
vities to Brazil, Chile, Guatemala and Mexico, without
reciprocation. The Navy has established a Navy-to-Navy
program for the exchange of intelligence among nine -
South American navies and the U,S. Navy. The U.S. Air
Force, through its attache system in Latin America, like-
wise has an exchange program, This is accomplished on
an informal basis and is bilateral in nature.

SECRET

HW 50955 DBocld:32423998 Page 6
| SEQRET

. CUBA
~ oHE EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE
CONCERNING COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE ACTLVITIES

 

SECRET

FICATION.

HW 50955 Docld: 324235998 Page 2
98-10007-10005

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE :
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/24/201

Identification Form

 

 

Agency Information

ARMY
198-10007-10005

CALIFANO PAPERS

 

Document Information

CIA “

CUBA: THE EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE CONCERNING COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE
ACTIVITIES

00/00/0000
7

COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
INTELLIGENCE SHARING, LATIN AMERICA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B

Redact

02/10/1998

Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder 10. Paper re: the exchange of intelligence concerning Cuban
subversive activities.

FK faview
partment of the Army EO 13526
Declassify “ Exclude — Exempt

Authority,

© Reter To

Review Date/Z PAS By WIE

 

v9.4

\7

HW 50955 Bocld:32423998 Page 1
SECRET.
CUBA

‘THE EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE
CONCERNING COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES

I. Introduction

In combatting Castro-Communist subversion through-
out Latin America, there is a fundamental requirement
‘for intelligence -- a requirement which involves the
‘timely acquisition and processing of information as
well as ite rapid diseemination, on a selective basis,
to countries concerned. While efforts are now being
made by CIA, AID, and the US Military Services to
improve Latin American intelligence systems, success
thus far has been limited, and much remains to be done,
It is not with thie broad problem, however, that this
paper is primarily concerned, but rather with the
narrower matter of the need for a stronger program of
exchanging essential information regarding Communist
subversion in Latin America among those who need to
know it.

II. Zhe Nature and Scope of the Problem

1, Limiting Factors

a. There are many inhibitions which tend to
discourage the exchange of intelligence on an
international basis, even among allies. National
privacy with regard to the inner workings of an
intelligence system must be preserved. Com-
pounding the problem further, where Latin America
“ke concerned, is the divisive influence of the
long history of rivalries, wars, jealousies and
disputes which have characterized relations among
the nations concerned. The wounds of past conflicts
among pairs and groupings of nations are not com-
pletely healed. There is lingering hostility

. between Peru and Ecuador deriving from their
boundary war. Chile and Bolivia continue at
odds over the Rio Lauca and the question of
Bolivian access to the sea, and, even now,
Nicaraguan insurgents are harbored within the
borders of both Costa Rica and Honduras, It
could hardly be expected that these countries
would be eager to exchange intelligence on a full
and frank basis.

SECREE

HW :50955+ Docld:32423998 Page 3
SECRET

b. Beyond this, Latin America is not a homo- ©
geneous entity in social, political, or economic
terms, and attitudes toward the Castro-Communist
subversive menace vary widely. A completely —
unified approach toward exchange of intelligence
concerning this menace, therefore, cannot be
regarded as attainable.

2 a : c, Additional impediments to intelligence ex-

. ehange are the generally low level of competence
of most Latin American intelligence services, their
lack of rapid, secure means of communication, the
‘absence of adequate security systems, and the lack
of security consciousness. Deficiencies in
security safeguards must necessarily limit the
exchange of intelligence obtained covertly by any
of the nations involved, and particularly the
United States, which has the most sophisticated |
system and hence the greatest need for protection.

 

d. These defects promise to persist, since the
governments of some countries have little desire to
develop a competent career security service. There
is a fear that the existence of an efficient service
would constitute a threat to further activities of
members of the existing governments at such time
as they might find themselves out of power, More-
over, many Latin American intelligence services
tend to label as "subversives" those of their own
nationals resident in other countries who are
opposed to the existing government.

e. These realities. all underscore the fact that.
multilateral intelligence exchange must be
approached on a most circumscribed basis. It
should not be concluded, however that nothing
of value can be accomplished multilaterally.

With proper definition, limiting the problem

of exchange to matters directly related to communist
subversive activities, such as the movement to and
from Cuba of subversives, the production and
movement of prepaganda materials which threaten
internal stability, the movement of arms, and the
movement of funds, it should be practicable to
marshal a useful measure of cooperation, In
pursuing this effort, it will be important to

draw a sharp distinction between secret intelligence

SECRET 2

. WW 50955 Docld:32423998 Page 4
