 

~2-
Para. e (cont.)

exile. Training for medical officers has also been proposed by Dr. Miro
and his medical advisors. .

3. It is understood that during the 14 October meeting at Miami
Beach of DOD representatives with Dr. Miro, the possibility was explored
of using Cuban professional officers as "civilian advisors" to U.S. Aruy
officer instructors of the Cuban enlistee training program, and using
Cuban "Rebel Army" and "Liberation Army" officers as "cadre" in the
training program for Cuban enlisted men, In view of these exploratory
proposals which were conveyed to me by Dr. Miro, I discussed the matter
at some length with him as I interpreted the general idea, and convinced
him and his military assistant, Capt Despaigne, of the many advantages
to be gained if such a program could be worked out, I requested
Capt.. Despaigne to prepare a list and biographic data of the available
professional officers and Rebel Army officers under 43 years of age
deemed to be qualified for this rather arduous training. These have
been furnished to me and are attached hereto as appendices. It is to
be assumed that twenty to twenty-five per cent of these officers would
be unable tc undertake training due to physical disqualification or
personal reasons, In addition to these lists, Dr. Miro has given me his
personal recommendations as to the officers whom he considers should be
given counter-insurgency training in Panaina if this can be arranged, I
informed him that this type of training is such that it would be suita~
ble for those officers who might be given responsibilities at a°later
date for counter-intelligence and counter-espionage and counter-—insurgen-
cy duties in Cuba and who, in turn, would be eble to train other person-
nel in such duties.

4, In view of the observations and discussions mentioned above,
the following recommendations are submitted for consideration:

a. That at least four (4) and not more than six (6) of the fol-
lowing named officers be provided with invitational orders for training
at the earliest possible time in the counter-insurgency operations
course of 10 weeks duraticn given in Panama to Latin American officers
and government representatives; (Dr. Miro recommends and I concur in
his recommendation, that one or two of the officers selected be "Rebel
Arny" officers and the others be professional army officers).

Rolando Zubizarreta Besu .
Orlando Enriso Martinez .
Gerardo Machado Fernandez
Juan Consuegra Valdes, Jr.
Ricardo Loerie Valls .. 3.

. . 35, Capt,
Emilio Armendo Cosio Romeu
a

. - 4Prof, arny

. 32, Maj. « wt 1

- 31, Capt. . ( " "

- 22, end Lt. ( 1 n

. 55, Maj. . (Rebel Arny

- 36, Capt. . (J.A.G. Rebel Arny)

» 57, Capt. (Rebel & Liberation Arny)

Higinio Diaz Ane ....-.
25, Ist Lt. (Rebel Arzy)

Juan Manuel Rodriguez Pine

Bte: It wight also be advantageous to send one of the officers
who was imprisoned for a year after the Bay of Pigs and is now free in
the U.S.

'b, That several professional officers on attached List A be

HW 50955 Docld:32424018 Page 9
 

 

3.
Para. 4b (cont.)

sent to the Jungle Warfare course in Panama at an early date. Officers
trained in "Liberation Army" also suitable (List C). .

c. That the other officers on attached List A (professional army
officers), if physically and mentally qualified, be brought into the 20-
week training program for Cuban exiles at the earliest possible date as
"civilian advisors" to U.S. instructor personnel, or in such other capa~
city as may be deemed advisable,

ad, That the other officers on Lists B and C ("Rebel" and "Li-
beration Army") if physically and mentally qualified, be brought into
this program at the earliest possible date as "eadre", or in such other
capacity as may be deemed advisable.

e. That these officers participate in the same training as the
enlisted personnel, but with appropriate status being given to then;
subsequently, it may be found desirable to send selected individuals to
officers! candidate courses for further training. :

5. Consideration must be given to the need for allowances for the
dependents of officers taking the training and for their own uniforms
and living expenses. If these factors present a difficult problem, a
Possible solution would be to have these men enlist for the twenty-
week training program with provisions for the special status indicated
above, eligibility for dependent allowances, and possibly promotions to
N CO grades in order to draw higher pay. If they received the same al-
lowances for dependents, as is accorded U.S. personnel, they would be
as weil off, financially, as they are now (or better in some instances).

6. Such a solution has been discussed with Dr, Miro and Col. J ose
Monteagudo, presently representing the "Military Sector" in the Cuban
Revolutionary Council and serving as military adviser to Dr. Miro.

They recognize the advantages of training the officers much the same as
the enlisted Cubans. However, they comment that for career (profession®
al) officers it would tend to conflict with their honor, dignity and past
training. But since they desire preparation to help liberate Cuba,

Col, Monteagudo (and Dr, Miro concurs) feels that most of the officers
would agree to enlist and go through the twenty-week program if it were
arranged along the following lines:

a, That all professional officers enlist and be inducted on the
same day (as a special group) 5 ;

b. That they be sent to the training camp on the same day (as a
special group); and

ce. That they be trained as a separate unit apart from the re-
cruits, with befitting preferred conditions,

d. That those qualified be subsequently sent to officers! candi-
date or officers! training course,

HW 50955 Docld:32424018 Page 10
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12 November, 1962
Memorandum for Record, No, °

Subject: Recommendations for training of additional Cuban officers in
exile.

1. Reference is made to:

_ a, Biographies of Cuban professional army officers and rebel
army officers in exile, transmitted by memorandum from Miami during the
past eleven months, recommending they be considered for training in the
U.S. service establishments. . :

'b. Informal discussions on this subject:

(1) By Dr. Miro Cardona with DOD and Department of State re-
presentatives,

(2) By Dr. Miro's U.S, contact in conversation with DOD and
Department of State representatives.

(3) Between DOD representatives and Dr, Miro, Dr. Varona
and Capt. Despaigne on 14. October, 1962, in Hotel Carillon, Miami Beach,

ec. Current program for training Cuban Army and Air Force offi-
cers (total of 8 Army and 4 Air Force).

d. Recruiting program for Cuban exiles.
2, The recommendations in this memorandum take into consideration:

a, That only a limited number of Cuban exile officers can readi-
ly be trained in the established courses in U.S. service schools due to
the length of these courses, the lack of vacancies in each class, and
the language problem for most Cubans, and other factors,

b. That it would seem desirable to train a considerable number”
of Cuban officers in a relatively short period of time in the immediate
future. ;

ce, That it would be desirable to have Cuban officers receive
training similar to that given to Cuban enlistees in the current program
for training Cubans in their own units and-using the Spanish language.

d. That it would be advantageous to have Cuban officers in exile
become directly associated with Cuban enlistees in the U.S, Arny train-
ing program for Cubans, so that this association may .continue after ter-
mination of the 20-week training program and establishment. of a Cuban
Reserve Unit (or Cuban Expeditionary Force).

e. In addition to this training for the majority of available
and qualified Cuban exile officers, training in counter-insurgency oper-
ations appears desirable for four or five specially selected officers.
Flight, gunnery and navigation training for Air Force officers also is
deemed desirable. Of less importance but deserving of consideration
is training for the relatively small number of Cuban navy officers in

HW 50955 Docld:32424018 Page 6
 

 

as |

 

 

 

  

cae ;
seta
AG CACAL

BRIGADE

SBRY

 

     

Position in Brigave |

 

  
  

 

er of Brigade

 
   
  
  
 

faf. Bn.
Ey od. Bry

ed Inf, Br.
ec, ara Bn,
f.

5

  

  

ae

     
   
 

      
 

Callade Alvarez

ty Egy
a ah ibe
Barveras Av &

ader, 6th Bn,
Y, Rortaur Bu,
@e, sipply, boats

  
 

 

  

Gsurela Fonseca

 

GRADUATES y

Cadat
Cudet

Soudet

  

HW 50955 DocId:32424018 Page 7

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4, Califene, dp.

 
 
 
 
  
   

 

in &

al cYyni carhom copy of my

her with three appendices,
valy the tenes of profes=
BLL os ati Arey" of fi-
are 0 g@ He medul red
ich they served in over~
eta, end from weieh they went into exile during the
are ; Art a deers are the

cmt iG6l invasion,

Ea . mid

 

DoE : :
ie, “ecnte inkng respe
af ‘thedr S, ‘Babe, Anny §

 
 
 

  
   
  
 

 

        

    
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 

$s rebel foress in

  

    

    

; that By y original memorandum, «nleh was
& eneck of ) names, Wie re-
roet ot DP tranegedt it
is unexplained and certainly

         

 

aert
agreet to the
regrettable,

ae we of the pro-
fray) whe served
in she ranseu © ration,
@, as "Acai » List
Gh taocse

 

    

 

pared
the Bre

  

bo you as an 4A dition

the Won aM ug Orie °
Qu, or will be, re-

4 e the Parnrhagon
in wy nonos by Lh or 16 Jur.
goen as I have taem,

 

inal Li
burned &
Honea Ti
ary snd

   

 
 

or if any further detalles are

 

 

| WF 50955 Docld:32424018 Page 5

 
 

 

 

PROFESSIONAL ("CAREER")

ADDITION TO LIST A

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424018 Page 6

ARMY OFFICERS (AC ADEW GRADUATES) IN CUBAN 2506

Position in Brigade

Commander of Brigade
2nd in Command of. Brigade
G-l Brigade

G-3 Brigade

G-5 Brigade 1
Brigade Headquarters
Asst, G-4 Brigade
Commander 2nd Inf. Bn.
Co, Commander, 2nd Bn.
8-4, 2nd Bn.

Commander 3rd Inf. Bn.
Co. Commander, rd Bae
Commander 4th Inf. Bn.
end in Command, 5th Bn.
Co, Cemmander, *5th Bn.

“§-2; 5th Bn,

S-1, 5th Bn.

Commander, 6th Bn.
Commander, Mortar Bn.

In charge, supply, boats

Co. Commander, lst Bn.
Tank Company
In Infantry Bn,

BRIGADE
Former Army Rank Name
Capt. Jose A. Perez San Roman
ist Lt. Erneido Gliva y Gonzalez
Capt. Jose A, Morales Cruz
Capt. Ramon J. Ferrer y Mena
Major Juan Santamarina Bermudez
Lt. Col. Jose Martinez Suarez
Capt. Jose I, Trincheria
ist Lt. Hugo Sueiro Rios
ist Lt. Pedro Avila Lopez
ist Lt. Jose D. Gonzalez Morejon
Major Noelio Montero Diag
Capt. ‘Rafael Greinier Martinez
gnd Lt. - Valentin Bacallao Fonte
Capt. Felix E; Perez Tamayo
ist Lt. Pedro Sanchez Rodriguez
-lst Lt. Cesar Noble Alzugaray -
Major Roberto Collado Alvarez
Capt. Alfredo'Barreras Amador
ist Lt. Roberto Perez San Roman
ist Lt. Inocente R. Garcia Fonseca
BX-CADETS (NON GRADUATES)
' Cadet Nestor Pino Marina
Cadet Hipolito Bacallao Fonte
Cadet ' Erasmo. Sotuyo Pedraza
 

 

“. DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
. WASHINGTON, B.C.

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424018 Page 2
 

 

 

 

198+40007-10025} - oe = a a

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/24/2014
Identification Form

 

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: — 198-10007-10025

RECORD SERIES: = CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : .

 

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: ARMY
FROM: JAMES K. PATCHELL
TO:

TITLE: TRAINING OF CUBAN OFFICERS IN EXILE

DATE: — 01/12/1963
PAGES: 12

SUBJECTS :
CUBAN OFFICERS IN EXILE - TRAINING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Not Marked
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 04/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Califano Papers, Box 2, Folder 12. Note from Patchell re: report on training of Cuban officers in exile.

TEL bened

Beparimant of the Army EO 13526
a Doses © Excude ©
Aihara ify clude Exempt
El Reter

Review outs S72 6 CES

 

 

 

v9.1 34
HY 50955 Docld:324274018 Page 1
 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424018 Page 3
 

 

12 January, 1963
Memorandum for Mr. Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
Sub jects: Training of Cuban officers in exile. ,

1. Herewith is a re-typed original and carbon’ copy of ny
memorandum of 12 November, 1962, together with three appendices,
Lists A, B and €C, containing respectively the names of profes—
sional Aray officers, "Rebel Arny™ and "Liberation Aruy" offi-
cers in exile. The "Rebel Arny" officers are those who acquired
their rank in Castrots rebel forces in which they served in over-
throwing Batista, and from which they went into exile during the
communist take-over. The "Liberation Army" officers are those
who were trained for and served in the April 1961 invasion,

; 2. I have learned that my original memorandum, which was
transmitted to Washington after a check of the names, was re~-
turned to Miami this week with instructions that I transmit it
direct to the Pentagon. The delay is unexplained and certainly
regrettable.

3. During this week, a list was prepared for me of the pro-
fessional (career) officers (formerly in Cuban Army) who served
in the Brigade and were returned to Miami in the ransom operation.
I am enclosing a copy of this in duplicate, as “Addition to List
A™, These should be considered along with those .on "List A" as
professional army officers.

4, I am asking today that a list also be prepared of other,
non-career officers among these ex-prisoners of the Brigade, who
were given officer assignments in the Brigade for the April '61
expedition. I. should have that list by the middle of the week
18 - 19 January, and will send it to you as an "Addition to
List Cc", :

S. The biographical sheets for each of the men on my ori-
ginal Lists A, B and C presumably have also been, or will be, re-
turned to Miami for me to transmit directly to the Pentagon.
Hence I hope that I shall have them in my hands by 15 or 16 Janu-
ary and I shall mail them to you as soon as I have them.

6, If there are any questions or if any further details are
needed, please call on me,

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424018 Page 4
