y

“+ °° srorer

/ 3. intelligence is being provided to the Caribbean
Command by CIA and other elements of the US Embassies
in Latin America as well as to CIA Headquarters for
further dissemination as appropriate.

oY 4, Various agencies of the US Government are now
disseminating to Latin American governments unclassi-
fied studies and reports and other non-sensitive
information concerning Castro-Communist subversion.

5. US Government communications systems through-
out Latin America are being expanded and improved upon
on a high priority basis.

Y 6. Programs now exist under AID, CIA, and DOD for
the training and equipping of Latin American internal ;
security and intelligence services, Additional programs
could be established in other countries where it is .
found to be in the best interests of ‘the United States ana
acceptable to the country concerned.

Mew 7. All information received by CIA concerning
travel to and from Cuba is put intG a computer system
capable of producing lists b¥ name, by country, by point
of travel, or sorted on various other bases.
tems marked “new” in aragtaph De
Iv. New Actions Recommended went adsted by ela, P

Wows 1. Reinforce the present procedures for bilateral
exchange of intelligence, as described in Section III, l.
by recommending that the US Ambassadors utilize the
existing Country Team mechanisms as an intelligence
advisory committee to coordinate procedures for, ensuring
timeliness, completeness and freedom from duplitation

_ or false confirmation in the bilateral exchange with
the host governments.

2. Encourage Latin American countries to engage
in bilateral exchange of intelligence on Castro-
Communist subversive activities. Committee Substituted, \eleedriéel

for “Nrerpayel
New 3. Arrange for the electficaf dissémination to

appropriate Latin American governments of daily
summaries of radio broadcast material as monitored by
the FBID of CIA.

SECRET 7

HW 50955 Docld:32423999 Page 9
a .
a i sate here.
*‘ SECRET Committee deleted the appropy

News JL. Make available to as many countries as security
permits,Wsanitized results of the extensive travel
coverage obtained by the Central Intelligence Agency,
already processed by machine. (See paragraph III. 7.)

  
  

5. Increase, where feasible, emphasis on the
provision of US intelligence advisors to Latin American
countries. Discourage the employment of intelligence
advisors from nations other than the United States
except in instances where the United States can arrange
to provide for the training and control of any third
country intelligence advisor.

New 6, Arrange for the preparation of periodic studies [by eA

of Castro-Communist subversion in Latin America which

can be disseminated to selected Latin American govern- “93 CIA” strut

ments, 4

put by Comm tee ,
7.» Undertake action in the OAS to stimulate govern~

ments to keep the Council and the SCCS fully informed

en a continuing basis of the nature and inciden¢ée of

subversive activities in their respective countries.

8. Encourage Latin American countries to approve
the General Military Flan of the Inter-American Defense
Board (IADB), and, in accordance with Annex 4. thereof,
furnish to the IADB intelligence information and :
estimates concerning Castro-Communist subversive
activities.

¥ Revised 9. Undertake action in-the OAS to establish a -
Security Intelligence Advisory Committee consisting of
senior representatives of the appropriate services of
each government to deal with all major aspects of sub-
versive activities in their respective countries, consider
new coordinated plans.of action to counter and neutralize
subversion, and implement necessary actions to insure
the most effective and timely exchange of information
between the governments on subversive activities.

* Tn Committee Papess this recommendation was)... arrange
for reqrondl meetings op Senior intedls gence and seeuvity
SErviCe® Mepresentatives .., for The purpose of fostering
The eK ehange of intetlig eee». , and developing >>>
Methanisms and Procedures,

SECRET 8

HW 50955 Docld:32423999 Page 10
SECRET |

counteract them. Sincé the Punta del Este meeting,
the OAS has been making slow progress in the
countersubversion field, but there has as yet been
no significant exchange of intelligence through
its machinery.

h. The Inter-American Defense Board (IADB) has
also demonstrated an awareness of the need for
exchanging intelligence regarding communist sub-
version. Annex 4 of the General Military Plan
prepared by the IADB requests the American States to
report.information to the Board and to establish
agreements among themselves for exchanging infor-
mation of collective interest. The United States
has approved the General Military Plan, but similar
action hag not been taken by all member countries.

i, This brief summary serves to illustrate that
there is much room for expansion of bilateral
intelligence exchange arrangements among the Latin
American nations themselves, which is now minimal
at best; as well as a need to create an expanded
program for bilateral intelligence exchange between
the United States and individual countries, and
finally, a requirement to develop the possibilities
of a multilateral approach within the recognized

limitations involved.
Ttems cheeked weree tuten from the

Existi “Actions Recommented” portion of the
III. Existing Programs Comms fale Ge and listed ag “Enstng Programs”!
vA

Undertined portion
add tie -
added by CommitlecEnumerated below are cndtemhe (84 adhe h Pow Axper in vttee,

te da Verstonsnopress, They are subject to continuing improvement. paper.

41. Bilateral exchange of intelligence is now being
conducted by CIA, DOD, and other US agencies with their
Latin American counterparts in instances where it has
been found possible to establish appropriate arrangements
for exchange of selected. information consistent with
security requirements.

“2, A.study is currently underway to evaluate the
feasibility and desirability of establishing military
intelligence centers of the Caribbean Command and the
Caribbean Sea Frontier, Atlantic Command, for further
dissemination of intelligence as appropriate in con-
junction with our Military Alerting System, for rapid
processing and dissemination when appropriate, of

“intelligence on subversive activities directly to. the
countries concerned through the US Ambassador. a

SECRET 6

HW 50955 DocId:32423999 Page 8
SECRET

d. Exchanges of information are also effected
from time to cime through channels of the Depart-
ment .of State. :

e. As yet, however, the program for the pro-
vision by United States agencies of information on
subversion to Latin American governments has not
been developed to an adequate degree, Since the
United States possesses the most extensive
acquisition capabilities, as well as the only
secure and reliable means of rapid communication
throughout Latin America (currently in process
of improvement), the development of an integrated
United States system for bilateral exchange offers
the greatest possibility of achieving the results
desired.

f. United States experience in the matter of
intelligence exchange in Latin America, and in
other areas of the world, has led to the conclusion
that bilateral arrangements are more fruitful than
multilateral arrangements such as those established
within the framework of NATO, CENTO and SEATO.
Nevertheless, this experience has shown also that
multilateral arrangements can be of some use,
particularly in creating an awareness of the need
for intelligence exchange.

 

g. The concept of an exchange of information
among members of the OAS with regard to subversive
activities has been put forward at numerous Inter-
American meetings, but has not been implemented,
largely for the reasons set forth in Section II. l.
Under the Punta del Este decisions, the OAS members
were urged to cooperate in strengthening their
capacity to counteract threats or acts of aggression,
subversion or other dangers to peace and security.
The Council of the OAS is charged with maintaining
vigilance over Castro-Communist subversion, and
a "Special Consultative Committee.on Security (sccs)"
is established to give technical advice on request
to governments and the Council on matters relating
to subversion. All American governments have been
asked to furnish information on Castro-Communist
activities to serve as the basis for studies and
recommendations by the Council of the OAS on how to

SECRET

mn

HW 50955 Doold:32423999 Page 7
Paragraph 2 in ts entirety was added by CIA.

R,. ; Portions underlined were added by the Committee
SECRET tothe CIA Submission,

gained by covert means and information obtained

openly. The former involves the requirement to

protect national secrets both as to sources and

acquisition methods employed. The latter, which

ean be of great. value, can be exchanged without

fear of compromise.

Kew paragrephe . Categories of Exchangeable Intelligence

The following describe generally the categories
of exchangeable matter, and exemplify the types of material
under each:

a. Travel information - Unevaluated information
devoted solety to rapid reporting of the movement
of individuals between Latin America and Cuba or
Soviet Bloc countries. Such reports can be
reduced to a few elements such as identification
of the individual, point of departure, date and
time of departure or arrival, destination, and a
carrier, When presented in an abbreviated form
such information offers minimum security. problems
with respect to exchange with one or more countries.

bk. Intelligence information reports - Un-
evaluated information derived from clandestine
collection operations or confidential sources
reporting on plans and activities of Cuban or
communist connected subversive individuals or
groups; on movement of arms, propaganda and funds;
on shipping and air movements and on results of
surveillance efforts. Because continued receipt
of such information by the United States is dependent
on careful protection of sources and methods of
collection, the exchange of this information with
other countries must be carefully controlled by
the collecting department.

c. Intelligence reports and studies - Evaluated
intelligence in_all i the above areas, prepared

by an appropriate element of the US government in
a form which is releaseable to other Latin American
countries. :

d. Selected overt materials - Articles or news
stories drawn from press, periodical and other
overt publishers. Selected for maximum impact on

SECRET 3

HW 50955 DocId:32423999 Page 5
wn:

ECRET

 

other countries particularly where such infor-
mation is not. freely available to security services,
as in the case of foreign broadcast reports.

3. Current Exchange Arrangements

a. At present there is little organized ex-
change of intelligence among the Latin American
nations. There is a limited amount of informal
exchange, often on a basis of personal relation-
ships between government officials having a
community of interest with respect to a particular
matter.

b. The Central Intelligence Agency has estab-
lished working liaison arrangements in those ©
Latin American countries where such relations have
been considered to be in the best interest of the
United States. Most of the intelligence concerning
subversion in Latin America available to the CIA is
derived from covert operations or through contacts
with another intelligence or security service.

This inhibits the passing of such information to
agencies of a third country. There is, however, a
substantial amount of intelligence available from
overt or non-sensitive sources which can be pro-
vided to other countries. In 1962, CIA received
information reports from services with which
liaison is maintained in Latin America and released
reports to [Jrectptents. Intelligence items
exchanged if@luded collated studies, weekly intelli-
gence reviews, name traces and travel reports.

e. The US Army, through its attaches, currently
has an informal arrangement involving bilateral
exchanges of intelligence with Argentina, Colombia,
Ecuador, Uruguay, Peru, Paraguay and Venezuela.
Information provided by the Army has been concerned
with subversive personalities, communist infiltration,
weapons movements and related matters. Reciprocal
intelligence received has been of small value. The
Army also provides selected information on sub-
versive activities to Brazil, Chile, Guatemala
and Mexico, without reciprocation. The Navy has
established a Navy-to-Navy program for the ex-
change of intelligence among nine South American
navies, the Mexican Navy and the US Navy.

SECRET ; 4

HW 50955 Docild:32423999 Page 6
SECRET

marked +o show changes

This cop 4 prep cred

made in paper as originally

by Comms Tree.

CUBA
THE EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE
CONCERNING COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES

GROUP-1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
SECRET. DOWNGRADING AND DECLASST-
FICATION

OSA, ASG Contral No ZA

HW 50955 Docld:32423999 Page 2
198-10007-10006

v9.1

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

~ > .ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

 

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/24/201
Identification Form :

 

Agency Information

ARMY
198-10007-10006

CALIFANO PAPERS

 

Document Information

CIA

CUBA: THE EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE CONCERNING COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE
ACTIVITIES

00/00/0000
9

COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
INTELLIGENCE SHARING, LATIN AMERICA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

IB

Redact

02/10/1998

Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder 10. Paper re: the exchange of intelligence concerning Cuban
subversive activities. Similar to 198-10007-10005 with marginalia.

AFK foie?

. 26
tof the Army EO 135:
pe becasty cI exclude = Exempt

Ut 4

HW 50955 Bocld:32423999 Page 1

(N
. SECRET '

 

CUBA
THE EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE
CONCERNING COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
Ir. Introduction

in combatting Castro-Communist subversion through-
out Latin America, there is a fundamental requirement
for intelligence -- a requirement which involves the
timely acquisition and processing of information as
well as its rapid dissemination, on a selective basis,
to countries concerned, While efforts are now being
made by CIA, AID, and the US Military Services to
improve Latin American intelligence systems, success
thus far has been limited, and much remains to be done.
Tt ig not with this broad problem, however, that this
paper is primarily concerned, but rather with the
narrower matter of the need for a stronger program of
exchanging essential information regarding Communist
subversion in Latin America among those who need to
know it.

II. The Nature and Scope of the Problem
1. Limiting Factors

 

a. There are many inhibitions which tend to
discourage the exchange of intelligence on an
international basis, even among allies. National
privacy with regard to the inner workings of an
intelligence system must be preserved. Com-
pounding the problem further, where Latin America
is concerned, is the divisive influence of the
long history of rivalries, wars, jealousies and
disputes which have characterized relations among
the nations concerned, The wounds of past conflicts
among pairs and groupings of nations are not com-
pletely healed. There is lingering hostility
between Peru and Ecuador deriving from their
boundary war. Chile and. Bolivia continue at
odds over the Rio Lauca and the question of
Bolivian access to the sea, and, even now,
Nicaraguan insurgents are harbored within the
borders of both Costa Rica and Honduras. It
could hardly be expected that these countries
would be eager to exchange intelligence on a full
and frank basis.

 

SECRET

HW 50955 DociId:32423999 Page 3
SECRET

b. Beyond this, Latin America is not a homo-
geneous entity in social, political, or economic
terms, and attitudes toward the Castro-Communist
subversive menace vary widely. A completely
unified approach toward exchange of intelligence
concerning this menace, therefore, cannot be
regarded as attainable.

ce, Additional impediments to intelligence ex-
change are the generally low level of competence
of most Latin American intelligence services, their
lack of rapid, secure means of communication, thé
‘absence of adequate security systems, and the lack
of security consciousness. Deficiencies in
security safeguards must necessarily limit the
exchange of intelligence obtained covertly by any
of the nations involved, and particularly the
United States, which has the most sophisticated
system and hence the greatest need for protection,

d. These defects promise to persist, since the
governments of some countries have little desire to
develop a competent career security service, There
is a fear that the existence of an efficient service
would constitute a threat to further activities of
members of the existing governments at such time
as they might find themselves out of power. More-
over, many Latin American intelligence services
tend to label as "“subversives" those of their own
nationals resident in other countries who are
opposed to the existing government.

e. These realities. all. underscore the fact that
multilateral intelligence exchange must be
approached on a most circumscribed basis. It
should not be concluded, however that nothing
of value can be accomplished multilaterally.

With proper definition, limiting the problem

of exchange to matters directly related to communist
subversive activities, such as the movement to and
from Cuba of subversives, the production and
movement of propaganda materials which threaten
internal stability, the movement of arms, and the
movement of funds, it should be practicable to
marshal a useful measure of cooperation. In
pursuing this effort, it will be important to

draw a sharp distinction between secret intelligence

SECRET 2

HW 50955 DociId:32423999 Page 4
