wa

ECRET

 

Films

Feature films and short documentaries produced by the
Cuban Institute of Motion Picture Art and Industry play a
direct propaganda role. These films are shown primarily in
binational centers, pro-Communist labor and student groups,
and in private or clandestine meetings.

It will be seen from this brief review that Latin
America is the target of a broad-scale propaganda program,
comprising not only propaganda materials but including
also the ideas, the knowledge and the resources which are
necessary to make those materials effective.
~‘

III, Direct Actions to Impede the Legal Movement of
Propaganda Materials

Presented below is a summary of actions contemplated
to impede the legal movement of propaganda materials from
Cuba to and within Latin American countries. For the pur-
pose of this paper, legal movement is defined as movement
by recognized private and governmental carriers and communt-
cations, as well as postal systems and diplomatic’ pouching.

These actions offer promise of achieving early and
effective results in some Latin American countries, but
they do not have universal application, and those which may
be feasible in one country may not be necessary or feasible
in another.

1. Political Actions

a, Induce newspapers in countries in which’ Prensa
Latina operates to cancel their subscriptions to the
service. :

b. Persuade those governments which receive Cuban
and Blec diplomatic missions to maintain close
surveillance over the propaganda activities of the
Communist embassies with a view toward prohibiting
abuses of diplomatic privilege for subversive pur-
poses.

ec. AS applicable and feasible, induce Latin
American countries to:

SECRET Mm

HW 50955 DociId:32423823 Page 9
SECRET @ =

(1) Adopt adequate internal security legislation
to provide severe penalties for any person engaging
in dissemination of Cuban-Communist propaganda
which inspires terrorism or proposes the overthrow
of the legal government by force and violenée.

(2) Preclude attendance of Cuban delegates at
international meetings held in Latin America.
(Delegates are propaganda disseminators. )

é. Intelligence Actions

a. Continue U.S. intelligence efforts in each Al :
country to identify individuals, organizations and 0
facilities involved in propaganda importation, a
reproduction and/or dissemination; make available. to
each country selected intelligence concerning these
individuals, organizations and their activities.

 

b. Encourage each country in which the Communist
Party is lilegal to offer rewards for information
leading to interception of Castro-Communist propa-
ganda and, in countries where the Communist party is
legal, for conviction of persons supplying or .
disseminating propaganda materials considered dan- _-
gerous to the country's tranquility. 7

ce. In separate diplomatic approaches to each
country, urge full and effective cooperation, with
the appropriate organs of the OAS and bilaterally
among the several nations, in the interchange of
information concerning movement of propaganda
materials,

d. Persuade Latin American countries to report
' promptly to the diplomatic mission.of the country
: concerned, the identity of any national of that
country who arrives from Cuba and who is discovered
to have been carrying Communist propaganda materials.

3. Covert Actions
a. Disrupt the reproduction and distribution. of

propaganda materials, and the procurement and delivery
of related supplies and equipment.

SECRET 5.

 

HW 50955 DocId: 32423823 Page 10
HW 50955

SECRET

Every Latin American country except the Dominican
Republic, Paraguay, Nicaragua, and Venezuela permits
these bookshops to operate. Many of them offer publi-
cations at very low prices or give away several books
with the purchase of one, and easy credit terms are
available.

. Excluding TASS and the New China News Agency (NCNA),
Prensa Latina is the principal Communist news agency in
Tatin America. It operates openly, although not entirely
without restriction, in ten countries -- Bolivia, Brazil,
Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Costa Rica, Honduras, Mexico,
Panama and Uruguay. While most users of Prensa Latina -
releases are covert or overt Communists, some non-Communist
media make unattributed use of Prensa-Latina releases. :
This. is especially true of radio broadcasts.

All of this publication activity is essentially
overt. However, decrees banning Communist propaganda
have not prevented the clandestine publications and distri-
pution of periodicals and books in some countries, and
propaganda materials continue to seek entry through. the
mails. In Panama, for example, postal and customs authori-

‘ties destroy.an average of 12 tons of Cuban propaganda per.

month. Another ten tons per month is seized and. destroyed
in Costa Rica. This suggests the further quantities, per+
haps larger, may be finding their way into these and other
countries.

Radio

Short wave radio is the principal direct mass audience
medium used by Cuba to carry subversive propaganda to Latin
America. The Castro regime has constantly.increased Radio
Havana's: short wave broadcasts to Latin America to a current
level of 115:30 hours per week.

Cultural Activities
Penetration under the guise of cultural activities is
a favored Communist propaganda technique in Latin America,

where there are now some 64 Cuban binational centers and
Friendship. Societies.

SECRET 3

Docld:32423823 Page 6
HW 50955

© d
SECRET

Our efforts to combat the problem, moreover, are
complicated by the fact that freedom of thought, express~
jon and press are generally highly regarded in Latin
America, albeit not universally honored, and any proposals
to reduce the flow of Castro-Communist subversive materials
must. be influenced by this fact. Otherwise the United
States may find itself indicted for fostering police-
state methods, a charge which could alienate many of the
Latin Americans we seek to influence. ,

For the purpose of this paper, propaganda materials.
include radio program scripts, tapes and recordings, printed
materials, (posters, pamphlets, magazines, leaflets, books,
newspapers, news service output), motion pictures, dupli-
cating or reproducing equipment, electronic communications
equipment, and printing resources, particularly paper stock-
piles.

However, to be complete, “movement of propaganda
materials" must extend also to publications whtch are hand-
carried into a country by legal or illegé&l travellers for
subsequent reproduction. It must also include materials
transmitted through Cuban and Soviet Bloc diplomatic :
channels, shipments via postal channeis, quantities intro-
duced through smuggling operations, oral transmission of
propaganda guidance. by individual travellers or by Radio
Havana, and the dissemination of communist oriented news
py Prensa Latina, the official Cuban news agency, for re-
production py local outlets. Finally to be “considered are
thematic guidance, which can be reproduced and exploited
locally by returning trainees, front groups and sympathetic
publications and, in some countries such as Mexico, Argen-
tina and Uruguay, the products of those commercial estab-
lishments which regularly print or broadcast pro-Castro-
Communist materials as a matter of policy or ideological
conviction.

Press and Publications

 

There are 326 Communist and pro-Communist newspapers
and periodicals in Latin America, and infiltration of the
democratic press, coupled with the non-critical attitudes

_of some. newspapermen, increases greatly the ‘diffusion of

the Cuban propaganda line. There are 228 Communist-oriented
publishing houses and bookstores in Latin America, serving
as outlets not only for 30 different Cuban periodicals, but
for a large variety of other Communist printed material.

SECRET 2

Docld:324273823 Page 7
SECRET
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
I. Introduction - - --.- ----=----0+ 1
II, Nature and Scope of the Problem - - - - 1
III. Direct Actions to Impede Legal Movement
of Propaganda Materials- - ------- 4
1. Political Actions - -----+----+ 4A
2. Intelligence Actions - - - --- + ={ 5
3. Covert Actions ----------- 5
IV, Direct Actions to Impede Illegal Movement
of Propaganda Materials ----+--~--+-- 6
1,. Intelligence Actions ------- - - 7
2. Surveillance and Reperting- Action - - 7
3. Political Action --------- - 7
4, Technical Assistance Actions - - - - 7

SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32423623 Page 5
SECRET

CUBA

 

MOVEMENT OF PROPAGANDA MATERTALS

 

I. Introduction

The actions proposed herein are designed to impede
the movement of Communist propaganda materials from Cuba
to and within Latin American countries. They complement
the basic actions relating to control of movement of sub-
versive trainees to and from Cuba, which actions are gen-
erally applicable in the solution of this problem.as well.
As in the companion measures for control of the movement
of subversive trainees, successful execution of the actions
proposed below will reduce the flow of propaganda materials
put will not eliminate it entirely.

Communist Cuba has many legitimate outlets through
which propaganda materials flow. As these legitimate
outlets are blocked by the initial steps herein proposed,
it will be necessary for the Cuban propagandists and their
sympathizers elsewhere to turn from the mass exportation
of materials to the production and dissemination of the
same materials in a clandestine environment within the
several Latin American countries. Of the two threats, the
illicit production of propaganda materials in each country
will be by far the more difficult to abate.

In combatting these threats, one of the most power-
ful factors is the influence of our own information and. .
counter-propaganda efforts, which USIA and CIA have ins
creased greatly during the past two years. This paper,
however, is concerned wholly with direct actions; actions
designed to impede the movement of propaganda materials
to and within Latin America.

IT. Nature and Scope of the Problem

 

While the Castro image has faded somewhat in Latin
America, and the attraction of Cuba as a model has dimin-
ished, the susceptibility of the Latin American people to
communist propaganda remains high. The basic social and
economic factors which have made this true in the past
have not greatly altered, and the variety and quantity of
propaganda materials with which the Latin Americans are
now beset are impressive, as exemplified in the one—hun-
ve million dollars which the communists are estimated to.
be investing in the project annually. It is a large pro-
gram and it presents a continuing threat to the tran-
quiltty of Latin America.

 

SECRET

Deo dae a

HW 50955 Docld:32423823 Page 6
 

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423823 Page 2

om,

 

 
 

\N

 

 

 

 

198-40006-10008
JFK Assassination System ; Date: 6/24/201
Identification Form
Agency Information
AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: _ 198-10006-10008
RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ,
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — JCS
FROM: KRULAK, V.H.
TO: COORD. CTE. ON CUBAN AFFAIRS
TITLE: | THE MOVEMENT OF PROPAGANDA MATERIALS
DATE: — 03/14/1963
PAGES: 12
SUBJECTS :

COUNTERING CUBAN PROPAGANDA
CUBAN SUBVERSION
KRULAK COMMITTEE
PROPAGANDA MEDIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: — Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/11/1997
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder 11. Memo transmitting the Krulak Committee's paper on the movement

of Cuban propaganda.

OPK Assocsroton Records Kasied

Department of the Amy EO 13526
Sd Deciassity © Exclude © Exempt

Authority,

 

NO STATE OBJECTION

© Refer To - 9 g ,
review Date [£2] 2obey oe Gi NO JOT STATE OBIECTION

TOD .
a)

 

v9.1

HW 50955 Docld: 32423823 Page i
 

 

 

 

SECRET

THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

 

THE JOINT STAFF

aAGShA 156-65
Me March 1963

MEMORANDUM POR: The Coordinating Committee on Cuban
AgTaipa
Subject: The Movement of Propaganda Meteriais
Reference: Menovandum Retebliahing Sub-Committee

on Cuban Subversion, dated &7 Pebruavy 1963

Attached is & paper which outlines the problem of
tha flew of propaganda materials from Cuba to and within
Latin america, and which presents a sequence of actions
eontemplated to meet the probien,

Por the Sub-Committee

Vi By RRULAK, ;
Major General, USMC
Cha lrman

    
 

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOWATIC
REGRADING; DOD DIR 5200.10
DOES NOT APPLY |

 

SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32423823 Page 3
SECRET
CUBA
THE MOVEMENT OF PROPAGANDA MATERIALS
GROUP-1 .
. EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
SECRET ; DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

HW 50955 Docld: 32423823 Page 4
