SECRE®
Security information

“ay ‘The best cover is afforded by covert penstration
of friendly systems, (a Western European nation ‘talking back to > USSR
Oto, a8 discussed. in’ 2ede above)s .' ; ;

_ “ay Connerciat broadéasting cover presents some . possi
 plLitdes | in the free ‘world but none ‘for broadeasting to. the Soviet .
Orbite «. : :

Be Basos

: -@)- Because governments object to oroviding bases for
aggressive psychological warfare which they do ‘not influence or control,
it ig difficult to find bases in areas suitable for broadcasting to the
Orbit. ‘Furthermore,’ adequate bréadcasting facilities take time te
Plans Wild, and staff and long temre ia therefore important. Howes

_ ever, the political Climate of a country can change abruptly, with |
vesulting. uncertainty as to length of tenure. . Munich, for. instance, |
‘which once furnished-an excellent base for a variety of broadéasts ~
sargetod to the Orbit, appears to be becoming | less and less satisfactory.

. ‘Cover and control probleas are ‘clesely” related to :
this. A base for a secure -and competently managed operation should be >
. lesa difficult . to obtain than for 8 loosely organized onee

ay Seaborne transmitters offer imech in nobility but,
anterna Limitations restrict their éffective powers As in the case
of the VOA COURIER, stationsry antennas on land are required for ©
maximum effectiveness. Thus, the political problem -besdmes: thé ‘sane
as for land transmitter bases; and:costs in investment and maintennance
ave considerably higher’ then land. based operations. Moreover, the. 7
detienl ties of providing credible cover for a covert seaborne operation

‘manifest. While this office will contime to study TOA experience

in. this field, it, sees no Prospect ‘of any agency use for ite ° :

; (3) the Voa presently controls numerous broadcasting
bases and are: developing additional basea,. dm areag of the workd -
suitable for our ourposes. The necessary agreements with host:
countries have already been negotiateds nower, housing, transporte-
tion and. other.logistics have been provided. The present: manage=
ment of VOA are sympathetic ‘to sharing these bases with . CTAs -.

In addition to the’ saving in cost, this would furnish us secure
‘areas for transmitters with the minimum of housekeeping problems.
If the difficult but not insurmountable problem of cover canbe ~
resolved, guch Locations: would ‘be: Adeal. for: our: PUPPOBES o -

“Information Support

: QQ). To supplement available normal news | sources, a
Wwoadeasting ¢ to Orbit countries is dependent for program material —

;

upon: intelligence | .
= 5 =

SECRET:
HW 50955. Docld:32424022 Page 9 j 2
. SECRET
Security Information

upon intelligence reports, interrogation of defectors, escapees

and exiles, indigenous newspapers and a regular flow of intercepts
from enemy broadcasts. These are indispensable to eredible, intere
esting, and timely broadcasts. Despite our vast potential resources
and large U.S. expenditures in these fields, the effective "take" is
far from adequate, rarely timely, and unnecessarily costly. FBID, VOL,
and several others monitor the same foreign broadcasts to extract the
sane or similar information. Several U.S. agencies interrogate the
same exiles for PW information, whereas a single interrogator, trained
in PU needs, could supply most, if not all, the requirements not only
for all radio but all other Pu activities better and faster. A cleared
consultant, on behalf of one of our more successful operations, pro-
duced on abundance co? excellent support information and evaluation
data. The same data, properly sterilized and speedily disseminated,
could equally serve the VOA and any other covert or overt Bi effort
tergeted to the same area.

This complex problem needs a high level decision
by State and CIA and the appointment of a small team of officers
experienced in both PW and interrogation work with power to devise
an effective and efficient program to exploit our rich resources,

do To Deliver a Signal. That Cam Be Heard

(1) Soviet jamming of propaganda broadcasts raises
serious questions concerning our ability to deliver a signal that
can be heard above the jamming. Ye be sure, some of our breadcasts
get through because they are unable simltaneously to jam broadcasts
in all areas nor do they in practice jam a given broadcast trans-
mission at sll hours.

For future plarming purposes, however, these factors
seem clear:

(a) Soviet capabilities for jamming are large and
on the increase. ;

(b) The degree of their jamming seems to be re=
lated to their estimate of the harmful effect of the broadcasts on
their interests. Hence, the more effective parts of our propaganda
are Likely to be jammed even though other parts get through.

(c) We have no present capabilities te monitor
their jamiing if they use-=as they probably do in congested areas-=
lowspowered local. jammers.

(2) Prudent planning would, therefore, require that
any substantial future investments by CIA in radio broadcasting
transmitters include provision for all possible techniques te ensure
our broadcasts being heard to the maximum in spite of jamming.

(3) What techniques

2 6 »

eon
HW 50955 Docld:32424022 Page 10 SECRET
_ SECRET
_ Security Information .

in the hends of private individuelé, howevers and the number of those
having access to shortwave receivers is estimated to be constantly ©
deereasing due to Soviet efforts to,increase group listeriing by means.
of wired networks. Nevertheless, it would appear that there will be a
sizeable potential audience for foreign broadcasts in all three
-wave bands for some tims to:come. One indication of this is ths
fact that at present the USSR is bréadeasting approximately 900 hours
per day over 160. transmitters in 26 or more languages to its own peoples
- Many of these. transmissions are to areas and over frequencies whieh lie .

within our transmitting capabilitics.

Car assets: for exploiting this potential audience,
Anclading projects’ still in the planning stapes, are far from adequate o

Do ‘Communist: China Like. tle USSR, the Commnist government
of China relicd heavily om radio bréadcasting for commnication with
the pesole. It utdlizés more than 50 fiational ‘and regional stations

. for this purpose, operating chiefly. on medium and Tong wave but to
' some extent, alsop on shortwave. * # He

“ee eR te a

° --@e Buropeari Satellites o-<The preponderance of CIA broad=
easting efforts are ‘centered on this area % % ; ;
: —_ ad. The ‘Free World.--Many countries afford opportunities .
for relatively Gnexpensive exploitation by covert penetration. of

indigenous broadeasting systems and use of free or parehased time. * se
(See Paree Bode)

he Problems of Covert Broadcasting
ae Cover.

: -() a radio trananitter that can 1 be heard cannot be
hidden.’ Put another way, there are no known methods. for concealing ;
from technical monitors the’ geographical - gouree’ of broadeasts, although
the non-technical listening public can te-and often is deceivede
Cover for broadéasting operations, therefore, presents a formidable
probieme Autonomoue emigre erganizations, which offer the nost a
eredible. cover, generate. factionalim as well as control, security
and mnagemnt problems. © ese difficulties eovld, however, bé ;
minimized by. positive agenéy control through a conpartmental izetion
whieh separates the cover organization from program and transmitting
operations and lays down strict requirements on security, budget —

control, and high professional standards./ See Chart, Annex IT.

(2) Religious broadeasting presents few cover nead=—

aches, but is of doubtful propagenda value o a,
o) The best cover

cy 4 o . ae :

HW 50955 DocId:32424022 Page 8 SECRET
SECRET
D Security Information

problems concerning bases ‘and “nateganent, and requires relatively
an2ll investments and. expense It would be advantageous beyond the
inmediate PP field, Jn such a post an agent could observe communist
infiltration, spot forthcoming political changes by observing changes
in pevernmen’t propaganda directives, recruit agents with reliable
cover for other covert undertakings and cooperate in planning for
denial of the facilities to an enemy in the event of hostilities.

We believe it should be. the agency's established policy
to carry out such penetrations wherever opportunities offer or can
be created. A glance at the world map is sufficient to indicate the
immensity of this field of potentialities, ‘both as coneerns the ~~
countries on the peripheries. of the USSR and Communist China in -
Europe, the Near East and Far Eastg and in Létin America as well. .
We propose that an immediate start be made, in cooperation with Area
_ Divisions, on a country-by-country survey of possibilities in this
_&rea and that action be taken to achieve. Penetration wherever this
study indicates 1% may be fensibles ;

 

Re REE ER bt ae ae

- @e: Use of purchased or free tine through covert channels
on existing radio systems in friendly countries. #4 *" ~

2. Electronic penetration of eneny - proadeaats, f Leso
the "Ghost® Voice operations of World War 1 This technique ‘is.
discussed in: pars. Saeo(6) below.

Be fo exploit ‘the amateur (franlt7 broadcasters, large
numbers ef whom éist in Russian + * + A project is being drafted
to explore the posdibilities of this technique. ;

he Broadcasting from airplanss, This has been carried out .

experinentally in two areas with disappointing results due primarily
to operational and equipment-linitations which make for limited aud= ~
fence coverage at beste It is, moreover, very ‘costly and alse pre=
sents special security problems. It is not recommended, except for -
possible hiteand<-run.eperations. Airborne transmitters might be used

_ (on oceasion to similate messages from agents inside. ‘the USSR or sate |

- @hlites. This is a desevtion technique rather than broadeusting’ bat
shoulds we believe, | be explored. ; -

 

’ UBSReo-Radie ig the only consisten® medium for plere=- ——
ing the Soviet. fivon curtain. It is estimated that there are approxi=
mately 4,000,000 receiving sets in the USSR, of which 75 to 80. per
' cent are believed %o be equipped with frequency bands capable of
yeseiving foreign shortwave broadcasts. Virtually all of then. readily
receive Long” and medium wave signals. Not al] of these receivers are

, . in the hands of
ny 50955. DocId:32424022 Page 7 Y 8 gE “39° EP uo
“SECRET
Security Information

15 May 1953

REPORT ON THE COLD WAR USE OF RADIO BROADCASTING BY CIA

le Radio As a Medium in the Cold War

a. the USSR and ite satellites, including China, broadcast
te combries outside the Orbit 15395 hours per week of aggressive psych= |
olevical warfare

be The free world ‘Fesponds with 1,015 hours per week.

Co ‘This gives the enemy a numerical, advantage of approxinetely
seven to five. In reality, the Communist advantage is much greater .
because of their successful interference with free world broadcasts to the
Orbit through jamming and the penalties they impose on their ow peoples
for listening to foreign broadcasts. It is estimated that these measures
reduce the effectiveness of frees world broadcasts to the Orbit by. as much,
if not more than, 50 percent. An illustration is that the Commmists
devote an estimated 909 transmitters to the jamming of free world broad-
casts, There is no jamming of Orbit broadcasts. to the Western world, nor
any restrictions on listening to them.

. ds. Only the English spealcing world holds its owm numerically in
the over-all radio war with the Orbit. VOA, BRC and Canada togethor
brosdeast 238 hours per week arainst the Orbit; whereas the Orbit countries
combined direet 222 hours per week to Fnglish language audiences in North
America, the United Kingdom, and the Pacific area.

‘Ge In the rest of the world, the balance is drastically in
favor of the Commmists. They broadcast 1, 173 jam-free hours to all
other countries around the world in multiple languages, compared with a
mere 26 hours broadcast to all Orbit countries by. non-English speaking
nations of the free world,

f. “Of the total of 1,015 proadeast hours beamed by all the free
world to the Orbit, CIA, through TPTCNIC and other quasi-clandestine.
stations, breadeasts 513 hours, or more than half, in the name of exiles
from Communist dominated arezs.

go The greatest disparity in effort is most noticeable in
Western Europe. France, which receives &9 hours of broadcasts per week
from the Orbit as-a whole, responds with only 35 to the Orbit. Italy
receives 97 hours from the Orbit but broadcasts only hh to it, Spain 94
to 12, Greces 89 to 9,-Turkey 3 to 7. Even relatively aggressive
Yugoslavia receives 19) brcadcast hours from the Orbit against its outout

to the Orbit of o &9 hours.
may 9 ox he The one~sided

HW 50955 DocId:32424022 Page 5
SECRET
Security Information

he The one-sided contest is even vere marked in a comparison
of the breadeast output of the USER alone, without the satellites,
against Europe. It subjects Spain, Greece and Italy together, for
instance, to 140 hours of broadcasts per week. ‘The combined broadcasts
of these three countries to the USSR, however, number only 19 hours per
weeks France and Turkey who, together, receive 61; hours per week from
the USSR, make no broadcasts at all to the USSR. - :

i. Appendix I gives a compilation by country or area of the
international broadcasts to and from USSR and the satellites. It shows
that the Communists are outslugging the free world, and that Westera
Europe, in particular, is doing far less than it should in the radio
propaganda battle with the Orbit. -

26 Capabilities

Several techniques are available to CIA for the use of radio
broadcasting in its covert psychological warfare mission.

a. Overt international broadcasting on fixed frequencies under
cover of covertly controlled emigre groups. This technique normally
would be calculated to reach wide audiences by means of high power and
the use of miltiple frequencies; but it invites heavy jamming, is costly
and presents security, control and political problems in the acquisition
and maintenance of suitable bases and frequency allocations. :

Ree RH

bo Quasi-clandestine broadcasts in the name of notional or
"eaptive" resistance movements using relatively low power and employing
a frequency switching technique to evade jamming. This technique presents
more manageable security and control problems, delivers a signal in spite
of jamming and costs less than high power, but it places a burden on
listeners and presents special problems in avoiding interference with
broadcasts of friendly countries. .

i a a

Ce Subsidization of overt nonpolitical, but anti-Commnist,
religious broadcasts, . % 3 % :

; da. Through covert penetration and/or support, the maripulation
of free world domestic broadcasting systems for the purpose (1) streng=
thening their anti-Commmist broadcasts to the Orbit ancfor (2) influence
ing them to more aggressive anti-Communist, pro-Western attitudes in their
domestic services. =

This technique lends itself naturally to clandestine
operations. It requires a minimum of U.S. personnel, presents no

problems concerning
2

tte

SECRET

HW 50955 Doold:32424022 Page 6
— . oo SECRET
Security Information

Af , : 7: 25 June 1953

MEMORANDUM FOR: (See distribution below) .
SUBJECT : Report On The Cold War Use of Radio Broadcasting by CIA

1. We have made a complete survey of the use of radio broadcast= :
ing in the cold war mission of Cid. The essential parts of the report .
and recommendations wre contained in the attached memorandum dated
15 May 1953 and entitled "Report On the Cold War Use of Radio Broadcast~
ing by CIA". (Operational information and other sensitive matter con~ ;
tained in the original, but deleted from the attached, will be sep~ _
arately supplied where appropriate to the interested area divisions.)
2. The policy outlined in the attached memorandum has been approved
by the) Deputy ‘Director for Plans, who has diréeted the following actions:

ao Undertake, in collaboration with each area division, 3
country by country analysis of all indigenous broadcasting and
television systems for the purpose of devising plans for their
penetration, where feasible, or an explanation where it appcars
not to be feasible. : : . .

bo Develoo and submit, in collaboration with the appropriate
personnel .and training offices, a plan for the reeruitment and
training of officers qualified for covert broadcasting operations.

c. Explore with the State Department the possibilities of a
joint undertaking to exploit fully, in the interest of efficienc
and economy, material derived from escapee interrogations and other
intelligence sources, covert as well as overt, to suppcrt all UoSe

propaganda efforts. . ,

ad. Develop and recommend, in collaboration with area divisicns,
an improved method for the issuance and dissemination of policy
“guidance to.the field. .

-@o . Prepare and submit, in collaboration with General McClelland,
@ project to produce broadcasting devices capable of electronic
intrusion into Commnist broadcasts; to develop special techniques
for their uses and to contime research and development ef other
unconventional methods of broadcasting suitable to our migsione

3. Chief of Op: rations,

; SECRET
HW 50955 DocId:32424022 Page 2 ; ;
98-10007-10029

 

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/24/201
Identification Form

 

 

Agency Information

 

AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: —198-10007-10029
RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
Document Information’
ORIGINATOR: = CIA
FROM: CC. TRACY BARNES
TO:
TITLE: | REPORT ON THE COLD WAR USE OF RADIO BROADCASTING BY CIA
DATE: 06/25/1953
PAGES: 15
SUBJECTS :
RADIO BROADCASTING - CIA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; IB
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 04/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

Califano Papers, Box |, Folder 2. Memo from Barnes re: Report on the Cold War Use of Radio
Broadcasting by CIA.

WEK Rovian

Department of the Army EO 13526
"Aeclassify Exclude Exempt
Authority,

& Refer To

Review Date 2615 By Wadd lA Mag

 

 

v9.1

38

HW 50955 DBocId: 32424022 Page i
SECRiIT
Security Information

c

. . 3e Chief of Operations, DD/P, has authorized the circulation of
the attached material with the request that -you cooperate in the carrving

out of the DD/P's directive. Particular attention is called to. itom 2. a.
aboves — 7 .

. Le Mr. C. Lloyd Egner, assisted by Mr. Stanley P. Riclardscn, huve
been assigned the resvonsibility for staff coordination of these matters

on behalf of CPP and will be available to you for assistance in planning
anc sunnorting broadcasting onerations.

/s/ C. ‘veg Barnes
(Co TRACY LARMS

Chief .
Political and Psychological
Werfare
_ Attachment
As stated above |
Distribution. |
D/P ee 1 . ’
AXXO eZ .

Criefs, All Areas - 1 ea.

Chiefs, Senior Staffs - 1 ea.

c/Tt ad

PF/C/OPE 2 1 /
re/CFY -2 :

re/C/PAD = 1 -

«Ar. Femr <2

RI «#1

wd«

; ; . SECRET
HW 50955 Docld:32424022 Page 3-
SRCRET
Security Information

15 May 1953

MEMORANDUM FCR: CHILF, POLITIC AL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL WARFARE. -

SUBJECT @ Report On The Cold War Use of Radio Broadcasting by CIA

Attached hereto is our report on CIA radio broadcasting a5 a cold
war weapon. It is grouped into the following sections: an

i. Section 1, Page 1, deals with RADIO AS A MLDIUM IN THL CCLO LAR.
It shovs in the nain. that the countrics having the most to féar from
Commeniam are doing the least to counter its radio propacanda .

. 20 Section 2, Page 2, deals with CAPABILITIES. It embraces a.
discussion of the techniques available to TTI,

3. Section 3, Pare 3, discusses broad TARGUTS and appraises our
current and nlanned activities arainst them. :

4. Section i, Page h, deals with the principal PEOPLES peculiar
to covertly directed broadcasting, and their solution.

Se. Section 5, Page 10, contains RECOMMENDATIONS for a bedy. of
princivles to govern overeall CIA nolicy In Its prescnt and future
activities in this field. . ;

(For a detailed statement, of present CIA radio broadcasting

assets, reference is made to CPY to CPF memorandum of 25 February 1953,
entitled "Preliminary Survey of Radio Broadcasting Media", TS EGHE9.)

(The original "Report On The Cold War Use of Radio Broadcasting
" from which this document is excerpted, was dated 15 May 1953,
Se) 7
‘ , (The data on broadcasting hours by countries was obtained from

FBID and YOA, that on available receivers from OST/ORR and VOA, and that~
on Soviet jamming transmitters from OND.)

Ti,
Ply

/s/ Co Lloyd kgner :
— C. LLOYD SGHFR ©
Attachment, as stated. — — yO
PP/CLE sha .

HW 50955 DoclId: 324274022 Page 4
