other countries particularly where such infor-

mation isnot freely available to security services,
as in the, case of foreign broadcast reports.

“". SECRET

3. Cur pent Exchange ‘Arrangements

a. At present there is little organized ex-
change of intelligence among the Latin American
nations. There is a limited amount of informal
exchange, .often on a basis of personal relation-
ships between government officials having a
community of interest with respect to a particular
matter,

b. The Central Intelligence Agency has estab-
lished working liaison arrangements in those | ;
Latin American countries where such relations have
been considered to be in the best interest of the
United States. Most of the intelligence concerning
subversion in Latin America available to the CIA is
derived from covert operations or through contacts
with ancther intelligence or security service.

Thig inhibits the passing of such information to
agencies of a third country. There is, however, 4
substantial amount of intelligence available from
overt or non-sensitive sou s which can be pro-
_vided -to. other countries,

 

 

 

Intelligence items
exchanged included collated studies, weekly intelli-
gence reviews, name traces and travel reports.

 

e. The US Army, through its attaches, currently
has an informal arrangement involving bilateral
exchanges of intelligence with Argentina, Colombia,
Ecuador, Uruguay, Peru, Paraguay and Venezuela.
Information provided by the Army has been concerned
with subversive personalities, communist infiltration,
weapons movements and related matters. Reciprocal
intelligence received has been of small value. The
Army also provides selected information on. sub-
versive activities to Brazil, Chile, Guatemala
and Mexico, without reciprocation. The Navy has
established a Navy-to-Navy program for the ex-
change of intelligence among nine South American
navies, the Mexican Navy and the US Navy.

SECRET 4

HW 50955 Docld:32276038 Page 9
d. Exchanges of information are also effected

from time to time through channels of the Depart-
ment of State.

* SECRET

e. As yet, however, the program for the pro-
vision by United States agencies of information .on
subversion to Latin American governments has not
been developed to an adequate degree. Since the
United States possesses the most extensive
acquisition capabilities, as well as the only
secure and reliable means of rapid communication
throughout Latin America (currently in process
of improvement), the development of an integrated
United States system for bilateral exchange offers
the greatest possibility of achieving the results
desired.

f. United States experience in the matter of
intelligence exchange in Latin America, and in
other areas of the world, has led to the conclusion
that bilateral arrangements are more fruitful than
multilateral arrangements such as those established
within the framework of NATO, CENTO and SEATO,
Nevertheless, this experience has shown also that
multilateral arrangements can be of some use,
particularly in creating an awareness of the need
for intelligence exchange.

ge. The concept of an exchange of information
among members of the OAS with regard to subversive
activities has been put forward at numerous Inter-
American meetings, but has not been implemented,
largely for the reasons set forth in Section II. 1.
Under the Punta del Este decisions, the OAS members
were urged to cooperate in strengthening their
capacity to counteract threats or acts of aggression,
subversion or other dangers to peace and security.
The Council of the OAS is charged with maintaining
vigilance over Castro-Communist subversion, and
a "Special Consultative Committee on Security (Sccs)"
is established to give technical advice on request
to governments and the Council on matters relating
to subversion. All American governments have been
asked to furnish information .on Castro-Communist
activities to serve as the basis for studies and
recommendations by the Council of the OAS on how to

 

SECRET

An

HW 50955 DocId: 32276038 Page 10
SECRET

gained by covert means and information obtained

openly. The former involves’ the requirement to

protect national secrets both as to sources and

acquisition methods employed. The latter, which
ean be of great value, can be exchanged without

fear of compromise.

2. Categories of Exchangeable Intelligence

The following describe generally the categories
of exchangeable matter, and exemplify the types of material
under each:

 

a. Travel information ~- Unevaluated information
devoted solely to rapid reporting of the moveihent
of individuals between Latin America and Cuba or
Soviet Bloc countries. Such reports’ can be
reduced to a few elements such as identification
of the individual, point of departure, date and
time of departure or arrival, destination, and
carrier, When presented in an abbreviated form
such information offers minimum security problems
with respect to: exchange with one or more countries.

-b. Intelligence information reports - Un-
evaluated information derived from clandestine
collection operations or confidential sources
reporting on plans and activities of Cuban or
communist connected subversive individuals or
groups; on movement of arms, propaganda and funds;
on shipping and air movements and on results of
surveillance efforts. Because continued receipt
of such information by the United States. is dependent
on careful protection of sources and methods of
collection, the exchange of this information with.
other countries must be carefully controlled by
the collecting department.

ce. Intelligence reports and studies ~ Evaluated
intelligence in all of the above areas, prepared
by an appropriate element of the US government in
a form which is releaseable to other Latin American
countries.

d. Selected overt materials - Articles or news
stories drawn from press, periodical and other
overt publishers. Selected for maximum impact on

SECRET 3

HW 50955 Docld:32276038 Page 6
bs Beyond this, Latin America is not:a homo-
geneous entity in social, political, or economic
terms, and attitudes toward the Castro-Communist
subversive menace vary widely. A completely
unified approach toward exchange of intelligence

concerning this menace, therefore, cannot be
regarded as attainable.

SECRET

ec. Additional impediments to intelligence ex-
change are the generally low level of competence
of most Latin American intelligence services, their
lack of rapid, secure means of communication, the
‘absence of adequate security systems, and the lack
of security consciousness, Deficiencies in
security safeguards must necessarily limit the
exchange of intelligence obtained covertly by any
of the nations involved, and particularly the
United States, which has the most sophisticated
system and hence the greatest need for protection.

d. These defects promise to persist, since the
governments of some countries have little desire to
develop a competent career security service. There
is a fear that the existence of an efficient service
would constitute a threat to further activities of
members of the existing governments at such time |
as they might find themselves out of power. More-
over, many Latin American intelligence services
tend to label as "subversives" those of their own
nationals resident in other countries who are
opposed to the existing government.

e, These realities all underscore the fact that
multilateral intelligence exchange must be
approached on a most circumscribed basis. It
should not be concluded, however that nothing
of value can be accomplished multilaterally.

With proper definition, limiting the problem

of exchange to matters directly related to communist
subversive activities, such as the movement to and
from Cuba,of subversives, the production and
movement of propaganda materials which threaten
internal stability, the movement of arms, and the
movement of funds, it should be practicable to
marshal a useful measure of cooperation. In
pursuing this effort, it will be important to

draw a sharp distinction between secret intelligence

SECRET. 2

HW 50955 DociId:32276038 Page 7
" sHoRET

CONC]

CUBA

THE EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE

ERNING COMMUNIST SUBVI

 

SECRET

HW 50955 Docld: 32276038

 

Page 5

ERSIVE ACTIVITIES

GROUP-1 .
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSI-
FICATION
ce @ @

 

 

SECRET
CUBA
THE EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE
CONCERNING COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES

cm Introduction

In combatting Castro-Communist subversion through~
out Latin America, there is a fundamental requirement
for intelligence -- a requirement which involves the
timely acquisition and processing of information as
well ag its rapid dissemination, on a selective basis,
to countries concerned. While efforts are now being
made by CIA, AID, and the US Military Services to
improve Latin American intelligence systems, success
thus far has been limited, and much remains to be done.
Tt is not with this broad problem, however, that this
paper is primarily concerned, but rather with the
narrower matter of the need for a stronger program of
exchanging essential information regarding Communist
‘subversion in Latin America among those who need to
know it.

II. The Nature and Scope of the Problem

 

1. Limiting Factors

 

a. There are many inhibitions which tend to
discourage the exchange of intelligence.on an
international basis, even among allies. National
privacy with regard to the inner workings of an
intelligence system must be preserved. Com-
pounding the problem further, where Latin.America
is concerned, is the divisive influence of the
long history of rivalries, wars, jealousies and
disputes which have characterized relations among
the nations concerned. The wounds of past conflicts
among pairs and groupings of nations are not com-
pletely healed. There is lingering hostility
between Peru and Ecuador deriving from their
boundary war. Chile and. Bolivia continue at
odds over the Rio Lauca and the question of
Bolivian access to the sea, and, even now,
Nicaraguan insurgents are harbored within the
borders of both Costa Rica and Honduras. It
could hardly be expected that these countries
would be eager to exchange intelligence on a full
and frank basis.

SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32276038 Page 6
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS
WASHINGTON 25, D.C. IN REPLY REFER TO

# Op-605F/wn

a : T 26 March 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR. ; -
Subj: Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban

ee Affairs: The Exchange of Intelligence Concerning
»-Communist Subversive Activities

 
    

 

 

‘. Reference is made to your Memorandum number 22, subject
as above, dated 25 March 1963.

 
 

2. The paper is satisfactory to the Navy subject to the
following change: ;

Page 4, paragraph 3c, last line, change to read as follows:

"naviesy-¢he-Hexteaa-Nevy and the US Navy."

REASON: Mexico has advised that the Navy-to-Navy program
cannot be ratified in view of conflict with domestic law, It

appears unlikely, therefore, that Mexico will contribute to
the program on the level indicated.

; Wy F A WENDT
' Director, Strategic Plans Division

 

 

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC REGRADING
DOD DIR 5200.10. DOES NOT APPLY

‘en A
| QSA, ASG Control No. load NEY
i. —_ ;

 

HW 50955 Dacld: 32276038 Page 2

 

60°0SE VSO

€9/92/€

€9/st/e Ma
 

198-10004-10053

 

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/24/20}
Ideritification Form

Agency Information

ARMY ss
198-10004-10053

CALIFANO PAPERS

nner nt er

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

COMMENTS :

 

v9.1

OPENING CRITERIA :

Document Information

ARMY
JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.
ICCCA

ICCCA: EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE CONCERNING COMMUNIST SUBVERSION
ACTIVITIES

03/25/1963
27

EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE - OAS MEMBER STATES

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret .

IB

Redact

10/07/1997

Califano, Box 6, Folder 10. Memo from Califano to Wheeler, Zumwalt, Abrams, Wendt, Carpenter,
and Elwood concerning a proposal for shared intelligence among OAS member states,

a tK 4 avian)
Department of the Army EO 13526
J.eclassity Exclude © Exempt
Authority,
© Refer To

Rew os RETETS 5 LTZN

 

HW 50955 Docld:32276038 Page i
 

 

Sfent!
‘THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF
WASHINGTON 25, D.c.

 

JOSM~285-63 |
28 MAR 1963)

 

VanO-60"0SE WSO

MEMORANDUM POR THE sEcaBraay OF (ME ARMY

: ; Subject: Eeshange of Intelligence Gonseraing
Commuuniet Subversive Activities (6)

€9/82/€

i, This memorandum sesponde te CHAM i3S-63, dated 28 Maye
1963, eubject aa above.

& The paper attached to GEAM 155.63 ceucorging the exchenge
of intelligence on commsunivt eahversive eativittes hag een teviowed
by the Joint Chiats of Staff. Ble coesideved to he & eatigiactery reagense.
te the soecllie preblow of exchanging intellizence ou covamuaist euhe
vedaive activitice among aations of the Crganiaation of Asnericen, States,
subjees te the following modification:

€9/st/E ma

ie@ph [h Sc: Add the follawiag te the end

 

“the US Aig Perce, theoagh ite attaché ayetens.
in Latia Americas, Hhewiee hes ah exthunge programm,
Whts is accempliched om an laformal basie aad is bilateral
in matured. * *

Yor the Joint Chteta af Sagi:

SIGNED. -

AL MANHART \.
Major General, USA
Deputy Director, Joint Staff

EXCLUDED FROW ANROMATSC ;
RECEADING; DOD DIR 6200.
DOES WOT APPLY

pminviasRte

 
  
 

   

. of Z. sesurescanees Copies each

. pages series “B

   

HW 50955 Docld:32276038 Page 3

 
 

 

~ GECRET

 OMCRANDIRE eo, a FOR

 
 
  
  

 

i. » CARVERERA, BL, wear
. MM, BEWOOS, BEM = S

Mal

 

at gal ; genre Agency ibe paper faewanded to yon
tes comment on March i, 2963, wae eedvatied.

£9/ST/€

 

: i abedias thane ela slau areal
sé mat Eaton tha TRE huahs on bandh 3, A963. Adaitlon:

 
  
 
  

 

sash age. Sate © 2
ay $o coemmnmek en thts apes hafere * taiprantinied

a

Signed i
w.J9seph A, Calitato, Jr rey
=

oe

re}
tar

 

 

we

dosage. As Seliteos, oe,

 

 

3 Asdintent te the
Secretary af the Feeney
Ae Stated cc; Mr. Califano

SANS wtqe . Patchell

iit, Adion, Veruulinehy evans
GRADED AT 3 YEAR INTERV.
pow AFTER 12 YEARS

OSA, ASG Contral | Ne~Z 25h REE fa of DECLASSI¥ TED

DOD DIR 5z200.10

   

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32276038 Page 4
