HW 50955

SECRET

TIt. The Attitudes of the Latin American Nations

Success of many of the overt actions proposed in
the sections to follow will turn upon the attitudes
of the Latin American nations within whose borders
the restraining actions must take place. Presented
briefly below is an estimate of what can be expected
from the various sectors of Latin America in terms
of participation in a coordinated program of travel
control.

As a general matter, the imposition of controls
on travel is not popular with the public in any Latin
American country. This, coupled with their current
lack of full awareness of the danger represented by.
Cuba's training of subversives, will diminish the
willingness of some governments to impose controls
unilaterally. .This is especially true since they
recognize that unilateral restraints will have little.
effect on curbing the travel of their nationals to
Cuba, if supporting multilateral action is not also
taken. It is likely, however, that most of. the
Latin American countries would respond favorably --.
albeit in varying degrees -- to US leadership in
seeking to reduce the flow of persons to Cuba for
ideological or subversive training.

The Central American countries are more acutely
aware of the danger posed by Cuban-inspired sub-
version than is Tatin America at large, and. can be
expected to react favorably to proposals for re-
ducing travel to Cuba which President Kennedy might
present at the San Jose Presidential meeting.
However, their ability to carry out commitments which
they may make will be limited by domestic legal
and political considerations, as well as by their
countries' technical incompetence in such matters.

Since Mexico is currently the principal -
hemisphere transit point for legal travel of sub-
versives to and from Cuba, its attitude is of great
importance, Mexico, to date, has taken several
significant steps with respect to travel between
Mexican cities and Cuba. It has instituted close

SECRET 6

Docild:32424021 Page 9
so: ib @
SECRET

surveillance over travellers, to include stamping
passports to evidence travel to Cuba. In addition, |
the Mexicans now photograph, covertly, all persons
arriving from or departing for Cuba, and have given’
tacit approval to suspension of Cuban service by
Compania Mexicana de Aviacion (CMA), These actions |.
all suggest that Mexico might be induced to take even. -
further cooperative steps, particularly on an un- :
publicized, bi-lateral basis, wherein the political .
hazards of taking a public OAS position are not -
involved. In this regard, the Central American
Presidents would probably agree individually to. seek
the participation of President Lopez Mateos. of Mexico
in specific cooperative moves to restrict the flow |
of persons to Cuba through that country.”

Peru now has regulations which actually prohibit —
travel to Cuba, but the regulations have engendered
public resistance, and are not enforced, The - :
Dominican Republic prohibits such travel. Haiti
has no established policy, but passports and exit

€ permits are reportedly issued only on the personal
approval of President Duvalier, Colombia could
legally impose restrictions by executive decree,
but has shown no inclination to do so, Other
countries, such as Venezuela, Chile, and the Central
American nations, plead the existence of legal or :
constitutional barriers which preclude the pro-=
hibition of travel to Cuba, but thus far, they
have made little effort to remove: these barriers. —

Five Latin American countries (Brazil, Chile,
Uruguay, Mexico, and Bolivia) now maintain diplomatic
relations with Cuba. Brazil continues its drift to _
the left and gives little evidence of modifying its
tolerant attitude toward the Castro government.
Chile, with a legal Communist Party, exercises no-
restraints on travel to Cuba, either direct or
via third country.

The elimination of all legitimate passenger
service to Cuba from Latin America could be

SECRET T

HW 50955 DoclId: 32424021 Page 10
HW 50955

© | ©
SECRET

Soviet and Czech airlines serving Cuba do not stop
regularly at.any other Latin American country, though
the Soviet Aeroflot line has occasionally sought and
received permission from Brazil to land at Recife,
enroute to Cuba, Some Latin Americans may have |
travelled to Cuba on these infrequent flights and, .
should Brazil permit this arrangement to become
regularized, the movement of subversives could
achieve a new order of magnitude.

A Canadian non-scheduled line has operated a few.
flights from Canada to Havana and return, carrying -
both material and personnel. The Canadians have ‘been.
unresponsive to our efforts to obtain Adentification |
of the passengers,

There are no regularly scheduled sea carriers
operating between Latin America and Cuba, However,
a number of trainees from British Guiana have
travelled to Cuba aboard unscheduled Cuban merchant:
vessels engaged in transporting rice from Guiana to.
Cuba.

Clandestine sources report that transit of Latin’
Americans through Mexico to Cuba often involves illicit ~
procedures, The Cuban embassy in Mexico City. provides .
the travellers, whom they identify as tourists, with’ _—
special Cuban entry papers;.no entry is-made in their -
passports, and they are given pseudonyms for travel —
out of and into Mexico. This procedure is obviously
designed to impede any effort by the other Latin
American governments subsequently to identify the
travellers and to exercise surveillance over their
activities upon their return,

Evidence at hand portrays a substantial. flow of
travel by legal means, This must be countered :
directly. Beyond this, and perhaps of greater ;
importance, is the problem of illicit movement both.
into and out of Cuba, which will undoubtedly assume
growing proportions as legal travel is curtailed;
and about which our intelligence is at. present most
limited, Elimination of this intelligence void -must
be accordéd high priority.

SECRET ; 5

Docld:32424021 Page 8
6 8
SECRET

of these are still in Cuba. Others have returned to.
their homelands; some by legal means;. some probably
by illicit means, . There is no reason to presume,
moreover, that the travel to Cuba of the remaining
3,000-3,500 was entirely consistent with the: best
interests of the hemisphere,.

Prior to the October crisis, Latin Americans .
travelling to Cuba usually moved by regular commercial.
airlines or, on occasion, by specially chartered-
‘Cubana flights, Some travelled to Trinidad or
Curacao and thence by regularly scheduled Cubana or-
KIM flights to Havana. Others travelled to Mexico, .—
and from there by Mexicana or Cubana commercial _.
flights to Havana. With the cessation of service
to Cuba by Pan American, KIM, Mexicana, and Iberia
airlines in October, the regular Cubana service
“between Mexico City and Havana remained the sole
direct and regular airline connection between Cuba -
and the remainder of Latin America. :

G The Cubana service between Havana and Mexico is.
scheduled to operate twice weekly, but sometimes only
.a single flight is completed per week. Aircraft now
employed are British Britannias ~ an. obsolescent: model,
Cubana has requested, but has not yet received,
Mexican approval to substitute Soviet IL-18 transports
for the old Britannias. Delay by the Mexicans in :
granting this approval can have the favorable effect
‘of impeding travel, as the Britannias are now in
poor condition, If, in addition, the British and
‘Canadians can be induced to suspend delivery of
spare parts, the planes will soon become inoperative. ..

 

Iberia airlines resumed its regular twice-monthly
flights from Madrid to Havana on 11 February. This
flight makes one stop, in the Agores, before reaching
Havana. : _

KIM has not yet resumed its regular flights to Cuba
. from the Netherlands Antilles. However, it is now con.
sidering doing so, In this regard it is concluded that
resumption of scheduled flights by a United States ,
carrier could serve as an encouragement to KIM and—
others to do the same,

SECRET 4

HW 50955 DocId: 32424021 Page 7
SECRET

On the other hand, this same geographic situation
makes clandestine entry and exit reasonably simple.
There are 3,825 linear miles of essentially unpa-
trolled Central American coastline, within 175 to :
850 miles from Cuba. There are at least 93 airfields,
other than ours, within 700 miles of the island, and
the ships and craft indigenous to the Caribbean, and
capable of supporting the subversive ebb and flow,
number well into the thousands.

‘Even in. the face of these unfavorable factors, a
program of direct restraints, selected from among
the actions enumerated herein, can have favorable
effects, Under the proposed steps some travel would .
be stopped completely. More .- probably much more -.
would be rendered difficult, Some hitherto legal
movement would be driven underground. Previous
clandestine movement would be impeded, complicated
and harassed to the point where it becomes more

@ costly, more uncertain, more hazardous and thus, —
: hopefully, less extensive. me,

-II, Nature and Scope of the Problem

We do not know enough about the movement of
subversive trainees, into Cuba and - more important -
out of Cuba, We do not know enough about the volume
of travel, or the media employed, This is par- —
ticularly true in the area of illicit traffic, where
our knowledge is extremely limited,

Regarding legal travel to Cuba, CIA presents the
following estimate:

e SECRET 2

EW 50955 Docld: 324274021 Page 5
SECRET

hegal Travel Into Cuba

Country No, of Legal Travellers Country No. of Legal Travellers

Jan-Feb : - Jan-Feb.
1962 1963 1962 ~ 1963
Mexico 4912% 969 Argentina 500 ' Unk
Guatemala 80 Unk Uruguay 115 Unk
El Salvador 100 8 Paraguay 60. Unk
Nicaragua 50 Unk Brazil ‘400 Unk
Costa Rica 216 10 Honduras 92 21
Venezuela 200 Unk British ko) Unk
Guiana ; :
Colombia 400 Unk Panama 56. 1
fg Ecuador 208 Unk Trinidad ©. Unk Unk
Peru 181 Unk Jamaica 593 Unk
Bolivia 500 Unk Dominican _ None : Unk
Republic

Chile 551 85 Haiti . . Unk : Unk

* In transit, including about 300 Mexicans

While some of these travellers proceeded to Cuba by
other routes, the great majority passed through Mexico,
On the most conservative basis, then, it will be seen
that there cannot have been fewer than 4,912 travellers
to Cuba during 1962, while the average monthly number
passing through Mexico for the first two months of.

1963 is even higher than the 1962 monthly average.

Of the total number visiting Cuba, the Central
Intelligence Agency estimates that at least 1,500, and

perhaps as many as 2,000,have received ideological
indoctrination or guerrilla warfare training. Many

SECRET 3

HW 50955 Docld:32424021 Page 6
necbony

SECRET

CUBA

THE MOVEMENT OF SUBVERS IVES
ia ; AND SUBVERSIVE TRAINEES

| napeoner BY THE pees DENT
VE MAR 63. (SEE S7IA7US
oe ynalemen TBF TAB oD

SECRET

HW 50955 DocId:32424021 Page 2
198-10007-10028

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/24/201
[dentification Form

 

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: — 198-10007-10028

RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: JCS
FROM:
TO: MR. VANCE

TITLE: CUBA: THE MOVEMENT OF SUBVERSIVES AND SUBVERSIVE TRAINEES

DATE: — 03/00/1963
PAGES: 19

SUBJECTS :
CUBAN SUBVERSIVES - IMPEDIMENT TO TRAVEL

DOCUMENT TYPE: = PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
_ RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 04/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder 11. Report entitled, "Cuba: the Movement of Subversives and
Subversive Trainees.

SEK Rare,

Department Of the Amy £0 1359
Authority ya Exclude Exempt

= Refer 1%

ev On PET wert,
veg

 

 

 

vo] 37

HW 50955 DoclId:32424021 Page 1
SECRET
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
L. Introduction scroscr rrr rrr nn lL
II. Nature and Scope of the Problem -wr3r3tt ttt ttre 2
ITI, The Attitudes of the Latin American Nations---------~- 6
IV. Actions Concerning Legitimate Travel-<-- rrr rrr aeeeee 8
1, Immediate Impact Actions----rr crt t ttt 9
a. Administrative Actions-~---ce rr rr otter ener 9
b. Intelligence Actions ----~ mm a a me ee mmm 9.
e. Actions Related to Common Carrlers-~trrc7-" meee 10
@ d. Propaganda actions------eeene nee eee ene ee nee 10
2, Longer Range Actions ----9- nooo nner errr LO
as Political Actions-----e crt eee eee enn il
b. Intelligence Actions ----7-- crc rr err rre ewe nee 11
c,. Administrative AetionS~--<-9---n-c eee en enone Le
d, Actions Related to Common Carriers-----------+- 12
ex, Propaganda Actions~-----"c-777~ ne oe a em i 13
3, Organization of American States (OAS) Actions were 13
v. Aetions Concerning Illegal Travel--------- ee a me 14
1. Immediate Impact Actions---------~---"""" ween ene 14
ag. Intelligence Ae blons---=-------007-=e= =~ ween 14
bi Surveillance and Reporting Actions=---"-"--~ mom 15
2, Longer Range hotiong--«-----eeeee eee momen 15
& a. Surveillance Actions----~ <r er mrt r rrr nnn wee 15
b. US Military Assistance Actions-------- yereretete men 16

SECRET
HW 50955 BDocId: 324274021 Page 3 . /|
SECRET

CUBA
THE MOVEMENT OF SUBVERSIVES AND SUBVERSIVE TRAINEES

I. Introduction

The actions proposed herein are designed to impede
the flow of subversives between Cuba and other Latin
American countries. Execution of any one or more of
the enumerated actions will ameliorate the situation;
execution of them all will not completely solve it. ©
The practical problems involved are too numerous and
complex, :

 

With respect to diminishing legal travel to Cuba,

we face multiple problems in the policies and attitudes
of those Latin American countries through which the

& subversive traveller must pass. From the viewpoint of
these nations the direct actions required have strong
political and sometimes legal implications - impli-
cations which cannot be overcome easily, even when
the leaders of these countries choose to do so.

in the matter of clandestine travel, we are
confronted not only with the great depth of communist
guile, born of two generations of experience in the
international movement of subversives, but with the
inexperience, ineptitude and lack of awareness in
these same matters on the part of the Latin American
community.

In spite of this, the advantages do not all reside
with the communists. Cuba's insular character imposes
certain sharp limitations upon personal movement.

Cuba has no frontiers with other states; everyone |
who enters the country must do so either by water.
or air. There can be no slipping through the
barbed wire,

 

@ SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32424021 Page 4
