 

 

 

 

SECRET

 

 

 

(10) Efforts to identify illegal
travelers and methods employed have been increased.
Arrangements have been made to facilitate proces-
sing of travel information received from Mexico.

 

 

 

 

 

(11) The status of our. relations with the
Covernment has wrecluded cooperation.
Station has instructed assets to report Cuban travel
information. .

 

 

 

 

(12) ‘ Phe Station has proposed to the
Ministry Of the Interior a travel control system,
including card indices. Unilateral assets have
intensified: intelligence collection efforts related
to travel with a view to passing selected information to the
President and the Security Police. Names of returnees
from Cuba will be screened and an effort made to
expand patrols on the north coast.

(13) The Government already
effectively controls travel to and from Cuba. A
travel control program has been discussed with
security officials, who will cooperate.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(14) Station has arranged for harassment
of Cuba travelers and for stamping passports to show
travel to Cuba. Airport travel lists are obtained
and passed to other stations. Efforts are being
intensified to identify disaffected travelers who
might provide information.

 

 

(15) Station is pressing efforts
to develop travel information.

 

 

 

(16) Arrangements have been made to
interview at Teast ten persons who have returned
from Cuba. Station will pass selected information
to [__jofficiais.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(17) The Government already
discourages travel by threat of arrest, questioning
and surveillance. Station has emphasized the
potential threat of Cuban subversive activities
with good results. :

 

 

 

 

 

(18) a source recently returned
from insurgency training in Cuba has been developed
and is providing valuable intelligence. The

 

SECRET 5

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424697 Page 9

 
 

 

 

OQ

 

ae SO955

, Co

SECRET

possibility of harassing and ampecine travelers to

Cuba has been di
Efforts to promo
made, to include

as) [J

information on ft
security service
government in re
trol program is

 

scussed with officials.
te greater cooperation are being
passing of selected information.

Station will attempt to collect
ravel and seek cooperation of local
,» although the attitude of the
gard to establishing a travel con-
not highly promising. -

 

(20)
country. Clande
on request, admi

information to t
travelers to Cub

months. A plan a ee to pass derogatory >
he Ambassador on prospective

using false passports have been identified.

(21)

 

 

 

law permits travel to: any

 

stine assets have agreed to arrange, ..

nistrative delays of as much as two

 

 

 

 

a via Mexico. travellers

4

 

.&
The need to_i ravel con-

trols has been impressed upon securit

services. Stati
ioreniTporacr
. border
of a special fro

eonsideration.
mation with loca

 

on has influenced the

tablish a commission to study
crossing controls. Establishment

ntiler police organization is under
Station regularly exchanges infor-
1 security services and is expand-

 

ing efforts to obtain travel. information.

4, The U. S. Information Agency has;

a. Issued News Policy Notes providing guidance to

public information

media designed to further attain-

ment of the following objectives:

1) Alert the Hemisphere to the dangers of

subversive training in Cuba of nationals of other

-countries,

‘

(2) Diseredit those who have received sub-

versive training,

 

3) Discourage prospective trainees, and

4) Impress Latin American governments and

peoples with the need to halt travel to Cuba.

SECRET

 

Baocld:32424697 Page i0

tf
i
'
I
t
}

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

SECRET

 

Because of Government policy, efforts
through the National Government have shown |
little promise. The Station is working through the
armed forces and friendly State security services to’
arrange travel impediments as feasible. The possi
bility of requiring State gcood-conduct certificates
prior to travel is being explored. Propaganda assets
are being utilized by the Station to support its —
actions.

 

 

~ 4 Station is attempting to_persuade the
sovernment to limit travel on pass-

 

ports to countries specified before departure.
Clandestine collection of information on travel to
Cuba is being intensified. : :

 

-(5) Through local services, and covertly.
through e Foreign Office, the Station is exploring

means of impeding travel to Cuba. Arrangements have
been made for passing selected information on travel
to the Coverage of Cuban

institutions and attempts to identify and interrogate

 

'

 

 

 

 

 

 

who have traveled to Cuba are being ex-

 

e

panded.

 

(6) Station is making arrangements
to pass information on Cuba travelers to the
Government on a regular basis and to provide
guidance and covert support.

 

(7) Both the President and
the Security Service have been approached in regard
to preventing travel to Cuba, and both seem willing
to cooperate fully.

(8) Since the Government of makes
Little 6fTror o control travel to Cuba, the Station
is relying on covert assets, including some in the

police, to impede and harass travelers. . Efforts
continue to persuade the government to, take restric-

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘

' tive measures.

 

(9) Station liaison has resulted
in the arrest of Several returnees from Cuba.

informal arrangements already exist for denying or
delaying exit permits to persons going to Cuba and
for harassing returnees.

 

SECRET 4

ew eeteeeennentnene  enee nen i

 

 

 

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424697 Page @
 

 

Cc.
\' SECRET

 

 

 

 

. CC yom i
. . \ so :
Le ie : f

e. Developed modified military assistance guidance to
provide selected countries with necessary small patrol
eraft, training and logistical support for patrol of their
. Coasts. .

f. Taken the following actions. to provide training
assistance as required to improve coastal patrol capa-
pilities of Latin American military forces:

(1) Commenced appraisal ofa proposal by CINCARIB
to establish a Small Craft Training and Inspection :
Facility in the Canal Zone. : :

 

(2) Established. liaison with the Coast Guard in
regard to training assistance. The Coast Guard has °
stated that it can provide a Mobile Training Team, i
as an interim measure,.and can loan two 40-foot utility :
poats for training in the Canal Zone until replacement
craft are provided under the Military Assistance
Program. *

3. The Central Intelligence Agency has:

a. Informea|__|lstations in Latin America of the program
approved by thé President and designated a Senior Officer
at each station to supervise implementation at highest
‘priority. o

b. Intensified efforts throughout Latin America to
discourage travel to Cuba. Progress in each country is
summarized as follows:

 

(1) Station has urged the local security
service to reintroduce travel impediments, such as a
requirement that good-conduct certificates be obtained

before leavi the country; and is attempting to per-

suade the to stamp passports "not valid for
_ travel to Cuba’, Liaison services appear mildly recep-

tive. Advance information on Cuban travel by

through Mexico will be sought from that country. ans

have been made to send two agents to Cuba to seek in-

formation on the mechanics of travel. Propaganda against
Cuba subversion is being intensified.

 

 

 

 

(2) Efforts_to discourage travel to Cuba
through liaison with the government have been
unsuccessful, The station is concentrating on the
penetration of Castro-Communist groups.

 

 

 

 

 

_ SECRET nn)

 

 

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424697 Page 7
 

 

 

 

 

PROGRESS ACHIEVED IN IMPEDING TRAVEL TO CUBA

l. The Department of State has:

a, Determined that a Committee of the Council of the
Organization of American States has prepared a program
of travel control measures which will be recommended for
implementation to member governments within the next
several weeks. :

b. Consulted our Ambassador in Mexico concerning the
possibility of institution by that country of adminis—
trative procedures to delay, or otherwise make difficult,
the carrying of passengers to Cuba. The Ambassador, has
reported that essentially all feasible control measures,
short of discontinuing Cubana flights, are being taken

by the Mexican government.

ec. Determined that Mexico is now requiring that visas
for Cuba be placed securely in passports of all travelers

‘departing for that country, and is stamping passports to

indicate that a person has departed or arrived from Cuba.

a. Determined that Mexico is prepared to furnish
manifests of all carriers departing for or arriving
from Cuba to Latin American countries which request them.

e. Forwarded a memorandum to the President recom-
mending that we seek action in the Council of the
Organization of American States to prohibit Latin American
ships from serving Cuba and to pronibit member countries
from granting overflight or landing rights to Soviet
aircraft. ; :

’

f,. Persuaded Mexico, through the good offices of
Senator Mansfield, to refuse to permit Cubana Airlines
to employ Soviet-made Ilyushin 18 aireraft on the
Havana-Mexico route.

g. Pursued arrangements for a conference at Managua
on 3 April, to be attended by representatives of the
Isthmian states and the United States, for the purpose
of considering measures to control Castro-Communist

SECRET

 

Someta emiremneneremrnensty

Leer rttensnyctnmninan te wer tg
¥

opens

 

 

HW 50955 Dacld: 32424697 Page 5

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CO

 

C ©

 

SECRET

 

 

 

subversive activities to include development of action
topics for presentation at the meeting as well as prepa-
ration of background. material for the U.S, delegates,

n :

h. Informed Venezuela, Colombia, Jamaica, Trinidad
and the Dominican Republic of plans to consult with
Isthmian countries at the San Jose Conference in regard
to increasing the Caribbean surveillance effort with U.S,
training and material support, and stated U.S. willing- -
ness to provide similar assistance to the countries
addressed. Replies from Trinidad and Venezuela have been
negative. Other countries have not yet responded.

2. The Department of Defense has:

a. Continued U.S. air and sea surveillance of the area
surrounding Cuba.

b. Continued the improvement of communications in °
Latin America by: (1) installation of a multi-channel
radio station in Costa Rica, (2) continuing work on a
similar facility in Nicaragua, (3) continuing negotia-
tions for installation of military radio facilities in

. Honduras, Colombia and Ecuador, (4) commencing installa-

tion of a submarine cable between Fort Sherman, Canal
Zone, and Jamaica, to be completed about 1 April, (5)
leasing six channels in this cable for communication
between the U.S. and the Canal Zone, and (6) making minor
improvements in radio facilities previously installed

in Bolivia and Guatemala. 7

ce. Initiated a study, to be completed during the first
week in April, on the feasibility and desirability of
establishing intelligence centers at Caribbean Command
and Caribbean Sea Frontier Headquarters for rapid pro-
cessing and dissemination to countries concerned, via
the American Ambassadors, of the intelligence on the
movement of subversives.

ad. Directed establishment of a U.S. military alerting
system for the Caribbean area, by which intelligence on
subversive movement can be rapidly transmitted to United
States Ambassadors in countries concerned. CINCARIB
hes sufficient communication facilities to initiate the
system, and improvement of these facilities is continu-
ing.

 

 

 

HW $0955 Dacld: 32424697 Page 6
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUBJECT: .

Stoney
Apel 17, 2963

GENERAL EARLE OG, WHEELER (305)

GAPTAin E. BR. ZUMWALT, I&., VEN (08D)
MAJOR GENERAL G, W. ABRAMS, 3B., USA
REAR ADMIRAL VU. WENDT, UE

MAJOR GENOGRAL 3. WY. GARPENTER, Hi, HEAT

interdepsrtmental Cocedinating Cazmitte of Cuban Avtuiya:

First Peagress Repart, Sabsomudites om Geban Boboorsian

Attached for your daforessiton io a copy of the Plect Pragrase Ropart

prepexed by the Subcomenittes on Subversion of subject Committee.

Attachmont
he Seated.

ce:
Mr. Califano
LtCol Patchell

ASG eK

SIN

co ARE FILE

HW 50955 Docld:32424697 Page 2

~~

Ey

deseph A. Salifane, Je, = .
Secoial Agsistant tethe & ie

Secrctary of the Agmy ql:

 

day
23 cu
Go —
&
we
ey ~
on =
f a Sa &
Zt wy «

SRATUDED FROM AUTOMATIC RRORADTNG
DOD DIR 5200.10 DoRS NOT APPLY

SEGRE:

 

YaO-EsE So

Eg /LT/N

CE/Y Ma

8

 
 

98-10009-10087

    

 

 

 

 

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/24/201
Identification Form .

 

 

Agency Information

 

 

AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: — 198-10009-10087
RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : .
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: ARMY
FROM: JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.
TO: ICCCA :
TITLE: —ICCCA: FIRST PROGRESS REPORT, SUBCOMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION
DATE: 04/17/1963
PAGES: 12
SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

IMPEDING TRAVEL TO CUBA
ICCCA - SUB-COMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION

MOVEMENT OF SUBVERSIVES AND SUBVERSIVE
TRAINEES - CUBA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

IB

Redact

11/08/1997

Califano Papers, Box 6, Folder 11. Memo from Califano to Wheeler, Zumwalt, Abrams, Wendt,
Carpenter, Elwood re: attached Sub-Committee on Cuban Subversion first progress report which
discusses progress in impeding tra

TRE Cone
tof the Army EO 13526
x Denassty 1 Exclude [4 Exempt

Authority ,
i Refer To f .
Review Date By.

 

 

vol

 

49

HW 50955. DoclId:32424697 Page i
 

 

 

SUB-COMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION

 

30 March 1963

| MEMORANDUM FOR THE INTERDEPARTMENTAL COORDINATING
‘ COMMITTEE ON CUBAN AFFAIRS

! SUBJECT: First Progress Report, Sub-Committee on Cuban
ho Subversion

. ENCLOSURE: Progress Achieved in Impeding Travel to Cuba

l. On 8 March the President approved certain actions proposed to
combat Castro-Communist subversion in Latin America. Subsequently,
vant ' the related departments and agencies. undertook to execute those
oe decisions. This is the first report of progress achieved.

2. The three-week period covered by the report has been sufficient
fos to set the program in motion and to bring about the following principal
oO developments, which come within the purview of the sub-committee:

a. In addition.to the program on control of subversive travel,
i . approved by the President on 8 March, four companion action pro-
grams have also been en completed and forwarded for approval,

ent, “of pr op ropaganda_

surveillance of the

San aso

 

 
    
   

materials, , the exchange ‘Of, intell

saga Dm SMES aoe

 

 

Caribbean.

b. Action programs on the control-of the movement of funds
for subversive purposes and the training of Latin Americans in
the United States are in preparation.

oc. Preparations have been made, including the development of
LS a set of action objectives, for use in the ministerial meeting on
security in Managua on 3 April.

d. Tangible progress is evident in the effort to impede and

: C) monitor the travel of subversives through Mexico. That country,
as a result of efforts by the Department of State and the Central

i wae re 2,

ot GROUP-1
SECRET * : - EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
woe hom ne 25k. Ge DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION _

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424697 Page 3
 

 

 

- Cc me

\/ secRET

Intelligence Agency, is now taking informal, though useful, steps
to regulate travel to and from Cuba, and has agreed to prohibit
the introduction by Cubana Airlines of Russian-made aircraft on ,
the Mexico-Havana route.

3. Specific actions taken to date by each department and agency
concerned are summarized in the enclosure. Subsequent reports will
i be submitted on the first day of each month. These reports will cover
- further progress achieved in the now-en:going program to control
subversive travel, and in implementing decisions, as they are taken,
on the additional anti-subversion programs which have been submitted
by the sub-committee for approval.

For the Sub-Committee:

a ? CO °
: V. H. KRULAK
CO ; . : Major General, USMC
A an Chairman
by
0
SECRET

 

 

 

kee

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424697 Page 4
