- | an i
SECRET

Soviet and Czech airlines serving Cuba do not stop
regularly at any other Latin American country, though. - .
the. Soviet Aeroflot line has occasionally sought and
received permission from Brazil to land-at Recife,
enroute to Cuba. Some Latin Americans may have
travelled to Cuba on these infrequent flights and,
should Brazil permit this arrangement to become
regularized, the movement of subversives could
achieve a new order of magnitude. :

A Canadian non-scheduled line has operated.a few
flights from Canada to Havana and return, carrying
both material and personnel. The Canadians have been
unresponsive to our efforts to obtain identification
of the passengers. .

There are no regularly scheduled sea carriers.
operating between Latin America and Cuba. However,
a number of trainees from British Guiana have | .
travelled to Cuba aboard unscheduled Cuban merchant
vessels engaged in transporting rice from Guiana to.
Cuba.

Clandestine sources report that transit of Latin .
Americans through Mexico to Cuba often involves illicit

procedures, The Cuban embassy in Mexico City provides . .

the travellers, whom they identify as tourists, with
special Cuban entry papers;.no entry is made in their
passports, and they are given pseudonyms for travel
out of and into Mexico, This procedure is obviously
designed to impede any effort by the other Latin
American governments subsequently to identify the
travellers and to exercise surveillance over their.
activities upon their return;

Evidence at hand portrays a substantial flow of
travel by légal means. This must be countered
directly. Beyond this, and perhaps.of greater
importance, is the problem of illicit movement both
into and out of Cuba, which will undoubtedly assume
growing proportions as legal travel is curtailed,
and about. which our intelligence is at present most
limited, Elimination of this intelligence void must |
be accotded ‘high priority.

SECRET . 5

HW 50955 DociId:32424140 Page 9
HW 50955

ECRE?

wm

 

TII. The Attitudes of the Latin American Nations

Success of many of the overt actions proposed in
the sections to follow will turn upon the attitudes
of the Latin American nations within whose borders
the restraining actions must take place. Presented
briefly below is an estimate of what can be expected
from the various sectors of Latin America in terms .
of participation in a coordinated program of travel
control,

As a general matter, the imposition of controls :
on travel is not popular with the public in any Latin
American country. This, coupled with their current :
lack of full awareness of the danger represented by -
Cuba's training of subversives, will diminish the
willingness of some governments to impose controls
unilaterally. This is especially true since they
recognize that unilateral restraints will have little
effect on curbing the travel of their nationals’ to-
Cuba, if supporting multilateral action is not.also
taken. It is likely, however, that most of the ©
Latin American countries would respond favorably --
albeit in varying degrees -~ to US leadership in -
seeking to reduce the flow of persons to Cuba for .
ideological or subversive training.

The Central American countries are more acutely
aware of the danger posed by Cuban-inspired sub-
version than is Latin America at large, and can be
expected to react favorably to proposals for re-
ducing travel to Cuba which President Kennedy might
present at the San Jose Presidential meeting.
However, their ability to carry out commitments which
they may make will be limited by domestic legal
and political considerations, as well as by their
countries! technical incompetence in such matters,

Since Mexico is currently the principal. | ;
hemisphere transit point for legal travel of. sub-
versives to and from Cuba, its attitude is of great.
importance. Mexico, to date, has taken several
significant steps with respect to travel between
Mexican cities and Cuba. It has instituted close

SECRET 6

Docld:324274140 Page 10
@ | 6
SECRET

of these are still: in Cuba. Others have returned to
their homelands;. some by legal means; some probably...
by illicit means. There is no reason to presume,
moreover, that the travel to Cuba of the remaining
3,000-3,500 was entirely consistent with the best
interests of the hemisphere,

Prior to the October crisis, Latin Americans oS
travelling to Cuba usually moved by regular commercial
airlines or; on occasion, by specially chartered
Cubana flights. Some travelled to Trinidad or
Curacao and thence by regularly scheduled Cubana or
KIM flights to Havana. Others travelled to Mexico,
and from there by Mexicana or Cubana commercial ;
flights to Havana. With the cessation of service
to Cuba by Pan American, KIM, Mexicana, and Iberia
airlines in October, the regular Cubana service
between Mexico City and Havana remained the sole ;
direct and regular airline connection between Cuba
-and the remainder of Tatin America,

The Cubana service ‘between Havana and Mexico is
scheduled to operate twice weekly, but sometimes only
a single flight is completed per week. Aircraft now
employed are British Britannias — an obsolescent model.
Cubana has requested, but has not yet received, ..
Mexican approval to substitute Soviet IL-18 transports”
‘for the old Britannias, Delay bythe Mexicans in =~
granting this approval can have the favorable effect.’
of impeding travel, as the Britannias are now in
poor condition, If, in addition, the British and
Canadians can be induced to suspend delivery of
spare parts, the planes will soon become inoperatives |

Iberia airlines resumed its regular twice-monthly
flights from Madrid to Havana on 11 February. This
flight makes one stop, in the Azores, before reaching
Havana. : st

KIM has not yet resumed its regular flights to Cuba
from the Netherlands Antilles, However, it is now con+
sidering doing so. In this regard it is concluded. that
resumption of scheduled flights by a United States.
carrier could Serve as an encouragement to KIM and
others to do the same.

SECRET Mm

HW 50955 DocId: 32424140 Page 8
SECRET

Legal Travel Into Cuba

Country No. of Legal Travellers Country No. of Legal Travellers

Jan-Feb ; Jan~Feb
. 1962 1963 1962 1963 ;
Mexico 4g12* 969 Argentina > 500 - Unk
Guatemala 80 | Unk Uruguay 115 Unk
El Salvador 100 8 Paraguay ‘60 ‘Unk
Nicaragua 50 Unk Bragil 400 Unk
Costa Rica 216 10 Honduras 92... al
Venezuela 200 Unk British 4o Unk
Guiana . ;
Colombia 400 Unk Panama. 560 1
Ecuador 208 Unk “Trinidad Unk © -Unk
Peru 181 Unk Jamaica 593 ‘Unk
Bolivia 500 Unk Dominican None Unk
Republic : ’
Chile 551 85 Haiti Unk Unk

* In transit, including about 300 Mexicans

While some of these travellers proceeded to Cuba by
other routes, the great majority passed through Mexico,
On the most conservative basis; then, it will be seen
that there cannot have been fewer than 4,912 travellers
to Cuba during 1962, while the average monthly number
passing through Mexico for the first two months of
1963 is even higher than the 1962 monthly average,

Of the total number visiting Cuba, the Central an
Intelligence Agency estimates that at least 1,500, and

perhaps as many as 2,000,have received ideological
indoctrination or guerrilla warfare training. Many

SECRET : 3

HW 50955 Docld:32424140 Page 7
SECRET

CUBA
THE MOVEMENT OF SUBVERSIVES AND SUBVERSIVE TRAINEES

I. Introduction

The actions proposed herein are designed to impede
the flow of subversives between Cuba and other Latin
American countries, Execution of any one or more of.
the enumerated actions will ameliorate the situation;
execution of them all will not completely solve it.
The practical problems involved are too numerous and
complex.

With respect to diminishing legal travel to cuba,
we face multiple problems in the policies and attitudes
of those Latin American countries through which the
subversive traveller must pass. From the viewpoint of
these nations the direct actions required have strong
political and sometimes legal implications ~ impli-
cations which cannot be overcome easily, even when
the leaders of these countries choose to do so.

In the matter of clandestine travel, -we are
confronted not only with the great depth of communist
guile, born of two generations of experience in the
international movement of subversives, but with the
inexperience, ineptitude and lack of awareness in
these same matters on the part of the Latin American
community.

In spite of this, the advantages do not all reside
with the communists. Cuba's insular character imposes
‘certain sharp limitations upon personal movement.

Cuba has no frontiers with other states; everyone
who enters the country must do so either by water,
or air, There can be no slipping through the
barbed wire.

SECRET

HW 50955 Doold:32424140 Page 5
SECRET

On the other hand, this same geographic situation
makes clandestine entry and exit reasonably simple.
There are 3,825 linear miles of essentially unpa-
trolled Central American coastline, within 175 to.
850 miles from Cuba. There are at least 93 airfields,
other than ours, within 700 miles of the island, and
the ships and craft indigenous to the Caribbean, and
capable of supporting the subversive ebb and Plows
number well into the thousands.

‘Even in the face of these unfavorable factors, a
program of direct restraints, selected from among
the actions enumerated herein, can have favorable
effects, Under the proposed steps some travel would
be stopped completely. More.— probably much more -
would be rendered difficult, Some hitherto legal
movement would be driven underground. ‘Previous .
clandestine movement would be impeded, complicated :
and harassed to the point where it becomes more
costly, more uncertain, more hazardous and thus,
hopefully, less extensive.

II, Nature and Scope of the Problem

We do not know enough about the movement of
subversive trainees, into Cuba and - more important ~
out of Cuba, We do not know enough about the volume
of travel, or the media employed, This is par-
ticularly true in the area of illicit traffic, where
our knowledge is extremely limited,

Regarding legal travel to Cuba, CIA presents the
following estimate:

SECRET ; 2

HW 50955 DoclId:32424140 Page 6
 

 

 

 

 

~
ped

 

 

 

32424140 Page 2

HW 50955 DoclId

 

 
4198=10007-10147) -

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/24/201
Identification Form .

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: ARMY : c
RECORD NUMBER: — 198-10007-10147

RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

 

Decument Information

ORIGINATOR: = ICCCA
FROM:
TO:

TITLE: © CUBA: THE MOVEMENT OF SUBVERSIVES AND SUBVERSIVE TRAINEES

DATE: 90/00/0000
PAGES: 20

SUBJECTS :

N MOVEMENT OF SUBVERSIVES - CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 11/28/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder 12. Report entitled "Cuba: The Movement of Subversives and
: Subversive Trainees."

JFK Rows el

iment of the Army EO 13526
Bi psciassity ©2 Exclude © Exemet

Authority.
I Refer To M
Review Date. - US By we

 

 

 

v9.1 i7
HW 50955 DoclId: 32424140 Page i
aT is

SECRET
CUBA
THE MOVEMENT OF SUBVERSIVES
AND SUBVERSIVE TRAINEES

SECRET

HW 50955 DoclId:32424140 Page 3
SECRET
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE

L,. Inbroduction serctettt ttt po rn reer enn 1

II. Nature and Scope of the Probiem eee alee ane 2

III. The Attitudes of the Latin American Nations =---------~ 6

IV. Actions Concerning Legitimate Travel-----nn nner nee 8

1. Immediate Impact Actions~~-w err tert rote renee nnn 9

a. Administrative Actions------- rt tartrate ere nrennn 9

bp. Intelligence Actions ~~77ttt ttt ttt tr rote eee 9

c. Actions Related to Common Carriers------r-rere™ 10

d. Propaganda actions wre re rn mn ~ 10

2, Longer Range Actions--~---~---7> pene eee e eens 10

az Political Aetions------------ none n-ne neon eee il

b. Intelligence Actions ---- totter ttt rere il

ce. Administrative Actions------crar ante orn wees '12

(d. Actions Related to Common carriers------------- 12

e; Propaganda Actions------ rrr rrr rr rrr ree a 13

3, Organization of American States (OAS) Actions----- 13

Vv. Actions Concerning Illegal Travel----~-----3errr re" -- 1b

1, Immediate Impact Actions-----~~-- omer rrr r rrr rn 14

a, Intelligence Actions------~--- rrr nr rrr 14

bo. Surveillance and Reporting Actions-------rcrrr~ 15

2, Longer Range Actione--+-----2e ere eee cee 15

a. Surveillance Actions------7-73-7 me enn ae nt awe- 15

b. US Military Assistance Actions~------~---- eone- 16
SECRET

HW 50955 DBocld:324274140 Page 4
