‘
ca
C2
as
i

|
|

+ b. Increase the scope and nature of all means of
bilateral exchange between all paired groupings of
countries especially to those which feel an immediate
need for securing intelligence on specific problems
affecting their immediate security and interests.

c. Through the SCCS and other controlled means
broaden and deepen intelligence exchange.

d. Develop a communications net, available to all
participants, which will be capable of accommodating
requirements which are impossible on an area-wide
pasis today. Open feeder lines to areas which are
presently overlooked. Such a development should not
overlook the broadest facility of communications to
include the establishment and maintenance of a
national, even international, presence in areas
which are remote and under-developed today. This
concept envisages transportation means as well as
wires, radio, etc.

e. On a broad basis train Latin American nationals
“to be aware of subversion, to detect subversion, to
understand subversion, and to eliminate it with the
aid of the exchange of information and intelligence.

f. Train the intelligence community of Latin America
in hard core established intelligence techniques. .
Standardize these techniques wherever possible.

SECRET 7

HW 50955 DocId: 32423825 Page 8
HW 50955

SECRET

upon the interaction of two intangible and rather delicate
factors -- the degree or depth of the intelligence, and
the existence of and quality of mutual trust between the
countries involved -- none of the proposals below can be
considered as building blocks or as chronological steps
independent of each other or in a pre-determined series.
Rather they are to be considered as piano keys to be used
to sound the desired melody.

a. Broadcast information, especially that pertaining
to communist subversion (always making clear the
distinction between true Castro-communist inspiration --
and the label of subversion which is not too infrequently
used by those in power to smear their political rivals),
on a common basis throughout the hemisphere via all
available news media. This will be enhanced through
the use of local columnists or other trusted voices
as the means when available. The development of a
wholly Awerican viewpoint with respect to the
Communist menace, as distinct from the present local
and parochial view, is the goal of this mass
educational process which is intended to encompass
all nedia, especially the newspapers which can be.

read, passed on to others, and re-read.

SECRET an:

Docld:32423825 Page 7
 

SECRET

business, educational institutions, religious groups,
news media, and other non-governmental agencies which
have a close association with our Latin American |
neighbors.
The important point here is to note that any
positive and constructive steps taken to further the
exchange of information/intelligence by all means
will, even in its least regimented form provide some
means of assistance in counteracting the flow of
subversive agents and their supporting assets from
Cuba to Latin America. .

Vital Considerations:

 

The path to success in the pursuit of this goal lies
in an area of cooperation, understanding, and mutual
trust. The beginnings of a truly. cooperative effort
are evidenced already. Hopefully this trend will
continue and its pace increase. An increase in under-

standing of the problem may prove to require much more
effort. Nations, like individuals, are prone to respond
most to basic emotions. Communist inspired subversion
will strike home as a threat when it becomes directly
related to fear in these nations and in their people.
And as long as it remains unnoticed and misunderstood

it will not strike fear at least to the proper. degree

SECRET 4

HW 50955 Docld: 32423825 Page 5
/ » SECRET

- in these countries. Here we must turn to education. We
must provide information and we must track our fellow
Americans to know the beginning of subversion when
it is there. .

The first basic step in this area will be to initiate
a vast program of education on an hemispheric scale.
News media -- the press, radios, magazines, TV -- all
must be exploited not only for basic propaganda purposes;
but as a means of exchanging as much intelligence as can
be released to such means. Beyond this, more selective
training programs must be established some of these to
reach into the depths of professional intelligence

collection and dissemination.

The third and perhaps most vital of these requirements
involves that delicate fabric of mutual trust among
nations which only comes from true cooperation and
understanding. This too is based upon the fact that
moral influence creates harmony among nations, their
leaders, and their people. Fortunately, the growth
and cohesion of such moral influence is nurtured by
a common cause such as that threatening these nations
from Havana.

Proposed Program:
Since the ability to exchange intelligence among OAS

countries on communist subversive activities is predicted

SECRET 5

HW 50955 Docid:32423825 Page 6
SECRET

FIRST WORKING DRAFT FOR REVIEW AND COMMENT
CUBA
EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE AMONG OAS COUNTRIES

Nature and Scope
General:

Exchange of intelligence among OAS countries on
Communist subversive activities, .

As has been repeatedly demonstrated throughout the
contents of the related reports a most basic and fundamental
requirement is that for relevant and high quality intelli-
gence, This requirement is as true for the US itself as it
is for each of the other American countries, and the problem
becomes increasingly complex as the requirement for
cooperation and coordination among two or more states arises,
Few things in political and diplomatic life are more difficult
than the problem of combining the assets of all participating
nations in a unified effective pattern,

The very title of this section demonstrates the
anomalous nature of the problem by suggesting that the OAS
countries should exchange secrets. From a strict view of
this it could follow that exchanged secrets are no longer
secrets; and thet since national secrets in most cases must
remain seeret the best thing to do with this proposal is to
avoid or blunt it.. This would be. an extremely dangerous and
regressive course.

SECRET 1

HW 50955 Docld:32423825 Page 2
198-10006-10010

 

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 6/24/201

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

 

Agency Information

ARMY
198-10006-10010

CALIFANO PAPERS \

 

Document Information

CUBA - EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE AMONG OAS COUNTRIES

00/00/0000
4 \

KRULAK COMMITTEE
CUBAN SUBVERSION
INTELLIGENCE EXCHANGE
OAS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

11/28/1997

Califano Papers; Box 3, Folder 10. Paper of unknown origin on the possibility of sharing intelligence

among OAS members to combat Cuban subversion.

souerr srr a
SEI Re e/ Sees il
| AR
Department of thy my EO 43526 carp _ i
sity 2 Exclude i

RN
Authority,

i Refer To By

Review Date

 

v9.1
BW 50955 DBocld: 32423825

Page 1
SECRET

The fact is that the great portion of gross intelligence
is simply information of one kind or another which has been
collected, collated, verified, analyzed, etc. Only a small

"portion is secret intelligence which has been acquired
through clandestine means. All would agree that secret
intelligence may be impossible to share, and similarly
all would agree that the sharing of useful and organized
information: is highly desirable -- especially when the
subject can be refined as it is here to cover communist
subversive activities in the hemisphere.

Although the culture and political identity of most
of the countries of the Americas is built upon centuries
of national existence the Western Hemisphere is only a
geographical unity. As a political fact it is made up of
many completely separate and parochial states. Therefore,
as a first step much can be done to publish, transmit,
communicate, and circulate information of value on a
common basis. Initially by means of bilateral activities
between the US and other states; and wherever possible in a
similar direét manner between other pairs of states. Then
as progress is made this process will be enlarged on a
regional basis, on an OAS basis, and hopefully on an
hemispheric basis. The intial success of the SCCS
serves as an example of the projects which lie before
us. .

SECRET , 2

HW 50955 Docld: 32423825 Page 3
- SECRET °

Ii. The Current Situation:

 

At the present time, there are a number of resources
available to the US in furthering this effort.

a. Diplomatic channels are available to and within
each of the American nations. These provide a number
‘of information channels on their own merit.

b. USIA exists to further this endeavor.

c. Military attaches, missions, and assistance
programs of long standing provide abundant means to
increase the scope and volume of information and

intelligence exchange. —

 

d. CIA has working liaison arrangements in

 

 

 

Latin America where it has been found

 

fruitful to establish and maintain such arrangements.
This channel is available to transmit and protect
intelligence information of a more secretive nature,
and provides a mechanism to reach any depth desired
and authorized.

e. Numerous other US government agencies such as
Agriculture, Treasury, FAA, etc. have valuable contacts
for information exchange throughout the hemisphere.

f. Any such compilation would suffer from the

omission of the contribution which can be made by

SECRET a)

HY 50955 Doocld:32423825 Page 4
