SECRET

As yet, however, the program for the provision by
United States agencies of information on subversion
to Latin American governments has not been developed
to an adequate degree Since the United States

. BAN ea aiets
possesses the YOON cenaicttton capabilities,
as well as the only secure and reliable means of
rapid communication throughout Latin America (current-
ly in process of improvement), the development of an
integrated United States system for bilateral ex-
change offers the greatest possibility of achieving
the results desired. United States experience in
‘the matter of intelligence exchange in Latin America
and in other areas of the world has led to the
conclusion that bilateral arrangements are more
fruitful than multilateral arrangements such as
those established within the framework of NATO,
CENTO and SEATO, Nevertheless, this experience
has shown also that multilateral arrangements can
be of some use, particularly in creating an aware-
ness of the need for intelligence exchange.

The concept of an exchange of information among
members of the OAS with regard to subversive activities

—
has been put forward on numerous jeccaskons st ORS

‘,

SECRET -T-

HW 50955 DoclId:32423994 Page 9
 

SS ty!
7 . Gad wnat inn

 

 

inter-American meetings, but haa not heen igpionented,

largely for the reasens set forth in section Ti.d. .

 

Sader the Punta del Este decisicas the GAS meabers were
urged te ceegerate tu strengthening thelr capecity to
counteract threats er acts of senression, subversion of

‘ether dangers to pence and security, The Coureil of .

the OAG is charged with aadataininag vigilance aver ‘
Castvo-consuniat subversion and a "Special Consultative

Comndttee on Security (SCCS)" is established ta give
technical advice to. governments and the Council ox
request om sakters relating fe gubversien, All Aweridan r
gvvernnents have been asked to furnish inforwetion on §
Gaatre-Commulst activities te serve es the baste for N
studies and recomacndations by the Council of the OAS on &
| how ta counteract them. Since the Punts del. Este neeting ‘t

the OAS has beoe galing slev, but steady ;
? bron ad Vr Ay 24 Woh Cerwedunny,
iS continae R} wR

» Progress in a
- Ae A A . -; ¥ A
4) thes field Mantels the Latin Awericas county)

to regard ag griaarily one of domestic jurisdiction, g ;

 
 

This brief smamary sorves te illustrate that there

Ls wach room fer expansion of Siisterel intel ligenes R
exchange arrangements ageng the Latina v4
SECRET b/

ain

 

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423994 Page 10
SECRET

In 1962, for exdimple, CIA received information re-

 

 

ports from services.with which liaison is main-

 

 

tained in Latin America and released reports to [|
recipients. Intelligence items exchanged included
collated studies, weekly intelligence reviews, name
traces and travel reports.

The U.S. army, through its attaches, currently
has an informal arrangement involving bilateral ex-
changes of intelligence with argentina, Colombia,
Ecuador, Uruguay, Peru, Paraguay and Venezuela. In-
formation provided by the Army has been concerned
with subversive personalities, communist infiltra-
tion, weapons movements and related matters. Re-
eiprocal intelligence received has been of minimal
value, The Army also provides selected informa-
tion on subversive activities to Brazil, Chile,
Guatemala and Mexico, although there is no recip-
rocal arrangement. The attaches of other U.S.
Services practice limited exchange on a selective
basis.

Some information has been released from time to
time to Latin American countries by the Commander-in-
Chief, Caribbean Command, operating through the
Military Groups.

SECRET -6-

HW 50955 DoclId:32423994 Page 8
SECRET

pilities of large-scale multilateral cooperation ~ aon
in the intelligence field. Lo %

eo

too,
government. These considerations limit the possi- waa

2. Current Exchange Arrangements
At present there is little or no organized ex-

change of intelligence among the latin American na-
tiens, There is a limited amount of informal ex-
change, often on a basis of personal relationships
of government officials having a community of in-
terest with respect to a particular matter.

The Central Intelligence Agency has established
working liaison arrangements in seme Latin American
countries where such relations have been considered to
be in the best interest of the United States. Most
of the intelligence concerning subversion in Latin
America available to the CIA is derived from covert
eperations or through contacts with another intelli-
gence or security service. This inhibits the pass-
age of such information to agencies of a third coun-
try. There is, however, a substantial amount of
intelligence available from overt or non-sensitive

sources which can be provided to other countries.

SECRET ~5-

HW 50955 DoclId:32423994 Page 7
SECRET

Latin America is not a homogeneous entity in
ethnic, social, political, and econdmi¢c background,
and there is a great variety of attitudes toward
the Castro-Communist subversive menace. A cém-
pletely unified approach toward exchange or intell-
igence concerning this menace, therefore, cannot
be regarded as practicable.

The realities outlined above indicate that

   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
 
  
    
   
  
 

multilateral intelligence exchange must be approached
on a strictly limited basis. It should not be
concluded, however, that nothing of value can be

done multilaterally. With proper definition limit-
ing the problem of exchange to matters directly
related to communist subversive activities, such

as the movement to and from Cuba of subversives,

the production and movement of propaganda materials,

  

and the movement of arms, it should be possible

to encourage a greater degree of cooperation. /It

is important, in this regard, to draw a sharp dis-

 
 

tinction between intelligence gained by covert means

  
   

The former involve

 

and information obtained openly.
' the requirement to protect national secrets as to
sources and methods employed. The latter, which can

pe of great value, can be exchanged without feap of

ompromise.

SECRET

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423994 Page 5
SECRET

An additional impediment to intelligence exchange
is the low level of competence of most Latin American
intelligence services, their lack of rapid, secure
means of communication, and the complete absence of
adequate security systems. [security consciousness A
is not a Latin American characteristic. “The lack of
security safeguards must necessarily limit the ex-
change of intelligence obtained covertly by any of
the nations involved, and particularly the United
States, which has the most sophisticated system and
hence the greatest need for protection.

The governments of some countries, of which
Guatemala is a good example, have little desire to
develop a competent career security service. There
is a fear that the existence of an efficient service
would constitute a threat to further activities of
members of the existing governments at such time as
they might find themselves out of power. Moreover,
‘many Latin American intelligence services display
a tendency to yield to the temptation to label as
"“subversives" those of their own nationals resident

in other countries who are opposed to the existing

SECRET -4-

HW 50955 Docld:32423994 Page 6
, ~~) a * Qe
+ -BEORET . wo \0

SUB-COMMITTEE ON CUBA SUBVERSION mA b3

13 March 1963

TO SERVICE, OSD, AND JOINT STAFF CONTACT POINTS:

This is the first draft on the exchange of intelligence.
Section II on the Nature and Scope of the Problem possibly
should be shortened.

Your comments are requested by 0900, 14 March 1963.

Vv. H. KRULAK
Major General, USMC

GROUP-1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
SECRET DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

HW 50955 DociId:32423994 Page 2
498-10007-10001

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/24/201
Identification Form

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

v9.1

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :

_ CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

 

Agency Information

ARMY
198-10007-10001

CALIFANO PAPERS

 

Document Information

JCS
V.H. KRULAK
SERVICE, OSD, JOINT STAFF

CUBA, THE EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE CONCERNING COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE
ACTIVITIES - FIRST DRAFT

03/13/1963
14

COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES - INTELLIGENCE
SHARING

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

IB

Redact

02/10/1998

Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder 10. First draft of paper on the exchange of intelligence concerning
communist subversive activities.

“NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION
"FO DECLASSIFICATION ;

war — 2016
ae

TY FK fauied
Department of the Army EO 13528

BS Deciasstty Exclude Exempt
Authority,

& Refer To
Review Date ANVO1S By Eng

 

 

14

HW 50955 DBocld:32423994 Page i.
SECRET

FIRST DRAFT
CUBA
THE EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE
CONCERNING COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES

I. Introduction

In combatting the many forms of Castro-Communist
subversion now pursued throughout Latin America frem the
Communist base of operations in Cuba, there is a funda-
mental requirement fer intelligence -- a requirement which
involves not only the timely acquisitien and processing of
information, but also its rapid dissemination, on a select-
ive basis, to those who need to know. Efforts are now
being made by CIA, AID, and the U.S. Military Services to
improve Latin American intelligence systems. Success thus
far has been limited. This effort must be vigoreusly con-
tinued. It is not with this preblem, however, that this
paper is primarily concerned, but rather with that of
exchanging essential information among those who need te
mow it. A greater degree ef Inter-American cooperatien

is required in this regard than has hitherto been achieved.

SECRET

HW 50955 Doold:32423994 Page 3
 

SECRET

II. The Nature and Scope of the Problem

1. Limiting Factors
There are many legitimate inhibitions which tend

to discourage the exchange of intelligence on an
international basis, even among allies. National
privacy with regard to the inner workings of an
intelligence system must be preserved, Further com-
pounding the problem insofar as Latin America is
concerned is the divisive influence of the long

- history of rivalries, wars, jealousies and dis-
putes which have characterized relations among the
many nations concerned. The wounds of past con-
flicts among pairs and groupings of nations are
by no means completely healed. For example, there

is lingering hostility between Peru and Ecuador

deriving from their boundary war in which Ecuador <b Tee
lost a vast area of its territory. yee apd + ARAL

 

Bolivia continue at odds over them? ee

pute, and, even now, Nicaraguan insurgents are

    
    

harbored within the borders of Costa Rica.

  

Gould hardly be expected that these countries

Roger .
would be pyone to exchange intelligence.c.

SECRET -2-
——— un &

HW 50955 Docld:32423994 Page 4
