 

 

 

 

 

 

SECREp

‘
5

bi
G

Ua

APEPD

(U) Gretuing of Latin Americans in the United States 19 APR 1963

Mejor General V.. EH. Keulek
Chairman, Subcommittee on Cuben Subversion

(0) Reference is made to your second working draft of 17 April and
see letter of 12 April concerming this subject.

2. (8) The addition of pertinent information has improved the second
dreft. I note that the actions recommended section is written in such
a menner as to permit done miewnderstending to readers who are not
knowledgeable on service training progvems and procedures.

3. (8) The Air Force has had considerable success in conducting of f-duty
progres. At the Aix University, for example, faculty members volunteer

to sponsor a foreign studer and serve « host throughout their training
period. The students are taken om conducted tours to polmta of interest,
invited on family plewics, and invited into the hones of their hosts.
Language experts are available to ‘help put the students at ease in the ;
event thele English is marginal. Air training command beses and technical
echools encourage off bace activities and current USAP directives encourage

acclimation activities and outline funding procedures. to support the programs.

Local businesemen, members of the Chambers of Commerce, end varlows churches ©
eooperate and help support the USAF activities for foreign students.

kh. (8) Your second draft vould be improved by including information con-

a ~~ eemihg the existing MAP Training Program (MATP) to provide background

materiel for those who may not be familiar with the program. The following
is suggested:

a. MATP is designed to satisfy valid training requirements and is
sufficiently flexible to satisfy known qualitetive and quantitetive require-
ments. Details of ‘the current. program cen be found im the Western Hemisphere
Section. of USAF Military Assietence (PMAT-63-5) Fiseal year 1963 Training ©

‘ogran Summary, published 1 May 1962.

 

>. Avellability of training courses with appropriate details as te
location duration ete., is widely publicized throughout Lotin America by
the Unified Commend and Service Missicn representation in countries.

c., Miselon personnel in-couxtry work closely with host. Air Force
officials te develop a sound training program best suited to that countries’
necds in terme of both technical end professional skills. ‘hie close
relationship afforis the opportunity to moniter the training of individuals

SS

 

HW 50955 DocId:32424139 Page 2

 

 
198-10007-10146

 

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

6/24/201

 

 

. AGENCY:
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

Agency Information

ARMY
198-10007-10146

CALIFANO PAPERS

 

 

Document Information

AIR FORCE
JOHN W. CARPENTER, HI
V.H. KRULAK

TRAINING OF LATIN AMERICANS IN THE UNITED STATES

04/19/1963
3

LATIN AMERICANS - MILITARY TRAINING

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

IB; 1c

Redact

07/24/1998

Califano Papers, Box 4, Folder 10. Memos re: the Psychological Program Supporting US Policy

Toward Cuba.

JFK Lever

Depariment of the Army EO 13526
Na Dectassity Exclude © Exempt

Authority

© Refer To bs ;
Role ora TEE ye EN

 

HW 50955 Docld:32474139 Page 1°
 

 

ce SECRET

” and réecomménd progressive career type progiams from basic ‘through advanced
~-gehooling.

&. MATP providés round trip transportation at approximately $900.00,
living expenses enroute, monthly Living. allowance, and the cost of course
tution approximately 4700. 00 for a 10-12 week course. An additional $480. GO
ie funded for those. individuals requiring English treining prior to entering
technical courses.

é. hatin American pirtielpation in USAF MATP i¢ not limited by availability

ec OF facilities or capability. The beele preblem is the inability or unwilling-

 

 

hess of the Latin American Sefvices to participate in or support the existing
programs.

5. (8) Thée following comments pertaining to specific recommendation are
submitted for your consideration,

 

Qe (2) 6 fens
if the indtvidusis could be- programed ‘to attend additional ecurads peice to _
or subsequent to the sumtier session. ~

 
 

this type in vein The ed of referenced APKED letter apply: -

   

As stated in xy “previous iether, the Air Force. can satiety all imdih Letin

Am@rican Air Force requirements in this area.

 

f i) Os). This action showld be specificaliy identified
with appropriate courses i approached with caution. Presentations of a
political nature way have adverse affect on Latin American govertiments, if
obviously emphasized in basic and technical courses. Some govérments are
highly sensitive at any indication that an external source is influencing
thelr internal political affairs,

  
  

e. Reference IVb (1). Ae suggested in the last paragraph of Tab 1
to my 12 April Letter, 1t seems appropriate thet some consideration be given
to using the militery capability to assist in training personnel 5 normally
under the direction of AID and State, in thé operation of vital facilities.

 

 

5, (0) This Letter is classified SECRET Hecause it eoneerns politico-mliitary
information; unauthorized disclosure of which could be detrimental to good
international relations.

JOHN W. CARPENTER, IIT
Major General, USAF
Director of Plans
DCS/Plans & Cperations
(B/Gen Adriel N. Williams

signed for Maj Gen cosventer SECRET

2

HW 50955 Docld:32424139 Page 3

 

 

 
 

pe 14 wes,
. Wy Em 14 ES = State me SA
} YoROr\ZOO Treg Coqer

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld 132494139 Page 4

 
