 

 

 

wae suspected of carrying subvexsiives and erue from Ocha te
British Guiene tn sdd-July, METCSURINSR was under U.S.
Surveillance geom its departure from Havana watil United
Kingdom forces assumed the tack ef keeping this ship under
survelliance upen ite eppresch to Georgetowm, British Gutana.
Subsequentiy, British police search of MITCHURINGK in British
Gulona waters revealed nothing ef 2 suspicisus nature.

 

 

 

 

 

the Peruvian Government lam in August pubiiehed a new anti-
terreriste Law providing « penalty of ao lees then five years
‘impetsoraent for persona whe perelelate tm guerrilla activities
ex ta the llegel manufacture of weapons or auplosives.

‘The Pemivien National Intelligence Service ts werking
si a Isad furmished by ecneerning a

 

 

 

 

200 ton vessel cepertedly involved in arse teratiic,

 

inetrveted our Consulate General in Ceergetawn to
investigate geperts thet commercial eargoce (which sould coneeal
iilieis axns traffic out of Cuba) bad developed between British
Guiana and Cube. Investigations te data have been negative.

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424006 Page 9

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cooperated with the Foreign Assete Control Office of
the Treasury Department in developing blocking controls with
respect ta Cuba which went inte effect on Jely 9, 1963.

 

S. Gontinued the installation of ailinary cemuntea-
tions feellities in Levin America. Operational dates for the
sulti-channel radio stations to be tneteiled im Nenegua,

"Wiearagua and. Tegueigelpa, Hoaduras have been delayed to 15
Oeteber 1963 and 18 Decesber 1963, feepectively because of sew
snginearing amd contractual tequigements. Negetiations are
continuing with Colombia aed Keuador for installation ef U.S.
wilicary tadie fsellitias. Conpletion ef * Sow enmmereial crans=
istioian cable in the Panes Cerne? fone within the eening oath
is expected to improve militery eemamientions within the
United States and the Conmnder-in-Chief, U.S. Southern Commend.

b. Centimed the eurveillance of Guba by U.S. Forces ,
xeporting as before te U.8. commanders, organizations end agencies.

HW 50955 Docld:32424006 Page 10

 
 

 

 

 

| police

 

of the State of Guensbars seized large quantities of propa~
gonds brought into Beazdl by passengers on the epoetal Gubens_
flights. For exemple, some §0 pounds of prdated propaganda
wis taken from the various peseengera who arrived oa the 16
Augast Cubena flight.

Be

 

& Continued eurveillenee of the area sursounding Cuba
dsving the meuth of July at the seus cate aud with the sane
euphasle ag pelexr to 1 July 1963.

&. Continued to malntein U.S. Forces, primarily from
withie the Atlantic Command, available to assist other Garthbesn
geveriments in the interception of suspicious erage in
territorial watere, ag might be requested. Be euch vequests were
veceived from any other goverment during the ported covered by
thie vepert. However, U.S, Ferees did keep evack ef tho .
location of the Soviet werchant freighter METCHURINSE,

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424006 Page 6

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mnt of Chile to gefuss visas to Cuban delegetas
to 4 preperatery meeting planning for the If tatia Awartean
Youth Congres scheduled for August in the Chilean captnal.
Incbility of Coban delegetes to obtain Chiltan vieas gor this
| mesting te one of the conertbucing ieetors te the Cullen sponsors
uuncing during Auguet that the acetiag bad beea postponed,

k. Semt general instructions to eur wissions im countries
whieh participate du the Intermational Unien of Architects eating
thee to unge the eooperation of gevermentsl eutherLties in

. preventing ov diseouregiag the attendance of their citizens to
‘the VIE UIA Geageesa fa Babaua, mbar 29-eteber 4, 1963.
Pollewed this up with ineteuecdons to individual pects to ney
uhere feasible te diesunde architects from feee world countrica
fron serving on the jury for the seleecion of a Bey of Pigs

 

 

 

 

 

commence food parcel shipments to Cubs, on a flomorctal baste,
thee would heve gequéwed the eotablishuent of echedwied weekly
ehavter flights by Canadien planes.

 

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424006 Page 7

 

 
 

ade

 

 

ed te their point of origin.

é, Instructed Sulmssy Mexico City on August 29 te
inform the Mexieaa airline GMA thet the Vaited States is
eppesed to a proposal that GMA operate charter ‘Phighes te carry
gefugees from Havens te Central Ameren. etn, as @ regule,
stated that they hed we intention of ereceediag Gather with
| thie project. .

@, Insteucted 0.5, Niselone im Curaceo and the Te gue
$0 investigate « repewe thet REM was planaine ce yenew ah
geheduled Curasao-lakens lights ond to veleerate 08 oppositien
to resumption of aie service to Cuba, KLM aseured cur Exbeesy
thet there is ad plan to initiate gerview, acheduled or nou
eehedoled, to Eebene,

f. Iseteusted Embassy Ottava to express our strong
objections te @ proposal ebae a Cybang charter flight pick up
& eesend group ef U.8, gtudente im Mentweal to fly thea te Cuba,

gS Inetwected Consulate Ceargetewe te davestigate
ubeng appreaches to secure flight fackiities. Mlesien reported
om August 2 thee the Governor had no Knowledge of aay talks.
between the 8.6. Minkeery of Comeualeatiens and the. Guban Governe
ment regarding landing righte for Cubsna planes, The Governor

abperseatiem erin

 

 

cs

   

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424006 Page 5
 

sai

 

ation te inquire further and to keep wa
advised. fonden reported thar aclhther the Gubsn wer the Beledch
Guiene Goverments hed valeed the fasue ef landing eights with
BU0, |
B, Usged the governments of Moxlee, Canada, Jenaies

aed the Getherlands to eefusa to acetet the Cuban government
in ite efforts to find 8 short route far returng/the $8 American
students who 2llegatly travelled e9 Cubs, Also deformed Pan

Slee » Aixways that wo were gopesed to ¢ Cuben raquest fax
a-PAA charter flight to fly the students from Habana te Hew Yor’,

i. Sesteueted cur eleeions at Port of Spain and

Sarbedee on several ocessions te appreach theses governments
euprané the concern of the 0.8, at indlestions of Gubee dateress
in the use of their aviation meilicias.
with the Poreiga Secretary
lable that would enable

OE to control moverents of alecraft uithia theie terri
_ iting emuples of sueh controle daetitured by Hexties, Coneda

aed Leclaed. Ue faddeated eeseptivences to che propose] that
the dist of suggestions. be asde aveilable te the aviattoa affictal

 

 

 

 

 
 
    

 

 

 

HW 50955 DocId:32424006 Page 6

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

DRART seexer <2. of 1 copies
‘ Roy a
*Cludag . ~ y
Aerading m Wtonatyy)
ie

 
 

a. Developed highly useful information on frequency
of Guban “chartered” flights to Bravdi, names and nactonalities
ot paneongers end evew, and lex seasures of control followed
by Brasilien authorietes. Tranemitted this infornation te
gestion chiefs in the Letin American countries of the non
Bregilians travelling on these £iighes.

b. Maintained close watch over travel to and from
Guba. See Amaex B for table of Imewn travel of Latin 4merieons
during July and August.

€. Ag @ vesult of information furnished ty his by the

 

Cia Station in Buenes Alves

 

 

 

 

 

| indicated thet he would meke
every effort to prevent Argentine delegates feom attendiag the
Iaternational Undou of drchitectea Congress im Havana.

a. At the urging of the CIA Statéen end che Uabesey
the Bolivian Minister ef Interfer issued in mid-July en order
prohibiting the granting of travel permite to Cuba on other

bloc countries toe Bolivian nationals.

SSeREr

HW 50955 Docld:32424006 Page 2

 

 
198-10007-10043

 

JFK. Assassination System : Date:

Identification Form

6/24/2014

 

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: = 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact 5
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 04/09/1998
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Califano Papers, Box 4, Folder 6. Draft report concerning control of access to and surveillance of
Cuba.
nt of the Army EO 19526
Oo classy 3 Exclude & Exempt
. RY
NO STATE OBJECTION A poten To F fil
Review Date By.

TOD
BY.

vo.

HW 50955 DBoclId: 324274006

SSIFICATION
DATE CY iy

Agency Information

ARMY
198-10007-10013

CALIFANO PAPERS

 

Document Information

CONTROL OF TRAVEL TO AND FROM CUBA

00/00/0000
17

CONTROL OF TRANSFER OF FUNDS
CONTROL OF MOVEMENT OF CUBAN PROPAGANDA
CONTROL OF CLANDESTINE MOVEMENT OF GUERRILLAS

AND ARMS
EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION

SURVEILLANCE OF CUBAN DIPLOMATIC, COMMERCIAL
AND CULTURAL MISSIONS

STRENGTHENING OF COUNTER-INSURGENCY
CAPABILITIES

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Page 1
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

es

 

 

  

me of Chile prohibited the
entry fate Chile of ovgeatvers of the Cuban szonsered Sacead
latia American Youth Congress, which had been acheduled to tsle
place ta Santiago im dugust. Thie was one of the factors which
led to postponement of theConare

£, After considerable prodding by the CIA Station

and the Embessy the Moister of Public Security of Costa Rica
See presented legislative proposals to the Coata Rican Assesbly

which will wequlire ell persons intending to travel te Comunist

 eounteles to have thedy travel approved by a sewly created

 

 

 

' esta Rican wecurlty agency. |
g. CHA Station fa Haxtes city developed information
sonneraing the clandestine exrrivel of passengers ta Vewa Crus
on Guba merchant ships, Sfforte are being wade to ebteia more
inforuation and to encourage etrieter contrela by che Nextcan
authorities, |

 

 

a, Ineteucted Exbasey Conakey to try to pereusde —
Guinean sutherities to deny une of aiepert feeliicies by flights
en Habana-Koseoh route, These efforte achieved « temporary
withholding of pormnlesion for future regular flights, at least

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424006 Page 3

 
 

 

 

«uw.

until such tine ee the Soviets develop their ow refueling dacilities
et fomanry, ,

b>. Tnetwucted Enbassy Blo to approach Brasilien
aubhorities to express our deep concern at the growlug frequency
of Cubun non-seheduled flights to Srazt and request their
cooperation in curbing thea. Alse iaserected our Eubaseies
in geverel Latin Anerican countries to work with CIA station |
ehiefs in furnishing che names of metlonale of these countries
travelling on these flights to local authorities and urging
than: (1) to inetieuce tighter controle on their own eitizens

 

travelling te Cuba, aad & te exprese their concern te the
; £ Brazil Uvex eaban ase of Bragdl ae a way station
fev transporting subversives.

@. &s @ peeult of representations wade to the Brigieh
governsent about Cuban flights to the Cayman Islends carrying
latin Anerican subversive, the Britieh developed an sdminteteative
schone whieh whll offactively prokibic the uee ef British
tavibbesn dependencies by Cubana es transit paints fer passengers. .
The British intend to require tranelit vieas of passengers passing
through their arene, and te weject eppldeations for auch visas

 

eucept in certain special eases, Perseus aot pesecosing vieas
would be prevented from leaving thel alrereft, or would be

HW 50955 Docld:32424006 Page 4

 

 

 
