SECRET

with subversive personalities, communist infiltra-
tion, weapons movements and related matters.
Reciprocal intelligence received has been of small
value. The Army also provides selected information
on subversive activities to Brazil, Chile, Guatemala
and Mexico, without reciprocation. The Navy has
established a Navy-to-Navy program for the exchange
of intelligence among nine South American navies, the
Mexican Navy and the U.S. Navy.

Some information has been released from time to
time to Latin American countries by the Commander-
in-Chief, Caribbean Command, operating through the
Military Groups, and exchanges of information are
also effected from time to time through channels
of the Department of State.

As yet, however, the program for the provision
by United States agencies of information on subver-
sion to Latin American governments has not been
developed to an adequate degree. Since the United
States possesses the most extensive acquisition
capabilities, as well as the only secure and re-
liable means of rapid communication throughout Latin
America (currently in process of improvement), the
development of an integrated United States system
for bilateral exchange offers the greatest possi-

bility of achieving the results desired.

HW 50955 D&HGRE:4008 Page 9 6
SECRET

United States experience in the matter of intel-
ligence exchange in Latin America, and in other areas
of the world, has led to the conclusion that bilateral
arrangements are more fruitful than multilateral
arrangements such as those established within the
framework of NATO, CENTO and SEATO, Nevertheless,
this experience has shown also that multilateral
arrangements can be of some use, particularly in
creating an awareness of the need for intelligence
exchange.

The concept of an exchange of information among
members of the OAS with regard to subversive activi-
ties has been put forward at numerous Inter-American
meetings, but has not been implemented, largely for
the reasons set forth in Section II.1. Under the
Punta del Esta decisions, the OAS members were
urged to cooperate in strengthening their capacity
to counteract threats or acts of aggression, sub-
version or other dangers to peace and security.

The Council of the OAS is charged with maintaining
vigilance over Castro-Communist subversion, and a

"Special Consultative: Committee on Security (Sccs)"
is established to give technical advice on request

to governments and the Council on matters relating

SECRET 7

HW 50955 Docld:32424008 Page 10
HW 50955

ee

tained in Latin America and released reports to [|

SECRET

The Central Intelligence Agency has established
working liaison arrangements in some Latin American
countries where such relations have been considered
to be in the best interest of the United States.
Most of the intelligence concerning subversion in
Latin America available to the CIA is derived from
covert operations or through contacts with another
intelligence or security service. This inhibits the
passage of such information to agencies of a third
country. There is, however, a substantial amount
of intelligence available from overt or non-sensitive
sources which can be provided to other countries.

In 1962, for example, CIA received information re-

ports from Eervices with which liaison is main-

 

 

recipients. Intelligence items. exchanged included '
collated studies, weekly intelligence reviews, name
traces and travel reports.

The U.S. Army, through its attaches, currently

has an informal arrangement involving bilateral

SECRET

exchanges of intelligence with Argentina, Colombia,
Ecuador, Uruguay, Peru, Paraguay and Venezuela.

Information provided by the Army has been concerned

An

Docld:324274008 Page @
SECRET

af

concluded, however, that nothing of value can be
accomplished multilaterally. With proper defini-
tion, limiting the probiem of exchange to matters
directly related to communist subversive activities,
such as the movement to and from Cuba of trainees,
the production and movement of propaganda materiale
which threaten internal stability, and the movement
of arms, it should be practicable to marshal a useful
measure of cooperation. In pursuing this effort,
it will be important to draw a sharp distinction
between secret intelligence gained by covert means
and information obtained openly. The former in-
volves the requirement to protect national secrets
both as to sources and acquisition methods employed.
The latter, which can be of great value, can be
exchanged without fear of compromise.
2, Current Exchange Arrangements

At present there is little organized exchange of
intelligence among the Latin American nations.
There is a limited amount of informal exchange,
often on a basis of personal relationships between
government officials having a community of interest

with respect to a particular matter.

SECRET 4

HW 50955 DocId:32424008 Page 7
HW 50955

It.

SECRET

The Nature and Scope of the Problem
1. Limiting Factors

There are many inhibitions which tend to discourage
the exchange of intelligence on an international basis,
even among allies. National privacy with regard to the

inner workings of an intelligence system must be pre~

served. Compounding the problem further, where Latin

America is concerned, is the divisive influence of the
long history of rivalries, wars, jealousies and dis-
putes which have characterized relations among .the
nations concerned. The wounds of past conflicts among
pairs and groupings of nations are not completely’
healed. There is lingering hostility between Peru and
Ecuador deriving from their boundary war. Chile and
Bolivia continue at odds over the question of Bolivian
access to the sea, and, even now, Nicaraguan insurgents
are harbored within the borders of both Costa Rica

and Honduras. It could hardly be expected that these
countries would be eager to exchange intelligence on

a full and frank basis.

Beyond this, Latin America is not a homogeneous en-
tity in social, political, or economic terms, and
attitudes toward the Castro-Communist subversive menace
vary widely. A completely unified approach toward
exchange or intelligence concerning thie menace, there-

fore, cannot be regarded as attainable.

peels 424008 Page 5 2
SECRET

An additional impediment to intelligence exchange
is the low level of competence of most Latin American
intelligenée services, their lack of rapid, secure
meahs of communication, and the absence of adequate
security systenis and the lack of security conscious-
ness. Deficiencies in security safeguards must
necessarily limit the exchange of intelligence ob-
tained covertly by any of the nations involved, and
particularly the United States, which has the most
sophisticated system and hence the greatest need for
protection.

This defect promises to persist, since the
governments of some countries have little desire
to develop a competent career security service.

There is a fear that the existence of an efficient
service would constitute a threat to further activi-
ties of members of the existing governments at such
time as they might find themselves out of power.
Moreover, many Latin American intelligence services
tend to label as "subversives" those of their own
nationals resident in other countries who are opposed
to the existing government,

These realities all underscore the fact that
multilateral intelligence exchange must be approached

on a most circumscribed basis. It should not be

SECRET 3

HW 50955 DOOTaTsS7424008 Page 6
 

 

/ SECRET cae peracus ATTACHMENTS

oe

eB

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE : °

15 March 1963
MEMO NO. 42 MR. JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.
Special Assistant to the ;
Secretary of the Army : . .
SUBJECT: Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee ©
of Cuban Affairs: Exchange of
Intelligence Concerning Communist
Subversive Activities
With reference to your Memo No. 19, comments

are submitted herewith in the form of hand-written

changes to one copy of subject paper.

Ei. UMWART, Jr. :

Cap¥sin USN

Attachment
As stated above

UNCLASSITIED WHey
A
ARE DETAG TTACIMENTS

SECRET |

A 9407.

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424008 Page 2
 

 

 

198-4000740015, OSS

 

   

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/24/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: — 198-10007-10015

RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: OASD
FROM: E.R. ZUMWALT
TO: JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.

TITLE: ICCCA: EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE CONCERNING COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE
ACTIVITIES

DATE: — 03/15/1963
PAGES: 13

, SUBJECTS :
COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
EXCHANGE OF. INTELLIGENCE, LATIN AMERICA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: = 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 02/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS : Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder 10. Memo for Califano from Zumwalt re: second working draft of
"Cuba: The Exchange of Intelligence Concerning Communist Subversive Activities.”

 

TK RereI

partment of the Army EO 13528
Declassify [ Exclude © Exempt
Authority,

———
© Reter To
Review oaeQ/Yoaicay LES —

 

 

v9.1 24
HW 50955 Docld:32424008 Page i
i OSb/i 5a Me Seobwe
Gpt 2 imamwarr YE FrF

‘SECRET
SUB-COMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION
15 March 1963

TO SERVICE, OSD AND JOINT STAFF. CONTACT POINTS:
_This is our final effort on the paper for
| exchange of intelligence. Please give me your views

on the manuscript by 1500 today.

-V. H. KRULAK
Major General, USMC

: GROUP-1
SECRET EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
; DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

HW 50955 Docld:32424008 Page 3
SECRET

SECOND WORKING DRAFT
CUBA
THE EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE
CONCERNING COMMUNIST SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES

I. Introduction

In combatting Castro-Communist subversion through-
out Latin America, there is a fundamental requirement for
intelligence -- a requirement which involves the timely
acquisition and processing of information as well as its
rapid dissemination, on a selective basis, to countries
concerned, While efforts are now being made by CIA, AID,
and the U.S, Military Services to improve Latin American
intelligence systems, success thus far has been limited,
and much remains to be done. It is not with this broad
problem, however, that this paper is primarily concerned,
but rather with the narrower matter of the need for a
stronger program of exchanging essential information re-
garding Communist subversion in Latin America among those

who need to know it.

SECRET

HW 50955 Doocld:32424008 Page 4
