SECRET
-6-

conceal illicit arms traffic out of Cuba) had developed
between British Guiana and Cuba. Investigations to date
have been negative.

4. Control of Transfer of Funds

Department of State

Cooperated with the Foreign Assets Control Office
of the Treasury Department in developing blocking controls
with respect to Cuba which went into effect on July 9, 1963.

5. Strengthening of Counter-Insurgency Capabilities

Department of Defense

a. Continued the installation of military communica-
tions facilities in Latin America. Operational dates for
the multi-channel radio stations to be installed in Managua,
Nicaragua and Tegucigalpa, Honduras have been delaved to 15
October 1963 and 15 December 1963, respectively because of
new engineering and contractual requirements. Negotiations
are continuing with Colombia and Ecuador for installation
of U.S. military radio facilities. Completion of a new
commercial trans-isthmian cable in the Panama Canal Zone
within the coming month is expected to improve military
communications within the United States and the Commander-
in-Chief, U.S. Southern Command.

b. Continued the surveillance of Cuba by U.S.
Forces, reporting as before to U.S. commanders, organiza~
tions and agencies. Reports of surveillance have been
disseminated to all who have a requirement to know.

ec. Established a 24 hour per day, 7 day per week
duty watch at the U.S. Military Groups in the Caribbean
countries in conjunction with implementation of the military
alerting system. Continued efforts to staff the U.S.
Southern Command Intelligence Center with properly cleared,
trained personnel (this center is the military focal point
for relaying information concerning the movement of
subversives). Filled, partially, the authorized billets in

SECRET

NW 50955 Docld:32424608 Page 9
SECRET.
-7-

the U.S. Southern Command Intelligence Center and took
under consideration the problem of an increase in the billet
structure in the Center. The Commander-in-Chief, U.S.
Southern Command together with his intelligence officer
visited Honduras and Nicaragua and determined that no
significant problems existed which would interfere with
effective operations in those countries.

d. Action previously initiated by the Commander,
U.S. Naval Forces, Southern Command (COMUSNAVSO) to establish
a Small Craft Inspection and Training Team (SCIATT) as a
contribution to the Caribbean Surveillance System is progress-
ing satisfactorily. Permanent assignment of U.S. Coast Guard
personnel to SCIATT in the Canal Zone has been approved and
the U.S. Coast Guard has taken appropriate implementing
actions.

e. During the period of this report, the SCIATT con-
ducted an on-the-job training course at Puntarenas, Costa
Rica. Training was given to 13 members of the Guardia Civil
eof Costa Rica who were either newly assigned to the 40 foot
Coast Guard utility boats (CGUBs) or were to be assigned as
replacement crew members.

£. A quarterly inspection and evaluation of the CGUBs
provided other Central American countries was conducted
during the period 17 to 31 August by a mobile training team
(MTT) made up of SCIATT personnel.

g- Continued efforts to improve the internal security
of Latin American armies through the provision of Intelligence
Advisors. Presently there are such advisors assigned to 14
Latin countries, emphasizing counterintelligence and counter-
subversion.

h. During the reporting period MITs conducted train-
ing in counterinsurgency for the armed forces of Colombia,
Bolivia, Venezuela, Peru and E1 Salvador.

i. Civic Action MITs were sent to Guatemala, Bolivia,
Colombia, El Salvador, Jamaica and Ecuador.

SECRET.

HW 50955 Docld:32424608 Page 10
SECRET
-5-
3. Control of Clandestine Movement of Guerrillas and Arms

Department of Defense

a. Continued surveillance of the area surrounding
Cuba during the months of July and August at the same rate
and with the same emphasis as prior to 1 July 1963.

b. Continued to maintain U.S. Forces, primarily from
within the Atlantic Command, available to assist other
Caribbean governments in the interception of suspicious craft
in territorial waters, as might be requested. No such
requests were received from any other government during the
period covered by this report. However, U.S. Forces did keep
track of the location of the Soviet merchant freighter
MITCHURINSK, which was suspected of carrying subversives and
arms from Cuba to British Guiana in mid-July. MITCHURINSK
was under U.S. surveillance from its departure from Habana.
until United Kingdom forces assumed the task of keeping this
ship under surveillance upon its approach to Georgetown,
British Guiana. Subsequently, British police search of
MITCHURINSK in British Guiana waters revealed nothing of a
suspicious nature.

Central Intelligence Agency

 

 

 

 

the Peruvian Government late in August published a new anti-
terrorists law providing a penalty of no less than five
years imprisonment for persons who participate in guerrilla
activities or in the illegal manufacture of weapons or
explosives.

The Peruvian _National Intelligence Service is working
on a lead furnished concerning a
290 ton vessel reportedly involved in arms traffic.

 

 

 

 

Department of State

Instructed our Consulate General in Georgetown to
investigate reports that commercial cargoes (which could

SECRET

HW 50955 DoclId: 324274608 Page 8
SECRET
. -4-

GOTT to control movements of aircraft within their territory,
citing examples of such controls instituted by Mexico, Canada
and Ireland. He indicated receptiveness to the proposal that
the list of suggestions be made available to the aviation
officials concerned.

j. During a previous reporting period Embassy
Santiago urged the government of Chile to refuse visas to
Cuban delegated to a preparatory meeting for the IT Latin
American Youth Congress scheduled for August in the Chilean
capital. Inability of Cuban delegates to chtein Chilean
visas for this meeting is one of the contributing factors to
the Cuban sponsors announcing during August that the meeting
had been postponed.

k. Sent general instructions to our missions in
countries which participate in the International Union of
Architects asking them to urge the coop:ration of governmental
authorities in preventing or discouragicz the attendance of
their nationals to the VII UIA Congress in Habana, September
29 - October 4, 1963. Followed this up with instructions to
individual posts to try where feasible to dissuade
architects from free world countries from serving on the jury
for the selection of a Bay of Pigs monument.

1. Urged Canadian Government to block a plan to
commence food parcel shipments to Cuba on a commercial basis
that would have required the establishment of scheduled
weekly charter flights by Canadian planes.

2. Control of Movement of Cuban Propaganda
Central Intelligence Agency

police
of the State of Guanabara seized large quantities of

propaganda brought into Brazil by passengers on the special
Cubana flights. For example, some 50 pounds of printed
propaganda was taken from the various passengers who arrived
on the 16 August Cubana flight.

 

SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32424608 Page 7
SECRET
~Qe

on Cuban merchant ships. Efforts are being made to obtain
more information and to encourage stricter controls by the
Mexican authorities.

Department of State

a. Instructed Embassy Conakry to try to persuade
Guinean authorities to deny use of airport facilities by
flights on Habana-Moscow route. These efforts achieved a
temporary withholding of permission for future regular flights,
at least until such time as the Soviets develop their own
refueling facilities at Conakry. :

b. Instructed Embassy Rio to approach Brazilian
authorities to express our deep concern at the growing
frequency of Cuban non-scheduled flights to Brazil and request
their cooperation in curbing them. Also instructed our
Embassies in several Latin American countries to work with CIA
station chiefs in furnishing the names of nationals of those
countries travelling on these flights to local authorities
and urging them: (1) to institute tighter controls on their
own citizens travelling to Cuba, and (2) to express their
concern to the Brazilian Government over Cuban use of Brazil
as a way station for transporting subversives.

c. As a result of representations made to the
British Government about Cuban flights to the Cayman Islands
carrying Latin American subversives, the British developed
an administrative scheme which will effectively prohibit the
use of British Caribbean dependencies by Cubana as transit
points for passengers. The British intend to require transit
visas of passengers passing through their areas, and to
reject applications. for such visas except in certain special
cases. Persons not possessing visas would be prevented from
leaving their aircraft, or would be returned to their point
of origin.

d. Instructed Embassy Mexico City on August 29 to
inform the Mexican airline CMA that the United States is
opposed to a proposal that CMA operate charter flights to

. SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32424608 Page 5
SECRET
-3-

carry refugees from Habana to Central America. CMA, as a
result, stated that they had no intention of proceeding
further with this project.

e. Instructed our missions in Curacao. and the Hague
to investigate a report that KLM was planning to renew
scheduled Curacao-Habana flights and to reiterate US
opposition to resumption of air service to Cuba. KLM assured
our Embassy that there is no plan to initiate service,
scheduled or non-scheduled, to Habana.

£. Instructed Embassy Ottawa to express our strong
objections to a proposal that a Cubana charter flight pick
up a second group of U.S. students in Montreal to fly them
to Cuba. The flight was not authorized.

g. Instructed Consulate Georgetown to investigate
Cubana approaches to secure flight facilities. Mission
reported on August 1 that the Governor bad no knowledge of
any talks between the B.G. Ministry of Communications and
the Cuban Government regarding landing rights for Cubana
planes. The Governor indicated his intention to inquire
further and to keep us advised. London reported that neither
the Cuban nor the British Guiana Governments had raised the
issue of landing rights with H.M.G.

h. Urged the governments of Mexico, Canada, Jamaica
and the Netherlands to refuse to assist the Cuban Government
in its efforts to find a short route for return of the 58
American students who illegally travelled to Cuba. Also
informed Pan American Airways that we were opposed to a Cuban
request for a PAA charter flight to fly the students from
Habana to New York.

i. Instructed our missions at Port of Spain and
Barbados on several occasions to approach these governments
to express the concern of the U.S. at indications of Cuban
interest in the use of their aviation facilities.

Embassy Port of Spain discussed with the Foreign Secretary
of Trinidad various legal moves available that would enable

SECRET

NW 50955 Docld:32424608 Page 6
 

 

 

 

SEGRED

82 OCT ws .

MEMORANDUM NO. 72 FOR CAPTAIN ©. RB. ZUMWALT, JR... USH (OSD)
MAJOR GENERAL FT. B. ALGER, USA ;
REAR ADMIBAL UW. WENDT, USN
MAJOR GENERAL 3. W. CARPENTER, Ml, Ugar
BRIGADIER GENERAL W. K. JONES, USMC

SEBIEGT: interdepartemantal Coordiasting Committde of Guban Affaizar
Actions Taken Dering July-August 1965 ta Curbing Cuban
Sabversios in Latin America

Attached is the final report of the Subcommittes: on Subversion on
Actions Taken Daviag July-Auguat 1063 in Curbing Cuban Subversion in
Latin America.

Signed
Joseph A. Califano,Jr.

Joseph A, Galifans, Jz.
Geseoral Counsel

Ag Stated

4 (Os
ce: Ni, Pormatccahy (OY)

Mr. Califano
Mt Col Haigs -
ASG

Wigs

QIVLE-

Loo eaere ee

REGRADED 5) UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED
SECRET FROM CLASSLFLED LNCLOSURES .

HW 50955 Docld:32424608 Page 2

 

 
 

 

198-10008-10119 oo

 

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/24/201
Identification Form

 

 

Agency Information

 

 

 

: AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: —198-10008-10119 ~
RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ;
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: ARMY
FROM: JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.
TO: CAPT. ZUMWALT ET AL
TITLE: 1ICCCA: ACTIONS TAKEN DURING JULY-AUGUST 1963 IN CURBING CUBAN SUBVERSION
DATE: 10/14/1963
PAGES: 20
SUBJECTS :
COUNTERSUBVERSION PROGRAM
TRAVEL OF LATIN AMERICANS TO CUBA
CUBAN SUBVERSION
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 06/01/1998

COMMENTS :

 

OPENING CRITERIA :

Califano Papers, Box 2, Folder 25. Memo No. 71 from Joseph Califano with attached report of
Subcommittee on Subversion. 5

TER Revi
Bioecn eB Bekae Ebene
i] Refer To

rane erent
Review Date ZULISByLLLED YY 9

NO STATE OBJECTION
TO DEGLASSIFICATION
BY. DATE SfGle

 

vO.1

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424608 Page i
q
- @ This - ) Jeli

nt consist
SECRET "0/3. op a ened LE Pages
~-COpies, Series 6

REPORT OF THE SUB-COMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION:
ACTIONS TAKEN DURING JULY-AUGUST 1963

IN CURBING CUBAN SUBVERSION IN LATIN AMERICA

SECRET.

ggA, ASG Control WASPS E.. GROUP
Exeludeq £ :
2d from
downgrading ang Mette
declassification

HY 50955 Docld:32424608 Page 3
SECRET

1. Control of Travel to and from Cuba

 

Central Intelligence enc

a. Developed highly useful information on frequency
of Cuban "chartered" flights to Brazil, names and nationali-
ties of passengers and crew, and lax measures of control
followed by Brazilian authorities. Transmitted this informa-
tion to station chiefs in the Latin American countries of the
non-Brazilians travelling on those flights.

b. Maintained close watch over travel to and from
Cuba. See Annex B for table of known travel of Latin
Americans during July and August.

 

ec. As a result of info ion furnished to him by
the CIA Station in Buenos Aires

 

 

[ _ jindicated that he would
make every effort to prevent Argentine delegates from attend-
ing the International Union of Architects Congress in Havana.

 

d. At the urging of the CIA Station and the Embassy,
the Bolivian Minister of Interior issued in mid-July an
order prohibiting the granting of travel permits to Cuba or
other bloc countries to Bolivian nationals.

 

 

e. |
| the Government of Chile prohibited the
entry into Chile of organizers of the Cuban-sponsored Second
Latin American Youth Congress, which had been scheduled to
take place in Santiago in August. This was one of the
factors which led to postponement of the Congress.

 

 

 

 

f. After considerable prodding by the CIA Station
and the Embassy the Minister of Public Security of Costa
Rica presented legislative proposals to the Costa Rican
Assembly which will require all persons intending to travel
to Communist countries to have their travel approved by a
newly created Costa Rican security agency.

g. CIA Station in Mexico City developed information
concerning the clandestine arrival of passengers in Vera Cruz

GROUP 1 SECRET

HW 50955 DoclId:32424608 Page 4
