 

 

 

 

(2) By an interplay of diplomatic pressure and
political warfare to cause the Kremlin leadership to
conclude that disengagesgent from its overextended and
precarious position in Cuba would be in the best
Soviet interest, The President and his representatives
cau put the Soviets on notice via diplomatic channels
and in private confidential discussion that US
rapprochement with Castro ig excluded from conmideration,
and that the existence of the Castro regime is a serious
impediment to detente with the USSR. The US could offer
to assist the Soviets in finding a face-saving way to
withdraw gracefully trom Cuba without serious loag-term
damage to its prestige, a technique already succese fully
applied during the missile crisia of Uctober 1962. CIA
could gupport this effort by covert political and deception
operations to exacerbate existing tensions between Caatro
and the Soviets by causing Castro to believe that the
Soviets are engaged in secae@t negotiations with the US
to climinate him,

(3) There is still considerable opportunity for
tightening the economic nooge sround Castro if the U3
is prepared to incur the temporary displeasure of certain
allies and neutral countries. More severe US saactions
against countries that trade with or ship to Cuba could
be imposed. We are particularly concerned with tie current
trade and shipping practices of Canada, the UK, Spain,
and Japan,

(4) UB military feints could be undertaken designed
to create and maintain a high state of anxiety within
the Castro regime regarding US intentions. Supported by
covert political and deception operations theme feintsa
woulc cauge frequent Cuban military alerts and constant
moveient of Cuban forces throughout the island.

(5) Initiation of frequent low level reconnaissance
flights would provide additional useful intelligence on
Cuban and Soviet military movements. These flights would
algo have a positive pweychological effect inmide Cuba in
demonstrating US contempt for Castro in a vigible and
dramatic manner.

B. Actions in Latin Amewica. Ag Castro's domestic position
deteriorates, he is likely, In desperation, to become inereag ingly
ruthless and reckless in fomenting subversion, violence, and
revolution in Latin America. It thus becomes eepecially import-
ant to make certain that Castro does not outflank US efforts by

 

Nat 50955 Docld: 32423615 Page 9
 

 

 

ye

sllowing hia a major succeas somewhere in Latin America
sueh ag he has sought to achieve in Venesuela.

 

It would be umrealistic to expect muck in the way
of militant or aggressive action against Castro from the
OAS or most of the individual Letin Americans countries strong
enough or so geographically loeated as to make any significant
contribution. But the wulnerability of O43 countries to
Castro's subversive activitiew provides all the more reason
for an OAS that has the gubstance ag well am the forms of an
allianee. Yor thi@ reason we would place high op the list of
US actions » sove to revitalize the GAS. Although many of
the actions listed beléw could be undertaken unilaterally by
the US, a coordinated OAS approach would not only increase
their effectiveness, but reduce their risk. In cases where
it ia impossible to get wholehearted asd uganimous partici-
pation by the OAS, it sheuld be our guiding principle to
bring ag many Latin American countries as possible along
with usa, by bilateral agreements if necessary.

The following actions with respect to Latin America
are espentially defensive in the senge that they are designed
to thwart Cagtro's subversive efforta in this region. We
agsume that they will be acgompanied by long-term programs
to build up the stability and etreagth of friendly Latin
American regimes:

(1) Perhaps the most important action the US
could take to igolate Cuba from Latin America and ;
insulate these countries from Cuban subversion efforts
i@ to quarantine covert arme, equipment, an@ personnel
shipments by air or sea from Cuba to Latin America.
For gaximm effect, the gordon, preferably sanctioned
by and participated in by the OAS, should be drawn aa
cleee to Cuban shores as ia tactically possible. It
eugt be recognised that this quarantine would not be
fully effective, but it would previde a legal basis
for peisning and searching Cuban, and, if necemsary
non-Cuban, vessels and aireraft at will to det See.
whether they are engaged in running arms, equipment, ~
and mea to Latin America.

(3) Early recognition ef the Dominieaa and
Honduran govermments would asmiet our efferts agninst
. Castro. Twe strongly anti-Castre govermments would
be added to the support ef the US in the G48 and
additional Caribbean beges for operations againgt
Castro would heeeme svailabie.

 

Naw 50955 Docld:32423615 Page 10
 

 

 

 

 

number of raidg againgt Cuba. With regard to quality,
we have long recognised the importance of incapacitating
the critical power plants and o11l refineries in the
Havana, Batanzas, and Santiago areas of Cuba. But
unduly hezardoug operational conditions around these
installations for maritime raids and con¢ern over the
political repercussions of the capture of comma ndog
gent on these missions, have militated against mounting
such raids. Moreover, the effective damage that can be
done to these heavily defended targets by small teans
now used covertly ig problematical. A number of these
targets, however, can he effectively attacked from the
air under acceptable rigk conditiong. We, therefore,
propoge the following:

(2) Authorization to couduct CIA or autononoug
group controlled air atrikeg agninst selected Aa jor
economic targets such ag the power plants and oi}
refinertes in the Havana, Matanzas, and Santiaga
areas of Cuba,

il. xo ton by Other Governmental Agencies, Suppor ted
by C1A as_ opriate.  Unlese all governmental agencies accord
the highest i eeree of priority and urgency to bringing about
the downfall of the Castro regime, an intensification of the
covert action progras alone ig not likely to achieve the
desired result, Accordingly, we recommend that the following
Proposals be given renewed emphasis or be initiated Af not
already in effect:

A. Actions Against Cuba
qQ)

 

Ng 50955 Docld: 32423615 Page 6

 
 

(5) General sabotage and harassment -— ,
gabotage in this program ig both an economic
Weapon and a stimulus to resistance. Since the
approval of the program, four externally
mounted sabotage operations have been successful
(Santa Lucia ~ Cagsilda ~ La Isabela — Cayo Gutn),
Three additional were ready to go, but for
several reasons including weather, were recalled
at the last minute. While it is recognized that
no single act of sabotage will materially affect
the economy, we believe these sabotage raids have
had a significant cumulative effect and should be
continued,

 

We believe the recent rise in internal
sabotage and increased disaffection and demoraliza-
tion in the armed forces are partly due to the
impact of thege externally mounted sabotage raida.

(6) Support of autonomous anti-Cagtro Cuban
groups to supplement and assist in the execu toa
of the above course of action —~ in order to expand
wabotage and resistance activities it has become
necessary to accept the risks involved in utilizing
autonomous Cuban exile groups and individuals who
will not necessarily be responsive to our guidance.
Substantial progress ig being made in this part of
the program and we expect the first infiltration
and sabotage operations to begin in mid-January.

 

B, Suggeations for Intensification of Covert Action
Programs Directed Against Cuba. “Ae wtated above, the ~~
primary objective of the Govert action program ia to
create conditions and exploit all opportunities which
could lead to a coup against the Castro regime.- Under
the program approved in mid-June 1963, we have adequate
policy latitude and we are now making maximum use of
CIA's resources to purgue our operationg. In our
judgment, however, the category of sabotage and haragsa—
ment should be intensified, at least for the next
year, both as to quantity and quality, if the overall
progran ig to have a chance of producing the desired
results. With regard to quantity, the pelicy decision
to ban non-CIA sponsored exile raida from U8 and
Bahaman territory bag given CIA a virtual monopoly in
this field, but it hag algo Grastically reduced the

 

 

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423815 Page 7 -
1

 
 

 

 

 

im the asbeence of an actual declaration ef war, would almost
eertainly result im a gabsetamtial reaction against the
bleckaders (whether the UB alene er the OAS in its entirety)
and considerable oppose iesee even among our closest allies in
Western Europe, gopec: ily af it were a prolonged blockade.
The international reaetion @ ie wou pro! y

redueed if the bleckade were:

a. Selective (i.e., limited te POL and
munitions);

b. A quarantine of covert shipments of
areas, equipment, and personne] between Cuba
and Latin America (see paragraph 11 B (1)
below).

e. An operation in which there were very
gubstantial participation by other OAS countries;

dad. An action following a clear and convincing
ease that Castro was engaged in subversion through-
out Latin America.

@. Of short duration and resulted in the
overthrow of the Castro regime from within.

8. Ag in the enge of an invasion, Soviet reaction will
probably be more likely to take place in Berlin (where their
strategic position ia as faverable to them ag ours in Cuba
is to us). Thus, if this course were pursued, it should be
done recognizing that a counterbleckade of Berlin and
incidents involving Soviets ships in Cuban waterg will almost
certainly be an immediate congequence.

C. Actions Shert_of Invasion of Complete Bieckade

9, Both an invasion and a blockade are high-risk actions
which would represent a major change not only in our Cuban
policy, but in our international policy as well. For thig :
reagon, doweatic political ag well as the broadest strategic i
military and fereign policy considerations would be involved. :
There are, however, certain courses of action which could
be directed against Castro in Cube and Latin America which
ave less risky than either an invasion or blockade, but would
invelve ® substantially higher “soige level" and risk ef con-
frontation with the Bovieta then thoae presently in eZfect.
Some of these have been considered in the past, but have been
rejected, upually either on grounds of exceseive risk er lack
of feasibility. We believe it is new appropriate te reconsider

om

 

| HW 50955 Docld:32423815 Page 5
 

 

 

theme and ether actione designed to step up the intensity
and pace of overt and covert actions whose purpose is to
bring about the downfall of the Castro regime in the fore-
geeable future. The statue of current programs and recom-
mendations for future action are diacuased below.

 

10, CIA Activities

A. CIA's Integrated Covert Action Prograa
‘foward Cuba, approved by higher authority in mid-
June 1563)" congistsa of the following interdependent
coursea of action and has ande progress as indicated
below:

(1) Covert collection of intelligence, both
for US strategic requirements ag well ag for
operational requireaynts - covert collection
of intelligence utilizes all collection techniques
both within Cuba as well os against Cuban inatalla~
ticog and per#onnel] abroad. The quantity and
quality of this intelligence continues to improve,
although @till far from our goals.

(2) Propaganda actions to stimulate low-risk
simple sabotage and other formas of active and
pagmpive resistance - ClA-controlled radio programs
and other propaganda media directed at Cuba en-
courage low-risk simple sabotage and other forms
of active and pagsgive resistance. These uedia
also seek to stimlate and exacerbate tensions
within the regime and between Cuba and the
Soviet Blét, takiag advanteaa of Sino-Soviet
tengions. The program includes both mailing
and radio operations.

(3) Economic denial actiong - government-wide
overt official UB economic sanctionga in conjunction
with covert econouic denial operations are cauging a
warked adverse effect on the Cuban economy.

(4) Exploitation and stimlation of disatf-
fection in the Cuban military and other power
centers - we are undertaking an intenmive probing
effort to identify, seek out, and establiah
channels ef communication with disaffected and
potentially digsident non-Communist elements in
the power centers of the regine, par tieularly in
the armed forces hierarchy. The objective is to
stimulate an internal eoup which would dislodge
Castro and his entourage. We curreatiy are in
direct contact with eral individuals ingide Cuba
who may be of (uspid nee fer this program.

 

| aw 50955 Docld: 32423615 Page 6

 
 

 

_ S gaet

® December 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence
THROUGE: — Deputy Director (Intelligence)

SUBJECT: Considerations for US Policy Toward
Cuba and Latin America

1. US POLICY OBJECTIVES

1. US policy toward Latin America ig to increase the
stability of the area, to strengthen friendly democratic
governments, and to prevent the establishment of Castroite
and anti-US regimes. None of these seem attainable so long
ag Castro, with Soviet gupport, rules in Cuba. Accordingly,
the most immediate US objective in Cuba ia the replacement
of the Castro-Communist regime by one compatible with the
goals of the United States. Current US policy in pursuance
of this objective is to isolate Cuba from the Western Hemi-
sphere and the rest of the Free World and to exert maximum
possible preasures, short of open and direct US militar
intervention, te prevent the consolidation and sta tion
of the Castro-Comminist regime. The CIA covert action pro-
gram is designed to gupport other governmental measures to
proliferate and intensify the pressures on Castro; its
ultimate purpose ig to encourage dissident elements, particu-
larly in the military, to carry out a coup and eliminate
Castro and the Soviet presence in Cuba.

II. PROSPECTS FOR ACHIEVING THESE OBJECTIVES

2. The situation in Cuba is characterized by economic
stagnation, depressed living conditions, the logs of
revolutionary impetus, and the digillugionment of an in-
creasingly large majority of the population. To some extent
thie ig a rewult of innate economic deficiencies in Cuba,
and more recently, Hurricane Flora; but to a considerable
extent, the problems confronting the Castro regime have been
magnified by Cagtro's own ineptitude and by the U8 policy of
economic and political isolation, and other harassment and
sabotage measures. Castro's position appears te be eroding
gradually and recently he has been forced to adopt increasingly
harsh meagures to maintain hig control. We believe that a
continuation of present US policy over the next 18 to 24
months will produce a gubstantial further deterioration in

oy

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423815 Page 2
 

 

 

98-10006-10000

 

 

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

 

 

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD 'SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

"ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

 

Agency Information

ARMY °
198-10006-10000

CALIFANO PAPERS

6/24/20!

 

~ Document Information

CIA
FITZGERALD/COOPER
DCI

CONSIDERATIONS FOR US POLICY TOWARDS CUBA AND LATIN AMERICA

12/09/1963

13

CIA COVERT ACTION PROGRAM
COURSES OF ACTION
POLICY OBJECTIVES TOWARD CUBA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B; IC

Redact

02/06/1998

Califano Papers, Box 4, Folder 1. Memo for DCI regarding U.S. policy toward Cuba.

"0 12528 orth

ween
paves : pga

TE OBJECTION
toot iis SSIFICATIONy o ie i

 

 

vo.

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423815 Page i
 

 

 

 

ART

the Cuban economy and in Cuban morale, with consequent
serious implications for Cagtro's position. But US pressures
must be intengifieé if the deteriorating situation within
Cuba is to result in the overthrow of the Castro regime in
the foreseeable future.

3. Despite whatever probleam he hag been having in

Cuba (or perhaps because of them), Cantro has recently intensi-
fied actions aimed at fomenting violence, subversion and
revolution throughout Letin America. Given stable political
conditions in thie region, Cagtro's limited subversive capa
bilities would pose no immediate threat to US interests.

But since political conditions are highly fragile in many
Latin American countries, the threat from Castro is real and
disproportionate to his own meager aesets, His urgent need
to achieve some sarly triumph has impelled him to shake off
his recent caution as evidenced by the Cuban arms cache dis~
covered in Venezuela, his call for violent revolutionary
action to take place in Peru, Bragil, and Panama, in December,
and hig threat to cut off support from his followers in other
countries unless they initiate early action. While we believe
that theme actions are evidence of some desperation and that
they may even backfire, they nevertheless demonstrate Castro's
determination to purgue an all-out campaign of revolution.

The key questions then, are how much t ine does Castro have
and, in this time, can he set dangerous revolutionary fires
throughout the hemisphere. A corollary question is whether
present U8 policy vis-a-vis Cuba and Latin America meets |
present US requirements. Our view is that the pace is slow.
and ig allowing Castro a dangerous latitude in hig Latin
‘American program of subversion and revolution, We believe
that Castro's recent activities in Latin America now provide
us with our opportunity to pursue a more openly aggressive

retaliation approgch againgt the Castro regime, both unilaterally

as well ag in collaboration with the countries of the OAS for
Joint action designed to remove Castro.

III. COURSES OF ACTION
A. Invasion

4. <A guccessful invasion of Cuba would provide the most
direct, simplest, and expeditious way of removing Castro.
This courge has been shunned up to now largely because of
concern for world reactions and the possibility of ssacalation
into global war with the foviet Union, which ig at least
morally committed to defend the Castre regime. However,
several new factors have become apparent gince the gning and
costs of an invasion course were lagt thoroughly examined over

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423815 Page 3
 

 

 

& year ago and we beliove that o roappraisal io nou warranted,
The USSR ic having ceonomic GiAfLiculticn, tho Sime-Soviet
PAgt bas widomed, and tico azeng tho Enstarn Buropeam cotele
litoa have lessomed = all of vhich might have a wodernting
influonco on Soviet renctions to a move agninst Cube. Ag

for Cactro, hic digfieultiog at homo and bio bobavior abroad
moy Veakon bin ability to defend hig islomd while at tho

same timo encourage other Latin American governmonts to
undertako moro aggrcssive actions,

5. Rogardleas of any of theso recent developments, we
muct recognize that an inygeion of Cuba carries great risk
of a US-Soviet confrontation (probably in Berlin rather than
Cuba), Tho risk of such a confrontation would bo less if an
invosion was clearly a result of a unanimous OAS decision
and if the invading forces were gonulmoly multilateral in
sompogition than if the attack on Cuba was strictly a uni-~-
lateral US action, In fact, anything more than a unilateral
U8 action, even though substantially leap than an OAS action,
would take some of the edge off tho risks implicit in an
invasion. Tho rigk of confrontation would be substantially
lesa if multilateral OAS action wore coupled with unrest

naide a leading to 2 coup. Yn any case, however, the
USSR would probably atep up tengions sharply in Berlin and
we should be prepnred for gtraing among our NATO allies.
This will be especially true if the invagion were undertaken
without prior NATO consultation,

 

6. Finally, 1t should be noted that the President told
Mikoyan on 26 November that the US wags not. planning to invade
Cuba. A US invasion in the face of the President's remarks
might reflect on the good faith of the President and the
eredibility of future US discussions with high Soviet officials.
On the other hand, Mikoyan asserted that “Ciba was too small
to subvert anyone;" clearly demonstrable evidence that Castro
was, in fact, engaging in subversion would provide sufficient
justification to warrant a revergal of any commitment, explicit
or implicit, that was made to Mikoyan, If an invagion were
an OAS affair, (or even undertaken by several Latin American
countries who were conspicuous targets of Castro's subversive
activities) so much the better.

B. Blockade
7. A complete and successful blockade of Cuba ineludi
g down

@1l Soviet Bloc shipping, could be ox ted to brin
Castro from within, short oF an actual Tavasion. Bich & move,

HW 50955 Docld:32423815 Page 4
