 

 

 

SECRET

cooperative distributor CODILIBRO (Cooperativa Distributidora
de Libros), which is the Hemisphere's largest distributor of
Communist books, serves most of the Communist/Castro publishers
of Argentina, The Communist publishing house in Uruguay,
Ediciones Pueblos Unidos (EPU), also serves as an important
outlet for Castro/Communist propaganda.

Excluding TASS and New China News Agency (NCNA), Prensa
Latina, the official Cuban news agency, is the principal
Communist fast news agency operating in Latin American, and
its services are used by media of far-left or overt Communist
orientation. Prensa Latina is operating openly but not entirely
without restriction in ten Latin American countries --

Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Costa Rica, Honduras,
Mexico, Panama and Uruguay. Although its users are limited
chiefly to the above-mentioned media, in some countries there
is fairly extensive unattributed use of Prensa Latina releases,
especially in radio. There are 326 Communist and pro~Communist
newspapers and periodicals in-Latin America. Infiltration .
of the democratic press and the non-critical attitude of some

newspapermen help give wider diffusion of the Cuban propaganda

line,

SECRET T

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423820 Page 9
 

 

 

 

Feature films and short documentaries relating to the

Cuban revolution produced by the Cuban Institute of Motion

Picture Art and Industry (ICAIC) play a more direct propaganda
role than the films imported from the Bloc countries. Since
the Cuban films tend to stress propaganda rather than art,
and are, moreover, subject to confiscation because of illegal
importation, their showings have been limited primarily to
the binational centers and pro~ Communist labor and student
groups, and to private or clandestine meetings.

Gultural Activities

Penetration under the guise of "cultural" activities is
a highly favored Communist propaganda technique in Latin
America, There are 64 Cuban binational centers and friend-
ship societies in the area, These vary in size and strength
from mere paper organizations to active fronts such as exist
in Mexico. These organizations serve as selection points for
scholarships to Cuba. Current examples of the use of these
front groups for Castro propaganda purposes are the upcoming
"Continental Congress of Solidarity with Cuba" which is
scheduled to meet in Rio de Janeiro in mid-March and the "Latin

American Youth Congress" scheduled for Santiago, Chile.

SECRET 8

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423820 Page 10
 

 

 

“}

 

C . CS

SECRET

similar front organizations serve as reception and dissemination
points for Cuban propaganda materials, To carry its propaganda
message to Latin America, Cuba greatly increased its output of
periodicals and other publications directed at both mass and
specialized audiences, More than 30 different Cuban periodicals
circulate in the Hemisphere including, Bohemia, Verde Olivo

and Trabajo which enjoy wide circulation. It is not possible

to estimate the amount of Cuban printed material that is smuggled
into the other American Republics,

In addition to the use of Cuban diplomatic missions,
Communist Parties, binational centers and other front groups,
there are some 228 publishing houses and bookstroes which serve
as outlets for these Cuban publications in all Latin American
countries except Dominican Republic, Paraguay, Nicaragua,
and Venezuela. Many of these offer books and publications at
very low prices or give away two or three books with the purchase
of one, and easy credit terms are available to anyone showing
an interest in the Cuban publications,

Decrees banning Communist activity and propaganda have
not prevented the continued clandestine publication and dis-
tribution of a number of periodicals, books and other printed

materlals in some countries, notably Argentina. The Argentina

SECRET 6

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423820 Page 6

 
 

 

 

 

 

ae Cc SC

SECRET

Time is regularly allotted on Radio Havana to such groups
of foreign nationals residing in Cuba as the so-called
"Dominican Liberation Movement", the "Peruvian Anti-Imperialist
Movement", the "Honduran Liberation Movement" and the "Guatemalan
Information Committee", All of these broadcasts incite their
listeners to revolt against their present governments, In the
aftermath of the October crisis, the Cuban broadcasts have
grown increasingly explicit in their attempts to incite violence.
In recent months, the Venezuelan Government of Romulo Betancourt
has been the target of very heavy Cuban attack, and special
programs beamed to the Dominican Republic have been attacking
President Bosch, -

Communists and other Castro agents have been singularly
‘unsuccessful in placing radio material on local medium wave
stations in Latin America and they do little or no television
placement. Their prime medium is short wave broadcasting.

Press and Publications

Despite restrictions imposed by many Latin American
nations, Communist printed materials from Havana, Moscow and
Peking still move fairly easily in the area, The Cuban
Embassies in the five countries still maintaining diplomatic
relations with the Castro regime supplement the long-established
Soviet propaganda channels through their Mexico City, Montevideo

and Buenos Aires Embassies. Cuban binational centers and

SECRET 5

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423820 Page 7
 

 

mee Cc oN

SECRET

social-reform movements and the growing activity of the
Catholic Church in the field of social reform, Nevertheless,
means of transmission and dissemination of propaganda materials
are impressive by their number and variety.- $
Though more intelligence is needed on the volume of
printed propaganda being transmitted from Cuba by air and sea
to other Latin American countries, it is possible to eurtail
the bulk of these movements by controls already established,
or feasible. In Panama, for example, postal and customs
authorities are destroying an average of 12 tons of Cuban
propaganda per month, Another ten tons, from the unknown
quantity which enters Costa Rica each month, is spotted in the
post office or the airport and destroyed. Unfortunately,
Castro and his mentors probably realize this, and as time
goes by they will rely more and more on the transmission of
thematic guidance only, to be exploited locally by front
groups, Communist Parties, sympathetic journalists and radio/
television commentators, and possibly clandestine radio
transmitters. Training of subversives in Cuba already includes
instruction in the tactics and techniques of psychological
warfare, and as more trainees return to their homelands the

volume of locally produced propaganda may be expected to rise.

 

 

SECRET 3

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423820 Page 5
 

a o™
SS

SECRET

However, these local propagandists are not totally
dependent on Cuba for either support or guidance. In some
countries, such as Mexico and Argentina, there are commercial
printing establishments, radio stations, periodicals, and
newspapers that regularly print or broadcast pro-Castro
materials as a matter of policy or ideological conviction,
In other countries, notably. Venezuela, there is relatively
little proof of direct Cuban involvement in subversive/
propaganda activity. This is in keeping with the communist
principal that whenever possible guerrillas/subversives should
be self-sustaining,

Cuban Heelo Activities

Shortwave radio is the only principal cirect and mass
audience medium available to Cuba to carry subversive pro-
paganda to Latin America, and maximum use is made of it.

The Castro regime officially inaugurated its international
proadcasting service (Radio Havana) on May 1, 1961, and has
constantly increased its broadcast time so that now it is
transmitting at total of 115:30 hours per week to Latin
America (108:30) in Spanish and seven in Portuguese). In
addition, Cuban standard wave broadcasts can be heard inter-

mittently in much of the Caribbean area,

 

 

SECRET 4

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423820 Page 6
 

r

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423820 Page 2

 
 

 

rt

98-10006-10005

 

JFK Assassination System 6/24/201

Identification Form

Date:

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

Agency Information

ARMY
198-10006-10005

CALIFANO PAPERS

 

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

i SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

 

Document Information

JCS
CUBA - THE MOVEMENT OF PROPAGANDA MATERIALS (FIRST WORKING DRAFT)

03/00/1963
21

COUNTERING CUBAN PROPAGANDA
KRULAK COMMITTEE
PROPAGANDA MEDIA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B

Redact

12/11/1997

Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder 11. Draft of JCS study on the dissemination of Cuban propaganda and
possible US moves to counter it.

JFK As cacsiwnotor Kecords Reyer

43628
of the Army £0
<2 areal (cl Exclude Exempt

DitNOFY pam
tl Reter To By ee
Roview Date

 

vol

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423820 Page i
 

 

. 7 aN
C w

SECRET
FIRST WORKING DRAFT FOR REVIEW AND COMMENT
CUBA | ;
MOVEMENT OF PROPAGANDA MATERIALS
I. Introduction ,

The actions proposed herein are designed to impede the

movement of Communist propaganda materials from Cuba to and

within Latin American countries. As in the program which

addresses the problem of movement of subversive trainees to
and from Cuba, the successful execution of the proposals
will materially reduce the flow of propaganda, but will not
eliminate it entirely.

Communist Cuba has many legitimate outlets through which
propaganda materials flow. By eliminating these outlets, and
by physically isolating Cuba from the remainder of Latin
America, Communist propagandists and their sympathizers will
be forced to rely more heavily upon production and dissem-
ination of propaganda materials in a clandestine environment
within each Latin American country, with a consequent in-
erease in difficulty,

It, Nature and Scope of the Problem
The total propaganda capability of the Castro regime

ineludes not only the physical movement of materials printed

SECRET. 1

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423820 Page 3

 

 
 

 

 

 

ne ©

SECRET

in Cuba itself, but also the less detectable and controllable
movement of funds and guidance to pro-Castro elements who
locally print and distribute materials or carry out propa~
ganda operations through other media such as radio and
television. In this broad sense, "movement of propaganda
materials" therefore includes small quantities, even single
copies, of selected publications which are handcarried into
a given country by legal or illegal travelers for subsequent
reproduction; it also includes larger quantities of materials
transmitted through Cuban and Soviet Bloc diplomatic instal-
lations, shipments via postal channels, large or small
quantities introduced through smuggling operations (that
might also involve the movement of arms), oral transmission
of propaganda guidelines by individual travelers or by
Radio Havana, and the dissemination of slanted news by Prensa
: Ys Latina for pick-up and replay by a wide variety of local
y outlets.
y The general receptivity to Cuba propaganda materials
has been minimal in Latin America, even in those countries
AY where the Communist Party is legal. Propaganda efforts are
Ny) f # timited by low membership and poor financial support of
i Communist Parties and Cuban front groups. In addition,
x

Castro/Communists are faced with competition from liberal,

SECRET ; 2

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423820 Page 4
