HW 50955

?

@ § SECRET @

this level of activity is not the sort of thing that
will bring down the government unless the president
or other high officials are assassinated, The FALN
has not reached a point where it stands up to the

armed forces, or seizes and holds government build-
ings.

We believe that Cuba has given guerrilla train-
ing to more nationals from Venezuela than from any
other country. Our estimate is that more than 200
Venezuelans received such training in 1962. Many of
these are engaged in terrorism in the cities, and
others were rounded up. and given long prison sentences
when they committed themselves prematurely last spring
in a countryside where the rural population strongly
supports the Beta ini ; One of our
best penetrations in Venezuela
tells us that at present the unified command has less
than 150 guerrillas in the field, in widely separated
groups of 15 to 25 men each.

 

 

Ii. The Cuban Plan

For the past year Cuban spokesmen have been push-
ing the line that Cuba provides the example for Latin
American revolution, with the implication that nothing
more than guidance needs to be exported. Castro ac-
tually sounded the keynotes for Cuban subversion on
July 26, 1960, when he said, "We promise to continue
making Cuba the example that can convert the Cordillera
of the Andes into the Sierra Maestra of the American
continent." In his speech on 15 January 1963 Castro
said that if "Socialism" in Cuba had waited to over-
turn Batista by peaceful means, Castro would still be
in the Sierra Maestra. For the past three months,

Che Guevara and Education Minister Armando Hart, both
in public speeches and in remarks to visiting Com-
munists which have been repeated to us, have been in-
sisting that what they call "Socialism" can achieve
power in Latin America only by force.

-The Cuban effort at present is far more serious
than the hastily organized and ill-conceived raids that
the bearded veterans of the Sierra Maestra led into
such Central American countries as Panama, Haiti, Nic-
aragua and the Dominican Republic during the first

-3-

SECRET

Docld: 324274709 Page 9
St @ SECRET ae

eight or nine months Castro was in power. Today

the Cuban effort is far more sophisticated, more
covert, and more deadly. In its professional trade-
‘craft, it shows guidance and training by experienced
Communist advisers from the Soviet bloc, including
veteran Spanish Communists.

The ideas move fairly openly in a massive propa-
ganda effort. The inflammatory broadcasts from Ha-
vana and the work of Prensa Latina are matters of
public record, It may be worth noting that the postal
and customs authorities in Panama are destroying on
the average of 12 tons a month of Cuban propaganda
coming into their land. Another 10 tons a month comes
into Costa Rica; most of it is spotted either at the
airport or in the post office and destroyed.

-The know-how is not only imparted to the guerrilla
trainees who come to Cuba, but is exported in the form
of booklets. There are thousands of copies of the
texts on guerrilla warfare by Mao Tse-tung and by Che
Guevara scattered over all of Latin America. Our agents
have brought us, for example, a little pocket booklet,
about two and a half by four inches, called "150 ques-
tions on guerrilla warfare," written by a Spanish Civil
War veteran, Alberto Bayo. .This was printed in Cuba,

) and turned up first in Peru, Another version, with
100 questions and answers, based on Guevara's and Bayo's
books, has been written especially for Peruvian use and
mimeographed in Peru. This is about 5.x 8, and in-
cludes drawings on how to place demolition charges as
well as charts for calculating the force of: various
explosives. There is a Portuguese text of Guevara's
book in Brazil, and a mimeographed abridgement of
Bayo's 150 questions has been prepared by a terrorist-
guerrilla organization in Colombia.

All of these textbooks stress that the guerrilla
must be self-sustaining. They not only tell him how
to make Molotov cocktails, explosives, and incendiary
preparations from materials that he can obtain easily
and sometimes even openly at home.’ .-They stress that
his weapons, his equipment, and supplies should come
from "the enemy"--that is, from the security forces
in his homeland,

~4—

SECRET

NW 50955 Doocld:32424709 Page 10
‘ * @ SECRET 1)

to fight a pitched battle with regular military for-
mations which might have required more advanced weap-
ons than small arms, grenades, mines, and machineguns.
In many wayS, Cuba under Castro is the Latin version
of the old Comintern, inciting, abetting, and sustain-
ing revolution wherever it flourishes,

We have occasional evidence of more concrete Cu-
ban support. Cuban nationals, for example, took part
in the La Oroya disorders in Peru in December. We
know that some funds move, generally in cash by courier,
from Cuba to the revolutionaries in other countries. We
know that Cuba furnishes money to buy weapons, and that
some guerrilla forces in Peru, for instance, are equipped
with Czech weapons which most probably came from Cuba.

Venezuela is apparently number one on Cuba's pri-
ority list for revolution. Fidel Castro said so to the
recent meeting of Communist front organizations for
Latin American women. Che Guevara and Blas Roca both
emphasized the outlook for revolution in Venezuela in
speeches in January. 2
of proven reliability

   

 

 

 

agreed in January that a "peaceful solution to the pres-
ent situation in Venezuela is out of the question."

This same source reported that Communist guerrilla
and terrorist operations in Venezuela were placed un-
der a unified command in late 1962, which coordinates
activities with the other militant extremist groups in
Venezuela. The result has been the creation of the
Armed Forces of National Liberation (FALN). This or-
ganization is currently trying to publicize its exist-
ence by such acts as the hijacking of the freighter
ANZOATEGUI, and by acts of sabotage and indiscriminate
shootings. These were also designed to dissuade Pres-
ident Betancourt from his trip to Washington. In this,
of course, they failed.

The violence in Venezuela should not be minimized.
The sabotage is the work of experts, and is being done
with advanced types of explosives. The shooting has
reached the point in Caracas where it is not safe to go
out at night in some sections of the capital. But it
is the opinion both of our people and the embassy that

-2-

SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:324274709 Page @
& SECRET Hh
25 February 1963
CUBAN SUBVERSION IN LATIN AMERICA

I... Introduction

The public pronouncements of Cuban leaders, the
daily record of events in Latin America, and reports
from our intelligence, sources within Communist and
other left-extremist elements throughout this hemis-
phere all agree on one salient conclusion: that Fidel
Castro is spurring and supporting the efforts of Com-
munists and other revolutionary elements to overthrow
and seize control of the governments in Latin America.

Even before the October missile crisis--and with
increasing rancor since then~--Cuban leaders have been
exhorting revolutionary movements to violence and
terrorism, and supporting their activities. Cuban
support takes many different forms, but its main thrust
is in the. supply of the inspiration, the guidance, the
training, and the communications and technical assist-
ance that revolutionary groups in Latin America require.

In essence, Castro tells revolutionaries from
other Latin American countries: ; "Come to Cuba; we_
will pay your way, we will train you in underground
organization techniques, in guerrilla warfare, in sab-
otage and in terrorism. We will see to it that you
get back to your homeland. Once you are there, we
will keep in touch with you, give you propaganda sup-
port, send you propaganda materials for your movement,
training aids to expand your guerrilla forces, secret
communications methods, and perhaps funds and special-
ized demolition equipment." Castro is not, as far as
we know, promising these other Latin Americans any Cue=
ban weapons or Cuban personnel-~either leaders, ad-
visers, or cadres, But he probably does tell them;
"If you succeed in establishing something effective
by way of a revolutionary movement in your homeland,
if your guerrillas come down out of the hills and con-
front regular armed forces, then we may consider more
concrete forms of assistance."

So far, it should be noted, none.of the movements
in South America has reached this final stage~--and in §—
fact even Castro's Sierra Maestra guerrillas never had

SECRET

HW 50955 DoclId:32424709 Page 7
 

 

we : DATE a
= 2ANSMITTAL SLIP |* 26" rep 6(
TO: °

Mr. Califano for Secy. Vance
ROOM NO. BUILDING
38985 Pentagon
REMARKS:

     
       
 
   
     
 

 

   
 

   

  

FROM: :
CIA - William A. Tidwell
ROOM NO. BUILDING

 

EXTENSION

     

Codelh. 6614
FORM NO 2 4] REPLACES FORM 36-8 GPO : 1987--O-439445 (a)
1 FEB 55 WHICH MAY BE USED.

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424709 Page 5
™

eo gs ® SECRET" @

STATEMENT BY THE DIRECTOR FOR USE OF THE
STAFF OF THE PREPAREDNESS INVESTIGATING
SUBCOMMITTEE OF SENATOR STENNIS

O58, ASG Coutrel No Sy9. nop eT

HW 50955 DoclId:32424709 Page 6

 
. . “4
& ©

CLASSIFIED TESTIMONY - PART If

16,

SUBJECT; |

Statement. by LtGen Joseph F. Carroll, DirDIA
before the Cmte on Foreign Affairs, HR, WashDC

’ Statement by the DirCIA ‘for use.of the staff of the

Preparedness Investigating Subcmte of Senator
Stennis :

SecDef testimony before House Appropriations Cmte

.SecDef testimony before House Appropriations Cmte

SecDef testimony before House Appropriations Cmte

SecNav testimony before HASC

Ltr to SecArmy from Mr. Martin, AsstSecState

with attached statement by Mr. Martin before
the Latin American Subcomte of HFAC on subject

- of communist subversion of the hemisphere

SecDef testimony before SASC (Vol. I -A.M.)

SecNav testimony before HASC

‘Statement of SecDef accompanied by General Maxwell

D. Taylor, Chics

Excerpts of Navy testimony before HASC.

.SecDef testimony before SASC
-Excerpt of SecAirForce testimony before HASC
-SecDef testimony before.SASC (Cuba)

.Statement by the DirClA for use of the staff-of the

Preparedness Investigating Subcmte of Senator

‘Stennis (Cuban. Subversion in LA)

Statement by Secretary of Defense to the Permanent

Subcmte on Investigations of the Committee on-Govern-

‘ment Operations - U.S. Senate

HW 50955 Docld:32424709 Page 2

DATE:

 

Undated

7 Jan 63

ll Feb 63.

“12 Feb 63

13 Feb 63

18 Feb 63

19 Feb 63

‘19 Feb 63_

19 Feb 63

20 Feb 63

20 Feb 63
21 Feb 63
“21 Feb 63

22 Feb 63

26 Feb 63

(Transmittal
Slip)

13 March 63
98-10009-10099

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

6/24/201

 

Agency Information

ARMY
198-10009-10099

CALIFANO PAPERS

 

 

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: MULTIPLE
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 02/00/1963
PAGES: 153
SUBJECTS :
CUBAN MISSILE CRISIS
SITUATION IN LATIN AMERICA
PRESIDENT'S REPORT - SOVIET OFFENSIVE WEAPONS IN
CUBA - 1962
CUBAN SUBVERSION
SOVIET MILITARY FORCES IN CUBA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Secret

IB

Redact
07/15/1998

Califano Papers, Box 1, Folder 9. Multiple papers re: classified/secret Congressional testimony
concerning Cuban subversion in Latin America, Cuban military buildup, Soviet military weapons in

Cuba, etc.

FEK Keyed

Department of the Army EO 13528.
eclassify “J Exclude & Exempt
Authority

© Refer To .
Review Date li By. ea

 

vol

22

HW 50955 DBocld:32424709 Page i
CLASSIFIED TESTIMONY: - PART II (Cont'd)

NO, SUBJECT: : DATE:

17, Memo for Mr. Bromley Smith from Mr. McGiffert 8& Mar 63
Subj: Cuba -- with Items 3, 4,.5, 6, 8, 9, 10,
11,.12,-13 and 14 included as attachments

18. Study on Cuba as a Base for -------- prepared by Bob Undated
. Mandelstam and LtCol Patchell for use by Sec McNamara
at Stennis Comm hearings, in the form of Memo to Sec/Def

19, Memo for Mr. Robt A. Hurwitch, Subj: Missile Crisis 29 Mar 63
Section of the President's Draft Rept to Congress on US -
Participation in the UN During 1963, fr Mr. Califano
w/draft of President's message atchd

. Sub

20. Interim Report by Preparedness Inves/Comm of.the Comm Undtd
of Armed Services US Senate, on the Cuban Military
Buildup, OATSD(LA) Control # 5812(8)

HW 50955 Docld:324274709 Page 3
HW 50955 DoclId:32424709 Page 4
