 

 

 

 

 

SECRET

Il. CASTRO'S SUBVERSIVE POTENTIAL IN THE AFTERMATH OF AN
AGREEMENT: UNDER WHICH THE SOVIETS WOULD WITHDRAW
THEIR STRATEGIC MISSILES AND THE US GIVE ASSURANCES THAT

IT WOULD NOT INVADE CUBA ,

"9. Castro’s subversive capabilities—and his disposition to use them—

will be enhanced by the sense of security provided by such sophisticated
weapons as are retained in Cuba after the withdrawal of, Soviet strategic
missiles. The IL-28 bombers, if retained, and other modern equipment
noted in Annex B, would be important in this regard. A US commit-
ment not to invade Cuba will further strengthen his sense of immunity
from reprisal and almost certainly encourage him to intensify subver-
sive activities in other Latin American countries.

Response of Castro Supporters to Missile Base Crisis

10. Castro’s supporters throughout Latin America, with few though
important exceptions (e.g., sabotage of oil facilities in Venezuela), failed
to respond to the missile base crisis with effective acts of sabotage or
with impressive public demonstrations. Two important limiting factors
should be taken into account in judging this response, however. US
action to alert Latin American governments led them to make extensive
advance preparation, including deployment of security forces and the
roundup of suspects, a condition of readiness which is unlikely to be
maintained indefinitely. There also may have been some uncertainty
among the activist followers of Castro whether they should make their
big effort in response to the announcement of the US blockade, or wait
for the anticipated US invasion.  Moscow’s apparent failure to provide
guidance may have contributed to the confusion. It is our judgment,

however, that the response to Castro’s appeal for attacks on the US-

and its friends indicates that his power to command revolutionary
action, at least in the circumstances of the missile base crisis, is limited,

|
Support Which Castro Can Expect in the Future

11. The range of Castro’s support has been, we believe, considerably
narrowed by events since Castro declared himself a Communist.” Rev-
elation of the fact that he had allowed the Soviets to establish offensive
bases under exclusive Soviet control has alienated many non-Communist
nationalists, genuine neutralists, and even revolutionaries seeking social
and economic betterment. San Tiago Dantas, formerly Foreign Min-
ister under President Goulart and an author of Brazil’s nonalignment
policy, and leading Mexican officials have publicly expressed their
disenchantment.

12. The activist revolutionaries are probably the only important force
on which Castro can’now count, but even their support has apparently
been rendered less effective by differences on the question of Soviet rela-
tions with Castro and with Latin American Communist parties.

ae secret | j 5

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423995 Page 9

 

 

 
\

on
ae

 

 

SECRET

Castro’s Resources for Continued Subversive Activity .

13. Arms. (See Annex B.) Castro has substantial stocks of arms.
In addition to Soviet Bloc materiel there are stores. of arms inherited
from the Batista regime not being used by Castro forces and available
for distribution outside Cuba. In the past he has apparently been ham-
pered in his efforts ‘to use arms for subversive purposes by problems
of transport and delivery. He has at his disposal, however, 11 IL-14
transports belonging to Cubana airlines which could be used to deliver
arms under certain circumstances. The I1-28’s now in Cuba are in-
appropriate for subversive purposes. However, they could be used for
air drops. Cuba has many small craft suitable for, infiltration of men
and arms. The 6 Khronshtadt subchasers, 16 P~6 motor torpedo boats,
‘and 12 Komar missile boats obtained from the Bloc could also bé used
for arms deliveries.. If the projected trawler base is built up, trawlers— |
both. Cuban and Soviet—could be used for arms deliveries. If Soviet .”
submarines call at the trawler base or at other Cuban ports, they, too/
could be used in support of subversive activities. We see no evidence
that Cuba has or is developing a sophisticated amphibious warfare
capability, and all the means of delivery of arms by sea noted above
would be vulnerable to precautionary measures by Latin American mil-
itary and naval forces.

14. Propaganda apparatus. Castro’s propaganda machine remains
intact. For the time being, however, his diplomatic missions are likely
to find it harder to disseminate propaganda than in the past, both be-
cause of new precautions by local governments and because of a reduc-

~ tion-in the numbers of cooperative _ volunteers outside the organized

Communist” groups:

15. Money and equipment. Despite differences wltsicen Castro | and
the USSR concerning dismantling of the missile bases, we believe that the
Soviets will continue to supply Castro with money, supplies, and equip-

_ ment for subversive activity. The Soviets have certainly supplied Castro

with sophisticated instruments of intelligence collection, sabotage, and
clandestine communications.

16. Organization. The organization of Castro's subversive assets
. throughout Latin America was shown by. the recent crisis to be loose
and otherwise faulty. We estimate that Castro will make a strong
effort to strengthen and improve it, and that he will continue. to receive
support in this effort from the Soviet apparatus, both in Cuba itself,
where the Soviet Ambassador is a veteran officer of the KGB, and in
other important centers of Soviet activity such- as Mexico (City and
Montevideo, ;

6 - . - SECRET

 

 

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423995 Page 10
 

 

 

 

f - SECRET

also been reported, but the evidence is unclear as to-qiantities shipped
and the extent of Cuba’s role in thesé transactions. We believe that
there is an extensive agent net in Latin America directed from Havana.

6. Castro has associated himself with revolutionary activist. groups
throughout Latin America. In most cases these have been Communist,
but where the regular Communist Party favored a legal or parliamen-
tary line he has not hesitated to support dissident Communist groups,
eg., in Brazil, and non-Communist revolutionaries, e.g., in Guatemala
and El Salvador. In some ‘cases he has sponsored new revolutionary
organizations, e.g., in Panama, Colombia, and Peru. In Chile he has
endorsed a popular front coalition made up of Communist and moderate
leftists.

°

Evaluation

7. Instances of financial and material support sent by Cuba to revolu-
tionaries in other countries which have come to our attention are
probably only a part of the total effort. Even so, the effort seems to
have been relatively small, and ineffective. Yet along with the political
and psychological stimulus which Castro’s influence has provided, Cuban
subversive activities have perceptibly strengthened activist revolutionary
groups. Dangerous situations subject to exploitation by Castro and

‘the Communists exist in a number of Latin American countries—

notably Venezuela, Brazil, British Guiana, the Dominican Republic, and
Bolivia. These dangers arise from political and social tensions which
existed long before Castro came to power. They might lie dormant
for some time; but with Castro as a potential detonator, they are more
likely to blow up. The detonative compound will exist as long as Cas-
troism survives, whatever may happen to Castro personally. -

8. The most dangerous aspect of Castroism has been its broad appeal .
as a symbol of revolutionary change and nationalist assertiveness in
Latin America. Propaganda from Cuba has taken advantage of this
fact and has almost certainly been a more important influence in the
Latin American situation than Castro’s other subversive activities.
During 1960 and 1961 Castroism became a ‘force to be reckoned with
politically in a number of Latin American countries, Certain govern-

ments felt obliged to move in the direction of neutralist and leftist posi-

tions. This influence waned, however, after Castro identified himself
with the Bloc in late 1961. Nevertheless, the appeal to Castro’s move-
ment continued to be a source of major concern to almost. all govern-
ments and seriously restricted their willingness to associate themselves,
at least publicly, with the US. .

4 oe SECRET

 

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423995 Page 6
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SECRET

THE ESTIMATE

"1, CASTRO’S SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES BEFORE THE MISSILE BASE CRISIS *

Aims

1. From the time of his accession to power Fidel Castro has sought to
gain acceptance of the Cuban revolution as a model for others and of
himself as the leader of revolutionary forces throughout Latin America.

-. He has constantly sought to foment revolutions in other Latin American

States. Moreover, Castro has generally had the support of the Sino-
Soviet Bloc in the pursuit of these aims.

.

Means

2. Castro began. his career of sponsorship for revolutions in Latin
America in 1959 with landings of small rebel forces in Nicaragua, Pan-
ama, the Dominican Republic, and Haiti. None of these were successful

’ and he turned to other means.

3. From the beginning, propaganda has been one of the principal in-
struments on which Castro has relied. In addition to the main trans-

’ missions of Radio Havana for external listeners, which have had a great
'.. deal of revolutionary content, he has beamed special programs devised
’ to stimulate revolutionary action to each of half a dozen selected
: countries? A major effort has been made through Prensa Latina, the

Cuban news service, to disseminate Castro-Communist propaganda.

....Printed propaganda has also been sent from Cuba into most other ,

Latin American States, and Cuban diplomatic missions and personnel
have actively disseminated it. Students returning from indoctrination
in Cuba have helped establish Cuban Institutes for Friendship among

' Peoples which have functioned as propaganda outlets.

4, Thousands of Latin Americans have been brought to Cuba; about
1,200 foreign trainees are believed to be there now. Many hundreds
have been trained in revolutionary techniques and guerrilla warfare.
Cuba has been made a main transit point for travel between Latin
America and the Bloc. an

5. Financial support has been”: provided. by. Cuba to revolutionary
groups in a number of-couftries, although the cases on which we have
reports involved-rélatively small sums of money, Arms shipments have

a. e Annex A. °
2

Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, Venezuela, Honduras, and the Dominican Republic.

>. SECRET og

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423995 Page 7

 

 

 

 
 

Go wove (Ub

Gare $S-N-Od

 

C¥ Lo . SECRET

CASTRO'S SUBVERSIVE
CAPABILITIES IN LATIN
AMERICA oo

THE PROBLEM

To describe and evaluate Castro’s capabilities, with Soviet help,
for carrying out subversion and sabotage in Latin Americ« after
satisfaction of all US conditions relative to the withdrawal of
strategic weapons systems from Cuba and a consequent US com-
mitment not to invade.

.

NOTE: In this estimate we have considered Castro’s raw capabilities,
' taking note of, but not working out in detail, US and Latin
American capabilities for counteraction.

SUMMARY

A. The dangerously unstable situation that prevails through-
out much of Latin America is the product of fundamental in-
equities and historic circumstances, it is not the creation of ¢
Castro and the Soviets. Castro’s efforts, with Soviet help. to
exploit this situation by means of subversion and sabotage
not produced significant, results. Propaganda exploitatic:. ©
Castro and Cuba as symbols of revolution has probably beer: more
effective to date than other subversive activities. Castros’ in-
fluence in Latin America had waned by the time of the” missile
base crisis and was further reduced by the revelation that he
had accepted Soviet strategic missile bases on Cuban soil and
by the manner of the Soviet decision to withdraw them.

 

 

 

B. Implementation of an agreement between the US anc. the
USSR whereby the strategic weapons systems would be with-
drawn and the US committed not to intervene in Cuba with force
will leave Castro with a new immunity and a greater freedom

 

SECRET : q

 

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423995 Page 5
 

SECRET

for subversive actions throughout Latin America. The extent
to which this potential is realized will depend upon the situation
in Cuba, Soviet policy toward Cuba, and the policies and perform-

ance of the other Latin American governments and. ofthe,US with |...

 

respect to the Castro threat. There are many targets in’ the re

hemisphere vulnerable to Castro-Communist subversicn-and ‘sab
otage, and the Soviets are likely to assist.Castro in reaching them

by contributing both to his security at home and to his capability ©

for action overseas. As in the period before the missile base
crisis, the effect of Castro’s subversive activities will depend not
only upon his capabilities but upon the attractiveness of the
Cuban example and the willingness of the American governments
to.take determined counteraction. This willingness will probably
be weakened by fulfillment of the US commitment not to invade
Cuba. . : ;

C. We have examined how Castro’s subversive potential would
be affected by alternative courses of Soviet policy regarding Cuba:
(1) virtual withdrawal of support; (2) continuation of economic
and military support, ranging from present upto substantially
increased levels. We believe that course (1) would considerably
reduce Castro’s subversive potential, and that the Soviets are
unlikely to elect it. We conclude that Soviet course (2) would
’ maintain Castro’s potential for subversive action at least. at pres;
ent levels or actually raise it to the point where he could under-
take amphibious and/or airborne subversive operations against
close-in targets. a

a

ee

~ a

2 ao SECRET

a

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423995 Page 6

 

 
 

 

 

wee
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON, D.C.

14 February 1963

MEMORANDUM. FOR GENERAL KRULAK:

This book will have te be held .by you
on an EYES ONLY basis.

The 1700 meeting with Mr. Yarmolinsky
will be held in Mr, Vance's office,. | :

Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
Special Assistant to the
Secretary of.the Army

Attachment

oow
- SE 3%

 

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423995 Page 2

os

 
 

 

 

 

/96-10007-10002 seem oe

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

 

 

Date:

6/24/201

 

Agency Information

 

 

AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: — 198-10007-10002
RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : .
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: ARMY
FROM: JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.
TO: GENERAL KRULAK
| TITLE: CUBA AS A BASE FOR SUBVERSION
DATE: 02/14/1963
PAGES: 139
SUBJECTS : :
CUBAN SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

COMMENTS :

 

CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

Secret.

iC; 4
Redact
02/10/1998

Califano Papers, Box 1. Transmittal of report entitled "Cuba as a Base for Subversion” from Califano

to Krulak.

Department of the Army EO 13528

F™ Declassify “ Exclude [ Exempt
Authority,
1 Refer To,

Review Date 12, hee im By fee) fe.

 

NO STATE OBJECTION
TO DECLASSIFICATION
ev DATERY/ Hy

 

v9.1

 

15

HW 50955 Docld:32423995 Page i
 

 

 

 

urs 85-4 6¢ (9 Nov 62)
} FRQPAGAIDA

Personal Contact
UA. Counter Eefort
=) FURDS

eRe

Sole Report of Evidence
\3 TRADERS

oy Progran
a Travel for Training
Aetivities Upon Rewun from Guba
Hiscellanecud

{ams seme - mic com

Methods of Operation
“ Reporte of Arne Suaggling

COMINTCATIONS

 

Micetronic Commamications
Deaunsats

 

 

i Reporte of Sabotage
7 Terrorist Activities

COMATIOT ORGAUZ ZATION POR
Cuban Relationships and Polidles

Soviet Activitie® and Confliets
Sltuation Reports

 

   

 

HW 50955 Docld:32423995 Page 3

Prensa Latins and Printed Material.
Havena's. Intesnational Broadcasting

Reports of Cuban mds for Subversion

Sumary Report of Training in Cuba

 

Sri PO

ie

WL EPs PO

til ad te hee

ta 1G

Giie SECREL - NO POREIGH DISSEN

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

S08 ON «~ Agidons, wiieh miy or masy not be imindesi te
W.8. interests, deaimied to undewaine the ullitery, economte, payoho~
“Rogieal, worele, ox political wivrength of a constituted governuent.

HW 50955 Docld:32423995 Page 4

 

 
