 

 
 

oan
Hee
{ aan stele

 

ie

“die ed’

 
oo, ° ae : ° ; i
REGISTER OF PERSONNEL HANDLING CLASSIFIED DOCUMENT
a i

RETURN TO: Office, Chairman, JCS a

Room 2-E 865, The Pentagon #3 13 : . J
DOCUMENT NUMBER COPY NUMBER DATE OF DOCUMENT- .
Memo from Secy Cyrus Vane Cys 1-3 : 23 Sept 63

SUBJECT:

 

Oo : ' 7
Preliminary Planning on DOD. Support of CIA Covert Opérations
Against Cuba (TS) oo ooo ' : -

The above-described document has been received in this office. Cireufation of this document will be limited to
individuals indicated below. The.document will be returned to the Administrative Office for record prior to dispatch to
another office, or other disposition. THIS FORM WILL NOT BE REMOVED FROM SUBJECT DOCUMENT.

!
CHAIRMAN, JCS . t
i
i.
|

EXECUTIVE

- SICS for action

 

Orig + 1.(cysl-2)

 

CHAIRMAN'S STAFF GROUP

 

MILITARY ASSISTANT (PA)

 

pee i-T |

MILITARY ASSISTANT (L&E)

 

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT

SECRETARY TO CHAIRMAN

 

 

 

a

 

 

 

 

 

of

Dio. 349 ; ) B31694
TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

Cuba, would drop quantities of individually packaged
weapons attached to small parachutes. Weapons could
also be introduced by sea.

5. These operations can be conducted in such a way
as to be plausibly deniable by the United States.
Cover would be provided by the widespread and highly
publicized anti-Castro activities of refugee groups
based in Latin America. In this regard, it has already
been reported in the press that U.S. Treasury officials
recently arrested certain Cuban refugees in this country
who were engaged in printing counterfeit Cuban currency.
This would support future denials by the U.S. of responsi-
bility for any counterfeiting activity.

6. It is recommended that a program involving the

brdaned a ds fod
actions described herein be,undertaken by the Central

, fh ote fate be PB ue Ob eo oP Mg Bose 1
Intelligence Agency. : /
{be Ptr ry peceleocen By Rr tnee ts Fa Bee Op prayer or dy ley et
: j ‘ /
E Z weeotp oa? Jk 4 cro tautcl, bA tesiat Lote 07 abath, ceplereta fing a bk
you fer ers a to ag fe by pean eS) th Mesirat fo by f vanty Wray le ve gv tan

ce: Deputy Secretary of Defense

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE 3
TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

of small and simple weapons and ammunition, including
pistols and disguised lethal devices easily concealed

on the person, some would come into the possession of
people who “have a willingness to use them, although

it is recognized that many of the weapons so introduced
would fall into the hands of the Castro Government.
Nevertheless, as more individual Cubans gained
possession of a weapon, the internal threat to
functionaries of the Castro Government would grow,

as would problems of investigation, enforcement and
discipline. Incidents of assassination of oppressive
officials and other armed action might be expected to
increase. Castro would be: faced with the requirement

to buy up the arms or to engage in extensive enforcement
activities, in which latter case conditions might reach
such levels of severity as to alienate progressively
greater segments of the citizenry. In either event, the
net effect of introducing quantities of small arms would
be to disturb internal tranquility and provide a growing
pase of discontent among the people.

4. Introduction of counterfeit currency should be
accomplished gradually over an extended period by
maritime infiltration, utilizing the available agent
network. Random scattering of currency from the air,
while feasible, would lessen the effectiveness of the
operation, since the Castro Government would be immedi-~
ately alerted and could take prompt countermeasures.
Small weapons and ammunition, on the other/nand, could
pest be distributed widely by means of aircraft, piloted

by Cubans, which, in a series of aerial forays throughout

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE 2
 

TOP. SECRET

other armed action might be expected ta increase. Castre would
ba faced with the requirement so buy up the erime er to engage in
extensive enforcement activities, in which later caca conditions
might remeh euch levela of severity az te allenate progreasively
greater segreents of the citizenry, In either event, the net effect
of introducing quantitiea of emall arns would be to disturb internal
tranguility and provide « growing base of discontent &meng the
peogle,

4. Intredaction of counterfeit carrency should be accomplished
gradually over an extended seriod by oairitime infiltration, wtili sing
ibe available agent metwark. Randam scattering of currency frora the
air, while feagible, would lesaen the cifectiveness of the ope ration,
since the Castre Government would be immediately alerted and could
take prenipt coustermes sures, Sigil weapons and ammunition, on
the other hamd, eauld beat be distributed widely by cxsans of alreraft
piloted by Cubane, which, in a sertes of aerial forays throughout
Cube, would drop quantities of individually packaged weapons attached
to grnall pevechutes. Weapons could aleo be latreduced by saa.

3. These operations can be conducted in such & way as to be
plausibly deniable by the United States. Gover would be provided
by the widespread and highly publicized anti-~Castro activities of
refugee groups based in. Latin Araerica. In this rogard, it hag
already been resorted in the yrega that U.S. Treagury offictala
recently arrested certain Cubea refugees in this coumtry who were
engaged in printing counterfeit Cuban currency. This would Support
future deninls by the U.S. of responsibility for any counterfeiting
activity.

& lt te vecemmonded that a prograra imvelving the actions
described herein be developed in detail by the Centyal Tatelligence
Agency. It is further recommended that the Femults of the A gency
analysis be forwarded te the appropriate inter-agency gvoup for
consideration ae to the feasibility and dwelrability of early impla-
uenting actions. ‘

(Sed) MAXWELL B, TAYLOR

&

pt Bay Tamer MARWELL £. TAYLOR
7 ~ PTs Chalr man
7e 7 ST Joint Chiefs of Staff

o- & ce: Deputy Secretary of Defense “4 3

y EF ag Prepared by: LtCol Smith -~- 15 Oct 63
3 so Cay rhe re

Pil o Cy roti

   

 

 

 
 

DRAFT

CIN P49 _ ba

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EXECUTIVE AGENT
FOR CUBAN AFFAIRS

Subject: Covert Actions Against Cuba (TS)

1. The purpose of this memorandum is to propose for
consideration two forms of covert aetion; both possible of
accomplishment at relatively small cost and both capable
of contributing to the disruption of tranquility in Cuba.
The actions contemplated are: )

a. The introduction of counterfeit currency, and
b. The introduction of small arms and ammunition.

2, The widespread dissemination of well made, difficult-
to~recognize counterfeit currency among the Cuban populace
would serve to degrade the value of genuine currency
and would generate (grave! problems for Cuban governmental
authorities, They would be compelled either to call in
and replace all currency in circulation, fa most] expensive
and troublesome procedure, or, alternatively, to impose
penalties for possession of the illegal bills and accept
the consequent enforcement problems, In either case, there
would be an adverse effect upon the economic life of the
country, and thus, upon its internal stability.

3, With respect to small arms, it ig noted that one of

Castro's early acts in 1959 was totally to disarm the private

citizenry, thereby removing a critical threat to his

totalitarian regime. Since that time he has had relatively
little to fear from internal violence. If now we were

covertly to introduce in many areas of Cuba quantities

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

 
|
FOIA - Coordination_ Sheet

DOCUMENT UNDER FOIA CONTROL
DO NOT REVIEW

Document Coordination as ; part of case Nw 21895 Bo 7, Tab W
Document ID 24142739 |

Document Date: 10/13/1963 :

Subject:
Memo w/attachment

  
   

_% 9 Gull,
NL T/i0r2.

 

 
 

 

202-10002-10134 a
: JFK. Assassination System , Date: 130/201

identification Form

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: JCS .
RECORD NUMBER : 202-10002-10131

RECORD SERIES: TAYLOR PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

j
i.

 

. document Information
ORIGINATOR: JCS |
FROM: V.H. KRULAK
TO: CHAIRMAN, JCS

a oy Oe

TITLE: COVERT ACTIONS AGAINST CUBA

i
DATE: 10/14/1963)
PAGES: 13

SUBJECTS :
COVERT ACTION - CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: — Top Secret’

RESTRICTIONS: — Consulted; Ic
CURRENT STATUS : :
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 07/22/1997.

OPENING CRITERIA: PENDING TREASURY REVIEW

 

COMMENTS : Taylor Papers, Box 7, Wumber : 5. Memo from Krulak to Chairman, JCS enclosing memo re: Covert
Actions Against Cuba. .

 
 

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF

 

 

Chairman, Joint Chiefs of

Tor... Deenerenedeceeeserececoreenee ee

Subject: Covert Actions Against Cuba
i

It is recommended that you! approve,
sign and forward the attached inemorandum

to the Department of Defense Executive

4
‘

Agent for Cuban Affairs. :
\ t

i
i
|
1

Variheatet

Major General, USMC

 

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE _
A =e

TY Caran caer vo oe | Become Kron.
Pt Me Lasf San fay Gragg “~tehng,

Lin / tman krone Mase evi
a AE ate, GL we fn Cede, CA
(Bfittitafafioe Sang Hhef o Men was lake

 
“aA

 

 

.0 12558 3.4

DATE:
REVIEW

Sopy_fO_ orf © copies each
pages series.

of.

 

cate

 

21 OCT 1963
Crt ~949~63

 

MEMORANDUM FOR TRE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EXECUTIVE
AGENT FOR CUBAN AFFAIRS

SUBJECT: Covert Actiona Against Cuba (TS) bry f( fo 7

i. The purpose of this memorandum is te propose for
consideration twe forms of covert action; both pesaible of
accomplighment at relatively a-nall cost and both cagable of
contributing to the disruption of tranquillty in Guba. The
actions contemplated are:

a. The tatroduction of counterfeit currency, and
b. The imtroduction of svynall ars and amuirunition.

4. The widespread dissemination of well made, difficult-to-
irecognime counterfelt currezicy arnomg the Cuban populace would

serious preblema for Cuban’ governmental authorities, They would
be compelled elther to call im and replace all currency in cireuls -
tion, an expensive and troublesonie srocedure, of, altermatively, ta
impose pemalties for possession of the Ulegal billa and aceept the
consequent enforcement problems. la either case, there would be
an adverse effect upon the economic life of the country, and thus,
upon iis internal etmbility.

i 9 serve to degrade the valua of gunuine currency and would generate

3. With respect to small arms, it is noted that one of
Castro's early acta in 1959 wag totally to disarm the private
Citisenry, thereby removing a ¢ritical threat to his totalitarian
regime, Ainee that time he has had relatively little te fear
from internal viclence. Lf now we wera covertly to introduce
in many areas of Cuba quaritities of emall and simple weasons
and ammunition, including pistole and disguised lethal devices
eaaliy concealed on the person, seme weuld come into the
possession of peasie who would have a willingness to use them,
although it is recognized that many of the weagens so introduced
would fall into the Hands of the Castro Government. Nevertheless,
as mere imdividual Cubane galmed poaseagsion of a weapon, the
internal threat to fumctionariaa of the Cadtre Government would
grow, a3 would probleras of investigation, enforcement and
discipline, lucidenta of assgagsinaiion of oppressive officials and

“

TOP SECRET OLHOETVE

   

 
