se SENSITIVE
bl tcomitinc

 
  
  

Task 21: CIA to submit plan by 15 February for inducing failures
in food crops in Cuba, Capability for sabotage of rice, for instance,
is available; timing is the problem,

   

Task 22: State to report by 15 February on status of plans to
gain cooperation of NATO allies (bilaterally and in the NATO forum,
as appropriate), Objective is to persuade these nations to take steps
to isolate Cuba from the West.

Task 23: State to report by 15 February on status of actions under-
taken with Japan, which has comparatively significant trade with Cuba,
along lines similar to those with NATO nations.

   
  
 
 

Task 24: CLA to submit plan by 15 February on disruption of the
supply of Cuban nickel to the Soviet Union. CIA will specifically con-
sider how to block the Soviets from re-opening their supply of nickel
from Canada. (Canadian contract was terminated when the Cuban
supply became available to the Soviets.) ee

. i D. Psychological

Task 25: USLA to submit plan by 15 February for the most) ~*~

\ effective psychological exploitation of actions undertaken in the
Project, towards the end result of awakening world sympathy for

the Cuban people (as a David) battling against the Communist regime

(as a Goliath) and towards stimulating Cubans inside Cuba to join "the

cause."

 

 
   
  

Task 26: CLA to submit by 15 February its operational schedule
for a psychological campaign to provoke a relaxing of police state
control within Cuba. This is to include effective means of publicly
indicting “people's criminals" for justice after liberation of Cuba
(not only individual top officials, but members of the Vigilancia, etc. ),

 
 
   

 

Task 27: CIA and USIA will report on progress as of 15 Februaty
in developing identification of the popular movement inside Cuba, as
with songs, symbols, propaganda themes.

 

Task 28: By 15 February CIA will report on plans and actions
for propaganda support of the popular movement inside Cuba. Included
will be exactly what is planned for use by the movement inside Cuba,
L Y ‘AF Gers feasibility of using smuggled food packets (such as the "I Shall
Je ala 4) turn" cigarette packets to Philippine guerrillas in World War Il)
as morale boosters in generating the popular movement.)

E. Military Action

“military — force to to support the Cuban wopele rt movement, including a

_ Statement of conditions under which Defense believes such action would
be required to win the Project's goal and believes such action would not

. hecesgsarily lead to general war. Due 28 February.

Task 30: CIA to submit by 15 February its operational schedule
for sabotage actions inside Cuba, including timing proposed for the
actions and how they effect the generation and support of a popular

movement, to achieve the Project goals,
7

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424903 Page 9 : SENSITIVE
 

 

SENSITIVE

Task 31: ClA to submit specific requests to Defense for required - |
support by Defense as early as possible after its plans firm up. Requests ot
for all major needs are expected by 23 February.

Task 32: Defense will submit pian for "special operations" use of
_Cubans enlisted in armed forces, Due 28 February.

  

TEE TEES ae opens cee

. "vi, FUTURE PLANS

By 20 February, itis expected that sufficient realistic plans for
individual tasks will have been received, and initial actions started, to
permit a firm time-table to be constructed, Since the President directed
that the Chief of Operations conduct the Project through the appropriate
organizations and Departments of the Government, and since these U.S.
organizations are mainly in the initial inventory and development of
capabilities phase concerning assigned tasks, @ precise operations time -
table as of today would be too speculative to be useful.

nee

 
 
  
  

. aa alerted Defense that it will require considerable military” |
‘ sppe ine uding two submarines, PT boats, Coast Guard type cutters,
Special We Bes trainers, C-54 aircraft, F-86 aircraft, amphibian air-
feraft, helio-couriers, eaflet battalion, and Guantanamo as 4 base
‘for submarine operation so, CIA apparently believes that its role -
_should be to create art d a popular movement, illusory and actual, a R:
which will create a political climate which can provide a framework of wi)
plausible excuse for armed intervention. This is not in conformity with :
the Presidential directive now governing Project tasking. Actually, the ,
Tole of creating the political climate and plausible excuse for armed
intervention would be more p that of State and Defense, if such

/ Jan objective becomes desirable.

  
  
 

  
  

et

8

HW 50955 DocTd:32424903 Page 10 : SENSITIVE
peste: : . ; SENSITIVE
Cc, Economic

Task 11: State to prepare recommendations to the President on
U.S. trade with Cuba, as follow-up to OAS meeting. (Lf the minimum
result of the meeting is an agreement to condernn Cuba as an a¢com-
“plice of the Sino-Soviet Bloc and adoption of a general statement that
the peace and security of the Hemisphere,
_State_is prepared to recommend to the President that remaining trade

  

Task 12: State to plan, with Commerce and other U.S. agencies,
on how to halt the diversion of vital items in the Cuban trade. Due
date 15 February. Cooperation of other OAS nations, particularly
Canada and Mexico, is to be explored by State.

Task 13: State, with Commerce and others involved, to plan on
“how to make "positive list" items to Latin America be subject to the
same licensing procedures as applied to such shipments to other
parts-of the free world, Due 1S February.

Task 14: State to obtain from Commerce proposal to.amend:,
present export controls of technical data (petrochemical, communi-
cations equipment) so that Cuba is treated the same as the Sino-
Soviet Bloc. Due 15 February.

 

Task 15: State by 15 February to submit recommendations on
issuance of transportation order (T-3) under authority of the Defense
Production Act of 1950 forbidding U.S. -owned vessels to engage in
trade with Cuba. nnn
. : Task 16: State plan due by 15 February on feasible extension of
Bees U.S. port treatment now given to Bloc and Cuban vessels to charter
vessels of Bloc and Cuba (Treasury to advise on this).

Task 17: State to report by 15 February on feasibility of harass-
ing Bloc shipping by refusing entry into U.S, ports (statedly for
security reasogs

   
   
  

GIA to report on possibility of cooperation of AFL-CiO
; . natipgep Transport Federation to refuse to handle cargo
. : for or from Cuba.#yue by 15 February. —
1.3144) i | on y
. Task 19: State to report by 15 February on possibilities for
obtaining the discreet cooperation of the National Foreign Trade
Council to urge U.S. shippers to refuse to ship on vessels which call
. at Cuban ports. (Commerce to assist on this.)

Task 20: State to report by 15 February on possibilities to obtain
the discreet cooperation of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the
National Association of Manufacturers to influence U.S, firms having
subsidaries abroad to adhere to the spirit of U.S. economic sanctions.

(Commerce to assist on this.)

fapbhatiits .

6

HW 50955 DocId:32424903 Page 8 SENSITIVE

if vessels have called or will call at Cuban ports.

rs
PUr SmuUinsu
SENSITIVE

 

V. TARGET SCHEDULE

A. Intelligence

Task 1; NIE 85-62 on Cuba due 7 February (CLA).

Task 2: By 15 February, Opa Locka Interrogation ¢ Center to be made
an effective operation for collection and ] processing of f intelligence (CLA
with support of Defense, State, I&NS, FBI).

Task 3: Intelligence collection £1 from Cuban refugees else e than

~ i area. CIA to survey other refugee points (Puerto Ricdffrenerseis, “Ss om
etc. end on a priority basis to ensure maximum coverage of ch
ce points. 15 February target date.

Task 4: CIA to continue its re-examination of intelligence assets,

with p, ‘ity on agents s inside Cuba, and» Feport on capability by 15 Feb-
LIA ruaryp? Also included is coverage of intelligence through third
; AY sourc’ articularly those having diplomatic relations with co il Ky s

B. Political

 

    
 

   
 
 
 
  

Task 5: CLA to submit plan by 1 February for defection of top Cuban
government officials, to fracture the regime from within. Thie effort”
“poust be iz imaginative and bold enough to consider a ''name'' defector to
be worth at least a million U.S. dollars. This can be the key to our
political action 2 goal and must be mounted without delay as a major CIA

project. on

Task 6: CIA to complete plans by 1 February for Cover and Decep-
tion actions, to _help fracture the Communist regime in Cuba. Defense, —_—
ee, et A A
State and FBI are to collaborate on this.

 

Task 7: By 1 February, CLA to submit operations schedule for
initiating popular movement within Cuba. This must include localities
selected inside Cuba, assessment of selected Cubans, their infiltra-
tion, activity assignments, and political platform. One section must

. deal with the “underground, assess its true status and plans to use it.

 

. Task 8: State to follow up the OAS meeting by having U.S.
Embassies in Latin America exploit all opportunities to enlist Jocal

sympathy for th
Communist regime in Cuba. State to submit reporton results of this

assignment by 13 February, so further planning can be programmed.

 

Task 9: By 15 February, State to submit an inventory of operational
assets in the Caribbean area, including capabilities of local governments
or groups to mount operations on their own, to help achieve the Project's
goals. Plans for early use of such capabilities are due by 19 February.

Task 10: CLA to submit operational schedule for using assets in the
Caribbean area to achieve the Project's political action goals. The
objective of working on dynamic clements of the Cuban population (such
as workers, farmers) is underscored, Due 19 February.

 

HW 50955 Doocld:32424903 Page 7
 

SENSITIVE

om . . Cc. Political platform for peoples’ movement inside Cuba.

Statue: State has sketched in a broad outline. CLA is to produce
i the firm platform statement of aims for which the Cubans who will
operate inside Cuba are willing to_ fk tbeir lives, and upon which

‘ popular support can be generated.

— -

D. Nucleus for popular movement “

 

 

Status: To date, CLA has been unable to produce the necessary
political action agents for this purpose. Upon re-evaluation of its
capabilities, CLA now hopes to complete spotting and assessing eight
to ten Cuban political action agents by 15 February, from among .
Gubans available in the_ United States. The minimurn need for the
Project to be effective is 30|such political action Cubans and CIA is
tasked to make a priority search for them among Cubans in the U.S.
and Caribbean area.

   

E. Deployment of nucleus

Status: CLA is tasked to select 20 localities within Cuba where
political action groups can be established. Initial selection and plans

for establishing these action groups are now due l February. Havana, .
and localities in the provinces of Camaguey and Las Villas will receive
priority consideration, according to present intelligence. Planning on

this must be adjusted as firmer intelligence is acquired. !

 

F. Diplomatic actions

Status: State is concentrating on the OAS Meeting of Foreign
Ministers, which opens 22 January, hoping to get wide Western Hemis-
phere support for OAS resolutions condemning Cuba and isolating it
from the rest of the Hemisphere. A companion resolution, to offer
QAS relief directly to the suffering Cuban people (similar to U.S.
relief to Russia, 1919-20) is being considered, as a means to reach

the Cuban people sympathetically without going through their Com-

 

 

munist government, The OASm is to be supported by publi 4,2, Yo
demonstrations in Latin Americ ated by CIA, anda payeno™ ; ,
logical campaign assisted by U ° J

The major task for our diplomatic capability is to encourage Latin
American leaders to develop independent operations similar to this Pro-
Ject, seeking Wn internal revolt of the Cuban people against the Communist

“Yegime. This is yet to be initiated by State and must be vigorously pressed.

. G, Economic warfare
conor:

Status: This critical key to our political action Project is still in the
planning stage under State leadership, State is basing future economic
actions, including plans for an embargo on Cuban trade, on the outcome
of the forthcoming OAS meeting. Meanwhile, State has chaired an Economic

: action group, which agreed on developing 13 actions. 15 February js set for
_¢ 1A a report on implementing plans, so that actions can be initiatedy CLA was _
fag fh unable to undertake action to sabotage the sugar harvest, which commences
hed At tT About 15 January, and upon which Cuba's one-crop sugar economy depends,<*
. (Sabotage of transport, mills, sugar sacking and cane fields was explored.)

3

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424903 Page 5 SENSITIVE
SENSITIVE
HK. TVi . |

; vated on a small vessel under CLA control. CLA plans to
. 4 : attempt intrusion on wary during Castro's forthcorming speech and
4,

paar rade demonstrations.
aha x4)}

 

  
   

L

Statu

C/A of pre-e

ments to Cuba are carried in Western bottoms),/ CIA has initiated

~,
‘ )32@QYE action to contaminate POL supplies for Cuba, 1 cia visible results

  
  
 
 
  
  

 

 

(stoppage of some Cuban transport) is not expected until mid-1962, CLA

ig introducing "Lubzol," a corrosive additive, t an,locomotive.
diesel fuel oi] through commercial suppliers in It will be 4
months before the first locomotives break down. expects to be able

to have at least one agent recruited by 28 February to att
tion of a corrosive additive to jet fuel storage tanks in Cuba.

  
 
 

introduc-

J. Military actions ~ . rn

 

 

also has been tasked with fully assisting State and CLA, as commitments
of Defense men, money, and materiel are required.

 

_K. Major elements of the population

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Status: Both State and CLA are continuing to explore their capabilities
(with results largely negative to date) for mounting special group operations
inside Cuba focused upon dynamic elements of the population, particularly
operations through the Church to reach the women and families, and
through Labor contacts to reach the workers. Other elements include
enlistment of the youth and professional groupings. Special consideration
is to be given to doing this through Latin American operational contacts,
This is vital to the success of our political action nucleus when CLA can

pyt it into place.

 

L. Outlook”

. Status: As reported to the Special Group last week, there has been a
period of a realistic second look at CIA capabilities to mount the required
clandestine operations against Cuba, and a subsequent start in "tooling up."
After this second look, CLA has concluded that its realistic role should be

to create at least the illusion of a popular movement, to win external support
for it, to improve CLA operational ‘capability, and to help create a climate
which will permit provocative actions in support ofa shilt to overt action. —
Thies outlook, although arrived at thoughtfully within CLA, is far short of

the Cuba project's goals. CLA must take yet another hard look at its
potential capabilitics, in the light of the following tasking, to determine

if it cannot make the greater effort required.

 

 

 

 

 

4

HW 50955 DocTd:32494903 Page 6 SENSITIVE
Date
Page

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

08/04/98
1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY INFORMATION

JCS
202-10001-10172
FOIA SERIES
boc 173

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

OSD

THE CUBA PROJECT
01/18/62

24 ‘
OPERATION MONGOOSE

MEMORANDUM
TOP SECRET

iB, ic

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
07/30/98

Bracketed portions withheld by Joint Staff.
by CIA, State, OSD.

Reviewed

HW 50955 Bocld:32424903 Page 2
202-10001-10172

 

Date
Page

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

08/04/98
1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY INFORMATION

JCS
202-10001-10172
FOIA SERIES
DOC 173

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

 

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

OSD

THE CUBA PROJECT
01/18/62

24

OPERATION MONGOOSE

MEMORANDUM
TOP SECRET

1B, 1¢

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
07/30/98

Bracketed portions withheld by Joint Staff.
by CIA, State, OSD.

NO JOINT STAFE OBJECTION
TO DECLASSIFICATION

Pie ere

Reviewed

HY 50955 DoclId:32424903 Page 1
  

Seman Program Review by SENSITIVE
: Brig. Gen. E, G. Lansdale,
18 January 196

Chief of Operations : :

THE CUBA PROJECT

1, OBJECTIVE

The U.S. objective is to help the Cubans overthrow the Communist
regime from within Cuba and institute a new government with which the

United States can live in peace..

il. CONCEPT OF OPERATION

Basically, the operation is to bring about the revolt of the Cuban
The revolt will overthrow the Communist regime and institute

“people.
a new government with which the United States can live in peace. -

 

The revolt requires a strongly motivated political action movement
established within Cub2, to generate the revolt, to give it direction to-
wards the objective, and to capitalize on the climactic moment. ~The
political actions will be assisted by economic warfare to induce failure
of the Communist regime to supply Cuba's economic needs, psychological
operations to turn the peoples! resentment increasingly against the regime,
and militaty-type groups to give the popular movement an action arm for

 

 
  
      

LZ)
=
£3 8 sabotage and armed resistance in support of political objectives.
&Ea
eke
3 228 The failure of the U.S.-sponsored operation in April 1961 so shook
S8Eu -the faith of Cuban patriots in U.S. competence and intentions in support-
8se@s .

\ 2 a iar ing a revolt against Castro that a new effort to generate a revolt against
gesea the regime in Cuba must have active support from key Latin American
3 ek K countries. Further, the foreigness (Soviet Union and Bloc) of the tyranny
& Be imposed on the Cuban people must be made clear to the people of the
5S £5. Western Hernisphere to the point of their deep anger and open actions to

B P P jeep anger and open actia,
5 2 defend the Western Hemisphere against such foreign invasion. Such an

anger will be generated, in part, by appeals from the popular movement
within Cuba to other Latin Americans especialy.

The preparation phase must result in a political action organization
im being in key localities inside Cuba, with its own means for internal
communications, its own voice for psychological operations, and its own
action arm (small guerrilla bands, sabotage squads, etc. ). It must have
the sympathetic support of the majority cf the Cuban people, and make this
; fact known to the outside world, (It is reported that the majority of Cubans
’ prenot for the present regime, but are growing apathetic towards what

appears to be a hopeless future or the futility of their status.)

The climactic moment of revolt will come from an angry reaction of

the people to a government action (sparked by an incident), or from a
fracturing of the leadership cadre within the regime, or both. (A major
goal of the Project must be to bring this about.) The popular movement

DECLASSIICATION ND/OR
eee SO CMEN, gm DISACDFOISR) yl ys LoL \
8] wore |S oC

OSL, kro Obl Ee770n
This document contains g pages.

25 June Excluded from automatic
regrading: DOD Inr, Copy No. 9 of aL Copies. /

~ Doo# iS Upp

 

HW 50955 Docld:32424903 Page 3
; EWE See
Simei: coil : SENSITIVE

will capitalize on this climactic moment by initiating an open revolt.
Areas will be taken and held, If necessary, the popular movement will
appeal for help to the free nations of the Western Hemisphere. Thee ~
United States, if possible in concert.with other Western Hemisphere
nations, will then give open support to the Cuban peoples' revolt. Such
Support will include military force, as necessary. oer

 

I. ESTIMATE OF THE SITUATION

.Our planning requires sound intelligence estimates of the situation
re Cuba. The latest National Estimate (SNIE 85-61) of 28 November
1961 contains operational conclusions not based on hard fact, in addition
to its intelligence conclusions; this isa repetition of an error in the
planning for the unsuccessful operation of last April.

The planning indicated herein will be revised, as necessary, based
on the hard intelligence estimate of the situation by the U.S. Intelligence
community. A new National Intelligence Estimate (NIE 85-62 on Cuba),
due on 23 January, apparently has been postponed until 7 February.

 

It is recognized that one result of the Project, so far, has been to

start the collection of Intelligence on Cuba in depth, to provide facts on

Are
which to base firm estimates and operations.

IV. INITIAL PHASE
(30 Nov 61 - 18 Jan 62)

A. Establish a U.S. mechanism for the project.

Status: The President's directive of 30 November 1961 was imple- —
mented by creating a U.S. operations team, with Brig. Gen. Lansdale |
as Chief

 

f of Operations, and with tasks promptly assigned. His immedi-

ate staff are Mr. Hand and Major Patchell. Representatives of Secre-
taries and Agency Directors are:

 

State - Woodward (Goodwin, Hurwitch)
CIA - Helms
Defense - Brig. Gen. Craig

USIA - Wilson

_ B. Intelligence Support

Status: CLA made a special survey of U.S, capabilities to interrogate

Cuban refugees in the USA (1, 700 - 2,000 arriving per month) and on

—_ 16 January approved a program increasing the staff at the Opa Locka _
Interrogation Center in Florida {rom the present 2 people to 34. CIA will
build up agent assets (positive intelligence assets inside Cuba are very
limited and it has no counter-intelligence assets inside), Special intelli-
gence assets will be exploited more fully. The Cuba project needs far
more hard intelligence in depth than is presently available. CLA will
require further assistance from Defense and other U.S. organizations
in this intelligence effort, and is submitting specific qualifications for

pereonnel on 19 January. ~
(pereonne! on 2. > im

 

 

 

2

HW 50955 Docld:32434903 Page 4 erarerrryr
