 

 

yee 55166 Docld: 32989587 Page 9

 

Memorandum to Mr. T, W. Leavitt
Re: Senstudy 75
62- 116395

is again reported on page 9. However, on page 40, in an apparent
self-contradiction, the report states "Some agents defined 'New Left'
functionally, by connection with protest. Others defined it by philos-
ophy, particularly antiwar philosophy. "* The draft report ignores the
fact that former Assistant Director Brennan, in his public testimony
before the SSC, was asked to and did define "New Left." Additionally,
Ryan in his deposition indicated to the SSC he could define "New Left"
but did not believe it pertinent to his testimony. One former INTD
supervisor is cited in the report as stating in his deposition he was
unable to define "New Left, ’' and that he recalled no specific defini-
tion in Bureau documents.

Emphasis on Black Nationalist and New Left Programs:
While the report indicates over half of all Cointelpro actions were
conducted in the program which targeted the Communist Party, USA
(CPUSA), specific actions in this area are alluded to in a vague and
generalized manner. The report concludes the Cointelpros became
more damaging to constitutional rights as they progressed, with the
final two programs, which targeted Black Nationalists and New Left,
the most offensive. Selective, incomplete summaries of numerous
Cointelpro actions targeting such groups.as the Black Panther Party
(BPP) are cited with either no characterization of their propensity
for violence or with incompleté descriptions regarding their extremist
or subversive nature.

A specific example of failure to characterize an organiza-
tion with a propensity for violence occurred in the summary of a
Cointelpro action directed against a member of the Black Liberators.
A characterization of the organization would have disclosed it as a
pseudo military group composed of black militants who sought open
confrontation with the establishment and emulated the BPP in its aims.

In addition to the failure to characterize organizations, no effort was made .

CONTINUED - OVER
~%-

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

|

| AW 55166 DocId:32989537 Page 10

 

Memorandum to Mr. T. W. Leavitt
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

throughout the draft to outline the true objective of the FBI or to
indicate any positive results were obtained in any instance. Also,

on one occasion the report cites in some detail a suggested technique
of a sensationalist nature which the draft states was "apparently"
dropped, ignoring a communication furnished to the SSC reflecting
that the proposal had been dropped.

Unreported Cointelpro Activities: Quoting former
Assistant to the Director Sullivan, the draft report states that although
the formal program was instituted in 1956, Cointelpro-type activities
had been conducted by the FBI for years. It cites the originating
Cointelpro document in the CPUSA as indicating an "ad hoc” Cointelpro
consisting of harassment” had existed for years primarily operated
by the field offices. The formal Cointelpros are described as an
effort by the FBI to expand and formalize the scope and targets.

The SSC draft comments that it had been advised of two
Cointelpro actions effected after FBI Headquarters issued instructions
that the programs be discontinued and indicates a comprehensive
review of FBI files would undoubtedly uncover numerous others.

To support this contention, the report states the SSC dis-
covered a third instance of Cointelpro action which occurred four
months after termination of the programs. This instance involved
the furnishing of information to a friendly newspaper source under
the so-called ''Mass Media Program" intended to discredit an
attorney and his client. A footnote at this point in the report indicates
that Charles Colson spent seven months in jail for similar activity
involving the client.

CONTINUED - OVER

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HW 55166

Memorandum to Mr, T, W. Leavitt
Re: Senstudy 75
§2- 116395

Quotes from Depositions: Among the present and former
Bureau officials quoted in the draft are former Assistant to the Direc-
tor William C, Sullivan, Assistant Director Charles D. Brennan,
Section Chief George C. Moore, and Supervisors Thomas J. Deakin,
Russell Horner and David Ryan, all of the INTD, As noted above,
access to the full depositions of these officials is apparently not avail-
able even to those who furnished said depositions.

However, Ryan's deposition is quoted in the draft in
several instances in a manner believed to be inaccurate or at best
distorted to support SSC conclusions. It is indicated in the draft that
Ryan, in his deposition, described "fellow travelers" as "those taking
positions supported by the communists, such as school integration,
increased minority hiring and opposition to HUAC,"' Although Ryan
recalls defining "fellow travelers" in his deposition, the description
furnished in the draft report is not recalled, is not in his wording,
and is not in accordance with his views.

Also, in a footnote further in the report, a number of
lurid and sexually oriented techniques are cited followed by the state-
ment "The subject could go on, but the subject is,'as Ryan put it,’
‘degrading. '" Ryan specifically remembers his use of the word
"degrading" was in reference to the insistence of SSC staff members
to discuss sexually oriented techniques to the exclusion of all others
during his deposition, and not to characterize Cointelpro. (Banoff
was orally advised by Ryan on 3/3/%6 of this distortion),

Definition of "New Left": In an obvious attempt to support
its contention that the titles of the various Cointelpros and the targets
were vague and ill-defined, the draft report indicates "nor could any-
one at the Bureau even define "New Left'" on page 4. This statement

CONTINUED - OVER
-6-

DoclId:329895687 Page 6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Memorandum to Mr. T, W. Leavitt
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

 

checking with the Committee Security Officer, Miss Banoff advised
the FBI reviewers would not be afforded access to any depositions or
other supporting documentation of the Committee.

 

Editorialization by the SSC: The draft, on its first page,
alleges "Cointelpro is the story of decent men who did terrible
things for what they saw as the greater good of the country, '' without
any supporting material. Later, and throughout the report, it is
indicated ''The techniques were adopted wholesale from wartime
intelligence, " apparently paraphrasing information furnished to the
Committee by former Assistant to the Director William C. Sullivan
who is cited in the report as describing counterintelligence as
"dirty ousiness."' "The unexpressed major premise of programs
(Cointelpros) was that a law enforcement agency has not only the
right but the duty to maintain the existing social and political order
by secretly manipulating thoughts and behavior and to immobilize
those who threaten that order by seeking activity to change it or by
adopting visibly different life styles.'' Further in the report,
Cointelpro is described as "a declaration of war on the advocates of
change" and also characterized as a "sophisticated vigilante operation."
The draft attempts to depict the Bureau in a most unfavorable light
by such statements as ''The image of an agent of the U. S. Govern-
ment scrawling a poisoned pen letter to somebody's wife in language
usually reserved for a bathroom's walls is not a happy one."
Finally, the draft alleges The instances of attacks on speaking,
teaching, writing and meeting go on and on." There follow several
examples of "attacks, " leading to the draft's statement that ''The only
conclusion that can be drawn from the cases is that the Bureau con-
sidered the First Amendment a danger to the country, "' a conclusion
which is felt to be characteristic of the overall tenor of the language
of the draft.

CONTINUED - OVER

 

\, BW 55166 Docld: 32989587 Page 7

 
 

Memorandum to Mr. T. W. Leavitt
Re: Senstudy 75 —
62- 116395

DETAILS:

On 3/2-3/76, Intelligence Division Supervisors Don K,.
Pettus, Arthur G, Pote and David Ryan visited the SSC offices at the
Dirksen Office Building to review the 133-page (double spaced)
Committee draft report on discontinued FBI Cointelpros. Barbara
Banoff of the Committee staff made available three copies of the SSC
draft report dated 2/24/76, entitled "Cointelpro: The FBI's Covert
Action Programs against American Citizens," which were to be
reviewed for classification. The copies of the draft report were
noted "Sensitive" and it was indicated each copy was one of 13.

Classification: Two items appearing in the draft report
were deemed by the reviewers to require classification of 'Secret''
or higher as their disclosure could jeopardize sensitive sources
and/or techniques in the foreign intelligence area. These two items
were identified on a separate sheet of paper and furnished to the SSC
on 3/3/76. They are being identified by separate memorandum.

Statement to SSC Staff: Upon completion of the review of
the draft on 3/3/76, the FBI representatives submitted in a sealed
envelope to Miss Banoff a statement reading as follows:

At the invitation of the Senate Select Committee
(SSC) staff, on 3/2-3/76, FBI representatives reviewed
the draft report of the Committee, dated 2/24/76,
entitled, "Cointelpro: The FBI's Covert Action Pro-
grams against American Citizens."" Items appearing
in this report which require classification have been
separately identified on this date to the SSC staff.

CONTINUED - OVER

 

 

| HW 55166 Docld:32989587 Page 5

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Memorandum to Mr. T, W. Leavitt
Re: Senstudy 75
62~116395

 

The SSC draft report is based upon selective docu-
mentation using out-of-context quotes from FBI corre-
spondence and depositions in support of conclusions
which are phrased in a subjective and condemnatory
manner in language calculated to present the Bureau in
a most unfavorable light.

As the entirety of the draft is couched in phrases
intended to indicate the Bureau deliberately violated con-
stitutional rights, and that that violation was in fact its
motive; and as the FBI reviewers had no concurrent
access to the depositions and other documentation
referred to in the draft, it is felt no purpose would be
served in attempting to refute the allegations page by
page. Nor would any valid purpose be served in attempt-
ing to argue with or contradict conclusions reached by
the draft's authors. Therefore, no comment will be
made on the content of the draft.

Finally, it is a matter of concern that inadequate
consideration was given to the rights of privacy of those
mentioned directly or indirectly in the draft, whether
private citizens, organizations which cooperated with
the FBI, or officials.

In reference to the above statement, the FBI reviewers
asked for a copy of SA Ryan's deposition which had previously been
submitted to the Committee so it could be checked against the draft
to verify the accuracy of statements attributed to Ryan in the draft
and also to determine if they had been utilized out of context. After

CONTINUED - OVER

AW 55166 DocId:32989587 Page 6

 
 

 

 

@

OPBONAL FORSRNIO. 10 | 5010-106
1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG, NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

      

4 “2- Mr. D. W, Moore, input

a, i Cassia 1 Mee gp Hain, ox) a
/ ! ~~ 1- Mr. F, J. Caseiay bepol Coun, —
/ 1-Mr. 3. G. Pron. 8 val.
Susject: SENSTUDY 75 1-Mr. B.D, ‘Shackelford Treining.———
~ 1- Mr. S. F, Phillips Telephone Rm. =
1- Mr. D. Ryan Diractor Sec’y

PURPOSE: Un v

 

This is to report the review by Intelligence Division (INTD)
representatives of the Senate Select Committee (SSC) draft report on
our discontinued Counterintelligence Programs (Cointelpros) and to
recommend our comments relating to the report, as furnished on
3/3/76 to the SSC staff, be furnished to the Attorney General for
possible referral by him to the Committee and/or the White House.

  
 
 

SYNOPSIS:

On 3/2-3/76 INTD Supervisors Don K.- Pettus, Arthu
Pote and David Ryan reviewed the 133-page (double spaced) SSCédfaft
report dated 2/24/76, entitled "Cointelpro: The FBI's Covert Actio:
Programs against American Citizens," at SSC offices for the need
for classification. Two items appearing in the report requiring
classification of ''Secret" or higher were identified to the SSC and
will be outlined separately. Upon completion of the review of the
report, the FBI representatives submitted to the SSC staff a brief
statement indicating that because the report was based upon selec-
tive documentation, contained conclusions phrased in a subjective
and condemnatory manner, and because the reviewers were denied
access to depositions and other documentation referred to in the draft,
it was felt no purpose would be served in attempting to refute or con-
tradict conclusions by the draft's authors, and therefore no comment
would be made. Further, the statement indicated a concern that
inadequate consideration was given to the rights of privacy of, those

He tb AL,

ALL INFORMATION sone

HGREIN IS UNOLASSIP,

Dat Ynf-0) 8

Enclosures — Se, t 3-25 - 6 - REC-IIS. 5B MAR es
62-116395 7 CONTINUED - ‘OVER
RES Noe sree
1 - 62-116009 (Cointelpro) SEE DETAILS PAGE 3 ,
7)
DR/DKP/AGP:16j |) . i-
(13) §

we BAMA EL Ih ss07 pase 2

Assoc. Dir, ¢

i- Mr. J. B. Adams Der. ap Adm. —

- Mr. J. A, Min be Ae
Memorandum (Po tie pv Daly) wer

‘ Comp. Syst. ——

4 x aA : Ext. Affairs —_

Mr. ‘fT. W. Leavitt “" pare: 3/8/76 Picea Cour

Gen, Inv.

   
   
   

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    

 

PPLE f

£12

UNRECORDED COPY FILED. Gi

54

 

 

 
 

 

 

eee 2 S27 AA Sk
(SE NA [4B |
}i80. THM INR HE
(300 TH fete 1508

1510 1Mreee, /51F-
/ 57+

 

 
 

  

 

 

    
  

Bdaie gd. ik (Ep 100 25-
RECEIVED ECEIVED -
ny ASSISTANT DIRECTOR ASSISTANT DIREGTOR
RECEIVED —INTEASIGENCE DIY. INTELLIGENCE DIY.
Hae 19 A ser Ag7eant0 3 uo PHIG7G tiga 13 9 10 AH 1976
_ LEGAL COUNSEL . .
5 > > Ea ‘3h
ar R Yt “e we : rem
: - : 2 ES BSR
> poe ao 29%
. ~ + aoe = BRS
. _ . ou EB se
> - a 3 2 . 3 3 “2
&
2 6

     

  

HW 55166 DocId: 32989537

  

Page 3

a

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Memorandum to Mr. T. W. Leavitt
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

 

mentioned directly or indirectly in the draft report. The draft, on
its first page, alleges "Cointelpro is the story of decent mén who did
terrible things for what they saw as the greater good of the country"
and later editorializes "the only conclusion that can be drawn from
the cases is that the Bureau considered the First Amendment a danger
to the country," and these conclusions characterize the overall tenor
of the draft. Numerous selective quotes are incorporated in the
report from documents and depositions, some of which are obviously
out of context. Former Assistant to the Director William C, Sullivan
is cited, as are former Assistant Director Charles D, Brennan and
Section Chief George C, Moore of the INTD, Also, INTD supervisors
Thomas J. Deakin, Russell Horner (retired) and David Ryan are cited
extensively. The report concludes Cointelpros became more damag-
ing to constitutional rights as they progressed, with the latter two
programs targeting Black Nationalists and New Left, the most
offensive. Selective, incomplete summaries of numerous Cointelpro
actions are cited, usually without characterizing the subversive or
extremist nature of the targets or detailing the true objective of the
FBI. While the report indicates the FBI notified the Executive and
Legislative Branches regarding the existence of the Cointelpros, it
downplays this effort by indicating the notification was vague and
incomplete and by citing two former Attorneys General alleged
ignorance of the programs. An effort is made to discredit the review
of the Department (Petersen Committee of the Criminal Division) and
Civil Rights Division review of Cointelpros as incomplete.

ACTION:

That the attached letter enclosing a memorandum setting
forth the comments of the Special Agents who reviewed the draft
report be forwarded to the Attorney General for his information and
for possible referral to the SSC and/or the White House.

 

   
 

   

  

Q CONTINUED - OVER
Laboratory...-...ss0ee. one?
APPROVED: Legal Coun... 5
Assoc. Dr vian. & Eval
Den, aD ye " L hee. Mgmt...
ep. AD INV...

ti cue =: SES. Inv:
intel oa” Training...

Asst. Dir.
AW 55166 DoclId: 3293 9AGn..Page-4—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
