 

Released undér ‘the John F., Kehnedy-Assassination Records, Collection &
, ! ‘ ’! 14 ct of 1992 (44 USC 2107 .
DATE:, 11-14-2017; | * pe - on ez - | ' . Norgy i

re 7 i. . 7 he ~~ ror
ome F ~ ae \ .
j Do ., . Ne . . .
: aoe of og «
:

, ca

 

4 ra ¢ v

SENATE SULECT COUNZTTER ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)
WBE: DEPOSITION OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR W. RAYKOND WANGALL

oe

 

;. progran wbich carried the cede words “doe Survey” and

i wont over the detaile of the operations at the request of
Hy, Montague, Jt was reported that Callahan told the :
Hiagd offices that due to investigations by Senate aad
Cougressicnal Committees Mr. Hoatague had requested he
be advised of the procedures used in this operation.
tr, Callahan wos eaid to have stated that he ad no
eriticisu to offer after the procedure waa discussed
and, actording to his conversation witk lr. Hontague,

/| . fe planned to give his approval to the operation asd

- && Gould bo continued. aan

: : She third exhibit in this neries, the airtel
. #eom Biemd dated duly 22, 1966, reported that the Joe Survey
Ned been discontinued as of July #2, 2906, in accordance with
| Buvesu iustructions and that Pestal Inepecter Baurice Canpbeih
find advised that he felt sure the survey could be reestab= -
lished at any time if ao desired by the Bureau, ;

Woennell was asked by what seane the Tureau had
fnatrnueted that the Joe Survey be discontinued and he
gesponded that he did net have knowledge regarding this.
dskod@ if be knew why it was discontinued, he stated that
at une hig recollection that former Dixector Goover in
‘aly, 1966, ordered a discontinuance of certain techniques
which had beea theretofere utilized and he ielt that the
duterception of mail was one of the techniques discontinued
ag G@ result of tir. Heover’s instructions.

 

; ot feaponding to epeciZic questions, Wennall
geated that ae ke recalled the interceptios of mail in.
@ doe Sugvey had resulted ia the identification of
| @Penetrate"| and one other Cuban Intelligence Agent, both
of whow wore poudiag letters te Cuban intelligence maii
dropa abroad. Me gurther advised that from a review of
material available in FGI files, he had learned that
appronimately 490 letters had been opened during the
course of the doc Gurvey and that in €9 instances socret
writing was discovered either on the envelopes or 04
ae the contents of the envelopes. He said it was his undeme
gtanding that in establishing the presence of the socret
; writing mo damage reguited to the letterg or envelopes
and that the wail was placed back into postal channels

 

 

| Docla: 32312311 Page 5
 

 

| Released undér the John FP. + Kenedy: Assassination | Records, Collectipn Hct of 1999 (44 USt 7i07T HOEey

= y L
DATE: 11- 14; “2047 } .f, ‘ tee - ete : toe ro : ' .
ie te v

 

e
* 3

SENATE SELECT (MITTEE OW INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)
RES DEPOGTTIGR oF aSPISTART DLHECTOR WY. RAYMOUD WANNALL

a {

 

tor forwarding to the addressee normally within the
matter of a day. Since mail frem the United States to
Subs at that time wes not Ziowing regularly because of

co ; the disyuptions in relations between the Cuban Government
. ' gnd the Gaited States Goverumest, Wanezell ksew ef ne
siteationgs wherein suspicions were aroused by reason of
the Fact that there were delays in the transmittal of
tho mail.

Ue. ELLE asked for tha identification of
. the source whereby the Bureau becane avare theta Cuban.
Intelligence Azeat who was given the coda name Penetrate 1G )
Peckuse his idvatity was not known Gt the outse
, d0o Survey, was, in fact, operating in Puerto Bless
. Wanoell stated that in Eeeping with the agreement between
: wee ; the Benurtment of Justics and the SSC, he was unable to
aa _  @iaelose this Source. Br. ELS agked af Waeuneli was
| thle ta atate whether this gource was & mail diatercest. —
Waunall told Lia that the gource was uot a mali intercept
which satisiied Hr. BllLigf’s intereste in this matter,

 

Yer. Dick daquired aa to the hightet authority
within the FRE who had given approval toe this operation.
tie wag inforndad that & memorandum dated November a6 5 ald
from Vanaald to W. C. Gullivan captioned (GPeneixs
Beplonage-Caba," outlined the backsround tis the ae ate }s)
e256 and recommended that contact he made by tae FEI
Ligisen Agent with the Chief Postal Ingvecter te advise
hin of our deairg te uadertake the mail intereept program
in Miami and that this memorandum centained Mr. Hoover's
“Ou and hig initial. Hr. Disk stated that the gsc
staf? did net have accesa to this memorandums and indicated
Recoga te it would prebably be requested,

fir.’ Dick then referred toe a mail survey program
cenducted by the Sana Francieco Office of the FUL relating
te Chinsse conuunist proracanda entering the United States
which was known by the ecxryptanym “CHIPEOP.* He inquired
ag to Wanuall's knowledze of this program, Wannali advised
that from a review of material in Sureau giles, he bad: ;
learned that this operation was started in 1964 at which

 

 

: Docld:32312311 Page 6
 

 

Released under the. John

    
  
 
   
  

ation Records Collec

 

 

 
 

was: vasposed with: “regard. te another. matt
“ goneider himself as being etalk ‘ander oath for
Of the current deposition... 21. me
.." @nd was, told. that eince a 5
 gequest-a discontinuance: ‘at any "times.
pcetel the results would: be "recorded end Be

 

  

   
  
    
   
 
 
 
   
   
 

 

 

 

- ously, released Wannall fron. Nise ‘geerecy, se Fak °
me ais: "deposition with ) respect ‘to ‘the matters. ‘cover

aa ific questions.
so a in the order in which | the questions wore, asked: t
ae Coo gavene >

| ooo. ORIGINAL AND ONE copy TO AG.

-| - 7. aint Director W. R. wat t
DocId: 32312311 Page 2 i
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017
4/14/201

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

 

Agency Information

 

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: _ 124-10324-10060
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 67-95998-NR-
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 10/16/1975
“PAGES: 14
SUBJECTS :
W. RAYMOND WANNALL JR.
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS:  Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 09/21/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

 

v9.1
Docld: 32312311 Page 1
 

 

Released “under ‘the John F. : Kefnedy"Assassination
DATE:, » d1- a- 2017 | ae ‘

oe fy stm
. . . we .
<° ce °

°

Records, Collect ron Act of 1992 (44 USC 3i0T Hotey:

   

 

eo eet
.

SENATR SELECT comrTreE ox INTRLLIGHNCE ACTIVITIES (ss
RS: DEPOSITION OF ASSISTANT DIRECTION @. RAYMOND yassanee

|

; . noted that the initials at the bottom of the memorandum

a iudicated it had kean appreved at least by former Assectate
aa Birector Clyde A. Tolsen and it was possible the memorandum

“fad gone iute former Directer Hoover's office, although this

ould be cotnblished only by checking the, time stanp on the

rovorse Side of the enc~page mesorandum., —

EK

 

; The third cxhibit shown te Wannall was @ memerandan
Pp. detod May 15, 1963, from Wannall to W C, Ballivaa captioned
"Bureau Informant 200 - Policy.” This memorandum did sot
contain the initials of Yannall but be acknowledged that he
hed read eliher the memorandum or & tepy of it. Tats
menorandum had algo been initisied by Hr. Telsen and had

beon prerared for the purpose of sending to CI4 an evaluation

; of 347 separate itema received by the PEE as a result ef the

4 BuntereVince coverage, if was recommended that an attached
Meee femorandum contakming the results of thia evaluation be
furnished CIA “for assistance ef that agency in evaluating

the program and reinatitution.” A sentence had been handy
written after this recommendation and the handwriting was
recognised ag being that of former Asgistant ta tke Director
Alan se Belmont, and this was called egecifically to Mr. Dick‘s
' - attention. Hr. Lelment’s saaten Ie read “CIA wil be told
| oe _ the decision is up te them.*

 

Responding te srecific questions, Wannell acknowe
ledged that he was aware of the foregcing information that
ud : CiA°a New York project which produced the Cuban mail orerated |
for . for Appromimateiy ons wonth berinaing in February, 1963, and
- 4 ' ¢hat te the best of his knovledre only 347 separate items,
thome evaluatad in the way iS, 2063, memorandum, were received,
Yannall said that Sr. Delwont’s written sentence on the

| ponorandum wag,interpreted by Wannall as an instruction te
eonvey to CIA the fact that the 7bi wag not requesting a
continuance or reinstitution ef the Hunter=Vince coverage

\ bat that this decision should be made by CiA,

i Tho next three items exhibited to Wannall were

Ch} @ Serex copy of an airte] dated December 21, 1062, sent

. from the Director, FSI, to_the Special Agent in Charse {Sac},
| iand, captioned noteatd Repionage=Cuba;” (2) a Xerox
{ . -
|

$)

 

 

 

j, Docka: 32312311 Page 3
 

| Released under ‘the John F.. Kennedy Assassination Records ,Collectioh A 4 0sc 7i07

he : i ct of 1992 (4 :

DATE:, 11-14-2017 | * Pe, : pont i : ( otey
. : . “

1 ; . ese “ ret . a oa
O . on a

 

Bd
Bs
cae

 

as
i

z

 

 

 

ft

SEMATE HRLECT CONMETTES ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (Sc)
‘HEr DEPOSITION OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR W. RAYMOND WANHALL
a : . | oo

copy of an airtel dated June 28, 1965, addressed to the
Director, FDL, by the SAC, Miami, captioned “doe Survey,
Esvioaage-Cuba;" and (3) @ Zerox copy of au girtel dated
iniy 22, 1065, addvessed te the Director, FRI, aAttentioat
inspector William &. Syde, by the BAC, Mani, alae eantioned
; “Joe Gurvey, Espionace-Cuba." Those comsunications vevealied -
wep that on Gecenber 19, 1068, Chief Postal Inspector MH. 5.
: Montarue gave his arproval for aa Pol plaa to screea said
p. in Miapi and inetructed the Hiami Gfsice to procecd with
; ‘this gcreening on January 2, 1083, after the rush of
fo Christmas mail, ‘he necessity for discreetneas and the
oF procedures for handling the initial inspectioa of mail
to '  : wee get orth and if wes pointed oui that if it becane
_ -Recesgary Zor any of the letters ef the subject, Peneteate gD
(a code name for a thea unidentified Cuban Inteireouce
| bgeat} to be sent to the FG1 Laboratory ia Washington! .
~ . for epecial processing, this would Lave to be hendled by
‘  g@ Biami Office Ageat who should pergonally take the letter
: te the Laboratory by plane and then return it to Mined
for iusertion in the normal mail flew after precesging
by the Laboratory.

: . ie, Diek iuquired ae to whether Chief Fostal
‘Tmepectar Montague had beea briefed to the exteat that
he waa told. the KBE would be opening mail. Wanualil ealied
He. Diek'’s attention to a note on the yellow file copy
wiiech indicated that the FEZ kad eriginaily intended toa
uee the pouch of commercial airlines pilots to transmit
from Miami to Washington; however, Ex. Hoatague vanted
wadl to be heudled only by Dureau Agents. Wannail said
that wiiie he had an knowledge as to the acope of the
briefing of Er. Moatagve, 1t would appear thet. he wag
aware of the faat that mail would be yemoved from normak
mail channels althesga it was not felt that 1t could be
stated from the acte that Hr. Moutague was told thet the
envelopes would be opened and the contents reviowsd ang
processed. :

 

 

ue fhe second item in this series was advice from
the Miami office that Ur. J. A. Callahan, Assistant
: . Euspecter in Charge, U.S, Post Office, Atlanta, Caorgia,
% contacted the Hiasd Office concerning this mail tatercept

 

 

 

\ Decra: 32312311 Page 4
