Released. under’ t)
11-14

DATE:

 

 

 

   
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
   
  
  

le” John F. Kennedy Assassination Records cea Het of 1997 (44 Cy OTF SN

=o ® |

s interpreted by t folkloric groups “of peasants and speeches

   
  
 
  
  
  
  

 

 

“sbout the Cuba's natural beauties, the agrarian reforn and present:

 

bhenter way of life" of Cuban peasants. I was directing this one

end ot ther musical or descriptive ones until November 1961.

  

Pa)

In October 1961 came to REC a Uzech who was introduced as Jiri Ne-. ..

 

Prague, who came.to give REC an

2" structure. This Czech was about a month and a half in.

C. He spent the first month studying very, carefully, ina hunilia-
way, the per’sonal file.of each one,° ‘ane ha way of functioning
every, department. He spoke in English. Afterwards I knew he spe- |

ke Spanish too, but hid it.

The Czech supported the thesis -and of course it was accepted that

yolitical untrusty people -me for instance- might- be used in works

of some responsibility, and, instead of isolate. those people, on

. ; : . .
the contrary they had to be joined to he reds and "work on then",

e
vy
oO

rder to indoctrinate then and "join them to the revolutionary

1

myself and other veople that I knew felt as me, were join-

 

rtment named something like News. Summary Department,

 

em 8 (AE an Nine ade A a oe te a

whos 2 ‘functions, under the vigilance of, a communist Head, were to

 

summarize news, speeches and informations from the news-papers and

those coming through the gove rnment's New Agency "Prensa Latina”,

 

The Czech "suggested" too 2 sort of*courses of political indoct rina-

‘tion called "Study Circles", which Were held at least once a “week.

es were oblisatory for all the. writing, speaking anc pro-

dete de a ok a eetttaisae bebe

onnel and "optional" for the rest. The courses were con-

 

maras and by the Spanish communist theoric Jose! nza-"

 

‘

There were read and. explained communist texts. Fihally

ors asked questions to the people about the matver.

 

 

     

ek abel perdi, inl nei NEE aadate dtnet ait wide tinaditthe it

 

 

 

Docld:32337260 Page 9

=
 

 
      
  
    

DATE: die -14- 2c

 

divided into Sections. Each Section prepares all

 

and speeches broadcasted to each part of the world.

  

news

     
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
    
 
   
 
  

 
  

penunds,

“lish (USA, Canaéa & Europe); Latin American {all Amert.~

 

peaking countries); French: (Europe & may be Canada); Por-

and Svain (Europe).

);
vioning, RHC "borrows its microphones" for half an hour two or three

sa week to Guatemala's, Dominican Republic" 8, Peru's and Guatemala

Pea mann abe win ge ims setae

now settled in Cuba. These programmes are Nene by. that

(Guatemala: Former Presi lent Jac °°” whenz and othe rs ,
sone alee S|
inican Republic: Juan\Doucoudray, Felt: awa anc: a

 

 

a

 

and Nicaragua I do not know the \people.)

 

Political "Commissar". He is the maximum résponsipte

tA .
nunist parey MOS n. ly for RHC for

 

 

1 radio and TV stations. Has no office in RHC. Goes there two

 

 

 

    

 

cre seen merece scene et eA

     
  
   
   
  

   

oy 5 a week. : te . - i
Director. Kember of the Cuban Communist Party. . a
oan : . 1!
A. Cainas, Vicedirector. Cuban CP. : (
f
}
idministrator and Personnel Ad Cuban CP. Cu! 4
1 Ke! Ef tov ts er
ys
Zz
: x
. 1,
= bd “at
and speaker « I do not khow if American CP. i
Vv . :
Me . Cudan. tT do not know his political opinion. . Le

I do not know heir po-

2° (He is the husb

 
    
  

  
 
  

   

>
. 7 Cir °

ied couple, about 55, ro iS “arrived, whose names i do
they speak Spanish like if would: have lived in a Spanish

    

 

   

ee ee

we

 

 

   

| Docla: 32337260 Page 10
 

 

"Released under
/* DATE: 11-14-

    
    
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
  
    
   
  
 
 
 
 

John, F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 ‘(44 UST FI0y Hoteys™

oe C™ a ed
we . pre

ising agency (Mercados, Surveys y Publicidad, S.A.), and I

 

y.

 

 

ht I knew them well. Nevertheless, I-did not know the riost

 
  

  

roant thing about this people: the three ones -I. learned it

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    

Sie east

were affiliated to Communist Party.

 

n receiving my salary from Telecommunications Department

  

 

rch 1961 I was called to Radio Progreso Building's 6th ; f
. i

 

floor (105 Infanta St., Havana), where I saw Pedro Costa who told

“

me there would be the studios and offices ‘of the new. radio station,
‘ .

  

which name would: be Radio Havana Cuba and would broadcast for

‘vhat he would be the Administrator and: Behmaras the Direc- !

 

tor and Cainas the Vice-Director, but as those ones had so many
_duties cutside by the moment, they could not occupy their posit-

t away. I was appointed to write three scripts for each

 

 

tne 30 minutes programmes named “Populer Cuban Composers",

wouba i

. : | . F -
the country" and "Cur listeners make questions to us".

 

 

i wrote only for the. former two and a month later presented them. :

 

s and Cainas were there already.: They met with me, read

 

the scripts and told me those had no "political content", and asi-
ed me why T had not written anything for "Our listeners make aques-
tioas to us". I told them that it was certainly diffisult to wri-

te avout imeginary letters and questidns. We discussed about the

 

for a while and finally they told me“to be in stand-by un

til’ they give me a new task. : : aa byiyntd

: g ~ ‘

called up again, this time,for a sort of staff
4

 

 

 

\

 

meeting in which surprisingly appeared Cegar\Escalante, a top old-
. . ~ :

ile Larne nie IP NN iA Slaten no sete a ae Lace da Erinn Haid Featnteand bane Ll eat ark ed oe a AB ig Nabe a bil ed baat

t chief. This man nas in his hands all the radio and TV

 
 

Cea ieee!

 

ions in Cuba. During the meeting he referred to Behmaras, Cai-.

 

 

and Costa as "comrades"; he told the personnel that new Radio

  

ia CuSa had a/remarkable importance to the Revolution, and so

srthma gene

 

. personnel had to be at such "high level", so, among other

  

, nobody there could resign or’ be absent of such "respoasibi-

 

lity". afterwards, this kind of meeting was hold frequently.

ter that I was called up again and received orders to direct the.

[eo]

1
y
is

. 4 .
amme named "Cuba in the country", a musical-descriptive one,

 

  

 

 

Docld:32337260 Page &
  

 
  
 

 
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
   
   
   

 

 

because nationalizat ion of all American enter-

and also the most. important Cuban ones, I lost mr

 

t Director at Col#ate-Falmolive of Cuba's Research
I had started with Golgate a year before, successfu~-
advertising Junior Executive or Brand-man,
nationalization was the shock that vanished my lest
for the new cuban ) government, in that very moment I
was: not prepared to leave ny country. I-had never come out cf

@ it looked hard to me to live abroad. I was "wrong when

 

Cuba

 

thought that cy) country | WES Cros ing under a black cloud, and tet

 

 

“rthing would soon turn to be like it. was before.

  

ce the government had

  

ounced that nobody would be threw .

 

& consecuence of

   

nationalization although their functioag

quoting all the people wnose before jobs

 

woul

  

could go to the Hiriste

 

ions! Telecowmunications Department, wi whic h would con-

 

 

 

ct
B:
3
&
co}
fel
f2)
SS
na
n
§
ct
S$
ic}
FH
ie
a
i)
fay

aries until send them to new. jobs accordir

 

mnths considering whether leaving or not Cuba, finally

 
 
 

ed to stay, and in December 1960 went to Telecommunications
rtment. In effect, they, paid me ny salary and informed me in
taat opportunity that all advertising men who had lose their jobs,
lwould be soon called to.work.in a new radio station, directed by,
ng men too; anorig~then-WeFe mentioned K Marcos Behnaras,

f°
i

and Jose Nets all them people that i knew befo-
aras was perhaps the most brilliant radio and TV writer,

by his high incomes; Fedro Costa, a well known marketing

 

researcher; and Caines, an excellent radio and TV director and

in the most important private network of Cuba: CHQ.

 

worked a few years:before with Behmaras and Costa in

 

SIE EC EIT Ta a a

 

  
  

Sn NM, YEE

 

 
 

isk aoatacscd son daha conids matatadaees bi oo

 

 

DocId: 32337260 Page 7?

      
     
    
     
 
  

   

tate atest ened ine bane Niet diem cinta eld Una be ttd

 

we LS.

 

 
  
 

 
 

 

 

DATE: 11-14-2017

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy

“ pelatives in the U.S.4. who would sponsor their admission to that
. country, DARIAS advised that if they were admitted to the U.S.A.

 
  
 
 
 

* long, deals not only with the Radio Havana

 
 
   
 
  
 
   
  

‘A Consul in Halifax on May 8, 1962 and completed admission application

DARIAS. stated that they have no relatives in the unie..
States, nor have they corresponded with anyone in the U.S.A.
DARTAS stated that when, they: requested political asylum upon
arvival in Cansda, it was their intention to apply for admission
to the United States, DARIAS stated that they have no friends or

{
|
:

        
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

   

_they would like to go to New York and seex employwent.

DARIAS stated that he was a supporter of Fidel CASTRO at
the time of the revolution, however, he now feels that CASTRO has
‘lost control of the Government, and that the Communists are now
running the country. DARIAS stated that he never studied Communism,
nor was he ever sympathetic towards Communism. He further stated
that within the past six months, the officials of Radio Havana Cuba
have had compulsory weekly lectures on Communism given to them by the
Director of Radiv Havana Cuba, and his nane is liareos\BEHWARAS, who
is considered to be a Communist. DARIAS, who appeared\to be honest
and trustworthy, wes extremely co-operative, and after he had been
questioned along nunercus, different iines, he was asked if he
could prenere a summary or brief of the executive structure of
Radio Havana Cuba, and set out the names of the heals of the various
departuents, and also designate whether or not they are Communists, a
or Communist sympathizers. DARIAS was more than willing to co-operate :
and spent two days working constantly in prepari this brief. He
wrote it originally in Sranish, and then with the assistance of his
wife, translated it into English, This brief, which is ten pages
ta structural organization,
but also contains brief remarks by LiS under the Headings of -
"The poli ‘Sioal apparatus in Cuba"; "CP's ‘Active Revolutionary , .
Nucleouses “Revolution's Defense Committees"; "Labour Unions", ete., :
and "How the Revolution's Defense Committees work in towns and cities", :
and “How the G-2 or State's Security Department Works". i

 

 

 

 

  
      
 

 

 

 

3e This brief, of course, consists of DARIAS’ own opinions and
thoughts concerning individuals mentioned, and the reasons for his
opinions were not dealt with in detail, Undoubtedly, DARIAS could :
provide further background information ceneerning o Havana Cuba, rn -
and if any perticular point or name referred to in this vrief needs fo:
to be explained in fuller detail, DARIAS stated that he would be
willing to co-operate at any time, DARIAS requested that the
dissemination of this brief be treated as Secret, due to the fact
that members of his ly and his wife's family are still residing
in Cuba.

 

 
 
   

 

Sonatas I sek MB le ae ARE atic estou deme and wana Weed

Ae DARTAS and his wife were interviewed py the United States

‘A forms for the U.S.A. at that time. It is expected that they will be
“granted admission to the U.S.A, in the near future,

5. You will find, attached, single Photostatic copy of the
bove mentioned brief.

 

 

 

DoclId:32337260 Page 5

 

 

 
  
   
 
 

   

oO.

ection Cc

ly Assassination Records
~

John F. Kenned:

ake

jhe

 

eleased under

 

=

. D-981-5=2-17-1°
(Halifax SIS r/ 15~5~62)

pyre oeene ne gles cop aR cape eon neces

 

 

 

,

 

 

 

 

Docld:32337260 Page 6

 
 

 

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection
DAAE: 11-14-2017 woe ey BY HAND

 

oe eee

 

OTTAWA

. é : aN,
ALL CGRRESPONDENCE TO BE o r .
AODRESSED:— - f i : x
“ 2 ‘ :
* THE COMMISSIONER, P. ° . an \. z i +
RC. M. POLICE, art

  

v

 

FILE NO. D_973=-17-3-__ =.

HEADQUARTERS ~~ +. |

*

OTTAWA,

CANADA

May 18, 19

2a)

_ On May 3, 1962 your office was telephonically
t* advised: by Sgt. STEWART of this Directorate that

; oy Cuban nationals Didier de Jesiis DARTAS JOPEZ.and his
. 7 wife, Ofelia Cab era.Rodriguez.,. passengérs on Czech
* : Airlinés Flight“524/02 Pron Havana, Cuba to Prague,
Czechoslovakia, sought political asylum when the above
mentioned flight touched down for re-fueling on May 2,
1962 at Halifax, N.S. International Airport. Attached -
please find copies of additional detail which has now
become available and is supplied for your information.

Yoprs very truly,

 

‘THE FOREGOING I3 PASSED FOR THE INFOR-

 

10N OF YOUR AGENCY. !T MAY BE DISSEMI- Director, ;

NATED FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES IF NECESSARY _ Security & Intelligence.

BUT THE ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLUICEGS -

OT TO BE WANE SEE ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

: we HEREIN, |S UNCLASSIFIED o,
pate_4-207 5 BS blohS whe

Mr. Moss Lee Innes, THC

c/o U.S. Embassy, oe

OT TAWA, Ontario. ws, ; .
| /05- SVbb Q-'"
ENCLOSURE

 

 

 

Docld:32337260 Page 2
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 USC 3107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

AGENCY :
‘RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:

DATE:
PAGES:

!
| : SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1
Docld: 32337260 Page 1

 

 

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Agency Information

FBI
124-90137-10026

HQ
CR 105-89660-173

Document Information

SEE TITLE
[Restricted]

[Restricted]

05/18/1962
15

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
CUBANA AIRLINES (DEFECTORS)

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

‘ Unclassified

4
Withhold
09/28/1998

"INDEFINITE

LET

Date: 4/17/201
 

 

    
      
   
     
       
       
 
      
       
 
        
 
        
       
     
       
   
  
   
   
     
    

When Flight 524/02 lended at Halifax International Airport.
at approximately 8:00 P.H. on May 2, 1962, the passengers and crew
of this aircraft entered the Airport building. DARIAS and his wife
immediately approached the first person they saw wearing a Canadian
uniform and requested political asylum in Canada,

 

20 DARIAS and his wife both can read ond speak English fluently,

and after their intentions to request political asylun were made clear,
it was decided oy the Canadian officials present that the Captain of

the Czech Airlines plane ‘should be advised that DARIAS and his wife

would be remaining in Canada, then toey left the aircraft, they took

two suall overnight .bags with them, however, a large suitcase, con- .

- taining mostly clothes, was stored in the luggage compartment of the

airersft. Yhen Cattain Vaclay BRAUM was advised’ that DARLAS and his

wife would be remaining in Cenada, he ordered. that the luggage be unloaded

from the aircraft and that the suitease belonging to’them be searched

for explosives. The plene.was unloaded” by the Czech crew and was also

searched by them. After this was completed, the suitcase belonging

to DARIAS was taken into the cockpit of the aircraft and Captain BRAUM

refused to turn it over to the Canadien Immigration Cfficer. Captain

BRAUM requested ‘thst an official dom ; Signed by the Canadian

police, be given to him stating that D. 5 and his wife were remain-

ing in Cansda. Yais reguest s ignored by the Immigration officer. ;
ne aircraft, after the luggage belonging to the other pessengers had :

been reloaded, tock off trom Halifax International Airport at appr ia
imately 1:00 4 on May 3,.1962, DARIAS and his wife were pleced

oped meaner pee nearer pe

    

 

 

 

    

    
 
 

 

 

   
      

   

        
 
   

 

  

 
   

     

tne custody of Canadian- ia gration authorities at Val Xe Frem .
nterviews with them on the 2nd and 9th of Hey, 1982, she following c 2
Gentifying details were ‘obtained. 06 JA, hes.

oes

 

-#a9 not Ri ofa “pass °

Didier de Tesu. LOPEZ om

   

Radio Habana Cuba i
Asociacion Nacionel de Profesionales Publicitarios. t
Republica de Cuba - Colegio Nacional de Profesionales, .

    
   
      
    
   
   
   
    

Publicitsrios.s
Licencia de Coaduccion (Drivers License)

}
Republica de Cuba, Ministerio de Governacion. : 5
: i

Bom ~ October 15, 1936. ~ Havana, Cuba.
Married - August 9, 1958, Havana, Cuba, at Helegrosa Charch,
7 Santos Suarez - Roth civil and church marriages
performed on sane date.
He was married to Ofelia Cabrera Rodriguez.
{No documents to verify this marriage) =<
They have no children, BS
Parents ~ Both ne however, they are

  

7 separated:

 

      
    
   
   
    

     
 

162 St. Wibolas Street, Apt. 11,
Havana, Cuba , a . t
Father - Carloo\pAxLAS eon, : i
a Streeh, larianao, . Co Es
Hevena, Cubs, . seas
DARIAS has-no brothers or Sisters.” y 7
Addresses - Since hi STSt 606
Serrano

   
 
  
        
      

    
   
   

 

/

 
 
  

  
  

fab * Lk oe
HEREIN 1S YISSE
oateY-od. sh Bi ‘Stole

   

 

Sa tle ee : ce ete . wo

_ DocId: 32337260 Page 3

 

 

 
 

 

 

Released under the John F.
' DATE: 11-14-2017

a:

 

 

 

pomeee2

  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
  
    
  
  
   

 

Hduecation ~ Bachillerato (High School) ~ 5 years, 1948 to 1953
- Qrelles College and Public Institute. 7)
Did not- complete his university education, however,
he was studying part-time until 1956. ~ Df,
Enployment: - 1952 - 1955 Cuban National Library :
. -  - 1955 - 1957 Public Works Hinistry, Stenographer
1957 - 1959 The Merchandising Surveyors and Advertising
Agency - Copy writere a
"1959 = Sept. 1960 - Colgate-Palmolive Co. in the
Advertising Department, as Advertising
Executive, and later as the Director's
Assistant in.tne Research Department.
Sept. 1960 =~ hiay 1962 ~ Radio Havana Cuba ~ Seript writer.

  

eee ceeceneccce

The following particulars obfained pertaining to his. wife.

 

x . . .
abrera \Zodrigiez . Dontos . nn
‘ at cael . : A

Born - Nov ber 29, 1926, Hakana, Cuba.

Rochments - Passport for the Republic of Cuba, No» 889756

Last address since 1958 - Serrano 606, Apt. 2, Santos Suarez, Havana, -

 

and father separated. x ONG:
Maria asumcion KODRIGUEZ-Rodriguea.
DARIAS and his wife at Serrano 606, Apt. 2,

Santos Suerez, wana, Cuba
Weather - Juan Jose\CABRERA\Gonzalez,
Address - 10 Gctedsr St. 908, Vibora, Havana, Cuba.

     

 
 

 

Other members of family and addresses: o .
: \ \ n : ;
Sisters - Sarah Q\SRIRA Rodriguez - Age 35 5, RAS 1G24
1l Street 355, Casino, een -
: a Havana, cuba.

celia Qaprmpa Nedriguez - Age 25 «9H 37
St. Julio 258,. Santos, Suarez, sve_LG a
Havana, Cubase. . : 7

 
 
  
 

    
   

: XN $
Brotaers ~ Rolando CABRERA Rodriguez - Age 36 -
: Gonza ogee ANodriguez - Age 18 194%;
oth living with father at 1c\october Street, 908, Vibora, Havana, Cubase

 

" Baployment - 1950 - 1961 - Ministry of Public Works - Steno rapher.
, ES
1961 = blay 1962 - Housewife

DARIAS ard his wife were in possession of $24.00 in Anerican
money. They have been taking plens for seeking political asyliun for
the past year, and a half, and made artangements for this tourist
trip about six months eG06 The trip was arranged through the
fourist Department of the Cuban Government, aud the itinerary vas to -
‘cover fifteen days in Czechoslovakix and,fifteen days in Russia, “Tae
trip, although sponsored by the Gubun Government, was a tourist trip,
and the individual paid for nis own fare. It cost DARIAS 2250 pesos
for himself and his wife. .

 

 

 

dan ti nD ali ds atheist ssn

i
t
7
,
I
i
|
E
i
:

   

 

   

 

 

 

Docld:32337260 Page 4
