Stateriont of Peter Camejo Pefore
- the House Select Cormrlttee on
Intelligence, ‘ioveriber 18, 1975

"Mo protact their strugqles and qains
against murderous attacks by goons, cops, and
fascist bands, the workers vill have to organize
ani train their own forces and use then in the
most effective way. Starting with defense of
picket lines and the right to strike, the pro-
tection of their demonstrations or those of their
allies, and proceeding to workers defanse guards,
workers militias, and the requisite arming of
the vorking class, the vorking masses will learn
fron their ovm oxperiences vhat measures to take.
She lessons of history, incoxrnorated into the
deneral strategy of the workers noverment vill
prove invaluable on this life-and~death auestion."

In addition to his statement, Camejo apparently
turned over to the Comiulttes a list of som 225 incidents
of alleged TBI harassment which have taken place since Avril,
1971, when Cointelpro vas discontinued. ‘The SUP and its
youth group, the Youn Socialist Alliance, have Filed a lawsuit
against the Government. A larce number of Eureau docnnents
have been released to the SUP throuch pratrial discovary
proceedings. the bulk of these documents concerned Cointelpro
but some have included the files on individual plaintiffs.
In the layvsuit, approxinately 150 "“investisative incidents" .
have been alleged as esanples of harassrant hy the [Trt. VThese
have also includsd such items as interviews of SUP and YSA
members, and their relatives, neighbors, associates and
erployers. ‘hese allegations have keen answered in the discovery
proceaidings in the lawsuit and none has heen admitted to be,
or should properly he, interpreted as a Cointelpro action.
Since the list of 225 ites has not keen furniched to the FBT
and since it apparently concerne a matter in litication, it
vould he iroreper to make further cormants at this tirc.

Courts which have considered the role of the
Governront with reqam]d to organizations such as the SeP have
held that investigation of them is warranted. In Dennis v.
United States, 341 U.S, 494 (1951), the court stated,

 

HW 54981 DocId:32989728 Page 9
 

Statement of Peter Canejo Before
the Mouse Select Committee on
Intelligence, “November 18, 1975

“Obviously, the verds cannot mean that Lefore
the Government may act, it must vait until the
putsch is ahout to be executed, the plans have
have laid and the signal is avaited. If
Government is aware that a group aining at its
averthrov is attempting to indoctrinate its
members and to commit them to a course whereby
they will strike when the leaders feel the
clroumstances permit, action by the Governmont
is required. The argument that there is no need
for Govornment to concern itself, for Government
is strong, it possesses ample powers to put down a
rebellion, it may defeat the revolution with ease
needs no answer. For that is not the question.
Certainly an attempt to overthrow the Government
hy force, even though doomed from the outset
because of inadequate numbers or povers of the
revolutionists, is a sufficient evil for Congress
to prevent. The damage which such attempts create
both physically and nolitically to a nation nakes
it irpossible to measure the validity in terms of
the probability of success, or the immediacy of a
successful atternet. In the instant case the
trial judge charged the jury that they could not
convict unless they found that potitioners intended
to overthrow the Covernment ‘as speedily as circum-
stances would permit.’ ‘This does not mean, and
could not properly mean, that they vould not strike
until there was certainty of success. Vhat was
meant was that the revolutionists vould strike when
they thought the tire was ripe Ye must therefore
reject the contention that success er probability
of success is the criterion."

 

The Supremes Court additionally noted that, “If the
inaredients of the reaction are present, ve cannot hind the
Governnont to wait until the catalyst is added." The Court
of Appeals which has considered a portion of the current stp _—
Laveuit has stated, “The FoI has a right indeed a duty, to
keep itself inforred with respect to the possible commission
of crime: it is not obliged to wear blinders until it may bo
too late for prevention.” (Socialist Vorkers Party, et. al.

v. Actorney General of the United States of Amaxica, et. ~ ale;
510 F 2d 253 (1974) .)

 

-~ B=

‘ HW 54981 DocId:32989723 Page 10
 

 

Statenent of Peter Camejo Pefore
the Mouse Select Comnittee on
Intelligence, November 18, 1975

whe 1938 Declaration of Principles states,

“the belicf that in such a country as
the United States we live in a frea, democratic
society in which fundamental economic change
can he effected by persuasion, hy education,
by legal and purely parliarentary methods, is
an illusion."

The court in Dunne v. U. S. considered the above and
other quotes fron the Declaration of Principles and concluded
that the cUP Lolieved the “final step is to overthroy the

sisting Government hy force.”

 

The Sep dees not publicly espouse violence or
terrorism at the present time; however, material obtained
by the FBI does dispute Canejo's statemant that, "We believe,
as Marsists have always believed, that the philosophy and
the mathods of terrorism are damaging to the workers
movement”; and that “Advocacy of terrorism is incompatible
with merbership in the sip." In 1974, a minority faction
within the SWP, the Internationalist Tendency (IT), supported
the majority position of the Fourth International (FE) and
was expelled from the SP. The IT followers were not expelled
for their suppert of the FI position which favors the current
use of guerrilla warfare in Latin America and elsevhere if
local conditions indicate that such violence vould enhance the
revolution. Rather, they vere expelled for operating in
seorecy in violation of SUP directives governing its own
operations. In fact, the majority of the S17 did not reject
violence per se but refused to support the TE position because
they felt the use of violence was then premature. Soma of the
followers of the IT position have been reaccepted into the
SUP by renewing their unconditional acceptance of the leadership
bodies of the Sip.

fhe 1975 Prospects for a Socialist Revolution states,

"While poverful world forces are laying
poder keqs under American irmperialisn, only
forces inside the United States can take pover
aay fron the American capitalists and disarm
then."

HW 54961 DoclId:32989728 Page @

 
 

 

Statement of Peter Canejo TRefore
the House Select Cormittee on
Intelligence, Movember 18, 1975

The Fourth International continues to ke the
worldwide Trotskyist revolutionary organization and is
presently headquartered in Brussels, Melqiun. Although
Claiming to have withdvayn from foraal affiliation in 1940,
the SYP continues to maintain a close association with the
TI and participates and votes as a “syypathizing group" in
FI meetings.

 

fhe 1975 Prospects for a Secialist Revolution states:

"the Marrist model for constructing a
rovolnutionary program in the irperialist
epoch is the founding document of the
Pourth International, the vorld party of
socialist revolution, founded by Leon Trotsky
in 1938." : :

"the Sockalist Workers Party is internationalist
to its core. Not only are world developments
shaping the coming struggles at home, but the
American workers’ enenles are the osmploiters
on a world scale, ‘The perspective of the
cormunist Manifesto-~' Workers of the vorld,
unite'--renains our fundamental qoal. Vhile
reactionary legislation precludes formal
affiliation to the Fourth Intornational, the
Socialist Yorkers Party, since its founding,
has been an integral political component of
the world party of socialist revolution."

ADVOCACY OF VIOLENCE

Carejo stated that the SUP "doesn't advocate or
encage in violent or illegal activity. The Ini has never
produced any evidence to the contrary.” Ur. MeClory asked
Camejo if the sup hadn't originally advocated the overthrow
of the Governnent by force of violence. Camajo ansvered,
“Never in its history.” ,

HW 54961 DocId:32989728 Page 7
 

Statement of Peter Camajo Before
the louse Select Cormittee on
Intelligence, Voverizex 18, 1975

The explanation of what they stand for included, "On the
question of establishing socialism, however, ve arc in a
minority. Our goal is to win a majority to our point of
view." At no point in his staterieant did Camajo aclnovlodga
the SUP is a revolutionary, Trotskyist-communist organization
which has as its purpose, as stated in its Poeclaration of
Principles, the overthroy of the U. S. Government, the
institution of a dictatorship of the vorking class, and the
eventual achievement of a cormunist society.

In Dunne v. U. S., the court considered the
Declaration of Principies and said,

"he Daclaration sets forth the program
of action to effectuate this overthroy of
the existing capitalist society and the
Government which supports it. The first
step is to build the strength of the party
so that it can have a majority of the
exploited classes back of its Leadarship.
The final step ils to overthrow the existing
Government by force,"

The 1975 Prospects for a Socialist Revolution
states, "The world crisis of capitalism does not favor
extensive and effective long-term capitalist reform in
the United States but the development of the requisites
for a revolution.“

BLECTION CAMPAIGIS

Caviejo states, "“e think a political narty based
on the working class is needed. That is why ve aro offering
candidates in the 1976 elections.*

The 1938 Declaration of Principles alse discusses
election campaigns and says,

“while relying primarily on mass actions,
propaganda and agitation as the means for
furthering its revolutionary ain, thea Party
WLLL alse participate in election carmmaigns
though at all timas contending against the
fatal illusion that the masses can accomplish
their enancipation through the ballot bor.

 

~3-

AW 54981 DocId:32989728 Page 5

 
Statement of Petar Camojo Before
the Mouse Sclect Committee on
Intelligence, Noverber 18, 1975

POREIGY INFLUENCE

Canejo denies that the S7P is run by a foreign pover
or organization and states that SYP members are
“internationalists" who "maintain a relationship of fraternal

solidarity with the Fourth International.”

fhe 1938 Declaration of Principles states,

“The revolutionary party in the United ftates
collaborates in the fullest measure with all
groups, organizations and parties in all other
countries standing on the sams fundamental
progran as our o_m;: and cooperates with them
in the elaboration of a complete vorld
progran. The §.1.P., therefore, is affiliated
with the Bureau for the Fourth International
as its section in United States."

 

Carnejo stated, “And although ve strongly disagree
with the Voorhis Ret, since it vas passed in 1940 we have not
been affiliated to the Fourth International." In Dunne v. U. S.,-
the court discusses an attempt to suspend and vithdraw the
Declaration of Principles and quotes defendant James P. Cannon
(founder and leader of the SIP until his death in 1974) as
follows: “The principal reason, I may say, was the passage
by Congress of a bill known as the Voorhis Act, which penalized
parties belonging to international organizations.” The court
thon concluded, "Iven as to the Voorhis Act, this action was
merely a subterfuge and stoke seraen.” Another quote fron
Dunne y. U. S. seens particularly appropriate vhen considering
the Sp's Gonial of membership in an international organiza~
tion while also following Trotshy's teaching that communism
cannot be established with lasting success as an isolated
phenomenon in one country alone. The court said,

 

 

; ‘when thoy use vords vhich may or ray

not mean the forbidden thing, they intend
just one thing and that is to squirm
through the statute leaving a hage which
they hope will rake it irpossible or
difficult to Find any fracture by their
passage."

, 54961 DoclId:32989728 Page 6
 

 

 

Zovember 28, 1975

RE: CONTACTS BETWEEN WEATHERMAN AND THE
INSTITUTE FOR POLICY STUDIES (IPS)

The following is submitted in response to a request
of Congressman Dellums for information in the files of the
PBI which shows contacts between the IPS and Weatherman, the
information to be inserted at line 25, page 4286, of the
transcript of the hearings concerning FBI surveillance activities,
Yovember 18, 1975.

Information was furnished toe the New York Office of
the FBI, in May, 1968, showing a contact between Arthur Waskow
of Ips and Jeff Jones of the New York Regional Office of the
Students for a Democratic Society (SDS). Jones was then a leader
of the SDS and is currently a fugitive from justice being sought
by the FBI for Unlawful Flight to Avoid Prosecution ~ Aqgravated
Battery and Bail dumping, as a result of his participation in
the “Days of Rage" on the part of the Weatherman at Chicago,
Tllinois, Octoher, 1969. Jones is also a leader of the Weather
Underground Organization (UO) by which name the Weatherman is
now known.

On August 13, 1969, a seurce whe has furnished reliable
information in the past, advised that on the afternoon of
August 12, 1969, William Charles Ayers, a leader of the Weatherman
N operating out of Chicago, Illinois, was in Washington, D. C., for
the purpose of soliciting money. The ‘amount of money being sought
and the reason for such is not known at this time, nor was it
determined at that time. Ayers reportedly obtained money from
~ Arthur Waskow of the IPS, Washington, BD. C. This same source
Jj advised that after Ayers obtained the money, he left
Washington, D. C., on the same night, destined for Chicago,
Illinois. This same source also advised that Ayers was scheduled «
Dep. AD Adm - tO meek on August 14, 1969, with Bobby Seale of the Black Panther
aoe 7 Party (BPP). The source advised the purpose of the meeting
Admin. concerned the relationship between Weathernan and the BPP,

Comp. Syst. ——
Ext. Affairs —_ )
Files & Com. ss RPE: caw(y)*

Gen. Inv. NY

Went. tog fe >
Inspection ' “, Y ¢ »
Intell. ou
Laboratory —_ 4c ¥
Plon. & Evol. — . ae
Spec. Inv. '

Lit
t

 

Assoc. Dir.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Training

 

Legal Coun.

 

Telephone Rm. —

Director See'y MAIL ROOM(__] ‘TELETYPE UNIT(L_] GPO : 1978 © = 569-920
MW 54981 DocId:32989728 Page 2

|

 

 
 

 

i a P
‘ PN :

 

 

File #:

      
     
 

 

. 2 HO 1 | bd

Serial Scope: —

keer Az

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Assoc. Dir.

 

 

 

 

 

 

oe

November 28, 1975

RE

.
<

STATEMEN? OF PETER CAMBIO BEFORE
_ THE HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE On

INTELLIGENOR, NOVEMBER 18, L975

Peter Canojo, as the Presidential candidate of the

Socialist Workers Party (SUP), testified that his organization
has been victimized by FBI and Central Intelligence Agency
{CIA} activities since 1945. He briefly explained the

nature of the SVP and its position on election campaigns,
advocacy of violence, and foreign influence. Numerous
references were made by Camejo and others te 30 years of
investigation of the SWP by the FBI. Since the SP was
founded only 37 years ago in 1938, a desire to avoid discussion
of the early years of the SHP was apparent and ignored

the fach that 18 members of the SUP were convieted 32 years
age for violations of Federal statutes dealing with conspiracy
to advocate the overthrow of the Government of the
United States and to advocate insubordination in its armed
OFCCS 2

In Dunne v. United States, 138 F 24 137 (1943),
the Eighth cirenlt Court of Appenis considered statements of
the SWP on the same topics that were discussed by Camejo, of
particular significance to the court was the Declaration of
Principles and Constitution of the SWP which was adopted at
its founding convention in Chicago from December 31, 1937, to
January 3, 1938. the 1936 Declaration of Principles sets
forth the goals of the Sue to ba:

1) “fhe main specific task of the S.W.P. is
the mobilization of the American masses for

Dep. AD Adm. —
Dep. AD Inv. —_
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst. —_
Ext. Affairs —_
Files & Com.

 

Gen. Inv.
ident,
Inspection
Intell.

 

 

 

 

Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spoe. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.

 

RPF: lps

af?

 

 

Telephone Rm. —
Director See'y __ MAIL ROOM [__]

AW 54981 DoclId: 32989726

 

struggle against Anerican capitalism, and
for its overthrow."

2) “.,.«bake control of stake power through
the overthrov of the capitalist state and the
transfer of sovercignty fron it to their own
YWorkers' State -~ the Dictatorship of the
Proletariat."

wo

TELETYPE UNIT _]
Page 3

GPO ; 1975 O ~ 569-920

 
 

|
|
|
|

 

HW 54981

 

Statement of Peter Cavejo Tefore
the Mouse Goalect Conrattee on
Intelligence, Yoverher 18, 1975

3) "The Vorkers' State is a temporary

political instrument making possible the

transition to the ¢class-less, socialist society."
— ",..The noblest objective of the human race--

communism, the classless socialis & socLoty-~

inaugurating a ney cra for all of nankind, vill

he realized."

4) *%.,.Tho revolutionary rarty in this

country does not ain merely to lead the working
class of the United States in revolution, but to
unite with the vorkers of all other countries in the
international revolution and the ectablishment

of world socialisn."

 

The currant position of the SP is contained in
ovidontiary material in PBI files. Included in this material
are official cup documents such as "The Recline of Arerican
Capitalism: Prospects for a Socialist Revolution" which vas
approved by the 26th National Convention of the SUP and
‘appeared in a special issue dated Movember 7, 1975, of the
"International Socialist Revie," monthly supplerent of
"The idiitant, " the SUP nowspaner, me 1975 Prospects for a
Socialist Revolution states, "The tarnist model for construct
ing a revolutionary (_progran in the inperialist epoch is tha
founding decument of the Fourth International, the world
party of socialist revolution, founded by Leon Trotsky in 1938."
The 1938 Declaration of Principles also includes this program.

the following is a comparison of specific portions
wjo's testinony with other material concerning the SUP,

of Care
ost of which is fron court Cecisions and official Si7P docurents

AIUS ID PURPOSIS

Camejo tastified, "I think it is irmertant that
I briefly explain exactly whe we are and what we stand for."
He deseribed the 3UP as a "political party based on the working
elass” of as a “workers movement" and SUP mombers as Mears rists®
ox “internationalist."

 

DoclId:32989728 Page 4

 

 
