Get wy. buy tek

CENTRAY INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

 

21 November 1997
CSI 97-536

Dr. T. Jeremy Gunn
Executive Director
Assassination Records
Review Board ;
600 E Street, NW
Washington, DC 20530

Dear Dr. Gunn:

| .
Thank you for your |letter of 28 October in which you
outline the Assassination Records Review Board’s goals for
the coming year. I appreciate the complimentary remarks you
made about the “excellentt cooperation” that CIA has been
providing to the Board. . : :

You raised a concern that the Agency may not be able to
increase sufficiently the pace of the review process to meet
the 1 September 1998 deadline for completing the transfer of
records to the National Archives. You also expressed the
view that if any ree ies not reviewed by the deadline,

 

the Board will vote to release them in full and mandate that
custody be transferred to the National Archives. :

You can be assured fhat we are committed to taking all
necessary steps to meet our statutory obligation to review
all of the Agency's assassination-related materials. It is
important that a proper review of all relevant records be
done. This will allow us to recommend to the Board what
information warrants continued protection.

We appreciate the great responsibility that Congress
‘and. the President have given to the Board to inform the
American people about thé assassination. We share the
Board’s goal of declassifying and releasing the relevant
records to the fullest extent possible.

Please convey my regards to Chairman Tunheim and the
other Board members, and assure them of our continued

cooperation.

Sincerely,

Mwidlo.C
| David W. Carey ()
REG

| ss,

 

AW 53217 DocId:32404123 Page 2
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
Released under the John

AGENCY : CIA . Kennedy

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10330-10144 lssassination Records
RECORD SERIES : JFK . ollection Act of 1992

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#:NU 53217 Date:
bé—-22-2017

 

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM : DAVID W. CAREY
TO : DR. T. JEREMY GUNN
TITLE : LETTER: THANK YOU FOR YOUR LETTER OF 28 OCTOBER
DATE : 11/21/1997
PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASSINATION
TUNHEIM

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 1A
CURRENT STATUS .: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/11/03
COMMENTS : JFK-M-15 : F4 : 2000.02.09.14:40:55:013035

{R} - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10330-10144

HW 53217 DocId:32404123 Page 1
. - @ (Bao —o., .
to. 2 we Assassination Records Review Board
7 o£ 4 ae 2 600 E Street NW « 2nd Floor « Washington, DC 20530
Ree f. ° (202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457
hy go™ .
October 28, 1997
Mr. David W. Carey
Executive Director
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, DC 20505
Re: Completing the Review of JFK Assassination Records
Dear Mr. Carey:

I would like to congratulate you on your new appointment at the Agency and wish you
the very best of success in the difficult challenges that lie ahead. ; -

As you probably are aware, the Assassination Records Review Board has been
mandated by Congress and the President to oversee the declassification and transfer to
the National Archives of all records related to the assassination of President Kennedy.
During the past three years we have received excellent cooperation from CIA in regard
to the processing of the relevant Agency records. From our perspective, this is due in
significant part to the work of John Pereira, Chief of the Historical Review Group, and
J. Barry Harrelson, who has shouldered the extremely complicated, burdensome, and
frequently thankless task of overseeing the project. Both of them have proved to be
superb representatives of the Agency. We also very much appreciated receiving a
strong message of support from your predecessor, Nora Slatkin, who advised us ina
meeting on October 16, 1996, of her full support for the project and her willingness to
commit the necessary Agency resources to complete the project.

Because the Review Board is now in the final twelve months of its statutory tenure, I
thought it would be appropriate to advise you of our goals for the upcoming year. It is
our wish to be able to state in our Final Report to the President and to Congress that
CIA has made all reasonable attempts to locate, review, and declassify all available
records on the Kennedy assassination. We would like the Review Board to be able to
assure the American people that the Agency has been fully cooperative in this
enormous and difficult task, and that the Agency no longer retains any “secret” files on
the assassination. In addition, we are obligated to keep Congress informed, ona
monthly basis, of the status of our work and any difficulties that would interfere with
our ability to achieve our objective.

Although many important strides have been made to further our goals, we nevertheless
perceive that the pace of review and declassification of Agency records will need to be

 

 

Boaro Memaens: John R. Tunhoim, Chair + Henry F. Graff» Kermit &, Hall » William L, Joyce * Anna K. Nelson
Executive Oinectorn: David G. Marwoll

(°)

AW 53217 DocId:32404123 Page 3
”

. ‘ wy

aes ae

*, Mr. David W. Carey
October 28, 1997
Page 2

“)

accelerated in order for us to succeed. We must keep in mind that the goal includes
reviewing, processing, and transferring to the custody of the National Archives all
identified assassination records by September 1, 1998. (We do not perceive that
duplicate copies of such records need be transferred by September 1.) Many time-
consuming difficulties inherent in this project have been overcome, and we perceive
that the pace of review is accelerating. Nevertheless, we wanted to signal to you our
concer that, unless the pace of review increases further, we may not be on target to
satisfy what I hope to be our common objective. ,

It is our firm intention to complete our task within the congressionally mandated time
limit. If CIA is unable to pre-review and process its records consistent with completion
of this task, the Review Board will vote to release-in-full all relevant CIA records and
mandate that custody be transferred to the National Archives in a timely way. We
sincerely hope that it will not be necessary for the Board to make wholesale decisions on
unreviewed records and we will be pleased to work with the Agency to see that such a
step is unnecessary, But we are prepared to make such decisions to the extent they are
required to fulfill our own responsibilities. Although it is our perception that CIA may
wish to devote additional human resources to this project, we of course leave such
decisions to the sound judgment of knowledgeable CIA officials.

We therefore strongly urge the Agency to take all appropriate steps to complete its
review of records in an orderly and systematic manner. To the extent that the Agency is
able to satisfy appropriate deadlines, there will be no need for us to resort to any

_ unfortunate -- but potentially necessary ~ measures to complete our own obligations to
Congress, the President, and the American people.

If you would find it helpful, the Review Board members and I would be pleased to
discuss these issues with you or others at the Agency.

Sincerely, ,

AS | \
T. Jererhy Gh .
Executive Directo:

cc: Assassination Records Review Board

 

°
AW 53217 DocId:32404128 Page 4
