 

 

- . an? Tat bcd dae 0 oes
o .
7 @ °; - @
io .

i. Assassination of Lettalier: while on assassinations,
this case entered Lynch's conversation, ‘He has no: personal knowledge
of whatjhapponed. Again, however, hd pave me the "street word."

In Miami, the Cuban community is saying that the same people who did
in ROSSELI performed the Lettalier assassination. Santo Traficante
arranged for the Lettalier killing - hired and paid the killers.

For this reason, the Chicago..family of the Mafia is. furious with
Traficante, because he as/or will bring heat on the Mafia. The
reason for Traficante doing it??? Fidel Castro hired him and paid
him well to do it. The word iis that Traficante has been cooperatine
with the DGI and Fidel since he departed Cuba, Fidel wanted Rosssli
killed, because of Rosseli's part ‘in the assassination attempt against
Fidel. Lynch emphasized that that this is not his theory, but: word
from the street in Miami.

Jj. CRS Show on Cuba: Lynch said CiS is planning a show
on the "Legacy of the Bay of | Pigs," which should be broadeast in
about May 1977. .CBS has already shot xpsnx interviews in Miami,
including one with Peruyero. (above) before: he-was-killed,- plus: °
covering the aftermath of his assassination. Currently, the CBS
crew.is in Cuba - they hope to film :the-beaches. at the Pay of Pigs -
which had been suggested to them by Lynch. Lynch has also been
interviewed and has given his opinions for the TY showing. while
in Cuba, the CBS crew hopes to also interview Fidel - also at the
suggestion of Lynch. The fellow behind the show is named CRILE and
hechas talked td Lynch extensively. According to Lynch, the show
would have been very anti-Azency in its comments, but he (Lynch)
has turned this around almost 180 degrees!!! As planned, the
show will be two hours and shown in May 1977. oe

. : : |

k, Brigade 2506: On the Brigade, Lunch said he had been
an apolitical organization, Individuals of any political shade had
been members and politica had not really entered Brigade Association
business, Last year, however, they joined with Orlando BOSCH, amonr
others, to help form CORU. Now, the Brigade is embarrassed and wished
they had never joined CORU. They with-drew shortly after the Cubana
bombing in October 76. However, the damage has been done to the
Brigade Association, which Lynch considers a shame. On ‘the CBS film
(above), Lynch said he was filmed attending an anniversary meeting.
Thilts same meeting was where C8S filmed Peyuyero.

1. Lynch & DEA: ‘When Lynch retired from the Agency, he
moved to Key Wast. He came to the attention of DEA, especially to
Lou Conine, an ex-Agency 6fficer now with DEA. Lynch calls Conine
an SOB and worse, He went. into a long explaination of his activities
with D&A in Key West. -In summary, he was a P/A and ran a string of
informants. Because of internal DEA politics, he was blown and left
dangling. on a string in Kay West: He had to leave town within 24
hours and left his people (informants) there without calline or
warning them. As a result, he lost friends, prestige with his

informants (many of them Cyban exiles) and his business in Key. West.
In general terms, he was treated very shabbily by DEA and regrets
ever having mixed with them. He is still in contact with one of

 

 
AKAN AO

wo 7 ~ - :
7 @ «5. - e

 

our ex-officer; Gary Maddox. . Acconlinz to Lynch, Haldox will be
returning to the Agency shorlly. Maddox is familiar with the’

. Operation in’Key West. Agsther ex ‘Aneney emp lovee was also in-
volved in this operation, one Bill Logay. The undersirned knew
Logay in Vietnam - he was a contract employee at about GS-8. With

. DEA he quickly rose to GS-14 and was directing the Key ‘lest operation.
when-it folded, according to Lynch, Légay was busted-to G3-13° and
sent back to Washington, where he is now working in D&A's Inspection
Diviston (similar to our IG Staff). Lynch was also aware of another
ex-Agancy employee, (fn) Rodriquez, who was to so to Mexico under
DEA "deep cover", Accorjing to Lynch, Rodriguez was to be involved
in assassination operations anainst Mexican dealers and pushers.
Instead, Rodriguez ended up in El Paso for about a year and is now
in Miami, The unlersigried personally know Rodriquez, but did not
know of his specific assignment within EA, (NOT@&: while the above
is a little rambling, this is the way.the debriefinr of Lynch went
‘all afternoon!) . -

-m, Lynch's Manuscript: Thad read Lynch's mainmscript,
"The Bay of Pigs" before departing Washineton. Lynch explained that
he had dictated this paper ami had=a couple of -secretaries type it
out, It is only in very rough form and he wanted to zet his thoughts
down on paper. As he indicates in. the paper, he wanted to get the
facts straight, He feels that since he was there and part of the
invasion, he has a unique veew point of the Bay of Pires and wants
to see that history reflects his pobition. As indicated earlier,
Lynch is‘rather bitter against the New Frontier, the Kennedys and
Camelot. This is reflected in his manuscript. Lynch claimed that
much of his paper had been "stolen" in that he explained .the invasion,
for instance, to the CBS crew and they were using some of his material
in the soon to bas be shown program described above, In addition,
Lynch mentioned that he had spoken to the Agency historian - can't
recall his aame - on who is also writing a book (classified) on the
invasion, As to publication, it seems to be-in the distant future.
He does not plan to po to a publisher, where he would XEY raceive
royalty payments of around 5%. Rather, he plans to publish on his
own, probably in Miami, and realize close to 100% profit. It might
cost him khs in the area of $5,000, but he could realize a profit of
about $30, 000 depending on sales.

n, Mise.: Lynch also spoke abont personalities within the
Arency. He mehtioned Ted Shackley, "Dum"Dum"Dimmer, many people in
LAD who had a part in the invasion or JMWAVE. Lynch is a member of
the retired Agency employees association that Dave Phillips formed,
As such, he has appeared several times on Tampa radio and TV shows,
To-me, he appears to be an articulate defender of the Agency.

4. Conclusion: For me , this was a most interesting interview,
As far as results, the interview indicated to me that we can get
broad-brush overviews from retired Agency employees, and few details.
To answer specific questions from Congress and/or the Department of
Justice, we must continue to dig and come up with documents from

'

 
ore

 

Tampa Tribune

“Ws Jan 77

Emergency in Miami

Murder is murder but assas-
sination is something else again.
It’s an emergency. :

Seven Cuban exile: leaders
have been assassinated in Miami

in the past three years, five of

them in the last few months. Lat-

est to fall was Juan Juse Per-
eet Ose Ver

uvero, a Bay of Pigs veteran and

- leader of Brigade 2506, gunned

down as he left his front door
last week.

_ Mindless murder is a purely
‘local police matter. But the
coolly calculated multiple politi-

.cal assassinations, ‘not to men- ;

tion assassination attempts, in
‘the city that - Cuban refugees
adopted, are admittedly beyond

>

the resources of a local law en-
forcement agency.

That is why Miami police,
wisely, have appealed to U.S. At-
torney General Edward Levi to
allow FBI intervention in the in-
vestigation of the unsolved kil-
lings.

Federal intervention is not, as
widely believed, automatic in as-
sassination cases, The murder of
a private person, even the politi-”
cal assassination of a man on the
street, is not a Federal offense.

Before the FBI can enter the
casé, Levi must declare that the
Miami murders constitute an
“emergency.”

They. do, it is and he should.

(NOTE: If not already done, it might be a good idea to look into
‘the background of Peruyero, as far as the Agency is concerned, if
the FBI is actually stepping into this case, Naturally, theybwill.

come to us for information, )

 
 

f. Swine Fever: Lynch’ liad read the recent articles in the
papers about the introduction of Swine Fever into Cuba by the Agency
in 1972. He had no knowledze of thas... Lynch did ask if we had
checked! with DIA??? He said when he had been with the Amy as a
Special Forces type, it was unbelieveable what the Army-had done
in tho way of Bio Warfare training in the States. He mentioned an : “
nxcaxni a training exercise in NYC, when a fake substance was into-, ~
duced into the. water of a hotel where’ Pres. @isenhower was staying.
In any event, iquch Lynch said if Swine Fever had been introduced
into Cuba, he wouldn't doubt that the Army /DIA had .some hand in it,
especially if the so-called sources claimed it came out of Ft. Gulick,

  

gz. Assassinations by the Agency: Lynch said he had absolutely
no knowledge of assassinations, attempts or plans, by.anyone in the
Agency during his tour, Not only were they prohibited by the Agency,
they were counter-productive. Tt was explained to him during ‘his
Agency tour that! there was a good chance of an assassination back-
firing; that we (U.S.) are more vulnurable to assassinations than
the Cubans or Soviets. Therefore, as far as he was concerned, they
were strictly verboten..~Edilorializine, Lynch said it was too-bad
that the upper-echelonsdid not believe in this restriction, .On top ~
of that, they approached mafiosa-to help them. (NOTE: Lynch is
rather anti-Kennedy, especially Bobby, with whom he was in a shouting
match during a hearing on the Bay of Pigs invasion. )

h, Assassination of Peruyero: Juan Jose Feruyero, a Bay
of Pigs veteran and leader of the Brigade 2506, was gunned down last
week as he left his home in Miami, Lynch said the word on the street
among the ban, community is that this was done by the DGI as a warnin:
to, the antisCubans in Miami, Feruyero had no enemies --he was not
into drugs, crime, politics, etc. By killing him, the Cubans were
warning the community that they could strike anywhere and anyone,

Thus, watch out and lay off Cuba and Cuban citizens. If anyone else
had been killed, perhaps the killing could have been blamed on

the mafia, drug dealers, politicians, etc, A copy of an editorial
from the Tampa Tribune of 14 Jan 77 is attached, below,

 
 

 

? January 1977

CONTACE REPORT

WHO ; lr. Grayston Lynch, former staffer
8709 Bay Pointe Drive
Tampa, Florida 33615
813-881-8610

SUBJECT: Debriefing on Training and Demolitions Given to Anti-
Castro Cuban Exiles

PLACE : Holiday Inn (Tampa Airport)
Tampa, Florida

TIME : 14 January 1977
~ 9900 - 1445 hours ; .

1. Purpose: To debrief Mr. Lynch on questions posed by the
Department of Justice rerarding anti-Castro ‘Cuban exiles, These
questions, in general, covered training and explosives/detonation
deziees given to these exiles.  ~ ae :

2. Meeting: Mr. Lynch came to my motel room (503) on Friday
morning at 0900 and departed at 1645. During this time, both of us
sat in easy chapis in front of a picture widow on the Sth foor - Hr.
Lynch did 95% of. the talking. Neither of us got up during this vertiod,
a strech of almost 8 hours. Lynch was most intertaining, but only
marginally informative as to specific details on the questions probed
to him. He spins a good story and remembers people and places very
well. My bona fides for the meeting was a call from Ms. Sheila _
O'Neil to Lynch a day before I arrived in Tampa. Lynch is a little
goosy, because of a DEA connection (below), and checked mg out thru
a phone call to the motel by his wife. Incidentally, I used true
name with Lynch. :

3.0 Results! Lynch covered the following topics with me:

a. Training: On-Panama and the facilities used, the best
lynch could remember, Ft. Shernan was open in about Aupust or
September 1960 to train Cubans for abont a 2 to 3 month period.

There were about 40 to 50 men, mostly ARTIME followers. When it was
decided a bigger group would be needed, which later became Brigade
2506, these people were sent to Retalhuleu (Guatemala) anaxath in
about November 1960, _Actually, the group was split, with some going
to Guatemala and others. to.the New. Orleans. area. As to other training
in Panama, Lynch has no knowledge. . (NOTE: Lynch surgested that Mr.
Robert Moore, retired staffer currently in the New Orleans area,

might be a good source. Moore was c/ops for the invasion Task Force,
as: we¢l as Deputy for PM and c/Ops for JMWAVE at one time. )

\ “SEK =R=8=T-

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

b. Supplies: As lo explosives; time delay fuses, remote
contre] davises, detonation materials, etc. given to these exiles,
Lynch said, "Look over the supply manual. for that time." Apparently,
the exiles were given sverything that was’ available and in large
quantities, Lynch said he just could not begin to give me a list
of what had begn passed. . . :

_¢. Infil Teams: After the Bay of Pics invasion, Lynch
workedl with infiltration teams. . Th. Agency worked with these teams
from roughly 1963 to 1956. They were in two catagories. The first
were unilateral teams. training and sponsored by the Agency. The :
other catagory was “political” teans - that is political groups in
soufthern Florida who were sponsoring infiltrations into Cuba,

The Arency helped this later x catagory by giving them supplies.

In the case of both, they usually made a caches in Cuba. The
unilateral team, as an example, would make a cache on-island, and
‘another group would pick it up and use “it (compartnentation).

In some cases, teams (both unilateral and political) would not.
actually make the cache and keep the material in Florida, to be

used later at their own convenience,’ In addition, Lynch was. positive
that some of Castro's troops obtained some of these caches, due to.
foul-ups and snitches, These caches“containes pistols, rifles and ~
heavier, money and demolitions. Some of the teams cheated by going

to the Bahamas and buryinh their stuff on small islands and reporting
back to Florida that they-had cached in Cuba, Lynch stated several
times that there was no effective control over the "political"

groups and therefore no control ofer the material riven them, From
this, me may surmise that Agency equipment (demolition included) was
in the hands of anti-Castro Cubans in south Florida, as well as
Castro's Rebel Army on-island. :

d. . Brigade Training: Further to demolition training to
Anti-Castro:-Cubans, Lynch reminded me that shortly after the Brigade
was ransomed from Cuba, Brigade leaders were taken to Balm Beach
and talked with President Kennedy. At that time, the US Govt offered
Brigade members the chance to join the U.S. army, This also included
infil team members, who were completely seperate from the Brigade, and
members of the Brigade airforce. The Army end of this training was
given ‘at Ft. Benning, Georgia and began in early 1963. There, Brirade
members entered the U.S. Army at roubly equivalent ranks - officers
‘were made 2nd Lts. . They received Ranger training, plus jump training.
Thus, Lynch said, if any exiles were training in demolations and related
topics, thefe best training was probably given at Ft. Benning. lost
of these men were in the,U.S, Army for either 6 months or one year.

: e. Cubana Bombing: Lynch was specifically asked about the
6 October 1976 bombing tre of the Cubana airliner in the Garibbean.
Lynch said the street-word among the Cuban community in south Florida
4s that. the bomb should have gone off in the plane on the ground. The
bombers did not mean to kill all of those people. On BOSCH, the
community does not particularly like him, but admires him because he
had been going at Castro tooth and nail for years, They do not like
the idea of terrorism and fault BOSCH and MORALES for this.

 
 

   
    

Hl Rearpow | f [
|__[acrion [Toner nepiy | —oaerane. neecy

PREPARE REPLY
|_| arprovat | | bisrarcH |
jcomment - [dre +d

|_| inFoRMATION
Remarks: "L06ays Free WAS RGVIEUTD. VO a pemmed)
3s vee SwrerviewaD Conceruiee Accu Lowen ,
PCE SA Tbe & ~

  
 
  
   

   
  
   

  
     

    

SIGNATURE

   

 

    

  

 
  
   

TH C8 OF EEK OF  G#RYy “ADD or
TUK. 3

 

2.
as AGE Cy StPwyse, Corey oD Der 6s
erecas Ktee Wera ny

   
  

Herernce TO ce :
r ree OF Parice BDUTREY. 7 4pe ox, Vans
fn TE : a

 

Co Pe SCrewce co
env Ppcoyer BY “~ Tee e

 

POIO PI PESTER TSA RRM y OEE Zo ee :

 
 

7... =o.
SPUBLYLE fp te CET AO a -261O Pee veer,

 
 

> wiry See ecugy PRT Ce Tee.
CyYpeces DPErxr- o> : er
OF Ex-SpoesEe MIay ~ : OM, a. irae OS

    

   

ue EVP yok

* FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

arm
UNCLASSIFIED | CONFIDENTIAL
237 Use previous editions ®USGPO: 1976 — 202-953

 

   
   

  

 

 

  
  

 

 
 
 
   

(40)

FORM MO,
1-67

 

 

 

 

 

 
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

 

AGENCY INFORMATION Released under the John
é . Eennedy
AGENCY : CIA . Assassination Records
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10119-10427 Pollection act of 1992

RECORD SERIES : JFK
: (44 USC 2107 Note).
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A ase#iNU 53294 Date:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION pon ie-20i"

 

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM : LA DIVISION/SECURITY
TO : OFFICE OF SECURITY, OSB
TITLE : OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIPS, MEMO: DEBRIEFING ON TRAINING &
DEMOLITIONS GIVEN TO ANTI-CASTRO CUBAN EXILES.
DATE : 01/26/1977 :
PAGES : 10

SUBJECTS : HEMMING GERALD
JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER
CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1A
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/25/04 :
COMMENTS : JFK43 : F4 : 20040225-1048877

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10119-10427

AW 53294 Docld:32361858 Page 1
 

  

   

   

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLED

 

 

 

 

     
   

pACTION
APPROVAL
COMISENT
CONCURRENCE

 

    

 

OIRECT F REPLY

DISPATCH

  
    

| PREPARE REPLY
| RECOMMENDATION -

 

 

 

    

  

 

      
 

 

     
 
 

 

 

       

Re marka:

th woke 6 Mw es a sy Ley
Mus wt DEA — ta LOBAy
oe Mas St, Ure Cen oo

hoe on Wabdax ~ somrbe

war

 

ye

   

 
  

     

    
 

 
     

  
  

 

 
 

 
   

 

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, AODRESS ANO PHONE N

Dasssd |
CONFIDENTIAL

Use previous editions " BUSGPO: 1976 — 202-953

 

     
 

 
 

 

   

      

 

   

   

 

   
   

UNCLASSIFIED

mr 237

  
  

      

     
 
  

 
RE To RETURN To SENDER
a LYS
OORESS aND PHONE no.

 
