_. ; i.
me gy : De
6 December 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting with The President ~ 9:45 - 6 December 1963

The first part of the meeting involved a discussion with Rusk,
McNamara, Rostew, William Bundy and McGeorge Bundy concerning
the procedures on MLF. ;

Rusk requested, and received, approval to brief General
Bisenhower and will arrange to have Amb. Merchant, Admival Ricketts
and General Goodpastor present at the briefing. Rusk reported that a
group of "young Republicans” opposed the MLF, :

Rusk also received approval te brief certain Congressional
leaders in small groupa, but to intimate that no government, including
the United States Government, is committed to the MLF program,

Rusk gave an optimistic report on progrees and etated the
most irnportant objectives of the MLF wae to give the Germans a sense
of participation in nuclear weapons planning and operations under a
scheme providing adequate control by other Allied nations, including
the United States. :

McNamava stated that Mr. von Hassel had advised him that the
MLF was a must"! or else the. Germans would undoubtedly pursue an
independent course in developing their own national nuclear weapons
resources. Rusk indicated that failure to preceed with the MLE might
force a German-French arrangement on nuclear weapons. McNamara
stated there was no military requirement for the MLY but the force
will have a military (7) utility and will permit a reduction in
planned United States national capabilities and hence the cost, which is
condiderable, is not really an additional U.S. military cost.

The President then suggested a briefing of Gongressional
leaders, both Democratic and Republican, Senate and House, substantially
along the lines of the NSC briefing of yesterday afternoon, | brought up
the question of security and pointed out the dangers. The President
asked that I develop 4 10 or 15 minute briefing on Soviet strategic
capabilities, Soviet defense and Soviet economy, going just as far as I
possibly could without endangering sources and methods.

AGTION; Discuss with Cline, et al.

 

 

AW 53244 DocId:32283378 Page 2
JFK Assassination System Date: 8/26/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

. AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: — 177-10001-10475

RECORD SERIES: — NSF, JOHN MCCONE MEMORANDA, MTGS. 23 NOV.-27 DEC. 63, BOX |
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: MCCONE, JOHN

 

TO: Released under the John
Fennedy

TITLE: Assassination Records
Ollection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#: NW 53244 Date:

DATE: = 12/06/1963 H6-13-2017

PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS :

NEED SUBJECT ASSIGNED

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: — 1A; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
-DATE OF LASTREVIEW: = 04/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : DOC. #14

 

v9.1 35

HW 53244 DocId:32283378 Page 1
 

 

The meeting then continued with the President, McGeorge
Bundy and MeCone. i discussed the foreign aid figures ag included
in the 6 December memorandum and the special report on Soviet
Foreign Economics Programs of 25 October, and stated that I
would prepare for the President some special graphics which would
show Soviet foreign, economic and military aid, both extensions and
draw-downs, to non-Communist countries and Cuba.

NOTE: Mr. Rostow raised the question earlier
as te the validity of comparing our aid figures with
USSR's aid figurea because the latter did not include
aid to satellites. His position is that since we include
aid to NATO countries, particularly Turkey, Greece,
Seuth Korea, ete., we should examine USSR aid to their
satellites in addition to Cuba, This should be examined.
Ido not know whether the figures are available.

The President reviewed the Checklist and I made the following
comments:

1, Lexpect the USSR to expand the test ban agreement te cover
underground tests and it was quite possible they would soon make claims
for vast improvements in seismology. I mentioned the recent informa-
tion on the LASER beam.

2. lI pointed out the seriousness of the Cambodian situation
stating the fact that the Khmer Serei clandestine radio had keen located
in Southeast Thailand and that my information was that the Thais were
not inclined to put it out of business beeause the Cambodians were
broadcasting unfavorably against them.

3, Inoted the additional indicators of possible conflict over
Malaysia.

I then explained to the President the source of our information
that the Soviet Intelligence Service, on orders from Moscow, was
attempting to stimulate communications from India to him, Chief Justice
Warren and the Attorney General, urging a full probe into the
assassination of the President. 1 stated that this report comes from a
very reliable penetration and we evaluate it quite highly.

We then discussed the assignment of Peer de Silva to Saigon,
i stated that the staff had made such recommendation to me, but that
I felt it wag only a good move if he was te remove Ambassador Ledge.
He felt that to do this would have political repersucc

   

HW 53244 DocId:32283378 Page 3
 

tantamount to a vote of no confidence in the military junta, that it

would indicate President Johnson's support of Diem rather than the
present authorities. Therefore he stated he could not move to remove
“Lodge but hoped that Ledge would remove himeelf and become a
candidate for the Republican aomination for the Presidency and would
be the nominee. (Mote: I told the President he wanted things too
easy). I told the President that Lodge would destroy de Silva if he
opposed his assignment or did not like him, or wished to get rid of him,
The President said he would communicate most emphatically with
Lodge in this regard and asked Bundy to write an. appropriate communi-
cation. I told the President this would do no good, that Ledge was
absolutely unconscionable in matters of this kind and he had resorted

te trickery time and time again during the Eisenhower administration
and thet he never failed to use the newspapers in order to expose an
individual or block an action. I therefore could only conclude that if he
was going to keep Lodge on that it would be better to stay with David
Smith ae Chief of Station, whe is a most competent officer but young
and not fully expetienced, but this proposal did net meet his request
that the best and most experienced man we can find be placed on the
job. The President oaid he would exercise the full power of his

office to keep Ledge in line and felt our responsibilities in South
Vietnam are so great that CIA should have a “four-star man” on the jeb and
that is what he wanted.

FAM/mem

 

\
\

\
HW 53244 Docld:322833738 Page 4
