15. Remarks: (Continued-)

Street, Philadelphia, Pa. Since date of original’
communication in this matter, the instant company. has
purchased 4 public address system whieh necessitated
additional wiring by the telephone company, The. Phila-
delphia Division hap been told by their contact with the

 

. telephone. company $hat the owners of the Maggio Cheese

 

Company and the Milkwiaid Dairy Products Company were
sudpleLous. of any activity on the part of the telephone
men installing the above: speaker system 1f 1+ appeared
that these individuals were ina 2 part of the company
building net directly related to the location where a
gpeaker was being installed. These businesses operate
on a @h<hour basis and entry would have to be during the
normal daylight working hours. If the Bureay aubhorizes

   

' Installation at the Maggio Cheese Company, it is requested

by the Philadelphia Division that a thoroughly trained
sound agent from the atory or & surrounding field
division. be allowéd to come: to Philadelphia for the. —
inetallation prepers: This request is being wade. pased
on the fact. that the sound men assigned to Philadelphia
have either conducted interviews with persons ewning or.

 

' 6mployed by the . Maggio Cheesé Company or have been assigned

tothe division for @ long period of time and could possibly

‘be knowin It-i8 also felt that this.would be advisable due

‘Burvelllance’ from the company location for two. ‘mlerophones
3

to the Sudpicious nature of the owners of the Maggio Cheese
Company. Phere will be facilities. to bring the microphone

 
 
 

oniy as the company is located iu a heavily. ¢
At. the desired locations for inetallation of -2 microptione
there are facilities available. wiiieh are arranged eo. that
they @0 fot enter into any of the telephone’ autematic
equipments. The. only possible equipment. ‘Syitable for in-
Stallation in this case would be a: "oat, ee

if. ‘tnstallation is suthoriued, it ais felt that

the person making such installation should have proper

identification from the telephone company which can be
arranged by. ‘the Philadelphia Divisions It ls brought to

_ the Bureau's attention that. SA BRUCE FISHER. recently

assigned to the Laboratory, may have thie Ldéntification
at the present time.

--4A-

 

HW 45737

 

 

DocId:325604138 Page 2
 

 

| Callahan —)

{

“ E Malone
iL

' Tamm

* Trotter Tree
' wc, Sullivan dh ay:

 

 

 

 

» pORL Ea

 

ened
Pi ak heads

£02 Bae lithe

 

. _ «fo facilitate’selection of: Agent. to. make: this® ‘imstaliat tion
“you should promptly advise the Bureau, Attention FBI Laboratory,,

i} technical details of work which will .be required to effect ..!
proposed MATE installation, 2) time required to obtain telephone”
company identific&tion cards for Ageht selected, and 3) estimate ' of
time: required -to..complete installation. See cover memo T. Je

tele, 4 McAndrews to Rosen, captioned s same, dated 8/26/60. (OSE :

Mott . f is

    

  

 
  
     
   
  
  
 
 
 
     
 
 
  

_JdGL Th

 

 

   

c

 

“aol

 

DeLoach + ___.

McGuire -
Rosen

i

Tele. Roon

 

 

   

 

 

AW 45737) DocId:325604138 Page 1
