Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) ~
DATE :-*44 ey- 904455)

 

7 a 4
~ FBI April 22, 1963 a
Date:

Transmit the following in

 

(Type in plain text or code)

 

Via AIRTEL
(Priority or Method of Mailing)
“| v0: —SOSAC, ALBANY oO PERSONAL ATTENTION = —s]
WV FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM,

Last week a series of field conferences held throughout
the country on the Criminal Intelligence Program were concluded.
Representatives of those offices handling the bulk of the Bureau's
case load in the field of organized crime were in attendance. A
complete discussion of problems. concerning the investigation of
cases in this category was held and many suggestions for -improve-
ment of our program were received. :

For the information of all offices there follows some
of the high lights of the discussions held at these conferm ces:

Verbatim Transcripts
Jn connection with our misur coverage, the question of the
necessity for verbatim transcripts of misur information was
raised. Representatives of many offices felt that in involved
situations, such as our investigations of the skimming
operations out of the Las Vegas casinos and our investigation
of the underworld organization La Causa Nostra, that verbatim
transcripts were absolutely necessary so that the various field
divisions involved would have the most accurate available
information for assistance in their investigations. Representa-
tives of other offices maintained that in many instances material ,
from misurs could be summarized in one communication which would
be suitable for channelization. The Bureau's position in this
regard is that summarization and channelization of information
from misurs is preferable to extensive verbatim transcripts on
the great majority of intercepts. However, as noted by some of
the field divisions, where complicated investigations are underway
requiring interpretation of hazy or ambiguous remarks, verbatim
translations are permissible and in those cases desirable. Every
effort should be made, however, in order to conserve the time of
monitors and typists to utilize, wherever possible, the approved
procedure summari
into the appropriate files.

 
  
   
   
 
  
  
  

2- All Offices

‘ VL aa
Vis

Sent Via \-

 

 

i
DoclId:32339501 Page 2

 
‘Released under the John F.
DATE: 11-14-2017

~ AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

“RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

91

 

| DocTd:32339501 Page 1

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

JFK Assassination System Date: 5/5/2015
Identiftcation Form

Agency Information

‘FBI

124-90149-10097
DE
CR 92-876-384

Document Information

FBI
HQ
AL

04/22/1963
4

ANTHONY ZERILLI
VITO GIACALONE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

10/20/1998

INDEFINITE

AT
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Record Llecti 7 ico pany Ware
T . = Collection Act
DATE: 11-14-2017 ; oft 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

a on
~~ nas

Airtel to Albany
Re; Criminal Intelligence Program

Overseas Investigations |
Considerable discussion was held concerning the urgent need
for developing information concerning foreign numbered bank
accounts. The attention of the conferences was directed to
the fact that our Legal Attaches (Legats) are in a position
to be of considerable assistance to the field in this regard.
_ Our investigations are developing extensive information
concerning the foreign financial activities and travel of
American hoodlums. Wherever possible, information concerning
such activities should be directed to the Bureau for relay to
the appropriate Legat so that investigation can be initiated
abroad. In this connection, Legats have advised that there
is a great deal of interest among foreign police circles in
American hoodlum activities and information of this nature
brought to the attention of the Legats places them in a most
faverable position with reference to the police in the countries
which they cover. In this connection the attention of the field
is directed to the fact that the Royal Canadian Mounted Police
(RCMP) have recently established a Criminal Intelligence
Section at RCMP Headquarters, Ottawa, and have indicated a
desire to exchange information with the Bureau on matters of
mutual interest in this field. : :

Informative Indices .

The question was again raised in these conferences as to
whether a field office could set up an informative index
concerning hoodlums active in its territory. Your attention
is directed to airtel to all SACs dated 5/10/62, captioned
"Criminal Intelligence Program," in which the conditions under

which Bureau approval for such indices would be granted are set -
forth.

Monographs

In several of the conferences it was suggested that monographs
to supplement those already in existence and particularly covering

the field of bookmaking and gambling should be prepared for the
. assistance of the field divisions in handling substantive gambling
. cases. The San Francisco and Jacksonville Offices were instructed
\ to submit material in this regard and each field division receiving
. this communication should submit_pertinent..material it desires to_

 

have included in such monographs by 4/30/63. Upon receipt of this
saformation it Will be analyzed and appropriate monographs prepared.

~2-

DoclId:32339501 Page 3
