 

" O , ~Se
te
: ’ B. Economic Denial Crerations: Goods dastined fox !

shirnnent to or from Gua will be attacked whone /

evar it is feanibie to securely do so. In most
ctses ouch as the recant euyar case and tha cane
cutting machine, these will be tarcets of opportunity
effering Hitls advance waraing and limited accegs.
Currently we are detsxrining the feasibility of
action asainst several pyécialised petroleum pro-
duct shipments, the shininent of jute Gags for ihe
sugay crop, anda large electrics transiorme>.
~ Spoeific proposals will be submitted when the
operation involves unusual orerational or security
risks and when thue and circumstances permit.

3, Yn our proposnta for Phase IL, Operation MONGOGSE, we
pointed out some pertinent factora regarding eabsatage operations includ-
ing that gufficient access to the target may ba denied due to Cuban
security messures whith ars becoming progresuively mors effecthve;”
that the ability to infilerate and exfiltrate black-teams depends ugen
exishng circumstances including Cuban securhty conmtrels, movals
and motivation cf agunt materini and the willingness of ine Culas
Eo Rientien Sligo wae wads of the

pooslation to suppertinfilirces. #3
esgive, prevacative

necessity to simultancously maintain on ager
propaganda campaign with clear autnorily te engage in high “noise
level" types of provaganda wperations calling for work sloppayes,
slowdewns, eabsiage and other forma af railitent mase action, These
-Umeitiag facters are ahill partineat. la gddition it was pointed out
that if a maximura type action program waa to be undertakes,
ent of Defense.

Exe

 

extensiva support was required from the Depaytin
Suck auspert will again be requested oa the vazious proposals oulq
Linud abova reach the detailed implementation sings.

ag *

WILLIAM K. HARVEY

AMVdGIT Guod “yu aATWuaD AHL NOM XdOD0L0Ha.

  

-DDP/DC/TFW:BB Cheever: jeo (11 October 1962)
Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee : .
3-C/TEW ie
i whore.

 

 

HW 53244) Docld:32204642 Page @
ENG
~ “

a: 0%

z >

& fo

»,

aed

. :
‘ 4,

HW 53244) DoclId:32204642 Page 7

Geterming vulmerabUities, possibitities of access:
end methods of attack. When attacks against
Specific targets are considered feasible, specific
epsrations pronogals will bo evbmitted for approval,
At ths sama time, we are ré-training our pre-
acntly available sabotage/raider gtouap of anproxie
mately 23 raen. Ve hava commenced to vecrult

and train an additional independent sabotase/raider
group. It must be realized, however, that tho
training of this apecialized group will require at a
tsinlmnum 120 days before they can be considered
effective, Ye will discuss with Defense the joing
training of additional groups, In addition, we kaye
twenty small 3 to 5 man yesistance teams in varicua
etagea of recruitment, training, o- final brisfing,
The orlantation of some of these teams may be
switched to sabetaso Uf circumstances ag dictate,

Consideration is being given te providing limited
flnancial and logiatica suport to selected exile

Groups ta test their. cisimed capability fer sabotage

Harasament Operations: Operations are helag cone
sidered ayninst caiected installations end facilities
for the purpose of harasaing Cuban and/or Soviet
Bloc personnel, or of damaging o destroyiog key
fargets. Cu initial propegal will be for pm sexies
of strikes against facilities near the coast auch

&a missile sites, military airfields o naval
facilities, These will consist of hit-and-rim -

'aperations cuch a9 lobbing mortar shelle inte a

base or ascaulte on lisktly held positions oa
coastal telands oy camas. A demolition Operation
Against ene of several key bridees is also under
consideration, Definitive propoasis against
epeci{ic targets will bo aubmiited anortly.

Jencouragins Widespread Minor Acta of Sabsta vay
Ikiaplementation of Lim balloon leaflet delivery
capability will permit masa delivery of clementayy
sabotage, ending this development, opportunity
to significantly imelemant this will ba Mmited,

a earanry:
Hi Soe
EMOTE IT

   

    

GhOWP 4
Maelioin aelomadl:

   

 

A)
8
Ce
3°
S
~
«K
. RY
8
_&
7A
=
isa)
Q
2
E
‘3
eg
>
<

 

 
 

16. Shell Refinery (Havana), Instrument house, 100 pounds C 4,

 

17. Hydrogen Plant Melonea (Mavana}. Needed for German electric
_ generators Consolidated and Regla Power Planta, Will reduce
electric power by 60,000 kw, Attack with shaped charge, ©

18.  Matahambre Copper Mine (Santa Lucia), Attack cable tramway
{4,000 kw) electric generator and unloading stipple.

19, Flour Mill (Santiago), Only two (2).in Cuba. Cne-third capacity
of Burrus mill in Havana, Attack by dust explosion,

20. Rayon Plant (Matanzas), Attack special water source.
21. Nickel Plant (Moa Bay), Attack through poisoned chemicals. .

22. . Rincon de Melones (Havana), Diesel electric power plant and
transformer yard using platter charges, | .

L@O28 >; 5 ;
~_ 23, NARANJITO Sub-Station (Electric) {Havana}, Attack using
z 7 platter or engineer shaped chargea,
& fey
ey
S 24, PRINCIPE Sub-Station (Eleetric) (Havana). Attack using platter

ox engineer shaped charges.

25. | ‘Tropical Sub-Station (Electric) (Havana). Attack transformer
vrith platter charges. _

26. Steam Electric Power Plant (Santiago). ' Attack through trans-
- formers.

KAWdGIT GYOd *U ATWYTD FHL WONT AdODOLONa

. 27%. , Steam Electric. Power Plant (Cienfuegos).

fs

28, O'Bourke Steam Electric Fower Station (Cienfuegos). Attack
transformers.

29, Steam Electric Power Station (Vicente), Attack Transformers.
30. Stearn Electric Power Station (Camaguey). Attack transformers. ,

31, Electric Power Sub-Station (Santa Clara), Attack transformers.

  

Sacer {

     

HW 53244 DoclId:32204642 Page 5
TOR are rte

_ , "CF ROITIUT .
rn
ne Est

  
 

Ty

32. , Electric Power Sub-Station (Cuatro Camines). Attack trans~

formers,

.33. _Bauta Radio Station,

 

NOTE: — Targets are included on this list due to economic importance.
It must be recognized that on the basis of operational studies
gmaany may nevez be attacked due to lack of access or for

other valid operational reasons.

 

oe
me
3
a
&
AUVaGIT GUOd "HY CIWS AHL HONE AaOOOLOHa

 

HW 53244) DoclId:32204642 Page 6
 

178-10002-10473

i
i
i

i
‘
i

10
NARA TRA date _le/2u/o0- By_ KB,

HW 53244 Docld:32204642 Page 2

wer heen teres Rec. Coilaction Act of 1992

   

MEMORANDUM FOR: Brigadier General E, G. Lansdale:

SUBIECT 3 Operation MONGOOSE « + Sabotage Actions :
REFERENCE : Too Secret Memoraatun, Bubject: Phace ik

Operation MONGOOSE, dated 31 Ausust 1962

{.. This memorandum is in respoaga to the Special Group
{Augmented) stated desire for more aggressive sabotage action and
ia forwarded te you ta provide a background on the bupiementing
actions we are undertaking. ©

2. The following ls a summary of our current thinking
and planned actions to expand sabotage operations, As cur plana
progress, additional actions may ba proposed and same montimed
below mey be discarded.

MARITIME SABOTAGE:

A Coban Gwred Enipe: A paper awaits presenta.
“Con to ihe Special Gronp (Augmented) at the next
meeting, Upan receiving policy approval, we
apo propared to initiate selected operations aa
the opportunities occur.

 

Roneilee Shiv pzing Carrying Carzes to or from
Cuban Porta: We are expending our inselligence
eovevare of aT phases of thig catesory of shipe
and carga and where possible are agsisting in
the program to convince shipowners to withhold
‘chartera from tha Cuban trada. In addition, we
wll shortly submit a paper requesting policy
approval to harass such shipping and where
feasible sabotage the carzog even thoagh it
roay eadaager the ships aad crews of friendly

tv noutral nailons. in some cases, we may be
shie to attack the cargos priory to being placed

sbaaed shine

EB.

 

| fRocasseey
18 10d UO 473

1] October 19622

 

 

AUWAGIT Guod “uy aIvago AHL KOWg xdOD0LOHa

 
JFK Assassination System Date: 8/27/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

ROCKCOM
RECORD NUMBER: _ 178-10002-10473
RECORD SERIES: ASSASSINATION FILE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ASSASSINATION MATERIALS--MISC, ROCK/CIA (5)

Document Information

 

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: HARVEY, WILLIAM K.
TO: LANSDALE, EDWARD G.
TITLE: OPERATION MONGOOSE - SABOTAGE ACTIONS
. Released under the John F. Kennedy
«DATE: 10/11/1962 hesassination Records Collection
PAGES: 7 het of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).
Pase#: NU 53244 Date: 06-13-2017
SUBJECTS :
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
OPERATION MONGOOSE
CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS
CIA
DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: — Consulted
CURRENT STATUS:  Redact
09/01/1995

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

 

89

HW 53244 DocId:32204642 Page 1
  

ri

» THE WHITE HOUSE: OFFIGE

 

 

   

C. Biles Shincing, We are studying possible waya of
gaining access te the target. Some degree of
access should be afforded at points auch ag the

. Panama Canal or nou-Blec country porta, Ke

i aro glad considering roiiniag and hit-and-roa

: : operations in Cuban carts and waters, Opera-

4 tional wlans for thie category ef target will ba

| submitted on an individual basis as realistic

ao , . opportunities develop. »
{ : :
. DB, Mining of Cubes Harbors: We are actively

investizating the feasibility and practicality

of mining the entrance of selected Cuban harbors
with non- United Staiss Government attributable
soins. We will present the resulia of our study
to you when conipleted and in the rokantime we

| : . : will keep you advisad of cur progress.

 

HE... Blockias a Cuban Harbor
Entyases t(hannel: We have wunaex

B specilic proposal to bluck ihe en
WMarlol harbor. After invesiiratiug
infoymation and cagrational faceta of tha pro-
posal and if it papears feasible, wo will present

- gapeeliic proposal to the Special Group (Augmented)
for policy review,

 

 

 

BY. Attacks Acsinet Cuban Port Yaciiities and/or
Shins by UOT dywisme Vhis is upder achive
cousideration, A limited runber of Cuban GOT
awiinmers ave avaliable and are being ve-byained

| As necessary. In particular, we are intersated

i in devising an attack om the Soviet erate including

. the Uornar boats, tpedcific proposala will be

|

 

 

 

KUVdGIT GYOd “A GIWYID FHL WOUd AaoD0LOHa

gubniltted at a later duta.

SABOTAGE OF LAND TARGETS

 

A, Xisjor S.botasa Taractsi Attached iy a Mat of the

key ingustrial and coramunications targets in
Caba, We ere currently checking tach exc to

 

  

HW 53244) DoclId:32204642 Page 3
 

Le . ScHoHay ; .
, SABOTAGE TARGETS IN ORDER CF ECONOMIC IMPORTANCE IN CUBA

1, . Consolidated Steam Power Plant (Havana). (143,000 kw) Attack
: through transformers + Cut-going cables + Cable vault.

2. Regla Steam Power Plant (Havana). (142,500 kw) Attack through.
fransformers - Pot-beads - Out-going cables. : .
3. Water Aquaducts (three/3) (Havana). Use negative buoyancy
Umpets (without magnets), place through breather vents. ©

’

4, Diesel Railroad Locomotives (approximately 180 to 200) (Havana).
Attack through lubricating oil with additive to destroy.

5, Sewerage Disposal Pump-house (Havana). Destroy one (1) special
unreplacaable transformer.

HHL WOUd AdODOLOHA

6 Steam Electric Power Plant (Matanzas). Attack through transformers.

 

. . Qa
Texaco Refinery (Santiagc). Attack coclant tewer, : g
Burrus Flour Mill (Havana). Introduce "dust initiator'tin grinding 9
room for dust explosion. . had
ra
7 9. Nicare Nickel Plant (Nicaro}. Attach coolant tower + power huuse 9°
; and coolant pump-house. an 6
‘ . of
\ - Fat
| 10. Micro-wave at San Jose, Madruga, Colliseo. a
1 e
LL, CMR TV (iY Stations). Attack SAG 19 Kloston tubes with "clams."
12, San Francisco, Machina, and Santa Clara piers (Havana), Attack
in ' incendiaries in warehouse. ;
1 . : -
13, Pler land Warehouse (Mariel). Attack by mining channel and
; Sncendlaries In warehouse. : ; ;
14, Freeport Pier (Matenzas), Attack with incendiaries.
15. . Eseo Refinery (Havana). Salt water cooling pump with shaped wee

" chawge on instrument house, 100 pounds C 4,

   
 

TRGUP {

 

  

HW 53244 Docld:32204642 Page 4
