  

branes

TAL vk. DEP,

y gle Sec% Retain cern ven ENT OF stare

B with €6Acurreng of ee lasaty a

Brit ee cot & Besiassity 3 ye "2H pape eee aa
. t and excigg

B5~ShowA

     
   

JEK Act 6 (1)(B)

4% Forpmilitary warfare, Igather, ia regarded tn some quartare
aaa purely technicn! moter, cngily dotachatie from policy and there.
fore & proper functicn of the Depertmant of Defanae., Yot thara ia
almest ao CIA Conctlon mowe peculiarly dependant cn the pallitical
context then pasamilitncy warlors.

@ These are aeversk ronzozo fer this. Fey ona thing, a nasamtlitacy
operntion is lo ia nsturs a lagge end atiziketatla epoeretiion ant thareby,
ao suggesied abova, clavkes with the presupsetitions of eur epen
society. (Thess considerations nead net sepiy, hewaves, to the
tealsiag ef, sey, Ure @outh Virtenmece in guarrilla tactles er ts the
ueport of alrogdy oalgting guerriiia activitics,} Fer ancther, io
maral and political price of direst peramisitery fsllero is asute for
va, Communists, whan they stimulate paramilitary acthvity, ave
doing what the world axceces fyem thems wien we de i, we angaar
to betray our own profeesed principles and tharefare ganesh afinzd to
esropoand delingarncy by deleat, Boresver, a9 the reqent Algerian
aplecda chewad, once we convinces the werld that we ere ceemmitiod to a
paramilitary endesyer, wo will be blamed foe wit eovie ef things, And,
na the recent tractera fer-prlzcnerae egiecde shows, «hos wa do anand
man to poszthle dseth, wa enact Mghily welts them aff and cluze the
books, Tha Cernrmuntete, on ths other haw, have ne ecrepise abecat
Uquideting @ lasing chars, ;

 

     

ve
Mew) 2 ort WN Bas ag oe
HW 55157 DocId: 32281896
5.
ME, Gpevations aud PONey

Clandesting activiées abculd ba agnzsned vet ealy in the eantext

nf thely relationship to an epen secioty Wat alee in tos egmext of thelr
ralatianebip te United States foroign porey-
CiA uperations hava wat Seen bata effectively euburdinats to Wee
foreign policy.

 

  

. i. Clands sting ae clijgenca collection ta by charter, “fros freu
State fisgaxtricne ciobret. this fact enpates American foreign policy
wae a molsileds of embarvauainents when CIA $e Moeaverad zecruitlng
wlgcing sources in @ Grieedly coustry. The vrecext
whon GLA, withert natice to the Congul Generel,
} Branck ef the Jingapors

 

      

 

ggueie ox dev

  

Suageanwd Lose,
tried ta sakvart & panmber of tha Spacta
Police provides as insivuctlva exanplte After complications of
Yrdicraua conmlazitys incieding an attenmt to gabject the recrult 4
2 lle-detector tent, 1 ts pod out that the rocrust ked Leng since
infexmed bie suparicse of the CIA agyprench and wes leading OLA
into a trep which, whan Spring. produced censiterablie omharrasy-
wt to relations betwaen tha US and the fingnpete epverament.
re bean tecotice of 2

UFR Act 6 (1) (B)
JEK Act 6 (1) (Cc)

 

   
     
         

  

ropes

 
 

neither the Ermboesy ner the Dapozi:

 

   

 

QQ) 3
nS Jl CIA bas said that, in auch exses
et ment in Washington it narmatly isfermed of this type of aneretion.
3 th phost, no ona knows how mang potential probiams far US forviga
1 |*4a7 policy -~ and how euch peesntial frictlen with istendhy etaiee -- are
wl & a W being created ct this mement hy CIA clandestine intelligence eperaiion
- 3 6 dl Surely thera is on argument fos pesminting iste ts dvcids whesher the
us 2 aces zdventage to be qoined by the aperation {2. Gx» tre trfoemuation deriva’
2 |s fram on agam within the Special Drench of toa Singapore Polier) eut~
a 5 3k weighh the tiek {8.805 exneprrating tho lecal govwrumert gt thaking
Eas i ite confidence beta in our guTpuese® acd in con senso},  Clamdextine
fefod = intolhigencs ensrations phould plainly be clancod Toth with tha Nagert:
ae: Bs Pe mort of State and (ezve fox encentiocal instant as and cu agresment of
8 g z the Beeretary 8 State) with tha local U.S. Lav BA ORLOT «
Nog

CA oP

 

NW 55157 _ pocYdi32281896° Page ate"

 

 
AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORDS SERIES :
MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO:

TITLE :
CIA REORGANIZATION

DATE :
PAGES :

SUBJECTS :
CIA .
; COVERT ACTION
PARAMILITARY WARFARE
CUBA
POLICY CONTROL

DOCUMENT TYPE :

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

SSCIA
157-10002-10056

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
CIA

SCHLESINGER, ARTHUR JR
THE PRESIDENT

06/10/61
15

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : S

RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

Box 244
. Folder 7

REFERRED

Pp
: 09/30/93

Exhibit 5 to R. Goodwin testimony on 7/18/75

Date:09/30/93
Page:1

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED ~

WW 55157 Docld:32281896 Page 1
oppo

@ ; it bas meant too that the Gtata Depertment, efter apariowl ef an
opevatian only in ite letar stagen, is under grant prescurs te
endorse the sporetion aa already mounted becaues of the alleged
evil cansayuences of onercialug 2 vete. Lwall remember Tom
Mann's remezk the day the decision wne mada to go ahead on Cuba:
"Il would nevar have favered loirintiag this cperatian: bat, aince it
kana gane as far as it has, Ido not think «a can wlek coiling it off."
‘Moreover, p2 atiras when there ta incraaging peamium on activism,
State, when tt questions CIA cparatioag o7 Initistlves, caste taalf in
apriesy, sisay, asgaiive réle. The edvoceta of clandestine activities .
seema ‘tough’ and ccalietic! the enpeasat hee te invoke gach istancthloa .
ea Sha reputation ef the United Stasea, world public epinton, "What
éo we gay in ih, United Motions?" otc., art oormes bopelesely
tdsalletic, legaliatts and ‘acide!

The reault of Cli'a initiative in covert political enerations bas boon
% tyante situations which have forced pelicy en the State Departraoat,
This waa not the ortginal idee bahind CLA, As Allen Dullss wress
in hie 1947 meamoraniuen (0 the Senats Armsd Serviees Commilics,
_ "The Central Inteliigence Agency should hava nothing te do with pulley.”

Ynt, in tha ycare since, CIA has, tn effect, ‘made’ gelicy in many
parte of the world, <A number ef powarnmerts etl! in power know

@ , that thoy have evan been targats of CLA attempta a8 averthraw -- net
& State of mind caleuleted to etimulats friendly feelings toward the
Urdted States, Indunsela, ef courea, ia a prime example.

Thia experiance guggtsts thet the present system by which CIA notifies
State of a projected covart operation is inacaqeate to protect US
trtereate, There must be seme means by which Stete can be infozmod
ef such operations st an carly enough etaga te aces the conception

and preliminary planning ef the eperstinn, Cthorwise CLA will con-
tinve to confront Siste with prapesitiona having pstemtind impnet on
foreign policy bra ef tao lat? a point to subject that impact to reascn~
able control, :

     
   

JFK Act 6

Ee) — ‘See 3 OLS Peclassify 2 In part ani ° ise uo
—— < “op kqizass sie 13ey \) ¢ ~
: Je CAT FPC/HDR ae peill-$s,

 

 

 

 
 

8.

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

 

DEPARTMENT OF STAT@

Dll 3 Retain elass’n C1 Change/|classlfy (8 \rssxctry

4 With concurrence of =

Inlet LL Declassity-S- part and ex! ise- as shown

Assis~succkdeta\L. (=
FPC/HOR nan 424-4—|93-

 

 
  
  
 
 

   

 

 

 
 
