 

 

 

 

he Meyer Lansky
Background

Meyer Lanksy was born July 4; 1902 at Grodno, Russias
He is also know as Morris Lieberman, Meyer the Bug, Bugsy Meyer,
Bugs Meyer, "The Bug" and Little. Meyers He first entered the rackets
as a sub-lieutenant of the notorious Dutch Goldberg and worked as :
an alcohol runner for Goldberg along with Benjamin "Bugs" Siegel.
‘Tater, Siegel and Lansky formed the well-imom "Bugs-Meyer" gangs
This group with headquarters in New York City was reported to have
peen the head of the organized racket syndicate in that areas In .
1939 Lansky was engaged with Frank Erickson in the ‘operation of .
the Oriental Race Track and Nacionale. gambling casino in Havana,
Cuba» .

Associations

During July of 1946 Lansky was in the-vicinity of Ias.
Vegas, Nevada, and Los Angeles, California, in ‘contact and confer-
ence with Benjamin "Bugs" Siegel,:who at the time was engaged in
the erection of the Flamingo Hotel at Ias Vegase Information has
been- received from time to time that Lansky'was one of Siegel's
financial backers. Moe Sedway has identified Lansky as one of the
group, including Siegel, Frank Costello, Joe Adonis and the
remants of the Capone gang, who were attempting to take over the
Continental Press Service, which was engaged in furnishing race
_track information throughout the United Statese This informant
also indicated that Siegel, Costello, Adonis and Lansky controlled
the numbers racket in New York City and in Philadelphia. Adonis
| ig also reported to have been a partner with Lansky in the ownership
: ; of the Colonial Inn at Miami.

 

 

During the incarceration of Charles "Iucky" Luciano at
Sing Sing and Great Meadows Prisons, New York City, Lansky was one
of his most frequent visitors. Lansky also visited Luciano at
Ellis Island when the latter was awaiting deportation proceedings.

Financial Interests

Confidential informant Moe Sedway has stated that Meyer
Iansky of the so-called "Jewish group" and Joe Adonis of the so-called
tTtalian group" are the two men who control the joint activities
of racketeers and mobsters in what is referred to as the "Eastern
Criminal Syndicate." This same informant has mentioned that Meyer
Lansky in conversation had confirmed the newspaper reports that he
had recently gone to Italy to visit Charles "Lucky" Luciano.
Another item mentioned by this informant concerning Meyer Lansky
( _ was the fact that Lansky was quoted as making a statement that he
Hl intends to get his son Paul into the United States Military Academy

* 130

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rw 54464 Docld:32340259 Page 2
 

 

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

vil

HW 54464 DoclId: 32340259

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI
124-90157-10061

HQ
CR 62-32578-1004

Document Information

 

FBI

HQ
Released under the John
. Kennedy
Assassination Records
Ollection Act of 1992

01/22/1951 (44 USC 2107 Note).

57 ase#:iNWU 54464 Date:
HO-10-2017

LOUIS KUTNER

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

11/19/1998

INDEFINITE —

BRIEF, INC ADMIN PAGE

Page 1

5/6/2015
   

at West Point and that he has the necessary political influence to
make this effort successful.

Iansky's chief business connections apparently are with
the Emby Distributing Compnay, Incorporated, with offices in New
York and Philadelphiae The company controls the "juke box" industry
in these cities and renortedly has-used gangster tactics to prevent
the use of "juke boxes" obtained from sources other than their own
organizatione Unconfirmed reports state that the Emby Distributing
Company has been succeeded by the Consolidated Television Companys
This latter company is reportedly engaged in the manufacture of  -
television sets for sale to bars and grills as well as to distributors
and dealerse Lansky also has connections with a produce and fruit
company, a food company, a realty corporation, and a retail grocery
organization.

; Carol Huber, a New Orleans informant, who is employed in
the Auditing Office of the Beverly Country Club, made available a
list of omers of that club. An omership interest of $60,000 was
indicated for one Iansky, first name not shown, It was believed that
this person was Meyer Lansky although Jake Lansky, his brother, could
be acting as a front in this instancee It is noted that. Frank
Costello's ownership interest in this club was shown on this list
as $60,000 also.

Informants of the Miami Office have advised that Meyer
Lansky is one of the leaders in the so-called National or Eastern
Syndicate which includes Frank Costello, Frank Erickson and Joe
Adonise This group is presently believed to control gambling in
a large area of Miami Beach. This same syndicate is also believed
to control the Club Greenacres and the Club LaBoheme, the two
largest gambling casinos in Broward County, just north of Miami,
Florida.

 

Criminal Record ,
Confidential informant Ira Sample of the Los Angeles
Office reported that Frank Erickson suspected Meyer Lansky of
_ arranging for the 1947 murder of Bugsy Siegel without conferring
with either Erickson or Frank Costello.

Iansky's criminal record shows arrests for felonious
assault on two occasions, for homicide, for violation of the National
Prohibition Act, for violation of Penal Law No. 1752 (nature of
charge unknown) and "suspicione't There is no indication that he :
was ever convicted on any of these arrestse. At the present time '
Iansky resides at 211 Central Park West, New York Citys

 

 

 

 

 

 

| Aw 54464 DoclId:32340259 Page 3

 
