 

 

 

Released under the wohn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 USC 7I07 Hotey.
DATE: 11-14-2017 oo er ‘eo at

 

(Geneial Antwar treit| @ L Fx ar
: é a

April 27, 1998
Page 2

Thank you for your time and attention to these records. If you would find it helpful,
someone from our agency would be pleased to meet with a representative of your
government to discuss these issues further.

Sincerely,

 

wep
Dr. T. Jeremy/Gunn
Executive Director!

Enclosures

 

 

Docld: 323222344 Page 5
my

 

Released under the'iJohn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1982 (47 sc 3107 Hote).

DATE: ¥1-1472017 Lo O O a)

 

SECRET .
LAQEPY
SEBAWISE MAY 1 4» 1998
General Antwar Lteif © } y- 2/-9
Directorate General of the ISF . a
International Relations Department GLAgSi ai AGE Stat
Beirut, Lebanon EASON a)
. (9 DECLASSIFY ON: X_g_

Dear General Antwar Lteif:
; J,am writing to you about a matter that I believe to be important to the FBI and to the
United States people. .
. The President John.F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act, 44U.S.C. §2107(Supp.
Vv 1994) (the Act) (copy enclosed) was enacted by the United States Congress and signed into law by
President George Bush‘on October 26, 1992. The purpose of the Act is to preserve and maintain all
United States governmental documents in one area, the National Archives and Records Administration
~ (Archives), for access to those individuals interested in the history surrounding the assassination of
President John F. Kennedy. The Act states that, “[a]ll government records concerning the
assassination of President John F. Kennedy should carry a presumption of immediate disclosure,” and
requires all United States government agencies ’to find all documents related to the assassination and to
review and release the identified documents to.the maximum extent possible to the public. The FBI
has been working diligently since 1993 to fulfill our responsibilities under the Act. )
The purpose of this letter is: (1) to inform you that the FBI’s assassination records contain
information originating with your agency or your original documents, (2) to respectfully request that
_ your agency review your information for maximum disclosure to the fullest extent possible, and (3) to

explain the provisions for your request to protect your “CLE Ke ( NOT, q 19S 3 Wy)

To achieve maximum disclosure of assassination records, the Act \O Aas the JFK
Assassination Records Review Board (the Board). The Board is an independent Federal agency
charged with overseeing the identification and release of records related to the assassination from the
other Federal agencies. The FBI has assured the Board of our continued dedication of cooperating
with them to meet the objectives of the Act. In that spirit, the FBI would appreciate

* CLASSIFIED SERRET INYP'S ENTIRETY
BY: SP d(6)

Dep. Di___1-_ Director 1-Mr.R. Bucknam’ 1/Mr.P. Kelley 1-Ms. Gawley 1 - Ms. Keeley :
of etGan”~ Mr. Bryant 1 - Mr. Collingwood 1-Mr. Campbell 1- Ms. Wilkins 1 - Ms. Sifford
. «counsel _ List of additional foreign agency addressees attached.
+ ei Inv,
Finance
Info. Res. SECRET

Insp.
Lab. : - '

 

 

National Sec. ___

Personnel ‘ R fur \l t Yy ¥

‘raining . 7 -
Off. of EEOA ia wr :
Off, of Public .

& Cong. Atts. . Yo a4 FBI/DOD
Director's Office __ MAIL ROOM ° :

Docld: 323222344 Page 2 : ' . i

 

 

 
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 Usc Zi07 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017 ; JFK Assassination System Date: 3/31/201
: Identification Form

To SSFSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSseEe
‘ Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI '
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10379-10035 : ~

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 62C-HQ-1029205-3742
See
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: [Restricted]

TITLE :

DATE: 05/11/1998
‘PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS :

 

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: . 3;4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 05/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LET

v9.1 231
Docld:32322244 Page 1
 

 

Released under the_JJohn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1952 (4d Ust 7i07T Hotes.
DATE: 41-14 2017 co. . - —
* eee! Ne

SECRET

, [Gene Antwar vet | ©

your agency’s review of the enclosed assassination records and consideration of whether the
information can be released.

If your agency has no objection to the release of its information in the enclosed records, please
notify the FBI so that we may take steps to release the records to the Archives. If your agency determines
that the information cannot be released, please provide an explanation that the FBI may present the
evidence to the Board for their approval. The Act requires the FBI to present “clear and convincing
evidence” of a harm that would outweigh the need for public disclosure to the Board for any information
that we request to protect from disclosure. Such evidence to protect information is explained in the Act as,
“the public disclosure of the assassination record would compromise the existence of an understanding of
confidentiality currently requiring protection between a Government agent and a cooperating individual or a
foreign government, and public disclosure would be so harmful that it outweighs the public interest.” Upon
receipt of your instructions and explanation for the protection from disclosure, the FBI will provide the
information to the Board and request that they sustain the request for withholding the information from
disclosure.

Please be aware that the Act requires that a// information in the assassination collection at
Archives (even in the closed section) be released to the public in the year 2017, including information that
the Board agrees to protect. The Act has provisions to extend postponements (protection of information
from disclosure) past 2017 with the certification of the President of the United States that the information
continues to meet the requirements for postponement. The FBI will periodically review the postponed
material for the need of this certification.

As you know, the FBI normally protects information from your agency pursuant to applicable
Executive Orders and the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts exemptions. However, the Act'is a
unique Federal law that applies only to JFK assassination records. Please note, it is our opinion that
release of information in the JFK assassination records should not in the future affect the FBI’s standard
policy of protecting your agency’s information in other investigations or in other contexts.

The FBI is committed to the opening of all information related to the assassination to the United
States public, but appreciates that certain information is sensitive and not proper for release. Therefore,
the FBI requests your consideration and understanding of this matter and the continuance of your
outstanding association with our agency.

Thank you, in advance, for your cooperation. Please direct any questions to our Legat Office
representative or to Carol L. Keeley, Acting Unit Chief of the Historical and Executive Review Unit of the
FBI, 935 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20535, (202) 324-0671.

Sincerely yours,

Louis J. Freeh
wo. : Director

SECRET

Docld: 323222344 Page 3
 

Released under the #ohn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017 ‘, eos ‘oe : oo
ee, ) om,

Se

 
 
 
 

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW + 2nd Floor » Washington, DC 20530
f (202} 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

Trewise OWA SECR . a)

April 27, 1998

4 A-99
General Antwar Lteif Fee Py. AGEs SLD [ks

Directorate General of the ISF REASON:
International Relations Department S) DECLASSIFY ON: wr
Beirut, Lebanon Ay

Re: United States Federal Bureau of Investigation Records Relating to the
Assassination of President John F. Kenned

 

Greeting:

The Assassination Records Review Board, which is an independent agency of the
United States government, is honored to present to your government a request on
behalf of the people of the United States of America.

The assassination of President John F. Kennedy was one of the great tragedies for the
American people in this century. Since the time of his assassination, a majority of the
American people have believed that all relevant information has not become publicly
known. In order to respond to this concern, the United States Congress passed
legislation, signed into law by President Bush, that created the Assassination Records
Review Board. This law is known as the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V 1994). The five members of the
Assassination Records Review Board are citizens of high standing who were appointed
by President Clinton and confirmed by the United States Senate.

The principal mission of the Review Board is to transfer records in government files to
the United States National Archives so that they can be examined by historians,
scholars, and researchers. As a part of its mission, the Review Board has been working
with U.S. government agencies during the past three years -- including the FBI -- to
declassify records to the greatest extent possible. The FBI has notified us that some
information in its files on the assassination originated with your government. FBI
officials have copies of these records that they will make available for your

examination. 2 ap,

       

aft, w
The Review Board respectfully requests*that your ‘government take all reasonable steps
. to help make the information in these records available to the United States National
Archives. Accordingly, we request that your government consent to the release of its

information in these records to the ¢ atest a possibl
j Ge Gg" ents SNL

 

Boaro Memsers: John 8. Tunheim, Chair + Henry 4 ~ wih Kermit L. Hall» William 1. Joyee « Anna K. Nelson
Executive Directoa: T. Jeremy Gunn + Deputy Director: Thomas £. Samoluk

Docld: 323222344 Page 4
