 

 

' /Felm is currently connected with the
A y

28

.MEMQRANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

'

f]

Qn i
discovered 2

ro. 7

£ifty-nine sticks of dynamite in an
rth miore. Streets Chicaga, This

an many respects to the dynamite found
buildings on March G6, 1970. Inve

 

   

in the Detroit po

may

gation

     
  
 
  

 

   
   
  
 

namembar who is presently in Buiifalo, YOra,
eremnruoat 7] raat qe * w nae S  Ihadan +

oh @n Usihnown assignment. Also reported being seen at the

Noxth Kenmore Strect\ address was Jaffe Safier, who 2

Ly in burfiaio with [Poachi as she iss mest

commonly culled, was in conte * eles Shove ly pxrier to
March G, 1970, when the dynamite was found in the Detroit
police installations.

  

t™

      
 

twofileashern: iymembers were scheduled to appear in
a local criminfl court in Detroit in early Mex
Qid not appear, /Or.

    
      
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

   

 
 

 

Brookl New York, sSseikt as
adviged"fthe court by telegram that ese two ir

iii and unable to attend. |/¥eih\has boon identified
possible doctor for many @i68 hermaig me
underground status in the NeW York City area,
old and has been active in @iudents.,

affairs since 1964, He reportedly
in Chicago in August, 1968, during the Den
Convention, In late 1968, he was reported
$1,400.00 monthly to (Students f

arxested in 1964 during™a™s

as 3
in an
He islSo years

   

enter, 17 Murray Streetj New York City, rR
oxganiaatsone rein 2S a conscientious objector and reportedly
attempting to avoid the draft, :
source at Fein'swesidence, which is also his office,
has observed photograshs on his desk of fCathiyn Wilkerson and
(Kathie Boudin 7 ex ,leaders who axye™enimrantry wanted by

he POI Gn connectson with demonstrations in Chicaco on
September 24, 1969, and Cctobor 9, 1969, JV lkersorm\is also

 

    
 
    

   

 

 

 

- explosions at fhey father 'Seresidence in New York City on

March G, 1970, (PRES Source alsoO-pdvised there was a
menoxvandun on £& ; skyindicating he is x doctor of a comaune,

 
 
  

SECRET
-~ Qa
HW S5526t DoclId:329894583 Page 9 a 7 “+ ~ ae
_ DocId:329 ;

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Bye

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

A telephone surveillance on the address at
exrrepont Street, Brookly % would undoubtedly ;
af

ie oat f :
¥ yaluabie Zt Lon concerning the pos

   
 

S
Pi
le}
a
je
a
oO

[32 _P3

x

        

  

  

 

 

whereabouts of [Weathermgiy members, including these members ' i
presently being wanted by this Burcau as fugitives. : j
Veatheransnenbers Live in unknown residences referred to j
as communes, Many have apparcntiy moved to the Mew York City ri]
area. It is well known that these inéividuesls have a i
continuing need for medical attention because of the filthy so]
conditions under which they currently live. Many use drugs i
and many are known to be afflicted with venereal diseases. i
. 4

Based on the information previously set forth, i

i

  
 

who have access
either are j
aral eriminal
“

  

“it can be expected that all of the individua

- to the phone at (31. Pierrepont Street. B
: ay te ~ ofther 1Oe8

or may become subjects of either local

    
  

 

  

violations. It is also anticipated, based on this in i
that results from a telenhane surveillance et/ 31 Pierr i
Street wRrooklys, will be introduced as evideuce in ecu ;
or that leads to evidence may be obteined; therefor

reduest is being made not only for the purpose of ebt
intelligence-type information, but also on the basis r {I
evidence will ba obtained that Li be used in court. In :
line with instructions on page five of your referenced ]

the following information is set forth:

. 2. Some of the individuals who may utilize the

phone at (81 Pierrepont Eixscet, Droolbend are currently the
subjects of Unlaviul Flight to Avoid Prosecution in igations.
(Oliver Feily has stated he is a conscientious objector aud is

yying to avoid the draft, It is further beiieved that
individuals having access to the phone at this address will
become involved in violations’ of the Destruction of Government
Property statute, the Destruction of Aircraft or Motor

Vehicles statute and the Antiriot Law.

 

 

2. At the present time, we are canducting bath
intelligence and criminal investigations on the individuals
who may utilize this address and phone number, As previously
noted, many of the Neathernamymembers we are now investigating

- aré fugitives. We do not have sufficient live informant
. coverage of these individuals,

 

SECRET ‘ -.

 

 

HW 55161 Docld:32989'583 Page 10
. .

 
   

 

   

Bes te Gera ne ee Wee ene ee

@ “SECRET @

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT GF JUSTICE

‘
t

’
: *
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20855

April 9, 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

.

RE: /STUDENTS FOR A DEMOCRATIC SCE New Left
ap

 

Group

| . Reference is made to your letter dated May 6, 1969,
concertiing the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act ct

1868,

‘Maxk, Ruddy national leatherma aieadsr, in a closed
meeting in-éariy February, L878, stated the [Veat

    

  

      

 

of the (Wudents, fon 2 ‘Dewocratic Soci. vould go Gnderground,
break =< Si2ll groups ane Gireot aregic sabotage" ageinst
vy and police installutions by the use of bombs and

WALI
confrontation with the police,

ite exolasionts
aan Hew York City

Care im EARL ORS

On Mareh G, 1S7¢0, a ser
-oceurred in a muiti pie resice nie
in which (Yeasheause ctivists
were killed. athiyn
-was observed leaving 1%
and it is belicved g hes
building.

      
  
   

        
    
 
 
 
  

. On March 18, 1970, a young
Washington, D. C., advised fher seen ateee
things this group would becoM@aivalved in was te how Fy
aixplanes, ino kudsng the Boeing 747, the largest passsuger

plane in existence,

  
   
   

        

In late February, 1970, (Willion Avews was the peader
of a group offeathermanyin Detroit which made plans to bonis:
the Netroit Folies 0 cers Ass sacl ation filding. on Mar
1970, bombs consisting of ten sticks of ¢ynamite and thirt
four sticks of Gynamite were located im sx unexploded condition

ety,

at this huilding and et the 1Sth Precinct of the Detroit Police
Sos Department, respectively.

 

+

   

- iS

     

  

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION SOUP t
Unauthorized Disclosure Excluded Lrow witenctic -

Subject to Criminal Sanctions gecyense ne nnd
‘ declassification

 

 

Oriented Campus:

ta denote whemanmniatsee ten tne te tes wet

Bt cetee ten sere se © hutndtnclaamnre tins

4

a tee ee te ert veiey perpen ge ase

 

 

 

HW S5t61 —Boeld:32989583 Page #

|
 

 

‘ . - SECRET

é @ @

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

being sought as fugitives for Unlawful Flight to Avoid
Prosecution on charges of conspiracy to commit arson and
murder, On February 26, 1971, this source furnished infor-
mation concerning|Huey Newton's expulsion of Eldridge Cleaver
from the BPP (Cleaver, a Bureau fugitive, is residing in and
operating from Algiers, Algeria] On March 5, 1971, this source
advised that |Cleaver was moving the BPP's Central Headquarters
from Oakland, California, to New York City./ On March 19, 1971,
the source furnished data on apparent plarf$ of [BPP] members in
Newark, New Jersey, to obtain explosive materials.

The monitoring of this surveillance will be conducted
in accordance with instructions contained in your letter of
July 14, 1969, entitled "Electronic Surveillances,'"'
Your authority is requested to continue this telephone
surveillance at the present location for an additional three
months effective March 28, 1971.
Respectfully,
. rere ne

ohn Edgar Hoover

Director
APPROVED
DATE LZ s, VA F/
-SECRET
- 2-

 

 

HW 55161 Docld:32989583 Page 7, | oy ; cee ge tee ee

 
 

 

oO . * 3 4 my
s r @

*SEGREE
MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

In view of the violence-prone nature of the [BPP f
it can reasonably be anticipated that subjects involved in
past or future criminal violations may be monitored. The
guidelines to be followed, as previously furnished by you,
will be strictly complied with in such instances.

If you approye, a telephone surveillance will
be placed on the above/BPP office at 1370 Boston Road,
Bronx, New Yorks If the coverage proves productive, it
will be continued for an indefinite period. There will
be no trespass involved in connection with the installation
of this telephone surveillance.

Respectfully,

- eS. hmeme ent
hn Edgax\ Hoover

Director
if / i
a), / hi LLL

 

t
SHCREF

-~2-

 

 

_ HW 55161 .Docld: 32989563 _,, Page 45,

     
 

Cea
 

e ~SEERET<-
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF occ:

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

(RI) 105-165706 Sub 34 March 25, 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

 

RE: | BLACK PANTHER PARTY
NEW YORK DIVISION

On December 12, 1970, you authorized this Bureau
to continue for an additional three months, effective
December 28, 1970, a telephone surveillance on the office
of the Black Panther Party (BPP) in New York City located
at 1370 Boston Road! This office has recently been
designated the [East Coast Ministry of Information for the
Eldridge Cleaver faction of the BPP] This installation
provides extremely valuable and voluminous data regarding
the[BPPi It is an invaluable source for coverage concerning
dissension within the Party and the interrelationship between
the{Cleaver faction in the United States, Cleaver, and other
of his followers in Algeria Examples of significant data
produced by this source are the following:

On a daily basis since December, 1970, this
source furnished details concerning local, national, and
international operations of the} BPP] including information
on the recent internal dissension within thel BPP termi -
nating in the factional split between BPP leaders Huey P.

‘ Newton and Eldridge Cleaver,fg On January 10, 1971, this source
furnished data concerning the[ BPP 's fortification of its office
at 1370 Boston Road,J On February 8, 1971, the source provided
data on the disappearance and expulsion of {BPP leaders Michael
Tabor, his wife Connie Matthews Tabor, Richard Moore, and
Edward Joseph, Michael Tabor, Moore, and Joseph/are currently

is dissemi-

i i ‘i onse to your request and is not for di ;
This nape is erence, ts uae é.. limited to official proceedings Ti
your Conumittee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized 9: (

nel without the express approval ;
Group-+-
Excluded from automatie
downgrading-~and -
declassification

HW 55161 DocId:32989583 Page 6 _ . 2 tA} ys . . i

 

 

 
      
    
 
  
   
 
    
  
  
   
   
 
 
   
 
   
   
 

  
  
      

i ‘ orgice UF THE DIRECTOR @ SEGRE @
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

WASHINGTON, D.C, 20535

(RI) 105-165706

March 20, 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

RE: [BLACK PANTHER PARTY]

The [Black Panther Party is a black extremist organ-
ization with national headquarters in Berkele California]
It now has affiliated groups in over{25 citiesfthroughout the
United States and a membership exceeding! 1, 200 of

gs ‘ The public statements of its leaders repeatedly
Se stress that the organization's objective is an farmed black
SS revolution against the Government of the United States by
58 means ofjguerrilla warfare, Information is regularly

4 received “Showing that its members are required to possess
=

guns and have been instructed in their use, They have been
trained in the preparation of fire bombs and explosives, The
organization strongly supports the Cuban and Chinese Communist
revolutionaries,

Reviews of telephone toll call records and informa~
tion supplied by informants show that the leaders of the
organization use the telephone extensively.

t be disclosed to urautorized person-

~

ie
The largest and most active(Black Panther Party }
H
;

onse to your request and is
ts use is limited to official

of the FBI.

s chapter outside of the San Francisco Bay area is in

| Los Angeles, California The organization maintains several
offices in the Los Angeles area and has a headquarters office

, at 4115 South Central Avenue, Los Angeles. The next most ;
yactive Black Panther Party group is located in New York City 4;
“which maintains its principal office at 2026 7th Avenue,
«New York Cityof

This document is prepared in resp
jour Committee and the content may nu

nation outside your Committee.
nel without the express approval

y

HW 55161 DocTd: 32989583 Page 2 ou.

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

:? oe SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

The telephone surveillance on the [national head-
quarters of the Black Panther Part¥}which was authorized on
February 4, 1969, has proved to be most valuable. It has

rovided information concerning the planned establishment of
Black Panther Party branches at Eugene, Oregon; Fresno,
California; the Watts area of Los Angeles, California;
Syracuse, New York; Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; and Columbus,
Ohio It provided information concerning the removal of
Joudan Ford from his leadership position in the New York City,
branch and, most recently, has furnished details concerning
the travel of National Chairman Bobby George Seale to the
Scandinavian countries where Seale is at the present time,

Live informants are furnishing information indicat-

’ ing that the organization will increasingly use underground
methods of operation which further emphasizes the desirability
of obtaining additional coverage to supplement data being
furnished by our live informants,

It is requested that authority be granted for
telephone surveillances on the[Black Panther Party headquarters
at 4115 South Central Avenue, Los Angeles, and on the Black
Panther Party office at 2026 7th Avenue, New York City or on
any other places to which they may move. .

Respectfully,

. ey Sees
JohnNadgar Hoover

Director

 

HW 55161 DocId:32989583 Page 3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

OFFICE O¥ THESDIRECTOR ‘a SEGRES

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

(RI) 105-165706~Sub 34 ‘ December 31, 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

RE: | BLACK PANTHER PARTY
NEW YORK DIVISION

You have previously authorized this Bureau to
initiate and continue a_telephone surveillance on the
office of the extremist Black Panther Party (BPP) in
New York City located at 2026 Seventh Avenue# This
installation continues to provide significant data on
this group's plans and operations, and it is apparent
the {BPP in New York City is second only to the national
headquarters in Berkeley, California} from the standpoint
of generating plans for raciai violence.

This Bureau has developed information that the
[BPP in New York recently opened an office at 1370 Boston
Road, Bronx, New York] This office is known as the[Black
Community Information Center] and reportedly is to function
as thejEast Coast Information Center for the BPP? It is,
therefore, apparent that a telephone surveillance at this
location will provide access to invaluable data regarding
the [BPP 'g plans and activities, not only on a local level
in New York city] but on a national scale as well.

It is, therefore, requested that authority be
granted for a telephone surveillance at the above location.
The telephone, concerning which coverage is requested, is
listed in the name of{Ronald Morris, a known BPP member
in the New York areavTy

—d

eSECREE--

Group=-L-
&xckluded-- from automatic.
downgrading -and-
declassification=

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemis
tation outside your Committee. Its use i: limited to offal proceedings by
your ‘Cosrmitiee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person-
nel without the express approval of the FBI .

HW 55161 DocId:32989583 Page 4

 

 

 
