i SmoxKekewary

“Because the President was not reading the Checklist every day, |.

it ¢ a tow up
shecquntontsciromm topes Thon SY

DCI MeGone wanted neta /high-level officials teknowitiaste— i

often-sensitive .
~feeriterts-beyomd the umall circle of readers in Kennedy's time--the -

 

 

Secretaries of State and Defense, McGeorge Bundy at the White House, and

the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs. Therefore he obtained permission in

, add phe!
February to extend the dissemination to pout nee toe offictals in the

: alas
State Department, two more in Defense, one on the Joint Chiefs staff, tnd the

Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney-General. L/
Rewtay” ont th. Pidr, OCl wes

Besides Jove & Semi — weekly

S wiihing meme pence a Wn orspense te requests Korn Tle.
white Hews rete at

—

, DCI McGore, was ; -
~Chaele’ iE briefingg e& the President from time to 7

tine b> aay The Checklist writers still took the publication to

   
    
 

  

Bromley Smith and Gen. Clifton each morning and received their comments >

plus occasional playback from the President. When eexteinx unusually :
in the PIOL

interesting items/caught his eye, Clifton would make a-point of bringing

them to the President's attemtion. On 21 January, for example, he

y

 

AW 55355 DocId:32401332 Page 9
reacted immeditely to the "quotable Khrushchev" item and said he would
get right to the President with this. A few days later he instructed
OCI to keep the White House “up to the minute" on Cyprus developments.

"Hours will make the difference," he said.

Gen. Clifton told James Hanrahan on 28 January that

he had talked with the President about the /Presfiadits Intelligence

: we und
Review and Mr. Johnson had said it jejust fine. He Fands it a very

, valuable supplement to his occasional briefings fron the DCI and he want

it continued without change

Pan

Pe ia
Jrgee™ wat : :

nee Early in 196), the President drew his aides Bill Moyers and
We |

‘ Jack Valenti into the intelligence picture. He wanted one of them present /
when he read the Review at breakfast and he was reported occasionally as
discussing Checklist items with them. Although the RAE PICL writers

continued to meet and talk with Bromley Smith and Gen. Clifton, it began to

 

AW 55355 DocId:32401332 Page 10
 

OCT quickly put together an experimental President's

covering the period 4-9 January. This was taken by
Intelligence Review, /Auixk Richard Lehman, t@ Asshstant for Special
ence Heview,

 

Projects, samkxto Gen, Clifton on 9 January. Clifton thought the

Review was the best solution to the problem of the President's intelligences )

wert
reading, He and Bundy, agreed that the President would not accept a

daily intelligence briefing. The President had instructed Clifton that Oo
the DCI was to see him whenever he wished but that otherwise the President

relied on Bundy and Clifton to stay on top of the intelligence, Because
with no warning word,
the President was likely to ask them/for the latest intelitgenee; the daily

. Checklist had to continue. Clifton aaen ETE ve epaca

“sdeltsone

  
 

© suggested that

 

the Checklist periodically include a special blue-me or green-bordered page a

} containing an operational report. 2/

 

The next morning Gen, Clifton called Lehman to report that

Ond ca
wanted,continued,

; whirelahe
the White House was very pleased with the Review, /It had been ite tried on

 

the President at breakfast and it had "worked like a charm," 3/

y

 

HW 55355 DocTd:32401332 Pages”
ome

was limited to notes cévering important developments and any information
that might be useful in the talks with Erhard. The President returned
to Washington on 5 January, and the next day Gen. Clifton, who had been
at the ranch, xaki told Heddemann that he had been able to get the
Checklist to the President with some regularity once Erhard had gone.

On 8 Januaby, however, Clifton was having difficulties

: not
again--the President had/read the intelligence document since leaving Texas.
hie,
Clifton thought there would be a et-up in the press of business after
: 4~the-President-fomndt time f ors
that day's State of the Unkon speech. He

tps-cheyklist only when-t!

asked Philip Kennedy for a special report, briefly treating important

asnit~a preéss—of—other” busindséy “Ulifter

 

and still-current : .
problems that were covered in thet books the President

<=
Kedn tt

| D>. -
dade read. aleoctanie=et-1éngth-on<the-problem-of the Presiasne

in that .
=; Clifton thoughtyft would be good to try m@

 

the system of giving the President a summary of significant intel Ligence’

twice a week,

HW 55355 DoclId: 32401332 Page 7

 
he had a firm hold of his adminidtration and when certain
foreign situations forced themselves upon his attention that President
Johnson discovered the usefulness of a daily current intelligence

document,

President —
For a few days after the assassination of 2k Kennedy,

Bersmatiyx
anXiidiaith Rk. J, Smith took the Checklist to #@ McCone at East Building

at 8:30x a.m, The Director then held a staff meeting, after whi ch R.J.

personally ,
Smith/took the Checklist to Bromley | Smith and Gen. Clifton in the White

The briefing of President Johnson from the Checklist, however,
House. i Errt

was done by ecneee who saw the. President daily for about three weeks
. Ar tiveeborpurpese-ofabrieding

after the assassination. Y

Pos

 

- Although OCI had provided moré detail and background

information ‘ox than uaual in its first intelligence books for President
on 24 Vovem hey
Khere vhentl he

Johnson, McCone assed the word through DDI Cline that\he wowldubiketo.

‘ see more but shorter items. (Bee seca tatoe-remey Seite et

 

expected that topics appearing in the Checklist would be followed up

in later issues; therefore, OCI should make even negative reports,

 

AW 55355 DocId:32401332 Page 5
Cline, presumably reflecting the Director's wishes, said that the
fhecklist that day should cover military activity in South Vietnam,
the fighting in Laos, ses Soviet ICBM developments, and problems, in the Berlin
air corridors and i» Venezuela.
Around the middle of December, nhem-meM®S¥S“cF—the WHITE”
ing- the<theck Het ctstied -to- pamoeteaintenttrenve

when Mecone stopped seeing the President daily, the White House staff

 

Ue Pre spe
tried to get ‘him to read the Checklist, tod were largely unsuccessful,

 

although McGeorge Bundy wa? able to do m some oral. “briefing, Checklist in
OC's
hand, On 16 December, Gen, Clifto told Sieckitstet Johm Heidemann, tduck
"If we can't penetrate this ‘sort of wall today or tomorrow, we'll just
have to try something else." In this elpudy atmosphere, the sun came out
‘ occasionally. On the 18th, Clifton said that the staff had finally managed /
to get the President to read thm "the books"--probably two or three issues,
At Christmastime, the President went to his Texas xark

ranch and shortly after Christmas had Chancellor Erhard as a visitor for
several days, The PICL was cabled to the ranch each day. The report
_—

“HW 35355 “Dovid: 32401332 Page 6
©
ROUTING _ —FOP-SEERET- <:
“Teaurty Clssitiation

 

\

m1

     
  
  
 

  

RECOMMENDATION)

RETURN
SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO.

Copy. COF

  

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO. DATE

 

Handle Via

COMINE

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to
those approved for the following specific activities:

 

i NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

Gunes

ha JOP-SEGRET-

NX

(Security Classification)

AW 55355 DocId:32401332 Page

Nn
a Date: 11/29/99
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John

. Kennedy
AGENCY : CIA Assassination Records
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10302-10024 ollection act of 1992
RECORD SERIES : JFK (44 USC 2107 Note).

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CIA-DI-FILES ased:NU 55355 Date:

I I EE TT 1-28-2017 ~
DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM : OCO/CIA

TO :

TITLE : DRAFT OF PAPER ON INTELLIGENCE RELATIONS WITH THE LBg
WHITE HOUSE

DATE : 00/00/

PAGES : 230-3/
SUBJECTS : LBJ WHITE HOUSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/22/98
OPENING CRITERIA :

  
 

COMMENTS : JFK-M-02:F2 1998.09.22.16:16:07:576120: ARRB REQUEST.
CIA-9.
CLASSIFIED
ATTACHMER.

AW 55355 DocId:32401332 Page 1
TOT FEE .

The ti dntese Eman Gg iog
. |

 

For most employees of the Federal government, work fh
continues unchanged when a new man moves into the White House.
Employees of the Bureau of Reclamation, the Labor-Management Services

Administration, or the Commodity Exchange Authority 2

,

all go about their jobs in their accustemed ways, mem though changes of

Even
administration policy can ultimately have an effect. /The pattern of i

“most intelligence work--collection and the production of finished intelligence

undisturbed,
. for a considerable number of of ficials--remains muxfinetedt - But for

those who are turning cut ‘intertigence specifically for the President,

Aoiwg Ao nm ay % Lx Cpe ae an OO edt ee
_ hineélby~bhemoppemrencemat=e few Chief Executive re tiecclindeee se

o-uiLnnmstetigme, How wide-ranging will m@ the new President's
be

foreign countries and in international relations? wil bese -
; interest in furetqmartietrs?x How much intelligence? wiid-tecmari=spreat—
a agate wil have BY

he nm orders Wetec
gute
and svequent errinEg! oe modest portions only as absolutely haoacet

mere]
Will he want~daly tacts, or facts plus interpretation and analysis? _

HW--35355— BPocid: 32401332 -Page-3 -
Separated or homogenized? Is he willing to read a regular intelligence
document, or does he prefer to be briefed?

In each of the previous administtations, OCI had establashed
a satisfactory channel directly to the President. However, the system tox
had never carried over from one incumbent to the next. Eisenhower did not _

want the personal weekly briefing from the Director that Truman had

the General
received; xm/preferred to be briefed ‘in the setting of weekly meetings

not
of the National Security Council, Kennedy did/like to use the N&C

with any regularity. Instead he found just what he wanted in the

Checklist
personal, daily intelligence mmsmmaxk devised for him five months after

he entered office. ot

‘The Checklist system worked so well with Kennedy that
OCI and the Director naturally hoped to continue it with Lyndon Jolmson;
especially as it became apparent that Johnson, like his predecessor,
was not going to have regular NSC meetings. Eventually OCI succeeded,

thes was
but Opi after many months of frustration. It was only when cewbas

AW-—35355°- Docid:32401332 Page 4
