 

SUBJECT:

are

+
'

ri

ET MIME IN

SA Ry

   

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10  ) @
MAY 1962 EDITION.
" ne

 

 

 

 

 

 

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 1OIM11.8
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT J pee
yD .
Memorandum
CompSyst.
Mr. J. B. Adams pate: 11/19/75 File 8 Com —
. inspection
Legal, Counsel fl Intell,
Labo:
. . . ec. Inv.
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE = A Toi fut ¢ aaa. See

Telephone Rm. —
Director Soc'y __

On the early morning of November 19, 1975, \jeefeartWicohone
number 488-3900, telephonically advised me ‘that he has been requested
to appear for a staff interview under oath by representatives of the House
Select Committee on November 20, 1975. Mr. Tait said that he was advised
by the staff to have a lawyer with him at the interview. He said he did not
know the reason for such advice, but intended to attempt to engage counsel
to be present with him on November 20, 1975. He said that he intended to
employ James Gale and he asked me whether the FBI would have any
objection to such an arrangement in view of the fact that Mr. Gale
formerly was an Assistant Director of the FBI. I told Mr. Tait that
it was my understanding that Mr. Gale was presently practicing law and
that I saw no reason for the FBI to interpose an objection should Mr. Tait
desire to engage Mr. Gale as his counsel for whatever reason.

Lemme
Mr. Tait asked me if I had any advice for him. I responded bf
should he engage counsel my advice would be to discuss the matters which
may arise in the interview with his attorney and to be guided by his attorney's
advice. Itold Mr. Tait that requests for staff interviews called for a
|rotmtary appearance for the witness unless a subpoena has been issued.
iHe said that he has not received a subpoena, but only a request.

At 10:05 a.m., November 19, 1975, former Assistant Director
James Gale called my office and in my absence he advised that Joe Tait
had been in touch with him concerning Tait's request for legal counsel
in connection with his appearance before the Pike Committee. Mr. Gale
expressed some concern that if he were to represent Mr. Tait, the
Committee staff could Jean that he was formerly associated with the FBI

ie — REC-2,
1 - Mr. Wannall (atin: Mr. “Cregas) geba- ((64b6y4- 193 *S

1- Mr. Bassett

     

1 - Mr. Walsh - a wee tee ee, Pe
1 - Mr. Hotis mo ; oe ww
1 -yMr/ Mintz wee 5 él
J non ne TAL wee oy iad
J. . . Stim} SFY
c ‘y Brey CONTINUED - OVER | ve
poeta: s2a ive US, Sayings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan %

 
 

 

, -  ] €

Memorandum to Mr. Adams
Re: House Select Committee

and could turn to questioning him. He was reminded that such requests

would require voluntary responses by a witness unless a subpoena had been
issued and/indicated he was well aware of those.circumstances. The decision
whether he would or should represent Mr. Tait’ was left entirely with

Mr. Gale.

RECOMMENDATION:

For information.

| NW 55298 Docld:32989690 Page 10

 

 
 

OPTIONAL FORM,

GSA FPAR (41 CFR) 101—31.6, @
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT Assoc. Dir

Dep. AD Adm, _

 

Memorandum Lue. Mintz ae ied

1 - Mr. Wannall

 

 

 

i - Mr. Cregar Cle ‘Affairs —_
TO ‘Mr. J. B. pdams : DATE: 11/25/75 Fites & Com.
- 1-Mr. Hotis —~ Sen. Inv,
. . dont.
an % 1 - Mr. Daly Inspecica
ptaom ‘ Legal’ Counsel , +) 4 Intell.
Le o ‘) i Laboratory
= Legal Coun.
_ GF —\ Plon-& Evel, 7!
SUBJECT :.. HOUSTUDY Spee. tv ——
meee _ raining

 

Telephone Rm. —_
Director Sec’y __
On 11/24/75, Richard Vermeire, Staf£ Member of the
House Select Committee, requested that Assistant Director
Eugene W. Walsh be made available for interview concerning
his Kknowieage-oe awarding of purchase contracts. by. the Bureau.
. Arrangements were made through Assistant Director John A. Mintz
for. the interview to be at 3 p.m. on 11/25/75 in Bureau space.

Vermeire was advised of the aforementioned.

RECOMMENDATION: * , iy

j
For information. a

 

| pepy 22-1766 ¥- | 7

EX toa fer DEC 2 1975

1 - Personnel File - Eugene W. Walsh: aN

: fe >
t fe 3 .
Nie

 

mi 55388 wDoora: sosase oS. <avings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

 

 

 

 

wt

 

 
 

aur é ©

Memorandum for Mr. Jenkins

Re: Interview by Messrs. Richard Vermeire
and Timothy Oliphant of Pike Committee
3:10 PM to 5:05 PM, 11-25-75

what the mark-up was. I responded that I had not and in response to their further
questioning indicated that as Contracting Officer in the one contract where I acted as

such J relied on the judgment of Laboratory Division experts that the price was
reasonable. They asked whether I had ever made a survey to determine the history

of the development of our relationship with U. S. Recording. I stated that I had not.

I asked them whether they were addressing this type of inquiry to anyone else within

the Bureau and they responded that they were and were asking for available documentatia,

They returned to the subject of Mr. Mohr's current relationship with Bureau
officials and I responded that I knew Mr. Mohr had an acquaintanceship with some
Bureau officials and to what extent I just was not in a position to say. They wanted to
know whether I had ever visited in Mr. Callahan's home and he in mine. I replied that
we had not visited in each others’ homes and that our social relationship wasprincipally
through our attendance at dinners and other functions where we were both invitees but
that I considered Mr. Callahan as both a friend and associate and I thought his feelings
towards me were the same.

I took the occasion to comment to Messrs. Vermeire and Oliphant that I
definitely did not appreciate the comments made by their Chief Counsel Mr. Searle
when I testified in open hearingsbefore the Pike Committee to the effect that the FBI had
engaged in delaying tactics and were uncooperative in furnishing information requested
by the Committee. I pointed out that at that particular time the Pike Committee requests
pertained to the Bureau's budgetary process for which I was responsible and that as they
well knew my staff and I worked long hours overtime and through the weekend in order
to give timely responses to their inquiries within the very short deadlines they imposed
upon us. They expressed their appreciation for our efforts and stated that Searle's
expressed opinions did not represent their own.

RECOMMENDATION:
None. The foregoing is submitted to record the interview. As I did not take

notes during the/interview, the above was dictated from recollection immediately upon
the departur Messrs. Vermeire and Oliphant.

HW 55298 Doeid:32989690 Page 7

 

 
 

Mémorandum for Mr. Jenkins

Re: Interview by Messrs. Richard Vermeire
and Timothy Oliphant of Pike Committee
3:10 PM to 5:05 PM, 11-25-75

They then entered into a discussion as to my recollection of who preceded
me as Assistant Director of the Administrative Division and I advised them that I
had been preceded by N. P. Callahan, who in turn had been preceded by John P. Mohr
and before him Mr. Glavin. They asked about Mr. Mohr's other positions in the Bureau
and when I responded that he had been Assistant to the Director (Administrative) prior
to his retirement, one of them interjected a comment to the effect that wasn't Mr. Mohr ,
an Administrative Assistant to Mr. Tolson at one time and I acknowledged that this was
so. He wanted to know as to my relationship with Mr. Mohr and I advised that I had
never been to his home nor he to mine with one. exception and that was the occasion of
Mr. Mohr's daughter's wedding when I did briefly visit Mr. Mohr's home. They asked
whether I had seen any of the gifts that had been given Mr. Mohr upon his retirement
and they particularly mentioned two gold-plated 38 caliber revolvers fashioned into
bookends. I stated I had no recollection of ever having seen these bookends. They then
asked whether we in the FBI customarily gave departing officials gifts. I responded
that departing Assistant Directors and above were presented with their badges suitably
mounted, a retirement plaque (which I described) and gold cuff links, the latter being
the gift of their colleagues. They asked as to other retirement gifts that might be given
to departing officials and what part I might have played in that type of thing. I stated
that there was a custom in the Administrative Division and I thought quite generally in
other divisions that on the last day of a retiring employee's service we would have a
coffee and cake gathering in a suitable room within a division, covering the last two
hours of the working day, at which time friends and associates would call, some of whom
would present little dem rting gifts. They wanted to know what I did personally about
this and I said I would present the book of letters to the departing employee and that
it was customary to give the retiring employee a gift from his colleagues, which in my
division amounted to something purchased on the basis of a voluntary contribution from
the Agent colleagues in the division amounting to approximately $1.00 aman. This
would enable us to buy something like a camera, binoculars, miniature radio or some-
thing of that type and in my judgment this is what we all wanted to do on the occasion of
a retirement and it was a rather spontaneous and enthusiastic thing and I felt all shared
in my judgment that this was a fine thing to do. They wanted to know what gifts
Mr. Mohr was given upon his retirement. I advised I couldn't really recall any specific
gifts hehad received and I knew nothing about the pistoBto which reference is made above.

They then took the tack of inquiring about how close current Bureau officials
are with Mr. Mohr. I stated I really could not respond to that. I did know that he had
an acquaintanceship with current and past officials, but to what extent’ I could not say.
They wanted to know if I had ever played poker at a lodge outside of Harpers Ferry,
West Virginia (which incidentally they indicated burned to the ground last week). I
responded that I had not and that I had turned down two or three invitations to play. They

wanted to know why I ¢urned down these invitations and I responded that Mr. Mohr

 

HW 55298 DocId:32989690 Page 5 -2- OVER.......

 
wie
eae 8 é

“Memorandum for Mr. Jenkins

Re: Interview by Messrs. Richard Vermeire
and Timothy Oliphant of Pike Committee
3:10 PM to 5:05 PM, 11-25-75

 

had asked me on two or three occasions to substitute for the regular card players
knowing that I had formerly played a lot of poker and that the only reason I declined
was frankly that my wife was not in favor of my staying away from home to play cards
and I felt that she is entirely right in this regard. They wanted to know who all
participated in these card games and I advised that I just did not know who all played.
They wanted to know what the financial arrangements were and I stated the only thing
that I knew was what Mr. Mohr told me on one occasion when he asked me to substitute
and that was that each one payed $25.00, which covered the room and food for an over-
night stay at the lodge, usually on a Friday night and extending into Saturday morning.
They wanted to know if Mr. Tate was in attendance at these card games and I stated

I did not know.

They then wanted to know whether we had any regulations dealing with conflict
of interest or the acceptance of gratuities. I stated that we followed Executive Order
11222, dated 5-8-65, and departmental regulations as published in the Federal Register.
I furnished them copies of these documents. They wanted to know whether from my own
standpoint I thought it was ever proper to accept any type of gratuity from a per son or
firm with which the FBI did business. I stated that I felt any type of gratuity would
be improper and that I personally had never accepted as much as a cup of coffee from
anyone with whom the FBI is doing business. Oliphant hastened to inject the comment
that I was not to read any implication into their question as they certainly had no
intention of suggesting that I had accepted any gratuities from anybody. They pressed
me as to whether there would be any exception to this and I indicated that the exception
was laid out in the Executive Order regarding food and beverage under certain limited
circumstances. They wanted to know who paid the expenses when Bureau officials took
trips in connection with the awarding of contracts. They were advised that Bureau
officials would be considered and properly so to be in an official duty status and per
diem was paid in accordance with standard Government travel regulations. They wanted
to know if there was such a thing as a higher rate of per diem for officials and I explained
that there was and outlined the controls we have governing the payment of the higher
rate of per diem.

They then went back to the subject of purchases and contracts with U. S.
Recording and wanted to know who determined whether the mark-up on such purchases
was reasonable. I responded that as far as I was concerned the determination of
reasonableness was based upon the judgment of Laboratory Division experts who were
aware of the going price for specific items, particularly in the electronics field and
it was my understanding that we were talking about a mark-up that generally would not
exceed 15% and probably would be less. They wanted to know whether I had ever
audited the books of U. S. Recording or had such an audit conducted so as to determine

-3- OVER.........

 

HW 55238 Doocld: 32989690 Page 6
 

 

 

CODE TELETYPE IMMEDIATE

TO: SAC, LOS ANGELES DECEMBER 2, 1975
: ODT FBI 1 - Mr. T. J. McoNiff
WW rv FROM: DIRECTOR, 1 - Mr. T. J. Seabaugh
\ ~ nous)

4
| oe
\

THE U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES SELECT COMMITTES ON NY
INTELLIGENCE HAS REQUESTED SPECIFIC MATERIAL CONCERNING AL
DARTHARD MAURICE EDWARD PERRY. BUREAU FILES CONTAIN INSUFFT+ _
CIENT INFORMATION TO COMPLY WITH A PORTION OF THIS REQUEST.

YOU ARB REQUESTED TO SUBMIT BY RETURN MAIL AN AIRTEL AND

57.

LETTERHEAD MEMORANDUM SUMMARIZING INFORMATION FURNISHED BY

 

van
PERRY CONCERNING THE BLACK PANTHER PARTY AND THE WATTS WRITERS nG
WORKSHOP IN LOS ANGELES. INCLUDE ANY SPECIFIC MATERIAL
CONCERNING THE GUIDANCE, DIRECTION, AND TARGETING OF re BY |
AGENTS TO PENETRATE THESE TWO GROUPS. i
1 - 157-20684 3
. 3
N. ss 5) fA EG ORMATION CONTAINED SEE NOTE PAGE To 3
REREN (S URCLASSIFIER :
DATE ala) a1 BY seo «df/6 key ies uv
Assoc. Dir. nan oy bo /i i ol - /76
Be aD ee an a) LTT
Asst. Dir:
cen vst. Flue. meg, i Eee =
corse —CDRMNASIGATIONS SECTION Cho 5

Gen, Inv.

 

sem BPO ARRROUTE IN wily iuOP———
vette: SELETVRE

Spee. Inv. —__

 

 

 

Troining At J ~ en
te weal A
: i.
8 ZDEC g Mgy5Room C—] TELETYPE UNIT coy er é "fin
NW 55298 Docld:52989690 Page 2 ™
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
55258 Dookd:329859690 Page 3

 

 

PAGE TWO

  
   
  
 
   

NOTE:

Captioned individual was an extremist informant of the
Los Angeles Office from February 12, 1974, to March 31, 1975.
Perry has alleged that as a former FBI source he was ordered
to enter the Office of California Assemblyman Leon Ralph,
remove documents, video tape the Office, and tap the telephones
of Ralph, Lieutenant Governor Dymally, and John Gardner.
Perry's allegations have been denied by handling Agents. The
U. S. House of Representatives Select Committee on Intelligence
has requested specific material concerning Perry, and Bureau
files do not contain sufficient data to comply with this
request. Los Angeles Office being requested to provide
material pertinent to this request.

 
 

 

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 "ON
h AAAY 1962 EDITION
fos 3 GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101118
Assoc. Dir, ___,

 

 

 

 

 

, UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT ~ Dep. AD Adm,
Dog? Zz
Asft. Pir:
Memorandum oh
. Caing. ‘Syst. —_
Ext. Aeies —
MR. JENKINS pate: 11-25-75 Gon
Insreclion =n
\ ° Intell.
‘OM E. W. WALSH 2 / bef Laboratory —
re ane) of Legal Coun.
i } a fut . Plan. & Eval.
SUBJECT: INTERVIEW BY MESSRS. RICHARD VERMEIRE etsing,
AND TIMOTHY OLIPHANT OF PIKE COMMITTEE Telephone ins —

Director See’y —_

p2:10 PM TO 5:05 PM, NOVEMBER 25, 1975

Messrs. Richard Vermeire and Timothy Oliphant representing the Pike
Committee called at my office at 3:10 P.M. today and departed at 5:05 P.M. They
commenced their interview by asking for a general run down on how procurement is
handled within the FBI. In general, I explained that we adhered to the Federal
procurement regulations. They asked for a copy of these regulations and I advised
them that this would be furnished to them. I also advised as to the delegation of
authority by the Attorney General to the Assistant Attorney General for Administration
and the redelegation of his authority to the Director to enter into contracts with certain
limitations. JI explained that the Director had redelegated his authority in accordance
with regulations to certain named Bureau officials, including myself, and that I was
generally responsible to serve as the Bureau contract officer. They asked what the
biggest contract was that I. had ever administered and I advised them that it woul le
the FINDER contract amounting to just under 5 million dollars. They did not un Ae d
the difference between procurement authority and authority to enter into contrac syand
although reference was made to procurements they did not pursue this and eventually
centered on contracts with U. S. Recording Company. In response to their specific
questions, I advised that I was not acquainted with Mr. Tate, President of U. S.
Recording and I had never met him. They wanted to know whether I was aware of any
specific documents which would show the origin of the Bureau's relationship with U. S.
Recording and I responded that I knew of none. They asked how the Bureau would
select an individual or a firm to whom a confidential contract would be awarded. I
answered that it appeared to me this would be based upon experience, prior relationship
which demonstrated ability to act responsibly in connection with a confidential contract,
experience within the intelligence community and the like. I advised there were no
written guidelines to this effect but that was my own feeling as to how a confidential
relationship was developed. As to confidential contracts which I had signed as Contract-
ing Officer, I advised that I recalled only one contract where I was the Contracting
Officer with U. S. Recording and that was a contract executed in June, 1975, in the
amount of approximately $168,000. They asked how I went about entering into this
contract and I responded that I observed the Federal procurement regulations and the
guidelines of the Department of Justice and that the contract had been personally approved
by the Attorney General. They did not ask and I nee furnish them any information ;
as to the subject matter of the contract. Ri WE fi ame ff bn Pee id SIS

Zio DEC 5 1975

  

A ewwsnedldy EX 104

wean OMER. vyg4 os
Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Reoularlu an the Payroll Savings Plan

AW 55238) Spocka: 32989650) Page

 

 
