 

a On March 26, 1946,- Harvey Gilbert Wolf, a confidential’ informant ;
of the Los Angeles office pointed out that the Rankin Committee had announced
_ it would discontinue its investigation. of Communism in the motion picture
’ industry-and that he had learned that as.a result of this, Lawson was’ again’
planning to assume active leadership ‘of the Communist movement in the motion
_ picture industry. This informant stated that he felt Lawson had been "laying
low't during the time Rankin's ‘investigators had’ been in Hollywood, but that,
in digcussing Lawson with members of the Communist Party, he had. ascertained’
_ .that Lawson was scheduled to ‘reappear as leader of the Communist movement’ in
_ the industry.

On July. 24, 1946, Ww, OR. Wilkerson, Editor of the Hollywood Reporter,
bitterly criticized Lawson as a‘ member of the Communist Party and stated that
John Leech; former Secretary of the Communist Party for Los Angeles County,
testified ‘before the Los Angeles County Grand Jury that Lawson was sent to
7 Hollywood to organize and lead the Communist movement in the motion picture
industry by the Central Committee of the Communist P. arty of’ New York.

“ . . rs se
NW 45838 DocId:32338872 Page 9 oo

 
 

i)
ei
Ty
ad

"Tv. GENERAL COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES = re ear
_ a . . . ‘ . OTHER 4

L [ ___ a confidential informant of the Denver Field Office, ~
advised that John Howard Lawson in.1941 was appointed co-leader with Herbert’ -
Biberman of the'Communists in the intellectual] and motion picture industry.

_in the Hollywood area. © -

om The November 9, 1943, issue of "New Masses" contained a full page
article announcing that John Howard Lawson had been made a member, of the

Roard of Contributing Editors of New Masses. This article quotes Lawson
.as saying the following with regard to this publication: —

"J, read Hew Masses for two reasons: -first, because it is a O
valuable source of information; se¢ond, because it is equally a
valuable for its editorial comment and analysis. Almost every
issue offers vital factual material which cannot be ‘found, else- :
where. Today, as never before, the American people want facts-- © | - -
because they realize that the knowledge of facts ‘is indispens-_ ,
‘able for winning the war. ‘They are heartily sick of the corrup-
tion and distortion in ‘much of the commercial press. , New Masses oc
gives us. facts, and it interprets facts in terms of a consistent ~-
philosophy of democratic action and purpose. I hope the magazine . P
_can reach a much Wider circle of readers because I am convinced |. |
‘that a bigger circulation for this periodical will help us win - | 4
the war." . ‘ Se
On January 13, 1944, an article appeared inthe "Daily Worker" beneath
the ' photograph’ of John Howard Lawson in which he is quoted as stating: ‘

"Greetings to the. Daily Yorker on ‘your 26th Anniversary. . As
I look back over the years, it seems to me that.the Daily , ,
Vorker has been consistently invaluable as a source of accurate ©
, “news and a journal of progressive informed opinion. “There is
ae rio other American newspaper which has done such a fine job\in
~ ffective news coverage and editorial service to the American
’ people and the American nation. .

"I hope the Daily Worker's circulation and influence will in- .,
_erease tremendously. If it increases in proportion to its merit,
it will reach millions of people"... , -
. . J - . .
A highly confidential source (technical surveillance. on Carl
‘inter, Executive Secretary of thé Communist Political Association, Los
‘ Angeles County) advised that on July 22, 1944, Robert W. Kenny,. former
: ‘Attorney General. of the State’ of California and then Chairman of the Cal=>
-., aifornia delegation to the National Democratic Convention in Chicago, -com-
'. municated with Ellenore Abowitz, Assistant State Ci0 Legislative  (g(i)

r

  

‘and a known Communist. Party member in the. Los Angeles area, . Kenny, who
wee Qe CRET
. . : z . ww ‘ 7 “.
oy BS

NW 45838 Docld:32338872, Page 1000, on!

 
z

45838 Docld:32338872 ‘Page 8

 

 

i re
Co , . - july 22, 1943 SECprr
: oo, Ke

"Northwest Section °

Communist Party
Los Angeles, California

Att: Jack (John Howard Lawson)
‘Dear Comrade: ,

"On behalf of our County Committee, and I am sure of our whole

‘membership, I wish to express enthusiastic appreciation of the” :
“contribution to the success of the July 18th Foster meeting by .
the cultural workers who made!possible the dramatic presentation

~that evening.

1
,

"Ve wish, through the Section Committee, to-convey these senti-
- ments to all who participated, exnecially to the authors. Com-
‘ . yades Maurice (Clark) and Adrian (Scott), and to Comrades Herbert
" “. (Biberman) and.Elliot (Sullivan, also known as Eli Solomon)
whose creative effort and tireless work helped so much to put
, across the message of the entire’ raily - to hold the home front
and strengthen national unity for victory.

"Gomradely yours,
- Carl Winter, Secretary

Los Angeles County Committee
* Communist Party"

 

In a report of. the Military. ‘Intelligence Division dated February. 24,
194d, a. list of delegated to the enlarged National Committee sessions of the
Communist Party held at the. Stuyvesant Casino, 9th Street and 2nd Avenue,
New- York City, appeared, as shown in the official minutes, the name of John
Howard Lawson, playwright. appeared in this list.

In 1944, a highly confidential sources advised that Lawson con-
tinued to pay the salary of Marjorie J. Potts, a full-time paid functionary
of the Northwest Section of the Los Angeles County Communi'st Party, being
Organizational Secretary and Membership Direétor thereof. Lawson paid her,
according to the source, $32.50 per week. It is noted that Marjorie Potts
“admitted to Al Katz, a former confidential informant of.the Los Angeles
Office, that, Lawson paid ‘her salary as if she were his secretary although
she did nothing but Communist Party work. \L\

- On July 25, 1945, former confidential in-
formant of the Eos Angeles Office, advised. that John Howard Eawson -told nin (YU
[Ftecnntcan Surveillance on.the residence 6f John Howard iawson. (al Yuy .

- 9\- \

-e 7 SEORET

     

OTHER 4

   
III.

 

SECRET

OTHER EVIDENCE OF LAWSON'S COMMUNIST AFFILIATION

 

“In July, 1941, a memorandum was furnished to the Chicago Field’
Office by Colonel Walter L. Furbershaw, a representative of the Carnegie

" Tllinois Steel Combdany, which cited meetings of the National Committee

Plenary Sessions of the Communist Party on June 28 and 29, 1941, in New
York City. . It was stated in the memorandum that those definitely known to
have been present were William Z. Foster; James W. Ford; Alexander Bittel-
‘man and numerous other high ranking Communist leaders. The memo further
related that John Howard Lawson ‘attended these national meetings as a dele-
gate from California and there is a notation to the effect that Lawson had

been in New York for the previous few months in connection with theater work. *

- ’ OTHER 4

, _ .In October, 1941, ____——CC_] c/o Metro: Goldwyn Mayer .
Studios, Culver City, California,’ a temporary confidential national defense
informant of the Los Angeles Office, advised that John Howard Lawson was one
of the leading Communists in the United States. He stated that on an occasion.
approximately four years previous, when he was at the Clover, Club in Holly-
wood, he met Lawson and drank with him during the evening. He said on this.
occasion Lawson talked of the purge that took place in Russia and the mass
‘slaughter of the Kulacks. The source advised that Lawson stated to -him that
he hoped the revolution would come here without bloodshed, but that it would
cone "even with bloodshed if necessary". The same source stated that two
years following this incident, he attended a debate at the Roosevelt Hotel
in Hollywood where Lawson stated publicly that everything should be done to
avoid bloodshed and that under no circumstances should this country get into
war. [__]related that he got on his feet at this meeting and recalled OTHER 4
to Lawson his conversation concerning the, revolution referred to heretofor ‘
and asked Lawson how he’ could justify such an inconsistericy. Lawson, accord
ing to the informant, turned to the audience and stated that this was a
typical example of Hollywood red-baiting and refused to answer the question

* put to him.
On November 15, 1941, former confidential informant | -
[sido the Chicago Office, . advised the Communist Party he OTHER 4

t Nw 45838

process‘of realigning its Districts throughout the country as well as
reorganizing its structural set-up. He said that District #13 was to
include all of the States of California and of Nevada. According to the

. source it was to have centralized offices at 121 Haight Street, San Francisco,

and another at Los Angeles. The San Francisco Office was to be headed by
Steve Nelson. Further, Betty Gannett is the Organizational Secretary of
District #13 and John Howard Lawson and Herbert Biberman will control the ;
organizational work in the Hollywood Area, according to the informant.

In December, 1941, Mr. Verne Tompkins, 71 Eggert Avenue, Metuchen,
New Jersey, publisher of the Daily Farmers! Digest, stated that Kathryn Burke,
Chief Director’ of Courier operations, was the contact for the. Communist
Party in Mexico City and that she reported directly to Gale Sondergaard,

‘DocId:32338872 .Page 7 . . . SECR

 
 

, Jf eo =
' ‘, ®

On April 12, 1943, Agents of the Bureau observed John Hovard
Lawson; Philip M. Comnelley, CIO Official and Carl Winter, Chairman. of
the Los. Angeles County Communist Party, enter the home of Max Silver,
organizational secretary of the Los Angeles ‘County Communist, Party,
5138 Maplewood Avenue, Los Angeles. [Elsie Monjar, a member of the Com- (u)
munist Party. and.a paid confidential informant of the Los Angeles ofticef
has identified Connelley, Winter and Silver as being members of the ‘
fos Angeles County Communist Party. '

On October 4, 1943, Special Agents of the Bureau observed Max
Silver, Organizational Secretary of: the Los Angeles County Communist Party,
pick up John Howard Lawson at. Sunset and, Cahuenga in Los Angeles, and
proceed to the home of David Grant, 827 East’ 21st. Street. Carl Winter,
head of the Communist Party in Los Angeles, was observed in attendance at
this. meeting. As indicated above, Silver and Winte ve been identified
_as Communists|by confidential informant Elsie Monjar, David Grant is a fu
known Communist, by virtue of information furnished by former confidential
paid informant AL Katz, a former member*of'the Communist Party.

On March 14, 1944, Special Agents of the Bureau observed Lawson,
accompaniec by Max Silver, then Administrative Secretary of the CP, enter
the home of David Grant, 827 East 2ist Street, Los Angeles, California.
These Agents also noted that Carl Winter, Exedutive Secretary of the Party;
Jane Wallace, County Educational Director of'the Party; Pettis Perry,
County Chairman’ and Helen Allison, County Membership Director of the’ Party,

_were also in attendance. Silver, Grant and Winter have previously
been identified as known Communists. Wallace; Perry and 4llison have
been identified as being members of the Communist Party by former
confidential informant Al Katz, a former member of the Communist Party.

Special Agents of the Bureau on May 2, 1944, observed John
Howard Lawson, Elizabeth Leach and Marjorie Fiske, Organizer and Executive
Secretary respectively, enter the home of Sam Moore, 314 South Murfield
Road, to attend a reception given for James Ford, Negro, of the National
Committee of the Communist Party, U.S.A. Pettis Perry, Negro, Chairman of
the Los Angeles County Communist Party was also observed in attendance at
this reception. Leach, Fiske and Perry have been identified as being
functionaries of the Communist Party by former confidential informant Al -
Katz. Literature publicly disseminated by the Communist Party has identified
James Ford with that organization. .
. On September 24, 1944, Agents of the Bureau observed Lawson
enter the home of Carl Winter and also observed filizabeth Leach and Jane
Wallace, both of whom are Communist functionaries, in attendance at this
surprise birthday party for Carl Winter. Testifying before the California
Un-American Activities Committee, Lawson admitted attending this affair
. given in honor of Carl Winter, who was then the head of the Los Angeles
County Communist Party. “Winter, Léach and Wallace have previously been
‘identified as » functionaries of the Communist Party.

woes mes SEGRE

NW 45838 DocId:32338872 Page 5 . , .

 
 

 

SECRET

On January 8, 1945, a Special Agent of.the Bureau observed
Elizabeth Leach, Comm nist functionary, accompanied by Carl Winter who
was then head: of the Communist’ Party in Los Angeles, enter a meeting at
the home of John Howard Lawson, 4245 Coldwater Canyon, Los Angeles.

On April.11, 1945, Special Agents of the Bureau observed Carl
Winter; William Schneiderman, California State Communist Political
Association President; John Howard Eawson; Mirian. Brooks, Communist Party
functionary; Jane Wallace, Communist Party functionary; Pettis Perry,
Communist Party functionary; and Wyndham Mortimer in attendance at a
County Board méeting of the Communist Party which was held at the home
of County Labor Chairman, F. Kadish, 938 South Kingsley Drive, Los Angeles.
Brooks, Mortimer arid Kadish have been identified as Communist Party
functionaries by former confidential informant Al Katz. On May 30, 1945,
Special Agents of the Bureau conducted a surveillance at the home: of
John Howard Lawson, 4245 Coldwater Canyon, and observed Elizabeth Leach,
‘Communist Party functionary, Ned Sparks, head of the Corimunist Party in
Los Angeles and Max Silver, formerly the Administrative Secretary of the
Party in Eos Angeles, enter Lawson's home. Teste Monjar, a confidential mo
informant of the Los Sngeles Office) has identified Ned Sparks as a Com=
munist funetionary. fu} ‘

a - - OTHER 4
, On March 30, 1946, a |. active paid
confidential informant of: the Los Angeles Office, advised that a meeting -
‘of the financial directors of. the various clubs in the Hollywood Section’
of the Los Angeles County Communist Party was to be held at the home of
Hannah. Schwartz, 2076 Paramount Avenue in Los Angeles on the evening of - *

the same date. Special Agents of the Bureau conducted a surveillance at
this address and observed John Howard Lawson in attendance at this meeting.

‘On September 9, "1926, Special Agents of the Bureau identified
John Howard Lawson, Max } Weiss, National Educational Director of the Communist
Party, Frank Carlson, State Educational Director of the Communist Party,
John Stapp, Communist Party functionary and Charles Glenn, Communist Party
. functionary as having entered the ome of Abe Polonsky at 8071 Selma, '
Eos ‘Angeles, on this date.

NW-45838 DocId:32338872 Page 6

 
Hansine renin wo. 4 + - hy = @

fice Memu, “ndum + UNITED SinTES GOVERNMENT

| _ TO: ‘The. Director DATE: 8/20/47
wk FROM : De Me Ladd Pr, . . y :

 

   

 

  

if: SUBJECT: JOH HOWARD LAM ‘Lamson Se
ft

FESSREESSEESNERS

 

: Pursuant to your request, there is attached hereto a. - Miss kolnss———————

memorandum summarizing the pertinent information contained in the . Mise Gandy
. Bureau's files relative to the subject, a leading playwright in
‘Hollywood, California, and for the past several years the leader

>» of: all- activities of the Commnists in the inteTLectus La cultural fields
-> dn the: Hollywood area.

TouW How A RDILAWS ON

or San eee een a
pa . a. mason \
eh L f OAL Ataf et Kidettntecrbeat Orta ARSON,

 

 

ioe BUPsmae. oo |
-Atvachnent ; \

 

: LO ~ v9 (hh
| | ed
Bay 0A oF - RE noonnen {7-226 Z som

pps 32 ‘Se? 191947
| : . [f .
os fF pe a
E : sees DERROET “ge ond
| .
|

 

ser 2d

| NW 45838 Docid:32338872 Page 2
 

 

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90143-10290
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER:  100-370750-119
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LADD
TO: HQ
TITLE :
DATE: 08/20/1947
‘PAGES: 142
SUBJECTS :
JOHN HOWARD LAWSON
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4
CURRENT STATUS: —Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 10/09/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : MEMO

ee

v9.1

NW 45838 Docid:32338872

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

“Agency Information

Page 1

 
 

II.

 

EVIDENCE OF ,LAWSON'S COMMUNIST PARTY MEMBERSHIP SECRET
As Direct Rividence of i vembership

Testifying: before the Joint Fact-Finding Comnittee, California

. Legislature, in the fall of 1944, Lawson, under oath, denied that he was

a member of the Communist Party. However,.a highly reliable and deYicate -\

_ confidential source, whose reliability has been well established, but

whose: admissibility in Court may be somewhat doubtful, has definitely’
identified Lawson as a member of the Communist Party for the last twelve

-years. According:to this source, Lawson was first a member of Branch K

of the North West Section of the Los Angeles County Communist Party until
that branch was reorganized in June, 1943, at which time he was transferred
to’ Branch A-3 (writers' branch) of the North West Section and held 1943

Communist Party Book #30198. - ~.

This very reliable source also stated that Lawson enrolled in
the Communist Political Association and was assigned 1944 CPA Card 41850,
and.on December 10, 1944, according. to the source, was ‘again registered
for the CPA and was issued 1945 CPA Card 47275. In the Communist Political
Association, Lawson reportedly was assigned to the special group which.

‘was also ‘known as Group #9 and was a. member of. the commission which was

at

/ the governing body of the Communist movement in the motion picture industry-

which replaced the North West Section's Executive Committee. Lawson,
according to the source, served on the commission for three years.

It was further stated by this source that’ when the Communist :
Party, USA, was reorganized to replace the Communist. Political Association,,
Lawson was assigned to the Davis Club and was issued 1946 Communist Party
Book #35392. This source made available Lawson's 1946 registration card
which reflects that he was 50 years of age, a writer in the motion picture
industry, of American-Jewish descent, and that he had been in the Communist
Party for twelve years. This source has also identified Iawson's wife,
Sue Lawson, as a member of the Communist Party and is in a position to
document the branches to which shé has belonged. ,
William Hynes (EA-3), a discontinued paid confidential informant
of the Los Angeles Office, has identified Lawson as a member of the Communist~

Party in 1941. and has stated that Lawson is-a "CP member, a playwright, and
‘the leader of the CP fraction among the artists of all varieties in Holly-

‘wood",

{ Nw 45838

In a sworn statement which Rena Vale gave to the Joint Fact-
Finding Committee, California Legislature, more commonly known as the. Tenney

SECI REI

3-

DocId: 32338872 Page 3

 
 

, ‘Committee, she identified John Howard Lawson as’ a member. of the Communist
Party. She stated that: he was active in Communist circles in Hollywood.* *
when she was in the Communist Party and that in Communist meetings, Lawson

had stated that Communist propaganda must be integrated into. all screen,
plays. —

: on August 8, 1944, Walter Wanger, a Movie Producer, stated that
he definitely knew that John Howard Lawson was a Communist. - This source
stated that a. few days before he had contacted Lawson ta see if he was
available to write a screen play to which Lawson replied he. was hesitant -
to work for Wanger for fear it a cast some reflection ‘on hin. This
source quoted Lawson as stating, "I am a Communist". .

‘ ' OTHER 4
Confidential Informant of-the Los Angeles

Office, advised that he talked to John Howard Lawson on July 25, 1945, -at
which time Lawson stated that if he were called as a witness before the
State Un-American Activities Committee, he believed he would admit to them
that he was.a member of thé Communist Political Association, We

On March 1, 1947, Ben Kadish, a confidential source of the Los
-Angeles Office, and a former member of the. Communist’ Party, advised that
he recalled John, Howard Lawson's attending Communist meetings. -This
source was in the Communist Party from September, 1943, through December,
1945, and for a time was in Branch A-3, which was the same branch to “
‘which Lawson belonged.

B. ” attendance at Communist Party. Meetings

re

“Daring the time that Lawson has been in Eos Angeles, he has been
identified as having attended numerous meetings at which all of those
identified as being present were known Communists, according to a highly

‘reliable and:delicate confidential source. In those cases where the highly
reliable and delicate confidential source was not,in a position to iden-
tify the particular person as a Communist, the source that can so identify, : :
the person is mentioned. There are set forth hereinafter several examples

‘of this character of meetings which Lawson attended,

ve » On February Ts 1943, Agents of the Bureau observed Alexander
Trachtenberg, head of International Publishers and a member of the National
Committee, Communist Party, USA, met with John Howard Lawson, Albert Maltz
and*Jane Wallace, Gducational Director of the Los Angeles County Communist

‘Party, at the Melody Lane Restaurant, Wilshire Boulevard and Detroit Avenue, .
at 12:45 p.m. Trachtenberg is knovm to be a member of the Communist Party
through official publications of that organization.

L NW 45838 Docid:32338872 Page 4

 
