 

a

Pogistry

Syocutis 2

17 April 1963

 
 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting on CA Matters with the Panel of the President's
Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board

a

: 1. On 15 April, at DDP's request, I met with Messra. Robert
: | Murphy, Gordon Gray, and J. Patrick Coyne to brief them on major
covert action developments since their previous briefing on

2 November 1962, The meeting lasted from 10:00 to 12:15.

  
   
  
   
  
 

: _2. At Mr. Murphy's request, I began with a description of our

electoral: “Operations as approved by the Special Group in Chile, the

~~ Dominican Republic; Lo and Guatemala. Mr. Murphy was
‘particularly concerned w he situation in and both he and

Mr. Gray-found it difficalt to understand why ate Depa:

continued to. provide large-scale economic assistance “when

ad to date refused to clean house of the Communists and fellow

travelers both within the government and the labor movement. They

were interested in knowing that. we were in touch with some of the

 
 

“ military leaders who are opposed | tol and they seemed to feel
that a military at 30 : ght be preferable to allowing a
country to drift into the hands of the
opposition. “Both gentlemen wished to knéw.the amounts that we had

expended in these electoral operations and our own estimate of the
i \ fesalts, They did not question either the need for intervention or
\ the size of our effort; although in the[Chilead case Mr. ‘Murphy wanted
. to be sure that we had. evidence that the funds passed throu
handa actually reached the[Chitead, Christian Democrats,

A 3, Mr. Murphy then ‘raised tad problem and said
that he had been informed in New Yor! t the te Department was
patting considerable pressure -on the regime to persaade it
to hold the elections scheduled for| 1963. He questioned the
wisdom of thi esaure, pointing out that there was a real danger
of the returning to power if the elections were held. He

asked our opinion and | said that, despite the pressure, there was still
considerable doubt whether the elections would actually take place.

AW 55355 DocId:32401308 Page 9
 

AW 55355

  
 

“TY added: that the: amore responsible military were trying to work out with
S thd government. and the non political parties a formula
‘which would prevent the from making large gains oa the
national level, a
S 4, On the subject et | Mr. ‘Murphy felt that in so small a

country action should be possible to remove and wondered
why it had not been done. I pointed out that we had as yet no policy
approval for sach action but that we were active in identifying and
making contact with opposition elements both stttal| and in exile.
I described j some of the difficulties, such as control of
the arms in the palace and his widespread penetration of opposition

otting that had just resulted in the rolling up of a coup attempt by

army officers.

’ 5. “Mr, Gray ‘noted that he had seen in the newspapers a report
of our recent decision to allow Radio Liberty to broadcast in Russian
to the Soviet troops in Cuba. He was heartily in favor of such action
“but wondered how we were able to obtain approval of it when the
Administration seems so anxious to avoid actions that might appear
to be provocative to the Soviets. I informed him that there had, in fact,
been | some delay in obtaining the -Spproval.

6 Both the gentlemen asked for detailed information on the
structure and workings of the Latin American Policy Committee (LAPC)
| and asked whether we felt this committee in any way hampered or
\. interfered with the approval process in-the Special Group. I said that
| both Chief, WH and myself were well pleased with the way the LAPC
7 operates a and believed it to be highly aseful.

7. L then briefed them on actions which were taken in Southeast
_ Asia, particularly the measure to strengthen the border police in the
Il told them th twas aware.of these actions and
they wanted to be certain Mr. aa clearly instructed prior to
his departar ‘

  
     

\ 8 Both men objected to press reports that certain Administration
offictals believed the Sovies to be exerting a helpful and restraining
influence in Laos. I had to agree with them that it was hard to maintain
aach a view in the face of the increasing aggressiveness of the Pathet Lao,
and scribed the existing policy limita on our relations with
and I then described the present state of the Soviet-Chinese

2

DocId:32401308 Page 10
: o SUNCLASSIFIED = []_ INTERNAL CO CONFIDENTIAL C1 secret

‘ ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Office of the DD/P

Rm. 3-C-34—Hdgrs.
g- NOV =
roa er designation, room number, ond OFFICER'S | COMMENTS (Number each comment’ ta. show from whom

VAN

fo whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

 

 

 

 

 

AW 55355

 

 

 

 

 

 

IRM

ese 610 “tories (] SECRET [-] CONFIDENTIAL [[] {MTFRNAL, = [7] UNCLASSIFIED

GPO 1961 : 0593644

DocId: 32401308 Page 3
 

|
i
|
1
|
|
i
{
i

AW 55355

~3-

Mr. Murphy seemed particularly interested in the level of activity
in Italy and our efforts to cut it back.

9. At one point in the briefing, I spoke of thea change in
status of the African-American Institute and told of our negotiations
with the Ford Foundation on the Congress for Cultural Freedom. I

problems. Here, I simply gave an intelligence briefing on the Yenen
and the effects of the revolution there on Sandi Arabia and the
British position in the Aden Protectorate.

Richard Helms
Deputy Director (Plans)

Distribution: ,
Original - Director, CIA /
1 cc - Beee. Director’:
1 ce - Chief, CA
Lee - DD/P

ne)

DocId: 32401308 Page 7
 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Meeting on CA Matters with the Panel of the President's
Foreig Intelligence Advisory Board
1. On 1 November, the Deputy Director (Plans) met with
Messrs. Robert Murphy, Gordon Gray, and J. Patrick Coyne to present
a follow-up briefing on the Agency's political action programs since
the one held on 20 July 1962, The meeting lasted from 2:30 to 4:h5.

2. There was little discussion on Cuba. In response to
Mr. Murphy's inquiry, I told him that a good intelligence job had
been done but that I thought it desirable to have this studied by
the Board on the basis of a paper which the Director was having pre-
pared and which Mr. Kirkpatrick had assured Mr. Coyne would be sub-
mitted to the Board after the Director had had an opportunity to re-

view it.

SEK AcE-6.(1) (B)

: 7 - 3. The| ———_etectiion program was covered in considerable
detail. Points covered were: (a) the reason for the program, (b) the ~
ws .. Manner in which candidates were chosen, (c) the amount of money in~

volved, (a) the methods of funding, and (e) the coordination of State
and the Agency on the entire scenario. Following the presentation of
the factual elements, there was considerable discussion of the politi~
cal situation in[ _Jand the direction in which that Government

seemed to be tending.

AW 55355 DocId:32401308 Page 5
-2-+

h. CIA-sponsored activities at the Helsinki Youth Festival ws
the next item presented. A full report was given which followed care-

fully the post-mortem written by the CA Staff.

   
  
   
  

i Be As for Ck activities in the renainder of Latin America, the
wa folowing countries were covered: Dominican Republic, Chile LL]

soa[___Jana[Jvere then toucnod ony wit

"particular reference to the sensitivity of ‘the | cooperation on

operations in laos, South Vietnam, and North Vietnam. Problems in
connection with North. Vietnamese operations were specifically identi-

te “on the Joontisst, the Panel was made aware of
\ pending and current requests from thelr assistance in
: the training of guerrilla forces. The role of the Tibetans was also
identified. In Fesponse toa query from Mr. Murphy, I said that I
did not see any requirement at this time for an increase of our perma-
nent establishment o[__] expressing the opinion that any trainers
and paramilitary experts. which we might ‘send could be covered for us

by thal]

8. In Europe, CA programs, in the following areas were up-

dated: Berlin, France and tay, _~d anq|___|

AW 55355 DocId:32401308 Page 6
   
  

? ‘ - 7) oe a

Execuiive Registry
(G2 - 22S

25 July 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Meeting on CA Matters with the Panel of the President's
Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board

1. On 20 July 1962, the Director and the Deputy Director (Plans) —
net with Messrs. Robert Murphy, Gordon Gray, William Langer, and
J. Patrick Coyne to discuss certain aspects of the Agency's Political
Action Programs. The Director sat with the Panel from 10:30 ‘til noon,
the Deputy Director (Plans) was present from 10:30 to 12:30 and from

2:00 to 3:30.

2. The Director opened the discussion with a historical description
of the Agency's covert financial support to political parties in the
fight against Commmnism. He described in detail the procedures now in
effect whereby Political Action Projects are originated, staffed out,
and cleared with appropriate elements of Government. He pointed out
that each project mst have his approval prior to its circulation to
the members of the Special Group. At this point, he digressed to inform
the Panel that reconnaissance overflights are now approved by the
Special Group and subsequently by the President. He said that this
same procedure applies to peripheral flights although to a lesser de~
gree. He terminated this part of the discussion by stating that in
his opinion "all covert action programs are now handled in an orderly,

correct manner".

AW 55355 DocId:32401308 Page 2
AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
CIA
104-10302-10000
JFK-MISC
CIA-CMS FILES

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
CIA

PFIAB DOCUMENTS (5).
00/00/

ao tf

PFIAB

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
TOP SECRET

1B

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
09/18/98

 

Date: 11/29/99
Page: 1

Released under the John
. Kennedy
Assassination Records

JFK-M-02:F1 1998.09.18.11:12:41:936120: ARRB REQUEST.

CIA-8.

-CEASSIFIE

 

ATTACHMENT

AW 55355 DocId:32401308 Page 1
  
    
     

AW 55355

~20
The Director ‘then dosertbed ‘in some detail + Agency covert
He. also described our activities in con-

nection with. the ‘Ttalian political parties. Following this, he covered

our plans for the ‘wpeostng!__etectstons. He touched on our

 

\ thoughts with regard. to the: political situation in id

he at this pinata, ‘the Director discussed Agency labor opera~
tions. He read to the group 2, short paper which outlined our support
to, anti-Commnist labor unions inl] anq[__] our work through

\ tel] and our relationships witht | labor and the assistance

(Fa ven.

cS. Agency support to cultural organizations was raised by
Dr. Langer, and the Director covered in some detail the current status
of our support plus that of the Ford Foundation to the Congress for
Cultural Freedom and the International Commission of Jurists. He
touched on the Asia Foundation, and our desire to try to obtain the
services of Mr. Livingston Merchant to head it.

6. In the time remaining to him, the Director went over with the
Panel country by country an extended list of political parties and
leaders supported by the Agency throughout the world. What he did not
have an opportunity to cover in this list the Deputy Director (Plans)
finished during the remainder of the morning and during the afternoon

session.

DocId:324013038 Page 3
AW 55355

1
Ww
i]

7. Also. in the afternoon, the Deputy Director (Plans) read to
the Panel a paper on Operation Mongoose which the Director had used .
earlier in the day for briefing the President. This paper was used
on the instruction of the Director. The Panel asked questions about
Agency activity involving Cuba, all of which were answered with the
exception of one having to do with the role of the Attorney General.
This query was raised by Mr. Gray who recognized and gracefully ac-.

cepted the fact that he was not answered directly.

8. Before the afternoon session adjourned, the Panel raised the
question of the total dollar amount of funds expended annually for
covert action. The Deputy Director (Plans) showed them a chart com«
piled by DDP-PG, dated April 1962. Thie chart gives the precise
dollar amounts expended annually. These figures vary from the Congres-
sional ones since the support slice is not included.

mods Helms

~ . Deputy Director (Plans) -

Distribution:
Original - The Director
1 ce - Exec. Director
1 ce - C/ca-I0
lec - DD/P

v

 

DocId:32401303 Page 4
