a
: ce Ne
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

File No. New. York, New York
May 12, 1961

 
   
   
  
   

 

Cuban Situation DECLASSIRY

Dan Brighen; areporter, "New York Journal American",
New York City; on May 8, 1961, came to the New York Office
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and advised that he
had vecently returned from Miami, Florida, where he had
covered the recent unsuccessful invasion of Cuba, which took
place on April 17, 1961. Brigham advised that he had contacted
a cross section of the Cuban exiles in the Miami area in
addition to sources of his own and he desired to furnish the
opinions of Cuban exiles and his own personal opinions
regarding the recent events which took place in Cuba on
April 17, 1961.

 

Brigham advised that from the Cuban exiles in the
Miami area he ascertained that as a result of the unsucces
invasion of Cuba, which began on April 17, 1961, at the
Bay of Gochinos, he came to.the conclusion, as have many
exiles, that this invasion,{as planned by the Central “Es at
Intelligence Agency (CIA), was doomed to failure by designgi:—,.\.
as the entire underground and the_i cial itself was -

 

uncovered by the Cuban Government..

Brigham advised that he beliéves, as do many
Cuban exiles in the Miami area, that CIA was wholly
responsible for the unfortunate events of April 17, 1961.
Brigham advised that from the sources in the Miami area he
ascertained that the following individuals were alleged to
be agents of CIA, who were responsible f for the planning :
and carrying out of the Cuban invasion Bernard Barke
David Morales, Tanck e Unknown) Williamson (First
Name Unknown) caldwell PX First cond Inown )[C rranza;
‘(First Name own) Avignon, and a cotenet oe n the Un.

This document contains neither recommendations nor
conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and
is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not. to be
distributed outside your agency. Sea

     

ts
F

jos (567A -GE

QP op em |

 

: HW 53244 Docld:32312656 Page 2
 

JFK Assassination System Date: 11/22/20
Identification Form

 

Agency Information ffeTeased under the John

 

AGENCY: FBI : > Kennedy
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10324-10405 Assassination Records
Ollection Act of 1992
RECORD SERIES: NY (44 USC 2107 Note).
- ase#:NWU 53244 Date:
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —105-45672-66, 67 eee

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI :
FROM: NY a

TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE: — 05/12/1961
PAGES: 6

SUBJECTS :
, CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES IN THE US
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: IA ©

CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 10/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : INC LHM

 

 

v9. . 8)
HW 53244 Docld:32312656 Page 1
Cuban Situation

States Air Force, who formerly had been assigned as Air
Attache to the United States Embassy in Ciudad Trujillo,
‘Dominican Republic, Brigham also stated that anovher CIA
agent, who was alleged to have a great responsibility
in the counterrevolutionary plans for CIA, was one Frank
Bender Ow

Brigham stated that at a meeting held in Miami,
during March, 1961, (First Name Unknown) [Caldwell}had
informed those present at the meeting that Dr. Jodse Miro
Cardona was to be chosen as president of the Revolutionary
Council. igham stated that fron his sources he ascerta a
that CIA agent aldwell] was a very influential individual {&)
oe lanning“of the abortive Cuban invasion of April,
1961

Brigham further stated that he also ascertained
that another individual responsible for the failure of the
Cuban invasion was one William Wyler, who had previously
used the name of Guillermo Montenegra. Brigham stated that
he had learned from exiles in Miami that Wyler had been
involved in the recent Cuban invasion to the extent of

. transmitting the CIA invasion plans, but he § not know
to whom Wyler had transmitted these plans.) U). ;

Concerning the William Wyler, mentioned above,

it is possible that Brigham is making reference to William A. “

Wieland of the United States Department of State, Washington,
D,.C., who formerly was in charge of Caribbean affairs in the
United States Department of State and who recently had been
transferred to Switzerland. QQ) uj

Brigham also advised that from Cuban exiles in the
Miami area he learned that Dan Taylor, who owns and. operates
the ferry running between Tampa, Florida, and Havana, Cuba,
was < suspect because of the fact that he travels frequently
to Cuba and while in Havana appears to be allowéd to roam’
freely and has not encountered any difficulty while in
Havana with the Cuban Government authorities. Brigham

stated that he had asked Taylor, prior to the invasion, if wy

arrangements could be werked out with him, Taylor, to take
SECRET

-2-

 

 

: “

ij
: HW 53244) Docld:32312656 Page 3
'

 
Cuban Situation

him into Cuba to cover the fighting. Brigham stated that
Taylor did not immediately answer, but, after a trip to
Havana, Cuba, Taylior.contacted Brigham in Miami, Florida, :
and said that he could make arrangements for Brigham to :
go into Cuba, which offer Brigham said he declined because :
he was skeptical of Taylor, because ne did not, at first
contact, agree to take Brigham, and he felt that Taylor
may have made arrangements Havana to have Brigham picked
up when he landed in cuba ALU
Beigham also advised that from Cuban sources in
Miami he ascertained that on the weekend of April 9, 1941
the alleged CIA agents, [Caldwell and (Carranz liegedly
left for Guatemala by plane eitifer late on the night of
April 7, 1961 or early in the morning of April.8, 1961.
igham stated that nis sources jeamed, that (Celawety and’)
Carranza/ did not land in Guatemala until Aprit11, 1961
‘ and the~_Cuban exiles were wondering where Caldwell] and
~o Berranze had gone and if it were not possibTe that the invasion
ns h&d been disclosed by (Caldwell nd [Carranza PX)

. Brigham stated that he had two personal sources
in Miami, Florida, whom he contacted, and identified them
as Ex-Colonel Mariano Faget of the Bureau for the Repression
of Communist Activities (BRAC) and Enrique Parajon, who :
formerly was the head of the Secret Police in Cuba, under i
ex~President Fulgencio Batista, and who is now closely
associated with Mariano Faget. Brigham stated that he contacted
Faget regarding these allegations and CIA's involvement
and Faget confirmed the names of the CIA personnel in the
Miami area,previously set forth, as being responsibl r, the ‘
invasion plans and the carrying out of these plane u)

to regarding CIA's involvement in the recent Cuban invasion

were based on the opinion of Cubans now jin exile

in the Miami area. Brigham stated that the Cuban exiles :
believed that this recent invasion of Cuba by counterrevolutionaries |
may have been designed to fail from the very beginning and

the reason given is that the invasion forces and the i
opposition inside the country were all picked up and the x) (u) 4

SECRED— O
-3- .

i
Brigham advised that the conclusions that he came ;

— : a

 

b : . ..
; HW 53244 DocId:32312656 Page 4 i
