 

 

 

HW 53294

Doclai3335664

 

   

 

 

        

-C-

Ey this @, Brand has reesived info gh Gavanas of
of Raul Raul Castro to the bassy of We tried but cou
house acroos the street. 2rand had instruc arto Alvarez to makes a
easing of the vlace and also for the Walline. The hands of the vro?:
seen in the instructions given bys Roberto Alvarez. At last, we got 4
Gastro was going to live in Oriente, and since we were not afte to rent the hous:
the olan was dronosd.

In his last mesting with Brand, Cesar Lancis had informed him of the possibil

fo killing Fidel at the National Hotel, where he used to go to have dinner with

employees. This was also told to Roberto Alvarez, who began thinking about plans
‘regarding the National Hotel and Pekin Restaurant.

Rumors began to-spread around town that Plinio had been captured somewhere nes
51 Escambray mountains.

Meanwhile, Cabafas had seen Brand several tin es, and had inforned him ot the
recruitings he had made for Cuba Libre among the drivers and conductors of Coovera
de Canibus Aliadose .

Finally, the newspapers in town published some victures of Plinio Prieto after
capture near Hl Escambray. The summary trials began. The day befors the execution,
is, the Lith of Octoter, Emilio Rodriguez came to see Erand. He informed 3rand ths
Juan Mendez' and some other groups were going to start shooting around town in ord

 

drove the Government that the Cuban People was against the executions, and on the

of the rebels. Zmilio Rodriguez asked Brand how many men could he give to start st
around towne Brand answered that he had no men available for that. Emilio Rodrizus
asked if Brand had any men available to try to rescue Plinio. Brand ansered that h
could give armed men for that purpose. Emilio Rodriguez also asked about Brand's
possibilities in men to help in an attempt against Fidel's life at Mulgoba. Brand
answered that he could give armed men. for that action.The "we-must-do-something” a
He that can happen ina conspiracy. fi

 

tenemos gue hacer algo"), is the worst thing h
Brand realized that all the leaders in the different zroups wanted to start shooti

3 or any definite puroose, Brand began to have strong doubts about the
seriousness or coordination of the efforts that were under way.

After Plinio's execution, morals came to an all tine low. Brand instructed Cat
to start sabotage on the busses in Havana. Brand sent a flash to Jim Sowdin insist
on the urgency of receiving incendiary and demolition materials. No answer.
between the 17th and the 24th of October, more than one hundred busses were
Havana by pouring starch or emery in the radiators.

Benito Fernandez had informed Brand that Guido Gonzalez Bustamante had s
nnd had incuired about Brand's whereabouts. Benito said thet Brand was
Guido then said that Miguel Isa. Fresneda, a former friend of Brand and
colding @ hish position at the Ministerio de Gobernacion, had informed
was in Havana, under discuiss, and offering monsy and weapons to diz
organizations. Isa's son in lay, named Nelson Barroso, was a member of
Police in Cuba.

Meanwhile, Naho Alonso, former member of +
in the Province of Pinar del Rioyhad sent a m
re

t

   

   
  

 

Beg
wor

Fr

 

he Army, and present moer-of the
essage to Dr. Nardo, In tnat message
ged to work with us at the eee
hairpiecs and the dyed noustacks"
hairoiece for many years, and +

Hardo, Alonso said: "It is a shams that you

arselt
have permitted’ €s G2 deceived by the man of
answered saying that he had known the man of
man never tried to deceive anyones.

Brand had nsver contacted or sent measag

Pu
Tu
he
h

 

 

sither to Natfo Alonso or

 

uhile Brand was
Comany,
at him

   

vetnoon, around the 16th o
a woman employse of
patrol car were insist

   
    
    

    
day, Brand

Rodriguez. This safehouse was +
“ie which Monte, a cuban employee of the Comoaay, had built u
safshouse. hen Brand reached this apartment, he found that it nad been sealed by
the Sovernment, as it. nad been done with hundreds of empey-: apartments ia the city
That didn't prove anything, except that the cover had not been well built up.

Brand made an appointment with Emilio Rodriguez. Both started walking around +!
city for about two hours. Brand told. Emilio that. he > had decided to discontinus op:
add come to Washington to see Jim Bowdin.

Brand then went to see Alfredo Tzaguirre, and stayed at his place for a week. |
the meantime, and through Izaguirre! s friendgat the Embassy, Brand sent a flash %
Jim Bowdin, informig him of Zrand's decision to discontinus overations. At the on
of that week, Alfredo Izaguirre returned home one night quite upset and told Bran:
that it waa better for him to go to live somewhere else. :

Through Benito Fernandez, Brand made contact with a very well known physician :
. Dr. Eernardoe Milanss. Though Brand had decided to discontinue operations, he recrt
| Dr. Milanes, who was willing to bring-:asgroup of about 30 of his fellow physician:

to work with Cuba Libree -
But then, Benito Fernandez came to see Brand and told him that Nino Diaz was
Santiago, making contacts with different groups. Since Brand had been told by A

oa

      

  

  
  
 

Icazuirre that he, I[zaguirre, had been aporoached by Major Humberto Sori Marin
aS have three other majors willing to revolt a¢ainst the Government, Braz
decided inmediately to go to Criente and try to put Nino Diaz in contact with Sor:
sv Marin, because Sori Marin had also stated that he had 500 msn, and that he could
A ‘Tontrel 14 Iedlometers of the southern coast in in Orientss Brand want to see Izaguir:
ry i and vsksi TiS te establish soetaetevih Soft Yas Marin and tell him that Srand wanted
see him, either in Havana or in Orientes "1: suirr® then told Brand, quite bluntly
that his friends at the anbassy didn't know who Brand was, and had advised him to
iscontinus his contacts with Brand until they could find out who Bran was. Brand
left Izaguirre'’s house in a ragee Ten days had elapsed from the day Brand sent th:
: flash to Jim Bowdin, and, nevertheless, Izaguirre's friends at the Embassy didn't
: know and had not been.able to find out, who Brand was. . .

   

  
  

 

Brand then went to see Emilio Rodriguez to inauire about the Company's prepara
| to take Brand out of ths country. £.R. said that he had not received an answer oa
bub that they, the people from the Company, had sent Be 5CCO nesose :

Be nito Fernandez brought Brand a very detailed map vointing out a De. at or a
ee cernadora , in the northern.coast of Pinar del Rio. The map was sent to the
“Sompany right away. Cabaflas informed Brand that steps had been taken to produca
Sabotage at the main Cigar Factories in Havana. .

Srand then saw Nardo for the last

Lx

     

$3 were going on in the Province ef Dinar del Rio, * informed
Robayna was in despair because he ‘had | not received the weagons ‘that had been pron
to hin. . : . : coy :

Contact vere made by Brand which eventually provuced | his departure from the”
country. ‘

 

AW 53294 DocId:32356641 Page 10

   
 

   

 

      
     

 

 

wa n naned
tera liacional, association of
2h

fe) times. Gomila offered to zet the defection of
sury (Subsecretario de Hacienda), Dr. Israsl Rodriguez. He a
" :

 
      

 

ea
get the defection of ons of the members of the Supreme Court, whose nan
3 not remember now. Gomila also saids Gomi hac also made contacts. wit
‘ f the Army, stationed in Santiago, named wuintana. Mena. This captain hac

a wember of the Gea2 and he wanted to cooperate with the forces fighting Castro. i
instructed Gomila to get intelligence reports from this Captain, and also from ti
Subsecretario de Hacienda and from the Member of tie Supreme Court. Gomtla went +
. Santiago de Cuba to see the captain, but Brand doss not know the oucome of their
ia meeting, because Brand didn't see Gomila agains
One day Brarid went to Fernandez Plana's house to have a meeting with the milit
qief of the Frontin the Province of Pinar del Rio. Brand felbi-he had noticed soz
veillance around the place. When Brand told this to Fernandes Plana and his f:
y adopted a somewhat we-don'tebe lieve-in-zhost3 attitude. They told Grand tha?
@ going to see the man from Pinar del Rio in a different place. They offered
ansoortation fup Brand. Brand went with Anselmo, whose car was parked in front
rnandez Plana's houss. After Anseluo had been dr g for a while, Erand asked

2

n

 

  

py
po

mos

“och OO

   

">

wa3 looking through the rear wirror, to see if they had been followed. A fc
uds after this remark, Anselmo said that a car was after them. Pranithendinst
lmo not to zo to the meeting place. They began driving around town, and the ¢

2 them. Finally they went to Calixto Garcia's Hospital. Brand went into
suilding, took off his moustache and glasses and went out

OM Rs
% bh «

5
5

ao

ow oO >

wy
o
oS
ch
p
Fy
ct
ey

~

by the same door he hac

, : to come in. The men who had been following them were there, but it seems they dic
recognized 8rand, who walked away. .

/ Around these days, while Brand was going to a meeting, he saw in the streets «

— riand of his, Pancho Varona, a fellow conspirator against Batista. Brand invited

a.come into ths car. They talked for a few minutes and set a date and place for

   
 

meeting. Three days after that, Varona met Brand. Varona informed Zrand that a f:
da efore an airplane had dropped equipment at £1 Zscambray, and that the equir
he n caught by Fidel's forces. Brand asked some 0.23. from Varona. Varona pre
to them, but he looked juits-skentical about many things. Zrand told him,

next time Brand saw Benito Fernandez, he said that Plinio's mother had vis

{te nervous, saying that his son had been cavtured at 21 Zscambray. Senit:
that that was not true. “

Prior to this meeting, Benito Perna ndez had introduced to

que Zarroso, and another young man by the name of

hen 3 a3 friends of Nino Diaz. Brand offered them bees and asked
their efforts with Brand in the province of _Pinar a

talk thoss Shi 23
Cruz was goinz to Miami to sse6 Nino» bea Thos

Nino Diaz so vane might trust Brand. Srand sent a flash to Jina senda as}

tablish Brand's bona fide with Nino Diaz. Many days vassed dy, ond drand

le to continue negotiations, because no answer ever cama 7

of the Company. Prior to % with Barroso and oruz, ‘Brand
meeting with Barroso. Benito Farnandez ‘knew that Zarrose and Oruz had isa

 

et
2.

 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  

  
 

  

 

       
 
  
 
 

 

 

veapons in Havanse
Losgada, Brand me
ar3 of" Resi steno? a

4h

3 said

   

HW 53294 DoclId:32356641 Page @
HW 53294.

ocld:32356641 Page 7 a oe

 

 

   

6-2 - Oe

By this time, grand had met a man known as Roberto Alvarez, who nad a red
and who said he had been trained in intelligence work, and that he had bean in
for several years. This man was introduced to Brand by Smilio Rodrizuez. Rober
was to help Brand in anything Brand would require of him. Erand found that Rob
was available only after 5 pem.e and on Saturdays and Sundays. Brand found this
Alvarez to be a sensible, educated and calmed individual. Brand told this man
he would fini something for him to do.

Cabaflas. had given by now four safehouses. These safshouses. were already ink
but the families living there were to receive anyone in needcof a safehouse, I
of those houses Brand lived for two weeks. Another of those houses. was used a3
safehouss for meetings.

“Through Cabanas and Benito Fernandez, Brand met a man named Oscar Rodrizhez
This man claimed to be one of the leaders: of an organizations. in the Province
Oriente. They were willing to work provided they were supplied with weapons. 5
found the man to be honest, but dumb and tnsxperienced. Newertheless, Brand
-- this man to keep in touch with Cabanas.

" By this time, Brand had become a little bit uneasy about his disguise. Dur
perambulations around town, Brand had met by chance with many old friends. Ne.
them recognized Hrand. One day, however, a boy named Nodal, member of Trivole A
saw Brand in a drugstore and recognized him.. when Branu went out, Brand notice
that two men in a car were watching him. The car went around the block and sta
to follow Brand. When the car aporoached Brand saw Nodal and
member of Triple A. Silvio called Brand and insisted on having a nseting
Brand was mad to ase how irresponsible and indiscrset these Pellowa wers. 2.
them an appointment, but Brand didn't attend to it. Brand had become uneasy ad:
the disguise because, although B.was using a second hairpiccs, it looked awful
bad, and many friénds had warned Srand that the hairoiecs looked. a fale ?rom a:
afar. They also said that the moustache looked too dark. Brand's conclusion ab
this-is what follows:lfhe disguise was very good, but hairpieces don't last lo
in Guba's climate, If one weara them daily, as Brand did, trey ars not good fo.
more than twelve or fifteen days. 2) The disguise was good as long as it mads

a different man, but it was bad because. it had too distinctive featursa, that

that if the police radioed a description of a man'with very dark hair, very da
moustachs, and a pair of somehow unusual glasses, it is.jurs eneugh that Brand
going to be caught, It is Brand's opinion that if a man is to wear a diszguiss

a long period of time, this diszuise should not have distinctive ?satures. It

       
     

 

   

 

 

 

 
 
   

 

e difficult to describe the man in disguise, This is why from the very first
in September Brand kept asking Jim to send Karl to Cuba. Brand wanted to be di
ina different way. Another thing about disguises: the vergon in disguise shou

always have enough materials at hand.In many occasionssthe replacement3 for mo
took too long to arrive to Cuba. The last ten moustaches were received very
shane and were so bad that Brand thought they had not been mads by Karl, or t

Karl had made them in a hurry.

 

 

   
   

     

 
  

 

   

. By this time Brand had already met Mario Zscoto a known conspirator and old
friend of Brand. Escoto was Aursliano!s opresentatiys | a ourey and- the wan-in
charge of Triple A. Brand offersd weapons to Z3 :

Escoto said he had to consult this I aes

was soinz to send Brand a mao with

Escoto any money he niz 2

that had been provi ied with’ ‘all
. By this rand had notified the Company saat ail
the 1 of "Guba libre” » and that this Orcanizati

Benit arnandez, Jose Cabanas, Helio Nardo, Alfs2do
 

 

 

HW 53294 DocId:32356641. Page 5

 

 

 

      

   
    
  

  

u
the la ion of dD
th Brand, Lanciz refused to he
sport about Losada and Losada's brother,
Electric Company. The report said that Losada had been a well knov
that he had been suspected of b ing an informer for Batista!
resort also said that Losada was susnacted of being a fairy. The same report :
that Losada's brother waa a drug addict and a "pusher™. Brand :then a3ked: Lanci
there were any doubts about Losada's attitude azainst the presen: Cuban Jovere
Lancis said that Losada. and his brother were considered Fidel's enemies, witne
question. Lancis informed Brand that a former major ot the arny, named Manuel
Jesus Hernandez, had been commisioned by Lancis to establish a net of informer
Lancis also said that he had received several thousand pesos from Reacates and
he was willing to returns the thousand pesos that Brand had given him, fo this
Brand answered nothing.

       

batistian
3 3ecurity forces,

:
Around the TiPtssnts of September, Brand thought he had noticed certain un
things around Potin's building, where Erand's safehouse w ocate ne
when Brand wag entering the buil

 

» he heard a man asking about
ving at the penthouse of the building. This confirmed Brand's -suso :

ething wrong waa going ons Brand left the ouilding and never cage back. I
until three weeks later that Brand found out, through Augusto Casamayor;, the :
who had provided the safe house, that a tennant of the penthouse;who lived in :
of Brand's apartment, had been the victim of enextortion. “his had been the um
atmosphere that Brand had noticed around the building, becauss that tennant ha:
under surveillance by the people who submitted :

  

S
@

 

ved him-to extortion.
Brand went to live for some days at Juan Mendez's plades At this saPehouse,
met a man named Jorzs 3snino, who worked with Mendez at MAR. Srand out Ssvino i
— a roy . .
contact with Nardo; so Uspino's people in Pinar del Rio woWldwork under the £
of Robayna,s Espino's military chief in Pinar del Rio was @ young man by the nar
Barrios. Brand met Barrios and introduced hin to Robayna. From then on, Barrios
in contact with Robayna, and working under his command.

  

Priest named Las Heras. Brand went to that meeting and asked this priest to
Artemisa, in the Province of Pinar del Rio, and contact Nardo, so he would Fs)
Nardo with all the helo that the priesthood could afford to give in the provins
i Brand saw» Nardo and arrangausnta were wade in such a w yo that di
ve Father Las Heras, From then On, it was their business to keen in touch.
At the meeting with Father Las Heras, Brand met a physician named Dr. Leon Lezu
identified himself as a delegate from Crganizacion Cccidental Anticomunista (
A few daya later, Brand introduced Nardo to Dr. Leon Lemus, so Leon vould helo
in the Province of Pinar del Rio. Later on, Brand introduced Leon Lemus to Roba
OOA's military chief in the Province of Pinar del Rio was a younz man. nemed Cru
Thais Cruz Blanco waa introduced to Robayna by Leon Lemus. From-then en, Cruz 51
was to work under the orders of Robayna. It is on account of all these contacts
were given to Robayna, that in the last message tnat Robtayna sent to
Nardo, he claimed to have six hundred men under his command. And he
was a conssrvative fisurs. Nardo commented that in order to make thi
conservative, he would say that Aobayna had t Fil

  

Around these days, Brand heard that Mendez «vas going to have an interview wi

 

'o
fe:
iS
jo
4
a
a
_
°
°

 

 

 

    

hundred men under

 

 
 

 

 

{
!
i
j
i

HW 53294. DocId:32356641 Page 6 ©

 

 

 

 
     
  

  

2.
mn r
nenever Srand received money from
in order to avoid a heavy loss of money if Brand was canturede
with Benito Fernandez, Brand met a man named Jose Cabav#ts, who had
at the Cooperativa de Omnibus Aliados, This Cabaflas had hundreds of friends a
drivers and conductors of busses in Havana. Caoaflas vromised to get safenouses
storehouses. He also promised to sanize grougs among the d

Havana. He also said that he was going to give Brand a driv
620 pes03,

thy

 

vers and conduct
rv. Brand gave Cabai

 

A few days later Brand met Luis Alvarez, a former bus ayizery y adhe frog 4
became Brand's driver. This Luis Alvarez had been recommentad ty tonsa one
be a courageous, dedicated and faithful companion

Tn a new meeting with Jose Fernandez Planas, Brand met a young physician kn
Anselmo. In this meeting they said they had found a D.Z. and that they were zgoi
ve Brand a map pointing out the exact location of the place. Thsy asked whict
weapons could Brand provide. Brand mentioned all the weapons he hesHad been pre
and commited himself to deliver certain amount of those weapons fiftesn days af
the map had reached his hands. The boys promised to give the mao in short notic
Thase boys also wanted to establish ‘contact with Srand!s people in Pinar del 2

Some days later Erand received a very detailed map of a L.2..in the southerr
coast of the Province of Pinar del Rio. It was sent to the Company right away.

By this time Robaynas had sent Brand the location. of another D.Z. By then ,
kept asking about the weapons, and he kept saying that his men were anxious to
the equipment and start fighting. :

Through Zailio Rodriguez Brand met an American known as William Webster. Thi
was to put Brand in contact with a group of a friend of Brand who had gone to ¥
named Mario Massip. Through Webster, Srand met a man already known to him for xa
years. This man's name is Simon Yabrs. Simon Yabre waa to put Brand in contact

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

“Mario Massip's group. By this time Srand had become a little bit uneasy about i

lack of news from Jim Sowdiny and kept asking Emilio Rodriguez about the deliv:
of weapons. Sailio Rodriguez always answered that he knew nothing about it, tha
always delivered my reports but could not tell we what the policies of the Comp
were in that respect,

Through Webster, Brand made contact with a wealthy and very well known cusan
Silvio de Cardenas. 3ilvio de Cardenas said that he was one of the laaders of a
headed by Jose Ignacio Rivero and Antonio Rubio Padilla. He said, and Brand bel
to he the exact truth, that they had connections along the whole island with we
‘known and respected paople. That they could provide fincas and transvorta’

 

 

   

they wanted was weapons and guidance. Brand nromised toth. Throuzh the Co >
~ days later, Silvio de Cardenas provided two D.Zs, Brand met Silvio de Car
ve times more. Cardenas zaye a list of the weapons his friends needed.

 

to deliver the wearons in due courses. :
jay. Brand got word that there was going to be a meeting at
Prom the Front -were supposed to go to that meeting. Brand
ent word saying hs saw no reason why he had to
don Brand's attendance. Brand went to the mes

  
  
 
 
  
 
  
    

 

  
  
  
    

coordinate the CA and the Front's
established also that 2rand would

the Front could vrovide.

  

  

 

nd Province o
ad incendiary

keen their

avana. Brand #
would

 
 

 

y

+ BocEd:32356641 Page 2

 

On August 5/60, at 7 a. Dey Brand made contact with Emilio Rodriguez. Brand
told =.R. that he wanted to see Amparo (Plinio's wife), in order to debrie? her
on the actual situation of OA's groups. That same afternoon Brand saw Amparos
Amparo informed Brand of all the arrests that had taken place after Plinio's
escape from El Escambray. In regard to O4's groups in Havana, Amparo told Zrand
that Efren Rodriguez, member of the Executive Commitee of the OA,was in a safe
house in Havana, and was the man who. could brief Brand on @A's situation.

On August 6/60, Brand saw Zfren Rodriguez. Sfren informed Brand that, on
account of Abay and Pensla's asylum at the Embassy of Brasil, contacts had been
lost with the action groups of OA. Zfren was completely out of money. Brand gav
him $130.00 and instructed him to establish contact with 04'S action groups. Ef:
agreed to do this.

Brand had.to remain in his safe house for the next ten days, becauss no gluse
or moustaches had heen sent to him, and he had no materials for his disguise.
Meanwhile, Plinio had arrived to Havana, and had established contact with Sfren
and other * members of the underground.

Emilio Rodriguez gave Brand a man to be used as a driver or as a cut-oute.
This man is named Montes. After receiving the disguise materials, Brand establi
contact with Jesus Izlesias, former member of Triple “A, and Brand's fellow cons
for many years. iglesias owned a 50 ft. yacht. Brand asked Iglesia's help to us
his’ yacht to smuggle weapona into Cuba. Iglesias was in very low spirits. He sa
that it was useless for the cubans to fient Fidel, since Fide 1 had a sowerful ©
from the Soviet Union, and that unless the U.S. decided td do something about i
our efforts were doomed to failure. In short, Iglesias refused to help.

Next, Brand established contact with Cesar Lancis Bravo. Cesar agreed to hel
Brand instructed Cesar to start lookinz for D.Zs. and L. Zs. Besides, Cesar was
start organizing laborers in the different Unions, and to try to. gather informa
from all of them. Cesar also volunteered to make contacts with pvolicemen in the
patrol cars, in order to*find out the codes they were using in their radio
communications. He-also promised to start a search for safe houses and store ho:
and to start checking Fidel through the members of the Sindicato Gastronomica.
that first meeting Brand gaye Cesar one thousand pesos, to ds used for expense

 

 

Next, Bra nd mad@contact with Benito Fernandez. Benito said that he was eager
helo and that all of us had to give our best to overcome our country's situatio
Benito offered nis efforts to try fo! find D.Zs. and L.2s. Besides, he volunteer
to do some recruiting. Benito inforned Brand that he Rad an action groug of aco
fifteen men, already armed.

Contact was made with Dr. Helio } Nerdo ba3z. Nardo informed Erand: that ne had
already been aproached by people fron EAR and. By Lomberto Phas, acting the lait
as revresentative from Tony Yaron aig group: Hardo had refused to work with them
Brand asked Uardo to take care of the Province of Pinar del Rio as a leader of
new underground group, of.which he wis zoing to be one of the leaders. Nardo az

a)

 

 

 

    

  

   

to this,-and oromised to start lookiag for D.Zs. and L.Zs.. and also promissd to
take care of the recruiting of peoodeiin the Province of Pinar del Rio. Ke menti
thet he had.a friend who nad‘seen a lieutenant in the rebel army, and who had
his position because of the communis! bLendencies of the Go%ernmment. He told

 

utanent could become'a “yaluadl = gaget Li
try to bring this nan to talk with Eran
BXDONS 3a Coa

   

  
HW 53294

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :
FROM :

TO
TITLE
DATE
PAGES

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

AGENCY INFORMATION

CIA
104-10102-10090
JEK

80TO1357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
CIA
BRANDT CONTACT REPORT
11/15/1960
9
AMPARO
PAPER

UNCLASSIFIED
1A 1B

Released under the John
Kennedy

Assassination Records

ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase# i Nl 53294 Date:
b6-13-2017

 

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC ~ RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

1993.07.19.18:07:08:710270

07/19/93
COMMENTS JFK34 : F18
(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DocId: 32356641 Page 1

104-10102-10090
 

|
i

 

 

 

i
t

 

HW 53294

 

 

   

~2e

    
 
 

 
 

   
  

ai the roandsz,
versity glesias.
king, some ity.
to make the Erand could have

a
Planas and Eddy Crews, members of the Catholic Youth, studen
Havana and members ot MRR (Artime's faction). Brand gave Nel
for expenses.

A week after their first meeting, Brand saw Cesar Lancis again. Cesar said
had. been making some contactswith different unions. He also explained that up
that time he had been working with Tony Varona's groups named “Rescate". He ex
his concern about the double role he was playing, working with Rescata at the
time that he Wii ne with Brand. Lancis said that in due course he could bring
friends in Rescate to Brand's organization. Brand ssid that a week had elaosed
no results had been attained and that he wanted results. Lancis said that he w:
going to have results for the noxt meeting.

Through Nelson Iglesias, Brand had a meeting with Jose Fernandez Planas and
Eddy Crews. The meeting took place at Fernandes Plana's home in Vedado, Havana.
erand asked Fernandez Plana's helo in order to get D.Z3. and 1.45, and safe . he
Though Fernandez Planas agreed to help, he was a little bit reluctant because ¢
connections with MaR. He said he was going to talk things over with his friend:
promised to give m= an answer in a few days. Nevertheless, he accepted four hur
pesos to be used in the renting of safe houses. Brand also asked about the poss
of creating some disturbances at Havana University on the 30th of September,
anniversary of Trejo's death.They said their chances were slight, because they
could not burn the people they had at the University in that kind of action. He
said that in the event of a riot at the University, they would be crushed by th
communists and militia, already well trained, equipped and organized.

In his next mesting with Brand, Nardo brousht along a man by the name of
Fransisco Robayna Dominguaz, ex-lieutenent of the Rebel Army. Robayna had. been
member of the American Army, at Fort Dix, New Jerssy. He had been to Surope as
member of the American army. He deserted to zo to Cuba and join the forces: figh
Eatista. He became a member of Faure Cmenn's cuarrillas in the mountains of Las
Villas. Robayna said that he was willing to join Nardo and Brand's efforta. He
that he had already been working in the recruiting of peopla. He assured Brand
he could count with a. force of 150 men. He also said that he was going to get D
Robayna s to work under the orders of Mardo.

' ‘In his next mesting wit ‘3

    

 

 

 

 

since Brand had promised him weapons, he said he would keep trying to cet DeZs,

 

searching for DeZs, and L.Zs, in the southern.coast of the Provinces of Orienta,
Brand also saw Nelson Iglesias azain. He said it had been difficult to reer
eopls at ths University, because everyone seemed to belong already to one orga
or another. Nevertheless, he said, he had a group of arourdd ten students
ti to work with him, thoush some of them already belonged to Sescate.
who wag heading fescate
these days, Jos, a member of tr
Brand at Erand's

   
 
    

Wee

Unive
Vashi

 
    
   

 

Le
3

  
    

     

 

 

feo poyean
vw Linsr

      
 
  

39 oromiass

GUS cOuTse.

     

DocId: 32356641 . Page 3
 

 

 

HW 53294 Docld:32356641 Page 4

 

 

   

   

 
 
 
  
   
 
 

Plinio ne
B5rand als
Casanova.
cionario). 9 told Grand of his efforts and how plea
things wers going on. Plinio also talked about. his plans
and the meetings he was exoe@ting to have in the days to
said that ne was also vleasedwith the way things were dev

In his next meeting with Brand, Robayna brought a map pointing out a DZ. 7
was the first D.Z. that Brand sot. Brand gave Robayra a lensatic compass 30 Ro
could give the exact location of the next D.Zs. he was trying to set.2obayna w
full of enthusiasm with the outcome of his efforts. All his men were anxious +.
into battle. Robayna gave Brand an estimate of the Weapons he needed for his 1
That list of weanons was given to the Company in Havana. Robayna also informed
that in the Province of Pinar del Rio, a majority of the population was in fav

 

an uprising against Castro. ,
~-~ It should be said by now that all the meetingsheld oy Brand were reported +
the Company in Havana, almost inuediately after they took places Brand had bee:

1
nstructed-in Hashington to give g revort each weeke Actually, revorts were
no iany oc@dsions twice and thrice a week. ~--

 

i
i

By this time, Brand had met with ®fren Rodrisuez in several occastons..=frar
Rodriguez was contacting and organizing action groups to be used in Havana, in
Sity as well as in the Province. A man by the name of Rutilio Ramos had been ec
by him. This man was to lead the men we were planning to use in.an attempt acai
Fidel's life. ifren Rodrizuez had also met peovle who gave him detailed informa

on the Government forces in Isle of Pines. Rutilio Ramos also made some reports

this. Contacts were made by Efren Rodriguez with action groups in San Jose de L
Lajas, : : a

Joe sent Brand some instructions that enabled Brand to make contact with a
named Alberto Jorze Losada Fernandez, who worked at the Compania de Slectricida
This Losada was one of the leaders of an organization called "Resistencia Agraz

 

-Though they had: men all around the island, their man force seemed to.be in ths

Province of Pinar del Rios And what seemed nost important of all, they had

in the mountains.

 

purchase of supplies for the

 

te be used in sabotaze atthe Electric Company. “Losada azreed to send word to.
g Ke are

leader of the group at the mountains to come to Havana to have a meeting With =

Losada also agreed to try to find some DeZs. or L.Z3.~From that day on, Losada

 

the meetings 5

 

h Brand would take place in two ‘houses he indicated, and which

Brand promptly aporoved.

| Jos sent 3rand some instructions that enabled Brand to make contact with a..
named Vidal Morales, who was to provide the goong that were promised to Brand
Jin Bowdin. Brand instructed Vidal to organize his men and have them ready
action to

  
  

be

as
gather about the top cormmunists:in Cuba. Vidal agreed to this.
et t 2 informed Brand that the leader of the z
Lazaro Santos Abreu, had baen killed i
told Losada to make arra
stituted Lazaro
and Lozada, so both man vould

 
    
   

 
 
 
 

3
suo
ng with Cesar Lancis

a add ate oa

 

 

 
