% re ; . ot, ey BRE Cz, 2 taJagizs
, dee AY — yesfre

  

 

“*- . of the Mexico City newspapers the following morning naming —
. us and stating that we had come to Mexico on business for the

Commission.

Just inside the airport terminal we were met by
Mr. Clarke Anderson and Mr. Rolfe Larson from the Amerioan
Embassy. These men were later identified, respectively, as
Chief of the FBI in Mexico City and an FBI agent temporarily
‘assigned for duty 4n Mexico City. Anderson and Larson took the
three ef us to our hotel, the Continental Hilton.

THURSDAY = APRIL 9
9:00 a.m, to 9:30 a.m,

At 9100 a.m. the three of us met in the FBI offices
at the Enbassy with Mr. Larson and discussed generally with
him the progress of the assassination investigation while we
were waiting to meet Ambassador Freeman. Clarke Anderson and
“Winston Seott, the CIA Chief in Mexico City, were conferring
with the Ambassador and briefing him on the Mexican aspects of
the assassination investigation, Ambassador Freeman had been
at this post only two days, having just presented his cre-
dentials to the President of Mexico on Monday, April 6.

* pegaAGE GBaLI ask
Ou

, anthony C AN.

ry thay

 

 

AW 53294 DocId:32370750 Page 9

 

 

A,

 

 

 
"ee pe oat!

HW 53294

D

 

We met with the Ambassador at about 9:30 in the
morning. Present besides the three of us and the Ambassador

were Minister Boonstra, Winston Scott and Clarke Anderson.

Mr. Coleman explained in general terms the purpose
of our trip. He said that we wanted to learn as much as
possible about what investigations were currently being carried
out, with special emphasis on the Hotel del Comercio and on
Oswald's northbound journey out of Mexico City, and that we
wanted to decide upon and initiate whatever new lines of inves-
tigation we felt were called for. In connection with looking
into these investigations, we wished to satisfy ourselves that

everything reasonably possible was being done and, in addition,

we wanted to become as current as possible on evidence being

produced. Also, we hoped to make eontact with one or more
Mexican officials s0 as to learn directly from them what part
they had played in the assassination investigation and what they
had learned that might be of value to us. In particular, we
wanted to find out as much as possible about what Mrs. Silvia
Duran, the clerk at the Cuban Enbassy who dealt frequently with

Oswald, knew. Finally, we hoped to make arrangements for, and.

 

- : REBRADED wae

 

nolan ARS, ne) of 2 296

ocld:32370750 Page 10

rer SEreet : _ Authority. 62.4, Lb Mavens 4. een ths

 

 

 

 

 
   

HW 53294

HAS NO OBJECTION TO i oo
OAS CATION we , Oo ;
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT. oe :

9100, - However, weather and technical difficulties held up
the plane in Philadelphia and we did not get off the ground

in Washington until almost 2:00 o'clock in the afternoon.

After a short stop in New Orleans we arrived in
Mexico City at about 6100 poms, Mexico City time. We were met
as we came off the airplane by a representative of Eastern
Airlines, Mr. Jorge Villagomez, who addressed each of us by
name, gave us his business card and eased our way through
Mexican customs. An unidentified man approached Mr. willens
and asked if we were from the Embassy. Willens replied that
we were not, The individual asked if tt was true that people
were coming to investigate the assassination. Willens refused
to confirm this report. Mr. Coleman had some minor difficul-
ties with the Mexican Immigration officials over whether or
not he had been vacainated recently, and in the course of
discussions on this the Eastern Airlines representative men-
tioned to the Dumigration official something to the effect that .
Mr. Coleman was a representative of the Warren Commission.
This comment could have been overheard by the person who had
‘approached Mr. Willens, who in the meantime had walked back
towards Mr. Coleman. If all this occurred as we suspect it

may have, at could explain why there was an announcement in two

 

RESRADED | eu
authority & b Oh » 2 al (3 dé if 2S”

Ui] Len NARS, Date Rods did poe £

ora pee ag E en
reine one WE Seen

DocId:32370750 Page 3

Wa cat ‘
“ .
- : autnoriy CAA Lb: “?. 2f29/9 Ss

2

 

 

 

os,

 

Dee

ote
CLK Ctr g12]25/78

 

, ramp - Yel
view of the facta known to. hin and his assistants at the time — Bs

. and in view of the extreme seriousneas of the occurrence,

2230 p.m. -~ 4230 p.m,

Ab 3230 in the afternoon ur. Jack Witten of the CIA

 

came ‘to the Commission offices and conferred there with —
Slawson, Willens and Coleman. This conference grew out of a
suggestion made by Mr. Richard Helms of the CIA about two

weeks previous, in which he had mentioned that 4t would be a

good idea if a representative of his agency met with those

 

persons from the Commission who planned to go to Mexico just
before they left, in order to insure that the CIA sould
properly advise us of any last-minute arrangements and properly

alert its people tn Hexieo, of our arrival,

 

We. discussed whether we would ‘journey to Mexico

offtetalay and openly or completely incognito, and Mr. Witten

 

offered to make arrangements to get us into Mexico completely
unnoticed if we desired to do so. We told him that. we did not

 

want to try to keep the trip entirely seoret. We would do our
best to avoid any kind of newspaper publicity or public

announcements, We intended to introduce ourselves at the ho,

 

 

Pn eae aa
ORR rt

HW 53294 Decl: 32370750 Page 7

 

 
—p-6-p—s- ee RE th “)- 3/98/%

‘he Ambassador said that he had been kept informed
of the Silvia Duran interrogation through his aides, Clarke
Anderson and Winston Scott. He learned of it informally,
that 1s, Anderson and Scott reported orally to him as: soon as
they received from the Mexican authorities at "Gobernacion”

any news about how the interrogation was progressing.

In response to our questions, the Ambassador recom-
mended that when we got to Mexico City we should work through
the representatives of the FBY and the cra at the American
Embassy and, through them, with the Mexican officials they
recommended, but that we should do all of this as quietly as
possible, without any newspaper publicity. We also asked
Ambassador Mann to what extent it was known in Mexico City
that the Hotel del Comercio was a headquarters for pro-Castro
activities. The Ambassador replied that it was not known
generally at all, that this information was current only in

intelligence circles.

Ambassador Mann said that the file from his Embassy
which had previously been forwarded to the Commission consti-
tuted the entire file which was in existence on this particular

subject, with the one exception that it may not have included

REGMACED GOAFIGEATIAL

 

a) Ips

 

AW 53294 DocId:32370750 Page 5

CAG 9 2/74/75

.

 

 

 

 

RG Pg appar nm

  
 

eo a : aa = ena tr “4 bare
. a. . By, by MARC, Nate Pfasyire
| ED PaaS ioe

the report from the FBI referred to therein, We confirmed be
that it had not included that report. He said that he was b—
sure that this report sould be obtained from Clarke Anderson
in Mexico City, if we thought it was necessary. In response to

a siniler question about the "Alvarado" file, he replied that L

 

_any additional papers in the possession of American authorities CS
that might be in existence on Alvarado could probably be
obtained through the CIA and that we could speak to Mr. Scott

about this. He said that he had never seen any papers or

 

formal statements by Silvia Duran; all his information about
what she is supposed to have told the Mexican police was |

received by word of mouth through his aides, Scott and Anderson.

Ambassador Mann was then called out to another con-

 

ference, for which he was already a half-hour late. As the
meeting was breaking up he asked Mr, Slawson whether, with the
benefit. of hindsight, the members of the Commission staff felt Re

that his recommendations and actions shortly after the

 

assassination had been justified or whether we thought they :
were unduly rash. Mr. Slawson replied that although the inves- o
tigation of the specific allegations of Alvarado had shown that |

they were in all probability a fabrication, he found nothing
in what the Ambassador had done to have been unjustified, in

, FIDENTIAL - ;
RECRADED con oe feats
Authority. (2 WMA! ws

By. LLY WARS, Dale a}: Sh -

 

 

bee”

oN) PRE Te Fo a, fan ee CE eee, ee = pe ee eae
rete a ° ee re ead won

 

AW 53294 DocId: 32370750 Page 6
  

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD April 22, 196!

a ger mn ame | bye.
FROM: © M. David Slaweon Pr

SUBJECT: Trip to Mexieo aAty

On Wednesday, April 8, 1964 Mr. Howard P, Willens,

Me. Williem f. Coleman, Jr., and Mr. W. David Slawson, all-on pe

the atarf of the Commission, flew from Washington, D.C. to im
Mexico City. Mr. Coleman returned on Sunday, April 12 and
Mr. Slawson and Mr. Willens returned on an airplane leaylay
Mexico City at about 3:20, Monday afternoon, April 12. This |

a memorandum will briefly summarise this trip plus some of the Ke

meetings held in preparation fer it.

TUESDAY ~ APRIL 7
10:20 a.m, to 11:00 a.m,

 

Willens, Coleman and Slawson met with Assistant
Searetary of State for Latin American Affairs Thomas Mann, —
Mr. Thomas Ehrlich of the Office of the Legal Adviser for the
State Department, and two aides to Mr, Hann in Mr. Mann's

 

office at about 10:20 a.m. Assistant Secretary Mann wns
Ambasgedor to Mexico at the tima of the assassination and
perscnally directed the investigatory effort and our relations -

with the Mexican law enforcement suthorittes immedtately after

 
   
 

the new of the President's death reached Mexico Saint SOY lev

 

 

 

BERET fem closed * aeons) (OH
EQ. 0:2 ti. : ; |
eh Wibew, CLA £6.9.12/24) Saiz ea —
Nome Agenty | Dale i gi wot A: RAS, BD. !

£ ib UES Be Bits 7 Bt kanct de taniat ; aan

Reason Declassity OD:

 

 

HW 53294 DocId:32370750 Page 2
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

 

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :
FROM :

\T0 :

TITLE :

DATE
PAGES

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

COMMENTS

AGENCY INFORMATION

cIA
104-10150-10181
JFK
80T01357A
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
CIA
SLAWSON,
MFR
TRIP TO MEXICO CITY
04/22/1964
70

W. DAVID, WC

: MEXICO CITY

TRIP REPORT
JFK ASSASSINATION
WC TRIP REPORT

PAPER |.
TOP SECRET
1B

Released under the John
Kennedy

Assassination Records

ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#: NW 53294 Date:
b6-14-2017

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

06/23/04
JFK62 : F7

20040301-1051505

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

AW 53294 DocId:32370750 Page 1

104-10150-10181

 

 
: ~ EERADED > CONFIDENTIAL -
| | . 29 Be. 17?
| a ; futhority... eG ba. 25

\. 9. ~ nw Bh fe

   

of ‘the file eveated by nis efforts, consisting of telegrams

 

between Mexico City and the State Department in Washington,
had previously been forwarded to the Commission. The purpose
of our meeting with Ambassador Mann was first, to inform him
of our intent to go to Mexico and discuss with him our proposed os
actions there and second, to raise certain questions with him pa
about his thoughts and actions in Mexico immediately after the

assassination.

The file turned over to the Commission by. Ambassador

 

 

Mann contains statements of opinion by him that Oswald was a
probably involved in a sinister fashion, especially by way of
taking a bribe, with the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City or with
some other Castro agency. These suspicions were reinforced by
the allegations of a certain "Alvarado" who at the time was Laas
being interrogated intensively by the Mexican authorities and by -
representatives of the American Embassy in Mexico City because rh
he claimed to have seen Lee Harvey Oswald take $6500 in is
American bills from an {ndividual in the Cuban Embassy. We ,
asked Ambassador Mann what particular evidence aside from the
Alvarado assertions he had for these suspicions. He replied }
that he had none except the general feeling "in his guts" that — [.
Castro was the kind of dictator who might have meme this |
; DENT Z
oe ee - amen e COnFI jade. 99 be
- eee oy AK. ad. KARE, on nsfosp i
LSS SE
|

   

AW 53294) DocId:32370750 Page 3
AEGRAGED CONFIDENTIAL

  

Authority. ¢

 

kind of ruthless aotion, either through some hope of gaining

_from it or simply a8 revenge. The Ambassador added that not

even the allegations of Alvarado or other rumors which may have
been current in Mexico City to the effect that money had been
given to Oswald were really the cause of his suspicions, since
the Alvarado allegations were not made until a day or so later,
but that the fact that Oswald had visited the Quban and Russian
Embassies in Mexico City shortly before the assassination, which
he had learned from his security officers at the Embassy, plus
what he believed about Castro's character, seemed sufficient to
him to raise the gravest suspicions. Later, he pointed out,
when he had a chance to listen to the Dorticos-Armas intercepts,

his suspicions were strengthened.

. Ambassador Mann knew of no contacts by Oswald with
anyone in Mexloo City other than his visits to the Cuban and
Soviet Embassies and his staying at the Hotel del Comercio.
Ambassador Mann said that our intelligence took and was still
taking photographs of both the Cuban and Soviet Embassies
whenever anyone left or entered their main entrances, at least
during the normal visiting hours on Monday through Friday,
during the daytime when pictures could be taken without
artificial light.

ee REGRADED CONFIDENTIAL

authority CALA Lty + ! [24 7 s

   

HW 53294 DocId:32370750 Page 4

2. 2p? ©

 
 

et 3) 4/24

 

 

 

 

 

Men *
ae
