of uo : —.

Airtel +0 SAT, Albany
RY: COUNTERINTULLIGENCE ‘PROGRAM
BLACK NATIONALIST-HATE GROVPS

BACEGROUND ©

By letter dated 8/25/57 the following estices
. ware edvised of the beginning of » fcuaterdatuliig @
- Progres ageingt Bilitant Black- Hationahist~Hate, Groups:

 

Albany . Keaphia

Atlanta ; Nevark
. Baltimore a New Orleans _
Boston — _ Key York

Buffalo — oe “ Philadelphia
Charlotte | Phoealx

Chicage Pittsburgh -
Cincinnati | ; Richmond
Cleveland - St. Louis

Detroit _.. Ban Francisco se
Jackson ; Wasbiagen Field

: Lea, Angeles ” Jc a

; Each of the abeve offices, was. to dosignate a.
: Special Agent to coordinates this program. Replies te this
. Letter indieated.aa interest.in counserintoliigenes against
gAditant black nationalist groups that fouent violence aad
veveral offices outlined precedures which had Been effective
in the past. For exaaple, Yashiagton Field Office Rad
fevnisked infornation about a nev Nation of Islam (HOX)-
grade schoel to appresriate authorities in the District
6f Colusbin whe investigated to determine if tha achool
+ eonterzcd to District regulations for private scheols.. Ia.
- the proecese VFO obtained background 3 intorgation on ths: peronts
; of Oaeh puphl. : .

“Fhe BR. Ravolutionary Action Movement (RAH), a ‘DEER .
Chinene oecmuauRist Broup, wee active in Philadelphia, Pas,
in the summer of 16597. The Philedeipbia Office alerted -.
lecal police, who then put BAH lecdors under clesa coruticy.
TREY GOre arrested of avery poseivie ehorge untid they sould
£9 lengor make bail, a5 result, Tag. Leudera epoat . “eGSe ey he
Genuar 4 af jn42 and ne viclessce “traces bia ta as seals plese.

     

The Counterinte)lagenca PPSRT AR ig nev boa 8
orpandsa te ineiudo 41 ofiiess. sack GP tho offleun
20 thio program skhenld dogignate se Agoat fenAbdiur wivh

  
 

= Bo

AW 55159) DocId:32989582 Page 9
AW 55159

+ Andividuala | to, Sivet, the resnensible Negra ec

i

. ~ . Fae met =.
“4
@ wo rd

aietok Gols. Alban
Bie Cou CEDAEMTELE. SOND PSOE
BLACE HATECHALIGY “Tite G2ouss.

sya

 

nationalist activity, andi Jatereetcd in. countorintelligence,.
to coordinate this program. This Agent will be responsible
Zor the periedic progress letters acing requested, but each.
Agent vorking thia type of case should participate ig the
formulation of counterinteliigeaca operations. —

SOLES

  

: : ” Por r maxisua eftectivensss. of tke ‘counterinieliigence
Program, aiid to prevent wasted éffoxt, longerangs goals are
boing set.

‘1. Prevent the soglition of militant black
gationalist groups. In unity there is strength; a truism
that ig no legs valid for all its triteness. An effective
coalition of black nationalint groups might be the first .

step tevard areal "Hau Mau" in America,’ the beginning ag:
& true black revolution. :

2. Prevent: the risa of a "gopaian” whe seuld.

_ waify, and electrify, the BLIZTSIe Hines ne cionalie¢- movesont..—.....-

Baleoim K might have been such a “Bessiah;" he ie the martyr
ef ths savement today. Martin Luther ‘King, ‘Stekely “Ciraichael-
end Elijah Muhamed all aspire toe thie position. Blijsah - -
: Wuhamed ig. lesa of a threat ‘because of his age. King could ©
‘be a wery real contesder for thie position should he abandon
hag supposed “shedience” to "white, liberal doctrines” =
(nonvielence) and exbrace black nationaliss. Carnickael 7
hae tke necesmary. charisma to be a real threat. ia this way...

3.. Prevent yielence on the part o? black | coe
nationalist groups. REL ie S: 38 Of primary importance, and is,-
of Gesree,.a goal of our dnveetisative aetivity; it should
ains ba a goal of the Counteriateliicancs Brogran. Through =
Counterintolligence it shoudd bs pegeible te pinpoint potential
. treubicuakers and nevralige. them before they exercise their
potontial for violence.

. 4. Prevent militant blaais nationalist SFCups andi
loadors fren gaining Segesetabilivy, by discrediting therm
tO thres sogarate segheaiS GY Tis Geamuaity. The real oe
igerogs ting black navgoralists mgt bo handicd beceleasly
fn throes waya. You must daneredit those greupo and

    

 

Second, they must ba discredited te the white ¢

 

is &
woo

DocId: 32989582 Page 10
    
  

Biase. HAT ION

       
 
  
  
   
  
   

against the Communist Pasty ¢
propras entitied “Count :
Disruption o Hate Grow a,
ngnbeut los and hate-<t

monbersbing > :

ted orranigations oe the
i fornad woetepe

 

     
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
    

-

ECU bee >
Agent “has

  

A : xd 6aca invourvigative
“gakh to the attention the counties
gunzesuiona aad rocsipalitios :

You ave also cautioned thing tbe nak od |
“4s suck thst. unc no. cireur oud enc
gxam be ENOWA OF Maroy cad
withineowvica gvcarity sao whl a “ee 42 Bens
end techniques congidexed unuer the pe

   

   

 
  
 
 
 

   
 

 

  

 

— Fou are > urged to
apmroach to thig new counterintelian
VELL ba pleased ta uence ha any ous
way yocomucad.

 

 

stver and: thos £ur ord:
gestions cx teciminuce you

   

: i

AW 55159) DocId:32989582 Page @
 

,

HW 55159 DoclId:32989582 Page 7

 

P
Aa

\

  

fetter Co BAC, Hibeny re
RSs COMALER INTEL 25 PROGRAM
| ~EGACE BATIONALION < BATE GEoups

 

to congelidate their forces ox te recruit now er. yeuthful
edherents must be frustented, No epyortunity should be minesd =. |
&® exploit through counterintelligence techniques tha |
organizational and perconni confiicta of the Leadarships of ths j
Broups and where possible on efiere should be made to seoitalaze 1
“Upon existing conflicts betusen competiog bine Nareonalisk '
organizationn, Whea an OMnostundey os Spparcat to disrupt op
geutrvalize black nationalist, hatestyns organizations throuck tha |.
cooporatien Gf eatabiiched leoal neve media contacts or tuxougy of
‘eueh contact with Routces avatiahis tw the Seat of Government, — |
im every ingtance careful attention must be given te the proposal
to insure the targeted group is disrupted, ridiculed, or |
\

Conviderntion should be riven to techniques to praciude violence
PYORe OF Enbble rouser leaders of hata groups from wpreadinue their
phiadosophy publicly or through various MasS communication medin,

Kary individuals currently. ective-in-binck antionsliat

-orvandentden: kava basireroy: ef immorality, subversive activity,
aad ariming? records, « Threveh Your. investigation of Koy artiatere

_ You showld eadeayvor ta establish their UlBavary baokarouads,

Be alert to doteruzge evidenc of nisanpropriation of funds or

OCREF tuner of yavengnd mts ihinet on the part of iaiidiané

REtiowalzog Yeaders ge fay practicn’ so» -warragted Countose
 SESOLiagenve. nay. bo anstituted, ne —

 
  

 

(A tonss eed attention under this prog¥am should he
afforded te tha entivities of such Toura as the Student ~
Rebyielent Coordinating Comasttea, the Southern Christian
Loaderehip Convevence, Revolutionary Action Movewant, the
Dencena Ler Defense and Juseine, Congresys. of Rackal Equalaty,
and the Nation of Islam. Particular cephasis should be given te
extremists whe @ireet the &etavitios and policies of. a.

. Fovekutionary op nilitant groupe such ag Stokely Carsichoat ,

Ro "Zap" Brown, Blijeh Muhavwond, ead Meswed Staaford, -

: AS thie tame the Errreaa $8 asttédag up no remulvanens
‘Sor Status letters to be retiodienlly cubeatced under this f
Beegwame IG whEL vs sine ark upon you to dasusa tke peograa t
[te ising efferdsa becersury and continuing attention and chat } i
120 GOPOrtUNieies wilh be overiogked fay CoBntorintelligonas .
hagtsen. ; oo . : sue an i

 

 

. _ . F
a S88 pegras should not bo confuasd whels the proms
Ontatien “ammunse¢ Party, USA, Countorintel Lipeacs : ;

t. Besuplty. G," Ciudide Lg62eLO4T, WRARH Aa dikes

     

sates, . ° .
UNEXCISED COPIES

2-4-76 Request (Re Iberia Hampton, et al, Civil Action)

 
   

BAS, Albany Hagust 25, 295%

RS hs

  

Birecter, PRE “i

COUNTERINTALLIGHICS PROGRAY
BUCK MASIONEL ST ws BATE GHOUEe

 
  

 

   

 

    

; ; i cet Ae aha copies ¢ 2 Pi sls dette ate an otenne ail
: 6 Pee: Lisa a cantegh. |

 

 

iatioe to Siack
uipeeiot, am tae tyne organtaationas. “The f£ieie off4eo cantesi -

 

 

 

’
i
!
t
t
13
i
i

4
’
j
f -
4
i
i
:
i
|

|
|
i
i

4

 

   
  

 

 

 

 

      
 
 
 
  
   

     
  
             
  

 
 
   

    
  

  

  

 

 

 

   

7 i Sete veges andor thls j ak may OS muintained ag a neadéns
4 } 2Bbive atutus unb.h steh: tite as a gpectfide egeratian or
i : AD NQUG oie Bias “ed under cousicerktion fer teplemomba oa Oo
Lot mo, tee pUPYYcse of this Rey LO ntordatellas gence endeavor
POM. az. fo GPCR, & : dtsmreds é
* t tho .
| ‘. nena Bos
J ; hie aed
“| incoress “is this -iaweay
if AL ba Bn a nesd
; i i antes de:
: nes fet SCUUS TREN WH
i porn losous bs eth rOUG ox ¢ ach groups, Phedse Cow hok Sy ,
i BAwEwvers musk be oxpoged to public serurtay where aitch, subtiet Gy
i Wilk baye s seutcaliging Hifexrts of the yarioug sreupa
/ Boe shine
; om Pad LE SErose
{
t
:
i fe

  

AW 55159) DocId:32989582 Page 6
 

nc

FBI- CENTRAL RECORDS CENTER: -

 

HQ - HEADQUARTERS BOX 4299

Class / Case # Sub Vol. Serial #

0062 116395 1420

2431100602

nnn

 

 

AW 55159) DocId:32989582 Page 2

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HW 55159 DocId:32989582 Page 1 , s

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

   

SIMs 1f
2/26/76

 
   
   

   

Se Je MILLER to:
W. C. CREGAR SEEK SENSTUDY 7

 
    
 
 
 
 

By SSC letter to Attoeney General datad 5 2/4/76
copy attached. &@ request was made for @ certain ©
documents which the Dept of Justice

recently made available.

   
    

 
