 

 

 

 

by Fan Ceamiby, ‘ict Vets Kaitor”

WUE -veteratig of the Vintnain’ war,

Jn vthe Untted States of

“> Aeléa, its Constitution and jaws, We stand

cronies, fardian aud dame stic.

We believe In tracdoia to’ speak, to thi

We telievs In democracy. 7 “
"We do not bolleve out country should’
be suppovled “right or wring, but rather
that i ds ourdemocratia duty ite challenge:
government pelleies whe we gorisclone
Uously belleve them to be wrong. .

- “Ye believe that the conflict, in which
the United States is engaged. in Viet-Nart
ig wrong, unjustifiable and contrary te the
pringiples on which this. country © was.
founded: os 7 arr

avo jot the dissent of the millions of
Ammricans agains Us war. We support
our buddies sill in VietNam. We wank
daegit home alive. We want thant home

pow, We avast to prevent any ollior young |

men fram’ being sont to Viet-Nam, We

“  wartlan. end to the war now.

we believe that this js,
patriotism.” . . : .
Yinder the ideals of the’ above eredo
ffarmaliy written and adopted jater) six
VietNam veterans from _ New York, on
Sune 1, 1007 organized, VIET-NAM VET
TRANS AGAINST ‘TILE WAR, Since
then, the group + an outgrowth of ine
Mividual Viet-Nam  velorant participation
at the April 15 demonstration in New,
York andthe Memorial Day veterans
eoreniony in Washington + hos expanded
yanidly. Collectively its members have
soryed in VietNam of off-shore (some for
more than yne tour) from the Jate 1950's
richt up through the present, Individually
they have served with nearly every unit
aver there, Inelading: MAAG, Sth Speciat
‘vorses, Sth Mavines, (ih. Vleet varviers and
destveyers, the Air Force, the: Merchant
faring, and a variety of Army airborne, ,
signal, dogigties, “aviation and infantry
units. At present they Tange th. rank
fem PFC to Captain. ae
Accowiing to Irendis R, Jhocks, Searet~
aryeTransnrer of” Faw prow, VIET
NAM ¥VSEERANS AGAINST THE- WAR,
ig pol a moorberships arganizalion per se,
pet Tanstions mare as a coordinating body
wl -claaglnghouss, based it New York, for
Dy. pliwar “YletNant veterans:
1°” Bage 9 . :

the ‘hiphest

VET.

York “Clty and “a HHireshinia Day
micnoration that. alse supported

 

Cant «

Howard Levy's right. to ball awhile: his ..
| SpReHIS "Hee “pending, leafleted Now York's |

Port Authority and several airports garosd \. }

the country, and provided speakers to &
number df church; college, -
poace grotips, In all/of. those actions they

veormunity snd.

Have recolved a-growiig amount of pr

attention, inelading national radio +:
“Intoaviews,. muted discussions ars *
“ Marious individuals, and Une pec oy
have boon featured he a mule ul rows,
papers and magazines, ot

VIBT-NAM VETERANS — AGAINST
Ltih Street,
Telephone: (212) 999-0976,

4

Record of -ié dune, 190%,

Mr, FU. EE. Ms
witPESVéral other Senators, Ihave mail
numerous sfecches. in opposition to the

continued escalation of the war in. Viets -

pam, I Have tried to be as persuasive ag
Yeould; but after I read the. letters which
TL shall ask. unanimous consent to hav

“President, alodg!

printed in the Record, as a” part of my”

yoraarks, I confess {iat my arguments

have Tncked a dept of feeling and wnder~
Pgtanding which can come only from thos
rwho have actually felpated
* fighting in “Vietnam,” ’ oe
"hese letters ave by no “means

the Jelters of this character which’ I have:
~ peceived, butcihoy ave typical “and they
‘carry a conviction ani a_ concern which

seems. fo me to he unanswerable, “Phe.
young men owho whote these biters Wak
one praud-of cum Young men. ey
they are couramenas red th 4

countrsy bul’ beyond’

sirate * a

ba

“TIE WAR is prosently located at 17 last
New York, New York 10003,

let vets denoynes the war they fought'fn N.Y 19 Apr

VETS WRITE TO SENATOR FULBRIGHT

: Phe following ts front the. Corigresstoukt ~ poliey.

principle—no,

“Gacthe vest valley ove
nuundors. fell steadit

Net ona word. about) reponsible,
rensoned objections to this war by men of .
we couldn't admit that”
Bollowing the VOA broadeast T turned,
“te Radio Peking. The usual inanitics about
‘the “glorious thought of Chairman. Mao”
-ever-onthusiastic puzsuit ef VC. Part of 16
og fst compensation —— it is retveshing,

es \dflage

oatis.. Exeapt that the Communists Are
at least Vietnamese, and cannot possibly

. behave towards other Vietnamese as the --

Korcans do 7 - .
Of course, I do-my share inthe honatic
ward. E have even. been reprimanded for

after secing’ so many innocent puople safe
fer, to meet real, lve hostile forces capable

“cet striking back o>

first, ag Xk petal, ses the

How then have we

mong in bua a
Toaaeh FP Sel See Ae

 

 

 
 

in Th
Tn

     

 
 
 
 

SAS,

 
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

4

r

  

 

cre

 

 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  

artiing: uni local groups “of

mist dhe war At present: :
eoung fotmine or in the process of fort
ing at Cotumbla University, the Univers:
af fadiana, the University of

 

 

 

 

A
finland Astional

eurDit, ne

addition, a number of dactors wlio
have served In VietNam are plaining on -
mvesiniving I opposition to the wa. -

“The reason for this,” says Mr Rocks,
who spent 18 months in Vict-Nam. as 2
_ semmurdeations sergétant,
oven though we aro in contact with Viete’
- Mam vets across the conntry-—we do not
onvision ourselves or intend to became &
J national orgtnaation, We. fecl that, at this
22 anyhow, the inipatus should be at tha

ep ye fen
it

HOW EELS

an a 24 year old vetoran

Near Editor:

 

 

 

Pera:

“3g becaust<— ©

loenl level--Viet-Namt yots working to in
Tuenea and educate people in their own
aron, Hopefully, we can provide an overall
coordination fer this. But coordination: .
not command, We will assist and advise,
andi national actions provide the ground-
work feroos,, but-onty with tha. approval
of (heloeal awours and individuals.”
Abs present, VINT-NAM
> AGATINS? TEE WaATIWerking mainiy
Gnctha New. York areca unl other groups:
oun form—has: meketed LBT at two Denia”
cratic Party dinners in New York, pro-
vided four sncikets and a marching: com
. tingent at the July 4th veterans’ demon ,
stration in Philadeiphia, sponsored a vetl-
Yon for a refeveitdum on the war in Tew

\ VIET VET

VETERANS

of the Viet>

nam erigis, and have recently been -dis« .
eharged from tho Marine Corps. I stayed |
it Vietnam for a period of 15 months, I
served on the Hine for 4 months and then”
was transferred to the Ale Wing Detach+
mont, ver since my discharge from the
service T've been speaking out against the

ig which gow exists in Vietnam? and

q

Page 10

with the intervention of the United States,
T have spoken in a number of places it
the Doaton and Cambridge area, such as
_ Hatvard’ University Philosophy “Depart-
- mont, and ab meotine a set up by the Boston
Draft Resistance Group, and the Boston,”
and Cambridge Conmittes Against: the
way dn Vietnam, T have also had several
artidies wrilten up on my personal, views.

 

2 (Phe first letter follows. The

   

 
 

  

  
 
 
  
  

  

   

unanimous consent that the letters , bo

printed at this point ia the Record. «
others with

VSasheded

 

wg dasucs of

U.S. FORCES .
“ REPUBLIC. OF VIETNAS
Spear Senators I bave been preaning to
write this Ietter to you for « long while.
‘fhis evening the pressures are too great
to be ignored, oven though they are the
“result of geveral small occurrences rather
than ond large disaster, Although, in one
scage, Uh. large disaster gurtounds: me,
adding fresh dimensions of rradricss daily,
Last’ eventing T listened toa VOA broad
cast on “Viet Nant War. Dissent in the
United States.” The ssgential theme was
that those who protest the war were cither-
Communists of eranks. And coupled with,
this was'a sly xensirider that we have our:

 

 

eshare-of lunatics who wish 2 wider war,»

and that they also dissent fcom, present

about’ the “crisis in Vietnam, and lastly
LT have done a radio program. on
gonal views:

 

 

  
   

a Ehave dolcted the names of the authors’,
Joe, these letters for. thele- protection. Task.

 
 

vi

ig eR SEE

   
  
  
  
  
  

_: vee-lined boulevards.
“this, running water was piped to French

  
  
 
  
  
  

» heraes. Consequently,

: «
i offen the real ensuaill

this comfliet, the fngmiers and heir fan)
inthe Delta tangled by ale’ pirikes, (o
the: villagers: hora: Killed “and brtned. 6
by our friendly Morean morcenarics. Tver
ignoring for’a moment the massive pres:
enee af Aniericans (a thing in penelice Sere’

 

 
 

 

ay
possible}, is there any moral distinction > 1 :
hajf.jokingly pleads: “I want my countey

back.” Goodenight sin

-botween the infiltrating of “North. “Viet>
namese units and the importaiion of Kare.

WHY

ws

nam Remembered: |

jet
oe

        

the “Peari-of the Orient.” To even ihe mo:

means of transp

local facilities Indompbalibie with the cont
forts of loine, Lhey adanled Saigon to the:
.Fronth way of lite. This eroated problems
which Have plagued Vielnamese ving im
Saigort ever since. o6 te 0 Or
‘The canalg “= which had been Saigon’s
‘ phuning + were filled to niake broad, -
‘To compensate for”

Afiag and hotels, but it apparently was
not part of the “White ‘Man's Burden to
extend fhe blessings of running water to
fhe rest of the population’. ced) es

“Phe boilevatds were built presumably
‘go the Preneh could have traffic civeles
“upon which to build monuments to French
Saigon js dotted
with useless and dangerous traffic circles

 

 

 

 

x wweuld  appreel
belk supply) and
help ua form a more eff
such as YOUTE Oo

 

 

    
    
  
 
  

A883 River Street .<
° Cambridge, Mai

 

 

 

 

 
  

 

 

‘ timid dare not cross on foat..

military regime has

fourd those avens useful for. corralling
American demons

  
 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 
 

  
 
   

 

 

SAIGON IS

eel ; “py Bob litkhison, S
Saigon Is one of many Asian citiee which have at one :
‘ at casual obsetver, ft ie immediately obvious ~.
that this name no longer applies to the capital of South Vietnam, oa warns
"" At ote time, Saigon might have been-called o ¥enice of the Orient’ owing to
the canals which crossed the citi. "hese cnnals wets, for the Vietnamese, a principal
ott, and provided adequate facilities for washing. clothes, bathing, etc.
connie

Phen “the French came. Finding the ..

IS $0 t

Pal
wai GI

 

 

‘Ume ov anothar been calted

 

 adianirior erection eracererminatin apa e RHEA

Pal Wilkinsok served with the Air Fores

ix Vietneut: by (065-4. Me is noig aolive in:

‘¥els for Peace i Victim in Aailison,

Wise, VSESP veel publish a series of his ~

_trticles.
syste

 

imbedded In tham to keep out would-he - :
i tervoriste, Phe broad boulevards now care

ty milliary convoys which crowd out the
podieabs: U.S. Urepawer has provided
-Selzon with a steady intlux of refugees,

which hag Increased Saigon's population -

(come 20,000 in. Sale :

oby at Ipast 50%.
_» ‘Along with troops
‘gon, 50-60,000 In the immediate vicinity)

came the eamp-followers ~—- the har-girlg, . > ~

the prostitutes; the black market, Rela-
Hons between. Americans: and Vietnamese
dra aimest entirely mercenary; the U.S.
exploits Vietnain to further its concent
of anti-communisnt, Vietnamese trade with
 Amserigan troops te onhance their oivn
cavealthy at the. expense of their country

 

 

* survive.
oS The

zens have been stained by over a-contuty
£ misral * oo on

 

   

  

 

60 UGLY

 

“mon, Galloping inflation even stings the
Gite pocketbook and drives poor Vielnas —
cinese inte the black market in order to ~

‘Pearl of the Orient” and fis eft...

 

 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
     
       
     
     
 
 
 

 

 
   
   

 

 

Lh nan ote ete

 

 

 
 

 

 

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
   

 

 

Gonnfal .Bikenhewer
cobalt, nuvicahess, Oil, gic
to Tin cand-Lungsten div

ral Titeresta, 20
‘elves vents dates “a Di
tor, Cale MoGee, of W

pone heb. LP 8 Yomi, In-a- Senate
speneh. Web. 17, ‘OS,

ailempted to justify the
aieso Men, . Wome, and -
and Amerient boys cin these!
“The. Exhpire In Southoast Asia
ts ast large resource aven-cutside the
“ gontret of sry ona of dt
yo il Can upset 4.6 bain
flea aT bellove that the

  

hardly be. you gna a gréve Hsted in your rea, [ein fete *

ad Gajur powers on the other opens

 

 

| isolation*of Jack Amerlearis in slums and”
poverty, Knoiving’ these conditions * one’,
would imagine that the
Veossation of U8, particip
Tun war would be that of Black Americans" -
du 40 the problem of the urban Negroes ep ce
that-of some-of ihe rural Southern Negroce par iy aaigege
. fil (ie justilieation for demanding the US
withdrawal from: Viottan becoines com-
pollitig. Gne has only to consider the re-,
oeent report hy some doctors of the condi: ° “S700:
af provail in the Mississippi Delta; °° Teh 47) Mas7e0
“las. We saw homes. with ehildren who
fire Icky to: eat one meal a day oc.
who don't get milk, fruit; green vogéta~
-bies, or ment ys. ‘They have Jiterally no»
thing... ‘They are living: under such pris
rillve conditions that we<found 1¢ hard
to believe wwe woe sxamining Amerloan. :
avid refrained from. supporti i ig children of the 20th Century’ Yet the —
* ae gebperting bina. jn his U.S, goverament. sponds: billions ‘In Viet
nam, According to the reeent. Ropublican

So ec ht ney

  
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
   

loudest volee fox .
ation in tha Viets -

 
   

was right

condenined by MdcPer ine Amer.  Uons th
css am by many government offts
associaling the civil rights move=
gront with the anti-war movement; if was
claimed that geoat harm would be done
the cause of elvil zigt
Unfortunately nm

Last yaar De

nis in this country.
any Nogroes were sway~
_ oh by these arguments aginst Dr, in

antiwway activites, It is to be hoped that
recent necurrences in U.S. cities will indi-
cate to them that they have been duped, Party white paper on. the Vietnam wag.
The recent racial disturbances in some thé US. is spending “one-fifth of its on
U.S. ilies should serve to convince thom’ fre natlonal budget”,
tnlil now--reluctant eloment of the Negro conflict alone.”
community that the war in Vietnany is
hot condceive te thege invevests,
disturbances have pointed up the ho}
ness snd despair of so much of the blac
populalon of this country.
irrelevant whether the majority of Ne=’ :
. Boos Herce on ‘the immorality of Ameri: ‘thergelves from any dmplication . that ‘
ean astion in Vietumm, Dut it must sutely. they approve of of condone the Vietnam °
ba clvionsar rapidly becoming so—that « war, They should let-it. be kaown that
it ds risicwous te consantente so much
in. Vietnam when we

 

hfe‘ ineongeatty >
Hons: abroad. ta.

_ And ‘consider ‘the’ hors!
‘These of being able te spend: bill :
“make war on hornans-and not being able. ~
“to spend 20. millon dollare at hame. te: -
Th is probably make war on rate 8

Black -Amorleans should -dlsassaciate .

 

 

they object to: having ~~ Blacle
fighting mon.asked to lay down their ives
nator crisis right here in the U.S... in Vietnam, -beeause they real fi
of inadequate education and ihe freedom Js right here, right now,”

STRIPES VOR PEACE TO. SERVICES."

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

ong

Ay
co Whe foun:
delist ithe

  
  

    
  

éloc Hons: were nother,

: (hing we pew
peclibles" abe now. says

nothing;

Se he

 

 

 

   
    
  

  

 

    

  

groups

 

Ree ey pk dad BRS GN % CPE. mae . B, .
_follawing ts a direetery ef Veto thea. i peur don't sca Ong, centset
aeuns for Peace groups wo know of. Moose VGESP, Box 4590, Chieagm, Hl, 60690, and
sand In Pumedlately any corrections or we'll BUP you in foveh whh offers vets in
additions you -know should ba made. Hf yeur lecalliy so pou ean start one, Ge”

Mhuautioen safer Bbaee iskoany ©
: es ire fae ae FL aaenemnneeinaaasia
WIR Nerih gra ge. er

Milwaukes, Wisconsin $3203
A Tel Gidbaeagte |

. Yolecume~tetrranes-ine vietnam
ox 0k, University Stallion Suns
co Minneapells, Minkeigia agate. 5 or
Bese deren Velerans far Poace in, Wictwane :
-, MOD TERT RSS ° a
» Fait Lown, New Jersey oo > we
Yotsrais for Poste in Vietvom
a a Sieh AAEEG rycen,
, New York, Hewe York tent

Vielwom Molorang Aadinak the War bs :

 

Aflanta ‘Volerons for Peace

 
 
 

EeEha *
Atlanta, Georgia. 30903 ~
Poe Tele MONS ASEGRR

“RotlonCambeldna Veterans far Peace

     
   
    
  
 

 

TY RGGachvascits Aves, Agi Wes
Cambridge, Massachusetts e274
Tel CRU) BMPB8TO Ce

2eee in Vietsam

    
    
 
 

haw aggg
ages MM Coane

{OHicat 1603 Wi. Mnulison Sh, Hen. 200)
iigigrans Against She war Feo

  
    
 
  
  
 
   
   

 

it, Baiehga
Balrelts tnicldasa AY Enst Win Strech
Haw York, Mew York 10003

Voetoraas for Poace iy Visinany Tel. (21a; aagepa7g

fa HSE

B04 Charles Shree) ; B
East Landing, Michigan Nelerans. fer Pe Helnaws

- Molenans.andRescrvisis for Peace in Vietnam Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 910 Ves.
fo Katousek, Ist Floor . . cos
yes Pittsburgh Metera Bence es
nae git Jclerans. tor. Bence ;

TAG Randolol St,
Gary, Indians 46403 . ‘
“Pel Ge) tags Garacgie Mellon University
. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 18214
°. Teh, (412) SReF4aT —

    

“b be
Bry Sehonck Avenue
_ Sent Hock, New York .

eFe es ee aes
S42 Hort, Alexanitria

0% Angeles, California 20004

Regkiand faust vant Ora tfaraaktgaca °°”

Ab, Bek - .

Slestshurg,. New York Wage

. Moterans for Poaceae fi prbsure
€/8" PEACE CHRP 5

, 1544 Seventh: Avenue ae
San Blege, Cal Pat -,

= Teh Pi) Axper >

me Yeloranas bye Par en Yietiam Gan suas
oc RYSTDE, Ripnder Navarre codie =

‘pe oe G7 i :
Ris Piedras, Pucrts Rico. 00928

“ Waterand for Regee ta Vietnom ae
tL reer ee

    

  

   

  
 
 
 

©) .
304-Marion Sty 0°
Madiver, Wikeondin 53703).

   

     
   
  
 

 

 

 

- DISTRIBUTE VETERANS STARS. & ee saiien

 
    
 

“MEN IN YOUR LOCALITY! (6.00/10 W2stsbester, co, guy):
copies delivered. §15.00/1600. coples dee 4, Stszahs. feh-Bttee. In vista

‘ Street -
Heered) 2 . Mania, Mew York

   
 

       

 

  

 

 

 

    

 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 

   
            
     
 
 
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i. Heown.

i. in Asheville, N.C,

 

{es
oe SS

this stage sccondary. £
Vookly, Mare, "082:
: En the above stat

“atid NeGes, no mention Is made of. the
ofrecdom or independence of dhe poopl

. Vietnam and }
- empire |

i Rootes
General Hester served in the U.S. Army.

ronwecnilive yours; and ig now 2 -3e:
Tlesular Army olficer of Bor

he Uh
Medal, ieak Honcombat 1

ected fo the Frerich Legion of
Jlonor, Stice His felizement he has spent
B34 yrore doing graduate worl in Inter-
national Relations at the University. of
Pennsylvania, He chas been published in
leading U. S. periodicals, Tle has erdss-.

ed the nation 3 times on lecture tours.
and js cosmnitior of Oa the Brink. He lives <

“echt esr enrencemmanentttontr “
First, Towant to make ft clear that Tbe *
Heve th individual self defense and In na~
onal defense, Both must be clearly: de-
fensive, not acis of aggression. Cho indivi-
“dual mist be prepared to defend his ace -
tion before the domestic courts. And any
mitional pavernment should be required to -
secure (ke approval of the sovercigh people.
before acting, except in repelling surprise
aliack, he people in turn, should act
only out of proper respect for world
opinion and in thee vilal Interests. %
Te would be difficult to find a mire bla-
tant sidlation..of the prineiplé daid out
above ‘Than the présent Johnson Adminis _
sipation's wait against the: Vietnamese
peaplee ee Be es el oe
Yuta. Bpoach Lo the. Governors’ Confers»
Fence) Seaille, Washington, Aug. 4; 1953,
» Sgueval Elsonhower, then President), at-
fenjoinl to qustity the usd of UU. , ‘tax.
pay money {a finahelng. the- Wrench’
Cdlovial War agaigat’ the Tndo-Chinese
ds, MLet ns aasume Wwe

_ ples.

“the aldy once th

who live in the-area, Nor is’any mention |

made of the ebvious fack that ihe raw

' wyaterials of the “aren were availible to
_all customers in azcordlance with standard

Jogal trade

ee.

practices among 6 BR pe

“Cee that Colonial Feance was defea
at Dienbloenpha in

Catholic Mandatin, Nao Dink, Diem, was

fnsialled ag the. Eleenhower Adruinistras
Quisling south of paralicl 17, then”
freclom, Independence. seif-detormination, -

Uon's.

ét ediciy became. the official. propayanda

order of the day. Now. the Johnson Ad-
ministeation “hag. taker over the: Trench

Colonial War in Indo-China, and made it~ Dp on al: d.
-yiolation of the US.. Consittition, Ud: ”

into an Ainérican Uniporial War in oper

‘obligations under. the “United Natton:
Charter -and «the | Eisenhower” non-inter-
forence pledges., The whole sordid affaix

- 4s exposed and set forth ins a’ carcfully

detailed document In a scholarly article,
‘Phe Vielnam Sobby,”. by ‘i

Robert Schoo
sand William Tineke « in the July, 1063

issue of Ramparts Magazine.) me

‘The Joknson Administration has been
unable to prove ‘any. of its alleged justi(i«
cations for lta Victnamiese War. Far from.

ity. there is. strong ‘evidence S. sieuldug. ‘
gory. "Lom Wicker of tha New York Times:

peported 1d Usquire, Junie 1905, that Me
his. Tynkin ”
Quif Resolution of “acupuel,. 1964, around ..

Johngon had. boon. edrrying

for aveeks waiting for a. suitable tine:
submit: it, Don and arson in
pooklet, “Vietnam. and Beyond?” (Ou
University Press) show clearly that Bisons
ower made ono milllary commitmen'

aphatsoever. to the Saigon Quislings, Laven ~

als by’ Elscnhower’

Joyatly. Pivbaos is.
‘among. the #iWing elase in the Nation ‘State
whore It is often common practice
; to place the interest of the privileged few
“above..the soneral Interest of the public.
> TEMG Johnson's War in. Vietnam waa

Sergeant

A054) dogplte massive
toCardinal Spelliman’s ©

» bed .Bpect

 

a
mio-quoted abo ; i
that there: is ‘no lack of patriotion. among
the'Ainerican people, or shortage of young
mon willing to die for. tho true interests
of thelr country, Ho also knew that the
Johnson War in Vietnam is not dit the in-
terest-of the American people, As a matter
of fact he is on gecord as publicly opposing
o war, earlier: EE ah at
SWhat may have happened to bimy and,

Vicar, to many others, is that he and they ©
ace the loss of official face above the:

Joss of. human Hfe, and loyally te the
establishment above “any other national
hot uncommon.

System,

Duncan
Viet election,
“M/Sok Ronn.

a farce
HOGI, & metdhdecors ’
ss ("Green beret”) hero.
Sanity 10 years’ service including £8 months
in Vieinant, turned dawn a battleficld .
conmilision ae Captéli to cone home and
denounce the Viet war in tre fembod artiele

the General. told the préss, Aug. 17, 1085,

that he was rot-even “talldng about mill-:
tary ald. f. 0, Stone's Weekly, and the”
New Republic, in Iedependent* analyser
“gompletely refuted the charge mada jn the”
age

State Department's While Paper of
1965, that, North Viel
in teh

oo powers Jrot losaga: them, Towe eeaitinva 0"

“ing if tha cléctlons are not

: DS : moment tha’
“His “Administeation would: haye any >

OV aiffieulty inv raising acyeluntecr. silt :

“? foree of the required nunihor, Toaa ton-
.¥ineed that Uie best students in our col+,
SJereg and universities would promptly

“a -wolusiteer for sorvies, There ia an idealism:
- gmong our young people which Js, T fear, --

not matched by those by tiele thirties act
‘orties, Otherwise tho miulitary-lit haves
weild be cnisting.« ae! eS
“Phe sad truth is that thé informed In
aid out of government, know that. the
+ pecurity of thisaialion is not threatened By.
‘the Vietnamese people in nny way, or by
any other Asian people. “The Tohnsori Ad-
: ydintstration Ja simply waging’ a naked and
“cya wan of ageression in Vioutain in is
‘grab foe global power. ay

dee should
pack wp and lenve Vietnam, otherwise ot
soldiers there will be. dying for nothing.
Others are saying sve can't get oul what-
. have died for nothing, Both groups “miss
the point, Only the most tpinfonned can’
still: believe our aims in, Vietnam -are to
establish “an independent democracy. Bloc
{iden processes of themselves don't moke
denmwtratic processes. : 2
Zn aneloction where the largest single ~
organized group of people (asice from the
WS, Army, in Vietnam, thé NLP, is donied
notess fo the électoral process, bir definie ©
tion ft is a farce. Since it was. his same:
a.denial which: helped start the war, per
. petuating sueh denialjs not likely to stop
de pies .

"Only a. total politieal-ceonomic-sodial 6"

yevolution of Vietnamese origin, Will solve,

~ that eountey's problems, which is the very” :

the US.

U tyying. te. preven’
We TAve :

end ; ectlons, 7
‘The point mis he Urespectables’?
a Unis, Feom the beginning, ihls country:

_ has supported and. bacodraged: one cor
rapt dictatorial regime after anoth
Viethany. Our billions have: serced ta ie)

grease Hé corruption. Te these tard areas

thing
stead

controled by our troops the Ealyon regime. °—

“ayses tha arcas te Inerease thelr dictatorial

ote qrapese the likes of Jay end-Thid ca
the, Mistnnmoee thrench pyoriv. «
a :

sece of quteht 90

 

aver or those 15,000 already: killed wit

 

ine

 
 

 

!
i
4
4
|

i att ROSA DE Scie

 

seaeceyn re nen eect tah he

pofie,

 

 

 

Ws PR

Tout. Gen, Jam

aan asserting Caat he Revit not Support ohinson for to.

gleclion in 1968)" Fesigned last month from the State Democratic Advisory Council in

Passactnisetts. Pointing out that members of, the council should be ready to support
tia President, General Gavin, formerly the hoad of Army research and development, ©
InUinated that counell mentborship restrained his opposition to the war in Victnam. |
. “tt ix as! ith. great reluctanac,” road the

on, “that {have

2 cenciiitel Boat ES should disassociate mysell

from the Council. foam of the conviction

°' dhab the Counell should be fully in support
‘oat the Democralic Party and df ils leadler-

ships Noting that his views on the present

|” jnvolvemwont in Southeast Asia-are “a mint.
* tor of parblie record,” Gonsral Gavin opiaed

that sithseguant to the heavings before the

“Renate Covelan Affains Committee —~ in
“swhiolt le opposed the war boty militaritly

nod morally « “eonditions, in ty opinion,
haw cantinned te deteriorate in” Southeast
Asie’

itsebvieus that we, have been misdivecting

our resaurees and energies to Southeast.
(Asin for the past five yeays, when we
~ ghotd Rave been taking care of our do»

mesta problems at home.” ‘The man who
eg das Ambassador to, Franco under
: nt Konnedy firmly «advised the
COnAAT THEE, IA Vie of the facis, “S ¢an-
nol possibly support the Damoctatic Party -
a the Presidential election of 1963 Tf it
adberes to (ts present Southeast Asian

chief exceutive officer of Arthur DS Little,
fem, a industeial research ‘company in
Cambetlye, Muss, in his appearice be-
fate the Senate Llearings last year. stated ©

“eo pmphafienlly that all bembing of Noulty

Virtosa should cease,

Sa216 pocta:3959980E Weaga Se TOUR SET
' [ae marr ae

— he. Geneval observed, moreover, ‘that
“thin news today of the widespread busi.
ine, vieting and looting in our cies makes -

vin, atetired General who is now

by Ren val Hin (NY Regional Editor

Marching orders are o ris
Saturday, 22 Oetobed 1967,
Forces: Uunileoids of thy . 3 ‘ ‘
and indiv fduals, fed ap wilh the. Vietnant war, detuning: “Support. ow

nant — Bring them home NOW =~ ALORS Velsmins in the vanguard.

Deplopment: on. foots by |
on trains an

. The show has heat runaing tow | aver a yet ‘and a “half. Th that tine, scorn has
examined almost every aspect of the war, On Sunday, August 6, 1967 SCOPE chose

cas dts title “An Uncommon Breed’ and
‘as its gucst forner Marine Commandant
Ger. Raxid Shoup, whe has lone beon a

J-eritié of the Victhiim was. Until his an.
pearance on SCOPE ha had refused many -
alfers to write and speak uotore antiwar vt

“ RroUpS, « :

“+ But beanuse ho is & man of cour sige ane
vision, Gen, Shoup agreed te appear on oo

1 SCOPE and set forth Jbis views in

‘detail... “

» General Shoup was ancartted the ‘com

_ dceossional Medal of Honor for his bravery

during the Battle of ‘Tarawa. He sched.
under ‘three Presidents and was a aneni-

ber of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for four’ —
years belore his retirement frum the. ‘Mae
~ vines in 1963, - :

Today he Hyves almost within the shadow
of: the. Pentagon, and ds’ he -continucs te.
ponder the probloms of the work, “he's
a troubled anain.” The following. are Righe

his fron General Shoup's interview with,
ABC-TV's dohiSeali:

J SCALID. o. the view-of some of our.
ledding .penerals and military strategists » .
ever the. past years has. bec 4e avoid
fighting a dand war on: the. Asian maine’
and, Js. this td bind of war-that we are
now fighting In-Asia?, The very one Hie
our miliary leaders, by and Tange: thought
we should nob Geght?

oath cand: state that what de “how, “tran:

‘pielag cin South Viotnant,

sithalion, whith Mist adliary and naval
people, «it wis How da the served ivan

-crnest Against ever coming te yas

feve that you could

ENCLOSURE (2) to IR 5 396 0037 68

 

 
  
  
  
 
  
    
   
    
   
  
  
 
  
   
 

 

 

 

 

   
 
  

 

Sita

Ward, Pitisbureh OF

 

 
 
 
 

burah vole
“Their aekdvess ds on page 4

 

arlicle by Admiral ‘Pruc,

  

Lt Cel,

 

Rgliing a= fer peace. *

 

- Pocla: 32397501 »Page 6

 
  
 
 

UY -appearandes onthe: 20th in
maAdiniral True wil spesk' ta De.
EAA ee (eee Uegal, inmvoral and unjust Svar. being

cure’ ard Philadelphia Get, T3th iti'sha,, Wased apalnst the Vietnamese’ peopte,
ermns foe Poses In Vietuam). ‘The PIR |

© of VSESP fora “maior Conner Gitiiied the plan at a mucting

dy, USMS |
“ Uyears a Marino pilot, heads Inte fhe ate  ivhites, and not belween black

taticaygatn —« this thne on Bean musk and dnd yollows? | :
tha ratte war in Vietnam,

 

   
   

cress rec pon Wit eu Wel aor s BY
Hondas, Octs « Ghaividuad or their ow
Hy sponsored we BHP eppohents oft

   
   

     
   
    
   
   
   
  

   
  

   

mor Guatoe MeCovern £0,

: etter to Lie Veterans for Peace
Vielnany, Ghearved that: vetetens: lave
a “shecial interest in working toward
Workl peace, ineluding
Hie contliet :

nation-wide, minss': movement -eapable
alist. the | foréing the U.S, Government te end t

   
  
   
   
   
   
   

‘Overall coniimand js in the hands of the
National Mobilization Committee to End!
HAVA Ta Vieni,

   

   
  
   
  
  
 
 
 

     
 

  

nose Achoinintrative ©

 

spe ial interest in

ida Washington Aug. 25. Brochures, leaflets, ] Working foward world ponce, inclading

 

 

“ posters, ‘stickers, “buttons and. transport. | % fesolution of the. conflict In Vicia.
cand housing information are available from I wish, you well in your efforts fo
a gary and

3

  

dre Committers at 857 Broadway, New!) | belt about
“ Yorks NY. 10009 {tel 212 875-4603), oe | 19 the ee eevely:
US, “Einbasstes ‘and. Consulates in ‘vie | onan Btelhot,
tually every maior city of the world will | Gonrne McGovern

i honornbie and

  
 

      

 

   

spective countrios, <<: BST Bags ihe ayniboel ef U.S. nillitarisns,
Led by veterans of WVietnant,. Keren,

 

 

 

ed demonstraters: will mvireh from assert
bly points near Washington's Mall across - se ey t
all five bridges spanning the Potomac River.” (Conited on back page)” woe es

AEERS WT

Following the uprisings ih Delrolt, News
“ark, and numerous other, eities across the
nation, the Prosilent called for a natlon«
al day of prayer, At least ore nian too!
him sevlously. Bishop Fulton heen,
from this pulpit at Sacred Hontt Gate
in Rochester, NM, asied the questions:
“Could we not also be reconelfed with our, part of others, have we forgotten that t
“brothers in Vietnam? May we plead only - ford told us that His ‘kingdom is ‘gained

tor a reconciliation between blacks and” * by violence and the violent carry ib away?
/ Bat this vlolonce,”. continued Sheen, "Is
tobe against our own cgotism, ou hate,

  

   

Pde

ans, and beseech
fignal-and other sins’) +

  
  
   
    
  
  
 
  

 

 

“Purniny ‘back’ to Iteerial ‘violeice “thal
prompted the President's: request, the. Bie
‘shop of som@ TV fame charged: While

     

(Ret),

The Miami> In a response that olearly was far move :

sand. thirst of ethers.” No other menvhet
of the TLS. Roman Cathelie hierarchy has
taken such.a ‘forthelght position against
the President’s Vietnam policy, Ja conterst

 

 

  

 

49 the Pesce Movement’s- atlompt to co
Hist the support’ of. Mie ;

  
    
 

    
  
 

  
   
 
 
    

  

Hons to thy Great a

Py, nie 2D.
fetta. After ja Strategie oijectiver the ‘bailding cats

    
  
     
     
   
   
  
  
   
 
 
  

~ awithiess solidacity confrontations Oct, 2tst | onan
atganized by the peace forces of the re- fever thelr draniatie eilrantition with.

“On the Pentagon grounds a variety of
World Was Tt and World War 2, the mags.) | P&tee Aelivitios — picketing, dvamatie pre’ Absolutely, Rub I think you can .

senlifidns, tellles — condueted threuuhout. Hons of peoplay aiid 1 think uaiagst them:
~ the day wilh contrast sharply with the a sfeatoanany aniiliry neoyle, that arc *

  
 

iiny to pardon’ our nae

reare nightly condemning volence of the *

   
  

 

our selfishness, our isolation from the bur’
“Bensh Sua published thig photo hy Yed than the Peosident bargained ‘fox, Bishop’. dens, frustration, caros, poverty, hunger
Pross on duly 19, 1967, when Moody, ace Sheen, speaking “only as a Christian, ask.
tive iy Miami Vets for Pence, Joined thelr ed the Prosidont to announce: Sas the
demansication at a Rusk speach, -, name of God who bade us Jove. our neigh.
Cal, Moady, hotor of tho Ale Modal (with > bor with out whole heart. and soul. and c
tlusters), Distinguished Flying Cress and mind: for the. sake’ of reconciliation, To. to’ statements made by influential hawk
siher decorations, entered combat at Guae shall avithdray all our forces Jmamodiate." Cardinal Francis Spollman-of New York.
daleansl and lod VME {MN} $41, tlie Helleat ly from Southern Vietnam, se that, iv the | Bishop Sheen's scemon gave now stinule:
Adusdeon tHrat landed in dopandse-ocgupied words of Tineota, wetmay unite iu most
vo Pakiog: Mymaliing victory iy 1945. He's stilt. humbly offering our prayers aud supplica
. aR

~ “tCentinied on brek pace

 

    
   
  
      

Oe GE
C loia te males a vet.
aM, SHOUP: You seem (6
hab thoy cane TA nob aware of whether
dhey dhl ov whether thay did't, The: only
thing that Tn aware of ds: that: “the one
ho Vind: the finsi-decision, decided ta da”
hab we're now doltig. 0 oe ee
JS SCALES 7é seeing from the camnionts’ of |
“ROKE Of Me leading qonerdls aud oiittar: ;
. figures tn the vininistration today, thal | --
_ they cutiusiastically sirppart’ the. Vietnem
“potion. ts that wronyst fo os
(GES. SHOUP: I think there’s a jrvont
_ distinction, John, between Vietnam: potier
“of getttiog involved, and. Vietnam ‘poliey of
s what do we do now that we ave invelved.
Now Todon’t think that there's qomilitary |
Man Allve,-and Tohape thet there art ne.
Americans alive, (hat don't entlusivatically
Support the don “of our fevernoient -sig
Uportite “ourcdtedps that ara in’ combat
an Gad mite «

    
 

   
         
    
      
  

     

 

     
   
  
   

 

 

  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
   

 
 

 

 

 

 
  
  

 

  
 
    
  
  

 

 
 

 
  
     
  
 

  

 
 

 
  
   

S Hot now, aod. never wera, in favor of the
“<pollay af getting favelved im the gram ~> ee
warfare in South Vietnam fo the extent. 9°
that we now are. ve
oo They're ordered there, hut whether thee
should have over gone ky there inthe first
place, Tor the purpose for which we are
told they yhust be in there is what-l ques
‘Hon... Rae abt 8 ae ge
SCALL: General, al the cisk of quoting “\.
You out of context I just want to toad ana
+sentence “in thet speach that you made. .
believe that ifwe had, and would keen ..
* ong. bloody, dirty, dollar-cracked fitigers |
oul the business of these nations. go fil’,
Lf depressed, exploited people, they will,

 
  
   
 

  
  

 
 

 

 

  

 

 

 
 
  

  
 
    
   
 
   
   
  

  
  
 

areive. at a salution of their own?’
GEN. SHOUP: Tight. - coe oo. .
“SCALL: Is this the basis of your whole 2" +
vase? a , Toons
\ GEN. SHOUPL Well, I think perhaps
You could use that ag a hasis ss. :
- Durht the course 6f the intovwiaw, Gon
Shoup made mentiod of America’s failure
too to the eid of the “Hungarian Free.
ont Fichiers” In the 1956 tiprising, oud .
‘and justanosed (hia with one pretest posh
tion in Vietniinm 0 0 a
Gea, Shoup also sinted he follo Miat it
Was qwiesible for us to co-exist willy eons
mumnists, anh that he “hetleved that.

 
 

 

 
  
  
     
    
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
   
 
   

  
  
  

 

  
 
  
   

    
 

 

  

   

 

 
 

 

AW 53216 DocId:32397501. Page 2 :

 
 

* AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR

FROM :

TO
TITLE

DATE
PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT. TYPE

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :
OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

HW 53216. DocId:32397501, Page 1

 

Date: 12/06/00
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Released under the John

AGENCY INFORMATION

. Kennedy

Assassination Records
CTA ollection Act of 1992
104-10433- 10184 (44 USC 2107 Note).
JPR ases#: NU 53216 Date:

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILES

 

be—-13-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

DOD
WITHHELD

 

WEISBERG FOIA REQUEST: INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION |

REPORT: "VETERANS STARS AND STRIPES FOR PEACE! ‘open. a AN
ANTI-VIETNAM WAR MOVEMENT PROPAGANDA: NEWSPAPER RECEIVED
BY MARINE AT CAMP HANSEN, OKINAWA

01/15/68

it

VSSP

WEISBERG, HAROLD

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
UNCLASSIFIED

POSTPONED IN FULL
12/18/98

JUPRK-RHL9:F10 1998.12.18.10:33:06:403120: NBR

 

 

 
 

 

. * Mae,

; PbS doctmnent contains informa
tod ajjectiog the national defense of the
Mntted States uathin the meaning of the

 Weaplanuge Laws, Tille 18 USC, See. ORsQk ie 1 HSE ONLY
“- FO8 and 794. The transmissios or the re o + L I /
velation of its contents in any marten to : . a
“wt undutborized person is prohibited ky 2, rn oy
«beau. {Classification and Control Markings}

I. countay, COIA/TRITED STATS FE ay 8. REPORT nUMBER: os 296 0037 6A
~ suasecr POTERANS STARS & STREPSS FoR - cen j _
“BAGS (SSP), AB ANTISVISTAN AR Hove TE OF Mero. oT JAN IGG
_POOPAGATDA USSSPAPER DEDICATED TO EHDING oo oscea. Bo beet.
‘THE WAR TR VISTNAM RECEIVED By MaRIEg ap SOMO OF PAGES: BO
3. is¢ number: CAMP HARSES OXTRARA co

 

. V1 REFERENCES: None
1 4 OSTE OF INFORMATION: aptenber L967 12. oncinavon;  USHAVISVSERVO JAPAR
5. PLACE AND DATE OF ACO9 9 158 sasiayane R57 1. PREPARES ev.

6. evA.uaTiOm: source JP > qugoamation (BR

 

ie 6a
“| to Houseno.

 

| 2p. Pee

 

| CSUAVINSERTORS? Bane (e/o ond

EAVLAVSzEv0 BosTON (s/o encia)
|: PAVIBYSERTO PHXLA (w/e enels)

pp [OROGR CHAE USE ONT]

 

 

rei |

a 1396

(Classification and Control Markings) —
me en " vn 8 USED UUNTH. TAN Ba

 

 
| 3. This vos the Drak ankt-vletnen Material Searse has

ov

 

se

REAORT NO, s 306 sory.
2 Pace RO OR ee

: ee _ - oes ata : ; 2
CONTINUATION SHEET FOR "OFA ae ihe , USHAVISYSERV JA

(Chsiticatinn and Contot Maskings}

 

peoelved and 2h wee make es
2tdivds To Souren's knowleige thie da the Pres ao * iby |
capone 3m his cuenta ns Der OF BAO em rent by |

| FOR OFBEGLA Bale ONLY
4 e) 2) : an 13 > re) c : ; * {Classitication and Conti? earkings}

 

 

 

 
