 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection. Act of 1992 (44 USC ZiU7 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017

fo

, Toy ete . ¢ i sae

we - P SECRET

‘G. Reconnaissance Trips/
In addition to the attempted use of U.S. citizens as
sources of information and as agents, Soviet bloc personne]
have traveled extensively throughout the U.S. Ag ian illustration,
infiarch, 195T,|two Soviet Assistant Air Attaches Jmade as
reconnaissance through the States of Texas, New Texico , Colorado,
Utah, and Arizona. suring this trip, they exhibited interest
- dn the(Atomic Energy Commission office at Grand Junction,
“2, Coloradd, and in various Air Force bases in Colerado. they were
“+. observed(taking motion pictures fromja site on Yranklin } Jountainls)
overlooking El Paso, Texas.: Fron this point, they were able
to observe the El Faso, Texas, and Juarez, Hexico, area which
“contains a portion of Fort Bliss and Biggs Air Force Base,

 

In addition to malcing trips themselves, Soviet bloc :
officials have requested sources of the FBI to make such trips, :
On(March 23, 1961) an official of the Soviet Embassy requeste LS)
‘that a source of the FBI make an espionage reconnaissance eae
to/New London, Connecti cuty and obtain data concerning cae

tka

su WI 44 ano hace at Maw Tontone Tha.cousce was instructed

SUoMar ease We we

peak with Ga ilors \in taverns and to take a tour of ‘the C&
(Submarine pase \ cS

ric Sia secemeberntae tease mbes roe

    

He . Pechnical Data and Eeuionent

The Soviets have also utilized the Amtorg Trading
Corporation, New York City,:¢o obtain informaticn and eauiprent.
In(April, 195%) an officiat. of the Amtgrag Trading Corporation SI
yortnjor. that an FBI source purcha ase ten thovsard dollars C357)

h

 
   

worth) of electronic equipment. The Amterg official specifically
inst¥fucted the source not to obtain an export License for such :
equipment but instead to bring it directly to Amtora, It is. :
probable that the Soviets centempiated shipping.such eawipment :

-.to Russia by diplomatic pouch, thereby caircunventang Unit ed States
export laws. . :

‘ . As an example of Soviet interest in technical data i
available in the United States, an official of the Soviet ; :
Imbassy has contacted cver one hundred U.S. corpsrations for. ;
information recarding their products. He has joined two- : L
technical societics and has subscribed to fourteen technical :
publications. He has shown particular interest in steel,
glass, plastics, clectronics, and automobile manufacturers.

a I. Use of Wostaae Situations , . :

; The Sovict bloc has not hesitated to prey upon the
) fears of U.S. residents with relatives behind the fron Curtain

Ca . 7 . . os ; - a - , ; . . ‘ :
~ php SECRET , a ;

—

DoclId:32198666 Page 6
 

’ detailed tour of the Department of liealth, New York City,
individuals sent to the United States as iliegal agents.

4 Ges source to obtain Pooks cn The subject o foceanogran phy} an aan

. appropriate Government agencies./for transmittal to the Soviets.

efforts to penetrate the

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hot
DAE: 11-14-2017

wo ”
© . . nal e ‘
. et 4

Me TPP SECRET

a male and female who were born in the United States between 1930
and 1935 and had since left the United States and had not returned,
It is obvious that the Sovict' was attempting | to establish suitable
identification and backeround data to facilitate the entry and
operation or Soviet illegal agents sent to the United States.

A Soviet Counselor at the United Nations took a

in October, 1950. He evidenced extreme interest in the handling
of birth, death, aad marriages, certificates by New York City
authorities, During the toux, he was interested in obt adning:
samples of the forms used for the registration of births, deaths,
and marriages. This is another case of an attempt to secur
documents which can be used to establish identification for

 

  

F. Miscellaneous Oper rat ns

A Sovict (Assista int Naval Attach’)nas used a source sd
of the FBI to conduct nunerous espionage assignments for the:
Sovicts. For exa mple » during February, 196 he instructed C$)

U.S. geological survey |maps. of fifteen U.S. Cities. ‘Ine wana
furned over tne requested mans lafter the mans had heen cleared by 3)

 

He was then instructed to obtain maps of twelve other U.S. eit ies.

- Also (in February} pa pezechostovakian Embassy officia aics)
instructed a source of thé: FBI to obtain telephone directories :

of the Defense pepartment, the United States formation AGCHOY y :
and the International Cooneration Administration, To further it

United States Government, the(Czech’ Cs
official also suggested that the source seek employment with. ~-
the State Deparinent and USA.

  

 

 

A Soviet Attache during March, 1961, recuested that
another source of the FBI obtain a report of the Ticuse
Appropriations Committee , U.S, Congress, which deait with the

appropriation of money for the inspection of U.S, Embassies :
throughcut. the world to detect wire tapping and concealed .
microphones, :

Again in March, 1961, an employce of the Sovict
Embassy was in contact With another FBI source. He offered the
source five hundred dollars ify the source would obtain two :
classified U.S. Arny manuals for him, . :

-~6-— 7 :
ahr SECRET : a |

Docld:32198668 Page ?
 

"Released under the John-F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC Zi07 Hote;
DATE: 11-14-2017

TOP SECRET

3 a

to other potentially danyercus persons located in civilian areas
within the investigative responsibility of the milita ay services.
As an example, the Air Ferce has a pregram under which background
investigations are conducted en all Air Force milita ry personned
on active duty and applicants for enlistment or appointment Vino ~
are.either aliens or U.S. citizens with connections in

“communist-controlied countries. To date aimost all such active
duty Air force military p personnel have been identified and
investigated under*this progr am, During the vast year this. 4
program has keen extended ts include Cuba as one of the. ;
communist+controlled count EPLCS 6

 

  

i
i
t
i

Consideration is ‘being given to expanding this program
to include reserves who are nov on active duty and the Air National
Guard. Individuals in the Air National Guard and those reserves
who have mobilization assignments and are considered as ready
reservists wouid be-investigated under this program.

; Office of Special Investiogations-FBI joint counter-
intelligence coverage of Stzategic Air Coiimand missile and
manned combat elenents now anciudes 68 Straredqic Air Command
bases and +2 missii sites. This coverage includes Patrick
Air Force Base and the Air Force Missile Test Center at ,
Cape Canaveral, Fiorida, Coverace of new installations is
initiated severai months pvricr to the tine the installation is
scheduled to becone operaticnad.

 

 

cee meee tineterremnenste

 

vy services have

    
  
 

As a further exeniple s the. military P

parallel programs whach aiso include a special briefing of c
personnel who may be subject to nostage pressure . through threats i
of harn to relatives in communist. countries.
II. INTENS TT OVER AIS
FORE IC TRYERY t

A. Number _o of Offici ates :

There are in this country(1,605|Soviet and sate eitite£s]
diplomatic and official perssennel, elt ang their dependents. :
Of this.total [654] are officials and dipionats and ST) are Cst :

: ; , ;
-~3« oO :
. ; :

SO fp

teens eearemeges yeas ig

YS

DoclId:321986686 Page 5
 

 

“Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1592 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017
' wot - : ”

ty ¢ . <0 . . .

we! a

oe TOP SECRET

‘dependents. Of the total uner, (8 (19) of the individuals are C8)
Soviet officials, diplomats, and d@épéndents., Soviet diplomatic
and official personnel alone tetal (366-\ 53

It should be noted that the total number of such
personnel and their dependents has increased yearly since 1951.
In that year there were (95i\|Soviet bicc officials, diplomats, Cs7
and dependents in ihis cOuntx; The figure of (a, 60 Jrepresents CsI
- an increase of (250 Jsince July: i, 1960.C$)

; The FBI has continued its special program of intonsificd
“coverage of Soviet bloc officials in this country, and since i935
has identified[592 \Scviet bise officials as either being or acer
highly _suspectsd ef being engaged in inteilicence activities, Of_
the{ 654 oftic’ 1s statisned in the United States on June 30, pee bs
a tota 38 \were either known to be or highly gugpected os]
bein enga @d in intelliceyce operations. These /fl3el\are gener es se
-of(72\Soviet officials Aocpes satellite officials. this large
_numbér of individuals enaaqged in such activity points uo the
intense Soviet bice effert dirscted aqainst the United States

- and represents over Fixe nivegnejper cent of all Soviet poo $
officials in the United. Sta ates. ;

 

 

  

B, Soviet Bloc Intellicence Teraets

‘ ‘Soviet bioc intelligence targets include military, |
‘seientific, political, eccn rOMLG » » and technical da‘ both
-classified and unciassifi ‘
have been aggressive in ° 2 : aei
_activities, They have not hess stat £ fbenpt to develoo and
“subvert U.S. citizens, the effort intelligence
services is coordinated and guided fhe satellite
intelligence services have; been deve Loped according to the | -
Soviet pattern, their key personnel have been selected and trained

by the Soviets, and the Soviets have access to ail data obtained
by the satellites

  
   
  

Cc. Public Source Data

‘

Soviet bloc intelligence aqents ‘have taken full
a advantage of public sources of infermation, both in Government
-* and industry. information ‘has been cuilected through the
purchase of readily availiable pubsications , both ron Gevernnent
-and private industry, and-by attendance at scientific and

 

~. €echnical conventions, conftrences , and exhibits vhich are
% .. frequently conducted by industry in this country. As an cxample
; : oo 4a

TOP SECRET |

 

DoclId:32198666 Page 6
 

” Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act ot 1997 (it Use Fi07 hots;
DATE: 11-14-2017

   
   
    
       
    
    
 
 
 
  
   
  

: The Attorney General
iv Vv é

Director » FBI

 

Exhibits t, ‘3, ‘K 9
Copy of the paper due to Thirds

; Enclosures - 7 |
a ;

62-116805,

‘in memoranda Wannall: ‘to!
x . Adm. -Material , Authorization to -Release Ex
Asst, Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. ‘Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files. & Com. __
Gen. Inv. *
Ident.
Inspection

Assoc. Dity

 

 

 

 

 

 

i Intell.

 

Laboratory ~
Plon. & Eval,
Spec. Inv.

 

 

; Training

 

Legel Coun.

 

Telephone Rm.

+ Bart SUN ng Ht

DoclId:321986686 Page 2

 

 
 
 

TELETYPE UNIT (__]

 

   
 

‘ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 Usc Pity Hote;.
on nt
i

»

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

! . AGENCY INFORMATION

 

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10271-10009
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-189

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
‘TO: AG

TITLE:

DATE: 05/20/1975
PAGES: 49
SUBJECT; CC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

NEW
CLASSIFICATION: — ***"*t CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW_DATE: 11/06/1998 UPDATE DATE: 02/14/2001

“STATUS _ Redact
. RESTRICTIONS: ~_
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS: . INC MEMO, RPT, LET, LHM, NOTE

DoclId:32198666 Page 1
 

 

[ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2IU7 Hote).
‘DATE: 11-14-2017
a“,

 

nee! vy . ee
et . . ‘ — 2 : o J : :
' . ee, ; . : | e fo as ar
ve! ee Nai?

 

        
      

_ So op SECRET
; COPY NO. 2
IAL SECURITY PReGRAus
. JULY 1, 1960, THROUGH JUNE 20, 1961

 

Ne nn PREPARED BY THE

“INTERDEPARTHENTAL INTELLIGENCE CONFERENCE .
3 . Joe .

JULY 25, 1961 SS oc

   

Docld: 32198668
 

 

 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992. (44. USC 2107 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017

   

ite

TqP. SECRET.

STATUS OF U. S. INTERNAL SECURITY PRCGRANS

BACKGREWD_OF_DIPERDEPARTMSNTAL
TNTELUISENCe RENCE (iic)

 

The IIC was established on June 26, 1939, by a
Presidential Direcsive which charged the Directors of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Military Intelligence
Division of the Har Department, and the Office of Naval
Intelligence of the Navy Department with functioning. as
a committee to coordinate the investicgaticn of ali espionace,
counterespionade, and sabotade matters. Subsequent dircetives
were issued, the latest on duly 24, 1950, providing that the
FBI should take charge of investigative work in matters relating:
to espionage, sabotage, and subversive. activiti és.

On duiy 16, 1949, the National Security Council
‘granted a charter to the IiC authorizing and dirseting the
JIC to effect the coordination.of all investigation of
i i Ssabotade and subversion,

  

c
Cv ©

and other related int
Freie)

mh

 

aa
security. The Itc men ined inta
addition of the Direct investiqati
Department of the Air Force, which” department &
since the issuance of the original Fresidentiai- Directive. The

Tic has functioned under this charter as an internal security
adviser to the National Security Council concerning mattcrs

within its fieid of responsibility .

In order to clarify the responsibilities of. each of:
the IIC members, an Agreement delimiting these has been entered
into by the members, Tunis has been amended. from time to time
to take changing circumstances in ro account. The Aarcement
provides for the tree excnange among the members of ail. — ;
information of mutual interest, Tas ¥BI. is responsible for the |
investigation of all espionade, counterespionage subversion,
and sabotage anv yolving civiljans and foreiqn nationais in. -
Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and the entire.United Sta LteS
with the exception of certain areas of Alaska ‘which are: os
specifically assigned to the Naval and Air Force: members. “Bach
of the military members is responsible for the investigation. of

~1-
- d+ - dep sucrer ;

 

 

Docld:32198668 Page 4

 
