8

 

U.S. would be in a much stronger position to insist
upon adoption of a program of moderate, evolutionary
change by the ruling groups in Latin America,."'

° "The overwhelming majority of anti-Castro exiles in
this country hope for an early overthrow of the Castro
regime, The exiles feel and believe that this is realiz-
able; thus they are prepared, each on his own level, to
contribute to and participate in actions necessary to
achieve the objective for a free democratic Cuba which
would mean their return to the Island. Most of these
Cubans are convinced that U.S. leadership and active
participation in this struggle are essential for success.
Therefore, they can be expected to follow and support
the U.S. in any venture promising an early elimination

i of Castro. Direct contacts with invasion survivors and

other returnees, indicate that there is disappointment,
hurt and uncertainty as to why the U.S. did not come to
the aid of the freedom fighters; however, there is no
question that these personnel are prepared and anxious
to continue the. fight in partnership with the U.S. Exile
political leaders are also anxious to continue to press
the crusade,"'

6, The May 4 papers were considered at a meeting of the National

Security Council on May 16, 1961. The record of the actions at that meet-

ing, approved by the President, indicate the following actions with

AUVdGIT GHoOd “Y GIVYID FHL WOwd AdODOLOHA

respect to ''U.S, policy toward Cuba’:

° "Agreed that U.S, policy toward Cuba should aim at
the downfall of Castro, and that since the measures
agreed below are not likely to achieve this end, the
matter should be reviewed at intervals with a view
toward further action,"

° "Noted the importance the President attaches to publi-
cation in the Free World press of the terroristic
actions of the Castro regime, and to possible political
actions to end the current terror,"

o "Noted the President's direction that the Central

Intelligence Agéhey;-with-othér departments, should

 

 

HW 55510 DoclId:32105603 Page 9
TOP-SECRET ~
make a detailed study of possible weaknesses and ‘
vulnerabilities in the elements which assert con-
trol in Cuba today."'

7, On November 30, 1961, President Kennedy sent a memorandum to
Dean Rusk, Robert McNamara, John McCone, Robert Kennedy,
Maxwell Taylor, Edward Lansdale and Richard Goodwin setting forth a

"summary of the major decisions which have been made in regard to the

Cuba Operation.'' The President's memorandum went on,to state that

"We will use our available assets to go ahead with the discussed project
in order to lelp Cuba overthrow the communist regime.'! The addressees
of this memorandum became known at the "Special Group Augmented,"
McGeorge Bundy was a regular participant in meetings of the Special
Group Augmented, The United States Information Agency was also

regularly represented at Special Group Augmented meetings. The Special

Group Augmented met formally on at least 26 occasions between the end

of 1961 and October 26, 1962,

AMWdadIT Guod °Y aATWwuaS AHL woud AdODOLOHG

8. The program administered by the Special Group Augmented was initially
known as ''The Cuba Project." It later was referred to as "Operation
Mongoose.'' The objective of the Cuba Project was described ina

January 19, 1962 memorandum by General Lansdale as ''to help the Cubans
overthrow the Communist regime from within Cuba and institute a new

eo

government with which the United States can live in peace." It stated ''the

 

operation is to bring about themes “the Cuban people... . The revolt~
.

v ee tee cee

HW 55510 DoclId:32105803 Page 10
 

7

although admittedly without the support it now enjoys.
Further, by using Castro as a martyr, it might be
possible to generate at least a temporary support for
his successor."

"The survival of the Castro regime would probably not
in itself pose a direct threat to the immediate security
of the U.S, The continued existence of the regime

‘would, however, fundamentally alter the terms of Latin

American relations with the U.S. U.S. restraint in
allowing the regime to survive would be interpreted
generally by Latin American ruling groups as evidence

‘of weakness and a demonstration of U.S. unwillingness

to use force against a Soviet-backed government. This
would be true despite the frequently asserted opposition
of Latin American leaders to U.S. interventioninthe —
affairs of any Latin American country and their refusal
to take joint action to quarantine Cuba."

"Aside from its direct effect upon U.S. prestige in the
area, the survival of Castro would have a profound

effect on Latin American political life. It would set the
stage for political struggle in terms long promoted by
Communist propeganda in the hemisphere, with the issue
drawn between "popular" anti-U.S. forces and the ruling
groups alled with the U.S, Governments willing to co-
operate with the U.S. would be faced by political leaders
promising an immediate remedy to social wrongs through
seizure of property and overturn of the society, Evolu-
tionary reform and improvement over a period of years,
even at an accelerated pace, would be discounted as
extremist leaders piayed on mass bitterness and distrust
of the ruling groups. In these circumstances, political
stability in Latin America would be seriously jeopardized.

'In the atmosphere produced by Castro's survival, U.S.
efforts to promote social progress would encounter new
difficulties as political leaders withheld their cooperation
for programs involving domestic sacrifices and attend-

ant political risks. In the circumstances the U.S. Govern-
ment would have to he prepared to underwrite huge welfare
and economic development programs and to involve itself |
directly in their success, always under some threat of
withdrawal of cooperation by the Latin American govern-
ments, On the. other: f£ Castro were eliminated, the

 

A

HW 55510 DoclId:32105603 Page @

 

AUWdGIT G4od “a AIWUAD AHL Woda AGODOLONA
 

strive to develop a creditable doctrine based
on self-defense against indirect aggression
which would justify more drastic action, and
we should seek to have that doctrine generally
accepted by world opinion, At the same time,
we should seek to continue our efforts to es-
tablish a multilateral base for action."!

° "We must immediately develop a longer-rangé program

for these nations, This includes the organization of a
Democratic alternative to Trujillo and Duvalier. Such
a group can be formed basically out of exiles since there
is little opportunity for opposition or potential opposi-

: tion to exist within the framework of the Haitian and

: ; Dominican regimes, though possibilities appear to exist

‘ in the Dominican Republic. When the formation of
Democratic alternatives is well under way, we should
develop and begin to put into effect a plan for acceler-
ating a transition from the regimes of Trujillo and
Duvalier, In this way the timing and initiative on re-
placement will be ours, and we will gain the tremendous
propaganda advantage which will accrue to us as a result
of participation, however, indirect, in an effort to elim-
inate these dictatorships. The methods whereby this can
-be accomplished have not yet been explored.

''In this connection, we should step up our campaign
against tyranny in the hemisphere and, wherever pos~
sible, couple Trujillo and Castro,"

AUVAGIT GuOd “HY ATVWYIS FHL WOUd AdODOLOHA

(It should be noted that Trujillo was assassinated 27 days

Four 2 YOL1 \
LAY 30, Lyi;

   

° 'A political vulnerability of the regime lies in the person
of Castro himself. It is not clear whether the regime
could continue to operate for long without him. There is
no question that the bureaucracy operates relatively
freely and probabiy makes many decisions without con-
sulting Castro. However, it is equally certain that the
Castro personality and his appeal to the Cuban people is an
important element in maintaining popular support for the
regime, If Castro were removed from the scene, the : :
regime might collapse for lack of this central rallying
point, Onthe other hand, the bureaucracy might now be

ed that it could function independently --

  

 

 

so firmly entrench

 

HW 55510 DoclId:32105603 Page 7
 

of Communism and Anti-Americanism constitutes a

real menace Capable of eventually overthrowing the
elected governments in any one or more of weak Latin
American republics. There are only two ways to view
this threat; either to hope that time and internal dis-
content will eventually end it, or to take active .
measures to force its removal. Unless by "time" we
are thinking in terms of years, there is little reason to.
place reliance on the first course of action as being
effective in Castro's police state. The second has been”
made more difficult by the April failure and is now pos-
sible only through overt U.S. participation with as much
Latin American support as can be raised, Neither al-
ternative is attractive, but no decisionis, in effect, a
choice of the first.

“While inclining personally to a positive course of action

against Castro without delay, we recognize the danger of

dealing with the Cuban problem outside the context of the

world Cold War situation. Action against Castro must

be related to the probable course of events in such other

places as Southeast Asia and Berlin which may put simul-
taneous claims on our resources.

"It is recommended that the Cuban situation be reappraised
in the light of all presently known factors and new guidance
be provided for political, military, economic and propaganda
action against Castro."

AUVdadIT G4od “a GTwaao FHL WOUT AdODOLOHA

5. The record of actions of the National Security Council meeting of
April 29, 1961 ''noted the President's request'’ that the Defense study of
the military training of Cubans" be coordinated with "further proposals
from the Department of State with respect to the broader aspects of the
. Cuban problem." On May 4, a series of papers captioned "Cuba and
| Communism in the Hemisphere" were circulated to the NSC members

(President Kennedy, Vice President Johnson, Dean Rusk and Robert

 

McNamara) as well as the Secréti the Director of the

HW 55510 DoclId:32105603 Page 5
Bureau of the Budget, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs and thé” Director

of Central Intelligence.

5

The papers made the following points:

o "There is no sure way of overthrowing Castro short
of U.S, military intervention, There is a possi-
bility, although a slight possibility, that lesser
measures -- covert and overt -- might result in
the overthrow of the Castro regime from within,
As long as Castro thrives, his major threat -- the
example and stimulus of a working communist
revolution -- will persist,"

: o "The cost of eliminating Castro by military inter-
vention would be substantial at the present time and

under present circumstances. These costs might

include significant loss of life and other casualties
and would severely endanger the U.S. position of
leadership inthe Free Werld. It is our judgment
that these costs outweigh the advantages of interven-

tion,"

In view of these considerations, it is the recommenda-
of the Task Force that:

HW 55510 DoclId:32105603 Page 6

"Vy

"2)

3)

4)

We should not undertake military inter-
vention now.

We should make no statements or take no
action that would foreclose the possibility
of military intervention in the future.

We should work to reduce the Castro threat
through measures discussed in the balance
of this paper -- thus seeking to avoid the
need for more drastic and costly action at
some time in the future.

We should attempt to reduce the costs of in-
tervention should it become necessary. There
is not a great deal the United States by itself
can do along these lines as a matter of delib-
erate policy. We can, however, plan for
various contingencies so that intervention will
be sufficient and more effective. We should

  
 

 

AUVdGIT GHOI “WY GIWYID AHL WONT AdODOLOHA
178-10003-10333 178-10003-10295

178-10004-10215

CASTRO

1. As set forth in detail elsewhere, the Central Intelligence Agency was
involved in assassination plots against Fidel Castro beginning as early

as late 1959 or 1960, These plans arose at approximately the same time
as preparations were underway for the Bay of Pigs. The plans involved

a number of bizarre schemes and, in at least one instance, involved some
contact with organized criminal elements. Among the means considered

were poison, botulism pills, and the use of Cuban Exile Groups. There

is evidence to indicate that Allen Dulles was aware of these early efforts

to develop plans to assassinate Castro and authorized them. It is unclear

whether other officials of the Eisenhower or Kennedy Administrations

were aware of these early plans.

2. The Bay of Pigs operation occurred between April 17 and April 19,
1961, Following that unsuccessful operation, President Kennedy directed
Maxwell Taylor, Robert Kennedy, Arleigh Burke, and Allen Dulles to
"study our governmental practices and programs in the area of military
and paramilitary, guerilla and anti-guerilla activity which fell short of

outright war," paying special attention to the lessons which could be

learned from the Bay of Pigs operation. /

(

3, During the course of the Taylor group's review of the Bay of Pigs

operation, the FBI notified Robert Kennedy, in a memorandum dated

 

May 22, 1961, that it rad > SER DBP reicis Edwards, CIA Director

Q
i

 

“HW 55510 Docld:32105803 Page 2

 

AUWdGIT Guod "a GTWaID AHL WONT AdODOLOHA
AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

MATHENY
178-10004-10215

ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION SERIES

DAVID BELIN'S SUMMARY REPORT

 

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

Document Information

WH
BUCHEN, PHILIP

aco of 1992
Pase#t: NW 55510 Date:

CASTRO

06/07/1975
35

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
ASSASSINATIONS, FOREIGN LEADERS
ORGANIZED CRIME
OPERATION MONGOOSE
NSC

MC CONE, JOHN

BAY OF PIGS

CARIBBEAN SURVEY GROUP
CIA

CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS
CUBAN EXILES

DULLES, ALLEN

EDWARDS, SHEFFIELD

FBI

HOOVER, J. EDGAR
KENNEDY, JOHN

KENNEDY, ROBERT
LANSDALE, EDWARD

REPORT
Top Secret
Consulted
Withhold
08/10/1993

Attached to 1781000410214.

8/27/20 1

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Lssassination Records Collection
(44 USC 2107 Note).

 

 

HW 55510 DoclId:32105603 Page 1
 

of Security, of Agency contacts vith Robert Maheu and Sam Giancana
with respect to ''anti-Castro activity, " "clandestine efforts in Cuba"

and "CIA's clandestine efforts against the Castro government."

Mr. Edwards advised the FBI that "since this is ‘dirty business! he could

- not afford to have knowledge of the actions of Maheu and Giancana in
\ ;

pursuit of any mission for CIA." The FBI memorandum added that:

“Colonel Edwards advised that only Mr. Bissell (Deputy
Director of Plans, CIA) and two others in CIA were.
aware of the Giancana-Maheu activity in behalf of CIA's
program and that Allen Dulles was completely unaware of
Edwards! contact with Maheu in this connection, He
added that Mr. Bissell, during his recent briefings of
General Taylor and the Attorney General in connection
with their inquiries into CIA relating to the Cuban situa-.
tion told the Attorney General that some of the CIA's
associated planning included the use of Giancana and the

underworld against Castro."

tt should be noted that Mr. Edwards and Lawrence Houston, then General

Counsel of the CIA, briefed Mr. Kennedy again almost a year later, on

AUVdGIT GUOd “HY ATWYaD AHL woud AdOOOLOHd

May 7, 1962, onthe Agency's contacts with the Mafia, betinning in August
and September 1960, concerning Castro. This briefing was apparently initiated b

the CIA, The relationship with Sam Giancana was discussed in detail.

There is no indication that the Attorney General mentioned either the

May, 1961 memorandum from the FBI or the briefing he and General

Taylor had received the year earlier from Mr. Bissell, Mr. Edwards ole

 

HW 55510 DoclId:32105603 Page 3
‘has stated that Mr. Kennedy did not disapprove of any of the atfidng

taken in the past. Mr. Houston has testified that:

"We went down to brief Mr. Kennedy on the full story
(that the CIA) had set up a project with its aim the demise
of Castro, that the project had fallen through, that these °
following people were involved, and we gave them thé
names, and this is what made him unhappy, because at the
time he felt he was making a very strong drive to try to
get after the Mafia. And so his comment was to us that if
if we were going to get involved with the Mafia, in the
future at any time, to make sure you see me first,!!

4. On June 13, 1961 General Taylor's group reported to the President.
The report included no mention of the prior CIA activities with respect

to assassinating Castro. The group's recommendations included:

"In the course of its work, this Group has been exposed
to the views on Cuba of many U.S. officials and of indi-
viduals, Cuban and U.S., who have been close to the
Cuban problem. We have been struck with the general
feeling that there can be rio long-term living with Castro
as aneighbor. His continued presence within the hemi-
spheric community as a dangerously effective exponent

AUWdGIT CaodT “aA AIWaAD AHL WONT AdODOLOHA

 

HW 55510 DocId:32105603 Page 4
