 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 Usct 2107 Hote).

DATE :« 11-14-2017

. SECRET

relations of even long-standing allies, much less those of former
enemies or neutrals. Uncertainties in this arena may adversely
affect evolving relationships in others. When the relationships
in question are in a state of evolution, such as those between
Czechoslovakia and the United States, the i t of such a
disclosure may prove especially harmful. Pilih

Second, if we declassify today the investigative
techniques that we use when targeting foreign establishments,
officials, and agents, we may not under prevailing classification
principles keep classified the same information tomorrow.

Thus, even though the consequences of a seemingly innocuous |
disclosure--such as the file numbers from the "search slips"
here~-may be well understood in a particular context, assessing
their impact from all other relevant perspectives is difficult at
best. If the file numbers in question are released, then future
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests for files under that
number will have to be processed, resulting inevitably in more
and more information from the file being released. (U) ;

Further, if we declassify our use of wire and telephone
interceptions, to investigate Cuban and Czechoslovakian officials
and establishments in this instance, then all other uses of. the
same techniques on the same officials in other situations may
prove impossible to classify in the future on the grounds that
disclosure would compromise foreign relations. Put differently,
once we discard the policy against officially acknowledging our
use of particular investigative techniques against specific
foreign establishments and agents, we can no longer use it to
justify withholding similarly sensitive information in the
future. Just as importantly, once the policy is breached, we
may not be able to use it to shield our use of similar techniques
on other countries which we target for surveillance. The same
issue, for example, can be expected to arise with regard tg our
investigation of other members of the former Soviet bloc, [erance, cs
Venezuela, Israel) and a large number of other nations. ¢)

_ We are not alone in maintaining this posture. To our
knowledge, no other country officially acknowledges using
specific investigative techniques to target the establishments or
officials of foreign countries within their territory or
elsewhere. A W

 

5 See Fitzgibbon v. CIA, 911 F.2d 755 (D.C. Cir. 1990).

SECRET
8

Docld:323212717 Page 7
 

 

 

Releaséd under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colléction Act of 1992 (42 Us 2107 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

PETITION FOR POSTPONEMENT
UNDER
SECTION 9(d)
OF THE
PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY
ASSASSINATION RECOPNS COLLECTION ACT OF 1982

This petition requests, on behalf of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation (FBI), the President to exercise his authority,
under Section 9(d) of the President John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992' (the Act), to postpone public
disclosure of portions of five documents ordered released by the
Assassination Records Review Board (Board). Copies of the
documents are attached at Tab A. Some of the documents are ;
classified; portions ordered disclosed by the Board which the FBI
seeks to protect are highlighted in yellow. (Uv)

The Board's determinations concerning disclosure of the
information in question are set forth in a letter, dated .
May ist. A copy of the Board's letter is attached at Tab B; it
is not classified. Under Section 9(d) of the Act, the President
has the nondelegable authority to require postponement of
disclosure under the standards set forth in Section 6 of the Act.
(0)

The Standard for Postponement
Per Section 6 of the Act, disclosure of assassination

records’ or particular information in such records may be
postponed if there is clear and convincing evidence that --

on: PR ptt

 

GS buy-suyjh-
OG)
scm Gr
44 US.C. § 2107, note.

© £

2 Defined by Séction 3 of the Act to mean “a record that is related to the assassination of President
Jobn F. Kennedy, that was created or made available for use by, obtained by, or otherwise came into the
possession of .. . any Executive agency... .” .

SECRET

Docld: 32321217 __ Page 5 a . . 2
 

“Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USc 7107 Hotes.

DATE:: 11-14-2017
| C O
\

SECRET

Document 10001 is an internal FBI document. It
describes some information provided to the Bureau in 1968 by a
member of the Dallas County (Texas) District Attorney's Office
concerning Mr. Mark Lane, an author who is often critical of the
FBI's performance in investigating President Kennedy's
assassination. The information, which we seek to protect from
disclosure for Mr. Lane's sake, depicts Mr. Lane involved in what
is described as a "masochist rites in which he appears "nude,
with his arms taped behind hin, sexually aroused, and his sex
organs being tortured." (U)

Document 10130 relates information concerning the
issuance of a visa to a Mr. David P. Welch that we obtained by
intercepting teletype traffic between the Czechoslovakian Embassy
in Washington, D.C., and the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Relations
in Cuba. The same teletype line was also used by the Cuban
Mission to the United Nations in New York, New York. We seek to
postpone disclosure of a dozeh words identifying the involvement
of the Czechoslovakian Embassy and Cuban Ministry in the
transaction. (Q) wu) .

Document 10414 and document 10076 are related.
Document 10414 quotes two New York file numbers with the file
captions: "Czechoslovakian Intelligence Activities in the United
States," and "Czechoslovakian Diplomatic Activities in New York."
Document 10076 consists of two "search slips" on Clay Shaw. The
two postponed file numbers are the FBI Headquarters numbers
relating to the above New York files. Although the file captions
are not on the search slip, we seek to protect these headquarters
file numbers from disclosure, along with the New York file
numbers and captions, because of matters contained in the files.
Mr. Clay Shaw's name appears in both documents, and was obtained
as.a result of telephonic surveillance.of the Czechoslovakian
Consulate General. The documents to which the headquarters file
numbers pertain contain summaries of activities overheard on this
technical coverage. (QQ w\

Document 10248 is another "search slip" containing a
file number which we seek to postpone. The subject of the file
to which the number pertains is Colonel L. Horak, the Military
and Air Attache in the Czechoslovakian Embassy in Washington,
D.C., from 1964 to 1968. This particular file contains
information on attempts by Colonel Horak, by letter and by
telephone, to obtain counter-electronic surveillance equipment
and "bugging" equipment from a Mr. G. Novel, whose name is also

on the slip. (HU)

 

SECRET

Docld:323212717 Page 6
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (42 USC Til? Hotes.

DATE: 11-14-2017 OC C):

SE
May 28, 1996

'

f.
The Honorable William J. Clinton
President of the United States - SbbV-3 ode
Washington, D.C. 20500 ©

3) es

For the reasons set forth in detail in the enclosure,
this letter requests that you: exercise your authority, under
Section 9(d) of the President John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992, to postpone public disclosure of
portions of five documents ordered released. by the Assassination
Records Review Board. (U)

Dear Mr. President:

As I indicated in my letter to you of May 10th, the FBI
has cooperated extensively with the Board and made the broadest
disclosure of documents in our history. We have withheld very
little, deferred to the Board whenever possible, and appealed
only when vital national interests would be compromised by the
release of certain information. (U)

ClassitNigd by: 38556
Reason:
Declassify ‘pn: Xl

 

 

1 - Director 1 - Mr. Lewis 1 - Ms. Keeley

1 - Mr. Kennedy 1 - Mr. Collingwood 1 - Mr. Divers

1 - Mr. R. Bucknam 1 - Mr. K. O'Brien 1 - Mr. P. Kelley

1 - Mr. Bryant 1 - Mr. Shapiro 1 - Mr. D. Evans
Ceo. 1 - Ms. Morris 1 - Mr. Maddock 1 - ALU Library
Sona 1 Mr. Perry 1 - Mr. Bowman 1 - ALU Tickler
Asst. Dies AN . VAR

. Pl

 

DoclId:32321217 Page 2
 

 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 3i07 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017 JFK Assassination System Date: 3/31/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10376-10375

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 62C-HQ-1029205-1190

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI >
FROM: HQ
TO: WH
TITLE :

DATE: 05/28/1996
‘PAGES: 12

SUBJECTS :
_ JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: — 1B; 1C;3
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 04/27/1999

OPENING CRITERIA : . INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC PETITION

a SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSFFeeeSSeSSeeeeeeeeeeee
v9.1 36
| DocId:32321217 Page 1
 

 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USt Fi? Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017 O : O

. sateen
The Honorable William J. Clinton!

. In this instance, we asked the Board to postpone
disclosure of selected portions of 69 documents. The Board did
accede to our request in a few cases but ordered most of the
remaining documents to be disclosed in full. After carefully
considering the interest of the public in disclosure against the
harm that would result from release, we feel constrained to
appeal the disclosure of information in five documents. (U)

Disclosure of information in four of the documents
would reveal investigative or surveillance techniques used to
gather important information from foreign countries. Disclosure
of this material would compromise those techniques and impair
foreign relations. Release of the information in the last
document would severely invade the privacy interests of a private
citizen and subject him to public ridicule and embarrassment with
no discernable contribution to the public's understanding of the
circumstances surrounding President Kennedy's assassination. (U)

I regret the necessity of appealing the disclosure of
this information so soon after forwarding you our earlier appeal.
I cannot in good conscience, however, permit this information to
be made public without requesting you to fully consider the
adverse ramifications of its release. (U)

I also want to express my deep concern about the

Board's habit of making public comments concerning these appeals.
At the time of our last appeal, the Board issued a press release,
either believing that their-arguments would be better received in
another forum or hoping to bring public pressure to bear on the
White House, and thus influence your decision-making. I believe
it would be more appropriate to address our genuine differences
on the merits, pursuant to the legislation which created the

Board. (U)
Sincerely,
Louis J. Freeh
Director
Enclosure

sere
° . ._ SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHED
UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED FROM CLASSIFIED ENCLOSURE

--2-

‘Docld: 32321217 Page 3
 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC Fil? Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017 eo O

secher
The Honorable William J. Clint

on:

1 - Honorable Warren M. Christopher
The Secretary of State
U.S. Department of State
Washington, D.C.

1 - The Honorable Jamie S. Gorelick
The Deputy Attorney General.
U.S. Department of Justice
Washington, D.C.

1 - Mr. David G. Marwell
Executive Director —
‘Assassination Records Review Board
Washington, D.C.

NOTE: By letter of 5/1/96 the Executive Director of the JFK
Assassination Records Review Board notified the FBI of the
Board's determination that certain FBI records should be released
to the public. Because the FBI believes that some of these
records should not be released, it is necessary to appeal their
release to the President.

 

 

 

laraciy Alsen

fi Ketnaiion Giese
Gon Canad PEON Parcel cong ise

 

 

shour
“ SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHED
: UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED FROM CLASSIFIED ENCLOSURE

-3-

,

DoclId:323212717 Page 4
