-4-

failures by the introduction of biological agents which would appear

 
 
 
  
      

 
   
  

to be of natural origin. Mr. Bundy said that he had no worries about
any ‘such sabotage which could clearly be made to appear as the result
of local Cuban disaffection or of a natural disaster, but that we must |
avoid external activities such as release of chemicals, etc., unless

‘they could be completely covered Up. yee rem argent emer

  

5, A suggestion was made that small explosives or incendiaries which
could be distributed to Cubans should be infiltrated. General Carter

explained that the problem is not one of such supplies, since they can

be easily improvised, but rather that the people have shown no inclinatior

to use such-materials despite many exile claims to the contrary.

6. It was-suggested.that.the matter..of.attacking and harrassing of

Soviet personnel within Cuba should be considered.

7, The Attorney General and Mr. Bundy said that no reprisals against

exiles who undertake active operations on their own are contemplated.

8. -It was suggested that the possibilities of counterfeiting be looked

into further.

9. General Carter urged again that a decision be reached as to how
much latitude would be allowed the operating elements of the government,
within broad policy lines. The Chairman indicated that it would not be

_a simple matter to delegate responsibilities of this kind to any great

degree. : .

10, Mr. Bundy then raised the basic question of the entire spectrum

of other contingencies beyond those envisaged in the MONGOOSE program.

Photocopy ~~”

from
HW 54214 Docld:32105754 Page 5 Gerald R. Ford Library
HW 54214

He mentioned as examples what the’ U.S. response should be in the event

ef a revolt and whether or not a naval blockade should be mounted.

-The Group agreed that such planning, in addition to the military continger

’ plans already prepared, tiust be pursued.

Although recognizing an this type of activity is not within the
ipa
MONGOOSE framework, Mr. Bundy meee that (General Lansdale's group,
a“ we
particularly the State representative, wo do the initial exploration

, of possibilities for later consideration by the Special Group, the

Secretary of State and higher authority. On the other hand, General
Carter felt strongly that 1£ General Lansdale and his associates

were given the responsibility for developing the spectrum of possible

; decisiongof this kind, it would inevitably detract from the time

available for MONGOOSE operations. Thie metter was left open for further

-consideration at a meeting next week.

00~ Gu Paved - Geared ucleles- tem -

Protocepy

fro
Gerald R. Ford Library

Docld:32105754 Page 6
i)
a
—J
—]
7
Loa]
i]
—)
—)
_
iJ
ra)
~
al

 

178-10004-10264

Py oan eee er or) . Cr
DBAFT MONGOOSE Minutes - 9/6/62

ae rr

‘MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD . . te otN
>

SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group (Augmented) on
‘Operation MONGOOSE, 6 September 1962

PRESENT: Mr. McGeorge Bundy; the Attorney General; Mr. Martin;
Mr. William Bundy, General Decker, General Lansdaie and
General Harris; General Carter; Mr. Murrow

l. Sabotage eration .

General Carter reported that information should be available by

Sunday as to the success of this .previously-approved operation. Mr,
. Bundy requested that the White House be informed as soon as the

dnformation is obtained,

2. General Lansdale commented in general on his paper of August 3ist.

“He -noted that some of the-operational..representatives had -questioned

Evade

- whether this was responsive to the changed situation chgenderad by the

4ssuance of NSAM 181, but said that ‘this plan had been prepared within

tthe Eramework of the previously-approved guidelines (those of August 16).

.Mr. Bundy noted that most of the paperwork in response to.NSAM 181 has
_ been done and the President's statement of Tuesday night had clarified
-the situation to a considerable degree. He thus felt thatthe approach

- taken in the August 31st paper was satisfactory.

“3. The following specific comments were then made on Activities

lasted in the paper: (It should be noted that final approval was not

.piven to the paper at this meeting.)

a. Mr. Martin said that number 20 (balloons) was tricky and that

the thought a very careful look should be taken when a specific proposal

a a? oy
UNMARKED - Gerald R. Ford Library
r NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION oe

_

HW 54214 Docld:32105754 Page ‘2
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 8/27/201

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

HW 54214 Docld: 32105754 Page 1

Agency Information

MATHENY
178-10004-10264

SSC SERIES

DRAFT REPORT--APPROVAL OF QUOTATIONS (2)

Document Information

NSC

RECORD

Feleased under the John F-
ennedy Assassination Records
ollecrtion Aer of 1992 (44

Sc 2107 Note). Case#: NU

 

MINUTES OF MEETING OF SPECIAL GROUP (AUGMENTED) ON MONGOOSE, 9/6/62

09/06/1962
5

CUBAN EXILES

OPERATION MONGOOSE
CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

MEMORANDUM
Unclassified

1c

Redact
08/11/1993

Unmarked but probably TOP SECRET.

 
 

-2-

is prepared. After considerable discussion, it’ was agreed that
details should be presented to the Group, to include the content of
the leaflets which would be dropped, and specifics as to the method
and place of launching, the technical details of the release of
‘leaflets, etc., etc.

b. Mr. Martin felt that number 25 ("discovery" of caches of
arms) involves an important aspect of timing. He said, and the Group
agreed, that any such action should be coordinated with U.S, objectives

toward Cuba rather than confusing it with activities in connection with
a third country. Mr. Bundy emphasized that any such undertaking should
be done with: the-idea of providing: a-pretext.-for further action,

c. In answer to the Chairman's question, Mr. Murrow, supported
by State, said that Radio Swan (number 23) should be continued even
though it is not entirely effective. This led into a discussion of

' the possibilities of intrusion into radio and TV channels in Cuba. Mr.
Murrow explained the far-reaching reactions that the Cubans could mount
against U.S. radio stations, and said that he felt on balance it would.

* not be profitable to provoke this kind of electronic warfare. The Group

: asked, however, that a detailed paper on the pros and cons of such
intrusions, to include the legal aspects involved, be prepared,

d. At General Carter's suggestion, number 21 (propaganda directed
at Bloc personnel in Cuba) was assigned to USIA and CIA, rather than

- just to the latter.

e. On number 28 (sabotage of assets outside of Cuba), the purpose

was changed from crippling to harrassing Cuban commerce.
: . Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library

HW 54214 DoclId:32105754 Page 3
#, General Carter pointed out that reference to support of all
Cuban exile groups (number 48) ds -tmpractical, Whe ward was changed
to selected. :

‘Mr. ‘Martin cautioned ‘that results af number 50 (actions to

be ‘undertaken ‘by ‘other ‘Hemisphere governments) ‘would mot ‘be expected

. wvernight. .

. : -th. General Carter wrged thet, dm connection wwaiitth mumber 22
(submarine ‘broadcasts)., Generail Lansdale should ibe given ‘more Latitude

- in working wp other deception possibilities. Mr. Bunity felt, on the

other ‘hand, that particularly iberamse of the pessilbike Guban counter-

_ MeRSUTER wsiliizch thad been outiinredl iby Mr. Murrow, tthe Group should look

at other possibilities im some detail. .

a. General Carter fellt that a @etermination sheuild ‘be made as
tho ‘how Gar tthe U.S. is prepared ttm go in economic lhanranssing actions.
He emphasiized that sabotage operations such as thnse wnder cnumber 27°
will mot iin tthensciwes ibe especially effective in

(en elt ia

See BF ed Mey

 
 

nonomy.

    
  
  
  
     
   

 

4, The Group tthen turned ito a discussion of mumber 32 (agricultural
sabotage). General Carter emphasized ‘the extreme sensitivity of any

such operation and the disastrous wesults that would flow from some-

‘thing goimg wrong,, jpartiiouleriby iF there weme Gbvicouws attribution to

the U.S. He went-on tho say, ihowever,, that iit would lbe possible to

‘wocompligh tthis :purpose ‘by methods mone isubtile ‘than ttitose indicated in

ithe paper. He mentioned specifically ithe possibility af :producing crop

SORE EE OR RETR ES,

Photocopy
ft

rom
Gerald R. Ford Library

HW 54214 DoclId:32105754 Page 4
