ete 7 43)
retary bf the Seaboard White Citizens Council of Washington. Asa ‘

penerssoemeemennes
further aitkto local law enforcement agencies, the FBI has hres a series ;
— x — A 7 i
4 i
of special conferertees for November and December, 1958, to discuss our '
recs ey | ety
a ;

cooperanye services vegeins bombings bombings and top of bombings against

religious and cligious and educational institut, Sf

Our_entry into these cases 4 iiss new level is not to be interpreted
i

as an attempt on our part to ustirp the jurisdiction%of local authorities
Rema es : S on antl

      
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
    
   
   
  
 
 

To give the

<=

ene enentent srt REE AT RAMTTURN ANAT Acree mane eee oy

FBI this jurisdiction would relieve local governments of the basic responsibility

& ‘
to maintain law and order, and the ultimate responsibility rightfully rests at the ‘
> ra . ~ . ,
ff
local level: : : : :
. cn Crs Aen Sieh ANN TAOE cA IM ae

mae ee a tin a amber emia EY
To counteract a resurgence of Communist Party influence in the

 

‘
United States; we have a seventh program designed to intensify any confusion
eer pres

 

During the past few years, this program

and dissatisfaction ‘among its members.
i
cee er
| .
FORMATION CONTAINED

a -

: ot LLIN

, seu u LASSIFJED
. . DATE (2) leh

HW 55031 Doeid: 32989612 Page 9
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
 
  
 
 
   
  
    
       
  

has been most effective. Selected informants were briefed and trained to
ee eee RE sn 2 Diets ae ee

raise contfoversi al issues within the Party. In the process, many were able

to advance themselves to higher positions. The Internal Revenue Seryice was

furnished the names and addresses _of of Party functionaries who had been active

leepetntentine tameg memes meee oe

in the underground apparatus. Based on this information, investigations were

instituted in 282 possible | income tax evasion cases. Anticommunist, liferature
ppmnnnnena eaten st

ra

and simulated Party documents were mailed anonymously to carefully chosen

: aa : ; A

a Sf
by He Party ® as evidence of the ° problems it nw this ~

‘These programs are part of our over-all counterintelligeneg

Z

  
 
 

operations, They are specific answers to Specific problems which have arisen

within our investigative jurisdiction, You may have noticed, however, during

my comments regarding communism and espionage, the constantly recurring

 

a6 —

HW 55031 Docld: 32989612 Page if

 
 

 

L. EXCERPT FROM FORMER FBI DIRECTOR HOOVER'S BRIEFING
OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
PRESIDED OVER BY THE PRESIDENT, DATED 11/6/58

 

‘ ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

— , HEREIN IS, UNCLASSIFIED .
DATE Olid. BY Hatin .
: oa :

 

  
  
    

we meen een tentalitetltegtaid eeelaheivitaeimntone mentee atte GA ROO FP SS EEE

UN EXCISED VERS/Ox/

yO 6a- Yb BIS 347.

yo ENCLOSURE

 
 

 

 

NW 55031 Doold: 32989612 Page 6
 

Cointelpro

NOTE:

See letter to the Attorney General, dated 7/1/75,
captioned "United States Senate Select Committee on Intelligence
Activities," prepared by DR:1fj. No third agency considerations
present,

-5-

+ BW 55031 Docld: 32989612 Page 7

 

 

 

 
 

Cointelpro

Letter to the Attorney General from Director, FBI, dated
September 17, 1969, captioned "Investigation of Kian Organizations, “

Teletype to Director from New York, dated October 11,
1969, captioned "Counterintelligence Program Black Nationalist - Hate
Groups Racial Intelligence Black Panther Party (BPP). 't It is noted the
original of this document indicates a copy was transmitted to the Inter-
divisional intelligence Unit of the Department of Justice on or about
Wovember 4, 1969.

3, Statements of former and current FBI officials,

On November 15, 1974, ii. C. D. Beloach, former
Assistant to the Director, FBI, was telephonically contacted by an FBI
oificial and asked if he had any recollection concerning the briefing of
any Departmental official with regard to our Cointelpros, ir. Del.oach
responded he had talked to former Attorney General Clark on several
occasions and discussed with him all phases of the operations of the
Intelligence Division of the FBI in which these programs were handled,
Mr, DeLoach stated he had briefed former Attorney General Clark not
only regarding the various Cointelpros but regarding even more sensi-
tive matters, Lar, DeLoach could not place any date of such briefings
but he recalied very specifically having so briefed the Attorney General.

Additionally, ir. DeLoach stated it was his recollection
that former Attorney General Nicholas deB, Katzenbach knew about the
Cointelpro relating to the Ku Blux Klan but that he, Mr, DeLoach, had
not personally briefed him regarding this matter. iRir. DeLoach said
former Attorney General Katzenbach was possibly briefed by former
Assistant to the Director Alan H. Belmont or forraer Assistant to the
Director Willian C. Sullivan, (ir. DeLoach added he recalied very
clearly briefing former President Johnson regarding the Bureau's
activities against black militants in the United ftates, Rir, DeLoach
stated he was sure of the foregoing and would be glad to so testify,

On November 16, 1974, former Assistant to the Direc
tor John P. Mohr stated he vividly recalled on several occasions the
Director had furnished in detail information to the Subcommittee of

 

W~ 3a

 

HW 55032 Doeid:32989612 Page 5

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

5 55031 Dooid: 32589612 Page 6

   
 
 

Cointelpro

the House Appropriations Commitico relating to instances and details
regarding the Cointelpros, Lir. (Mohr ctated he recalled the Committes
mombers were most irapresced with the material aad were commenda~-
tory in their coments that the PBI was taking actions with regard to
the organizations and groups discussed and that none of the Commitice
mombors mae any critical comments relating to these opcrations.

ir, Mohr indicated he would be glad to testify to the above.

On November 18, 1974, Aseociate Dircetor Nicholas P.
Callahan, FBI, indicatcd he, too, recalled there wore several instanecs,
caact dates not recalled, in which he accompanicd former Director
Hoover when the latter testified before the Eubcommittee of the House
Appropriations Committee. Although Lir. Callahan was uot able to
recall specific dates, he did recall off-the-record discussions with
members of the Committee and the questioning of the Director with
regard to the Gureau's efforts to neutralize groups and organizations,
Ms. CaHahan stated there was no critical comment made in regard
thereto,

4 Hearings before the House Subcomunittee on
Appropriations,

¥Gl records show that detailed information concerning
tae BE Cointelpros was prepared for off-the-record use by former
Director Hoover in connection with six appearances before the House
Cubcommities on Appropriations between 1958 and 1806. Bubliched
reports of the hearings contained notations that off-tho-record dic~
cussion did occur at the poiut at which the Cointeloro material appeared
in the Dircctor's material. We have located in our files the material
prepared for former Director Hoover for the abovc~deseribed off+the-
record use, copies of which arc attached,

Enclosures (19)

1 Tho Attorney General

 

 

 

  
 

=: A AL int
| nt (J. B. Hotis)
] » W. R, Wannalt
, » We QO Cregar

be.
. on Geénesta daly 1, 1975
si 1~ pF. T. E. Burns
1-mr. D. Ryan

   
 
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
     

 

 

y O
AB STATES.SENATE SELECT COMMITTSE
_ JPELLIGENCE AC ACTIVITIES — _-

 

 

Reference is made to memorandum from Senate Select
ittee, dated May 14, 1975, and appendices thereto, requesting
‘) #rtain documents and other information from the FBI

 
  

? Attached for your approval and forwarding to the
é Committee is the original of a memorandum and nineteen enclosurcs
“which are responsive to one of the Committee's requests.

8
ae Ad A copy of the memorandum and copies of the nineteen
SEE, j enclosures are provided for your records.

I"
JON CONTAINED .
eel poor a
Enclosures (40) pate {0 ransch Alida
/ Pup ic
“ 62~ 116395

1- The Deputy Attorney General
- Attention: K. Willian o'Connor
aw Special Counsel for
vr Intelligence Coordination

Pn a i aalial

DR:pld/itj 4

 
 
   
    
   
 
     
   

" Assoc. Dir.
"Dep. AD Adm.
‘Dep. AD Inv.
' Asst. Dir:
Admin,
Comp. Syst, —_
Ext, Affairs —_

Files & Com, —

—_——

ay

 

ye

saboratory
Sloan. & Eval, —
pee. Inv.
‘raining
| ‘gol Coun,

 
  

| atephone Rm.

  

d
/ TELETYPE UNIT (__]

BURA onssis Page 2—

Director See'y

 

a fiten cea -_ guqe ‘

vi. Se
| gy ia
P) tps we | A JUL 16 1975 ib

y .
tf COP SUCHET MATERIAL ATTACHED

GPO 954-545

 
 

 

 

   
 

—

we OF erence

 

   

 

 

IA THewl GL3

By
Be THO BAT

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

   
     
  

ow fk
. | 2 - AW. Niintz |
ai {1 - %. 3. Hotis) :
1- iim W. R, Wannall ;
| 1- Mr. W. O. Cregar (Encs, 19)
i 1- Mr, T, E, Burns
| 1- ir, D. Ryan
62-116895 7% July 1, 1975

UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMIAITEE
TO STUDY GOVERN.IENTAL OPERATIONS
WITH RESPECT TO DTIELLIGSINCE ACTIVITIES

    

   
 

RE: DOCUMENTS PERTAINING TO THE ‘258

"HUSTON PLAN," COLITELPRO, AND 388

OTHER PRACTICES AND PROGRAI:S oS

BS8

cass aan ees) COLITELPRO SS
LLINZ6 s at BON hd g
Bee ie ope sol ‘Se 4

a is made to memorandum from captioned i

Gomnittee dated cay 14, 1975, and the appendices thereto, which
contained requests for information from the Federal Burcau of
Tavestigation (FBI).

Itera 19, Part 1, Appendix C, requested the Committee ©.
$e provided all raemoranda or other saaterial reflecting approval or
’ knowledge of any Cointelpro by any Government official outside the

"BI including but not limited to any Attorney General, member of
ongress, or President,

The files of the FBI indicate Government officials
outside the FSI were knowledgeable of Cointelpro activities as
follows:

1, Briefing by FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover to the
ational Security Council, presided over by the President,
November G, 1958,
adsoe, Dite On November 6, 1058, former Director Hoover presented
Dep. AD Adm. — | 'to the President and the Cabinet an oral bricfing entitled "Current
fern ‘subversion and Espionage in the United States, "1958." Attached is a
‘Aamin ‘copy of pascs 85 through 37 of Director Hoover's bricfing paper, it
ean ©«being noted these pages specifically relate to FBI Cointcipro activitics, ~ °.
Files & Com. ._ AY _
Gan. Inv. (
nme DR:lfj!4, ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY wad
Inspection ‘Yy : fr
Intell. 9) pe ffs -,LO ATTORNEY GENERAL See NOTE page 5 An wy

_ Laboratory —_
EOP-SECREF MATERIAL ATTACHED

 

 

 

 

Plan. & Eval. —
Spee. Inv.

 

Training

 

Lego! Coun.

Telephone Re. y A If. ; : goon “td feta
itector Sec'y-. MAIL ROOM[__) TELETYPE uniT (_} ENCLOSURE Z; , ian Le pap Astes40
5031 Docid:32989612 Page 3° _ :

 

 

 
Cointelpro

2. Communications furnished to the Attorney General,

Attached are copies of the following coxamunications
indicating knowledge by the Attorney General and othor Government
officials outside the FBI of the FBI Cointelpros.

 

Letter from Director, FBI, to the Attorney General,
dated ijay 8, 1958, captioned "Communist Party, USA," classified
"Secret, "

Letter from Director, FBI, to the Honorable Robert
Cutler, Special Assistant to the President, dated May 8, 1058, classi-
fled "Secret," topic matter similar to the above.

Letter to the Honorable Robert F. Kennedy from
‘Director, FBI, dated January 10, 1961, enclosing a memoranda
| dated January 10, 1961, captioned "Communist Barty, UE.
| classified "Top Seeret,' "

Letter from Director, FBI, to the Honorable Dean Rusk,
Bepartment of State, dated January 10, 1961, classified "Top Eeeret,"
topic matter sizailar to the above,

 

; Letter to the Attorney General from Director, FI,
dated Feptember 2, 1955, captioned "Penctration and Divruption of
Blan Organizations, " classified "Secret."

Letter from Director, FBL, to the Honorable Marvin
Watson, Cpecial Assistant to the President, dated September 2, 1955,
classified “Secret, * topic matter similar to the above,

Memorandum for Mir, J. Edgar Hoover, Director, from
the Attorney Genoral, dated September 3, 1965, classified "Geerci, "

Letter to the Attorney Gereral from Director, FBI,
datcd Beceraber 19, 1067, captioned] "Eu flux Klan Investigations, "
classified "cert, enclosing a mororandum on the same date with
the came title and same classification.

~Q=

HW 55631 DBoocld:32589612 Page 4
~~ a .

 

 

 

 

 
