 

 

 

25

e ® 7

or’ persons might be considered subversive?

 

“Mr. Wannall. We have guidelines in the form of manual
sections. I think the sections have been made available to the
committee staff, Section 87 of our Manual of Instructions,
Section 122 of our Manual of Instructions. I think those
guidelines are the basis on which determinations are made.

Tf determinations are originated in the field with
respect to an organization, for example, the field will
submit what is called a characérfization writeup. That must -
come into Headquarters. It must be approved for utilization
in documenting an organization if it is referred to in
a subsequent investigative report.
_ Mr. Vermeire. With what frequency are these evaluations

updated?
“- .
‘ Mr. Wannall They must be reviewed once a year.
The instructions are: If the structure and/or
character, of the organization undergoes any significant
changes in the interim, they must be updated at that time.
Mr. Vermeire. What persons within the FBI would have
charge of updating this?
Whose responsibility would this be?
Mr. Wannal1 fhe responsibility originally rests |7
on the field. However, each of the characterizations is

reviewed at Headquarters and a tickler is maintained at

Headquarters to assuré that at least once every year

 

 

 

HW |} 55301
wa

ocld:32989693 Page 9 a ——
 

 

 

 

 

all characterizations are approved and approval granted

 

at Headquartexs.

Mr. Vermeire. What I was driving at is not the characterizal
tions of whether X organization meets the criteria for a.
subversive organization; what I was aiming at is who at
Headquarters, if anyone, reviews more or less the principles

\ :

or the ideology behind various theories of whether an
organization is subversive or not. In other words, do you
still follow principles or theories as to whether an organiza-
tion is a subversive one which, say, were propounded back
in 1940 or are you continually revising your own information
in this area, your own education, if you will?

Mr. WannalL Well, our characterizations are not

  
  

BRO e EEES

based on any ideology or philosophy. -Z based on’ the nature
of the activities in which the members are engaged.

Our characterizations, therefore, are based upon

Mr. Vermeire. What kind of activities, for example,
would fit that criteria?

Mr. Wannall. You always have a judgment situation.
I can give you some theoretical ideas. If we should be
investigating an organization and determine that it is
stockpiling weapons and at the same Sime it is advocating
overthrow by violence of the government, the advocacy would

only be relative insofar as bearing upon the activities.

 

investigative results as opposed to ideologies.
-

 

 

cld:32989693 Page 10
 

e. e

i the- memorandum you are speaking of refer specifically

2 to your conversations with Mr. Sullivan in this respect
31 or is the memorandum referring to electronic surveillance
4 of Congressmen in general?

5 Mr. Wannail. he memorandum I am referring to, and

6] ZI think there were two, I think I perhaps participated in
&

7 preparing one and another was prepared by someone working under
8 me.’ .
fe) It related to the fact that there haf been an overhearing
10 of Congressman Cooley as a result of a microphone surveillance.

ll Just what triggered that, I cannot recall. I probably

12 could if I could review my files and refresh my recollection

“43 about it.

.

14 , Mr. Vermeire. That is all I have in that area. Do

15. you want to ask any questions with regard to that? I

16 can continue on another line of questioning unless you

17 have something you want to ask him.

18 - Mr. Oliphant. Not with regard to that specific area,
19 no.

20 Mr. Vermeire. This will again be directed to Mr.

21 Wannalf. Mx. _Wannalf is there now within the FBI any
-22 procedure for describing or delineating subversive organiza-
23 tions ox what organizations may be termed subversive or

24 is there any expertise, if you will, within the

25 FBI at this time for determining what particular organizations

 

 

 

HW 55301 #focld:32989693 Page 8. -—-—~- ~
page _foete:
 

ee e..-.s

; this was in the nature of conversations or memoranda
which were submitted by the section with which I was connected
at the time.

Mr. Vermeire. Do you recall a conversation more
specifically to the effect that~-to Mr. Sullivan--that you had
advised Mr. Hoover incorrectly that no electronic surveillance:
was done on any Congressman and the name of Congressman
Cooley came to your mind and you were concerned about Mr.
Hoover not having correct information at his command?

Do you recall any conversation to that effect?

Mr. Wannall. Yes, I not only recall the conversation;

if I'm not mistaken, sometime in the late '60s a memorandum

 

was prepared, or perhaps two, in connection with that.

y

14 At the time there were charges, I think, being made by a

15 Member of Congress regarding wire taps made extensively

16 of members -of Congress. Mr. Hoover made a statement to the
17 effect there had never been any electronic surveillances,
18 which is a broader term than wiretap. I recallé@ not having
19 called it to Mr. Hoover's attention. I didn't personally

20 do that. I think I probably called it to Mr. Sullivan's

21 attention at the time.

22 . Mr. Vexrmeire. Did you at any time ever call it to
23 Mr. Hoover's attention after talking to Mr. Sullivan?
24 Mr. Wannall, Personally? Ke, sir. .

25 Mr. Vexmeire. You say there was a memorandum. Did

 

\
i .

HW \55301 |pocld:32989693_ Page 7 ——
pe eee

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

ain wil be given an opportunity ‘to make your feelings known.

2 There is a procedure worked out where if there is.

3 severe breakdown in communications or at Least on getting
4 together on what is or what is not classified, that wilil be

¢

5 submitted all the way up to the President.

6G: Mr. WannalL Thank you. I appreciate that.
a
7 - Mr. Vermeire. I will start the questioning off.
8 I will address my first questions ‘to Mr. Wannall
9 Mr. Wannall, is there now or has there ever been any elec-

10 |} tronic surveillance of Congressmen?

 

 

11 Mr. Wannall There has never, to my knowledge, been in
12 the national security area, and that is the area in which I
13 do have knowledge, a wiretap of any Members of Congress.
14 Mr. Vermeire. More specifically, do you know of any time
15 there was any wiretap or microphonic surveillance or any
16 electronic. surveillance in general ever targeted at a
17 Congressman Cooley? )
18 . Mr. WannallL I am aware of the fact that several years
49 ago there was a microphone surveillance in a hotel room
20 in New York City which was occupied, as I recall, by officials
24 of a foreign government, or at least persons connected
22 with a foreign government. Congressman Cooley called at
23 that room and was overheard as a result of that microphone
2A surveillance.
25 Mr. Vermeire. Was this fact ever made known to
HW 55301 |bocId:32989693 Page 5 _ —

 

 
 

 

 

Ww sssp_

   

the Director, who I believe was Mr. Hoover at the time?

    

Mr. Wannall. Yes, it was.

   

Mr. Vermeire. _ It was made known to him?

        

Mr. Wannall. Yes.

     
   

 

 

Mr. Vermeire. By whom? -

 

      

     
       
     

Mr. Wannall- Not by myself. I was not in a position
’

to do it. I recall seeing memoranda indicating Mr. Hoover
was aware of it. I would only be speculating as to who

might have sent the memorandum to him.

   

I assume it would have —

    
   
  

gone through channels, through the Assistant Director, through

 
        
 

    

11 the Assistant to the Director, the Associate Director,

12 and Mr. Hoover.

13 Mr. Vermeire. Did you have any conversations at any
14 time with respect to this matter with Mr. William Sullivan,
15 formerly with the FBI?

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

Mr. Wannall. Mr. Sullivan was the Assistant Director

at the time I think because this had to be sometime in the

early ‘60s. He became Assistant Director, as I recall,

about early 1961, so I would certainly have had conversations

with him about it.

 

Mr. Vermeire. Do you recall any of the specifics

of those conversations?
Mr. Wannall.It is difficult to recall specifics.

I am certain that discussion was had as to the advisability

of putting a microphone coverage on. I cannot recall whether

Page 6°

 
 

 

 

 

NF Sums yesyESTESSoaS

 

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

HEARINGS

BEFORE THE COMMITTER

 

ort

SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
f

| Staff Interview

Wednesday,November 5, 1975

Washington, D. C.

  

Mele — 93

 

 

OPO 16-75)07-1

|
i
|
|
|
|
i
|
|

7]

 

Official Reporters to Committees :

AW 55301 DocId:32989693 Page 2

 

 
pA-Wli

VL

Serial Scope:

 

 

 

 

 

[98 - EEF

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

| ) WABCULLVE 5 Lh TOn é ;
a aa 1

STAFF INTERVIEW

lolph
. 2 _o.
3 Wednesday, November 5, 1975
a a .
5 House of Representatives :
6° — ’ Select Committee on Intelligence,
7 Washington, D. C.
8

The staff interview began at‘'2:00 o'clock p.m., in Room
9 B-316, Rayhurn House Office Building,
10 Present: James Oliphant, John Atkisson, and Richard

it Vermeire, Committee Counsel.

12 . ae

25
WW 55301 fjocld:32989693 Page 3
is "

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AW 55301

cE

+ Mr. Field. Do you solemnly swear the testimony you

 

are about to give to the House Select Committee on Intelligence
will be the truth, the whole truth, so help you God?

Mr. Wannall. Yes. :

Mr. Ryan. Yes.

Mr. Shackelford. Yes.

TESTIMONY OF W.. RAYMOND WANNALL,ASSISTANT DIRECTOR,

INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, FBI; DAVID RYAN, SUPERVISOR,

INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, FBI,’ AND ROBERT L. SHACKELFORD,

SECTION CHIEF, INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, FBI

Mr. Field. Will you please state your names?

Mr. Wannali. W. Raymond Wannall, Assistant Director,
Intelligence Division, FBI. .

Mr. Ryan. David Ryan, Supervisor, Intelligence
Division, FBI.

Mr. Shackelford, Robert L. Shackel.ford, Section
Chief, Intelligence Division, FBI.

Mr. Wannall. May I ask if this will be a classified
hearing?

Mr. Oliphant. The information will be classified and
will not be released publicly without a vote of the
committee.

The Bureau will have a chance to take a look at the

testimony that comes in. If there is something that you

feel should be classified, not released, certainly you

ocld:32939693 Page 4
