. mee

 

   

- SENATE SELECT COMM TIER On INTELLIGENCE AcTIviTiss (ssc)

RED INTERVIEW or Br SA BY ssc .

By

“nonitoring,. “no ‘persons other: than Campbell. and, Borys ‘entered
the monitoring room. Additional - responses to questions from
Epstein were as follows, Campbell utilized only one.radio .

_ |, ¥eceiver and Listened to only one radio microphone. He
- eould mot recall if there were any others. in use, ‘He and

. Borys took turns listening to. the tranemitter.. Campbell’ :
did not remove the transmitter ‘when he left the hotel as he a

* never ‘entered any of thé: rooms assigned toe the King party,

Campbell did not know any details concerning Mr. Sullivan's

: remarks about. King's association with communists. Campbell -~
-did not attend all the meetings at WFO concerning the King.
installation, It was his. best recoliection that the monitoring

~ was. done in rooms one floor above: the foots occupied, byt the

King | pe ao

oo : At the , end of the interview, Egtein indicated he.
had oné final question which was, as best Campbell ¢ould ,

: remembér, “Is there anything else: about this case that you

.. Know that has ‘not come out. because I did not ask the right
question or did not ask a question in thé right way?" Campbell
.réplied that he felt that Epstein had done. 8 good ee. ino:

oo asking t the questions. wie

55037

“NOTE: - a ae

oe Assistant: Director Mintz briefed: Campbell. ‘prior. ‘to :
his interview.. Campbell was accompanied to the SSC offices |

“by. Supervisor S. F. Phillips. of the Senstudy 75 Project. but..

i Phillips was, not calbed: upon . for any consultation, a

   

‘Docld:32989617- Page 9

 
 

 

Epstein then stated lets get to the point. When
did you hear about the King case. I responded that some-
time early in 1964 ~ recalled since it was shortly after
President Kennedy was shot/and King was named man of the
year - I was summons to the SAC's office either by my
associate Bill Bergeron of my supervisor Mr. Belter not
specifically recalled. e SAC, Marlin Johnson, Assistant
Director William Sullivan, Bergeron and probably several
others not recalled were in attendance. The following is
a narrative of information I furnished in response to
Epstein's questions.

 

The SAC made several remarks and Assistant Director
Sullivan then stated that he did not want any information
discussed to leave the room. Sullivan stated he had informa-
tion that’ indicated King was associating with communists and
it was possible his movement was being infiltrated. Sullivan
said he wanted a technical installation on King in an effort
to verify this information. =

o -o

° At some later daté I was assigned to monitor the
installation which was a4 radio transmitter. I could not
recall if the equipment was signed out to me or not but I
took the equipment home and on a Sunday afternoon I caught a
bus to Union Station, I walked around for a short time and then
by cab went to the hotel and checked in under an assumed

name (name not remembered). I did not recall who made my .
reservations. The first night King did not enter the room -

we were monitoring. (I did not recall the names of

individuals who occupied room but they were associated with
King party.) The next day we (John Borys of WFO and myself)
moved to a different room. I could not recall how the
arrangements for the move was made. We then monitored King

for about two days, stayed one extra day at the hotel, and
checked out. Either Borys or myself stayed in the room at

all time. One would take the logs and tapes out of the

hotel each day and turn them over to someone from WFO (details
not recalled). At no time did I ever enter any room in the
hotel that was occupied by King or any member of his party.

The tape recorder was manually operated and we attempted to
run it any time someone was in the room. I know of no physical
or photographic surveillance on King during this time. I

had no instructions that I can recall concerning only listening
to certain types of conversation.

-2-

 

HW 55037 DocId:32989617 Page 10

 
      

. @

SOVATE SELECT COMMITTEE OU INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (ssc)

RE EMTERVIET OF PBI Sa BY SSC

 

In response to direct questioning, Campbell advised
that he had never seen any papor (memoranda, ete.) dealing
with this case other than the logs previously mentionad, j

Epstein inguired as to whethor Campbell had ever
seen the tapes again after he had departed the hotel. Campbell
advised that sometime lator, possibly one or tvo months, he
vas asked te review tha tapes and logs in an effort to obtain
additional information. He did this at the FBI Laboratory
and vas assisted by SA John Matter, retired, in the technical
énhancement techniques, such as filtering. Campbell vas not
divected to concentrate on any one part of the tapes but
veviewed all of them, He did not type any of the informtion
overheard and if any such typing was done, it vas probably
done in the Intelligence Division. Campbell has not seen
the tapes since that tine,

On Epstein's inquiry, Campbell advised he first
heard about the planned intervie: of him from SA Faul V. Daly
of the FBI's Lezal Counsel. Division and did not discuss the
King case vith Berreron, Matter or Borys after that contact.
Campbell did not know vhother o¢ not the tapes are still in
existence.

Miss Detreo inquired as to whether it vas the
normal practice te erasc tapes, Campbell ausvered that in
this type of an investigation he vas sure only new tapes vero
used, He explained he vas certain that tapes were nev ihen
he found them still wrapped im cellophane and they had the
appearance of newt tapes, Sho also inquired as to how he
secured the key for the second room in the hotel and whether
he had to re-register. Ho answered that he did not vacall
but folt certain he did not re-register and that soma other
SA from WFO probably obtained the key for him. During the

 

-5-

 

HW 55037 DocId:32989617 Page @

 

 
 

 

HW 55037 DocId:32989617 Page 7

 

® 4

SENATE SELECT COMMITIEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (ssc)
RE; EVEERVIEN OF FBI SA BY SiC

He walked around for a short time and thon went by cab to
the Willard Hotel and cheeked tn under an assumed name
(meme not recalled), Yhese actions wore taken by him ay

a security precaution. He did not reeall whe made his
raservation at the hotel, The first night Kins did not
enter the room vhich Campbell vas monitoring, Campbell
could not recall the namas of the individuals whe occupied
the room ha was monitering but did rceall that they vere
associated with the King party, The next day, Campbell and ~~
a fellou SA, John Borys, moved to a different room, He
could not reenil how the arranzements for the move were mada,

Gampbell and Eorys moniterad King for about tvo
days, stayed one extra day nt the hotel and then checked
out, Lither Campbell or Borys remained in the room at all
times. One of them would take the logs and tapes out of
the hotel each day and tuen them over to someone from HPO,
details not recalled, At no time did Campbell evar enter any
room in the hotel that was oceupled by King or any member of
King's party, The tape recorder they utilized was manually
operated and they attempted to run Lt at all times vhen
someones was im the room being wonktored. Campbell knew of
no physical or photographic surveillance on King during that
time. Campbell niso advised that he could not recall any)
instructions concerning Listening only ta certain types of
conversations,

Epstein inquired as to whether Campbell kept a
ecard at WFO showing his location. He responded that it vas
the normal practice to place a card in the usual repository
when one vas aviay from the office. In this particular case,
if Campbell did leave a card, he vould have probably placed
a notation on it such as “"Spacial - Sea Supervisor Beltes
for contact."

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

‘ . Mr. J. B. Adams
Me. J. A. Mintz
- Mr. J. Cochran
(Attn: Me. W. D. Campbell)
- Mr. W. R. Wannall

fot at ft
i

62116395 daly 14, 1975
1 - Me. W. 0. Cregar
1 - Me. S. F. Phillips

U. &. SENATE SELEQT COMNITIEE To
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS UITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES €s8c}

RE: INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (€s4)
UELLEAN DB. CAMPBELL BY SSC.

 

 

STAPF MEMBERS ‘Sy Re rie TAINED
wok! he CL AUSTEEY
DatEOne® CL BYS Pdr uh
Set out below is information concerning an 6e7,

interview of FBI SA William D. Campbell by SSG Staff Members.
Campbell is curzently assigned to FBI Headquarters. ‘The
details of the interview are as furnished by Campbell.

On advance notice from ie, Wichael Epstein, SSC
Staff Member, Campbell was advised that he vas to be interyieved
at 11:00 a.n., June 27, 1975, im the SSC offices. Campbell
yas informed by the Legal Counsel Division of the FBI that
he was being released from any applicable employment agreenont |
for purposes of the S&C interview concerning the former FBI
investigations of Uartin Inther Kine, Jr., Stanley Bavid
Levison and the Southera Christian leadership Conference.
it was explained to Campbell that he had a fight to counsel;
however, the FDI was unable to provide private counsel,
Campbell was aise told that there vere certain privileged
A ateas concerrine which he vowld not be required to ansuer
questions. / These areas concerned information vhich night.
Ave Om Vivalge thy identities of FSI sources; information relating
dep. ADiw. &£O Sensitive matheds and techniques; information which night
anon: adversely affect ongoing PDI investigations; and information

Comp. Sy. heh had originated with other agencies, inciuding foreign / fake ‘ k

 

Ext, Affoirs ——

Fheetann mtediigence apeneles. Canphell was Informed that if a

 

 

a ae
Gen. wv. _—. Qupstion arase * during the interview in one of these areas, <° &
See he had the privilege, before replying, of consulting with rata
intel. ‘
Libeiey — 1'- 100-106670 (Martin Luther King, Jr.) ws
ire me 1 - 67- (Personnel File SA William D. TL 365 CA
= sre: ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY TO AG yo. ;
| Lasel oo SFP: lhb Jhb
Bene Sy matkhdmC] reveryee ur) ENCLOSURE, Sen Us Poop wore - S000

ie 55037 DocId: 32989617 Page 5

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Imotledgeable. “ander ‘thé follo ina’e eire ath

“Wes summoned. to the office of the SAO «

“BALL. Bergeron, ‘or by Supervisor Relter; “sped! : re

net recalled. Present. in ‘the, office was. the SAC at the time, ve

-" Matlin. Johnson, the then FBI Assistant. Director. William C.

“Sullivan; Bergeron and. ‘prob rf 1a! ROE

|. veealled. .The following ‘wa: elated by Camp) Li in: response te

~ "t+ ‘epstein's: questions sone : mote

    

 

  
   

  
 

 

Ls ed ‘that he ‘did ‘not want” -any of ‘the: fnformtion they
ape te > a: seuss. to leave: the: room. 2 iat
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10 5010-106 é ‘ i

MAY 1962 EDITION we .

GSA GEN, REG. NO. 27 d - , Assoc. Dire
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT , ad

Dep. AD Adm. —

 

 

1- Mr. J. B. Adams Dee. A Howe —
! Memorandum 2- Me. J. A. Mintz Bes
i. (L- Me. J. By Hotis) Sees —
we wit
TO : Mr. W. R. Wannall i” bee DATE: 7/15/75 Files © =
Ident. ——____”
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall tnpecsion hae
FROM : W. O. cregakNY 1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar Wl
woe ~ 1- Mr. T. J. McNiff Legal Coun

Plon.&EvallZ_ *

rx anna
SUBJECT; Goustuvy 75) retain
we o. AUDL- Io i

lee eeenaeell ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED Director Sge"y —

wee SS aoe ) 1 ty LY
DA CUBY. Bhs
By letter 7/5 to thé Honorable Frank Church, ve

we noted that the Senate Select Committee had in its possession
certain materials, which were compiled by the Commission on —y.
CIA Activities Within the United States, for the preparation § |
of its report to the President, which matefials most probably / 7. ™
contained information regarding FBI operations of the utmost
sensitivity. In order to avoid any inadvertent compromise of

such information, we requested an opportunity to meet with

Senators Church and Tower at the earliest convenience to

discuss areas of this Bureau's activities which might warrant
special consideration. Senator Church agreed that the above

matter would be discussed with Director Kelley at the latter's
appearance before the Executive Session of the Senate Select

Committee meeting scheduled for 7/486 53 a
BB fe a = 27) LOO

For your additional information, this Bureau had
earlier ascertained that the Senate Select Committee has had
access to a 693-page document prepared by CIA listing instances
wherein CIA believed its operations may have exceeded its
mandate. A review of this document by Bureau personnel indi-
cated that some of these operations involve matters involving
this Bureau of an extremely sensitive nature. In response to
a request of CIA for copies of pertinent material contained
in the above 693-page document, CIA on this date furnished
copies of the material requested, B JUL 22 1975

 

 

tn,

In anticipation of the Director's appearanté before
SSC on 7/16/75, the above material furnished by CIA consisting
of approximately 174 pages was reviewed, This material is _
found to contain numerous references, in sanitized form, to ia

62-116395

TIM:thb |hh
(7)

 

nO sbahl| B0410/5989617 Page 2
 

 

SST Ti 39/

993 Tl4A 3%
397
187 NZ B97 , 3B
F49
17 NVe379, YO.

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

ry F er ee
{ . woe

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

’ various technical support CIA has provided this Bureau in :
the area (TT

No other information was found’ in this material which would
tend to jeopardize sensitive Bureau sources, ongoing
investigations or information we have received from foreign
‘intelligence sources,

ACTION:

Above submitted for information. A separate
memorandum is being prepared detailing information contained
in the material received from CIA and requesting of interested
Divisions and Sections at Headquarters their assessment of
any possible damage and recommendation for action to be taken
therewith,

 

AW 55037 DocId:32989617 Page 3
Le a .

 

 

 

 

 
   

F

  

JUL 16 1975

 
 
 
  

te. Jom 7, BLMEP, Dircetor Hot i

Donestie Intellicence Task Force

   

United States ate Soloet Cormibtee D, a
on intoliscnes Feaeyeeios
Veachirritarn, :

   

Dear Ip. ELMAP£:

Your lebter of Jply 16, respondines to mine of July 15, was,
as you ray reeall, hant-delivered to me by Te, Dick ab 12:45 today.
I ulerstand thet your interpretive amplification is conerally

shared by (ir, Eckuarz,

  
 
  

 
 
    
   
 
 
 

  

We are studying the suceasbions you have made: im the mesn-
tine, of course, we are prepared to proceed in accordance with tho
provisions of the duly 15, letter.

    
     

   
   
  

+
Sincerely, nt Reece ON CONTAN ED
HERE! zs 1S UNCLASSIF! Voy
an ¢ LO! J -0.03;

Re WEELIAL OTOOLEOR
Sreeial Counsel for IntelHrence Coordination

 
   

   
 

ce: Deputy Attorney Gerierar [2 “LLL lL. 2 Fy ra ab ,
Sota arn NOT RECORDED ™ | Ls

    

ce

    

46 JUL *° “full| Ky

  

55037 Docld:32989617 Page 4

  
    

 

 

 

 

 

 
