 

Page 5.
Mr, Hiawking
June 21, 1967 RE; Lillic Mae McMaines

RESULTS (cont'd):

Subject stated that she and Jimmy leit Eight Mile in February of 1964 (leaving
the baby with her 'mother'') and they went to San Bernadino, California, where
they stayed with an aunt of hers. She said that from the time she left New
Orleans to go to Eight Mile and then to California, she did not raake one trip
to New Orleans.

(aviees related that she and Jixamy went through a wedding ceremony in Tiajuana,
| héexico, in June of 1964. She continued that Jimmy left her the latter part of
this same month. She said that the day after Jimmy leit her, she went to New
Ue teens by bus. :

Subject related that when she arrived in New Orleans, she called Perry Russo
dnd he’ came to the bus cepot and drove her and her personal belongings to his
ome, She said that she spent the night in Perry's apartment and then the foliow-
ng day she rented a room for herself. She said that alter she rented the roorm,
ghe went job hunting and she met James Robert Ervin onthe street. Ghe said
that they decided to live together again. She said that she cid obtain a jobasa
barmaid. She said that she and Jimmy lived together for only one week and he
Tes walked out on her. She said that he left on July 3, .1964.

  
 
   

 

The Subject said that she thea turned to prostitution a3 a means of supporting
herseli.and inorder to save up enough money to pet her baby back from her
“mother. She further explained that she gave Perry Russo “around a hundred
dollars" to keep for her but he never gave it back to-her. She said that on one
\ ther occasion, she loaned Perry $20.00 to use to pay his inaurance but he did
ot xepay this money either. Ly

 

 

The Subject stated that the first time she raet Dave Ferrie was in either the latter

part of January of the first part of February of 1965. She explained that she was

with Perry Russo and he wanted to sce Dave Ferrie about something and so the

two of them went to Dave's apartment. She said that Perry introduced her to

Ferric and his two roommates. She said that they stayed at Dave's apartment
_for only a few rninutes and they leit. ,

 

HW 53130) DocId:32189523 Page 9
 

Page 6 . Ce, |
Myr, Bawkins :
June 23, 1067 RE: Lillie Mae MeMaines :

RESULTS (cont'd):

The Subject said that the next time she saw Dave Ferrie was less than a week

after first meeting hin and was ona Sunday. She explained thet Dave invited

hex to his apartment fer lunch with him and his two roommates. She said that,

Dave picked her up at her place ina blue Ford station wagon and they arrived at

Dave's apartment at approximately 12:36 or 1:00 P.M. She said that she stayed
wet this apartment until about 5:30 P.M, at which firne he drove her back to her
Wiace.

 

| abiest sald that she next saw ewe Ferrie on the following Wednesday or
\Wrhursday when he care by Sam's place where she was employed. She eaid that
Dave asked her if she would ‘out with hin: the ving Friday night.

(As

tubicet said that on this Friday night, Dave picked her up at her apartment |

diout 6: 99 or 6:30 P.M. and they first proceeded to Dave's apartment where one

Lg Dave's roommates and al is date were waiting. She said the four of them then
vent. to several places to dance and drink but they did net have dinner.

   

 

No

ponte Sabject eraphs atically denied ever meeting Shaw or Oswald. She said that she
Deer: attended a party at Dave Ferrie's house. She stated that sho had never been
a football ‘gone but she did attend basketball and baseball games with Perry

Russo and Leity Peterson.

 

 

4 fhe Subject stated that Perry Russo was extremely interested in politics, She
gaid that he was a Republican and a strong advocate and backer of Goldwater.
\Jion @ Subject stated that she attended a political mecting with Perry Russo and

| three other men but she could not be sure of their names. She related that the

meeting was held ina big house on Canal Street in either April or \ May of 1965.

! She said that she and three mea stayed ina back foorm of the house and watched
y

 

that ehe did not hear anyone speaking Spanish nor did she see any Spanish, Cubans
or Puerto Ricans at this mecting .

The Subject commented that “Lefty Peterson is "off upstaiva" but is a good guy
otherwise,

 

on. She said that she did not see all of the people at the mecting. She gaid

 

HW 53130) Docld:32189523 Page 10
 

 

Page 4 . 7 ;
My. Hawking
June 21, 1967 RE: Lillie Mae McMaines

RESULTS (cont'd):

Subject stated that when she was about four months pregnant, she married a
Frank Adams in Dallas, Texas, She did not tell the circumstances surrounding
a divorce from Adams.

The Subject stated that when she was between 15 and 16 years of age, her
(FYmotner™ took her to a psychiatrist because she bad run away fram hore. She

daid that she visited the psychiatrist about four times but she did not know what
he reported about her, .

\Uhapject related that she gave birth prematurely on August 30, 1963. She said

that she was released from the hospital on Septernber 3rd or 4th, 1963, She said
that she went to Perry Russo's house the day jollowing her release from the

(Ake spital but she did not see or talk with him again until June or July of 1954,

 

ject then related how Pessy Russo photographed her on several occasions
\Wwhhble she was engaging in the act of coitus with difiercnt men. She explained
that Perry had his own dark room and developed the pictures himself.
[ }Babiect then related that she and a girl named Ann visited her baby in the hospital
frequently. She further stated that her "parents" came fro om Alabama to New
Orleans and also visited the baby in the hospital.

 

 

Subject continued that her baby was released from the hospital on September 20,
1963, and on this sarne date she left New. Crleans with 2 James Robert Ervia
; fauss sso had introduced her to him). She said that the two of therm and the baby
"\\/Avent by bus to her "parents’’ home. She pave her “parents eddreas as Box ‘326
in Eight Mile, Alabama and she said that this town is located near Mobile.

She went oa to explain that James Robert Ervin was unable to find employment
in Mobile and so he went to New Crleans and obtained a job in an establishment
called Little Crystal Cafe. She said that this establishment is located on Royal
Street in New Orleans. She said that Jimmy worked and stayed in New Orleans
during the week and he would hitchhike to her “parents home in Eight Mile,
Alabama, over the weekends,

 

HW 53130) DocId:32189523 Page &
 

 

"Page 3 . . - , ; |
Mr. Hawkins : : :
June 22, 1967 © . RE: Lillie Mae McMaines

ESULTS (cont'd): : oo -

The Subject stated that when she first told Perry Russo that she was pregnant,
aman (unknown to her) placed Perry in a hypnotic trance and questioned hirs.
She said that while inthe trance, Perry acknowledged that he was the father of
‘her yet unborn baby. She said that Perry later denied that he was the father.

She went on to explain that she, Perry, and the unknown "hypnotist" (she ces-
(\eribed his age as between 40 and 50 years) went to a place called the Royal
Castle and, while there, this unknowa "hypnotist" again placed Perry iaa
hypnotic trance. She said that he did not question Perry at this time but gave
him a post-hypnotic suggestion, "When I snap my fingers you will awaken, get
off the stool, walk to the coor and then return to the stool whera you will ireeze
in your tracks and will be unable to move." She said that when the man snapped
(( nis fingers, Perry opencd his eyes, got off the stool, walked to the door and

then turned and walked back to the stool. She said that Perry stood by the stool

nd went through what appeared to be attempts at moving his body but he did not

actually move. She added that, in her opinion, Perry was faking his inability to
‘wRove while standing by the stool. .

  
   

 

Eubject said that the next time she saw Perry (after telling him that she was
( }bx regnant) was a very short time later and she spent about one~hali hour talking
c with him «in his hame. She sald that when she departed his home, a friend of h

  

amed "ido" knocked her down on the lawn, hit ker in the stomach with his fist,
and made the comment, "Why don't you leave him alone?" She explained that she
screamed loudly when atrack by Fido hoping that Perry would come outside but

Re did not. She said that Fido went into Perry's home aiter knocking her down
Vi
/s

 

nd striking her. She said that as soo# as she regained her sense of direction,
he got up and went home. ;

{| The Subject stated that when she was about three months pregnant, she attempted
suicide by. taking 175 aspirin. She said that a girl friend named Kathy founs her
and took her to the Charity Mospital in New Orleans by taxicab. She said that her
stornach was pumped at the hospital and she said that the hospital notified the
police departinent but her girl friend Kathy talked the officer out of taking her to
jail. ‘

HW 53130 DocId:32189523 Page 7

 
 

wee

   

‘
\
|
|

# 9816 - 67
June 21, 1967

 

Lex Hawkias,

Attorney at Law . : : i
836-842 Fifth Avenue . ae . |
Res eines, Iowa . . : ;
:

ARRANGEMENTS: : oo :

os ASA nA : . :
Sh your request, LILLIG MAE NC MAINES was examined on the polygraph, a
cetection of deception technique.

 

Ww
“RESULTS: oe

 

(Subject was examined in this office on June 19, 1967. She was given a Relevant..
na Irrelevant type examination for the purpose of ascertaining if she possessed |

any knowledge of an alleged rneeting in Dave Ferrie'’s home wherein there wag
verbal intercourse relating to a plot to assassinate the late John F. Kennedy.

 

 

During the pre-test interview, the Subject stated that she was born Lillie Mae
_V\ Wjofiett on Gctober 22, 1944, in Lucedale, Mississippi. She:stated that her real
“\ fnother died when her younger sister was born and that she was raised by one of
Yher father's cousins, James Moffett, and his wife Ethel, She referred to these
pera as her parents. She stated that she was raised near Mobile, Alabarna.
he said that she coes not know whether or not James and Ethel Moffett ever
adopted her. :

 

   

}

Subject stated that she is presently married to Harold MeMaines, aged 38 years.
She said that he does not have a regular job and works out of an “employment
oifice'tin Gmaha, Nebraska, as a truck driver and as 2 furniture mover.

 

The Subject stated that ever since she was old enough to .underetand and rem
her "mother" constantly told her that her older sister Gertrude, who lived in Ne
Orleans, Louisiana, was "a tramp and no good." She stated that these statenients

 

  

We

: 7]
i ane -

HW 53130) DoclId:32189523 Page 5

 
 

1 a
Page 2
Mr. Hawkins ; .
June 21, 1967 | — RE: Lillie Mae McMaines-

RESULTS (cont'd):

finally caused her to run away from home in 1962 and proceed to New Crleans
to locate her sister Gertrude. She said that she just had to find out if her
gister was really “bad.! ,

During six hours of interview and interrogation, the Subject gave the following

niormation regarding her stay in New Orleans, her return to sobile, Alabama,
(Yea on to San Bernadine, California, then back to New Orleans, then to Omaha,
Nebraska, and finally to Des Bioines, Iowa.

 

\\ Bubject stated that when she first went to New Grleans she decided to use the
name Sandra Moffett. She explained that she had been in New Orleans for appron-
imately three weeks before her sister permitted her to go out "on the town’ by
Rerseli, She said that the first night she went out alone she met Perry Russo.

She said thet the meeting occurred about 10:30 P.M. as she was walking down '

ourbon Street and that Perry Russo, “Ken, '' Leity Peterson and "Timiuny” were
also walking along Pourbon Street. She related thet as they passed on the street,
~‘Timmy winked at her and ghe smiléd. She continued that they all stopped on the

sidewalk and tolked.. She said that during this conversation, Porry Russs volun- :
| feeres to drive her horne. :
poe

 

_—
—

She continued that she, Perry Russo, lefty, Ken and Timmy all got into Perry's

car and proceeded to drive toward her sister's home where she was staying but

they stopped on the way ior coifce and gasoline. She said that Perry Russo asked

her if she would go to school with him the following morning and she replied to him :
hat she would go with him provided her. sister would permit her to do so. 7

 

 

 

u

She continued that Perry Russo stopped by the house the folowing morning but her .
[eieter would not permit her to go with him but her. vister did agree that she coula on
attend a party that was being given for Ken Wink that night.

Subject stated that that party was held at a place called the Frenchman's Inn. She
said that Perry was supposed to pick her up at 8:00 P.M. but he was late because
it was raining hard. She said that she and Perry arrived at the party at eppro~i-
mately 9:00 P.M. .

The Subject stated that she and Perey continued to cate until the carly part of 19

She said that she became pregnant a alter she told Perry that she was sregasne
* he told her to get lost" until atter the baby was born and then she should look him -
“+ ap again.

HW 53130 DoclId:32189523 Page 6

 

 
 

 

 

-: me 7 —Q .

&
6/27/67
“a |
AIRTEL
FO:  -§ DYERRCTOR, FAL (62-09060) Catala,
FROM: GAC, CHICAGO (62-6215)

SUBJECT:  <ASSASBIAATION OF PRESIDENT Jowy PITSornALD KENaEDY
42/22/83, Ballec, Terac
ASSAULTING OR KILLING A FEDERAL OFFICEE .

Enclosed for tha Duréean aro threes copies onch of a
sel?-oxplanatery confidential rapert ond additional iefercatian
portaiaing to eaptiousd antter, tuo copies cach of the report.
atid intervention are enelosed ger the Balloa and Nov. Grleans

' DAvisdone,

The ouclesed information Gas made available by PCr
LEQHALH DARRTLSON on 6/20/67, oa an extrenely confidential basin.
POY urged that under eo clireumotences should hAw idontity be .
divulged ts = source.of this infercation and extreme caution
be exercieod in any usé of this infarmation oo ag net te ia any
way @ielate the confidential relationship: betueon 2Ci and those
sated du the enelesed aaterial. —

. Heo to the consitive and confidential anture of the
encloeed information and PCIe uaqusstioned value te the Chicago
Division, this dofernation ic aot being subeitted in a form .
suiteble for dissemination and 46 oubaitted for information
purposes onby.

=

3 ~ Qurenu (Eee. 3)

@ = Dallas (89-43) (ine. 4)
~ Mov Grleans (fac. 423 —
~ Change

 

?. { Bo t ‘
. Bearened ea et
ri pw ; govialised __ :
 Inkcsed. - . :
Pilet oe

 

 

HW 53130) DoclId:32189523 Page 2

 

 

 
 

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

 

 

 

AGENCY: FBI
* RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10250-10233
RECORD SERIES: CG
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-6115-909
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: CG
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 06/27/1967
PAGES: 13
SUBJECTS :
SEE FBI 62-109060-5483
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 01/11/1999
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

 

m?'53130 Docld:32189523 Page 1 1

Date: 3/20/201

Feleased under the John F.
ennedy Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992 (44 USC

Bio? Nore). Case: NW 53130
Pate: 06-01-2017

 
 

 

 

: . ¢

On June 22, 1967, L. H. Harrelson, in a telephone conversation with a con-

fidential source in New Orleans, Louisiana, obtained the following information
with regard to Perry Russe.

| This informant, who is well known to L.H.H. and who is a polygraph examiner

i, having been trained at the Keeler Polygraph Institute, stated that Perry Russo was

\\_Bxaminéd by another polygraph examiner with the Sheriff's Office in New Orleans

“8nd that he had heard that the Sheriff's Office examiner stated that Russo was lying
regarding the story of the plot to assassinate the jate John F. Kennedy.

!

    

rhis informant also advised L.H.H. that Perry Russo had been subjected to

laxco-interrogation, using sodiurn pentathol and that he had further been subjected

tp hypno-~interrogation. He stated that a local psychiatrist subsequently blasted
istrict Attorney Garrison for using these two techniques and suggested that Russo

should be examined on the polygraph which should be more reliable. This informant

pa—stated that he received a call requesting him to examine Russo in regard to his

iL

Btory. He stated that he was told that Russo wanted to meet him first to see what
—kind of a person he was. .

—

 

| He stated that he made an appointment and met Russo for the first time Friday,

June 16, 1967. He stated that at this time he talked for a while and Russo requested
Pa t at he be given a trial run on the polygraph and that he wanted to be asked 10 or 20
\\ gestions and intended to lie to some of them to-see if the examiner could detect
‘\y jt. The source stated that he instead had Russo write down a number on a piece of

aper and place it in his pocket. He stated that he then made Russo a bet of $3.00
| that he could pick out the number, He further stated that Russo called the bet, the
test was run and the examiner picked out the number,

 
 

He stated that Russo appeared in his office on June 19, 1967 to be examined in te-
gard to his story reporting the plot to assassinate the late John F. Kennedy. He
stated that he attempted to examine Russo but that hisPneamo tracing (breathing)
was so erratic that he reported to D.A. Garrison that he felt Russo was an unfi
subject for polygraph testing at this time. He further stated that he did talk with
Russo about his tracing and explained to him that he obviously had something
bothering him. He stated Russo told him that he told the story in court because he
“was getting so much pressure from D.A. Garrison and also NBC. He stated that
*Russo further made the statement to him that he did not know if-Glay Shaw was
‘\present at the meeting or not. He stated that Russo added that if he had to say
“"yes'or "no" that he would have to say "no" that Clay Shaw was not presant.

HW 53130 DoclId:32189523 Page 3

 
 

 

oN
no!

This examiner stated that he asked Russo why he went into court and under oath
stated that Shaw was present at the alleged meeting. He stated that Russo replied

‘that he fully intended to go into court and testify that he did not know if Shaw was
present or not but became angered by Shaw's attorney's question, "Do you believe -
in God" and afterwards did testify that Shaw was definitely present.

_ This informant stated that Russo admitted having undergone psychiatric treatment
for one and one-half years. He stated that Russo admitted to homosexual acts.
his informant stated that he fully believes that he would have been able to break
usso had hecontinued. He stated that after giving a verbal report to Mr. Garrison
that Mr. Garrison told him in no uncertain terms to keep his mouth shut and not to
gay anything about the test or what Russo said. This informant further stated that
lis official written report to Mr. Garrison is going to indicate that in his opinion
Russo was an unfit subject on Monday, June 19, 1967.

 

i
L yore:

The erratic breathing pattern that was described by this informant can indicate
claustrophobia, however, in all of the experience that I have had in conducting
{Fpolygraph examinations, an erratic breathing pattern as a general gule is an indica-
jon that the subject is being deceptive.

 

| a

\

L.H.H.

mad

 

HW 53130) DocId:32189523 Page 4
