 

fog
Ans}
The PICL was a small book of seven pages, size 8 1/2 x 8

inches. It contained 14 items of about two sentences each,
six notes, and two maps. At the end it was attributed to
“The Director of Central Intelligence." The gist of the
items was:

: 1. We believe a special meeting of the Soviet
- Party Central Committee opened today.

2. After a meeting of Laotian princes in Zurich,
Phoumi announced agreement to form a "govern-
ment of national unity." But the Communists
renewed pressure on government forces. (Map)

3. Dominican President Balaguer has eased OAS
investigators out of the country.

4. The Philippine Foreign Minister is worried
over what he feels is a softening of US policy
on Laos.

5. A Soviet ship arrived in Cuba with 18 crates
of a kind usually used for shipping MIG-15s
and 17s.

6. The French found the Algerians uncompromising
~ at the Evian talks.

7. A Soviet ICBM test at Tyura Tam was aborted.
8. We expect the Soviets to show new types of
aircraft and missiles at the Moscow air show

next month. .

Leftist students will try to block Ikeda's de-
parture from Tokyo for the US.

The Soviets will deliver two TU-16s to Indonesia.

 

The Egyptian Ambassador reported home that Sen.
Fulbright would help te supply Egypt with grain
iv and tobacco.

Bec png ct

db get

   

é/ .

 

AW 53217 DocId:32401317 Page 9
 

HW 53217

 

 

   
  

Bieri pptdaiint mere

   

ves ths
12. The Brazilians reported home on Congressman
Cooley's complaints about US wheat policy.

13. Because of concern from Commonwealth countries,
the British bid for Common Market membership f
may be delayed. fe

14. In the Congo, Gizenga is lowering his price

7 for coming to a parliament meeting in Leopold-
i ville. He is having trouble with tribes in’

: the provinces. (Map)

 

te

 

Tse First Suen isiivered. us G4

/AS Sheldon remarks, "A good deal hung on what the re-

 

sponse was going to be." When Sheldon and Lehman delivered
the second issue to the White House on the following Monday

morning, Clifton said, "Go ahead--so far, so good."

Sheldon then advised Dulles of the developments. The
DCI understood that in view of the PICL's production schedule,
he could not play a substantive role, but Sheldon asked him
to pass on any ideas he had. And, in fact, Dulles did from
time to time call to inquire whether certain subjects or
incoming reports had been covered. "His whole attitude on

this was very helpful."

In a fairly short time, McGeorge Bundy, Bromley smith
and Gen. Taylor, in addition to Gen. Clifton, began to read
the PICL. Sheldon took an extra copy for them to read and

pass around while he was at the White House.

Sheldon would give the President's copy to Clifton, who
would return the previous issue, or sometimes several, if

they had backlogged.

DocId:32401317 Page 10
 

HW 53217

 

 

 

Before Gen. Clifton sought the President's approval,
Sheldon set up a special operation to be sure OCI wouldn't
stub its toe if it got the green light. Although knowledge
of the new daily had to be kept to as few people as possible,
the production could not be carried out by just two or three
because of the work-load and the range of expertise required.
Therefore, Sheldon set up a roster of particularly qualified
persons who would be charged on a rotating basis with coming
to the office at 3 or 4 in the morning to go over the intel-
ligence take. They would draft items which Sheldon would
review when he came in about 5:30. He would edit some,
scrub others as not meeting the criteria, and sometimes ask
for additional items. In getting the completed book out on
time, he had to have "a very rapid and understanding typist."
As with the writers, there had to be several typists on a

rotating basis because the hours were difficult.

When Sheldon felt he had a workable production technique,
he had an issue turned out that could be passed to the .
President. It was Saturday, 17 June 1961, when Sheldon and
Richard Lehman checked with Allen Dulles, then delivered the
first issue of the PICL to Gen. Clifton at 1130, later than
would ordinarily be the case im the future. bresident
Kennedy was spending the week-end at his Glen Ora country
“house near Middleburg, Va., and Clifton took the PICL to

him there.
ry

DocId:32401317 Page 3
 

HW 53217

 

their heads together and began to plan a paper which would
be marked “For The President Only." Although formally
labelled Top Secret, it would have no restriction as to
classification. They worked out a format for a publication
that could be read in a few minutes and they hit upon a
title--the President's Intelligence Check List, or PICh.
They wanted to include attention-getting material, such as
summaries of cables on which it was incumbent for some
executive department to take action. This was to some ex-
tent a return to the practice under Truman of reporting
operations, the US Government was involved.inm As Sheldon
remarks: "Unless one's reader is aware of these kinds of

cables, he will never properly understand the intelligence

that we would be presenting him."

Richard Lehman worked up a dry run issue of the PICL,
and when Sheldon thought he had a résonable facsimile of |
what Clifton had outlined, Sheldon took him a copy just for
his personal perusal. Clifton's reaction to the title was |
favorable, and, alttough he made a few suggestions, he liked
the format because the items were short and snappy and the
English was not ponderous. Moreover, while the publication
carried material of a higher classification than any previous’

OCI periodical, it was not littered with classification labels.

DocId:32401317 Page 7

 

 
 

 

Then came the Bay of Pigs in April. Two or three days
after the fiasco, Sheldon was at the White House delivering
the publications when Gen. Clifton suggested that they go
back to his office in the East wing and have a private dis-
cussion. He advised Sheldon of the President's reluctance
to carry on receiving intelligence in the normal way.
Clifton hinted that there was deep-seated resentment, not
necessarily against the Agency as a whole, but against cer-

tain elements in the Agency as a result of the Bay of Pigs.

Clifton said in effect that it would be necessary to
come up with some entirely different ways of operating if
he and CIA were to rekindle the President's interest and re-
main useful in bringing intelligence to him every day. He
suggested that there would have to be a publication with a
completely new format for the President only. It could be
more broadly based than the groundrules -had permitted in the
past. The implication was that the publication could carry
not only intelligence, strictly defined, but things the -
President might like to be reminded of and wish to take
action on.

Clifton stressed that whatever OCI came up with would
have to be short and punchy, and written in a sophisticated

way. Sheldon said he would go back to the office, mull this

~

AW 53217 DocId:32401317 Page 5

 
HW 53217

 

 

over, and see what could be done. Clifton added he wanted
this matter kept on a confidential basis. There was no
point at this stage in the DCI's getting into any discussions
with the President; that would be counterproductive. Sheldon
said he would continue to bring down the regular publications
for the benefit of those, other than the President, who had

been seeing them; Gen. Clifton assented.

Sheldon was obviously in a peculiar position vis a vis
the Director and other senior officers in the Agency. He
asked for, and obtained, a private session with Dulies and
told him how things stood. Dulles reacted in a calm and
helpful manner. "I think he appreciated that at least some
lifeline to the White House was highly desirable from the
point of view of the Agency." Dulles did not say that he
wanted to review whatever Sheldon might take to the White
House. In effect, he gave Sheldon a free hand to do what he
could to be helpful. Sheldon expressed appreciation for the
Director's confidence in him and said that he would report,

any problems the Director should be aware of.

With Dulles's blessing, Sheldon set out to develop a
mechanism that would put the Agency back in the graces of

the White House. He and a few senior officers in OCI put

DocId:32401317 Page 6

ee

 
 

 

 

 

 

The Days of JFK

 

Huntington D. Sheldon has provided an account of the
current intelligence relationship with the White House
during the first year and a half of the administration of
John F. Kennedy. Within two weeks of the inauguration in

1961, Allen Dulles invited the new President to come to the

 

Agency and listen to its officials explain how they thought
they could help him. All the members of the Director's
executive group were called upon to prepare brief statements
of their functions and the practical uses thereof from the
standpoint of the White House. Sheldon was present to out-
line the situation with respect to current intelligence.

He explained what the publications were and, in general,
what the strengths and weaknesses of substantive intelligence
were in various areas. He asked how the President wished

the Agency to serve him in this particular field.

Kennedy responded that he would like to have the publit-
cations available to him. He designated his military aide,
Brig. Gen. Chester V. Clifton, who was present at the meeting,
to be the contact for current intelligence, and said that

Clifton would let the Agency kndéw in a few days just how he

a8

 

AW 53217 DocId:32401317 Page 2
 

 

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

 

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM u
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION Released under the John

. Eennedy

   

CIA Assassination Records
104-10302-10009 ollection Act of 1992
JFK

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#iNU 53217 Date:
bé—-22-2017

CIA-DI-FILES
DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CIA

PAPER ON INTELLIGENCE RELATIONSHIP WITH JFK WHITE
HOUSE

00/00/
25 7h
SHELDON, HUNTING

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
TOP SECRET

1B

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
09/22/98

JPK-M-02:F2 1998.09.22.14:41:33:090120: ARRB REQUEST.

CIA-9.

CLASSIFIED
ATTACHMENT

AW 53217 DocId:32401317 Page 1
 

 

 

HW 53217

 

-2-

would like things handled on a daily basis. It developed
that the best method would be for Sheldon to take the pub-
lications and other papers directly to the White House

every day and maintain close contact with the President's

aides.

Consequently, every day at 8:30 Sheldon would present
his pass at the White House and proceed to the office of
Bromley Smith, who had succeeded Jimmy Lay as Executive

ow fh Lt flee the vest Wing
Secretary of the NSC. Smith's office,was’ the central point
to which intelligence from all sources was directed. Gen.
Clifton's office, as is usually the case with military aides,
was in the East wing of the White House, but Clifton did not
keep highly classified material there. Instead he had a
safe in Bromley Smith's office, where Sheldon would meet him

whether Smith was there or not.

..Each day Sheldon and Clifton would go over the Central

Intelligence Bulletin, usually marking the most important

-

 

items with a red pencil, and Sheldon would deal with any
questions Clifton had. Clifton would usually hand back the
previous day's CIB with any comments he felt appropriate.
Sheldon also brought ts Clifton sensitive cables and other

documents he thought the President might want to see, as

well as photographs, charts, and maps in some cases. This

ng

DocId:32401317 Page 3
 

 

 

HW 53217

 

service Fennedy wanted. Normally,
to the President.

ec an International

 

Intelligence Duty Officer, to call the “hite Mouse Situation
Rocm te make sure it was avare of major news develooments,

and to-alert White Neuse to imoortant classified informa-

 

tion that might have to ke passed te the President.
s Special Assistant for National Security
Affairs, McGeorge Bundy, also had his office next to Bromley
Smith's. Frecuently Cen. Maxwell Tavilor, the President's
special advisor on military affairs, would be in Smith's or
Bundy's office. Sheldon used to take at least four conies of
OCI's publications so that all those interested in intelligence
would be taken care of. Gen. Tavlor was also a member of the
President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Poard.

Eecause Kennedy did net clace as much ermhasis on the
NSC machinery as Hisenhower had, Allen RPulles hace few ontor-
tunities tc cresent intelligence briefinas to the Council.
However, when he felt that there were items of varticular
significance that the President should see, Dulles would
prepare memoranda and take them personally to the President.
He would operate in this way also when he wanted to bring

certain estimates to the President's attention.-

%

  

SECRET

   

 

DocId:32401317 Page 4

 

Perce ra Ie AR ER A EP A NAP A RPT eR enn pe eNea erarnmemereneege
