, . - ; we -
direct lines. Two lines go to a Switchboard of unknown capacity ©
‘in_the gatehouse/reception room. These lines receive an average
of BWo-thousand Salle cach pee ponth. Many times, in reading |
the take, we note that a person will call and say that he is.
coming by at a certain time - or he will be called and told to
come at a certain time. If KDAFGHAN could corelate these calls
with the photographs he takes he could make many identifications
‘which, in turn, could be exploited by other Station assets,
KDGLACIER, or LNERGO. Even of more assistance would be the "hot
‘miking" of these lines. That way we could not only identify apy
caller to the Consulate or gatehouse, but also who the gatekeeper
calls inside to announce the visitor. In addition, we would, also
expect to pick up quite a bit of conversation of interest, for the
gatehouse seems to be a favorite hangout in the Embassy for DGI
personnel. KDAFGHANS 1 and 2, being experienced LP operators,
Could easily handle the take. KDAFGHAN-1, being fluent in English,
could also handle the English language portions of any take - —
which in view of the number of English-Speaking visitors would

No new identifications were made.

. 18... ADMENESTR ar Here.were-no-chansesin-costs or

 

19. ‘SECURITY: There were no security incidents during this
period.. To improve. security, meetings have been reduced to an
average of one every two weeks. Use of the safehouse is now held’
to a minimum and wherever possible meetings are by car pickup.
While KDAFGHAN-1's cover for his darkroom is that it is supposedly.
his hobby, there is not one photograph or camera visible anywhere

"in his house. He has been instructed to correct this deficiency.

sse R. GARDALPHE

 

 

CLASSIFICATION - r ; mo . PAGE NO,

USE PREVIOUS EDITION. “TT ENO! contimuen 16 of 6

5exbs-taa/)

 
may’ read more like a project termination request than a progress
report, the Station does believe that this project could be made
productive if not extremely valuable to both JKLANCE and LNERGO
if. faces could be related to names and other operational leads
inherent in the KDAFGHAN production were abstracted and followed
out. Our plans to do so are outlined below. :

; 9. PLANS: Technical quality needs to be improved. The
present enlargements are only poor to fair in quality. This is
‘due to the lens now in use, which only has an effective aperture
of £-22. The Station WOACRE officer will soon initiate corre-
spondence_to obtain a better lens which wiil not only result in
higher quality photos, but extended coverage in conditions of
darkness or twilight by increasing the light-gathering capability
of the camera. A camera with a behind the lens light meter will”
be used from now on to prevent underexposures in poor light
conditions. The present enlarger lens has a fungus growth which
lowers photographic quality. This will be repaired or replaced.

 

- 10. Since the move ‘to this OP, a-street sign in the line
of sight to the target area obstructs-or spoils over. half of the’
photographs. This prevents the Station from using the photo-
graphs.with agent personnel or contacts who might be able to

.{ identify the subject of the photograph. For, unless heavily

i

‘gh

sterilized, it provides a very easy means. of identifying where
the photograph was taken, and conceivably, by using a theodilite,.
determining the exact location of the OP. An operation, throug
liaison, to remove this obstruction has been initiated. : }

& ll. Identification of PCS personnel, out-bound TDY and in-
transit passengers can easily be raised to near one-hundred
percent. The Station will arrange for our current KDGLACIER

| passport coverage to.be passed on a routine basis to KDAFGHAN
‘and, using these, he should be able to. identify all of the
isubjects that fall in the above category. He will also be.
‘instructed to start a photo file on all TDY and in-transit
ipersonnel and, as he builds this base up, he should be able to
‘identify more and more of the in-bound in-transit. personnel.
Consideration is also being given to have him develop and process
these passport photos for both himself and the Station. This
would not only speed up identification of these subjects - and
the exploitation of possible ops leads - but relieve the Station
Technician and Support Section of some of their work load. .

12. The exploitation of potential operational leads through
the compilation of data on license plates, servicemen, known
visitors and arrival and departure times, has previously been
tried by the Station on a sporadic basis with no success. This
is primarily due to the fact that the workload involved on

Station personnel has prevented a continuing effort. Since ~
KDAFGHAN-1 and 2 are underworked (and would probably welcome |
some change in their incredibly boring routine), this job will
be given to them. They will be required to submit monthly

‘reports on: : ae : te,

a. All vehicles that call at the compound (frequency
_ figures). . :

All service calls.

All visitors and or servicemen who get inside the
compound. — : . .

Continued

 

 

PAGE NO.

USE PREVIOUS EDITION. Poe ConTINUED 4 of 6

 
LEMMA aan AN ond

All visitors and or servicemen who get inside the
gate. .

Compiled. statistics on the arrival and departure
time (and method) of each known or suspect intelli-
gence officer.

- This should considerably improve the Station's ability to exploit
. any leads that might arise.

; 13. The one problem area remaining, and the one where we

_ stand to'strike the most "“pay-dirt" is that of identifying the
photographs of non-Cuban personnel who visit the Embassy -or the
Consulate. While, true, we are unlikely to identify any D&I
agent personnel or illegals, we would be most likely to obtain

. identification of subversives traveling to Cuba and on local
sympathizers or contacts who could possibly serve as access
agents. Linking unknown faces to names can only be done by

. technical means. The target situation and our. proposed means |
of attack are given below. : .

. 14. . Since the arrival of. the new DGI Chief of Center and
the DSE security officer last year, se ity at the Cuban Embassy
and Consulate has tightened drastically. Metal shutters have

een placed on all but one of the windows in the area suspected
of being the DGI center. Not even a crack of. light now shows
from these windows at night. The entire compound and the sur-
rounding wall have been floodlighted. In KDAFGHAN's words, "the
only shadows in the place now are during the daytime". The
former open grill gate to the automobile entrance has been re-
placed by an electrically operated solid metal. garage door.
Passerbys can no longer look into the compound or gatehouse and
KDAFGHAN can no longer observe the latter. The door into the
gatehouse, which is in the outer wall alongside the automobile
entrance, has been changed to a heavy metal door with a one-way
mirror for observation. No vehicles except those belonging to
the Embassy are now allowed inside. All delivery trucks must
park outside and carry their items inside. A completely. new,
and unknown, telephone system has been installed: Access control
is now rigorous. When a visitor now calls at the Embassy he
must ring the doorbell, wait for the door to be opened slightly,
and, if he is not recognized, announce his name and business.
The. door is then shut in his face, the gatekeeper calls the
person he wants to see and the person is then either let in or
turned away.
no compound - with some
ph Former gatehouse wi which has just" “been _o nverte ia a Feception
i area. The person he came to see comes to the ception area
: and interviews him there.. Very rarely is the visitor let into
the compound. If the visitor calls at the Consulate he may
freely enter that one room on the ground floor, but is allowed

‘no further. Usually the secretary handles all requests. Some
times a visitor to the Consulate who requires an interview with
one of the consuls.is taken or. sent to the Embassy entrance.
and interviewed in that area. Our chances of implanting an audio 'f
device inside the Embassy, the Consulate, or the gatehouse with
our current assets and under these conditions is nill.

15. There are seven telephone lines into the Cuban
compound. ._ Five of these go directly to the Ambassador's office,
the Cultural Office, the Press Office, the Commercial Office
and the Consulate. As far as we know, the DGI center has no

~ Continued. see be
CLASSIFICATIO . . . PAGE NO,

USE PREVIOUS EDITION. . .
; . a Tr... . 5 of 6

 

 

HW 53199. Docld:32353680 Page 6
   

  

TAS © feo

.otey

 
 

Prye yore Yoor
CT Bros ep pre

    
   

  
    

“Chief,

  

xO WRDEXING REQUIRED.

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE IRDEXING

 

 

     

 

Western Hemisphere Division

   
  

     

Chief, wWOACRE

     
     
   

 

  
  

2 7 2 : 2 - uw
Chief of Station, Mexico City §*  RICROFILM

 

 

 

31 . "
0 KDAFGHAN Progress Report: 1 July - 30 September 1971 -
ECTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES : ~~ _

_ Action Required: Paragraph 16 (WOACRE)

     
   
   
  
   
  
    
  
    
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
   
   
 
 
  

1. SUMMARY: Daring the reporting period this Project coutinued’
with no change. .The KDAFGHANS continued to provide the Station. with
photographic coverage of visitors to the Cuban Embassy. A new case -_
officer took over the Project at the. beginning of the period and-has
spent the major part of his mectings with KDAFGHAN-1 and 2 on dis-
cussing and planning ways. to improve the percentage of identifications
made by them, What follows is a description of the operation as it
now stands and the Station's plans to improve it.

i}

| : ae
| 2. ' PRESENT Tt KDAFGHAN ROUTINE: Visual coverage of the entrance .
| to the Cuban Embassy compound is provided from 0900 to 1800 (the

| approximate hour at which lighting conditions prevent further
H
!

 

photography with the present equipment.) Embassy hours are 0800- an
2100, approximately, KDAFGHAN-1 provides the majority of the man- —
power, with KDAFGHAN-2 filling in for rest breaks, lunch and while
KDAFGHAN-1 processes the previous day's take. The general practi .
is to observe the entrance without optical assistance until a person
or vehicle is seen to be entering or leaving the gate area. Theo :
restricted size of the aperture possible in the OP for this viewing ©

(a rectangular opening approximately fovr by five inches) prevents...
simultaneous viewing of any other area of the compound. When a
carget is seen, the observer shifts his head a few inches to the

- reflex finder of the camera and is given a 20 X magnification of
the target. This is more than adequate for identification of any
target. If the target is unknown and/or a previous photograph has
not been taken, the observer takes one. At the same time he records °
the time of arrival/departure, whether the target is known or
unknown, and records any obvious identifying data.such as license.
plate, apparent nationality, apparent occupation, etc. In addition

 

  

2a

 

Attachments:
‘A - as stated h/w ;
B- as stated u/s/e — tle.

  

{ _
| ; a ; oe Continued.......

Distribution:
JOrig. & 2 - Chief, WHD (w/atts. A and B YW & ul 87e)
: 1 ~ Chief, WOACRE (w/o/atts.) - ie
£3 bORy

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA =. 41087

 

     
 

  

 

 

  
  
 

        

   

   

=}
m

29 September 1

 

 

 
. : , . Date: 01/06/05
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION \ Released under the John
Kennedy

Assassination Records

ollection Act of 1992

AGENCY : CIA
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10091-10005
RECORD SERIES : JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A (44 USC 2107 Note).
~----- =e ee ase#:NU 53199 Date:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION pé—12-2017

 

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM : COS, MEXICO CITY
TO : CHIEF, WH DIVISION
TITLE : PROGRESS REPORT: 1 JULY - 30 SEPTEMBER 1971
DATE : 09/29/1971
PAGES : 6

SUBJECTS : WITHHELD
CUBA EMBASSY
PHOTO COVERAGE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER
CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B 1C
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/07/93
: COMMENTS : JFK31 : F6 : 1993.08.07.08:51:32:460032

{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10091-10005

AW 53199 DocId:32353680 Page 1
to the above general visual surveillance, the agents are
-occasionally provided with photographs of targets the Station
believes might visit the compound and on whom. we wish a specific
alert - such as visiting agent personnel and third country

- gsubversives known.or believed to be in the area. Each day,

. KDAFGHAN-1 processes his notes and the photographs taken and
submits them to the Station in the following form (one day's
production is illustrated in Attachment A): :

a. A timetable of arrivals and departures (thé number
in the left margin indicates that a photograph was
taken). . : Tt

“The original negative. The daily average seems to
be about eighteen photographs. : Oo

A contact print of the above negatives (the inked ©
numbers on the photographs correspond to the
marginal numbers on the report). oo

d. Enlargements of selected subjects. (not included).

3. ‘THE AGENT PERSONNEL: GARDALPHE spent one day, from
‘0645 to 1900, inside the OP, observing the agents and their
routine. Both seem to have adapted to a very boring routine
quite well. Their eyesight, which has been the subject. of quite
a few off-the-record comments at both Headquarters and at the
Station (viz, that they are blind), was checked out thoroughly,

but innocuously, by asking them who such and such a person was

at the gate or in photos and by asking them to read some very
small print film-processing jnstructions.. While KDAFGHAN-2's
eyesight is definitely poorer than that of KDAFGHAN-1, she easily ~
identified the subjects and was able to read the test literature -
with no problem. She was observed carefully while manning the.

OP and she missed no one in that one and one-half hour period.
Previous cases of missing known targets scheduled to visit the |
Embassy are more probably the result of boredom and-a resultant:
lack of attention. Their job requires them to be hermits. They
have very few friends and even fewer visitors. To break them out
of this rut, the Station will soon start altering their work .
hours to provide more extended coverage of the target, and give |
them more interesting work to do. : . . . . oot

4. PRESENT KDAFGHAN FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT: The present
op is located on the roof of a three-story apartment house
located about eighty yards from the compound entrance (see
Attachment B). Concealment is excellent. Windows on other
floors allow visual observation of most of the compound facing
the OP and of the entrance to the Consulate. However, they do
not permit photography, except on a selected basis, because of
the concealment problem. The OP proper is a small bathroom

about five by six feet in what used to be the maid's quarters.

A captain's chair, the tripod, camera, ‘lens and a small worktable
have been fitted in between the various plumbing fistures.
Adjacent to this igs another room of approximately twice the size
which contains a desk, cot, the printer anda wardrobe for
storing photographic materials. This room has a large picture |
window overlooking the entrance to the Consulate.

1

Continued

 

 

CLASSIFICATION : PAGE NO.
VIOUS EDITION. ; : .
USE PREVIOUS EDIT : CONTINUED 2 of 6

 
5. -The photographic equipment used by the KDAFGHANS at -
present consists. of a Bausch and Lomb spotting scope with 20-X
eyepiece, and a Pentax H-3.camera. This equipment is not
satisfactory (see below). Except for the printer, all darkroom

. equipment is located in-a darkroom ou. the first floor. The

_ darkroom is well equipped and adequate. - KDAFGHAN-1 makes no
attempt to conceal the darkroom. His cover for the darkroom is
that it is his hobby. ,

davadadcarebtett etetnantsthbied

ables are filed and Vol Droce ised at pr
is looking for confirmation of an agent report or a surveillance
report, they are sometimes consulted. :
shipped to He arte retenti

a DDE? 1 iC BAGUAT , for retent I omedtedsl Sanl. ~ ch :
negatives and contact prints are handled in the same way. | Cc

vir The (enlarged photographs are processed in the following
way: / ; : ;

Certain photographs of unidentified persons are.
‘sterilized and forwarded to the local office of
LNERGO. The Station receives no feedback or

identification of these individuals from LNERGO.

Photographs of: PCS or known TDY Embassy personnel
are kept and used for identification purposes at’.
the Station and some are forwarded to Headquarters
for the same reason. _ ; : :

ce. Photographs of other identified persons are placed
_in Station personality files. noe

 

a. ALL other__photographs—(the—maj.or—portion) are simply

~ destroyed. _] , ook

8. LNERGO was recently queried on the value of this
operation to them. They replied, "(these photographs) are
compared with the photographs of known leaders of extremist
groups in WOCORK as well as with photographs of persons who are
subjects of Identification Orders prepared on badly wanted
fugitives in WOCORK. It is requested, therefore, that you
continue this service if it does not cause problems or unusual ——
costs to your office.” While this project may be of some value -

- to LNERGO, it is of little_value, as presently c i ed, to
the Station.-” There are other, and cheaper, means of obtaining

- photographs of PCS and TDY personnel. No identification or
operational use is made of the photographs of the unidentified
subjects - at least by JKLANCE - and no operational use is made .
of the timetable. For instance, license plate numbers are not
now traced as either a possible means of identification, oF
leads to CI or recruitment targets. A previous effort at
analyzing the timetable for possible patterns of activity was
unproductive and has not been repeated. Only in selected .
instances do we try to correlate the information received from
KDBADGER coverage of the Embassy and that provided by the
KDAFGHANS. But generally this has not been successful, since
most often people with previous appointments are going to the
Consulate (which we do not cover with KDAFGHAN), or too many.
unidentified people arrive around the same time at the gate,
precluding a positive identification. While the above evaluatior ;

Continued.....+--

 

a]
. PAGE NO.

USE PREVIOUS EDITION. oe i
. Lo: CONTINUED 3 of 6

 
