 

HW 54214

 
  
 
  

aa
\)

|

!
i

Mor overflights (resuppi

Considerations
sae tations

In our Operational Representatives discussions, it was generally
acknowledged that a widespread revolt of the Cuban people against the
regime might well lead to an open appeal by Cubans for help by U.S.
military forces, as the regime's security forces attempt to crush the
revolt. [The CIA operational people, who would implement. a stepped
up CourSe B as Phase II of Operation Mongoose, do not believe this’
course of action by itself would bring the overthrow of the regime in
Cuba; they believe that the use of U.S. military force in the final stage
must be anticipated, for success”

At the close of the attached CIA section on "covert activities,"
there is a list of policy approvals deemed required. It is suggested
that this be read in co i g. i
outlined in the section js noted that authority would be required f
aflet drops, infiltration, exfiltration), use j

 
     

  

jof U.S. submarines for infiltration and exfiltration, major sabotage

operations, stepped up psychological action (including Propaganda
balloons and establishing a medium-wave Radio Free Cuba), training

‘Cubans on U.S. bases, some Operational use of Guantanamo, and

more flexibility in the composition of paramilitary groups (se jon
of Cubans in U.S. forces and strengthening with non-Cubans).

In the "covert activities" section, it is noted that CIA would sup -
port State in any feasible action to develop individual Latin American
country support and would provide covert support to the CRC and appropriat:
Cuban groups, to assist in the achievement of the goal of Operation Mongoos:

My own comment is to urge that you give the fullest possible con-
sideration to the concept of actions by Cuban groups, and actions from
and by Latin American countries, to achieve the goal of Operation
Mongoose. Consideration of this concept is urged, since it alone
could offer making the responsibility for initiative and actions reside in
groups and countries other than the U.S. Lfa support concept is
possible which would permit U.S. assets to assist such non-U.S.
Operations, with reasonable assurance of mutual objectives and methods,
then this would be the most desirable concept for winning our goal.

Attachments

2
TOD. Ce mm we or

DocId: 32424893 Page 2
HW 54214

7
Date

08/28/98
Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

FROM

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

AGENCY INFORMATION

JCS
202-10001-10162
FOIA SERIES # 1
Doc 163

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

OsD

STEPPED UP COURSE B
08/08/62

3

MONGOOSE

MEMORANDUM
TOP SECRET

ic

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
07/30/98

Reviewed by JCS, OSD, State,

rODECO ON

 

Released under the John
. Eennedy
Wssassination Records
Ollection Act of 1992

 

CIA.

EXEMPT PER-E.0:: 13526.
SEC 3.3(b).

 

DATE EXEMPTED: WAR 2018 ©

JS RE-REVIEW DATE:3/2EC 2939 .

Te Pies AS
aT Ants wit C/A

CONCURCENCE 4 |

DoclId:32424893 Page 1
Considerations
wunsicerations

In our Operational Representatives discussions, it was generally
acknowledged that a widespread revolt of the Cuban people against the
Tegime might well lead to an open appeal by Cubans for help by U.S.
military forces, as the regime's security forces attempt to crush the
revolt. e CIA operational people, who would implement a stepped
up CourSe B as Phase II of Operation Mongoose, do not believe this
course of action by itself would bring the overthrow of the regime in
Cuba; they believe that the use of U.S. military force in the final stage
must be anticipated, for succes#”

At the close of the attached CIA section on “covert activities,"
there is a list of policy approvals deemed required. It is suggested
that this be read in co ith the CIA. i ggestions as
js noted that authority would be requir {
f@aflet drops, infiltrati

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

   
  
  

& Wore Sey

[operations, stepped up psychological actions i
balloons and establishing a medium-wave Radio Free Cuba), training
Cubans on U.S. bases, some operational use of Guantanamo, and

more flexibility in the composition of paramilitary groups (se jon
of Cubans in U.S. forces and strengthening with non-Cubans).

 
 

a)
Vy

 
   
 
  

  

In the ''covert activities" section, it is noted that CIA would sup-
port State in any feasible action to develop individual Latin American
country support and would provide covert support to the CRC and appropriat:
Cuban groups, to assist in the achievement of the goal of Operation Mongoose

My own comment is to urge that you give the fullest possible con-
sideration to the concept of actions by Cuban groups, and actions from
and by Latin American countries, to achieve the goal of Operation
Mongoose. Consideration of this concept is urged, since it alone
could offer making the responsibility for initiative and actions reside in
groups and countries other than the U.S. Ifa support concept is
possible which would permit U.S. assets to assist such non-U.S.
Operations, with reasonable assurance of mutual objectives and methods.
then this would be the most desirable concept for winning our goal.

Attachments

2

HW 54214 DocId:32424893 Page 3 TOD GEMOD rr
