INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page 6 of 6

primary reason for that memorandum, according to Moody,
was that she was instructed to keep records on who gets
what. Also, the "customer wanting everything" attitude
is a continual problem at NSA, according to Moody.

FILE:

Both the Director and Deputy Director knew about
sending out that memorandum. She did recall that there
may have been a question at the time of the possible im-
portance of the product, but doubted that there was ques
tioning of the legality of the activity in 1970.

Finally, Moody stressed that the highest levels of
NSA were informed at all times about the watch list
activity; she expressly stated that the perishable natur
of SIGINT information caused them to be particularly
attentive. There was a specific concern for any divulging
of the SIGINT source.

    

AW 55355 DocId:32423575 Page @
AW 55355

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page > of 6

Moody was asked about the activities during the
Huston Plan and IEC periods. She stated that certainly
G Group was involved in some of the that related
to the Huston Plan; both Buffham ana[_ | fron her shop
participated in those activities. In act, she recalls
a proposal to change the charter of NSA so that the
Agency could target domestic citizens without ‘having to
worry about the foreign communications caveat. Moody
stated that if NSA were asked to monitor activities of
radicals domestically, and the charter was changed, they
would "carry out what we were told to do." wo" JER Act 6

Moody recounted fo ialogue between Henry
Petersen of Justice and and Tordella on the
legality of the NSA wate St. e said that it was th

opinion of the Justice Department that the activities
against American citizens should be halted. She stated
that this was a confusing period because for awhie they
thought all watch list activity was supposed to be stopp
including that directed against foreigners.

Moody recalled that some of the watch list files we
destroyed in January 1974 and that she participated in
that decision. It was decided that most of their materi
should probably not be kept for a period of over five
years. The destruction of drug files was due to the fac
that that effort had ceased in 1973 and NSA saw no need
for that material. As for the different attitudes ex-
pressed over the watch list material, she attributed tha
to the post-Watergate atmosphere. She also stated that
Tordella may have been talking. with the General Counsel
about the legality of the drug intercepts.

Asked about the watch list product, Moody stated
that most of it was printer traffic and very little was
voice. She does remember that the general requirement t
look at people involved in civil disturbances was pro-
bably sent to the voice intercept stations. But she has
no personal knowledge of this, and she would not have
tasked them specifically. To her knowledge, most hits
were processed, and no individuals or groups were not
sent to any particular agency.

In terms of the biographic information included in
the footnotes, Moody said that most of it came from in-
ternal sources; C-5 and some from CIA. She does not re-
call ever calling, or knowing of anybody calling the FBI
to get information to puton a piece of watch list produc

Moody was asked about the memorandum that she sent

out in May 1970 which instructed all agencies to re-
affirm their interest in the watch list product. The

DocId: 32423575 Page 7

FILE:
AW 55355

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page _3_ of 6

ADEK Act 6 (1) (B)

 

it. to her or gave her the essential points that he wante FILE:
in the cable, and she then wrote. it up. [___]stated
that she was quite sure that the telegram was sent to
Yarborough and to the other individuals on the U.S.
Intelligence Board. She cannot reeall any meetings or
communications during that time between Carter and
Yarborough regarding civil disturbances).

   
    
  

Moody could not recall anything being included on t
watch list directly as a result of Yarborough's telegram.
She did not know of any names of people.or organizations
that came along with the Yarborough cable. In addition,
she could not recall any specific response other than the
Carter memorandum to Yarborough's telegram; she recalled
no SIGINT every being supplied. Moody does not recall
any meetings within NSA that resulted from the Yarboroug
cable. :

Moody ‘stated that it was during this midslate 1960s
period that NSA began to develop a fairly sophisticated
computer capability to do dictionary scans. The ah

effort was f dona pilot project related to
Ld and probably began in 1962-19637—But,
she sal a took many years to develop the capability

to the point where the computers could scan a large num-
ber of messages.

Moody recalls that names began to come in to the P
Group from the FBI, CIA, Secret Service, and possibly
from the military services and DIA. She does not recall
any names of individuals from the Army ACS(I) or from
the State Department, although Ambassador Hoffacker was
Chairman of the Terrorism Committee and may have submittdd
names that related to it. As for the Bureau of Narcotic
and Dangerous Drugs, their submissions did not start
coming in until about 1970, and then with assurances fro
Director Ingersoll that the material would not be used
to prosecute drug traffickers. Moody stated that NSA
does not have "any law enforcement function." She did
concede, however, that NSA could have intercepted com-
munications which could have been used in apprehending
drug traffickers. Moody stated emphatically that there
were never any names sent from state or local police, an
had there been, NSA would not have accepted them. This
would have been a clear law enforcement function.

When asked about the 4-page, roughly~typed document
Moody said that she did not author it, but speculated
that there were two people in her office who may have --

She recognized the lan-
guage in it, but could not pinpoint where the list of
names and organizations had come from.

DocId: 32423575 Page 5
AW 55355

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page _*

When questioned about project MINARET and the reason
for it, Moody stated that she sensed the sensitivity of
the project and was attempting to control: access to the
perishable SIGINT information. .In a sense, she was "pro-
tecting the need to know." The charter was probably pre-
pared within her office, but she cannot recall preparing
it herself. It was approved by the Director, as were all
other materials relating to the watch list. She stated
that "Gayler was informed on a day-to-day basis about
the watch list activities." She stated that she even
took a specially-colored folder containing watch list
product to Gayler every day.

     
 

FILE:

In addition, MINARET was discussed with and approved
by the Secretary of Defense. Evidently, there was no
approval by the White House. The post-MINARET period di
not result in any substantive change in NSA'ts operation
with regard to monitoring U.S. dissidents. Moody does
not recall any questioning about the legality of the
monitoring operation during this period.

Questioned about the scope of the project, Moody
stated that all monitoring was a result of a USIB require-
ment and that it was also in response to another agency’
specific request. Moody confirmed that there was a tota
of 1100 names of U.S. citizens and groups on the watch
list; the largest.number at any one time totaled about
300. Moody had no recollection of how much product was
generated each month, nor how much was disseminated to
other agencies. She did say that there was never any
great amount of material, and that it was a small portio
of their SIGINT effort. In terms of what material was
disseminated to which agencies, Moody said that it depen
upon their requirement; anything related to foreign con-
nections with domestic activities would be sent to CIA,
and the product regarding domestic groups would be sent
to FBI. Obviously, if an agency had submitted a name,
they would have received the product on that name.

In terms of the value of the product, Moody said
that "not much was turned up on foreign influence," but
"Secret Service protection was enhanced because of our
efforts." She stated that some NSA take was purportedly
used to help save Henry Kissinger's life as well as that
of Undersecretary Sisco.

Moody was unclear as to when the General Counsel's
office first became aware of the watch list, but knew
that Lew Tordella informed both the General Counsel at
CIA and DoD about the watch list in 1973.

DocId: 32423575 Page 6
Date
Page

08/07/95
1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
: IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10014-10187
RECORDS SERIES : MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 07-M-92 : -

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :; NSA MONITORING
_DATE : 09/09/75
PAGES : 6
SUBJECTS : NSA
WATCH LIST
DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED .
CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/19/99

{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

AW 55355 DoclId:32423575 Page 2
JFK Assassination System Date: W/1/2015

Identification Form

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information Released under the John
Kennedy
Wesasgsination Records

ollection Act of 1992

SSCIA
157-10014-10187

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#:i NW 55355 Date:
f1i-24-2017

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

 

07-M-92

Document Information

SSCIA

NSA MONITORING

09/09/1975
6

WATCH LIST
NSA

MEMORANDUM
Unclassified

IC

Redact
06/26/2000

 

v9.1

AW 55355 Docld:32423575

Page 1
INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page 1 of

 

INTERVIEW WITH: Mrs. Juanita Moody FILE:
DATE/TIME/PLACE: September 9, 1975, 9:30 a.m., NSA
PRESENT: Eric Richard, Peter Fenn

RE: NSA Monitoring

 

Background

was with the Second Signal Service Battalion. She began
as a clerk and later, during World War II worked as a
eryptanalyst. She then worked for the Army Security
Agency, and later, the Armed Forces Security Agency, which
is the forerunner of the National Security Agency. Prior
to 1961, Moody worked in the Soviet area and analyzed
SIGINT traffic. In July 1961, she became the head of G
Group which was the NSA section responsible for non-~
Communist countries. In 1966, she became head of P Group,
which included the Information and Reporting element, Cus
tomer Relations, the Command Center, the Library, and the
Central Reference service. In 1973, she became head of

V Group, which included the responsibilities of P Group,
as well as research and engineering, requirements, report
ing, and the NSOC (National SIGINT Operations Center).

Watch List

Moody explained that the term "watch list" was some-
what of a misnomer because it changed in meaning over the
years. She said the first time that she ever heard the
term "watch list" was in 1961, and it was in relation to
looking for names of people, reports of meetings, or some
other kind of activity. She recalls, in the early 1960s,
the names of subversives and agents, particularly Soviet,
that CIA had sent to NSA. She has no recollection of any
U.S. citizens being on the watch list in the early 1960s.
In fact, she says that at that time, she was working on
the military aspect of the Cuban problem, and did not keep
close track of individuals on the watch list.

The period during which Moody has the clearest memory
of change in the way the watch list was conducted was in
1963. The assassination of John Kennedy provided the im-
petus for the Secret Service's inclusion of American eiti
zens who posed threats to the lives of prominent Govern-
ment officials. She recalls meeting with other agencies
during the time the Warren Commission was putting togethe
its report, particularly with CIA and the FBI. She state
that these early meetings were somewhat confusing in that
no one in the intelligence community seemed to understand
exactly what NSA did. She recommended that P-2, or Cus-
tomer Relations, be established to promote better contact
with the other agencies; this was done to provide direct
support to agencies, like the Secret Service and the Whit
-House.

AW 55355 DocId:32423575 Page 3
6
INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page 2 of

The Director and Deputy Director were aware of the
early watch list activity. Moody stated that because the
material was so sensitive, and the officers in the Agency
were concerned for the "perishable nature" of the SIGINT
product, the Director and Deputy Director took a major
role in the activity. When names of American citizens wer
put on the watch list, Moody is sure that the Director an
Deputy Director did know of this activity. As for the
General Counsel, Moody was not sure about his knowledge.

  
     
  
    
 
   

Moody has no personal recollection of names coming i
from the Office of Security. She stated that she inter-
faced mostly with the other agency users and would not
have had responsibility for communications with the Office
of Security.

Asked about the submission of names by telephone,
Moody stated that this may have happened before the for-
malization of the procedure in 1969; after 1969, any name
coming in by telephone would have to be followed by written
authorization from the requesting agency.

The Yarborough cable of October 1967 signaled the
first time that U.S. citizens and groups associated with
black and antiwar movements were expressly put on the
watch list. She does recall the Yarborough cable coming
in on a weekend and the reply from General Carter the nex
week.

At the time the cable came in, Moody discussed it
with a Colonel William Hamilton. Hamilton questioned the
legality and propriety of the task requested by Yarborou
Moody and Hamilton then decided not to implement the re-
quest until the Director approved it, which he did before
authorizing a reply.

Moody recognized her initials on the Carter response
and the date of June 19, 1969. She could not recall why
she initialed that document at that late date, although
it may have related to the MINARET charter, which was
written in July 1969. Moody cannot recall any meetings
or discussions with anybody in the Defense Department,
CIA, or FBI about the Yarborough cable. In fact, she sai
she never talked to Yarborough about anything. She was
under the impression, however, that there was a Presidential

‘order to the Secretary of Defense to keep track of civil
disturbances, and the Secretary of Defense had tasked the
Army to do that monitoring.

The Carter response to the Yarborough cable was
familiar to Moody, but she could not recall ha
ment in its production. She noted tna]
po inas listed as the document drafte We ater
spent about five-minutes talking ae
Cc Jaia state that She was involved in sending ou a
Cable. Burns stated that..Carter probably either dictated

SRK Act 6 (1) (B)

AW 55355 DocId:32423575 Page 4
