 

E. SURVEILLANCE EQUIPMENT :
Phe equipment used on surveillances will depend upon the type and purpose of. os
the surveillance. The following examples illustrate some of the uses of
technical and other equipment on Bureau surveillances. . . a
1. Firearms, restraining devices, and lighting equipment on fugitive ”

surveillances ° .
2. Surveillances in extortion cases often require a great variety of equip~
ment, including radio, decoy packages, signaling devices, binoculars,
lighting equipment, as well as firearms and restraining devices.
3. <Automobiles are essential in practically all types of surveillances and
‘ care should be taken to insure that the cars used are not conspicuous
! and are speedy enough to follow the vehicles driven by the subjects or
suspects in the case. Consideration must be given to changing automobiles
. and/or license plates.
| 4. Photographic ecuipment can be used in practically all types of surveil—
lances. In this connection, the various types of still~ and movie-
camera equipment that the’ Bureau has available and which are described
‘ - elsewhere in this manual should be kept in mind.
: 5. Radio equipment can often be utilized to advantage on surveillances;
: however, care must be taken net to utilize such equipment if it will
attract attention by being conspicuous. aan
6, Although cash is not ordinarily considered as equipment, it is very
essential that the Agents on surveillances provide themselves with
sufficient cash to enable them to operate without the use of credit cards
and in some cases GTRs. A supply of small change is essential,
especially nickels and dimes, for use in making phone calls at unusual
. hours from pay stations.

[ {7. Special surveillance devices for major cases can be built by the Exhibits

[ Section in conjunction with the FBI Labcratory when time permits. When

{ requesting such devices, include photographs, measurements, and other

; [ informative data which will be needed to build the items. Full justifi-
of cation for the request must be included. }

F. DRESS OF AGENTS ON SURVEILLANCES
It is extremely important that Agents on surveillances dress in such a
Manner so as not to attract attention by looking out of place in the areas

. where they are working. They should at all times try to blend into the

_ background and make themselves as inconspicuous as possible. This may
Anvolve wearing sweaters, slack outfits, or overalls in some situations and
in others may even require the wearing of formal attire.

G. KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUBJECT UNDER SURVEILLANCE

 

 

SEC @* SURVEILLANCES AND RAIDS ; 4h -G

1. Agents on surveillances should familiarize themselves with the file of a
case and utilize every other possible means of obtaining a knowledge of

- the subject that they are to have under surveillance,
2. Agents going on a surveillance to relieve other Agents shculd, wherever

possible, have an opportunity to talk with the Agents who have previously
worked on the case in order to obtain information as to the subjectis
physical characteristics,as well as his habits, recreation, and business
contacts, since this will enable them to more intelligently carry out
their assignment. :

 

11-13-59

AW 54977 DocId:32989723 Page 9

 

a

 
 

 

c an SECTION 46 Qprvemiaices AND RAIDS @

ACTIVITIES OF AGENTS ON SURVEILLANCES ret a Lt ph

lL. It is of paramount importance that Agents on surveillances act perfectly d
natural at all times, Any indications of self—consciousness or unusual 8
aotions or appearance of the Agents will, of course, assist the subject in ’
verifying any suspicions he may have that he is under surveillance, .

2. Agents on surveillances must be constantly on the alert for countersurveillances
on the part of accomplices of the subject. For example, when a surveillance
is being conducted on foot, it is desirable to have one of the Agents walk on
the opposite side of the street from the subject in order that he might be in
a position to observe any countersurveillance activities on the other side of
the street, Agents on fixed surveillances must, of course, always be on the
alert for microphone plants and taps on the telephones being used by the
Agentso .

3. The use of contacts, sources of information and confidential informants
should not be overlooked by the Agents on surveillances, For example, in
the event a subject registers in a hotel, considerable information can be
obtained among the employees and management of the hotel if informants have
been developed among them,

4. Agents on surveillances should constantly keep in touch with the[supervisor
(SAC in cases of major importance) Jin order that he might be continually
informed of the developments in the case. It is extremely important that
Agents immediately communicate with the[{supervisor (or SAC) ]when the surveil-
lance is lost by one particular Agent in order that this Agent might be able
to catch up with the surveillance again the next time the Agents who are
following the subject call in. The importance of the coordination of the
Agents working on the surveillance with the{supervisor]by means of telephone
and in some instances radio, cannot be over-emphasized, and in order that
this might be effective, it is necessary for the Agents working on the surveil
lance to be in communication with the[supervisorJas frequently as this can be
done without attracting attention.

RENTING OF PREMISES FOR USE IN FIXED SURVEILLANCES

Le Fixed surveillances from automobiles parked on the street are usually good
for only a few hours due to the fact that the cars become conspicuous.

2. Prior to renting quarters, care must be taken to first ascertain the
reliability of the owner of the property by a discreet inquiry.

3. Where the reliability of the owner is questionable or when other ciroumstances
‘indicate that such a procedure is desirable, a pretext should be used; how-
ever, the Agent developing the pretext should be careful not to evolve some
situation which might be even more embarrassing than the truth. Such use
of pretext requires careful thought and planning. In many instances the
Agent must disclose his official identity in order to obtain suitable
quarters for the surveillance; however, in such instances, the intimate
details of the surveillance and the case under investigation should never
pe disclosed to the person contacted no matter how reliable he may appear
to be.

4. When quarters are rented for a fixed surveillance, telephones should be
installed in order to enable the Agents on surveillance +o communicate with
the office and with the Agents on the outside,

 

'

 

 

HW 54977 DocId:32989723 Page 10 .

 
 

4B ~ D, 7 SECTIC’ 4, SURVETLLANCES AND RAIDS

8 a
.B. TRAINING o want

cae Afford adequate indootrination and training to Agents assigned to physical | . ")
“surveillances prior to utilizing them. Training should encompass completes.
review of pertinent portions of manual and other relevant material and .
discussion of desirable and undesirable techniques. Discussion should a
include:
“a. Rotation of automobiles, use of variety of cars, changing license tags
+d. Parking in.one place .too long, parking where subject can observe, :
parking in restricted areas, parking surveillance cars in vicinity ,
Bureau office, several Agents sitting in parked cars for extended time
c. Point out value of radios and fixed observation posts in aiding with
"parking problems.
vt *. @,. Cover alertness re countersurveillance, attempts of subject to discover
. surveillance, operation of other physical surveillances, persons
attempting to take license numbers.
e. Discuss conditions peculiar to your territory affecting physical .
. surveillances,
2, Complement training in offices having full time surveillance squads with
conference every two weeks. Conference to include new developments and
pertinent instructions. 7 . : ste

 

 

 

 

C, REASONS FOR CONDUCTING SURVEILLANCES . -
The purpose of the surveillance is an important factor: to keep in mind
at all times, and the Agents assigned to surveillances must know the purpose
in order to function efficiently. The Bureau surveillances usually have
for their purpose one or more of the following:
1. The location of fugitives through the surveillance of relatives or
. known contacts ‘
2. Surveillances conducted to cover pay-offs in extortion cases
3. Surveillance of subjects or suspects in espionage, sabotage, or other
national defense cases to observe their activities and ascertain the
identity of their accomplices
4. Surveillances conducted at the request of other governmental departments
D. TYPES OF SURVEILLANCES Teh . : core
1. Pixed surveillances , , . : *
These are surveillances often referred to as plants, where the Agents
are stationed’'in one location and usually involve the surveillance of
a place to determine the activities and the identity of persons going
in and out of the premises under surveillance.
2. Mobile surveillances
This is a moving surveillance where the Agents are moving about on foot,
by automobile or on trains, airplanes, or other means of transportation,
surveilling subjects or suspects in Bureau cases, These types of
surveillances may be broken down into the following categories:
-a. Close surveillances
+ °"' ". Where it is necessary to keep the subjects or suspects under
surveillance at all times and where it may involve considerable
activity to locate the subjects or suspects again if they. are
lost.
b. Loose surveillances
a All surveillanes which may be conducted as spot checks to
t -'@etermine the contacts and activities of the subjects or
suspects and where it may be proper to drop the surveillance
temporarily rather than risk the chance of being "made." This
type of surveillance is sometimes desirable in very discreet
investigations involving subjects whose habits and contacts
are so well known that they can be readily loc&éted again if
it becomes desirable to drop the surveillance temporarily. .

 

 

 

. '
| AW 54977 DocId:32989723 Page 8 2
Ps . .

 
 

we ¥ . ‘ SECTTON 4, SURVEILLANCES AND RAIDS © . 4A

A. SURVEILLANCES IN — é

cod. | The maintenance of surveillances requires the use of the utmost discretion;
: -oommon sense, and good judgment on the part of the SACs and the Agents’.-)»~-
1, ,Arbitrary rules cannot properly be laid down or adhered to for this type
», of investigative procedure. A few general principles can be laid down, !
however, which can be applied to various types of surveillances,
+2. <A surveillance is an investigative technique just as interviews, collecting
~ Of evidence, and conducting raids are investigative techniques, and, of
course, practical experience in this particular activity is the best :
: ‘teacher, . ‘ ,
3. Surveillances are expensive inthat they cause the tying up of manpower and
should not be resorted to unless results can reasonably be expected.
4. In surveillances in cases of major importance SACs should assume personal,
on—the-scene supervision and not delegate such command to subordinates.
If a sufficient reason exists to prevent the SAC from being personally
‘present at the scene of a major surveillance, the ASAC must be in command,
‘SAC must assure himself that all physical surveillances comply with
:.. Bureau instructions, and‘are being given adequate supervison.
5. FBI employees other than Agents must not be used on surveillances
without specific Bureau authority.
6. Provide Agents with explicit instructions on each physical surveillance
"dn which they engage. Agent personnel participating on physical surveillances
shouid be orally advised concerning the duties to be performed in
- connection with such surveillances and should not be permitted to carry
-with them any written surveillance schedules, If it is necessary to utilize
code words for commun:.cations over Bureau radios, the approved list of
code words if too long to be remembered may be furnished to the Agent
driving the car but should not be removed from the car during the course
of the surveillance, When the surveillance has been concluded, the list
.of code words should be returned to the supervisor incharge of the
surveillance.
7. <All written data of any kind relating to physical surveillances must be
turned in by the Agents preparing or utilizing same to the field office
at the conclusion of eack day's tour of duty. In some instances
Agents will complete their tour of duty on physical surveillances outside
their headquarters city, and in those cases it will not he possible for
- any written data they may have to be immediately turned in to the field
. . office, However, in such situations, the Agents will be held personally
_vesponsible for safeguarding any such written data until such time as it
‘can be returned to the field office. In addition, all such written data
relating to physical surveillances must not contain anything which would
indicate to any persons unauthorized to have it that the data relates
to physical surveillances. .
8. In every security case involving a subject who has been apprehended for
a Federal violation within our investigative jurisdiction, the office
of origin is to make recommendations to the Bureau concerning the
necessity for physical surveillance coverage of the subject who is free
.on bond while awaiting trial or pending appeal following conviction.
The office of origin is to closely follow the appeal proceedings of
“security subjects, making arrangements with the Washington Field Office
or other offices, where necessary, in order that the office of crigin
can be assured that it is instantaneously notified of aay court decision
affecting the merits of the appeal. The office of origin is to promptly
notify the Bureau in such instances, making recommendations for any
changes in the coverage of the subject and whether physical surveillance
should be utilized until he is committed to custody.]

 

OO Se eo

e

toe ” . oe ; ; coe

 

hi ent is prepared in response to your request dnd is not for dissemi-
a A etstde your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by
your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-
nel without the express approval of the FBI. :

 

 

HW 54977) DocId: 32989723 Page 7

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Co bom Gy B HOUSE SELECT COMMITTER OW
Se TRTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES case) ;

Lh, ; Re nade to HSC let 7/22/78, reqstag matris &

- _ f~aecumnts previously provided te U. S. Senate
So, ‘Seleet Committee (8SC}. Enclosd for ur approvl &
*. a iforwardng to HSC is eriginl of memo w/ euclosur

' [which is subnitd a8 partial.respons to shove-cit
af? ‘Feeqst of HSC. A copy of this memo is being.

@ 7 . p Pxnsha for ur : reerds » K.¥.

  

‘@ ' os

~

 

 

P
[| HW 54977 Docld:32989723 Page 5
 

 

 

 

I. Fifteen Sections of the FBI's
Manual of Instructions

 

HW 54977 DocId:32989723 Page 6

 

 
 

 
      
 

BULKY

——
s

erial 73

een

BULKY ENCLOSURE
aba #16= i> LER,
ROOM IB-873 /2.7-

 
  
 

  

E

Seiten eetee oA ceeme moe tan ee iene tenant Me ane acmcemeamnmnl

  

ECE Myriam ty 6
eee ba

 

  
    
   
   
  
 

ne materi mer ernetapecamelonmnene RTE I
i 1

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

é > |
Serial Scope:

 

 

BX Buller

 

 

 

 
   

| ATTACHMENTS TO HSC
9/16/75

| ane 54977 Docld:32989723 Page 3
RE eee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

=)
<E
pel
Ba
=)
aa
al
<
a
fz]
a
[=|
Py

or

INVESTIGATION

 

 

 

 

 
