 

 

 

Memorandum to Mr. Bassett
RE: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. Se HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

7

DETAILS: By letter to the Attorney General dated 4/12/78,

@ HSCA requested access to files on our informants
within the Invaders, a Memphis youth gang. ‘This request
was apparently made after a review of the Invaders file at
FBIHQ which disclosed the Memphis Office had five informants
who were providing coverage of that organization. Mr. G. Robert
Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, had advised Legal
Counsel] Division that the HSCA is trying to resolve whether
or not the Invaders fomented racial violence to gat King to
yeturn from Atlanta to Memphis where he was killed and to
determine if any of these informants acted as "agent
provocateurs”" in starting this violence.

None of the five informants involved are currently
active. Only one informant actually became a member of the
Invaders and that was not, until after King's assassination.
Memphis files on these informants total 47 sections.

By Mr. Ryan to Mr. Bassett memorandum dated
4/27/78, it was approved to release FBIHQ files on these
informants with all informant identifying data excised. It
was hoped these files would satisfy the HSCA that informants
were not responsible for violence, This action was taken .
primarily as a “compromise” to demonstrate cooperation with
the Committee. Any additional efforts by the HSCA to review
field office files of the informants or to determine informant
identities would be opposed. Access to FBIHQ informant files
was limited to Mr. Blakey, since some staff members were
familiar with substantive file on the Invaders and to allow
staff access could jeopardize informants' identities.

As reported in “Mr. Ryan to Mr. Bassett memorandum
dated 5/19/78, Mr. Blakey reviewed excised copies of all
five FBIHQ informant files on 5/17/78, in the presence of
two Agents of the CIU. Following a review, Mr. Blakey stated
he found no evidence that, any of our informants acted as
“agent provocateurs.” He furnished FBIHQ 15 pages of notes
which he took during review and desired these notes be kept
at FBIHQ for possible later use in constructing a paragraph
in the final HSCA report to the effect that he found no
evidence that any of thege informants instigated violence.
Following this review, Mr. Blakey made no verbal request that .
field office files of these informants would be needed.

55244 Docid:32989819 Page 9 : . 73 CONTINUED ~ OVER

 

 
 

Hw_ 55244

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hemorandum to Mr. Bassett
RE: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U, S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

By latter to the Attorney General dated 5/23/78,
Mr. Blakey requested access to Memphis Field office files of
these game five informants. his letter stated that the
procedure used for review of PBIHQ files was unacceptable and
contrary to the Memorandum of Understanding, but could be
utilized again, ~

   

In response to this request, a letter from the Director
to Congressman Louis 3B. Stokes, Chairman, ESCA, dated 6/13/78,
‘was sent denying access to these files. A copy of this
letter and the letter transmitting it to the Department of
Justice are attached to this memorandum. Our denial was based
primarily on the overall detrimental effect this access could
‘have on our informant development program and, as this letter
‘pointed out, the lives and safety of our informants could
be placed in jeopardy. This letter also stated that our
@acision to make the PBIHQ informant files available was not
meant to serve as a precedent for the HSCA to request field
office files for the same informants. Mr. Robert L. Keuch,
Deputy Assistant Attorney General, concurred with our position
dn the absence of additional information from the HSCA bearing
on the allegation that our informants acted as “agent
provocateurs” in instigating the violence in Memphis.

On 7/11/78, representatives of the CIu and Legal
Counsel Division met with Mr. Keuch, at which time Mr. Keuch
furnished a copy of a letter from Congressman Stokes to the
Attorney General dated 7/5/78. A copy of this letter is .
attached to this memorandum. This letter sets out in detail
the basis on which the HSCA feels it has for requesting access
to A4nformant field office files, This letter appealed to the
Attorney General to resolve the matter of the informant files
and requested a meeting with the Attorney General to discuss ~
the issues involved. Mr. Keuch advised that the HSCA was
prepared to subpoena these files. In his opinion, Mr. Keuch
believed the Department would lose a court decision over .
the files and it would be in the Bureau's best interest a
to comply with the HSCA request of 5/23/78 and allow access. . .
Mr. Keuch believed the letter from Congressman Stokes
contained additional information bearing on the allegation :
against the Bureau in that the Committee's ow investigation

.

ade- CONTINUED ~ OVER

Bocid: 329859815 Page if

 

 

 
  

. Memorandum to Mr. Bassatt
RE: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U,. 6S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA).

| why files should not be niade available were informally
provided him and are outlined in this memorandum. On
7/27/78, Mr. Keuch stated our arguments are persuasive,

but he still believed the decision in his letter of 7/24/78
was the best course of action in this matter, However,

he desired to use our arguments in responding to
Congressman Stokes' letter and asked this information be
furnished him on a formal, basis. Mr. Keuch has determined
that our action in this matter will have no bearing on the
Socialist Workers Party litigation in New York. The
Congressional Inquiry Unit (CIU) believes that ‘since copies
of these files will be excised to prevent compromise of
informants' identities, we should agree with Mr. Keuch's
position and make files available. .

~

RECOMMENDATIONS : ‘ yon

1. That we follow the decision of Mr. Keuch in,
making excised copies of these informant fileg available to
the HSCA’s Chief Counsel ,and Director only. oe

- 7 ’ wo

toe .
-. , .
» 4 . \

LL \
“ 2. YF the above is approved, an appropriate i \
communication be prepared directing to Mr. Keuch information

he desires to use in his response to Congressman Stokes.

.

 

~2- CONTINUED ~ OVER

55244 Deeld:32589819 Page 8

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
    
   

wuts ve ft .
& “ oo
x

 
    
    
    

Mr. Bassett oo, a 7/28/78
: . * ~ “ Le Mr. Bailey “oy eS pee.
D. Ryan +e . _ 2 - Mr. Mintz et
-. Lo Attn: eR oe lus
ae.” ; Mr. Heller - -
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTER ON . ., . 12 © Criminal investigative
ASSASSINATIONS Division ..

 
  
   
 

  

U. 8. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA) Attn: Mr. J.J. Jamar
. i- Mrs Foster .

-

  

+

PURPOSE: ‘fo furnish information regarding captioned .
Committee's efforts to gain access to Memphis Field Office
files of five (5) former informants and .to recommend, in
accordance with a decision by the Department of Justice,
that excised copies of these files be made available onty
- to the HSCA's Chief Coungel and Directors, . oe abe

      
       
 
   

ete

   

whos y

SYNOPSIS: The HSCA is trying to resolve allegation that
¥BI informants reporting on the Invaders, a Memphis youth
gang, acted as “agent provocateurs" in instigating violence, _
causing King to return to, Memphis where he was killed. HSCA .
requested access to FBI Headquarters (FBIHQ) files on five
informants reporting on Invaders. ‘This access was granted: = ~
to HSCA Chief Counsel and Director only as effort tq —
compromise with HSCA and assist in resolving allegation. . —-
HSCA then requested access to Memphis Field Office files .
on the same informants. This xequeat was denied in Director - .
letter to Congressman Stokes; Chairman, HSCA, (copy attacked” ae
primarily because it would be detrimental tq our informant 7s
development program, By Jetter ta the Attorney General from :
HSCA Chairman dated 7/5/78 {copy attached), a meeting with . .
the Attorney General was requested to resolye the issues.”
Mr. Robert L. Keuch, Assistant Attorney General, stated HSCA .
plans to subpoena files and that FBI should make files ©.
available. Informants were contacted, but refused to) 6.5 ° |,
« permit disclosure of their identitiea to the HSCA. In - ~. .°.
' = letter to the Director dated 7/24/78 (copy attached), Mr, ae
° . &k@_ Keuch advised that dn his judgement, as Special Counsel: for ~..:.
“,. 7 the Attorney General, the HSCA should he given access to’: ~~
"5 exeised copies of these files primartly because the Committees
+. * | Jegdislative and investigative needs are not, paged on “pure 3 “s :
wo speculation” and to give access to excised copies hoth «  .- .
“ . protects informant. identities and demonstrates. gurs aooperation.: :
*..+ While we believe Mr, Reugh's decision Ae sound ony i

      
      

: iggy Q/

a7

   

alt

   

He

   

b4
D
2,

      
   
  
  
 

   

Ples,f¢

     
   

 

a:
ey

 
    

aa

 
      

 
         
     
 
   

       
   
 

oe #inclosures. ea
5 eee ok 2 od
grams {8)°%

 
 

 
 

 

“The Honorable Grivfin 5. Bell
“Goteber LF, 1978
Page 3

_ 8 =~ a
wes Ea é

Committee has now reached a point, however, wliere the balance
batween maintaining the integrity of the Bureaw'’s informant
grogram and the resolution of this critical issue mst be struck
im Favor ef the Committees’s receiving the identity of that one
infommant. A saquest ia not being made for all Five, and absent
new developments, this request should reeslve the outstanding
issues. The burden of the Committea's mandate is largely 4
xeeflection of the desire of the American public to learn the
trtte facts concerning the death of Dr. King. That burden is
perhaps never mete apparent than in counection with the issues
thet the Committes is now attempting te address Hera. The claim
that an FBI /tnwader connection sesulted in the violence on April
28 and contxibuted to Dr. King’s death has now received nation-
wide attention. Et is recounted In exieting literature and was
hroadeust nationally in « dramatic account of Dy. King's Life.
The Rev. Ralph Abernethy, close feiend and successor of Dr. Ring,
testified in public under oath and before Menbera of the Com
mittee and the national news meiiz, that he recalled memhere of
the Invaders acknowledging that they had caused the violence —
om Maret 28, in return for compansation from the FBI. Indeed, .
an individual whe was a recognized leader of the 1968 Sanitation
Strike sud made the invitation fo Or. King t6 come to Memphis,
is a leading exponent of the theary that the FBI, through its
informants, had a divect rele in Dr. King's aegagsivation.

Finally, the Committer’s investigation has revealed that
the Buren recommended that informants be used with or without
tHeir knowLeige to implement counterintelligence proposals
dfrected against Dr. King, in 1968. With ¢his beekdrop, Eb is
elear that the Committee hes no choice but to satisfy Eeeeit
concerning the events which took place in Memplile. Tie public
interest In the death of or. Ring cannot be met by less than &
Bull investigation. vYalking with thie individuel is essential —
to thé Snir sesekution of thesa most serious quasticns.-

= would hope that it might he porsible ta secure the
identity of thie infermant, éither through his consent er para~
graph t. B. €1} ef the Memorandum: of Yhderstanding hebtaen. the
Pepartmant and the Committes. Nevertheless, IL am authorized
te inform you thet the Comittea is prepared te seek this
anformation through formal process if all other avenues are of
Bo syadl,

Finally, Z would nate thet this issue must he resolved .
welt before the resumption of the Comeitben's public hoarlings

 

 

 
 

se a ;

2 +e@be Ronorable G@Bfin B. Bell
“Oetober 17, 19766
* Rage @

in the King investigation, now scheduled te begin on November

¥
.

Sincerely,

# Rip Berl cta

G. Rohert Biekey
Chiex Counsel and Ditecter

GRE edn
ee: Hoan Feller

 

$5244 Bocld:32989815 Page 6

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

     
   

 
 

oa
pg Shag, as ° eae
a ei i @ ,
107 Fipsibtbctuchel-by Paccintles PLAUNTERT,

Pentel Cat up GE VES! Shs

  

we EIRICEEOIRS SECTOR?
ee a *,
.. a SAG, Memphis ver Bate: 10/24/78
From Bivector, FAT seulst ¥eE Time: Frousmitted +
Atlee House gkreoT CORMTETER oN initioty « :

ASSASSINATION CHSCA)

”

hs = Fingeent Phase fa Finpetpeiny Record = (ex l} ttewspaper clipping [4] Photonrapti

 

 

 

Epa Cevicepaten Biotin {13 SGA etter to_ At letter to Atéorne
General deros 36. dated LOA17/78.
Special” frondlin festrctons
y- Debivex ss en, 62) HSCA ietter to i eney
o ” A. Tre “Dichaed LAY enerad dated 19 1/78.
DB pen — snwrnnde te LE az aap’ i
of ? ‘ &
- an ‘

  

\ .
k \ i
| aa
eae C geaseees/"9 “4 J .
LQ TM 2ef PRIM 3 .
5 .
N °
. ,
) i
i } .
: so ~
te

 

Sane ‘3Bbaa Docid: 32989839—-Page2.
—|ME 6b -

| Serial Scope: ©

Ith ru & Se 7 ay Pheu a

30,31 33,34 36 then $¥ 60,6)
G3 thaw 73) 90,8/, %5 They

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
    

   
     
     

 

sa Net?
Select. Committee on Beeevelnations iy |
gua) meant Si. Eourel Bescveniaties oy
: Ea? BRR Ae appara PUM EDU, HERI E h
‘ Wateuesresh am: SOS b
‘Ostobar J7, 1878 it

The Honoreble Griffin B. Bell

Attarney General of the United States .
Bepartment af Justice

Washington, Hs C. 20308

    
   
   
   
   
   
     
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
      
     
    
   
    
    
   
   
   
    
    
      
 

Attention: Me. Robert &. Réucl — ,
Deputy Aseietant Attorney Generel

Dear Mr. Atherney Generals .

Xe connection with this Committes’s investigation Into
he death of De. Martin Luther King, dfs; I wiihe to request
thet yau make the name ef a former Security Enformant avaliable
eo the Gomilttes se that the person might be intexviewed in.
arder that serious allegations involving the Federai Bureau of
Tnvestigaties and the death of fr. Ring may be resolved. The
Committee has had access te the relevant Bureau personnel and
the Hesdquerters and Field Office files oF the informant, duly
exelved ta protect the informant’s identity; anmi.ik ales cos
@ucted extensive interviews among cthexs vio are &ise the subject
@f thix aspact of the Commithee'’s investigation. Whet the Com |
mittee nov desizeas is to determine if the meal testimony of the
withestes aupoork or refute the written fecerd 2s weil as
information oktbained during previous interviews.

The person, Wiese identity the fommittes acaks, wae unse-

, elated with the Invaders, a Black militant group im Menohis,
Depresses dibing 1966, whe were apparehtiy invelwed in the  .
violence that occursed in Memphis ene week prier to Dr. King'#
death. Be Wis an older person, and he hag epperantly beer &.

- Buresu gotece Since L958, Ad a retegaiuee eommmity leader, be
was able to move abut Freely within the Black community. The
Committee knows independently thet in the sarily monthe sf igen,
the Invaders ware attempting te obtain infiuence in that same
community, and they initially attempted te do ap, im part, hy
approaching established organisations, They even went so far

as to invite special agente of the Memnliis effiee to mest with .
them early in 2968, at which time they delineated their gosla
and objectives. Tf the Euranu sought to shape the actions of -
these individuals in ways detrimante} to Dr. King in connection.

Vise LALO casogcfacgls) : ’
Ur 2f Y2I3 os

 

 

HW 5244 Docld:32589819 Pa: 2
 

 

 

 

   
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   

. a) “a

8 ee Honorable Gri@}in B. slr
Gnteber 17, 1978
Page 2 . .

.

with the eounterintelligence program being waged against him,
it would appear that this particular informant would have been
& Lagieel vehicle for that affort.

_ aS you knew, with respect to the King imverstigetion, the
Committee is, in effect, performing for the death of Dr. King
the sama function that the Warren Commission performed for the
death of President Kennedy. One of the most frequent criti~
Giems of the Warren Commiasion is that in attempting to reselva
the igene ef whether of not Lee Harvey Gswald wae an FRI in-
formant, the Commission accepted sworn affadavits from the
Bhraan. The Committea feels, therefore, thet it would be
derelict ea ceby on anything less then an opportunity ta examine
and eross-exomine relevant witnesses on thin erucial Lanuea.

fhe Committee is nom unmindful of the senaitive mature of
Zee remtest. Throughout the effork to resolve this iasue, the
Gamnittes: has attempted fo move with castraint., Tt was not
UWHeEL aur Field interviews with former members of the Invaders
and people present in Memphie at the tine ef the March ze, L968
. march cevealed, (2} that the Inveders were in fact & proximate
- eaues of the vielense, and (2) that it is universally Believed
& thet the Invader followers who caused the vidlance were paid
" SBT operatives, that the Commithes requested secess eo ety
anformant #iies. .

By this time, the Committee Had reviewsd the Sanitation
gecike, tuvaders, King and SOLC substentive files. Th had alao
reviewed the Mampiis Polies Department Files, and it had inter~
viewad ita undercover aperative within the Invader organization.

The Cimmities had initially hoped that the answers it
Roughk could Ke wesolved by reviewing the informants Headquarters
amt Field Office Elles. Svbscaqnent imberviewa with current and
Eorder agents eevesled, additionsiiy, (h} that the Memphis Field
Office hed peter knowledye of the impending viclence {a fact
emorealleed. in FRI decuments} an@ (2) membere oF the Invaders
were gbrarved by agents of the FBI exhorting the crowd and
ceatying weapens From sigposbs (a fact testified toa under sath
by these agente.} :

Further, while the Comittee hae insisted that the files
ef all five of the infermante said by the Department of Justice
0 he involved with the Invadera slowld heave been made available
to tte skaft purauant to the Memorandum of Understanding, it
made @ good faith effert to work uk a compromise proposal thet.

 

permitted my exclugiva review of the excised files. The

 

55244 Docld:329859819 Page 4
