SEGRE

x
SUBJECT: 4 Required Protection of JPK Act 6 (1) (B)
as CIA Facility

 

e Moreover, in the past several years, the federal
government has had a heightened ‘awareness of the
violent domestic organization threat’ posed by ‘the
self-styled “militias” which have a stated intent
to destroy government communications capabilities
and facilities. We know, from information
provided by federal .law enforcement authorities,

that the target list of such organizations

includes federal communications centers and

* By way of examples in this’ regard, in June of this
year, the Sheriff off reported to
linformation regarding, first, a local militia
group, and, second, "unusual" comments from
individuals living near ( Jehat we were
communicating with UFO’ Sie

   

 

 

  

e Any higher profile would realistically and
seriously threaten the’ physical and personnel
security oe evidenced by the
attached map of| ‘such threats do not need to
penetrate the fence Tine: Agency officials are of
the opinion that a bomb commensurate with the one
which exploded at the Oklahoma City federal
building could do substantial damage to the
Agency’s communications equipment and could kill
numerous federal‘ employees at[___|from outside the
fence line in circumstances we do not control and
could not prevent.

  

 

 

or imply that they know that[__is a CIA facility and, hence, it would appear
that our cover, in fact, is quite good.

AW 55157 DocId:32404534 Page 9
AW 55157

SUBJECT: (8f Required Protection of JFK Act 6 (1) (B)
as CIA Facility

  

#) Likely Future Compromise of Covert Employees”
Overseas Assignments: As discussed above, numerous CciA

employees involved in communications, technical
intelligence collection, and human intelligence
collection train and operate at[___]for the’ exact reason
that it provides a secure environment disassociated from
the CIA. We know from ample evidence that foreign
intelligence services have as a primary ‘goal the
identification of US citizens who appear to be ordinary
public servants or private business people but are, in
actuality, clandestine intelligence officers.*° Simply
stated, the identification of this facility with CIA will
label any and every individual aSsociated’as a likely
intelligence officer and thus substantially negate their
operational ability if not place their lives in jeopardy.

2 cee ee
-- whether they be for.

the President or Cabinet officials -- have value only as
long as their identity is secret. The public disclosure
of the fact that[__|would serve as such an --
which could come from a general compromise of asa
CIA facility plus subsequent visual surveillance -- would
negate Agency planning in this regard, vitiate
expenditures, and leave the Agency withe few realistic
options for survivability. We must assume that any

 

x0 We know from captured STASI (the former intelligence service of East

Germany) and clandestinely-acquired KGB files that substantial resources have
been directed at such identifications. Typically, a suspect American will be
surveilled for some time in order to identify his or her target and
cooperating foreign nationals. To identify a communicator is one of the
highest priorities since it provides a possible entrée to cryptographic
compromise as well as an opportunity to “roll-up” or identify the numerous’
human intelligence collection officers who rely on that particular
communicator to transmit information back to the United States.

DoclId:32404534 Page 10
—SEGREF

SUBJECT: {J Required Protection of JFK Act 6 (1) (8)
as CIA Facility

maintains security through a low profile.’ In the
past in the United States, identification of CIA
facilities have led to a number of surreptitious
entries, bombings, and physical disruptions.
Simply stated, CIA is a target for both hostile
individuals and organizations;°

e On the individual level and in the past three
years,[__|has experienced an increase in_securit
incidents including.a Physical breach: off]
compound security, two suspect package incidents,,.
and additional unsolicited contacts and "gate

turn-around" incidents;’
“JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

? YZ) As detailed on the attached annotated photographs, the array of

communications equipment and its proximity to public spaces and roads is
clear. For example,

      
    
  
     

   

   

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

487 The current Kasi prosecution provides ample evidence of the risks
posed by the public identification of CIA domestic facilities. Any individual
intent upon seeking retribution for perceived wrongs quite naturally seeks a
target providing the largest possible public notice and while CIA headquarters
is an excellent target, a covert facility is even a better target, and a
covert facility supporting the foreign espionage activities of the CIA is the
best possible target for a political and public statement.

° 48) The breach of compound security was by an out-of-state vehicle which
followed an employee through a remote gate and the driver had no credible.
explanation for their actions; the incident is considered suspicious and
‘unexplained. The suspect package incidents include a box which was placed
(not dropped) next to our facility which we believe was intended to test and
thus observe our response to suspicious packages. Gate turn-arounds number 8-
10 per month and include only those vehicles which ignore clear signs that
they are entering a classified government facility but proceed in any event to
our gate; it is instructive to note that, very few of these individuals state

7

_ SEGREF-

HW 55157 DocId:32404534 Page @
  
 
  

—SEECRET

. .
SUBJECT: {8) Required Protection of
as CIA Facility /

 

 

Agency’s primary Given. the
amount of time, money and resources which will be expended to
insure that the facility is maintained - ‘in such/a way that it will
be prepared for any emergency situation, it would certainly be in
the best interests .of the US Government not/to permit any
official affiliation, no. matter how, w minor, of[_Jnd the (CIA.

 

7. Ww The preceding descriptions. of. ‘ongoing and planned
activities at presents, I believe, an intuitive sense of the
damage” to national security which would; follow from a linking of

‘with CIA.. In sum, the conduct of covert communications and
support activities as well as the presence of officers who will
soon be serving overseas under cover in highly sensitive
positions can not take place at a facility linked to CIA. But
there are some very specific damage issues that I wish to
highlight and they include:

* (8S) Serious and Immediate Impairment to Physical and
Personnel Security: Our [LF —~—(___ cover
allows _us to maintain a relatively low profile in the

community and a very low profile outside of the
immediate area. 1£L___lbecame recognized as a CIA
facility, the increased visibility and scrutiny would
place employees, facilities, and daily operations at
greater risk. In sum, would become an easy “target
of opportunity” for the media, foreign counter- \
intelligence agents, terrorist and militia activities,
demonstrators, and emotionally unstable individuals.
Facts, examples, and specific concerns include:

HW 55157 DocId:32404534 Page 7
SECRET

SUBJECT : VS Required Protection of JPK Act 6 (1) (B)
as CIA Facility

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

 

* members and staff from the Senate Select Committee
on Intelligence.

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

 

AW 55157) DocId:32404534 Page 5
AW 55157

     
 

SUBJECT: or) Required Protection of |
as CIA Facility a

UPK Act 6 (1) (BY

os As detailed on the attached annotated 1 photographs,
Coen itsDS—™~—C— frre a critical support

element for the clandestine intelligence collection mission of
the CIA and the United States. Whether sending a message to a
covert foreign national asset in Havana or receiving a message
from the CIA Chief of Station in ‘or supporting military
and diplomatic representatives in Bosnia,[_ Jis a key element in
that effort. Moreover, it is extremely vulnerable to physical
attack because of the proximity of uncontrolled public roads and
spaces. Accordingly, and as’considered in/more detail in
paragraph 6 below, any affiliation off with the CIA, no matter
how insignificant the individual occurrence or document release’
may seem, has the very real potential tio jeopardize lives,
negatively affect the Agency mission, and thereby do irreparable
harm to the national security of the United States.

6. {8 But in’addition to this established mission and
extant risks, there’are new activities at jn direct support
of the nation’s leadership which must be considered --
specifically, the’establishment of ‘the Director of Central
Intelligence _(Dcz) L____ and an
alternative. ]site forL_——;™S™CCCCCCCCC has: been
chosen to be the primary[_ given its location,
communications, information services, and life_support
capabilities. Needless to say, the fact chat[__]is not an
officially recognized CIA facility adds a dimension of secrecy
which will be needed to enable the DCI to continue his work
during any emergency situation. Additionally, active
consideration is being given to. also designating[__ Jas the

5

—SEGREF

DocId: 32404534 Page 6
OIM-97-0010
14 November 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR: (U) Executive Director
: Assassination Records Review Board

FROM: (U) Deputy Director for Administration
: Central Intelligence Agency

SUBJECT: ry Required Protection of JFK Act 6 (1) (B)
OPK Act 6 (1) (B) as CIA Facility

1. ABT This memorandum is submitted pursuant to the
decision by the Assassination Records Review Board (hereafter
“ARRB” or “Board”) to release the term UPK Act 6 (1) (B)
in the context of a CIA facility and the Board’s subsequent -
decision on 17 November 1997 to reconside his i 1e I
provides additional information as to why JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B) las a CIA facility must be protected from public
disclosure and hence the cover of this clandestine facility
maintained.

2. (U) As a preliminary matter, I would respectfully ask
the Board and staff to note the classified nature of this
document, to limit access to those individuals properly cleared,

+ (S) ‘The documents at issue contain the term

however se eu name of the CIA facility a is the
(Leas oe in point of fact, even CIA, personnel tend to use the terms
Taterchangeably

SEK Act 6 (1) (B}
CL BY: 0700265
CL REASON: 1.5(c)
DECL ON: X1
DRV FM: LOC 5-82

HW 55157) DocId:32404534 Page 2
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 04/02/03
Page: 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

FROM

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

AGENCY INFORMATION|
CIA
104-10332-10021
JFK CIA HRG
PROJFILES-DECLASS STDS
DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CIA

 

Released under the John
. Kennedy
Assassination Records
ollection dct of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#: NW 55157 Date:
b4—12-20185

ARRB-CIA ISSUES:CIA INSTALLATION

00/00/ W/ 4/997
22. / (9
ARRB ISSUE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
SECRET

POSTPONED IN FULL
02/15/00

JFK-M-17:F22 2000.02.15.09:49:27:420044: AT THE ARRB

MEETING OF 11/17/97 THE BOARD APPROVED PROTECTION OF
THIS INFORMATION UNTIL 2017.

NW 55157 DocId: 32404534 Page 1
SECRET

SUBJECT: be Required Protection of
as CIA Facility

 

  

and to return this memorandum for retention to Agency }
representatives at the conclusion of your deliberations.

 

    

   

3. iF) As we advised previously, identifiable and serious
damage to the mission, the people and th “very existence of
could reasonably be expected to occur a Da result of any.
confirmed affiliation with the Agency.’ Before examining with
particularity the damage that would flow from disclosure, I
believe that it would be helpfuk to understand jin some detail the
activities which currently constitute the[ _frission and what
new, costly and critical activities are being developed for. __ |

 

 

 

 

 

   

     
  

for the CIA

4. (sf [_]is much more than a

operating under the relativel

     

While it does serve this function, and thus houses at: the site
known as [______]some of the Agency’ S| most important and
sensitive Top Secret Codeword material,” it is currently the very
heart of the CIA’s worldwide communications effort, a critical

 

? (8) Pursuant to classification guidelines promulgated by the Director of
Central Intelligence, this fact is currently and properly classified at the
SECRET level. - ; :

  

 

in

> (3) Because of the sensitivity of CIA records ‘the Archivist of the United’

States has authorized the CIA to maintain this for both

pending ultimate transfer to the National Archives no sooner
than 50 years after their origination. This turrently houses
nearly[~ ~~ ]eubic feet of records classified up to and in¢luding Top Secret

codeword and composed of various media ranging from paper to! original. imagery.
from our national aerial and satellite surveillance platforms. In addition,

lalso houses the CIA’s[____]which would provide the only
basis for continuity of operations should disaster befall CIA headquarters.
In addition and because of the security offered, theL__ serves a similar
role for the National Security Council and the Office of the Management and
Budget.

HW 55157 DocId:32404534 Page 3
URK Act 6 (1)(B)

 

-SEGRET

.
SUBJECT: a Required Protection ef

as CIA Facility

 

 

element in our foreign signals intelligence effort, anda
principal location for training and conferencing of officers
engaged in highly clandestine technical intelligence collection
activities. The facilities at ‘in support of these efforts
include:

OPK Act 6 (1) (B)

 

HW 55157 DocId:32404534 Page 4
