 

) asked him about the guy who was reportedly the head CIA

man here, Mr. B, or Bender or his supposedly "real" name,
Drescher, and what he looked like. "Oh, |! don't know," he
said. "I mean | never met him. You've got to understand the

agents didn't talk to the contract employees, but there would
just be a telephone system of reporting. The telephones were
connected by relays so that if the FBI were checking the number
it would be tocated tn one area but it would just be a relay
station, so they could never check, it down.”

Sturgis talked then about Schweiker and the Reagen situation and
! said | thought they would have: a tough fight on their hands |

 

against Ford who, after all, has all the power, "J disagree
with you," said Sturgis. "I think the power is up there and ;
they're advising him what to do. He's being controlled, like,

al! Presidents are. Certain power groups control, you know
what | mean?"

Miamian who has a radio or TV talk show out there and has
written some exploitation books about the Mafia and the CIA].
Sturgis said he has Oscar Fraley (author of "The Untouchables")
who wants to do the story of his life. [Fraley's latest book

is on Jimmy Hoffa].

He said he has been trying to get a hold of his ex-agent friend
(Salvatore) who told him about the Ruby in Havana story to get
more information but the guy is in the Domican Republic for

the week.

“Sturgis then asked if it were possible to get a copy of the
-Tarabochia memo and | said | would check on that with my office.

 

The conversation got back on the CIA: "The CIA is very funny," he.
said. “They do things right up to a point and then they tTurn.right
.around and. screw you. Depending what their policy is! If they.
cwant to change it they'll change it and bury your ass too. “dn
the last few years they've had their own internal: power strugale
‘land in that struggle a lot of people wk get hurt who are decent ;
people. Like if |! favor Howard Hunt and his boss gets whacked out,
then everybody down the line goes. That could go into hundreds or
couple thousand people. Just like when Helms left. t told -you.:
that Nixon wanted some files from Helms and Helms wouldn't. give
it to him, so the President fired him. Now I'm assuming, from:
my discussions with certain CIA officials fired now. the files. ~.
he wanted pertained to the Bay of Pigs and also the JFK assassination.
And Helms didn't to turn them over. He was scared that if he.” :
turned it over to the President, that Haldeman and Erlichman
would have used it for political reasons. And after Helms was
fired McCord turned awa around and said, 'lf Helms qoes, all the
trees in the forest will fall!' That's why McCord blew thes >.

 

RW-53080 “Docid:32264840. Page 9

  
 

 

“whistle on the President. Well, you know who Deep Throat was,

don't you? | think Helms ordered Bennett to bury Nixon,
Deep Throat was probably several guys, but the main man. was
Bennett, the CIA man. Unfortunately poor Howard got sucked

into this thing, | don't think he even knew anything about it.
And Bennett was his boss, both at the Mullen company and,

| suspect, his CIA chief also. Oh yeah, 1! believe certain

CIA officials, Helms the major. one, set up Nixon to be caught.
And the company's hot at me because | told all this to the
Rockefeller and the Senate Watergate committees. But fuck'em,
they screwed me enough all..these years. Maybe Schweiker will -
get to be the Vice Bresident-and I't} get him to get me

into CIA and I'll clean that place ‘up myself..."

And on that note....

#e#

 

HW 53080 Docld:32264840 Page 10
 

2

“What Ellis is doing," said Sturais, "is to file Howard's now

and then by the wns end of the week or next week hets filing

mine. Both Howard and myself.are using Etfis." LEttis Rubin,

focal controversial attorney is most known in Miami for his ae
publicity ploys and long-standing. feud with State Attorney (Dade. Co.)
Richard Gerstein. ] Sturgis said the suit mak would be against 9°. 5.
the authors and publisher of Coup D'Etat. and against Playboy

and Hefner and later maybe agains? Dick Gregory ("As soon as

| dig up enough about him." |. said libel suits are tough to

win. "Yeah, but hey," said Sturgis (St. George was right: he

says "but hey” a lot], even if we get a judgment for a-dollar

it'tt stop all the shit about us being involved in the the
assassination of John F. Kennedy." :

He asked if | had a chance to speak with the Cuban who received

that letter. | said no, | haven't had a chance because as a result
of his television appearances Wally Weston had come forth with .
his information and | had been busy-on that. "I spoke to

Wally Weston tonight," said Sturgis, "and | have a meeting to
sit down and find out what he can tel! me and so forth.”

Back on Oswald's meeting with Lyle Stuart, Sturgis said he
thinks it may have been possible because there was a report that
he himself had met Oswald in Miami and that could have been very
possible, what with at! the anti-Castro people he met and the
-double-agents, but he himself didn't remember it. But he did
hear that Stuart was connected with the Fair Play for Cuba
Committee and getting financial assistance from Cuba. “This

Bob Tralins was a friend of his and dislikes the man very much,
but he definitely told me this."

Switching subjects, | asked him what he knew about operations
that took place from Cay Sal island. [the Hughes connection. ] -:
All he knew, he said, that fhere was a black Customs official who
tried to’keep people off the island because the CIA used it-as”
a stepping stone, like a “Listening post" off the coast of Cuba.:
“He himself didn't have any operations from there. "On some of.” ;
the island close by there we stopped by occasionally for several :
“ houss, but | kept away from Cay Sal because it was being operated’: yoy
; by other people, other aroups." [2777] Was it ClAvor other opesators?
> "They were CIA operations. One time Barker got a hold of me because
| was doing something, in some operations with Bil! Johnson which
‘Iowas financing, and Barker got a hold of me and said, 'hey, we're
doing something very sensitive in that area' and he asked me to
stop for a while and go into another area." [Note: This is obviously.
conflicting: Who was Sturgis working for if not CIA? Here he became
very deliberately convoluting and wound up talking about Pinar de Rio.:
operations in Cuba. ]

 

 

 

| asked him if he-was involved in the training camp in New Orleans
wttth Gus DeLabarre and Rudopph Daves: "No," he said quickly. "Not
at all. | never _knew about any training camp in Dallas...or

New Orleans." [NOTE: WHO SAID ANYTHING ABOUT DALLAS??? ]

 

HW.53080 Docld:322646840 Page 8
 

-notes--call

-~said he wasn't surprised by the Sch
running with Reagen: “JI think Schwel
but, hey, you can't biame him, he's
worked out beautifully for him.” Th
officially investigating the JFK thi
still interested. After a few minute
conversation, he asked again: “Hey,
Are you still checking up on the JFK
was. Then he said: "I told you about
didn't 1?"

1 said we wm had checked up on it an
memo from Tarabochia about it but th
Castro, although it did mention a tr
He asked did the report mention abou
to the relative in Miamt, he said hi
former CIA gan] told him definitely

and that "Bob Owyer probably was the
he was in charge of the Cuban desk a
probably one of the agents who picke

 

| told him that Tarabochia's memo in
went to Cuba, not that he had seen C
man was James O'Oonnor, not Dwyer.-

a copy of that memo and | told him |
that perhaps it was changed or censu

possible. for all | knew, because !
ta then said that Puby could have be
knowing it, of course. :

Sturgis then asked the if | & had eve
1 said yes. he's the BM book &k pub!
a tot of sensational and controversi
supposedly met Oswald a month before
in: Miami, accorédna to a report tim

There's supposed to be somethina in
Konnedy was killed about Oswald bein
‘he is going to the library to check

Ss

Lyle Stuart, says Sturgis, was head

“Committee. "It was also reported
‘that Castro was supporting him finan
Stuart was seen with and connected Ww
reported in the papers that Oswald w
the assassiadtion. Now it may all b
aoing to check it out.'

who told him t
investig
and the guy sai
The guy's name i
it would be altri

Sturgis said the man
omuch involved” in the
with him last night,
one to check with.

wy did ask him & if

At this time Sturgis went to get Tra
“background | could hear the televisi
happened just then to announce the
$2-1/2 million libel suit against We
hear that?” Sturgis asked, just tom

 

IRF, 53080 DoclId:32264840 Page 7

from Frank Sturgis 7/28/76

ation of the assassin

-tatel

iker announcement of
his thing,

we
ker's using Tt

a politician. The thing
en he asked: “Is he still.
ng?" { said, yes, he was

s of inconsequential
let’me ask you something. .
thing?" 1 said, yes, |
+hat letter from Cuba,

d that. we had gotten a

e memo said nothing about

ip to Cuba by Ruby.

+ the letter that came

s friend "Salvatore" [the

+here was a kk letter UN!
man [the FBI agentJ, because:

+ the Bureau downtown, was. ;

d up the tetter."

dicated only that Ruby
astro, and that the FBI
Sturgis asked how we got
didn't know. He implied
red and | said that was

had never seen the original.
en to Cuba without people

r heard of Lyle Stuart.
isher who has published
al books. "You know he
Kennedy was assassinated
trying to track down. ™"

the newspapers in 1.963 before
g in Miami, Sturgis said, and |
up on that. : ee

of the Fair Play for Cuba

he was very pro-Castro and

cially and that Lyle
ith Oswald. And it.was
as here a month before
e bullshit but I'm still

his was a writer who was “oretty
ation. He was
d that Lyle Stuart would be the
s Bob Travlins.

ger
ah

¥ for him to talk with you."
imins
on news
ews of
berman & C
ake sure.

phone number and in the
which -- coincidental ly \“~
Howard Hunt. filing, the :

antield. -"Did you.

oye

 
 

)

(Were you dealing with him much?) Well, | worked with him, but

| wasn't deafing directty with him because he wasn't connected
with ® the «x people | was associated with. He was more with

the economic section, you know, that certain officials dealt with.

(You met him here in’ Miami or Havana?) In Havana. But | didn't
have any # dealings with him because, you know, certain people. |
worked with certain people. It was the thing that you cal}
compartmentation, you know, .° ;

 

They dealt with didéferent people in different Ways. Just like -
Tony Verona. He was a CIA agent. He not only was one of the
leaders, -he- was an agent per se, And even .today Manolo Artime
is still an. agent. He wasn't. then but he is today. He's stift
with them.: You know he was the civil coordinator between the
Revolutionary Junta and the Bay of Pigs... :

: (mentioned Gerald Shamma and her Artime story) Heh heh bBBh, she
-told you that story, eh. | wish she hadn't told you that stdry,
heh heh heh, : :

Artime: "When he came-back from Cuba, they made hima businessman,

they made him a very wealthy man. 1 think he's got a littte

Problem with Semoza now, but he was working closely with him,
**But if you're with the right people they don't give a shit

what you did, as Jong as they control you. The CIA. got some

shits of the wortd working for them, .

The Agency slammed the door on all four of us when we got

out of prison, Colby sent orders out to all stations not

to talk to us or have any contact with us. Bot it makes no
“difference to me, if | need to get to them | go through other

people..

But, hey, that's the name of the game, | guess. When you'get —

into the big league stuff with the Ppowefdul people up in Washington
or Langley, if the wrong group of people are in “control! and you're. .
not in that league, they can hurt you. And right now the wrong on
‘group is up there. Have been since Colby'ts been up there. Colby's
“got his own people and I'm not ‘one of them." : :

“(Looks like they're getting ready to hang w Lucien Conein) Well,
“YOU know, Howard knew him very well. Evidentally, he's been

involved in some things and they don't want to let it come out,

“but there's 3 lot of shit Colby has been involved in and he comes

out smeéling like a rose" Evidentally, he [Conein] is in hand bad
with the Wrong people. Colby cleaned house and put his own People
in theeeam and what they do is use people for Sacrificial lambs...

like they did us in Watergate...to take the heat off of them.,
Howard himselt didn't realize that he was used and we in turn
‘worked with Howard and they buried all of us.. -

 

 

-Hi.-53080.., Docid: 32264840 Page 5

   

 
 

 

But like | told you before, Bennett was the man who really did

a number on the President. (Bennett of Mullens Co.) And though.
they closed house and withdrew all the agent that were overseas.
working for the x Mullens Co, they re-opened a new company

and had to re-do the agents with the new company...

| curious to find out where Bennett is right now.

(Howard Hughes connection) Oh yeah, they. used him. They let
him make a lot of money. There's still a lot of places down
here especially that are still CIA fronts... ;

-remembered also that Castro's G2 at meeting name wasR
Romero Valez... ‘

 

 

Ve 53080. Docld: 32264640 Page 6

 
Notes -- call from Frank Sturgis 6/25/76

He just ran across. a friend of his who used to be an agent, In

communications, and & he "revived" his mind on something that
“he "completely forgot." (He had previously told me that he
had lost almost all his notes from his adventures in the

intelligence business, which explains why he hadn't remembered
‘this before.)

He reminded me he told me that he had been sent to Washington

by a group of key men in Castro's inner circle and told to .
give some secret documettts and lists of names to Hoover, personally.
(Sturgis didn't tell me this, but Pedro Diaz-Lanz -- the guy who
came out with Sturgis and was head of Castro's Air Force --. told ;
someone the list contained the names of Cuban. exile double agents.
At the top of the list, says Diaz-Lanz, was Artime's name.) SO,
Sturgis says he never did get to. see Hoover but he did see his
personal secretary. He says he was sent to Hoover directly

because the insiders didn't trust the American Embassy.

 

He believes the Rockefeller Commission and the Watergate Commission
has testimony from his about plots agaaast Castro, but he couldn't
get an OK to assassinate pkaksx Castro because of the Eisenhower
administration,

One of the people that Sturgis says he was in touch with here,
besides xkkaka tee CIA, was Al Tarabochia. He was in touch

with Tarabbohia at this particular time, and therefore Tarabochia
would know -of this incident:

There was a meeting in Cuba bout two, two and half months
before the Kennedy assassination. There were a number. of
‘high-rakking rebel officers present: &m Fidel, Raul, Che,

“the chief of GB (can't remember his name), a man who was called

"El Mexicano," several other people, a woman...and- Jack Ruby.
“The meeting was in Havana. One of the rebel officers present was
ea half-brother wk of a Cuban exile living in Miami. After the

JFK assassination, the officer sent-a letter to his’ half brother
telling of the meeting, the discussion to assassinate JFK and ~~
the presencd of Jack Ruby. He smuggled the letter out, probably
‘thhough Mexico.

‘The deal was that Castro would supply Ruby with a flow of drugs.
Ruby would get the money to buy the drugs by being given the
winning number in the bolito drawing. That's how Ruby would be
spaid off.. : :

 

hen Cuban exile got letter soma CIA agents found out about it, but ;
“before they could get it from him, he made contact with the FBI here
in Miami and he turned over the letter to agents from the Miami: FBI.
office. They advised him that it was a very delicate situation and
not tell anyone about ft, .

 

HW 53080 -DocId:32264840 Page 2

 
inti te i AO EE AE nn
JFK Assassination System Date: 10/13/20
Jdentification Form

a

Agency Information
AGENCY: HSCA :
RECORD NUMBER :. 180-10112-10466
RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES

. AGENCY FILENUMBER: ‘015106
TT
Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:
TO:

TITLE:
Released under the John

DATE: 06/25/1976 . Kennedy

PAGES: 25 Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992

SUBJECTS : (44 USC 2107 Note).

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES ase#:NU 53080 Date:
STURGIS, FRANK, BACKGROUND See
CIA, INTELLIGENCE

 

DOCUMENT TYPE: NOTES
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
"RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 01/01/2003

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : NOTES FROM 6-25-76 - 9/21/77. BOX 296.

 

nw ¥3080 DocTd:32264840 Page 1
 

Sturgis doesn't know name of Cuban exile, but he worked in a factory
in Miami or Hialeah, Hets going to try to find out, he's checking
on it now.

The friend he ran into, the guy with the Company, was the one who
told him Tarabochia had this information.

Sturgis says the background is This: Ruby had gone to Cuba many
times and while he was there he was trying to get some action
because "McWillie was a friend of his, as you know." (NOTE: In
interview with Canfield in Coup d'tat, Sturgis has a tough time
rspeambering who McWillie is. Tpage 243). This is. where Ruby
Probably thought @ up the idea-of making a deal with Castro.

vo"We all know he had criminal connections." There should be

cssome record of his trip through the-American Embassy in

Mexico City of his trip to Cuba Through there. "But this could: .

have been a secret xxR trip he went on, on the other hand, if.
he was involved gm in an assassination,"

He doesn't know how tong after the assassination the Cuban exile -
got the letter from his half-brother. (tt probably came via Mextco) -
Sturgis: "This man here like to had a shit hemorrhage." :

(Coincidence?: From Robert Morrow's Betrayal: "Not to be vulgar,”
| thought aloud, "but he'!l{! have a shit hemorrhage." Morrow was

speaking of Castro's reaction to his counterféét operation.)

(Cl asked him about Crile's piece in the Wash. Post re the Castro-
Trafficante relationship) ;

Sturgis says that's news to him. But he doesn't believe it
because Castro kicked out the mob and Lansky and Traftticante

‘ost their casinos. '"! told Santos one day, | said, 'Santos,
just kekxa left a meeting with Castro and he ordered me to ;
“close down the casinos for 10 days." And he did. Sturgis was

put in charge of casinos for a while by Gastro.

Sturgis believes if that was the case, that would make Ateman an
.#agent for Castro also. But if he did make contact with Trafficante

“it was through Rolando Martinez, because he knew Trafficante

very well, he used to work for the Havana Hilton, so he knows

all x# the mob people, "He knows them as wel! as t do."

‘Aleman and Martinez are wuxyeka very close friends.

“Barker got fired from the CIA because of his connections with the
“racket people.

 

_ HW 53080. DocEd:32264840 Page 3
 

Sturgis - 6/30/76 - tatel

--says Tarabochia shoutd remember Castro-Ruby incident because

") know theClA agent, or former agent, who. told him about it."
-thinks the.woman he mentioned as being at the meeting was Tanya, -
Che's secretary who was killed witttt him in Bolivia..

-also trying to get name of Cuban exile in Miami who received
the letter

--his ex-CtA friend spoke to Tarabochia about it at the time and
perhaps Tarabochia wk should. have it on record... :

wit should alsok& be part.of the FBI files in Washington, along
with the original letter... ‘ :

-CIA should have a report in too, "We sent the report in." HE

 

--re Cellula Fantasma: (Was that Company operation or Naval
Intelligence operation?), "No, Company operation.” -The people

‘who were involved.in that were Dr.’ Louis Conte-Aquerra (sp?);

he asked my assistance and |.went to see my CO, who was

Sam Jenis. Conte-Aquerra was associated with the Company and

they came to me because they knew t was about the wm only one

who could do successful air operations. So they asked me

if | would do a series of five air operations and | said, certainly,
| would...

 

“(re | heard of the relationship wk of Jukio Lobo and his
anti-Castro activity. | understand. Bill Attwood went down
+to interview him and... :

 

"Weft, Bill was with the Company. -+-- No, wait a minute, walt
a minute.. Attwood, Attwood...! forget... 1 think he was with
_ the Company...!'m not sure offhand...! didn't know all the agents."

(Wasnit it Rojas in charge of Cellula Fantasma?) Conte-Aquerra
was the big man on it. Hets the one who arranged for the :
financing for the people that | would do the operation for...

As a matter of fact, | went on three of them myself..! couldn't.
‘get the Cubans to do it so | used Americans. One of the-pidots™ \)
was Bill Johnson..)

(What was Rojas! role?) | didn't fool around withsRojas.. You know,
there was a movement within CIA which told Conte-Aquerra that he -
was going to be a big official in the new government. And many of

the agents who were also going to get positions went along with
the idea that Conte Aquerra would be the president of the new Cuba.
And he was being financed through his own CIA contacts to do a
series of these operations

(How does Lobo fit in?) well, Julio gave money. He was working
calso with CIA. He was giving money which he was taking off income
“tax and so forth. This was +he way what you'd call “washigg”™ money.

‘This is how CIA would wash money through different Cuban business
-people--and American businessmen--which wouldn't lead directly, :
to the CIA. Julio Lobo was one of the peopte.-

 

HF 53080 DocId:32264840 Page 4

 
