 

= ee a
. ° °

 

oo —_ SECRET
Con’ 4 tial
1) A "bomb" or a double explosive charge, wrapped

‘in sections of a tire inner tube; and fastened by adhesive tape.
Photographs 3 and 4.

2) Four magnets, consisting of coiled spools
especially positioned, in pairs, to fasten each of the explosive
charges to metallic parts. Photographs 5 and 6. The magnets,
like the charges, were found wrapped in sections of an inner tube.

3) The detonators for the explosive charges. These
were found wrapped in a plastic bag. Photograph No. 7

4) The remnants of an-explosive charge. It is
thought that farmers in the area accidently discovered it and,
in attempting to see its contents, destroyed it completely. Photo
graph No. 8.

Of these <remnants; the following were recovered
separately:

a) The explosive material.

b) Fragments of a container, a blue plastic ¢
tape, labels from the factory which manufactured the explosive,
remains of newspapers, pieces of plywood and pieces of a mesh, -
plastic cloth. Photograph No. 9.

IV. Identification of the Explosive Material. Visual
eae Ration.

Once all the items in the area had been unearthed, we
proceeded to examine them in detail in order to attempt to identi?
them and ascertain as to what condition they were in so as to
destroy them: should conditions warrant it.

' a) The Explosive Charge « Rectangule¥ in shape with .
the following approximate dimensions: 30 x 20°x 7 centimeters, ;
_ The charge consists of a block of explosive covered with a solid,
: putty~like, plastic material, the entire surface of: which -sis:,
“ ‘eovered with black insulation tape. At one of its edges, 2 plugs
for an iron pipe of 3/4 inch diameter were found. These are _
fastened separately by a screw to lengths of galvanized iron pipe
of the:same diameter and approximately 15 centimeters long. The
v pipes are located inside the explosive charge and serve} as a
lodging for the detonators, Two metallic rods of 7 millimeters
in diameter and 10 centimeters long extend along the longitudinal
axis of the charge. They have screws at the ends which serve to
fasten them to the spools.

 

Gong: fential

. a a2 SECRET © 05-/b5603°34

 

 

 

NW 45701 Docid:32289115 Page 9
 

 

 

n

 

       
    
  
   
   
 

SECRET

The explosive inside is white in color and plastice-like
“tts characteristics and potency are unknown, It will be necessar,
to conduct analyses to determine its class and type, *

It was ascertained that the explosive charge was not
assembled and ready for detonation, since it did not contain the
proper elements for starting, propagating and amplifying the
detonation. <Plitgoph ho +0

“by Spoolsemagnets + There are four of them, and they
consist of spools of approximately 3 x 2 x 1 inches, containing
at their-ends two,metallic plates fastened by bolts, Each of
these plates has/bore hole into which the small rods used to hold
the charge are placed. On the side opposite that.containing the
pore hole, there is a metallic plate whose function is to serve as
the surface which is connected by the magnet to any metallic
surface. Photograph No. ll.

Detonators ~ The detonators are of the percussion type
and apparently are activated by an electric current. They have
an approximate length of 35 centimeters and a diameter of 7 to 8
nillimeters.

They are composed. of a percussion mechanicin, a safety
and an euptosive charge. Photograph No. 12. .

Because of the condition in which they were found and
because they-were found to -be safe for handling and , teaneportatio
they were not destroyed.

ve Transportationaf the Explosives and Their Delivery to
She D.F.S.

The explosives, {coupiete charge and révovered remnant:
detonators and magnets, perfectly wrapped and packed, were broug
to this city on the afternoon of the 4th and were handed over to] *
the Federal Security Police. on the. morning of May 5, 1967. Latey,.-
at 11:30 A. M..on the same. day, they were sent.to a powder magazine...
at the explosives plant, after having first. been examined by the| ..-:”'
Director. of the) DiF.S.. The explosives are now at the disposal o
the proper--authorities.

Attached herewith are 12 photographs for information
purposes. ; .

Respectfully,

Effective Suffrage, No Re-electipn
/s/ illegible

Jose Maria Navarro Barquero
(259458

 
 

oni Peontial

SECRET pg. y5'508-O4

 

NW 45701

DocId:32289115 Page i0
 

    

a
ri

(7
SE;

MG
Classified by 7”
Declassify on: G

a

Y%

YL

NW 45701

  

Dive TANS TEI

TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH

   
     
  
  

Department of Military Industry CLASS!
, EXTENDED
Subject: . Report on Assignment . REASON f°
" es

FCIM, i, 3

Tecamachalco, Mexico City, May 8, 1967 DATE Gr:
ECLASSY

fo: Commanding General of the D,E.M. Brigeoe ss .
Chief of the Department of Military Industry

Permit me to inform you on the results of the assignment
given to me and Captain Antonio Olmos Del Moral at Ciudad Mante
Tamaulipas Plaza, May 2, 1967. ,

I. Background Information. ’

, As is already known, the Secretary of the Government,
through the (Mexican) Federal Security Police (D.F.8.), requested
the cooperation of the technical personnel of this Department in
the finding, identifying and destruction of some "bombs," detonato
and other devices which, according to information obtained by the
D.F.S., had been brought into the country and buried at a spot
near the Mante-C. Victoria foad, between kilometers 643 and 644.

Ss

It. Location of the Zone and Spot Where the Explosives Were C
Found. :

As a result of the above request, the undersigned and
Captain Olmos, accompanied by two agents of the D,F.S., went
immediately to Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas, and arrived at said RW
plaza at 3:20 A. M., May 8, 1967.

On the same day, at 8:00 A. M., we went to the indicated
spot, between kilometers 643 and 644, for the purpose of determining -
the indicated zone where, according to the information, was located °
the spot where the explosives had been buried.

At the end of four hours, we succeeded in finding the
exact spot where the explosives had been buried, in a promontory
bordering the left side of the road and approximately 15 meters
from the road, between kilometers 642 and 643. The location is
shown on Photographs No. 1 and 2. Classified by

 
  
 

S YOR, - ~\SAZ ao
III. Location of the Explosivesp 1’) 5°" SR Catendry ;
In the above-mentioned area, ,in @ zone

tlon Indatinaic. '
no” Ligideetenay |
25 meters, we unearthed the following: Ao Sealey
9 C .

TRANSLATED BY:
THOMAS MC LAUGHLIN: cspcvo <

July 12, 1967 CRET! Joo e Oa . |
~ eater hatiat? J 3 7. _ 3

rete +

g

 

 

DociId:32289115 Page 8

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

 

° { 5 5
{ 4,2 . .

MEX 105-6046

It is requested the report, which is in some
detail, be translated at the Bureau and the translation be
furnished to the Mexico City Office and at that time a
rning the material received from .
of DFS will be prepared, €6) OTHER 4 Foreign

 

 

J TECRET :
conpmaeavtat Ps (Qg2 BF

SA -—

   
   

 

NW 45701 Docid:32289115 Page 7
°
FD-36 (Rev., 12-13-56) o,.0

   

Transmit the following in

Via AIRTEL Rep

 

  
 
  
 
    
 
  
    
     
  
 
  
      
    

Bone? sAQntial

as . a . :
‘Priority or Method ax Ree Nee

 

 

 

 
  

Legat, Mexjco City (105-6046) {(P)

 
  

  
   

FRANK/A FIORINI, aka.,
~~ FrankFourgt 3 et al
© REPORTED PLANS TO BLOW UP CUBAN SHIP
IN MEXICAN PORT, POSSIBLY VERACRUZ

 

Is — CUBA
> ATTENTION: CRYPT-TRANS SECTION

Title is being marked "Changed" to add the alias FRANK
FOURGIS,{ by which name the Subject received cabled funds at
Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas, Mexico s] (3)

    
  
  
  
  
 
   
  

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau is a four-page copy
of a report prepared by the Mexican Army, Department of Military
Industry, concerning the recovery of various explosives,
detonators and other material, at Kilometer 643 and 644 north of
Ciudad Marte, Tamaulipas, Mexico. Also enclosed are 12 copies
of photographs showing the various material which was recovered
and the location of the recovered items, Enclosed also is a copy
front and back, of a cablegram transmitting $200 to F K FOURGIS
at the Hotel Mante,' Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas, texicon (

<< Re Bureau airtel to Miami dated 6/27/67.

On 7/5/67 [____ (protect as a OTHER 4 Foreign
confidential source abroad), Director, Direccion Federal de

Seguridad (Mexican Federal Security Police ,- DFS) made avail-
able a complete report dated Se, BE which was prepeers th

(} Bureau enc. Z14jyBNCL yw EC. I
(1 - Liaison, Section)’
(2 - Miami, = 054 712820)

42 - Washington Fiekayl
“Ol - Mexico City ONES

 

 

EDR:aKO\\ < ad bY EL I BG 4 J
COPY AND SP tGifsks snare IN LAB:

 

 

aK ONSAND [REPORE

 
 

CF Charge

ou Care ®

NW 45701 Docid:32289115 Page 5

 

 
 

 

 

an eee

NW 45701

 

SECRET

Confidential
MEX 105-6046 SECRET

Mexican Army, Department of Military Industry, which relates

the events of the discovery of the explosives that the Subject
buried near Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas, Mexico, their recovery

and their description. algo made available
twelve photographs which & in with the report, showing what

 

was recovered and where.

According to this report, one bomb with a double
explosive charge, which was ‘wrapped in an innertube, was recovered
(see photographs #3 and #4); four magnets wrapped in an innertube
were recovered (see photographs #5 and #6), and the detonators
which were recovered were wrapped in plastic (see photograph
#7). The remains of an explosive charge was recovered and it
was believed that this was set off by accident by farmers in the
area, Some explosive material was recovered, Fragments of a

container, a plastic tube, factory tags, remains of newspapers,
pieces of plywood, and fragments of a mesh plastic cloth were
also recovered (see photograph #9). c)

Loe 2ise made available a copy of a cable which
transmitted 2,498 Mexican pesos

£$200 U.S) to FRANK FOURGIS,
Hotel Mante, Ciudad Mante, Tamgtilipas, Mexico, which appears

to have been sent by one ALDOQXFERNANDEZ, This money was received |
by FOURGIS and signed for by him at Ciudad Mante on April 13, 1967

that the report, the copy of the cable,
and the photographs could not: be used in evidence and were
transported to the Mexico City Office solely for_information.

He said at this point it would not be possible to furnish a
witness who could describe the explosives recovered and testify ~
in a court of law in the U.S. He asked that this information

be held in complete confidence and advised should it become
necessary for the explosives recovered to be utilized in a court
of law in the United States, and a Mexican witness furnished who
could testify to the recovery of this material and another witness
who could testify regarding the receipt of the money by the
Subject in Ciudad Mante, it would-be necessary to go officially
through official channels diplomatically with the Department of
Justice requesting the. Department of State to arrange for this,
commencing at the Secretariat of Government in Mexico City

_ ~ . ; . <a 4 Foreign

en SECRER yg 105: 3 3

 

Se a

 

 

DociId:32289115 Page 6

OTHER 4 Foreign

 

OTHER 4 Foreign

 
 

 

 

 

  
  
   
  
    
  

7/20/67
1 - Mr. Nasca ON

 

pats. .
. ss"
To: SACs, Miami (105=12890) (Enclosures as a LoS
_ WFO. (Enclosures = 2)
J Legate Mexico: City (105-6046) cmnolpae)

a) we <2
ad From: Director, FBI. (195-165503) — 5 "3 :

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI, ot ‘al

REPORTED PLANS TO BLOW UP CUBAN SHIP = EXTENDS

IN MEXICAN PORT, POSSIBLY VERACRUZ REASON FOS S
. id ~ CUBA ¢y- SPST FCIM, il, ty

NM = CUBA -okalhod ty by DATE O47 Fi:

Declassify on: GADR oe) DECIASSIFI Ssiricavion Anne Se rligemrns

ReBuairtel 6/27/67 and Mexico City airtel 7/6/67,
copits of which are attached for Miami and WFO.

Attached for each recipient is copy of translation
of report prepared by Mexican Army, Department of Military .
Industry, dealing with the , recovery of the various explosives,
in this case.

  

ISE

OTHERW:

ReMexico City airtel indicates on page 2 that the moms
Director of the Mexican Federal Security Police advised that
the report, the cable, and the photographs could not be used
in evidence; that they were furnished the Mexico City Office
~ “solely for information; and that it would not be possible
{to furnish a witness who could describe the explosives recovered

|

   
 

  

3S _jand testify in court. He asked that this data be held in com-

— plete confidence and outlined the diplomatic procedure to be .
o Fa followed should it become necessary to have Mexican witnesses. testify
4 Fa in thia case in court regarding the above specitios. ( =

=

On page 3 of re Mexico City airtel, Legat, Mexico
indicated that upon receipt of the translation of the report
a letterhead memorandum concerning the data received from the
above-mentioned Mexican official would: be prepared. 4 Pe}

fa
1 - Foreign Liaison Unit eet for r Review)

VHN: jas ‘
(9) fe

 

 

 

 

   
  

Callahan

 

Conrad
Felt
Gale ~
Rosen
Sullivan

 

 

 

   
 

  

 

 

 

E PAGE 1
jassified by

Holmes —____—
Gondy

 

 

 

NW 45701 Docid:32289115 Page 2
 

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI .

RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10200-10391
RECORD _ SERIES: HO ~
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-165503-34

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG. MX

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI
TITLE:

DATE: 07/06/1967
PAGES: 76
SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT_TYPE:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT. PHOTO. PHOTO NE
ORIGINAL

Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW _DATE: 03/16/1998 UPDATE_DATE:

STATUS _ Redact

RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS: INC A/T, MEMO, LHM, EXH, TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH

NW 45701 Docid:32289115 Page 1
 

 

 

 

Teo mf co CH O-
° CJ o-. . :
— Fe “3° ° 0 >

es ° ae SECRET
Beas ASat

‘,

Airtel to SAC, Miami
Re: FRANK ANGELO FIORINI, et al
105-165503

It is not clear to the Bureau from wording in re
Mexico City airtel whether data furnished by Mexican Federal
Security Police can be further disseminated, especially to
the Internal Security Division of the Department which requested
this investigation and to the Department of State with which the
Department of Justice would, by necessity, have to discuss the
case to arrange for appropriate testimony of Mexican witnesses.
It appears that restrictions placed by Mexican Federal Security

was possibly to emphasize the fact that the data could not be
used as evidence without proper arrangements made through s
diplomatic channels (

When the above data (which is definitely most perti-
alo nent to the current investigation) is submitted in letterhead
af memorandum, clarify above in cover pages thereto and specifically
a advise what the Internal Security Division of the Department can
yp be told to assist in gathering evidence and otherwise preparing
its case for possible prosecution. &

 

%) WFO, as indicated in re Bureau airtel, will determine
\*' from the Office of Munitions Control whether the explosives
; af recovered, by Mexican authorities appear on the Munitions Controgs
iY jist. .
g
yi? Miami endeavor to further identify Aldo Fernande
“ whe is mentioned in the referenced Mexico City airtel. Bel?

Copies of the photographs referred to in the Mexican
Army report are being made and will be furnished Miami and WFO
separately. All offices handle inquiries in this matter by" 2

airtel /¢) E-

NOTE: Previous information has indicated that subject Fiorini

| ; and others reportedly were involved in plan to bomb ship in Mexico.
In April, 1967, Fiorini and two co panions proceeded to Mexico with

explosives to carry out bombing. Bombing, however, was not carried

out and explosives were buried in Mexico which were recovered by

Mexican authorities based on data furnished by one of the two

individuals who was with Fiorini. Legat, Mexico, has obtained

copy of Mexican Army report and forwarded it to Bureau for trans-.

lation. Mexico will incorporate the pertinent data in the report

 

 
 

ConerWartar NOTE CONTINUED PAGE THRE

cecnen — (OF YOIIOI-3/

 

 

 

NW 45701 Docid:32289115 Page 3

Police in furnishing data to Legat, Mexico “solely for information"

 

 

    
 
    

5)

 
_ ~ 3 > SECRED Wor asy3-3¥

 

 
   

Be "wg
° , ee
Confide a.

Airtel to SAC, Miami f-

Re: FRANK ANGELO FIORINI, et al
105-165503 x *
ey!

CONTINUANCE OF NOTE:

in memorandum suitable for dissemination. Mexican authorities

also furnished Legat copies of photographs of the recovered.
explosives as well as a copy of a cablegram sent from Miami :
transmitting $200 to subject Fiorini while he was in Mexico.
This cablegram was sent by Aldo Fernandez, not further identitied {S)
The facts in this case have been presented to the Internal

Security Division of the Department which has advised there are
possible violations of Title 18, Section 956 (Conspiracy to {
injure property of a foreign government) and Title 22, Section
1934 (Unlicensed exportation of munitions). Department has
requested certain additional investigation which is being
conducted expeditiously. CY

 

(hangdes

“ . eondyfntte
~ NN

 

 

NW 45701

DociId:32289115 Page 4
