 

 

.

A. It did not develop any such information.

*Q. How did you know of whatevef their CP affiliation may
have been? .

“A. In the same manner as in regard to Levison.

“Q. What investigation did Atlanta conduct of O'Dell, Rustin,
and Wachtel?

“A. There was no active ongoing investigation conducted of

these individuals other than during such pertods when they were

in contact with King or members of SCLC%

AN .
Q. Was Coretta King ever the target of an electronic surveillance?

.
A. Not to my knowledge beyond such coverage as might have occurred,
from the telephone surveillance when it applied to the King

residence or on such occasions when she might have been present

in SCLC headquarters.

“Q. Do you know when the telephone surveillance of King and

SCLC were initiated?
“A. I did not have the cases at that time,
‘Q, Did you not learn of such information while you had these

cases? .

“A. Yes,
“Q. How?

A. From information in the appropriate file.
Q. What communication transpired between the Bureau and

Atlanta relative to the initiation of these telephone surveillances,

HW 55020 DocId:32989606 Page 9 8

 

 
 

 

airtels, letters, memoranda?

"A. I am certain there were airtels, letters, possibly
teletypes in the file..

“a. What was the jist of such communications?

“a. Advisement that such installation had been authorized,
instructions to initiate the coverage.

"Q. Who installed the surveillances, Al Miller; was he not a
technician, a wireman?

‘A. Your answer to that question is not entirely correct.
Alden Miller was an Atlanta Agent who had certain technical
ability. It is my recoilection the surveiilarice was iistuiled
by an Agent who was not from the Atlanta Office. I do not
remember his name,

Q. Did you monitor any of these surveillances?

~, No.

*Q. Did you monitor any such surveillance during this period
of time? .

A Yes. i recall on two occasions filling in for another
employee in connection with telephone surveillance of the
headquarters of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee.
I did not monitor the King or SCLC telephone surveillance.

.

Q. What was the nature of the investigation of SNCC?

HW 55020 DocId:32989606 Page 10

 

 

 
 

 

@ @

“AL Yes, I did so for my personal information.

'Q. Is such writing available to this Committee?

"A. I consider it a personal item for my personal use.

I realize that you have the perogative of subpoenaing it.

In the absence thereof, I prefer not to make it available.
*Q. How long after King's assassination did the telephone
surveillance of SCLC continue?

“A, I cannot be certain Zt continued for a period of time

which may have been one, two, possibly three months. I simply
do not remember.

“Q. Who handled SCLC and Levison case after you left the Bureau?
“A. Richard Hamilton} ‘
Q. When did he assume these cases?

“A. I eannot recall precisely. I am not even sure whether they
had been administratively reassigned to him prior to my departure.
*Q. Who else besides Stanley Levison was in contact with King
who you understood to have some type of CP connections?

‘A. There was Hunter Pitts O'Dell, Bayard Rustin, and Harry
Wachtel. ,

“Q, Hunter Pitts O'Dell, the same as Jack O'Dell?

‘A. Yes, he was.

Q. What evidence of CP connections or domination by Moscow of

O'Dell, Rustin, Wachtel, did your investigation develop?

 

. HW 55020 Docld:32989606 Page @

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

lL-
NAL For a period of time he was in a supervisory capacity.

iQ. Was he in a supervisory capacity when the change in

residence was made?

“A, He was in a relief supervisory capacity at that time.

“Q. Why did you rely on Harding's recollection? Is his recollection
better than yours?

“A. I am not suggesting his recollection is better or worse

than mine. What he said to me merely served to jog my memory

upon which I based my earlier statement today.

NE
Q. You recall when I interviewed you in Atlanta most of

my questions weré taken from prepare notes!
"A. Yes.
“Q. You recall that I told you that I would make notes during
the interview in order that I might later refresh my recollection
‘as to your testimony. )
"A. Yes, and Mr, Seidel, you recall that I did not take any
notes (to which he answered in the affirmative).
*Q, Did you make any recording of that interview at the time?

. 1A. I did not. -

“Q. Did you make any subsequent written recording of the

interview?

|. A 55020 Docld:32969606 Page 7? ‘
 

 

 

 

 

 

. . . “ . _
“ F ‘ .

“A. Yes.

ft Q. During Atlanta interview you indicated you presumed
these reports set forth information concerning Levison from
a telephone surveillance, “Is that correct?

“A. Yes.

“"Q. What was the basis for your presumption?

<A. The appropriate administrative portion of such report
would have so indicated.

“a. What evidence of CP connections did your investigation

develop concerning Levison?

A. None.

Q. What information did you have establishing CP connection

re Levison?

“A. Such information as was set forth in what was then referred

‘to as a characterization of Levison. Such characterization was
a part of each report submitted to the Bureau.

‘Q. What was the nature of this characterization?

“A. I do not remember the precise language. It is my recollectim
the statement was brief and set forth information establishing
past and/or present CP affiliation by Levison.

Q. Where did you obtain this characterization?

A. A characterization of an individual or organization at

that time was prepared by the field office concerned, submitted

 

oH AANOD Docld:32969606 Page 5

 

 
, i @

to Bureau Headquarters for its approval, and such was made

 

available to offices having a need-to-know this information.

i.
Q. What was the source of this information regarding Levison.

‘A. I do not recall that I was ever, apprised thereof. A
; characterization would not indicate the source of the information,
if, unless public source information was utilized, otherwise the
iy reliability or lack thereof of the source or sources would be
indicated but not their identity. ’
“Q. What prompted you today to amend your answer on May the 12th
#75 as to how long telephone surveillance continued on the King
residence? Did you seek the advice or an answer from someone?
ny
“A. y to the extent that subsequent to May the 12th I conferred
reds :
with a former Agent, Charles Harding prior to-that—time-whieh- 22
fo Lear

had concerned me, that my initial answer, for soOme reason did not

 

impress me as being completely correct. I mentioned this to
Harding and he informed me that my answer was incorrect and |
mentioned the change in the King residence and the fact coverage
had not been thereafter authorized. When he informed me of
this I immediately récalled the change in residence which
previously had escaped my memory.

XN
‘Q. Why would Harding know this information?

 

na 55020 Docld:32989606 Page 6 __

 

 

 
Alan G. Sentinella
May 21, 1975-0

The following represents the writer's recollection
of testimony given this date before the Senate Select Committee
(SSC) pursuant to subpoena. The session commenced at 10 a.m,
5/21/75 in Room 607, Caroll Arms Hotel. . Present was Senator
Robert Morgan (North Carolina) ; Lester B. Seidel, Staff Member;
Mr, Jack Smith, Staff Member; Mr. John Bailey, Assistant
Minority Counsel, and a male reporter. Senator Morgan placed
the writer under oath. Approximately four or five minutes later
‘Senator Morgan excused himself with a general statement to
the effect he had other pressing matters. The entire proceedings
with only two exceptions were ‘conducted by Lester B. Seidel.

Seidel explained the writer was entitled to counsel,
had the privilege of invoking provisions of the Fifth Amendment,
and would have the privilege of making an opening and closing

statement, Seidel inquired whether the writer understood his

5 eights and the Committee! s rules and regulations, a copy of

The writer acknowledged receipt of the Committee's
Vv
“rules and regulations as furnished by Seidel at 9:31 a.m.

5/21/75. He also acknowledged he had been informed of the right

 

“to ue fron naw inasmuch as this Committee was not understood

W CONTAINED
HW 3020 Docla: ee 2 Dis eremnsuag) 62 M6 BIS=« RUS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

23) THe 235

KH, THEM 1°" NR 237

Ng 238, 254
AM, SYD

AY, RUS
B4T oe siiection act of 1992 (a4
BNF, 1°? Mk LY9 , p07 Note). Cased :Ni 55020
AER Tite, ZI
FEE THe 2O- |
“0A Thee. 2095

 

 

HW 55020 DocId:32989606 Page 1

 
 

AW 55020

to constitute a grand jury and in the absence of any charges
or allegations of a violation of law on his part, he did not
insist on the presence of counsel. .
Seidel was advisedfas a former Special Agent the

writer had contacted the Bureau's Legal Counsel Division and
as of this date had been advised by Mr. Paul Daly thereof that
he had been cleared by the Attorney General (AG) to testify
to matters relating to investigation of Martin Iuther King, Jr.,
Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), and Stanley
Levison. .

; “Seidel was advised that during his interview of the
writer in Atlanta, Georgia, on 5/12/75 he had asked a question
as to how long after the assassination of King did the telephone

surveillance continue on the King residence. On 5/12/75 the

writer responded it was his recollection this: coverage continued

until a short time subsequent to the assassination. Following
that interview, the writer recalled that either shortly before
or shortly after that case was assigned to the writer, the King
family had moved from one residence to another and that
continuation of the telephone surveillance from the former
residence to the latter one was not authorized. Secondly,

Seidel on 5/12/75 had asked when the King and SCLC cases were

DocId:32989606 Page 3 .

 
« . @ 6 4

assigned to the writer, the writer recalled such assignment
was in the early part of 1965; that it was now the writer's

recollection this assignment was made in May, 1965.

 

Set forth below are questions asked by Seidel (unless
otherwise indicated) and the writer's answers. These questions
and answers are not set forth chronologically.

"a. Why was continuance of the telephone surveillance
not continued to the Kings' new residence?

“A. Continuance was not authorized by the AG.

“Q. What telephone surveillance was there conducted by
Atlanta of Stanley Levison?

‘A, There was no such coverage per se only such as afforded
by contacts made of King or members of the SCLC staff by
Levison. . | ;

“Q. Was there telephone surveillance of Levison in New York?

“A. Any contacts of King by Levison while in New York would
have been covered.

"Q. Did the New York Office maintain telephone surveillance
of Levison? Pa

vA. I do not directly know.

) <Q. During the Atlanta interview you indicated you had read

New York reports concerning Levison. Is that correct?

 

&

 

| oHW 55020 Docld: 32989606 Page 4/

   

      

 
