AML

———

(] sicuATURE (a COMMENT
(TZ) aperoval (NECESSARY ACTION
(T]sre He _ (NOTE ANO RETURM
C) RECOMMENDATION TO cALL HE
oe OR ACKIONL > . .

LOGE ON OR-DEFORE

| PREPARE REPLY FOR
TH GUATURE OF es
_

REMARKS

CC] pein CONVERSATION
(Jas REQUEST ED

(UJMoTe AKD FILE
(Dlyour INFORHATION

NAME RUILDING, ROOM, EXT- OATE

 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
    
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
    
  
     
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
     

ee tee

 

areas

| jo) soa
Mid 105-1742 — . Rede 9, Orryre

ergot”

o oo

information oi serning the Comandss Vambises or theiz
spokesman’, RAFAL WARLIZEZ PUPO, who made a shacement 22
Guatemala elaiming eredit for the August 17, 1963 attack. +

 

BOSEH stared that the MIR will promote oshear +
attacks in the fugure, as opportunities and availabilicy
of equipment permit, without compromising the United
States. ; :

 

V. - HISGELIARZOUS

. Cn June 14, 1963, information vas received that
a group of Cuban exiles had a plaa to bomb the Shell refinery
in Cuba.. : : ;

 
 

Ga uve 15, 1963, United Sts Custons Agents
seized a twin peecheraft airplane on stskirts of

Miami, Plorida, along ith a quantity of explosives.

MIGUEL ALVAREZ, EVELTIO ALPIZAR, REE ESPINOSA,
VICTOR ESPINOSA and CARLOS HERNANDEZ, along with American
SAM BENTON, were involved and detained, but not arcested,
by United States Customs Agents, It was ascertained Pa
that MICHAEL MC LANEY supplied, the money and explosives . a
for this operation. MCG LANEY is well known as a former =
gambling eoueession operator in Havana, Crba, and v

presently resides at Miami Beach, Floxvids.- . 2
2

: ~ On duly 19, 1963, ACELO PEDROSO advised there =
was another plan to bomb Cuba, using bomb casings and ; 2
dynamite located on the outskirts of New Orleans, Louisiana. a

. oO
on duly 31, 1963, the Federal Bureau of ~

Jno sstigation (BI) at New Orleans, Louisiana, obtained a

ot er riauly oo. ; as oe “

: 35. nie 2

| wr 7 1976

0s.

 
 

exiles in a street demonstration and being “officialy cautioned” by the
police, events which “robbed me of what support I had leaving me
alone.” 33+

In spite of those claims, the Commission has not been able to un-
cover any evidence that anyone ever attacked any street demonstration
in which Oswald was involved, except. for the Bringuier incident men-
tioned above, which occurred 8 days after Oswald wrote the above
letter to V. T. Lee. Bringuier, who seemed to be familiar with many
anti-Castro activities in New Orleans, was not aware of any such
incident.*® Police reports also fail to reflect any activity on Oswald's
part prior to August 9, 1963, except for the uneventful distribution of
literature at the Dumaine Street wharf in June." Furthermore, the
general ‘tenor of Oswald’s next letter to V. T. Lee, in which he sup-
ported his report on the Bringuier incident with a copy of the charges
made against him and a newspaper clipping reporting the event, sug-
gests that his previous story of an attack by Cuban exiles was at least
greatly exaggerated.“* Whilethe legend “FPCC 544 Camp St. NEW
ORLEANS, LA.” was stamped on some literature that Oswald had

in his possession at the time of his arrest in New Orleans, extensive _

investigation was not able to connect Oswald with that address, al-
though it did develop the fact that an anti-Castro organization had
maintained offices there for a period ending early in 19692 The
Commission has not been able to find any other indication that Oswald
had vented an office in New Orleans. In view of the limited amount
of public activity on Oswald's part before August 9, 1963, there also
seems to be no basis for his claim that he had distributed “thousands”
of circulars, especially since he had claimed to have printed only 2,000
-and actually had only 1,000 printed. In addition, there is no evidence
that he received any substantial amount of materials from the na-
tional headquarters. ;

_ Tn another letter to V. T. Tee, dated August 17, 1963, Oswald wrote
that he had appeared on Mr. William Stuckey’s 15-minute television
Program over WDSU-TV called “Latin American Focus” as a result
of which he was “flooded with callers and invitations to debate’s ect.
as well as people intérested in joining the F.P.C.C. New Orleans
branch.” 7 WDSU has no program of any kind called “Latin Ameri-
can Focus.” *? Stuckey had a radio Program called “Latin Listening

Post,” on which Oswald was heard for less than 5 minutes on August ”
‘y tnd

17, 1963.43 Tt appears that Oswald had only one caller in response to

all of his FPCC activities, an agent of Bringuier’s attempting to learn *

more about the true nature of the alleged FPCC “organization” in
New Orleans. :

Oswald's statements suggest that he hoped to be flooded with callers
and invitations to debate. . This would have made him a-real center of
attention as he must have been when he first arrived in the Soviet Union
and as ‘he was to some extent when he returned to the United States.
The limited notoriety that Oswald received as a result of the street
fracas and in the subsequent radio debate was Apparently not enough

to satisfy him. He exaggerated in his letters to V. T. Lee in an appar- -

408

HW 54653 DoclId:32423622 Page @

-

OSWALD DISTRIBUTING FAIR
ORLEANS, AUGUST 16, 1963 --
BILLS ON WHICH HE HAD ST,

“s

 

ey
COMMISSION EXHIBIT 2966 A w=

the Fair Play for
‘Cuba Committee -

 

 

 

“Mi GARNER DE!

730-900 O-64—28
      

Fair Play for Cuba Committee materials on one uneventful oc-
casion in Dallas sometime during the period April 6-24, 1963,31¢
Oswald’s first public identification with that cause was in New Or-
leans. There, in late May and early June of 1963, under the name
Lee Osborne, he had printed a handbill headed in large letters “Iands
Off Cuba,” an application form for, and a membership card in, the
New Orleans branch of tlie Fair Play for Cuba Committee27 He
first distributed his handbills and other material uneventfully in the
vicinity of the U.S.S. Wasp, which was berthed at the Dumaine Street

y wharf in New Orleans, on June 16, 1963.48 He distributed literature
' in downtown New Orleans on August 9, 1963, and was arrested because
: of a dispute with three anti-Castro Cuban exiles, and again on August

im 16, 1963.99 Following his arrest, he was interviewed by the police, and
" at his own request, by an agent of the FBI.3% On August 17, 1963, he
appeared briefly on a radio program ™ and.on August 21, 1963, he

.- debated over radio station WDSU, New Orleans, with Carlos Brin-
5 guier, one of the Cuban exiles who had been arrested with him on
; ; August 9.57 Bringuier claimed that on August 5, 1963, Oswald had
oe attempted to infiltrate an anti-Castro organization with which he was

associated 373 :

‘ While Oswald publicly engaged in the activities described above,
his “organization” was a product of his imagination.* The imaginary
president of the, nonexistent chapter was named A. J. Hidell,?*5 the
name that Oswald used when he purchased the assassination weapon.??*
Marina Oswald said she signed that name, apparently chosen because

. . ° it rhymed with “Fidel,” #7 to her husband’s membership card. in the
New Orleans chapter. She testified that he threatened to beat her if
she did not do so.® The chapter had never, been chartered by the

 

. } . national FPCC organization.**® It appears to have been a solitary
2 : operation on Oswald's part in spite of his misstatements to the New
, ‘ Orleans police that it had 35 members, 5 of which were usually present -
, at meetings which were held once a month.>”

Oswald's Fair Play for Cuba activities may be viewed as a very
shrewd political operation in which one man single handedly created
publicity for his cause or for himself. It is also evidence of Oswald’s
reluctance to describe events accurately and of his-need to present
himself to others as well as to himself in a light more favorable than
was justified by reality. This is suggested by his misleading and some-

‘ * time untruthful statements in his letters to Mr. V. T, Lee, then
national director of FPCC. In one of those letters, dated August 1,

' 1963, Oswald wrote that an oflice which he had previously claimed to
: have rented for FPCC activities had been “promply closed 3 days
later for some obsure reasons by the renters, they said something

about remodeling ect., Im sure you understand.” ** He wrote that
“thousands of circulars were distrubed” “* and that he continued to

receive inquiries through his post office box which he endeavored

“to keep ansewering to the best of my ability.” In his letter to

V. T. Lee, he stated that he was then alone in his efforts on behalf

of FPCC, but he attributed his lack of support to an attack by Cuban

407

 

 

 

 

 

 

Y
{
HW wacky Docld: 32423622 Page 7
 

 

AW 54653

Docld: 32423622

there was something Hke that, and it was.a coincidence. And there is another
coincidence too for me, and that is that when Oswald left the city he went to
Mexico, and the letter from Fernandez that was lntercepted here was to. Mexico
too, and Oswald visit the Cuban consulate tn Mexico, and the Fernandez letter
was to the Cuban Ambassador to Mexico. For me, that is a big doubt.

Mr. Lreserer. Go ahead.

Mr. Brinourer. You sce, after the debate, the same night of the debate, I
went to the radio station here in New Orleans and the local papers and the
United Press International office, and IT gave a press release. If you want a
copy, I could give youa copy. I gavea copy to the Secret Service,

The most interesting thing is the four things that I asked to the Secret
Service of New Orleans. I think that this is the second one where I said,
“Write to your Congressman asking for a full Investigation of Mr. Lee H.
Oswald, a confessed Marxist” [producing document). And that was 3 months
before the assassination. .

Mr. Liegserer. Do you have another copy of this?

. Mr. Brrncuier. I have the original of that. Youcan have that.
' Mr, Lienever. I have marked a copy of the press release distributed to the
various communications media here in New Orleans, on August 16, 1963——

Mr. Brinauier. No, August 21.

Mr. Lrepecer. August 21, 1963?

Mr. Brineurer. August 21, the night of the debate.

Mr. Lieperes. I mark it as “Exhibit No. 3” to your deposition, and I have
initialed it. Would you Initial it?

{The witness complied.) .

Mr. Lieserer. Let me go over some of this testimony that you have just
given to see if I understand. Mr. Fernandez wrote to Mr. Lechuga a letter
in which Fernandez said that we—meaning the Castro people? a

Mr. Brinocurer. Yes. .

Mr. Lreserer. Must be on guard up until August 8? -

Mr, Brincurer. August 8, that is right. .

Mr. Lrepecer. Of 1963?

Mr. Brinouter. That fs right. .

Mr. Ligserer, You indicated that Oswald had come to your store or offices
on August 5, 1963?

Mr. Brineuier. That is right.

Mr. LIEBELER, Oswald came to you offering to assist in the miltary training
of Cubans?

Mr. Brinourer. That is right. :

Mr. Ligpever. At that time, there was, in fact, a training camp near New
Orleans.

Mr. Brinovrer. That is right. .

Mr. Lieserer. For the training of people for military action against Castro?

Mr. Brinourer. Right.

Mr. Lresecer. And that was not public knowledge at that time?

Mr. Brinourer. That is right. .

Mr, Liegeter. So you are tying this up in. your mind by considering the pos-
sibility that Oswald was, in fact, a Castro agent?

Mr. Brinouter. That is right.

Mr. Lreverer. And did know about the existence of this training camp, be-
cause Mr. Fernandez had already himself infiltrated that training camp?

Mr. Brinavier. That is right. .

Mr. Liepeter. And that Fernandez had told Oswald about the existence of this
camp and had asked Oswald himself to try to infiltrate that camp for your
organization?

Mr. Brincurer. Excuse me.

Mr. Lrenerer. Is that correct?

Mr. Brrneurer, Well, the only thing that I don’t believe is that Fernandez
had told directly to Oswald. What'I believe is that Fernandez had informed
some people outside the United States, and these people had informed Oswald and
had gave to Oswald the order to try to infiltrate the Cuban group here in New
Orleans. '

44

 

Page 5

ciabatta ahainaibaaniaieteaesaneni die hineaitc-atieen ion ane-bianemenconiateraeten

 

Mr. Lrene.er. And Mr. Fernand

-aware of approximately the time

fore, Indicated to Lechnga that ¢
discovered as an attempted inflltri

Mr. Burnourer. I beg pardon? 1

Mr. Lrenerer. As I understand,
lates to the fact that Fernandez ;
will be in danger,”—up until abo:
anything to do with Oswald?

Mr, Brincurer. Well, what I thi:
on August 5 Oswald came to me o
same period of time. Somethin,
Orleans, that there was a secret .
of the Fair Play for Cuba Comm
New Orleans. Those are the fact
not sure ubout. I just want to s!
connection. :

Mr, Lienever. Now it doesn’t see:
handing out literature in the stre
to infiltrate the anti-Castro movem

Mr. Brinaures. Remember that
after I told him that I don’t hav.
that here there is nothing, and th:
went openly to do that before t!
he went openly to do that after he w

Mr. Lresecer. Do you know of :
In the pro-Castro movement and t
Information to Oswald—conducted t

Mr. Brineurex. No.

Mr, Lreseer. Would you have a
as a result of your anti-Castro ac:
person as this, do you think you «

Mr, Brinourer. Beg your pardo

Mr. LIesecer. If there were suv:
Castro movement who had been v.
would have had access to that in
find out about it?

Mr. Brincurer. You see, that ts
have a lot of persons. There ar
who are anti-Castro. Even amui.
agents here in the city and you «-.

But there is something else: Th:
is located in 117 Decatur Street, j:
the owner of the Havana Bar fs .
over there, gave the information
before—that Oswald went to the +
lemonade. He was with one Mexi.
drinking the lemonade, he start tu
to be a Cuban capitalistic, and thi
Ile was telling that that was too nm
moment, Oswald feel bad at that. :
out to the sidewalk to vomit outsid.

*.the Havana Bar told me that the

the same one that one time the FBI
Immediately because that was @ pre
August 15 and August 30 was th:
because I start to find out all thes
before, because before I did not

nothing of this before to me. Be!
the owner of the Havana Bar cam
cause he already saw one automol.
one of them the one who had be:
   

  

of the debate, I
. papers and the
If you want a

d to the Secret
ve where I said,
of Mr. Lee H.
at was 3 months

istributed to the |

ust 16, 1963—_

tton, and I have

t you have just

hechuga a letter —

v store or offices
allitary training
camp near New

. against Castro?

-sidering. the pos-

-alning camp, be-
-ing camp?

- existence of this

t camp for your -

. that Fernandez
‘ez had informed
med Oswald and
roup here in New

HW 54653 nocrek 2423622 Page 6

 

Mr. Lresecer. And Mr. Fernandez was, on this theory, aware of that and was
aware of approximately the time Oswald would make this attempt, and, there-
fore, Indicated to Lechuga that there would be some danger of Oswald being
discovered as an attempted infiltrator?

Mr. Brrnauter, I beg pardon? I don’t understand the words.

Mr. Liesecer. As I understand, part of the hypothesis here, the theory, re-
Intes to the fact that Fernandez said to Lechuga, “We must be careful, or we
will be in danger,"—up until about August 8. Now does that statement have
anything to do with Oswald? .

Mr. Rrincurer. Well, what I think is this: He send that letter to Lechnga, and
on August 5 Oswald came to me offering his service to train Cubans, all in the
same period of time. Something that never was happening here in New
Orleans, that there was a secret anti-Castro training camp, and the chairman
of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee trying to join the Cuban group here in
New Orleans. Those are the facts. I don’t want to tell something that I am
not sure ubout. I just want to show you that tremendous coincidence or that
connection.

Mr. Liepeter. Now it doesn’t seem likely, does it, that Oswald would go around
handing out literature in the streets like he did if he was actually attempting
to infiltrate the anti-Castro movement?

Mr. Brinaurer. Remember that that was after I turned down his offer and
after I told him that I don't have nothing to do with military activities and
that here there is nothing, and that I turned down completely him. He didn’t
went openly to do that before the attempt to infiltrate the training camp;
he went openly to do that after he was turned down.

Mr. Liegever. Do you know of any conceivable association between anybody
in the pro-Castro movement and Oswald that could have acted as a source of
information to Oswald—conducted the orders to him?

Mr. Brinaurer. No.

Mr, LreseLer. Would you have any way of obtaining information ‘of that sort
as a result of your anti-Castro activities and contacts? If there were such a
person as this, do you think you would be likely to know about it?

Mr. Brinaurer. Beg your pardon?

Mr. Lrepecer. If there were such a person, that is to say, some agent of the
Castro movement who had been working with Oswald, do you think that you
would have had access to that information or you would have been likely to
find out about it?

Mr. Brincurer. You see, that is a hard question, because here in the city you
have a lot of persons. There are some who are pro-Castro, there are many
who are anti-Castro. Even among the Cubans you could have some Castro
agents here in the city and you could not have control of everybody.

But there is something else: The owner of the Havana Bar—the Havana Bar
is located in 117 Decatur Street, just two door or three door from my store—"
the owner of the Havana Bar is a Cuban, and he and one of the employees
over there, gave the information to me after Kennedy’s assassination—not
before—that Oswald went to the Havana Bar one time. He asked for some
lemonade. He was with one Mexican at that moment, and when Oswald was
drinking the lemonade, be start to say that, sure, the owner of that place had
to be a Cuban capitalistic, and that he argue about the price of the lemonade.
He was telling that that was too much for a lemonade, and he feel bad at that
moment, Oswald feel bad at that moment—he had some vomits and he went
out to the sidewalk to vomit outside on the sidewalk. These persons here from
the Havana Bar told me that the guy, the Mexican, who was with Oswald, was
the same one tbat one time the FBI told them that if they will see him, call them
immediately because that was a pro-Communist. I remember that was between
August 15 and August 30 was that period of time. I could not locate that
because I start to find out all these things after the Kennedy assassination, not

' before, because before I did not found any counection. They did not told

nothing of this before to me. Between the 15th and the 30th the brother of
the owner of the Havana Bar came to my store asking me to call the FBI, be-
cause he already saw one automobile passin by the street with two Mexicans,
one of them the one who had been with «-swald in the bar, and he told me

45

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
~ - . Date

08/08/95
Page 1

oe oe

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10014-10234
RECORDS SERIES : MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 07-M-139

¥ ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :
DATE : 00/00/76
PAGES : 34 ;
SUBJECTS : OSWALD, LEE, POST RUSSIAN PERIOD, TRAVEL, TRIP TO
MEXICO
FPCC

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/21/99

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 54653 DoclId:32423622 Page 2
JFK Assassination System Date: FT2015
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: — 157-10014-10234

RECORD SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 07-M-139

Released under the John

 

Kennedy
Assassination Records
ORIGINATOR: — SSCIA allection Act of 1992
FROM: (44 USC 2107 Note).

TO: ase#:NU 54653 Date:
ho-23-2017

 

TITLE:

DATE: 00/00/1976
PAGES: 34

SUBJECTS :
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

OSWALD, LEE, POST RUSSIAN PERIOD, TRAVEL, TRIP TO
MEXICO
FPCC

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 03/17/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1 ]

AW 54653 DocId:32423622 Page 1
Book V, p. 12-13

HW 54653 DoclId:32423622 Page 3

The cast of characters surrounding
the seizure of anti-Castro .
hardware as outlined on these pages
is particularly interesting.

The raw material cited in the
footnote is attached. Note
reference to Briniuer and Oswald.
Below that McLaney brothers and
Victor Espinosa and Frank Sturgis.
Not attached is a critical New
Orleans field office memo to

FBI headquarters linking Briniuer
to the McClaney/Sturgis operation.

nenjte
New Orleans
tion a photo-
Orleans, La.,
a3 given to a
record, given

‘lo the same,

“idel_ Castro,
she to Invade
‘utes will do
vight.

ny friend to

od this after
that eonver-

“n my friend
here and he

1@ Fair Play -

horities, be-
aowledge of
front of Ed

: Counetl of
friend and
ler all the
hat Oswald
“swald had
Ve gave all
u, somebody
febate,
day of the
ihe time of
sill Stuckey
indicate to
hnke hands
at Stuckey
weHeve that
: to Oswald
to him as
+ one Com-
omimunism,
hat T don't
sie way. I
Vommunist,
hat if any
+ something
ame to me,
:ve nothing
“answered
the wrong
it moment.
ebook for
vill happen
-y bim per-

      

sonally as a traitor if he doing something wrong in the debate, When he saw the
guidebook for Marines, he smiled to me, and he told me, “Well, listen, Carlos,
don’t try to do un invasion with that guidebook for Marines, because that ts an
old one and that will be a failure.” That was his joke in that moment.

After that we went to the debate, and I think that you have the whole history
of the debate, you have the transcription and everything, [so] that I don’t have
to go inside that, because that is subjective, not objective. You have the ob-
jective, and that is the debate.

Mr. Lieperrr. That is.right. We do have a transcript and we listened to it on
the tape last night over at the television station too,

Mr. Brinourer. And there is something that I want to show you too. I told
to you about the training camp that were across the Lake Pontchartrain,

Mr, Lrepeter. Yes, .

Mr. Brrncurer. [Producing newspaper.] At the beginning of August in the
Diario Las Americas from Miami for September 4 —

Mr. LIebeLer. For September 4, 1963? .

Mr, Brincurer. That is right. (Indicating photograph.} This is the spy
who was inside the training camp. ‘The Christian Democratic Movement turned
him over to the FBI, and the FBI was questioning him in Miami. The Christian
Democratic Movement found a letter, according to this information, from this
guy directed to Carlos Lechuga, former Cuban Ambassador to Mexico and now
Cuban Ambassador to the United Nations in New York. In that letter the spy,
Fernando Fernandez, was warning Lechuga that they have to be alert from that
date to August 8, and the day that Oswald came trying to infiltrate my orga-
nization was on August 5. This sounds for me strange in all this matter.

(Indicating.] Here is another interview from Fernandez here 3 days later.

Mr. LieneLer. You are referring to a copy of the same newspaper but for the
date of September 6, 1963, on the front page of which.

Mr. Brinourer. [Indicating.] Here. “Fernando Fernandez is in favor of
coexistence with the Communist regime of Castro.” That is the title in
Spanish.

Mr. Lieperer. Let me see {f I can understand what you are saying. You say
that Fernandez wrote a letter to Lechuga? .

Mr. Brincurer. Fernandez wrote a letter to Lechuga in Mexico.

Mr. LreneLer. Lechuga is a member of the Castro government?

Mr. Brinovuier. Right.

Mr. Lirsecer. He is now Ambassador to the United Nations?

Mr. Brinouier. In New York; right. .

Mr. Ligperer. Fernandez is the person who was the Castro spy who had in-
filtrated the training camp in Louisiana?

Mr. Brincurer. For the Christian Democratic Movement here in Louisiana.

Mr, Lreperer. Now the Christian Democratic Movement is—what? Pro-
Castro?

Mr. Brinourer, Anti-Castro. :

Mr, Lievecer. It is an anti-Castro organization? .

Mr. Brinourer. Yes; they were training Cubans over here to make a com-
mando action aguinst Castro, but they find out that there was a Castro spy
inside the training ca1ap, and they went back to Miami with the people and with
him, and they turn him over to the PBI. I think that after that the leader
for the Christian Democratic Movement—or that the FBI didn’t found nothing,
because was not against the law to spy inside an anti-Castro organization. It
was against the law to spy inside the U.S. Government but not inside the anti-

 

~ Castro organization. And my feeling—and this is the question that I am asking

myself—in New Orleans we are about 900 miles from Miami. In Miami is where
the headquarters of all the anti-Castro groups. I conld not find any reason
for Oswald to come to me and offer me his service to train Cubans in guerrilla
warfare at the same moment when there was 2 secret anti-Castro training camp.
in New Orleans and a Castro spy was inside that training camp. That for me
is—because, if he was willing to infiltrate one active organization, he will go
directly to.Minmi and he will offer his service over there in Miami, but not in
New Orleans where it is not publicly known thi. :here was something going on
at that moment. £ believe that that was the ouly time here in New Orleans that

AW 54653 DpcId:32423622 Page 4 43

 

 

 
