 

 

"Reteased™ under. the John F. “Kennedy fiseassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 27107 Hote;

» DATE: 11-14-2017
* . los ‘
Mr. Ro G. Held ve

L-
i- Mr. J. B. Adams
1-
1 -

 
   

 

|;
|

Mr, D. W. Moore
Mr. W. K. DeBruler
(Attn: T, M. Johnson)

l= Mr. J. A. Mintz
1 =- Mr. R. J. Gallagher
~ Mr. T. W. Leavitt
~ Mr. J. G. Deegan

. LAF ~ Mr. R. K. McHargue
Honorable Henry A. Kissinger - Mr. J. P. Graham
,The Secretary. of State . OO 4

i

“Washington, D. C. 20520 Po oe
Cuda PCL OPS

pacer

Reference is made to my y letter dated October 20, 1976,
relating to information indicating that the name of Special
Agent Joseph S. Leo of this Bureau, Legal Attache, Caracas, .
Venezuela, was found in the possession of one of the individuals
arrested as a suspect in the loss of Cubana Airlines Flight
Number 455 in the Caribbean Sea on October 6, 1976,

Dear Mr, Secretary:

sera

 

 

 

‘For’ your further | information and. assistance, there -
is set: forth below additional. facts reported to, this Headquarters
on October 26, 1976, by Le % Leo, ee

  

   

a : Hernan Ricard #LOZano |, and_ Freddy fugoy “citizens of

 

y Venezuela, were arrested by the police of / Trinidad | and Tobage
Ba ‘on October 7, 1976, on suspicion of implication in the erash

A of the Cuban-operated aircraft off the coast of Barbados on. ;
October 6, 1976. Hexvnan Ricardo Lozano came toe the attention
of se fee" Caracas, duving the summer of 1975 when he contacted

 

: Legatfon behalf of the then Director, Venezuelan Directorate

of Intelligence and Preventive Services (DISIP), Dr. Pedro.
Torres ~Bevsahsyor the purpose of assisting in expediting the
issuance /o visajto a family member of Dr. Torres Agudon JG )
RicardoxLozano_ret ed shortly thereafter to express his

yf apprecyation for that assistance and he recontacted Legat,
Caracas, on approximately. three other occasions, relating to visa

asso. pv, eHformation, In December, 1975, Ricardo: Lézano telephoned Legat

ber. a AAG: extended « ‘to, him a soc

Dep. AD Inve ley ipvi tagion, whichuwas det lined, (0

Asst. Dis) . és Ls dbs <7
Fala REC 13 fo 1 (oe L dct

SEE. NOTE PAGE 4,

 

 
 
 
 
  

 

Fin. " Pe
Gen, Inv.
teat
Inspection 22.
Intell.
Laboratory

 

 

Legal Coun..

| 7 Plea. & Eval; oe OTUSRNISE et
Rec. Mgnt. a ~ ~ .
Spec. Inv.
Teléphone Rm. f- : is i, :
Direet es M, [ TELETYPE UNITL_J 0 ™ zs . ‘ 7
BR DEC. Gia BECRED L- ]
2 a “se n id

 

 

    
 
  

 

Training

 

xo ou

 

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32296797 Page 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

 

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10218-10073
RECORD SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-2173-143

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DIRECTOR. FBI
TO: KISSINGER. HENRY A.

TITLE:
DATE: 10/29/1976 é
PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: LOZANO, HERNAN RICARDO, CONTACT, LEG, CAR, VISA

: is
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL Secret NEW .
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: — 05/12/1998 UPDATE DATE:

STATUS _ Redact
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DoclId:32296797 Page 1
 

an under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC ii? Hote.

DATE: 11-14-2017 . .
Se 2 a ' . = : -
ee OD _ Beck”

Hohorable Henry A. Kissinger

 

Ricardo Lozano was not seen or heard from again by Legat until
September 30, 1976, when he appeared. at the Legat Office, Caracas,
, 0 at which time he requested assistance for himself to: obtain a
' visa to the U, 8. On that eccasion, Ricardo Lozane claimed that
: he had a photographic assignment Jamaica for the magazine
§ "Vision" and that he planned a twomday stopover in Puerto Rico

 

before returning to Venezuela. “On his visa application

Ricardo Lozano indicated his oeceupation as a graphics reporter
and industrial investigator, He listed his employer as
Investigaciones Comerciales © Industriales (ICI) and, in that
connection, he produced a letter of employment signed by the ICI
‘owner, Luis Posada Carriles. A visa was issued to Ricardo Lozano
on October 1, 1976. Gi

: informant or source ©

ernan Ricardo Lozano was never a paid

the Legat, Caracas, Office,
= , | Se(s). 4

. luis Posada ¢ Carviles[has: been identified ag a former
Bi on Chief of DESIP who resigned from that Ageticy in 1974
andPéstablished ICI, a private investigative agenc Legat Leo
stated that he had very slight contact with posadaLeven when :
Posada. was an official of DI rp }®ega t Leo and Posada met (yfec;qo/
perhaps ho more than' three Aimes since 1971, On June 10, :
Posada appeared at the Leggt Office to ask what, if any; interest
the FEI had in Juan CarioxBordoni./ Posada was thereupon told

‘that Bordoni wis a fugit#ve from justice and that efforts were
being made’ to extradite Bordoni to the OU. S. from Venezuela to-
answer charges of bank fvaud in connection with the’ collapse of
the Franklin National Bank. Posada stated that in that case he
wished to advise Legat Leo that Bordoni had hired twa ICI
operatives to act as armed bodyguards in his home. [That infor
mation was subsequently provided to Venezuelan. police whe were
involved in the expected arrest of Bordoni. Yt is pointed
cut that Luis Posada Carriles was ne paid informant or .
source of the Legat, Caracas, ortices| SOG)

  

 

Legat Leo further reported that Freddy Iago, | the
second Venezuelan citizen arrested in connection with captioned
matters, is not known to him. Venezuelan press Yeports identify
Lugo as a journalist and photographer, At the time of his
arrest, Lugo reportedly had on his person a piece of paper
bearing the name and telephone number of Legat Leo, It is not
: known to Legat Leo how hie name came into the possession of
: ‘Lugo. (Further, Lugo has never been a paig informant. or -
source of the Legat, Caracas, ottices] Wf)

 

 

 

| : . . a

L BECRED sg 9 73-143

 

DoclId:32296797 Page 3
 

 

DATE: 11-14-2017 : a

1° ° o 8 < :
yf ° . se: : ~
LF : : eo . Se

Qye ie : wee i . : _
| re  SECREB

Pom; under e Jo. . Kennedy Assassination Records oO ion Act of 1992 (44 USC =
te

 

Honorable Henry A. Kissinger

The police of Trinidad and Tobago made available Kerox
copies of papers and documents which they found among the ‘personal
effects of Hernan Ricardo Lozano and Freddy Lugo, An examination
of those papers. and documents revealed that it appeared that the
piece of paper bearing Mr. Leo's name was taken from a notebcok
consisting” of approximately 80 pages which. was found in the
_ possession of Hernan Ricardo Lozano. The names 9f more than 170
individuals were inscribed in that notebook, a)

With regard to Ricarde Morales Navarrete, Legat Leo
pointed out that he is currently employed as a Division Chief
: of DISIP. Morales Navarrete was formerly affiliated with a
' Special Investigations Unit, Venezuelan Ministry of Foreign

Affairs, under the immediate supervision of. Orlando Garcia Vasquez,
Minister Counsellor, MoraleB Navarrete arrived in Venezuela o
fvom Miami, Florida, in approximately late 1974, having been ce
summoned by Orlando Garcia Vasquez, a confidant of — . arn
Carlos Andres Perez, Pregident of Venezuela. Legat Lec maintained
contact with both Morales Navarvete and Garcia Vasques in
connection with official matters. Those individuals arranged the -
arrest and deportation of several fugitives wante deral

and local law enforcement authorities in the U. § sBBCRY

iS

 

 

Cifreuat Leo has advised that neither Ricardo ee
Navarrete*hor Orlando Garcia Vasquez wek@acver paid informants.

or sources of the Legat, Caracas, Officesi It is pointed out, boost
however, that Ricardo Morales Navarrete“was.a paid informant of _- is
our Miami Office at various times between 1961 and 1975, reporting —
information of a general criminal nature as well as> information
involving both p¥o~ and anti-Castro activities, &

   

a

 

Wath regard to the metter of my sending ‘an we .
inspector from FBI Headquarters to Caracas, Venezuela, to
‘interview Legat Leo, previously referred: to herein, I have ..- a
i decided to hold such travel in abeyance because. of the existing a)

&
ue

 

 

_ Br AUITIVYS

 

 

DoclId:32296797 Page 4
