 

Belmont

 

toe se - er ~ <4 of
So Spnishaad “ O CO) \
““opriONal FORM NO. 10 } .
. \ d d Toison |
UNITED STATES GOVERi =NT Ci
Ww’ r Mohr

ay ° Caspy
Memorandum . _ Pa 4
DeLoach
We Evan
yds TO : Mr. sermons (NO pate: November 22, 1963 le

 

 

 

Rost

i . Sulli Mn
~ Tavel
. Trotter

FROM : Cc. A. Evans Tele. Room
. Holmes

Gandy
. @ACTIVITIES_OF_TOP..HOODLUMS
Suayecr: “CHICAGO. AREA.

 

é

 

 

 

 

  

“pec enges (963

Thig-46 to inform you of developments arising from the
murder. of Foreman / an alleged enforcer for loan Shark operator
san eStefano of Chicago. Foreman, an ex-convict, former wrestler
onetime bondsman, had béen missing since November 14, 1963, .
when his body was discovered November 18, 1963, in the trunk.of his’
leased automobile. He had been stabbed in the back and in the
chest and had been shot twice.

SA
we \

é
&

cn “
Chicago Police confirmed that he had visited at DeStefano's
home on the day he disappeared. DeStefano told police that'-Foreman
had talked and played cards with him for about two hours on-the day
he was reported missing. Chicago Police advised that TForeman was
DeStefano's“front man and in their opinion DeStefano was responsible
for his death. Foreman had been used as an informant by the eee
PoliceDepartment for the past year. x
a TtAak. pA. . = :
fee (tappicoximstery. “a month ago a "little black book" befonging
to. Forenan fell into the hands of the Chicago Police. This, book,
as entries” “showing Foreman met Chicago M Municipal Judge Ceci’ ‘Corbett.
‘ ith at *least -a half dozen timés in the last six months ang that he
ha contacted various other jndividuals, including Lieutenant Harry.
Smith, and “Detectives soospitiye and George ien_of thesChicago -
Olice Department; Benystein, Labor. racketeer ; Kayowgret :
-prostitution madam; anc an Norrie Klein. of the Cook County, Illinois,
Sheriff's “Office. Chicago Polic ade the black b6ok available to
Reporter r Sandy Smith of "The Chicago Sun," and he wrote a front page
story November 20, 1963, . eC the con ‘fz teat listed therein.
au

   
   
   
  
 

- ernie et pa

   
 

 

 

? fhoob bean Cath bd

ze

2

REC- 16 - fe ae
CG 6560-PCI on 6 Ass 963, poe the Chicago Office
| he had a call from DeStefano November 15, 1963, at 7:30 p.m., and
was told that his "fat friend," Leo Foreman, was dead. The informant
stated that Foreman was killed because he owed DeStefano $7,000 on
“juice loans (usurious interest loan), which he refused to pay, and
also that, jhe was an informant for the_FBI in Chicago. Chicago advises. -~
Foreman was not. 3 its infoghant 373; that he was contacted August 22,
1963, for informataon as to th bih@zeabouts of Carol Jean Smith, also.--
known as Denise Nelson, who.had failea\to appear in court Last August
following ‘her earliewtarres® on a charge of Interstate Transportation
of Stolen Property. smith wasiéargested at Seaside, California, on
the basis of 1 3158 gman! s infeanationaant was sentenced November 8, 1963.

Dut Di Fan co 18
pina eee eee]

JGL:rap (7)

 

, Nw 45760 Docid:32288850 Page 2

 
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/24/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10200-10126

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 62-9-9-1432

 

Document Information

 

ORIGINATOR: FBI
i : FROM: EVANS, C. A.
; TO: BELMONT ’

TITLE:

DATE: 11/22/1963
PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS :
THP, ACT, INVEST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 10/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

 

91 18
NW 45760 DociId:32288850 Page i
- . . C ( \

Nur

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont
Re: Activities of Top Hoodlums
Chicago Area

«

Foreman telephonically contacted a Chicago Agent November 13, 1963,
stating he had heard of an FBI inquiry as to whether Smith was -
involved with counterfeit checks and that he desired that he be
contacted if any further information was desired. No arrangements
were made to interview Foreman as a result of this call.

Chicago advised that Municipal Judge Cecil Corbett Smith
was removed from his bench November 21, 1963, by Chief Jutice Bowe.
Bowe took this action following a telephone call from DeStefano, |
who, according to Judge Bowe, furnished derogatory information about j

udge Smith.

Donald Sullivan, a representative of "The Chicago American"
newspaper, telephonically contacted the Special Agent in Charge (SAC)
at Memphis late in the evening of November 20, 1963, and requested i
the identify of a polygraph operator in the Memphis area, indicating
that he was in the company of a judge in Chicago who was not identified.
The SAC advised Sullivan that he could make no recommendation and
knew of no polygraph operator in Memphis. Reporter Sullivan also
inquired about a detective agency in Memphis and was advised that |
the FBI was not familiar with any such agencies and could make no
comment. Memphis advises that Chief of Police J.-C. MacDonald -recéived
similar requests from Sullivan and had refused to make a recommendation.
Memphis received information subsequently that the judge involved |
was named Smith and that he was currently mentioned in the murder
matter in Chicago. i

 

Oe, —————t esa

Following the contact with our Memphis SAC, "The Chicago
American" newspaper indicated that Chief of Police MacDonald and the
SAC recommended a polygraph operator. As a result of this, Chief
MacDonald said he was conferring with the City Attorney,as to
possible action against "The Chicago American" for false reporting. i
On November 22, 1963, reporter Sullivan telephonically contacted
the Memphis Office and denied having indicated that the SAC or the
Chief of Police had recommended a polygraph operator or a detective
agency.

a

Chicago received information November 21, 1963, fromlL___] OTHER 4
who has furnished reliable information in the past, to the effect
that [_lhad been talking to an individual known as "Pix," an associate
of DeStefano and Foreman, ‘"Pix't reportedly indicated he was aware
prior to Foreman's death that he was to be killed and heard about
his death about two hours after the killing and before the body was
found. "Pix" allegedly said that DeStefano had asked him for Carol

   
 

NE

-2-

 

 

 

 

| NW 45760 DocId:32288850 Page 3
