D. Legislative Inaction. Enact no: new statute affecting
the FBI's legal authority or: the internal security intel~
ligence program.

In weighing this option, the Committee should consider
many of the issues set out above and, in addition:

 

1. Whether this failure to act might not leave the
status of the program in doubt and subject to court
challenge. -

2. Whether this failure to act after full disclosure
by the Bureau might not be’ taken by the FBI and the
courts as a ratification of the program. ‘

BE. Administrative Oversight by the Attorney General. The
Justice Department should be required to exercise greater
administrative oversight over the FBI's internal security
intelligence program by Attorney General Levi, regardless

_of whatever other options Congress accepts.

‘In weighing this option, the Committee should consider
the following issues:

i. Whether it is practical for the Attorney General or
his staff to review thousands of such investigations
@ach year.

2. Whether the Attorney General or his staff should
review all or just the so-called "full" investiga-
tions.

 

i 3.. Whether, to facilitate the ‘conduct of such reviews,

: : , the Attorney General or his staff should be given
"complete" access to Bureau files, including informa-
tion regarding the identity and reliability of -infor-
mants and confidential sources.

4. Whether it is possible to develop a staff of career
attorneys within the Department with both the access.
and independence essential to the conduct of search-
ing reviews. :

5. Whether the Attorney General or his staff should not
also be required to review various informant and sco-
eealled "intensification" programs, and the establish-
ment of specialized indices (which have a significant
impact upon which cases are opened) instead of just:
reviewing individual investigations in a vacuum as
provided by the Attorney General's draft guidelines.

| HW 55013 DocIldv32989602 Page 9

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

F. An.Inspector General. _In addition to the above options,
an independent Inspector General should be created to
investigate improprieties by the FBI. This option-is
advanced by those concerned about the inadequacy of the

. FBI's investigation of the disappearance of former
Director Hoover's personal files, its limited inquiry
.into the so-called Atlantic City convention case, and
the absence of any internal investigation of the abuses
in the King case.

In weighing this option, the Committee should consider
the following issues: .

1.

G.

Whether it is possible to maintain the independence
of an Inspector General within the Department of
Justice when both the Inspector General and the
Director of the FBI will be responsible to the same
official, the Attorney General. .

.Whether the Inspector General should have "complete"

access to Bureau files, including information per-
taining to the identity and reliability of informants:
and confidential sources. . ;

Whether an Inspector General with access to extremely
sensitive information might not become a serious
threat to the independence of the Bureau from politi-
cal influence and to the civil liberties of American
citizens.

Congressional Oversight. In addition to the above

options, the creation of an oversight committee(s) in the
Congress, to which the Bureau would be required to report
and which would have the power to investigate abuses.

In weighing this option, the Committee Should consider
_the kinds of problems posed by ‘the Justice Department
oversight and Inspector General options discussed above
to the independence of the FBI and the confidentiality
of its files.

H. Public Reporting and Disclosure to Subjects. In addition
to the above options, the requirement that the FBI make
frequent public reports on the details of its internal
security intelligence programs and policies and reveal
the details of improper intelligence investigations to
the subjects of those investigations.

HW 55013 Docld:92989602 Page 10

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

,

 

1. Whether meaningful and stringent guidelines can be
written which do not so hamper the administration
of an internal security intelligence program as to
make the product not just marginal, as GAO suggests, .
but worthless. *

‘2. In light of the possibility “that the present Attorney
: General may address this matter via internal Justice
Department guidelines, whether this approach does
mot ignore the legal authority question which can- -

enly be resolved by statute.

3. Whether or not Congress could draft a statutory ver-
sion of the guidelines which could be flexible enough
to meet an evolving threat and at the same time
piace meaningful restrictions upon the program.

4. Even assuming there'is no absence of legal authority,
is it safe to leave these guidelines in the form of a
departmental order which can be rescinded by the next
Attorney General?

C. Delegation of Authority to Attorney General. Simply

ratifying the present program via enactment of a statutory
charter which grants the FBI authority to conduct an
internal security intelligence program subject to its own
internal guidelines or departmental guidelines as proposed
by the Attorney General.

In weighing this option, the Committee should consider
many of the issues set out above and:

_1. “Whether stich a statute would not be an unconstitu-
tional delegation of powers to the Executive Branch.

2. Whether enactment of such a statute ‘would not repre-
: sent a failure by the Congress to confront the issues
vaised above.

 

*R preliminary staff analysis of the Attorney General's draft

guidelines suggests that, despite months of conscientious and
painstaking work by a departmental task force, the guidelines
are not adequate. This analysis, which will be presented when
Attorney General Levi testifies on December 10, indicates that
several of the more questionable FBI investigations (e.g., of
Dr. King and the _women' s liberation movement) would still “be
permissible under these proposed guidelines.

HW 55013 DocId?32989602 Page &

 

 

 
 

 

 

2. ‘Whether FBI intelligence reports are valuable in’
that respect, especially in light ‘of a recent GAO
report suggesting that such reports.are rarely use-
ful in predicting violent activity.

3.: Whether such. information, ‘assuming it is valuable,
. could not be obtained through more traditional criminal
investigations. :

 

4. Whether the value of thé information, marginal or
otherwise, justifies the risk to civil liberties
inherent in such intelligence collection.

5. Whether, given the way in which limited and ambiguous
grants of authority have been expanded into major
authorizations,.any statute short of a total prohibi-

. tion of all non-law enforcement intelligence activi-

. ties in the domestic sector will be adequate to pre-

vent the recurrences of the kinds of abuses uncovered
‘by this Committee. (Or, conversely, whether it is
possible to draft a law authorizing a limited civil
: disturbance: and counter-terrorist intelligence mission
that will not eventually evolve, like the National
Security Act of 1947, into a charter for unanticipated
and unwanted covert activities. )

6. Whether it would be sufficient to restrict the FBI
to criminal investigations without also (a) placing
limits upon the length of investigations, (b) the
kinds of information which can be collected and dis-
seminated on the subject irrelevant to the alleged
‘criminal act, (c). the utilization of warrantless
electronic surveillance and other particularly inva-
sive collection techniques, and (d) the utilization
of a huge informant/confidential source network with-~
out judicial or Justice Department Supervision.

 

B. Authorizing Statute. Recognition of the value of
internal security intelli gence, but placing limits upon
the program designed to minimize the infringement upon
civil liberties, an option being actively considered by
the present Attorney General.

, 74 7 In weighing this option, the Committee should consider

many of the issues set out under the first option and, ~-
in addition:

. . . .
L HW 55013 Docld: 32989602 Paye 7

 

 

 
 

. - : . = . .

Issues and Options for Discussion with .
Former Attorneys General Rogers, Katzenbach, and Clark

 

 

ALL aver CONTAINED

HEREIN, | i. LASSIFIE!
. wc hiEe SMe
I. Background ;

In the past few weeks the staff has presented the Committee
with evidence suggesting the following about the FBI's
internal security intelligence program:

A. The program is massive, involving the collection of
. information on the activities of thousands of innocent,
law-abiding American citizens.

 

B. These individuals were not alleged espionage agents, but
citizens who fall within the FBI's vague definitions of
"subversion" and "extremism" -- purely homegrown “threats
to the national security".

C. That FBI policy on "subversive" and "extremist" inves~
“tigations was vague and subject to the following abuses:

 

i. overbreadth in scope in that groups were investigated
whose threats to the nationai security were tenuous,
if not non-existent. ,

. 2. collection of information on the personal life and
1 political views of subjects unrelated to the national
security.

3. the continuance of investigations well after it
should have become obvious that there was no legiti-
mate predicate.

oe
D. Particularly invasive collection techniques were used,
including electronic surveillance, mail opening, and sur-
reptitious entries. Although these have been terminated,
the predominant and perhaps most-insidious continues
today through the FBI's huge informant/confidential source
network.

E. Information collected in the course of these investiga-
tions is disseminated regularly throughout the federal
government and to local law enforcement.

F. Until 1971, information collected through these investi-
gations was disseminated as part of the COINTELPRO pro-
gxvam to the subjects' friends, relatives, employers, and
others in an effort to discredit or "neutralize" alleged
Lt - . ls
"subversives" or a aoe _ 5X

Mle 3B

| MW 55013 DocId232989602 Page 5 ; situs URE)

 

 

 

 

 
 

‘ ® ®

~2-.

 

G. The FBI's internal security intelligence program was
used by Presidents from Franklin Roosevelt to Richard
Nixon to serve their political interests, usually by
collecting information on critics or political

_ opponents. : Be,

 

H. The program was conceived and implemented in secrecy,
and although parts of the program were ‘shared with out-
side authorities from time to time, until now no
Presidént, Attorney Genéral, or Congressional committee
has been exposed to the entire program in detail. .

‘I. The program is not authorizéd by statute but is’ founded
on a series of secret or ambiguous Presidential orders,
which in turn are based.upon a questionable assertion
of “inherent constitutional authority"

 

iv .J. The program continues today, albeit on a much more
' limited basis than in the late 1960's and early 1970's,

and the hasic machinery for the program -- the huge
informant/confidential source network -- is still
operating. _

K. There is no statute or internal Bureau or Justice Depart-
‘ment policy prohibiting a new Director, Attorney General,
er President from ordering the Bureau to expand the pro-
. gram to its earlier dimensions. .

II. Issues and Options

Among the issues and options which might be discussed with
former Attorneys General in response ‘to, what the Committee
has learned are the following:

A. Abolition. Elimination of the FBI internal security
intelligence program as Attorney General Harlan Stone
ordered in 1924 when confronted with abuses growing out
of the FBI's first internal security intelligence pro-
gram, such as the infamous Palmer raids.

; In weighing this option, the Committee should consider
\ ; the following issues:

1. Whether there are not some functions (e.g., protecting
the President, preventing or at least predicting
violence by terrorist organizations, or predicting
civil disorders) which require intelligence collec-
tion.

*

 

nw 55013 Docld:32989602 Page 6

 
 

 

 

 

x

a

 

 

. 4 OMIONAL FORA NO, 10 - “
- Gekgrnn tal ot Tere 10t=11,8 . q

4 UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT v' ‘Den AD Adm

- Mr. Mintz - Encs. (2) Der Abin —

 

SUBJECT:

Memorandum

Asst, Dir:
Mr. Adams ~ Encs. (2) Admin,

- Mr. Bassett - Encs. (2) Comp. Syst. —
Ext. Affairs —_

Mr. J. B. Adams DATE! 12/5/75 Files & Com. —

Gen, Inv.

 

Hee
'

 

 

1 - Mr. Wannall - Encs. (2) jon.
1 - Mr. Cregar - Encs. (2) (ms a
: Legal Counsel 4 1 - Mr. Hotis - Encs. (2) eA kia
_y . Laborato,
a a. df Keo 1 - Mr. Daly - Encs. (2) . ee”
: TION CONTAINED Plan. & Evgl.
SENSTUDY. 75 > ALL INFORMA Spec. lv.
‘ HEREIN. I$ UNCLASSIFIED, yo Trainin
- Here Ota 60 BY STONE tf v Toleshone Rm.
. re Director Sec'y

 
 

On 12/4/75, a meeting was held with the’ following
representatives of captioned Committee: Chief Colnmsel F.A.O.
Schwartz; Assistant Counsel Paul Michel; Staff Member Mark
Gitenstein; Staff Director of the Domestic Task Force John T.
E1liff; and Staff Member John Bayley. Representing the Bureau
at this meeting were Deputy. Associate Director James. B. Adams,
Assistant Director John A. Mintz, Inspector John B. Hotis, yp

SA Paul V. Daly.

The meeting discussed the forthcoming testimony off 7 '
12/9/75 of the Director before that Committee and E1liff£ fur-1;,
nished the Bureau two draft papers discussing. the Bureau's’ \
investigative jurisdiction and issues. the Committee Staff op

   
  

. the Senate Select Committee must address from a legislative

standpoint. Copies of these papers are attached.
iG

The first paper which consists of six pages discusses
in Part 1 what the Committee sees as problems arising out of
the FBI's domestic intelligence investigations. This portion
highlights. the fact that these investigations may be overbroad
in scope, collect irrelevant information, and. continue the in-
vestigations beyond what the Committee sees as their normal
investigative conclusion. This portion also addresses the
investigative techniques. used during these investigations and
the resultant dissemination of information collected.

Under Part 2, the document discusses options available

. to the Committee. These options run the gamut from abolition

‘of the Bureau's domestic intelligence functions. to administrative
oversight by. the Attorney General or Congressional oversight or
enacting legislation providing for domestic intelligence investi-
gations with legislative limits imposed on such investigations.

 
 

‘Included is. the consideration of creating an io ena
Inspector General. 4 7 7 [rh -bbbe =) elroy
fot \.
re we go
Enclosures ef) 7 JAN 22 1976
‘G,. CONTINUED —~OVER e
PVD:lad ¥) eo
(9) Vboig
26 1976

a pocta:32989e08) Vi5;-5grings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

@2-HoO- lbs 4s

 

 

Serial Scope:

 

=

 

(Fw ZOBy ZOU. SNR. Oy (2 OL=121 0X,

Released under the John

. Kennedy fissassination
Records Collection Act of
noa92 (44 USC 2107 Note).
asef#: Nl 55013 Date:
Hi-i?-2017

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

1 x

 

Legal Counsel to. Mr. Adams
RE: SENSTUDY: 75

The second position paper which was prepared by
John T. Elliff begins by a six-page statement and analysis
of the Bureau's current authority to conduct domestic in-
telligence investigations. He then lists four options for
the Committee.

Option 1 is for Congress: to pass legislation ratifying
the existing FBI authority as set forth by Presidential directives
and Executive Orders.

Option 2 suggests. Congress might give serious. con-
sideration to creating a separate Security Intelligence Agency
within the Department of Justice. In this Option, E1liff sug-

gests that ‘the FBI itself has considered this Option as part of
. the larger question of separating all FBI intelligence functions
- £rom law enforcement functions of the Bureau.

Option 3. considers the elimination of FBI domestic
intelligence. In his analysis of this position, it might be
possible for the Bureau to develop the necessary intelligence
information through ‘its: normal criminal investigations and
thus remove the necessity for domestic intelligence investi-

_gations as presently conducted.

Option: 4 considers. setting standards for domestic

intelligence investigations. In this. Option, E1Liff states
that the FBI should be authorized by statute to. conduct domestic
intelligence investigations only as Congress finds. that regular
criminal: investigations would not provide information to an-

. ticipate or prevent the use of violence in violations of Federal
law and that incidents of the use of violence in such violations ©
are of a serious nature and threaten the security of the country.

 

For purposes. of the Director's appearance on 12/9/75
before the Senate Select Committee, it is believed his response
.{to. questions. concerning the aforementioned position papers should
be that the Bureau has received copies and is reviewing. the various
roposals and that it would not be appropriate at this. time for
he Director to. comment regarding the substance of the proposals.

 

CONTINUED -. OVER

VY

‘a 55013 DocId:32989602 Page 3

 

 
 

 

HW 55013

ay

i ap ia <n ving

” a pt ra "WF

DocId:32989602 Page 4

 

1 @
. } "

. y
Legal Counsel to Mr. Adams
RE: SENSTUDY. 75

E11lif£ indicated during this meeting. that the Director
during his appearance may anticipate being asked a question by
one of the Senators relating to his statement before the American
Bar Association in Montreal concerning. the necessity for the
sacrifice of certain individual rights at the expense of investi-

gations. He also anticipated the Director might be asked a

question concerning. his position on COINTELPRO. Regarding
the question concerning the Director's statement before the
American Bar Association in Montreal, the Legal Counsel Divi-
sion will draft a proposed resonse. Concerning COINTELPRO, a
response has been prepared and will be put together with the
briefing material for the Director.

This memorandum in general highlights. the Options
presented in the attached papers. A more detailed analysis
should be prepared by the Intelligence Division and existing
documents addressing these proposals should be made available
for the Director's. briefing book for his. testimony.

RECOMMENDATIONS:

(1) That the Director respond to questions concerning
the attached position papers. as set forth above.
Dor

(2) That the Legal Counsel Division draft a proposed
response concerning. the Director's statement made in Montreal
relating. to the sacrifice of certain individual rights.

Dor:

(3) That the Intelligence Division make a detailed
review of the various Options set forth in the two attached
position papers. (for PUBSe er? * Lo FRE FE COME EL ONTO

pars elt
aya

 

 
