| on

 

 

 

 

» PG 92-236 PG 92-228

on 12/19/61, PG.612-C, who,is an experienced numbers writer
in the MANNARINO operationimnNew Kensington, was asked about
the dearth of pertinent information being received, and
informant advised:

The town (New Kensington) has been chosed down almost
completely, as regards gambling, since the "Federal raid

last summer" and since the commencement of the FGJ inquiry.
Besides the numbers racket, which is down in volume by at
least half, there are only three card games in the city,
only one of which is operating on any given night. Horse
bets, sports bets and dice games have been eliminated,
allegedly by orders of the MANNARINOS. : Men who have been
for years employed in one phase or another of the MANNARINO
gambling set-ups are now loafing about town, and their
principal topics of discussion concern the FGJ hearings,
their belief that the newly-elected reform administration

in New Kensington will not allow resumption of open gambling,
and their "fears" concerning their own futures. With

regard to the numbers racket, elaborate security measures
have been put into effect, and only those possessing the
Federal Wagering Tax Stampcare permitted to participate.

In view of these facts,. pertinent information has been scarce

- and unreliable.

Spot surveillances at residences, legitimate business sites

and at known hangouts during the past four months have been

wholly unproductive and tend to substantiate the comments of
the above mentioned informants.

Due to the situation created by the IRS raid on August 24,
1961, and the resultant FGJ probe, as it affects receipt
by the Pittsburgh Office of positive information concerning
the MANNARINOS and their activities, the Pittsburgh office

has found it impossible to comply fully with Bureau instructions

concerning submission of a daily teletype summary of pertinent
developments. . :

As matters now stand, the. only readily discernible me thod
of collecting current positive information concerning either

_ MANNARINO is by establishing highly.confidential.sources.

HW 45852 DocId:32301191 Page 5

|
 

 

oe Oe ramet GOVERNMENT : vet en
: Memorandum oe
, tO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2914)(92-2918) pare: 12/9260.
| y.. as : SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-236) (92-228)
: ZL _ SUBJECT: oxonr=nnwaaa, aka | of

$
a oe SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka , Bo
a AR \
on'12/18/61, PG 615-C advised SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III NS
as follows: ; :

}

In his opinion, the raid at the Mannarino gambling casino -
horse room in New Kensington, Pa., on August 24, 1961, by IRS,
Pittsburgh, was ill-advised, shortsighted and poorly planned.

 

For two years, PG 615-C has been attempting to obtain increasing ®
better information about the Mannarinos, their illegal..

. activities, their associates and their future plans. He NS
4 has done this without any thought of, or desire for monetary
compensation, simply because of his firm conviction that z

the MANNARINO "strangle-hold" on all phases of life and
activity in the New Kensington area had to be broken.

In spite of the obvious dangers.to his professional reputation
and personal safety, he commenced a process of infiltration
due to his belief that such things cannot be left to

"somebody else.”

By frequenting gambling establishments, PG 615-C met many
of the MANNARINO employees, and by performing small favors
j for them, professional and otherwise, he became friendly
i with most of them and the confidant of some of them. ;
| They furnished considerable’ information, some more valuable {
f than others, but a compendium of their bits of information
, ' was forming a gradually clearing picture of the entire
MANNARINO operation. : ~
xy DIAI2G ,
EQ Brea ey |.
6- ®rétsburen Lp mo
1-.137-941 Lip
YH 1517, 13771139 Y
: 9 E13 gh 2e@4
| 2 vee yast-1Ol7 epg
"oy HH eLICE ict: F
\: ToR/RLG
; (10)

 

 

 

ob A 22 1862)

 

 

 

t

HW 45852 DocId:32301191 Page 2
 

 

 

a

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

a sssssssSs0o«

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

 

a —— — —_COi«iownnn™

v9.1
| HW 45852 DocId: 32301191

 

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information
FBI
124-10278-10026
HQ
92-2914-247

, Document Information

FBI
SAC, PG
DIRECTOR, FBI

01/03/1962
6

GM, SMO, ASSOC, RAID, GAMBLING ACT, RACK ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

08/10/1998

INDEFINITE

Page 1

Date:

 

5/28/201
 

7

\: PG 92-236 PG_92-228

Through political and business friends and acquaintances,

PG 615-C was able to meet the MANNARINOS. Being careful

to make his personal contacts with them casual and seemingly
innocuous, ,PG 615-C was slowly accomplishing his plan to
haye: the MANNARINOS, after doing their normal check on

him, accept him. into that group of prominent, local business
and professional people with. whom they associate on a

social basis. PG 615-C had, reachéd the point where he could
visit SAM MANNARINO's restaurant, the Bonfire, near
Leechburg, Pa., and talk with MANNARINO rather openly about
such things as MANNARINO's use of narcotics. He had also ~
reached the point where he had been invited to sit in on
small friendly card games at GABRIEL MANNARINO's new ‘
cottage near Leechburg. :

From this so far limited proximity to the MANNARINOS. and. -
their employees, it became apparent. to PG 615-C that the
obtaining of a complete understanding of their operations
was going to be painfully but necessarily slow.

When the August 24, 1961 raid occurred, the‘result was. that

the MANNARINOS ordered a moratorium'on all/illegal activities

and .ordered that their associates and enployees should,
insofar as was practicable, eave no contact with them or
with each other, until advised ‘to, thé contrary. All of
these people are under instructions not to "talk" if called
before the FGJ in Pittsburgh / and PG 615-C is convinced none
of them will assist thé Federal Government because of fears
of physical and geonQmt? Reprisals.

2 :

4 ee
Because of the/_rat.a° ana the: ensuing instructions from “ ,
| the MANNARINOS, PG 615-C has temporarily lost many of his_
| ; contacts »“and in addition, there is jast. so little happening
| - in the New Kensington area that there is very little
i , _. nf exifation that he can obtain and furnish to the Pittsburgh
Coe office.

 

| PG 615-C.is certain, in his own mind, that the "big guys”

. will once again escape indictment and that the most that .
| - ean be expected is that more "little fish” will be prosecuted
If this happens, the MANNARINOS will maintain their .
self-created, self-serving reputations as being "untouchable"
i by prosecutive action, and the populace of New Kensington
i will sink back into despair. . ‘

 

HW 45852 DocId:32301191 Page 3

¢é
Es

4

 

x
:
2
&
 

 

 

 

 

 

PG 92-236 PG 92-228

In view of the above, PCI[______________),_ Leechburg, OTHER 4
Pa., GABRIEL. MANNARINO's neighbor, was contacted on 12/18/61,

by SA FORSYTH, and PCI [[_]was asked why he had furnished

so little information in recent months. PCI [ Jadvised:

Prior to the "Federal raid on the MANNARINO gambling joint

in New Kensington. towards the end of summer,” 1961, he

observed some activity around GABRIEL MANNARINO's cottage
near Leechburg. While. there were never any groups of visitors,
except for one family-type outdoor picnic, occasionally
individuals.would visit the cottage. Also, GABRIEL 7
MANNARINO was observed to leave the house almost daily at
varying hours. Since "the raid," GABRIEL MANNARINO

has developed what amounts almost to a predictable pattern.
He leaves the’ cottage on most days shortly before noon,
always alone, and he returns to stay at about eight o'clock
in the evening. Visitors are extremely rare and never stay
more than a few minutes. PCI has not‘been able to obtain
any information of recognizable pertinence and, therefore,
has not contacted SA FORSYTH.

on 12/18/61, PCI a Pittsburgh, Pa., |
employed as Manager 0 e owned. Ken Iron and : :
Steel Co:, New Kensington, was asked by SA FORSYTH why he
has not been furnishing and pertinent information during

the recent past, and he advised: :

Even before the "Government raid” in: New Kensington in
August 1961, he was not taken into the confidence of the
MANNARINOS as regards anything but their scrap metals and
gas well. businesses. They put him in charge of these two
ventures because of his education and prior experience.
However, on occasion he overheard: conversations involving
some of their other interests and observed them meet some
of their:associates and/or employees. Since the. raid, he
has not ‘seen GABRIEL MANNARINO more than three times. and
understands that GABRIEL MANNARINO is spending most of his |
time at his cottage near Leechburg, Pa., while SAM MANNARINO
spends the largest portion of each day at his restaurant,
The Bonfire, "located a few miles from Leechburg."” From
what he has been able to observe and learn, SAM MANNARINO

-and GABRIEL MANNARINO see very little of each other or of ©

their erstwhile associates. PCI does not feel that he can

robe for information from either MANNARINO without arousing
Rhein suspicions, because it has peel ARE habit to observe
and listen but not to ask questions.

3

HW 45852 DocId:32301191 Page 4
