 

 

HW 53217

DoclId: 32401375

C oe fa

3

Pinar del Rio area, It has 55 sub-agents in its”
net, The geographical distribution of agents
throughout Cuba has: continued to improve. In
addition to the above resident agents, we have 19
successful penetrations of Cuban official installa- |
tions abroad, The Cuban counterintelligence efforts
have intensified during the past months. Our losses
have increased. This is particularly true with
regard to the Black teams, The Cuban control system
and ration system make the team's continued exist- :
ence more and more precarious. We have had to
withdraw some teams and. we have lost others. In
view of this experience we expect to reduce the
number of "Black-team" infiltration operations,
but to continue to press forward with all other
types of intelligence operations. .

b. Propaganda actions to stimulate low-risk
simple sabotage and other forms of active and

passive resistance.

The program includes both mailing and radio
operations, Approximately 30,000 - 40,000 pieces
of propaganda are mailed into Cuba every month.
There are 32 hours daily of radio programs using
seven different radio stations. Radio America on
Swan Island broadcasts 13 hours daily. Separate
radio programs are keyed to all significant target -
groups within Cuba, i.e., students, teachers, :
labor, military leaders, etc, We believe the
propaganda effort aimed to stimulate simple sabo-
tage has, when combined with the other parts of
the integrated over-all program, stimulated sabo-
tage and resistance. We have intelligence reports .
citing 109 instances of sabotage since 1 April 1963."
These include such things as derailing locomotives,
destroying high-tension poles, burning trucks and
factories. Many have been similar to ideas
included in our broadcasts and mailing, There
appears to have been a slight upturn in instances
of sabotage in recent weeks.

c. Economic denial actions on an increased
basis. :

This is a Government-wide program, one
which has probably had a greater impact on Cuba
than any of the others, A great deal has been
learned regarding Cuban sources of supply. Some
we have successfully closed down, The Cuban

 

Page 9

 

 
C oe €

4

merchant fleet is so badly managed that we are
almost better off by leaving it alone, The big
gaps in the success of the program are in Canada,
Great Britain, and possibly Spain. Recently
Canada has refused to cooperate. This is con-
sidered most serious. The economic denial program
should be strengthened wherever possible.

d. Exploitation and stimulation of disaffection
in the Cuban military and power centers.

 

 

On this key part of the over-all program
slow but encouraging progress is being made.
Jointly with DIA we have just completed detailed
biographic studies of 150 key military personnel.
Further analysis of these indicate 45 are of
particular interest to us and will warrant further
close attention, We currently are in direct contact
with three "Heroes of the Revolution" who are either
in Cuba or who will soon return there, One basic
problem is that individual military figures will
talk with us but will not conspire with their fellow
officers for fear of compromise, This must ultimately
-be overcome, The leaders with whom we are in touch
have emphasized the need to be reassured that, should
they overthrow Castro, they will not be considered
in the same light as Castro himself by the U.S. In
summary, we have made some progress but we have a
long way to go before the ultimate goal can be
attained. The effort must be continued and where
possible expanded, :

 

e. General sabotage and harassment.

 

Since the approval of the program four
successful externally mounted sabotage operations
have been mounted (Santa Lucia - Casilda - La Isabela -
Cayo Guin). Three additional were ready to go, but
at the last minute were recalled, A chart was shown
identifying the proposed targets through January :
1964, This included the Matanzas Electric Plant and
the Santiago de Cuba Refinery. It was pointed out
that with but few exceptions the economic results

- of any single sabotage operation were only signifi-
cant for the cumulative economic effect plus the
psychological effect in stimulating internal sabo-
tage and resistance. Mention was again made of the

 

HW 53217 DocId:32401375 Page 10
Co, €

d, The economy is bad and is deteriorating,
causing increasing hardships to the civilian popu-.
lation, This is due to mismanagement, economic
sanctions, and Flora. .

e. The Soviets are continuing a gradual with-
drawal, No organized Soviet units appear in Cuba
although they apparently provide principal manning .
for the SAMs. There are recent evidences of con-
siderable rotation with between 1,000 and 2,000
new arrivals, but in balance there is a decrease,

f. Training of Cubans continues on all Soviet
equipment including the SAMs, It is not clear
whether the SAMs will be turned over to full Cuban
control; however, it is clear the Cubans will supply”
the majority of the operating personnel,

g. The only equipment which has been withdrawn
has been the advanced C-band radar for the SAMs and
certain communication equipment. No military equip-
ment has been withdrawn, There have been some
recent new arrivals of military equipment, particularly
between 25 and 50 tanks.

2. Mr. McCone then stated that the program which had
been followed for the last several months, aaving been
approved about the first of June, was integrated and inter-
dependent one part on the other and therefore should be

. considered as a comprehensive program and not a number of
Ee independent actions,

3. Mr, FitzGerald presented a status report of the
six-point integrated program against Cuba, Following is
a summary of his presentation,

a. Covert collection of intelligence for U.S.

strategic requirements as well as for operational
requirements.

 

This element of the program is progressing
satisfactorily. At the present time we have 74
singleton agents reporting directly to us, In .
addition there are 79 identified sub-agents who are
part of organized nets. All of these agents and
sub-agents legally reside in Cuba. There is one
Black (illegal) team successfully operating in the ™

 

AW 53217 DocId:32401375 Page @
on"
ann
~

 

MEMORANDUM - FOR THE RECORD ~

SUBJECT: Minutes of the Meeting to Review
The Cuban Program

PRESENT: The President
Secretary of State Rusk
Secretary of Defense McNamara
Attorney General Kennedy
Director of Central Intelligence McCone
Mr. Roswell Gilpatric
Mr. Cyrus Vance
Mr. McGeorge Bundy
General Maxwell Taylor ~
Mr. U. Alexis Johnson
Mr. Richard Helms
Mr. Desmond FitzGerald
Mr. Bruce B. Cheever
Mr. Theodore Shackley
Mr. Paul Eckel

. The meeting convened in the Cabinet Room of the
White House at 1040 on 12 November 1963.

 

1. The Director of Central Intelligence opened the
meeting with a brief resume of conditions in Cuba. He
highlighted the following points:

a. Cuba still belongs to Castro though his grip
is weakening.

b. The military remain essentially loyal to Castro .
with some evidences of dissension and dissidents which
are being exploited by CIA.

c. The internal security forces and apparatus are
effective and show evidence of increasing efficiency.

 

AW 53217 DocId:32401375 Page 7
ete owes € {

(Cee Lr yj baer! flats
tedhatrd Atty ae) a C. #4
lark mn flusat eaphnes

@ Cae. ef ne Le. wi eal teat Coe t/
be ps —_ atin shits, AL
freed. = Se. 4 oi. Apn€ Nee Chin. 4b

“Re ve vod Khe wy Peete Gd PL 4

 

,

; os rae Cte Conte
gees - Wet see ad oy
O-tad - O-tta — Crrarete,
woth Gir ba Os _

 

HW 53217 DocId:32401375 Page 5
THE cls td

 

AW 53217 DocId:32401375 Page 6
 

“sent a copy of.this € aft copy) to Helms
‘at UCI's request, * D&{-said.on the intercom
_ to Helms something to the effect that this
' should be held very closely, Helms is also
preparing. a memo on this ‘meeting. :
oo Jerry
11/12

 

 

(DATE) —.

 

FORM NO. - REPLACES FORM 10-101 . la
lol (47)

1 AUG 54 WHICH MAY BE USED.

 

 

 

HW 53217 DocId:32401375 Page 2
AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DATE
PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

HW 53217 DocId:32401375

Date: 11/29/99
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John

CIA . Kennedy
104-10306-10014 Assassination Records
JFK-MISC ollection Act of 1992

CIA-DCI FILE

: (44 USC 2107 Note).
aad ase#:NU 53217 Date:

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION p6-22-2017

CIA

DCI MEETINGS WITH THE PRESIDENT 01 JULY - 12 NOVEMBER
1963.

00/00/63

29

DCI MEETINGS
PRESIDENT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
TOP SECRET

1B

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
09/19/98

JFK-M-06:F15 1998.09.19.13:50:44:373031: ARRB
REQUEST. CIA - IR-28.

‘CEASSIFIED |
ATTACHMENT

Page 1
12 November 1963
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Meeting on Policy Relating to Cuba - 10:30 a.m. - 12 Nov 63

IN ATTENDANCE: The President, Secty. McNamara, Secty. Rusk,
Secty. Gilpatric, Attorney General, Secty. Vance,
General Taylor, Mr. Bundy, Secty. Johnson,
Mr. McCone, Mr. Helms, Mr. FitzGerald,
Mr. Shackley

McCone opened the meeting with a brief resume of conditions in
Cuba along these lines:

1, Cuba still belongs to Castro though his grip is weakening.

2, The military remain essentially loyal to Castro with some
evidences of dissension and dissidents which are being exploited by CIA.

3, The internal security forces and apparatus are effective and
show evidence of increasing efficiency.

4, The economy is bad and is deteriorating, causing increasing
hardships to the civilian population. This is due to economic sanctions
and Flora, : oe

 

5. The Soviets are continuing a gradual withdrawal. No organized
Soviet units appear in Cuba although they apparently provide principal
manning for the SAMS, There are recent evidences of considerable
rotation with between 1, 000 and 2,000 new arrivals, but in balance
there is a decrease,

6. Training of Cubans continues on all Soviet equipment including
the SAMS. It is not clear whether the SAMS will be turned over to full
Cuban control; however it is clear the Cubans will supply the majority of
the operating personnel,

7. The only equipment which has been withdrawn has been the
advanced C-band radar for the SAMS and certain communication equipment,
No military equipment has been withdrawn. . There have been some recent
new arrivals of military equipment, particularly between 25 and 50 tanks.

 

HW 53217 DocId:32401375 Page 3
McCone then stated that the program which had been followed
for the last several months, having been approved about the first
of June, was integrated and interdependent one part on the other and
therefore should be considered as a comprehensive program and
not a number of independent actions.

FitzGerald then made a presentation.

With respect to sabotage, McCone stated that no one event will
particularly affect the economy. However a continuous program will
have its effects on the economy and it will encourage internal sabotage
by dissident people within Cuba. There have been 109 events since
April which were probably internally-inspired sabotage.

The President then raised the question of.the sabotage program;
whether it was worthwhile and whether it would accomplish our
purpose. :

Secretary Rusk then spoke at considerable length, the thrust of
his remarks being opposed to sabotage. He stated we should concen-
trate on obtaining information as to what Castro is doing with respect
to other countries, particularly sending arms to Latin American
countries, Rusk said we must replace Castro; we must accomplish
a reduction in Soviet troops, however sabotage might result in an
increase in troops. Rusk had no problem with infiltration of black
teams; furthermore internal sabotage gave him no problem and
the more of this, the better. In addition he strongly supported our
economic efforts. However he opposed the hit-and-run sabotage
tactics as being unproductive, complicating our relationships with the
Soviets and also with our friends and indicated a connection between
our sabotage activities and the autobahn problem.

 

McCone observed that infiltration was difficult, internal sabotage
was extremely difficult to stimulate but that external hit-and-run
sabotage had the effect of automatically stimulating internal sabotage.

McNamara could see no connection between the Cuban operations
and the Berlin autobahn incidents, He saw many advantages to going
ahead which he advocated but ordered a careful watch,

The President asked questions concerning the immediate operations,
and the next one on the schedule was approved,

FitzGerald explained the independent operations of the Artime group,
McCone emphasized that to a very considerable extent these are uncon-
trollable and forecast that once Artime was in business, we might expect
some events to take place which were not exactly to our liking.

JAM/mfb (cc to Mr. Helms in.draft)

AW 53217 DocId:32401375 Page 4

 
