 

 

o

a CONeyQyuiAl!
: We ere attaching herewith a release published
in the préss teday, as well ag a photograph of JOSEPH :
_ Ge LEASE, captioned above’, who" ina to be @ big bustness
~ magnate in the Inited State'a, a breeder of purebreds,, —
promoter of track enterprises; ;

_ capitals : Bs

season at our hippedrone,,” but there is a series of, dete ils
cre “whieh CoUses Bs to be auaptetous of his. asttutttess l

 

 

| Our hippodrone- tn the Jest: uenty years has

naintatned an average OF plays which does aot go above
45 thousand pesos per Face day (races are held three da
@ week), which. amountsto a weekly totel of 135 5 thousand .
This individucl has presented a program of: prizes ane
salartes which would require the raising of. 200. thousand.
pesos in ploys per week in order to just parely cover the
expenses of the bustaess. miy by neans of clandestine
gambling, plus a Sweepstcke in Aprtl,couldat ¢ cover the costs
of this business cad for this it woudd ‘be necessary £6
have plated a large nunber of such : tiehets. Since nobody

| 48 "fighting against his moneys? tt: would seen etrange te:
ue thet thie business would not represent a great daily
lost, for which reason we request from yous er from whonever
i is pertinent, the exact information regarding this oe |
gndividuel, thet is; whether he actually ts @ ; promoters
breeder, capitalist, “CtG. ® ul

  

 

 

    
  
 

   

i. Gere t% one more det ide by. a

\ : m wild see tn'¢ note, he was nystertous: L Oe ted, Pallegedly.
tn hts hotel by unknown individuelse”™ As you well know a
“ Luxurious hotel, such as the “Hotel Hactonal” of Cuba, does

not pernét anyone to go upstatre to private roons without
authorization fron the guest% for whith reason we believe
' thet this nay invelve problens ofa “gong” in operation and
that this. indteutdual forns part thereef. The reason for
this request is thet the season: begins the coming loth of
‘this month, : : .

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32328058 Page 9

 

 
 

 

 

 

  
     
     
  

  

fo . Us.

\

elt ping phon on snide tified newspapers
ae

[pansrasnr OF PRE B22 PPODROME EG SERIOUSLY rasa (u)

Hr. JOSEPH Gy LEASEy. worth. Anericany, af 47 years —-~—~—
Of age. President of the Cuban Racing Company . (Varianae
Bippodr » resident of the "dotel Nactonel,” who was
ound unconsetous th Boon 302, which he etcunted in. said
: én, sted for sertous dnjuries as ahelinie tn
Fedaddo @ (y -

She RAN

 

    
     
  

a 1
A cae
f

. its  asets gecretery, whose name was not
giveny, inforned the police of the Eighth Precinct thet
ashe pertieipated tn’ thé casé, reporting that she cecupted |

&@ room adjacent te that of her superior, from whiek she | Lets
héard @ strange notse ind upen entering the apartneht ~
she found Ur. ASE injured, and shought that he might
have faltene Gu)

 

  

‘

There « “30 exists auother vereton, wrich- the.

police ts endeavoring to substantiate, that’ LEASE was. 4

aesaulted by two ce individuals whe broke in m unesper edly: *
U : . 4 ;

 

inte ALS FOOMs. aoe

Phe ingeved perty could not furnish any: statene Po
because of the serious conditioa ta which he waso wo”

ee

. dete te eal

(G tion appearing below idca tograph cut Ss
out of an Un: dentified pudlications | e ter oo ‘

. ts Ja Go LEASE; mew President OP bho
hecing Company, who hea inittated « erusade for bh "
prestige and the international credit of Cuban horse |raecings
He found the hippodrone ainost in ruins and the turf%s :
fomtly al park") YD the ata: appearance of the brechs (Read

“Grienteal Park") ©O »

 

 
 

“a Ba

 

 

DoclId:32328058 Page 10
 

 

 

 

gg ee ta

ge ! :
. the following i3 @ translation of CO seer and
two newspaper clippings centeined tr on evéelope addressed
te the Diveeter of the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Washington, D. Cx, from the Central National Bureau of.
Cuba of the Internationel Commission of Grinénal Pol tees
San lazaro 673, favane, 1G) postearked at Havane (date. on

. postmark tilegtble).
DECLASSIFIED BY, Shh 50 [KSE
aw ol 18297 (EK So

‘international Commission — international Connission
of Criminal Police of Criminal Police

_ 4

   

BANSLABION BROW SPANT

   
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
   
 
 

 

 

e

Se OE

      
   
 
 
  
 
   

|} Gentral Hattonel Bureas . , Seeretariat General.

(cuba) a a
Son Lazaro 672 = Telephone G11S5 60, Boulevard Gomton-St~
Cables INTERPOL, Ra oy Cys Parts (17) ‘

: : feléphone GaLvanr 86-60

 

 

Your Reference, sons
Our References 241 &
Subjects Infornatton

 

MPs Js EDGAR HOOVER
birector of the ] d
Hashtagtonys DeCag b

ar urs Director and Friends) td (¥)

; . in our dtreetive capectty in the Central ational
., Bureau of the “INPREPOL," aad iu keeping with our duty to
_ wainteiz four vigilenes. for anything which nay represent a
problem for our fotherland, we have the honor of addressing
_ these lines to you, hoping thet you ney furatah. us wtthhcerteain
infornation and, ia the event that this letter hades béen
ntadirected, that ia, that the wctertal herein is. pertinent
to another department, we hope that yeu will, de kind enough

to Poute this letter aecordingl ys eoufidentially, and that our
request will not remain unattended, (4 a oo,

if N° TRANSLATED BY: - NM coh ct! _
( PATRICK J. PHELAN sh jp 4h" CONF MEN ut - ;

   

 

   

 

December 9, 1955

 

DoclId:32328058 Page 6

 
 

 

 

N

 

SANT: eh GNA virial,

ee fren @ ah # enddentt/ted, @ never ny) *

   

 

ay

; [ BPN sets aeeretary, whose name oas noe .
gtven, inforned the police of the Etghth Preeines that.
he pergtelsated tn the case, reperting that ahe oceupted |
@ ren adjacent to that of ner guperier, from whieh ehe
heard @ streage ones ead upon eagertng the epartaent
the found ne B Favored, and bhougne thet a@ night
hase fetter (YD ;
a

there ¢ extets another vereton, water he
police $2 endeauering to substantiate, thet LEASE waa
@esaulted dy too. unknown indtutdnala ‘who broke tn unaapectedty
inte Ate FOGG | u}

; fhe tnjursé party eould ae¢ furiten may nee
pecause: of the serteus bondieton Ga whieh he wase

ea w

Cistton appearin a, ‘betew ba @ @ otogreph¢ euEe
aut of an fntdeatt ted pub. seation? | Uy os

| «HPS ds Gs LEASB, new Preatdent of the Cuban
Roe tug Company, wha Ace intsiated G eruaade for the arétette
preatigea and the international eredit of Cuden horse rae ings
He found the. Bis in ginest tn ruin’ and the terpte
fanily threstened ) sengeeerence of the tracks. (feed
"orteatel Pari”)

~

 

“we BR “Agee S SN

 

 

 

DoclId:32328058 Page 7
 

 

| ane Sr

PONT NTIAL)

net ion ot ) eaner and
ah. avelepe addressed
€ guroau of

  
  
 
  
   

n of © LbCe sg.
ay postearked at Wavana (ane an ;

  
    

International Coanteston.
of erintnal Police

. Seerevartat Genera

 

   
 
  
 
 
 
  
  

San lagero 822 « ; tetephone @ellss 605 Sonievard Gouvtonasite
Gable: TATBRDON, favana Cure farts (17
Pe one Ob aHt 96460

. (Bavance Cube Deceader ty aR
\u\ [Four Reference, se i ee St re
. | cur Refereneae” 287 |
J\| Subjects taforna: EER regarstag: JOSEP By LEASE

qe
clas sn Ws
peat iy BS

 

  

 

 
 
  
 
 

eretn te pertinent
| b@ FON enough
nfidentially, ane thet ,our

_pacLassrgo Hkh CON RENTIAL
psy ye a 2 £ ¥ ae :

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32328058 Page 5
 

 

_ va

Ui QVTAL;
We are attaching Aerewith « redeose published
én the preea@ téGay, ao weil ae @ ohotograph of JOSEPH
& LEAGE, teptioned above, wha elding te be @ big buatneae
. te in the Ontted States, a breeder of purebreds,
prencter of iPéck euberpriaggé, cts, poasessing darge
sepitels fila indiuvicuel aaa come to promote the ractng
seagon. at our Atapedrone, but there 16 a aeries of m3 li)

  

 

which causes ue te be suspicious of hie aetteteteas

_... . 687 Sigpedrone dn the Jasé twenty years hac
agintained an auerage of playa which deee act ge above

4G thoyeand pesod ger race éay (races are held three daye
@ week), which anounts 06 a weekly total of 285 thousands
thie tadividual Aas presented @ pregran of prizes and.
Saieriea which boudd require the rateing of 260 thousand
pesos tn playa per woek in order te just fatedy cover de

_Gapenses Of Ghe businets. Only by weane of clendestiae
genbling, plus « Seeepsicke in Apri2,couldit caver the soate
of thie buataese and for thia it woul@ be necessary t6 _
have piaeed e darge aanber of euch tigketay Since nobody

- $e 8fPlghting agetaet Aiea meney, "So would seen cerange. bo ‘
ug Chad thio business wouid wet represent @ great daily

degs, fer @hiek regaon we request from pouy or from whomever
i$ de pertinent, the eaaet information regarding thts -
tadividugl, that tag whether re, cetuslly te a proneter,
brevder, captéaltet, eve o

 

    
 

 

@

U

Shere ¢¢ one. wore OW) Last ntght, as you

will stein @ notes ke won mystertously ausoulted, “allegedly
ia hte hotel by unknown indtuidueiss,” Ae you bell knoe @
luzurtous hotel, euch as the "Hotel Nactonad” of Cubay dees
net perait enyone to go upstaivre €¢ private reome wbthows
authorization fron the gueris, far whieh reason we believe
thet thto moy tnvelve problema of a "goag” ta operation and.
that thig tadividuad forma ‘port thereofe The reason for
this request @ thet She ecgoon deging tho eentag 10th of

 

 

 

 

thie months uw

H) (0 le Peadiny, sincerely sours f
ti‘ BP Be TOROE Ay DE CaSTROTERDE
®

   
 
 

Bireetor of the Gunteal satienal
Gerese
_ ENPERPOL

 

 

 

 

‘ . ; oot F = NSeS &

—

 

DoclId:32328058 Page 6

 

 
 

 

 

TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH

 

re ae cma,

The following is a translation of a letter: and
two. newspaper clippings contained in an evelope addressed
to the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Washington, D. Coy from the Central National Bureau of
Cuba of the International Commission of Criminal Police,
San Lazaro 672; Havana uba, postmarked at Havana, (date on

postmark illegible). wt GECLASSIEIED sy ;
a“ “ ice
SEK.

Oa mld “97.

 
    
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

      
   
   
 
   
  
  

International Commission International Commission

of Criminal Police | of Criminal Police
| Central. National Bureau . : 4 Sec retartat “General
(Cuba) ,

San Lazaro 672 = Telephone Uell55 60, Boulevard GouvionaSt=
Cables INTERPOL, Havana Cyr, Paris (17)

Telephone GALVANI 96-f0

'

Your Reference.

(We Our Reference; 241 F
Wwe Subjects: Information regarding JOSEPH G. LEASE

CONF IDENGIAL

B
Ur. Je EDGAR HOOVER ) Class. & reli wt
are.) Director of the F.B.I. Reason ~ FC ,
Washington, D.C., U.S.A. Date of Review --

Dear Mr. Director and Friend:) ~
(y@e

ui i
In our directive capacity in the Central wees ¢
Bureau of the "INTERPOL," and in keeping with our duty to
; maintain .our vigilance ” por anything which may represent a
ee é problem for our fatherland, we have the honor of addressing
NS J these lines to you, hoping that you may furnish us withscertain
d : ™~ _tnformation and, in the event that this letter has beei °° &
Ny bsdinecteds that is, that the material herein is pertinent “eer
Os o another department, we hope that you will be kind enough

to route this letter accordingly, 09, sree d oo o# our
“ay request wtll not remain unattended -Z70

Ba DEC Fe 1955 ) e

    
 
  

 
 

 

 

DoclId:32328058 Page 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90068-10009
RECORD SERIES: HQ :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:  62-75147-210-78

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 12/09/1955
PAGES: 9
SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
ORIGINAL :

CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: — 06/24/1998 UPDATE_DATE:
STATUS — Exempt -
RESTRICTIONS:
Consultation
COMMENTS:

TRANSLATION; TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH, REFERRED TO INTERPOL

DoclId:32328056 Page 1
\

vo ae . . . : : 2

 

 

‘We are attaching herewith a release publis AL

in the press today, as well”as a photograph of JOSEPH

G. LEASE;:; captioned above, who claims to be a big business
magnate th the United States, a breeder of purebreds,

promoter of track enterprises, etCe, possessing large

capttal. This individual has come to promote the racing.
season at our hippodrome, but there’is a series of details
which.causes us to .be suspicious of his activittes. u)

our hippodrome in the. last twenty years has
maintained an average of plays which does not go above
45 thousand pesos per face day (races are held three days
a week), which amoun& to a weekly total of 135 thousand.
This individual has presented a program of prizes and
salaries which would require the raising of 300 thousand
pesos in plays per week in order to just bately cover the
expenses. of the business... Only by means of clandestine
gambling, plus a Sweepstake in April,couldt cover the costs
of this business and-for this tt would be necessary to
have placed a. large number of such tickets, Since nobody
is "fighting against his money,” it“wouId seem strange to
us that this business would not represent a great daidy
loss, for which reason we request from you, or from whomever
it is pertinent, the exact information regarding this
individual, that is, whether he actually ts a promoter,
breeder, capitalist, etce( U)

There ts one more. détail. Last night, as you
will see ina note, he was mysteriously assaulted, "allegedly
in'his hotel by unknown individuals.” As you well know a
luxurious hotel, such as the "Hotel Nacional" of Cuba, does
not permit anyone to go upstairs to private rooms without
authorization from the guest} for which reason we believe
that this may-involve problems of a "gang" in operation and
that this individual forms part thereof, The reason for
this request 34s that the season Pegins the coming LOth of
this month. th 4

[ite Me, stneerely “yourd) gw

s/f Dre JORGE A. DE CASTROVERDE :
Director of the. Central National |
Bureau

. INTERPOL . , (4 )

 

 

DoclId:32328058 Page 3
 

yo goin BRFHAL

[Gitpping gr fron an  unidentiied newspapers |) U)

(zensroewr OF THE HIPPODROME Is SERIOUSLY INJURED) GO()

Mre JOSEPH Gs LEASEy ‘North Anerican, of 47 years
of age,- President of the Cuban Racing Company (Maridnao
Hippodrome), resident of.the "Hotel Nacional," who was
found unconscious in Room 302, which he occupied in said
hotel, was treated for serious injuries ata clinic in ;
Vedadoe (@Q u\

Mr. LEASE's secretary,’ whose name was not
given, informed the police of the Highth Precinct that -
she participated in the case, reporting that she occupied
a@ room adjacent to that of her superior, from which she
heard a strange notse, and upon entering the apartment
she, found Mr. LEASE injured, and thought that he might
have fallen. | u)

“There aso exists another version, which the
police is endeavoring to substantiate, that LEASE was

assaulted by two ,junknown individuals who broke in unexpectedly
into- his’ room Blu :

The injured party could not furnish any gatenent
because. of the serious condition in which he wase & ve

oe *

(Gaption appearing below :2 a@ photograph cut
out of an. unidentified publication IAQ ¥)

ur. J. G. LEASE, new President. ‘the Cuban
Racing Company, who has initiated a crusade for the artistic
prestige and the international credit of Cuban horse racings
He found the hippodrome almost in ruins and the turf's
family threatened by the disappearance of the track, (Read

"Oriental Park") EXu\

 

DoclId:32328058 Page 4

 
