 

There was no photographic coverage of OSWALD's entries
into either the Cuban or Soviet Embassies on the 27th. The lack of
coverage on the Cuban installation is explainable: the camera,
based on the recollection of officers still in service in Head-
quarters, was down on they 27th because of mechanical malfunction,
which was in course of correction. Why OSWALD was missed in his
probable entry to in Soviet installation on the 27th is not yet

* explained, but no “technical operation of that kind is infallible. -

b. 28 , September 1963 (Saturday). [Note: : Both the Cuban and

Soviet Embassies were closed to the public on Saturdays. Photo-

graphic coverage was normally suspended Saturdays and Sundays .]

 

b. The call was directed to the correct Soviet consular °
number: 15-60-55. On 1 October, OSWALD first called the wrong
number, 15-69-87 (the MA's number), and had:to redirect his call to
the correct number, 15-60-55. It seems unlikely he would have made
what would have. been. his initial call, on Friday the 27th, to the
correct number, and called the incorrect number on 17 October.

|
ere is every reason to believe from the context of the
Bepara 15, a-e above, that OSWALD!s first destination-
after arrival and check-in to his hotel, was a visit to the Cuban
Embassy.

 

  

d. The use of the Spanish language would exclude OSWALD unless
he made use of an intermediary, which seems' unlikely from what is

known of his modus operandi.

| : 7
On 3 October at 1539 hours an individual speaking broken Spanish,
then English, called the Soviet Embassy and asked for a visa. The Soviet
respondent says: (Call on the other phone. The requestor says: I'm

ra . oo

13

 

AW 53244 DocId:322021738 Page 9
ve Uwneie

OSWALD , notwithstanding the holiday schedule, went on Saturday

 

morning to the Soviet Embassy (his second visit) where he spoke to
a Consul. He apparently could not recall his new Texas address.

At circa 1151 hours he went to the Cuban Embassy--his third entry--
where he had registered it in his visa application the day
previously. He secured. the address from Mrs. DURAN and she called
the Soviet Consulate presumably to permit him to give them the
address over the phone. Instead, the Soviet with whom OSWALD spoke
over Mrs. DURAN's telephone invited OSWALD to come back in person,
and he said he would immediately. Presumably, thereupon OSWALD went

back to the Soviet installation (his third entry).

 

looking for a visa to go to Russia. The Soviet says: Please cal on the
telephone of the Consul, 15-60-55. The requestor says: One moment
please, I'l] have to get a pencil to write the number down. They issue
the visa there? The Soviet: That depends on your conversation. I don't
know about this business. The requestor asks for the number again. The
Soviet gives him the number and tells him to ask for the Consul of the
Soviet Embassy in Mexico.

The relevance of thisiiite
grounds: ~ .

 

peg to OSWALD is excludable on three

+ 2

a. The use of broken Spanish. OSWALD throughout used broken
Russian or English. He had no competance in Spanish to handle a
conversation of this kind.

b. The substance of the request indicates a visa request in
the first stages of initiation. OSWALD had developed his matter
with the Cubans and the Soviets the previous Saturday to a point
well beyond the stage indicated by the substance of this call.

AN 23 1978 °

 

carn |

AW 53244 DocId:32202176 Page 10.
   

2) 17. Summing up, we can state, or by free interpretation reasonably

infer from the@ neers 5 etic

Gee

   

evidence, that OSWALD made or could have made
the following contacts with the Cuban and Soviet official establishments
in Mexico City.

*
.

a. 27 September 1968 (Friday). After arrival and check-in to

his hotel, OSWALD went first-to the Cuban Embassy where he talked

with Mrs. Silvia DURAN. The time of his first Cuban Embassy visit

is unknown. The tine of his second Cuban Embassy visit was about

1600 hours (i.e., just before closing). Sometime between the two

Cuban Embassy visits, at Mrs. DURAN's indication, he must have .
, visited the Soviet Embassy. We have no indication who he talked

ve. with at the Soviet Embassy.

 

    

   

RallnceRee, - e above, but others for the 27th and one for 3 October

that’ sé to have relevance. These have not been included in this
summary because they appear, on review, to be excludable fron the OSWALD
matter on logical or substantive grounds, or both, bearing in mind that
the Soviet Embassy received many calls pertaining to visa matters.

 

On the 27th at 1037 hours the Soviet Embassy received a call fron
an unknown individual speaking Spanish who said he wanted visas to gv to
Odessa. He was told the Consul was not in and to call, back at 1130.
OSWALD is known to have arrived at the Flecha Roja bus terminal on bus
#516 at circa 1000 hours on the 27th. It was, therefore, possible for
him to have made this call. But granting this, it is unreasonable to
believe the calls were OSWALD's for the following reasons:

a. The caller wanted visas, and specifically for Odessa.

OSWALD was seeking a visa and never in any context did he specify
- the Black Sea port of Odessa as a destination.

te. * *

@ | —

HW 53244 DocId:32202178 Page 8
HW 53244

SETRIT

and I wanted to ask you if there is anything new? The Soviet says
I would like to ask you to call another phone number? Please write

it.down: 15-60-55, and ask for a consul. Thank you.-

e. 1 October 1963 (Tuesday), 1045 hours Mexico City time.

The same person who phoned a day or so ago and spoke in broken
Russian speaks to OB YEDKOV (a Soviet Embassy guard). He says:

This is Lee OSWALD, Speaking. I was at your place last Saturday and
spoke to a consul: and they said that they would send a telegram to
Washington, so -I wanted to find out if you have anything new? But

I don't remember the name of that consul. OBYEDKOV says: . KOSTIKOV.
He is dark (hair or skin - 2). OSWALD says yes. My name is OSWALD.
OBYEDKOV says, just a minute, I'1] find out. ‘They say that they
have not received anything yet. OSWALD says: Have they done
anything? OBYEDKOV says: Yes, they say that a request has been
sent out, but nothing has been received as yet. OSWALD says, and

what . . . ? OBYEDKOV hangs up.

 

16. Each of these items, including the texts ©

were read by, discussed with, and-examined by Warren Comission staffers

2

ba : 2
in Headquarters and at the Mexico Station during a stay from 8 -'13 April

1964.3 All were made available promptly to the FBIZ

3 The Warren Commission group that visited the Mexico Station consisted
of Mr. Coleman, Mr. Slawson, and Mr. Willens. They examined not only the

ed

1

SECRET

DocId: 32202173 Page 7
 

 

3 12 It must be stressed tnat thefvion

coverage was not (and normally is not) processed in "real time." The
means of* acquisition and the volume of the information precludes anything

but the spot reporting of items judged by ‘the Jingn

 

ordinary interest and, therefore, noted in summary logs. Full texts of
selected items require consultation of the tape and either a full tran-
scription or full translation or both. Photo coverage tends to becone
available in quantity pots which requires scanning and selection on a
rapid and accelerated basis in.four or five day "peaks." One of the
"triggers" that normally operates to focus and accelerate more speedy

_ review and reporting of this kind of raw intelligence 1s the mention of
a name. This was precisely what occurred in the second of two conversa-
tions on 1 October with the Soviet Embassy , during which the. speaker said

@ he was "Lee OSWALD." It was this information reported by the Station to

Headquarters in its first indication on OSWALD on 8 October 1963. |

13. The Mexico Station did one more thing in its 8 October report

Tt coupled the

 

on Lee OSWALD based on its 1 October Weicemintegcen
data with descriptive information.it had acquired from a sensitive
collateral source--a photograph of a male individuaT, apparently an? .
American, who was observed entering the Soviet Embassy on 1 October. -
The Station reported this detail on the 8th as a matter of coincident
fact. The Station did not assert or suggest that the data deduced from

the photo was in fact OSWALD, or indeed, was in any way related to OSWALD.

AW 53244 DocId:322021738 Page 5
HW 53244

 

Lee Harvey OSWALD - CIA Coverage of His Mexico City Stay

: 4. One additional element of background must be stipulated now as
the final precondition to understanding the relevance (or irrelevance)
of the photo of the unknown individual placed in the chain of, evidence
on 23 November in Dallas by Fey Agent Bardwell ODUM: what was the -
totality of CIA Mexico's coverage’ ‘of OSWALD's activity as of the after-

noon of the 23rd when al]. avai lable coverage had been checked?

15. The totality of Mexico Station coverage on, or reasonably

(5 ROUBINI RCo pesy as Follows:

inferable to be OSWALD, consisted Gfanwenk

   

a. 27 September 1963 (Friday), 1605 hours Mexico City time.
Silvia DURAN, a Mexican national,.a local employee of the Cuban
Embassy, Consular section, a receptionist, speaks with an unknown
male at the Soviet Embassy. Silvia DURAN tells the man that the
American citizen was there, the one who wants a visa for Cuba on
his way to the Soviet Union, and he wants to know with whom he was
talking there because she (Silvia DURAN) had sent him to the Soviet
Embassy saying that if they accepted him and gave him a visa, then
the Cubans (Embassy) would also give him a visd without further”
paper work, only advising Immigration in Cubaw The American, she-
says, wants to know with whom he had talked there because he says
he was told there would be no problem. The man in the Soviet

Embassy says to wait a moment. A different Soviet speaks, and

SST

DocId: 32202173 Page 6 . oa
t ] sensitive intelligence operation being conducted in October 1963 by the

against the Soviet and Cuban

 

Embassies: in Mexico City.

3. Under the extraordinary press of ef fort to develop information ;
on the assassin and the assass¥nation, copies of the photograph were
made available by CIA's Mexico Station Chief on the afternoon of

. 22 November to the local FBI representative, and later that day, —
an

on

assertedly on the decision of the Ambassador, copies were conveyed by
an FBI representative by a special flight carried out by the U.S. Naval
Attache to the Dallas office of the FBI for possible use in the ongoing
investigation. One photograph , cropped by the FBI, was shown to

C. Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD (Lee Harvey OSWALD's mother) in Dallas on the
@ evening of 23 November 1963 by FBI Agent Bardwell D. ODUM. ,

4. The Warren Commission's report describes the sequence of events
at pp. 364-365 and 667 (Attachment B) which ultimately resulted in
Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD's allegation that she had been shown a cropped
photo. of Jack RUBY the day before he murdered her son. (A further
-comp lication compounding this erroneous conclusion was the fact that —
when she had been shown a copy of the same photograph in her appearance

before the Commission, it had been cropped by the PEI in Washington in

a slightly different manner. )

5.- No detail in the Warren Commission report illustrates more

vividly than this one the difficulties that beset simple truth in the

   

au 53244 Docld:3220217%8 Page 2
Date:09/07/94

Page:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA Released under the John
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10289 . Kennedy
Wesasgsination Records
RECORDS SERIES : ollection Act of 1992
MEMORANDUM (44 USc 2107 Note).

ase#iNW 53244 Date:

 

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : ROCK
FROM :
TO:

TITLE :
PHOTO OF UNIDENTIFIED INDIVIDUAL IN THE WARREN COMMISSION REPORT

DATE : 05/02/75
PAGES : 40

SUBJECTS :
UNIDENTIFIED PHOTO IN WARREN COMMISSION REPORT
CHRONOLOGY OF OSWALD IN MEXICO CITY
MEXICO CITY
OSWALD, LEE HARVEY
ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION MEMORANDUM

   

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/07/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

, COMMENTS :

 

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

AW 53244 DocId:322021738 Page 1
1963 to about 8:30 a.m. 2 October 1963. His place of residence was a
smal} commer cial traveler hotel, not frequented by "gringos"--the
Hotel Commercio--where he was registered under alias. Exhaustive and
detailed interviews and interrogation by the Mexican authorities and

the FBI, after the assassination, established that in the recollection of

all hotel personnel. he left éarly, and returned late each day of his stay.

8. Assuming, and Sllowing for the fact of late arrival and early
wos .
departure, that he slept one-third of the time of his stay (38 or 39

hours), there remain some 78 hours of activity to be accounted for.

Overall, CIA's information-can account solely for very brief periods

‘during 27,.28 September and 1 October. “AN coverage by CIA during the

 

agent) coverageR@itt

9. It-should be noted that OSWALD was in no sense "under investi-
gation." None of the facts of his defection and stay in the USSR and
return to the U.S., 1959 - 1962, were known to Mexico Station files
before 10 October 1963, when the bare bones of his biography were
forwarded by Headquarters in response to.a Station cabled. report of oo
8 October which had forwarded, on a routine basis, what appeared to be
a contact by an American for a visa to Cuba in transit to the USSR. This
was indicated and deduced from technically acquired information on
1 October, which was the first and only occasion in which OSWALD
identified himself (partially) by true name.

oe

HW 53244 DocId:32202178 Page 3
HW 53244

10. At no time during his stay in Mexico City did the CIA acquire

      

, ~
a photo of OSWALD. A careful review of all coverage, » Goi’ reeein

as well as photographic, of both the Soviet and Cuban Embassies was
conducted by the Station on 22 and 23 November 1963 after the assassina-
tion, going back to materials from August 1963. It is, therefore, firm
that there was no CIA photo éoverage of OSWALD at any time during his
Mexico trip or stay in Mexico city, Moreover, although it had made a
cabled request on 15 Ogtober, the Mexico Station had no photo of OSWALD

in its records, nor did it receive one from Headquarters--which did not

have one either--before 22 November 1963.

   

+11. bvitg Fhis intensive review of v@deemmnbecepey transcripts

 

g) ite other personnel on the basis of the 1 October angen
Sie which had been reported to Headquarters and disseminated to the
interested members of the intelligence community (as an ex-Marine OSWALD
was a Navy and FBI case under the Delimitations Agreement, and potentially

of interest to the Department of State)--turned up matches based -on

   

content with materials hineencemeedtion 27 and 28 September 1963. These
matches were reported to Headquarters on 23 November 1963. Analysis

based on voice comparison (except for what could -be Yecalled |

 

 

memorably poor Russian spoke by OSWALD) could not be made because the

tapes, in accordance with the normal practice, had been erased and re-used.

DocId: 32202173 Page 4
