Therefore, the CIA, with appropriate authorization,
undertook the development of an operation in support of
Cuban exiles seeking to overthrow the Castro Government ,
the culmination of which became the Bay of Pigs disaster
in. April 1961.

As the plans for the attempted overthrow of the

Cuban government were developed, one of the considerations

related to Fidel Castro as the dominant figure. |

There has also been testimony before the Commission
that at the request of the CIA the Air Force provided a
plane in late 1959 or early 1960 which was used to fly
two Cuban exiles into Cuba. The witness was unable to
provide the. Commission with names of these two Cuban
exiles or names of any CIA personnel which he said were
involved. However, at the time of the events the witness
was an Air Force officer who had liaison functions between
the Department of Defense and the CIA. He testified that
he believes a plane was provided and that the two Cuban
exiles were to carry with them one or more rifles with
telescopic sites to be used in an attempt to assassinate
Fidel Castro.

The Commission sought to investigate this matter.
“In a "Memorandum for the Record" dated May 15, 1975, the
CIA admitted that in reviewing its files relating to Cuban.

operations during the period 1959-1961: "a number of |

Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

HW 54214) DoclId:32112745 Page 9
documents were found that referred to the intent on the

part of some of the Cuban teams operating inside Cuba to
attempt to assassinate Castro....Additionally, the files
‘indicate that there was considerable interest in procurement
of Helio Courier (the civil version of the L-28), but there
is no definite indication that they were intended for

Cuban operations. Also, there is mention of the air drop

’ ~

of Springfield rifles with telescopic sights."
1. 1960-61 and ‘the Phase T Plan
The Phase I plans involved the preparation of
poison botulism pills by the CIA, the delivery of those pills
to organized crime figures who in turn were to get the pills
delivered to contacts they had in Cuba, who in turn were to
get the pills into the hands of someone who could place them
in a beverage to be drunk by Premier Castro.
a. When the Plans Began
There is some disagreement about. exactly
how the Phase I plans began. The two people in the CIA who were
‘the most intimately involved were Richard Bissell, Deputy Director
of Plans, who was the person in the CIA who had direct respon-
sibility for the Bay of Pigs operation, and Colonel Sheffield
Edwards, the Director of the Office of Security of. the CIA.
According to Richard Bissell, the plans relating
to Fidel Castro started in "the very beginning of 1961" when
he said he became aware “of the possibility that an assassi-
nation attempt might be planned using Mafia resources, or

Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

HW 542714) DoclId:32112745 Page 10
~7J-

 

‘assassinate Fidel Castro

 

An analysis of the involvement in tthe CIA in plots
to attempt to assassinate Fidel Castro illustrates the
development of larger schemes out of smaller schemes, and
also illustrates how important it is to have adequate )
internal and external controls on the Agency.

The initial CIA schemes relating to Fidel Castro -
were an outgrowth of large-scale plans by the United

States Government to attempt to change the government of

Cuba. There had been great dissatisfaction with the
government of Cuban leader Batista. As Castro's influence
increased, attempts were made to persuade Batista to
resign and turn over the reins of government to a group
that was more attuned to the needs and desires of the
Cuban people, particularly in areas of democratic govern-
ment and social reforms. According to an interview with
the former Chief of the CIA Western Hemisphere Division,
an unofficial ambassador from‘this country approached
Batista in December 1968, asking that he resign and turn
the reins of government to new leadership. This request
was refused. Sy

Fidel Castro shortly thereafter took over the Cuban
government. There was great concern on the part of
American leadership about the presence of a government so
closely aligned with the Soviet Union barely ninety miles

from American shores.
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

HW 542714) DoclId:32112745 Page @
With regard to both pldns, he stated that no
assassination plans would have been undertaken without
authorization outside the Agency, and that no such authori-
zation was undertaken for plans against either Lumumba
or Sukarno.

Since the Commission found no aspects to bring
the Sukarno and Lumumba matters within the scope of its

investigative authority, no further investigation in these
two areas was undertaken. However, the Commission did find
sufficient domestic aspects in the Castro and Trujillo

plans for the Commission to undertake an investigation.

 

‘The President concurred in the approach of the Commission
to interpret its authority so that the Commission would
a) ascertain whether the charges of assassination plots
have a basis in fact and involve unlawful domestic CIA
activities and (2) determine whether existing safeguards

‘would prevent activities of that nature in the future

regardless of whether they might involve domestic or

foreign conspiracy.

The following is a summary of facts pertaining to
CIA participation in assassination plans to assassinate Premier
Pidel Castro. The facts have been developed through a voview
of the internal investigation of the CIA, examination of docu-

ments, and interviews and testimony.

Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

HW 542714) DoclId:32112745 Page 7
investigating body. With regard to activities outside

of the United States, the Commission has not found any
evidence of CIA participation in plans to assassinate
foreign leaders, except as described in the next four |
paragraphs. However, the investigation of the Commission
in such areas, which had no domestic aspect which might
bring it within the Commission's jurisdictional mandate

under ‘the President's Order, has not been extensive.

In the course of the first stage of its investiga-
tion to determine its jurisdiction, the Commission made a
preliminary investigation of charges that the CIA was
involved in the death of Patrice Lumumba, who was killed
in early 1961. The Commission has not found any evidence
that the CIA participated in that killing, although there
is evidence that prior to Lumumba's death some CIA personnel
and others discussed the possibility of undertaking a plan

to assassinate Lumumba.*

*In an affidavit, C. Douglas Dillon, a member of this ;

Commission, stated that while he served as: Under Secretary:
of State from June 1959 until early January 1961, he heard
no discussion of assassination attempts against anyone,
except discussions which occured in late July or early
August of 1960 at a meeting at the Pentagon which covered

a great variety of matters in which "...a question regarding
the possibility of an assassination attempt against Lumumba
was briefly raised. The CIA representative indicated that
the Agency did not undertake this sort of operation. This
ended consideration of this subject."

Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

HW 542714) Docld:32112745 Page 5
-5-

According to Richard Bissell, who was the CIA
Deputy Director of Plans at the time, he was aware of dis=
cussion of plans within the Agency concerning the possible
assassination of Patrice Lumumba and that "a case officer
was directed to kok into the possibilities. He reported
back in a matter of weeks and convinced me that this was
probably unfeasible, and probably an undesirable course |
of action. According to the case officer, who is now
retired, Bissell asked him to go to the Congo and there
murder or arrange for the murder of Lumumba, and the case
officer said that he told Bissell that he refused to be a
party to such an act.* Bissell said the Agency had nothing
whatsoever to do with the death of Lumumba.

Bissell also testified that there was discussion
within the Agency of the possibility of an attempt on the
life of President Sukarno of Indonesia which "progressed
as far as the identification of an asset who it was felt
might be recruited for this purpose. The plan was never
reached, was never perfected to the point where it seemed
feasible." He said the Agency had "absolutely nothing" to

do with the death of Sukarno.

Wfhe case officer gave this information in an oral telephone
conference at which time an appointment was arranged for |
the taking of his testimony before a member of the Commission
staff and a court reporter. The case officer failed to keep

his appointment.

Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

HW 542714) Docld:32112745 Page 6
DWBelin:rj
5/30/75

 

SUMMARY OF FACTS ~~
INVESTIGATION OF “CIA INVOLVEMENT IN PLANS TO
ASSASSINATE FOREIGN LEADERS
The following is a summary of facts gathered by the
Executive Director of the CIA Commission concerning possible
CIA involvement in plans to assassinate foreign leaders.
The Executive Director requested complete access to papers

of the National Security Council including papers of the Forty

178-10004-10091

Committee and its predecessors and papers of any special groups

or special operating groups. Such access was not granted.

Also, time did not permit examination of documents that might

be available in the Eisenhower, Kennedy or Johngon presidential
libraries. Consequently, the investigation is not complete with
regard to the question of who, if anyone outside the. CIA, author-
ized or directed the planning of any assassination attempts against
foreign leaders. However, with particular reference to the plans
directed against Fidel Castro, the investigation is sufficiently
complete to show that plans were undertaken by the CIA.

President Ford has announced that assassination is not and
should never be a tool of American foreign policy. The Executive
Director concurs and believes that it is against the constitutional
and moral principles for which this nation stands for there to be
any direct or indirect participation of any agency of the United
States Government in any plans involving the assassination of

any person in peacetime.

Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

 

capt nt EC! AVEO OAH

HW 542714) Docld:32112745 Page 2?
JFK Assassination System ; Date: 8/27/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information
gency Released under the John F.

AGENCY: WILDEROTTE Kennedy Assassination
“ ecords Collection act of
RECORD NUMBER : 178-10004-10091 hasz (44 usc 2107 Note).

asefi:NW 54214 Date:

RECORD SERIES: | ASSASSINATION-RELATED MATERIALS ———

 

AGENCY FILENUMBER: RPT. ON INVEST. OF CIA INVOLVE..FOREIGN LEAD.

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: ROCK
FROM: BELIN, DAVID
TO:

TITLE: SUMMARY OF FACTS, INVEST. CIA INVOLVE. IN PLANS TO ASSASS...LEADERS

DATE: 05/30/1975
PAGES: 83

SUBJECTS :
ORGANIZED CRIME
ASSASSINATIONS, FOREIGN LEADERS
ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
BELIN, DAVID
CIA
CUBAN EXILES

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: — Top Secret
RESTRICTIONS: = 1C
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 08/06/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Later draft can be found at 1781000310355.

a

v9.1 . : 36
HW 54214 Docld:32112745 Page 1
e2e

 

The first knowledge that the Commission had con-
cerning possible involvement of the CIA in assassination
plans directed at foreign leaders was when.the CIA informed
the Commission staff at the outset of the Commission's
work, in response to an overall staff request for possible
unlawful activities of the CIA, that such plans existed.
The Commission staff was told that there was no evidence
of murders or plots for murder against persons in the

United States carried on by the CIA. However, the Commission

staff was told that there had been discussion of plans
for assassination attempts involving overt acts occurring
within the boundaries of this country with regard to
attempts on the life of Cuban Premier Fidel Castro.
Although there was some question whether or not
an. assassination plan aimed at a foreign leader fell
technically within the charter of the Commission, even
though overt acts may have taken place in this country ,
the Commission and its staff determined that because of
the nature and seriousness of the matters involved, the
doubts would be resolved in favor of ‘undertaking an
investigation of the facts. Only after such investigation
could the Commission make an informed decision as to its
jurisdiction.

Photocopy from
‘Gerald Ford Library

HW 542714 DoclId:32112745 Page 3
Furthernore, the Commission and its staff felt
that it was also important to proceed in this area because
it related to the charges to the Commission and the
President's executive order directing the Commission to
"determine whether existing safeguards are adequate to
prevent any activities which violate the provisions of
$0 U.S.C 403" and also related to the charge by the
President that the Commission should "make such recom-
mendations to the President and to the Director of Central

Intelligence as the Commission deems appropriate."

 

 

On the basis of its investigation, the Commission
has determined that agents of the CIA were involved in
planning in this country with certain citizens and others.
to seek to assassinate Premier Castro. The Commission
has also determined that the CIA was involved in shipping
arms from this country to persons in the Dominican Republic,
who sought to assassinate Generalissimo Trujillo (who
himself had been involved in an attempt to assassinate the
President of Venezuela.)

The Commission has not found evidence of any other
attempts to assassinate any other foreign leader which
had significant wert activities within the United States.
However, the nature of the activity and the degree of
secrecy and compartmentation within the Agency is such
that it is difficult to find any evidence of this kind

unless specific facts are brought to the attention of an

Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

HW 542714) DoclId:32112745 Page 4
