 

RE: U. 8. SENATE SHIGCT COMITTLE TO STUDY
GOVEPNUENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT
TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (ssc)

4 Retroit, Michigan, informant furnished infornation
reqarding plans baing made by the Black Panther Party (EPP)
to arrange a jailbreak of individuals incarcerated in the
Westchester County, New York, jail on bank robbery charges.
y? Data was furnished lecal authoritics including prison officials
and necessary security steps were instituted to thvart this
attempted jailbreak.

One of our oxtremist informants in the New Naven,

connecticut, aroa furnished information regarding the identity

of individuals involved in 15 arsons, including one which resulted

in a fatality. the informant also furnished advance information
YI regarding a proposed arson of a dwelling occupied by 18 persons,

13 ef whom were children. ‘his information was immediately

furnished te lecal authorities and undoubtedly was instruan-atal

in saving a nurber of Lives,

During the latter part of 1974, a source determined that
an individual vas endeavoring te bomb a store in Portland, Oreqon.
This information was furnished to local police authorities,

wwho were able to arrest tha subject vithout comeromisina the source.
When arrested, subject was armed and in possession of a
four-stick dynamite bomb. The subject was subsequently convicted
and sentenced to fifteen years in prison,

1 -~ The Attorney General
NOTE:

Material herein is based on memorandum Cassidy to
Wannall, dated 10/17/75, captioned "FBI Domestic Security
Investigations," prepared by AFW:vb, which contained a review

of pertinent material as located in INTD inspection r
from 1970 to 1975. P Sports

Bi 55101 DocId:32989554 Page 9

 
 

 

eee me ee

r .
+ 5-140 Rev. 1. of 74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
‘ WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535

, Ladressee: _____ SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE
(Report dated 12/10/75

oO Lok Ge1LHM = (7 Memo
lect Committee (SSC). (11/26/75

wid Saat, Se

J of Vocument

‘ #-Doe SSC request) J; obta ec

ved to PReLEnF ialence fainted.
F

ca
4a
Originating Office; FBI

  

 

Delivered by:

Re ceived by: J

Title:
Return this receipt to the Intelligence Division, FBI
fee . ot

 

 

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
E LASS
DATE dt B

oe-} [,

DoclId:32989554 Page 10

 

 
 

 

 

 

BG: U. G, SENATE SeimerT comaeenn to swupy
GOVIRNE IAL OPERATICUS UIT Respro:
Th INGOLEEGCONCE ACMEVEIGENS (95)

eny informant, the Datroit polica removed all uniformed
officers from the seane of the funeral, thus aveiding s
potentially dangerous situation.

 

In 1972, seven merbers of the oxthedeor Nonafi

Muglim cock in Washington, DP. C., wore brukally rardexed.
Untrerist informants of the Philadelehia Division contribyted
materially ta the identification of the mircerars, which

2? xnsulted in the convietion of six Matien of Islan (Nez)
menbars from Philadeliphin, Pennsyivania, in late 1974 and
early L375, Shese individuals received consecutive life ters
totalling a mininwa of 140 years in prison.

In Jane, 1974, it tras determined that a vhite hete
potivist, Frank Rracer, planned to bonb tes blocks of an
unidentified clty on July 4, 1974, Orager, it later develoned,
was in nossersion of diaqrars of the gover apd uater syetens
of Uathington, 0. C., and planned tea bork the Interne fevenue
exvies {KS}. Bablding. After intensive investiqabien, unlawful
i }] flick process was obboined for Draqex, who was wanked on loeal
gheck charges, Ue was arrested with a numbor of associates
i in New dorsey in Lleke Jenc, 1974. Thence individuals were in
| possession of numerous Vveorens and chemical ¢comconents. Drager |
was inearcorated on local charges. This investication was
instrumontal in the prevention of a borbing and may have saved
mumerous Livos.

  
   
  
   
   
   
  
    
  
    

 

On Aagust 7, 1974, a Aavnamite bomb vas discovered in
tha United Nations tTadiding in Now York City. Investigation
identifind chacl Yalecy Brown, an affilicte of the white hate
Notiopal Socialist Uhite Puoopie's Parky (USP?) and Identity

72 Group , {fG), as tha athemetad bocher. Brown vas convicted on
acornker 3, 1974 on Federal charges, inoluding tho Interstate
Transportation of Tmplosives, ac extremist matter investigation
or Brown directiy contributed te the suceassful coneincion of
this case.

AW 55101 DoclId: 32989554

Page 6
 

 

 

~ * r é
Pied * id
. ~

RE: U, S. SENATE SELDCT COMMITIES fO STUDY
GOVIRTAINCAL QOPERAFIONS WITH RDSPECT
TO INTRELIGEICE ACTIVITINSG (SSC}

The Searet Army Organization (S8A0) is an anticommunist,
ultraconservative, paramilitary orqanization founded in
Gekober, 1971, in San Pieda, Califernia, by former members and
Jy Supporters of the Minuteman organization. Its purpose is to
conduct urban querrilla~type warfare ayainst “Left-wing”
groups and suspeeted “enemies of the United States."

AS a ¥Yesult of information furnished by a long-time
FBE extromist informant, local authorities arrested sight
serbers of the SAO on charges ranging fron attempted murder to
the possession and storage of illegal quantities of gunpowder.
W Search vorrants exceuted in connection with these arrests led
to the xvecovery of a large cache of explosives, rifles,
handguns, a flame thrower, thousands of rounds of military
ammunition and a large quantity of extremist literature.

A Tilpneapolis informant obtained information on a
proposed assassination of a narcotics agent. ‘this information
yy, vas given toa Federal Burcau of Narcotics and the individnals
invoived in the plot were arrested.

4 Detroit outremist informant Furnished advance
information regarding a plot of the Cleaver Faction of tho BPP
and a momber of the Uhite Panther Party (VPP) to hijack an
airplane and hold passengers as hostages for the perpose of

\7 cptaining release of two jailed BPP loaders. ‘his information
resulted in the arrest of the WPP memher, who attemoted to hijack
the plane, and the arrest of others on 2 conspiracy charac,

A dackgon informant furnished information indicating
that Byron Pe La Beckwith, a noted Hlansman fron Nississinni,
planned to blow up the home of the head of the intidefamation
League in Now Orleans. Information from this informant enabled

\8 Yew Orleans police to arrest Beckwith in possession of a
substantial dynamite bomb capable of destroying not only tke
heme of the intended victin but those of surrounding neighbors.

A Rekroit informant furnished information concerning
a possible plan to kill pelice officers at the fimeral of an
)¢ individual killed by police, As a result of information fron

t
ae
'

HW 55101 DocId:32989554 Page 7

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

AW 55101

,  )
7. Xe 4

RE: U. &. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO STapy
SOVERIZENTAL OPERATIONS WITH PESPECT
"O INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Miami ghetto racial informants were responsible for the
identification of the principal suspects in four fire bombings,
and this information enabled local police to make the arrest
ef the suspects and charge them with first-deqree arsdn,

A Cleveland racial informant obtained advance information
concerning planned racial violence, This was furnished te the
police department which took appropriate preventive action.

In May, 1969, New Orleans and Jackson informants were
instrumental in neutralizing high order explosives which were in
possession of the Klan. This action has probably saved lives
since the Klan group involved has terrorized Ucqroes in the past,

A Detroit racial informant Furnished advance information
rogarding planned. anbush of Detroit police officers which
enabled the Detroit Police Dopartrent to take necessary action
to prevent injury or death to the officers and resulted in the
arrest of eight persons and the seizure of a cache of weanons.

The informant also furnished information resulting in the
lecation and confiscation by Bureau Aqents of aoproxinately 58
stichs of dynamite available to BPP and likely resulted in saving
of lives and preventing possible property damage.

A. Chicago, racial informant furnished information which
identified an individual who is a merber of the BPP as the
person who raped and shot a housewife and then pistcel whipped her
husband in Chicago on December 25, 1970. he same Chicago
infornant furnished information which resulted in the identifi-
cation of an individval who was responsible for the murder of a
police officer in Carbondale, Illinois.

A Sprinnftield ghette informant furnished information
goncerning an individual vho was attometing te sell explosives.
This information cnabled local authorities te apprehend the
individual and confiscate 100 pounds of explosives.

fn informant of the Richmond office reported a
conspiracy by leaders cf the Yashington, BD, C., Chemtar of the

4 BPP and leaders of the Richmond Information Center (RIC), an

affiliate of the BPP, to steal and transport weapons from
Richmond, Virginia, to Yashington, D. C.

i
te
'

DocId:32989554 Page 5

 

 

 

 

 
  

4

>

 

 

. »
:

RE: U. S,. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY
GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT
TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

AS a result of this information developed and other
investigation, two of the BPP leaders in Washington and three
RIC leaders in Richmond, Virginia, were subsequently indicted
by a Federal Grand Jury. Subsequent trial resulted in the
conviction of the two Washington, D. C., leaders and two of the
RIC leaders,

Retroit extremist informants advised that a BPP member
was involved in a holdup killing in Detroit. Me also advised
that this individual was carrying the same pistol used in the
killing, which enabled the Detroit police to arrest the BPP
member, recover the pistol, and determine that this weapon was
used in the killing referred to above.

A Retroit informant provided information which saved
two lives. this informant, who was a member of the BPP, was
instrumental in saving the lives of two BPP members who were
being disciplined by the BPP, Wis information, when furnished
to local police, was responsible for the arrest of seven BPP mem-
bers, who were charged with kidnapping and assault to do bodily
harn less than murder.

A Memphis informant furnished information which prevented
shoot-out BeEsén members of the BPP chapter and the Memphis

I’ Police Department.

13

D. d: 69554 Page 6

In duly, 1971, a then recently developed member informant
of the black extremist *nEro Set," headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio,
furnished us extensive information concerning criminal activities
by this group, including information related to several murders
o£ whites which occurred in 1970. We furnished this information
to local authorities in Cleveland. Working in conjunction with
our Cleveland Office, the Cleveland Police Department instituted
an intensive investigation and in October, 1971, a local grand
jury returned secret indictments against six members of
*"Rfro Set," including its leader, Harellel 8B. Jones In
March, 1972, Jones received a life sentence Following a trial
in which our informant was a key witness. Two other “Afro Set"
functionaries who had been involved in this murder plot pleaded
guilty and received life sentences.

 
m } . A. Mintz

 

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)

Mr, W. R. Wamnall

Mr. F. J. Cassidy

The Attorney General December 10, 1975
Mr. W. 0. Cregar

Mr. J. P. Thomas

\
4 F
Pe ore
1 301

1

Director, FST

O
U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON INTEIM/LIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Reference is made to the November 26, 1975, request
of the SSC for information, in summary form, relating to
instances in which information obtained by the FBI was used Ww
effectively to prevent violence.

Enclosed for your approval and forwarding to the as
SSC is a memorandum in response to that request. A copy of sy
\ the memorandum is furnished for your records.

It is noted that the aforementioned request was
received by the FBI on December 9, 1975, In view of th
e indicated urgency of the request, the enclosed memorandum,
§ based on readily available summaries of information believed
t responsive and/or pertinent, has been prepared, It has not ~
been possible within the limited time available to locate wos
and examine documents underlying the events described. It
is not, therefore, known whether or not such underlying 7
documents could be produced without jeopardizing current —
operations or informants and sources of contiming value. one
l However, should the SSC request access to documents underlying ~
any of the items included in the memorandum, efforts will be
initiated? to lecate them and to determine the extent to and
form in)hich SSC access te them may be granted. '
Wath

ee ae een 4h .
sven Ad Aim. Enclosures hg of a Reet U2 5 ae
ONG

cots

has pee
ane SEE NOTE PAGE 2
Main. 92 = 116395 _.

ee eet ty erro)

 

 

Comp. Syst. — -
fiwece 2 ~ The Deputy Attorney General Lowihs up ta eve
Gen. Inv. Attention: Michael E, Shaheen, Jr, ye ;

© eapetion —— Special Counsel for [ an ee
intel SPT: Thb IAL Intelligence Coordinatio A

 
 

Loboratory —— S fey
Plon. & Eval. — ACEO vy Sey woe ; ‘
Tenney, ~~ Arce iy scr SOT S\ 5 7 We “rf 4
e Rm. — jt ne
Dyer Se f room el beryPE UNIT at GPO : 1978 © - 569-920

Director Sec’ M
8 4sihN 50 1876 soossa Page 2

 

 
 

 

 

‘File #:

 

b2HQ- I1v298

 

Serial Scope:

Neo Tb i Jlox, lI Jx\ = 79 HSL, WU S4- Uo

Ir NR Nes — Aly

 

 
 

 

The Attorney General

WALE:

Response is based on memorancum Cassidy to Wannall,
dated 10/17/75, captioned "FBI Domestic Security Investigations,"
prepared by AlVivb, which contained a review of pertinent
material as located in INLD inspection reports From 1970 to
1975.

HW 55101 Docid: 32989554 Page 3

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

“0 ; @ Gur. ad. A. Mintz
: (1 - Mr. 3. B. Hotis)
. : . 1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
- . : 1- Mr. F. d. Cassidy
~7 . 1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar
1 - Mr. J. P. Thomas

62~116395 December 10, 1975

(U. &. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEES TO
UDY GOVERNMENTAT, OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (ssc)

of the‘SSC for information in summary form, relating to
instattces in which information obtained by the FBI was used
effedtively to prevent violence.

It is noted that the aforementioned request was
received by the PBI on December 9, 1975. In view of the indicated
urgency of the request, the following information, based on
readily available summaries of information believed responsive
and/or pertinent, has been prepared. It has not been possible
within the limited time available to locate and examine
documents underlying the events described.

e

5
&
8
: Reference is made to the November 26, 1975, request
§
i]
8
8

Its use is limited to o.

sponse to your request and is no
may not

al of the FBI

It is not, therefore, known whether or not such
underlying documents could be produced without jeopardizing
current operations or informants and sources of continuing
value. However, should the SSC request access to documents
underlying any of the items incinded below, efforts will be
initiated to locate them and to determine the extent to
and form in which SSC access to them may be granted.

prepared in re.
your Committee.

A Los Angeles racial informant in December, 1969,
furnished valuable information which was instrumental in
( preventing deaths and additional bodily injuries in connection
with the confrontation between the Los Angeles Police
Department and the Black Panther Party (BPP).

mittee and the content
out the express approv

ommitt d

ur Co
thy

Ss
Assoe. Oe A Detroit racial informant advised that the National
a pi Committee to Combat Fascism headquarters in Detroit, a BPP
Asst. in Oparation, had become a veritable fortress. The stockpiling
ninin LO oe weapons in that office included an arsenal of over 46

ee tae Weapons and 4,000 rounds of ammunition, along with four sticks

Ext. Affairs "
| Files & ComOF dynamite. ,

Gen. Inv. :
Ment ORIGINAL AND ONE TO ATTORNEY GENERAL e

Inspection VU
f
af Ne

yr
AY “sSEE NOTE PAGE 6 py:

wg GQ Wb G79 TEA.

is document is

nation outside

wi

0
L

Th

 

Intell.
Laboratory —FPT: engr; A "

Plon. & Eval. £ £ NY BIA rape ey .
spect (99 OREM 23 unc 5, oper UD
Training + (PAE

Legol Coun,
Telephone Rm.” is

Director See'y — MAIL'ROOML—_J reneeiee $ TC)

 

  
    
 

       
   
 

 

 

 

 

HW 55101 DocId:32989554 Page 4

 

 

 
