L. PLANNING SURVEILLANCES IN ADVANCE - f°

1.

 

2. 4. SURVEILLANCES AND aaros@®

“
‘Certain types of surveillances, such as the surveillance of pay-off spots

in extortion cases, can and must be carefully planned in advance and each any
of the Agents assigned to the surveillance should know exactly what his
duties are and just what is expected of him in this particular assignment.
A careful survey of the pay-off spot should, of course, be made in advance”
and the details of the location and the surrounding terrain explained to
the Agents by vlackboard diagrams or other illustrative methods.

In other types of surveillances, certain problems arise again and again ,
which can and should be planned in advance. For example, the problem of
taking over a surveillance at a railroad station comes up very frequently

in most field offices, aud 3 e is no reason why detailed plans cannot be
worked out in advaace and discussed at Agent conferences so that all the
Agents in the office will know the details of such plans. The same pro-—-
cedure should be worked out for handling surveillances at airports and bus
terminals, as well as other surveillance problems peculiar to the particular
field office, such as handling surveillances on subways, ferry boats,
tunnels, and other means of transportation,

 

 

    
 

 

M. RAIDS IN GENERAL .

1.

AW 55010

When a dangerous assignment arises in which the practical application of
firearms might be reasonably anticipated, the SAC must personally take
charge. SACs must assume leadership in raids or arrests where firearms
might be used and in major cases of great importance even though there

is no indication that firearms might be employed, Unless emergency
conditions prevent prior notification, the SAC or person acting in his
absence must be immediately notified when such a situation arises, before
action is taken toward apprehension. The Bureau should be advised by
teletype or telephone of the name of the official who will be in charge
of the dangerous assignment. If the SAC or ASAC will not be on the spot
in charge, sufficient explanation should be outlined which will indicate
the reasons for the inability of the above-named official's participation,

If amajor case is being investigated involving the hot pursuit of fugitives }
which requires a concentration of Agents, it is incumbent upon each SAC to
arrange for 24-hour coverage in the resident agencies in his territory where
the activity is such that it can be expected there will be numerous phone
calls and contacts from co-operative citizens and other law enforcement
personnel, Where necessary, male clerks may be utilized to effect such
coverage, No such coverage should be initiated without Bureau authority.

A raid is an offensive type of operation characterized by the suddenness

of its delivery. The purpose of conducting raids is usually to apprehend
individuals or search premises. Wo two raids if planned to best advantage
will be conducted exactly the same. However, the following elements will
characterize well-planned operations of this type:

a. Speed

b. Surprise

ce. Simplicity

(a. Safety of all personnel ”

e. Superiority of manpower and firepower]

‘

5-14-73 |

 

DocId:32989600 Page 9
 

 

SECTION SURVEILLANCES AND RATDS @ 4N

PLANNING RAIDS

1.

2.

“NW 55010 DocId:32989600 Page 10

Every raid should be carefully planned in advance to insure the greatest
factor of safety to the raiding party and innocent bystanders, and to
prevent the escape of the persons sought.

One individual designated as a raid commander should be responsible for

Planning and conducting of the raid, and it is his responsibility to see

that all members of the raiding party are aware of the parts they are to

take in the raid and he alone should be charged with the duty of changing ©
plans and issuing orders as the situation may demand.

As careful and detailed reconnaissance as time permits should be made of

the vicinity of the place to be raided, noting all avenues of escape, such

as doors, windows, skylights, fire escapes, streets, alleys, and roads.

A neighborhood investigation may be necessary at times to determine whether

confederates of the person being sought may be residing near the premises

to be raided, During this investigation it can be determined whether

Agents covld be stationed in neighboring homes or apartments. A map or

diagram should be prepared following this survey and should be shown to

the Agents participating in the raid.

On the basis of the information available, the raid commander must deter—

mine the number of persons to be in the raiding party, the time when the

raid is to be conducted, the equipment necessary, and issue instructions
so that each individual Agent on the raid will know exactly what is ex-—
pected of him and just what action he should take under circumstances
which can be readily foreseen, In planning raids, the following questions
must be determined by the raid commander:

a. Number and selection of raiding party
(1) The party should include only Agents who are properly qualified

in handling firearms; in the event local officers are needed to
assist, these officers should have the same qualifications.

All of the Agents and officers on the raid should know each

other so that they will be able to recognize each other under
emergency circumstances, The number of men needed on a raid
depends on the circumstances. The raiding squad should be
divided into such groups as are necessary in conducting the

raid, These groups should be instructed in their duties,

certain of them being informed of the fact that they will enter
the premises to make the arrest and others will be charged with
‘the responsibility of covering this activity in order to prevent
the escape of the subject, and also for the purpose of neutralizing
any hostile gunfire by persons in the house, It will be the duty
of the covering Agents to prevent escape of the individual sought
in the event he emerges from the house after the raiding party
enters,

b. The time of the raid
(1) This will depend on the habits of the individuals sought and the

information available as to their activities or possible future
Plans. In the event it is necessary to conduct the raid in the
night, the necessary lighting equipment should be available.
Usually it is found desirable to conduct raids shortly before
dawn as this Permits the Agents to take their places under cover
of darkness and as the daylight comes permits the observation

of the place and occupants during the raid.

b, Raid orders are issued by the raid commander who will advise each
Agent or officer on the raid of his specific duty. He will, of
course, furnish all of the information available concerning the
persons to be appreherded to the members of the raiding party.

“ e

ond

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

mame

2.

      
 

Qu 4. SURVEILLANCES AND ui®@
— Ly

.in security cases only, when the activity observed on a surveillance
“Is not believed to have prosecutive possibilities, a composite surveil-.
lance log may be submitted. This log should[list, Jin chronological ;
order, the results of an entire day's surveillance for each subject. d
Each Agent is to place his initials opposite those entries[{ showing jhis
personal observations and is to affix his signature at the end of the .
log. Administrative details concerning a particular surveillance should
be set forth in a cover sheet attached to the composite log. It is not
anticipated that a composite log will be produced at .a trial; however, it
is possible that some activity observed, although not appearing at the
time to have prosecutive ramifications, might, at a later date, have such
possibilities requiring the production of a composite log. It is, there-
fore, essential that the physical condition and contents of composite
logs be above criticism or doubt.
Individual surveillance logs and composite logs should be made on lined,
white; letter-size tablet paper, preferably in ink. Title should read:
Physical Surveillance of: (name of subject). On second line show date;
if surveillance extends beyond midnight, show both dates. |On the third
line indicate location. Number pages.

Start entries on next line below title. Never leave blank lines between
items on log. First time entered will be time surveillance commenced.

If subject is not observed, entry should show: ‘8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. —-
subject not observed this date." Show reasons for discontinuing surveil—
lance on cover sheet. Cover sheet may be used on continuing basis for
administrative data. If you wish to use cover sheet, submit proposed
form for approval. Cover sheet should contain only administrative infor—
mation.

In security cases, when individual logs are submitted[ showing Jactivity
which might result in prosecution, an administrative composite log[may]

be prepared{listing]in, chronological order the results of a day's
surveillance on eacn individual. Entries{showing]Jan Agent's observations
are not to be initialed by him nor is each participating Agent to sign the
composite log. These composite logs will not be introduced in court and
will be prepared for administrative use only and to facilitate reporting
and channeling information. Phese composite logs should be filed
Separately and apart from the original logs. Separate subdfiles, may be
utilized for this purpose. In criminal cases, composite logs may be
compiled if circumstances in individual cases warrant. °

5a of
Y-13~6¢

HW 55010 DocId:32989600 Page 8

 
 

sex 4, SURVEILLANCES AND naros@ 41 -K

5. The Agents on a fixed surveillance should use extreme caution to prevent i
‘fire hazards, Their personal habits and conduct should be such that theré?
will be no cause for complaint from neighbors or those from whom the
property is rented.

6. The arrival and departure of Agents assigned to the surveillance should be
arranged at a time when there will be the least possibility of arousing .
suspicion on the part of subject or other persons in the building, Agents
going to and from the premises must be constantly on the lookout for
countersurveillances on the part of subject or his accomplices.

7. <All Bureau property taken to the place of a fixed surveillance must be
completely inventoried. This action should be done before the property is
moved into the quarters to be occupied. When such property is removed, or
when the surveillance is abandoned, the property removed must be checked
off the inventory. With the abandonment of such a surveillance, a thorough
and detailed search of the premises‘must be made to prevent the loss of
Bureau property, or -the subsequent identification of Bureau Agents through
the tracing of such property, Serial numbers and other identifying informa—
tion should be removed from such equipment before it is taken to the prem-
ises being used by the Agents on the surveillance in order to preclude any
possibility of such equipment being traced back to the Bureau. Discarded
work papers, scratch pads, carbon papers, or the personal effects of an
Agent from which an identification can be made shall not be abandoned at
any time in or near the quarters used for a fixed surveillance.

JI. SURVEILLANCE SUPERVISION

1. Designate Agent to be responsible for on-the-scene coordination of each
surveillance. This Agent is responsible for insuring that surveillance
logs are submitted on a daily basis by each participating Agent and for
keeping SAC or supervisor immediately advised of all major developments.
All Agents must assure themselves that the SAC is kept informed, The
designated Agent must be advised by supervising official on a continuing
basis of all information pertinent to the surveillance,

2. Surveillance logs must be reviewed and coordinated on a daily basis by
appropriate supervisor, After review, log must be furnished promptly by
supervisor to substantive case Agent for action.

3, SAC must immediately advise Bureau of any development of major importance
or potential embarrassment. Advise SAC (and through him Bureau)’ of any
situation where surveillance is "made" by subject.

XK, SURVEILLANCE LOGS

1. Each Agent participating in physical surveillances [in all criminal—type
oases and in security cases where the activity observed might result in
prosecutive action should]maintain separate surveillance notes in the
form of a log reflecting in chronological order only his pertinent
observations noted during tour of duty. Entries noted on these logs
should be made as original entries whenever possible. If physical cir-
cumstances prevent recording directly to a surveillance log, appropriate
entries should be made on the log at the earliest possible moment, Any
notes necessary to support subsequent entries on logs and essential to
refresh an Agent's recollection should be retained and attached to the
log itself. This log and any.notes used to compile it are to be retained
permanently so that an Agent testifying to a surveillance will, if-
necessary, produce and refer to only his own original notes, Logs are
to be submitted to the office immediately upon conclusion of each day's
tour of duty. Each participating Agent should sign the last page of his
log utilizing his Bureau name. [Keep in mind that Agents' individual
surveillance logs and notes used to prepare these logs may be produced
in court, Accordingly, it is essential that their physical condition
and contents be above criticism or doubt.]

mam

 

HW 55010 DocId:32989600 ‘Page 7

 

 

 

 
 

E.

ames

 

sz 4, SURVEILLANCES AND rams® : . 4E - G

  

SURVEILLANCE EQUIPMENT

The equipment used on surveillances will depend upon the type and purpose of.

the surveillance. The following examples illustrate some of the uses of

technical and other equipment on Bureau surveillances. .

1. Firearms, restraining devices, and lighting equipment on fugitive
surveillances

2. Surveillances in extortion cases often require a great variety of equip~
ment, including radio, decoy packages, signaling devices, binoculars, y
lighting equipment, as well as firearms and restraining devices, .

3B. Automobiles are essential in practically all types of surveillances and
care should be taken to insure that the cars used are not conspicuous
and are speedy enough to follow the vehicles driven by the subjects or
suspects in the case. Consideration must be given to changing automobiles

. and/or license plates.

4. Photographic equipment can be used in practically all types of surveil—
lances. In this connection, the various types of still~ and, movie~
camera equipment that the Bureau has available and which are described

 

“ elsewhere in this manual should be kept in mind.

5. Radio equipment can often be utilized to advantage on surveillances;
however, care must be taken not to utilize such equipment if it will
attract attention by being conspicuous. ’

6. Although cash is not ordinarily considered as equipment, it is very
essential that the Agents on surveillances provide themselves with
sufficient cash to enable them to operate without the use of credit cards
and in some cases GTRs. <A supply of smali change is essential,
especially nickels and dimes, for use in making phone calls at unusual
hours from pay stations.

(7. Special surveillance devices for major cases can be built by the Exhibits
Section in conjunction with the FBI Laboratory when time permits. When
requesting such devices, include photographs, measurements, and other
informative data which will be needed to build the items, Full justifi-
cation for the request must be incliuded.]

DRESS OF AGENTS ON SURVEITLLANCES

% is extremely important that Agents on surveillanoces dress in such a
manner so as not to attract attention by looking out of place in the areas
where they are working, They should at all times try to blend into the

. background and make themselves as inconspicuous as possible. This may

involve wearing sweaters, slack outfits, or overalls in some situations and
in others may even require the wearing of formal attire.

KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUBJECT UNDER SURVEILLANCE

1, Agents on surveillances should familiarize themselves with the file of a
case and utilize every other possible means of obtaining a knowledge of
the subject that they are to have under surveillance.

2. Agents going on a surveillance to relieve other Agents should, wherever
possible, have an opportunity to talk with the Agents who have previously
worked on the case in order to obtain information as to the subjectis
physical characteristios,as well as his habits, recreation, and business
contacts, since this will enable them to more intelligently carry out
their assignment. :

[1-13 ~54

HW 55010 DocId:32989600 Page 5
 

I

ACTIVITIES OF AGENTS ON SURVEILLANCES a uo * pia

i.

26

36

SECTION © SURVEILLANCES AND RAIDS @

It is of paramount importance that Agents on surveillances act perfectly j
natural at all times, Any indications of self-—consciousness or unusual

actions or appearance of the Agents will, of course, assist the subject in
verifying any suspicions he may have that he is under surveillance,

Agents on surveillances must be constantly on the alert for countersurveillances
on the part of accomplices of the subject, For example, when a surveillance

is being conducted on foot, it is desirable to have one of the Agents walk on
the opposite side of the street from the subject in order that he might be in

a position to observe any countersurveillance activities on the other side of
the street, Agents on fixed surveillances must, of course, always be on the
alert for microphone plants and taps on the telephones being used by the
Agents, :

The use of contacts, sources of information and confidential informants
should not be overlooked by the Agents on surveillances, For example, in
the event a subject registers in a hotel, considerable information can be
obtained among the employees and management of the hotel if informants have
been developed among them,

Agents on surveillances should constantly keep in touch with the[supervisor
(SAC in cases of major importance) Jin order that he might be continually
informed of the developments in the case, It is extremely important that
Agents immediately communicate with the[supervisor (or SAC)]Jwhen the surveil-—
lance is lost by one particular Agent in order that this Agent might be able
to catch up with the surveillance again the next time the Agents who are
following the subject call in, The importance of the coordination of the
Agents working on the surveillance with the[supervisor]by means of telephone

-and in some instances radio, cannot be over—emphasized, and in order that

this might be effective, it is necessary for the Agents working on the surveil
lance to be in communication with the{supervisorJas frequently as this can be }
done without attracting attention,

RENTING OF PREMISES FOR USE IN FIXED SURVEILLANCES

1.
2.

3.

4.

Fixed surveillances from automobiles parked on the street are usually good
for only a few hours due to the fact that the cars become conspicuous.

Prior to renting quarters, care must be taken to first ascertain the
reliability of the owner of the property by a discreet inquiry.

Where the reliability of the owner is questionable or when other circumstances
indicate that such a procedure is desirable, a pretext should be used; how=
ever, the Agent developing the pretext should be careful not to evolve some
situation which might be even more embarrassing than the truth, Such use

of pretext requires careful thought and planning. In many instances the
Agent must disclose his official identity in order to obtain suitable

quarters for the surveillance; however, in such instances, the intimate
details of the surveillance and the case under investigation should never

be disclosed to the person contacted no matter how reliable he may appear

to be.

When quarters are rented for a fixed surveillance, telephones: should be
installed in order to enable the Agents on surveillance to communicate with
the office and with the Agents on the outside.

HW 55010 DocId:32989600 Page 6
HW 55010 DocId: 32989600

  

  

The Attorney General STATES OSENATE SELECT
: ; . COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE

: ACTIVITIES

Ref made to memo from Senate Select Comafttes “dtd |
4/30/75 & appendices thereto rgqstng certain docu-~ }
ents & other info.from FBI. Attached for ur
approval & forwarding to Committee-is original of:
fa memo which constitutes partial,cesponse to rqat
set forth in rfirncd memo. Processing of addni
‘Irgsts is continuing on expeditious basis jx furthes
responses will be forthcoming. “CépY of meno for J
, [Committee is being provided for ur records. .

wid ihe et cae - fe ate : f a
me ER ce ward Te OS TU Dg at a a ea

 

foe

a
. . ; : . , gene lh ‘
. a : - ; GoxTATNED * .
wroRnATLON
; ' . sea UHCLASSTEDY) 5 WIG
_f — . . rp /arloo8*
. , a,
£
J

Page 2

  
   
 

 

 

Serial Scope:

 

_ | Jep— EB

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

[on Tames Lape Lame Econ ee Lae Tae Saree hes Lae ane

 

,

. ’ SECTION 4, SURVEILUANCES AND RAIDS @ . 4A

A. SURVEILLANCES IN GENERAL

wd.

weer 4

HW 55010 DocId:32989600 Page 3 1

 

The maintenance of surveillances requires the use of the utmost discretion;

common sense, and good judgment on the part of the SACs and the Agents. -p*
_Avbitrary rules cannot properly be laid down or adhered to for this type

of investigative procedure, A few general principles can be laid down, J
however, which can be applied to various types of surveillances,
A surveillance is an investigative technique just as interviews, collecting

eof evidence, and conducting raids are investigative techniques, and, of oe

course, practical experience in this particular activity is the best :
‘teacher. ’
Surveillances are expensive inthat they cause the tying up of manpower and
should not be resorted to unless results can reasonably be expected.

In surveillances in cases of major importance SACs should assume personal,
on—the-scene supervision and not delegate such command to subordinates.

If a sufficient reason exists to prevent the SAC from being personally

‘present at the scene of a major surveillance, the ASAC must be in command,

‘SAC must assure himself that all physical surveillances comply with

Bureau instructions, and are being given adequate supervison.

FBI employees other than Agents must not be used on surveillances

without specific Bureau authority.

Provide Agents with explicit instructions on each physical surveillance

in which they engage. Agent personnel participating on physical surveillances
should be orally advised concerning the duties to be performed in

- connection with such surveillances and should not be permitted to carry
- With them any written surveillance schedules, If it is necessary to utilize

code words for commun.cations over Bureau radios, the approved list of
code words if too long to be remembered may be furnished to the Agent
driving the car but should not be removed from the car during the course
of the surveillance, When the surveillance has been concluded, the list
of code words should be returned to the supervisor incharge of the
surveillance,

All written data of any kind relating to physical surveillances must be
turned in by the Agents preparing or utilizing same to the field office
at the conclusion of eack day's tour of duty. In some instances

Agents will complete their tour of duty on physical surveillances outside
their headquarters city, and in those cases it will not be possible for
any written data they may have to be immediately turned in to the field
office. However, in such situations, the Agents will be held personally

responsible for safeguarding any such written data until such time as it

can be returned to the field office. In addition, all such written data
relating to physical surveillances must not contain anything which would
indicate to any persons unauthorized to have it that the data relates

to physical surveillances.

In every security case involving a subject who has been apprehended for
a Federal violation within our investigative jurisdiction, the office

of origin is to make recommendations to the Bureau concerning the
necessity for physical surveillance coverage of the subject who is free
on bond while awaiting trial or pending appeal following conviction.

The office of origin is to closely follow the appeal proceedings of

‘security subjects, making arrangements with the Washington Field Office

or other offices, where necessary, in order that the office of origin
can be assured that it is instantaneously notified of any court decision
affeoting the merits of the appeal. The office of origin is to promptly
notify the Bureau in such instances, making recommendations for any
changes in the coverage of the subject and whether physical surveillance
should be utilized until -he is committed to custody.]

¢

wf morve
. at, INFORMATION C AINE

a" Ss: :
plan ae a REM He

—« BNL TANK?

 

 

 
 

3B. .
~. 2, Afford adequate indootrination and training to Agents assigned to physical

hyp

4B -D . a | 4, SURVEILLANCES AND RAIDS @

 

'

4

TRAINING ae

“gurveillances prior to utilizing them. Training should encompass complete”.

‘review of pertinent portions of manua] and other relevant material and

-discussion of desirable and undesirable techniques. Discussion should d
include:
“a. Rotation of automobiles, use of variety of cars, changing license tags
‘bd. Parking in one place too long, parking where subject can observe,
parking in restricted areas, parking surveillance cars in vicinity
Bureau office, several Agents sitting in parked cars for extended time
ce. Point out value of radios and fixed observation posts in aiding with
“parking problems.

ad. Cover alertness re countersurveillance, attempts of subject to discover

surveillance, operation of other physical surveillances, persons
, “attempting to take license numbers,

*+* e, Discuss conditions peculiar to your territory affecting physical

surveillances,
2, Complement training in offices having full time surveillance squads with
conference every two weeks. Conference to include new developments and
pertinent instructions, aan . : vet

REASONS FOR CONDUCTING SURVETLLANCES 7 Ce . .
The purpose of the surveillance is an important factor to keep in mind
at all times, and the Agents assigned to surveillances must know the purpose
in order to function efficiently. The Bureau surveillances usually have
for their purpose one or more of the following:

1. The location of fugitives through the surveillance of relatives or

known contacts .

2. Surveillances conducted to cover pay-offs in extortion cases

3. Surveillance of subjects or suspects in espionage, sabotage, or other
national defense cases to observe their activities and ascertain the
identity of their accomplices

4. Surveillances conducted at the request of other governmental departments

TYPES OF SURVEILLANCES 3 . Tot
1. Fixed surveillances . . . .
These are surveillances often referred to as plants, where the Agents
are stationed‘in one location and usually involve the surveillance of
a place to determine the activities and the identity of persons going
in and out of the premises under surveillance.
2. Mobile surveillances .
This is a moving surveillance where the Agents are moving about on foot,
by automobile or on trains, airplanes, or other means of transportation,
surveilling subjects or suspects in Bureau cases. These types of
surveillances may be broken down into the following categories:
a. Close surveillances
. “*. Where it is necessary to keep the subjects or suspects under
surveillance at all times and where it may involve considerable
activity to locate the subjects or suspects again if they are
lost.
“ %. Loose surveillances ‘
AlL surveillanes which may be conducted as spot checks to
determine the contacts and activities of the subjects or
suspects and where it may be proper to drop the surveillance
temporarily rather than risk the chance of being "made." This
type of surveillance is sometimes desirable in very discreet
investigations involving subjects whose habits and contacts
are so well known that they can be readily located again if
it becomes desirable to drop the surveillance temporarily.

| HW 55010 DocId:32989600 Page 4 2

 

 

 
