"Subsequently, a cursory check for weapons
was being made of the above effects before taking
certain items of clothing toSubject at the jail.
It was discovered that the personal effects con-
tained items of considerable value including U.S.
and Cuban currency; gold coins; a valuable engag-
ment ring containing a diamond estimated at five
karats; plus other items. Also, there were several
Jetters with currency enclosed or attached and the
envelopes contained stateside and foreign addresses.

"On 13 April 1961, Sgt. » Special Agent
Shanks and the reporting agent inventoried the
articles of monetary value and/or of intelligence
significance. <A copy of the inventory is attached
hereto as Exhibit No. 2. It should be noted that
this copy of the inventory contains the signature
of Subject , obtained in New York City at the time. of
his release, acknowledging the receipt of the items
inventoried.

; "At 2130 hours on 9 April 1961, the following
| AMNORM trainees were committed to the jail at Port

Sulphur, Louisiana, for refusing to train with the

Batallion and/or threatening to escape from the

base:
a. R-3208.
b. R-3236 — °
c. R- 3232

"Jt should be noted that R-3232 : .

was a former agitator and deserter from Guatemala,
and he had refused to train with the Batallion at

JMMOVE. R-3236 was unable to train and

accompany the Battalion in view of a recent emer-

gency appendectomy. Insufficient time had elapsed

to permit the incision to heal adequately for him

to participate in training activities. Furthermore,

he was a close personal friend of R-3232 and in-
formation was received from other trainees that
_they were planning to escape. R-3208

: had been very lackadaisical and refused to
participate in training activities. Eventually, he
was transferred to the dispensary with the complaint

8 “Photocopy

. from
_ Gerad R. Ford Library
: . —_

HW 53310 DoclId:32105594 Page 9
, that he was suffering from rheumatism. Informa-
tion was subsequently received from the S-2 of
the Battalion that Mario had planned to escape
and make his way back to Miami.

“Incarceration of the above trainees was
based on the short time element existing prior
to "D' Day; their threats to escape from the
base, and finally, at the personal request of
. Battalion Commander, and his
staff, who feared the Subjects could cost them
their lives and/or jeopardize the entire mission
if they should escape. , .

“The above individuals were transported to

the jail in the rear of the panel truck by .
; and the reporting agent.

The truck was escorted by Deputies. ;
. They were placed on the opposite side of
the jail -fromSubject and they were unable to see
outside the jail or to communicate with Subject
- These men remained in the jail until 20 April 1961.

"Approximately 2 days after being committed

-to jail,  (R-3208 . developed a rather .
serious case of asthma, which required that he be
checked bya Doctor three days in succes-

sion. Immediately after the Battalion had been

dispatched from JMMOVE on their assignment, R-3208

was removed from the jail and returned to the ~

dispensary at JMMOVE. This left Subject and 2

trainees in jail. : :
"On 18 January (sic) 1961 — .

- ne . ' the reporting agent returned to Head-
quarters, Washington, D.C.

“On 20 April 1961 "the reporting

agent returned to New Orleans at the instructions
of . Headquarters, to effect the

release of the two trainees and Subject who were

still in jail. In addition, three trainees, who
were in a motel on the outskirts of New Orleans,
were to be released. ;

 

 

x

HW 53310) DoclId:32105594 Page 10
ie

: comfortable and to purchase the necessary clothing
he might need as well as magazines and newspapers
to help him pass the time. The jailer was re-
quested not to provide him witha local news-
paper since it would reveal his location. An in-
quiry was made as to whether or not a radio station
was located in the town of Port Sulphur. When it
was learned that no such station existed, the Captain
was informed that a radio would be provided for
him at a later date. He was visited approxi-
mately two times each week at which time he was
provided with English and Spanish newspapers and
magazines. A staff employee,
acted as interpreter on three of the visits.

Subject was permitted to write letters to his

wife, one of which was mailed after being censored.
. An inquiry was made, at the Subject's
request, through his office in New York City, re-
garding his wife's health. When it was learned
that she had given normal birth to a Son, Subject:

was’ so informed. :

‘Subject was very cooperative during the period
of detention, from 28 March 196] to 20 April 1961,
and approximately one week before he was released,
he was provided with a two band, eight transistor
radio. This radio was subsequently given, to the
jailer in appreciation for his cooperation and the
services he had provided, not only for. Subject, but
in handling three other trainees who were subse-
quently placed in jail. A receipt obtained from
the jailer for the radio is attached hereto as
Exhibit No. 1. Food for Subject and the three
trainees was purchased, as ordered, by the jailer
from a local restaurant. :

"Subject's personnel effects were subsequently
turned over to the Hansen. & Tide-
mann firm. Approximately a week later, the re-
porting agent assumed custody of the effects, con-
sisting of a large suitcase, a leather briefcase,
a small cloth handbag and a red, metal tool box.
The above items were placed in the vault at the
base for safekeeping. .

 

HW 53316 DoclId:32105594 Page @
a view of the Captain'sknowledge of the cargo on, board
the §.S. Houston and his probable knowledge of
the use for which the cargo was intended, it
would create a serious security hazard if he was
released, and especially, i£ he should return to
Cuba. It was decided that there were 3 possible
ways of handling the matter. First, to release

him and permit him to remain in the area Tun-

ning the risk that he might contact his wife and/
or return to Cuba. This was ruled out on security
grounds. Secondly, to-force him aboard the
vessel and place him under the custody of the
Captain replacing him. . This was believed too
risky since it was feared the crew would be more
loyal to him than to his replacement. Further-
more, if he should regain command of the vessel,
he might divert the craft to Cuba. Thirdly, to
detain him until after the invasion. .

"The above situation was discussed telephoni-

. cally with Headquarters personnel . > on the
night of 28 March 1961. Subsequently, authoriza-
tion was received from Hs. to incarcerate the >
Subject. . : ;

"At approximately 2330 hours on 28 March 1961, a
Special Agent . : and the reporting -
agent were accompanied by Deputics °

; of the Plaquemine Parish Sheriff's Office,
to the Headquarters of the U.S. Border Patrol,
wherethe Capt. was being held in custody. He
was placed in the rear eat of the deputies’ auto-
mobile cee ahs PSOE AE the reporting agent, and
transported to a spot near the Naval Air Station
at Belle Chasse, Louisiana, where he was handcuffed
and transferred to the rear of the panel truck.

An''MP assigned to the Security
Office, drove the truck and Deputy Sheriff
rode in the front seat while the Special Agent and the re-
‘porting agent rode withthe Capt. in the rear. Dep-
uty Sheriff Cockrell preceded the truck in his
patrol car to the jail at Port Sulphur, Louisiana,

a distance of approximately 40 miles. He was .
placed in the jail on the morning of 29 March 1961.
The jailer,aDeputy Sheriff Rene » was

instructed to do everything possible to make- him

 

HW 53310 DocId:32105594 Page 7
periodic patrols to the front and rear gates
of JNMOVE to keep fishermen and poachers out
of the base and reporting local gossip re-
garding speculation as to the type of activity
conducted within the base.

"On 28 February 1961, the
Chief Patrol Inspector; _. -Assist-
‘ant Chief Patrol Inspector, and .
Senior Patrol Inspector, U.S. Border Patrol,
New Orleans, Louisiana, were briefed regarding
the JMMOVE activity but not CIA sponsorship."

"Subsequently, the Border Patrol was very
helpful in forcing fourteen crew members who
had threatened to "jump ship," to stay aboard
the "Caribe" after it had loaded at the Braith-
waite Docks. .Also, they assisted by taking into
custody and holding Captain of the
S.S. Houston, until JNMOVE security representa-
tives could assume custody.”

"On 16 March 1961,
District Director, (immigration & Naturalization
Service, with offices in the Masonic Building,
New Orleans, La., was briefed regarding the JMNMOVE-
activity and Agency sponsorship as per Headquarters
instructions. He and the : a
Deputy District Director, subsequently provided
valuable assistance to JMMOVE in apprehending and
detaining the Captain of the S.S.
Houston, who was subsequently placed in jail at ”
Port Sulphur, La., until after the ill-fated inva-
- . gion on the target area. In addition, the Deputy District Direc

provided the reporting agent with the name of

the District Director of Immigration §&
Naturalization Service, New York City, as the per-
son to contact prior to the release of the Captain.
This matter will be discussed in more detail later
in this report.” :

DETENTION CASES:

"At 1500 hours on 28 March 1961, Mr. Frank
Lowe, Logistics representative, in charge of

:

i

Tr . . . . ,
PRT : Photocopy
. fro .

m
Gerald R. Ford Library
HW 53310 DocId:32105594 Page 5 .
Joading ammunition on vessels at the Braithwaite
Docks, telephonically advised the reporting agent
that a crew member from the Lake Charles and the
Capt. from the S.S. Houston had jumped ship after
the vessels had loaded and anchored downstream in
the Mississippi River. The individuals were iden-
tified as "approximately 44 years old,
a former American who had renounced his U.S. citi-
zenship and who is now a naturalized citizen of

Cuba, and one Captain of the S.S.
Houston, approximately 39 years old-and of Spanish
origin. ‘

as reportedly left the Lake Charles on
27 March 1961 with the river pilot, after the
vessel was moved from the loading site to the
anchorage point downstream. A subsequent check
with © a the , District Director,
JENS, revealed that — had been granted polit-
ical asylum by I§NS at New Orleans on 28 March
1961, and, according to TENS records, he had de-
parted New Orleans, presumably by bus, at 1000
hours on 28 March 1961, enroute to Miami, Florida.

TENS records listed forwarding address as
Miami, Florida. The informa-
tion regarding was furnished telephonically

to - Headquarters, on the night
of 28 March 1961, in the event Headquarters de-
-cided an attempt should be made to apprehend

on his arrival in Miami. : , .

"According to Mr. LOWE, Capt. left the
S.S. Houston on 28 March 1961, after which he re-
ported to his employer, Hansen & Tidemann, Inc.,
with offices in New Orleans. He refused to return
to the vessel. The captaininsisted that his reason
for leaving was the fact that his wife was preg-
nant and expecting. to give birth to a child in
approximately 10 days. He was afraid the birth
would be by caesaeran section and he was concerned
for’ her safety. He wanted to return to Cuba at
the earliest possible date. .

"The District Director “was contacted telephonically by

the reporting agent. He was advised that in
s we
Photocopy
. : , from . y
O33 Gerald, Ford Library -

HW 53310 DoclId:32105594 Page 6
ont
: '
ge a,

178-10004-10424 oo
1 May 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Alleged Iliegal Domestic Activities
. (CIARDS Extract -- )-

| 1. Reference is made to an undated, blind memorandum
from the Inspector General containing certain information
extracted from the CIARDS applications of Office of Security
personnel. The following is an extract from the CIARDS
application of 0/S employee:

"This activity involved establishing
and maintaining liaison with the Super-
intendent and Assistant Superintendent of
the Louisiana State Police; FBI;
‘Superintendent of the New
Orleans Police Department; Piaquimines
_ Parish Sheriff's office and’ deputies,
whose cooperation and assistance proved
invaluable in handling black movements
of trainees, movement of ammunition and .
high explosives, to and from the base.
The Sheriff of Plaquimines Parish, at my
request, made available a holding
facility which consisted of an entire
jail and jailer at Port Sulphur, La.,
for the incarceration and retention of
hard-core or troublesome trainees who
threatened to leave the Base. The jail.
was also utilized to hold a Spanish Captain
of one of the cargo ships which had been
loaded at the Braithwaite Dock on the
Mississippi River with fuel, ammunition,
high explosives and other equipment for ~ Photocopy
the invasion. The Captain jumped ship _from
Gerald R. Ford Library

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 063994
esa
HW 53310 DoclId:32105594 Page 2?
JFK Assassination System” Date: 8/27/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: CAR/HARDY
RECORD NUMBER: ° 178-10004-10424

RECORD SERIES: SUBJECT FILE

AGENCY FILENUMBER: JEWELS 1

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: :

Released under the John F. Fennedy
TO: RECORD

kssassination Records Collection

Act of 1992 [44 USC 2107 Note).
Pase#:NW 53310 Date: 06-14-2017

TITLE: — [Restricted]

 

DATE: 05/01/1975

PAGES: 17
SUBJECTS :
BAY OF PIGS
CIA
LOUISIANA

CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
> RESTRICTIONS: — Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: = Withhold
DATEOF LASTREVIEW: — 08/16/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Sanitized. Attached to 1781000410421.

a ee
v9.1 !
HW 53310 DoclId:32105594 Page 1
for the purpose of returning to
Havanna to join his wife, who was
pregnant. Through the cooperation
of the I§NS, the Border Patrol, with
whom liaison had previously been
established, the Captain was apprehended,
and with the assistance of the

' Plaquimines Parish deputies, the Captain
was confined in the jail at Port Sulphur
until after the invasion. He was then
removed from jail and flown to New York
City, where he was granted a thirty-day
extension by I§NS to await the arrival
of his wife and newborn son, before pro-
ceeding to his home in Spain. Additional
liaison was established with the Navy,
Coast Guard, Army, Armed Forces Police
Detachment in New Orleans, all of whom
provided invaluable support during the
operation." . ;

2. Subject is the subject of Office of
Security file number 70 837. The file reflects that he
was retired from the Agency on 8 June 1973 but contains no
information relative to the foregoing. However, from March
1961 through May 1961, he was assigned to DDP/WH Division,
Branch 4, Project JMATE, New Orleans, Louisiana.

3. Volume 16, Office of Security file umber 219 000
(319-357) concerns Project SEAL, containing information con-
cerning Office of Security operational support of the DDP
relative to the Bay of Pigs invasion. (For facility of
further access, copies of all pertinent documents from this
file relative to the matter at hand have been placed in
Office of Security file number 536 198, "Belle Chasse Loui-
siana Ammunition Depot," subcaptioned Project JMMOVE.) The
file contains a copy of a memorandum prepared by subject

dated 12 May 1961, captioned "JMMOVE" directed to the
Chief, WH/4/Security, reporting on activities at JMMOVE from
14 February 1961 to 21 April 1961. The following are verbatim
extracts from this memorandum: ;

i

Photocopy
+ from
Gerald R. Ford Library

HW 53310 DoclId:32105594 Page 3
Ay

. _ "LCDR. James E. PHILLIPS, M.D., (U.S. Naval.

* Station, Algiers, Louisiana) arranged for and
removed a piece of shrapnal from the ankle area
of an AMHAZE trainee; arranged for and assisted
in performing an emergency appendectomy on ANNORM
trainee, : #3225, and provided
general medical care for trainees at JNMOVE. In
addition, he made a number of trips ‘to the jail
at Port Sulphur, Louisiana, to examine trainees
who were in detention there." ; Y

"During the latter part of February 1961,

liaison was established with the Plaquamine —

Parish Sheriff's office, Ports La Hague, Loui-

siana. Subsequently, Sheriff |.

and Deputy Sheriff's.

To ; were briefed
regarding the JMMOVE activity and the nationality
of the trainees. They were not briefed as to CIA
sponsorship. Sheriff was questioned re-
garding the possibility of utilizing a local jail

in the event it became necessary to incarcerate
‘one or more of the trainees at some future date.

* He immediately advised that he had a jail at Port
Sulphur, Louisiana, which he would make available
if the need should arise. He explained that the

jailer, , was a Deputy Sheriff and
’ the jail would afford privacy since few prisoners
were placed there. It was also agreed. that there

would be no records maintained if trainees were
incarcerated and that members of his staff would

deny that such trainees had ever been incarcerated a
in the event of future inquiries by representatives
‘of the news media. ,

"Subsequently, it was necessary to incarcerate
three trainees and the former Captain of the S.S. v
Houston at the ‘above jail. This matter will be
treated in detail later in this report.

"During the JMMOVE activity, members of the
Sheriff's Office were most helpful, especially,
Officers in assisting with
the handling and jailing of the above individuals;
providing escorts for trainee and cargo moves
from JMMOVE to the NAS or vice versa; conducting

| Oo 3 Photocopy

HW 53310 DoclId:32105594 Page 4 R Fong
