 

Se ameeett ier niat ene are mame omen Sar rrr
e.. B&O 2830
This structure enables, ‘and indaed requires, each organiza-
tion to describe to the Department its FY 1977 plans and the.
level of resources required. This system is sti11 developmental

‘A

in the sense that this is the first year it has been tried, but

we expect to refine and follow this basic programmatic approach

vin future years, at least for internal review purposes.

Bs In the FY 1977 cycle, the FBI submitted detailed date on

42 separate programs, some of which ardlinked directly to its

‘intelligence and counterintelligence programs. Much of this

material is classified SECRET,’ but the submission is the most
comprehshsive the F8I hes aver submitted as part of the
department's budget review pwocess.

The Drug Enfasement Aduinistretion reported, 38 program
areas for PY 77, of which 6 velated to intelligences it should |

be noted that DEA has a budget aetivisy for intelligence
activities. The Imnigrationand Naturalization Service
reported 34 propram avess for FY 77, of whieh two were related

to intelligence. Other organizations reporting vrograms

. related to intelligence activities in PY''77 are the Criminal

‘Division and the Office of the Deputy Attornay General, whieh
reported one intelligence program area respeativsiy.
The internal veview rrocess for FY 1S77 continued the
fount cof _
practice of extensive internal hearings oricnted teard policy

and progran issues.

In summary, the Department had a basic but limited

HW 55324 DocId:32989716 Page 9

 
 

 

e. oe . @ 2 1233

capacity to evaluate progran and budgat requests prior to

1974, Since then the amount of pregFam information and
‘analytical expertise available to thé Départment has increased
markedly. ‘these changes have improved the Department's ability

to review programs. Although the fé#nal: submission to the.

 

OMB and the Congress does not reflect & comparable level of

detail, we believe that our new MBO/Badget Planning System, and

any subsequent refinements, will eontinve to ensure Department

awareness of intelligence prograns and facilitate our, ability

SO RSIS TESTES ERAT TON ET REE TN SPE TE

  

‘to evaluate these programs and Supdorsing budget requests.
This concludes my prepared statenint, Mr, Chairman.
Accompanying me today are Mr. Bugenés¥alsh, Assistant Director L
for the Administrative Division of the FSi end Mr. James F. |
Hoobler, Director, Management Prosteams ima Budget Staff vor
the Department. We will be happy f6 answer any questions we
cana in this session and if you nav¥a questions ‘related te
classified material, we would€ be happy 60 respond to then at

the appropriate time. ir dvalsh also has a prepired. state ment,
Insect ° : a .
Attaches . . . : : Len: .
Chalrman Pike. Let us start with the basic question as

to classified material. “Who classified ib?
Mr. Pommerening. Materials we. Petceive are classified
by the Federal Bursau of Investigation.
). Chairman Pike. Are they classiriéd by the Director of

the Federal Bureau of Investigatiéié SP are they classified at

) some lower level? .

 

HW 55324 Docld:32989716 Pag®°10
 

 

Peg ete

: — @ ol YQ deg
In the FY '76 cycle, the Depaptnent integrated )

the Management-by-Objectives. program with the traditional
budget process. This step required a2.) organizations to

) provide specific pregramn objectives jn support of their FY'76

funding recuest. For’ the first ima, the Department received

‘financial data at: theprogran level of detail, and all major

organizaticus ‘participated an an in-de sh internal hearing

process with sontor department officials.

The purpose ofthase internal departmental hearings -
was to exploze sienificant pelicy, program, and resource
issues, including those matters relating +o the intelligence
activities of the Federal Bureau of Investization.

) - In carrying out tais aew progrant, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation made the most extensive submission of data that
had ever been given the Qenartment.

While the Depertment's FY 1975 Management-by-Objectives/
Budget formulation and internal review process Gid nrovics a
. . oe more comprehensive level of information to the Department's
leadership, itws evident thes a mors syvractured, programmatic
perspective was reguired to provide greatar detail and to
facilitate cross~organizational gnalysis of Department progrems.

) ) Consequently, for FY A577, she Pavactnent has developed

and implemented an MBO/Budget Planning System with a detailed

program budget structure which highlights over 350 specific

se

programs , including those dealing with intelligence-gathering.

 

 

| HW 55324 Docld:32989716 Page 8

 
 

 

| HW #55324) DocId:32989716 Page 7

me 1228
eo | . @

knowledge of the process, a review of the records of my

organization and its predecessor, and such elements of

historical knowledge of the Departmen’s as may be within my
knowledge. -

Part 28, subpart 0 of the Code of Federal Regulations,
vested in the Assistant Attorney General for Administration
the responsibility to supervise, dirent and veview the propara~
tion, justification and execution of che Justice budget. .

This responsibility encompasses the setting of general

policies and procedures for the formulation of the overall
budget requests for the Department and for each subordinate
organization for a given fiscal year.

Our budget, like that of most ovchsy agencies, hes

traditionally reflected a “sategorical" approach, organized

by appropriation and organisation, so that che programs of 3

given organization have fallen under one or more generaliged
budset “activities.” -

In the past these broad categories have not. by
themselves, provided much detail on-the scope of particular
programs. -
Beginning with the FY i975 budget eyele, however, she
Department took steps to initiate & more thorough form of
budzet review when it initiated its Management-by-Objectives

(MBO) program. Under this program eli organizations provided

_S8pesific objectives for all of their progrars for that year.

 

 
-.HW_55324 DoclId:32989716 Page 5

 

 

 

ke
nm
w
“e

@ + rN @

BUCKY INQUIRY ON INTELLIGENCE
ACTIVITIES

Thursday, Aumuss 7, 1975

House of Representatives,
Select, Committee on Intelligence,
Washington, EF. c,

The comiltvee net, pursuant to recess, at 10:05 a.m.

in Room 2118, Rayburn House Office Euileine, the

Otis G. Pike ‘chairman) presiding.

Present Representatives Pike

 

Dellums, Murphy, Aspin, Mlifcrd, Hayes, Leaman, NeClery,
Kasten and Jorascn.
Aise Prisent: aA. Searle Fleid, 3tavl OlLreetor.
Chairma: Pane. The sonnmittee wilh ucme to order.
. Podey we move Yrom the inselzips we-peatheraag activi .es

. Which are at least suppesed to be creratinr in ponering

 

Poreiga irtel ig
here in Ameri.g.
Our var ecficient staf has mvteided iu vhe back-up

book a che tien. Zz

 

FBI and sre &..

A Sourse of f. wes."

 
 

 

 

@ ‘ ‘ eS .  . 1227
It starts out, “The Federal Bureau of Investigation's
Budget, like the organization itself, stands unique within the
federal government. m a ~ v
r am not going to read any more, ef this, ‘but 4t is a
Gifficult within the domestic intelligence-gathering activities,
as well as within the foreign intelligence-gathering activities,
“to 4 find out exactly how much is being spent on gathering
intelligence over Aneriean. cltigene. .
Wenave today, as our principal witnees this morning,
Mr. Glen Pommerening, the Assistant. Attorney General for
Administration, acconpanied by Mr. Euzene! Walsh and Me. Hames
Hookler. |
We : are Seligns ed to have you here, I want you, to tell
all you can tell us ebout how much money you spend for
gathering -intelligence over American citizens end forsign
citizens who are located within amerlea.
. STATEMENT OF GLEN POMMSRENING, ASSISTANT |
Federal Lares ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR ADMINISTRATION, ACCOMPANIED BY
ef Invests abies JEUGENE W. WALSH, ASSISWANT DIRECTOR, ADMINISTRATIVE

"=" DIVISION: (AND JAMES HOOBLER. LERECTCR OF MANAGEMENT
PROGRAMS BUDGET FOR JUSTICE DESARTHENT

  

' Mr. Pommerening. Thenk you, Mr. Chairman.

I appreciate the chance to appsar before you today to

 

talk about the Department of Justice Budget as it réiates
to intelligence activities and the process by which these
‘activities are reviewed. . ‘

My comments, of course, will be based upon my first-hand

.
a
;
q

HW 55324 DocId:32989716 Page 6
 

 

 

 

A SpRzcir ae oea = = rn eee —— = _ —jl—— — = $< — ———— — OO

ute

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

oH HEARINGS

BEFORE THE COMMITTEE,

on

SZLHCT COMNITE2 ON INTSLLIGENCE

ba
=
"
+3
4B
i
re]
ri
ut
ta

BYOGET INQUIRY ON INTELLIGENS

; ; 7 vonuME 6

fa payueyet ys wate & OIAee
Macvsaciy, Augass T, S75

Phe eta Bas age rr LD
Werniujeoa, be O.

Official Reporters to Committees

aro Wd—751UT-1

HW 55324 DocId:32989716 Page 2

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

| HW 55324 Docld: 32969716 Page 3
a 7 - a

 

273 - [003 1

 

 
 

 

 

@ CONTENTS
STATEMENT OF: a PAGE

Glen Pommerening,
Assistant Attorney Ganeral for Administration :

accoffanied by:

    

 

Eugene W. Walsh, ; an

 

oo. UA Padersf Borers of Investigation
Assistant Director, Administré Re e* Division” and eines ea
- James Hoobler, Rincl nr)
won, Director of Management Progranis: Budget: for tro
‘Svs Justice Department = _ : : 1227

Hon. Donelé C. Alexander, . .
_ Commiss sioner of Internal Revenur:

William Wi:

Depuiy Commissioner ,.
Meade White or >

Chier Counsel,
Singleton Rolf,

_Aseist we Comalausioues, Jompitieise,

 

eS be oo

 

ta fe
a

ey
oO
a
oO
» WS
yr.
bw]
g
og t

Assiasant Gommiesilons £, Administration, and  . -

Masse x

 

AW 55324 DocId:32989716 Page 4
CORSET OOTOOUTY wammenathaniieemennnneeerere
