os

31
an electronic bug in. a hotel room in Las Vegas.

subsequent investigation determined that Robert A.
Maheu authorized the surveillance and possibly the
wiretap of the subject involved and that naheQgeobabl>
acted on behalf of Giancana and the CIA. *?
The violation of the wiretap statuteplaced
the case under federal jurisdiction and the FBI soon.
; began an investigation: In the course of this
“investigation, Maheu informed the FBI that he
instituted the surveillance on behalf of CIA efforts
to obtain Cuban intelligence through the hoodlum
_ element, including Giancana. ‘In its’ efforts to
prevent the prosecution of Balletti, Maheu, and an.”
unidentified individual known as J. We Harrison, the |
CIA eventually told the Justice Department the details
of Phase I of the CIA-Mafia plots to kill Castros. skeen

sa mak aecuredel
pee can kst be related through the following

 

“HW 53080 Docld:32273546 Page 9°
AW 53080

DoclId: 32273546 .

qe

memorandum from J. Ragar. Hoover to Attorney
34
General Ramsey Clark /quoted in part/:

Blank letterhead memorandum _. 3-6-67

TO: Attorney General
FROM: Director, FBI

TOP SECRET

/Attorney General Robert Kennedy/ indicated

that a few days prior to [5- 9- 62/7 he had been

advised by the CIA that Robert A. Maheu had

been hired by the CIA to approach Sam Giancana

with a proposition of paying $150,000. to hire

gunmen to go into Cuba and kill Castro. He

further stated CIA admitted having assisted Maheu

in making the "bugging" installation in Las Vegas
..which uncovered this clandestine operation and for

this reason CIA could not afford to have any action

taken against Giancana or Maheu. Mr. Kennedy stated

that upon learning CIA had not cleared its action

in hiring Maheu and Giancana with the Department of

Justice, he issued orders that the CIA should never

again take such steps without first checking

with the Department of Justice.

Mr. “Kennedy further advised that because of this”
matter it would be very difficult to initiate any
prosecution against Giancana, as Giancana could

_ immediately bring out the fact the United. States
Government had approached him to arrange for thé".
assassination of Castro. He stated the same was
true concerning any action we might take against
Maheu for any violation in which he might become
involved.

incl den

In summary, the Las Vegas wiretap Recess
forced the :CIA to acknowledge the existence of the

CIA-Mafia plots to non-CIA government officials

"REVIEWED BY. FBI/JFK TASK FORCE 7
rr Ce: Shae GuB
: RA CRELEASE IN FULL

‘C1 RELEASE IN PART
O TOTAL DENIAL “

 

Page 10°

 

 

 
Y

: 27
domain of someone else in the syndicate. "

In June fe | 1962 rorettt ‘reported to Harvey

vw Care ex| lesdar d

that Verera dispatched a three-man team: into Cuba
-with the general assignment of recruiting others
to kill Castro, and, if the opportunity arose, to
28
kill him themsleves, maybe through the use of pills.
In September of 1962, Roselli reported to Harvey
in Miami that the "medicine" was reported in place,
seve f Leslie.
that the three-man .team was safe, and that Veuora :
was prepared to dispatch another three- -man team
29
to infiltrate Castro's bodyguard. In December,
1962, Roselli and Harvey agreed that not much seemed to
be ree ae and by February, 1963, Harvey terminated
S pen{38, 30 a
the plots.

B. The Las Vegas Wiretap Incident —

 

 

The 1967 IGR also mentioned an event that
occurrea during Phase L. of the CIA-Mafia plots which —
-resulted* in the first dissemination of the details
of the plot to persons other than the ones involved
in the operation. On October 31, 1960, Las Vegas
police arrested Arthur J. Balletti, an employee ofa

Florida investigator named Edward DuBois, for placing

 
   

nw 53080 DocId:32273546 Page 8
“ee
This activity concluded the .pre-Bay. of

Pigs phase of the plots. The 1967 IGR does not
~ ; ra ACHE 7 . . -

document anyjattempt to dss administer ‘the

 

pills to Castro.

The 1967 IGR relates that after a period
22 a
of apparent dormancy, Bissell directed William ~

Harvey. in approximately November of 1961 to 7 ;
230K 0 perv|aeril Prnpit Cheat
reactivate the CIA-Mafia plots. | @u@enmwesdle therefore
24° | .
introduced Harvey to Roselli. ~ During this phase,

the CIA decided against using Giancana or Trafficante;

instead, a person. referred ‘to as “M&A

 

v entered the

plot as the person who would help provide Castro”
25
contacts. © In addition, the plots still utilized.
ne ewtile (262-
the services of ino RES :

 

Even though the plots no longer included
qh . ; Trafficante and Giancana, the CIA admit ted that
Roselli most likely ‘kept them inforned.. a@rorern

Yee:
eeated~in The 1967 IGR gthat "fi/t would be naive naive

Lo a“ to assume that Roselli did not take the precaution of
po ne oo 7 .
a lh (p: | informing higher- ups in the syndicate that he was
\ -
. YY
ok Rg . working in a territory ‘considered to be the: private
x .
a
S&S
NN

“Ss ebuailted og vp nentsl woveln

 

 
   

SW 53080 Docld: 32273546
In late 1961 the CIA decided to renew
the CIA-Mafia plots, then creating Phase II, and
~ - kept ‘them active until jate 1962 or. early. 1963.
During the initial stages of Phase I, Edwards
assigned the specific task of Tocating the proper
persons to assassinate Castro to & m"

‘Ssqnnel whe mwas Chief of the Operational Support oe

Division Aa the Office of setae Both men
Oparten| Copa
agreed tlee C=SOERSE] should contact Robert A. Maheu,

whom the CIA had previously used in several covert

operations, to recruit the necessary personnel. 9
~ 10
Maheu subsequently contacted Roselli, who

C40 Wes heel .

_ in ‘turn Yeoummecd=two persons ALCially known to
the Cpteadoerrs\ Supgut- Chief
CHEE

as "Sam Gold" and "Joe."!1 tem says
he, along with Maheu, later discovered the true identities
“of these persons to be Sam Giancana and Santo Trafficante,
“respectively. ¥ ; ; Oe ”
After meeting several times in Miami ana deciding.
“upon poison pills as the method of assassination, the

1967 IG Report Sattenas that trafficante made the

arrangements for the assassination of Castro with

one. of his contacts inside Cuba on one of the trips .

 
he allegedly made to Havana, cuba. *? This contact
was Jerboa Cuban official who held a position
close to Castro. 14

The 1967 IG Report’ then states that ‘Roselli

passed the pills to tTrafficante. 15 Roselli sypsequent ly
Ny

‘eo o
told oO Connell that the pills. were delivered tomseres
oA
in Cuba. +6 a2 apparently retained ‘the pills for

a few weeks and then returned them since he was. unable.

.to fulfill any plan.+7 aka WaAs no longer ina

position to kill Castro because he had -lost his Cuban

1g a
post. ; ;
re orn olfees) so
. With Gee unable to perform,the s dicate eel
65.0 pavbeany ail ie
looked elsewhere. Roselli next told ON SSE lay
sometime during early 1961, that. Trafficante knew

aman prominent in the Cuban exile movement who

 

could accomplish the job,
19

After receiving approval, vrefficante
Ye Coy onthe los dy
approached Vere about assassinating Castro and

ory tah - 20
reported that Veasone was rere tive. The 1967 ic

2 per Buy) Cong} Cf
Report states that @iGemnel ao in distributed pills

Nha, ealle rile Leva.
which eventually reached V.

 
AW 53080

DoclId: 32273546

 

Page 2

 

/ srace RePorT ov THE
TEM PLICAT

.

c ! A _ ~ ; ‘Oram

SG
er
a

EVOLUTION AND
OF SRE

oy

    
  
 

   

 

AG INS if
mroducticn

The attempt of the United States government

to assassinate Cuban premier Fidel Castro as well

“as other foreign leaders during the turbulent decade.

of the 1960s shocked and disgusted the American

citizen. When sources disclosed that the Central

Intelligence Agency (hereinafter "CIA") intentionally a

solicited and received the assistance of various

members of organized crime, La Cosa Nostra, in the >

whe po Tee toe ey os

furtherance of such plots, more “outrage prevailed. -
‘

Civilizea society simply did. not and does not condone.

such acts as.a legitimate instrument of foreign
policy... There is no excuse; no rationalization. ~
The effect and influence of these actions

did not stop, however, with invoking the disdain of
the american public and world. These assassination.
attempts gave birth to the haunting theory that - .
Fidel Castro orchestrated the assassination of
President John F. Kennedy in defensive retaliation

for the plots on his life.

RIN9G

 

 

 

 
JFK Assassination System .
Identification Form

Date: 4/27/201

 

 

 

Agency Information
AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER:  180-1]0147-10191
RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 61-10-05
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: STAFF REPORT ON THE EVOLUTION AND IMPLICATIONS OF THE CIA-SPONSORED
ASSASSINATION CONSPIRACIES AGAINST FIDEL CASTRO
DATE: 03/12/1979
PAGES: 101
SUBJECTS : Released under the Jonn F.
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES Sliection Ace of 1992 (44
ORGANIZED CRIME Eoces pace: sos gay
CIA, FILES
CIA, CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: —_ Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 09/07/1995
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Box 34

 

nW53080 Docld: 32273546

Page 1
HW 53080 DocId:32273546 Page 3 oO : rn

’ conclusions.

In its Final Report. published in april,
1976, the Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities
(hereinafter "SSC") responded to this theory.

In this Report, the SSC focused on two operations

: of the CIA which may have provoked Castro into

retaliation. First, the ssc documented the joint

effort of the CIA and Organized Crime to eliminate

Castro. Second, the SSC examined the nature. and extent

of the CIA AMLASH operation. The SSC concluded its

analysis with the statement that “/t/he Committee

believes the investigation should continue in certain

areas, and for that reason does not reach any, final
al :

This analysis iS an attempt to make such
conclusions. It is not the purpose “of the remainder

eye
review bee detailg of

 

of this material to obese
the CIA-Mafia plots/or of the AMLASH operation, to
resolve all of the conflicting viewpoints of the

SSC and the CIA in regard to the importance of the

_ various operations, or to subject anyone to moral.

. tongue-lashing.” Instead, this material first seeks’

 
AW 53060 DocId: 32273546 ‘Page 4

to present a comprehensive review of the CIA
- operation AMLASH and of the involvement or potential
involvement of organized crime in the CIA operations
against Castro during 1960- 1963. From this review
. certain inecences and conclusions are “then drawn
concerning the nature, scope, and ramifications of
these operations. .
It. BACKGROUND MATERIAL - "RELEVANT SUMMARY .
A. CIA-Mafia Plots .
The genesis of the utilization of the United
States criminal syndicate by the CIA to attempt to
assassinate Castro is placed by the 1967 Report of the-
Inspector General as occurring during a conversation’

between the Deputy Director of Plans, Richard Bissell,

 

3
and the Director, of Seour i’ Colonel Sheffield Edwards.

These plots extended fromj1960" until early 1963 and

can be divided into two stages.? The first stage

i . occurred from August, 1960 until April, 1961, and
bn . can best be termed as Phase I or thevpre- Bay of Pigs
by 5 19 Be -

period. From April, 1961 until late ‘1961 , the CIA

6"
takes the position that the plots» were dormant. —

 

 
