on a oS A

HAS-NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUAAeAT a ad ier)

 

 

In answer to our question,
their professional opinions that there probably was not a
» foreign conspiracy connected with Mexico involving the
assassination of the President. They, like Anderson, felt
that had there been such a conspiracy they would at least by

‘this time have had some firm indications of its existence.

   

a: meeting with Secretary

 

We asked
Ft 2b tye

Echevarria, for all three of us at the earliest possible time.

We wanted . fire there, if possibile, both as cy
and because ,

fon’

interpreter| “ previous personal acq ntance
% :

with the Secretary would facilitate our dealings. @eess tele-

phoned Anderson and confirmed this request.

We then reentered our disctission of the assassination
in general, as it related to Mexico. It appeared that the CIA
vin Washington had not forwarded certain material developed
elsewhere to » even though these materials might have
reasonably related to the Mexican investigations. For example,
the contents of the letter which Oswald wrote to the Russian
Embassy after he returned to the United States, describing oy
certain aspects of his trip, had never been disclosed to shove
‘or his staff. We showed them the contents of this letter at

®

this meeting.

AW 55355) DocId:32209809 Page 9
nae soe penne ai A+ ane A NR Eig emcee totems:

HAS NO OBJECTION TO
Seee poe
CUME

AS SANITI me see ay

li

time, but that it not be permitted to hold up ‘the information
at this stage. : an .

- assa jsination. scot i

  
   

form in which it obtained them. “Tey felt. that . he code
he might be possible, however, and shoule

FRIDAY .- APRIL 10
- 9:00.a.m, to 2:45 a.m.

.

- Coleman, » Willens: and ‘Slawson appeared at the BI
offices at 9: 00 aM, af we had agreed to do the previous -
evening, and there’ met Rolfe Larson. The plan had been that we

. 7 28 ; .

HW 55355 DocId:32209809 Page 10
~~ GUA HAS NO OBJECTION To... — a SS
SIFICATION AND/OR ad _
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT, © ott Vo : 7
LWA OF ¢

*

 

basically. the same information we had -

Previously ‘learned from. the FBI, though somewhat attenuated

  

: pointed out, the FBI was: carrying
the primary, responsibility with Gutierrez.

Gutierrez! Abory-nisght be CH!

   

e inquired whethg “an appropriate -exapfina
on of the Weoture ‘reels had een made. @ii

ch an e; mination had not et beén made and tha ‘he
spected that it would Asclose nothing ‘new,

photggraphs covered ‘tie more. than the eny® ance itself,

HW 55355) DocId:32209809 Page 8
 

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TD.
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR 4 wb
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT, 4 +

AS SANITIZED OF Ss er

FY Ip REE SESE
Embassies. sine Sanit stated at the ‘beginning of his: narrative
that he intended to make a complete disclosure of all facts,
. including the sources of his information, and that he under-
. stood that all three of us had been cleared for ‘Top Secret.
and that we would not disclose beyond the confines’ of the _
Commission and its immediate. staff the information we obtained

through him. without. first clearing it with his superiors in .
Washington. We agreed to this. a ,

. wera Gh montis of course took a rather long

time to. complete, and we. interrupted’ at. many. points with
specific questions. Duning--the~course”F tHe tiatratrve-weuene— ;
-_, Shown. the. actual .transeripts;: “pius-bhe~rensiettons;~of ehi—the

Jae. nodal iene ve

asa narrative disclosed that the CIA's action immedi-
ately. after the assassination consisted basically of alerting
all its confidential sources of information throughout Mexico ~

to immediately channel all information into their headquarters, |
and of compiling as ‘complete dossiers as possible on Oswald and
everyone else throughout Mexico “who at that time the CIA knew °

- had had some contact with Oswald. ‘This meant especially 7

Silvia Duran, who because. she had previously been having an
22

AW 55355) DocId:32209809 Page 7

a te tee ceemenee metmatn een oo eee rea a see a a ete ents a tei
- CAH AS NO OBJECTION TO. nae

AS SIFICATION ANDIOR
anes ey MENT

 

Embassy and to Mexican ‘officials as what we in fact: were,

representatives of the Commission.

wate rat G gealing with. wa Winston Scott,

 

het £ for yetLeo, we ould peworkhe, with te ‘of the
to Seteign opefatives in their” e entire’ organizat on. He ‘said

that the CIA would give us. complete cooperation.

. We out linea to ibaa our” entire proposed plan - -
once we arrived in Mexico, in general terms, and asked ‘for his
comments on-how best to’ achieve our goals. ‘His. reply, ‘in every te
hs CO viper Lott,
instance was that we: should deal. on the spot with ieempoute.. .
GEREBEA thought that our proposed journey was a very ‘good ‘idea.
He repeated what Mr. Helms of the CIA had said a while ago,
that there is no substitute for the Noase officer" being “on
the spot."

WEDNESDAY -. APRIL 8
8:15 a.m, to 7:00 p.m.
Our plane was scheduled to leave Washington from os
Dulles Airport at 9:30 in the morning and accordingly all three _ -

of us met at the Washington Air Terminal in.the Albert Pick.
‘Motel at about 8: 15 and jater arrived at the Airport at about.

HW 55355 DocId:32209809 Page 5
 

fas eeetmee mae, cata nent ec en ee RR, Es erm a gavage goes em

CIA HA HAS NC OB

ECTION
O To
ER OnE AND,

WR kN
AS SANITIZE OF ts DOCUMENT: , nv

op sr 3 4

. his expert opinion was that no foreign conspiracy arising out
of or connected with the territory of Mexico existed in con-

“hection with the assassination. He said that he felt that.if.

such had existed, although perhaps they would not have solved
it -by this time, they at least would have some firm indication
that. it was in existence, which indications were in fact

_ lacking. We asked Anderson how many different allegations of

’ conspiracy had been received by his office and he replied, six.
These were: the Gutierrez allegation, the Alvarado allegation,
the Diaz Verson allegation, the Martino-Roja allegation, the
letter from Victor Cohen, and the allegation concerning the 7
Stanford University student, Mr. Slawson commented that in his
opinion only the first three allegations mentioned even seemed
serious and that, after analysis, the only one that still seemed

serious was Gutierrez'. Anderson readily agreed. .

3:20 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. hs

fy

‘4 , ot
- Ax:
After lunch the three of us went to. 's office,
and were there introduced to, wn feputyy Be Sn rsa
conference was begun by giving us a complete

narrative of the” CIA's activities in connection with Lee Harvey

* The.

 

Oswald, beginning in September 1963 when they first picked up
information that Oswald had appeared at the ‘Russian and Cuban

21

AW 55355 DocId:32209609 Page 6
vievew--CIAHAS.NO. OBJECTION.TO oa. Be, aes Stas a ener claeven eterno
/ DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR ;
Sess oe
AS SANIT EDA 6 . oe — to . “eae b. , =e .
| MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD April 22, 1964 °
FROM: - W. David Slawson

“SUBJECT: Trip to Mexico City

“On Wednesday, April 8, 1964: Mr. Howard P. Willens,
Mr. William T. Coleman, Jr., and Mr. W. David Slawson, all on —
the staff of the Commission, flew. from Washington, D. C. to.
Mexico City. Mr. Coleman returned on Sunday, April 12 ana —
Mr. Slawson and Mr. Willens returned on an airplane leaving
Mexico City at about 3:20, Monday afternoon, April 13. This
memorandum will briefly summarize this trip plus some of the

meetings held in preparation for it.

TUESDAY - APRIL 7
10:20 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.

Willens, Coleman and’ Slawson met with Assistant
Secretary of State for Latin American Affairs Thomas Mann,
"Mr. Thomas Ehrlich of the Office of the Legal Adviser for the
State Department, and: two aides to Mr. Mann in Mr. Mann's .
‘office at about 10:20.a.m. Assistant Secretary Mann was:
Ambassador to Mexico at the time of the assassination and:
. :

' personally directed the investigatory effort and our relations.

“with the Mexican law enfercement authorities immediately after .

 

the newSof the President's death reached Mexico City. A copy

AW 55355 DoclId:32209809 Page 2
AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES
25: INTERNAL FILES

Date:08/12/93

Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION Peleased under the John
. Kennedy
: WC Assassination Records

: 179-40001-10168 Ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ases#: NW 55355 Date:
fi-24-2017

 

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR
FROM
TO

TITLE

DATE
PAGES

SUBJECTS
WARREN COMMISSION,

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS
P. 1-68; BOX C02

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
: WC

: SLAWSON, W. DAVID
: RECORD

: 04/22/64
: 68

TRIP TO MEXICO

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

: U

: REFERRED
: P

>: J f

AW 55355 DocId:32209809 Page 1
CIAHAS NO OBJECTIONTO, = Nem we,
MENT. 9 , . .

 

kind of ruthless action, either through some hope of gaining
‘from it or simply as revenge. The Ambassador added that not
“even the allegations of Alvarado or other rumors which may have
been current in Mexico. City to the effect that money had been
given to Oswald were really the cause of his suspicions, since
the Alvarado allegations were not made until a day or so later,
but that the fact that Oswald had visited the Cuban and Russian
Embassies in Mexico City shortly before the assassination, which |
he had learned from his security officers at the Embassy, plus
what he believed about Castro's character, seemed sufficient to
him to raise the gravest. suspicions. Laber,-he-potnbed-outh..
when--he-haed-a..chance to listen. to..the-Derticos-Armas. cael
his-sueptetons-were-strenpohened.

Ambassador Mann knew of no contacts by Oswald with
anyone in Mexico City other than his visits'to the Cuban and

Soviet Embassies and his staying at the Hotel del Comercio.

 
  
  
  
 

 
   
   
   
 

notographs of both the Cuban and Soviet _Embaes

Inenever anyone ‘left or covered Snag iar Srenees atjleast..
uring the norma], visiting _ our on Monday through Friday,

fering: the daytime en pictures could be taken without

AW 55355 DocId:32209609 Page 3
ee tn nee ame tee eae nen cheba oe epee cet en, «pega rte ceermee ace ere sere een oe eee etn et eG eee aah Seem ee eter

- CIAHAS NO OBJECTION 10

_DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR wad yo
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT.
AS SANITIZED Crs er |

view of the facts known to him and his assistants at the time :

and in view of the extreme seriousness of the occurrence.

w

3:30 p.m. - 4:30 p.m.

At 3:30 in the afternoon Mr. Caen: the CTA
came to the Commission offices and conferred there with
Slawson, Willens and Coleman. ’ This conference grew out: of a-
suggestion made by Mr. Richard Helms of the CIA about two _
weeks. previous, in which he had mentioned that it would be a
good idea if a representative. of his agency met with those
persons from the ‘Commission who planned to go to Mexico just

before they left, in order to insure that the CIA could

properly advise us of any last-minute arrangements and properly .

alert. its people in Mexico of our arrival.

We discussed whether wwe would journey to Mexico
officially and openly or completely incognito, and Fie vo]
- offered. to. make arrangements to get us into Mexico completely»
unnoticed if we desired to do so. We told him that we did not
want to try. to keep the trip entirely secret, We would do our
best to avoid any kind of newspaper publicity or public

annéuncenents. We intended to introduce ourselves at the

HW 55355 DocId:32209809 Page 4.
