a FEB 27 798 @3:@8PM

at MA

.) man and I said that I recalled hin as a fairly tall man of average bulid with . .
black hair, black eyebrows and glasses. Of considerable interest is the fact .
that perhays 15 to 20 minutes latcr I was shown on 3X 10 glossy photograph of
several people walking in front of what appeared to be a public building and
.was asked whether I could identify any of the people in the picture. I could
Hot, Mr. Postal pointed to tho central figure and asked if I could identify hin.
I snid I could not. (The picture was of a min probably in his midesixtics with
flowing white hair - scmewhat on the order of Senator Keating - a large down-
curvinz‘nose, white, straight eye brows behind dark glasses, a somewhat lined,
puffy face, and a slightly receding forchead accentuated by the fact that his
hair was combed straight from front to back, The man was wearing a dark blue
or black suit, and one man appeared to be accompanying him to his lett and
slightly ahead, and another mun slightly to his right and rear, Without hav~
ing any reference points by which to judge, ny best guess would be that the
subject was about 5'10" tall. He appearod to be rather heavy, perhaps in the
Tange of 220 pounds. There seemed to be a caption of some sort at the bottom
of the picture but this was hidden from ny view.) Hr. Postal asked whether

the main figure in the photoyraph could have been the man the Attorney General
directed me to see. I yeplied that. oven allowing for tho difference in years,
the man in the photograph in no way-resanbled the man I saw on behalf of the
Attorney General. ;

7. Messrs. Postal and Rhea again brought up the subject of assassination

and asked whether I had engaged in or had heard mention of, in Task Force W
or SAS, discussions on the subject of assassination either in general or
specifically with respect to Castro. I told the investigators that the subject
cam up repeatedly when we were speaking with Cubans, tiany of whom, having been
forced to flee Cuba, sincerely wished for Castro's imediate denise, I said
that I had never-heard of or engaged in conversations with Agency officers about
any plan the direct and only. aspect of which was the assassination of Fidel
Castro. I pointed out that on a mmber of occasions I dealt with Cubans who

‘ wanted to Kill Castro, but thet iy; job was simply to attempt to extract fron
these contacts the nazes of people in Cuba who might ba of potential use to us
fn intelligence operatiens. I said that I had never engaged in plotting with
cubans raga assassination but that I had many conversations with Cubans
regarding their desire co comiuct parandlitary ac tivities which, as a by-product,

_ right well result in Castro's death. I pointed cut emphatically that the Agency's

policy prohibits political assassination.

8. X was asked if I knew Bill, Wainwright and Nestor Sanchez. IY told then
that I knew them both aml that Nestor and I shared an office for a short period
neat tho end of my attachment with SAS. I was asked if "AMLASH! meant anything
to me and I replied in the negative. This was followed by whether Bi11 ond
Nestor had discussed with me or mentioned an operation of theirs involving a
high level officer of the Cuban goverment, a military man who made frequent
trips out of Qba. Again I could only reply in the negative. 1 added the
juxtaposition of Bill and Nestor in the context of a single operation surprised

e CONFIDENTLY

 

 
   

HY 53217 Docld:32404585 Page 9
)

ser
‘
EY

AW 53217 DocId:32404585 Page 10

NWBBREEB. 27 798 03:10PM (OR * P, 7
——_- ;

wv
s : ”

—

me inasmuch as I helioved Nestor to have been involved only in psychological
operations aml Bill working at collecting foreign intelligence. I was tien
asked if the word “AMOTS"” meant anything to me and I said it did but that al1
‘I could say was that it had to do with counterIntelligence activities. Mr.

“Rhea asked me whether I could say that the "AMOTS" activity was concerned with

i

‘contacting Cuban exiles in the Nidal area and I indicated that this was my
undorstanding. Tho subject was not pursucd further.

9, Iwas asked about my visit to Now Orleans (which I had mentioned during
the previous session) and Y explained that these two trips were for the purpose
of attcspting to find ways of establishing channels of cormmication between the
exiled Cubans in New Orleans and their friends in Cuba. I indicated that I had
been able to cona up with a very fine prospect, a Cuban, and that I had turned
him over to ono of our FI Case Officers. I also said that I had several dis-
cussiorswith on Anerican whom I declined to identify under the general ground
vule relating to sources of information. Messrs. Postal and Rhea asked if I
would respond affirmatively 1£ they were to suggest somo initials which might
correspond to the nana of my American contact. I agreed to do this but the
initials which they mentioned meant nothing. (Unfortimately, I camot recall
then!) I volumteered the initials of ny contact,"FJ", and this produced a blank
expression on the part of both investigators and a shrug of Mr. Khea's shoulders.
The final question I was asked was whether I had any knowledge of the 'Ponchar-
train Operation’. I ‘told then that I knew where Lake Ponchartrain was, and
that's as far as it went. . oo

"10. We spent a little time on the subject of General Landsdale. I ad-

mitted I had attended one meeting in Gencral Landsdale's office in the Pentagon.

I was asked whether anyone else was there and said that I could recall only one
nane, Cornelius Roosevelt, but that there were two other people at the meting.

In response to a series of questions about what was discussed at that meeting,

I said that General Landsdale was intorested in various paranilitary possibilities
and that ry role was limited to giving a quick assessment of whether we had the -
agent assets to assist in carrying out the various possible operations that
General Landsdalo sugyested. ao

.. 1. I was asked whether tho term “Mongoose” meant anything to me and I
indicated that it was a general tern used to refer to a composite of planned
operational activities. I said that I had no knowledye of any specific activity
being planned under this nane and further explained that it was possible that
some of my Cuban contacts might have been taken over by other Case Officers for
use under ‘Mongoose but that I had no direct knowledge of such having been done.

12. Mr. Robert Kelly expressed considerable interest in the organization of
Task Force W. At ene point he asked how many echelons there were between me and
Mr. Helis. I told them that J reported to 2111 Harvey; that my title was Special
Assistant; that Mr. Harvey reported to Mr. Hels; that I froquently received

~ |
CD.

s

 
  

 
: menorandin (I
Sav this during a meoting with Bil) Storbits Jest Frifsy jn Bill's offica)

shwhich requested that identification in the mme ef Fiscslini be assigned to me.
iD 4 cxplatned the cirousstances, which Mr. Postz! sad Mr. Rhea had-heard at our

earl. cr necting, and said that I thought the dzte was the end of }urch, 1962.
The clromstences involved & contact by a Kew Eoek lnyer, thru the Departnent

"Of Justice, conceming a client who had access ts Ccha and wanted to visit

3
J
z
ik
i
a

" pursuing
mentation that I received cane fron the Office ef Security but that I did not

kney whether thet Office selected the nmwe er oot. :
of

- S. Wa went over again the story ny cunact with 2 Canadian named "Joe"
a not eskeS for it and have not volun-
toored it). I described ons necting and # telegiome call involving Joe. In the se
meeting he claiaed thet he could travel beck ami forth from Cannda to Cuba; revealed $e

_, to me that ho was interested in starting # smursling activity involving goods

deal of tor sai cacerials or taaper with
Of money in exchange for allowing us to seni exte: or tamper w sone
of the shiments if we could get the proscrZie® mods to Canada, I explained to
t xy interest Jay ia the foct tint Joe claimed he could
to serve as a Reans
of conmumication between us ami Che, which Jobe refiesed to do. As for the tele-
Phono call, I-told thea that when Joe returned from Hs trip to Cube he called
on in Cubs amd we showld meet right avay.
Being avare that at that point we in the dAemcy were deep into what would later
be called the Cuban Missile Crisis, I told be ¥ cold got see him and that we
probably alresdy knew what he kad to tell mn. ‘ize ws the last I heard of Joe.

6. We spent a great-dezl of tine suing over ry meetings with the Attomey
General and his interest in 2 sul] grap of Ontans who claixed to have supporters
in Ouba ready to create an uprising Provinces. Tiris is tho casa de- ©

3
B
k
B
|
B
f
8
R
$

scrited in paragraph 3 of ny earlier accoranim. The Emvestigators woro quite

interested in the identity of the man wea I at the tequest of tho.\ttorncy
Genoral, I went over this again in as muck detail “ss I could renenbor But with-
out boing sble to recall wto this mn was. I wos ssited if I could describe the

 

AW 53217 DocId:32404585 Page @
 

. 19 Soptember 1975

-
Hf

HESORANOUM FOR THE REOORD .
SUBJECT; Interview by Senate Comittoo Invostizators

my .

1. On Thursday, 18 September 1975, I was interviewed for the second
time by investigators fron the Senate Cumittee. ‘Tho interview lasted fron
approxizately 12:20 a.m. until 1:15 pete My testinony was recorded and will
bo transcribed. When the transcription fs ready I will be required to read
it and swear to the truthfulness of the statcnents I nade. Under ordinary
circunstances, 2 Senator would have been present to swear me in at this in-
tervicw. Howover, because of the televised public hearings, no Senators were

. available. An unidentified wasn operated the equipment which consisted of a

Sony casette recorder and dictaphone casette recorder. The primary questioning
was by Mr, Postal and Mr, Gordon Rhea, the sans dovostizators with whon I spoke
on the earlier occassion, At one point or another during the proceedings three
othor nen joined us for various periods of tine. Mr. Rhott Davson appeared
shortly after the interview began and remained for. about en hour, Mr, Fred

I can't vouch for tho spalling). arrived after about half an hour and
reasinod for approx{mately twenty minutes, having received a phone call which
took hin away. Mr. Bob Kelly arrived shortly after Mr. Behren and stayed for
‘about 10 ninutes longer than Mr. Dehren, Tho interview was conducted in a rooa
in tho Carroll Arss a forser hotel across the street from the Senate Office

Building, 1

2. The neeting began with a reninder that I could have an attorney presont
end that I could refuse to answer any question which right tend to incriminate
ne. Iwas asked to describe in general terns my work with CIA. -2 told thes
that I joined in 1949; that I was and am now a member of the Office of Training;
that in 1960 or thereabouts f had a short tour of duty with the Econanfe Action
Group in the ODP, and that I went directly froa that assignent.to MiU/4 in _..

* Soptesber of 1961.

3. I was asked to recall ny major activities while with the Cuban operation

“and I did so. I reported that ny first assignment was the handling of a Cuban

agent, one wo wote using to build a nucleus of an Organization for evontual

operations into Cuba. I identified this man as Mr, ‘ojas (Mr, Rhea, having

hoard ay description of this activity at our earlier session, did not pursue
this matter any further).

 

AW 53217 DocId:32404585 Page 7
we)
' .

Al

IG

AW 53217

INPERVTEW FORM

NAME:, __-_PORD, Charles _ oT TELEPHONE ¢
ALIAS me nee : )
_ OFFICE OTR ee
_ OFFICE APPROVAL oo 2
SER MS sgnatave wate
DATE OF INTERVIEW 18 ‘sept 75. “TIMBNZO-13918
“LOCATION OF INTERVIEW. “Carrol Arms
TRANSPORTATION REQUIRED: YES NO a
“FROM HEADQUARTERS _ _, .
ne . ~ Ctiney , a :
(OTHER ! os So

 

 

Postal, Gordon Rhea, Rhett Dawson,

INTERVIEWED BY:

_, Fred Baron, Robert Kelly.

a
soe "Cuban Operations --Task Force W ~~ a ~
SUBJECT. ’ Coe .
: "Assassination of Castro - Maff{a connections. a oe

Sr a ernneeeeeeeeeee en
cn ne RO

Under oath. This was second meeting.

 

 

 

 

COMMENTS: © ee
4

_. a

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD: Attached

 

 

RET , | eZ,

DoclId:32404585 Page 5
 

“ ,
7

Interview by Senate Committee Investigators

Director of Training ae : ™, oo
woke | . 3245 19 September 1975
: . A oy

ppTR | . | | Prargi.
Do

DIR

Chlef, Division D . w4 }. , ya

t

7B-44 Has.

re

Aastatant to the Director
6D~15 Has.

Sled tT Sy tan

 

AW 53217 DocId:32404585 Page 6
vay

ee
.

Mr. J. Barry Harrelson
April 16, 1997
Page 9 :

 

“George Bush” in question. CIA is now checking whether the search query
included George Herbert Walker Bush prior to 1970. CIA should determine

. whether George Herbert Walker Bush is the person to whom the memorandum
refers and should provide a definitive statement regarding the scope of its search
and the basis of its conclusion.

CIA-IR-10 IG Reports.
CIA will determine whether the IG’s office maintains an index or inventory of its
reports and determine whether the IG’s office prepared a report on the handling
of Oswald.

CIA-IR-11 Warren Commission critics.

‘at the DO follow-up briefing on April 1, 1997. The DO had no response:and no
time frame for a response. ; ;

CIA-IR-13 Office or person dealing with organized crime and Cuba.
The Review Board requested that CLA make a particular personnel file available. ae

The file was made available by CIA for review. The Review Board will discuss
with you whether any further steps need to be taken.

AW 53217 DocId:32404585 Page 2
AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :
FROM :

TO
TITLE

DATE
PAGES

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

COMMENTS

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Released under the John
Kennedy
Assassination Records

AGENCY INFORMATION

CIA ollection act of 1992
F0e7 20336-20022 (44 USC 2107 Note).

ase#iNU 53217 Date:

PROJFILES-ARRB REQUESTS
6-24-2017

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ARRB
ARRB
CIA/HRG

: ARRB REQUEST: CIA-IR-13: OFFICE/PERSON DEALING WITH

ORGANIZED CRIME AND CUBA
04/16/1997
19

FORD CHARLES

JFK ASSASSINATION
UNIT INDEX

ARRB REQUEST
FISCALINI

PAPER

SECRET

1A

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
01/13/04
JFK-M-20 : UNIT INDEX

F13 20030731-973803

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10336-10012

AW 53217 DocId:32404585 Page 1
HW 53217

25 March 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: ARRB Request No. CIA-IR-13, for Information
‘Concerning Office or Person Dealing with -
Organized Crime and Cuba

1. ARRB Request No. CIA-IR-13, asked for information
on a specific office or person which may have dealt with
organized crime and Cuba about the time of the Kennedy
assassination. Further, the request asked for a response
concerning the searches made by the Agency’ to identify this
office or person. :

2. The Agency conducted an extensive records’ search
for any employee who might have been involved in activities
‘akin to those described within the request. The search
identified. a former employee, Charles D. Ford, as one who
may have had such responsibilities for a period of time.

: 3. The former employee's personnel file was requested
by the ARRB staff and it was provided. Review of the file
by a ARRB staff member resulted in a number of documents
being declared assassination records -- three fitness
reports and a recommendation, approval document and citation
for an Agency Career Intelligence Medal. These documents
have been added to materials awaiting indexing and review by
the ARRB. : : .

3. The inclusion of these documents within the JFK

collection for future processing completes HRP action on
subject request.

J. Barry Harrelson

Seen: Concur

 

 

For the Directorate of Operations date
For the Directorate of Administration date -
CONF TREND EAE

DocId:32404585 Page 3
¢

14 September 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Laura Denk .
Executive Director, ARRB

FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer, HRP/OIM

SUBJECT: © CIA-IR-13, Office or Person Dealing with
- Organized Crime and Cuba

1. This is in response to referent request:

2. Searches were made for information responsive to
the request and materials were provided for examination by
ARRB staff. From that examination, staff members selected a
number of documents to be included within the JFK - ‘
Collection. Those documents have now been included within
the JFK Collection and are being processed for release to
NARA.

3. This concludes the Agency’s action ‘on this request.
If you have any question, please advise.

  

oN

 

J. Barry Harrelsdn

AW 53217 DocId:32404585 Page 4
