NW 45959

CG 137-5316
cs

to do with the securities being carried by DEATON and something
to do with the Denver Bank. Two securities appeared and,
without the advice of Mr. POWERS, the $60,000 was handed to

Mr. DEATON. Also at this same time, $70,000 was paid by

Mr. ESPENCHEID to Mr. BILLINGSLEY for stock in a mining

company that would pay in gold or reclaim gold. They spoke of
having another processing system that would make steel very
quickly and they showed me the data. I told them it was not

a steel producing formula at all, it was merely a mix that you
put in a blast furnace that. would speed it up. Mr. ESPENCHEID
claimed that he had been bilked of a $130,000. C.W. DEATON
disappeared in five minutes and was drivén to the atrport

by BILLINGSLEY and left with the money. POWERS, being there,
offered his services to Mr. ESPENCHEID to collect the money

for 25 per cent of what he collected and he brought in GUIDO
FIDANZI as the man able to collect it. They kept putting

off Mr. ESPENCHEID stating that he would build the Gary Project
and the Shreveport, Louisiana Project. I felt sincerely that
he would be given the opportunity to build them. Theyclaimed
that because of the moneys involved that originated from the
Syndicate in Chicago, they had to keep JACKSON in the: pot,

but the money always came from ESPENCHEID, who is very clean
businessman. 80 they must have had s third dealing which I
didn't know about and that JACKSON is and has been notified
over the phone concerning. The deal was that he was to pay the
$60,000 back to POWERS. a . -

In August, they said they. would introduce me to a man

who had access to 16 actuaries or insurance companies and ~ N
another man who had access to banks. The man who had the 16 .
actuaries was GUS RUBINO whom I didn't know. He ap C lo
on the scene with a man who was his chauffeur, BILL XUBER. 0

That evening they asked me to have dinner with them 4nd they
introduced me to their banker, CHARLES YORK, whose brother they
Claimed was the President of an insurance company in Indianapolis,
and said that Mr. YORK was the President of a bank at

Mascoutah, Illinois. At dinner when they got to feéling pretty

_

-U-r-
CovER PAGE

DocId:32329577 Page 9
)
)

CG 137-5316
8 '

‘

good, they were telling me that. YORK had made a
mistake at the Bank of Mascoutah and was close to a Federal
Indictment. They said he hadabout four houns to get out
and he had gotten out by getting somebody to buy the stock
of the bank. In August I went to POWERS and asked him who
these people were. I said I didn't like the looks of it
and should we continue. He said, "With these associations
with these people, you can get out any time you want but

’ this is strictly legitimate because I w§1ll be handling the

“money and it comes from yur, biggest insurance companies. -{ {}.
How an you go wrong?" He said, "We will introduce you to —
principals." 80 they loaded me in a car and took me down ete ri
to 645 North Michigan Avenue to the office of the First 2/)“2<! © /

~ _ National Mor¥gage Company and introduced me to JOSKPAASTEIN. u Ss A.

Present at the meeting were FIDANZI; DAUBER; RUBINO? EIN; :
another gentleman from STEIN's office, LEONARD LLMAN;
YORK; and myself. They were talking a
make some checks good. They wanted to know if they could handle
any projects where they could get the 10 per cent fees. They
said they have a very good plan and ssked me to leave the room.
Bo I left the room and they were taking for about an hour.
When they came out they drove me to Wheeling, Illinois, to
251 East Dundee Road, where I met a gentleman by the name of
BOB FERRELL. The said that he was a man worth $2,500,000
and was very successful in obtaining financers. They said they
don't touch anything for less than 10 per cent down. I said,
"If I don't get the money for them or the loan, what. happens .
to the 10 per cent?" They said, "We get the lan.” I said, "Okay". |
So FERRELL was put on the Board and they incorporated, Actually
we were in business for a couple of weeks, hut doing nothing.
We really started about the middle of September, and
we had meetings in FERRELL's office with DAUBER and FIDANZI
and POWERS being present. Somafter there was 2 falling out
between POWERS and FIDANZI over a large sum of money that was
theoretically handed to POWERS to be transported to a gentleman

     
    

  

baal
HW 45959 DocId:32329577 Page 10
ca 137-6316
6

In the latter part of June or first part of

July, 1964, Mr. POWERS saw that several of these projects were
ery much real. We had obtained letters of intent from all
of the people giving us equity and construction, providing
we could finance. He took me down Zor coffee and said he would
like to give me the background. The background was in two
phases; 1. "Do you know who I am?" I said, "No, I do not."
He said, I am the attorney or one of the attorneys for the

aie _ syndicate and they have control of banks and insurance companies

- The banks and insurance companies are very real and very :

clean and there is nothing irregular about Akém at all. I
would like you to meet my partner." GUI FIDANZI appeared and
he was introduced as POWERS' partner. “Hé ld me that whatever
he got Mr. FIDANZI would get half of it, and they could assist
me in this program. I said, "Well, lets make it understood © ‘
now, the person I don't want to do any business with is Mr. NY.
JACKSON. I'#e had a very bad experience. I don't know Mr. _
FIDANZI or you, Mr. POWERS, but I would want to check you out,” ———
They said, "Anytime anything doesn't look right, you can leave
and you can move into my office at 75 East Wacker." They
put my name on the door of POWERS' office and I moved in.

The second phase was that he had to describe to me
the reason for certzin people being in the picture. The story ~
was 50 complex that I truthfully cannot repeat it to you so
I will tell it to you as I believe it to be.

DEATON and JACKSON appeared on the scene with some —
securities or proported that they could obtain some securities,
from which they could borrow a very sizeable sum of money
which would increase the net worth of North West Construction
Company considerably. To do this they would need $60,000.

Mr. BILLIKXGSLEY called Mr. ESPENSCHEID ‘and gave him this story
an@ as unbelieveable as it is, Mr. ESPENCHEID did not bring
a check hut he came with $60,000 in cash and they sat him in
a motel room. Present at the meeting was HARVEY POWERS,
BILLINGSLEY, DEATON, JACKSON, and a gentleman appeared on the
scene by the name of FRANK BLOSSER, the President of a bank

- in Denver. I never did meet him. The meeting had something

-=r -
CovER PAGE

HW 45959 DocId:32329577 Page 8
cn

9

CG 137-5316
5

in Oklaboma City and the main offices were in Tulsa. He asked
me if, in my design and engineering, I tame across projects
that needed financing. I said obviously every project needs
financing in some form. He ssid, "Would you pass them in front
of us?" I said, "Well, I would need to know more about your

company and h<w big i+ ia". He said he was going to oP.

 
 
   
  

data but he didn't. fig l7 , > /) A

aoe In May, 1964, about the \first of May, eS a.
~ CO; ence call. I bed JAMES JACKSON, Oklahoma Cy; HARVEY .
, en eitrsney in_Chicago,| 75 Bast Wacker Drive;
and a gentlemen by the name 0 LEY; on :
Mr. JACKSON said"Mr. POWERS represents. a client who is willing
to hire you for your se-vices concerning a steel will."
Mr. POWERS i:d the seiking end seked me if I wouid take on the
client and I said I would be happy to. They discussed my
qualifications and I was eccerted and paid $2,090 a month.
The contract was signed on May 7, 1964. In a few days after
that they brough? in a gentlemen by the name of HARRY ESPENSCHIED,
President of Forth West Construction Compery of Rockford,
Illinois, and they stated that they wanted me to work for him as
_.&@ consulting engineer and he would pay me $1,000 a month
and I would heZp him obtain constrction contracts. This then
gave me $3,000 a month income, so I had the world by the tail. .
Tpe first project that ceme up was the Gary Park Tower, Inc.,
and I learned that the finencing waa committed to JAMES JACKSON.
The§ Mr. BILLINGSLEY becawe interested in some of the projects
that I had, and IJ wrote a memorandum to him describing the
jobs I had worked on and that I would be going on during the year
and they amounted pretty close t2 $100,000,000 worth.
This made « lot of people very interested. Mr. POWERS said that
42 I would work with him he wouid handie the litigations in
Toledo for $25,000. I didn’t have this money, nor did the
purchasers, which were BANK 4nd PIVAR. SHARP washed his hands
of the whole matter. They said if i would work with their people,
they would pey the legal expenses on the fight, continue with my
fee, and I would receive a bonus on each job.

_ 4H -
Bore Lege —

 

HW 4 959 DocId:32329577 Page 7
CG 139-5316
3

Then Mr. PIVAR demonstrated that we could buy a company
in Los Angeles that would return about $2,000,000 to us,
which purchase we went ahead with. HARRY W. BANK was
to be the financier, which he did not do. Navthis led
to a fight between the purchasers and the sellers, Then
in June, 1963, I received a telephone call from C.¥, DEATON
of Dallas, who said that JAMES JACKSON said that they
had purchased the ownership of the French Pavilion and the
World of Food Pavilion at the New York World's Fair
and would we be the contractor for them and that they would
finance the job. Funds in Escrow from various exhibitors were
turned over to them in trust because in some manner they got
to be the officers o @ corporation.--Their attorney at ny.
that time was GEORG OXAHAN, former Commissioner of Police

oe new Xork Citi three o oubtedly wer
eece the exhibitors. We didn't know this at the time

but the money in trust was turned over to them and we sere
called in again to examine the prints and agreed we would
do the job at cost plus 10.

"While there was a fight between the purchasers and
_. the sellers, Mr. HUGHES met vith Mr. DEATON in New York City
and they discussed Mr. DEATON buying Kaighin and Hughes
and Mr. HUGHES was satisfied. I left the decision entirely
up to him because you could see as trustee and President
of the company, I was getting in the middle of about three
or four groups. Mr. HUGHES stated that he would sell to anyone
who had the money, Mr. DEATON gave three checks, one in the
amount of $109,000 and two totalling $250,000. $100,000
was the deposit on the purchase and $250,000 was the down payment
on the purchase of Kaighin and Hughes. While I was out of town,
I got a telephone call from the office and learned that the checks
had bounced. We got hold of DEATON and JACKSON and we ran
a check on them immediately. DEATON, we could find nothing
about at all, except that he was carrying with him a letter on
a Bank st Nassau stating that he had a line of credit of
$1,000,000 and was an officer of this bank. On JAMES JACKSON,
we learned that he had served a term for fraud in the State
of Florida or Georgia. I'm pretty sure it was Florida. 80, we

NW 45959 DocId:32329577 Page 5

 
CG 137-5316
4

immediately broke off relationships with these projects but

the;; had us in pretty bad shape on the World of Food Pavilion
because we had let some subcontracts go, and we learned that
they moeey in escrow had disappesred. The FBI was called into
it a at time. I know that for s fact some of it went to
JOHNXMOKAHAN, the former Commissioner of New York City Vv. f,
Pol Department, because Ss or

t ° to take part in it. Thep this brought

the warfare between the group that I represented and LLOYD
HUGHES out in the open because they said, “You are interferring
with the operations of the company and behind onf’backs tried to
sell to people we didn't want." DEATON.and JACKSON professed
complete innocence and stated that JACKSON had received a pardon
and had established a new life so to speak. So, on September 13,
1963, things became unbearable. I went into consulting practice
and did reasonably well. I continued testifying, figting and
representing the purchasers, and it was taken before the Federal
Court. Mr. HUGHES had confession notes so he immediately had
judgments and we coutered with a counter suit for $5,000,000 and
a hearing was held and it was stated that we had grounds for
~our case so the judgments were set_aside and the fight was on.
YWeBANK and POWERS couldn't have and didn't come up with their
share of the expenses. Mr. SHARP, who had very Attle to do
with Kaighin and Hughes, came up with $25,000 cash bond to the
court to support the fact that we were people of’ substance, paid
the legal fees and he put Gut about $50,000 cash and said that
he wanted to get rid of BANK and PIVAR and anyone else in the mess
and lets get.out of this. He arused me of very poor judgment
and he was right. He threw me a couple of bones to work on as
an engineer, one of which was # cement plant, and I was able to
make the ends meet, hat it was close.

In gbout April, 1964, I received a call from JAMES JACKSON
from Tulsa, Oklahoma. I learned since then it was actualiy
Betheny, Oklahoma, which is a suburb of Tulsa. He asked me
what I was doing and I toldhim I was a consulting engineer and
taking on clients. He professed complete disassociation with
DEATON and said he waschow the Chief Mortgage Officer for
Columbia National Life Insurance in Tulsa and that he lived

Ceasers Seige

NW 45959 Docld:32329577 Page 6
HW 45959 DocId:32329577 Page 2

<

 

FD-263 (Rev. $-1-59) bd . °

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION _ -

     
 
   
 

INVESTIGATIVE PERICO

9/29/64 - 1/18/65
TILE OF CASE oO

 

. NE- 8A CARLTON H. WOLFARTH mjt
in FRANK A. BLOSSER, CHARACTER OF CASE

Sy. HOME INDUSTRIAL BANK,

ee AURORA, COLORADO ITSP; AR

     
   

 

pr
i ENCES: Chicago letter to Bureau dated 11/9/64. °
eel Chicago airtel to Indianapolis: dated 12/17/64. (1
C_ a Report of SA JESSE L, ORR dated 1/4/65 at Denver.
LE . :
ho OE 0
C- =?
7 LEADS
Lg fy 4 ‘INDIANAPOLIS AND MILWAUKEE - INFORMATION
mad J7 es ————
fe Copies of this report have been designated for
i" Indianapolis and Milwaukee inasmuch as there may be a request
t. pote additional investigation in these offices.
4 7
“~~ 227 penven ~
) ee ; ole
jn. a AT AURORA, COLORADO. Will ascertain telephone number ay
it and telephone cre card number of FRANK A. BLOSSER and ascer- _}
j- tain toll calls made by BLOSSER for period February, 1964, to
y May, 1964 on “ -
y APPROVED Vir 7 \ v none DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW
/*° rms mapa:
A Ww
7 j (copies on if page)
ob

/- /- Berean (57—36294)
@ AMAR 12 1865

j Disseminction Record sf Atroched Report

ee es

ce >
How Pwd,

 
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/1/2015
Identification Form

 

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: .124-90086-10234

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 87-76294-36

 

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DN
TO: HQ
TITLE

DATE: 01/20/1965

Agency Information
| PAGES: 30

|

i

JOSEPH STEIN
FRANK A. BLOSSER
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT .
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4

|
|

CURRENT STATUS:  Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

a
v9.1 1 °
HW 45959 DocId:32329577 Page 1
 

7D-308 (Rev. 1-88-40) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

j

1 ;
On November 24, 1964,[ Sd, OTHER 4
3452 -Chapel Drive, Toledo, Ohio, appeared at the Chicago

Office of the FBI and furnished the following information

which he requested be maintained on a confidential :
basis. It is to be a tel facctaee sot: forth.is '
information furnished by verbatum. It is to be further

noted that[ sj in furnishing this account appeared

to ramblo on aimlessly; however, he was attempting to

furnish information as to the facts as they happened.

It will be further noted that[ born OTHER 4
July 11, 1923, is married and the father o our children, ‘

He has an extensive educational background, having
attended and graduated from Emerson High School, Gary,
Indiana; Bliss Electrical Engineering College, Takoma
Park, Maryland; and the University of Texas College of
Engincering. He is a registered professional engineer
and was formerly an Ensign in the United States Naval
Reserve frem which he vas honorably discharged:

“I went to work for Kaighin and Hughes in
August, 1961, as Vice President and Director of the
Company. In 1962, I became the Assistant to the

President, LLOYD WUCH “There were two owners,
LLOYD HUGHES end nEwneQaHIN This was a Toledo, Ohio firn,

In July, 1962, I received a call from a man
by the name of HARRY W, BANK of Beverly Hills, Californis,
who stated he was a finsncier and could finance the
design and building of composting plants, and would we
come out and seo him for these projects, There would .
be 12 of thom. I went out and while talking to him,
1 had learned just a week or so prior, there had been an
argument between KEN KAIGHIN and LLOYD HUGHES in which
LLOYD HUGHES stated he would buy out KENT KAIGHIN. He 5
gaid if LLOYD HUGHES then bought out KENT KAIGHIN he would ’
own the stock. I said that is correct. He said could ©
wo then buy the company and I stated, *Yes you could. a
You would own 100 per cant’of the stock.” 80 he identified 2,
his associate as SAMU IVAR of 111 John Street, New York, + -

11/24/64 ., Chicago, Illinois File #__137-5316

 

 

 

NPR de HVE Cate dieteted 22/24/84

Canvsing eowubes tecemmocdaitons cer cone helene ef the FSI. REM rely Se rah se inet

Sqeney; Uh Gad We eoniesia ase cet te be GinWibeled qulekio your eqeney.

z.

 
CG 137-5316
2

an attorney, both of whom stated that they were the people
who had just bought and leased back Harrah's Club in Reno
and had made a commission, We ran # Dun and Bradstreet
on both of the gentlemen and at that time it looked very
good. Mr. PIVAR showed a $1,250,000 net worth. Mr. BANK's
net worth is unknown but had been known to put together

some '

pretty good deals. On November 2, 1962, the purchase of ’

Kaighin and Hughes was consumated, wherei was trustee

for the purchasers, who were then HARRY BANK: SAMUEL PIVAR; :
~_ ) -§ corporation that they had calle Orporate Resources, LTD.,

another friend of mine that I convinced to buy in was

this J.W. SHARP for 24 per cent. J.W. SHARP has been a very

close friend and associate of mine since 1956 and I have

done engineering and design work for him On cement plants. Can ado

He is the President of a steel company, & men worth akout
$100,000,000. He is. gsséciated with GEOR le
of Vancouver and soa bivinsox of Los Angeles and gary, whose

combined net worth n excess of $1,000,000,000 so they ig ‘ -
are very legitimate businessmen. FRANK MC MANN sits on th

Board of Directors of the Royal Bank of Canada. So on-
wy say, they bought 25 per cent of the stock and I was trustee

of the balance. We then invited the list of men t you Ohio
~have there to be on our Board of Directors. HUGHES was wy.
Chairman, an honorary position, with myse fas esident. .

 
     
   

k e had LE ROBERTSON, and SAMUEL PIVARU
° RDYWOLSON, an_attorney from Toledo
Vice Président of Carnation Milk, ?
President of Space Needle at Seattle World's Fair and on

the Board of many banks atual funds and a shopping center
expert; and Major GeneralAFARRAND. Major General FARRAND is retired
~from_the Arry, er neral of the Third Ary “"—
vision, #nd is President of St, John's Military Academy. U.S.A,

During this period of time at the company, HARRY .W.
BANK introduced to me in April. 1963, in bis Los Angejes ice, |
two mtlemen, one by the nazxc of JAMES VAACESON ¥ “ether © vf
Cc. EATON and they ssid that the fers and had a © /c
shopping center in Tulsa, Oklshoma and we could have the job if © |
we gave them $50,000. I refusea their deal and turned them dows:

a a fy gg OL oP

aut 4 /
NW 45959 DocId:32329577 Page 4 OWS, ee

 
