 

in terms of foreign bases, appropriate targets and
acceptable publicity releases, they will not be able to
operate effectively against Cuba. .

5. It is requested that approval be granted for the
CIA to proceed with the implementation of the program as

outlined above.

 

HW 54214 DocId:32977073 Page @
2 Uis

6

to provide, _ through appropriate c cover, for the establish-

 

ment of the Base camp, procurement of fishing and strike
boats, and other required materiel and services. It is
estimated that operating costs would be about $15,000
monthly based on approximately 20 men with two fishing
and two strike boats. To the fullest extent possible,
Comandos L personnel or the Cuban front will accomplish
all their own procurement and other required activities.
Any specialized equipment or guidance which must be pro-
vided by the CIA will be non-attributable and accomplished
by appropriate covert mechanisms.

F. U.S. INFLUENCE:

 

It is felt that an acceptable degree of U.S. Government
influence can be exercised over the Comandos L action

operations by having the Cuban front it clear that
any actions not in 1 accordance with the agreements (which CIA
will stipulate through the American cutout), will not only

result in all support being immediately terminated but but in

addition such actions would undoubtedly result in U. 8. [rane fand/4 I. 2
or..British | authorities a maximum effort to restrict

future Comandos L activities. In addition, we believe that
Comandos L leadership realizes that unless its operations

‘are conducted within the generé framework of U.S. Policy

 

HW 54214 Docld:32977073 Page 7
C. MODUS OPERANDI:

 

A wealthy American who has been deeply involved in
Cuban and Latin American affairs for many years and who
has cooperated closely with CIA in the past, would be asked
by CIA to present the program to an eminent and respected
Cuban exile who in turn would be asked to act as @ funding
and cover front for the support to be furnished to
Comandos L. The Cuban front would then approach the
leadership of the Comandos L action element and indicate
- funds come from conservative elements of the Cuban exile
community and from contributors located in Central America
and in the United States. CIA or U.S. Government involve-
ment would not be revealed to any members of Comandos L.
The Cuban front would spell out the use of a Caribbean
Operations Base and why he wants to concentrate on the
North Coast, i.¢., accessibility. Additional ground
rules would also be established regarding target selection
_and tactics. | The essential point would be made that final
authority for all actions rests with the Cuban front or
his representative. If Comandos L accepts this proposition,
the Cuban front would then go about acquiring a Caribbean

ae ate erence amen

Operations Base under guidance from the American cutout.

  

mud 54214 DoclId:32977073 Page 5
 

Once a Base is obtained, members of the Comandos L would
depart legally from the United States to a Caribbean
country where they would board fishing vessels, provided
by the Cuban front, which would then t ake them to the
Caribbean Operations Base. From the Operations Base,
strike boats would be towed to close proximity off the
North Coast where they would then be released to carry
out their mission. After completing a mission, the
strike boats would rendezvous with the fishing boats and
then return to the operational base. Upon completion of
an operation, appropriate relatively low-key publicity
releases will be made outside the U.S. in consonance with
guidance furnished covertly by the CIA.

D. OPERATIONAL BASE:

LS

 
 
 
 
  

A British Island, in the Bahamas or one of the Cayman
Islands would serve as Caribbean Base for Comandos L. The
Island would be leased by contacts of the Cuban front or }lo
the American cutout under a suitable cover story. We
would not plan to inform the British of the activities
of the group or of U.S. involvement.
aa E. CIA SUPPORT:

We estimate the initial capital investment of approxi-

mately one hundred thousand dollars would have to be made

 

 

HW 54214 DocId:32977073 Page 6
ye

gS a 43 Bus 1963

FROM THE COORDINATOR OF CUBAN AFFAIRS

TO THE SPECIAL GROUP

SUBJECT : Support of Autonomous Anti-Castro Groups

REFERENCE '; Memorandum for the Standing Group of The
National Security Council, dated 8 June
1963, SUBJECT: Proposed Covert Policy

and Integrated Program of Action towards
Cuba.

1. Submitted herewith for consideration and approval
is a covert program for the support of an autonomous Cuban
exile group. This program is an implementing measure of
the previously approved course of action F in reference
memorandum, which calls for support of autonomous anti-Castro
groups as part of the integrated program of action towards
Cuba.

2. It is proposed that non-attributable support in the
form of funds, materiel and guidance be furnished to the
action element of a Cuban exile group known as Comandos L

which is an offshoot of the exile action group original]

 

known_as Alpha 66. This support would only be furnished if a
mutually acceptable modus vivendi can be agreed upon which
does not conflict with current U.S.G. policy. Comandos L

have been conducting fund drives and the money collected

ie

 

HW 54214 DocId:32977073 Page 2
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date 06/25/98
Page : 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

 

FROM

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSC
145-10001-10200

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

THE COORDINATOR OF CUBAN AFFAIRS
THE SPECIAL GROUP

08/13/63
7

 

Released under the John
. Kennedy
Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#: NU 54214 Date:

SUPPORT OF AUTONOMOUS ANTI-CASTRO GROUPS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

1c
RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
02/24/98

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION
TO DECLASSIFICATION

HW 54214 DoclId: 32977073

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Page 1
 

appears to have been properly handled and applied to anti-
Castro propaganda and ‘action operations. The group's present
primary action program calls for maritime operations, ¢.g.,
attacking shipping in Cuban waters and making commando- type
attacks on targets in Cuba. To date they have _conducted at
least one such operation in Cuban waters; in this operation
which took place in March 1963 the group fired on an unidentified
ship (which turned out to be a Russian freighter) in the Cuba
harbor of Caibarien. The group has been relatively inactive

_ since the recent restrictions were placed on the movement of

certain Cuban activists and their boats but recent reports

 

several boats and some personnel to the base. There are also
reports that several factions of the action element of Comandos
L have had discussions with Luis Somoza of Nicaragua and are
considering operation out of Nicaragua if Somoza will support
them. .

3. The general lines of the proposed program would be as
follows:
A. OPS CONCEPT:

———————

The conduct by Comandos L of a series of anti-Castro

 

HW 54214 DocId:32977073 Page 3
 

maritime operations along the north coast of Cuba;
particularly during the light of the moon period when
unilateral CIA maritime operations are not being con-
ducted. These operations would provide valuable

support to the CIA operat ions by wearing down Cuban coastal
defenses and by preventing the establishment of any dis-
cernible operational pattern. The successful execution
of these operations wuld.also make a significant con-
tribution to the objectives of reference program in that
such operations will stimulate internal resistance and
weaken Castro/Communist efforts to consolidate the
position of the regime.

B. SCOPE AND MAGNITUDE:

ducted with the targets being Cuban patrol vessels and/
or Cuban owned shipping in Cuban harbors @ waters and

coastal installations such as docks, warehouses and other

such facilities. The selection of targets for proposed

 

operations will be reviewed by the Cuban front (and thence
covertly by CIA) for conformance with whatever policy
framework may obtain at the time. Any deviations from
approved proposals will be dealt with on an ex post facto
basis in line with paragraph 3F below.

 

HW 54214 DocId:32977073 Page 4-
