 

Letter to. the Director of central Intelligence
Res Ocelot

Jack Anderson's column in the Washington Post on May 6,
1977, claims that Antonio Veciana has testified before
the House Assassinations Committee that he was in con-
tact with Lee Harvey Oswald in Dallas, Texas, in ‘August, —
1963. (u)

: The above asset has furnished other sensitive
intelligence information, including the identities of
previously unknown CIO's, and it is anticipated that he
will be of future value to our foreign counterintelllgence
effort. Any effort by the Cuban Government to exploit .
the propaganda value of information obtained from this

'. recently developed asset over the period of seven previous
meetings would necessarily cost their intelligence service
the public identification of several CIO's currently in

Jamaica and Mexico. You are being made aware of the above .
developments since it is recognized that the Cuban Govern-

ment may elect to publicize this videotape for propaganda
“purposes and that such an event could impact upon current
policy decisions. (8) .

_- This information is also being furnished to the
. Secretary of State, the Assistant to the President for. .
| Wational Security Affairs, and the Attorney General. :

- SECRET

 

AW 50529 ‘DocId:32394059 Page 9

 

 

 
HW 50529

BCRET

Letter to the Director of Central Intelligence
Re: Ocelot

wag employed in the United States Embassy, to Chile. This
plan was aborted by other Cuban exile participants at the
last minute. Asset had previously furnished this infor-
mation to CIO's during other meetings. (8S) . > :

fe 7 eet : . re

' Asset was also questioned about a 1961 assassi-
nation attempt directed at Castro in Cuba, in which the
asset participated. He acknowledged that he, Veciana,

- and Bernardo Pradreres had at that time tried to kill

Castro with a bazooka. They waited in an apartment, which
was rented in Havana, Cuba, by Veciana'’s mother-in-law,
for Castro to appear at the nearby Cuban capitol. Pradreres
had hired two other individuals not known to the asset to
do the actual firing, but when Castro finally appeared the
‘bazooka failed to fire due to its deteriorated state from
having been buried for an extended period of time. The
Cuban authorities later discovered the ‘bazooka, which had
been left in the apartment, and were then able to identify
all of the participants. (8) ;

During the initial interview of asset on
April 8, 1977, he made available a photograph obtained
from Antonio Veciana, which Veciana claimed to depict
Lee Harvey Oswald in attendance at an Alpha 66 meeting
in Dallas, Texas, in 1963. Another photograph depicted
Veciana as a speaker at this _meeting.. The-asset.had
made this information available to CIO's at previous
meetings. In the last segment of videotaping in Mexico,
the asset was confronted with enlarged photographs of
the alleged Alpha 66 meeting and was asked to point out
the individual similar in deseription to Oswald, after .
which the videotaping was concluded. The whole taping
process lasted approximately 90 minutes and consumed
almost three reels of videotape. (5)

Photographs made available by the asset were
examined by FBI agents familiar with the Oswald investi-
gation and it was determined that Lee Harvey Cswald ig
not depicted in these photographs. It is noted that

DoclId: 32394059 Page 8
SECRET

te

Letter to the Director of Central Intelligence
Re: Ocelot.

fhe asset has advised that he was transported
by automobile from the meet site in Mexico City toa
hotel room equipped with videotape equipment and occu~
--pied by two Cuban techniclans. -The asset was then asked
questions by CIO's and his responses were recorded on
videotapa. They assured the asset that this tape would
be shown to high Cuban officials, including Pidel Castro,
and that it would not be made public. There is, however,
obvious propaganda value in this film which could be
utilized by the Cuban Government. Asset was specifically
advised by CIO's that Premier Fidel Castro has a forth-
coming television-news interview with an unnamed U. S.
news commentator, and that they wanted Castro to see this
videotape prior to his interview. (5S) .

According to the asset, the interview began
with questions regarding his family life in Cuba before
the Castro revolution, after which he was asked to comment ..
on the former Batista Regime in Cuba. He was then asked
to name the political movements of which he had been a
member. He told the interviewer that in 1964 he had worked
with Alpha 66, a militant anti-Castro organization head-
quartered in Miami, Florida, in helping approximately
twenty-eight Cuban exiles and arms pass through Puerto Rico
to Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, for use against Cuba
and that all but four of these. Cuban.exiles had. returned
to Puerto Rico. The four who did not return are now in
Cuban jails. (5) :

Asset was also asked about his participation in
an assassination attempt of Fidel Castro in Chile in 1971.
The asset stated that he had participated in the attempt
with Antonio Veciana, a Cuban. exile now residing in Miami.
When asked if Veciana had been employed by the CIA, he~
replied that he did not know, however, assumed that he
was, based on the fact that Veciana had used a car with
United States diplomatic license plates to transport the
necessary arms and equipment from Bolivia, where Veciana

SECRET

~2-

HW 50529 DocId:32394059 Page 7
 

Letter to the. Director of central Intelligence
Ret Scelot

Jack Anderson's colunn in the Washington Post on May 6, |:
1977, claims that Antonio Veciana has testified before
. the House Assassinations Committee that he was in.con- = os :
“ tact with > Lee > Harvey Oswald in Dallas, Texas, in August; ..--
1963~ @, : . oe,

 

 

The ‘above asset has furnished other sensitive - a
intelligence. information, including the identities of ~~:
previously unknown CIO's, and it is anticipated that he =:

_ will be of future value to our foreign counterintelligence |

_@ffort. Any effort by the Cuban Government to exploit —::
the propaganda value of information obtained from this. —.
recently develoned asset over the period of seven previous. —-
meetings would necessarily cost their intelligence service
the public identification of several CIO's currently in =.
Jamaica and Mexico. You are being made aware of the above .
developments since it is recognized that the Cuban Govern-.

_ Rent may elect to publicize this videotape for propaganda...

' purposes and that such an event conlid _Ampact upon current
policy decisions. (8) oo pee

 

 

- ‘his: information is also being furnished to a!
._. Seeretary of State, the Assistant to the President for © -
-!) Watdional Security Affairs, and the Attorney General.

 

 

 

“SECRET

 

WW 50529: Docld:32394059 Page 5
/ . ; , Pate jes Oa... a

: orrice oF THE DIRECTOR SECRET

 

ay

*
?

on

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

BY LIAISON
Date: June 6, 1977
To: Director of Central Intelligence

- From:-”- - Clarence M. Kelley, Director 2 = ~~~

“ Subject: + OCELOT;. . .

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA _

This is to advise of pertinent developments in

-a double agent operation, assigned the code name "Ocelot,"

which involves a meeting between our asset and Cuban
Intelligence Officers (CIO's) in Mexico on May 19, 1977.

We learned, after debriefing the asset upon his return

from Mexico, that the format of the meeting had unex-
pectedly involved a videotaped interview of our asset

by Cuban technicians concerning his knowledge and partici-
pation in anti-Castro Cuban exile activities. (S)

The asset developed in this operation first
became of investigative interest to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI). in November, 1976, when allegations
were received that he was in contact with known CIO's in
Jamaica during October and November, 1976. Subsequent
investigation, coordinated closely with the Central
Intelligence Agency (CIA), confirmed. an.active.relation-
ship with Cuban officials in Jamaica, Panama and Mexico.
A successful interview of asset was effected on April 8,
1977, which resulted in establishing a double agent
operation. At that point, the asset furnished details
of seven previous meetings with CIO's in Jamaica, Panama
and Mexico. In addition, asset furnished a typewritten
note containing instructions for his next meeting in
Mexico City, on May 19, 1977, which involved a coded
telephone call to the Cuban Embassy, Mexico City, to
activate the scheduled meet at a pre-determined time
and place. The purpose of this meeting, according to
the asset, was for the passage of additional information
concerning the activities of Cuban exile groups in the
United States and Latin America, as had been done at
previous meetings. (S)

. SECRET
Classified by 5182

Exempt from GDS, Categories 2 and 3
Date of Declassification, Indefinite

HW 50529 DocId:32394059 Page 6

 

 
OFFIGE of vni-orancton . e . SECRET
: . Lo al

 

 

"UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT. OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU oF INVESTIGATION | nt

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

' BY LIAISON :

 

Date: June. 6, 1977 _
To: " ¢ Director of Central Intelligence om
From: Clarence M. Kelley, Director 7

Subject: +. OCELOT;
: _ INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

 

This is ‘to advise of pertinent developments in

a double agent operation, assigned the code name "Ocelot,"

which involves a meeting between our asset and Cuban

a Intelligence Officers (CIO's) in Mexico on May 19, 1977.

 

OwTOn,

&,

S
%
2
=
a

rrgast®

 

AW 50529

' previous meetings. (S$)

We learned, after debriefing the asset upon his return

~ from Mexico, that the format of the meeting had unex-

pectedly involved a videotaped interview of our asset :
by Cuban technicians concerning his knowledge’ and partici- :
_ pation in anti-Castro Cuban exile activities. ' (8) Laos

“The asset developed in this operation first
became of investigative interest to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI). in November, 1976, when allegations

'. were received that he was in contact with known CIO's in

Jamaica during October and November, 1976. Subsequent

- . investigation, coordinated closely with the Central

Intelligence Agency (CIA) , confirmed. an_active..relation-
ship with Cuban officials in Jamaica, Panama and Mexico.

’ A successful interview of asset was effected on April 8,

1977, which resulted in establishing a double agent ©.
operation. _At that point, the asset furnished details_
of seven previous meetings with CIO's in Jamaica, Panama
“and Mexico. In addition, asset furnished a.typewritten
note containing instructions for his next meeting in —
Mexico City, on May 19, 1977, which involved a coded
telephone call to the Cuban Embassy, Mexico City, to -
activate the scheduled meet at a pre-determined time =
and place. The purpose of this meeting, according to...
the asset, was for the passage of additional information
concerning the activities of Cuban exile groups: in the
United States and Latin America, as had been done at :

SECRET BS Bons
Classified by 5182 : : :
Exempt from GDS, Categories 2 and 3
Date of Declassification, Indefinite

DocId:32394059 Page 2

 

 

 

 
AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

. AGENCY ORIGINATOR

‘ FROM :
: DCI
: MEMO: INTERNAL SECURITY-CUBA

TO
TITLE
DATE
PAGES

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
COMMENTS

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

{R] -

AW 50529 DocId:32394059 Page 1

d ‘

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
- IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

CIA
104-10422-10269

JFK | =

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILES

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
FBI
DIRECTOR, FBI

06/06/1977
8

: WITHHELD

VECIANA BLANCH

PAPER
SECRET '

1B 1c .
RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
12/03/98
OFK-RH11 : F211 : 1998.12.03.14:31:26:123120 : TWO
COPIES. DUPLICATE OF 104-10102-10212 & 104-10103-10172

104-10422-10269
 

"Letter to the Director of Central Intelligence we
Re: Ocelot. : - ‘ ne Bem

_ The asset has advised that he was transported no

“by automobile from the meet site in Mexico City to a -..
hotel room equipped with videotape equipment and occu-
pied by two Cuban technicians. The asset was then asked.
questions: by CIO’s and his responses were recorded on
videotape. They assured the asset that this tape would °
-be shown to high Cuban officials, including Fidel Castro,
and that it’ ‘would not be made public. There is, however,

- obvious propaganda value in this film which could be . :
utilized by the Cuban Government. Asset was specifically «
advised by CIO's that Premier Fidel Castro has a forth- _.

‘soning television- news interview with an unnamed U. S.-
news commentator, and that they wanted Castro to see this

~ videotape prior. to his interview. (8) ey :

 

 

 

i ‘According to the asset, the ‘interview began. poe
‘with questions regarding his family life in Cuba before oo:
“the Castro. revolution, after which he was asked. to comment ..
“on the former Batista Regime in Cuba. He was then asked ~~
to name the political movements of which he had been a
member. He told the interviewer that in 1964 he had worked
with Alpha 66, a- militant anti-Castro organization head- -
‘quartered in Miami, Florida, in helping approximately: |
. twenty~eight Cuban exiles and arms pass through Puerto Rico.
' to Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, for use against Cuba .
and that all but four of these _Cuban_exiles.had returned
- to Puerto Rico. — The four who did not return are now in
Cuban jails. (8) - .

   

 

 

: Asset was also asked about his participation in
an assassination attempt of Fidel Castro in. Chile in 1971.
The asset stated that he had participated in the attempt 9)...
with Antonio Veciana, a Cuban exile now residing in Miami. |
When asked if Veciana had been employed by the CIA, he’
yeplied that he. did not know, however, assumed that he
was, based on the fact that Veciana had used a car with .
United States diplomatic license plates to transport ‘the
necessary arms and equipment from Bolivia, where Veciana.

 

SECREP |. oo, at mo Po.

a

HW 50529  Docld:32394059 Page 3
 

HW 50529:

 

 

Letter to the Director of Central Tntelligence
Re: Ocelot: oo . :

~ was employed ‘in the United States Embassy, - to ‘chile. This

plan was aborted by. other Cuban exile participants at the
last minute. Asset had previously furnished this. infor-_
mation to cIo's during other meetings. 8) ;

va . : oy
“Asset was also questioned about: a 1961 assassi-°
nation attempt: directed at Castro in Cuba, in which the
asset participated. He acknowledged that he, Veciana,

- and Bernardo Pradreres had at that time tried to kill

Castro with a bazooka. They waited in an apartment, which
was rented in Havana, Cuba, by Veciana's mother-in~law,

-€or Castro to appear at the nearby Cuban capitol. Pradrerea”..

had hired two other individuals not known. to the asset to:

‘do the actual firing, but when Castro finally appeared the :”

bazooka-failed to fire due to its deteriorated state from

- having been buried for an extended period of time. The

Cuban authorities ‘later discovered the bazooka, which had ©.
been left in the apartment, and were then able ‘to Aaentity
all of the participants. (Ss) Ne

 

During the initial interview of asset on
April 8, 1977, he made available a photograph obtained .
from Antonio Veciana, which Veciana claimed to Mepict ©
Lee Harvey Cswald in attendance at an Alpha 66 meeting

in Dallas, Texas, in 1963. Another photograph depicted |

Veciana as a speaker at this_meeting. The asset. had...

‘made this information available to CIO's at previous

meetings. In the last segment of vide notaping in Mexico,
the asset was confronted with enlarged photographs of

‘the alleged Alpha 66 meeting and was asked to point out.
the individual similar in description to Oswald, after ..:
which the videotaping was concluded. . The whole taping
process lasted approximately 90 minutes and consumed,

alnost three reels of videotape. (5)

Photographs mada available by the asset were |.
examined by FBI agents familiar with the Oswald investi-:-

- gation and it was determined that Lee Harvey Oswald is

not depicted in these photographs. It is noted that
SECRET

~3-

Docld:32394059 Page 4

 

 

 
