 

a a
- ; . '
CONFIBENTIAL |
|
Oh |
: OTHE
—, is a Potential Security Informant. We have been in
contact with for a number of years. He was_born in Hamburg, Germany

in 1916 and he came to Cuba as a refugee in March, 1922. “He has been used
as a contact on miscellaneous matters b 8 office since 1948. Recently
we have been endeavoring to encourage to make a connection with the
Partido Socialista Popular (Comunist Party of Cuba) because it is believed |
that he has the appearance, background, and intelligence to function well '
in such a capacity. He has been making very limited progress to date and ‘
it is believed he may be afraid of the consequences if he does make an :
entry into the PSP and then gets caught. We plan to continue our efforts |
to develop[__] and meanwhile he will be utilized on general contact

problems and on translation matters where deemed advisable. He is of

value to,us as a linguist because of his knowledge of Spanish, German and

Jewish dialects. ,

 

is a Potential Security Informant. He wag a
member of the youth séction of the Partido Socialista Popular (PSP - Cuban
Cotmunist Party) in 1943 und 1944. He left them because he did not approve

“of Communism, but he is not openly -known as “gnti-Commnist." He has

attended two PSP meetings since he was o lly approached by _HAV-13 and Y
has furnished information of value conce ng the proceedings.

has several close friends that are in the PSP and he feels that there is a .
good possibility that he will be invited to join. He has requested, for °

his own security, that he be contacted through a "cutout" and has indicated *

that he wil} not sign any receipts. He is presently being handled through

HAV-13. ) .

t he
N PEOTHMAN, FBI Nb. I52585B, spent considerable time away
from Havana during the sumer tipntis due to the fact that the Sans Souci
night club, operated by hin, ‘closed. The Sans Souci: is scheduled to be
reopened on December 31, 1954, and it is anticipated that PCI ROTHMAN will -
continue to be & source of genera). criminal information. He is being
contacted on a regular vests, RY 20)

et
operat or ans Souci night club and gambling casfno in Havana for a By

number of years. As such, he became acquainted with the principal American: ‘
hoodilums and gamblers who frequented Cuba. He is now in the insurance - .

business but maintains his contacts with the American hoodlum element. He .

is cooperative and it is believed he offers good possibilities of developing

into an excellent criminal informant or source of information. BY (4 .

_3- CONFRRENTIN ;

 

NW 45946 DocId:32308784 Page 5
tem GuRDENTIAC
Office Memorandum - UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

To: Director, FEI : pate: December 31, 1954
Ravane, Cuoa
, 2)
FROM + Tegel Attache, Havana, Cube (ce-ro0p fe
+ suspect : Haat INPORWANT ru) @BCERT ~ AIR COURIER
fii: Con LSTRATIVE .
ong Ongts SIS - Cubalpr(g
Pcong June 30, 1954 which instructed that we should submit
: sexiannval informnt report on Jenuery 1 and July 1, of each year. @& ul

- There is atteched hereto 4 menorandum dated December 3, 1954
‘ entitled: THOKUANTS AND POTENTIAL ISPORLARTS ) OFFICE OF LEGAL ATTACHE,
HAVA, CLEA, 4S OF DECELBER ZL, 1954. CVu

fhe attached memorandum contains 4 brief description of each
Laforrent and notential informant oresently being used or developed by **is ¢

ofcseee (Yu)

Cor roorogram to locete end develonr new informants [in both the
crisiaél on eSscurity fieldPis bein: ¢ « 2nd is teing given prefer-
erial attention by All of “the sersons22 this office. In addition, our :
efforts are gonetent to increase and i wrove our regular office end
Lizison contécts. Bureay 3 Vij ue advised promptly of any importent
csveloonsats “La this cad

  
   
 
 
  

  
  

, cr PEL, . ; ity . pj
(See ButirH: R250) ! y Tries a if d
; 3955

NW 45946 DocId:32308784 Page 2
 

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/27/201
Identification Form

OO SS sw

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10296-10112

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 64-4123-210-594
eee

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG, HAVANA
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: = 12/31/1954
‘PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS :
NRO, INFT RPT, TRA, ASSOC, DESCR, GAMBLING ACT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: _ 03/16/1998

Po
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM

eee
| v9.1 5
| HW 45946 Docld:32308784 Page 1
CONFIDENTIAL oscar SP modu
enna can Z

December 31, 1954
Havana, Cuba

 
  

  
 
 
  

TION CONTAINED
NOLABSL FIED INFORMANTS AND POTENTIAL INFORMANTS,

SHORN OFFICE OF LEGAL ATTACHE, HAVANA, CUBA,
AS OF DECEMBER 32, 1954
ib)

[nas This informant is LUIS ISG AATIE wn has been cooperating with
9 his office since 1947., 8 cover has developed and he now
fC .. operates an armed car service which provides excellent cover and
" - also makes it possible for this informant to have ready and
Ms wailable on short notice assistants who are trained to function
on surveillances. We are in daily contact with this informant
and he handles numerous investigations for us every month. He
functions principally on criminal and Selective Service cases.
CM involve’ he has functioned well on numerous assignments which

Sieg

 

involve security subjects. He has recently developed an individual
> eho has good prospects

of developing as 4 source with Communist
| Party connections. & i :

tous {-
fer This informant is VENANCTOWOEEaxS0SA, a young Cuban who is
Wy / connected with one of the Cuban courts in Havana. This informant'
% oo , activities are generally confined to furnishing us information
‘ available to him as a court attache and which informtion we
could not otherwise obtain. He is utilized whenever needed and
7T each time he is called upon he functions in an excellent manner.
- Our experience with him indicates that he is very discreet and
we feel that he is very loyal to the FBI. LYu)

ex x HAV~11 AY... a .

; 7 ‘his informant returned to Havana on December 6, 1954, after a

{ 1 protracted stay in Europa. He has in the past demonstrated on
fro ‘ : more than one occasion his value in criminal mtters and also

cl obtains a great deal of information‘on international floaters.

N He is renewing his contacts with American hoodlums and gamblers }
in Havana and it is believed that he will continue to be most ie
useful eyed the current tourist season, especially in criminal
matters

This info: t is ARTUR PERE: MARGO, an elderly Cuban who
is a retired\police officer. He°is very active and turns in @
“very good quantity of work every month. Due to his age and
experience, he is used on many types of investigations. He is

: especially useful for pretext interviews of subjects or possible
» sources in any sort of investigation. He functions in a discreet
manner and has never Gi any reflection Ee this office or

COPY DESTROYED our operations here.

7910.
172 Nov. 14 1961 eNGLOSURE 1 Sager:

NW 45946 DocId:32308784 Page 3

 

im

 

s*
LS

ener
a
»
7

, CONFIDENTIAL

A
basd
fiav-a3 This’ informant was a member of the Cuban National Police from
kK } oa 1944 to April 1952 and now operates his own investigative agency.
i . ;
|

t

Ye is being used in investigations of security cases and in the

development of new sources within the Cuban Communist Party.

He has been found to be reliable in conducting surveillances and
| has the latest types of technical equipment to aid in his investi-
gations. He has recently uncovered a promising Potential Security
Informant that wes formerly a member of the youth section of the
Commmnist, Party in Cuba and is presently acting as a "cut out”
in contgeting this Bre Y,

,

  

8

INI, FBI No. 2198122, American credit manager in the’

¢

gambling casino at the Tropicané night club in Havana, is contacted on a -

C regular basis. He is a good source of information on American gamblers and
hoodlums operating in Havana and has been of value in the past on individual
criminal investigations. It is anticjpated that he will be used extensively
in the current tourist season. | yur , .

22, is a Potential Security Informant.
He has never been connected with the Communist Party, but he has indicated
avillingness to join the party to obtain intelligence information and he
(ey: J displays enough enthusiasm and imagination to show that he might actually
- work his way into the confidence of the Communists. He is personally e
acquainted with several alleged party members and he plans to put himself
in such a position that it would be logical for them to invite him to join ‘
in their PSP activity. His progress will be closely followed by this office
and precautions will be taken to assure that he is not a PSP plant. BM )

Code
_—- a Potential Security Informant on Chinese matters,
2. was originally developed by CI HAV-12 and is usually contacted through the
an latter as a cutout. [__]has furnished valuable information on Chinese
matters which has been confirmed from other sources and he appears to be

developing in a very satisfactory manner.

 

a
(u) aureus, ake, KIM SOQMOHUE, Jesus Maria No. 109, Havana,
ae is a _native_born Cuban citizen of Korean parentage. was recently con-
~ oo tacted by CI HAV-12 in the investigation of a Korean matter and was found +,
by him to be most cooperative. Source recommended that KIM be developed “"
further as a source on Korean matters and this is being done gh le¥ (Ht, }) .

. A |ANDEZ; an ex-—Captain of the Cuban National
| . Police, is very closely connected with ex-President RAMON GRAU SAN MARTIN,
Atecsex? who was a-candidate in the: Cuban Presidential elections of 1954. Through °
‘wiesa.! this source it was possible to have several interviews with GRAU prior to
| - the elections and to obtain from him first-hand information on his political
| | fu... 2strategy and planning. Although GRAU made a last minute withdrawal from
the elections, he continues to be a potent factor in Cuban politics and
een e source, it is possible to keep abreast of the activities of
GRAU. of :

-2- CONAIQENTIA:
~~
NW 45946 DocId:32308784 Page 4

 
