   
    
  
   
    
   
     
   
    
  
  
   
     
    
  
  

sea GEORGE: : : .
. Met Susen Geoxge ‘c on 24 June (address 42 r. du Cherche-Liidis
‘phone number LIT 48-01). Discussed banning of PACS last October: she said the -
leader of the MOPL (Claude Bourdet) suggested that PACS members joing& the MD22;
_ theee hed been no little hesitation efter the French had tossed Croyell. out but
_ pecple were now gravitating toward the MPPL which is composed of. individuals
| from almost every political grouping. The MDPL's basic issue is of course
. Vietnam, though at bkse the movement is committed: to an anti-imperialist, anti~.
. capitalist position. George described it es a very flexible organizétion with
“mo structured leaders or administrative comaittees so kez it can avoid the
bureaucratic indecision of old PACS leadership gvoups., MDPL members are
Geveloping ' ‘political conscicusness" and have passed. the point of xegarding
_ the Vietnam wat as just a ‘mistake’, - °
woe '. George, herself, was working at the American College ak in
ve the Registrar’ s office; seid there were about a half dozen radicals in the -
. College, she knows them and is sympathetic toward their efforts... Claims the
. schools administrator is a "paranoic dictator". She resigned after the -
_ principal of the school accused hez of “conspiratorial counseling". Has
_ done translating work, but po&é prefers more “active” and less "confining"
_ jobse She has zeceived an advance from Beacon Press to write a book on
“|, Americans deserters in Francee When PETUNIA asked her where he income really
: came from, she replied that she lives off her husband! -
The tone of the conversation with her, PETUNIA” commented, was
very pro-Nese; she said they have offered "magnanimous gestures to work with
. | theiAherican people after the war is over", Feels that they are handling
‘'the war ahd the negotiations brilliantly. She frequently sees “her Vietnamese
-'€riends", and they have told her they are very satisfied with the progress of
ithe struggle and its certain outcome, Mentioned that. she would see her friends
ojthe next day to get their reactions/epproval to a circular prepared for
distribution advertising the 4 July meeting. Also said she had just talked ©
with her friends last night about the meeting. and was ‘sure that they v would
approve the circular. . : :

a Misc: she made a * tape for Pacifica Corp on "the war and :
resistance, you knowes. ". said that a Paris law student wha is giving legal ~
help and draft counselling to resisters in Paris (!)3; name not mentioned. . :
said that last year she was mostly tied up with PACS and didn't work with a
“Marxist Studzy Groups", Plans to go to the US in August to visit her mother. ~~

 

5. John SSR LNU: 00. et a . TE
os : eserter from Army whom PETUNIA met in the Luxembourg by
. chance, Céaaimed he was in security in the Army and was one of two who had --
.. broken a Russian codey because he had.a German girlfriend and had gone off

. for several weekends with her (AWOL), he was thrown in jail. Left about a .
year ago, he said, and has been in France for 7 months. Has no money and
few possessions; is looking for ways to get $300 with which to buy papers to
. go Go Cenada where he wants to settle. Whiée in France, he has been living . ©
-off rich old women. Was living in the ADC house in Pantin but got thrown
“out because he wes an acid-head and was bringing pot home. (PETUNIA comented
|. you have to be pretty bad to get thrown out of that house.) Claimed to be

* com Cleveland, originally. . Skid that some French movie actress puts up
the money for the deserters’ house and contributes to their funds, PETUNIA
described his as a real crackpot and potentially dangerous, . Has no place ©
to stay in Paris and is thinking about going scuth for a while; mentioned |. -
” that owe" have a couple of colonies in Toulouse. 7

bs Maxia JOLAS: Dat oo 7

. Met,on 2 July. Jolas asked about the movement in the States
and concluded that the radicals can’t afford to bicker like children (with
veference to the SDS/PLP split. Said she thought the PL position with respect to
‘the NVNese and the war was ridiculous _ made mo other comments on the American
movenente : .

»

Said that whe at happened to "Max" was regrettable, but that LO
. “his ‘tactics weze deplorable. He virtually snubbed his 1 nose at the French :
; polices ;
: a Said that she felt the ‘Amexieani movement had largely forgotten
: the war and that more work against the war was being done in Paris than in ;
‘the US. Mentioned the Paris movement was pretty well coordinated and ready
~./ to go with coordinated demonstrations to time with those held in the US, last:
fall, but the MOB simply failed to keep in touch with them. Said that this

-was no fault of Dave Deillinger's, whose credentials were impeccable, but he

 

   

AW 53199. Doeld:32349752 Page 5 - os vo Lod ; Bee al : i
 

aed an organizational secretary behind him, Nevertheless, she lamented the

hat many people from the old PACS were fzightened away after the French

it (afcaid of losing passports or being tossed out), and not everyone had

Bourdes's Gutfit. .. . ; Coe Le, . .
Anti-Vietnam Meetiags: :

   

  

1. joine

 

dézess file to send out dnvitetioas to the 4 July meeting. Bourdet’s address

- Eile comprises approximately 1,500 names and addresses; Bourdet commented that he
-hed a separate file for French communist pecty members. Working at the meeting

exe Susan George, Dean Savage, Relph Fischer and Elizabeth LNU [Adler?]}- Fischer

rth oy

fd
i

 

Hs

married to a Yugo&sav gixl; he writes for the Guardian, about 25 years old,

cleena shaven, bright but cold. On others, see eboves :
: Oa 3 July, another group collected to work up posters for the

 

“Meeting. Involved thea were: Cox, Dubinsk%, Elizabeth LNU, Susan George, Jolas, :

2

. a deserter, a resister and 2 girls. No names for the latter four. PETUNIA .
picked up the info that the deserter wes from Vietnam, he held a factory job,

his father is a good friend of Westmoveland's. © So :

a : On 4 July, the meeting took places: it altermated speakers and
texts: one hour, someone vead the names of American war dead; second hour,

someone read irom texts provided by the Vietnamese. On the latter point, there

wes a last minute change of tactics by the Viets. The original idea had been

_ @ political wake for the American dead and for those in Vietnamese villages
bombed by the Americans. Thus: the names of the war dead and the names of : :

bombed villages would be vead out. At the last moment, the Viets told Susan

 

  
   
  
   
  
   

Snstead they'd rather the meeting reed aloud from material marked in red by

. ‘the Vietse George want along with the idea, though Jolas among others didn't.
‘Like it since it altered the purpose and impact of the meeting. Nonetheless,
‘the Viet alteration was accepted. Very few people attend
_ PETUNIA wasn't impressed at all, Everyone signed two books open in the back

“. ef the room: one called for an end to the war; 2 second was a péedge of support
to the Viets. Everyone signed, end the Viets took this book back with then.
Three Viets appeared during the day, sat quietly in the back of the room and
said little to anyone other then themselves, and left not long after they'd
arrived. One of the three returned that evening to collect the signature pook.:
4fter the meeting was over at midnight, everyone went their separate wWayso ©

' 8. dulia.Hervesizteat. we Se wpa
: ‘ Anecdote from Dubinsky. Dubinsky said he first net zehser in
"| Ghana (where Dubiasky wes for a while doing social work). While there he also
"| met someone else he described as, at the time, his best friend. Latex he heard
* geen Hetgbeéberve that his friend had been the one who killed Richard Wright. -
: Dubinsky did not mention the name, put said the episode is described in the
“” paobraphy on Wright.
: but later became convinced of it. His friend never denied the guilt, and

‘: aid admit to being a CIA agent. Wright was killed by the CIA because he had
just finished a manuscript on the use of American blacks abroad by the -. Se

 

" governments .

9, Other: ; . vo Bee

. _ a, From his girlfriend, PETUNIA learned that Rene Mayer has i
“disappeared”; he has apparentyy left France and no one knows where he si. :
Soe, b,. The Lancaster family wkom PETUNIA met Last time is now in Brazil.

 

d, raised the problem oz his hernia and draft status ~~ see cable.
- e, schedule agreed to: he'll be back oa or about the ist and will
. Let me know via postcard (innocuous and wish you were here variety, seribbled ~
- gignature) what date he'll be back. Site aad time of meeting arranged.
' £, Said he was about out of money; agreed to get together very |
briefly the following day. s° Z could give him some money. . 4

 

Paul: ro CHALEMSKY

 

a . 4

, HW 53199 DocId:32349752 Page 6

‘Oa 24 Gune, a group collected at Claude Bourdet's home to use his. mo

 

Gecage is a physics teacher at Jv. College in Brooklyn; visiting Paris. Savage ~ _

 

“? George that the names of bombed villeges had now "political significance", and ..

ed the 4 July meeting; .

 

 

He at first refused to belleve Julia Herva's assertion —-.

c.. Esked me to check on Barrio -- nobody answers at their phone number. -

 

 
a

 

PROCESSING ACTION

 

“* CLASSIFICATION ~

 

   

‘DISPATCH

    

-_-SBERETTRYBAT

MARKED FOR INDEXING

 

 

 

 

 

 

70 , :
Chie £, > European Division (ATTN: __ERKLAND ~_EYES ONLY) NO INDEXING REQUIRED
NFO. ; Boe | ONLY QUALIFIED DESK sot
foe : CAN JUDGE INDEXING
from 7 ~ yee
: Chief of Station, ParyS giv Ch?” MICROFILM
[SUBJECT ae ' :

RYBAT/MHCHACS/Transmittal of Contact Report

 

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

   

 

  
  

; _Attaghed is a contact report on cuatarsue' 9 July meeting with
woe "PETUNIA nt ah, rT nad wy .

  
   

 

    

 

Bel k. Lin

mh ‘Paul K. CHALEMSKY

 

   

Attachment: H/il’*
: _ Contact Report |

 

" Distribution:
._ 3 = C/EUR: w/att

 

 

 

    

 

 

[ROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER a OATE . .
" OFPA~90301°° ll July 1969
‘CLASSIFICATION ; * | HOS FILE NUMBER

CSECRETVRYEAT = | 909-64387/3

 

 
 

Date: 12/21/04
JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION Released under the John
AGENCY : CIA Kennedy
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10072-10206 Assassination Records
RECORD SERIES JFK ollection Act of 1992

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :

(44 USC 2107 Note).
TTT a mee ase#iNU 53199 Date:

80TO1357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION 6-08-2017

 

CIA
FROM : WITHHELD
TO : CHIEF, EUROPEAN DIVISION
TITLE : DISPATCH RE A CONTACT REPORT ON MEETING
DATE : 07/11/1969
PAGES 5
SUBJECTS : MHCHAOS
WITHHELD
WITHHELD
CONTACT REPORT
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER
CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/02/93
COMMENTS : JFK15 : F48 1993.08.02.20:24:55:090006

{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10072-10206

DocId: 32349752 Page 1

HW 53199
   
    
   
    
 
   
   
  
  
 
   
    
     
     
  
   
   
 

CONTACT \xpoRT;

PARTICIPANTS; PETUNIA; CHALEMSxY

PLACE & TIME : Metro Dupleixy 8 Jur, 1445; Cafe Batavia, 1445-1730

NEXE MEETING ; Caze Batavia, 1730, 9 Suly : AEVPUR CHE.

 

1. Contact established, eventho PETUNIA was Standing on the wrong side of tha
- Hetro station and gat his part

t of the recogition phrases wrong. Explained that he.
had bean busy on the 3rd and thought it better to stay where he was than to leave
to meet CHALEMSKY , Had prepared notes on his contacts (nad had initial difficulty
in finding anyone, finally called Susan George and get reintroduced into the cirele),

- 2. Larry COX: Cox rens & hang-out in Pantin for deserters, SDS activists, .
Yesisters and caguals Passing through ParisP address is 3, ©. Gabrielle Jasserand
ia Pantin [Paris suburb =~ ¢his address figured in an UNDERBID report on the
érrest of some deserters for Possession of drugs]. Did not
house has been in operation; vent is 1200 frs/mo ($240.].
time making the contributions circuit to raise money to pay for the house —~ mentioned

having got $100 from Sartre, some money from de Beauvoir (no figure mentioned) and

1500 frs from Ratherine Deneuve [movie actress]. Cox also gets support from Resist
in the States and is now negotiating with Resist to get them to

rent as a form of support. (No names mentioned in this centext

. Sales -- if possible), : Mike
said he

to

éssignment somewhere in Africa with one of. the church-identified international
voluntary service Orgadizations, After 6 mos of language, he seeqied that he wanted
to remain in Paris and Proposed to his sponsors that he be allow to work here. - eye

among deserters and draft tesisters (the letter of Proposal
work terms,.but Cox said he didn't hide what he planned to d
Sponsors know; he didn't expect them to approve it).
their heads to the political implications of Cox’ work
in Paris on salary ($240, month); they asked for month 1
sent them. Of hig $240, he contigbutes $40 to the food budget of the
: : There are 20 deserters/resisters who live in the house, and .
PETUNIA described them as a bunch of apolitical bums, Most of the good, politically
‘minded deserters work in Frence to Save money to buy false documentation and passage
to Canada, then leave, hose who remain behind aren't interested in politics and
aren't Capable of much, : From one girl who hangs out. with this g
, anecdotes of life among the deserters: one Sends letters to Mao
him that 1000 men in Canada, 15,000 in Alaska and Others in Fre
to take over the US and are in training et the mom
mocning") and asking Mao to send some divisions to help the invasi
On 2 starvation diet and Saved every penny he could find (to buy his
France), then vent off and bought a monkey ($40); another alw:
people, and threatens to g0 back into the Army 1£ not all
From Cox, PETUNIA learned that Philip Wagner is in
Was able to find Someone to benkr

porenoe

°
impression that this was under fal

 

way out of

ays pulls a knife on
wed to play his game.
Canada”=~ he saved enough, or

il him, and went to Canada, PETUNIA got the :
Se documentation (which can be bought for $300.).
(No names or hints of where One cén get this documentation, ) :

. Everyone déspleys the usual paranoia on the subject of CIA, Larry
and others are positive that there is an agent in the house; they are very suspicious
of cach other and play sames tvying to trip each other up. They claim that within
24 hours after a deserter has arrived ila Prance, the Embassy knows everything about
aim, : ‘ a

; Ss fiancee who Plans to join hin soon in Paris; she

is studying educational PSychology in Geneva with an t/i professor there who Cox

said was about to set off a vevohution in this field, They both want to go to the

States, and Cox talked about soing there when she finishs in Geneva, He wants to

- work ina factory and get lavolved in Organizing withia the movement, Since he has
vefused induction 3 times, he expects legal action to be taken ggainst him when he
Teturas (and wondered whether'they' would also get him for aiding and abetting

desertion within the army). - He deseribed als masor work here as dealing with

deserters and resisters, trying to educate them and get them involved in the movement, -

aud in working with GIs ia Germaay, encouraging them to Gesert, A few GI's on R&R ‘

have stayed at the house in Pantig . : : : Sd

 

HW 53199) DocId:32349752 Page 3
  
 

 

 

HW 53199 DocTd:32349752 Page 4°

 

vee, . Dubiasky.

    

a = nos _. Deserdbed Life & times in Paris as tough, but getting a little
better now. Most of the deserters want to leave and none of those here are here
“ for political reasons. Cox made a trip to Sweden last winter (by microbus), and
_tet the ADC there. . Said nobody likes Sweden (lousy weather, no work, lousy
‘people eventho they get a warm veception). os ;

 

' protest -- on the racial issue?), Was in Warsaw earlier this summer for an
_ international mathematician's conference, came to Paris and plans tp go to ;
‘.. Cambridge and then to Canada where he has a job offer (in Moatreal® * While Fwy
“ in Wersaw, met a Polish woman (age 32, Andreajea Be--; married, three children;

' . former funcationary of the PZPR but forced out because of Jewish origins), and
he is considering marrying her. She has asked him to come back to Warsaw and
“+ Live, He mentioned a strong possibility. that he would be invited to teach or
_do research at the Univ of Warsaw (apparently something of a center for higher
. math), and said for personal and professional reasons he'd love to go -= this
» Would be sometime around 1970/71, Thinks of living in the UK or Israel with

oo his new Polish wife after that; probably UK. Dubinsky was quasi~invited to
a meeting here with the Viets, which is why he was in Paris. Before leaving»
the States he got letters of introduction from Rohent-Greenbo att and Mel Reiek
Rotheaberg to Mme Than Van Pham. Dubinsky had-been contacte y Dubinsky
about 2 meeting of mathematicians with the Viets "ito discuss the state of
higher math in Vietnam and life in general" [this apparently said with a straight
face!], which he billed to PETUNIA as an apolitical meeting "to prepare for “
|; Ameriean-Viet relations after the war". Dubinsky was supposed to meet Greenblatt
'dn Paris, but he can't find himad can't find anyone who knows him...so he's:
. taken to sitting in cafes in hopes Greenblatt with walk past! If Greenblatt

. and the meeting don't show up soon, he’s going to leave for Cambridge. He is
"reluctant to contact the Viets directly despite the two letters of introduction
since he says he'd not give the time of day to anyone who just appeared at his
. door -~ with or without letters. [His position was reinforced by Susan George,
| Who agreed; George added that she didn’t know Than Van Phan.] reat

_° 3. Martha BULTMAN: : ee SR Te! :
Lo Met on 20 June (address: 4, ave. Hoche; tel CAR 42-84). Said.
her father John.Hess had just written a book on De Gaulle and lis foreign policy;

was rather proud of his father. Said "my father would be considered to be
extreme left in the US, but actually he is cautious if even a conservative in
many ways." Said her parents were zaektx very suspicious and had always told

. always to be careful since you never could tell when someone works for the CIA.
Described her father as having a tremendous amount of knowkédge about a great
“many things, which is reflected in his writing. He can easily argue an opposing
. viewpoint, and does in social conversations for the fun of it. Dhey travel a

.. good deal, using Paris as hote, Last year, her parents went to Amsterdam and
“Switzerland and are planaing to go to Amsterdam again. Hess started out in
Latin America, twenty or so years ago. At one time he worked in Cuba making ©
cigars or something (PETUNIA: that's a direct quote!); speaks Spanish perfectly.

revolutionary movement in general, but has a critical spttit." He supposed to
“. be very strict about not imposing on people he knows, and would never send one -
“friend to contact another, Had dinner one night (apparently recently)} with :
Mary MeCarthy and husband (chez Hess). Commented McCarthy is very bourgeoise;
fier husband is quiet and looks like Clay Shaw. McCarthy feels that the NVNese .
- have handled their propaganda rather badly on the war, and Hess agreed (no |
elaboration)» ; . ; Fo . ;
; Martha is sympathetic towards the deserters and resisters
in Paris, says there are 13 or 14 who are the real committed ones, but about
-.60 who are in the Paris ‘movement group’. McCarthy apparently has pretty
.; good contact with the movement, and is at least in contact with some resisters;
said that she'd mentioned Cox's name once, ; ; -
- a Martha works for SDS in New Orleans, but is tired of their
: -vhetoric; she can't stand PLP people. Mentioned Sue Munaker (another PETUNIA

contact) had written a 40 page essay oa the Nqgen's Liberation Movensnt to
‘be published in some forthcoming book oa the stucéht left. Martha knows

 

 
 

nereane ee

   

 

Martha commented: “of course he is very sympathetic toward radical youth and thé ~

12. BGpUBINSKY; oY ap lee : ae
i ormer math prof at Tulane (got fired for taking part in some

ee

 
