 

 

RE: REQUEST PERTAINING TO
ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE

The “Official and Confidential" files, which were at
one time maintained in the office of former Director J. Edgar
Hoover, were reviewed during preparation of attached material
and no ingermation relative to this matter was located.

Enclosures ~ 12

1 - The Attorney General (Enclosures ~ 12)

NOTE:

All references to prosecution of Mr. Sullivan have
been deleted from the memorandum to the SSC and excised from
the exhibits upon specific instruction of Mr. O'Connor to
Inspector John B. Hotis of Legal Counsel Division on 7/38/75.
This action was based on the fact that a prosecutive opinion
is presently pending with the Department.

The "Official and Confidential" files were reviewed
by SA Hugh Mallet.

 

HW 55111 DocId:32989625 Page 9
.

 

 

 
 

 

aaa Do eee

5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
WASHINGTON, ‘D. C. 20535

Addressee: _.. Senate Select Committee ,

Ua LHM Memo Report aatea__ 7/15/75
U.S. Senate Select Committee Re: Request |
Caption of Document: Pertaining to Electronic Surveil-
‘tgnee Appendix D, Items 7,8,and 16.

Originating Office: —____ ers
Delivered by: A,

Received by: {_

  

‘ Title:

rem ise < —~

; Return this receipt 'to the Intelligence Division, FBI a

ON CONTAINED

INFORMA
NEREIN su IGUASSIFIED
DATE fens

 

AW 55111 DocId:32989625 Page 10

De eee eee eee eee ee i

 
 

 

  

RE: REQUEST PERTAINING TO
ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE

(7) Exhibits ¥, G and H summarize statemonts of
Special Squad personnel on active duty as of January, 1975, a11
of whom provided information regarding their participation and
recollection as to their duties during the Atlantic City
convention.

() Exhibits F and if oxplain news media "cover"
used by Agents at Atlantic City to develop intelligence
information pertaining to the convention.

No effort is being made in this memorandum to summarize
results of the Special Squad's investigative activities during
the convention because information in this regard is contained
in attached Cartha BD. DeLoach memorandum of August 26, 1964, and
its enclosure (see Exhibits J and K}.

On page 3, paragraph 3, of Exhibit J, Mr. DeLoach noted
that thumbnail sketches were prepared on a11 key dissident groups
expected at the convention and separate files were maintained on
activities of King and cach major disruptive organization present,
Recovery of this information would involve extensive research and

. is therefore not attached. If the Comiittce has nced for access

to this information, wo wiil endeavor to make it available,
However, it is felt that information obtained during our coverage
of the DNC is essentially set forth in memoranda from Mr. DeLoach
to Mr. Walter Jenkins (€xhibit XK),

Exhibit F, page 8, indicates there were approximately

50 pages of overhears on coverage of King's telephone during the
DNC. Actually there are 78 pages of iogs recording such overhears,
A review of these handwritten logs indicates several Congressmen,
Senators and State Governors, who were acting in their capacity as
delegates ta the convention, were mentioned and/or overheard. Also
obtained was information relating to seating of the Mississippi —
Freedom Democratic Party,

Should the Committee feel that a review of the above
logs is necessary to substantiate the results set gorth in
Ur, Befoach's summaries and reports of FBI Inspection Division,
these logs can be made available fox review on FRI premises. by
Senators Frank Church and John G. Tower.

~ Fu

\S5111 Docld:32989625 Page 8

 

 
 

RE: BEQUEST PERTFALSNING TO
ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE

the memoranda entitled "President Johnson
and the FBI" cited allegations of misuse
of the FRE by President Johnson. Item 2
cited refers to the DNC of 1964, and a
eopy is attached ag Exhibit %.

(2) At the time of the convention, xr. DeLoach
was responsible for liaison with the White House and had a
divect line at his residence to the President.

(3) The personnel file of Mr, PeLoach contains an
8-page memorandum dated August 29, 1964, captioned "Special
Squad, Atlantic City, New Jersey, Democratic National
‘Convention, August 22«28, 1964." In this monorandun,

Me, DeLoach expressed hig wish to réport the successful
conpletion of his assignment and accomplishments of the Special
Squad in Atlantic City. An enclosure to this memorandum con
tained 43 pages of intelligence data disseminated to Waiter

F Jenkins at the White House in 12 summaries dated August 24, 26,
26 and 27, 1064, The above memorandum and its 48<page enclosure
appear as Exhibits J aud K to this memorandum,

(4) Teadquarters files contain @ menorandum written
by Mr. Hoover dated September 10, 1964, wherein it was reported
that Mr. Walter Jenkins of the White House had called Director
Hoover to advise that the President thought the FBI had done a
fine job at Atlantic City. A copy of this memorandum is attached
as Exhibit hb.

 

(5) Technical coverage of the convention conducted by
the Special Squad, and according to the memorandum prepared by
Mir, DoLoach in 1034, was carried out arainst Martin Luther King,
dx., at his hotel and against others at a store front located
at 2414 Atlantic Avenue, which served as joint headquarters for
SNCC and CORE.

6) An outline of awthorization fox technical coverage
employed during the convention, as weil ag FBI basis to investi~«
gate organizations and individuals against whom technical
eoverape was instituted.

» HW 55111 Docld:32969625 Page *
LL

 

 

 

 

 
 

RE; REQUEST PERTAINING TO
ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE

pertinent individuals or groups to Atlantic City. Offices were
also instructed to alert a11 logical informants so that they
would receive irmediately all information concerning activities
or disruptive clenents planning. travel to Atlantic City. A
follow-up teletype, same caption, dated August 21, 1964,
(Eshibit E) dixected that only positive information was desired
and any information of extreme importance or urgency should be
submitted immediately by teletype or telephone to the Bureau.

Except as outlined ahove, no other instructions have
been located regarding any type of coverage to be provided at
the DONC. Pertinent information developed was given dissemination
to appropriate Government agencies and the White House in accord~<
ance with our established procedures regarding dissemination,
which included Secret Services, Repartment of Justice and military
intelligence agencies.

SPECIAL ae AT DNG AT ATLANTIC CITY, NEW JERSEY,
AUGUST 22=28, 1964 / a

"The Washington Post," dated January 26, 1975, carried
a front page story by staff writer Ronald Kessler, reporting
that during the 1964 DNC, President Johnson received reports on
key convention delegates from “wire taps and bugs" installed by
the FBI on civil rights leaders, This article summarized a 1973
interview with Leo T. Clark, formex Special Agent of the FBI
who retired February 1, 1965, as Senior Resident Agent, Atlantic
City, New Jersey, Clark was quoted as saying information was
xeported to President Johnson based on an instalistion in the
hotel suite of Dr. Martin Luther King and a store Iront used by
civil rights leaders. Clark allegedly stated that the electronic
and physical survelllances at the convention were carried out by
an FBI team ordered by the White House and under direct personal
control of Carvtha D. DeLoach, then an Assistant Director.

DoclId:32989625 Page 5

 

    
 

RE: IEQUEST PERTAINING To
ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE

The above article indicated Clark stated that infor~
mation obtained by the FBE was transmitted to President Johnson
over a telephone line specifically instelied to bypass the
White House switchboard. Such information included activities
of then Attorney General Robert F, Kennedy, identities of
Senators and Congressmen visiting King's hotel suite as weil as
persons seeking support of civil rights leaders, plans of
delegates or delegations and speculation as to vice presidential
nominees.

After appearance of ahove axticle, the Inspection
Division of the FDI initiated an extensive inquiry into the
entire scope of FRI activities and investigation during the
DNC of 1964, The results of this inquiry were set forth in
menoranda of Mr. H. N. Bassett, Assistant Director, Inspection
Division, to Associate Director Callahan, dated January 23
and 29, 1975, and a letterhead memorandum dated January 30, 1975.
These documents were 211 captioned "Special Squad at Democratic
National Convention (ONC) at Atlantic City, New Jersey,
August 22-28, 1964," and copies ave enclosed to this memorandum
as Exhibits F, G, and H, vespectively.

in essence the above documents highlight the
following: .

Cl} A thorough review of Bureau records, including
a veview of abstracts of Mr. Hoover, Mr, Tolson, Mr. Mohr,
Mc. Belmont, Mr, W. C. Sullivan, as well as Mr. DeLoach, all
Bureau officials, failed to locate any memorandum or other
docunent pertaining to 2 request having been received from
President Johnson or anyone at the White Ilouse instructing the
FBI to afford special coverage of the convention.

The only exception te the above occurred
post-facto, when on July 25, 1973, this
Bureau received the so-called ‘Sullivan
memoranda" referred to on page two of
Exhibit F. One of the papers comprising

 

HW 55111 DocId:32989625 Page 6 |
b a - .

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

< : é : é
t, 7 . a ~ Mr. H.W. Bassett

(route through for review)
- Mr. J. A. Mintz
Gl = Mr. J. B. Hotis)
~ Mr. W. R. Wannall
- Mr. W. O. Cregar
~ Mr. J. T. Aldhizer

duly 15, 1975

Bee Boe

62~116305

UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

ATTAINED

RU: REQUEST PERTAINING To
ws we eel ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE

Reference is made te SSC letter, with attached
appendices, dated May 14, 1975, to the Attorney General,
requesting certain documents and other information fron
the FBI.

Appendix D, Tten 7, requests ali memoranda and
other naterials which: (a) relate to intelligence activities
at or in connection with the Democratic National Couvention (ONC)
at Atlantic City, New Jersey, in August, 1964, and (b} relate to
electronic surveiliances of telephones and/or premises at
2414 Atlantic Avenue and/or Glaixidge Hotel in Atlantic City,
Nev Jersey, during Ausust, 1064

Appendix BD, Eten 3, requests Committee stati access
to all meuoranda aud other materials reflecting the identities
of persons monitored, the contents of conversations
monitored, and/or any information obtained irom conversations
nonitored on the surveillances deserited in 7(b) above.

Appendix D, Kien 16, vequests ail movioranda and
other materiais containing the results o¢ any administrative or
other inquiry undertaken by the FDI as a result of and/or rolating
to the alleczations contained in the January 20, 1975, isaue of
Phe Washineton Post concerning activities of the FEE in
AtLancice City, New Jersey, an | August, 1564.

‘oe joa

Per AP. — ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY TO ATTORNEY GENERAL QR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Asst. Dine a wl
Conn Sana JTA:dsh, , i ur"
Be Mies — (9) (> aa re “of \ \ IN SEE NOTE PAGE EIGHT \
Gen. Inv. x. { \ 2
Ident. vr
In a is he jared in response to your request and is not for dissemi- [ys
teat —_ eae A outside i bh Committee. Tis use ts limited to official proceedings by ,

Laboratory your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized persoy- ,
Plon. & Eval. — jel without the express “— of the FBI . A yw
Spoc. Inv, { af.

Legal Coun, ly pe dou 1 4 ‘ *

Santee sp MAIL ROOMC__] =‘ TELETYPE UNIT [__] ENGL SURE ~ \ GPO 954.546
HW 55111 Docld:32989625 Page 2

 

 

 
 

File #:

GA- C393

 

 

 

. | |
Serial Scope:

—

 

 

 

 
AW 55111

RE: REQUEST PERTAINING TO
ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE

During a meeting on May 30, 1975, attended by Mark
Gitenstein and John T. Elliffi, SSC Staff Members, vepresentatives
of the Bureau and K, William O'Connor, Special Counsel for
intelligence Coordination, the SSC representatives agreed to
accept a summary of this Bureau's activities during the 1964
DNC at Atlantic City, New Jersey.

The following is a chronological account obtained
from a review of logical Bureau files regarding FREI coverage
of the DNC held August 24-28, 1954, in Atlantic City,

New Jorsey.

BASIS FOR FBI INTEREST AND COVERAGE OF THE DNC, 1964

ATLANTIC CITY, NEV JEKSEY ~~~

On June 1, 1064, Mr. Burke Marshall of the Civil
Rights Division of the Justice Department contacted FEI
Assistant Director C. A. Evans and advised he had received a
cali from a representative of the Democratic National Committee
who advised that a meeting was to be held that day in Atlantic
City to discuss security arrangements for the DNC. Mr. Marshall
stated those in charge of the convention were concerned about
the possibility of demoastrations by various groups and inquired
if the FBI desired to be represented at that meeting, Mr. Evans
replied that the only apparent interest the Federal Government
had in security measures at the convertion related to the
protection of the President, who was to attend. Sinee this
responsibility belonged to the Secret Service, Mr. Marshall
was told there appeared to be no reason why the FBI should be
in attendance at the meeting,

The above information is set forth in a memorandum
trom Mr. Evans to Mr. A. Ii. Belmont, dated June 1, 21964,
captioned "Security Arrangements for the Democratic. Convention,"
and is enclosed as Exhibit A to this memorandum.

 

DocId:32989625 Page 3

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

HW 55111 DocId:32989625 Page 4
L 7

 

RE: REQUEST PERTAINING To
ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE

In july, 1964, the FBI received its first information
indicating possible disruptive activities would oceur at the
Atlantic City convention. Between that initial information and
August 21, 1964, there were 19 different occasions when infor
mation regarding planned or possibie disruptive activities at
the convention was furnished to the White House. ‘These possible
disruptive activities involved the Communist Party, USA (CPUSA);
communist front groups; civil rights groups such as the Congress
of Racial Equality (CORE), Student Nonviolent Coordinating
Committee (SNCC}, National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People (NAACP), the Southern Christian Leadership
Conference (SCLC), and Committee for Freedom Now; hate groups
such as the American Nazi Party, Ku Kiux Klan, and Muslim
Mosque, Inc.; pacifist groups; and hoodlums. The items
furnished the White House covercd a wide scope of subversive,
racial and hoodlum activities.

 

Two memoranda from Assistant Director W. C. Suilivan
to Assistant to the Director A. H., Belmont, both dated
August 21, 1964, Cixhibits B and C) summarized disruptive
potential and outlined FDE actions to be wodertaken to insure
adequate coverage of the DNC. Uighlichts of infornation
disseminated to the White House were included in these monoranda
which also indicated the number of live informants availabic
for the convention, that technical coverage had been instituted
and that arrangements Lor local reporting directly from :
Atlantic City to the Bureau had been arranged,

By teletype dated August 20, 1964, captioned
"Disruption of Democratic National Convention, Information
Concerning (Internal Security)" (Exhibit D), all continental
effices were directed ta submit a daily teletype regarding any
disruptive activities oceurring during course of the convention.
These offices were instructed to provide complete informant
coveraze of any disruptive activities throughout the convention
period by attempting to arrange to have informants accompany

 

 
