-9-

Another explanation, going a bit further, might be
that he invented the whole story. , Perhaps, convinced that
the USSR wouldn't get involved in A, ssassination of an
American president (which is what we all tend to think), he
invented this story as a contribution to American peace of
mind and to international ‘anity))

Both of these explanations run into trouble. Nosenko,
while in detention, had plenty of time and incentive to back
off a mere exaggeration, and did, in fact, admit a few minor
lies. But about this story he is adamant. Just recently
Mr. Hart tried to get Nosenko to come off it, but even in the
current climate of goodwill and trust, Nosenko refused. And
remember, too, that Nosenko volunteered to testify to his
incredible tale before the Warren Commission, and he swore
to it under oath before your Committee.

And there are other problems too. If we begin to
play with the idea of fabrication we will have to ask just
what parts of the story were invented: did Nosenko also
invent the high KGB job which gave him "knowledge" of the
Oswald case?
Kop \ba tb a .

Anyway, CIA woutdé-net accept this line of speculation.
They insist that Nosenko always talks in good faith, even if
his Oswald story isn't believable. They surely wouldn't want
you to think they had hired a fabricator as their advisor and

teacher.

MW 55538 Docid: 32266820 Page 3
-10—-

And there is yet another obstacle to this line of
thought, and not the least important. We must not forget
that the Soviet Government itself has confirmed Nosenko's
authority to tell the whole story about Oswald. In Mr. Edward
Jay Epstein's book Legend he reports that an attache of the
Soviet Embassy in Washington, named Agu, told him that Nosenko
is the person who knows most about Oswald in Russia, even
more than the people i}itinsk whom Epstein applied vainly to go
see.

No, I think we can all agree: Mr. Hart, myself, your
Committee, Mr. Agu, and Mr. Nosenko: Nosenko was neither
exaggerating nor inventing nor forgetting nor was he
compartmented away from the essential facts of wit’ story.

So what is left to explain this incredible testimony?

I can think of only two cffee explanations.

Maybe Nosenko's story is true, after all. Let's over-
look for a moment the fact that everyone (except Mr. Nosenko)
believes the contrary, including Mr. Hart and today's CIA, acto bing
Mr. Helms, Soviet specialists, and ex-KGB veterans in the
West. Let's also overlook the way Nosenko contradicted
himself on points of detail from one telling to another. Let's
focus only on the essential elements of the story, the ones
which remain constant. There are two: first, that the KGB
never questioned Oswald, and second, that the KGB never found

out that Oswald had information to offer them about interesting

U.S. military matters.

HW 55538 Doold:32266820 Page i0
-e~
goo”.

Oswald, he, Nosenko, would knownit. So "compartmentation"
explains nothing. Nosenko's stcry rests essentially on his
personal involvement and authority.

The second and last possible explanation which we
can find in Mr. Hart's testimony is Nosenko's odd memory,
which Mr. Hartgkook such pains to establish. After all,
Nosenko seems to have changed details of seven or eight
aspects of the story at one time or another. The trouble with
this is, it doesn't touch the heart of the story, the truly
incredible part, Nosenko didn't forget whether or not the KGB
questioned Oswald; he remembers sharply and consistently -- and
insists, whatever other changes he makes in ie story -- that
Oswald was never questioned by the KGB. He knows that and
remembers it, for he participated directly in the decision not
to.

Now that was all Mr. Hart offered. But I think we
should try every conceivable explanation. Here are a couple
I can think of.

Maybe Nosenko was merely boasting, exaggerating,
building things up a bit, especially his personal role.
Maybe, for example, he only overheard some KGB officers
talking, didn't hear it right, and then passed on an incorrect
story to us as his own experience, to make himself look impor-
tant in our eyes. Maybe, under this interpretation, he honestly

thinks his story is true.

HWW 55538 Dockd:32266825 Page @
-7-

Aside from the irrelevant details about Nosenko's
stresses under mistreatment, and drunkenness, I found two
things in Mr. Hart's testimony which might bear on the Oswald
story. First and foremost, he spoke about compartmentation,
bringing in his ow) experience to show how a person in any
organization working on the principle of "need to know" might
not be aware of everything going on, even in his own operations.
Now, I suppose Mr. Hart intended this as a contribution to
Mr. Nosenko's defense; certainly Mr. Nosenko had never mentioned
it. The trouble is, it doesn't apply to this story. Nosenko
had said repeatedly, to CIA and FBI and most recently swore
under oath to this Committee, that he was right there on the
inside of any "compartment." He personally reviewed the
application of Oswald to stay in the USSR in 1959 and he
personally participated in the recommendation that the KGB
should not let Oswald stay in the country and in the decision
not to notify the KGB sections which might normally be
interested in debriefing a man like Oswald. Nosenko knew
that the KGB leadership decided that they "didn't want to
be involved" with Oswald -- not to question him at all, not
even to screen him as a possible enemy plant. Nosenko
personally participated in the refusal of Oswald's visa
request from Mexico not long before the assassination of
President Kennedy. And after the assassination, Nosenko
himself was told to review Oswald's KGB file; and did so.

He has insisted that if anyone in the KGB ever talked to

HW 55538 Docid:322366820 Page 7
-5-
Oswald matter, which have been proven to be incorrect."
(32535 But the Committee only spoke to Nosenko about
this one matter, and even so, the Committee detected
at least six or seven contradictions from one telling
to another. Could this, by coincidence, be the only
such case? (I can tell you the answer is no; on the
contrary, this was typical Nosenko whenever he was
pinned down on details.)

While extolling Nosenko's truthfulness, Mr. Hart
spent.a surprising amount of time giving you reasons
why Nosenko might have lied or seemed to lie, such as
drunken exaggeration, confusion, emotional stresses,
hallucinations, and the impact of mistreatment. But
that wasn't helpful to you, for none cf these things
had anything to do with Nosenko's story about Oswald.
After all, Nosenko told the CIA and FBI his story about
Oswald before any mistreatment, and he told it to your
Committee after any mistreatment, and no one thought
he was drunk at any one of those times.

So I will go back to the question here and see
if I can help you find an answer. There has to be some
way to explain how this direct participant in the events
delivered incredible testimony about them. There must
be some explanation for the differences in Nosenko's
story at different times he told it, for his excuses

and evasions when confronted with these differences,

HW 55538 Dooid:32266820 Page 5
-6-
and for his final refusal to talk any more about them
with your Committee.

As we seek an answer to these questions, I ask

you to keep three things in mind:

- First, that at the time he reviewed Oswald's
file for the KGB, Nosenko was already a willing
secret collaborator oft cra. Therefore, he must
have been alert when dealing with this matter
of such obvious importance to the United States
and to his own country.

- Second, that Nosenko told us of some of these
events only ten weeks after they happened, so
there wasn't time for them to become dim in his
memory.

- Third, that no one has suggested that Nosenko
is mentally unfit. Mr. Hart brought in the
Wechsler test and other pyschological details
merely to show Nosenko's relative strengths
and weaknesses, not to prove him a mental
basket case. On the contrary, Nosenko claims
to have risen fast in the KGB, and he is

regarded by his current employers as “an
intelligent human being" who “reasons wells."
I am guoting Mr. Hart, of course, who also

called your attention to Nosenko's powers of

"logical thought" and his high score in “power

of abstract thinking."

HW 55538 Doold:322366826 Page 6
-2-
to the study of the most sophisticated Soviet counter-
~intelligence operations of\pur generation. As far as
I know he never handled a Single Soviet intelligence officer,
and spent his career, as he told you, remote from Soviet
operations, in wars and jungles, as he put it. As a result,
he was able to tick off sixty years of Soviet deception
as a kind of paranoid fantasy, to make contemptuous remarks
about “historical research about a plot against the West,"
and to use the revealing phrase, " on't happen to be
able to share this type of thing," ane But “this type of
thing" is what the Nosenko case is all about.

nie Hart did not mention, and perhaps never studied,
Oe related cases bearing importantly on the question
of Nosenko's credibility. From his testimony you would
never guess at the existence of cases apart from but related
to the Nosenko case. Mr. Hart apparently did not bother
to talk with many of the best-qualified officers on these
cases during his six months of research. When he came to me
in 1976 he had not even read the basic papers of the case
and instead of talking substance he asked about an irrelevant
phrase from an eight-year-old dispatch I had written -~
a phrase he Jer ougat up with you, \the bit about “devasta-
ting consequences," in distorted form and out of context.
He was clearly concerned about something other than facts.

His testimony here seems not designed to enlighten

your Committee, but to subject Nosenko's critics -- Mr. Hart's

HW 55538 Docid:32266820 Page 2
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
< DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
PREPARED TESTIMONY OF MR. TENNENT H. BAGLEY RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

FORMER DEPUTY CHIEF OF THE SOVIET BLCC DIVISION,
. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Before the HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
November. 16, 1978
Mr. Chairman and Members of the Committee:
I have come before your Committee to reply to
the testimony of Mr. Jonn L. Hart, who represented the
Central Intelligence Agency here on September 15, a testi-
mony which misled you and misused me.
As the former deputy chief of the Soviet Bloc
Division of CIA and directly responsible for the case
of the KGB defector Yuri Nosenko from 1962 to 1967, I can
reply more accurately to your questions and can bring
you a better understanding of this matter.
For one thing, I wit Ot" have to rely as did
Mr. Hart on archeological digs into those forty file
drawers of information. Mr. Hart's six-month expedition
obviously failed to understand what they dug up, and their
leader was highly selective in what he chose to exhibit
here. For another, I will not disqualify myself, as he
did, from talking about Lee Harvey Oswald, one of the
most important aspects of the Nosenko case, nor about
the case of the earlier defector here called "xX," which
is a critical factor in understanding Nosenko.
CIA's selection of Mr. Hart to study the Nosenko
case, and later to present it to you, came to me as a great

surprise and mystery. He seemed to bring few qualifications

MW 55538 Doocid: 3232663206 Page i
Me

-3-
former colleagues ~- to vilification and ridicule. He
left with the Committee a picture of a small group of
irresponsible half-wits, carried away by wild fantasies
about horrendous plots, failing even to ask questions,
neglecting to check on what was said, and all the time
hiding their vile misconduct and illegal thoughts from a
duped leadership.

Mr. Hart told you a lot about Nosenko's mistreat-
ment but very little about Nosenko's credibility as concerns
Lee Harvey Oswald. He called on you to make an act of
faith, as the CIA seems to have done, in the goodwill and
truth of a Soviet KGB man who had rendered calse WS increa-
ible testimony about the assassin of an American president .AL qr
"vou should believe these statements of Mr. Nosenko," Mr.

Hart said, "anything he has said has been said in good
faith." Then, avoiding the subject of Oswald, he led you
into a maze of irrelevant detail about Nosenko's problems
and CIA's earlier misunderstanding and mistreatment of this
defector. By spattering mud on Nosenko's earlier handling,
and particularly on me, Mr. Hart threw up a cloud which
threatens to impede your attempts to get at the answer to

the true question before you. A

focus own
Gangs here fanmEaeD that question, instead of the

irrelevancies.
That question, of course, is how and why a senior

KGB defector, directly responsible for important aspects

HW 55538 Doelid:32266820 Page 3
-4-
of Lee Harvey Oswald's sojourn in the Soviet Union, could
deliver testimony to this Committee which even the CIA's
representative called "implausible" and "incredible."

Mr. Hart even said that if he were in your position,
he would simply disregard what Mr. Nosenko said about Lee
Harvey Oswald. He seems to have done just that, himself.
But Mr. Helms rightly labeled that a copout, and it is not
clear to me how Mr. Hart thought you could or would just
pretend that the question isn't there.

Of course, you can't. For today you are in the
same position I was in back in 1964, trying to make sense
of Nosenko's reports. You are investigating and evaluating
Nosenko's reoorting on Lee Harvey Oswald, I did not think,
in my time, that I could just shrug off Nosenko's bizarre
story of Oswald with some irrelevant and half-hearted
explanation, as Mr. Hart did here, and slide off onto
some other subject.

Mr. Hart did not explain what he thought you should
believe, or how this "incredible" testimony is compatible
with the claim that Nosenko has, by and large, told nothing
but the truth ever since 1962.

He said Nosenko's testimony to you was a unique
aberration; I quote: "IT ‘cannot offhand remember any state-
ments which (Nosenko) has been proven to have made which
were statements) of real substance other than the contradic-

tions which have been adduced today on the Lee Harvey

HW 55538 Dooid: 32266820 Page 4
