 

 

 

to the creation of this Oversight Committee; and as the
Committee is aware, the FBI fully cooperated in that review.

You have my absolute assurance that your Committee
will receive the same full cooperation in carrying out its
responsibilities under Senate Resolution 400.

One of the tasks confronting this Committee is the
formulation of a legislative charter defining the FBI's
jurisdiction in the domestic security and intelligence fields.
This will be a most precise and demanding undertaking.

As I remarked to Senator Church's Committee, the
legislative charter must be sufficiently flexible that it does
not stifle the FBI's effectiveness in combating the high
incidence of crime and violence across the United States.

The charter must clearly address the demonstrated problems

of the past; yet, it must amply recognize the fact that times
change and so also do the nature and thrust of our criminal
and subversive challenges.

The fact that the Department of Justice has
undertaken the formulation of operational guidelines governing
this area of our activities does not in any manner diminish
the need for legislation. The responsibility for conferring

jurisdiction resides with the Congress.

HW 55272 Doold: 32889837 Page &

 

 

 
 

 

 

HW 55272 Boold: 32989837 Page 7

@ @

We entered the 1970s still engaged in an undeclared
conflict in Vietnam which was unpopular with some segments
of our povulation. Not in recent. history had this country been
so divided over an issue, and this division was not limited
to rhetoric hut included demonstrations that often erupted

into violence.

There were deliberate criminal acts, including
bombings and sabotage, hy persons opposed to our involvement
in Vietnam. The role of the FBI in this confrontation was
clearly to thwart the efforts of those who resorted to

violence as an expression of their opposition.

With the cessation of the Vietnam War in early 1973,
a major cause for divisiveness in this country was eliminated, and

the potential for violence was lessened, but not eliminated.

The FBI began closing thousands of investigations
at that time as determinations were made that certain groups
and individuals no longer were engaged in activities that

were likely to involve violations of Federal law.

The FBI met the unusual challenges of the 1960s and
early 1970s. The Senate Select Committee has examined these

and other problems in the intelligence field’ which led

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

First, there must he no sacrifice or compromise
of the essential security needs of the United States.

Second, there must be the least possible intrusion
on the rights and privacy of our citizens, including
their sacred right of legitimate dissent.

Third, although domestic security cases differ in
some respects from ordinary criminal investigations,
these cases should be tied as closely as possible to
actual or potential violations of Federal law. In
furtherance of this objective, last month I transferred
the supervision of all domestic security cases from our
Intelligence Division to our General Investigative
Division, which has responsibility over criminal matters.

In an effort to insure uniform adherence to the

guidelines and laws applicable to these and all other areas

of our jurisdiction, I have combined the Office of Planning

and Evaluation and the Inspection Division. In this new

Division I have created a Professional Responsibility Section.

It will report directly to me.

T have also expanded the role of the Legal Counsel

Division in reviewing all areas of FBI policies and operations.

Legal Counsel will report directly to me and to the Associate

Director.

 

HW 55272 Eoold: 32989637 Page 5
Ce

.-3-

 

 

 

 
 

HW 55272

 

The investigations transferred include those
involving domestic organizations oriented toward violence
and individuals affiliated with such groups, as well as civil
unrest and demonstration matters and basic revolutionary
groups dedicated to the overthrow of the Government. The
General Investigative Division will also be responsible for
several categories of criminal investigations formerly
administered by the Intelligence Division. These are
bombing matters, sabotage, passport and visa violations,
and protection of foreign officials and official guests
of the United States.

The guidelines which the Attorney General issued
last March set forth standards and procedures for domestic
security investigations. But, the FBI regards these to be
minimum standards. FBI Headquarters has imposed stringent
criteria to insure we use our manpower resources in the most

productive manner.

 

There are a number of reasons why we have been able
to bring about a major reduction in our domestic security
caseload.

The decade of the 1960's was marked by protests,

often violent, on our Nation's streets and campuses.

-4-

 

Bocld: 32989837 Page 6

 
i OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

e
| ae

 

 

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

STATEMENT OF
CLARENCE M. KELLEY

DIRECTOR

 

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
BEFORE THE

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE

SEPTEMBER 22,

1976

ulin,

ey,

nee
g
nnn?

ey
Jeag we

HW 55272 Docld: 32589837

 

Page 2

 

 
 

 

 

 

File #:

—_——_-——

) aas, | |
Serial Scope:

 

 

 

 

 

 

———

DONOT ©
DESTROY
FOIPA#

 

 

 
: ‘ @ «

Today marks my first appearance before the Senate
Select Committee on Intelligence. I want to assure you that
I sincerely welcome the opportunity to work with you.

I believe that we can and must develop a clear
base of understanding between the Executive and Legislative
Branches on the proper role of the FBI in the discharge of
its complex national security responsibilities.

As the Supreme Court so aptly observed in its
Keith Decision in 1972, “Unless Government safeguards its
own capacity to function and to preserve the security of its
people, society itself could become so disordered that all
rights and liberties would be endangered,"

Yet the maintenance of national security is a
hollow victory unless it can be achieved with the least
possible intrusion into the rights and privacy of our citizens.
Balancing these imperatives will require the greatest study

and serious thought.

 

Together, I feel we can reach a meaningful understanding
which will best serve our country.

Since I became Director in 1973, there has been a
continuous examination of all major aspects of the FBI's
operations. One such study, initiated in 1974, established
that a quality, rather than a caseload quantity, approach in
the assignment of our manpower and other resources would

produce better results.

   
  

| HW 55272 Dookd:329859837 Page 3

 

 
 

 

ma a
, @

Originally, this quality approach was tried on an
experimental basis in four of our 59 field divisions. It
proved so successful that we implemented it field-wide in 1975.

Today, the quality approach is being applied to all
areas of jurisdiction, including those in the foreign
intelligence and domestic security fields that are of prime
interest to this Committee.

In July, 1973, we had 21,414 domestic security cases.
By March 31, 1976, before the Attorney General's guidelines
took effect, we had--through application of the quality
approach-~reduced this caseload to 4,868 investigative matters,
a 78 percent reduction. As of September 20, 1976, this figure
has been further reduced to 626. This includes investigations
of 78 organizations and 548 individuals.

This reduction has been made possible largely because
we have discontinued investigations of rank and file members.

We are confident that the FBI can meet its responsibilities

 

by focusing our investigations on the activities of organ-
izations and on individuals who are in a policy-making position
in those organizations or who have engaged in activities which
indicate they are likely to use force or violence in violation
of Federal law.

In effecting this reduction, we have kept these

vital principles in mind:

HW 55272 Eoold: 32989637 Page 4

 

 

 
