HW 54214

conservative view, in that in some cases I would recommend ot?
access as opposed to release, I believe the nature of some

of the documents is such that copies should not be delivered
tothe Committee. At least, that should be our initial position.
Because the Committee will more than likely buck at anything
jess than full and complete disclosure, you will, more than
likely, want to consult either with Bill Hyland or General
Scowcroft. 4 You should be aware that the Committecis very
anxious to have these documents made available and have _
been calling me at least twice every day. Ihave informed
Mr. Epstein and Mr. Wallach, who are members of the
Committee Staff, that we are revesting these documents as
quickly as is possible, and because of the complexity and
involvement of many different agencies that it is taking a
considerable period of time. I indicated that although the
NSC Staff review is nearly finished, it will be necessary

to seek formally the views of other agencies. Although I
gave no definite time when we expected to complete our
review, 1 indicated that I thought by ‘the end of this week
there would be an answer ready for them. When Mr. Epstein
called me at 1:30 this afternoon he indicated that unless we
produced the documents that he would be forced to have them
subpoenaed, Lindicated, in response, that we had been
working diligently and devoting most of our time to this
matter. I stated that most of my own time on Friday and

all of my time today, Monday, had.been devoted to this
project and, that in my opinion, a subpoena could not quicken
a review-process that was already moving at full speed.

Mr. Epstein indicated that although they were unhappy with
this delay that, for now, they would wait on our review.

a

DocId: 32977082 Page 7
 

 

 

F.

G.

HW 54214 -DocId:32977082. Page 5

Cubelas Trial, Documents 21, 21a andZlb

 

~ hw

and then it was crossed out to state "Secretary's",
use ata é-pi'm Deecmber 2 meeting. There is

no further substantive discussion in that document,

I would defer, however, to the Department of State
as to whether or not that document could be released.

Bill Attwood Activities, Documents 26,27, 27a, 28,

28a, 29 and 29a relate to a special channel being
cultivated between Premier Castro and President
Kennedy. Although it may not be necessary to.
protect the information contained in. these docurnents,
without knowing whether there has been another
public disclosure of the existence of this channel,
I would recormmend that we not do so. In the event
that this, or another similar channel, were ever
to be used again in contacting or negotiating with
the Cuban Government, it would be important not
to disclose the existence or the substance of this
one. I would believe that the Department of State
would be the most appropriate agency to review
these documents and to inform us about the sensi-
tivity of theexistence of the Attwood channel.

Mafia Assassination Involvement, Documents 24

and 24a concern plans of Cuban exile groups to \
assassinate selected Cuban Government leaders

and their tie-in with elements of 'Cosa Nostra."

The covering memorandim from Gordon Chase +t
to Mr. Bundy‘discloses the substance of the ase

underlived CLA memorandum and I would propose
to make it available only'en an access basis.
With regard to the CIA report itself, I believe
that we should defer to the CIA on the matter of
release or access.

 
  

information that wag furnished by the
Government. The: ‘
monitored the trial of the alleged involvement of
Majors Cubelas and Guin in assassination attempts
against Castro. (You may recall that the Washington ~
Post article by Mr. George Crile 3 weeks ago :
related to AM-Lash and Major Cubclas. )

S)

 

 

 

 
 

 

» Bw

_SECESE46057

Although the -substance of the information contained

in these docurnents is not sensitive, disclosure of

the documents would reveal our relationship with

Government and the fact that the :

Embassy in Havartwas reporting information to the

United States Government. Whether this relationship

or information is disclosed is a matter that must

be decided by the Department of State and the a
,jGovernment and I would recommend that

the Department of State be consulted.

H. Mr. Hoover's November 24, 1963 Report. Document 30

is an interesting memorandum. Either it is a transcript
of a telephone conversation with FBI Director Hoover
or it is a memorandum of conversation on his meeting
with an official whose initials are WJ (presumably

- Walter Jenkins), The memorandum containing Mr.
Hoover's rernarks is a substantive and relatively
complete report on points that he evidently made in

; A

his conversation: Indeed, it appears to be a verbatim | bye

transcript of what he may have said. Although it W dwt ;
&

    

fay / 2

 

     

 
  

: ymnent should be
classified SECRET and that Ged Khoulebeffect that

  

classification. . aa Wwe :
You will note that the memorandum relates to events CaMe™,
egurrounding the murder of Lee Harvey Oswald by

Jack Ruby. It discusses the Dallas Police Department 40 $4

handling of the.case and the eix'éntributions. In
addition, in indicates that we were tapping the telephone
lines of the Cuban Embaasy in Mexico and opening

mail addressed to the Soviet Embassy in Washington,

John and I believe that the memorandum could be
made available on an access basis only to the Com-~
mittee Staff and that the FBl and CIA should be
informed of its existence.

 

“You may wish to review each of these documents yourself to
determine whether they may or may not be released to the
Committee Staff. Although my view may be a sornewhat

meme . _-SEER IOS)

 

HW 54214. DocId: 32977082 Page 6 .

          
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL

SECRET S55)
Log #7602957
May 24, 1976
MEMORANDUM FOR MRS. JEANNE W. DAVIS Sew

FROM: Steven L. Skancke Not te

SUBJECT: SSC. Request for LBJ Material on Cuba ar
JFK Assassination :

 
 
 
  
   

As you know, research staff members from the Senate Select
Committee visited the LBJ Library in Austin three weeks ago
and reviewed material relating to alleged attempts to assassinate
Cuban Premier Fidel Castro and information related to the

- Warren Commission Report on the assassination of President
Kennedy. As a result of the review of those files, the Senate
Select Committee Staff has asked that certain documents be
returned and made available to them in Washington. In ac-
cordance with the arrangements made between the NSC Staff
and Archives, these materials have been forwarded for our
review prior to release to the SSC-Statl, Accordingly, last
Thursday we received a package of 63 documents from Archives
for review.

John Matheny and I have reviewed each of these documents

and believe that although it is probably not possible to with-
old the documents in their entirety, that in many cases

the Committee may be réstricted to only having access to

the documents on Archives or NSC premises. Staff members

from the Committee have already reviewed the documents

but were not allowed to take substantive notes during their

review.

The documents have been divided into eight separate categories

of information,and a brief discussion and recommendation for
handling documents within each of these categories now follows:

 

HW 54214 DocId:32977082 Page 2
oS , , (2)

Date : 07/14/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION Peleased under the John
. Kennedy
AGENCY : NSC issassination Records
RECORD NUMBER : 145-10001-10259 ollection Act of 1992
RECORDS SERIES : . (44 USC 2107 Note).

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 43
----------- -- ~~ ee er frre wO-—04=2017.

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

ORIGINATOR : NSC
FROM : STEVEN L. SKANCKE
TO : MRS. JEANNE W. DAVIS
TITLE : SSC REQUEST FOR LBJ MATERIAL ON CUBA AND JFK

ASSASSINATION
DATE : 05/24/76
PAGES : 6

SUBJECTS .: WITH NOTES IN MARGIN

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : 1C, 4
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/18/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Duplicate of 145-10001-10258, with notes in margin.

‘NW 54214 DocId:32977082 Page 1
BECERaS 2s

The documents themselves are tabbcd as an attachment to
this memorandum and the letter on the Tab corresponds to
the letter associated with the paragraph headings below.

A. NSC/WH Papers. Documents 1, la thru lm, 5, 6,
7, 8, 17 and 19 were prepared for,or as a result of,
White House or NSC meetings. Document #liisa
“a briefing paper for the President for his participa-
tion in a meeting and Document #5 isa record of
the meeting of December 27, 1963 in which the
President actually participated. John and I believe
these documents constitute privileged information

AK ) and, asa result, as a matter of principle should
. Staff. Substantively, we have no objection to allowing
the Committee Staff to read this material or to have |
- repeated access to it, however. Such access arrange-

ments could be worked out through the National Archives
or could be handled directly by the NSC Staff.

B. CIA Papers. Documents 2, 3, 3a, 3b, 4, 4a, 4b,

ll, 18, 18a, 20, 20a, 22, 23, 2% and 25 were pre-

pared by the Central Intelligence Agency and either

forwarded directly to the White House or were

generally circulated by that agency. John and I

have no objection to making these documents available

to the SSC Staff but believe that the matter should be
“K resolved by. the CIA. We understand that Document

#3, for example, has already been made available

by the CIA and would thus believe that CIA would

have no objection to also releasing #4a which appears

to be an earlier draft of #3.

My own reaction is that the release of information
contained in many of these documents could be expected
to damage either our relations with a particular country,
Mexico for example, in the case of Document: 20a, or
compromise specific sources and methods of intelligence.
I realize, however, that we must defer to CIA on pro-
tection of sources and methods.

ow

HW 54214 DocId: 32977082 Page 3

Sts

ce er eee:
Beppe -3-

HW 54214

Docld: 32977082

Cc.

FBI Papers. Documents 10, 12, 12a, 14, l4a, 13, 13a,
15, 15a, 15b, 16, 16a, 16b, were prepared’Sr are the
responsibility of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Again, although we have no major substantive problem
with the release of this information on a classified
basis, we believe that the FBI should be asked to :
review it to ascertain that the sources of intelligence

described in these not be undu

compromised by releasing it to the $ e Sele :
Committ taff. With regard to documents in the
#TZ@ Series, I don't believe that the two covering notes

concerning distribution of the document to Governor
Connally relate to the Committee inquiry and, thus,
would recommend that they simply be removed. In
Document 12a itself the matter for resolution by the
FBI is whether disclosure of the information would
identify sources of intelligence. :

Documents in the 13 and 15 series relate to intelligence
reports on the training of Negroes in Cuba for subversive
operations against the United States. Although we don't
believe this is relevant to the Committee investigation,
we believe the matter of disclosure should be considered
by the FBI. In this case, however, recent events would
seem to indicate that Cuban training of Negroes in sub-
versive operation tactics may not have necessarily

been geared toward the United States solely, especially
in view of recent developments in Africa. The docu-
ments in the #16 series, although they would appear

to be relevant to the investigation, relate to sensitive
intelligence source materials. This document, however,
must also be cleared by the CIA since the last page

of the document relates to the CIA Station Chief in

a European country.

D. State Department Memorandum. Document 9is a

December 1963 memorandum from Executive
Secretary Read to McGeorge Bundy concerning
papers prepared for a December Presidential
meeting on Cuba. The memorandum indicates that .
the papers were prepared for the ''President's')

Page 4
