Anitey States Senate

MEM@RANBEM

elder/bolton checklist:

z .
—AMEASH coctiments == ann

2. ZRRIFLE documents “(need another look
- la Vapk

aide)
wetting e U
“4. Sign affadavit
s, Isle of Pines source

eh +o CIN
dD. er Ch hea

 

HW 54545 DocId:32281994 Page 7
NW 54545

\

DocId:32261994 Page 5.

KA, Supply Drops - Cuba

 

Gen. Cabell explained that the Pinar de Rio supply mission had
not taken place'because of the absence of specified communication
from the DZ, and the Escambray operation had been canceled because
of weather. He said that these missions are still planned, and assumed
that the Group had no objections. The members so signified..

“5, U-2, Cuba

Gen. Cabell said that the photographic coverage on the first
flight had been only about 50%, because. of cloud cover. He continued
that we are analyzing the exact results on a priority basis and that
some time after the middle of next week we should be in a position to
make recommendations for the missions required to extend the coverage.

Mr. Gray commented somewhat wryly tbat this was all right with
him since he 'would certainly not be available to discuss anything of
this kind before the middle of next week. '' The other members appeared
to have the sare reaction.

V6, Policy Consideration Re Cuban Exiles

 

Mr. Gray said that Assistant Attorney General Yeagley had spoken
to him after his meeting with Col. King and Messrs, Esterline and :
Holman. He had said that the information given to him by the CIA
representatives, and the arrangements for future coordination if
necessary, were entirely satisfactory to him. He had stated, howeve
thata problem remains with respect to action the FBI should take;

‘that is, the FBI needs guidance in its handling of Cuban exile groups

other than those under the direction of CLA.

The Group agreed that the best way to attack this problem would
be to have Mr. Yeagley attend next week's Special Group mecting and
discuss the matter at firsthand. Mr. Parrott was asked to make
arrangements for this. ;

7. Malue of Cuba to the USSR as a Base Vis-a-vis

‘Cape Canaveral

 

 

Mr. Parrott gave Mr..Merchant the gist of the OSI memorandum

 

 

eran y

  

 
on this subject, which had been discussed with the rest of the Group
on 20 October 1960. : ;

THOMAS A. PARROTT

ao

 

r
——-
1
Goes
Cae ee toe
5 ‘ —_

  

AW 54545 DocId:32281994 Page 6
Released under the John
Kennedy
Wesasgsination Records

ollection Act of 1992 ; 6 i I
(44 USC 2107 Note). . 3 November 1960 oo io A

   
   

ase#:iNW 54545 Date:
HO-i2-2017

oe Pein 7 fa y
7 WMio las

SUBJECT: Minutes of Special Group Meeting, 3 November 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

PRESENT: Messrs. Merchant, Mouglas, Gray, Gen, Cabell,
Gen. Lansdale . .

so

1. Cuba

 

Mr. Gray inquired once more as to the status of planning for
problems which would arise post-Castro. “Mr. Merchant said he
would check into the progress of the State Department group which
has been charged wita developing recommendations on this matter.

- . From this the Group launched into a far-ranging discussion of
the entite concept of U.S. efforts against Castro. Mr. Douglas, '
supported by Mr. Gray.and Mr.’ Merchant, expounded the idea that :
perhaps things have now progressed toa point where covert activities |
of the type originally envisaged for CLA to undertake will not be effective. |
Mr. Douglas referred to the extensive program of the militia, Mr. Gray
cited the matter of arms from the Soviet bloc, and Mr. Merchant dwelt !
on the increasing effectiveness of Castro's measures to control the.

 

population in ways which the Communists have developed so well. The ——e

jatter said that he and others-in the State Department had originally
thought that a popular rebellion would develop within Cuba and that
this could be augmented by the comparatively small-scale efforts of
exiles under CIA control. Now the same peopie are beginning to feel
more and rnore that despite the nurmerous defections and the econormic
deprivations being experienced by the middle and upper classes, time
is actually working on Castro's side. Mr. Merchant said that he
foresaw that there would occur a point in time beyond which covert

intervention would not do the job. . porn

Mr. Gray expressed the opinion that we will never be able to
"clean up" the situation without the use of overt U.S. military force.

He suggested the possibility of using the ClA-backed exiles to-mount a
simulated attack on Guantanamo in order to offer an excuse for overt

PROPERTY (©
THE WHITE Huuse cos

 

MRO MAR neettavi

N 1

\

AW 54545 DocId:32281994 Page 2
JFK. Assassination Systent : Date: 9/22/30)
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

Released under the John

  

 

RECORD-NUMBER: — 157-10002-10.154 . Kennedy
: , Aasagsination Records
RECORD MEMORANDUM. . ollection Act of 1992
: (44 USC 2107 Note).

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : . : ase#: NW 54545 Date:
= “ - = ~fl0-12-2017

 

   

Doctinent Infornial

ORIGINATOR: WHIPE HOUSE
FROM: “PARROTT, THOMAS
- TO:

TITLE: | MINUTES OF SPECIAL:GROUP MEETING, 3 NOVEMBER 1960

D:

F 11/03/1960
PAG

6:

 

‘ SUBIECTS : ;
: GRAY, GORDON
ZRRIELE .
CUBA
CASTRO-
AMLASH

 

   
 

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
“LAS Unelassified

lied; FA, Donor Resiricted

Redast .

O3/0 1/1994

    

OPENING: CRITERIA:

COMMENTS : Box 256Rolder SExhibit 1 to testimony. of Thoinas Parrott, 7/10/75

 

 

a7

  

 

HW 54545 DocId:32281994 Page 1

Relic. ve annetnnntnnerpntasasas nici

 

seid este SO MEN IRA ETE SNPS N SE RE SU AEB ENA EPR CTE EE EELS
NW 54545

‘intervention. This led to an involved discussion, the general conclusion

 

of which was that such action.on our part would not be desirable, but
that should Castro be foolish enough actually to attack Guantanamo
this would almost certainly mean war. Mr. Gray said that. he had had
the subject of Cuba inscribed on the NSC agenda for next Monday in

 

order to be able to arrive at a top-level decision on this very point. we
He thought it essential that the policy of the U. S. should be completely —-.
understood by responsible officials, so that.any overt’ Cuban act would

be met-with a previously-agreed-on response.

Mr. Merchant stated thar, apart from any attack on Guantanamo,
he thought that some of the previous argumentation in today's meeting
was faulty, in that we could not have it both ways. By this he méant
thet it is not logical to conclude that an indigenous uprising is impossible
and yet that it is feasible for the U.S. to go in overtly and clean up
the mess.'! He pointed out that if Castro's support were such met an
uprising was out of the question then an open invasion by the U.S. would

“be met by a hostile population and we would be plunged into a Situation

like Algeria. 4 1

» Turning to the immediate problem before the Group, Gen. Cabell
outlined the general proposal to establish bases in the. U.S., with the
reasons for coming to this conclusion, He cited specifically the '
possibility of U.N. investigation in Guatemala and the increased scope
of the program, which has been brought about by the increased strength
of the Castro regime. il members of the Group expressed serious
doubts as to whether such activity could be kept at all secure. Mr.
Merchant said at one point, that although this does not represent a
final conclusion on his part, he is inclined to think that the proposal
embodies the worst aspect of both worlds; that is, the choice should : —_—
rest between continuing our operations entirely on foreign soil or:
preparing to make the best possible case for overt intervention.

 

Mr. Gray suggested that the decision could be put up to his
associates at the sarne time Tibet is discussed. Mr. Merchant agr ecd
that this is where it should end up, but asserted that he is not prepared
to move in that direction until a survey has been made of the possibilities
of keeping operations in the U.S. unrevealed.

In this connection Gen. Cabell mentioned the possibility of using
a refugee organization - either an existing onc or a-contrived one - to
backstop the operations,

 

DocId: 32281994 Page 3
i

, a ffl

Mr. Douglas said that in any case he would be prepared to have Lb | :

the Department of Defense investigate the availability of specific
Jocations that would be suitable. _ ;

Finally, Mr. Merchant asked whether any real planning has been
done for taking direct positive action against Fidel, Raul and Che Guevara.
“He gaid that without these three the Cuban Government would be
leaderless and probably brainless. He conceded that it would be
necessary to act against all three simultaneously. Gen. Cabell pointed
out that action of this kind is uncertain of results and highly dangerous
in conception and execution, because the instruments must be Cubans.
te felt that, particularly because of the ‘necessity of simultaneous
action, it would have to be concluded that Mr. Merchant's suggestion

ja hevand anr canahilities. . L

|

 

PROPERLY
THE WHITE muuck Ureiue

 

HW 54545 DocId:32281994 Page 4
