 

 

‘ .

Memorandum to Mr, W. R. Wannall
Re: Houstudy 75
62+116464

the above statement but explained that since proprietaries
were currently operating he would have to include in his
report the legal position of the Department and/or the FBI
concerning this type of operation. _ Maddox then prepared
longhand a substitute statement attached) which in effect
stated that the legal authority for the operation of
proprietaries is under Department consideration and his
statemerit concluded that such a decision should have been
made earlier and not after the fact and upon request of the
HSC. Maddox indicated,.in the absence of a specific decision
from the Department, he would utilize the above statement,
It was explained to Maddox at this point that a Bureau
representative could not speak for the Department and a
call was placed for Mr. Steven Blackhurst, Deputy Special
Counsel for Intelligence Coordination, to come to the FBI
Building to review the above longhand statement. Mr. Blackhurst,
after reviewing the statement, advised that he could not
speak for the Department's position in this matter and it
was agreed that Maddox would withhold the draft copy of his
report until approximately 1/21/76 at which time Blackhurst
agreed to contact Maddox with the Department's position if
such had been formulated.

OBSERVATIONS :
Legal Counsel Division is aware that the Department
|current1y has under study the legal authority for use of

incorporated proprietaries, It is noted that the Department,
prior to the HSC inquiry, was cognizant that the two
proprietaries in question involved corporations. If the
Department on such short notice is unable to legally justify
the operation of these proprietaries, it appears that two
courses of action remain open to the Department. One would

CONTINUED - OVER

“36

HW 55317 Doeid: 32989709 Page 9
 

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Houstudy 75
62-116464

be to maintain that the matter is currently under consideration
while the second is a statement that the Department can find
no legal justification for these operations. In the latter
event it would appear the two operations would have to be
discontinued in the immediate future, Either of the above
two positions would appear to reflect unfavorably upon the
Department as the former infers that the Department had not
considered Section 869, Title 21, U.S.C., while the latter
admits the Department had at the very least knowledge of an
operation, which operation was in violation of a Federal
statute, It would appear that the interest of this Bureau
could best be served by the Department engaging in thorough
research to determine whether the aboye~stated statute applies
to operations approved by Government officials and designed

to serve the best interests of the country by n , disclosing
Government participation in the operation or tof oeetstence
of another statute permitting these type operations.

RECOMMENDATIONS :

 

That representatives of Legal Counsel, Special
Investigative and Intelligence Divisions meet with appropriate
Department officials to resolve:

1) Appropriate wording setting forth the Bureau
and/or Department's position in the above matter and
recommend to Maddox inclusion of this wording in the HSC
report being prepared by him.

CONTINUED - OVER

HW 55317 Docld: 32989705 Page id

 

 
 

 

 

1

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Houstudy 75
62-116464

jee
with existing,and/or, district laws. The remaining
proprietary in the counterintelligence field represents a
partnership.

On 1/15/76, HSC Staff Member Charles Maddox made
available to Special Agent Thomas J. McNiff a draft copy
Cattached) of material concerning FBI proprietaries prepared
by him for inclusion in the final report setting forth
the results of HSC inquiry into FBI operations, Mr. Maddox
requested that this material, as it pertains to FBI operations,
be reviewed to determine if such information requires
classification. A Separiate communication has been prepared
responsive to that request. In reviewing the above draft
copy, it was noted that a section of the report was subtitled
"Legal Aspects Concerning Proprietaries." This- subsection
quotes Section 869, Title 21, U.S.C., which in essence
[ecstee no corporation shall be created (or Government funds '

sed for that purpose) by any officer or agency of the
Federal Government except by an Act of Congress, specifically
authorizing such action. With regard to the FBI's justifi-
cation for the use of incorporated proprietaries, the report
stated that the matter had been referred to the Department
of Justice for a decision and unofficially quotes an FBI
spokesman as stating the question had never been raised in
house and it was assumed that approval by the Department of
Justice at the time such a proprietary was initiated was
de facto proof that the operation was legal.

: Exception was taken to the above statement not
only because of its inaccuracy but because of the blackguardly
tactic of making official an alleged unofficial remark,
In response to a specific inquiry, Maddox admitted that the
above statement was speculative and no Bureau spokesman told
him that the legal authority of proprietary operations had
not previously been considered. Maddox agreed to withdraw

> CONTINUED - OVER

HW 55317 Doeid:32989709 Page 8

 

 
 

t
¥TO

: Mr. We i WanAdin, pate: 1/16/76 Files 8 Com. —

 

 

e “
®
‘ ’ ‘

~ ee

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 5010-106 "

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO, 27 : 1-Mr. Ji le Adams Assoe,.Di
re

UNITED, STATES GOVERNMENT 2-Mr, J. A. Mintz nen The e-
(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis} 2%
Memorandum L = Mr. We ¥. Cleveland “Snap —
romp. §Syst. ——.

(Route Through For Review) pr ane

 

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall ident.

 

  
 

- Mr. W. A. Branigan Inspedtis

Prom : We 0. cH gaa * Route Throweh For Review)

ee 1 - Mr. W. 0. Cregar re

suBJECT:; HOUSTUDY ¢ Ll - Mr. T. J. McNiff Sen, Iv
ee. ~ Telephone Rm. —

miBodb FE Bub crf QBs0709 Page 7

t Director Sec’y —_
3

PURPOSE: OWaen

To advise that draft copy of HSC report setting
forth results of HSC inquiry into operation of proprietaries
by members of intelligence community cites Federal statute -
prohibiting formation of corporation (of which FBI has two)
by any Federal agency without a specific Act of Congress /
and recommends that representatives of Legal Counsel, por
Special Investigative and Intelligence Divisions meet with 4%"
appropriate Department officials to resolve (1) appropriate’
wording setting forth Bureau and/or Department's position
in this matter and recommend inclusion of same in HSC report
and (2} to decide course of action to be followed by Bureau
should Department decide Bureau operation of incorporated

proprietaries is illegal. eo

DETAILS: Lae
: (32-6 Yooy. 276

In response to HSC inquiries and upon he he
instructions, this Bureau furnished HSC Staff Members with
briefing concerning operation of five proprietaries and
subsequently made available for access limited financial
data concerning three of these proprietaries, Of these three,
two are included in the counterintelligence field and one
in the criminal field. One proprietary in each of the.
counterintelligence and criminal fields has, with the
knowledge of the Department, been incorporated)jin “aceordance

ea _—

 

Enclosures
1 . pas
62-116464.,. ose CONTINUED - OVER
T +
TJM:Lhb \ a all
(9) \ ee

 

 
 

mere *

ify RON CALHOUN
Politics Yeriter ; .
Hotching pits within the Contral
StrtcBinenca Agensy (CLs fo asenccinetc

“foreden iedilors is 0 aqworss thigh trailing”

Raymy tots to WU or Air Force wings f¢
trend, sepa UE. Rep, Dale Mili.

Y  w§ifond iz in the presess of Grating

*a “Giapenting” reput on whet shovid be

‘store about the GIA end the Feileral

“Bareae of Invelastion, Gs a rocanber of

“the Howe Sect Cocnefiiice |

"intelligence,

“ 4a an igtervies, HMilerd éherged .

meee eccounts-purtiowlariy by the
. Season piers ta the assessinalicn
Bids it a fee Enprasion aboot the
phis themais avd diseriel the

or . PREM activities of the CEA.

Nw 55317 Doold: 32989769 Page 5

Pa

fete Meare a « .
| Be dsimod wewtpaper sovies be had

read abtot festinven’ befert the Hous .
oonuaittes gave the impression CIA
agehis were “acivally trging™ to carry
auf db assassinate plots

“That simply is nxt tree’? Mord
wid, “There isnot a single choad of
gvidence that dhere hss been 28 atieinpt
45 cateate any of these glols. Thay were -
simply pline ying co the Self to be

used caly in case of wus, cad to ber

eyncated oaly allee being exdetod hy
competent autherliy.” . .
Ciilford’s statements tended te con”
frad’ct findings by the Senate committee .
fvediigating fee CIA and PBL Aceon |
me jo tee Ko 2 Gugmekoal

 

EYOSURE

Bb Lf ATG

 

      

f oe .
Heseltesttesr .

Sobsctvene Oitiees Lablas
rv Being Investigstod

 

 
.

hsterly, allecogts were made (9 casey?
» out plots against Fidel Castro's ie, but,
Gay & filed. Alva, it ead te CIA waz 3
"aware? of hor nesnscnatina altcmpls
JwBich socesndid, bat were unt carciod |
joel divectly by G14 agents) ;
oo BMilfed aes ‘asked wheter be
. J Fed Biting to esavsinate foreign
est 'shedld Re a put of CIA
* ecoitingensy pispning, gen the pred -
; Epng M hed caused U.S. foreign golicys-
bee die Ghat difes, Jor, on esuongie
y fom whet ip tak'ng plsm at Port Hood
where fkourands of mea aré ieing®
_ ated is £5) grote, ont re one ist
usderirg them ts Lill anyonly." Milford
ral
tee “Hes dors thet Gifer with Carevcil-
Aly Feeee Base plans, with rans in the
' _oochpif io carry’ 6ut bombing ralisions.
: Polody is sendlog diese planes to the
atargein?
f? SHMord axa sere of tho pevelations
inm ike inidligcace Aewings “have
. Bort this country la a wey tat it wil
+ tghe yeare to racer”

Biferd “so ke and ene ciher,
v.miember of the commie, U3, Rep,
o David &@ Tren, Hila, were pasting fa
ofier legeletin vtich ateld beg:

at Véisoont”’ from the- majoity reepmele
zr delice ef the comunifies,

"He caged that 23 ger cent of the
esuaiiee’s work kad om'sal of
shefgiesing wp ok dead cute und stelng

* how ¢ ey, aod sae nthe pean! BR

  

AW 55317 Docid:3233859705 Page 6

MAS QM EO RT tee ue et
opgneal te stedying present aecthitirs of -
. fie CIA and the Fesioral Euweg of

“Yavestigation,

 

Pires wos plenty of evidence, Billord -

aoid, thet the sgencice theatcelves kad
Somtesied many old atatces,
af a tosgority of fhe comatlito, hy
“aadd, amas telleg os fF resny ot sees
wore gH iekies pace. "The | eaiens
I Pm gilng Im the sisff fe thet ik:
*Tainiorlty on the committee ts Sting ‘to
Forimmen’d public revelatca qf intel
feres butzets, epea bearings on intel
“gence budgee awd untlstetal foclags.
, favicon ef information. ‘They gle wernt”
:  outey clatdesting operations of she
tA.
_ Milford ssid he was Sgwnst thes
adisns an Instrad eGvotaind the
ae :
i Gestkn of a Jensaiat intelinawe *
> oversight cowintice, wade up of iso.
“marmben cath itm the ‘hened Se
“ans. Fetelm Relations, Iudicery ard
Sseare & Techrolszy eupmitiess, asd

 

 

© eye each Faun the Bariieg & Shuscagy -

ond Agtiouline cenuntters,

“Tits wild BE fhe commbles the
express ft nrefed fo dice ot
intcttinenet 29 Bore,” " Balers eek -

L.  “Phete mala Sc 6 sneag xt of rales
whoreln Ws member Ie shed or released
“Caged igermetion, he soul simaly
“Be booted cut of Congress.”

A dimerfrg member usuld be giavcg
an evans of apps, BMilford sald, 1 a

S leard made up of de Hea

AG ead the majority and satnondy

er dees 5 ard yh .

 

  

ee ee

 

4
 

*

4

OPTIONAL FORK NO. 10 x 5010106

 

 

Mae 22 oon . s
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 1- Mr. J. B. Adams Asser. OT
Wi i 12 Me A: Sin pn 4
~- Mr. D. WwW. Moore Asst. Dir:
emoranaum 1- Mr. W. R. Wannall Men
4 Ext. Affairs —_
ny, TO > Mr. W. R. Wannall parlor DATE: 1/22/76 Piles & Cons
Gen. Inv. ___
Ident.
. 1- Mr. W. O. Cregar Inspogtipn
FROM : F, J. Cassid ~ 1_ Mr: R. L. Shackelford pat “
1~ Mr, F, J. Cassidy Looel Coren

Training

 

—_ 1- Mr. A. G. Pote Plan. & Eval. —_
supjecT’ HOUSTUDY / Spec, Inv. ——
Seems .

vaeacenne Telophone Rm. — , |

Director Sec*y —_
bi eM,

This is to set forth apparent inconsistencies in the logic Cle
used by the House Select Committee on Intelligence in its effort to
castigate the FBI for its investigative effort in the domestic security
field,

Quotes herein are extracted from the "Draft
Final Report" dated 1/19/76 of the House
Select Committee. The quotes are followed
by the page number wherein they appear in
the report,

 

The Committee maintains that ''the FBI has been unable
to prove any illegal or questionable relationship between the SWP
and the Fourth International" (page 214); and that the FBI has failed
"to uncover even one questionable activity by this political party"
(215); and that "considerable resources have been allocated to com-
pound the error of a continuing unproductive investigation’ (217).
This, it is alleged, has caused Americans to be concerned "about
privacy invasions of domestic security investigations” (218),

As concerns the Counterintelligence Program (Cointelpro),
the Committee states the program, though aimed at "identifying,
penetrating and neutralizing subversive elements" (314), consisted of
"myriad clandestine digty tricks" (314). "The FBI justifies this
aberration from traditional law enforcement programs by stating
that it was dictated by the mood of the times" (315),

UNRECORDED COPY FLEDIN /, 2 ~/// Jd f

Oh
 62-116464 pit he CONTINUED - OVER ,. g
} 4 ~ 62-116009 (Cointelpro) ar 2 - <f MLE} ¥- 4/
AGP:1fj 5 0 are ‘

(10)

ny

 

| Bo4, FEB or dO eo709 Page 2 - oe . a

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Houstudy
62-116464

Not satisfied with the above types of sweeping condemna-
tions, which in effect maintain that the FBI has set itself up as “the
barometer of the country's mood" (315), which does not qualify it
"to review peoples politics" (315), the Committee nevertheless feels
free to condemn the FBI for not having done enough in the internal
security area, The Committee states that "it is obvious that the FBI
failed to anticipate groups dedicated to the overthrow of the existing
government, .. (218-219); and further "the FBI provided staff
attorneys with a detailed after-the-fact history of the SLA. However,
the FBI was apparently unable to anticipate the formation of the group
or thwart its initial criminal activities" (underscoring added)

(219, note 400).

The Committee's position therefore is this: if the Bureau,
lacking statutory definition precisely outlining its authority, investi-
gates a group (or individual) because of its potential for criminal,
violent or subversive activity, or attempts to thwart that group's
activity, that group had better be one the Committee agrees is violent
or subversive. If, on the other hand, the Bureau fails to be prescient,
it is to be criticized for its failure to take preventative action against
a group which the Committee decides, based on the past record, is
"committed to violence" (219),

Apparently this is another instance where we are damned
if we do, and damned if we don't.

ACTION:

None. For information,

pe BR voip VBE Gy

NW 55317 Docld: 32989709 Page 3
  
 
 

reo Boy
po pod
EdgRar aan U OF HVESTIC
‘ke ‘ath TIONS: mer

Voonsntt etrotied by Fessiatle - FLAIR TFERE

' Te reEcToOR,/ EST (APTS: rast. Bos 1/5/76

vee ee mre, bret SF
eu,

  

Pererity cen

  

Sean eas ear RIGE GF CONGRESSIONAL OFFICERS) ect.
Bee, 85 Ge, TALE MIELPORD- . - Bhitiale «

Sa SELECT COMMLTIEE

— oan
CLUPr2 afte stte | [y] Ftegeresint Roverd Tse EEE Sewensy or oltapteg ie stepregh

(CT asttate Seasoptton To filse

Saestet Beadiing lnstrpetlons:

Attached ig fox information of Bureau and any action deemed
3° VapRPZ She. .

 

 

te

Ted L. Genderess

 

Ss weit TM . ay
yy eT GA 7 n Y Coke 21)

we Preenieg pia

23 JAN 23 1976

 

84 JAN 3 0 y976

HW 55317 .Docld: 32589703 Page 4
