FOP-SECRET-PINAR-

CUBAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT - cont'd

Rodriguez also agreed with the British ambassador that the
second problem facing Cuban agriculture was the lack of consumer
goods which were necessary to stimulate production. However,
Rodriguez said that Cuba was in a vicious circle: farmers did
not have incentive to produce because there were few consumer
goods available, yet such goods could not be obtained until
farm production had been raised. Rodriguez‘ main concern
seemed to be the scarcity of many consumer goods; in fact, he
admitted that he was willing to undertake temporary expediencies
which might help raise production, even though they might be
“doctrinally unwelcome." Rodriguez referred the ambassador to
Lenin's New Economic Policy, and made no:attempt to disguise his
disagreement with Castro's insistence on "ultimate aims" instead
of current "tactics." (British Embassy Havana, 13 November, .
CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM)

Cuba is taking further steps to improve its fishing industry. .
A Havana radiobroadcast reported the completion of several con-
struction projects in the Chuyima shipyards in the Almendares
River in Havana, including a pier 307 meters in length, a concrete
esplanade measuring 17,000 square meters with a capacity of 24
ships, two launching ramps, and the dredging of the Almendares
River in front of the pier, pending partial completion, as well
as several minor jobs. It also reported that the shipyard has
launched 18 Lambda-75-class ships; 14 more are expected to be
launched by January. According to a 29 November intercepted
message, an official mission in connection with the fishing
industry was expected to arrive in Madrid in early December.
The delegation was composed of Jose Lavia and Juan de ia Fe
Flor (CIA FBIS 03, 6 Deéember, OFFICIAL USE ONLY; NSA
2x/0, T2523-63,..5.. December, SECRET SABRE)

nee Bet 6 (1) (B)

INSURGENCY AND CIVIL UNREST:

Counterrevolutionary elements apparently attacked the Selva
Marina observation post at Cayo de Cristo on a recent’ undetermined
date. A partially garbled message from Central Army Headquarters
in Santa Clara informed Havana that personnel in the observation
post, located on a cay off Isabela de Sagua, "repelled the aggres-
Sion and caused the flight of the attackers.... In a probe of the
place by air, land, and sea, nothing more than some footprints
were observed." Because of the garbles at the beginning of the

} message it is impossibl determine the time and nature of the
attack. (USN 856, 2/SL, R297-63, 6 December, SECRET KIMBO)
~4=

AW 55355 DocId:32401328 Page 9
AW 55355

FOP-SECREF-DINAR
INSURGENCY AND CIVIL UNREST - cont'd

An unidentified military unit informed First Army Sector
E Headquarters at Mayari Arriba that a suspected counterrevolu-~
tionary had been arrested in Guantanamo. The suspect, militia-
man Esteban Mendez Almaquel,was arrested in the home of Genaro
Moya on 3 December. Moya was identified as being implicated
in ounterrevolution and as an informer. (USN 835, 2X/
LRL T675-63, 5 December, SECRET SABRE)

CUBAN FOREIGN SERVICE: ©F* Act 9 (11 (8)

Carlos Olivares, Cuba's ambassador to the USSR, arrived
by plane yesterday in Havana for.what Prensa Latina described
as a "short vacation." (CIA/FBIS, Havana, 5 December, UN-
CLASSIFIED)

CUBAN AIR FLIGHT CONNECTIONS:

Intercepted civil aviation communications indicate that
the Soviet-made AN-12 transport aircraft being ferried to Cuba
from the Soviet Union is adhering to its schedule. It arrived
at the Brazilian airport of Recife from Conakry on 5 December
and left there the next day for Belem, Brazil. It is scheduled
to leave Belem on 7 December for Havana. The intercepts also
indicated that Jamaica has granted permission for the plane

to use Kingston as a rese landing point in the event of
necessity. (USA-51, 2/J8 R894-63, 6 December, SECRET
KIMBO)

SHIPPING SUPPORT FOR CUBA:

The US Embassy in Beirut believes that Lebanon may act
to curtail the use of its ships in the Cuban trade. This would
result in a significant decline in Cuban shipping in free world
bottoms because Lebanese companies provided ten of the thirty-
two free world ships which called at Cuba in October. The
Lebanese foreign minister planned to ask the cabinet for a pro-
visional measure whereby he would be able to demand that all
ships carrying Lebanese flag must call at Lebanon periodically
and report their destinations. He believed this would cut
the..Cuban traffic quickly by 60 percent. Because US.aid to.
Lebanon is almost nonexistent, the US Embassy believes that
this Lebanese action would be prompted by motives of princi-
ple rather than fear of losing US aid, an action which is being
discussed by the US Congress. (Am Emb Beirut 520, 5 December,
CONFIDENTIAL)

CUBAN ~- CHINESE COMMUNIST RELATIONS:

A Havana Prensa Latina broadcast of 6 December announced
that President Dorticos has assented to the appointment of Wang
Yu-ping as Chinese Communist ambassador to Cuba. This is the
first information indicating that Ambassador Shen Chien, who
has served in Cuba since December 1960, is about to be replaced.
The new Chinese Communist ambassador is a 53-year-old senior
diplomat; since 1950 he has served three- to four-year terms as
Communist ambassador in Rumania, Norway, and Cambodia. He is
married and has two children.

-5-

FOP-SECRET-DINAR

DocId:32401328 Page 10
AW 55355

“TOP SECRET DINAR
CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION - cont'd
Two government soldiers were killed in southern Oriente

Province on 3 December when members of Unit 1948, at an uniden-
tified location within the First Army area, uncovered and fired

.on a dice game, which apparently included personnel from their

own unit. A 3 December message from military unit 1948 to South
Sierra Maestra Sector Headquarters stated that "when the players
attempted to flee, the soldiers commenced firing without orders,
causing the death of one unnamed player and the chief of organ-
ization and personnel of Unit 1948. The message added that the
bodies and the "civilian and military prisoners" were being sent
to sector headquarters. (USN 835,- 2/LR1[__[R196-63, 5 December,
SECRET KIMBO) JEK Act 6 (1)(B)

Dolores ‘Ibarruri, "La Pasionaria'"t of Spanish Civil War fame”
and secretary general of the Spanish Communist Party, arrived in
Havana from Moscow on 5 December, according to press reports.
Ibarruri, who resides in Moscow, was invited to Cuba by Castro
during his visit to the Soviet Union. (The New York Times,

6 December, UNCLASSIFIED)

CUBAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT:

Carlos Rafael Rodriguez, minister of INRA, has expressed
serious dissatisfaction with Cuba's current agricultural situa-
tion and revealed that he disagrees with Castro's emphasis on
"ultimate aims" in place of current "tactics." In a long talk
with the British ambassador in early November, Rodriguez agreed
"with surprising enthusiasm" that the two main problems facing
Cuban agriculture were the lack of competent personnel to run
the appropriated farms, and the lack of consumer goods which
are necessary to stimulate production, especially by the remain-
ing private farmers. Rodriguez had advised Castro that there
were not sufficient agricultural experts to run the state farms
which had been previously organized, and he had counseled against

-available; he commented on Soviet complaints about the low edu-

cational level of Cubans sent to the USSR for agricultural
training. Rodriguez said that despite his advice, Castro had
gone ahead with the Second Agrarian Reform Law for two "polit-
ical" reasons: to push ahead with the progress of Cuba's

Socialist economy, and to destroy the support for counterrevo-

lutionaries which Castro believed existed among the "rural |
bourgeois." Rodriguez thought it ironical that US pressure on
Cuba (presumably he meant aid to counterrevolutionaries) had
forced Cuba to seize lands faster than it would otherwise have
done. He also stated his belief that the seizure of medium-
size farms would lead to a drop for several years in many
branches of Cuban agriculture, particularly in market gardening
and dairy farming.

-3-

—FOP-SECREF-PENAR

DocId:32401323 Page 3
-FOP-SECREFPRAR

CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION - cont'd

/in the Church's calendar, her feast is marked on 4 Decen-
ber, Apart from her significance in the Christian ritual,
Barbara figures prominently in a neo-pagan cult known as
the Santeria... Devotees of Santeria regard themselves as
Catholics and believe that the names of the Catholic saints
are translations into Spanish of the Nigerian names of African
gods. Catholicism is viewed as the Spanish tribal version of
Santeria. The association between Catholicism and Santeria
is based on a largely superficial similarity between Catholic
saints and the pantheon of African spirit gods. Saint Barbara
is thought to be Shango, the God of War.7

According to one of these tales, a woman dressed in
martyr's red stopped a bus outside Guantanamo City on 25 No-
vember, stepped inside and berated the Castro regime. The
woman is alleged to have said that the Cuban people could
not live forever in such misery and to have predicted that
Castro would be taken from them sometime between 4 and 7 De-
cember. A militiaman passenger told her that she would be
arrested when the bus arrived in the city. When it had, she'd
disappeared. Continuing on to Caimanera, the bus stopped in
the town square with the same woman sitting on one of the
seats inside the vehicle. The militia again was summoned
and again the woman was nowhere to be seen.

On 26 November the same woman allegedly appeared outside
a school in Caimanera and admonished several children not to
thrown stones at a nearby shack. The children fled into the
school and the woman followed. Challenged by a teacher, the
woman said she was Santa Barbara and vanished. The next day
neither the teacher nor the children would return to the
school, though it subsequently has been reopened. (COMNAVBASE
GTMO, 01731/T1/JFK/3, 4 December, CONFIDENTIAL)

Fidel Castro was "frightened, if not terrified," by the
possib neces of President Kennedy's murder, according
to the|- Jambassador in Havana. Cabling his government
on 27 November, the[_———sJdiplomat described what he called
"a large movement of troops" late on the afternoon of the Presi-
dent's death--"they were sent to take up positions around
Havana and the northern coast of the island." He found it sur-
prising that Castro "jumped into the arena to denounce insinu-
ations which were merely from news and nongovernmental agencies,"

} but added that “it is the general opinion in diplomatic circles

: that the assassination will be the spring which will unleash

passions and violent and blind hysteria of the American people
against.Cuba and Russia and provide the excuse which up to now
was lacking.... There is talk again about the coincidence of
rumors concerning a crisis at the end of the year...." Finally,
‘the“ambassador noted that "the assassination did not cause a
great deal 6f consternation in counterrevolutionary circles in
the gente: (NSA, 3/0] _T1463-63, 5 December, TOP SECRET
“DINAR eee

 

-2-

FOP-SEGCREFPRAR

SPK Act 6 (1)(B)

AW 55355 DocId:324013238 Page 7
AW 55355

-FOP-SECRET-DPEMAR

CUBAN SUPPORT OF EXTERNAL SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES - cont'd

Venezuelan charges that Cuba has been shipping arms to
South America. (Page 8)

Havana Radio announced yesterday that pro-Castro guerrillas
in the Dominican Republic have established "six operational
zones"; Cuban exiles in Miami feel that the failure of pro-
Castro terrorists in Venezuela may force him to turn to
terrorism in the Dominican Republic. (Page Oy TPK Ack 6 (1) (BP)

Cuba is reportedly making preparations to ‘recognize a Vene-
zuelan government-in- ing to information re-
ceived by an official service from a fairly
reliable source with contacts in Havana. (Page 9)

The OAS Investigating Committee which is looking into the
Cuban arms cache discovered in Venezuela does not intend
to limit its investigation to the cache, but has expressed
interest in looking into other evidence of Cuban activities
directed against Venezuela. The Venezuelan Government has
agreed to furnish all possible evidence on its complaint.
(Page 10)

On 5 December an American woman told a minister in New York
that her boy friend had left that day for an unknown desti-
nation in Central America from which he planned to fly in

a pro-Castro Venezuelan coup on Saturday. (Page 10)

iv

DocId: 32401323 Page 5
AW 55355

 

MILITARY DEVELOPMENTS:

An intercepted Cuban military message of 5 December
indicated that the Cuban armed forces are giving instruction
in defense against chemical warfare. An unidentified mili-
tary unit in Las Villas Province reported the selection of
two officers and four sergeants to atterid a ''chemical defense

course." (USN-856, 2X/SL T407-63, 6 December, SECRET SABRE)
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS: JFK Rot @ (1) (6)

Moscow has given rather standard treatment to the OAS
meeting which heard the Venezuelan Government charge Castro
with illegal arms shipments. On 4 December, TASS correspond-

- ent.. Leonid Shokin reported that "the weavers of. plots against

revolutionary Cuba are still at it...accusing it of delivery
of arms to: Venezuela for ‘subversive purposes'." Shokin found
“certain US circles are the most interestec’in this, as is
evident from the fact that representatives of the US State
Department declared at the meeting that the United States
would 'firmly support! additional economic and diplomatic
sanctions by the OAS against Cuba." He thought it unexcep-
tional that "these provocative attempts were not supported by
the largest Latin American countries" and warned that "such
attempts to interfere in Cuban internal affairs are fraught
with extremely harmful consequences for the cause of peace."
(CIA/FBIS, Moscow, 4 December, UNCLASSIFIED)

CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION:

Several weeks ago there were CAS reports that the storm-
tossed peasants of Oriente looked on Hurricane Flora as the
vengeance of God--a God, who in the tradition of the Old
Testament's stern and sometimes vengeful Jehovah, had loosed
his fury on a people first seduced and now impressed by an
alien regime. Now a report from the US Naval Base at Guan-

-tanamo Bay provides yet another insight into the frame of mind

of the Cuban populace. While the incidents pictured in this
report do not necessarily reflect anything other than a com-
binationof religious fervor and superstition, they are signifi-
cant to the extent that they reflect the unrest~-and, perhaps

a growing feeling of hopelessness and despair--current among
the Cubans.

In any case, there are prevalent locally tales of St.
Barbara's appearing several times to prophesy a change in the
regime or admonish errant youths to mend their ways. /Barbara,
virgin daughter of the heathen Diosorus, was beheaded by her
father near Heliopolis in 235 A.D. for embracing Christianity.
A fearful thunderclap is alleged to have greeted her execution.
Symbolized by a windmill-like tower with three windows, the
type 6f fortress in which her father was wont to confine her
while he was absent from home, Barbara is the patroness of
artillerymen and miners.

-1-

-FOP-SECREFTPRAR

DocId:32401328 Page 6
DAILY SUMMARY

6 December 1963

     

This summary of significant information has not been coordinated
outside the Office of Current Intelligence. It does not representa
complete coverage of all current reports received, nor does.time
permit the complete evaluation of all reports which are included.

 
     

CONTENTS

MILITARY DEVELOPMENTS:
An intercepted Cuban military message of 5 December indi-~
cated that the Cuban armed forces are giving courses in
chemical warfare defense. (Page 1)

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS:

Moscow press reports the OAS meeting on Cuban arms ship-
ments. (Page 1)

CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION:

Apparitions of Santa Barbara have been reported from Oriente
Province. (Page 1)

: The as oncerampassador in Havana reports his impressions
of the reactions to President Kennedy's assassination. (Page 2)
Two government soldiers were killed in southern Oriente
Province when a dice game, involving military and civilian

- personnel, was uncovered and- fired upon by troops from-Unit
1948. (Page 3)

GPR Act.6..(1) (B)

Dolores Ibarruri,.secretary general of the Spanish Communist
Party, arrived in Havana from Moscow on 5 December, accord-
ing to press reports. (Page 3)

} CUBAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT:
Carlos Rafael Rodriguez, minister of INRA, has expressed
serious dissatisfaction with Cuba's current agricultural
situation and revealed that he disagrees with Castro's
emphasis on “ultimate aims" in place of current "tactics."
‘Rodriguez: also informed the British ambassador that he had

i

—FOP-SECREFPRER

AW 55355 DocId:3240132%8 Page 2
eo

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA

‘ COMMENTS

CIA-9. :
CLASSIFIED
ATTACHMENT
nnn TT TRIN US dugrgiongp UU cetsttetsssssos>

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

CIA
104-10302-10020
JFK
CIA-DI-FILES

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CIA
OCI/CIA

DAILY SUMMARY
12/06/63

2 16

CUBA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
TOP SECRET

1B

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
09/22/98

JFK-M-02:F2 1998.09.22.15:28:42:013120:

AW 55355 DocId:3240132%8 Page 1

Date:

11/29/99
Page: 1

Released under the John
. EKennedy
Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#: NW 55355 Date:
b4—-05-20185

 

ARRB REQUEST.
a

AW 55355

“TOP SECRET-DEAR-

CUBAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT - cont'd

opposed the Second Agrarian Reform Law and is willing to
use "doctrinally unwelcome" measures to increase production.

(Page 3)

Cuba is taking further steps to improve its fishing industry,
including several construction projects in the Chuyima ship-
yards in the Almendares River, the launching of 18 fishing
boats, and the sending of an official mission to Spain in
connection with the fishing industry. (Page 4)

INSURGENCY AND CIVIL UNREST:

Counterrevolutionary elements apparently attacked an obser-
vation post on Cayo de Cristo on a recent undetermined date.

(Page 4)

A suspected counterrevolutionary was arrested on 3 December
in Guantanamo. (Page 5)

CUBAN FOREIGN SERVICE:

The Cuban ambassador to the USSR is in Havana for a short
"vacation." (Page 5)

_ CUBAN AIR FLIGHT CONNECTIONS:

The Soviet-made AN-12 transport plane being ferried to Cuba

: reached Recife, Brazil, on 5 December, and left there for
its last stop before it is scheduled to arrive in Cuba on
7 December. (Page 5)

SHIPPING SUPPORT FOR CUBA:
The US Embassy in Beirut believes that Lebanon may act to
curtail the use of its ships in the Cuban trade. This
would result in a significant decline in Cuban shipping
in free world bottoms. (Page 5)

CUBAN - CHINESE COMMUNIST RELATIONS:
Wang Yu-ping has been named the new Chinese Communist am-
bassador to Cuba. He is a senior diplomat, but not as high

ranking an individual as the recently appointed Chinese
Communist ambassadors to Algeria and the UAR. (Page 5)

BLOC ECONOMIC RELATIONS:

A Bulgarian arms negotiator has returned. from Havana to Sofia.
(Page 6)

ii

—FOP SECRET -DINAR

DocId: 32401323 Page 3
BLOC RELATIONS:

A four-man Soviet delegation to revise social science cur-
riculum at Havana University.has arrived in Havana.
(Page 6)

NON-BLOC COMMERCIAL RELATIONS:

The US consul in Antwerp has been informed by the Varmi
Company of Brussels that it will not sell construction
equipment to Cuba; there have been reports that such a
sale, perhaps totaling $1 million, was being negotiated.
Meanwhile, a Cuban group, which had probably planned to
complete ‘negotiations on the sale, was delayed because
of lack of visas. (Page 6)

The US Embassy in Tokyo sees little hope of inducing the

Japanese Government to interfere with the implementation

of a contract under which Japanese private firms have re-
portedly agreed to purchase 325,000 tons of Cuban sugar.

(Page 7)

The director of a Spanish optical firm has gone to Havana
to negotiate the sale of movie projectors; he is being
sponsored by CILASA. (Page 7)

NON-BLOC RELATIONS:

A Cuban good-will mission was received by the Moroccan
acting foreign minister; the US Embassy believes this
may presage the official re-establishment of diplomatic
relations. (Page 7)

The Swiss ambassador believes that Frank Emmick's trial
will be held shortly after the completion of the current
OAS investigation of Venezuelan charges-against Cuba;

_Emmick's preliminary hearing has been completed and the
ambassador is trying to find a Cuban lawyer to defend him.
(Page 8)

The government of Trinidad gave a "chilly reception" to a
: visiting Cuban official and turned down a suggestion for
} trade talks, at least for the present. “(Page 8)

CUBAN SUPPORT OF EXTERNAL SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES:
Tae[__] Embassy in Havana has received information from
_- sources in Cuba it considers reliable which supports .

JEK Act 6 (1) (B) was
lil

AW 55355 DocId:3240132%8 Page 4
