 

   
 
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

Re: [wanrer GEORGE SIKORA |&)

office was restored, However, water, aS an example, is
yellow, dirty and-not fit for drinking. When I proposed
to take a.bath, I stood helplessly in front of yellow
soup. If decided, to escape trom this to Berlin.

"There is much politicizing, loudly and heedlessly.
Naturally the communists want to digress from this, ' The
Polish press writes things of which one can merely be
Surprised, ;

"Of progress, nothing can be said, though. in Poland,
in spite of everything, there is much being built, the

. buildings are arising naturally in cértain defined places,
new cities and villages. With that there is a thirst to
. conserve in the face of need for reconstruction.

"The facade is well finished = but. behind it lies not

only the country but the whole nation, which suffers in
chains,

: "One prays and goes to church, ‘It does hot help though
‘even today. The fate of this nation it seems to me is “As”
gray as the sky over Wroclaw on the morning when I arrived
here’ from Berlin, , Not only for the Poles but likewise for
’ the millions of Germans living there, I spoke with several
; in Poznan (Posen), ‘It has. hever been worse for us ‘than |
with the Poles, for many years one has not : seen such hatred
for the Germans’.

"With difficulty I carried my baggage when I detrainéa

an . in Berlin at the Berlin zoo station, My relatives in-spite
wn of their destitution had filled them with gifts, “Was I.to
tell them that such things as these we have much better? r

was pléased and thanked them, . ‘

"However , | still greater was my joy when I. entered my
room:at the hotel iss Korfueretendamn. - . My ‘trap to Silesia
was behind. me." :

+ er

~ 10

HW 54343 Boold: 32989483 Page 9

 

 

 

 

 
 

Re: (warren GEORGE sixora |)

’ The following is a translation of the comment furnished
by Anczura to Dr. ‘Sikora concerning the above article:

.In connection with the ced-up article discussed in , .
"Abendpost", it appears that: Ss) .

It was not the Poles who devastated the German forsst..
economy but rather the Germans dévastated the Polish forests
during a period of five years occupation, From this actually
is the trouhle with building ~ from this the authoress of the
article gets malicious enjoyment - hypocritigally feeling
sorry for the forests, of the Polish peasant (S) tone

It was the Germans who robbed Polish property, the
treasures’ of Polish culture, gold and everything that had
any value, They. murdered besides this millions of people
on Polish land - Poles, Jews and others, Has’ the government
, Of the German Federal Republic restored anything to Poland = No. SS

: Murder, cximinal ‘and systematic: biological destruction
of the Polish nation was raised to official rank-in politics.
The authoress’ “of the article should consider ‘the matter of '

_ the Hitlerite crimingls of which only a. few received the
deserved punishment .(S) . lo

- Today in the western and northern lands, | inmenoriably
; Polish - almost, haif of the population ~ about four million <
‘was born’ there and there is their right to the fatherland =
in this manner , willingly we argue ‘in retaliation.)

On February 19,: 1965, Dr. Sikoza advised Special Agents .
Eugene A, ic’ Cosh and William E.. Duff that he lad’ on, the previous:
Tuesday, February 16, 1965, telephpnically. contacted Jozef. Anezura
‘at the Polish Consulate « ‘= Chicago. Dr.. SikoFai stated that the
ostensible purpose for’ this call to Ancgura was to atrange for the
niece .of ‘his secretary; Who.is visiting in the’ United States, to
get an-extension of her passport, “Di Sikora stated that’ Anczura
agreed to assist: her in this regard and Dr. Sikora. advised that -
she subsequently went to the Consulate ; ‘where she saw Anczura and
obtained the extension without any! difficulty or the usual wait@)

 

‘ SECRET

i” -il-

 

| HW 549435 Doocld: 32589483 Page 10

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Re: (waurer GEORGE SiKORA |G)

They lack, however, cement and wood, New laws are passed
forcing the Polish peasant to remodel the farms under
penaity of 10,000 Z1. ‘However, because they don’t have
the money, these game government officials laugh at this
law.

"Children and the young do not want to remain in the
country ~ they study with self-denial and dedication. Each
would eventually like to become a university student.
*Because’, it was said to me, ‘have we anything to do
here’?’ °fhe Germans are returning here and driving us out’,

- At the same time it is emphasized: ‘*We will remain here,

we will fight, it is our land, our children were born here,’

“Phe Biggest part of this population came here after

- World War II fxom Galicia, which was grabbed by the Soviets.
: These people knew nothing more than hard times and war
- after which cama. no better times for them, The Second World

War brought fo» them new suffering. True, now they were
furnished homes such as they had never had before, they were
foreign and in their arrival they found the area as hostile
as a volcano. They have been waiting 20’ years almost for a
déterminatidn of the question. For them, Silesia means an

.end to the long hard road. They do not want to go further

and ‘they live in darkness but they themselves do not realize
it.

"The vemuneration of the: laborer and white-collar
worker in Poland is unusually low and completely ridiculous

-in- relation to the exorbitant prices, There are many things
- here which. are defined in terms of ‘Luxury’ but who can

afford them, I could not get during the time of my stay,
as-an example, butter, . Meat markets in Namyslow (Namslaw)
were also’ bare, . But among this one can see radios and TVs,
furniture and other ‘objects of household use, With

: indescribable. yearning my sister-in-law showed me a small
".. mixer produced in the German. Democratic Republic. I would
. be afraid to beat the white of an egg with one of those.

On the- other hand, however, Namyslow is rebuilt. The city
has a new school, which was proudly shown to me. ‘The post

' MW 54943 Docld:32989483 ° Page &

 
 

 

sa fans GEORGE, SIKORA fs, )

“The train connection from Berlin to Posnan to Wroclaw :

was excellent, .Probably more from curiosity than from a
sense of obligation the Polish customers clerk inspected
my baggage. -He was friendly and shortly I.realized that
he: was well informed about American conditions, ' In Poznan
I got on the train bound for Wroclaw. . First class was , ‘
vacant and...dirty. ‘Still worse appeared the, more recessed .
places. .Soon:t had company, A railroad worker Svearing ; i:
like a trooper said: ‘Our children: don't have unything to
eat, but still our govertiment feeds well the children from
Africa, who coms here’, .His colleague ‘was less friendly and
‘ quickly dragged the tational traitor’ from the compartnent:,
-Naturally, I did not catch a glimpse of him anymore...At .
thé station in Wroclaw, im spite of. the late hour, 1700 . t
in the morning, the traffic was lively. Several taxis
(model Anno Domini) stood in front of the station, Tf
contracted for one of them, The muddy streets were empty :
and deserted, We' tried’ to obtain 2 room in four hotels’,
But all were either filled or due to ny “western appearance’ t

. Iwas left no choice but to go by taxi a distande:of 46 Km
to Namysiow. Relatives of my husband livéd there, The
arrival waS such a great surprise, that in. spite ‘of a |
lasting. fear as a result of hitting a trée during’ the “taxi |
ride, it seemed very pleasant toma. “I was greeted . like .: :
Santa Claus. -Evén the smallest gift , called: forth from the ,
2 children Wild Indian dancing... The arrival of-an aunt : ’
from America’ ‘was’ equal here to winning the. main: prize. in
a lottery:. ; . * e

“During my 2 day stay z went sightseeing . to several
various: neighboting. villages which ‘presented @ troubled ‘i::
and ‘desperaté. picture. . Barus without ‘siding » in order
to have Something. to purn; coal out here is more costly-
than diamonds -‘in. spite of the fact that the péople are
sitting on coal, The: coal here, however, is intended for
export or sold on the black market. The farms, are, to . :
. be sure, wealthier + ‘but, this still venains” “from the : moa:
Germans =. a they Redutre aswell, a ‘violent renovation. i '

. ‘
ey * . wee

SEeRET-

- 8a

 

HW 54343 Docld: 329853483 Page 7 -
| ied . -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Re: (WALTER GEORGE saan

‘fn regard to Mrs. bella Erbe nentionsd’ in the
above interview, the. forte rete)

Mrs.'Erbe, during the Siviston the interview conducted
by Special Agents of the Chicago Divi of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation (FBI) in December, 1964})\concerning another
matter, advised that she was torn on. October.10,, 1922, ; in
Czechoslovakia, and is of Sugdeten~German backgroud. She was.

“préviously married to Helnuth Erbe, a German national, who died
in a Nazi concentration camp during World War II. Mrs, Erbe is
currently married to Franciszek Praysiezny, an American citizen
of ‘Polish extraction, She is kuxown professionally as Izabella

". Erbe and holds! the position of City Editor of the Chicago German
- language newspaper , *Abendpost” , S) .

 
   
    
 

Mrs. Erbe advised that in September, 1964,:she, called
at the Polish Consulate, Chicago, to obtain avisa to travel to
Poland to visit her husband's brother, WiadisTaw Praysiezny, who
_lives_in-the-town- of-Nanyslow in the province om
Erbe was interviewed for two houfs in the office Gf a consul
on the. second floor of the Consulate. She ident ithed a photograph:
‘of Jozef Anczura as being the person who interviewed, her. At that
time he told her that the Polish Government would .consider issuing
her a visa to travel to Poland if she would write nothing upon

‘her return that would be critical of Poland, Anczura told her
that following her trip to Poland, he wished zhe would cali upon
him again and he requested that she submit to him any articles
that she might publish concerning her trip ‘im Poland prior ‘to
their appearance in Chicago newspapers. ‘Mrs. Erke advised that
she had no intention of submitting any grticles to Anczura for’
his review.prior to their publication. &

     
  
 

In September, 1964, CG TH2, © has furnished reliable
information im the past, advised that th
Chicago, -requested permission of the Polish
Affairs to issue a visa to Jzabelia O13 Olivia Pr Siszny , lex

“Hews pape r “in in Chicago, who desixed to” Vv visit her husband's brother
in Poland.)

HW 54543 Doocid: 32589483 Page 5

 

 

 
| NW 54943 Doold:32989483 Page 6

 

Res_flanern. GEORGE six0H]G)

In regard to AndrewsKordich, mentioned in the above
interview of Dr. Sikora, CG 7.35 who hes furnished reliable
information in the ‘past, advised“in Novembex, 1964, that Kondich
was a former editor of the Chicago-German language ‘newspaper,
“Abendpost", who had been fired as a“ intriguer™, - Kondich

_ prepared an article for publication in \the October, 1964 edition.

of the magazine, "Focus/Midwest", in whieh he alleged that the

West German Governrent, with its enbassy in Washington and its

Consulate in Chicago, had sought to influence German American

voters toward the political right and particularly the candidacy

of Sendtor Barry Goldwater for President, Kondich also accused

the West German Governient of indirectly encouraging a rebirth

of Nazism through various German American organizations and individuais
in the Chicago, area whom he stated had facist histories. It was

the opinion of this source that Kondich had purposely distorted the
role of the West German Government in this matter and some of thé
individuals whom he describes as pro-Nazi h@ve renounced any such
syupathies long @go. Kondich, im: his article, did describe the
German ‘American National il Congress (DANK) as being proeNazi and
“@értain individuais eonectac Wik rne-organizat ion as’ being’ pro~Nazi
and according to the informant ; this description of them is at, least
‘partially ‘accurate, The Source has asserted ‘that in his opinion
Kondich is pro-communist anda "professional intriguer" who, while

- editor of thé "Abendpost", wastprimar ily concerned with x posing

as many German American leaders ‘as possible as ‘being pro-Nazi. |

. : There® follows a translation from Polish to English of the
article which originally appeared on December 17, 1964, in the
"Abendpost" [a free was furnished by Anczura to-Dr. "Sikora? Ys)

It is now our country, our children were born here”

"In the 3rd section of our report from our member editor -
Igabella Erbe '~ who enjoyed, at the invitation of the
Foundation for European Problems, 2 weeks in Germany, she

‘gives her impressions ‘of her trip from Berlin to’ Wroclaw
which is temporarily under Polish administration,

—srerez-

ee
 

“6 se . yr (
1” ---FD=902 (Rev. 10-11-63) e . . ®

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 7

 

Date — 2/17/65 :

On Fobruary 9, 1965, Dostor WALTER GEORGE
SIKORA advised that on the previous Thursday, February 4,
1965, ke had kad luncm at Ballantine's Restaurant, 1207
North Dearborn, Chicago, Illiacis, with EUGENTUS PANEK
SOs ee

Attachs,._Rolish Consulate-Chicago, and dOZe
Polish Consulate-Ghicages” Dirtor-SLLORA’ st a ;

KUNCHESH MGSTINE "TAS tSa~a proximately 24 hours “from 12:00

noon to 2:30 p.m. He advised that this was the first

time he had met ANCAURA and that HWESNIUSZ PANEK had requested
that he bé allowed to accompany them on this oscasion as
ANCQURA had expressed an interest in meating and talking

with Doctor STKORA SS )

 

Doctor “SIKORA continued that his impression of
ANC@URA was that of an intelligent and dedicated’ Communist
and ons who is very pro-RusSian in attitude. Doctor .
SIKORA further advised that he had determined from ANCZURA
that be has been employed for the past sevdéral years in
the Visa and Passport Section of the Polish Ministry of
Foreign Affairs, and he appeared to be well versed in all
matters pertaining to this field. ANCZURA- appeared rather
reluctant to discuss freely muck of his personal history and
at one point, in response to a question by Doctor SIKORA.
as to what ANCZURA bad done during the war, ANCZURA
replied that Doctor SIKGRA should not expect to find out
everything abcut him during their first mesting. CS)

 

Doctor SIKGRA stated further that ANCZURA was
obviously aware of the fact that he, Dector SIKORA, had
beén interrogated by the Polish Secu ty Service (UB) during
his visit to Poland in September, 1964. Doctor SIKORA
explained that ANCRURA had remarked about his, Doctor '
SIKORA's, having had some slight difficulties with the
"Bursau of Investigation" in Poland and ke hoped that
Doctor SIKORA would underst&nd that it was necessary for
the Polish Government to determine if persons visiting G)

 

“On 279/65 at —Gbicage, Eilinois rile # Chicagof105-5885 IG)

by SA EUGENE A. KC COSH/csm _Date dictated —! 2/11/65

AY
This SA WILLIAM, Biro: QUER ondations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

a
.

 

 

HW 54943 Eoold: 32989483 Fage 2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   
    
 

    

 

File #:

 

 

_ [05 - ae sob

Serial Scope:

 

 
 

 

 

2.
csfios-saas_|6)

Poland were sugagéed in activities agaiast the interests

of the Poliak Government. Borwcr SYHORA stated that he
did not question ARCEURA furthse concermming kis knowledge
of the above interrogatien as it appéared to him as though
ANCZURA was attempting to make an asclegy for this baving
happened, Dostor SIKORA advised that he did, however,
remind ANCGAURA and PANEK thet about malz of the time he
had besn im Poland during this visit bad been taken up

by quésthgning and he thersta:s felt he was justified in
being ange with this teeairagi. fu addition, he stated
he again brotght up the subset of bis wisa having been
refused by ADORR KITA, Consul someral, Polish Consulate-
Chicago, tetiing “hhom “that he could met forzive KIRA fox
-havinig caused him W agiticniry. ANCABRA then assured
him that this would motyhaprun egaia and that he, SIKORA,
should drop in at the Cotieulaie and suo Consul General
KITA on sous Friday afterndep when the work at the Consulate
is finished and they axe relaking there. GS) .

   
  
   
 

Doctor SXkRORA continysd that duwing the conversation
he vocalls that ANCEUBA had congratalated him on having
oppessd Senator GOLDWATER'S candidacy for the Presidency and
indicated that they were awaye he had worked for President
JORNSON's election. DRoctor SIKORA explained that for six
weeks during the fail of 1964 ho had been employed by thd
Demsexvatic Party to be in ehsrzgs of preparing Polish language
material and advertisements for use on Polish lansuage © a
radio broadcasts in the United Stetas during the presidential
Campaign. fe oxelained thet bis name had appeared 28 such
on aertain letterkeads of the Democratic Party duving the

- Campaign and ke theorimed thet tha Consulate had'.ssen Some "”
letterhés.4d or received information concerning his activities.
: Doctor SIKGRA advised that he informed ANCRURA that hé’ had
been employed by the Democratic Party but that this did
not necessarily indicate hew he had voted. GS )
oh

HW 54943 Eoold: 32989483 Fage 3 7 4

 

 

 

peanne ssedertmmmen Kamm set

 
 

4:
CG (Los-asss 6) i

in eae in addition, ANCZURA furnished Dogtor..

SEK with a Polish translation of an article writtsn by
SZABELL ERB an editor of the Gsxman language newspaper
erixey mRUbLishsd in Chicago who appeared in that

paper on BD somber RY, 1964. According to-ANCAORA this

. article contained several distortions of facet concerning
conditions in ‘Poland which the author allegedly cbserved
during 2 recent trip to that area. ANCBURA requested that
Doctor SIKGRA attempt to scorrest these distortions and
diseredit ERBE during Doator SEKGRA's subsequent radio
broadeasts in Chicago. To assist him in deing this
ANCRURA provided Boctor SIKGRA-with a list of some criticisms
of the asticis from the Polish point of wiew. Doctor
SYSORA stated that he advised ANCZURA that he would read
the articls mentioned and cousider ANCZURA's suggestions

concerning 14.6 .

   
   
   

Also during this conversation ANCEDRA mentioned

} a) a formers ee) e “Abendpost' who had
been’ firs or allegedly - opposing peo-Nazt Syipathies on
the part ofthe - paper. ANCZURA indicated that he was aware
that KONDICH ‘and prepared an anti-German article after
leaving the “Abemdpost" and that this article had beén’
published in one of ‘Ghicago' Ss Polish language newspapers.
ANCZURA commented that\XGNDICH ‘might have been ‘useful
to them but since he was 20 longer associated with the
"Abendpost" his usefulness was:thexefore diminished. S y,

Doctor SUKORA mentioned to the interviewing .
Agents that me was acquainted with KONDICH as he, Doctor
SIKORA, handles Polish language advertising for Trans
World Airlines and that at ome time Trans World Airlinss
had considerad opening an office in Yugoslavia and KONDICH
had been interested in hdudling Yug goslav matters in Chicago
for Trans World Airlines G)

 

HW 54943 Docld:32989483 Page 4 _

 
