 

-
,

Oocrations. My visit to the Miami area included discussions
with tne operations staff of the CLA station, which carries the brunt
of current work on Dperation Nong008¢C. I was pleased to note
that CIA nas built a team which has a number of people experienced
in operations into Communist-controlled arcas (Europe and Asia),
whose know-now strencthens the operations of people with Latin
American experience. They have some problems, most of wuich
are being resolved on the operating level. Some problems involve
policy matters, which are being stalfed for presentation to you.

- Overall, this is a aplendid effort by CIA witain present guide>
lincs. On intelligence -collcction, tne magnitude of the special
emphasis given the operation is indicated by the presence of +5
agents now in the Habana area alone (a rather remarkable accomplish-
ment in a Communist capital where there is no official U.S presence).
In addition, there are agents and teama in the provinces; efforts are
being made to complete the provincial coverage at an carly cate, since
there are some arcaa insufficiently covered now.

    
 
 

44

publication of the fact that siyusbroadcaste were heard a U.S.,
and the replay of this news pack into Cuba. for the general public. qt
tonmsetthat. UPL carried this news item, but spiced it up wits added
stories of Castro'a use of ruilitia against guerrillas in Natanzas.
The two stories put together by Url have no relationship in reality,
gnd the ‘Voice of Cuba’ broadcasts are being closely directed to fit

in with other operations and to keep within Mongoose guidelines.

 

Pirlomatic. State reports that ciplomatic efforts are being made
to block Cuva's application for accrecitation to the European Economic
Community. Similarly, ciforts are being mace to excluce Cuba from
the proposed Latin American Free Trade arca.

  
  
 

Contingency Planning, Rumors in mid-June of a Cuban uprising
led to my tasuing lciense for further contingency planning, including
on inter-dggartmental plan. Lefense reports tnis planning is progress 77

As an interim report, Defense notes that while the 1G-cay

    

\ :
\ =F 54214 DoclId: 32424909 Page 2
HW 54214

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR
FROM

PAGES
SUBJECTS

 

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

DoclId: 32424909

Awe . Date 08/28/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

. Kennedy
Assassination Records

JCS : Ollection Act of 1992
202-10001-10178

FOIA SERIES
DOC 179

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#iNU 54214 Date:
bS-13-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

PROGRESS OPERATION MONGOOSE
07/05/62

3

MONGOOSE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
TOP SECRET

1c

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
07/30/98

Reviewed by JCS, OSD, CIA, State.

EXEMPT PER E.O, 13526
SEC 3.3(b)

; MAR 2016
DATE EXEMPTED:
JS RE-REVIEW DATE: 317ECZQ3 9-
OM re TeeLbATe AS THAD ACTED

Page 1
 

Ovocrations. My visit to the Miami area included discussions
with tue operations staff of the CIA station, which carries the brunt
of current work on Dperation Nongo0se. 1 was pleased to note
that CLA nas built a team which bas a number of people experienced
in operations into Communist-controlied arcas (Europe and Asia),
whose know-how strengthens the operations of people with Latin
American experience. They have some problems, most of which
are being resolved on the operating level. Some problems involve
policy matters, waich are being stalied for presentation to you.

- Overall, this is a splendid effort by CIA within preseat guide-
lines. On intelligence-colicction, tne mapnitude of the special
emphasis given the operation is indicated by the presence of <5
agents now in the Habana arca alone (a rather remarkable accomplish-
ment in a Communist capital where there is no official U.S presence).
In addition, there are agents and teama in the provinces; efforts are
being made to complete the provincial coverage at ancarly cate, since
there are some arcaa insufficiently covered now.

  
 
 

succeseful initial proadcasta@irom a U.S. tavy submarine
publication of the fact that sit roadcasts were heard iB:
and the replay of this news pack into Cuba.for the general public. It
tease that Urb carried this news item, but spiced it up wits added
stories of Castro's use of roilitis against guerrillas in \:atanzas.
The two stories put together by UFI have no relationship in reality,
and the ‘Voice of Cuba broadcasts are being closely directed to fit
in with other operationa znd to keep within Mongoose guidelines.

"Woice of Cuba."' soil = CIA weekly reports

Tiplomatic. State reports that ciplomatic efforts are being made
to block Cuoa's application for acerecitation to the European Economic
Community. Similarly, efforts are being mace to excluce Cuba from
‘the proposed Latin American Free Trade arca.

a

Contingency Flanning. Rumors in mid-June of a Cutan uorising 4,
led to my tasning Lciense for further contingency planning, including
an Inter-gepartmental plan. Lefense reports tnio planning le procress7/
an interim report, Cefense notes that wolle the 18-cay

  
  

    
 

\. 54214 Docld:32424909 Page 3
 

-
1

Oocrations. My visit to the Misrai area included discussions
with tue operetions staff of the CLA etatioa, which carries the brunt
of current work on Operation N.ong00scC. I was pleased to note
that CIA nas built a team which has a number of people experienced
in operations into Communist-controlied arcas (Europe and Asia),
whose know-how strengthens tne operations of people with Latin
American experience. They have sume problems, most of which
are being resolved on the operating level. Some problema involve
policy matters, which are being staffed for presentation to you.

- Overall, this is a splendid effort by CIA within present guide-
lincs. Gn intelligence-collection, tne magnitude of the special
emphasis given the operation is indicated by the presence of <5
agents now in the Habana area alone (a rather remarkable accomplish~
_ment in a Communist capital where there is no official U.S preeence).
In addition, there are agents and teama in the provinces; efforts are
being made to complete the provincial coverage at an carly cate, since
there are some arcaé insufficiently covered now.

  
   

Voice of Cuba."
succesalul initial broadcasthy é :
publication of the fact that BY ‘broadcasts were heard ibetae ULS.,
and the replay of this news pack into Cuba.for the general public. It
teat that UFLearried this news item, but spiced it up with added
stories of Castro's use of rnilitia against guerrillas in Natanzas.
The two stories put together by UEI have no relationship in reality,
and the ‘Voice of Cuba’ broadcasts are being closely cirectec to fit
in with other operations and to keep within mongoose guidelines.

  

Dirlomatic. State reports that diplomatic efforts are being made
¢o block Cuba's application for accrecitation to the European Economic
Community. Similarly, cfforts are being mace to excluce Cuba from
the proposed Latin American Free Trade arca.

Contingency Planning. Rumors in mid-June of a Cutan vorising a
led to my tasning L’ciense for further contingency planning, including
artmental plan. Defense reports tnis planning ie progress ~ .
‘Ae an interim report, Defense notes that walle the 18-day fg”

    
 
 

 

Fal
¢

HW 54214 DocId:32424909 Page 4

 
