b) Later, our suspicions of Nosenko were deepened
by conerete matters, not paranoid suprositions,
and many of these lay outside Nosenko's own
story and hence not explicable by his boasting,

@ . drinking, or whatnot.

¢) Mr. Hart said that X “was masterminding the
examinations in many ways." (2457) In fact X
played no role at all in our “examinations"
although he submitted a few questions and comments
from time to time. The testimony of CIA on this
point is inexplicable; its falsity must have been
evident in the files Mr. Hart's team perused,

a) It is simply not true that "the tzeatment of
Nosenko was not devoted to learning what Mr.
Noséenko said." In the Oswald matter alene the
Committee has the record of careful, systematic
questionings in January and July 1964. Similar
Care was devoted to his other information. The
results Zi11 some of those forty file drawers to
which Mz. Hart referred.

3) Mr. Hart stated, “Quantitatively and qualitatively,
the information given by Mr. X was much smaller than
that given by. Nosenko." (2470)

Comments:

This breathtaking misstatement hides the fact
that Mr. X, paranoid or not, provided in the first
months after his defection information waich led
to the final uncovering of Kim Philby, to the
detection of several important senetrations of
Western European governments, proof (not allegation)
of penetration at the most sensitive lavel of
French Intelligence, ami rointers to serious
penetrations of the U. S. Government.

Mr. X gave, before Nosenko, the current
-erganization amd methods of the KGB, and it was
Mr. .X who first revealed both ef the two KGB
: ; ; operations which Mr. Hart adduced as proof of
@ Nosenko's good faith. (See (4) and (5) below.)

To be charitable to Mr. Hart, he admitted to
the Committee (2434) that he is "not an expert
on Mr..X's case." His testimony, however, sucgests
that he has not read the references to X in the
Nosenko files.

HW 53080 DocId:32273600 Page 9
4) Mr. Hart stated, "Mr. Nosenko was responsible for

the discovery of a system of microphones within the

U.S. Embassy in Moscow which had hitherto been

suspected but nobody had enough information on it
@ to actually detect it." (2328-32)

Comments:

a) Mr. X had given approximate locations of some

of the microphones six months earlier. Neither

he nor Nosenko knew precise locations, but both
knew the mikes were there and both could indicate
some specific offices where they could be found.

The actual tearing out of walls, which Mr. Hart
describes, would have been done, and the micro-
phone "system" found, without Nosenko's information.

b) Contrary to Mr. Hart's statement (2350-3) the

KGB would "throw awav" already-compromised infor-
mation to build up a source. Mr. Hart simply hid

from you the fact that this information was
already compromised when Nosenko delivered ic.

¢) These microvhones were all in the "old wing" of
the Embassy. Nosenko also said, and carefully
explained why, no microphones were installed in
the "new wing." Mr. Edward Jay Epstein, in his
book Legend, says that 134 microphones were later
found there. I think this can be checked, via
the State Department. It would seem to have been
CIA's restonsibility to tell you about this, once
they had raised the subject of microphones to
support Nosenko's bona fides. ;

5) Mr. Hart said, "A very high level KGB penetration
in a very sensitive position in a Western Eurovean
government was, on the basis of Mr. Nosenko's lead,
arrested, tried, and convicted of espionage, There
is no reason to believe that the Soviets would have

given this information away.” (2354-62)

Comments: Mr. Hart was presumably referring to

HW 53080 Docld:32273600

a Man we can here call "¥", although I do not
entirely understand his reticence, for this case
is verv well. known to the public.

a) Y's reports to the KGB were known to Mr.
and the case had thus been exposed to the
six months before Nosenko reported to CIA. ©
The KGB, recognizing this, cut off contact with
Y immediately after X's defection. Y's eventual
uncovering was inevitable, even though x had
not known his name. Nosenko added one item of

Pagg d8ormation which permitted Y to be caught sooner,
~6-

Here are a few of the errors in the CIA testimony
which might affect your decision:

1) Mr. Hart said, after having reviewed every detail

e@ of the case for six months with the aid of four assis-
tants, "I see no reason to think that he has ever told
an untruth, except because he didn't remember it or
didn't know or during those times when he was under
the influence of alcohol he exaggerated." (3352)

Comment: Ten years removed from this case, I can
stili remember at least twenty clear cases: of
Nesenko's lying about KGB activity and about the
career which gave him authority to tell of it,
and a dozen examples of his ignorance of matters
within his claimed area of responsibilicy, for
which there is no innocent explanation.

Never, before this testimony by Mr. Hart,
was drinking adduced es an excuse for Nosenko's
false reporting. He had no alcohol in his.
detention,during which he was questioned, as
Mr. Hart reminds us, for 292 days. And not bv
the wildest excess of faith or credulity can
all of the contradictions and compromising
circumstances of the Nesenko case (none of which,
eddly enough, did Mr. Hart mention) be attributed
to Nosenko's faulty memory, which Mr. Hart seemed
at such pains to establish.

2) Mr. Hart said that the suspicicns of Nosenko arose

from the paranoid imaginings and jealousy of a previous
defector, whom he calls "KX". Mr. Hart told you that

wMr, X's views were immediately taken to be the

definitive view of Nosenko and from that roint on,

the treatment of Mr. Nosenko was never, until 1967,

devoted to learning what Mr. Nosenke said." (2404-29, 2488-91)

Comments:

a) It was not X's theories which caused ny. initial
suspicion of Nosenko in 1962. It was the overlap
e@ ; of Nosenko's reports (at first glance entirely
convincing and important) with those given six
months earlier by X. Alone, Nosenko looked good
(as Mr. Hart said, 2375-9,2397-8); seen alongside
X%,. whose reporting I had not previously seen,
Mosenko looked very odd indeed. The matters which
overlapped were serious ones, including a specific
lead to penetration of CIA (not a general allega-
tion, as Mr. Hart misleadingly suggested on lines
2419-21). There were at least a dozen such points
. of overlap, of which I can still remember at least .
HW 53080 Docld:32273600e Pate Nosenko's information tended to negate or
-5-

Committee that he'd been misunderstood, that he didn't

understand English, that he'd been under stress,

drugged, or hallucinating. He would evade the question,

saying you shouldn't ask him what he'd said before, but
e@ should ask about the conditions he'd been kept in.

Mr. Hart's testimony must then have resounded like

an echo in the Committee room.

Nosenko even told the Committee staff that he
couldn't remember what he had said before. The oddity
of this will not have escaped the Committee's notice.
It shouldn't matter what he'd said before: he was
supposedly talking of things he'd lived through: the
KGB files he'd seen, the officers he'd worked with.

If these were real experiences he need only recall

them and his reports would, all by themselves, come

out more or less the same way each time (within

normal or abnormal limits of memory, and personality
quirks, of which we are all almost as aware as Mr. Hart).
As the Committee learned, Nosenko's reports did not

come out straight, so Nogenko resorted to this bizarre
excuse -- which makes the story appear more learned

than experienced.

Nonetheless the CIA asks the Committee to take
its word that this is the only time such things
happened, the only such testimony by Nosenko thet
need be disregarded. But this is particularly
difficult to accept on such an important matter.

The Oswald affair, after all, was exciting worldwide
interest, and at the time of the KGB's file review,
Nosenko was already a willing secret collaborator of
the CIA. One might expect his powers of retention to
work unusually well here. Yet it is precisely on

this matter that CIA tells you that Nosenko was
uniquely fuzzy. .

What the CIA did not tell the Committee, what
was hidden behind Mr. Hart's 'ofZhand" inability to
remember other such bad performances by Nosenko-the-
man~of-good- -faith, was that this verformmance was in
no wav unusual. it was simply the way Nosenko reacted
whenever he was interrogated in detail on imporsant
: matters. Not only the contradictions, not only the
@ changes in the story, but the excuses and evasions as
well: all were standard Nosenko.

This brings us to the next subject.
Credibilitv of Nosenko as a source

This is clearly important to the Committe, which»
must decide whether Nosenko's contradictory testimony

on Oswald was an aberration, as the CIA pleaded, or
HW 53080 Docla:322m6@esBage7 from the KGB.
-j7

Nosenko nad "recited" that story before, to CIA and
FBI, each of whom questioned him carefully and
systematically about it.

It is difficult, then, to accept the new judgment

e@ that CIA's performance on this aspect deserved a "zero."
It could only be a result of confusion engendered by
Mr. Hart.

CIA's performance in investigating Nosenko's reports
on Oswald

By alleging general prejudice and misunderstanding
on the part of CIA personnel handling this case, Mr.
Hart confused the Committee on the specific question
of CIA's investi gation of Nosenko's inrtormation,

When Mr. Pithian asked specifically whether the
CIA had made any attempt to verify Nosenko's informa-
tion on Oswald's KGB contacts, Mr. Hart replied ves,
but then interjected an irrelevant statement about a
"climate" of “sick think"! his aim was presumably *o
leave the impression that even if another KGS man
had confirmed Nosenko's statements on Oswald, these
dismal CIA people wouldn't have believed him. (3666)
Later Mr. Hart backed off even this degree of aporo-
bation, hinting that maybe, after all, CIA didn't
investigate at all: "No such file (showing investi-
gation via other defectors) came to my att entione” (4177)
But Mr. Sart knew very well that no ether defector
knew about Oswald’s connections with the KGB. t

The truth lies in the Warren Commission report
cited in lines 4146-9, that CIA just didn't have other
sources in the KGB or elsewhere in the USSR in a
position to check Nosenko's story. This is not quite
the same thing as saying, as the Chairman did, that
“we now. know that the CIA did not investigate what

Nosenko did tell them about Oswald in Russia." (4166)
The confusion stems from Mr. Hart's testimony.

If CIA's failure to have on tap: another spy in
the KGB who knew about the Oswald case constitutes
"dismal" performance, then that should be so stated.
e} The record as it stands, at least in the transcript
casts an unjustified slur on CIA's performance in
this varticular aspect of its task.

By the way, the coincidence that the CIA had
even one KGB source on Oswald in Russia is worth the
Committee's notice. Of the many thousands of KGS

 

7

- Defectors knowledgeable of internal USSR procecures |
ontroels were queried by CIA concerning the whole .
HW 53080 Docra:32273808 Pe ee wald in #he SSR. and the results were reported.

 
people throughout the world, CIA had secret relations
with only one, and this one turned out to have
participated directly in the Oswald case. Not only
once, but on two separate occasions: when Oswald
came to Russia in 1959 and again after the assassi-

@ mation when the Kremlin leadership caused a defini-.
tive review of the whole KGB file on Oswald.+ How
many KGB men could say as much? CIA was thus
unbelievably lucky to be able to contribute to the
‘Warren Commission at all. (In view of other suspi-
‘ciens of Nosenko, the key word in that last sentence
is “unbelievably.")

Credibility of Nosenko's statements about Oswald

The Committee's Stafi Report ably sointed out
the contradictions between Nosenko's various state-
ments. Mr. Hart admitted, under Mr. Dedd's insistent
pressure, that Nosenko's testimony about Oswald was
"implausible" and even "incredible." (3431,4353,4396)
Ee went so far as to recommend that it be disregarded.
(3426,.3438, 3467 :

‘However, Mr. Hart exhorted you to believe in the
rest of Nosenko's rerorting and to believe in Mr.
Nosenko's good faith. (2656,3252-78,3348-55) In other
words, he assured you that Nosenko's incredible and
unusable testimony about Oswald did not come as a
message from the KGB but only from the confused mind
of CIA's advisor. Therefore, Mr. Hart would have you
disregard it rather than read it in reverse.

To support this recommendation Mr. Hart said:
"I cannot offhand remember any statements which he
has been proven to have made which were statements
of real substance other than the contradictions which
have been adduced todav on the Lee Harvey Oswaic
Matter, which have been proven to be incorzect.” (3253-8)

But the Committee only spoke to Nosenko about this
one matter. Even so, the Committee detected no less
than four or five contradictions. Could this, by
extraordinary coincidence, be the only such case?

eo When it confronted Nosenko with his centradict ions,

; the Committee encountered the range of Nosenko's excuses
and evasions -- even before the CIA sent Mr. Hart to
make these same excuses for Nosenko. Nosenko told the

—_———

1 te Memory serves, there was a third occasion, too.
Did not Nosenko happen to be in the room in 4963 when
a cable arrived in Moscow concerning Oswald's visa

; application in Mexico City?
HW 53080 DoclId:32273600 Page 6
 
JFK Assassination System Date: —4/28/201

Identification Form

 

Agency Information

 

 

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: = 180-10147-10245
RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION ~
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 63-05-02
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: BAGLEY, TENNENT
TO:
Released under the John
TITLE: . Kennedy
Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note).
DATE: 09/15/1978 ase#:NU 53080 Date:
PAGES: 169 p6—-05-2017
SUBJECTS : i
BAGLEY, TENNENT
- CIA, FILES
OSWALD, LEE, RUSSIAN PERIOD
NOSENKO, YURI
KGB
DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 09/07/1995
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Box 36

a

v9.1

HW 53080 DocId: 32273600

Page 1
25a Avenue ce l'oOrée + Bte. 10
1050 Brussels, 3elgium
Telechone: 649-7222

October 11, 1978

‘Mr. G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

Select Committee on Assassinations
@ House of Representatives

Washington, D. C.

Dear Mz. Blakey,

I have read. the transcript of the testimony of
the CIA's representative, Mr. John L. Hart, before
your Committee on September 15, 1978.

As the former deputy chief of the CIA's Soviet
Bloc Division, so prominently and so disparagingly
featured in that testimony, I may be able to nels
the Committee to judge CIA's. investigation of Lee
Harvey Oswald's sojourn in the Soviet Union, as
reported by Yuri Nosenko.

Specifically, I can correct certain misleading
impressions left by Mr. Hart. I would cali to your
attention at least twenty errors, fifteen misleacing
statements, and ten important omissions in his testi-
mony, many of them pertinent to your task and,
together, distorting the entire picture.

Having been publicly dishonored by unftounced
statements before your Committee, I ask for the
courtesy of an opportuni ty to come before the
Committee, publicly if you are to hold more public
hearings, to answer not only for myself but also

, for the Central Intelligence Agency, which has
misrepresented its own performance. .

I mention -belew a few of the points of error
and distortion, leaving many others to be discussed
in person with the Committee. My comments refer to ..
the line numbers in the draft transcript of Mr. Hart's
testimony, and are keyed to the Committee's twofold

purpose as you defined it of evaluating the perfor-
mance of the Agency and of weighing the eredibility
© of Mr. Nosenko.

For clarity I have subdivided these as follows:

1) Effectiveness of CIA's performance:
a) in getting the facts about Oswald from Nosenko,
_b) in investigating these facts.
2) Credibility: ;
a) of Mr. Nosenko's statements about Oswald,
b) of Mr. Nosenko as a source.
HW 53080 DocId:32273600 Page 3
-2-

After discussing briefly each of these points,
I will make, below, a few general comments on the
CIA testimony, and will address myself to the matter
ef Nosenko's treatment.

CIA's performance in getting the facts from Nosenko

The Committee Staff Report describes accurately
the CIA's performance in this particular aspect of
its responsibility. Referring to the Agency's ques-
tioning of Noserko on July 3 and July 27, 1964, it
‘says on page 7. that the CIA's questions “were detailed
and specizic about Nosenko's knowledge of Oswald. The
questions were chronological and an attempt was made
to touch all aspects of Oswald's stay in the Soviet
Union." Moreover, CIA gave Nosenko a transcript of
his own remarks so he could add anything more he knew
or correct any errors. (Staff Report; pages 8-9)

Mr. Hart's confusing testimony had the effect of
changing the Committee's appraisal. Not only givine
the Agency a "zero" rating on all aspects of this
case, he stated flatly that "There was no effort
being made to get at more information he might have.”
(lines 2848=9) He thus led Mr. Fithian to suggest
that the CIA had not even taken "the logical first
step" of getting Nosenko's information (3622-8) and
led the Chairman to conclude that no investigation
of Oswald's activities as known to Nosenko had been
made. (4095-8) In this Mr. Hart concurred. (4100)

In fact, CIA got from Nosenko all he had to savy.
about Oswald. CIA's reports contained no less than
those of the FBI, who questioned Nosenko as long as
they thought they needed to. Your Committee seems
‘to have been satisfied that in its 21 to 24 hours
with Nosenko it, too, had got everything he had to
say. That added only one new fact, about the KGB's
voluminous surveillance reports on Oswald, which
contradicted Nosenko's earlier reports and, as the
Staff Report notes, in turn contradicted another
aspect of Nosenko's story: that the KGB didn't watch.

@ Oswald enough to learn of his courtship of Marina.

One wonders, therefore, whether Mr. dart would
give your Committee a similar "dismal" or “zero” rating.

In fact, of course, there was nothing more to be
got from Nosenko. £ there had been, CIA would have
gone doggedly after it, just as the FBI and your
Committee would have. Your Staff Report said that
Nosenko "recited" the same story in each of his

HW 53080 Docra:3227 70072 page gions with the Committee. The word is apt:
