 

@

cD |
‘) a 41-18-65
' Airtel i ™

‘ To: Legat, Bern (92-10)
Sy From: Director, FBI (92-3182)

;
‘| GUS"ALEX, aka
i} oAR

Reurletters 9-17 and 10-19-65.

Encloseg for your assistance in connection with the
question of Swiss ‘authorities concerning the identity of Gus
Alex, is a copy of a letterhead memorandum and two photographs
submitted by the Chicago Office containing information establish-
ing that Chicago hoodlum Gus Alex is identical with the person
against whom the Swiss have issued an entry ban. Qne of the
photographs is of’Gus Alex taken in Los Angeles in 1959 at the
time of his arrest there and the other is a photograph of Alex
and Suzanne Fueger taken in Switzerland in 1963. °°

In handling this matter with the Swiss, you should
continue precaution to assure the Bureau is net disclosed as
the source of any information concerning Alex in order to
preclude possibility of Bureau becoming involved later in court
or other legal proceeding in connection with this matter.

 

: In addition to this material, a comparison is being

. made of various specimens of the handwriting of Alex and you
fo will be advised of the results within the near future. t
; | .

o a Enc. (3)

: '\' NOTE:- Chicago hoodlum Gus Alex and his paramour visit Switzerland
to, . @ach winter on vacation and Legat Bern has established appropriate
i) coverage in past years through Swiss authorities. Following last
visit of Alex during past winter Swiss authorities issued a

. prohibition against Alex's re-entry into this country on the basis
toes that he was an undesirable. Alex has appealed‘and Swiss police
Belnont___ MOw advise they feel there is some question of identity as to
eh -y Whether there are two persons by the name of Gus Alex involved

(coer and have requested further verification concerning this.
alichan

inu nits f f. ot fool — Ly
er Mote continued page 2) aise ! REGIA Spee |

ale z . : : . .
loses — Fore en Liaison Unit (Cleared with Supervigo Hear gyggregorio ,

 

  
  
  

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

: Ayr, -
Wl ay map iy — Liazsonh Ree tion)
whole (BSE Be: A hoes
EN ET, J yt" O Ne, GREGBRIG $507 RB
vay Be of “Hs d TELETYPE UNIT
oe Eat

  

 

 

 

 

 

@ Le

ert Iv a4

 

 

HW 45679) DocId:32556701 Page 1
