 

 

AW 55179
ee

Airtel to SAC, Albany et al
RE: WEW LEFT MOVEMENT
100~-446997 .

Zt is imperative to note the shift to violence
in the New Left movement, Sabotage, arson, bombing and a
variety of obstructive tactics have been openly advocated
during the past year. In September, 1968, within a five-day
period three ROTC establishments were sabotaged and a fourth
threatened, In addition, a Central Intelligence Agency office
at Ann Arbor, Michigan, was bombed during that month, These
instances of openly made plans for violence and the brazen
follow-through of action are examples of the problems facing
the Bureau in this field and the absolute need for intensive
investigative efforts in these matters. Successful prosecution
is the best deterrent to such unlawful activity. intensive
investigations of Key Activists under this Program are logically
expected to result in prosecutions under substantive violations
within the Bureau's investigative jurisdiction,

NOTE:

The Key Activists Program was initiated to afford
critical cases close supervision te insure intensive
investigation by the field, Success with this Program
warrants broadening its scope, The above instructions are
to bring about an expanded Key Activists Program to afford
closér supervision of critical cases working toward making
these persons ineffective and impairing the New Left movement,

DocId:32989648 Page 9

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nome

 

“it

   
 

2, \

From: Director, FBY (100-446997)

Airtel

To: SAC, Albany

au LEFT MOVEMENT

INTERNAL SECURITY ~ MISCELLANEOUS

he Bureau has noted increasing evidence of a
continuing upsurge on the part of militant individuals and ee
organizations to separate themselves from legitimate protest

 

10/28/68

«- Mr, DeLoach

~ Mr. Sullivan

- Mr. C. D. Brennan
~ Mr. Shaw

Bete et

activities and to adopt a strong, anti-United States, violent, \

revolutionary position,
to as the New Left movement,

These activities are commonly referred
The term "New Left" does not

refer to a definite organization, but to a movement which is
providing ideologies or platforms alternate to those of existing
communist and other basic revolutionary organizations, the

so-called "Old Left."

ith the Federal Government.

The New Left movement is a loosely~bound,
geee~-wheeling, college-oriented movement spearheaded by the

and militant anti-Vietnam war and antidraft protest organizations.
fhe militant leadership of these organizations appears determined
seo continue to stage militant demonstration activities designed
vimarily to effect confrontation with authority, particularly

Although the field has conducted, or is conducting,

investigations of these individuals and organizations, there is

“a need to compile in a single investigative report a clear-cut

picture of the entire New Left movement which will identify its
leaders, sources of funds and propaganda outlets, and will show
the extent to which the New Left movement has been influenced

by domestic and f i bversi lements, wy
and foreign su "ore 26 Soy f, fe y Vi WA . S54.

The ready Bx

ity of such information ‘in brief,
topical form will enable the field and the Bureau as well to

£ our investigation of the

 

   

 

——
Rosen —__.

Sullives — (12: ) Che Y
Tavel fj / 3
Trotter

Tele, Room —__

Holmes wae "a"
Gondy wait Row 4 teLetyer unit C1
Fa HUES
oe eR
in, MU 4 STARE

AW 55179 DocId:32989648 Page 10

make a self-analysis,of all v4

 
 
 

ue

1
SEE NOTE PAGE 3

 

 

_,
 

 

 

 

Airtel to SAC, Albany et al
RE: NEW LEFT MOVEMENT
100-446987

Within 30 days of receipt of this communication,
recipient offices are to advise under this caption the iden-
tities and file numbers of individuals to be included under
the expanded Key Activists Program on a UACB basis. Included
should be a brief statement relating the basis for designating
each individual as a Key Activist. At that time, under
individual case caption, a communication is to be forwarded
to the Bureau outlining what specific steps are being taken
to obtain adequate informant coverage of the individual.

it is expected the Key Activists Program will be
given intensive investigative attention and close supervision
by participating offices, You should be continuously alert
ta recommend additions or deletions where warranted and not
walt for the Bureau to call to your attention the need to
include an active, obvious Leader of New Left activities in
your division, Such communications should set out Key Activist
in parentheses after the character and contain adequate justi-
fication for recommended action, Key Activist should not,
however, be used in the caption of any communication prepared
for dissemination. These individuals will be included in the
Security Index in Priority 1.

* To insure that the Bureau is kept abreast of the
day~to-day activities of the individuais designated as Key
Activists, each office must maintain high level informant
coverage on them as well as the organizations they are
affiliated with to develop information regarding their sources
of funds, foreign contacts and future plans, Live informant
coverage of these individuals and groups is absolutely essential
and is expected to receive priority attention. You should
explore all avenues of investigative coverage and submit any
recommendations under appropriate case caption for consideration
by the Bureau,

All investigative matters pertaining to the New Left
movement are being closely followed by the Bureau. Key Activists
are considered to be of primary investigative importance and
cursory handling of these cases will not be tolerated, The
overall objective of this Program is to render Key Activists
ineffective and thereby radically restrict their influence and
the effectiveness of the New Left movement, In order to obtain
the desired results, it is expected intensive, aggressive
investigation will be afforded these cascs,

{ HW 55179 DocId: 32989648 Page &

 

 
 

MAILED 4
3, 9
COMM. FBI

Tolson
DeLoach
Mohr

Bishop
Casper —___
Callahon —__
Conrad —______

 

 

 

 

Tavel
Trotter
Sole, Room —__

folmes

| w me *

HW 55179) DocId:329896438 Page.7

as

Airtel

|e fouarding of developing detailed and complete information
[<@]

‘Fhe Government, These individuals were extremely active and

 

10/24/68
Mr. C. D. Brennan
Mr, Jackson
Mir, Floyd

BY ie et et et et
trebraue

Mr, Menzel
Mr. Shackelford
Mr, Preusse
To: SACs, Albany Indianapolis Onaha
Baltimore Kansas City Philadelphia /-
Boston Los Angeles Pittsburgh a
Buffalo . Memphis Portland -
Chicago Miami Sacramento
Cincinnati Milwaukee St. Louis
Cleveland Minneapolis San Antonio
Dallas Newark San Diego
- Denver New Haven San Francisco
/\ Detroit New Orleans Seattle
vA Honolulu New York Springfield
oe Houston Oklahoma City WFO

from: Director, FBY (100-446997)

4

f
‘NOU, LEFT MOVEMENT

(REY ACTIVISTS) ; . efie Lf a pod :
Jkt ob. eypec to ev Lilt ; é

In January, 1968, the Bureau designated certain
individuals as Key Activists in the New Left movement, At that
time, appropriate offices were instructed to conduct continued
and intensive investigations of these individuals with the

 

egarding their day—to-day acti ities a and.future plans for
taging demonstrations and disruptive acts directed against

ost vocal in their statements denouncing: the U. S. and calling
for civil disobedience and other,forms of unlawful and q 355

@isruptive acts, Wits abe. ae / dd- “Lis / : ‘il

et peri me
Due to the success of fle Key Activists Program,
consideration is being given to expansion of this Programg qcT 25 1968
Recipient offices are to review pertinent files to determine
those individuals who are leaders of prominent in the New-Left——- —«
movement in their divisions for possible inclusion in an
expanded Key Activists Program, In making this determination,
you should consider if the individual was rendered ineffective y
would it curtail such activity in his area of influence. .

, Bh, =
WNP: jav us oe

(79) a.) . h { oo A
v ki

“ e

, , ge \\ \ a SEE NOTE PAGES Pon

. “watts ROOM CO) reestypr unr C2] a

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.FROM

SUBJECT:

AW 55179

. ioe .
/Mr. W. C. Sullivan’ pate: 10/23/68
:c. D. Bremnan( i
7
we 4,
NEW LEFT MOVEMENT . fae
INTERNAL SECURITY - MISCELLANEOUS “ry

. “ . y
OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 5010-106 :
MAY 1962 EDITION, a - % “i, g
GSA GEH. REG, NO, 27 um v “

UNITED STATES GC ‘RNMENT

Memorandum

    
 

This is to recommend that our field offices Poo.
prepare over-all quarterly reports on the New Left movement py
in order that we can bring together all pertinent information } “°‘:
concerning this activity and be in a better position to \
assess the movement's militancy and potential for violence. 1

The New Left movement is made up of numerous
organizations, temporary conferences and unaffiliated
individuals each promoting in varying degrees a strong,
anti-~United States, violent, revolutionary position.

Although the field has conducted or is conducting investi-
gations of these individuals and organizations, there is need
to compile in a single investigative report a clear-cut
picture of the entire New Left movement which will identify
its leaders, sources of funds and propaganda outlets, and will
show the extent to which the New Left movement has been
influenced by domestic and foreign subversive elements,

Our plan is to have each office submit an initial
report by 12/1/68 and to thereafter submit reports on a

quarterly basis. f ,
EN gost
RECOMMENDATION: Gr

That the attached airtel with enclosures consisting
of report outline, subfile breakdown and reporting schedule
be sent to all offices ordering the preparation of these reports,

ALR ER eg AD py Bb!
WGS: jav (5) 0% yur, OAR he Ce OOP co Sf

‘ .
1 = Mr. DeLoach toa we
1 - Mr. Sullivan ra ic] Fi
1 - Mr. C. D. Brennan “.° * IRS cow
1 - Mr. Shaw “ Mv (t ~~
Oo . . ; ; ~~ a OE St BMS
yf Loe
ome fh |
Lat

 

DoclId:32989648 Page 5

 

 
: [I-L00 75

 

55179 DocId: 32989648 Page 6
 

 

_ The originals removed from this file and replaced with
dupiicate copies of the original were accessioned to the

_ National. Archives and Records Administration. (NARA) pursuant
‘te the JFK Records Collection Act of: 1992.

Provision of the.
. OFX

Act allowed for certain information to be postponed. from
public release until the year 2017; therefore, the pages have

NOT necessarily been released for public review in their
entirety.

 

Under the JFK Act, originals to all material deemed
assassination. records must be accesssioned to NARA regardless -
of whether then
information: postponed. ‘Therefore, any documents | or ‘pages
from FBI files acceSsioned to NARA pursuant to the JFK Act
are no longer considered the possession of the FBI. The

duplicate pages have been inserted strictly for research
purposes .

 

: |

   
     
   
   

_ The copies contained herein do not necessarily show
the most up-to-date classification.

   
   
 

To attain a copy of the publicly released version of
materials maintained in the JFK Collection at the NARA

facrlity in College Park, MD, ‘you may contact the JFK Access
Staff, at 301/713-6620.

any

  
      
   

 

 

 

.

 

“The following materials were removed from this file
and’ ase maintained in the JFK Collection at NARA:

   
  

File & Serial Number

         
     
 

   

JEK Subsect Identifier

   

   

. (for NARA purposes}

Qe\b395— (7 Ch Ace Conn erthee
ee °

\An}oy Sargon rome PS Luv

Fos InSoxmational Euxposes Qnly

  

aw 55179 Docld: 32989648 Page 2

 

 
 

(9 Z- HO 116395

 

 

Serial Scope:

| O12 par \P£2.
el

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

«

SSC request 8/20/75, Part III, Item 3

 

 

 

HW 55179) DocId:3298964%8 Page 3
res

 

 

 
 

 

$ “.  ®

55179 Docld: 32969648 LW 4

   
