HW 54214

DoclId: 32424904

Page 9

Taylor would also be out of town, Ee indicated I shezld d22}

 

suidance, However, he said I was free to tring
up anything tomerrow morning, 22 Naren, that Ioweuld lthe fos hin
were

to handle before he left, I indicated there max several cutstand
ing pieces of business which I would like to get his ecproval on
and signature before he left and arranged that I would met hin
at 10009, 22 March, in his office. Ke indicated also he would 1!
to have the risk paper ready to be referred to the Special Group
on 22 March. I indicated this could be done since JCS had alread
approved it and it was ready for his signature and reference te
Gen Lansdale,

Mr. Ryan of USIA then presented the following information
tron that agency. They are increasing the Cuban coverage in
radio to 3 hours a day. No direct Jamming has yet been expertenc
and tendency to edge in on wave lengths being used has been
noticed, He mentioned the refugee children as betng a sood
propeganda possibility, one which we should exploit. There are
8000 children being sent out of Cuba tn order to avoid the Commun
indoctrination and the hard times elnerienced in Cuba now. This

ssn aanad , tangs:

should be exploited. Their conic books are being pecpere’: wee oe
being the fact that Commnism is the enengy of religion. Another
idea 1s the fact that the Cormmmnists have taken over the Havana
University. This ‘ts being propasandized,

Another project is the Gefecter Bituation, which USIA ‘s
pushing through television coverage, Mo, Ryan edded that us alll

be flayed and criticized no matter what she does tn this area in

Latin America, but we should get going with a counter-fercee opera-

tion to counter auch criticisn, The US seems to have a built-in
resistance in Latin fmerica, People sust naturally do not like
the US, as far as thetr verbal rsa@etion to our actions. Tre

consider the US an eceressor verbally. It 4s propor to cr

 

the US in thts crea. Eowever, @ ccunter-fores con help. Most

matin Americans realfce that the Ul must do somethin

wening

   

but their farce reaction, nev

anowt, Cuba to ertttetse tha U
HW 54214 DocId: 32424904 Page

 

Gen Lansdale indicated that we shoud exploit the exottonal
Pssibilities of the CCcOO Guban children hentioned by USIA,
Following comments made ty Ir. Robert Kennecéy: The work
involved in the last 2 months has helped us to develop the prodlen
we are up against in Cuba. We now fairly well urderstard the
eteps we must take in the future, sone of these Steps we do not
like but nevertheless, they are inevitable. It 4s not conceivable
at this tine to call for invasion of U2 forces in Cuba, however,
his surmer, fall and next year uzy chanse all this. in this
first phase, we cust find out the situation in Cuba ard maybe
take steps beycrd that. Welnow more now and we are keeping our-
selves inforned, We know what we can do, we know what ts required,
tt is not like the situation was last April with resard to our
preparedness, The President and his ehlef advisors consider this
the highest priority project in the Government. A serious situa-
tion has been existing in Cuba for Several years and it will get mo:
aarnful, The President is nost anxious we be able to do sonething
about this £9 change it. Gen Lansdale's leadership in this project
has pushed forward, Yow are making progress, doing good work,
There is & posalzility that the Beilin and South East eituation
would have an impact on developments in Cuba. we cust be ready
to exploit any change that occurs for us, All of this sork and
effort is essential and the President keeps an appraisal on it
akost ona daily basis. The Presidans is prepared to do whatever
has to be done, we must use our inagination., Mr, Kennedy expressed
complete satisfaction with the Group working on the Project now
with Gen Craig, Mr. Harvey and ir. Heles. He did not mention
anyone. else representing other departnznts. We need push nore
effort, imagination. He feels tae Croup is up wath She Task
he urged for us to go on and he indleated he would be watching

us closcly on & daliy vasis to see how we aro doing and to help

us if nesced,
HW 54214

DoclId: 32424904

Page 3

to export Corsmunism by way of guerrillas, arms, ete., had been
temporarily played in the low key that CIA too had trouble tn
turning up positive evidence since 4¢ had been unable to do so

to date. Mr. Goodwin added that many allegations had been cade
against Castro but no proof of Cuban aggression had been proven

as yet. He indicated the proof of it would be a distinct asset

to us at this tine. He then said the US should probe harder for
splitting the leadership in Cuba. Raul Castro, for example, is a
good possibility. We need a way to get next to this man. Mr,
Goodwin then said thet there were overtones throughout the US that
the US was planning an invasion of Cubs, that this was detrimental
.to our relationships world-wide. Mr. Gilpatric and Mr. Kennedy
indicated that no matter what was being done, there would be rumors
to this effect and such overtones would be voiced about the country
that it was possibly because we were nearing the anniversary of the
Burpy Road operation. Mr. Goodwin said the Cuban Revolutionary Ccu
manresentative was in Washington and wanted reassurance that the
US planned ty help Cuba. Mr. Goodwin indicated that sympathy for
Cuba 4s gaining ground, .ha mentioned Guatenala and Argentina as
examples where Cubans had succeedea’ w temporary gain in public
opinion and propaganda. Mr. Kennedy then asked mr. Wantuin whet
the prospects were for the future and Mr. Goodwin said that the
prospects for the next 2 or 3 years are terrible.

Mr. Goodwin indicated that one of the items on tomorrow's
agenda for the Special Group would be discussion of tractors for
prisoners in Cuba. Mr, Helms brought out the fact that members
of Congress had been opposed to this and before anything was done
in regard to spending US money in this way, Consress must be
checked, gince they had expressed a desire to be brought tnto the

ieture before such a project was laid on,

 

Mr. Goodwin indicated that the
indicated to Castro that they would provide hin with the tractors

needed for 416,000,000, no dewn payment, ten years to pay. So

 
a political Judgement. I indicated that this was a political.
military judgment, therm waS no doust eadout it but that it
certainly did involve the Defense and JCS responsibilities,
inasmuch as NSAM No. 55 published last June, the President had
informed tne Joint Chiess of Staff that he considered then to
be more than nilitary men and should advise him on such natters,
when it involved the security of the United States, that the
JOint Cntefs of Staff felt obligated to so advise the vresident.
When I made this statement Mr, Kennedy indicated to the effect
that this was correct, that it was the responsibility of the Jcs
to make recommendations o: thia nature.

‘ Mr. Goodwin did not pursue the matter further at this time.
Mr. Goodwin then queried me in regard to the reactions capabilit:
of the US forces in caher countries of Latin America, that if such
a requirement occurred while we were engaged in Cuba, this seemed
to be the general tarust of his queries. I indicated to him that
Gen O'Mara was currently comfing up with estimates based on U3

reaction for 2 countries to be selected ty him in the Caribbean

area, Each one to have pluns for a company size unit and a battl

group size unit. tir, Gilpatric then proposed to say at this time

        
  

   

a C$ that it was the intent of DefensiM™that the 6 - 1303 remain in é
e ©

ene the Panama Canal Zone to give this capability a quick reaction ( ;
524 Mr, Goodwin then was requested to Give a briefing on the Sta! :

Situation in reyard to tine Caribbean Survey Group. He cteygan by
saying tnae was no proof of Cuban inffitrations into otner count
or Latin Averica of cupan exportation of weapons and cuerrilias
and Commnists from Cuba to other Latin Arerican countries, He
indicated so far we have been unable to get any evidence to the
effect that this waa being done. Mr. Kennedy questioned i'r.
Goodwin closely on this s.b’eet ashing why he could not find
evidence when we knew this to be a fact. itr. Goodwin said tat
everything possible was being done to turn up this evidence but

without success, ir, iennedy then queried hin as to what kinw

Of people were worvins on tnis Sor state. Rye. Helng intercedsd t<

 

HW 54214 DocId:32424904 Page 7?
AW 54214 DocId:32424904 Page 5

 
 
  
      
 

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

  

 

CINCLANT VAS CYRRentiy engared in normal ch

 

is and versous
ns includirny etoskpilins, redisnresttion L
Cs F =

sins, ete. in order

2

time ladder bezinning et d'cinus 12 days and going up tod
that at any par ular tine 1¢ would be vossible to orient the
military. situation with the political situation in termsof
whetner om not the protect was getting hot. This would permit

us to have CINCIAND 4f 1t did not involve tippine cff the operati
to go to ad minus 10 condition, for example, that somewhere alon
the spactrum in the ladder, there would be epoint at which you
could not go further tovarés preparation without tipping off your
hand or tai: unacceptable risk, that wa would discover this point
and have this x4: cf planning chart prepared for use in the
future. In the usantine, Defense was bending all efforts to be

ready on the shortest possible notice effect wy to prevent a

   
   
 

Hungarian type dsbacle happening to us in Cuba

fen Craig then covered the organicatiinmmphceffing end modus

operandt£ of the Usribbean Survey Creup Yorking Group of DOD cf
JCS ard finally motang irdivited that the first important mission
undertaken by the crovp wae to develop vin® PCD/JCS position as to

the wikttary's stake and proposed role in the oustinz of the

Communist regire in Cube. Basically, the policy reflected trat
durin:

Defense will suppert State-CIA, ‘f necessary, te the rreparatory

plese of operation cf Henoose in terms cf supply, transportation,

personnel ard bases, establishes the pe/nt that the miktary belley

that the continued om4stence of the Caetro Cormmunistrerine is

Incoxupativie with the mintrum seevrtty requirements of the US

end ma akes a point that the mittary could intervene tn Cuta without

Serious offens2 to national or world publiie cpinton under

the following three conditions:

First - if woe moved in response to 4 humanitari

to restore ordo>.

tr end cimiid hold free electiona and we

£5 sen 25 the raw cov

it advised

 

Mey to mitrtatn law and onder wit:ou

 
HW 54214 DocId:32424904 Page 6

assistance fron the OAS nation.

   

6% Guichiy ts

 

possible and with sufficient force so that the Corzsunist tlos

evllity to take effective couscorercusurss Wed reduced toe
oindtnrim.

It wes then enphasized strongly by Gen Craig thet the

JCS were very apprehensive in regard that the Soviets vere

 

page fvom ous beck and estatis: en overseas

 

wiltary bese o> bases in Suua. It would greatly increase our
national vulnerability and our defense cost as furces would

have to be developed om shifted to meet this tnrest from the

south, that the Soviets Lid an option on which they could

foreclose at any tue in this regard. They can make decision

to establish a wilitary base in Cuba at their will and pleasure

with as little ar if any cost, that should this te done, te,

nilita base established by the Soviets in Cuva before we inter-
ry

yene, we would likely be unable to renove thei by initiating

orld Yar Ii Consequently, we feel it mardatery we face the

facts squarely now end Getermine es carly as possible whether

we can rzd Cuba of Conzunisn ty covert eupport cf Cubans within

and
Cuba. It {9 equaliy ‘aiportant fros logistics pigiicag PETPSTsc

 

that we have en early decision es to whether we definite:y intend
to use military force if the covert means fatl. Tt was eomyhasized

shat tn the event the Sovicts foreclose the cpticn ard ectabiish

 

Pact that either onc

new facts bearing on intrcéuced condicerations

  

which vould pestponc
for the foreseeatle fusure ¢

since to renove the base might well tr

 

Mr, Goodwin indicated te the ore

 
 
 
 

MEMORANDUM POR RECORD:
Following are the minutes of the Caribbean Survey Group
held in the National Operations Room 23 13, 21 March 1¢62,

Following was the attendance at the meeting:

he Attorney General Mr. Hand
Kr. Gflpatric Gen Lansdale
My, Helas Gen Craig
Mr, Harvey Col Patchell
tr, Goodwin Mr. Ryan

At Gen Lansdale's request, Mr. Harvey opened the meeting by
‘ ; giving a general operational status report. Ee discussed teams,
ete., in come detail, indicating thatthe aissionf of the teams
: ; was intelligence collection, controls and the development of
. , latent resistant areas, The quality of the Opa Locka Interrogatic

Center ~- reports have been good, 150 are coming in per week on

cords

 
 
  

an average of possible intelligence reports. Very little of high
level political intelligence has been available. . However, trenen-

* dous amounts of counter-intelligence is being received. Informa-

nO onjection to the
of this document in‘full

- tion on 300 Cuban agents per week, for example. Ngthing so far

tate has

uncovered in the intelligence area changes the basic conclusions

a
fe)

made originally by CIA; at the outset of this task. However,
: : : con

for the most part, conclusions have been firmed by further inform

at of
WLI

Collection Act of 1992 (PL102-526)

tion. Generally sabotage is decreasing in Cuba. Tt operationa?

telease or declassification
under the provisions of the JFK Assassination Re

The Departm:

problems of putting in agents are getting tougher and tougher.
The controls by the Commnists in Cuba are getting tighter and
tighter and will slow down the operation. Agents must have
documents, to get documents you must register, when you register
the Bloe informer checks on you periodically. nis maxes it
tough to get ration cards. Some few Cuban agents have been comin
in through the Opalocka Center, Mr. Kennedy asked how abut the

y backlog of refugees - sore 75,000 peopie coming in throush Cpa
meas shy, SL Boe paenened Locka in the Miami area prior to beginning of this operations
intelligence center there. How about @ progran to aSsure that

these 75,000 sources are exploited. Mr. Harvey indicated CIA

 

had a plan to cot this dona,to date they have been unable to hit

REMI OKON ADR a part of * backlog, but in certain special cases have deer
RELEASE OF THI ectting information ¢
AS neh add .

a3b: No obsBETON
2cind

HW 54214 DocId:32424904 Page 2

rea them,

 
      
Date : 08/04/98

Page : 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
i 7 "AGENCY INFORMATION ._— Pe leased under the John]
. Kennedy

AGENCY : JCS Assassination Records

RECORD NUMBER : 202-10001-10173 ollection Act of 1992
RECORDS SERIES : FOIA SERIES (44 USC 2107 Note}.
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : DOC 174 ase@iNW 54214 Date:

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : OSD

FROM
TO

TITLE :

DATE : 03/21/62 j

PAGES : 9

SUBJECTS : MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/30/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Bracketed portions withheld by Joint Staff. Reviewed
by CIA, State, OSD.

 

EXEMPT PER E.0. 13526"

SEC 3.3(b) S@vS

016
DATE EXEMPTED: MAR 2

JS RE-REVIEW DATE: 3/22 2037
OK Te KELEASE AS TCADACTED “lei Comtv PROG

 

 

HW 54214 DocId:32424904 Page 1
Mr. Kennedy brought up the possibility of using Inaicration
Department people, especially the broader patrol types who can
speak Spanish. Mr. Gilpatric indicated that Senator Uart's
Corcittee has recommended an additions: sersening center for
Cubans, possibly in ‘the New Orleans area. |

Mr, Kennedy asked CIA what the vot sild be in Cubs as

   
  
 

wr
between the Castro and the anti-Castro ‘se, Kennedy asked what ~

are the chances idnapping some of tne hey people of the |, 2,
. i
Communist regine?

Gen Craig was asked to report on DOD participation. He
Cirst discussed CIA support in general, that during the first
phase of the operation, DOD's primary role xould be to support
State-CiA and USZ.. in the intelligence gathering phase and in

the interim period to be prepared at a moment's notice to inter-

     
   
  
   

yene in Cuba to prevent a Eungarien typ? Ct ere nor to exploit

s
any possible opportun The results of the |

  
 
 

evaluation of the ris ’ ‘Atpped crews and

with sanitrvced aircraft ma cing. Su piy drops to agents and to

-

Cuban guerrilla s aiacussed? me Air Force's general con-
clusions were read to the Gmupywiuin the indication that operatio:
initially would possibly be much more successfur vir. those in_
the latter phases, ‘inasmuch as they would be accomplished with
surprise and before the Cubans had an opportunity to figure the
nodus operandi, etc., and build up @ guard against at. Sub-
sequently, they mi¢ht produce nore effective counter-actions but
that on-balance, Same parry speaking, such operations had a good

chance of success; re fact that Gen LeMay end the Joint Chiefs

   
    
 
 

consider this type of operation to involve mere of 2 risk than

      

the Avon Park Training Project for Cuban infiltrees would have
P.,
ig se sanitizing of 2 aircraft and sheep

1

general raritim assistance was discussed, Avon Park, suitable}
1

\

navy commander for enall boats, the teach vurrer testing PT

    
  

| osts, were dtscussed as specific pro

| that the follewine policy matters amons

HW 54214 DocId:32424904 Page 3
HW 54214

DoclId: 32424904

a“
o

Page 4

 
 
  
  
  

We tor policy deciston that must be made
ou
DOD sugport to CLA: questions ¢f nen-2%

 

to which US
vw
Cuban refugee

      
  
 

se extant to which armed vercees personne! will

ean Survey Croup projects, to what extent US

like black flights

what extent will the use of Britiea

  
 
 

+ and finally, «hat 4s the pricrity of cperation MNoncoose as ee
pared to other pro,..ts and operations such as Scuth Vietnam and
Berlin at the current time. In the letter connection, that is, the
question of priority cf Mongocse, it was emphasized to tre Atterne
General that to date we had not had particular trouble in this
grea but that inevitably we would run 4nto trouble areas, pare
ticularly in recard to legistics matters, that to date. this had
been handled thrcugh the Commend channels, for example, Gen
Decker who had a little trouble in this area in retting stockpile:
and supplies and equipment, logistic lift for the Ar-y ned Pirdle:
it by making decisions through command chernels without desicnati:

a@ priority and that the Stutz to date the preparation and plannin,

  

had been going forsard smoothly, but chat the time would com?

 

when the decision would be made es to which would set the priorit:

ned for Vietnan an

 

for exauple, would gocd, equipmant, ete,

Beriin and move to stoshkpiling areas farthoase eeuld they d2 uscd
, . or would

in a. @uban operation?, or would Cuba take priority «tt others

take prlority? Mr. Cilpatric indicated he would like to try t>

solve this probdlex at Defanss level witheut referring it to

 
 
 
   
  
  
   

situation as +

<r

develor

ty
ts
rae
fn
a
ree
9
3
Py
°
7,
oy
ct
<
oO
°
2
<
a
ws
0
“t

Krtoht hesp na infers:d

eon2a She

  

 

y times en Plan St
