 

SECRET

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL'S STANDING CROUP
Annex 6

ECONOMIC RESTRICTIONS

a) ‘Shipping

The results of our demarches to cut down Free World
shipping to Cuba are best explained by figures, During the
period January 1 to March 31, 1962 a total of 337 Free World
vessels entered Cuban ports. During the same period in 1963,
only 62 Free World vessels entered Cuban ports. . A-proposal i
presently before the President to expand NSAM No. 220 to bar
U. S.-financed cargoes to all vessels owned or controtied by
persons owning or controlling vessels engaged in the Cuban
trade. Such a measure will affect several hundred vessels and
we anticipate it will result in a further decline in Free
World shipping to Cuba.

    

Other measures being considered include closing OAS
ports to all vessels engaged in the Cuban trade on continuous
voyage, requesting U. S.-owned oil companies to voluntarily
wa deny bunkers in the Western Hemisphere to shins known to be
4 , engaged in the Cuban trade, reassessment of the definitions
within the terms of Section 107 (B) of the Foreign Aid and
Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1963 and closing
United States ports completely to certain classes of vessels.

‘b) Civil Aviation

 

Before the missile crisis, five international airlines
served Cuba with about 20 frequencies weekly. Through our
efforts, all Free World international airlines except IBERIA

_ (Spain) have ceased operations to the island. IBERIA has
one-to-two flights per month.

 

 

HW 54214 DocId:32424694 Page 9
 

 

 

 

 

HW 54214

   

_SEGRET
-2-

CUBANA (Cuba) has a bi-weekly service to Mexico City.
The Mexicans have taken several measures to tighten the controls
on this service. .

These are the only scheduled links Cuba now has with
the Free World.

Continued efforts by CSA (Czechoslovakia) and CUBANA
to obtain servicing and/or passenger rights in other Free
World cities have been thus far successfully blocked by
Departmental efforts.

Any requests for transit, servicing or passenger
privileges by CUBANA, CSA: or-AEROFLOT at any point are

strenuously opposed on a continuing basis.
c) Trade

The decline in Free World trade with Cuba has
materially affected her ability to maintain the former

relatively high standard of living enjoyed before the-

Castro take-over. The 4th quarter 1959 GNP of $2.391 billion
pesos has declined an estimated 25% to about $1,790 billion
pesos (Est. 1962) while the population has increased roughly
6% from 6,661,000 to 7,068,000 in 1962. From these data it
appears that the per capita GNP has declined from about

360 pesos in 1959 to 253 pesos per annum in 1962. This
decrease in income and the rise in prices caused by the
increasing shortage of consumer goods has further reduced
the average Cuban standard of living, causing widespread
discontent. Some selected trade figures may be illustrative
of the effects of the United States efforts. ,

  

DocId: 324274694 Page 10

 
 

HW 54214 DoclId:32424694 Page @
   

SECRET
-6-

for’ the Cuban airline to substitute Russian-built IL-18's5
for the older Britannias which it is now using on the

measures,

- . Following Our approaches on this matter, other countries
have also shown an increased awareness of the need to take
counter-subversion measures. Prime Minister Bustamante of
Jamaica told Assistant Secretary Martin he had no intention
of permitting travel to Cuba and that he had turned down
requests from both KIM airlines and the Cuban Government to
tesume flights between Cuba and Jamaica. The Bolivian
‘Government has also indicated it is finally becoming con-
cerned about the large number of its citizens who are
traveling to Cuba and is willing to take steps to reduce
this travel.

 

Some success has also been achieved in undercutting

because of our efforts to make it difficult for Latin Americans
to attend the recent "Solidarity with Cuba" meeting in Brazil,

 

 

 

 

HW 54214 DocId:32424694 Page 7
 

 

 

 

 

HW 54214

   

SECREP
-ue

"and report to the diplomatic missions of the signatory

countries the identity of any person discovered intro-
ducing or disseminating such propaganda material in

_ the country.

Adopt as soon as possible for immediate implementation
effective measures to prevent subversive activities
that may be instigated by Castro-communist propaganda
or agents in each of the Central American countries
and Panama. a os

Establish a cooperative system to. impede the clandestine
movement of persons, propaganda materials and arms for
subversive purposes involving: :

ae. surveillance by-each country-of its own

° coastal area, and interception of*sus-
picious craft within its territorial
waters; and

b. cooperation of the Central American States,
Panama and’ the United States to carry out
such surveillance and interception, upon
the request of any of the governments
concerned.

Establish, as soon-as possible, an organization in each
State, with the sole purpose of counteracting Communist
subversion in the Central Aner ica-Panama area. This

; a) detecting, controlling and counteracting actions
and objectives of the members, instrumentalities
sympathizers and collaborators of the Communist Party;
and ; ; a ~

b) lending mutual support to each other and constantly
exchanging information regarding movements of persons or

groups, propaganda, funds and arms for Communist subversive

purposes.

— SECRET

DocId:324274694 Page 5
   

7 -5-
: H. Agree to:
, 1. Recommend that their Governments:

a). hold periodic meetings of representatives
of Isthmian countries and the United States to review
progress made and problems remaining in the control
of movements of persons, arms, funds and propaganda,
for subversive Communist purposes;

-b) hold bilateral discussions among the signa-
tory countries regarding requirements for technical,
materiel assistance and training support; and

. ¢) furnish “information on a continuing basis to the
Council of the Organization of American States on
Communist subversive activities in their respective
countries. * ce ce PS De eS
2. Inform the Organization of American States of the
agreements taken at the present meeting requesting of
that Organization and the Member Governments the indis-
pensable backing and Support required to achieve their
effective implementation, thereby strengthening the
inter-American system. i

 

To encourage implementation of these recommendations and to
discuss possible requirements for U.S. assistance a delegation
will spend several days in each Isthmian country beginning
April 23.

The other hemisphere governments have been advised of the
progress being made by the Central Americans and informed that
we consider their actions to be worthy of emulation. Telegrams
to each of the other hemisphere posts, instructing them to
seek appropriate counter-subversion actions by host governments,
are now being prepared in’ the Department. ;

 

Bilateral Approaches: Mexico is now the only western
hemisphere transit point for scheduled air travel -to Cuba,

ES measures to curb traffic of Latin Americans through Mexico to
and from Cuba. Mexico has been delaying granting permission

—SEGRET

——

 

     

HW 54214 DocId:32424694 Page 6
 

 

 

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL'S STANDING GROUP ~

Annex §

ORAM) SER SPIERE SUBVERST OH

We are concerned about Cuba's effectiveness as a base for ©
subversion in the hemisphere. We are giving the highest
priority .to this problem :and.can report ‘progress in countering
Cuba's subversive efforts. While we can never insure that
Cuba will not be able to help subvert another -Latin American
country, effective action on our part can considerably reduce |
Cuba's capability to do so. ;

Krulak Sub-Committee: Following the February 25 sub-
mission of a report on subversion by an interdepartmental .
working group headed by Ambassador Thurston, the Coordinator
of Cuban Affairs on February 27 appointed a Sub-committee on
Subversion headed by Major General Victor H. Krulak, USMC.

The sub-committee in quick order produced useful action papers
on: 1) control of movement of persons to Cuba for subversive
training; 2) control of movement of propaganda material;
3) control of movement of arms; 4) establishment of a surveil-
lance system in the Caribbean; 5) exchange of intelligence
information and, 6) control of movement of funds for subversive
purposes. Another paper, on training of Latin Americans, is
under preprration.

~Central America - Managua Team: These papers were used

in preparing talking points for the Meeting of Presidents at
San Jose where it was decided to hold the Managua Meeting of
Ministers of Government, Interior or Security, to.discuss
measures to counter Castro-Communist subversion in the
especially vulnerable Isthmian area. In preparing for this
latter meeting the Krulak papers were again drawn upon
heavily. At Managua the Ministers agree to recommend to their

 

NO ARMY DECLASSIFICATION ACTIVITY
OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION
REQUIRES CONCURRENCE OF

   
     

AW 54214 DocId:32424694 Page 2
AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

FROM

DATE
PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

HW 54214

DoclId: 32424694

Date 07/29/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Released under the John
. EKennedy
Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992

AGENCY INFORMATION

ARMY
198-10009~-10084
CALIFANO PAPERS

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#: NW 54214 Date:

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

NSC'S STANDING GROUP

MEMORANDUM FOR THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL'S STANDING
GROUP

00/00/00

19

‘CUBAN SUBVERSION -

ECONOMIC RESTRICTIONS - CUBA

CUBAN EXILES

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL
MILITARY TRAINING OF CUBAN NATIONALS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
TOP SECRET

ic

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
02/05/98

Califano Papers. Memo for NSC Standing Group re: threat
of Cuban hemispheric subversion and an associated
action plan. Attached memos concerning economic
restrictions, exile problems and military training and
planning. .

Page 1
   

SECRET

~2-
governments that they undertake the following steps designed
to limit Cuba's potential for subversion in the Central
American area: ;

A. Adopt, within the limitation of their respective con-
stitutional provisions, measures to be put into effect
immediately to prohibit, restrict and discourage the
movement of their nationals to and from Cuba. To
this end, they propose the adoption of the following
measures: : ;

1) Provide, as a general rule, that every
passport or other travel document which may ‘be
issued carry a stamp which indicates that said
passport is not valid for travel to Cuba.

2) Declare officially -that-nationals who are
permitted to travel to Cuba should have the per-
mission duly inscribed in their official travel
document.

3) Promulgate regulations restricting the
granting of visas to foreigners who have travelled
to Cuba within a stipulated period of time.

 

4) Notify travel agencies and transport com-
panies of these measures for due compliance; and
inform the government of other countries through
“xi the most appropriate means.

5) Request the Governments of the Hemisphere:

a) not to allow the nationals of signatory
countries to travel to Cuba unless -they possess a :
valid passport or other document issued by their
country of origin valid for such travels

b) not to accept visas, tourist cards or
other documents issued to their nationals for travel
‘to Cuba which do not form an integral (non-detachable)
part of their passports or other travel documents};

 

 

 

AW 54214 DocId:32424694 Page 3
 

 

 

 

   

SECRET
~3-

c) to observe the limitations placed in
the passports or other travel documents of the
nationals of Signatory governmentsand not allow
them to depart for Cuba;

d) to inform the signatory countries
through appropriate channels of refusals to allow
one of their nationals to depart for Cuba; and

e) to provide the signatory governments
the names of. their nationals which may appear on
the passenger list of any airplane or ship going
to or coming from Cuba. ;

Enlist. the cooperation of financial institutions to’
report on the transfer of funds which persons. or. 2. wise 5
groups catalogued as Communist subversive elements
make, within their respective countries, for subversive
purposes; and to establish surveillance of Communist-
controlled businesses and other activities to! identify
the transfer of funds through such establishments for
subversive purposes or activities; and impound such
funds, or take preventive measures, compatible with
each country's legislation, so that they may not be
used for purposes that would tend to destroy demo-
cratic governments.

Take action to impede the clandestine movement of

arms into the Isthmian countries, including specific
instructions to border control forces to intensify

port, airfield and border inspection of incoming and
outgoing cargo in order to prevent contraband traffic :
in arms; and establish strict security and accountability
with respect to arms and ammunition issued to their

armed forces and law enforcement agencies.

Take action to prevent the introduction of subversive
Communist propaganda materials into the Isthmian .
countries from abroad; adopting laws as necessary to
provide severe penalties for persons knowingly engaged
in the introduction or dissemination of such propaganda}

HW 54214 DocId:32424694 Page 4

 
