 

 
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
     
   
   
   
    
   

“ . . . - . i

 

Operation MONGOOSE t.

“26 October 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group (Augmented)
on Operation MONGOOSE, 26 October 1962

PRESENT: - Mr. McNamara, Mr. Gilpatric, General Taylor, General
: Lansdale, General Johnson; the Atcorney General;
‘ * Mr. Johnson, Mr. Martin; Mr. Bundy; Mr. McCone, Mr.
Harvey; Mr. Wilson.

Le The meeting began with a discussion of the considerably-
increased activity in the dispatch, and preparation for dispatch,
of agent teams. As a result of this discussion, it was agreed that
all plans for dispatch should be suspended pending further examination;
instructions were issued during -he course of the meeting deaigned
to recall the three teams already on the way.

Te was agreed that the first order of business with regard
to these teams is to examine in detail the requirements toward which
they could contribute. General Lansdale will arrange to get Git=
inte contact with: (a) General Carroll, te examine what military
ti? requirements such agents could service; (b) similarly, the State
poe 3 Department for political intelligence requirements; (c) USIA for

: requirements peculiar to thac Agency, After this examination, it.
will then be decided what the best use of these agent assets actually
should be.

 

26 Mr. McCone and Mr. Harvey said during the course of the
discussion on agent teams, that the action taken had represented a
ye unilateral decision by CIA and was not in response to specific
ob a) military requirements. CIA had felt that this was within its sphere
2 peta ¥
«Dt poet, 24 of responsibility, and particularly with respect to the first three
oO aa a ow? teams had considered that it was a continuation of previously-
OOM OMB approved operations. Mr. McCone commented that internal security
Sara sis we in Cuba is now far more stringent chan it was two weeks ago, thereb
gk : 8 ¥
. ve : making agent operations much more difficult; he felt, therefore, that
av & 3g P ’
waste as . agent activity on this scale will only be justified if the responsible
- departments

 
  

a) ‘Chiefs fad
“mot been asked to review the operation in broader conrex

Vf | Chiefs had concluded, however, that no revolt should be®
} bent

aw 54214 Docld: 32424917 | Page 2

 

   

 
 

 

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR

FROM :

DATE
PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :
OPENING CRITERIA:
: Bratketed portions withheld by the Joint

COMMENTS

HW 54214 Docld:324274917 Page 1

: FOIA SERTES
: DOC 187

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

. Kennedy
JCS : Assassination Records
202-10001-10186 ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ases#: Nil 54214 Date:

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

OSD

: MINUTES OF MEETING OF THE SPECIAL GROUP ON OPERATION
MONGOOSE

 

10/26/62
3

: MONGOOSE

: MEMORANDUM
: TOP SECRET

iB

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

07/30/98

Staff.
Reviewed by OSD, CIA and State.

NOJOINT STAFF OBJECTION
TO DECLASGIFICATION~

bi all

 

 
 

 

-

  
 
   
  
  

é "tc enacsiontinen
nless and until the U.S. is ready to support it and that the

‘Military establishment does not wish to take over sabotage and

similar operations at this time, although it should be prepared

to de go if an invasion should be mounted. Mx. McCone iG Raed een
itte_possible-thet-ae-the—sicustion-develope,-CLA-Cuban- operations - -
mi , rok, but that such action is not
indicated at this time.

ee

  

3. Mr. Harvey e the point that the proposed agent dig-
patches would not use up all existing assets. He said that in the
avent of invasion, a sizeable number of Cubans could be trained
quickly.

4, The Attorney General and General Lansdale emphasized
“ that the Cubans are entirely prepared.to make the necessary sacrifices
if they are in support of an approved plan. The Cubans do wane,
however, assurances that such activities are in fact approved at a
high level.

_. 3+ Mr. Bundy emphasized the importance of planning for the
use of Cubans in political and civil activities during and after
any military action, He felt that there should be established with<
in the government some sort of "Office of Free Cuban Affairs," which
probably should be placed within the Department of State. The
activities of this office would be distinct from General Lansdale's
operations but would be closely related to them. He pointed out
that top priority should be given to selecting a man to head such
an office, Mr. Bundy also said that he thought a subcommittee of
the NSC Executive Committee should be established to deal with
MONGOOSE affairs. .

6. Me. McNamara thought that MONGOOSE in the short-term
should be considered in the context of (a) providing support for
action designed to get rid of the missiles, and (b) support for a
possible invasion,

76 Specific discussion took place on points raised in the
paper distribured ac the meeting, as follows:
a. CIA should continue to develop the balloon propaganda
facilities, although it was recognized that by the target date of
1 December this capability might no longer be needed because of other j

!

; methods of delivery. ua!

i os

be No major acts of sabotage should be undercaken at
this tise. This decision will be reviewed in about a week,

#,

re

AW 54214 Docld:32424917 Page 3

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

AW 54214 DocId:32424917 Page 4

 

c. General Lansdale should develop further plans to
“help the Cubans to help themselves." Mr. Morales«Carrion should
be brought inte this planning.

: d. Political planning for the post-Castro period will
be assigned to the "Office for Free Cuban Affairs," .

e. Establishment of USIA's dew 50 KW transmitter in
‘the Florida Keys should be expedited.

8. It was reiterated that General Lansdale is the focal
point for all MONGOOSE activities, that he is charged with their
overall management and that he should be kept informed of all
significant plans and activities in connection with the project.

annsth”

Thomas A, Parrott

Distribution
The Attorney General
Chairman, JCS
DCT : ;
Cy ube wy ete
General Lansdale “Se dee Crag eal tlelas .i

 

 

 

 

 
