 

HW 50529

“Does not believe (she) ever discussed this matter with Huntington.
Huntington did not know Robert Kennedy." Obviously an interview
with a female due to the spacing ~- Lea Purwin?

Per my conversation with Agent Pimentel in July 1971, I referred to
Perwin/Purwin (phonetically) solely as the executive assistant,
personal secretary of Ron Buck. I indicated that I felt she was in
love with Buck, but that I did not believe the feeling was mutual.

I provided her latest place of employment to the best of my knowledge.
At no time did I infer that she was knowledgeable of the assassina-
tion tape from either Buck or Huntington.

If, indeed, this is an interview with Perwin, I fail to see how she
felt qualified to make such an absolute statement that Huntington
did not know Robert Kennedy. Her relationship with Huntington was
primarily business, in her capacity as Buck's secretary; occasionally
Huntington escorted her to the L.A. Factory (private club) as a con-
venience

 

Huntington was aware of the priorities in Perwin's life: Perwin was
loyal to herself and Ron Buck ~ in that order. And, in this context,
I seriously doubt whether Huntington would ever have discussed the
assassination tape and/or Robert Kennedy with Perwin.

Huntington was a very private sort of person and was not the type

to discuss problems. JI don't feel I would have learned so much about
his life if I had not experienced so many bad times with him. Please
bear in mind that as Huntington's personal secret.ary/business manager
I maintained his general ledgers and filed receipts for expenses.

In that capacity, it is not difficult to ascertain one's life-style
and/or preferred associates.

Huntington, when faced with obstacles, soon learned who his real
friends were. AS soon as he lacked the funds to entertain lavishly
(at home and The Factory), give thoughtful gifts, flowers, etc. the
number of those loyal to him in times of adversity dwindled to three~
a little black laborer, Livingston Wilburn; Robert Mueller, and;
myself. There was one couple in L.A., a doctor and his wife, who
were close to both Huntington and Mueller; however, I don’t believe
Huntington ever kept them informed as to his difficulties.

he REF: 8/13/71 letterhead memo from L.A. to Hoover, middle of page 5.

Obviously an interview with Ron Buck from the spacing. "Discussing
the Kennedy assassination and is positive (he) never had a discussion
with either Robert Kennedy or William Huntington regarding (deleted ~
too lengthy to guess as verbiage, estimated to pertain to 'assassina—
tion tape’). If my assumption is correct, then I believe this to be
a correct statement. Considering Huntington's secrecy about the
tape, I don't believe he ever discussed said tape with Buck. I
gathered at the time that Huntington came by the tape without the
knowledge of Ron Buck. And, contrary to the FBI's initial report,
Buck did not play the tape for Huntington and Robert Kennedy.

DoclId: 32247941 Page 9 is

3. REF: 8/13 71 letterhead memo from L.A. to Hoover, page 5. ,
|
 

De

8,

HW 50529

‘REF: 68/13/71 letterhead memo from L.A. to Hoover, middle
"(Ron Buck) emphasized Huntington's non-political Status ond wee eos,
itive that any allegations purporting that he was politically in-
clined are false." In light of my comment in Item #2, I would agree
with this statement. However, I never did tell Agent Pimentel that
Huntington was politically inclined: I merely provided Pimentel with
the information pertaining to the assassination tape. For Hunting~
ton to have revealed this information to me does not mean that he
was ‘political’ or ‘politically inclined’. ,

REF: 8/13/71 letterhead memo from L.A. to Hoover, middle of Page 5.

"(Ron Buck knew) Lila Hurtado, who was employed as a Secretary by
Huntington, but was not well enough acquainted with her to make a
statement regarding her reliability." If, indeed, this a statement
by Ron Buck it is correct. Our association was entirely on a busi-
ness level.

REF: 8/13/71 letterhead memo from L.A. to Hoover, middle of Page 5.

"Robert Kennedy was never (in Ron Buck's office) nor was he ever at
The Factory while Huntington was present.'"' The statement, if I am
correctly filling in the blank, could or could not be correct as

I was not in a position to know. Per my conversation with Agent
Pimentel in July 1971, I could only surmise as to where Huntington
might have played the assassination tape Tor Robert Kennedy. My
guess at the time was either Buck's office (in the absence of Buck)
or at The Factory, especially since Huntington had keys to both

(as decorator).

REF: 8/13/71 letterhead memo from L.A. to Hoover, bottom of Page 5.
"However, he (Huntington) was financially irresponsible; he was a ~
homosexual; and frequently lied without any reason." I should like
to comment here that Huntington was an artist not an accountant.
That's why he needed and wanted a capable person to handle his ledger
and maintain accurate records. He had a celebrity clientele, many
of whom considered they were doing Huntington a favor by giving their
business to him. In Hollywood the name of a good interior decorator
gets exposure as much as good gossip. Huntington knew he would never
collect a good portion of his outstanding accounts receivable, but

he did not have to resort to listings in either the white or yellow
pages of the phone book, In light of this, I would say he,was a
shrewd businessman, as his success was greatly due to word of mouth
personal recommendations. The periodic mention of 'homosexuality'
can only be construed as a means of discrediting the man. In my
opinion, whether Huntington was or was not a homosexual is totally
irrelevant and immaterial to the issue at hand. There are many men
who have seemingly effeminate gestures, attitudes, etc. but they

are not homosexuals. Many men share apartments or even buy houses
as a joint venture, but they are not homosexuals. I was an extension
of Huntington's right arm for 14 years and I would never say he was
a homosexual. Since IJ never went to bed with the man I could not,

jn good conscience, state he either leaned toward or was in fact a
homosexual. Once again, I feel this statement is an assumption and
achieves nothing more than slendering the reputation of a man who is
no longer alive to comment (as if it were an important issue).

DocId:32247941 Page 10 4h

 
 

HW 50529

REF: 8/13/71 letterhead memo from L.A. to Hoover entitled “Sirhan
Bishara Sirhan". Bottom of Page 4 - obviously this is a portion
of an interview with a male, probably with Ron Buck. “Huntington
had no interest whatsoever in politics; had never, to his recol-
lection, mentioned the Kennedys, Martin Luther King, or showed any

‘concern over the Nixon Presidential Election."

Since Ron Buck made the assassination tape without the knowledge
of his prominent guests, obviously there are no witnesses to that
event. Huntington is no longer alive to comment on his knowledge
of the tape’s contents (in a level of detail greater than my own
knowledge). Ron Buck is privy to the information as to WHO, HOw,
and WHY the three biggest crimes of a decade were committed; it is
also possible that he functioned in more than a role of observer.
Thus, is it not logical that he would deny knowledge of said tape?
Would it not be logical to state that Huntington had no interest

- whatsoever in politics? That ‘whatsoever’ is unequivocal and abso-

lute and I must contest its validity in light of the information
Huntington revealed to me in 1968.

To the best of my knowledge Huntington was not a politically oriented
man. Some people enjoy discussing politics and it is a distinct part
of their life. I don't believe Huntington was the type of man to
openly discuss his political preferences with anyone. He never men=
tioned politics per se to me in the entire year and a half that I
worked with him.

I, too, was not politically oriented until I became privy to the
existence of the tape and the shocking information contained on it.
Then I developed what I would term a moral, social, and political
conscience — which is what I believed happened to Huntington. He
would NOT have discussed the assassination tape with me under normal
circumstances, of that I am convinced. All I can say is that I
believe Huntington developed his apparent state of shock by coming

to terms with his conscience. I just happened to be there at the
right time to hear him vocalize his shock at the results of the
election which resulted in a conversation about the tape. I repeat
that under normal circumstances and in a normal frame of mind, he
would never have divulged to me what he did that day. Knowledge of
that tape made him live in fear for the lives of those he loved,

his own, and mine once he shared the information with me. He begged
me not to tell the FBI what he knew and stated that they could not

be trusted; if I ever revealed what I knew our lives would be on the
line. I believed him then and only after his death in Chicago (which
I do not believe was a natural death), afraid that I might die next,
did I decide to approach the FBI with what I knew. From the contents
of the original data and these supplementary pages it is obvious that

Huntington was right about not entrusting the FBI with the information.

For a report to end up being a complete abortion, distortion of facts,
and whitewash -— for these pages to contain such fallacious information
about my character in an obvious attempt to discredit my reliability

- I would say Huntington new exactly what he was talking about.

DocId: 32247941 Page 3 2
 

HW 50529

"CRITIQUE II"

REF: 8/2/71 airtel from L.A. to Hoover. Assuming Dr. D'Allesandro
is the name deleted —- at no time did I indicate to Agent Pimentel
that the doctor even knew of the assassination tape.

In reference to the tape, I mentioned Ron Buck's name as the waker
and 'keeper' of said piece of evidence.

Since Dr. D'Allesandro was Huntington's physician for a limited
period of time and Huntington was heavily sedated after his second
heart attack, it is possible that Huntington talked too much while
sedated. It is possible that Huntington, while under sedation,
mentioned knowledge of a link between all three assassinations;

it is possible that Huntington may have mentioned the existence

of physical evidence (i.e., the assassination tape per se). However,
I was not present in Huntington’s hospital room; consequently, I
can only present the possibilities. JI do know that Dr. D'Allesandro
was not a close confidante of Huntington's in normal life. IF, and
that’s a big if, Huntington revealed any information pertaining to
the assassinations to Dr. D'Allesandro, it would have to have been
while under the influence of drugs.

Joseph Borenstein was Chairman of the Board of the Chicago Factory
and Dr. D'Allesandro was one of the Board's directors. To the best
of my knowledge Borenstein was close to D'Allesandro. For a period
of time, Borenstein was very close to Huntington - as friend, confi-
dante, lawyer, accountant, and employer of Huntington. Boren-
stein visited Huntington several times while the latter was in a
Chicago hospital recouperating from a second heart attack. This I
know to be fact because Huntington spoke with me telephonically from
his hospital room; Huntington spoke with difficulty due to heavy
sedation and Borenstein was present in the hospital room.

When I spoke to Agent Pimentel in July 1971, I emphasized that I

' believed Borenstein was either connected to or directly responsible

for Huntington's death. Although Borenstein was Huntington's confi-
dante and friend during the time of Huntington's second heart attack,
I firmly believed that Huntington would not have discussed the
assassination tape and/or his knowledge Of the assassinations with
Borenstein on a conscious level. I do believe that Huntington could
have mentioned his knowlédge of links between said assassinations
and/or the existence of physical evidence to Borenstein while under
the influence of drugs.

The knowledge Huntington had of the assassinations weighed heavily
upon his mind and terrified him. If I had not been sitting at my
desk on election day '68 and if Huntington had not been in an ap-
parent state of shock, I would never have known what I do about the
assassinations. Had Huntingtec, not been so disturbed that day and
had he been in a normal frame of mind, I would not be privy to the
information.

DocId: 32247941 Page 7 /

 

 

 
 

HW 50529

Huntington was a very private type of person, like I am. I, believed
Huntington when he said he'd met John and Robert Kennedy while in the
Navy and I believed him when he said he played the assassination tape
for Robert Kennedy. I don't believe that, under normal circumstances,
Huntington would have mentioned the Kennedy brothers to me. Therefore,

I wonder about the validity of those absolute and unsubstantiated
statements in the report that say Huntington did not know Robert Kennedy.

The phrase "very emotional girl" or "extremely emotional girl" is used
repetitively in conjunction with myself. Of the names listed in the
original FBI report, only Francesca Riviere knew me well enough to
offer comment. Buck, Perwin, Borenstein, and Dr. D*Allesandro were
business associates. Harlan was a friend of Huntington's and Mueller’s
whom I believe I saw socially no more than 4 or 5 times - accompanied
by either or both Huntington and Mueller and including one occasion I
stopped by alone to say ‘goodbye’ prior to leaving for St. Thomas.
Mueller became closer to me than Harlan because I took care of Hunting-
ton's affairs. None of these people ever heard or saw me cry and I
certainly never lied to any of them since I don't believe in lying.

To my knowledge, Francesca Riviere has never heard or seen me cry and
I've never lied to her either.

Since the names of those interviewed are deleted, it is difficult to
ascertain the number actually interviewed; 4 or 2 (specifically Buck
and Perwin, with portions of one interview interwoven with portions of
another?), repeatedly using the phrase "homosexual" and/or "very emo-
tional girl". I find it hard to believe that these statements were
made by more than a couple of individuals and am somewhat curious as

to why these unsubstantiated comments were accepted as fact, especially
considering probable bias on behalf of Buck and Perwin.

I must admit that I'm curious about the political affiliation of the
FBI agent who conducted the interview on Page 8. The comment "I guess
Nixon is as good as anyone" belies Huntington’s personal convictions
and I will never believe he made that statement. Since I can't imagine
who commented thusly, I will guess that it is credited to Harlan.
Harlan was an elderly Cuban lady with broken English and not a great
command of the English language. She was conversant, but did not pos-
sess an extensive vocabulary and/or a penchant for “big words". If

the statement was Harlan’s, then I doubt the veracity of the statement
and word usage as really being hers. I say this because Nixon is from
Southern California and, at the time of the interviews, was President
of the United States. It is now a matter of record that some agents
deliberately changed the statements/depositions of witnesses to Presi-
dent Kennedy's assassination, so is it not possible that one could have
tampered with any one of the statements contained in this report?

I feel these pages are a deliberate misinterpretation of what I told
Agent Pimentel in July 1971. Granted, the initial FBI report was so
distorted that it would have been impossible to adequately follow up
via interviews. My impression is that the FBI interrogators led the
interviewees into making certain statements, the end result of which I
consider to be libelous and defamatory to Huntington's and my character.
Obviously said statements were considered adequate for the FBI office

in Los Angeles to stop the investigation - signed, sealed, and delivered
right here in conservative Los Angeles.

DocId: 32247941 Page 5
 

HW 50529

Meanwhile in Puerto Rico I was lead to believe the investigation con-
tinued long after the fact; I was advised to change my identity and
disappear by an apparently solicitous FBI agent. Last, but not least,

I was administered what I would term "psychological fear conditioning"
by Agent Pimentel. Why did this continue long after these interviews
were conducted? Why didn't Agent Pimentel show me a copy of his report
for corroboration and/or signature before he filed the report? Who

was in charge of the San Juan FBI office during the period July-November
1971? Who was in charge of the Los Angeles FBI office during the same
period? What is the political affiliation of said agents?

I'm sorry, Mr. Gay, but between that original FBI report and these
interviews I detect foul play. The whitewash on the report and these
defamatory unsubstantiated interviews don’t sit right with me. Believe
me, if any one of the individuals interviewed knew me well enough to
legitimately offer such comments then I would not contest their opinion.
However, if I am correct in surmising the identity of those interviewed,
none of them ever were in a position to legitimately make such comments
about my character. I hardly think any one of those interviewed could
be considered to have the necessary expertise and knowledge to label
Huntington a “pathological liar" and/or a "homosexual".

Judging from the cover letter, there is probably more documentation
peing withheld from my eyes. I would like to see all documentation -
without deletions. Until I'm allowed to do so, I'm being denied the
right to constructively comment and I'm also being denied equal pro-
tection under the law.

I find that the reference to a man I may (or may not) have been “roman-
tically involved with" distasteful and totally irrelevant to the issue.
Not only has my privacy been invaded but further abused in that the
name of the man has been deleted as well as (assumed) followup. I
hereby request that the name and followup data be released to me for
comment.

I feel that my credibility has been assailed and that future employment
with (or separate from) the government has been jeopardized by the
contents of this supplementary data. Since I am concerned about the
acceptance of my credibility and for my future, I have taken the liberty
of enclosing 3 job references and 3 character references for your per-
usal. Should you need further references, please advise and I shall
obtain.

In light of the above, I can only hope for a prompt response. In the
meantime, I do hope you will try to have someone interview Ceil Freilich
(see Item #15 attached for details). If she will consent to such an
interview, then perhaps you will at least see that Huntington was con-
cerned about President Kennedy's assassination and, in fact, discussed

a reporter friend's knowledge as to WHO and WHY was behind it. Per

my last discussion (telephonically) with Ceil, she seemed to recall that
Robert Mueller was present and heard Huntington make the statement;
furthermore, she seemed to think that Mueller knew the identity of the
reporter.

Sincerely, ul.
Bala 3 wecCnls
Lila F. Hurtado

DocId: 32247941 Page 6
 

005820

JFK Routing Slip

NO.

DATE 2 | at [26

document I.D. INCOMING CORRESPONDENCE

 

INDEX COPY TO
Robert Blakey
Lhestades A 2 Za —_— Gary Cornwell
Z Ale’ py 2. Kenneth Klein
=| Af het ie Mathews

 

 

 

 

: 4. Jim Wolf
_ 2BL pbe okie Hos"
- Cli "enton
Team #1
Team #2 ,
; Team #3 ee
- . t
. Team #4
: Teami5
Special Instructions: Form #2

 

HW 50529 DocId:32247941 Page 2

 
JFK Assassination System : Date: 9/30/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: _ 180-10077-10499

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 005820

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CITIZEN
FROM: HURTADO, LILA F.
TO: GAY, DONOVAN

DATE: 02/24/1978
PAGES: 22

HURTADO, LILA E.
FBI, FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE: LETTER
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified ‘
RESTRICTIONS: — Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: = Withhold
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 06/16/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : INCLUDES ATTACHMENTS ALONG WITH PERSONAL REFERENCES. 116-15. BOX 116.
FOLDER TITLE:

eee
v9.1 iT

HW 50529 DocId:32247941 Page 1
 

HW 50529

908820

February 24, 1978

PERSONAL & CONFIDENTIAL

 

Mr. Donovan L. Gay

Chief Researcher

Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives

3331 House Office Building

Annex 2

Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Mr. Gay:

Enclosed you will find supplemental documentation from my file re-
cently released to me by the FBI. Also enclosed is a critique of

the statements made by those interviewed which I have labeled Critique
II for reference purposes.

According to the cover letter from Allen H. McCreight, “Excisions have
been made from these documents and/or entire documents .. . the dis-
closure of which would constitute an unwarranted invasion of the per-
sonal privacy of another person... or... . reveal the identity of
an individual who has furnished information to the FBI under confi-
dential circumstances or reveal information furnished only by such a
person and not apparently known to the public or otherwise accessible
to the FBI by overt means.”

Am I not entitled to equal protection under the law? The enclosed
document is an invasion of my privacy and my character has been as-
sassinated by persons who were virtual strangers. Totally unfounded
and apparently unsubstantiated statements were made in 1971 and have
been sitting in my file all these years. How do I know that my FBI
file has not been used to deprive me of employment? Is my file coded?
How has my file been used? Who has been privy to the information con-
tained therein? -

The information I provided Agent Pimentel with in July 1971 was re-
vealed by me under confidential circumstances - information which, at
the time, was not apparently known to the public or otherwise accessi-
ble to the FBI by overt means. Yet, apparently the FBI did not care
to allow me equal protection under the law as my name is bandied about
quite frequently in the enclosed document.

I voluntarily came forth with my story in July 1971, so I fail to see
how any of the information contained in the enclosed FBI document
could pertain to anything that I myself did not bring to the FBI's
attention; excepting, of. course, damaging statements to my
heretofore impeccable character.

DocId: 32247941 Page 3
 

’ AW 50529

I was not coerced into making my statement to the FBI in 1971; I dia
what I had to do afraid that I might not be around long enough to

ever document what I knew. Not only was there a ‘whitewash’ of the
information I provided to Agent Pimentel, but I was never approached

to read the initial FBI report for corroboration and/or signature.

Why? The interviews conducted by the FBI in 1971 were based entirely
on the FBI's original report - full of fallacious data and apparently
deliberately distorted. The agent(s) line of questioning in the
attached FBI document seems to lead the person being interviewed.

Each interviewee was asked questions in a manner implying that I had
provided certain implications and/or innuendos - when the interviewee
denied such innuendos, then the verbiage used by the interviewing agent
inferred that I had lied. The enclosed FBI report is nothing more than
a concentration of unsubstantiated phrases derogatory to the character
of Huntington and myself. I can only wonder if the comments made by
those interviewed were distorted and, if so, were they accidentally
distorted or deliberately - in an attempt to reduce our credibility.

I regret to say, Mr. Gay, that the information I provided Agent Pimen-
tel in 1971 has been twisted to work against me.

As you can see, the names of those interviewed have been deleted.
Under such circumstances it is difficult to comment, but I've tried to
do so as accurately and objectively as possible given the enclosed
imposed framework.

I never said that Huntington discussed the link between the Kennedy-
King-Kennedy assassinations or the assassination tape with anyone

other than myself. Yet each person interviewed was asked if Huntington
mentioned the assassinations and/or the tape to them. I don't believe
Huntington discussed his knowledge with anybody else, but the fact that
none could corroborate this makes it look like I lied.

Apparently each interviewee was asked about Huntington's political in-
terests or if he was politically oriented. Now, with the exception of
our conversation on election day 1968 and a couple of related comments
made at a later date, that is the only time we ever touched upon a
politically related subject. To make such a statement, one does not
have to be politically inclined - Huntington just made an observation
that turned out to be a shocking revelation. Each interviewee stated
that Huntington had no political interests which, from observation, I
would agree with. Yet, the way the interviews are written it appears
that I claimed Huntington was politically oriented by phrases such as
“any allegations purporting that he was politically inclined are false."
That is a direct reflection upon my (non)credibility and I feel its
use is deliberately misleading.

From the repetition of the phrase "homosexual" with regard to Mueller
and/or Huntington (which I feel is immaterial to the link between the
Kennedy-King~Kennedy assassinations) I can only surmise that the in-
terviewing agent(s) produced the word, rather than the interviewees‘
voluntarily commenting regarding same. If this is true, then I feel
that leading those interviewed was unfair and deliberately calculated.
If I'm not mistaken, Hoover's program "“Cointelpro” was partially de-
signed to rid our nation of those considered to be "aberrant". If
correct, then Hoover's distaste - upon reading the enclosed FBI data -
for homosexuals would have totally ruled out Huntington's credibility.

DocId: 32247941 Page 4
