 

a es a v .
ye . . . .
. . .

_ JACK KLIMENT PALANGIAN
REMMA BELIAEVA PALANGIAN

As to-his fluency im languages, Palangian, according
to Wilmeth, is very fluent in all phases of the French language.
His second best language,in which he has obtained excellent
fluency in all phases,is the Russian language. He speaks,
reads, writes and understands English very well although
he does have an accent. He does not speak the Moroccan or
Armenian languages. Wilmeth stated that Mrs, Palangian is
primarily fluent in all phases of the Russian language; her
second best language, in which she has attained excellent
fluency in all phases, is the French language; and her third
and much weaker language is English.

Wilmeth stated that since the arrival of the Palangians
in Arlington, he has observed nothing about them which would
indicate that they are iterested im furthering the aims of
the Russians or any foreign country. He believes them both
to be very materialistic.. He feels that they would like to
settle im the United States, Neither has shown any interest
whatsoever in communism and he does not believe them either to
have ever beem a member of the Communist Party.

Wilmeth said that Mr. Palangian has made the
statement that if ome wishes to get ahead in Russia, he
should be a member of the Communist Party, He has also made
the statement that in his opinion the top government officials
of Russia are sincere in their beliefs in communism and in =
their desire to improve the lot of the Russian people. He
has. further stated, according to Wilmeth, that the bureaucrats
below the top echelon are many times simply that, bureaucrats
with a greater interest in their own persomal welfare and
materialistic positions than in the furthering of communism
or in the welfare of the common people,

Wilmeth said that both the Palangians speak of
remaining in the United States and obtaining their PhD degrees
in language,

Wilmeth said that the information that he has
furnished concerning the Palangians is from memory and is
based upon létters he has received from the Palangians,.
conversations he has had with them since their arrival in
the United States, and his own observations.

Mr, Wilmeth advised that the Palangians have
planned to return to Europe in June, 1968, to visit with
Mr. Palamgian’s mother in France,

     

' HW 54932 Docld:3258S480 Page 9

 

 

 

 
 

“SACK KLIMENT PALANGIAN
RIMMA BELIAEVA PALANGIAN

     

On May 27, 1968, the files of the INS
the Palangians were examined amd it was noted that 4n
Application for Permit to Re-enter the Umited States had
beem filed by the Palangians on January ;2 968. In this
Application, the Palangians note that it4 ty their intention
to go to Europe, leaving June 7, 1968, ‘X% te a* period of five
weeks, The purpose of the trip was moted to be to visit

Me, Palangian’s mother, dean Sarabian, 43 Rue du Charche-Midi,
Paris, Vile, France,

 

 

@ JF =

  

HW 54932 Doold:32889480 Page i0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

nen o

JACK KLIMENT PALANGIAN

» RIMMA BELIAEVA PALANGIAN. Preach
eal
contact with the Palamgians and recruit them for employment
at the UTA,

The Palangians, afver making suitable arrangements to
immigrate to the United States im Morocco, left that covntry
by plane, traveling through Southern France where Mr. Palangian's
mother lived and entering the Umited States at New York City.

The Palangians arrived in Arlington, Texas, in mid=
September, 1967. Mr. Palangian is presently employed as an
assistant instructor in the French and Russian languages in the
university, Mrs, Palangian assists Wilmeth in is teaching of
the Russian language.

Wilmeth explained that he is a retired officer of the
u.S, Army and learned the Russian language while he was in the
army.

Wilmeth stated he hopes to employ Mrs. Palangian in
the near future,

Wilmeth stated that the ethnic background of
Mr, Palangian is Armenian. Mrs. Palangian is’ Russian,

Wilmeth advised that the Palangians like living in
the Umited States. They reside im Apartment #16 of the Plaza
Summit Apartments on Summit Avenue in Arlington, Their
apartment has ome bedroom, They have no automobile. Neither
of the Palangians can drive am automobile although both now
have taken out beginners licenses, They plan to buy an
automobile when they learn to drive.

As to the friends of the Palangians, Wilmeth stated
that these consist of some third year students in the university
and various persons with Russian background whom the Palangians
have met in the Worth and Dallas area, . Among these
friends are Geor Mohrenschildt and IlygfMamantov, both of
whom vesidé in Dall: 3, fTexas>-"They know 0! fer persons: of
Russian background who-restde~in Fort Worth,

   
  
 

Wilmeth stated that Mr, Palangian does not want

to return to Russa, nor does his wife, Mr. Palangian is
* more reticent and retiring and a non=social type.

Mes, Palangian is more of the social type and has a. more
gregarious nature, The Palangians: drink.a little beer but
do not drink much whiskey, Mr. Palangian likes to play chess
and spends a great deal of his time in study, He is working
hard to improve his English,

 

 

, HW 54932 Doold:32989480 Page 8

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

JACK: KLIMENT PALANGIAN :
-RIMMA BELIAEVA PALANGIAN

Mr. Palangian is of Armenian extraction and was

born and raised in Algiers as a French citizen, His native
language is French, While living in Algiers, he heard and .
read propaganda indicating he could receive a full education
if he went to Russia, Accordingly, when he was about 20 years
of age, Mr. Palangian went to Russia. He stayed in Russia for
about six or seven years, He attended a pedagogical school in
a town quite a distance from Moscow, He does not recall the
name of this town. He subsequently went back to live in
Moscow and there worked for a press service. While so
employed, he met the woman who is now his wife. During his
stay in Russia, he became a Russian citizen, Palangian
married his wife in Moscow, During this period in Moscow,
Palangian had classes in the Russian language for the

. Moroccan Ambassadér to Russia and other members of the

* Moroccan Embassy.

Wilmeth stated that Mr. Palangian and his wife
decided to leave Russia and wanted to go to Morocco to find
employment there. For a long time, he was unable to obtain an
exit visa from Russia. Eventually through friends he was
able to obtain an exit visa and a Soviet passport for the
purpose of visiting Morocco, Mr. Palangian and his wife
left Moscow by plane and the plane landed in Paris, Upon
arriving in Paris, Palangian was arrested and accused of
evading the-Fretich military service inasmuch as he had been
a French citizen, He was placed in jail and subsequently
put in the French military service and given a uniform.

He remained in the French military service for about ten days or
two weeks until the matter was ironed out.

Wilmeth stated that Mr. Palangian could not find a

job in Paris as he was a Soviet citizen. Mr. Palangian became
very discouraged and then attempted to return to Russia,
According to the laws of Russia, he made application for
re~entry into the Soviet Union but the Soviet Government
could not. give him a re-entrance permit, Wilmeth said that
Palangian then found himself in the peculiar circumstance in
France of not being able to return to the Soviet Union where
he was a citizen and not being able to find employment in
Paris,

Wilmeth said that Palangian then went on to
Morocco, which had been his original destination, Through
the Moroccan Ambassador to Russia, he got a job translating
in the government service of Morocco. This job did not pay
very much, It was in Merocco that Wilmeth was able to make

ow 4 =

  

| MW 54932 Doold:32989480 Page 7

 

 

 

 
 

JACK. KLIMENT PALANGIAN
.RIMMA BELIAEVA PALANGIAN

 

   
  
  
   
  
  
  

Town Province Country - Date Occupati in ~
Meknes Fes, Rabat Morocco 1942 ~ 1947 Student
Moscow Erevan U.S.S.R. 1947 ~ 1965 Student,
~ teacher,
be translator \ ~~.
Siva, ban

A
Paris GK Tene France - 1965 = 1966 Translator

Rabat A Morocco 1966, . Translator
GNA te OA apak
Er. Palangian noted that he spea eads and writes
the French, Englis nd Russian languages. He listed his wife
as Rimma Beliae. langian, #1, Rue de Foix, Rabat, Morocco;

his father,as ae angian deceased in 1948; and his mother
as ArkineASetite Ofaria (the last name being the surname of
her Second husband). ie mother is a Soviet citizen (Armenian)

and resides at St. Raphael, Var, France, This Application ~
veflects Palangian was destined for dames D, Wilmeth,. Coordinato:
of Russian Language Instruction, UTA;

This file reflects. that Mr, Palangian. entered, the
United States at New York City on September 20, 1967, bearing
Russian passport #KY 52277, issued on April 15, 1965, and
valid until April 15, 1969.

_ The INS file further reflects that a Statement of
Qualification of Alien reflects the following information
concerning Palangian:

He recéived a diploma in French language study from
the First Moscow State Pedagogical School, being in attendance
there from 1947 to 1950, He also studied at the Institute of
Languages at Erevan, Armenia, in the field of French literature
and language, Additional information in this Statement reflects
Mr. Palangian noted that he was a Russian language teacher for
diplomats in the Moroccan Embassy in Moscow from 1960 to 1965,

This Statement reflects the following additional
employments of Palangian:;

1. Press Agency, Novosti, Moscow,
French ~ Russian trnaslator and
interpreter, 1961 = 1965 (translated from
Russian into French the speeches of
Soviet leaders for the International Press)

~ Zo

 

  

_ aw 54932 Doclid: 32989480 Fags 5

 

 
 

JACK KLIMENT PALANGIAN
RIMMA BELIAEVA PALANGIAN

Town Province Country Date Occupation

Baku Agerbaidjam U.S.S.R, 1945 =~ 1949 Student

Moscow U.S.S.R. 1949 = 1965 Translator :
Paris France 1965 ~ 1966 Translator

HW 54932 Docld:3258S480 Page 6

    
   
   
   
   
  
    
   
   
 
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
  

2, Soviet Information Bureau
(Sovinformburo), Moscow, i
translator, 1959 ~ 1961

3, Moscow News and Les Nouvelles de Moscow,
Moscow, Ig5 558 ~ es

4, State Pedagogical Institute of Foreign
Languages at Erevan, Armenia, French
language teacher for training of future
teachers in French language, 1950 ~ 1953,

The INS file concerning RIMMA BELIAEVA PALANGIAN
#A17T 875 724 veflects the following information:

She entered the United States at New York City,
September 20, 1967, bearing Soviet passport #KY 52278, issued
April 15, 1965, valid until April 15, 1969.

Her Application for Immigrant Visa and Alien
Registration, which is part of this file, reflects she
was born April 17, 1929, at Korovabad, Russia, Her husband
is Jack Kliment Palangian. She is a native and citizen of
Russia, She, too, was destined for the UTA, This Application
reflects residences since her 16th birthday to be as follows:

Rabat Morocco 1966 No employment

The Application reflects she speaks, reads and writes
the Russian, French and English languages.

On May 20, 1968, Mr. James E, Wilmeth, Assistant
Professor and Coordinator in Russian Language Instruction
at the UTA, was interviewed by a Special Agent of the FBI
at his home, 8501 Heron Drive, Fort Worth, Texas. Mr. Wilmeth
furnished the following information concerning Jack Kliment and
Rimma Beliaeva Palangian, _ .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
————

  

      

' me .
OPTIGNAL FORM No. 10 ~Sxg0t0-107-02
MAY 1982 EDITION

1 GSA GEN. REG, NO.27 4 fi: =
@ on . *

“UNITED STATES a yy,

- - fy :
MM, CLASSIFIED DECISIONS FINALIZED BY : sy
lemorandumexsrse, REVIEW C GOO MTTEE, 7. aia RQ Ware x
pate: 2 ad

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-166384) DATE: 6/18/68

   
  
 
    
 
 
  
   
    
   
  

  

SAC, DALLAS (105=2606)
(105-2637),

NGED ’
JACK KGIMENT PAJLANGIAN aka
Jacques Klimgn langian
Jack Kliment I j,

 
     

recone
HINHE-BELTARVA PALANGIAN mes
Rimma Beliaevg’Palandjian
1S ~ R USOBIR) YS
00; DALLAS
DL 105-2637 (P)

      
      
  

Titles of these cases are marked changed to
reflect the correct spelling as PALANGIAN which is being
. used by the US INS at Dallas as the spelling of thé names

of subjects, The titles were formerly carried as JA Hs itr BS
_ PALANDJIAN aka and RIMMA BELIAEVA PALANDSIAN . AF

p “the doub1 rt . i
“the double cap von a “eb Es

REFERENCES ®t 1 / a, IZ
af Dallas letters to Bureau (FD-346's) dated l 68.

 

 

 

 
  
 

ole &

eye BS So, Dallas letter to Bureau dated 1/31/68 in dual caption.

Ae Ee Ry Dalias letter to Bureau dated 4/22/68,

| ebsen Ss: Bureau letter to Dallas dated 5/7/68, ““"~

ee *y ne) ep ates a

J gee £5 sp ADMINTSIRA TIVE “ Mey 25 JUN 21 1968

| ST) o AF 3 or

ab SS The original interview of MR, JAMES E, WIEW8TH at"

S22 "& h Fort Worth, Texas, was performed by IC JAMES VON WHITE who:

ae iors received a telephone call from MR. WILWETH, The cassie ,
22 Bn
27 fm - Bureau (Enc. 10) (RM) coe — creaky  210N

is SZENB 4. Dallas (2- 105-2606). we oo goviEkes VS TNH

az Q- 105-2637) a -,

4

= focal

fi ih ke Spe. §. Savings B Bonds ds Regularly on on the the Payroll Savings Plan

kw 54932 Docid: 32989480 Page 2

 

 

 
 

File #:

    
 

  

     
 

Serial Scope:

    

fe

 

 

 

 

 

 
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
    
 
    
  
    
  
   
  
  

 

DL 105-2606 ‘ ia
DL 105-2637

interview of MR, WILMETH was Poe SA WALLACE R,
HEITMAN, The review of INS oe Was was also
performed by SA HEITMAN,

The interview of ms was performed pursuant
to Bor authorization contained in reBuliet dated 5/7/68,

The Dallas Office has received: from the Bureau a
report prepared y PAUL M. GLENN, Reporting Agent, Office of
Security, Department of State, dated 5/18/67, concerning
JACQUES KLIMENT PALANGIAN, who is identical with one of the
subjects of this case; This report contains an interview
of MR, PALANGIAN, The report is quite lengthy and as it
-preSumably has been designated ‘to or is available to
interested agencies, the results of that interview have not
been included in the enclosed letterhead memorandum 5

In the event that a request for the interviews
of subjects is made and approved, the information contained
in the GLENN report will be used along with other information,
as..a basis of such interviews, a)

The GLENN report is classified szoner.(S)

No consideration is being given to a request for
interviews of subjects at this time in view of their travel ,
to Europe this summer, Consideration for this interview Pa
will be made oh their return and appropriate requests
will be made of the Bureau,

LEAD
DALLAS:

AT DALLAS TEXAS, Will, following the return of the
PALANGIANS to Arlington, Texas, confirm such return, residence,
employment, and known activities through the U.S, INS at
Dallas and MR, JAMES E, WILMETH at Fort Worth and will there-=
after consider request of Bureau for an interview of subjects.

 

4932 Docid:32989480 Page 3-

 

 

 

 
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to
ile No.

, SRS,

Dallas, Texas
June 18; +1968

JACK KLIMENT PALANGIAN

so known as
lhe coues Kliment Palangian
Jack Kliment Palandjian
Jacquy Palangian
Jacky Palangian
INTERNAL SECURITY ~ RUSSIA

RIMMA BELIAEVA PALANGIAN

also known as .
Rimma Beliaeva Palandjian
INTERNAL SECURITY = RUSSIA

On September 21, 1967, Mr, James E, Wilmeth, residence
8501 Heron Drive, Fort Worth, Texas, telephone number 246-4444,
#ho is employed as an assistant professor in the Russian
language at the Umiversity of Texas at Arlington (UTA), advised
the Resident Agency of the FBI at Fort Worth, Texas, that he
bad recently hired Mr. Palangian and wife in Europe for the
purpose of becoming instructors in the Russian and French .
languages at the UTA, He advised that Mr, Palangian is of
Fussian extraction and had been born in Algiers and had lived.
most of his life in Russia where he had received his education.
Xr, Wilmeth ‘advised that Palangians were due to arrive in
tort Worth on October 1, 1967.

 

The records of the U.S, Immigration and Naturalization
Service (INS) were examined on November 6, 1967, concerning
Jack Kliment Palangian and his wife Rima Beliaeva Palangian
and the following information was therein noted:

Jack Kliment Palangian, INS file #A17 875 722, filed
Application for Inmigrant Visa and Alien Registration on
August 30, 1967. This application reflects he was born
September 16, 1926, im Algeria, His last foreign address was
#1, Rue de Foix, Rabat, Morocco, He is a Soviet national of
Armenian extraction. He listed the following addresses since

Mes ns comme coe OS, GOFL— 19

This document contains os récommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI, It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and
its contents are not to be distributed outside

our agency. .

Nw 54932 pocta:s2e09480 Page 4 ENCLOSURE

 

 
