“ "APR 15°97 @S:@2PM USGOVERNMENT P.9/14

Subject: CIA Employees

from such release. The CIA will conduct the appropriate
searches to determine whether release would pose national
security concerns for the US Government or personal safety
concerns for the individual. In this way, CIA and the Review
Board can concentrate their efforts on individualge who are
significant figures in the JFK story, expediting the review
of the sequestered collection.

23. (U) It ie our hope that the CIA and the Review
Board can agree on and work out a mutually acceptable policy
regarding the identity of CIA employees that will not
. undermine the important principle of protecting those who
work covertly for the US Government. My staff and I are
ready to discuss this matter with you at your convenience.

 

Attachment

JEK Act 6 (1) (A)
JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

HW 55157) DocId:32404069 Page 9
?

AW 55157

APR 1S 797 @5:@3PM USGOVERNMENT
: —sHeRES—

Subject: CIA Employees

per/occ/inf 76124 © (10 Apr 97)

OGC-97-50971

Distribution:
Original - Addressee
1 - Gc .
1 - Lit File - LDG00021
1 - LCC Signer
1 - RDC - FYI
1 - OGC Registry

DocId:32404069 Page 10

“JEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

P.18@/14
“APR 1S '97 @S!B1PM USGOVERNMENT P.8/i4
SECRET

wRJPK Act 6 (1) (A)
SO SORK Act 6 (1) (B)

Subject: CIA Employees

 

substitution for the true name be used. If the Review Board
is concerned about tracking particular employees throughout
the records, a particular identifying substitution can’ be
used for a particular employee. a if

20. (S) CIA believes that this approach will not
undermine the Review Board's obligations under the JFK Act.
A review of the JFK Collection reveals that approximately 84
‘of the 600 names appear only once in the entire Collection.
In such cases, it is difficult to see how the individuais'
identity can add-anything of significance to the historical -
record; yet’ there may be some security. concerne ‘still _ ve
associated with these individuals. For example,’

@tired under cover and ig currently living in
Europe. When the CIA notified him that his name appeared in
the JFK Collection and was subject. to public release, he
told CIA that he was opposed to having his name released and
- believed such a release could pose personal and security
problems. Furthermore, he could not understand why his name
even appeared in the Collection, since he had no

recollection of being involved in anything related to the

assassination.

21. (8) With regard to the approximately 500 names
that appear more than once in the Collection, ‘the vast
majority of these individuals played almost no role in the
-JFK story. One example of this is former DO officer
Alexander Brasko. His name appears approximately. 20-30
times.in the Collection simply because he signed off on name
trace requests. Mr. Brasko wag a covert CIA employee and
retired under cover. The public release of’ his name would
provide the public with_no additional significant
information about JFK. [~___——sCidés: another example of a
covert CIA employee whose name appears in the Collection but
has little or no connection to the JFK story.
retired under cover, is living in_South America, and objects
to the release of his name. Mr. recent letter to
CIA is also attached for your convenience.

22. (8) The Agency, of course, recognizes that some
namea may be particularly important to the JFK story
vegardless of how frequently or infrequently they appear in
the Collection. One such example is former COS Mexico
Winston Scott who CIA has acknowledged as a CIA employee.
In such cases, the CIA will continue to work with the Review
Board for an appropriate regolution. The CIA proposes that
the Review Board and its staff identify those individuals
whom it believes are important to the JFK story and whose
names should be released to the public. These names would
carry a presumption of release unless specific evidence is
provided to the Review Board that harm would likely result

7

SECRET

AW 55157) DocId:32404069 Page @
‘APR 15 '97  @S:QQPM USGOVERNMENT
—SECREP-

Subject: CIA Employees

 
 

not diminished. Similar to sources, many.form
still do not want their past affiliation wit , ¢ ;
Perhaps their current friends, family, or employers are not
aware of this past affiliation; and revelation of that fact
could negatively affect personal and professional ~ -

relationships. Some former employees’still live overseas
where a revelation of CIA affiliation poses risks to their
pergonal safety. Other former employees travel. overseas on
business, where .a revelation.of a past’ CIA affiliation can
‘threaten their business interests and personal safety.
One example of an employeein this category is :

“whose hame apparently appears only once in the | Ss
Collection. [__ Jretired under | cover;
he currently has a consultant business and frequently |
travels top] Release of hig name would jeopardize not

only his business but perhaps even his safety. A_similar
example ds[ |] who also retired under

cover. He-is now working in nd several

‘countries for a private firm. He does not want his
name p ished, because it could be damaging to his current
employer and his professional status.

17. (8). Even if a former employee agrees to the
revelation of his name in the JFK Collection, this might not
be possible for other reasons. In some cases, officially
acknowledging a covert employee could threaten ongoing
operations on which that employee worked. Foreign nationals
recruited by the employee and still providing information to
the US Government would be at risk of exposure. Public
acknowledgment could reveal the location of CIA stations
where: the employee worked throughout his career, including
some not released by the Review Board. Any individuals who
had substantial contact with a former employee overseas and
may have believed they were legitimately providing: -
information to a US corporate representative would be upset
to learn they were, in fact, aiding the US Government.

18. (U) Finally, the identification of case officers
by their own service would have a chilling effect on
prospective assets. Prospective assets would be unlikely to
enter into a clandestine relationship with American
intelligence if they believe that CIA does not protect even
its own staff employees from public disclosure.

iV. Proposal

19. (U) In light of the foregoing, CIA believes it is
important to work toward a general policy of protecting CIA
employees identified in the JFK Collection, with exceptions
made for those individuals who are important to the atory of
the assassination. The Agency proposes that in most cases a

: 6

SECRET

HW 55157 DocId:32404069 Page 7
Ts
APR 15 ’97 @4:S8PM USGOVERNMENT . P.5/14

AW 55157

—a86Res-
Subject: CIA Employees

defendant's legal rights to the information. In still other
cases, the defense wag never notified that CIA even had
information bearing on the case, as the judge ruled that the
mere fact that CIA possessed this information was classified

. and outweighed any rights the defendant had. Moreover,
under CIPA, the Attorney General has the authority to drop a
prosecution in those cases where the risk to national
security is too great.

10. (U) In 1982, Congress again acted to protect CIA
employees’ by passing the Intelligence Identities Protection
Act of 1982, 50 USC §421 that criminalizes the revelation of ©”
a covert employee or the identity of a source. .This act
subjects anyone who reveals information that identifies a
“covert agent" to prosecution and provides up.to 10 years in
prison and $50,000 in fines as punishment. This act
specifically defines a “covert agent" as including "an
officer or employee of an intelligence agency... ."

11. (U) Most recently, President Clinton signed
Executive Order 12958 on classified national security
information that became effective in October 1995. Although
it requires generally that agencies make greater
declassification efforts than under the prior executive
order, Executive Order 12958 affords human sources of
intelligence information, which would include employees,
extra protection from the declassification provisions.
Under £.0. 12958, information that is over 25 years old and
having historical value must be declassified within five
years. However, information revealing the identity of a
human source may continue to be protected.

12. (U) The above federal laws show a long-standing
“practice by thée*“US Government to protect CIA employees from
disclosure to the public. In carrying out its statutory
obligations, the Review Board should give serious weight to
this policy and afford the protection of CIA employees a
‘high priority. oe co

mal Congidera

13. (U) For current CIA employees whose names may
appear in the JFK Collection, the operational considerations
for protecting their identity are similar to those for
sources. Many of these employees have worked “under cover"
for CIA. Cover is used to disassociate entire installations
and offices from open linkage to intelligence activities, to
enable intelligence personnel to enter and work effectively
in foreign countries, to shield Agency employees and
authorized clandestine activities from attention by hostile
elements and from media exposure, to facilitate access to

4

—SECREP—

DoclId:32404069 Page 5
© @PR 15 '97  @4:S9PM USGOVERNMENT . : P.6/14

Subject: CIA Employees

certain individuals of intelligence interest, to prevent
embarrassment to host foreign governments, and to permit
plausible denial of CIA's presence and activities in foreign
countries.

14. (U) ‘The ability to maintain one's cover is
erucial to gathering intelligence. In either a "hostile" or
“friendly” country, should the local service become aware of
who the CIA employees are, it would increase surveillance
and make unilateral operations difficult if not impossible.
In some countries, the local government tolerates the CIA
presence and agrees to work with us as long as the local
population is not aware of the circumstances. Once it
becomes known among the locals that certain US Government
officials are actually CIA, pressure may be placed on the
government to expel those Americans, disrupting liaison and
diplomatic relationships. More importantly, covert
employees and their families would face increased risk to
their personal safety. Even in "friendly" countries, our
employees could face some personal risks as well as risks to
ongoing operations from extremists who may be living among
an otherwise benign local population. In any of these
cases, should a covert employee's cover be publicly
compromised, that employee may have to be recalled from the
field; and it could be difficult to place him elsewhere in
an operationally and physically secure location. Thus,
maintaining cover ig important to a case officer's
effectiveness and to the continuation of a career with CIA.

15. (8) Maintaining the confidentiality of cover is
also important ‘to cover providers. The Review Board will
recali from prior briefings by the Agency that covert CIA
employees, both in the United 8 a overseas, can work
under "official" (e.g. cover or "non-
official" (e.g., cover. “Disclosure of a
covert employee wou hot only be official acknowledgment of
the specific cover mechanism employed by CIA but would also
negatively affect the governmental or business mission: of
‘the cover provider, especially those who provide non-
official cover. Acknowledgment of an employee who had been
under non-official cover in a host country and possibly in
other countries could have a negative impact on the

interests and activities. It would also
cast suspicion on at employees and
their families. Further, exposure Of co roviders.. could
affect the recruitment and cooperation of such providers by
the Agency and Intelligence Community... s SS

   
 
  
 

16. (S$) Although the majority of names that appear in
the Collection are retired CIA employees, the operational. —
considerations in revealing their affiliation with CIA are

5 :

 

 

JEK Act 6 (1)(B

SECRET

AW 55157 DocId:32404069 Page 6
oe

“@PR 15 ‘97 @a:SSPH USGOVERNMENT
. , P.2/1
: —SECRET— ees

Central intelligence Agency

 

Washingjon D.C. 20505

15 April 1997

MEMORANDUM...FOR: David G. Marwell
Executive Director . : ca
Assassination Records Review Board

SUBJECT: CIA Employees

(We request that this memorandum be returned to CIA
once the Review Board has completed its deliberations on the
issues discussed below.)

1. (U) Ieeye. The purpose of this memo is to relate
CIA's concerns to the Review Board regarding the release of
the true names of CIA employees that appear in the JFK
Collection and to present a proposal on how this problem
might be addressed.

I. ctyal ¢ °

- will continue to work with the Review Board to release as
many of these names as possible. Many names, however,
appear only a few times in the entire JFK Collection and
appear to add nothing to the historical record.

3. (U) Under guidelines adopted by the Review Board
on or about 20 March 1996, any names of CIA employees are
presumptively released unless CIA provides specific evidence
to the Review Board that harm to the national security or to
the employee would likely result from such release. Since
these guidelines were adopted, it has become increasingly
clear that the number of namea at issue, and, in most cases,
their tenuous connection to the JFK story, make this
approach unworkable with regard to poth CIA's obligation to

CL BY: 2224130
CL REASON: 1.5(c)
DECL ON: XL

DRV FROM: HUM 4-82

HW 55157) DocId:32404069 Page 2
AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :
: JFK

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE) NUMBER :

. JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

CIA
104-10330-10083

PROJFILES - CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA
: FROM : MICHAEL J. O'NEIL
TO : DAVID G. MARWELL
TITLE : MF: CIA EMPLOYEES
DATE 04/15/1997
PAGES 13
SUBJECTS JFK ASSASSINATION
, DELIBERATIONS
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER
‘CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS 1A 1B

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/12/03 .
COMMENTS : JFK-M-15 : F4 : 2000.02.07.08:31:30:670035
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10330-10083

HW 55157) DocId:32404069 Page 1
"APR 15 ’97  @4:55PM USGOVERNMENT P.3/14
SHeRES.

Subject: CIA Employees

protect national security information and the Review Board's
duty to inform the public about the JFK assassination in a
timely and accurate fashion. The task of locating and
informing hundreds of former employees scattered all over
the country and the world has been a formidable one. Some
employees have contacted us to report their concerns about a
“suspicious” letter purporting to be from CIA which they had
received. It would not be surprising, therefore, if many
former employees ignored the letter for similar reasons,
even though they might have legitimate needs to protect
their identities. .

4. (U) Contacting every named employee and collecting
information on each of them to present to the Review Board
will clearly take more time and effort than any of us had
anticipated. This will have obvious ramifications for how
and when the Review Board releases information to the
public. More importantly, the decision to publicly
acknowledge employees who may have been living for over 30
years under cover is a critical one that should be made not
by default, but rather by careful planning and
consideration.

5. (U) Relevant to this discussion is the fact that
the Review Board and CIA have recently agreed upon a policy
for releasing true names of sources of intelligence
information. It was agreed at that time that there would be
a presumption of protecting source names; but in cases where
a source was particularly important to the JFK story and
there was no overriding national security interest, the name
would-be released. Although the CIA recognizes that there
are some senaitivities involved with sources that do not
apply to covert employees, there are also many legal and
operational similarities, which are described herein; thatr«.
justify similar treatment by the Review Board. As is
further detailed in Section IV, CIA, therefore, proposes
that the Review Board adopt a general policy of protecting
employee names that appear in the Collection, with. .
exceptions for those individuala whom the Board believes are
important to the JFK story.

Le ration

6. (U) As both covert CIA employees and clandestine
reporting assets are types of “human sources" of
intelligence, many of the same laws apply. Although Section
ji(a) of the JFK Act provides that, when the Act requires
release of information, it takes precedence over all other
laws that would otherwise prohibit release, there are strong
governmental national security intereats in protecting the
true names of CIA employees. CIA believes that it is

2

“SECRET—

AW 55157) Docid:32404069 Page 3
AW 55157

a
“APR 1S ’97 @4:S6PM USGOVERNMENT P.4714

-GECRET—

Subject: CIA Employees

important for the Review Board to reconsider the laws which
protect classified information, because they clearly reflect
a larger US Government policy to protect covert CIA
employees from disclosure.

7,  (U) By Executive order and statute, the President
and Congress have made the Director of Central Intelligence
responsible for protecting sources of intelligence. In his
Directive of 22 January 1946 that established the Central
Intelligence Group, President Truman made the DCI
responsible for protecting sources.~ With the establishment
of CIA, Congress also gave the DCI this responsibility. The.
National Security Act of 1947, Section 103(d) (3), codified
at 50 USC §403(3) (c) (5), requires the DCI to protect
intelligence sources from unauthorized disclosure. In
addition, §403(3) (d) (2) requires the DCI to ensure that
risks to the United States and those involved in the
collection of intelligence through human sources are
minimized.

8. (U) Protecting the identity of individuals working
for CIA, not only covertly but overtly as well, has been of
particular concern to US lawmakers since the establishment
of the Agency. For example, with Section 6 of the Central
Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, 50 USC §403g, Congress
specifically exempted the CIA from the provisions of any law
requiring the publication or disclosure of the organization,
functions, names, titles, salaries, or numbers of personnel
employed by the Agency.

“9, (U) In 1980, Congress pagsed the Classified
Information Procedures Act (CIPA) which sets out pretrial,
trial, and appellate procedures for criminal cases involving

“or potentially involving-clasaified information. ...Working
with the Department of Justice and the courts, CIA haa
successfully protected the names of CIA employees from
public release even in criminal trials where there are
heightened (i.e., constitutional) considerations favoring
disclosure to the defendant of all government information
relevant to the defense. CIPA allows for in camera ex parte
hearings in which the judge can rule on questions of
admissibility and relevancy of Classified information,
including the identity of CIA employees who may have
information pertaining to the defense, before it is
introduced either to the defendant, defense counsel, or in
open court. In some cases involving CIA, the judge has
ordered that CIA information be turned over to the defense,
but only in some unclassified form such as ina summary. In
other cases, judges have reviewed the classified information
and ruled that the harm to national security outweighs the

3

—SEECREF-

DocId:32404069 Page 4
