 

 

 
   
   
  
  
   
    
     
 
   
   

    

x AIRTEL
conrip¥utian 6/8/78
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI ATTN: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY
UNIT - RECORDS
PROM: -«- LEGAT, OTTAWA (62-539) MANAGEMENT DIVISION
SUBJECT: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE pectassigien py 702. FES
ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA) . Ve >
AY a M/A2lE3.

2 68 BAD DB Ser Be
ReOTTairtel 4/20/78. G FR D)

Four staff members of HSCA recently completed
interviewing a number of RCMP personnel at RCHP Headquarters who
had been associated with the James Earl Ray investigation in
Canada. According to RCMP sources, nothing unusual was discussed
and the members were not asked any questions that would indicate
that any new material had been uncovered by the staff members,
who were very amiable and courteous throughout the contacts.

The RCMP is now in the process of contacting approxi-~
mately 50 residents of Canada,who were interviewed by the RCMP
during the course of the investigation, to determine if they would
be willing to be interviewed in Canada by HSCA staff members.

The Canadian Government has taken the position that
no federal employee, with exception of RCHP personnel, can be
made available for interview and, therefore, people such as the
person(s) who accepted application for and issued Canadian
passport cannot be interviewed.

4 - Bureau
(1 - Foreign Liaison)

2 - Ottawa (ce: 44-4)
CONFI ENTIAL
RUM: f0/

(6)

 
  
 

Classified by
Exempt urea
Date ob bg

. y . woe
sett eaprtres

Seprehd. wee eee tt
i

 

HW 55203 Docid: 32889785 Page §

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

eek . wt “ae eo and nae oe

Ji sata ee as te a AS een hn teen ont en ere mT a

 

-2-

individuals. The RCMP would like the Committee to
identify people they wish to interview, where they might
be found, and the line of questioning that is proposed.
It would then try to contact these individuals and
inquire as to their willingness to be interviewed. The
RCMP would also offer to be present or allow anyone of
the witnesses' choosing to be present if they wished.
The RCMP thinks it unlikely that the 6 or 7 people

-o mentioned in the Committee's investigation plan can
be located or, if located, will be willing to testify
about events 10 years old on which they have already
been interviewed by the RCMP. However, they are prepared
to inquire at the behest of the Committee.

All of this can be discussed and worked out
directly during the initial meeting with Committee staff.

‘ Action requested: Please pass the above to the
appropriate Committee staff and ask the Committee to
suggest dates for a meeting in Ottawa in early April.
It would also be useful if we could give the Canadian
Embassy the names of the two staff members who will be
participating. The Embassy will telephone Congressman
Edgar this afternoon to let him know they have passed
a positive response to the State Department, so you may
wish to convey this information as early as possible.

If you will let me have the Committee response on
dates and participation, I will pass it to the Canadian
Embassy.

 

HWo55203 Docld: 32989785 Page 7

 

 

 
 

 

 

~- ° q

OTT 62-539 CONFIDENTIAL

.

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

(prior) investigation." He was informed that the RCMP considered
the prior investigation to be adequate in every degree and
Congressman EDGAR made repeated efforts to explain away the
remark,

RCMP agreed to assist the HSCA by making available
any of its members for interview; attempting to locate persons
previously interviewed by RCMP and determine if the person was
agreeable to interview by HSCA investigators, in the presence of
RCMP; and doing name checks on any new names surfaced in the
HSCA investigation. RCMP did not agree to allowing HSCA to review
its files, to conduct any new investigation for the HSCA or to
allow the committee to conduct any investigation in Canada.
Congressman EDGAR was told that any requests for investigation in
Canada must be presented to the RCMP through the FBI or through
diplomatic channels.

CONF Wa ENTIAL

NW 55203 Docld: 32989785 Page 5

 

 
+

FAL uwor

  
   

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Washington, D.C. 20520

 

March 17, 1978

TO: H - Mr. Schnee
FROM: + EUR/CAN - John H. Rouse, Jr
ot SUBJECT: Request of Select Committee _on Assassinations
. for Information from Canada :

Percy Sherwood, Counselor of the Canadian Embassy,
called on me March 17. to conve¥ the Canadian Government
° response to the request of the Select Committee for a
meeting with RCMP officials to facilitate Committee
investigations in Canada. .

Sherwood said that the Canadian Government had
approved direct RCMP cooperation with the Committee
as follows: 1)RCMP officials would be prepared to hold
an exploratory meeting in early April with Committee
staff to review investigation plans and work out
agreed procedures. 2) On agreed terms thereafter,
to assist in facilitating Committee interviews with
residents of Canada on a voluntary basis. oO

Percy said the RCMP is prepared to use the
tentative investigation plan of the Committee as a
basis for discussions without prejudice as to the extent
and nature of the cG6operation that might eventually be
(Congressman Edgar had given a copy of this

i agreed to.

S plan to Ambassador Towe during his March 14 call.)
BE & Sherwood suggested that the initial meeting, involve \
aa perhaps two Committee staff members for a day,or two if .
Be 1 necessary. He asked that the Committee suggest alternate
SH dates early in April that could be passed back to the RCMP;
Bae he promised a prompt response.
ae For background (which can be passed on to the

Committee in a tentative way) Sherwood indicated that the
Committee investigation plan itself presents difficulties
for the GOC. It appears to overlook the comments earlier
made by Canada as to the limits on additional information
that might be made available from official files and the

limited role that the RCMP might be 2et Lina soem |

pare 20/2

      

  

locating individuals. The RCMP cannot Saami ey. openp

its files for general review. Nor does if, have

power to conduct extensive, open-ended s atehos 7 EOF :
vehi we

LEGAL ATTACHE * OTTAWA

  

NW 55203 DooId:32989785 Page 6

 

 

 

 
 

  
  
     
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
    
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
    
   
  
 
 

~

eo. @

. The Ambassador : July 28, 1977

- Robert L. Moore ~ ;
". Legal Attache . } eplae
| DEAS je y 780868
~, ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE gy | QB. ncncncnnncnteeree
* REPORTS IN POSSESSION OF THE :

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS oy

 

a The House Select Committee on Assassinations (asca)
“has been conducting extensive investigation into the n ;
"| assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., and has made ~
“several requests of FBIHQ for various documents relating “toa”
. the FBI investigation into the murder. It has been the °->
“position of the FBI that information received from the”
Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) reporting its investiga-.
tion in this matteri#s on a confidential basis and all
reference to the RCMP investigation has been deleted from |
any responses by FBIHQ to the Committee.

 

 
   

On July 21, 1977, RCMP Ottawa advised that subsequent
to their denial of a request in March 1977 by, the HSCA for
production of all RCMP records in this matter, a request was
received at the Canadian Embassy, Washington, D.C., concerning
the refusal. After several discussions with their Canadian
External Affairs Department, the RCMP stated they would consider
answering specific questions if ‘drafted by the Committee.

RCMP Ottawa advised that a list of questions had -
been received in Washington, D.C., and from a cursory study
they believed the House Committee was in possession ofmany ~
original documents furnished by RCMP during that period of
time. A detailed study would be undertaken as soon as the
documents arrived in Ottawa.

On July 29, 1977, FBIHQ advised Legal Attache
that pursuant to a review of this matter at FBIHQ, it
appears that on July 12, 1968, Legal Attache Gttawa was
advised that in view of "the apprehension of James Earl Ray
on June 8, 1968, and his prosecution to be undertaken by
Tennessee authorities, it would be necessary to furnish |
information to the Tennessee authorities that had been
obtained from the RCMP and other foreign law enforcement
agencies, On July 18, 1968, former Legal Attache advised
FBIHQ that Assistant Commissioner H. S. Cooper, Director of

  
 

- |Ambassador

 

 

  

HW 55203 Docld:32989785 |Page 2

 

 
 

(gZ-0T—539

 

 

Serial Scope:

“16 18 17, 4

 

 

 

 
 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
  
    

.

Coa

Criminal Investigations, RCMP, had advised that there was no
objection to furnishing Tennessee authorities with any .

information developed as a result of RCMP investigation. On
July 29, 1968, the former Legal Attache furnished FBIHQ with
‘a two-page list of RCMP reports relating to this matter and-

‘ys . advised that all or any portion of the documents could be made
available to Tennessee authorities. It is not clearat this
time at what time the documents were furnished to the Tennessee
authorities or the quantity of these documents. -

The Memphis Office of the FBI has determined from
the District Attorney's Office, Shelby County, Tennessee,
that in response to a subpoena from the HSCA all records
relating to this matter have been furnished to the Committee,
including the copies of the RCMP reports.

On this date, RCMP advised Legal Attache that the
Canadian Ministry of External Affairs is fully aware of this
situation and RCMP is working closely with the Ministry in
preparing responses to the Committee. RCMP advise that it is
the position of the RCMP, and, presumably, the Canadian govern~
ment, that it wishes to cooperate fully with the Comnittee
investigation; however, there may be various “questions which,
for one reason or another, may be unanswerable.

To date; there has been no publicity given to this
situation by either the Canadian or American press and the
RCMP has requested that the request of the HSCA be considered
confidential at this time.

Legal Attache will follow this matter and keep
you advised, :

 

Gul 35203 Dockd: 32989785 .Page 3

 

 

 

 
 

 

AIRTEL
CONFIDENTIAL gyoozg
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
ety y 9808, LPP lotic
FROM: LEGAT, OTTAWA (62-539) bs. __.
SUBJECT: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE exg k)

ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

Congressman ROBERT EDGAR (D-Pa.), HSCA member,
travelled to Ottawa, Ontario, with three staff members and on
4/14/78 met with Deputy Solicitor General P.A. BISSONNETTE and
later met with RCMP officers, including the Officer in Charge
of Federal Policing Branch.

The purpose of Congressman EDGAR's trip was, according
to sources, to obtain a promise of cooperation from the Canadian
Government in the HSCA investigation relating to JAMES EARL
RAY while he was in Canada. Congressman EDGAR advised
Mr. BISSONNETTE that some investigative activity would be
directed toward determining if there had been any connection
between RAY and J,B, STONER and others of the National States
Rights Party.

Congressman EDGAR was received cordially by Mr.
BISSONNETTE but no definite commitments were made by the latter
beyond the desire of the Canadian Government to cooperate with
the U.S. Government whenever it is possible to do so.

Congressman EDGAR got off to a bad start at RCMP
Headquarters with an initial remark that one of the purposes
of HSCA investigation was "to inquire into the adequacy of the

4 - Bureau
(1 - Foreign Liaison)

2 - Ottawa (cc: 44-4)
CONFID Wut TAL

  
    
 
 

RLM: fo
(6) Classified 37.3 jin
Esempt fro: Latecory 7.3

Date of Deg >

a ¥

Searohade sen ye nner

Fist eewn eT Ls a

 
 

 

NW 55203 Docld:32989785 Page 4 G2 -~ 4 5 3G — 1

 

 
