 

“
Pau

in

 
  
   
 
  
    
  
 
    
  
  
  
 

. r
Pe “
* San 58529

Re; RUGENE B, DINKIN

and notes were missing and presumed that the individual
mentioned above had taken them, He never received any
receipt for his papers.

Mr, Dinkin advised that. he had undergone numerous
psychiatric tests at Walter Reed Army Hospital in Washington, -
D.C, He stated that he was aware that the Army psychiatrist
had declared him to be “psychotic” and a “paranotic", He
said that several of the tests given him were familiar to
him from his studies in psychology at the University of
Chicago. Because of his familiarity with these tests, and
his background knowledge as to what the test answers should
be, he believed it impossible that the results of these
tests could have shown him to be "psychotic" and "paranotic”.
He stated that if he had desired, he could have "faked" the
answers to prove he was sane even if he were, in fact,
mentally disturbed, Mr, Dinkin stated he believed that
the psychiatric evaluation given him by the Army psychiatrist
was, in fact, an attempt on their part to cover up the
military plot which he had attempted to expose.

Dinkin advised that during his detention at Walter
Reed Army Hospital, arrangements had been made through his

“ family for him to be given a psychiatric test by a private
| psychiatrist chosen by his family. He stated when these

arrangements were finally made, he had declined the
services of this private physician, Dinkin explained that
he had reached a point where his only desire was to be
released from custody and discharged from the Army, He
stated that in order to do this, he had felt it necessary
to "go along" with the examining Army psychiatrist and
pretend that he had, in fact, been suffering from delusions
but was now cured. He was afraid that should an outside
psychiatrist examine him and be told by Dinkin the facts

as set forth herein, that this psychiatrist would probably
believe Dinkin to be mentally disturbed, and thia would result
in further detention for Dinkin, Mr, Dinkin stated that

 

 
, os @ @ CH 733

 

Re: EUGENE B, DINKIN; a a

Captain Cowen also related his conversation to a girl friend
named Beth Cox. Her present address, according to Colonel

Adams, is Lisa Beth Cox, 616 West 116th Street, New York 27,
New. York.

Colonel Adams stated that Bugene B. Dinkin was the =
subject of a closed investigation by the Office of the

Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, United States Arny Communica- —
tions Zone, Europe. He advised further that according to
local Army records at Metz, France, on February 18, 1964,
PFC Bugene B. Dinkin, RA 16710292, was reassigned to Walter
Reed Hospital, Washington, D.C., as a patient on December 3,
1963 and was ordered to proceed to that destination on or
about December 4, 1963, = 9. :: : ; :

. Ldeutenant Colonel John J. Ward, Registrar's
Office, Walter Reed Arny Hospital, Washington, D.C,, made
available medical files pertaining to Bugene B, Dinkin on
March 23, 1964, A review of the narrative summary in this
file reflecta the following diagnosis made of Dinkin's
condition by Captain Avrom C, Segal, subsequent to Dinkin's
admiseion to Walter Reed Army Hospital on December 5, 1963:
"Schizophrenic reaction, paranoid type, chronic,
moderate, manifested by inappropriate behavior
and ideation, intellectualization, grandiosity,
.  gocial isolation, and delusions of persecution, L
primarily by the Army; stress, minimal, routine *
overseas military duty} predisposition, mild
lifelong history of somewhat withdrawn behavior, ow
with poor social interaction; impairment for in
further military service, marked, extremely poor
motivation for continuing service; impairment .
for social and industrial adjustment, slight, .
gome residual aloofness, presently in remission." .

“parse

aia!

         

 

os ee ieee
Po POT A ye em REN aad

2 Sig "hysdo™ pored:aao08
Date:08/16/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 179-10002-10144

RECORDS SERIES :
WC DOCUMENT REVIEWED BY FBI FOR HSCA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM :
TO

TITLE
DATE : 00/00/64
PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS
DINKIN, EUGENE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS
PP. 2-3, 5, 8.
CD #788

HW 50529 DocId:32206591 Page 1
  

 
 

  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

vee

 

‘Re: SUOENE B, DINKIN.

   

On April 1, 1964, Mx. Eugene B, Dinkin, 534 West
Oakdale, Chicago, Illinois, advised Agents of the Federal

Bureau of Investigation that he had been recently discharged

from the United States Army after having been in detention
for four months while undergoing psychiatric tests. .

“the United States Army in 1963, he bad begun a review of

several newspapers including the "Stars and Stripes" as an
exercise in “psychological sets". He explained that he had

taken courses in psychology at college and was extremely
interested in this subject matter. He advised that
“nsychological sets" was a term referring to a series of
events, articles, et cetera which, when coupled together,
set up or induce a certain frame of mind on the part of
@ person being exposed to this series, He stated that
this method of implanting an idea was ‘much in use by the
"Madison Avenue" advertising people who attempted to
influence one who was exposed to these "psychological
sets" to "buy" the product being advertised, whether this
product was physical or an idea,

Dinkin stated that while so reviewing the news~

: papers for “psychological sets", he discovered that "Stars |

and Stripes", as well'as certain unidentified Hearst news-
papers, wore carrying a series of “psychological sets"
which he believed were deliberately maneuvered to sot up
a subconscious belief on the part of one reading these
papers to the effect that President John F. Kennedy was
“soft on communism" or, "perhaps a communist sympathizer".
Further study of these newspapers and the “psychological
sets" contained therein made it evident to Mr, Dinkin
that a conspiracy was in the making by the "military" of
the United States, perhaps combined with an “ultra-right
economic group", to make the people of the United States
believe that President Kennedy was, in fact, a communist
sympathizer and further, that this same group planned to

” Dankin advised that while stationed in Europe with

 

 

 
 

, @ @

 

“Re: RUGENE B, DINKIN| °°

should not spend 52 per cent of its income for materials

of war, part of which would be financed by any enforced
purchases made by him. Be stated that he had been outspoken
in his views concerning these bond purchases, and that he
and others who felt that the compulsory purchase of bonds
-was an infringement on their civil rights, had been denied
“passes" as a result of their stand, — oO

As a result of his opposition to the bond purchases,
according to Dinkin, he was removed from his position in the
code section and transferred to an Army Depot at Metz,

France. On October 25, 1963, Dinkin went to the United

States Embassy at Luxembourg where, he stated, he attempted
for several hours to see a Mr. Cunningham, the Charge d‘Affaires
at the Embassy. He stated that he sent word to Mr, Cunningham
that he had information concerning a plot to assassinate
President Kennedy, and at one point spoke to Mr. Cunningham

by phone. He said that Cunningham refused to see him in
person or to review the newspapers and research papers which
Dinkin said were evidence proving his theory of the impending
assassination, Dinkin advised that he spent approximately

two hours with the United States Marine Corps guard at the
Luxembourg Embassy and had generally set forth his theories

to this individual, whose name he did not know. . :

Following this incident, Dinkin was notified by
his superiors that he was to undergo psychiatric evaluation
on November 5, 1963. Due to thia pending development,
Dinkin said he went absent without leave to Geneva, Switzer-
land where he attempted to present his theory to the editor
of the “Geneva Diplomat", a newspaper published in Geneva,
Switzerland. In addition to this editor, Dinkin spoke to a
Mr, Dewhiret, a "Newsweek" reporter based at Geneva, Dewhirst
would not listen to Dinkin's theories. While in Switzerland,
Dinkin attewpted to contact officials of "Time-Life" publica-
tions and succeeded in speaking to the secretary, name unknown,
of this organization in Zurich, According to Dinkin, al1 of

 

 

gee
“A.

1

 
