 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (42 Use 2107 =
Hote}. DATE: 11-14-2017
« a)

a OD ; O

ay hee o

AIRTSL
we(is4-9809 JG)

in Latin America, the economic situation is very poor and
thus the basic cause for revolution exists tn eatin America,
The intorme.2:- 26 t

 

rae

 
     

    
 
   
  

 
  

revelusion a 2ountry who-e the economy 1

in the US. = ybated that she Soviets believec in the principles
of Communisin Sh almost "religious fervor” and that they felt
that it was vitable, perhaps in 50 years, werhaps in 100

years, perhazc 2900 years, that tne whole woric will go Communist,
put that the trend is inevitable and the seeds of collapse are
planted in ali the Latin American countries. He stated that
these Latin American countries would go Communist without the
need of any outside revolutionary intervention, He stated that
the Soviet Union does not believe or support the shipment of

arms to the Latin American countries. They have found CASTRO

to be very independent and he does not share all their viewpoints.
He stated that it is Moscow's policy not to support a revolutionary
movement if such support would endanger the international peace
movement, .

SUSAN L,/ FREIBERG |(S

| Informant stated that he was still very concerned

about the status of SUSAN FREIBERG and hoped that she would
never be involved in any investigation over his activities.
He stated that she is at present very upset over the cessation
of their relationship and that he would like to comfort her
put he had been concerned over imat our attitude would be if
he were to resume contacting SUSAN FREIBERG to the extent of
taking her out to lunch or taking her home. He stated that he
did have a deep concern for her, Informant was advised that
his relationsh with SUSAN FREIBERG was a personal matter for
him to decide.S

A summary of all political information that the
4doformant has furnished to date is. being prepared in a form
suitable for outside expert evaluation of the information
furnished by the informant. This memorandum will be furnished
to the Bureau this week,

 

DoclId:321923668 Page 7
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 WSC 2107 =
Hote}. DATE: 11-14-2017

ee OO

 

AIRTEL
NY (is»-9899)G)

When questioned concerning his international vulnerability,
informant that he foresaw that Rea Ching prior to the
election it: might start a smear campeign against
President 7 . He stated that Red China cculd he
anticipated sc describe President JOHNSON as a Southern
reactionary attained power through an ulvra-right wing
conspiracy agsicast KENNEDY and that JOHNSON was the intended
beneficiary of ihis killing of President. KENNEDY. He stated
that Red Chiua would label President JOHNSON as a racist and
even though this would bé the technique of the "big lie", it
still would gain wide circulation throughout the world and
even though most people would disbelieve it, this allegation
would still be in the back of their minds in appraising JOHNSON.

   
 
 

 

 

Informant also stated that the Soviets are concerned
about the 1964 election with regard to whanthe candidates
will be for both political parties. Informant took for granted
that President JOHNSON would be the Democratic candidate for
President in 1964, and expressed a great interest in who his
possible Vice-Presidential running mate would be.

‘The Cuban Situation

The informant advised that Russia is deeply
committed in principle to the defense of Cuba and would take
appropriate steps in this regard if confronted with a direct
attack upon Cuba. He stated that 1t is Soviet policy that Cuba
cannot be permitted to be defeated and the KENNEDY administration
had been aware of this Soviet attitude. He stated that it
had been the policy of the KENNEDY administration to attempt
to destroy CASTRO by economic and political means, He added
that while Moscow was not happy with this policy of the
KENNEDY administration, it appreciated these methods as opposed
to American military intervention in Cuba,

- The informant stated that the Soviet Government
is now mich concerned over what policy President JOHNSON will

 

 

DoclId:321923668 Page 5
 

if Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107

Hote).

”

DATE: 11-14-2017

AIRTEL
ww{ast-9899)G)

develon toward
explanation «
the Cusan c
number of S

  
 
   
 
   
  

uba. The informant then d‘gressed into an
viet policy toward Cuba prcor to and since
; of October, 1962, He explacanc thas the
; troops in Cuba has been re ev. since the
Soviets fee. + there is no danger now ot CASTRO being
overthrown from within. Also, Soviet troops were originally
dispatched io Cvoa to train the Cuban Army and vo protect
Cuba from interasi revolution during the period that the Cuban
Army was being srained in the techniques of operating modern
military equipment, As an example, the informant related that
initially there were only four trained Cuban pilots who could
fly Soviet aircraft. The informant stated that Soviet troops
in Cuba had never been intended to protect Cuba from outside
attack since the number of Soviet troops in Cuba would never
have been able to withstand a strong US military action against
Cuba, He stated that Soviet rockets were introduced into Cuba
to establish a bargaining position with the US and to provide
moral support to CASTRO, He remarked that many of these rockets
were go stationed that they could be clearly observed by US
reconnaissance, He explained that the Soviet Union hoped to
obtain a Soviet-Cuban-US treaty of non-aggression against Cuba
4n return for Soviet removal of these rockets. He added that
the primary objective had always been in one way or another to
secure a US pledge of non-aggression against Cuba, When the
above treaty was not realized, the Soviet Union obtained a
promise from President KENNEDY through an exchange of Letters

 

 
 
   
 

with Premier KHRUSHCHEV to the effect that the US would not

undertake an attack against Cuba; thus the Soviet Union gained
its objective, namely, no US attack or intervention in Cuba.
Soviet officials still believe that the US is under obligation
not to attack Cuba but that this commitment was mainly a
personal one and thus the Soviets feel strong concern over
what attitude President JOHNSON will adopt toward Cuba.

The Latin American Situation

The informant related that the situation in Latin
America is very explosive. While some progress has been made

é
Meloy

DoclId:321923668 Page 6
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Hote). DATE: 11-14-2017

fC, LO 2 Chi
a an | . Se PR
SECREL

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 ~~

FBI
Date: 12/3/63

Transmit the following in .
Type in plain text or code

Via AIRTEL

a cee ee cee ae te a ae et ee ee ee orn mt can man Om wn ee mt om,

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI .
ATTN: INSPECTOR D, E. MOORE

FROM: SAC, NEW YORK (34-9899) JO

SUBJECT: ! Ayses\)
is -

Re NY airtel, 11/22/63.

) E fs
IN VIEW OF THE HIGHLY SENSITIVE POSITION OF] NY 4216-S* )
EXTREME CA .

 

 

 

 

$
NY 4216-S*%J was interviewed on 12/2/63, Gander secure CSJ

conditions at the Manger Vanderbilt Hotel, 3th Street and Park
Avenue, New York City, between 12:15 PM and 3:35 PM.) During the
interview, the informant furnished the following information:

Ss

3.~ Bureau (RM)

(l) - Washingtod Pteld (INFO) (RM)
2 ~ New York (INV)
LCK: hte
(8)

  
 

Approved: 5 gent 4M Per_
LP Cubkua

iy Ceeko SS
sepper Ton. 3
PLES EB Spite fiery schigh

   

 

DoclId:321923668 Page 2
 

 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107
a ate a ennedy 2Ssassination secores -oaect

pie

       

AGENCY INFORMATION

 

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10257-10302
RECORD_ SERIES: WMFO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

 

 

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, NY
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
- TITLE: CR 105-56502-3

DATE: = 12/03/1963
PAGES: 6
SUBJECT: LHO, POST-RP, OPINION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW_DATE: 11/03/1998 UPDATE DATE: — 02/14/2001

STATUS _ Redact ~
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

Docld: 32192368 Page 1
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 > °>"=
Hote}. DATE: 11-14-2017

— Db ©. a

eon

AIRTEL

NY (131-9809)
Assassination of President KENNEDY

He stated at the outset that he wished to express
his deep sympathy over the assassination of President KENNEDY
and that he was very disturbed by the news of the assassination
and he found most Soviet nationals that he had come in contact
with to have also been conterned over the death of President
KENNEDY. He felt that President KENNEDY was sincerely admired
by most of the Soviet nationals and that the usual cynical
attitude toward such an event was not present in this instance.

The informant advised that fe had visited the Soviet Cs3
Mission several times during the days}|immediately following
President KENNEDY's assassination. stated the immediate
reaction was that the arrest of LEE HARVEY /OSWALD as the
assassin was wrong because if OSWALD ha fen connected with
the Communist movement in any way his act of assassination
could only seriously harm American-Soviet relations. It was
believedfat the Soviet Missionjthat the Dallas Police Department Cs3
was covering up for someone eIse by arresting OSWALD, and
that this cover-up was an attempt to protect a "yight wing
group", The informant related that by Monday or Tuesday
following the assassination, the belief had developed{at theC SJ
Soviet Mission) that the assassination was a plot or conspiracy
aimed at a take-over in American politics by some group rather
than an individual act of revenge, fficials at the Soviet C$
Mission)aia not believe OSWALD was involved but had been
intentfonally arrested by the real conspirators due to his
leftist background. He indicated these conspirators knew all
about OSWALD, including his employment and possession of a
rifle.

The informant further related that as of the ekend
of 12/1/63, a belief had developed{at the Soviet Missionlthat CS)
OSWALD had been involved more directly in the assassination

and that he was part of a right wing movement, This belief ot
was enhanced by certain revelations that OSWALD was anti-Soviet,

had intended to publish an anti-Soviet book and had been

 

DoclId:321923668 Page 3
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107
Hote). DATE: 11-14-2017

2°

8 | oO @

 

AIRTEL
wy (134-9899 G)

disappointed in his previous Soviet experience and inability
to obtain another Soviet visa, This theory maintained that
OSWALD was act one in thé assassination and that others,
more influciuviel and stronger than WALD, were igvolved. The
informant added that it is now feit{at the MissionJthat C$
the attempt tc make the assassination appear to be a Communist
plot has failed.

  
 

Concern Over Future -
Policies of President JOHNSON

(3) Cy 4016-8*) stated that there is general concern
regarding what attitude President JOHNSON will take in the
future toward the various leftist revolutionary movements in
the world, including those in Latin America, South Vietnam
and Cuba, He related that evergone(at the Soviet Missionjis CsI
obliged to attempt to determine the potential and direction
of American politics under President JOHNSON. He stated that
ho specific directive has been issued regarding this but that
it is generally understood to be important, He added that there
had not been much interest in President JOHNSON previous to the
assassination of President KENNEDY. The informant related that
any information that developed in this regard would be

_ urnished directly tolMoscow either by Soviet UN Ambassador
MikotAl T/FEDORENKO or by the KEE IAW)

He stated that they felt that President JOHNSON was
a likely candidate for the Democratic convention for President .
in 1964, but that he was vulnerable on several domestic issues
and he was also vulnerable from the international standpoint.
He stated that as far as domestic matters were concerned,
President JOHNSON projected the image of a Texan and that the
voters in the rest of the country would subconsciously take
this into consideration; that he was in some way in the public
mind connected with the "BOBBY BAKER case" and that generally
speaking, his image was that of a Southern conservative.

\
‘

(-3- \

‘ 4 o

SkCRET

 

DoclId:321923668 Page 4
