 

VRé@leased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107Qnorey.
DATE: 11-14-2017

. _STANDARD Fon NO,

Office Memt,/andum “+ UNITED sthobns GOVERN a

 
  
  

TO * Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation DATE: Decenber 1 b
; MRW:AMP:aa | Mr. Trotter
: Malcolm R, Wilkey, Assistant Attorney General 51-16-580 | Mr. W.C.Suilivan {
Criminal Division Tele. Room i
£, ; Mr. Holloman__ f
SUBJECT: Edward Weinheimer ~ Perjury f j Miss Gandy___ |

1. In the statement to the Bureau on September 28, 1959,
Mrs. Madeline Perlaky apparently did not recall typing three
envelopes on one occasion to Weinheimer at Des Moines, in 1957.
Since these letters were mailed in August, it id .possible that
Mrs. Perlaky may have been on vacation at the tine the envelopes
were prepared; therefore, one of the other girls in the office
may have actually typed the questioned envelopes. In that connec-
tion, it is known that the following girls were employed at
Exhibitors Service during August and September of 1957:.

(a) Mrs. Joann Jurist, 812 Park Avenue, Plainfield,
New Jersey. She terminated her employment in about
February 1958. It has been reported that she may visit
her mother on December 23, 1959 to spend the Christmas” ~~
holidays. Her mother's name is Mrs, Taravells and she
resides at 522 Woodward Avenue, McKees Rocks, Pennsylvania.
(b) Mildred Baer, who is still employed by Exhibitors
_ Service. tag
(c) Mrs. Judy Powers, 729 Broadway, McKees Rogks, “2
Pennsylvania. She left Exhibitors Service about
February 1958.

 

| ols .
aa It is requested that the aforementioned individuals ‘be, inger--'

viewed to ascertain whether any of them can provide any pertinent -
information concerning the preparation and mailing of the’ ‘three=,

senvelopes to Weinhecimer in Des Moines, and the two envelopes tons

Detroit in 1957. If any of the foregoing individuals recall préss

paring such envelopes, it is suggested that they be interrogated. Loos
regarding any knowledge or information they may have as to whether 2)

 

currency was placed in the envelopes by Callahan.{It is understood
that the girls occupied an office adjacent to Callahan's and may
have been in a position, because of some window arrangement in the
partition wall, to observe what Callahan may have gone with the
envelopes). A

   

 

 

 

Docld:32325186 Page 2
 

 

     

' Released under the John F.
. Hey pa ea!

|
i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER:  124-90035-10083
RECORD SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 122-2424-107°

 

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

ORIGINATOR: DEPT. OF JUSTICE
FROM:  DOJ/CRIM
TO: HO
TITLE:

 

DATE: = 12/11/1959

 

PAGES: 2
SUBJECT: BARNEY BAKER
DOCUMENT TYPE: — PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT -
ORIGINAL Unclassified NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: — 06/04/1998 - UPDATE DATE:
STATUS Exempt en °
RESTRICTIONS:
Consultation
COMMENTS: MEMO, REFERRED TO DOJ
6

Docld:32325186 Page 1
 

PReleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
. DATE: 11-14-2087
6 a,

° °

2. Since the three envelopes to Des Moines, and the two
envelopes to Detroit were sent by registered mail to Weinheimer, the
return receipts would have been forwarded to Exhibitors Service, :
It is requested in this connection, that the Bureau determine the.
present whereabouts of the return receipts.

 

3. It is our information that it is the practice of Exhibitors
Service to fasten return receipts to the copies of the corresponding
correspondence. Since the investigation in instant case has established
that the questioned envelopes were sent to Weinhaimer without any cover~
ing letter, it is requested that the Bureau determine how these return
receipts were filed with the records of Exhibitors Service and what,
if any, explanation is offered for such manner of filing. Of possible
interest to this phase of the investigation, it is noted that the postal
authorities do not make direct deliveries to the premises of Exhibitors
Service; instead, one of the employees, usually the aforementioned
Mildred Baer, picks up the mail every morning at the local post office.
It is possible, therefore, that this individual may have knowledge as to
the receipt and filing procedures relative to the return receipts.

l. Ibt-is understood that all correspondence between Weinheimer
and Exhibitors Service are maintained in one file marked "Weinheimer."
Tt is requested that this correspondence file be reviewed.and the dates
and contents of the correspondence. be noted. Also, note should be made
‘of all correspondence to which return receipts may be. attached. Further,
note should be made of return receipts for which there is no corresponding
correspondence. ‘These latter receipts may possibly tie in with the
envelopes in question. It would be desirable to determine who would be
in a position to testify, if necessary, concerning the custom and practice
of filing correspondence. This individual may possibly furnish some
circumstantial corroborative proof that no letter was enclosed in the
envelopes marked to Weinheimer.

5. It is understood that Callahan corresponded by mail and
telegram with James R. Hoffa during the period of Weinheimer's employment.
Specifically, it has been reported that a few days before Christmas of |
1957, Callahan sent a telegram to Hoffa. It is requested that all
correspondence, memoranda and telegrams between Hoffa and Exhibitors
Service be reviewed and any pertinent information noted.

Should Exhibitors Service decline to make available the material .
referred to in items and 5, it is requested that the Criminal Division
be notified promptly in order that a grand jury subpoena may be issued
compelling the production of these records.

_ The investigations requested in this memorandum are made in
connection with the preparation of instant case for trial which is
| scheduled to begin on January 11, 1960.

S

 

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32325186 Page 3
