 

‘44 USC 2107 Hote).
ds Collection Act of 1992 ( /
Kennedy Assassination Recor :

Released under the John F. : <

    
  

delibcral “interest "pertained to the Abaco

     

 

- project. As it turned out, Phittip Manuel, Senate Investigation Committee,

‘

a “had WerBeul ne called before the Jackson Sub-Cornmittee arid quizzed -

 

 

“him with respect to a 1 trip he had taken to Costa Rico to: visit Robert -
“A Vesco. According to. Me. Muldoon, WerBell III's trip to Costa Rico
. ‘was apparently to seck the backing and _assitance of Vesco ana: i naving

“WerBelt MW set.up and to produce machine guns which he could “then

more freely sell by not being inhibited by the U. Ss. - Department of State.

 

7 Apparentiy this never materialized. Also, “half-way through the testimony
oO : : : “of ‘Wereeti TI", WerBell IV was indicted on 1 charges developed’ by the
: ; Aleohot, Tobacco & Firearms Division. of the IRS for a violation invoiving
. a machine gun. ‘This indictment caused WerBell UT to refuse: to testify

: having not. refused ta. toons, by: (WAY OF ine. Firth “Amendment privilege up a

 

a . to’ this point. According to Mr. Niutdoon ‘the Jackson Commitice is quite

upset over “what they considered: a "quick indictment” causing the ‘afore~

4 mentioned ‘problem and are trying to. learn just what “happened.

     
 

Me Muldoon Stated | that prion’ ‘to Severing completely

 
 

  

“the end ‘of June with, “We Bel

 
  
    

    

he tad ver don anything meganding the Abaco project.

 

| He’ advised Conicn th fe he, had not and Conien told’ hi an: to, "get. out vt i irre

 

 

Hately" as there was fan investigation going on which Muldoon ‘concluded

: oe on the basis of -Conien' s conversation .Was being conducted by the Department

   

 

 

 

 

Docld:32340477 Page 9
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
, DATE: _i1- 14-2017 - mo : ao. - . _

           

: . : . * ny meeonstruchng Abis situation, Muldoon is now convinced

IO that Conien' 6 call to him | was _ prompted by a visit from one Steve Van

 

Cleve whos 50 company 5 Intelligence Services Limited, was situated in

 

 astata. Van Cleve isa friend of Conien's. Mr. Muldoon is aware
i os te of the fact that Van Cleve visited the ‘Was hingten office of Security. _
: | 4 Consultants International and accidently walked into a meeting a * Wer Bell,

“et ale, (Mr. Muldoon was not. present) at which the Abaco project was

 

, oe “being discussed. “Van Cleve, according to Muldoon" gs theory, being a

   

* friend of Conien's and knowing Conien's relationship to WerBell, immediat.

went to ‘Conien to see if he was involved. “Van Cleve was convinced from

eee

“what little hes knew that there was “going to be trouble” and encouraged

 

 

i - Conien "to get out” if he was "in", This is when, according to Muldoon,

4 aa a

Conien apparently called him encouraging him to "get, out" indicating that

 

  

‘an investigation was under way by the Department of Justice.

 

_Mre Muldoon advised that Gibson, as indicated earlier,

    
  
  
 

~was Wout to get" WerBell and in. fact, telephonically contacted him, > Mut- °

doon;. and “offered money. to-spy: on WerBell, et aley- in connection. with...

 

: He later learned Gibson had made a similar offer to.

  
 
    
   
  

 

“the: Abaco project .

   
 

Gibson: had taped both conversations . He also believes that Gibson had

 

aio been 1’ Resporsibte for indicating to Van Cleve that

were’ engaged in itlegal activities with, respect to the ‘Abaco project and

         

 

 

 

 

 

 

Docld:32340477 Page 10
 

 

‘Released under the. John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

    
 

, DATE:, 11-14-2017 : no Ea 5.
S-4
i . S .
‘
; 6 oS . Mr. Muldoon stated that he ienmediately reported the.

“results of. this mecting to the Central Intelligence Agency in writing
but did “not maintain: a copy. He furnished the writer, however a
o - copy of a report ‘he furnished. the Central Intelligence Agency. dated ©

; June 18, 1974, which is attached.

Mr. Muldoon stated that | he withdrew completely 1 trom

 

the Abaco plan on June 18, 1974. Mr. ‘Mutéoon stated that he was losing

: _ Money functioning ona "percentage of sales ‘basis! and advised the

 

   

“Atlanta group. that he would ‘need fat least ‘a salary of $1 090 a month
- plus $1, 000 in expenses. He received one payment of $1, 000, ‘closed
oe the office and got rid of the apartment shortly before: the. end of June,

 

1974.

of

 

1 Mrs .Muldoon. was..aware.of the. fact-that an. individual he

 

po ; ~~ Knows named Walter Mekham (phonetic) went to Abaco for the Atlanta

ay “group; spent approximately 2 weeks there and wrote a report.’ The

Y

   
 

. interest oF Oliver. in “the project ‘stopped in July ¢ or August; 1974;. and

    

his activities from ‘June on are "unknown to him.

   

  

Wereiett T1-aad"WerBell. IMs Nes

am Howard: ‘Gibson and ‘Messrs. Baya

 

Muldoon received a call from. Gibson during | this period stating that he

 

1Lwh tated h

        

   

hag been car

 

V4
acted’ by a Mr, Phillip’ M nu

 

 

a

 

 

Docld:32340477 Page 6
‘Released under the John F.
(DATE: 11-14~2017

 

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.
. a ; a 7 > : : . : 3

      

“net care where", he. just wanted’ to find | a country where he could

2. establish his own constitution. Muldoon pointed out that while Oliver

  

— : might be a little "flakey", he seemed completely legitimate and
. ‘dedicated to his idealistic principals.
| : According to Mr. Muldoon, Security Consultants Inter
national (which was Mr. ‘Muldoon) was .to. make certain feasibility

studies in the economic and political areas concerning Abaco's potential

 

as an independent country and make other comparative studies, etc.,
: including research at the U.N. and possibly various Government agencies

“to determine how similar problems had been’ handled. The client ‘of

oe

 

_this study was to'be the "Atlas Corporation" ‘of Carson City,” Névada,

a which “allegedly belonged to Mike Oliver. ‘Muldoon, stated ‘that he never

7 : . “actually performed any activity connected in any way with the Abaco

 

 

ty project.

   

Mr. Muldoon stated that he understood that the only
“materials WerBell, et al., had ‘sent to Abaco were “medical- supplies,

“books, etc.; which the-Government of. the. Bahamas-was-not. furnishing —

 

     
      

 

; and. the. lack--of- it. was-allegedly. causing. health and. social problems in

‘epove board : and, | that : everyone inclucing Pi rating. knew about: ie,

 

i
of ~ ; a should be. noted, according to Muldaon, Mr. WerBell's stated interest in
i ; i + wo: .

fraid they were, going:;Communist. which: he, was ».

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Docld:32340477 Page 7
 

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1982 (44 USC 2104 Ho ote e)-
: DATE. 1t- 14- “2017 . : ©

 

    

; Me. Muldoon advised that the early part of June, 1974,

‘he. was. apprised of an interest Mitchell WerBell Ill and others ‘had in

 

the island of Abaco’ in the Bahamas. There was a meeting the first

 

vt o week of June at - Guest Quarters, New Hampshire and Virginia Avenue,
oO N. w., attended by WerBell III, Lord and Lady Bellehaven, Mike Oliver,
“andrew St. George, Howard Handleman_and a friend of WerBell's from

oo Philadeiphia, name unknown, who apparently worked for the Library of

S XX

 

: Congress. Mr. Muldoon stated that. Lord Bellehaven is a member of
“the House of Lords in England and was interested in assisting Abaco
“ in obtaining independence from the SBahamten Government. _Mike Oliver, :

- ‘Garson City, Nevada, was: described as an extremely wealthy individual

 

is who had written a book entitled NA" New Constitution for a New Country"

. in 1968 and was interested in setting up his concept. of government

  

“somewhere. -Mir.=Muldeen pointed out that Utiver ‘was. .not -particuiariy - .

 
 

“wedded to Abaco but the Abaco situation appeared to afford an opportunity
S for Oliver to develop and establish his form of government -there.

Howard Handlernan.. is.a Diplomatic. Editor. for U.S. News and. World .-

ipsemnmnn ee

Report and Andrew Ste George: is an independent weiter + Mr. ‘Muldoon

 

. written something regarding the Central Intelligence Agency in the past — ~

 

‘and had. been called before some Senate committe . Allegedly, investi-.

 

  

eens 0 creme PERT TE RE GIO EOL OONY

 

Docld:32340477 Page 5
 

‘Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USEC 2107 Ho ter
4” DATE: -11- 14-2017 ;
‘4

oan at

    

“RO basis in truth or fact, Muldoon pointed out ‘that with respect to

WerBeil and” Oliver, WerBelt! s interest in Abaco was purely the

 

 

‘profits he could make ‘should Abaco! s independence become a reality.
He’ would have a Mock! on several thousand acres and on it he would
"build casinos and other profitable ‘type operations. Oliver" s s interest,
on “the other hand, was idealistic ‘and Mr. Muldoon believes that Oliver

- was. exploited by WerBell with ) respect to the Abaco. project, ‘accepting

i-

   

7 and ‘using his funding ‘freely. a

ft

.

At this meeting. a history of Abaco, was related by WerBell:

 

 

“<a f from its original settlement by political refugees from the, American

pec . -_ Revolution, Abaco, at the- time independence From England was. being |
° eck ae . .

 

sought by the Bahamas, wished to remain _@ crown 1 colony. After

© on

i” independence was gained, Abaco has apparently been. seeking. independence

 

 

 

: fro . the ‘Bahamian Government t currently headed by Prime Minister :

-Pindting It was apparent at this meeting that the Washington office that

“¢

  
 

 

 

Me, Muldoon and Mr. Morrissey | were ‘manning was to. be the base OF °

 

   
  

“operation for, the Abaco project. tees

ame interested between

the time “the “original independence was” granted to the Bahamas and

 

 

 

 

 

Docld:32340477 Page 6
 

‘Released under the John F. Kennedy Assaseination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 usc 2107 HoteyS
DATE; 11-14- 2017,

   
  

     

sob P,. Muldoon, residing at 4305 Kentbury Drive,

*

‘Bethesda, Maryland, was: interviewed en October. 16 and 17, 1974,
ooMr. Muldoon advised that in late 1973 a former associate
of his in a U.S. Government agency involved in intelligence activities

had contacted: him to see if he: was interested’ and available to handle an

 

investigative assignment for sore people Mr. Muldoon's form = aszociate
E a a a an }
~ knew in Atlanta. This individual was identified as Mr. Lucian “Luigi”

~ -_G@onien. “Mr. Muldoon stated. that prior to this occasion he had been ns
. \ .
introduced by Mir. Conien to an: individual named Mitchell WerBell a:

e Goal Post. Restaurant, Washington, D.C. Apparently Mr. Conien's -

—
relationship with Mr. WerBelt m1 dated ‘back to OSS days.together. it

rned- out that! (Mitchel WerBell IV and face Soson. (on ex-Georgia

_— “pee |

nae

 

e—
£

 

tate Trooper) were Vice Presidents and Mr. Bob “Bayard (a retired. Arr

%

gg

 

Goionel) was. FPresident- or. the Gentrai investigative “Agency. located “in

\tlanta, Georgia. Mr. “Muldoon accepted the assignment referred to whic

i
i

 

r stated basically involved approximately one week's surveillance

 

: vo o “Bob Bayard, vand Mitchell WerBell's 3. youngest son, vefieey. Three or

. four” “ether > investigative assignments were discussed and he spent two or

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32340477 Page 2
 

“Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote}.

DATE: 11-14-2017 _ JFK Assassination System Date: 5/4/2015
Identification Form

 

Agency Information -

“AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90115-10048

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 62-108665-NR

 

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LO
TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE: 00/00/0000 —
PAGES: 22

SUBJECTS :
[Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Confidential
RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: — Withhold
. DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: — RPT; ENCLOSURE '

 

_ ee SSSSeSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS
v9.1 16
DoclId:32340477 Page 1
 

 

 

  

“Released under the John F. K “Assassination Records ctiol
f . Kennedy Assassination Rec i £19
OAR, 1-tt2017 ass on ords Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey-

i“

         

a three clays hone hanicatlly suctat ins Quring this period ne was

Pax .
rn Introduced to Mitchell WerBelk Ill (whe - is the individual he mgt th

wv

" Washington) who was, of course, the father of Mitchell WerBell, IV.

 

NN oe Muldoon was invited to Mitchell WerBell HI's ‘rather ‘palatial | hore in
SS :
woe
“S. : the Atlanta area ‘and immediately noted that the walls of the house | and
SY t other areas were adorned with guns. He learned that Mitchel! WerBell

om owned a company known as Defense systems | International wi

“was “engaged in the legal buying and selling of guns. Mr. WerBell had
4 oF

‘also apparently developed a modified submachine gun winter was supposed

fo 1. to be silent, but was having difficulty obtaining. the necessary clearances

for its sale. ee - Be

_Later in March, 4974, Gibson and his wife care to

n

“Was shington and discussed with, ‘Mr. ‘Muldoon his availability ‘to open an

 

» office in Washington. “Mr ‘Muldoon agreed and subsequently located an.
a apartment to be used as an office in the LaSalle Building. He subsequent
set up in this office with one Mike Marrisseyof B & R Fox laboratories,

Washington, D. C. ‘Mr. Morrissey was totally involved in electronic’

a equipment including both the sale of such and its use in ‘connection with ;

    
      

 

 

“Morrissey nad apparerily been utilized: By sth: , Sentral Irivesti igatin

 

“Agency” for electronic sweeps and 1 conceivably. positive installations. Mr.

 

 

 

Docld: 32340477 Page 3
 

‘Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2407 Hote).
OLE . : ote,

        
 

 

VDATE:. 11-1 : os oo ee i ;
ON boas oo ot oN : De ns:

ae or the Central Twestigqative Agenty | and in fact a corporation was

formed and registered in 1 Delaware known as Security Consultants .

~ International. “Me. Muldoon stated that - Security Consultants ‘International

r

>was formed to. sell electronic gear to the Government and foreign
embassies which was actually Morrissey! s line of products. It was -

"planned that Security Consultants International would ultimately assume

 

“certain investigative and. other type’ requirements using basically Mr.

 

“Mutdoon’ Ss contacts and experience. ‘He necalled that Morrissey had

:

 

“recently received some mention in the locai papers incidental ‘to the

 

“Galbraith case which involved the sex “slaying & of a young girl. _ Morrissey
“apparently tape recorded some conversations between the defending

attorneys (whom he was associated with) and | the prosecution during the

| trial in Richmond,,. Virginia. Mr. Morrissey was ‘there as an ‘electronics
oo Me expert apparently to testify to the imperfections of lie detectors. Mr.

Morrissey has an engineering and law degrees, the latter recently re-

 

“ceived from the American University . - _ “ ee *

“Some prospective Clients for sweeps. were foreign embassies

  

Mattel BD

equipment.

 

 

 

 

Docla:32340477 Page 4
