 

 

 

 

 

/ This man was:

 amediatsly aite> the ance

     

weer said as follows: es

3 ze. 5 ae Basar t =

 

Oswald casa sxcest that ha ia dead.
Dallas offica iom 2 Dan
waa a member ofa commits.

There is morsing. faxther < on the
Last nigh? we racseived a call in our b
talldag ia calm voice and saying he
organizes i Sawa. :

 

We atornes 5 motived the Caiez raf Polisa pa: ha aseursd vs Oswald
gould be gives sxiiicient F projacton. + hia morning we called the
Sbility of soma elfort

Chief of Douize again warning of. the O33
pgainst Cawaid ane be again assured 05 cdequate 5 protection would
be given. However, this waa no3 dom.

They brougst Rize ow of he cary: ya ond ers taking him to the »
County Jail wae a man steoped ous aad shot him in the stomach,
mrresjedatonce. He go3s unger tha pame of Jack

‘Leoa Raby bat bis ssalname 25 Rubenstein, Hs rans two night

clubs in Dallazond bes the reputation at being a homoesex=

We had an agant at the

Hospital and Gied abont4S minsies 2Ze-
some Bind of a conte ssion.

Jpospital t gn tha-hooe + thakhe might mais
be pioxe be died bat be G5 nol o> 90° oy

 

Reby saya po one was asgori ted wit his and denies hayieg meds.

the telepzoneceail t> ome.
the pra asout tates 3 speareage-and: that he

iting of the Prssigentanade | Bim insaus. That was a a preity amazt-

zpoyeon Sie Pae* because St Sight Jay the Zouniatios for 2 plea of

  
 

  

J eiggaiched te Tallasonee! may t59 assistants in

 
 
  
 
 

 

~ ppcuasSueTes ofa

on
CY PELEASE IN FUEL
F " (0 RELEASE IN PART
Ci) TOTAL DENIAL

  
   
 

CLASSIFIED ByY_
EXEMPT FROM GDS CATESORY
DATE O F DECLASSIFICAY 103 INDEFINITE

HW 54653 DocId: 32263509 Page 2

 

zing, ka {Oswald) was moves 2° Parkisad

SMaNss offices last aight Es cay? 22 becggnt
he guassed his gxied over tae

  

S

LL

the hops Shetbe tke

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
JFK Assassination System Date: 10/20/20
Identification Form

 

Agency Information Released under the John
. Eennedy
Assassination Records
Ollection Act of 1992

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: = 180-10110-10104

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#iNU 54653 Date:
HO-23-2017

RECORD SERIES: SECURITY CLASSIFIED FILES

 

AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 127-JFK

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE: = 11/24/1963
PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS :
OSWALD, LEE, MURDER BY RUBY

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted ‘
CURRENT STATUS: — Withhold
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 08/16/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Box 4. °

v9.1 1

HW 54653 Docld:32263509 Page 1 .
 
   
    

“maight stoo the Chief of Police and his otafi from ding so dasaned
much talcing on television. They did cot really babe a case agains: lu
Oswald wall we gave them our information, We traced the weavon,

we ideatiGied ths handwriting, we ideatfied the fingerorinta on the.
browa bag. -

We wers abla to Wentify tha bullat» as coming from than sua, AL
the Dallas Polics had waa three witeasas who tentatively identitag
him as.the man whe shot the policeman and boarded a bas io go home UL
Dhortly alter the President was ‘ciMed.. He gotona bus ta 30 home

_to gata s’irt ond tha bus conductor tentatively identified him 2a the
man who boarded tha bus. .

Cawali bad baen sayisg bs wanted Jpha Abtas his lawyer nad Abt,
withoanty that iinc of evidence, could have termed the cass arena, .
Pro asi. AN tha toiking down thers might have required achanzas Uo |
of veopa ca the basis that Cawalid could not haya cotena fair trial
in Dalies.. 2f they Keen on tolking, nevhaps ths same will bs teas
oi Reoz. . : :

 

Gaisi ofSolice Carry 5 madersrend cannot control Cast. Frits of the
tlomocize Squad, who in giving much information to tha preps.
Since ve row think it invelyes the Criminal Code om a consbizasy ] \
charge under Section 25}, we aot tham tp ohutup. Furthermore, ;
2 have ordered the evidence ba secured by the Polies Denartment
Wo sent most of the svidenes back to them. Ws 5350 have cha
bullets that were Sired and will keep them.

Hi

 

Tha thing Zam concerned abont, and so is Mr, Naizenbach, is having
Sometning issued 50 .ws.can convines the pudlic thas Oswald is the S
realassasain, Air, atzendach thinks that the President might

Bpooint a Presidential Commission oj three outsinading citizens

to snake a determination. 2 countered witha suggestion that we make
‘ma inysszadye repert to the Atieraay General with pictasss,

Jaboratory Dork, ete, Thea the Attorney General can maks the

Sepor? tp the Presiden? and the President can decide whether to make
izpublic. i felt this was better becansa thers ars saveral Bsoezets

whith would complicate our foreign velations. /For instances, Oswald
mads & pbona call the Cuban Embagen in Menico City which we T
intersepied. it was only about a visa, however. He also wratea

REI

a?)

HW 54653 DocId:32263509 Page 3
wo

letter t the Soviet Embassy hers in Washingtob, which wa S
iutoreapied, read, and resaaled. “Sais letter reier=ad to the

fact that the P31 bj questoned his activities on the Phir Play ,

to Cuba. Committee and nlao asked about extension of his wife's

visa. That letter from Caewall waa addressed to ths sas in

the Soviet Exibasay who is in charge of Gusassinations and similar
activities on the part of the Soviet goveramaat. To have that draws
into & peblis Asaring would muddy the waters internahonally. To

eae ott that would reveal our failure te carry out indesnational courteay
Jaws. / Aad since this bas nothing t> do vita proof that Oswald T
cCommittsd the murder, Imada tha sugzastion to Al. Matmenaack

that instead of a Presidential Commission, wea do it witha Justice
Depart=seat report based on au FSi resort

Cawals> havieg hewn Litied today after or warnings to the Dallas
Police Deparimax, wasinexensable. it will silow, Tam ataid,’ u
2 Jot of ctyil tights peoole to vsise a lot of bell because he was -
handouiied and had mo weapon... There ave bound to be some clamenia
of ons society who will boller their beads off that his civil rights
wers violated ~- which thoy were.

We have no information on Ruby that is fiom, although there ase
Some rumors of uadesworid activity in Chicago. OF his tvo night u ‘
ciubs, one is co sizip tease joint acd the other is & liquor place.

  

Ws S°= i i

 

HW 54653  DocId: 32263509 Page 4
