 

 

LA 105~15602

The indices of the Los Angeles Office are
negative for names of EDUARDO GULLON and
LEADS:
NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK: (1) wall consider
the advisatility of checking at the ."Unemployment Agency" on

‘Warren Street or the New York Athletic Club, for background

data on EDUARDO GULLON.
(2) wil consider obtaining photographs of

persons arrested by the New York Police in July or

August of 1963, fer purpose of exhibiting these to |
to identify the Puerto Rican acquainted with
ON, ; .

(3). Will furnish the Los an ffice with all
‘known background data ——— for purpose of
evaluating any information furnishe y him, possibly as a
source on Cuban matters.

MIASY
AT MIAMI, FLORIDA: Will check nish

the Los Angeles Orfice background data on
Cc)

for the purpose of evaluating any information
furnished by him possibly as a source on Cuban matters.

 

~————— — —
Se

NW 46096

DociId:32199640 Page 8
NW 46096

 

ee

LA 105-15602

eritical of.a recent program concerning the Soviet education
of children which he protessed was nothing but “a pack of
lies."

| advised that the American people must
understan at it was BATISTA himself who started communism
itself in Cuba. It was BATISTA who allowed members of the

Communist Party to be sitting on his own cabinet. BATISTA
allowed communism to get its first stronghold in Cuba.

advised that he would willingly advise at a
future date all that he knows about. communism in Cuba. H2
described CARLOS PRIO SOCCARAS as a farce, a phony, who has
a following of people who do not know him to be“a cardboard
paper President of Cuba." He knew PRIO SOCCARAS had been
recently in Los Angeles. He was certain that MANUAL KAY is
not pro=Soviet. Regarding the latter, he stated that he is
not a Soviet spy, that MANUEL RAY believes in establishing
only a socialized system of government in Cuba and purposely
wants to eliminate communism.

was friendly and was desirous of having a

meet again.

[__Jeavisea that he is presently employed at
the Packard-Bell Industrial Products factory and that he
daily tries to apprise his fellow workers who are Americans
of the danger of FIDEL CASTRO toward the future of the
United States. He explained that the is hopeful of
obtaining better employment in order to continue in his
fight against communism. He exhibited an advertising sketch
he had drawn and started that he was hopeful of obtaining
employment in designing for advertisements. He stated that
he needs more money to support his family and more time to
do what he wants to struggle against communism.

FL feriained that his wife's mother is in -
Miami and he is hopeful of moving her to Los Angeles, and
thereby reside in the Los Angeles area unless CASTRO were
deposed and he could then return to Cuba.

-6-

OTHER 4

 

DociId:32199640 Page 7
 

 

LA 10515602

[ advised that he knew nothing further than OTHER 4
that above an hat if he were to find out further '
information or assist the Bureau, he was desirous of knowing if
the Bureau would back him all the way if he were uncovered as a
person assisting the Bureau.

was told emphatically that he could never
consider himself to be a Bureau employee and that the Bureau
could never give an individual the license to act on his
own and to take the law in his hands.

 

explained that he had gone into the Miami
Office some time back and presented some information i
regarding the passing out of pro-CASTRO propaganda and that ;
at that time he had asked for Bureau backing if he should |
infiltrate into pro-CASTRO ranks. He was told then that he
could not consider nimself to be a Bureau employee and he i
advised that he could not understand how anyone could assist '
the United.States with such a policy. He considers that the |
Buresu would back anyone fully who would volunteer to fight i
FIDEL CASTRO and communism. -
’ 1

DL astated that he was disgusted with CIA and
its policy because he was involved in the Bay of Pigs

invasion and he met representatives of CIA in Guatemala who

could not speak Spanish and actually what they instructed

with regard to espionage and sabotage was archaic. He |
digressed at length to explain how when he tried to open som :
ammunition boxes during the invasion that he found bricks in
the boxes and he was certain that there had been a
“double-cross", all the way on this invasion.

was critical of the apathy of the American
people toward CASTRO and he warned of the dangerousness of ‘
CASTRO. He added that he got to know CASTRO in Cube and
that CASTRO is an egotist who will stop at nothing.
was critical because he cannot understand why the Unite
States allows Cuba to maintain a bastion of arms just 95
miles away from United States shorer; why persons such as
students are allowed to go to Cuba; and why persons are
allowed to furnish monies to aid Guba without their being
prosecuted. He identified Cuba as the enemy and any

5 4 e

A RR a
NW 46096 DocId:32199640 Page 5
 

LA 105={15602

information given Cuba against the United States he considers
is an act of espionage.- He could not understand why even
the Casa Cuba is allowed toqerate in New York City.

. Lor advised that he is associated with a group
whom he ati ov volunteer to identify who are disgusted with

the apathy of the American people and the U. S$, Government
against communism in Latin American and this group of
Cubans consider their struggle not one of fighting to keep
communism out of Cuba or the United States alone, but of
keeping the entire Western Hemisphere free from communism.
He considers their struggle to be a losing battle because
he understands that CASTRO could now cause a revolution for
communism in almost every country in South America but that
Russia is not in accord because Russia fears that CASTRO
would take over and cut Russia out of the material gains.
was not pressed for the identity of this group because

was apparent that at this time he would not identify

them. 7 . .

TORRES advised that it is a mockery to not allow
the report of the FBI concerning the assassination of
President JOHN F, KENNEDY to be made public. TORRES advised
that it is a kmown fact that L SWALD was connected with
the Fair Play for Cuba and to not alert the American nation
to this as well as to the distortion of OSWALD's mind is to
be "lulled into a false state of complacency."

[J advised that Americans have little if any
understanding of the diabolical ambitions of CASTRO or even
much understanding of communism. He related at length how
he personally attempted to alert the U. S. Embassy at Havana
about FIDEL CASTRO being a communist and how many Americans
in Cuba and the U. S. were first sympathetic toward CASTRO.

[| considers it pathetic that the Voice of
America is so ili equipped to compete with the pro-Soviets
broadcasts which are being made to Cuba. He has been appalied

at the great anount of pro-Sovist propaganda being exhibited
to the American people by television and. he was especially

-5-

OTHER 4

 

RI

NW 46096

DociId:32199640 Page 6
 

(a wos ee

sh grroat gimme: we . a
‘ UNITED rare ¥OvERNMEN! ; Cc) ;
Memorandum
DIRECTOR, FBI an
a DATE: JAN3 3964 ,
ues}
ia Ctypsic, LOS ANGELES (105-15602) (RUC) —
FRO) . o ,
2 6) . . |
XK EDUARDO GULLON 4-/

SUBJECT: TS = CUBA ,
. . = 1
AL INFORMATION CONTAINED a j D- aly |

: HEREINIS UNCLASSIFIED 7
00: New York jee iy Sh had ss ;

Re-New York letter dated 10/28/63.
|

Enclosed are three (3) photographs of CESAR
BOULLON being returned to the New York Office. Qube

On 12/19/63 Reverend A, CLARK confidentially
advised that the records of the Catholic Welfare al ee i

400 West Ninth Street, Los Angeles, reflected that ‘ OTHER 4
last known residence was listed as the Nyy }
; apartments, 448 South. Grandview, Street, Apartment i

-Number,,3,..L0s. Angeles, and that was residing. at this
address with his witel ante: ehildren.
v

. of 12/19/63 at the above Ansonia;
Q Apartments, advised SA FREDERICK E. ‘
' RODERICK the following in the Spanish language:
_

|
i
In June, 1963, while unemployed in New York city!

[began going daily to the "Unemployment Agenéy".on |

Warren Street where he met EDUARDO GULLON from Peru, South
America, about 20 to 21 years of age, 5' 4", 150 pounds,. |

medium: build but well proportioned, dark hair, dark eyes,

. nd . 7 hy o
i

/ (py Rey

man owe
@). sureau (REGISTERED MAIL) (27-3664 de®
~ Kansas City (Info) (REGISTERED MATL) or Chr

 

 

   

I
2 = Miami (REGISTERED MAIL) LAG
2 ~ New York (Enels. 3) (REGISTERED AIL) — 3 Uae
4 - Los Angeles Y tb 3 :
1-134-NEM 4 ) &

1-105-15 MANUAL RAY — _
1-109-11) (CARLOS PRIO socarRas) /Jsd= L24LSS
FER/dtv - | ; 6 JAN 6 1964 l >
. (11) sal, 4
’ & ere |
per oe i

Ba JAN 15 1964 a

& : . i . a

NW 46096 DocId:32199640 Page 2
 

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: — FBI
RECORD_NUMBER:  124-10273-10375

RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-124155-8

 

ORIGINATOR:
FROM:
TO:

DATE:
PAGES:

 

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL
CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW_DATE:
STATUS

COMMENTS:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

FBI
SAC, LA
DIRECTOR, FBI

01/03/1964

7
LHO, POST-RP, AFFIL, FPCC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified NEW
CLASSIFICATION:
10/30/1998 UPDATE DATE: — 02/14/2001
Redact ~
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (4)

NW 46096 DocId:32199640 Page i
—

 

LA 105-15602

round face, small nose, dark complexion, mestizo (Caucasian
and Indian race) poorly dressed, worked as a porter and a
Gishwasher in restaurants.

[ viewed the photographs of CESAR BOULLON,
which were forwarded Los Angeles by Kansas City with
negative results.

| could not recall the address of EDUARDO GULLON
and added a e had furnished the address to SA PETERSON’ :
in New York.

The only other person whom knew who was
acquainted with EDUARDO GULLON was a Puerto Rican, name not
recalled, who was also frequenting the Unemployment Agency
on Warren Street daily. Cj thought that he might have
given the name of this person to SA PETERSON in New York

it but he could not recall. The Puerto Rican, who told
[thet he was a member of the Nationalist Party of

uerto Rico was in contact with GULLON and both were
intending to return to Cuba to receive instruction in
espionage, sabotage and subversive activities for the
purpose of returning later to the United States.

described the Puerto Rican as about 29
years, 5! » 130 pounds, black curly hair, dark eyes, thin
nose, part Negro, always wore a white shirt and black trousers,
He had worked at the New York Athletic Club in the kitchen.
did not know if GULLON had worked at the New York
Athletic Club, but considered it possible since the Puerto
Rican did work there. .

[|] recelled that the Puerto Rican had been
arrested with others in July or August by the New York
Police Departmant when a protestation was made publiciy that
Negroes were not being allowed to work in the hospitais in
New York. [(__] considered that if all the photogrephs of
these persons errested were obtained that he could viz them
and identify this Puerto Rican.

=~ 2-

OTHER 4

 

ee

NW 46096

DociId:32199640 Page 3
 

LA 105~15602 |

. |

advised that he was a former member of the OTHER 4

police department at Havana, Cuba, under the BAPFISTA regime ;
and that he has been well acquainted with FIDEL CASTRO and
communist elements of Cuba having worked on the subversive ~
detail. While associating with GULLON and the Puerto Rican,
he criticized the United States and posed as being sympathetic

toward communism in order to ascertain information from
them.

[J advised that if any information is ever
obtained about his being sympathetic toward communism, that
this should be discounted because he has spent most of his
life and especially the last five years doing everything
possible to fight communism.

[-] tearnea from GULLON and the Puerto Rican
that FIDEL CASTRO is now inducing individuals who are in
favor of communism and who are in the United States to go to
Cuba for special training creating a "Fifth Column" to
return to the major cities in the United States.
learned from GULLON that CASTRO intends within a ten year
period to have enough "Fifth Column" trainees to take over
the United States.

= was certain that by now GULLON, the Puerto
Rican and allegedly 24 others from New York are now in Cuba
| receiving the described training. He understood that each
individual who is to go to Cuba for the training is moved |
from the United States clandestinely either through Canada |
or Mexico, He did not know the identity of the others as _ t
this was told him by GULLON, |
|

; [~~] stated that he had intended to obtain the

name of Dominican w to go also to Cuba for the ’
above training, but oy left New York City before ha |
obtained the name. '

a repeated that GULLON and the Puerto Rican '
were well acquainted and that their contacts were at tne

Casa Cuba which[_— described as a "bee-hive" of

“individuals who are in favor of CASTRO, and communism against

the U.S. .

. -3- !

 

NW 46096 DocId:32199640 Page 4
