 

 

   
 

 

 

‘ihe White Howse;

+ Seeurity- Requirements for Government ~-

"Employment

_ Executive Order 7885. _ June 4, 1974...

Amenpine Executive Orper No, 10450, as Amenvep,
Rexatinc To Securiry REQUIREMENTS For GOVERN-
meNnT EMPLOYMENT, AND FoR OTHER PuRPOSES

‘By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Consti-

‘tution and statutes of the United States, including 5
US.C. 1101 et seq., 3301, 3571, 7301, 7313, 7501(c),

7512, 7532, and 7533; and as President of the United
States, and finding such action necessary in the best in-
terests of national security, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Section 12 of Executive Order No. 10450
of April 27, 1953, as amended, is revised to read in its
entirety as follows:

“Sec. 12. Executive Order No. 9835 of March 21,
1947, as amended, is hereby revoked.”

Sec. 2. Neither the Attorney General, nor the Sub-
versive Activities Control Board, ncr any other agency
shall designate organizations pursuant to section 12 of Ex-
ecutive Order No. 10450, as amended, nor circulate nor
publish a list of organizations previously so designated.
The list of organizations previously designated is hereby
abolished and shall not be used for any purpose..

Sec. 3. Subparagraph (5) of paragraph ( a) of section
8 of Executive Order No. 10450, as amended, is revised to
. Tead as follows:

“Knowing membership with the specific intent of fur-
thering the aims of, or adherence to and active participa-
tion in, any foreign or domestic organization, association,
movement, group, or combination of persons (hereinafter
referred to as-organizations) which unlawfully advocates
or practices the commission of acts of force or violence to
prevent others from exercising their rights under the Con-
stitution or laws of the United States or of any State, or
which seeks to overthrow the Government of the United
States, or any State or subdivision thereof by unlawful
means.”

* Stevoked:-

__ June 4; 1974.

*, Fane 4, 1974]

7 55015 Docld:32989603 Page 9

., Sec. 4,- Bxedative Onder N . 11605, ro Suly 2. 1971, is. o

ihe Office ‘of “the” "Federal “Reiser, 3: 05 Pm :

 

 

’ ‘presidential Documents

Volume 10 Number 23
Pages 572 and 573
June 10, 1974

W

  
  

 

 

daectnenet Nate enrtertbasthtcetante ated
na nde, pinnneeenrtne hatin ante ene he chante

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

; 6 ) r

(lice of the Attorney General

Mashing tan,AG.
December 5, 1947

x
+
we

 

   
 

  

 

 

IVES EIG!

   

1
\
“y

i}

This will refer to your memorondun of November 22 with

reference to the Harcqzis Childs column appearing in The Washington ,
Post on Yovenber 15, 1947 and to your letters of Movember S1, the
_one addressed to Hr, Childs and the other addressed to Mr. Paul A,

, —7falker, Acting Chairman, Federal Communications Conmissiong ~~~ ~

It is my view that the Bureau's practice of passing along
to the various Government departments and agencies information .
which comes to its attention in comnection with the conduct of "
investigations normally and regularly within the Bureau's juris- :
. diction is entirely anpropriate and correct, Indeed, is would i
. | appear that the Bureau would be remiss in its duty if it fatled
to pess along information coming to it which might prove to be
in the interest of the general welfere, It is not the Bureau's
resmonsibility to determine whether the information is or is not
. of importance to the particuler agency in the carrying out of its
current activities and responsidilitins and whether or not any
, action is taken by the department or agency is not, of course, a
‘ principal concern of the Bureau. ~

I believe, therefore, that the Bureau should continue its

practice of passing along information which it is believed. might
be of interest to the various departments and agencies. At the ~
same time I believe that it would be appropriate either (a) to
. prepare a circulcr to the various departments and agencies explain- .

ing the Bureau's purpose in fu hing information frou time to ‘ “
time, or (b) to make a varticular effort for a time when trans. 7
mitting individual-items of information to explain in the trans- a
mittal memorandum the Bureau's purpose in. making such transmittal,

 

   

 

I
|
i
\ . | .
a Attorney GenSfal> re

 

»

AW 55015 DocId:32989603 Page 10
Lo :

 

 

 
    

TZ

 

 

 

; . (i) The Board mey furthe

consideration of the

 

dence, that an organ-

ization has ceased to exist., Upon petition of
organization which has been designated pursu-

. chearings may determine that such organization
dees not currently meet the standards for
designation. The Attorney General shall appro-

. priately revise or modify the information,

ie ee

with the determinations of the Board. :
(j) The Board shall issue appropriate regu-
lations for the implementation of this section.5¢=
Sec. 13. The Attorney General is requested
to render to the heads of departments and
agencies such advice as may be requisite to

appropriate employee-security program.

~ Sec. 14. (a) The Civil Service Commission,
with the continuing advice and collaboration:
ot waprosontatives af such dvpartinents und
agencies as the National Security Council may
designate, shall make a continuing study of
the manner in which this order is being imple-
mented by the departments and agencies of the
: Government for the purpose of determining:

(1) Definencies m the department and

order which are inconsistent with. the interests
of, or directly or indirectly weaken. the national
security. . :

(2) Tendencies in such prograrhs to deny to.
individual employees fair, impactial. and equi:
table treatment at the hands of the Govern-
‘ment, or rights under the. Constitution and
laws of the United States or this order.

 

 

5 As amended by Executive Order 11605 of July 2,.

. 1971. wx. Section 706 of the Departments of State,
Justice, and Commerce, the Judiciary, and Related
Agencies Appropriation Act, 1973, approved October 25,
1972, Public Law 92-544, provides as follows:

“ge. 706. No part of the funds appropriated by this
Act shall be available to the Department of Justice
or the Subversive Activities Control Board to carry .
out, execute or implement the provisions of Executive
Order 21605 of July 2, 1971.” © co

 

' “Inst. 127° .
oot "January: 23, 1973

 

   
 

 

MW 55015 Docld:32989603 ‘paje 8.” 4

 

htermine, after

the Attorney General or upon petition of any.

- ant to this section the Board after appropriate -

*“furhishied'to departments and agencies conéistant ~

enable them to establish and maintain an™

agency securty programs established under this-

 

- Boox II. Serxecrep Execurive Orpers

 

* [Information i, any department or-
agency develuped or received during the course
of such’ continuing study shall he furnished
‘immediately to the head of the department or
agency concerned. The Civil Service .Com-
mission shall report to the National Security
Council, at least semiannually, on the results of
such study, shall recontmend means to ‘correct

any such deficiencies or tendencies, and shall
- inform the National Security Council immedi-
ately. of'any deficiency which is deemed to be of

major importance.$ .
(b) All departments and agencies of “the

Government are directed to cooperate with the |

Civil Service Commission to facilitate the
accomplishment-of the responsibilities assigned
to it by subsection (a) of this section.

(c) To assist the Civil Service Commission

in discharging its responsibilities under this ___

order, the head of cach department and agency
shall, as soon as possible and in no event later
than ninetv dave after receipt of the final
investigative report on @ civilian. officer or
employee subject to a full field investigation
under the provisions of this order, advise the
Commission as to the action teken with respect
to such officer or employee. The information
furnished by the heads of departments and
agencies pursuant to this section shall be
included in the reports which the Civil Service
Commission is required to submit to the
National Security Council in accordance with
subsection (a) of this Section. ‘Such reports
shall set forth any deficiencies on the part of the
. heads of departments and agencies in taking
timely action under this order, end shall-men-
tion specifically any instances of noncompliance
with this subsection. .
* Sec. 15. This order shall become effective
thirty days after the date hereof.

Dwiows D. Eisexiowes
Tue Wuite House, “
April 27, 1958.

 

 

* As amended by Executive Order 10550 of August 5,
1954, . :

”

FPM Supplement 990-1

 

 

 
 

 

‘Sze. ‘12. (a) utive Order No. 9835 of
ay . "

agency shall be furnished by “the Attorney
* General with the name of each organization
which shall be or has been heretofore designated
" “under : this. order. Except as “specifigally.
\ vided hereafter, not! thing contained herein shall.
.. be.construed in any’ way.,to affect previous..

 

No. 10450, as amended. ° ana
(ce) The Subversive Activities Contiol Board
shall, upon petition of the Attorney General,
conduct appropriate hearings to determine
whether any organization is totalitarian, fascist,
commaunist, subversive, or whether it has
- adopted a policy of unlawfully advocating the
commission of acts of force or violence to deny
others their rights under the Constitution or
laws of the United States or of any State, or
which seeks to overthrow the government of the
“United “States oz any Stats or subdivision
thereof by unlawful means.
-(d) The Board may determine that an organi-
zation has adopted a policy of unlawfully

 

Niglence’ to deny others their. constitutional

 

“statuiory rights or that an organization seeks
to overthrow the government of the United

unlawful means if if is found that such group
‘ engages in, unlawfully advocates, or has among

of obtaining any of its purposes or objectives.—
*:(i) The commission of acts of force or
iolence..or other unlawful. acts.to.deny athers:,

, theif" “yishis’or ‘benefits? guaranteed by the:
vo “Constitution or laws of the United States or of
the ‘several States or political subdivi isions
thereof; or

(2) 'Tke unlawful damage or destruction of
property; or injury to persons: or

(3) The overthrow or destruction .of the
government of the United States or the
government of any State,. Territory, district,
or possession thereof, or the government of any
political subdivision therein in, by unlawful mean

 
  
 
 

 

 

   

 

we

   

 

Lxecutive Order 1045

 

. service of the United States, impeding. offic

   
 

_ offenses. - *

 

” designations made pursuant’ to Executive Order ; :

 

“* organization® engages in ‘aétivitiés which sea

. system of government in the United States

" means the establishment of a system of govern-

advocating the commission of acts of force or -

ongdeuiona. or’:

ota .. States, or any State or subdivision thereof by- -

’ its purposes or objectives, or adopts as a means .

~~ gsia-Teldhtléss dass war ditned-at tie déestiic

“the dictatorship of the proletariat,

the abolition or destruction by unlewful means
” of the government of the United’ States or any

- W-2T

Af i of acts which violate
ing tot ag tebellion.

  
   

    

 

spiracy, "sabotage, trading . with the en
‘obstruction of the recruiting and enlistmen:

 

‘of - the’ United States, or. related crimes or -,

pen smn eae eBbanan

- (e) The Board may: ‘determine an organiza
tion, to be “totalitarian”. if it is found that su

 
 
 
 

kee se ald oe

by unlawful means the establishment of =

which is autocratic and in which control is
centered in a single individual, group, o=
political party, allowing no effective represents-
tion to opposing individuals, groups, or part
and providing no practical opportunity ic
dissent.
(f) The Board may determine: an organize-

tion to be “fascist” if it is found that organize-
tion engages in activities which seek by unlawic! -

 

 

 

i
j
{
!
i
t
t
|
i

ment in the United States which is character-
ized by rigid one-party dictatorship, forcible
suppression of the opposition, owriership of cue
“means’of production under centralized govern-
menta' control and which fosters racism.

(g) The Board.may determine an organizs-
tion to be “communist” if it is found that suena
organization engages in activities which seek
by unlawful means the establishment of s
government in the United States which
based upon the revolutionary principles cz
Marxism-Leninism, which interprets histor vO

 

 

  

of the existing society and the establishment of
the govern-
ment ownership of the means of production
and distribution of property, and the establish-
ment of a single authoritarian party. -

(h) The Board may determine an organize-
tiot to be “subversive” if.it'is found that such
organization engages in activities which seek

dome betas Mecha nnens alae ee ted woman

     
  

ensSdcues Salpelenee 0 laos o sneer eben asdetoneachee:

   

Inst. 197
~Jonuary 23, -1973 ..-

  

 

knead Sethe pe helareengmes «

 
 

we , . consistent with
i Such

 
 
  

  

wD Sane the rejation of the Gov-
: _ ernment employment to the national securit
v : tion's
‘is ‘not’

 

   
 

 

Toy Loe whieh tend’ to sliow .thar ‘tie 3
cos ‘Teliable’ or trustworthy.”

 

“fications, or omissions of material facts..

    

moral, or notoriously disgraceful conduct.
habitual use of intoxicants to excess, drug ad-
diction, or sexual perversion.

(iv) Any illness, including any mental condi-
tion, of a nature which in the opinion of compe-
tent. medical authority may cause significant

; defect in the judgment or reliability of the

- ’ employee, with due regard to the transient or

, : continuing effect of the illness and the medical
- + findings in such case!

_ (v) Any fects which furnish reason te be-

_ lieve that the individual may be subjected to.

ae coercion, influence, or pressure which may

 

cause him to act contrary to the best interests |,

‘of the national security.

   
 
 
    
 

 

. espionage, treason, or sedition, or attempts
. thereat or preparation therefor, or conspiring."

 

 

  

. or attempt | to commit any act of sabotage,
_ : espionage, treason, or sedition.

association with ¢ saboteur, SPY, traitor,
seditionist, anarchist. or reyolutioni with
ery dspiddage-d ‘OF other stéretiagent oT -Te ps seital
‘tive of a foreign nation, or any “representative
“of ® foreign? nation whose interests may - be!”
inimical to the interests of the United States,

  

  

force or violence to overthrow the government
of the United States or the alteration, of the
‘form of government of the United States by
. unconstitutional means. _

(4) Advocacy of use of force ¢ or ‘violence to
: overthrow the government of the United States,”

 

 

amnenideg: by: Brostive Order 10! 48" f Auguist 2

 

 

 

55015 seorg a0b80003. Beige 5
. OL gte 7 .

 

Lwecutive Order 1050

we ‘of the national
: ranations shall. Relate, sub

 

of thd-Un

 

 

or sympathetic association with, any toreign ox

  
 

2 group, of co

 

. fascist, communist, subversive, or which hes
adopted a Policy of unlawfully. advocating the ..#

 

bee et . : ‘Gi i)Any deliberate. misrepresentations. falsi- .

: Any “eriminal,-infaniois;:dishonestiim« <: -others,.their_ rights..under-:the Constitution: ‘or.

  

 

+ “sith, or aidifig or abetting, anothér to coriinit’.-"

(8) Establishing or continuing sympathetic’ :

 

 
 

or with any person who advocates the use of “ployment of, or employed by, the Government

_ primarily be the responsibility of the empl

    
   
   
   
 
    
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
 

 

 

‘ . / ~_
or of the Qu” of the form of government
States.byameonstityti i

   

(5) ‘Rauiowiny membership n, “or affiliat rag

 

dome tic organization, association, moveme
nbination of” persons (hereinafy
eferred to:as. degsitization) which is totalitarica, 7

 

 

commission 6f acts of force or violence to a
laws of the United States or of any State,
which seeks to overthrow the government of
the United States or any State or subdivision
thereof by unlawful means.<=

(6) Intentional. unauthorized disclosure to
any person of security information. or of other
information disclosure of which is prohibited by’
law, or willful violation or disregard of security
regulations. 7.

(7) Performing or attempting to perform his
duties, or otherwise acting, so as to serve the
interests of another government in preference
to the interests of the United States.

(8) Refusal by the individual, upon tke
ground of constitutional privilege againct sel/-
Jncris-ination, to: testify before-a congressionel
éommitiee regarding charges of his elleged-di
_toyalt ty or other misconduct? .

(b). The dnvestigation. of persons. ontering or r+,
employed in the competitive service shell
primarily be the responsibility of the Civil
Seryice Commission, except in cases in which
the head of a department or agency assumes
thet responsibility pursuent ¢ to law 9 or by agree-

 

     

  

‘all finnish 8 full é réport: to ‘the’
.. department or agency concemed. , went

(ec) ‘The- irivestigetion of persons (includ
consultants, however employed), entering

 

other than in the competitive service s

 

department or agency. Depertments and eg:
cies without investigative facilities.:may use the

smctemene geet

2 As amended by Executive Order 1049f.of October.13, -
1953.
2PoBS

¢ -Ex8outive:Ordef 11605 df Jaly-2

 

 

 

 
Ra

   
   
 
  
  
 

investigative facilities of the VW Service Com-

mission. and ,other departnwe

 

 

tye
o ,
Comuiissiun. .

. (d) There shall be referred promptly -to the

 thotis being “conducted by afy. other agencies

 

. dnterests of the. national: secu

” relating’ to any of the matters described in sub-
divisions (2) through (8) * of subsection (a) of
this section. In cases so referred to it, the
Federal Bureau of Investigation shall make a
full field investigetion.

Sec. 9. (a) There shall be established and
maintained in the Civil Service Commission a
security-investigations index covering all per-
sons as to whom security investigations have
been conducted by any department or agency
of the Government under this order. The cen-
tral index established and maintained by the

LO _ Commission under Executive Order No. 9835 of

 

- tity-investigations index. The security-investi-
-Bations index shall contain. the hameof each per-
son invéstigated” sdeduate ‘identifying informa:
tion, concerning, each such-persen, and a refer-

 

 

oa -efice’ to éach department and agency. which has ..

” eohducted an investiga.ion concerning the per-
son involved or has suspended or terminated the
employment of such perso> under the authority

~ granted to heads of departments and agencies.

by or in accordance with the suid act of August

   
   

 

Commission information appropriate for the
. establishment and maintenance of the security-
- imvestigations index.
a (c) The reports and other investigative ma-
terial and information developed by investiga-
. tions conducted pursuant to any statute, order,
or program described in section 7 of this order
shall remain the property of the i inv estigative
“agencies conducting the ~ investigatiois, but

      

‘DocId: 32989603 ' Page 6°

BOOK dd. OBLECILD LAECUTIYE URDETS

 

may, subject to a a of the natiorial
-gecurity,..be . -retaind

 

nd Agencies

 

fx tn
UST SUCH WCMINCS UGer agreement W ith the

. investiga

| Federal Bureau of Investigation all investiga:.

 

: investigative “agéncy concernéd; ‘to ‘other de- 7
“‘partinénts and agencies conducting ‘security ——
* programs: urider the authority granted by‘or in -
“accordance with the said act of August 26,1956,

 

. which ‘develop information. indicating. that an.

individual may have been subjected to coercion, |
“Influence, or pressure to ‘act contrary to the -.
,.or information.-

  

-appeal or otherwise.

March 21, 1947. shall be made a part of the secu- ©

; favors ble, to the. officer or employee concerned :
‘pending

 

 

“with ‘uch favorable determination the case shall

. cies shal! furnish promptly to, the Civil: Service | - .
7 py - department’ ¢ or-agency concerned. ‘Cases’ ‘being

-vided, that if no specific department or agency *

 

 

 

wr -by-.the department . gr. &
~ Swelf Teports an Sther

- at + fn
ive material and information shall be

avoney sorserne
agency

 

cence) peter

o

 

maintained in confidence, and no access shall be.
given thereto except, with the consent of the.

 

 

as.may | be required. for: th e san cient Conduct, f
Government business. .

Sec. 10. Nothing in this order shall be con- |
strued as eliniinating or modifying in any way -
the requirement for any investigation or any
determination as to security which may be
required by law.

Sec. 11. On end after the effective date of this ,
order the Loyalty Re view Board established by
Executive Order No 9835 of March 21, 1947,.
shall not accept agency findings for review, upon
Appeals pending beiore .
the Loyaliy Review Board on such date shail be - :
heard to final determination mn accordance with _.
the provisions of the said Executive Order No.
9835, as amended. Agency: determinations

 

cok metaettneetedtrines mettaltentnrnten shunstensaamnnisnemtanctdenste me sen, spgiigimen quand vefetmat

   
  

“Delotée the" Loyalty Review Board’ ou
such date shall be acted upon by such Board,
and whenever.the, Board is not in agreement

be remanded.to the department or agency con-
cerned for. determination in accordance with
the standards and procedures established pur-
suant to this order. Cases pending before the

initiated on such | date shall be referred to the

i

heard by regional loyalty boards on such date i
shall be heard to conclusion, and the determina- i
tion of the board shall be forwarded to the head ;
3

i

t

|

i

 

 

of the department or agency concerned: Pro-

is involved, the case shall be dismissed without
prejudice to the applicant. Investigations pend-

+ ing in the Federal-Burean of ‘Investigation or. :'-. ~ tet

> Civil Service Cor re on

 

 
 

Ee te ee
? t I= TE

 

ony St gee
to 1 2
ee ] .
OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530
| - ’ FEB : 0 1976
.
: a oF
-. coisa A. Mintz, Assistant Director
Legal Counsel Division

~¥éderal Bureau of Investigation

FROM: Steven K. Blackhurst
B Assistant Special Counsel for
S Intelligence Coordination }

SUBJECT: Senate Select Committee Request
dated February 9, 1976
rd

 

 

Attached is a letter from the Senate Select Committee
dated February 9, 1976. Please arrange for an appropriate

response. S

—"

 

EX-119

9 ews was YR AEBS

~~
Pa
oe Paul 7 MAR ASG .
ween cn |
Oh MATION CONTAINED t

0s ae Fs SSER MUP.
ne oo EER 4a"

Pea WP . A! A

     

 

 

\ casos - DocId232989603 Pages2. -*-1'
 

 

Peleased under the John
“PF. Kennedy

Assassination Records

 

62 - INb3G5

ollection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#:NU 55015 Date:
b4—-10-2018

 

 

 

Serial Scope:

| [s* MWA PY

IST WR [445 Titra (ALT
44 Tithe /45R

(Eq

/454 THttu /o3

65 THe ply 7

Ve, foo

/4T2 Thaw p79

L¥Y75,

 

 
 

 

       

Service: . i: * wom ds .
NOW, THEREFORE, “by virtue “of “the

  
 

‘WHEREAS the interests ot “the national

security require that all persons privileged to
be employed in the departments and agencies
of the Government, shall be reliable. trust-
worthy, of good conduct and character, and of
-complete and unsw erving loyalty to the United
States; and

WHEREAS the American tradition that ail
persons should receive fair, impartial, and
equitable trea:ment ap the bands of the Govern-

ment requires thus atl persons seeking the ~

privilege of employment or privileged to be
-employed in the departments and agencies of
the. Government be adjudged by mutually
consistent and no le. than minimum standards

; gard: piuceddses Munddg | thes depariitients.. wad.
agencies governing the employnient and reten-

tion in employment of persons in the Federal

authority vested in me by the Constitution
and statutes of the United States, including
section 1753 of the Revised Statutes’ of the

 

United States (5 U.S. C. 631); the Civil Service

of 1883. (22: Stat;.403;;5.U Gs 632,
séq.)} gection UA of the act of At ugust’2, 1835,

-53 Stat, 1148 (5 U. S, C..118 j); and the act-of

August 26, 1950, 64 Siut. 476 U.S.C. 22-1,
et seq.), and as President of the United States,

and deeming such action necessary in the best -

interests of the national security, it is hereby
ordered as. fol:ows: ;

* Sxrerron 1. In addition fo the departments
‘and agencies specified in the said act.of August
26,1950, and I

apply to all other .deparimen

* poeta: 32989603 ‘Page 3°

  
 

a Executive Order: No.--10237 -of> .
, April; 26, -1951,: the provisions-of.that. act shall .
and Agencies of |

Src. 2. The head ¢ of - each department and
agency of the Government shall be responsible
for establishing and maintaining within his
department or agency an effective program to
insure that the employment and retention in
employment of any civilian officer or employee
within the department or agency 1s clearly con-
sistent with the interests’ of the national
security.

Sxc. 3. (2) The appointment oi each civ ilian
ofiicer or empioyee in any department or agency
of the Government shall be made subject to
investigation. The scope of the investigation
shall be determined in the first instance accord-

  

about, by virtue of thd nature of the position.

~on the national security, but in no event. shail
“"l the / investigation include less; than.a national’ *

agency check (including a check of the finger-
print files of the Federal Bureau of Investiga
tion), and written inquiries .to appropriate
local law-enforcement agencies, former em-
ployers and supervisors, references, and schools

“pe: under tihvestigatio:
Provided, that’ upon request “OF the Head ‘of the

 

 

department or agency-.concerned,. the. Civil _ ..

Service Commission may, in its discretion, au-
thorize such less investigation as may meet the
requirements of the national security with
respect to.per-diem, intermittent, temporary,
or seasonal employees, or aliens employed out-
side the United States. Should there develop
at any stage of investigation information indi-

-cating that the employment of any such -person
may. not, be. clearly: ‘consistent with-the interests.
y, there shall be conducted :

of the aati onal sec

 

: ing to the degree of adverse effect the occupant :
“ab the. “position. sought ‘Lo, be. ii iilled: could bring.

  

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

 

or agency concerned to determine whatheér.re-

 

the | interests of the ‘nati onal secur

  
  

 

 

: occupant,of which could bring.about; by virtue,
of the: nature of the Position, a.mater' ial. adyers

position. Any position so designated shall be
filled or occupied only by a person with respect
to whom a full field investigation has been con-
ducted: Provided, that a person occupying
sensitive position at the time it is designated
‘as such may continue to occupy such position
pending the completion of ¢ full field investiga-
tion, subject to the other provisions of this
order: And provided further, that in case of
emergency a sensitive position may be-tilled -
. for a limited period by © person with respect
. _ to whom a full field preeppointment investiga-
tion has not been completed if the head of the
department or agency concerned finds that such

 

records of such department or agency.
Se; 4: The head of-edch: department -and |

 

the cases of all civilian officers and employees
with respect to whom there has been conducted
2 a full field investigation under Executive Order
No. 9835 of Mareh 21, 1927, and, after such
Le further investigation as may be appropriate,
: hallréadjuditate; orves Suse-to bb Yeadjudiedte
in accordance with the said act of August 26,
-"1950, sucli of those cases as-have rot been ‘ad-
judicated under a security standard commen-
surate with that established under this order.
Sze. 5. Whenever there is developed or re-
eéived by any department or agency informa-
tion indicating that the retention in employ-
ment of any officer or employee of the Govern-
_ ment may not be clearly consistent with the
interests of the national security, such informa. .
“tion ‘shall- be ‘forwarded “t8:thé™head’ of ‘the
“inpléying” départment-or ageucy or his repré
sentative. avho,’ after. such’ investigation ‘as ina

  
     

    
   
 
 

    

i

HW 55015 DocIg@: 32989603 Page 4°.

 

 

- sufficient to eneble the head i the: bemeeaed a
“or cause to be readjudicated. in
.tention of such person is clearly: co sistent with —

 

BY The head of: any départment' or’ agéney oo
: . +. Shall designate; or cause to be‘designated, any --
-.2 ++ ‘position within his-department or agency the. .,

 

  
  

effect on the national security as a sensitive” *

- pended officer or-employee whenever he shall

accordance With the said act Of AUUSE Z6, LYOU. ©

   
 
 

Order No. 9835 or any other security or loyalty
: : _* ptogranr relating to- olficers-or employ. ces of the’
‘agency shall review, or citise to bé reviewed, *

  

    
   
 

 

  
    
    
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
      
  
 

 

a

  

 

jae

 

che ap ppriprialas

Ox cause t
reviewed, ; and, where necessary,

rendjudicate, :
accordance
with the said act-of August 26,-1950, the ease.
“of sitch offiger of employée.. -
‘Sec..6: Shduld’there develop-at’ any stige af
inv éstigation. information indicating | that the..
employment of any dfficer « or employee ,of -the
Government 1 may not|be clearly consistent with
| @ national -seourity,.t the head, -
of the depar tment or agency concerned of his.
representative shall immediately suspend the
employment of the person involved if he deems
such suspension necessary in the interests of
the national security and, following such inves-
tigation and review as he deems necessary, the
head of the department or agency concerned
shall terminate the employment of such sus-

 

 

  

determine such termination necessary or advis-
able in the interests of the national security, in

Sec. 7. Any person whose employment is —
suspended or terminated under the authority
granted to heads of departments and agencies
iance with the said act of August
tirsttant «fo “the “siid.! Executive*::

Government, ‘shall not be Téintated ‘or restored” * *
Uo duty or-reemployed in the same department
or agency and shall not be reemployed in any
other’ department or agency, unless: the head
of the department or agency concerned finds
that such reinstatement, restoration, or ree
ploy: nientis carly: consistent’ cith.chee ietdrésts
‘ofthe national security, which finding ‘shall be
~made'a part of-the records of such department -
or’ agency: Frovided, that no person whose,
employment has been terminated under such
authority thereafter may be employed by any
other department or agency except after a de-
termination by the Civil Service Commission
that such person is eligible for such employment. .

Sec. § (a) The investigations conducted
pursuant to this order shall be designed to de- |... |
elop ‘itifotm ation ‘as! to ‘whether “the: “omplox-
mént'or. Fetention in-employment iit the Federal
service, of the person being investigated is clearly

    
 
 

 

 

 
