   

to the Garrison investigation. an ban exile activities.
The CIA cannot release a a number of documents unilaterally ©
because of the limits in the Privacy Act (which protects the names
of American citizens against: unauthorized disclosure), the
sequestration of many documents by the House Select Committee
on Assassinations, and the fact that many of the documents
belong to agencies other than the CIA. However, we have already

taken the necessary steps to lift the sequestration, coordinate with

other agencies and begin the process of declassification. If
necessary, I will ask the House for a resolution permitting CIA to
release the results of the declassification effort on the sequestered
documents. .

While I expect a large amount of material can be
declassified under our program, I assume that there still will be
information that cannot be released.to the public for a variety of
reasons, including privacy concerns or the exposure of -
intelligence sources and methods. Let me take a moment to give
examples of this type of material. During the investigation by the

--House Select Committee on Assassinations; I understand that
security and personnel files were requested on a number of ~
Agency employees. These files contain fitness reports.

= performance evaluations), medical. evaluations and credit checks

 

    
 

Similar privacy concerns exist with documents containing

derogatory information on particular individuals where the
information is based on gossip or rumor. Our files also contain

oe : : . ‘, :
_names of individuals who provided us intelligence information on

_ a promise of confidentiality. We would not disclose their names ,

_ However,. it is. an im:

HW 53199 | Docld:32341337 Page 1

in breach of such a promise. Where we cannot disclose such
information to the public, the Agency will make redactions and

‘summarize the information in order to ensure that the maximum
‘amount of information is released while still protecting the

identity-of-an agent or the privacy of an individual: -

If legislation is not passed by Congress and signed by the
President regarding the JFK papers, to enhance public confidence
and provide reassurance that CIA has not held back any
information relevant to the assassination, I will appoint a panel of

distinguished Americans from outside of government to examine

whatever documents we have redacted or kept classified. They
would then-issue an unclassified public report on their-findings.

The effort required to declassify the documents related to
the assassination of Presid nt Kennedy will be daunting.

    
 

   
   

 

ven in n this time. of: (

committed to’ maki
  
 

{documents in our possession‘

--In fact, much of the material held

 

 

  

- generated by other agen
CIA originated with oth
in the 17 boxes of Oswal
documents originated with the FBI, and about 20% originated
from the State Department or elsewhere. Our staffis still going —.
through the material compiled at the request of the Warren  —
Commission and the House Select Committee on Assassinations,
which includes 63 boxes of paper records and one box that
contains 72 reels of microfilm. The microfilms in part overlap
material in other parts of the collection. We estimate that within
the 63 boxes of paper records, approximately 27% of the
documents originated with a variety of other U.S. government

     

encies or departments. For exampl z

     

records, approximately 40% of the _ oo

agencies, private organizations, and foreign and American press.

Although our holdings do include many documents from
other agencies, we nonetheless have a substantial collection of
CIA documents that will require a considerable effort to review
and, as I said earlier, at my direction, this review for.
declassification is now underway. A preliminary survey of these -
files has provided us some indications of what they contain.
Although the records cover a wide variety of topics, they
principally focus on CIA activities concerning Cuba and Castro,
Oswald's defection to the Soviet Union, and-Oswald's subsequent
“They-also-include-a—
aff of the House

      
 

activities. in Mexico City and New Orleans
large’ number of name traces. requested by't

deb aat gl

   

 

  
   

 
 

me welll as, ‘the reports, correspondence, and other ‘papers that CIA

prepared i in the course of the assassination investigations. I
should emphasize that these records were assembled into the
present. collection 2 as a result of specific i inquiries received from

Assassinations. I have prepared a chart that illustrates this point.

As you can see, prior to President Kennedy's assassination
CIA held only a small file on Lee Harvey Oswald that consisted
of 33 documents (approximately 110 pages), some of which
originated with the FBI, State Department, the Navy, and
newspaper clippings. Only 11 documents originated with the
CIA. I have brought along a copy of Oswald's file as it existed
before the assassination so that you can see first-hand how slender
it was at the time. As I have already noted, we have declassified
the CIA documents in this file with quite minimal deletio.s, and
we are providing them to the National Archives. The records in
this file dealt with Oswald's defection to the Soviet Union in 1959
and his activities after his return in 1961. By contrast,-it-was only
after the assassination that CIA accumulated the rest of the ~
material on Oswald--some 33,000 pages--most of which CIA
received from other agencies after November.22, 1963.-

   

HW 53199 DocId:32341337 Page 7
 

  

  
  

a of Intelligence, will n review. for"
fs 30-years old or older, and national.

   

30-year-old documents, I have directed the History Staff in the
Center for the Study of Intelligence to assemble CIA records--——-
focusing on particular events of historical importance, including

the assassination of President Kennedy. The Historical Review —
Group will then examine the documents for the purpose of
declassifying the records.

Because of high interest in the JFK papers, I am not waiting —
for legislation or other agencies to start declassifying documents
belonging to CIA. The Historical Review Group, at my direction,
already has begun its review of the documents related to the

assassination of President Kennedy, and I am glad to report that
the first group of these records, including all CIA documents on
Lee Harvey Oswald prior to the assassination, has been

declassified with quite minimal deletions and is being transferred

to the National Archives for release to the public. This is, I
acknowledge, a small: taction-of what we have, but it is an earnest
of my commitment to begin review for declassification
immediately of this material. And, indeed, as I speak, the

- “reviewers: are © going thesuet a substantial ;

   

 

 

 

DocId:32341337 Page 5

  

re

 
HW 53199 Docld: 3234133

 
  

   

éclassify Kennedy
be to release as many

AS we carry out our.
- assassination documents, o

aT

__documents as possible. In fact, T recently approved new CIA

declassification guidelines for out Historical Review Program

- which specifically direct a presumption in favor of

-declassification. I believe we can be very forward leaning in
making these documents available-to the public, and I have
instructed the Historical Review Group to take this attitude to
heart.

To understand the magnitude of the effort involved in
reviewing these documents for declassification, it is important to
place them in some context. The CIA's collection of documents
related to the assassination of President Kennedy consists of
approximately 250,000-300,000 pages of material. This includes
64 boxes of copies and originals of information provided to the
Warren Commission and the House Select Committee on
Assassinations and 17 boxes of material on Lee Harvey Oswald
accumulated after President Kennedy's assassination.
with is a mass of material-that is not,indexed, is uncatalogued, and

..is highly disorganized--all of which: makes the review process
more difficult. The material contains everything from the most
‘sensitive intelligence sources to the most mundane news

 

clippings...

 
     

 
. AW 53199

CROSS REFERENCE SHEET S-E-6-R-E-E— : DATE 23/08/95

X-REF.

 

201-0289248

DocId: 32341337

SYMB. NUMBER DOC. DATE DOC. FILED IN

 XAP-01484 : 12MAY92 6MR- 156-005

THE ABOVE DOCUMENT(S) ARE CROSS-REFERENCED
TO THE 201 FILE CITED UNDER LEFT MARGIN.
FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING THE LOCATION OF
THE FILE CONTAINING THE RECORD COPY DOCUMENT,
CALL FILES SECTION, EXTENSION 353941.
“S=E=€=RoE-F - E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979

FILE IN 201-0289248

Page 2
HW 53199

ee

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 10/20/98
Page: 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE
DATE

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

AGENCY INFORMATION

CIA
104-10014-10055
JFK
80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION —
CIA

CROSS REFERENCE SHEET WITH ATTACHMENT
08/23/95

12

OSWALD, L.H.

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
SECRET

1B

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
09/08/98

OSW17:V59 1998.09.08.11:21:47:403120:

CLASSIFIE
ATTACHMENT

 

Released under the John
Kennedy

Assassination Records

ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#: NW 53199 Date:
bé6—-06-2017

 

DocId: 32341337

{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Page 1
 

STATEMENT OF ROBERT M. GATES ten

DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
BEFORE THE
COMMITTEE ON GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS

UNITED STATES SENATE ~

SU

12 MAY 1992.

 

   

Darsire® !
HW 53199 DoclId: 37 Page 3
 

AW 53199 DocId:32341337 Page 4

 

Mr. Chairman, I am here today a at your. re juest to provide

 

my views on Senate Joint Resolution 282, "The J ssassination
Materials-Disclosure Act of 1992," and to describe the nature of
documents. held by the CIA that relate to the assassination of John .
F, Kennedy. I very much appreciate t the opportunity t to speak on
this important matter. oo

Let me begin by stating that I am in complete agreement
with the purpose underlying the joint resolution--that efforts
should be made to declassify and make available to the public as
quickly as possible government documents relating to the
assassination of John F. Kennedy. We hope that opening up and
giving journalists, historians and, most importantly, the public
access to governmental files will help to resolve questions that
‘Still linger over 28 years after the assassination. Further, I believe .
that maximum disclosure will discredit the theory that CIA had
anything to do with the murder of John F. Kennedy.

Even before introduction of this joint resolution, I
recognized the r need for greater public access to. CIA documents
of historical importance: Two months ago, I announced the
establishment ofa new unit within CIA that will be responsible

for declessiving as man historical documents as: spossible

  
