LOM

“‘BJECT:

:
|

 

: Mr. W. C. Sullivan DATE: April 30, 1968

: C. D, Brennan . ,

warfare, etc. Subversives in key defense facilities to be in-

+ OPTIQNAL FORM NO. 10 19-108 y oo
MANHISZ EOHION - . . e ‘
GSA GEN, 2G, HO, 27 }

]

|

‘apprehension based on dangerousness of individual. Priorities i

employments each 6 months with submission of annual reports
_ as now required7hn dnagomtit prasraubie Bb AE to your request dindvis mot for dissem

| HW 55102 Docld:32989622 Page 9-

SYNOPSIS: This is to recommend * obtaining Departmental approval

 

 

Bs \
UNITED STATES GO 2NMENT os) \

M. emorandum , ;

a7

  
  

PROGRAM FOR APPREHENSION AND DETENTION
OF PERSONS CONSIDERED POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS
TO THE NATIONAL DEFENSE AND PUBLIC SAFETY SUL NPORHATIGN CONTAINER =~

OF | ‘THE UNITED‘ STATES - (DETPRO) - = %) HEREIN 1S UNCLASSIAG
Se paree-/4-00 Bye!
SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS OF INDIVIDUALS

for amended criteria for individuals on Security Index (SI) and
to set up Priority Apprehension Program based on dangerousness of
individuals on SI.. Present criteria for SI include individuals,
in basic revolutionary groups, front groups, anarchists, and those
with anarchistic tendencies. Department has recently amended.
definition of a dangerous nerson.in new Presidential Emergency
Action Document 6, broadening it to include terrorists or persons
who would interfere with Government operation and defense effort.

With Director's appréval, conference was held with
Departmental representatives and in view of amended ‘definitidn
of a’dangerous person referred to above, a corresponding amend- :
ment to Item D of SI criteria was agreed upon. (Set out in a“
details, page 7, and page 1 of memorandum to Mr. {ches
addition, our study of the entire Emergency Detention Program sug
gests desirability of aiterations to set up priorities for

 

would include: a

1) Priority I. ‘op national and state leadership of basic
subversive organizations, leaders of anarchistic groups, individ-
uals who have shown greatest propensity for violence, as well as
‘those who have special. training in sabotage, espionage, guerrilla

savtite awit: ire de4bramince mien tnuteninalicawieucvcenrememmeby vc. ade:

cluded. Present individuals designated Key Figures would, if -
appropriate, be in this category. Key Figure Program discontinued.
Residences and employments will -be verified each 3 months ,and

reports submitted semiannually. .

2) Priority II. Second level leadership and individuals
who present significant threat but are in less infiuenti#al
Positions than Priority I. Verification of residences and

An nation outside your Committee. Its use is limited
Enc lostre’ your Committee and the content may nut be disclos
nel without the express approval of the FBI .

to official proceedings by
ed to unauthorized person-

 

| etsnarecdine MRIS bes) eutRatnt MENON NL feteepanomasrindbrdiA

 

 

 

 
 

Memo for Mr, W. C, Sullivan : :
RE: DETPRO .

3) Priority III, All other individuals on SI, Made up
mainly of rank and file members, Verification of. residences and |
employments to remain at 6 months with submission of reports ~
each 2 years,

4) Each priority will be broken down into nationalistic
tendencies and organizational affiliations so that apprehensions
can be made in each category on a selected basis,

5) Changes will not alter total number of individuals on |
SI and not materially affect SI,
OBSERVATIONS:
Implementation of program will continue to require |

“ authorization of Attorney General for any apprehensions, Priority
lists will streamline effectiveness of Program to allow us to
‘zero in" on most dangerous and influential individuals and will
permit us to "lop off" top level immediately ii Program implemented.
This should result in paralyzing organizations, and subjects with
lesser priorities would lose top leadership and could be appre-
hended at later time, if necessary, Since SI made up principally
of rank and file, we will save approximately .3,500 reports per
year while at same time we will intensify coverage of those cor-
sidered most dangerous, This presents logical and workable progran
_While cutting back substantially on desirable but unnecessary
paper work and is in line with our continuing analysis to strean-
line by cutting out unnecessary requirements and retaining only
that which is absolutely essential,

RECOMMENDATION :
“That attached letter to Department setting forth above

proposals be forwarded. Upon Department's approval, appropriate
instructions and manual changes will be sent to the field,

 

 

| HW 55 Docld: 32969622 Page 10

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Memorandum C.D.Brennan to W.C.Sullivan
RE: Security Investigation of Individuals

’

-As of 1/26/68, there were 1,959 individuals in the
Reserve Index - A.

 

In'order to streamline our procedures, the following
recommendations are being made.

1. The criteria for placing individuals in the Security
Index and the procedures in handling the investigations
of these individuals remain the same.

2. The criteria for placing individuals on the Reserve
Index - A remain the same. Current procedures for
annual reopening and limited investigation in these
cases be suspended at this time. The field office
file for an RI-A subject should be reviewed by the
field whenever informant information or other infor-
mation is channeled to the file to determine if
additional investigation is warranted.

8. The criteria for placing subjects on the Reserve
Index - B remain the same. The current procedures
for reopening of these cases be suspended at this
time, The field office file of an RI-B subject be
reviewed by the field whenever informant information
or other information is channeled to the file to
determine if additional investigation is warranted.

4. Maintenance of the RI-A and RI-B by the field office
and the Bureau will remain the same.

HW 55102 DocId:32989622 Page 8

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

a

Te a ¢
; . OQ. ©

Memorandum C.D.Brennan to W.C.Sullivan
RE: Security Investigation of Individuals

!

(c}) ~The individual, within the past five years, by
_ his associations, writings, financial support, or
conduct in relation to and support of subversive
organizations or the international communist move-
ment is in a position to influence others at the
time of a national emergency and no reliable evidence
of defection.

(da) Leadership or substantial activities in a major sub-

: versive front group over three years ago, together
with some evidence of continuing activity, association,
or sympathy for the subversive cause within three
years and no reliable evidence of defection.

(e) Membership in a subversive front organization within
the past three years and no reliable evidence of
defection, .

The Reserve Index is divided into two sections, ’
Section A and Section B.. If a subject does not meet the
criteria for the SI or is deleted from the SI, he is con-
Sidered for either section of the Reserve Index. Those
individuals who are included in Section A fall within the
“following categories: professors, teachers and educators,
labor union organizers, writers, lawyers, doctors and other
potentially influential persons on a local or natioml level
or individuals who could furnish material or financial aid.
Current procedures call for investigation of those individuals
in the RI-A to be reopened and brought up to date annually
and considered for SI status or retention in the RI-A. This
investigation is limited to verification of residence and
employment, check of informants and file review to determine
if additional investigation and/or submission of a report
is warranted. Section B contains the names of all other
individuals in the Reserve Index and is maintained only by the
field office. These cases aré reopened every two years. ‘The
investigation is limited to verification of residence, em-
ployment and contact with logical informants. If the results
of the case are negative, the case is then closed.

-~6-

 

| HW 55102 DocId:32989622 Page 7

 

NT TERR SO ne AON a ee am BY TR Se == - Se ~ ial

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Memorandum C.D.Brennan to W.C.Sullivan
RE: Security Investigation of Individuals

1
The criteria for placing and retaining names in the
SI is governed by the following:

No name shall be added to or retained in the Security
Index unless one or more of the following situations
have been established through investigation:

     

(A) Subject has had membership or participation in the
activities of a basic revolutionary organization with-
in the last 5 years as shown by overt acts or state~
ments established through reliable sources, infornm-
ants, or individuals.

(B) Subject has had membership or participation in the
. affairs of one or more front organizations, which

adhere to the policies and doctrines of a revolu-
tionary group, in a leadership capacity or by active
substantial participation in the furtherance of the
aims or purposes of the front organizations within
the last 3 years as shown by overt acts: or state-
ments established through reliable sources, inform-
ants, or individuals.

(Cc) Investigation has developed information that an
individual, though net a member or’a participant
in the activities of a subversive organization, has
anarchist or revolutionary beliefs and is likely to
seize upon the opportunity presented by a national
emergency to endanger the public safety as shown by
overt acts or statements within the last 3 years
established through reliable sources, informants,
or individuals.

. (D) Although investigation has failed to establish
: overt acts or statements on the part of a sub-

ject within the time limits set out above, facts
have been developed which clearly and unmistakably
depict the subject as a dangerous individual who
could be expected to commit acts inimical to the
national defense and public safety of the U. 8S. in
time of emergency.

As of 1/26/68, the Security Index contains 10,109
individuais. .

-4-

 

 

 

 

MW 55102 DocId:32989622 Page 5
Lo

 
 

 

 

| HW 55102 DocId:32989622 Page 6

 @&

Memorandum C.D.Brennan to W.C.Sullivan
RE: Security Investigation of Individuals

t

When the field has completed an investigation and i
the subject's activities meet the criteria for inclusion
in the SI, a report and FD-122 are submitted to the Bureau,
with recommendations for inclusion in the Si. The substantive
Supervisor, Unit Supervisor in Charge, Section Chief and
Assistant Director of the Domestic Intelligence Division
approve the field's recommendation. The employment and
residence of SI subjects are verified every six months and
an investigative report is submitted annually.

. The Reserve Index was established in 1960 to include ~-
those individuals whose subversive activities do not bring
them within the SI criteria but who in a time of national emer-
gency are in a position to influence others against the national
interest or are likely to furnish financial or material aid to
subversive elements due to their subversive affiliation and
ideology. These individuals are scheduled to receive priority
consideration with respect to investigation following the
apprehension of SI subjects. The criteria for placing individuals
in the Reserve Index is as follows.

Individuals are to bé included in the Reserve Index when,
foliowing investigation, the information does not justify
the inclusion of the subject's name in the Security Index
when there is evidence of:

(a) Membership in a basic revolutionary organization
subsequent to January 1, 1949, together with some
indication of sympathy or association with such an
organization or a subversive front organization
subseguent to the reported membership and no reliable
evidence of defection.

(b) investigation has failed to substantiate allegations
of membership in a revolutionary organization within
the past five years, coupled with some evidence or
information indicating activity, association, or
sympathy for the subversive cause within the same
period, and no reliable evidence of defection.

-~5-

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

‘ 4 OPHORAL TORM NO. 10 3010-106
wy) - MAY 1962 EDITION x 4
‘ GSA GEN, REG, NO, 27

UNITED STATES! PVERNMENT @

i emorandure

 

TO :Me. W. C. sultivar!! DATE: February 6, 1968

t
FROM :C. D, Brennan

    
  

suBJECTS:SECURITY.. INVESTIGATION OF, INDIVIDUALS ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

." te 1S JING ei
PURPOSE

fo recommend streamlining erodcanes for handling
Reserve Index - A and Reserve Index ~ B investigations.

=

SYNOPSIS -

. Bureau responsibility in this field originated with
Presidential Directives, the first one in September, 1939.
The purpose of these investigations is to identify potentially
dangerous individuals who are affiliated with subversive move-~-
ments. This is field wide and is closely related to the
Emergency Detention Program which involves plans for the
“apprehension and detention of potentially dangerous individuals
in‘the event of an emergency.

 

The emergence of the new left and expansion of the
eens militant nowposes, dangers which, pbaraliel the. threat

‘greatest coset ble. us® of existing. _manpower to provide the
increased coverage we neéd of the new left movement and militant
s omaene, «2.9 Macial activity. During the recent New York inspection obser-
co" <“eartons were obtained and we have also secured. comments ‘of
; offices having a Significant number of these cases for suggested
_iy procedural changes. As a result of the Inspection Division's
v observations and field office cbservations, we can streamline
: our procedures and the following recommendations are being —
made. to do, SO,2

athe. criteria for placing individuals in the Security
Index (SI) and the procedures in ‘handling’ the‘ ‘investi~
ie i. tigations of- these sindividuals. remain. the. same..

 

This document és
prepared in re
nation outside your Sponse to your request and é:
Your Committes ard, hee raittee. Tis use 19 liméted iat net vpecdnae'

te to offictat.
WET: without ‘the express’ aly th of moe pppiseloved ee ee

 
 

   
  

  
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

G

Memorandum C.D.Brennan to W.C.Sullivan
RE: Security Investigation of Individuals

 

Y

2. The criteria for placing individuals on the Reserve
Index - A (RI-A) remain the same. Current procedures
for annual reopening and limited investigation in
these cases be suspended at thistime. The field
office file for an RI-A subject should be reviewed
by the field whenever informant information or other
information is channeled to the file to determine if
additional investigation is warranted.

8. The criteria for placing subjects on the Reserve
Index - B (RI-B) remain the same. The current pro-
cedures for reopening of these cases be suspended
at this time. The field office file of an RI-B
subject be reviewed by the field whenever informant
information or other information is channeled to the
file to determine if additional investigation is
warranted.

4, Maintenance of the RI-A and RI-B by the field office
and the Bureau will remain the same. .

OBSERVATIONS :

To bring RI-A and RI~B cases up to date by investi-

‘ gation is desirable; however, it is felt that examination of

the case file by the field when new information is placed in
the file will serve as a backstop to catch those cases which
have an accumulation of minor activity indicating that active
investigation is required. Coverage of subversive activity

through informants or other sources will reveal any activity
which will require active investigation. We are streamlining

our procedures without sacrificing essential controls. These

changes will free manpower to handle investigations of emerging
new subversives in the "new left" movement.

RECOMMENDATIONS ;

1. That attached SAC Letter incorporating above
be approved. oa

Dad

2. That attached manual revisions be approved,

HW 55102 DocId:32989622 Page 3

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

AW 55102
Le

Memorandum C.D.Brennan to W.C.Sullivan
RE: Security Investigation of Individuais

DETAILS |

_ Presidential Directives, the initial one being issued
in September, 1939, and since repeated on several occasions,
charged the Bureau with the responsibility of investigation of
individuals in the internal security field. We are the col-
lecting agency of the entire executive branch for subversive
information and have the responsibility of seeing that such
information is distributed to those Government agencies having
a legitimate interest in these individuals. The purpose of
these investigations is to identify those individuals who
because of aifiliation with subversive organizations may present
a potential threat to the internal security of the United States
-in the event of an emergency and the development of evidence

of violation of Federal statutes on part of these individuals.
If it is determined that an individual does pose a potential
threat to the internal security of the United States, he is
scheduled for apprehension under the Emergency Detention
Program by the inclusion of his name in the SI. Close attention
is’ given these investigations to insure that we are fully dis-
charging our responsibility.

The emergence of the new left and the expansion of
_the racial militant now poses dangers which parallel the threat
_of communism to the internal security of the United States.
This expansion of work has put a serious strain
on our manpower. During the recent New York inspection,
observations were obtained recommending procedural changes
to streamline these investigations. We also secured comments
of offices having a significant number of these cases. In
line with the field comments and our own experience, we have
evaluated the standards for including or deleting individuals
on the SI and Reserve Index,

The SI represents those individuals who have been
determined through investigation to be dangerous or potentially
dangerous because of their membership in or affiliation with
or espousal of doctrines of basic revolutionary organizations
and/or front organizations who will+be apprehended upon receipt
of instructions from the Attorney General.

DocId: 32989622 Page 4

 

 

 

 
