 

DA Sq HOUSER: This case was assigned to me on 8/9/67, .I “
“was on annual leave from 8/11/67 to 8/28/67.

Upon my return from leave I began immediate efforts to locate
JOSE CARDOSA, who had moved from his last known address. i
Considerable difficulty was encountered in locating his
current residence and then contacting him for interview,
as he was working as a truck driver and putting in much
overtime, making him unavailable for interview. He was
interviewed as soon as I could locate him and the results
of the interview were immediately reported. During this
period I was carrying a heavy case load in the Latin American
field, averaging 42 cases each month. ae :

Iwas aware the a antics CASTRO gy soup with which
CARDOSA was formerly associated, the ECA, was inactive both
in Chicago and in Miami from information available, and +
Miami Was known to have coverage of this organization, which
would logically make known any renewal of ‘activity by this
| group. I also considered the fact that no additional infor-
7 - mation concerning renewal of activity had become known from
. any source during the ensuing period from the time Detroit -
j first received the information in question. - With these
| factors in mind, the inquiry concerned seemed less signifi- -.
{ cant than if we ‘were dealing with an active organization.
[
i
i

These were the factors on which I based my decision to handle ;

this matter as I did, 7 , _ ae
. . h

I now realize the significance of the informa-

tion received from the Detroit Division could’ best be evaluated

by the Bureau and Miami and that investigation to completely

| “resolve this matter-should have been initiated. I‘appreciate

: : the observations of the Inspéctor, and his instructions ° ae

will be immediately carried out... I regret my misjudgment oa

in this instance and give every assurance that I will teke ° ;

every measure to diligently handle each and every matter

in the. future with due dispatch and thoroughness to: explore”

to the fullest all ramifications of. any. fact or allegation

under inves tigation.

 

absence of the suservisor on annual leave. I
recall the matter in question and remember discussing with .
SA HOUSER the delay in the interview, and he advised -me ~'
along the same lines set forth above. Iwas aware of his
case load, as well as the problewS encountered in locating’
Cubans generally in Chicago, as they-are ell predisposed
to shift jobs .and residences frequently. In view of all

Se oe DUFF; On 11/17/67 I was relieving. on the S-4 Desk in

 

         

A B4e-

 

 

 

 

 

 

| HW 54027 DoclId:32326080 Page 5
, SUPE ERVISOR RAMEY: I appreciate the cbservations and instruc-

_This case should have come up on tickler on one occesion

during this period for desk review. I note that on-the-

Spot Supervision took me away from the desk. for four hours. . a
on 19/10/67, five hours on 10/31/87, three hours on ayn, 7

and three hour PS on 11/14/67 his. super ion related to 3!
Surveillances and€surveys con eraing. thefpelich and Yugoslav 5
‘ConsulatgRinvestigations, WI was on annual leave for vere fet) . i

such ha mndling of @ case ‘will. not be permitted in the future. a “4

 

these factors, I considered his reasons for-the delay reason-
able, : a .

I authorized the closing of this case on a memor- i
andum to the SAC, based upon information set forth from the \
interview of CARDOSA concernihg the inquiry in question and
being also aware of the coverage available by iiami of the
group in question. I also noted that in the peri od from ;
the initial receipt of this information by the ‘Detro it Divi-
sion until this time no corroborative information of any
sort had been received from any source concerning this matter.
Both BUREMAN:; and CARDOSA had agreed to provide any additional

 

information received, I now realize that.this matter should
have keen. provided further attention and the ‘information
available furnished the Bureau and Miami... I sincerely regret

  

nt concerning this case at the time was not.to
‘orice, and I give assurance that I shall exert every
effort to preclude a recurrence and shall diligently and
thoroughly consider each matter in the future, insuring "-
proper attention and handling are given.

 

tions of ‘the Inspector in this case
1s tructions will be ediately carried ou
2 ortance of this matter and ta
have beer given move expeditious end thorough 2 ;
I assumed Supervision of the S-4 Squad. on 10/2/87; and I
am positive that from this date to the. date the case’ dent
question was closed. I didnot see this particular file.

amy,

   

and these in
I realize t
g

cal .

 

t. .
should.

   

  

 

 

 

of the d@y 10/21/57 and t4d: two days' 1 eave November 18

and 17, 1967. The file logically came un on tickler and

was undoubtedly handled in my absence from the desk. With- j
out question I would have ‘taken action im ediately to expedite - i
the handling of this matter had I reviewed the case and . i
would have seen that the case was pursyed in an effort to | : }
resolve all the ramifications thereof, wu) ; ; . , vn

 

 

 

 

I most. sincerely regret that this case
was handled. as it was and. I give. unequivocal assurance that

 

et BSS.

 

 

 

HW 54027

DocId:32326080 Page 6
; Log
“ . \
~ yzee be
° ca

    
 
   
   
 
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
    
   

 

SUBSTATTIVE ERROR URITEUP jo-2k ,
OQ. - -.** Blass!sied
-_JOS# _CARDOSA; | Ee
“ENSUE TALS FAOM cutcaco. > 4 a
IS-CUBA ~ oe
Chicago File 105-24808 a, ,
Avetio Du Gu ee MI YARS

This is a closed case which was

 

WA
INSPECTOR -RALPH J. MILES:

by memorandum to the SAC 11/17/67. >
furnished to the Detroit Offica, 6/26/67 by JOIN BURKMAN, a
buy guns from BURKMAN. On 6/ 26/67. CARDCSA asked BURKMAN to

“really going to-do things this tine. “CARDOSA obtained. round
, trip tickets for BUREMAN to travel to Chicago 6/28/67. On

AQ’ and was met by CARDOSA and another ‘person, neme net recalled...

: ; ie ae ¥
organized, much larger in number and have much money this time.

@ and. that they desired to buy guns. In response to BUPKMAN"s:
question the man said they were planning a guerrilla typa- ~

be intended for use in some type of anti-CASTRO activity, but»
did not feel the group planned immediate activity becausa.he -
felt they had not as yet obtained ANY Weapons» BUREMAN 14 Ld
CARDOSA and the unknown person they should ie Sun’ ates

obtaining guns unless such clearance had been rb api es «ggg.
On 11/8/67 CARDOSA, a former PSI of Chie free
interviewed by. SA HOUSER. CARDOSA indicated that in June, 1967

who was visiting in Chicago) regarding the obtaining.of arms |
for the group which, the representative said, was talking about

 

 

to reveal the name ‘of the representative, saying this “individua

 

connected pri th. "Duque.'' CARDOSA indicated he made ‘inguiry” a

Wn q IP ay Mn
CHLEAGO INS

Puction “Web& —
CSS:eas ae

ge ate

 

 

ale 2 s

pr

  

  
   

. : 7 _ «Opened August 9, 1967, and assigned
to SA DAVID E, HOUSER, It was supervised by SA MARION S.° RAMEY...
and was closed on authority of Relief Supervisor WILLIAM E, DUFF:

Investigation of this matter was based on information: ~

mw gun dealer inllorthville, Michigan: BURKMAN advised that several _
years ago he hed been in touch with JOS@ CARDOZA who wanted. to —

travel to Chicago to mest his new leader and. that his new group.
wanted ‘to talk to BURKMAN ‘about, buying ‘guns, as the new group. is
7/6 and 10/67, BURKMAN advised he. travelled to Chicago as plannad |.

t

Je According to BURMAN, the other person said "they" ara well.- o----

commando type.operation. BURKMAN assumed that tha guns would.

 

 

State Department clearance and that he would swe | an“

he was visited by a representative of the "Duque" group. in Miam

commando..type raid on the Cuban coast. CARDOSA was reluctent . ~

never, actually mentioned his name, only saying that. he was’ ~

 
  
  

 

 

 

 
  
 
 
   
 
     

2

a“
Le

 

 

 

 

‘NW 54027 DocId:32326080 Page 2
 

i

 

 

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

_ DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI

- 124-90042-10019

HQ ~
CR 105-102448-NR

Document Information

FBI
CG

HQ

02/27/1968
7

EVELIO DUQUE MIYAR
[Restricted] .

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

06/14/1998

INDEFINITE

ERROR WRITEUP
a

Date: 6/8/2015

Released under the John
Kennedy

Assassination Records

ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ages: NU 54027 Date:
bS—-29-2017

 

Po

4,

 

 

v9.1
HW 54027 DocId: 32326080

Page 1
 

 

| HW 54027

t

. Chicago after a day or two.

obtain 1200 blasting caps on behalf of an anti-CASTRO organizatior

-the "black peoplel! EGOSCUE is a business partner of JOSE SEARA, © |

about efforts to secure arms for "black people!!

 

 

 

 

   
   

 

in an attempt to locate arms but was unsuccessful, as all sources
insisted on United States Government approval to purchase such
arms, CARDOSA indicated he felt this was only an inquiry by the ~
"Duguel! group to determine vhether arms vere available and was
not an actual attempt to purchase arms as the’"Duqua's" .
representative appeared to have no money available and left:

None of the above facts of this matter were furnished
the Bureau and Miami. : ;

; The Ejercito Cubano Anticomunista Frente fscanbray
(ECA) is’ an anti-CASTRO Cuban. exile organization headed by |.
EVELIO DUQUE MIYAR (DUQU2). CARDOSA was allegedly expelled .
from the ECA in 1963, During interview of CARDOSA, 11/7/62, he
admitted contacting BURKMAN and that he made arrangements to.

in 1962.-

; EVELIO DUQUE MIYAR has been interviewed by the Miami
Division on several occasions, the most recent being 1/19/67, °°
concerning the ECA, DUQUE said that in: the. summer of 1965,"
officials of United States Customs seized.some arms and. munitions
belonging to ECA, He said he had hoped -to transport these arms’
to Cuba to help friends of his in thoir fight. agehst the CASTRO
Government, He felt that there-ywould be no purpose in trying -
to infiltraté equipment into Cuba at the present time (1/19/67).

,

Miami.advised 12/4/67 that OVIDIO KABA, Hialeah, Florida,
visited in Chicago with LUIS EGOSCUZ,: a,Chicago resident, 10/15/67)
EGOSCUE indicated therevhad been a’ Cuban from Miemi who recently
visited. Chicago to: buy @5,000 wath of equipment. which KABA.
understood to mean arms and ammunition. ZECOSCUE allegedly. had |
not completed the deal because the arms-might be furnished to

  

On 2/26/65 SEARA and two other..persons Visited the Rock Island’ 4
Arsenal, Rock Island, Illinois,’ and:indicated an interest in. ™
purchasing small arms. On 9/1/66 KABA identified SEARA as a.’
member of the "Duque" organization, “~~ See why

  

So, _ The Bureau has indicated particular interest in any .
information that the arms referred to by KABA ‘would.fall into the
hands of "black people” either. in this country.or in Cuba,’ =

Miami and Chicago are investi ating to determine specific facts .

 

. . . . ,

 

 

 

DocId: 32326080 Page 3
 

 

 

oe

A

In view of the connection of SEARA with the "Duque!
organization, there is a strong possibility that the unknown
subject referred to by EGOSCUZ is the same unknown subject who
was in contact with CARDOSA, : . ~

Increased activities of dissident groups of Latin
Americans in the United States who have attempted to overthrow
regimes in Latin America by means of armed uprisings, have been
of concern to the Bureau because of the attempts of these groups
to secure arms and minitons in this country to carry out
revolutionary aims, In addition, the Bureau has issued:
instructions regarding. the necessity to. penetrate militant. -
anti-CASTRO groups in the United States becausa of violent
acts which have been performed by these groups in the United
States.: ° " a ae : :

 

7 Chicago should immediately furnish facts of the
CARDOSA matter to the Bureau and Miami in letterhead memorandum
i form for appropriate dissemination. “The similarity of the facts
i in. the CARDOSA matter and the KABA matter should be made.clear | _

to the Bureau and Miami. Leads should be furnished Miami to ae
attempt to identify the unknown subject in the CARDOSA matter’
and to determine the current activities of the ECA, :

 

Explanations requested,
. a
SA HOUSER is requested to explain his delay in

interview of CARDOSA, failure to furnish facts of the matter | |

»to the Bureau and Miami, with appropriate leads for Miamt to - 4
identify the unknow subject and determine activities of the ECA.

. con : - . 1

; SA‘WILLIAM E, DUFF is requested to. explain why he ae
authorized closing this matter by memorandum to ‘the SAC without |
furnishing facts to the Bureau and Miami with necessary leads.” .
‘In addition, SA DUFF is requested to explain: why explanations
were not requested of SA HOUSER for his delay inuhandling this
matter, . : ae . a :

 

   

' Supervisor RAMEY is requested to explain his failure:
_to detect the above cited delinquencies through his overall
supervision of this matter. : “ao .

Comments ‘of SAC requested. |

 

 

 

| HW 54027 DoclId:32326080 Page 4
