 

 

Page5 ; Oo
Mr. Hawkins  _ ; ; :
June 21, 1967 _RE: Lillie Mae McMaines

. RESULTS (cont's):

Subject stated that she and Jimmy leit Eight Mile in February of 1964 (leaving
the baby with her "mother" and they went to San Bernadino, California, where
they stayed with an aunt of hers. She said that from the time she left New

' Orleans to go to Eight Mile and then to California, she did not make | one trip
to New Orleans.

 
  
  

Wubject related that she and Jizamy went through a wedding ceremony in Tiajuana,
‘Mexico, in June of 1964. She continued that Jinamy left her the latter part of
his same month. She said that the day after Jimmy. left her, she went to New
leans by bus. ; :
Subject related that when she arrived in New Orleans, she called Perry Russo
nd he came to the bus cepot and drove her and her personal belongings to his
ore, She said that she spent the night in Perry's apartment and then the follow-
g day she rented a room for herself. She said that aiter she rented the room,
fe went job hunting and she met James Robert Ervin on the street. She said
that they decided to live together again. She said that she did obtain a jobasa
[Ppa we She said that she and Jimmy lived together for only one week and he |
Peesin walked out on her, She said that he left on July 3, 1964,

 

erseli and incorder to save up enough money to get her baby back from her

"mother," She further explained that she gave Perry Russo "around a hundred

dollars" to keep for her but he never. gave it back to her, She said that on one
ee occasion, she loaned Perry $20.00 to use to pay his insurance but he did

The Subject said that she then turned to prostitution as a means of supporting
h

ot repay this money either, |

The Subject stated that the first time she met Dave Ferrie was in either the latter
part of January of the first part of February of 1965.. She explained that she was
with Perry Russo and he wanted to see Dave Ferrie about something and so the
two of them went to Dave's apartment. She said that Perry introduced her to
Ferrie and his two roommates. She said that they stayed at Dave's apartment
for only a few minutes and they leit. :

 

HW 54462 DocId:32319411 Page 9

 
 

 

; : , . ‘ ie ; . C
Page ge : a 7
Myr, Hawkins :

June Z1, 1967 REY Lillie Mae heMaines

RESULTS (cont'd):

- The Subject said that the next time. she saw Dave Ferrie was less than a week

after first meeting him and was on a Sunday. She explained that Dave invited

‘her to his apartment for lunch with hirn and his two roommates, She said that

Dave picked her up at her place ina blue Ford station wagon and they arrived at

Dave's apartment at approximately 12:30 or 1:00 P.M. She said that she stayed
t this apartment until about 5:30 P.M, at which time he drove her back to her
lace. :

ubject said that she next saw Dave Ferrie on the following Wednesday or
Fhaxsday when he came by Sam's place where she was-employed. She said that
Dave asked her if she would go out with him the following Friday night.

ubject said that on this Friday night, Dave picked her up at her apartment

bout 6:00 or 6:30 P.M. and they first proceeded to Dave's apartment where one
£ Dave's roommates and hig date were waiting. She said the four of them then
vent to several places toe dance and drink but they did not have dinner.

The Subject emphatically denied ever ‘mecting Shaw or Oswald. She said that she
[ ever attended a party at Dave Ferrie's house. She stated that she had never been
o a football gaine but she did attend basketball and baseball games with Perry
Russo and Lefty Peterson. : ae ;

The Subject stated that Perry Russo was extremely interested in politics. She
-gaid that he was a Republican and a strong advocate and backer of Goldwater,

[Tne Subject stated that she attended a political meeting with Perry Russo and

three other men but she could not be sure of their names. She related that the

|| meeting was held in a big house.on Canal Street in either April or May ef 1965,

1 She said that she and three men stayed in a back room of the house and watched
television. She said that she did not see all of the people at the meeting. She said
that she cid not hear anyone speaking Spanish nor did she see any Spanish, Cubans
or Puerto Ricans at this meeting. a

The Subject commented that Lefty Peterson is "off upstairs" but is ¢ a. good ey
otherwise. :

 

HW 54462 DocId:32319411 Page 10

 
 

& Lo Ce , a ‘ae
Page 4 »

Mr. Hawkins

June 21, 1967 RE: Lillie Mae McMaines

RESULTS {cont'd}:

Subject stated that when she was about four months pregnant, she married a
Frank Adams in Dallas, Texas. She did not tell the circumstances surrounding
a divorce from Adams. : :

The Subject stated that when she was between 15 and 16 years of age, her
‘Ysnother" took her toa psychiatrist because she had run away from home. She
aid that she visited the psychiatrist about four times but she did not know what

he reposted about. her. :

ubject related that she gave birth prematurely on August 30, 1963. She said
_ that she was released from the hospital on Septernber 3rd or 4th, 1963, She said
that she went to Perry Russo's house the day following her release from the
(ee but she cid not see or talk with him again until June or July of 1964,

ubject then related how Perry Russo photographed her on several occasions
hile she was engaging in the act of coitus with different men. She explained
that Perry had his own dark room and developed the pictures himself. :

bubject then related that she anda girl named Ann visited her baby in the hospital
requently. She further stated that her "pareats" came from Alabama to New
Orleans and also visited the baby in the hospital. :
Subject continued that her baby was released from the hospital on September 20,
1903, and on this same date she left New. Crleans with a James Robert Ervin
Russo had introduced her to him). She said that the two of them and the baby
Avent by bus to her "parents!" home. She gave her "parents" address as Box 326
in Eight Mile, Alabama and she said that this town is located near Mobilc.

She went on to explain that James Robert Ervin was unable to find employment
in Mobile and so he went to New Orleans and obtained a job in an establishment
called Little Crystal Cafe. She said that this establishment is. located on Royal
Street in New Orleans. She said that Jimmy worked and stayed in New Orleans
during the week and he would hitchhike to her "parents" home in Eight Mile,
Alabama, over the weekends. .

 

HW 54462 DocId:32319411 Page @
 

 

ST . ©
2 7 ° . oo C. : . C.
Page} ,
Myr. Hawkins - .
June 21, 1967 | RE: Lillie Mae McMaines

RESULTS {cont? dj:
The Subject stated that when she first told Perry Russo that she was pregnant,
a man (unknown to her) placed Perry in a hypnotic trance and questioned him.-
She said that while in the trance,. Perry acknowledged that he was the father of
her yet unborn baby. She said that Perry later denied that he was the father.

She went on to explain that she, Perry, and the unknown "hypnotist" (she des--
rribed his age as between 49 and 50 years) went to a place called the Royal
Castle and, while there, this unknown "hypnotist" again placed Perry ina

hypnotic trance. She said that he did not question Perry at this time but gave

nin a post-hypnotic suggestion, ‘When I snap my fingers you will awaken, get

off the stool, walk to the door and then return to the stool where you wili ireeze

in your tracks and will be unable to move." She said that when the man snapped
is fingers, Perry opened his eyes, got off the stool, walked to the door and ;
hen turned and walked back to the stool. She said that Perry stood by the stool -
nd went through what appeared to be attempts at moving his body but he did not
ctually move. She added that, in her opinion, Perry was "faking his inability to

move while standing by the stool. .

regnant) was a very short tirne later and she spent about one-hali hour talking

ith him in his home. She said that when she ceparted his home, a friend of his
named "Fido" knocked her down on the lawn, hit her in the stomach with hia fist,
and made the comment, "Why don't you leave him alone?" She explained that she
screamed loudly when struck by Fido hoping that Perry would come outside but

e did not. She said that Fido went into Perry's home after knocking her down

nd striking her. She said that as soon as she e regained her sense of direction, -
she got up and went home.

fe said that the next time she saw Perry (after telling him that she waa

{} The Subject stated that when she was about three months pregnant, she attempted
suicide by taking 175 aspirin. She said that a girl friend named Kathy found her
and took her to the Charity Hospital in New Orleans by taxicab. She said that her
stomach was pumped at the hospital and she said that the hospital notified the
police departinent but her girl friend Kathy talked the officer out.of taking her to
jail. , : .

 

HW 54462 DocId:32319411 Page 7?

 
 

vos toe ' i . a .
Beas ey ( a : tn Sel

# 9816 ~ 67
June 21, 1967

CONFID :

\
Lex Hawkins,
Attorney at Law
836¢842 Fifth Avenue
Res Moines, Iowa

   

| Anna NCEMENTS:

jt your request, LILLIE MAE MC MAINES was examined on the polygraph, a
cetection of deception technique. ;

- (FPROCEDURE:

    
 

andard polygraph procedure was: exercised throughout this examination.

EESULTS:

pa Irrelevant type examination for the purpose of ascertaining if she possessed _
any knowledge of an alleged meeting in Dave Ferrie's home whercin there was
verbal intercourse relating to a plot to assassinate the late John F. Kennedy.

Pee was examined in this office on June 19, 1967. She was given a Relevant

Daring the pre-test interview, the Subject stated that she was born Lillie Mae _
oifett on October 22, 1944, in Lucedale, Mississippi. She stated that her real
\\feues died when her younger sister was born and that she was raised by one of
er fa ther’ 8 cousins, James Moffett, and his wife Ethel. She referred to these
eople as’ her parents. She stated that she was raised near Mobile, Alabama,

he said that she does not know whether or not James and Ethel Moffett ever
adopted her.

Subject stated that she is presently married to Harold MeMaines, aged 38 years.
She said that he does not have a regular job and works out of an “employment
office" in Omaha, Nebraska, as a truck driver and as 2 furniture mover.

The Subject stated that ever siace she was old enough to underetand and remember,
her "mother" constantly told her that her older sister Gertrude, who lived in New
, Orleans, Louisiana, was “a tramp and ao good." She stated that these statements

 

HW 54462 DocId:32319411 Page 5
 

 

re ; we ; ee
Page 2°
Mr. Hawkins _ ; . °

‘June 21, 1967 . RE: Lillie Mae McMaines

RESULTS (cont'd): ;

- finally caused her to run away from home in 1962 and proceed to New Crleans
to locate her sister Gertrude. She said that she just had to find out ii her
sister was really "bad." ;

Dur ing six hours of interview and interrogation, the Subject gave the following
niormation regarding her stay in New Orleans, her return to Mobile, Alabama,
hen on to San Bernadino, California, then’ back to New Orleans, then to Omaha,
‘Nebraska, and finally to Des Moines, Iowa.

 

ubject stated that when she first went to New Crleans she decided to use the

name Sandra Moffett, She explained that she had been In New Orleans for approx-

imately three weeks before her sister permitted her to go out "on the town" by ;

erseli, She said that the first night she went out alone she met Perry Russo. eT

he said that the meeting occurred about 10:30 P.M. as she was walking down :
bourbon Street and that Perry Russo, ‘WX¥en, Leity Peterson and "Timmy" were -
jlso walking along Bourbon Strect. She related that as they passed on the street,
immy winked at her and she smiled. She continued that they all stopped on the

sidewalk and talked. She said that during this conversation, Perry Russo volun-
[ Hreres to drive her home. ;

c continued that she, Perry Russo, Letty, Ken and ‘Timmy all got into Perry's

|e and proceeded to drive toward her sister's home where she was staying but.
they stopped on the way jor coffee and gasoline. She said that Perry Russo asked

her if she would go to school with him the following morning and she replied to him _
at she would go with him provided her sister would permit her to do so.

She continued that Perry Russo stopped by the house the following morning but her
sister would not permit her to go with him but her sister did agree that she could
attend a party that was being given for Ken Wink that night. .

Subject stated that that party was held at a place called the Frenchman's Inn. She

said that Perry was supposed to pick her up at.8:00 P.M. but he was late because

it was raining hard. She said that she and Perry arrived at the party at approx is
- mately 9:00 P.M. : :

The Subject stated that she and Perry continued to date until the early part of 1963.
. . She said that she became pregnant and alter she told Perry that she was pregnant
“ he told her to “get lost" ‘until aiter the: baby was born and then she should look him
te ‘8p again. ,

 

HW 54462 DocId:32319411 Page 6
 

 

 

 

- ae pf
- |
6/27/67
AIRTEL
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (G2-109060)
FROM: SAC, CHICAGO (62-6115) fc

SUBJECT: ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN FITZGERALD KENWEDY
11/22/63, Ballas, Toxas
ASSAULTING OR KILLING A FEDERAL OFFICER

Baclosed for the Swrean are three copies each of a
self-oxplanseers confidential report and additional infornation
portoining to captioned matter, two copies each of the report
atid information are enclosed for the Ballas and New Orieans
Divisions,

is 2 The exvclesed information was made available by PCI
LEONARD SIARBELSON on 6/26/67, on an oxtromely confidential basic,
BGisurged that cader no circumstances should his identity be
anglgodias a source of this infernation and extreme caution
be “exer sed in any use of this information so as not te in any
wag wa te the confidential relationship beatweon PCI aad thosa
a # the enclesed material.

2 Due to the sensitive and confidential nature of the
enclosed information and PCI's unquestioned value to the Chicago
Division, this information is not being submitted in a forn
suitable for dissemination and is submitted for tafoermation
purposes only.

~ Burcau (ine, 3) ue
2 - Dallas (06-43) (cig 4): eH
2 - Wew Grieans (fae. 4).
1 ~ Chicago

dK: om

mya SS Seb ee

(8) Bb ae
ke wr

 

 

HW 54462

DocId:32319411 Page 2

 
 

 

JFK Assassination System

Date: 4/15/201

 

Identification Form
Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI Released under the John
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10369-10045 . Kennedy
. Assassination Records
RECORD SERIES: HQ * ollection act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note).
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: = 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-O9 ase#:NU 54462 Date:
HO-04-2017
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: NO
TO: HQ .

TITLE:
\

DATE: 06/21/1967

‘PAGES: 249
SUBJECTS :
HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LHO INCOMING
COMMUNICATIONS VOLUME VI. >
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4 ,
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 03/11/1999
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE .
COMMENTS : INC FOLDER, COVER PAGE, TTY, NOTES, LHM, A/T, PRESS RELEASE, MEMO,

 

RADIOGRAM, NEWS ARTICLES, INTERVIEW

ee
vl 29
HW 54462 DocId:32319411 Page 1
 

On June 22, 1967, L. H. Harrelson, ina telephone conversation with a con-
fidential source in New Orleans, Louisiana, obtained the following information
with regard to Perry Russo. : :

This informant, who is well known to L.H.H. and who is a polygraph examiner
having been trained at the Keeler Polygraph Institute, stated that Perry Russo was
sxaniined by another polygraph examiner with the Sheriff's Office in New Orleans
nd that he had heard that the Sheriff's Office examiner stated that Russo was lying
regarding the story of the plot to assassinate the late John F. Kennedy.
(Vs informant also advised L.H.H. that Perry Russo had been subjected to
arco-interrogation, using sodium pentathol and that he had further been subjected
hypno-interrogation. He stated that 2 local psychiatrist subsequently blasted
istrict Attorney Garrison for using these two techniques and suggested that Russo
should be examined on the polygraph which should be more reliable.. This informant
—stated that he received a call requesting him to examine Russo in regard to his
[Lhosy. He stated that he was told that Russo wanted to meet him first to see what
i ind of a person he was.
| .
il He stated that he made an appointment and met Russo for the first time Friday,
June 16, 1967. He stated that at this time he talked for a while and Russo requested
that he be given a trial run on the polygraph and that he wanted to be. asked 10 or 20.
\ fhestions and intended to lie to some of them to see if the examiner could detect
VA. The source stated that he instead had Russo write down a number on a piece of
\ aper and place it in his pocket. He stated that he then made Russo a bet of $5.00
hat he could pick out the number, He further stated that Russo called the bet, the

test was run and the examiner picked out the number,

He stated that Russo appeared in his office on June 19, 1967 to be examined in re-
gard to his story reporting the plot to assassinate the late John F, Kennedy. He
stated that he attempted to exarnine Russo but that hisPneumo tracing (breathing)
was so erratic that he reported to D. A. Garrison that he felt Russo was an unfit
subject for polygraph testing at this time. He further stated that he did talk with
Russo about his tracing and explained to him that he obviously had something
bothering him. He stated Russo told him that he told the story in court because he
was getting so much pressure from D.A. Garrison and also NBC. He stated that

+ Russo further made the statement to him that he did not know if Clay Shaw was

‘\ present at the meeting or not. He stated that Russo added that if he had to say

* "yes" or "no" that he would have to say "no" that Clay Shaw was not presant.

HW 54462 DocId:32319411 Page 3

 
 

 

Page 2

This examiner stated that he asked Russo why he went into court and under oath

’ stated that Shaw was present at the alleged meeting. He stated that Russo replied
that he fully intended to go into court and testify that he did not know if Shaw was
present or not but became angered by Shaw's attorney's question, "Do you believe
in God" and afterwards did testify that Shaw was definitely present.

This informant stated that Russo admitted having undergone psychiatric treatment
for one and one-half years. He stated that Russo admitted to homosexual acts.
his informant stated that hejfully believes that he would have been able to break

usso had hecontinued. He stated that after giving a verbal report to Mr. Garrison |

that Mr. Garrison told him in no uncertain terms to keep his mouth shut and not to
gay anything about the test or what Russo said. This informant further stated that
is official written report to Mr. Garrison is going to indicate that in his opinion
Russo was’ an unfit subject on Monday, June 19, 1967.

&

The erratic breathing pattern that was described by this informant can indicate
claustrophobia, however, in all of the experience that I have had in conducting

olygraph examinations, an erratic breathing pattern as a general gule isan indica- -

on that the subject is being deceptive. |

mad

 

HW 54462 DocId:32319411 Page 4

 

 
