 

 

 

 

“EOP SECRET

Shoe
gorse fF
eo tetas ‘
“
“
aw?
as

Sullivan Memoranda to John Dean

From a review of FBI files, it would appear that
the reason The White House was interested in the activities
of the South Vietnam Embassy, Mrs. Chennault, and Spiro Agnew,
was to determine whether the South Vietnamese had secretly
been in touch with suovorters of Presidential candidate
Nixon, possibly through Mrs. Chennault, as President Johnson
was apparently suspicious that the South Vietnamese were
trying to sabotage his peace negotiations in the hope that
Nixon would win the election and then take a harder line
towards North Vietnam. In this regard, it is noted that on
one occasion, Smith advised DeLoach that President Johnson
was undecided as to whether Mrs. Chennault was working for
certain factions within the United States (possibly for the
Republican Party) or whether she was actually working for
North Vietnam.$)

r
. = i x ed” wpe ste 23 hae 5 aay
2 G86 GQ far f gS Ge & @ eG eg: Hee EE ote

A
t
-
1

 

HW 55154 DocId:32989639 Page 9

 
 

am piv OB COAL BIS”
A MREGG oreo vow Aan 92. ,
 

 

   

POP SECRET

 

Sullivan Memoranda to John Dean

hat during the veriod of the Presidential election in 1968,
the National Security Agency (NSA) had intercepted a cable

‘which indicated
that Chennault had been in contact with the South Vietnamese
Ambassador in an effort to persuade him to keep the)
South Vietnamese Government from attending the Paris peace
negotiations until after the election since it would not ,
devolve to the credit of the Republican Party.)(S).

In this regard, DeLoach alleged that President Johnson
talked to him prior to his death regarding this matter
and that President Johnson told him that if President Johnson
started to get pressured concerning the Chennault matter,
that President Johnson still had a copy of the cable,
presumably in the Johnson library, with which President Johnson
could prove the Republicans had tried to sabotage the peace
negotiations and that President Johnson would reveal the
contents of this cable. :

FBI files do not contain any information which
could be identified with the cable referred to above by
DeLoach,. [FBI files do indicate that on September 12, 1967,

, NSA reauested coverage on the teletyve facilities of the |
eo which was

authorized by the AG on January +4, and installed on |

January 25, 1968. FBI files further indicate that at the —

request of NSA, the FBI installed coverage on a teletyve .

machine at the Tesidence of | —

which installation was approved by the AG on October 24, “lay

BD SPmge @gpvercelephene and telet pype . & 2 *

ot ER: rates Se Pee placed pursuant to. requests =

from The White House and NSA with the approval of the ag JS) .

Physical surveillance of Mrs. Chennault was consistent

with FBI responsibilities to determine if her activities were

in violation of certain provisions of the Foreign Agents

Registration Act (Section 601, et sea., Title 22, USC) and cf
the Neutrality Act (Section 933, Title 18, USC).—

ay

Bo. -20P SECRET
-~3-

AW 55154 DocId:32989639 Page 6

 
 

* ° BOP SECRET

 

; . JFK Act 6 (1) (A)
« JEK Act 6 (1)(B)
JEK Act 6 (1) (Cc)

Sullivan Memoranda to John Dean

On November 7, 1968, Smith called DeLoach and stated
that President Johnson wanted the FBI to abandon its physical .
surveillance of Mrs. Chennault @s well as the physical

surveillance on the South Vietnam Enbassy. However, accordin
to Smith, President Johnson desired that we keep ers according

SSS bith Boe 6 (111A)
JE Cc
additionally mentioned that President Johnson was of the ~~. ein

, JER Act 6 (1) (Cc)
opinion that the intelligence obtained by the FBI in this~
operation was of the highest orderd) He stated that the facts ()
furnished by the FBI had been exactly what had been needed
by The White House an@ that he and the President were very
grateful. -

On November 12, 1968, at the instruction of
President Johnson, outgoing telephone calls made by then /
Vice-Presidential candidate Spiro Agnew on November 2, 1968,)
at which time he was in Albuquergue, New Mexico, were
checked (through toll records) by the Albuquerque Office of ‘
the FBI. The vurpose was to_d i e 3)
toll calls from Albuquerque L \
to Mrs. Chennault (no such records were located by Albuquerque). |
This information was furnished to President Johnson on
November 13, 1968. Also, the arrival and departure times of
Agnew in and out of Albuquerque, New Mexico, on November 2,
1968, were verified at the request of The White House.

    
  
 

 

 

On January 6, 1969, instructions were received from
The White House to discontinne televhone sux 1

   

On January | 293 1975, DeLoach telephonically

contacted Jom J. ; sistant Directdr of the FBI,
& and avFisee tha Ww By. orrocis a reporter ®or thé “% a
"New York Times" newspaver, had contacted DeLoach and, among
other questions, queried DeLoach about President Johnson,
through DeLoach, ordering a televhone tap and physical
surveillance of Anna Chennault. DeLoach advised McDermott

 

POR SECRET
-2-s

bw 55154 DocId:32989639 Page 7

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BOP SECRET

Sullivan Memoranda to John Dean

From a review of FBI files, it would appear that
the reason The White House was interested in the activities
of the South Vietnam Embassy, Mrs. Chennault, and Spiro Agnew,
was to determine whether the South Vietnamese had secretly
been in touch with supporters of Presidential candidate
Nixon, possibly through Mrs. Chennault, as President Johnson
was apparently suspicious that the South Vietnamese were
trying to sabotage his peace negotiations in the hope that
Nixon would win the election and then take a harder line
towards North Vietnam. In this regard, it is noted that on
one occasion, Smith advised DeLoach that President Johnson
was undecided as to whether Mrs. Chennavlt was working for
certain factions within the United States (possibly for the
Republican Party) or whether she was actually working for
North Vietnam.

Cae s eh ees oe ea gee gee ee a

RQP SECRET
who

oy

RW 55154 DocId:32989639 Page 5

 

 

 
 

noe Ny
at ar ae
OFFICE GF THG DIRECTOR

POP SECRET
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

February 1, 1975

 

SULLIVAN MEMORANDA
TO JOHN DEAN °

(MRS, ANNA CHENNAULT)

On October 29, 1968, Mr. J. Bromley Smith, a
White House staff member and Executive Secretary of the
National Security Council, was in telephone contact with
Cartha D. DeLoach, former Assistant _to the Director of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Smith advised that
he was speaking in behalf of President Lyndon B. Johnson

 

an h sete! veillance be installed _ .
on Lo He also stated there was <b! ¢
an. urgent need for The White House to know the identity. — SEK Act 6

of every individual going into the South Vietnam Embassy
for a three-day veriod. Physical surveillance of. the

South Vietnam Embassy was instituted immediately and
Director Hoover sent a written request for this telephone /
surveillance to the then Attorney General (AG) Ramsey Clark.’
On October 29, 1968, the AG authorized the installation ae]

Also, on October 29,” 4968, at the request of
The White House, the AG was pequested to approve telenhone
surveillance on the residence of
fhe AG approved this latter installation
etober 30, (8)

On October 30, 1968, Smith advised that

President Johnson desired an immediate physical surveillance

on Mrs. Anna Chennault , widow of General Claire Chennavit

of "Flying Tiger" fame. Physical surveillance was instituted

on Mrs. Chennault to cover her activities in weshington, D. C.,
ee Gg andgpew York City.  & * vt

Results of physical surveillance were disseminated

to Smith at The White House.

POP SECRET

-..  Glassified by. 6272 :
Exempt from G Category Number 2
Date of DecldssNication Indefinite

 

4-43-44 is
gBiFIED BY chu pas sees om
CURT ASSIEY ON: 25K, 2 —— sur PomerMATTOR

coe

 

ay 71900

Rag 55154 Docld:32989639 Page 6

OTRERWI GS

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

hoe we ee ce
> SECRET ao
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

 

February 1, 1975

SULLIVAN MEMORANDA
TO JOHN DEAN

(MRS, ANNA CHENNAULT)

On October 29, 1968, Mr. J. Bromley Smith, a
White House staff member and Executive Secretary of the
National Security Council, was in telephone contact with
Cartha D. Deloach, former Assistant to the Director of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). Smith advised that
he was speaking in behalf of President Lyndon B. Johnson
(And requested that a telephone surveillance be installed

an urgent need ror The White House to imow the identity PoTA(b) 7)
of every individual going into the South Vietnam Embassy

for a three-day period. Physical surveillance of the

South Vietnam Embassy was instituted immediately and ;
Director Hoover sent a written request for this teleshone’
surveillance to the then Attorney General (AG) Ramsey Clark.

On October 29, 1968, the AG authorized the installations,

Also, on October 29, 1968, at the request of’
The White House, the AG was requested to anprove telephone
surveillance on the residence

The AG-approved this latter instailatignh(})\)) 7 (¢)

|
on October 30, 1968{9)

On October 30, 1968, Smith advised that
President Johnson desired an immediate physical surveillance
on Mrs. Anna Chennault, widow of General Claire Chennault
of "Flying Tiger" fame. Physical surveillance was instituted
on Mrs. Chennault to cover her activities in Washington, D. ¢.,
tee meet anda, gags Cl'Mee Gf €2 ted, ge ef & -g

Results of physical surveillance were disseminated .
to Smith at The White House. :

 

1 oy SPupsemeO Classified by 627

CLASSIFIED BY ST MPIa-muP = Classified by 6272 Number 2

DECLASSIFY ON: 26).} Date of betassification Insernite
uno =

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
EEnEIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
EACEPT WHERE SHOWN
OTHERWISE

 

HW 55154 DocId:32989639 Page 2

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

, ne SECRET

Sullivan Memoranda to John Dean

 

On November 7, 1968, Smith called DeLoach and stated
that President Johnson wanted the FBI to abandon its physical
surveillance of Mrs. Chennaultjas well as the physical —
surveillance on the South Vietnam Embassy. However, according
to Smith, President Johnson desired that we keep the telephone
surveillance on the South Vietnam Embassy in operation. Smith
additionally mentioned that President Johnson was of the
opinion that the intelligence obtained by the FBI in this
operation was of the highest orders] He stated that the facts by)
furnished by the FBI had been exactly what had been needed
by The White House anda that he and the President were very
grateful.

. On November 12, 1968, at the instruction of

President Johnson, outgoing telephone calls made by then
Vice-Presidential candidate Spiro Agnew on November 2, 1968,

at which time he was in Albuqueraue, New Mexico, were

checked (through toll records) by the Albuquerque Office of

the FBI. The purpose was to determine if Agnew had made

toll calls from Albuquerque (to the South Vietnam Embassy orf SY
to Mrs. Chennavit (no such récords were located by Albuaueraue).
This information was furnished to President Johnson on

November 13, 1968. Also, the arrival and departure times of
Agnew in and out of Albuquerque, New Mexico, on November 2,
1968, were verified at the request of The White House.

: On January 6, 1969, instructions were received from
The White House to discontinue telephone surveillances on

the South Vietnam Embassy and the residence of Ambassador Dien
and these telephone surveillances were discontinued on the
same date.\S) . og
: me me . af
“7.77. On January 29, 1975, Deloach telephonically
contacted John J. icDermott, Assistant Diregtér of the BPI, ow
fand Mttrised@ishat @iicholés u. GEbrockis vetGrtes@ter tad “eke
"New York Times" newspaver, had contacted DeLoach and, among
other questions, queried DeLoach about President Johnson,
through DeLoach, ordering a televhone tap and physical
surveillance of Anna Chennault. DeLoach advised MeDermott.

~e f

 
   

‘Glassizis

~y at

~ Qe

HW 55154 DocId:32989639 Page 3

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a

 

 

Te a ee ee — vo a ea

EP SECRET

SRK Act 6 (1) (B)

Sullivan Memoranda to John Dean

Presidential election in 1968,
N ii cepted a cable
which indicated
that Chennault had been in contact with the South Vietnamese
Ambassador in an effort to persuade him to keev the

South Vietnamese Government from attending the Paris peace
negotiations until after the election since it would not
devolve to the credit of the Republican Party.J (S$)

at during the period of the
Natio i

    

In this regard, DeLoach alleged that President Johnson
talked to him prior to his death regarding this matter
and that President Johnson told him that if President Johnson
started to get pressured concerning the Chennault matter,
that President Johnson still had a copy of the cable, :
presumably in the Johnson library, with which President Johnson
could prove the Republicans had tried to sabotage the peace
negotiations and that President Johnson would reveal the
eontents of this cable.

FBI files do not contain any information which
could be identified with the cable referred to above by
DeLoach. [ist files do indicate that on September 12, 1967,

, NSA requested coverage on the teletype facilities of the
South Vietnamese Embassy, pashington, D. C., which was
authorized by the AG on January 4, 1968, and installed on
January 25, 1968. FBI files further indicate that at the
request of NSA, the FBI installed coverage on a teletype
machine at the residence of then Vietnamese Ambassador
Bui Diem at 4535 32nd Street, Northwest, Washington, D. C.,
which installation was approved by the AG on October 24, 4468]¢S)

surveillances were legitimately plated pursuant to reaiests
from The White House and NSA with the approval of the AG.] (5)
Physical surveillance of Mrs. Chennault was consistent

with FBI responsibilities to determine if her activities were
in violation of certain provisions of the Foreign Agents
Registration Act (Section 601, et sea., Title 22, USC) and of
the Neutrality Act (Section 953, Title 18, USC).

.
ree Sane. ee 6 [20 supiorl zee 8 Doty, Celergone syin, telegype an — geeh &,

 

z 20? SECRET
- 3 -

HW 55154 DocId:32989639 Page 4

 

 
