 

 

 

HW 55021 DocId:32989607 Page 9

: : . : ooh e° . . . ® oy

, M. A, Jones to Mr. Bishop Memo
\ RE: ROBERT C. MARDIAN,..MEETING WITH THE DIRECTOR

that it has come to his attention that an indivdual designated, py/SSiets to open

a consular office in San Francisco was ejected from Greece because of his espionage
activities. The Diréctor advised Mr. Mardian how he had-been misquoted with respect
to his views concerning the passage of the Consular Treaty noting that he never made
a statement opposing it, but merely cited the investigative problems that would be
encountered.by.the- Bureau ifthe Russtans-were -permitted.to.open consulates in
various parts of the United States, :

The Director advised Mardian that he is firmly of the opinion that
foreign espionage agents, when found out, should be prosecuted-and ‘appropriately
punished for their act activi cae —Mry “Wea g said he heartily agreed,

Mr. Hoover noted that in the past,.the Department of Justice has
always yielded and deferred to.State with.nespect.to such matters, Mardian advised
that he re hoped t that this would change with his administration of the Internal Se curity
Division. The Director at this.point 1 noted. the ‘problems the Bureairhas-had in the
past e even with the Internal .Security.Division i in.our.efforts to get prompt r eplies
whére inquiries. have been made by.the Bureau, .Mardian, stated. it. is-his earnest
hope that he could effect_changes.in.the Inter nal. Security Division which would preclude
problems of this sort in the future,

,oreerer ene ewer ERNE ele

_ wom ee
cant eet ame mn TNA err Se na a ened

 

At this point in their conversation, Mr. Mardian stated he had two
matters that he wanted to mention to the Director concerning which he wished to
solicit the Director's cooperation and guidance,

He advised that he has been commissioned by the President to put
together an‘Interdepartmental. Intelligence Unit for the purpose of pooling information
. received from thé various intelligence | agencies and based on the evaluation of such
information, it is hoped that this Unit might eventually be able to predict with some
degree of accuracy, demonstrations, criminal acts which might be committed by
dissidents and others whose goals are inimical to our Government,

‘ - For the purpose of establishing this Interdepartmental Intelligence Unit,
Mery ‘Mardian said he’ hoped that edch-intelligehce’ organization to be iricluded would
designate a “top man" who Will work with the Unit, He'indicated that the Unit will work
out of the White House, that special space is being obtained in Federal office building
number seven adjacent to the White House and that’ Mr. John Ehrlichmann has
advised Mardian that an individual named Morell Sharp, a former Supreme Court
Justice from the State of Washington is being designated to work with the Unit for
the next six months pending his reappointment to the Supreme Bench in Washington,
it being noted that he lost his place on the Bench in the recent elections,

Loe \

ee ICONTINUED - OVER }
 

. A, Jones to Mr. Bishop Memo>
: ROBERT C, MARDIAN.. . MEETING WITH THE DIRECTOR

  
 

Mardian advised Mr. Hoover that Sharp is an excelfent man with

outstanding credentials. Bufiles reflect no information on Sharp. He is currently
under investigation by the Bureau in connection with his appointment as Consultant
to the Attor: ey General.

 

  

to the Director was iNe fact that he has also been commissioned by the White House
+  toform a Task Force té:decide what our Government's response will be should
} there ever be a kidnaping‘of a Government official such as there was in Canada
recently. Mardian stated that it is his earhest hope that the Task Force, whenit 3
y is formed and confers, will tecommend tio response be made to the demands of would
. \ be abductors and that this iS policy df established, be given full disclosure in the press, \
f
é
i
i
)
\
§
t
i

Aad ban . Ry 7 ck

In response to a “a heat ty by Mardian for the Director's opinion
concerning this matter, the Director ‘noted that he shared Mardian's views and
felt that plans must be formulated in anticipation of possible kidnapings since it
is not realistic to take the position they will not occur in this country.

Just prior to.the conclusion Oy their talk, Mr. Mardian expressed
concern over Frank Sinatra's recent association with Governor Ronald Reagan of
California and advised Mi. Hoover that efforts ‘ on his, Mardian's, part and those of -
‘Lyn Nofziger, of the White House, to convince Reagan of Sinatra's unsavory .
background have been met by disbelief. 4

Mr. Hoover noted that he is well acquainted with Governor Reagan

-. and that the next, time he.is in touch.withhim, he will brief.him concerning Sinatra.. :. |

Mardian stated that he appreciates Mr. Hoover's offer to ‘do this since, while :

Reagan is not inclined to believe Mardian or Nofziger, even though they are close
friends, he most certainly will believe Mr. Hoover, :

 

Mardian said that he is of the opinion that Reagaiy. Jhas sought a
relationship with Sinatra to dim his own image of being a right wing conservative.
i Mardian noted that one of Reagan's biggest financial supporters, Taft Schreiber,

ee MR ee

President of the Music Corporation of America, served as actor's agent to both
Reagan and Sinatra several years back. . :
5 oe

CONTINUED ~- OVER

~: - oe a reper tee ag

 
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
     
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
 
   
     
  
  
   
      
   
 
   
  
    

 

“REM ROBERT Cy MARDIAN... MRETING WIE THE prascp6R

3

|

: |, 3M) A. Sones to Me. Bishos hams a a :

_ fte pines the stndant officses 3 kava inanguented A proges f inviting diasident quest |

- spankers ye emuear On Caren sud tees. watiog 3,089 fs bole paid, Stardiau suse |

. poets that Ki tits manner Sucis oritingliy cbisined (ef other curgoses are bidag
“-pystemationNy chaangied to dlactleats aml oiubir g Poontentions,

Leg -- Mardiga exnrenced his concarn ith the ftate Deparbee: nt ud ig that 2
; Sie Dogartment alQusiice in are raesiving tfam State mrascure totmiarg? the bees :
> of Igor A. Avinoy, & eoutiaiod espionage agook who 1s presently af Hosrty gen linzs
Sm.apoant before the Quereme Court. Magfica noted that if bs tho State egact> mani
> whe that Ivansy's Dongs chanied tn dyfar that he may ba germitted to retusa ta

.. Fiusela for avisit, Mardiga staiod tagg he is * eaelng 20 stone ualuvasd to tires
‘the State * Pepartmeat’s atid te te katy Tower’

fn

 

: ‘The Director bgigl Nardian ¢ consen ning the 3 aay y probleme bed tits |
- the ‘State Pepa imant over the yofrs with the reanact to our off, sets to hava cealougce |
° g¢ents proszested end persons fas bane clolommiie bmercunite declared pereoniat
non grata, whes euch intividusls bode eon eracht oncacing in exnlenese activities
‘aghlust the Uaited states, cp the subhect ef the State Tagarament, ihe Ciraster wore
. Hoaad the penileme } had sigh exesgct tN oe iouigmentation of tha Ureetlant's 2
“to have more ERY coveragé aversnas. EGA, Boover usted it tear from + Sentemccr 22
until just o fow days ago fo got ths State Dedgrtmeat concurrence and only ailer tha
Satervention of Bix Heyky Hiesinger, advico? to tha Frezifest,

   

  
 

   

' Mr. Arcian noted the inconalets es he bas expectenced wetth f Teste
Ware | on ona bend, Josy went a cauricted Fusaian & qpienara Ares namsig, ivuacy
aiiorded grontos Cohecor te Uravel duct on the ciher Band, they demand that Orlanc+
: Boeck act tbe goryitted to be released on bond for foarg tine pairing our reiaiingcain
<j with Castro Cuby, hiardien contideatially advined that Reis 3 tulsing gona Binps pobor:
‘the econss to #9 cure Bosch's & rsicnes on bond, ye : :

oo

Mr.. Hoover niger thet + ith respect tos Soviet R Nissin, poacofel-
 Soaxictence Af thee equatry. wath the United Sts t2o.is an “abgolate He" since. thee ys
. Busaiaag off hinue to atedlérate tialr ec odes activities ‘nealuskes, fn atcittos, a

the ea Pr neta] inet the Cororunist Party, USA, receives aainitNen dollars a yee? |
fros Soryet Rysela for its activiives, os 0

 

.

ste d ected with the Soviets, greater etificulttss neo going to be encewercd Sy

The Mircetor also noted that «ith respect ts the Consutte Treaty whit
the OUT in coverlag notivides of the Soviets in tis country. The Director ifivated

~ 3 - , ° : oa
TINO - OVER

      

}.55021 Docld:32989607 Page 8
   
    
    
 
  
  
   
      
         

  
     

 

: ar
| he A. Joner to ie. Bishop Memo
| - on RGus iE ree MARDIAS, eee Set

 
 

ra 3

a having : bearing or euch inattovs crelviointel y
- the coustention of the Bureau, should thers be any reques stn for gt ane ce oY recom
" sueudationdoy this Tass Forces vwheu fh fe formed. The Ubractor gecured Mr. Marcin

Py fat tne Bardys would be of assistance whenever pogaibla. _L. pe

a . ardian noted that hs was eatr. ares hy inte: Rag dé in how soma of the

: diewident olets venta this en aniry are being fended aad wee particularity iniercriad
: fa a 525, 669 domition revently rade by the son of the F Bsitont ak Paras renin

AL Studies tothe Gings Py thors, partiquiarly stuce ag agfud by Wis. Moovar, Bde
dafiviégel tis Gus far this year wade contriintions gotallag O79, G8. hineciag hi
 Robed that be fe attempticls to cel us a high Waissay Fiib the Internal Pevonus Sarvite
. ia onier to bo pole to pracswily dsicrmins, Los JA this ence, and fn thhere Eke it,
ve whether the individual's ineady & tare sotern aD) fis the eouteiiutions rade.

 

      
     

 
 

aera Yardion aeiad nis fceountion in connection ith the shove
‘ehted matter, otter that the intartgt feyfrue Nervrice refared to feraich alm ihe
‘atoreation requested aniins roquet REG up Her aedailing the parpasa Gf Ris ie,gitt.

    
    
    
     
   
        
      

   

* “pdardian stated that pA ivkts tore xoust b be a usw aggroach with ouuvect

: ts tatters af this sort -- to mssoghe reaXigt of informating and to peeciude les
order thet prosscation might we fod, iardd ‘a peealied a situmiea inrciviny a isione

of the formcsz Yrosidant iohnaga whore ha ekg aa inaey of Internal Regraye end

; fie inguley 0 oovioasty came tythe attention of th party {a whom ha had aa interaut,

   

. | Mordian & vice: hin. Hoover that he grosoced te eventually iniiiat

inquiries of Interest Reyonus regarding bonoracla feck ived by various lijehien te ;
-_apeeking on collie: egfaruses. Ha enla he surpects thakthe reoneg those indivicuais °
> “eecelve for mich anyfarances may ba a cover ioe coanneliag fonda to Glee sidant

- Organizations » whic the epaasers represent. ;

  

    
    
       
       
       
    
   

” A this renaxd,. nardian citza the University of Taass which bus soo
Est * $0,000:« & tudony A a8 & ease in ooist. He noted thatthe student so “pas wera
P= “yeeantly Tie: fn ditonchachd and obuthotic Wild respect to eléctiodg ofetutsat (0
- officers any ondeceentiy, ia stections ves entiy Aatd, only $60 siadontAactually yotss
BG 2 covagouetcaof wales cissidents were aols ta wat inelr own slate I? ica.
Accordizxe to Marden the student aifisers airiinisler a fund of some ue IN yOu in
Bettis bs toge obinined trom tise poaconte ot the Secinning of tha echool yeag.

5 .

    

 

 

325, OS nf fits is uenally gnent to cufrey exngagos tor aa annus] horsocoming rece
déomwis
sar] eH AL

on tye emnnug., eeantly, accoriiag te Marcisa, the reica wag canc-le

a: 4 .
BnDirsy Peay (we Be .-
DP ee - rat ‘ ; ;

; SALwatobhs : ayers sap Crack!

Docld:32989607 Page 7 CONTINUED - OF VER

= 4

   

hi MW: 5502

  
 

SSC REQUEST 5-14-75

Appendix C, Part I, Item 14

 

 

Mo
i yb
Le als
aie ot -
HAS 7 :
Pre V2 Retain Copies

‘ Some Documents in Excised Version

HW 55021 DocId:32989607 Page 5

 
 

* i . . Ey
SOHO 106 og

ee 76 orton rors wo, 10
# tebe tonto. 27
UNITED st ATES G&_ ERNMENT © \
,? ( Memorandum |
We ; Mr, PLS | | pare, Mev
Vy oe

FROM iM. AY Jones

“

~-SUBJECT: ROBERT CNA RDIAN a
ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL
Ormenat, SECURITY DIVISION : é
MEETING WITH THE DIRECTOR .
1-25-70
~ In accordance with arrangements approved by the Director,
Mr. Mardian conferred with Mr. Hoover in Mr. Hoover's Office this morning. .
At the outset of their meeting Mr, Hoover advised Mr, Mardian. that the failure of
. the Internal Security Division of the Department of Justice to take action on
: numerous occasions where action was clearly indicated, based on the results of
FBI reports, has been of deep concern to the Bureau, The Director noted that
‘while nrosecution is not the business of the FBI. that we are an investigative
agency, 3 nevertheless there have been instances “where reports contained results. ‘
of 3 investigations that clearly called for prosecutive action, and none was had.

ees

{

‘Mr, Mr. Hoover.observed.that the Internal Security Division..of the
‘ Department.of Justice.was one sector of the Department that was in, bad need of
revitalizing. Mx. Maxdian. said that he was in total agreement with Mr. Hoover,

and th that he, Mardian, intended to.take appropriate action in this regard.

The D Director noted that he hoped that matters concerning the. Black
-Panthers, Students fora “Democratic “Society and the Weathermen would eventually
Be the pesponsibility of Mr. Mardian's Internal Security Division, Mardian indicated
that plans were going forward.to de precisely this at the present time. -

ae Mr, Mardian. observedthat.he intended tol¥ésonve sil doubts
. regarding prosecution of persons who have #oldted laws theaving a beating on this” i
country’ Ss internal Securit in favor Eprosecution. wherever, and -wheneye oe Rossibley r :

       

“tn this regard Mr. ” Mardian advised that he sritended to sit idgether | :
a Task Force to develop new strategy and ideas for prosecuting people who represent
a i threat to this country's internal security. He noted that he anticipated as the result
of this Task Force new legislation would be recommended where present legislation
is now inadequate, that efforts would be made to have prosecution where State Jaws.

Renn aks } / ~ CONTINUED - OVER’

Id: 32989607 Page 6 eR Y

 
a el

macmmsy lien, Snes ssemapretec tan riainons'd
. ror emreuer ne Yorn
tar Neer ts tease 47: to

 

rr arr

“-L16395.,.

lH@

 

 

 

 
 

HQ -116395
al 266

MN

 

2113/89172

TMA

 

 

 
 

 

  
     
   
 

  

io bR— WoF@s.

=
Serial Scope:

 

 

 

 

 

| . | Lee batty, -

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

wN ae

MAN

.Léurnished |: for 4 Br, FSCOTGS o

Me

HW 55021 DocId:32989607 Page 4

£,8SC requested all memoranda and. other materials
Fin the possession of the FRI pertaining tc the

THE a Ge wT ORITED STATES SENATE -

 

SELECT COMMITTEE ON

Reis made te the let, and INTELLIGENCE ACTIVIT-

| appendices thereto, from TES (sS¢)

the SSC, dated May 14, 1975, ; uc moe
iyequesting certain documents and other infe from
“the FBI, In Appendix C, Parr 1, Ttem 14, the

 

ractivities of the Intelligence Evaluation Comnite
-A copy of the memo with its attachments is being "8 |

v Bettie Bebe ot ieee cad

ras

N

 
