 

 

 

 

 

 

“a

JFK Act 6 (4)
NO 92-390/lam ee

enough for bookmakers to pay off bets and could:only be
used by some to satisfy their curiousity as to what_horses
may have won races at some of the Eastern tracks.
said that on some afternoons the source would only be able
to provide the names of one or two winning horses at only
one track and on other afternoons the source might have the
names of considerably more winners but on no occasion has
_this source ever had enough information to enable bookmakers
to use the information in connection with their business.

On September 21, 1962 advised that he had
determined that the employee at the Times Picayune Newspaper
is a person named "TONY" and that TONY is a relative of a
“person named "JUNIOR" who he understands is a partner of
NICK NUCCIO, a bookmaker in Jefferson Parish, _ Louisiana,

; Investigation is continuing to determine the
identity of the Times Picayune employee and the identities
of the individuals utilizing the information supplied by
this employee.

With regard to the other source of out of state
race information available to certain bookmakers and betters,
Mr. &. CHANDLER JOSEY, Special Agent, Southern Bell Telephone
and Telegraph Company, New Orleans, advised on September 18,
1962 that he was investigating a matter where an unknown
individual was using pay telephones in the New Orleans area
to make long distance calls to Chicago telephone Number WE-
9-1900, The individual making these calls to this number is
retrieving the change he uses in making these calls thereby
defrauding the telephone company of the revenue of these

30 minutes after races have been run. He said that this
information is apparently put on a tape recording so that
_when any person calls the number they can receive the infor-
mation along with a short commercial announcement advertising
a publication known as “The Green Sheet". Mr. JOSEY stated

Calls, JOSEY advised that he had determined that this Chicago
telephone number dispenses horse race information approximately

 

 

| HW 45760 DocId:32290110 Page 9
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NO 92-390/lam , JFK Act 6 (4)

that the identity of winning horses at various racetracks
are given along with the paramutual prices on the winning
horses. He said that this telephone number does not
dispense the identities of second and third place horses
or the paramutual prices on these horses.

In this connection, vcr[_ id advised
on September 21, 1962 that he was aware of the Chicago

telephone number and he had called this number for his own
personal use to find out whether articular horse he may
have bet on had actually won. said calling parties
cannot determine the identities of second and third place
horses. through this number nor can they obtain the mutual
prices for second and third place horses. He said the
information which could be obtained by calling this number
was not complete enoughtfor any bookmaker to utilize the \
information obtained in connection with his wagering business
as a bookmaker must. have complete results, which would include
the three winning horses of each race at each major race~
track in the country.

Investigation. is continuing to determine additional
information concerning this telephone number and the use of
this number by betters and bookmakers in the New Orleans area, +

oe WARE

 

 

i} HW 45760 DocId:32290110 Page 10
 

 

JJFK Act 6 (4)
No 92-390/lam

 

this same procedure is used by all the other bookmakers in
the area, He said that his volume of business prior to
September, 1961 was so large that he is positive that if
racé. wire service was available in the New Orleans area, it

_would be offered to him; therefore he is’ positive that no
such service is available. ;

. PCI a an active bookmaker
in Jefferson Par. Louisiana, advised on April 16 and
September 12, 1962, that. there is no race wire service in

the New Orleans area and there has been none since Nola
Printing Company terminated its service in September, 1961,

Recently, information has come to the attention
of this office concerning two sources through.-which some
bookmakers and betters can obtain the identities of winning "
horses at out of state racetracks,
referred to

-- @n June 6, 1962,
above, advised that "within ie past few we - he had been

ablé to obtain some of the winning horses at. out of state
racetracks between 45 minutes to 14 hours after the races
were run. He said hé contacted three different individuals : :
in the city who occasionally. would have the identities of - 3.
winning. horses only. These individuals would not have the moo
identities of place and show horses_nor would they have the
paramutual prices on these -horses, tated the source
of this information was an employee ©o: e New Orleans Times lh.
|
\

 

  
    

 

Picayune Newspaper who obtained the race information from the
Associated Press Sports Ticker. This employee would then go
out to a barroom located at the corner of St; Charles and
Poydras Streets which is near the Times a

where he would make the information available. said the
information was never ayailable after 4:00 PM each ¥ which
indicated to him that the employee of the newspaper got off from
work at that time. He said that the racing information

provided through this source was not complete-enough or reliable

: se Besant
SA - a re
i Jy PRES LAS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

HW 45760 DocId:32290110 Page @
 

\

racetracks,

NO 92-390/lam i

 

Nola Printing Company went out of business in septénber,
1961, none of the bookmakers in the New Orleans area are
receiving out of state race results on the same day that
races are being run. All three have pointed out that
because of the fact that no race wire service is available
in the New Orleans area, they are unable to past post book-
makers in this area. They advised that one of the essential
elements to a successful past posting operation is that. the
victim bookmaker must be handling considerable action and. be
busily occupied in his profession, Since there is no race
wire service in the New Orleans area at this time, the
business of the bookmakers has béen seriously affected with
the result that they are unable to past post ‘those books.

In this connection; [_]saia he has traveled
throughout Louisiana, both before and /after September, 1961
and has found that the same conditions exist in such areas
as Monroe, Shreveport, Baton Rouge and Lake Charles, Louisiana,
He explained that without a race wire service in the Louisiana
area, bookmaking business is "dead" and as long as it remains
"dead" he cannot successfully past post bookmakers.

a PCI who is active as a
bookmaker at 952 Jefferson Highway, which is Manuel's Restaurant ©
and Bar, advised on May 22, 1962 and July 13, 1962 that there
is no service in the New Orleans area providing the identities
and the mutual prices of winners of horse races at out of state

eee tated that there has been no race wire

' service since Nola Printing Company terminated its operations

in September, 1961. He stated that this has greatly affected
his business and the business of other bookmakérs in the New
Orleans Metropolitan area, stated that he relies on
the daily racing form and the two New Orleans newspapers for
his out of state race results and pays his customers who
make winning bets on the day following the races, after he
has ‘read the race results in these publications. He stated that —

PV =f “ye
ea YA

 

 

aw 45760 DoclId:32290110 Page 7
 

 

 

 

 

4

e

 

JFK Act 6

(4)

NO 92-390 /tal

that individuals unknown to him and without his’
authority were “bootlegging” his service to the
Mississippi Gulf Coast. CHAUVIN said he operated
this service from 3646 Airline Highway, Jefferson
Parish, utilizing 18 telephones in this place.

(In this connection, investigation of Nola Print~
ing Company disclosed that this was the central
point from which Nola's race wire service was dissemi-
nated when Nola was in operation.) GHAUVIN said
JOSEPH A, PORETTO and Nola Printing Company had no
connection with his race wire service and that he

‘Was renting the premises at 3646 Airline Highway

from JOSEPH PORETTO and JOSEPH MAR O, who owned
the property. CHAUVIN cleimed that “he had only —
approximately 17 paying subscribers to his service
and complained that one of his main difficulties

in operating the service was that bookmakers in
Jefferson Parish were stealing it and not paying
for it. -He said he determined that some 80 book=
makers were actually receiving the service but only
about 17 were paying him for it.

ANTHONY JOSEPH LUPO was interviewed by:
Agents at Nola Printing Company, 530 Iris Avenue,
on June 22, 1962. LUPO identified himself as
the publisher ef the Daily Sports Bulletin. He
said the Bulletin is still being published and
that is the only activity taking place at 530 Iris
Avenue. LUPO said in the old days Nola employed
25 to 30 men but now there were only four or five
men On the payroll and only about 600 copies of
the Daily Sports Bulletin are printed each day.
LUPO said these are sold only in Louisiana and
none are mailed out of the State, as he does not
desire to become involved in a possible violation
of any of the new Federal legislation pertaining —
to interstate gambling activities.

After ABEL JOHN CHAUVIN cut off his -

kmakers on December 22, 1961,
said that for a few days :

there was no organized service from the Fair Grounds.

On January 5, i662,[— Jeaia that SAM SAIA,

a long-time bookmaker m the New Orleans area, was

then providing results of Fair Grounds races only

 

  

A |

ACSA RE

 

 

| WW 45760 DocId:32290110 Page 5
ar. |

 

 

 

 

 

HW 45760

5

NO 92-390

/tal _ JFK Act 6 (4)

to bookmakers along Jefferson High ‘in Jefferson
Parish. On Pebruary 2, 1962, eata service
from the Fair Grounds had been very poor since CHAUVIN
ceased operating in December and at that time various
bookmakers had devised their own systems of obtaining
race results from the Fair Grounds on an individual
basis. He said that, to cut down expenses, they

were sharing the results with each other.

The following is a summary of investigations conducted —

by the New Orleans Office since Nola Printing Company went out

of business as a race wire service in September, 1961. Thése
investigations ddxo: not reveal that there is any race wire ser-
vice available to bookmakers in the New Orleans Metropolitan
area which would enable them to pay off winning bettors on
the same day that out-of-state races are run,

DocId: 32290110

SOSAMRE

 

Page 6

 
 

1
NO 92-390 /tal

«

A, GAMBLING
I. BOOKMAKING

Investigation of bookmaking in the New Orleans

Area has revealed that up through September 13, 1961,
- bookmakers were receiving results of out-of-state races
through Nola Printing Company, the local race wire service,
which discontinued operations on that date because of the
existence of new Federal legislation pertaining to inter=
state gambling activities. Investigation has disclosed that
since September 13, 1961, bookmakers in the New Orleans Area
have not been able to obtain out-of-state race results on
the same day that races are run. They have had to rely on
race results obtained through legitimate news media, and
the New Orleans Times Picayune Newspaper has been their prin-
cipal source of this information, in se far as horse races
-are concerned. Investigation has disclosed that from September
13, 1961, to November 23, 1961, local bookmakers' business
was seriously curtailed; however, the New Orleans Fair Grounds
Race Trask began its 1961 winter meet on November 23, 1961.
This meet continued until March 10, 1962. During the period
of the Fair Grounds' meet, local bockmakers' business picked
up considerably and again fell off after March 10, 1962.

a. NOLA PRINTING COMPANY, 530 IRIS AVENUE, JEFFERSON
PARISH, LOUISIANA . : . a

 

Gur investigation of Nola Printing Company
during the past five years has disclosed that it was
the race wire service for this section of: the United
States. Nola operated until September 13, 1961,
when it terminated its race wire service on that
date, which was the day President KENNEDY signed
into law Federal legislation concerning interstate
gambling activities. .

PCI's and —

ase Of whom are cognizant of gambling

~ activities in Jefferson Parish, have advised that
Nola had exclusive territorial rights to furnish
results of horse races to bookmakers in Louisiana,
Mississippi, Alabama, Arkansas, East T

- gome Eastern States, but not Florida... has
been a bookmaker in Jefferson Parish for many years

“and subscribed to Nola's service. [__—ijhas been

 

Ls.

 

 

 

| we 45760 DoclId:32290110 Page 2
 

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/28/201
Identification Form

Agency Information :
Peleased under the John
AGENCY: FBI . Kennedy
RECORD NUMBER : 124-10202-10386 kesassination Records
iS ollection Act of 1992
RECORD SERIES: HQ (44 USC 2107 Note).

AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 62-9-33-347

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
' FROM: SAC, NO
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: — 10/01/1962
PAGES: 88

SUBJECTS : : .
CIP, STATE OF LA, INVEST, GAMBLING, BOOKMAKING, CM,
JPO, JM, DI PIAZZO, SALVATORE, ASSOC, PROSTITUTION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT :

CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified /
RESTRICTIONS: — 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: — Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 09/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS : INC BRIEF, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE I, INDEX PAGES I-VIII

v9.1 9
| MW 45760 DocId:32290110 Page 1
 

 

 

NOQ 92-390 /tal

a bookmaker and is a professional gambler, working
in various gambling casinos.

In addition to providing the results
of horse races by telephone communications facilities,
Nola also publishes the Daily Sports Bulletin, which
lists the horses and odds .on races being run at’
most of the tracks throughout the United States.
With regard to the odds published by the Daily Sports
Bulletin, these ‘are the odds established each morn-
ing by the racing Secretaries atthe various race
tracks . and: are the odds that appear on paramutual
boards ‘at: 4 : Packss@hortly. ‘before the beginning -
of each race. The racing schedules listed in the
Daily Sports. Bulletin also show wiat horses have
been scratched as of the time the Daily Sports

Bulletin goes to press. This. publication is printed |
each weekday except Sunday. —

ORCE.

 

FX TASK F

aR
Y aay

  
  

   

 

opm
view Oo

 

O TOTAL DENIAL

 

   

nternal Revenue Service in New Orleans

JFK Law 11 (a)

 

ss : ng
pany, 'On December 17,.1957, PCI ROLLING advised
‘that. Nola is managed by ‘PORETTO; that it is the .
general opinion.among bookmakers in Jefferson Parish
that Nola is controlled by CARLOS MARCELLO and that :
one of MARCELLO‘! brothers, JOSEPH, was made a partner -

of Nola te oversee the operation and protect CARLOS
MARCELLO's interest.

On July 13, 1961; July 20, 1961, and
September 5, 1961, PCI ROLLING, who then operated
a horse race book in Jefferson Parish, advised
that Nola was still furnishing horse race informa
tion to bookmakers. On September 20, 1961, Attorney
j HILLARY J. GAUDIN, New Orleans, advised he is the
: Attorney for Nola. He identified PORETTO as one
: of the partners of Nola and stated that Nola is

ND

 

HW 45760 DocId:32290110 Page 3

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JFK Act 6 (4).

| WW 45760

3

NO 92-390

.

 

/tal

in the business of disseminating results of horse
races, but ceased operating as a race wire service
on September.13, 1961. On February 2, 1962, PORETTO
advised SA REGIS L, KENNEDY that Nola printing Con-
pany is not. putting out race results for the New
Orleans Fair Grounds Race Track or any other race
track. He said he would not reactivate Nola as a
race wire service as long as there is any doubt
about the new Federal legislation pertaining» to
interstate gambling,

After Nola ceased its operations, on.
September 13, 1961, investigation disclosed that
bookmakers in Jefferson Parish and the New Orleans
Area began to receivéis results of races being run
at the New Orleans Fair Grounds Race Track when
that track opened its winter meet on Thanksgiving
; On December 7, 1961, PCT
who operates a horse race.

“book at Manuel's Restaurant, 952 Jefferson Highway, —

advised that he had been receiving race results

from the Fair Grounds since November 23, 1961. He
said he did not know who was operating the service
but ABEL JOHN CHAUVIN had contacted him about buyigg
the service... said the service consisted of
actual broadcast o he races as they were being
run at the Fair Grounds, It is to be noted that

“the 1961 winter meet of the Fair Grounds operated

from November 23, 1961, to March 10, 1962. This
track has only one meet a year, which begins each

year on Thanksgiving Day.

°° CHAUVIN's..service ran cember 21,

~1961. On December 22, 1961; “PCI advised
“ that-on the previous day CHAUVIN announced over his

DocId: 32290110

wire service that he had received information that
somebody, without his authority, was "bootlegging"
his service to the Mississippi Gulf Coast in viola-
tion of the new Federal laws pertaining to inter-
state gambling.” said CHAUVIN. commented

that if this illicit transmission did not_discontinue
immediately his service would shut down. —
said that on December 22, 1961, when bookmakers
called CHAUVIN service for Fair Grounds results

of that day they were advised that the service had
been discontinued. ; .

CHAUVIN was interviewed on March 4, 1962,
and he advised that he had operated a race wire ser-
vice from November 23, 1961, to December 21, 1961,
discontinuing it ‘because , he "received information /

—
By I. . 2 TAR

 

 

Page 4
