Bentley interview Page three

assignment, he reported only to Officers Ganaway and Butler.

Mr. Bentley only recalls the Lois Green gang as having any
control in criminal activities in the Dallas area and surrounding
communities. He knew of no other organization having any

control over crime in Dallas. The gang members he recalls were
Lois Green, Cecil Green, Nick Cascio, Jack Todd and R. D. Matthews.
He has never heard Jack Ruby's name mentioned in connection with
this organization. The extent of their criminal activities

was gambling, burglaries, safe cracking, narcotics and women,
When we mentioned John Grizzaffi's name, Bentley described him
as a gambler, but not in the same league as the Green gang. This
gang was disbanded when Lois Green was murdered by a gunman with
a shotgun in front of the Sky Club on Fort Worth Avenue. Jack
Todd, according to Bentley, was suspected for this killing for

a long time. Bentley does not recall any new gang forming to
replace the Green group.

Bentley stated that as the Chief Polygraph operator
at no time was there any scandal attached to tthe Dallas Police
Department. If such an investigation did exist he would be
called upon to examine members of the DPD involved in such a
scandal. The only scandal he does recall was the examination of
a Lieutenant and a police officer who were dismissed for stealing
suits during the commission of a burglary.

In the course of our interview, Bentley related

that he had been called to examine the auto of Officer J. D. Tippitt

AW 54756 DocId:32261322 Page 5
Bentley interview — “+ page “four

for any signs of fingerprints. ‘We asked him about the window
on the passengér side of Tippitt's auto. At first, Bentley
replied that he believed the window was opened, but then stated
that the window may have been partially closed because he
faintly recalls taking some prints off the top of the window.
While there, word came over the police radio notifying that the
possible killer of officer Pippitt was in the Texas Theatre.

He then proceeded to the theatre entering through the front
entrance while the other officer went into: the building through
the rear. Bentley immediately went upstairs to the projection
room and requested that they put on the theatre lights. Bentley
then. went downstairs and saw Officer McDonald walking up the isle
fromthe front tothe rear of the theatre. He then saw a male,
later identified as Lee Harvey Oswald, who was seated, get up and
draw a gun. “Bentley: said he was only a few rows back and he
jumped ‘towards Lee Harvey Oswald and he :afid ‘McDonald ‘subdued
him. In doing. so Bentley had injured his leg. after disarming
Oswald, he was placed in the patrol car and taken back to head-
quarters. At the time they. did not know that Lee Harvey Oswald -
was algo a suspect in the killing of President Kennedy. In the
search, Bentley ‘had removed Oswald's wallet which -containea
numerous identifications. Oswald denied doing anything wrong.

He made no other statement at this time.

AW 54756 DocId:32261322 Page 6
014434

_ KENNEpy

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

 

l. Identi fying Information: 2

wame Paul Bente y ;
Address Goio_ Dun MORE

City/State DACCAS TEx
‘Date of Birth (6-24-12

Social Security YS7- |2- $375

2. Physical Description:
Height
Weight
Ethnic Group

.
.
.

3. Personal History:

’

Date_MAY 4.1973: r¢yseM:

Place Resipzvee

‘elephone 349-04 S—

Mor Ss ae
Spouse Gututn Moy

: Children_{ pon

Color Eyes : Hair

Special Characteristics °

 

a. Present Employment: 7d hast Bot tn Dalles
Address / ¥ Of Lon SF
Telephone zy ? ¥ Y~ £ 2 # 2

b. Criminal Record -
1. Arrests

 

2. Convictions

 

4.__ Additional. Personal Information:

 

a. Relative(s): Name

Addres s

 

 

 

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

NW 54756 DocId:32261322 Pageake

Investigator Mi Cl, LZ OZ72 7 Dy AQ re

 

Form #4~B
AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

 

v9.1

AW 54756 DocId: 32261322

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information
HSCA
180-10105-10391
NUMBERED FILES
014454

Document Information
HSCA

BENTLEY, PAUL L.

05/04/1978
5

BENTLEY, PAUL L.
DALLAS POLICE DEPARTMENT
TIPPITT, J; SHOOTING

OSWALD, LEE; ACTIVITIES OF 22-24 NOVEMBER 1963

POLYGRAPH TESTS
GREEN, LOUIS

SUMMARY
Unclassified
3

Redact
10/25/1995

Box 258.

Page 1

Date: 10/7/201

Released under the John
. Kennedy
Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note}.
ases:NU 54756 Date:
HO-31-2017

 
6 . SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

NAME Paul L. Bentley Date_5/4/78 Time 7:45PM
Address _ 9010 Dunmore Place Residence

Dallas, Texas

Interview: On this date, Staff Investigators John J. Basteri
and Albert Maxwell interviewed Paul L. Bentley regarding his
position as a polygraph | operator with the Dallas Police Depart-
ment during the period of 1963. -

Mr. Bentley is now retired from the Dallas Police
Department after twenty-one years of service. The Major portion
of his service with the Department was spent as a polygraph
operator.

From October, 1951 to December, 1951 he attended
the Polygraphy School under the tutilage of D. W. E. Wheeler
which certified him as a qualified examiner. Beginning from
January, 1952 Mr. Bentley began his duties as a polygraph operator
for the Dallas Police Department. During this period he not only
performed these duties for the DPD, but also was called to assist
in polygraph tests for the Dallas Sheriff's Department, Dallas
County, all Texas police departments and for the bordering states.
He did this work for these units for four to five years until
such time when these departments obtained their own polygraph ©

operators. Mr. Bentley, while the Chief Polygraph Operator for

 

HW 54756 Dogl}xr92261322 . Page. 3 bow nee Ste ee eee ee ee Loe wee
Bentley interview Page two
DPD did perform, along with. his :two- assistants up to 1200 poly-
graphs per. nionth. Because of this, he testified many times as

a polygraph expert and has handled almost every type Of offense in
the penal code.

After Ruby's killing of Oswald, Mr. ‘Bentley was

' called to examine from eight to ten persons including police
officers and civilians. He could not recall the names of any
of those examined. Mr. Bentley did not remember the name of
Napoleon J. Daniels.- After his memory was refreshed, he did
recall examining P. 0. Vaughn. He believes, although he was
not certain, that the decision as to who was to be examined

was made from the office of Captain Fritz.’ Also, he does not
remember anyone failing these examinations with the exception
of failing on only one or two questions. ‘All records pertaining
to these examinations should: be on file with the DPD. These

- exams, when given, were conducted in a room with only the ‘person
given the test and the person giving the test present. Adjacent
to the examining. room, was an observation. room and present in
this room at times was another polygraph operator and the person
requesting the examination. In this room all procedures could
be viewed and heard. The person being examined was not aware ©
of this room.

. During the course of this interview it was. learned

that when Bentley entered the department he was immediately
Placed in the undercover unit. As such, he had firsthand knowledge

of the criminal activity in the Dallas area. While on this

HW 54756 DocId:32261322 Page 4
