 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017

— O O

-. . oD - 5 "SOUND AND TECHNICAL =Qu

 

9D. RADIO-DECOY PACKAGE KITS

Bight complete decoy package kits are presently available for use
on extortion and similar cases. The kit consists of a decoy package.
an auxiliary beat oscillator. antenna, spare tudes, hatteries. and

operating instructions.

The decoy package itself is essentially a small, entirely self-contained
radio transmitter. The radio wave which it transmits is a continuous
unmodulated signal and therefore cannot be received on Bureau automobile
receivers or similar equipment without the use of the auxiliary oscillator
which is furnished as part of the accompanying kit.

In operation, the properly wrapped decoy package is deposited according
to instructions. The car receiver, in conjunction with the beat oscillator,
picks up the signal which is heard as a constant "beat" note or squeal

yin the receiver. The approach of a person or animal within 6 to 12 inches
of the decoy will result in a marked change of pitch of the beat note and
contact with the decoy will cause the note to disappear completely. The
disappeaance of signal indicates that the decoy nas been touched or
picked up.

Satisfactory operation of the decoy and oscillator unit over a radius
of approximately .4 to .6 mile has been secured in practical operating
eonditions using standard Bureau automobile receivers. Large buildings
and operation in congested downtown areas will necessairly decrease

the operating radius.

9E. RADIO TRANSMITTERS AND RECEIVERS

The Bureau has available several types of radio transmitters for
investigative use. The small briefcase transmitters, six of which
are available, are useful from the disguise standpoint and are capable
of transmitting over a radius of several blocks in downtown areas.
For greater coveraze, a higher powered portable unit capable of
‘operation from 110-volt a.c. or 6-volt™dic. sources is available. Two
* high power transmitting stations disguised in trucks are also available,
. giving a greater coverage and greater flexibility of operation. All of
the above-mentioned equipment is so designed as to te able to transmit

; 6
2/15/43

Docld:32318832 Page 5
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote}.

DATE: 11-14-2017

O a 9A-8

SECTION 9, SOUND AND TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT:

LISTENING EQUIPMENT

During the course of certain investigations, it sometimes becomes

_ desirable to listen to conversations carried on by suspects or others |

without disclosing to them the fact that they are overheard. When such
conversations are carried on within a room or enclosure, it is. possible

..to make use of .a.concealed. microphone, -placed.within.the room under

9B.
’

observation,-«from:.which a pair of. wires may:,be led to an. amplifier and
associated sound reproducing equipment, located in a convenient ‘hideout,
gome distance away from the room under investigation. Two types of
amplifiers are supplied by the bureau for this, one known as the Detect-
aphone and the other as the Lafayette amplifier. Two models of Datect-
aphones are available, namely the older model PA-173 and the new PA-180
Briefcase Detectaphorie.

DETECTAPHONE

On each occasion requiring the use of the Detectaphone, a thorough check
should ‘be made of the set before its final installation is made. The
round drycells which serve as "A" batteries should read not less than 1
volt with the volume control completely on; new cells should read 1.5
volts and between 30 and 55 amperes. The large "B" batteries should
read between 36 and 45 volts, although satisfactory operation may
occasionally be obtained with voltages as low as 30. The small "Cc"
battery when new should test 3 volts and should be replaced when the
reading is less than 2.5 volts. The "A" batteries will need the most
frequent replacing. After ascertaining that the batteries are in
satisfactory condition and that the tubes light up when the volume
control igs turned on, the microphone should be connected to the amplifier
input terminals. The headphones are then connected to the output terminals
and the volume control advanced until the tubes light up and reception
ig obtained.

In placing a microphone in a room to be occupied by a suspect, 5
there are several points which should be kept in mind in order to obtain
the most satisfactory operation. In the first place, concealment of the
microphone within a readily movable object such as a small table or chair
should be avoided, inasmuch as such concealment is very likely to result
in subsequent disclosure or breaking of the small wires leading from the
microphone. Because the microphone can be affected only by the sound which
actually strikes it, a point of concealment should be chosen which is ex-
posed as much as possible to the open air of the room. For instance, a
cold air register would be a much more satisfactory place for concealment

_ than a desk drawer or bookcase.

DoclId:32318832 Page 2

In placing the wire leading from a microphone to an amplifier, care
should be taken that at all points where connections are made, the
insulation has. been-thorougnly scraped from the wire and the bright metal
is exposed. It is absolutely essential that all connections be bright
and clean, for otherwise, noisy operation or even failure to operate may
be expected; in addition, the two wires should not be permitted to touch
each other at any point where the insulation has been removed, as
such contact results in absolute lack of response from the microphone;

2/15/43
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017” JFK Assassination System Date. 413/201
: Identification Form ; .

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10366-10005

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: NO FILE NUMBER

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

 

FROM: HQ
TO:
‘TITLE:
J ~ DATE: 02/15/1943
‘PAGES: 159.
SUBJECTS :
MANUAL OF INSTRUCTIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 12/07/1998

| OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : REVISION NUMBER 48

eee
v9.1 1

 

Docld:32318832 Page 1
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017

ee O |
' 7 SOUND AND TECHNICAL EQUIPMEN?

. the breaking of either wire at any point along the line has the same
effect, so far as microphone response is concerned, and therefore must
be avoided.

_ In connection with the size of the wire which may be used, it should be
stated that when using the carbon or dynamic type microphones the larger the
wine, the longer it may be made and still give satisfactory operation, For
distances of 25 to 50 feet, very fine wire pay be used without serious loss
of response. In general, however, the shortest line and the largest wire
consistent with satisfactory concealment and ease of handling should be used.

. It, should be emphasized that installation of a Detectaphone for actual
use should be started in sufficient time, prior to occupation of the
room, to allow the hook-up to be tested and any necessary changes made or
defects in’ the set-up corrected.

The Field has been supplied with carbon microphones which are placed
in-series with a battery for operation. An electric current flows through
the microphone and the latter serves as a variable unit to oppose this

‘current. depending upon the pressure applied to the carbon granules (or
globules) placed between two carbon (or metal) surfaces. These two surfaces
act as the two contacts to which the two connecting wires are fastened.

In addition, one surface serves to hold the small carbon particles and is
fixed with respect to the case, while the other surface is the diaphragm which
vibrates and varies the pressure on the carbon particles according to the
sound waves impressed against it. This vibration, and resultant change

in current opposition, causes the electric current to vary in direct ac-
cordance with the sound waves. This weak electric current is amplified

or strengthened by the vacuum tubes in the amplifier proper.

If a carbon microphone is horizontal or more than 45° with the vertical,
the carbon particles do not make contact with the upper surface (diaphragm
or cup) and'no electric current will flow in the "broken" circuit. In
other words, the microphone will cease to function and no sounds can be
transmitted. If the small cover of a carbon microphone is loosened or
removed the small carbon particles will fall out of their cup and be lost
entirely or spilled into the outside shell of the microphone. In either
case the material used to make the contact between the two gides of the
electric circuit is lost and the microphone is rendered more or less
inoperative. depending upon the amount of carbon particies spilled.

The Netectaphone unit includes one amplifier; one smal] crystal
microphone with a grilled face to plant in a room for sound pick-up; one
extremely sensitive crystal] wall microphone: to enable pick-up of con-

. _ versations in adjacent. rooms; two boosters for use with extension lines;
o and one set of crystal headphones.

One booster may have a metal cap over the terminal posts; it must be
removed and then replaced when fastening leads to terminals. The connection
leads are of shielded wire, with the end of the shield wire serving as the
ground lead in all cases. In connecting the headphones : ‘1t’ makes no
difference which wire connects to the ground terminal post. The knurled
“yakelite knob on the amplifier vox is the switch and volume control.

Turning the knob to tne right, in a clockwise direction, increases volume.
Be sure the switch is off when amplifier is not in use

MO . 2
: 2/15/43

Docld:32318832 Page 3
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017 O

- SOUND AND TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT 9B ~C

The best results with Western Electric Dynamic microphones or Sound
TN Power wicrophones will be obtained with shielded twisted pair wire,
i _ but generally ordinary twisted pair wire will be satisfactory and more
. ’ easily disguised.

9C. BRIEFCASE DETECTAPHONE

The Briefcase Detectaphone is a-new improvement over the original
Detectaphone and is presently being obtained by the Bureau to meet the
need of new amplifiers for dictograph systems. It is a small compact

unit mounted in a briefcase for disguise and convenient portability.

The unit is about one-half the weight of the Detectaphone and has a higher
volume output. Batteries can be tested by switches and a self-contained
meter without removal from the amplifier case, All external connections
to the unit are made by using plugs fitting into extension jacks mounted
in the amplifier case.

All. microphones capable of use with the Detectaphone can be used with
the Briefcase Detectaphone. Three jacks are provided for using three
erystal microphones simultaneously and a single jack is provided for all
other types of Bureau microphones. However, an external battery ig still
needed in series with a carbon microphone to provide power.

Special batteries are needed for the Briefcase Detectaphones and

care must: be exercised in maintaining an adequate stock for emergency

use. Ray-O-Vac P5A30, Eveready 733, Burgess WSOP1, or General V30AAA

may be used for the 45- volt batteries and General 2L1 may be used for

the 1}-volt batteries. The Briefcase Detectaphones recently received by the
Bureau bearing the name "Clarion" use one Eveready 742 battery for the 14-volt
"A" power and two Eveready Mini-max 455 for the 45-volt "B" batteries.

, 5
2/15/43

DoclId:32318832 Page 4
