° . oo . '
wee |
Page & ; . . : : - we |
Mr. Hawkins ; . . oo :
June 21, 1967 - RE: Lillic Mac McMaines
RESULTS (cont'd): Sot

She continued that her husband (Harold McMaines) spoke up and stated that he
cid net want to let her go and that he wanted to consult with an attorney. She
gaid that the two investigators then offered to buy a ticket for her husband
also. She said that after her husband insisted on talking with an attorney first,
the t wo investigators told hey husband not to consult with an attorney because
she raight get hurt Uf he did and they wanted to keep everything quiet. She said
that they did leave however.

lu The Subject explained that she told this entire stary to a reporter named
/Zirnriermnan with the World-Gerald in Omaha. She said that after the story.
appeared in print she and her husband hoth lost their jobs. She went on to relate
that the reporter Zimmerman told her that she needed an attorney and arranged
for her to meet attorney Lex Hawkins.

ithe following relevant

2
a
tu
a
a
te
cay
ot
fey
te

The Subject was given four separate tests
questions and gave the answers indicated:

[atest Fest:
@. Do you have any intention of trying to lie to me during this test? A. No.
Q. Have you told me the complote truth since we have been talking? A. Yes.
©. Did you attend the party st Ferrie's home that Pervy cleims you attended ?

A. No. 7 7. ‘
- Did you ever meet Shaw? A. No.
Q. Are you deliberately try ing to withhold any information from me regarding
the party ? A. No. ;

Second Test:

Q. Have you told me the complete truth here today? A. Yes.
¥ ¥
Q. Did you attend the party Ferry says you did? A. Ne. .
Q. Ave you trying to withhold ony information from me regarding this case?
. ¥ DRS ge ¥ 5 &
A. No. :

 

 

 

 

HW 54462 DocId:32190039 Page 9

 
Page 9° ne , = . i

Myr. iawkins . ;
June 21, 1947 =: RE? Lillie Mae MeMaines -

 

 

6. Ed you Ne to Mr. Hawkias at all? A. Yes. _ .
Q. Did Perry cver tell you that the President was going te be assassinated ?
A. No. ; . :
are Did you go to the party at Dave's house that Perry says you did? A. No.
wi. Aire you atternpting to protect or cover up for anyone? A. No.
2, Axe you trying to hold back any information from me now? A. No.

 

(ek. Mave you told me the complete troth here today? A. Yes. _

| (R. Would you lie if it would help you stay out of jail? A. Yes.

. Ware you ever present when any people talked about assassinating the
President? A. No. oo °

- ds Perry telling the truth about you attending the party? A. No.

Q. Are you attempting to withhold any information from rne now? A. No.

me Have you purposely lied to any of my questions? A. Wo,

U

 

  

 

|| Daving the first three tests, her polygrams contained reactions to the relevant
Hy question: "Are you trying to withhold or conceal any information from me?"
“ Follo wing the third test, she explained that she suspects Perry Russo might be
"a little queer" for Mike Fitzgerald. There was not a reaction to the question °
\ nthe test folowing this. explanation. -

 

the Subject was asked by this examiner why she thought Perry Russo wae telliag
this story. She explained that the last times she saw him, which was in June or’
July of 1965, he asked her if she would marry him. She stated that he said that
he wanted to marry hex so that he wouldn't have to go into the military service,
She stated that she told him she would net marry hin, She then quoted hiv
saying, "You have got-te marry me and help keep me out of the service." She
stated that she again told him she would not marry him and then farther quoted
him as saying, "if you won't marry me, IN have.to fiad senicone else who will."
She added that-she believes he is telling this story in an endeavor to avoid going
into the military aervice. St a ; oe

 

 

 

 

 

HW 54462 DocId:32190039 Page 10
 

 

}Mr. Hawkins : - : : eG
June 21, 1967 ~ RE: Lillie Mae MecMaings '

RESULTS (cont'd):

 

The Subject explained that Perry Russo habituaNy made notes about every
She said that he made notes of things he had to do, the thnes he was supposed to
‘be somewhere, and.places he had to go. She said that Perry told her he rnade
notes of everything because he was so busy that he cid not want to forget anything.

  

Ivitcgerald was there, She said that Mike told her that he had just found Perry
in the bathroom with his wrists all slashed up and that he had tried to coramit
suicide. She said that she then leit and did not see Perry.

(ese Subject explained that on one occasion she wont to Perry's house and Mike

The Subject stated that when Pervy first intreduced her to Jimmy Ervin, he
_ suggested they all go to Jimmy's apartment and he would like to make photographs ,
(- ‘of her and Jimmy engaging in caitus.. She said thet a girl friend of hers named.
Jeannie became very angry with Perry when he made this suggestion. She said
they did not go. ;

 

jin sexual intercourse with,
_ he said that these were two
[yimen she hustled when she was working ae a prostitute. She related that she
| |_JJnustlea one man one night and he went into the bathroom after undressing. She ~

| said that she locked him in the bathroom, took $120.06 frora his pocket and ran
|

&

The Subject stated that the most men she ever engaged
one Immeédiately following the other, would be two. Si

| ovt ofthe room. Shoe stated that on one occasion Perry wanted to photograph her
+ anda girl.named Kathy engaged In a sex act together but she said that someone |
came in unexpectedly and the act was never consummated. |

\ The Subject related that two investigators from District Attorney Garrison's

 

 

office came to her home in the middle of the night of March 8, 1967, in O
She said that they requested her to leave immediately with them and return to

| New Orleans for the purpose of looking at some photographs. She said that they |
told her that they did not know what the photegraphs were. She continued that she
told them that she could not leave then because she had a coat and other clothing
in the cleaners. She said that these two men, Simms and Jonah, told her not to-
‘worry---they would buy her some new clothes. She said that they further told her
that she would stay in the finest hotels and eat the finest foods.

 

 

 

 

 

NW 54462 DocId:32190039 Page 8

 
  
 

\

[oune

Page 6-
Mr. Hawkins . :
June 21, 1967 Lo RE: Lillie Mae hicliaines

RESULTS (cont'd):

The Subject said that the next time she saw Dave Ferrie was less than a week

 

after first meeting him and wag ona Sunday. She explained that Dave invited
her to his apartment for-lunch with hirn and his two roommates, She said that
Dave picked her up at her place ina blue Ford station. wagon and they arrived at
Dave's apartment at approximately 12:30 or 1:00 F.M. She said that she stayed |
et this api artment until about 5:30 P.M, zat which time he drove her back to her
lace.

ubject said that she next saw Dave Ferrie on the following Wednesday or
khursday when he came by Sam's place where she was 5 employee. She said that
Dave asked her if she would go out with him the following Friday night.

(\Viabject said that on this Friday night, Dave picked her up at her apartment

 

U

pent. to several places to dance and dribk but t

Rare attended a party at Dave Ferrie's house. She stated that she had never been

bout 6:09 o 6:30 P.M. and they first proceeded to Dave's apartment where one
i Dave's’xoommates and his date were waiting. She said the iour of them then
ey. did not have dinner. ,

 

The Subject emphatically denied ever meeting Shaw or ‘Cswald, She said that she

 

football game but she did attend basketball and baseball games with Perry
Russe and Lefty Peterson. : . :

he Subject stated that Perry Russo was extremely interested in politics. She
gaid that he was a Republican and a strong advocate and backer of Goldwater.

a

\Jime Subject stated that she attended a political meeting with Perry Russo and

ithe ree other men but she could not be sure of their names. She related that the
| meeting was held ina big house on Canal Street in either April or May of 1965,
| She said that she and three men stayed ina back roorn of the house and watched
television. She saic that she did not see all of the people at the meeting. She said
that she did not hear anyone speaking Spanish nor did she see any Spanish, Cubans
or Puerto Ricans at this meeting.

 

The Subject commented that Lefty Peterson is "off upstairs" but is a good guy

otherwige

 

 

 

 

 

MW 54462 DocId:32190039 Page 7
KO

"Page 4 :
Mr. Hawkins
June 21, 1967

RESULTS (cont'd):

RE: Lillie Mae McMaines

Subject stated that when she was about four months pregnant, she married a,

Frank Adams in Dallas, Texas.

a divorce from Adams.

She did not tell the circumstances surrounding

‘ _ The Subject stated that when she was between 15 and 16 years of age, her

Ynother" took her toa psychiatrist because she had run away from hor

. She

 

aid that she visited the psychiatrist about four times but she did not know, what
he reported about her. .

ubject related that she gave birth prematurely on August 30, 1963. She said

that she was released from the hospital on September 3rd or 4th, 1963. She saix

that she went to Perry Russo's house the day following her release from the

 

 

=

frequently.

Bat

hospital but she dia not sce or talk with him again until June or July of 1964.

bubject then related how Perry Russo photographed her on several occasions
while she was engaging in the act of coitus with different mén. She explained
that Perry had his own dark room and developed the pictures himself.

| Jpebiect then related that she and a girl named Ann visited her baby in the hospital
ont She further stated that her parents" came from Alabama te New
Orleans and also visited the baby in the hospital. ;

Subject continued that her baby was released from the hospital on September 20,
1963, and on this

ame date she left New Crleans with a James Robert Exvin
Russo had introduced her to him). She said that the two of them and the baby

went by bus to her "parents'’ home. She gave her "parents" address as Box 326

in Eight Mile, Alabama and she said that thie town is located near Mobile.

! She went on to explain that James Robert Hrvin was unable to find employs
in Mobile and so he went to New Orleans and obtained a job in'an establish

called Little Crystal Cafe.

 

  

She said that this establishment ie located on Royal
treet in New Orleans. She said that Jimmy worked and stayed in New Crleans

during the week and he would hitchhike to her "parents"

Alabama, over the weekends. ; _

home in Eight Mile,

 

HW 54462

Docld: 32190039

Page 5

 
 

   
  

L

 

 

\gne went job hunting and she met James Rebert Ervin on the street. She said

+ gain walked euton her. She said that he left on July 3, 1964.

as

C O |
Wy

Page 5

Mr. haw king ;

June al, 1967 . RE: Lillie Mae McMaines

RESULTS (cont'd):

Subject stated that she and Jimmy leit Eight Mile in February of 1904 (leaving - i
the baby with her "mother") aad they went to San Bernadino, Calizornia, where
they stayed with an aunt of hers. She said that from the time ehe left New |
Orleans to go to Eight Mile and then to California, she did not make one trip

to New Orleans.

a . . 1

vbject related that she and Jixamy went through a wedding ceremony in Tiajuana,
ico, in June of 1964. She continued that Jimmy left her the latter part of
énis same month. She sald that tho day after Jimmy left her, she went to New
Grleans by bus. :

Subject related that when she arrived in New Orleans, she called Perry Russo

nd he came to the bus depot an drove her and her personal belongings. to his
ome, She said that she spent the night in Perry's apartment and then the follows
g day she rented a rcom vor'horecl?, She said that-aiter she rented tite roam,

that they decided to live together again. She sald that she did obtain a job as a
armaid, She said that she and Jimmy lived together for only one week and he

 

The Subject said that she then turned to prostitution ag a means of supporting
herself and incorder to save up enough money to get hex baby back from her
"mother." She iurther explained that she gave Perry Russo "around a hundred
dollars" to keep for her but he never gave it back.to her. She said that on one ~

ther occasion, she loaned Perry $20.00 to use to pay his insurance but he did

ot repay this money either.

*

The Subject stated that the first time she raet Dave Ferrie was in either the lattsr
part of January of the first part of February of 1965. She explained that she was —
with Perry Russo and he wanted to see Dave Ferrie about something and se the
two of them went to Dave's apartment. She said that Perry introduced her to
Ferrie and his two roormmates. She said that they stayed at Dave's apartment
for anly.a few minutes and they leit.

 

 

 

   

HW 54462 DocId:32190039 Page 6
: # 9816 - 67
- : June Zl, 1967

 

Lex Hawkins, :

Attorney at Law f
B36- 642 Fifth Avenue

és Moines, lowa

    
 
   
 

2ENTS:

Ke your request, LILLIE MAE NIC MAINES was examined on the polygraph, a

(FRROCEDURE::

 

[Subject was examined in this effice on June 19, 1967. She waa given a Relevant

The i Irrelevant type examination for the purpose of as scertaining if she possessed

[any knowledge of an alleged raeeting in Dave Ferrie'’s home wherein there was

| verbal intercourse relating to a plot toa ssagsinate the late John F. Kennedy.

il
During the pre-test interview, the Subject stated that she was bora Lillie Mae

\ fothes on GCetober 22, 1944, in Lucedale, Mississippi.. She stated that her. real’

 

   
  

sother died when her younger sister was born and that she was raised by one of
er father's cousins, James Moffett, and his wife Ethel. She referred to these
ipeople as her parents. She stated that she wag raised near Mebile, Alabama.
She said that she coes not know whether or not James and Ethel Moffett ever:
adopted her.

 

    

Subject stated that she is presently married te Marold McMaines, aged 38 years.
She said that he does not have a regular job and works out of an “employment
office’ in Omaha, Nebraska, as a truck driver and as 2 furniture mover.

The Sub ject ‘stated that ever since she wes old enough to understand and remecnber,
her "mother" cons tantly told her that her older si ister Gertrude, who lived in New/

' Orleans, Louisiana, was "a trainp and no good." She stated that these state j
ne . : . SEARCHED ,
sani

  
   

  

he

 

 

 

HW 54462 DocId:32190039 Page 2

 
 

HW 54462

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

 

AGENCY:

 

- FBI
RECORD NUMBER:  124-10251-10249
RECORD SERIES: NO

 

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 89-69-3252. 3253. 3254

Released under the John
. Kennedy
Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note}.
ase#:NU 54462 Date:
HO-04-2017

 

eC
: DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

ORIGINATOR: FBI

 

FROM: CG
TO: HO
TITLE:

DATE: 06/27/1967
PAGES: 13
SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 62-109060-5483

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Se ONG ATION: Unclassified
REVIEW_DATE: 11/05/1998
STATUS _ Redact
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (4)
COMMENTS:

INC 2 CIT MEMOS, A/T

DocId:32190039 Page 1

NE

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE: . 02/14/2001
, a ; oN
4 CO : SN
Page 2 oe ee of
Mr. Hawkins . :
June 21, 1967 0 RE: Lillie Mae McMaines

RESULTS (cont'd):

finally caused her to run away fxorm home in 1962 and proceed to New Crleans
to locate her sister Gertrude. She said that she just had to find cut if her
sister was really "bad."

During six hours of interview and interrogation, the Subject gave the following
iniormation regarding her stay in New Orleans, her return to hobile, Alabama,

hen on to Sam Bernadino, California, then back to New Orleans, then to Omaha,
Nebraska, and finally to Des Moines, Iowa.

ublect stated that when she first went to New Orleans she decided to use ‘the

name Sandra Moifett. She explained that she had been in New Orleans for approne

imately three weeks before her sister permitted her to go out "on the town" by
Merself. She said that the first night she went out alone she met Perry Russo. |
he said that the meeting occurred about 10:30 P.M. as she was walking down
ourbon Street and that Perry Russo, 'HKen,'' Lefty Peterson and “Timmy” were
also walking along Bourbon Strect. She related that as they passed on the street,
Timmy winked at her and she smiled. She continued that they all stopped on the
sidewalk and talked. She said that during this conversation, Perry Russo volun-
|| freres to anive her home. .

   

S

[She continued that she, Perry Russo, leity, Ken and Timmy all got into ‘Perry's
car and proceeded to drive toward her sister's hore where she was staying but

they stopped on the way ior coffee and gasoline. She said that Perry Russo asked |
her if she would go to school with him the following morning and she replied to him

pr sre would go with hirn provided her sister would permit her to do so.

(Bhe continued that Perry Russo stopped by the house the following rnorning but her ~

ster would not permit her te go with him but her sister did agree that she could
attend @ party that was being given for Kea Wink that night.

Subject stated that that party was held-at a place called the Frenchrnan's Inn. She
gaid that Perry was supposed to pick her up at 6:00 P.M. but he was late because’
it was raining hard. She said that she and Perry arrived at the party at approxi-

mately 9:00 P.M.

The Subject stated that she and Perry continued to date until the early part of 1983.

She said that she became pregnant and aiter she teld Perry that she was pregnant

* he told her to "get lost until after the baby was born and then she should look him

* wp again.

 

 

 

 

 

 

HW 54462 DocId:32190039 Page 3 |

 

t
,
>
:
1
t
i
i

 
oe <
Page 3 ‘ -
Mr. Hawkins ; ; :
June 21, 1967 : ' RE: Lillie Mae McMaines

RESULTS (cont'd):

The Subject stated that when she first told Perry Russo that she was pregnant,
a man {unknown to her) placed Perry in a hypnotic trance and questioned bir.
She said that while inthe trance, Perry acknowledged that he was the father of
her yet unborn baby. She said that Perry later denied that he was the father.

She went on to explain that she, Perry, and the unknown “hypnotist" (she des-
tibed his age as between 40 and 50 yeers) went to a place called the Royal

Castle and, while there, this unknown “hypnotist" again placed Perry ina
hypnotic trance. She said that he did not question Perry at this tirne but gave
nim a post-hypnotic suggestion, ‘When I snap my fingers you will awaken, ge
eff the stool, walk to the door and then return to the stool where you will freeze
in your tracks and will be unable to.move." She said that when the man snapped
“nis fingers, Perry opened his eyes, got off the stool, walked to the door and

hen turned and walked back to the “stool. She said that Perry stood by the stool
nd went through what appeared to be ‘attempts at moving his body but he did not
ctually move. She added that, in her opinion, Perry was faking his inability to
move while standing by the stool.

  
    
  
 
   

 

sregnant}) was a very short tirne later and she spent about one-hali hour talking
vith him in his home. She sald that when she departed his home, 2 friend of his
named "Kido" knocked her down on the lawn, hit ker in the stomach with his fist,
and made the comment, "Why don't you leave him alone?" She explained t 5
screamed loudly when struck by Fido hoping tha at Perry would come outside but
if did not. She said that Fido went into Perry's home aiter knocking her down
\

B ubject said that the next time she saw Perry (after telling him that she was
—— es

 

  

striking her. She said that as soonas she regained her sense of direction, ©
C
she got up and went horne.

_

1 The Subject stated that when she was about three months pregnant, she attempted
suicide by taking 175 aspirin. She said that a girl friend named Kathy found her
and took her. to the Charity Hospital in New Orleans by taxicab. She said that her
stomach was pumped at the hospital and she said that the hospital notified the ;
police departinent but her girl iviend Kathy talked the oificer out of taking her to |
jail. ; ; :

 

HW 54462 DocId:32190039 Page 4
