  
 
 
 

 

.° The lack of proof of U.S. involvement did not prevent
- Gastro from charging the CIA with respensibility, indeed,
| almost every act of defiance against his regime has | been

: exedited ta the Agensy. ~ ; :

a - Castze" 3 esotional reactions to real or rusered security |

ehoeats point up hig aeute sensitivity to internal resistance ©

@ad suggests that be feels hia regime to be far from secure

“1. €xom external threats. The Soviet Unien, on the other hand,
“ “hag reasted to the sabotage reids with much lees vigor and |
. bluster tea we anticipated. Theis only sharp reaction, :

-": aside from the expected propaganda, followed a series of alr
 waids during August and Septeaber sponsered by Cuban exile
groups operating from Florida and for which the Agency had

. respousibility. They did no real damage, bmk they did

'. demonstrate that the Cuban air defense systcn could be =

: breached, and they added eubstantially to the peychalogieal -

| J Smpaet of our tiear two raids. . ;

 

 

  

 

 

we! The Agency sabotage raids produced some very opectfio
vesnlts., For excole, in the political and psycuological
realm, | Gaye peas sador fig reported in late August

- > that the ats ‘that “gonth, imcluding the Santa iusia

- #ad Casilda operations “@isturbed the feeling ef ecnsoli-

 @ation and treqsaiiity which the Castro regine had succeeded

' $m exeating in recent months." He reported that the Cubang

were uncextain and epprekensive over the possibility of a |

OS. campaign of subversion and sabotage because of Cuba's
 walnerability te such a campaign due to the “low ebb" of

enthusiasa for the Castro regime ancng the people. He also

stated that the raids had “saised popes ef those opposed

cy» tg the regine” and that , stepizived oppositica had received |
. a » faite te its moxale,"

   

     
   

 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

    
    

 

- the toot iewediate effect of suck atezecs

- logical blow dealt to the stability of the Castro regine
with consequent beost im opposition.’ Lov morale a

dejection in the 2 counterrevolutionary + ranks of sous eeonths

—_—

      

aw "53244 poeta: 32202189 Page os oon . ; Lyndon B.. Johnson
Date:09/10/94
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John

 

  

AGENCY : SSCIA . Kennedy
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10300 Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992
RECORDS SERIES : ; (44 US¢ 2107 Note).

REPORT - (PAGES 6-15) ase#iNU 53244 Date:
6-13-2017

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

\ ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
TO:

TITLE :
CUBAN OPERATION

DATE : 00/00/00
PAGES : 10

SUBJECTS :
CUBAN OPERATION
10 PAGES ONLY
CASTRO
COVERT ACTION

 

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U :
RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1€, DONOR REST., REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/07/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

 

COMMENTS :

 

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

/HW 53244 DocId:32202189 Page 1
 

 

 

 

      

azo, be said, “has given way to a wave of cptinisna that the
Moxinon Leader ig no longer necessarily a permanant fixture.”
(Asses gacee Kits ddjalse reported that Che Guevarra bad indicated -
@oncern that the raida would divert cuch needed menpower .
@ad yesources from the economic to the military sector.

: On 4 September a reliable clandestine soures in Cuba
geported that the reaction of the average san on the street in
Bavana to the news of ths attacks on Casilda and Santa Locia .
‘waa "astounding." Prier to the Cuban govercment'’s amounce=
went of the raids, the average main on tha street seamed ;
apethetic, cepressed and in a lew state of morale. Following ©
, tha amicuncenmt their meed changed to one of pleasure, joy,
and hove,. The observations cf this source were xeinforced
"s by the statements of Cuban refugees who arrived ia the U.S. :
shortly after the Guba amomcaent of the valida, :

 
   
   
      

   

     
       
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
  

 
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
  

t " & Sommer Major in the Cubah Rebel Azuy vho broke with
- Castro reported after his exfiltration from Cuba in January -
» 1964 that the 23 December Siguanea raid which destroyed 3
Pah petrol boat was a great boost to morale among disaffected

yo. & Coben Lawyer with extendive connections acong ‘Cuban

= government officials end in the Western comumity in Havana
"hag jast reported that the "orale effects of the recent

- gabotazz operations axe good among enti-resime scoquents of
‘the population. Sech acts, to then, indicate that the outside
world is rot forgetting the Cuban people, that the Fisht cone
tinves and suggests 8 possible prelude to some military action
against Castro. Opposite morale effecta are ceted among the .
pro-regine seguents who have tended.te remain notably mer .
about the resize etter sucecssful sabotage operations.

 

uniéstions’ technician eoployed. by the Coban

" governnent reported on L Sensary thar the “act of sabotage
against the torpeda boat on the Isle of Pines was very success
’: £al in. the opiaion of the pesple and, fo# sure, public opinion
meeded comcthing to stimulate it, What happened at La Sigumea’
bad cech an effecty. Although at times failures are euffercd |
-| which depresa the people, ‘Shey are anxious for secething to

 
 
    

  

  
   

1

Docld:32202189 Page 3 7 Lyndon B. Johnson Li brary
