. SECRET

,

Re; PEPRO LUIS PINERO AIRIN

 

the Florida Keys, somewhere around Islamorada,
=

 

Pinero Airin added that a group known as the Ejercito.
Libertador, which is a small group of Cubans formed by some
members of Brigade 2506, are trying to obtain boats to go to
‘Cuba, He stated this group will fail, as did a group from RECE
(Representacion Cubana En El Exilio) (Cuban Representation in
Exile) which was not, even able to get as far as the mangroves
in Cuba a couple of weeks ago, all members being captured.

RECE is an anti~Castro organization,

Source stated that Pinero Airin advised he would
telephone source in one or two weeks in Miami, to wrange for i

another meeting. .
This documents contains neither recommendations nor’ ss LL
conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is =~;
loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be dis~.

tributed outside your agency. a! .

   

- 6k @
SECRET

 

HW 50529 DocId:32346313 Page 7
SECRET
REE PEDRO LTS PINFRO AIRIN oe
back until the “interview is made, 2, We are in our house

waiting for the solution you give this. Mother and I appreciate
your understanding." ; co cE

Le caeeepenincemmnmmanainmtn tant nS
1 a

‘ Immediately after reading the above letter, Pinero .
Adrin toid souree that his name is really not "Marcelino", A
that he works for the Cuban Mission to the United Nations. : *
He did not tell source his true name.

Special Agentsof the Federal Bureau of Investigation
‘observed the above meeting, and identified Pedro Luis Pinero
Airin as the person who conversed with the source, and identified
Miguel M. Santana Fraiaz as the person conducting a counter sur~
velllence of this meeting, : - : i

Source stated that during the above meeting with «Pinero
Adrin he noticed Santana Fraiz observig them. He asked Pinero
Airin:- who this person Was, and he replied that this was one
af his men who had a USI machine gun in the case he was carrying}. .
that they were taking no chances, as they did not know whether -
- gource would come armed and attempt to harm then. - we bie

: Pinero Airin told source that the Cuban Revolution ;
needs. honest and hard~wowking persons like himseif to help . -
them, ang then proceeded to tell source about source's..back=:; |
ground, including his anti~Castro activities in Cuba. in 1959... . z
fle told source that many persons who worked for the CIA against :
Cuba and who are now imprisoned in Cuba now realize what a J
good thing the Cuban Revolution is. As aD example, Pinero ;
Airin mentioned "Gallego" and Anibel Garcia whe are now in a

Caban pritea.  -—— a

Ppinero Airin then talked, at length about the pro~.
plems in the United States such as expensive educa tion and
medical care, and also about the narcotic problem in the. :
United States. He stated that in Cuba they did not have these

~4-
SECRET

 

HW 50529 DocId:32346313 Page 5 - vee _ : cee menue
SECRET.

Re; PEDRO LUIS PINERQ AIRIN

problems a3 education and medical care are free.

Pinero Airin then

vacations in the Miami area

. “Bebe Rebuzo" is a good fri

Butari and his son are good
Manuel Srtime is

Revolucionario, an inactive
with headquarters in Miami.

pinero Airin stat
ever conducts any large sca
rtime will probably be one
that ke knoys of a neeting
Army(captais Oliva
of Bripade 2.06 during the
Pinero Aivik atated he is i
as he is fairly close to Pr

 

Pinero Airin cont
named "Venus", and this boa
Diaz has heen collecting mo
netivities, He also stated
for the CIA in Colombia alo
Gareia, also known as Bichi

and were involved in the ca

mentioned that president, Nixon

, and the presiden
end of

Edgardo Butar and his son.
friends of Manuel Urtime. wa
paseiananabennsiennennatnns

the head of the Mov

$s good friend

imiento Recuperaction

anti~-Castro organization formerly

ed that if the Unit
le activities again
of the leaders. P
Edgardo Butari ha

first name possibly Enello
Bay of Pigs Jnvasio

nterested in the ac
esident Nixon.

dnued that Nino Dia

.

ed States Government
st Cuba that Manuel
inero Airin added.

d with a United States

, who was 8 ¥eader
nm of Cuba in'1961.
tivities of Butari,

z has a boat_

t is now in Puerto Rico. He stated

ney in the Miami ar

ea for anti-Castro
ana is working

that Manuel Villaf
ng with Jorge De La Osa and Manuel
nchi, He stated that a man named
“Rodriguez and a Vilavoa (phonetic) were working for CIA in Bolivia

pture and death of

Che Guevara.

Pinero Airin asked source if he knew Comandante Mendez
cof the anti-castre Cuban exile group in Miami known as Alfa 66.
Mendez and a man named Pacheco are
bragging about plans to infiltrate Cuba.

pinero Airin. mentioned that

Pivero firin then told source that the CIA has some ]
Homestead Air Force Base and he

 
 

rce_ Base anc te
. bi ‘He stated he
. ested in some g Cubans in
-~ 5 .
SECRET

HW 50529 Docld:32346313 Page 6

wet wee ee
 
 

erty .
ie LATEED STATLS DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
“oe FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

cag

opty, Plesse Refer to SECRET

™ 194-1626
Miami, Florida
June 25, 1969.

peg’ pepo LUIS PINERO ATRIN, 201° Sat
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Scaro Luis Pinero Airin is a third secretary of the...
Cuban Misstun to the United Nations (CMUN), New York City, ren ‘

~~.

d0[- 824376

eee

siding nt 401 hast Tith Street, apartment 5K, New York City.

on June -t, oR, source, a Cuban exile residing in

Minmi, Flerida, furnished the following jnformatioa:

 

.

Around the beginning of January, 1969, he received |

a communication from a close relative in Cuba asking source
relative

to telephone her urgently. Source then telephoned his

tn Cuba who told hin she was sending source a letter through
a oman named “narce line" who would be traveling to the United
States in a ‘ew days: That this letter had some information

uf imporiance to both of them.

’
4

‘Two or three weeks later, around the peginning of

Febrnary, 1969, source received a telephone call from

a man

identiiying himself as "mMareelino", saying ne had just arrived
Source
asked “Mareelino™ to wait there so he could meet him and to
pick up fue fetter trom his relative in Cuba. "Marcelino"
replica thal this was not possible because he was leaving for
New York ab ibat moment, but would contact the source as soon

from Caba and was then at the Freedom House in Miami.

as he arrived in Now York.

phe following day source received another telephone

 

cel} in Mi

ui from tyarce Lino’ who now told source that

ai tne Freedom Towel in ‘dami because his departure to New

yerle had been postponed, Again ‘narcelino" stated he,

could

he was

not meet source as he was then leaving for New york, but told

souree not to worry about his relative’s letter. becau
goon be rocuntaecting tne source,

  

eo | SECRET

 
  

Group I
Ekoluded {rom automatic
downgrading and
declassification

- ?
AW 50529 DocId:32346313 Page 2 S 3 S- C

se hi

e would

mm 5 3
DBC

 

Ang. _ 4b ,

=e

5Ol14
   

a ‘Date: 12/02/04
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM *

 

"AGENCY INFORMAT ‘ON

AGENCY : GIA
RECORD NUMBER ; 104-10062-10054
RECORD SERIES : JFK ..
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : FBI
TO :
TITLE : CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
DATE : 06/25/1969
PAGES : 6

SUBJECTS : RECRUITMENT
cis
CUBAN INTELLIGENCE
AGENT-CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER
CLASSIFICATION. :. SECRET..
RESTRICTIONS 1B... ‘
_CURRENT STATUS. : -RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - ” RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/13/93

 

COMMENTS JEK9 : F75 : 1993.07.13.10:33:24:250590

 

 

   

   

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104- 10062- 10054

HW 50529 Docld:32346313 Page 1
fe

   
 

‘SECRET

 

Re: PEPKO LUIS PINERO AIRIN

 

Source added that since the above contacts by
"Marcelino', several persons arriving from Cuba on the Freedom
Flights have contacted him to tell him that his relative in
Cuba urged him not to leave Miami and not to travel by plane,
as he was ovine watched by the Cuban Intelligence Service (CIS):
and they knew all his movements, These persons also mentioned
tha: source's relative in Cuba is forced by CIS to contact .
him, and she urged him not to pay any attention to "Marcelino" |
because he 1s a member of the CIS. ,

.. ve. : ot ce

Source continued that he received another telephone
call in Miami from "Marcelino" on April 1, 1969, At that- -
time "Marcelino" stated he was in New York, and asked source’
to meet him in New York on April. 6, 1969. “Marcelino” stated
he would send source the plane fare-to New York, -: |... *

  
 
  
 
   

On April 2, 1969, source received a telephone call: ..
in Miami from an unidentified caller who had a different voice
from that of "Marcelino", This caller told source that he should
come to an agreement with "Marcelino" and cooperate with him. —
That same day source received a second call from this unidentified.
person who told source that they knew all about him, his address .
and his family, and to impress upon source how serious. this “
matter really was, they were going to give him a “bad scare",

That same evening, a car followed him for several blocks at
which time two shots were fired towards his car, in an apparent
effort to scare him. oh, poe 0

 

 

Source continued that on April 5, 1969, he received
another telephone call in Miami from “Marcelino” who asked
source if he had received the travel fare to New York. Source
replied in the negative, so "Mercelino" told him he would send
him the faro, “Marcelino" told source to meet him in New York
on Sunday, April 13, 1969, Source did not go to New York to
weet "Marcelino", .

Source continued that on April 18 or April 20, 19649,
he received another cable from his relative in Cuba who asked '
him to telephone her immediately, He telephoned this relative : !
who told source that "Marcelino" was very angry because source

. .

-2- te ok
SECRET i a

AW 50529) DocId:32346313 Page 3
SECRET °
Re: PEDRO LUIS PINERO AIRIN

had not kept the appointment, and she urged him to meet
"Marcelina”, :

ers cake! 4M ste yh . ,
Source stated that on Hay 24, 1969, he received two po

United States Postal Money Orders totaling $140.00. They
. were sent by. "Marcelino utierrez Guzman". —y rj
Varma eed 8 4 pes tate ett y : a

On, May 25, 196 >
"yarcelino" asking him if he had received the. money orders,

 

   

On June 18, 1969, source advised that on that date:
he was again telephonedin Miami by ‘yarcelino" who asked source
to meet him at a designated area and time on Jum 22, 1969, in .

the New York City area. Source .told ‘tyarcelino™ he was agreeable
to such a meeting. ‘ oo

On June 23, 1969, source advised that he met ‘watcel ino”

in New york on June 22, 1969. He picked out a photograph of a
Pedro Luis Pinero Airin as the person who met him and introduced
himself as Marcelino". When source first saw "yarcelino" at
the meeting site he was accompanied by a person whom source
identified from a photograph as Miguel M. Santana Fraiz. m

As of June 1, °1969, Santana Fraiz is Jisted as an
attache with the CMUN, who resides at 6 East 67th Street, New .
York City. i

Source stated Santana Fraiz was not. introduced to ,hin,
but was actually standing at a distance from Pinero Airin,
apparently acting as a lookaut. ‘

In the above meeting Pinero Airin introduced himself
to source by handing him a letter from source's relative in
Cuba and also Ly giving source some photographs of two members
of his family in Cuba. Source stated the letter is definitely
in the hindwriting of his relative and states in part. "the
only problem is that before we can leave Cuba they want to
exchange idcas with you, that is why TI must write this letter
as a means of identification for the person who is to interview
you, ja this case an agent of the government with the fictitious
mame Marcelino.”...6.. "SO that you may have the freedom of
expressing youself and in deciding what you think is necessary
J must make the fgllowing clear to you: 1. Our exit is held

- 3- . <
SECRET :

AW 50529 DocId:32346313 Page 4 . .
