* © O

 

Tab 52) No recommendation - The source was
administered by the NSD; accordingly, the NSD should make the
appeal determination.

Tab 53) William Alexander - Appeal - A determinationotHER 4
release cannot be made inasmuch as no information has been
provided regarding the status of the individual as an FBI source
or whether or not he is still alive. proper

Tab 54) PCI Charles Colston - Release - Good faith
efforts to identify and contact this individual regarding the
proposed disclosures were made, but were unsuccessful.

Tab 55) No recommendation —- The source was
administered by the NSD; accordingly, the NSD should make the
appeal determination.

Tab 56) PCI Leonard Hutchison - Appeal - Records cannot
establish whether the source is alive, but indicate the existence
of a family member. Accordingly, unless/until that individual is
contacted and an assessment as made regarding the potential
impact of the disclosure, the CID cannot support the release.

Tab 57) No recommendation —- The source was
administered by the NSD; accordingly, the NSD should make the
appeal determination.

Tabs 58 - 59)

x af dt Appeal - This individual was
unable to provide any information relating to the Kennedy

assassination that would justify a public compromise of his/her
identity. Records cannot establish whether the symboled source is
alive, but indicate the existence of a family member.
Accordingly, unless/until that individual is contacted and an
assessment as made regarding the potential impact of the
disclosure, the CID cannot support the proposed release.

b) Wayne High - Appeal - This individual was
unable to provide any information relating to the Kennedy
assassination that would justify a public compromise of his/her
identity. He was converted from a PCI to a symboled source and
provided a volume of information for almost a decade.
Accordingly, the CID cannot support the proposed release.

Xe) perL__ sd Appeal —- This individual
was unable to provide any information relating to the Kennedy
assassination that would justify a public compromise of his/her
identity.

 

 

-i11-

| aw 46065 DocId:32320395 Page 5

 
 

HW 46065

 

© QO

; * a) per [____]- appeal - this
individual was unable to provide any information relating to the

Kennedy assassination that would justify a public compromise of
his/her identity.

Tabs 60 - 61) The sources were administered by the NSD;
accordingly, the NSD should make the appeal determinations.

XTab 62) [ Appeal - This individual was
at one time a symbolIed source, and provided positive information
in that capacity on a variety of violations for at least a four
year period. While records cannot confirm her status, they

reveal family members who should be contacted regarding the same
or the potential impact of the proposed disclosure upon them.

Tab 63) No recommendation — The source was
administered by the NSD; accordingly, the NSD should make the
appeal determination.

Tabs 64 - 69) No recommendation - The sources appear
to have been administered by the NSD; accordingly, the NSD should
make the appeal determinations.

 

- 12-

DocId: 32320395 Page 6

OTHER 4
in

HW 46065

~ SECRET ©

 

 

 

Memorandum
To : Mrs. Morris Date 4/25/96 National Sec...
Personnel
Training
Off. of EEOA_
From : J. Kevin O’Brien On Oona. aes.
Director's Office
Subject : JFK TASK FORCE

PURPOSE: To advise that on or about 5/1/96, the
Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB) will advise us of their
determinations on 70 FBI documents, previously postponed
(redacted) to protect informants, privacy and foreign
counterintelligence (FCI) information to include sources, methods
and foreign relations; and to request Criminal Investigative
Division (CID) and. National Security Division (NSD) to review the
determinations and provide their positions on the determinations,
as to appeal. (U)

RECOMMENDATION: That CID and NSD addend this memorandum with
their positions as to appealing the ARRB decisions and so advise
the JFK Task Force (JFKTF) and the Office of the General Counsel

(OGC) by 5/1/96. (U) . /
APPROVED: — Crim. Inw__ Info, Res. ining
Crim. Jus. Info, Inspection —— Office of EES

 

 

y kd Servs,_____ Laboratory “
lor} pom Director Financee____ National See, Office of Public &

 

 

“at c ee osure Deputy Director Gen. Counsel Personne! —— Cong. Afais
62-HQ-1029205
- Mr. Kennedy, Room 7142
- Mr. Collingwood, Room 7240
- Mr. R. Bucknam, Room 7176
- Mr. Shapiro, Room 7427
- Mr. P. Kelley, Room 7338
- Mr. Bryant, Room 7110
- Ms. Buckleitner, Room 4127

 

Loturco, Room 4026 Classifjed by: 5668
- Mr. Swanda, Room 4425 ReasonN 1.5 c, da
- Mr. Esposito, Room 7116 Declass on: X (1) (6)

- Mr. Divers, Room 4944

- Ms. Tucker, Room 4944

“- Mr. O’Brien, Room 6296

- Mrs. Keeley, Room 6362

- Mr. Valentine, Room 6362 .

. Siford/Mrs. Leeper, Room 7176 :

a0 (17) . . (CONTINUED/ - OVER)

act My yebG> [V)
SECRET

—_—
1
<4

PRPPRPPPRPBERPHPHPBPPPPR
1
Ss
i

Q
*

pa

v

DocId: 32320395 Page 2
 

JFK Assassination System Date: 3/31/201

Identification Form

 

Agency Information

 

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10375-10053
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 62C-HQ-1029205-1178
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: OBRIEN
TO: MORRIS
TITLE:
DATE: 04/25/1996
‘PAGES: 13
SUBJECTS :
JFKARCA OF 1992
| DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
\ CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS:  3;4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 03/22/1999
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS: — INC ADMIN PAGE

SSS

v9.1

i NW 46065

133

DocId: 32320395 Page 1
 

a O 0

. da) PCI William Riley - Appeal - This individual
was unable to provide any information relating to the Kennedy
assassination that would justify a public compromise of his
identity. Although this symboled source is deceased, there is no
information regarding the existence of surviving family members
and the impact of the disclosure upon them. Accordingly, the CID
cannot support the release.

e) PCI Sandy Hillard - Appeal - This individual
was unable to provide any information relating to the Kennedy
assassination that would justify.a public compromise of his/her
identity. It appears that this individual was subsequently
opened as a symboled source, providing intelligence on a variety
of violations in his/her locality. Absent a showing either that
he/she has been contacted about and has agreed to the proposed
disclosure or, if he/she is dead, that an attempt was made to
contact his/her survivors, the CID cannot support the release.

: “£) PCr - Appeal - This individual OTHER 4
was unable to provide any information relating to the Kennedy
assassination that would justify a public compromise of his/her
identity. It is unclear whether this individual is still alive.

Absent a showing either that he has been contacted about and has
agreed to the proposed disclosure or, if he is dead, that an
attempt was made to contact her survivors, the CID cannot support
the release.

g) PCI Albert Persons - Appeal - This
individual was unable to provide any information relating to the
Kennedy assassination that would justify a public compromise of
his/her identity. It is unclear whether this individual is still
alive. Absent a showing either that he has been contacted about
and has agreed to the proposed disclosure or, if he is dead, that
an attempt was made to contact her survivors, the CID cannot
support the release.

/ Tabs 3) No recommendation - The source was administered
yy the NSD; accordingly, the NSD should make the appeal ~
‘determination.

Tab 4)

A a) Velma Graham - Appeal - This individual
provided no information relating to the Kennedy assassination
that would justify a public compromise of her identity,
particularly in view of the fact that she relocated after
assisting the FBI in for fear of physical reprisal from subjects
upon which she had provided information.

HW 46065 DocId:32320395 Page 3
 

ae 0 0

b-c) No recommendation - The sources were
administered by the NSD; accordingly, the NSD should make the
appeal determination.

Tabs 5 - 15) No recommendation — The sources were
administered by the NSD; accordingly, the NSD should make the
appeal determination.

Tabs 16 - 18) Mex-156; Mex-34 — Appeal - The FBI's
criminal intelligence gathering activities in foreign countries,
as furthered by the Confidential Sources Abroad Program, is a
matter of sensitivity which is subject to compromise through
release of symbol numbers and identities of the sources.

Tabs 19 - 35) No recommendation - The sources were
administered by the NSD; accordingly, the NSD should make the
appeal determination.

Tab 36) PCIs Benjamin Cohen and James Barone - Release
Good faith efforts to identify and contact these individuals
regarding the proposed disclosures were made, but were
unsuccessful.

Tab 37 — 43) No recommendation - The sources were
administered by the NSD; accordingly, the NSD should make the
appeal determination. \ .

Tab 44) Galdino S. Martinez - Appeal - Although a good
faith effort has to locate this individual, because he was a
symboled source in a sensitve position and provided intelligence
from as foreign country, CID cannot support the release.

Tab 45 - 48) No recommendation - The sources were
administered by the NSD; accordingly, the NSD should make the
appeal determination.

\“ Tab 49) PCI Appeal - Although a good OTHER 4
faith effort has been to locate this individual, due to the
source's long term valuable assistance, coupled with the
closeness of her connections to local organized crime figures,
source in a sensitve position and provided intelligence from as
foreign country, CID cannot support the release.

Tab 50) No recommendation - The sources were
administered by the NSD; accordingly, the NSD should make the
appeal determinations.

Tab 51) PCI Manuel Castro - Release - Good faith

efforts to identify and contact this individual regarding the
proposed disclosures were made, but were unsuccessful.

- 10 -

bose DocId:32320395 Page 4
