uo

Director, FBI (65-67003) . November 6, 1961
SAC, Netreit (65-153)

_ GUS SURVEY
ESPIONAGE = BR

RePulets 20/4/61 and 10/26/61,

—f, RISETT SULLIVAN, Superintendent of. Hails,” Detrait, .
(upon his return fPou Jeave} was contacted by GAs B. J, ROTIOTaS
and WILLIAM 2. BILLING ¢n November 1, 1961, to finalize -
arrancements for initaation of the Gus Survey a3 Gutlised in
previous tatreit commahications. SULLIVAN reiterated that ke
would gimdiy cooverare with the Bureau in the above project .
and would inetruet bis suberdinates as to the description of
ths ceanunicatious of interest. This project vould be known,
to > only bis assistant, ERANK Leas OGTSKE Cotwore Judices

wise would. adminiater: “she project. ‘or interest wou Le not b be
known te other postal authorities. . a

Qa flovember 3, 1961, SULLIVAN ‘was recontacted by
SAs ROTHPUSS and HILING. He stated that the project is in
operation; he volunteered that his superintendsats contacted
him on that date and appeared apprekeasive that no such deseribed
communications had beau found. ft ie felt that ow the pusis
o?2-this contact with SULLIVAN, postal authorities aro giving
close supervision in an effort to determine whether sucn
describad cemaunuications are actually being transmitted ta
recipients residing in the Hamtramck, Michigan aad the 3ist
postal BORE.

a New York aad wro in sending test letters are recuosted
Exe ‘\Weilize ‘the nese: gAES MARTIN, care of general delivery,
Sist Street Post iifice Station, Getreit, Michigan, and JOVI W.
GGOLDY, care of geneval delivery, Hamt ranek Fost Office sub-
etation, Hantraneh, Jichigan. : . Gs

2+ Bureau (Registered) awe Glut
42 - Sew Yoru (65<2..-05), (Registered) ee
2-WFO (Registered) o oy :

  

Op. potrait —_ L a i
a6 owe! bee ;
cy a CEE

HW 55095 DocId: 32989620 Page b=] Af :
HW 55095

?
eo
@

DE 65-3133

- WEO and New York ia gonding such test envelopes:

ave requested te ineure that same include an insocuous :
mossage. of some type aud net merely a plsin piece of writing
paper, This is belisved nedemsary because under no conditions
should post office authorities know ox suspact that we are ;
sending such test latter.

The Cureaa’a attention fs avain davited to the fact .
‘thag due to the increased post office load during the ecmlay
holiday soasen, this praject will pe suspended for approxinetoiy
the month of Decenber and wili ue rosurmed] immediately taureatter ;
upon the dieverstion of T. Ester? SULEIUAN,

DoclId:32989620 Page 10
 

QTONAL FORM "20. 19)
pato-tet

UNITED STATES GOVrRkNMENT
a 7 ;
Memorandum

to 386 ::)~— SAC, Detroit patz: 16/4/61 -

FROM, > Director, FBI

L

SUBJECT: GUS SURVEY
ESPIONAGE ~ BE

_ Reurlet 9/27/61, two copies of which are enclosed
for the Washington Field Office.

You are authorized to institute Gas Survey in the

‘Hamtramck area and the 3ist Postal Zone ona trial basis. It

is realized that during the Christmas rush, extending from
late November to late December, the program will be extremely
Gifficult to operate. In the event the post office advises
it cannot be handled during that period, you may temporarily
discontinue the survey.

New York and Washington Field Offices are instructed
to prepare test letters for the purpose cf sending them through
to determine if the nostai employees are performing their
exaninations properly. Detroit should fernish these offices
with addresses to which such mail may be sent. New York and
Washington Field shouid notify Detroit when the test letters
are sent.

  

You should advise the Bureau by 1/31/62 of the resuits
of the survey for the pericd ending 1/15/62 along with your
recommendations for futiire operation of the program.

2 - New York
2° WEG (Enclosures 2)

 

AW 55095 DocId:32989620 Page 8

 
  

 

peat Chagas nee he acne AL indideetinn Aaa aides eaNSRE mtn sai

‘are solicited with respect to Detroit's proposal noted

 

ee e

‘pe 6SeHew

SULLIVAN stated that it would be possibile for the. mail
handlers sorting mail for the Hamtrsuck, Michigan, and 31st
street Post Office substations to be alert for specific
type envelopes postmarked fi: Hew York City or fashington,
GB. C.3 these enveiopes in turn could be brought te his
attention. SULLIVAN commented thar approximately a total
of 30 mail handicrs are utilis rorting the mail at the
Roosevelt Burk Aamex for the, Siistetions. These same. .
handlers work 24 hours & day, eight hour shifts, and are
assigned permanently to sert the mail for the respective
substations .

 
    
   

SULLIVAN advised that he , would: be most: willing te

. cooperate with the Bureau in any manner possible, He mentioned.

that in a project of this type FRE interest would never
become known to the respective mail handlers as it could be
@asily passed of 2 to them as a project being. handled by the
postal inspectors, Detroit.

/ Preliminary investigations, similar to ‘the SGCAP

Progran, would be. initiated on individuals who are the

xvecipients of "suspect" letters.

: The Detroit Pivision desires io initiate such a
program on & trial basis, in the event Gureau approves.

It is felt FRI interest would be known only to T, EADStTrT
SULLIVAY and possibiy toone or two of his subordinates. in
this regard it should be noted that a project of this tyLe
could not be “handled by Bureau “personnel only, because Ux
security limitations and lack of manpower.

-@he Bureau's and Haw York's comments and observations

 

 
 

Et is felt, however, in the event the Bureau concurrs, i
project could logically be productive and results wéll wor
the ef fiorts expended.

‘ya 55095 DoclId: 32969620 Pa e 7

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bove

   
  
   
   
   
  
   

Letter to SAC, Boston
Re: SAM SURVEY
65+-65884

i 4 +

i program shouid be made without furnishing the Bureau

i the results of your survey at which time a decision

Ai y wilt then be made by the Rureau on an individual
asis.

 

nd the results submitted to the Bureau within 30

4 { This inquiry should be handled promptly
3 receipt of this” letter in each orfice. '
1 ARLEN RS A PER EERE FREE EE PA LT PR IEEE TRE SIS FR

ee

 

“SECRET

 

MW 55095 Docld:32989620 Page 5
Th Betroit Diviston hes” ‘given considesishne t thought
to. ‘the detection of illegal Agente if in fact such Azents ‘are
‘Jucated, in ‘the Betroit area." It 4s felt that such. "illegal:

- gould logicaliy receives “support: and/or communications” from
- New York City or Washinton, Bi. £., in the form of inrve plain

. envelopes, tyvevritten tten, ck fondle. a mced » LO ro voturn ACEP OHS, aud’
fron Lincoln sian ie pgs taar! ia 6th bor bse Test TReon oF _

Bee Yor . "

: le the event. ain: “41 1egal resides tn Datroié, at is .
: Believed he or she-eould legicaliy live in the Hamtr emtk,..
. ‘Michigan, area, or the Jlst street: zoms, botroit, woete: the :
| mayerity af the residents. are of z eiga nevional itic :
Sradmas MAtSLS Pol igh. : :
that i crs : ; idence Roddie.
MIVA. family (EOTG33R) and. the: family . hORR TCE
. prior 9 their r respective, re tarns es “Pod and an tae ne
thao or early 19308,

ey Te has da termskned Sy: ‘SAS BYLL Law I Tix BILLING: and -
RS “E, ROTEFOS thet the antority. of 1 mail routed to. the
“ regpecti vs s pe trout Pox | . (ition, Substatiors 43 handled throug
fic gbexs the anil ts sorted fos. Oat
ot carricr te . Bat: mol} the resnecvive surrior.at each” Suh -
i oe ke we. 1 ROPNE The tank nanerical iy: Retomding to ‘streats
On his we :

: va shops ‘Supévimtendins ars ate i SULLIVAR
Boosey: ot pers Mhatx, WAG As traced 4 a of Ora Beat Q£e

. . ¢ ta03 ; dstad dane 413, 1982,

* eaptiones: SAK a SAS } 3 tay contas +i
_ by SAs PILL aco . op tems: Le "Suan
mentioned that-a rorcica oF the miei i Fran York and

oy Washingion, U0, destined ta Detreit- is soeied- in trensit:

Me bit the ea jor portion ia bandled at the Eocdcenlt ‘Pars aati
. \ : Lt . ae . «
2: - Byrean Gt ets

2. law Yorks. GAN"

fy Betrais a
BIR GWA Sad en
Oy .

 
 

HW 55095
L

_—
< et
Pew STON Oat 19 @ onal

 

 

 

 

  

WNITED STATES GOV: ae
aT

a BY Y 7 ry ~
DaEem Ones é —

To : SAC, Boston

:

FROM U/ Director, FBI (65-65254)

SUBJECK:

SAM SURVEY
ESF TONAGE ~ R

 

  
 

The SAM S$ Survey was instituted by the New York Office
in Cecember, 1959, It is a program by which airmail destined
for certain Furopean cities or countries is examined by Agents
prior to its being placed in bags and placed aboard the planes.
This examination is made for a twofold reason:

 

(1) To identify persons corresponding with known
Soviet mail drops in Europe

(2) To identify and locate individuals in the
United States sending letters to Europe which
May be part of a Soviet illegal network.

The latter purpose is accomplished threugh the knoviedge
1

 
  

we have ottained that illegal agents wse certain signs in their
corresponwnce Which em Be detected trem an examination of the
enveLope. in cne case a common name and city are used a% @ return
addres s on the letters. A street and a nuebar are not used in
this return address. in two other cases, it was noted that an
illezal aveny used the same type of return address. Other signs

developed from iuvestigucions te date are?
{1) The "rd" in 33r4 would be underlined twice

. (2) Tho pane and cityhit not the street of a return
address would be uaderlined

 

    

eee cuassirign By “7S /she aan

as Lety it  EVYEMPT FROM ANS 64 c: ; 2 ae

“3 upton DATE OF DECLASSIFICATION INDEFINIT=
- 95 Anmzele ' f _ .

seth
Bes

 

bad ey or Nelohis
~ San Frencisco
- Seattic

ake

be SP RO DO BOND DO hb

 

at

iy
Sas? theme

 

Docld:32989620 Page 2

 

 
 

 

 

File #:

CR - LO F765.

 

 

Serial Scope:

SH.- Cafe

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

anes ometne caren

perter to SAC, Boston
Re: SAM SURVEY .

i aha mo N ad ovhoa r J

 

| 65-65384
7 \S\(3) The figure "1" written in brackets after the .
. date would be a signal for the date of the
meeting. ' -
i 3 . ates tas : : :
iy in addition, British intelligence has advised they also

have noted signs such as the following:

~~ (i) An unusual form of the addressee’s name such
as including an extra initial

(2) Addition of bogus initials after the addressee's
name such as D. D. 5.

>..(3) Obvious misspelling of the name of a town or
country on the envelope

notin piece of correspondence.

' Currently New York is handling this program on 4
24-hour, 7-day week basis using eight Agents who process about
a haif-million pieces of mail per week. At the present time
New York has varying degrees of coverage of airmail to the
following areas: Finland, Amsterdam, Hungary, Stockholm, Oslo,
Denmark, Geneva including Lausanne, Zurich, Bern, Berlin, Vienna,
Brussels, Bucharest and Rome, This survey dees not include airmail
direeted to the Soviet Union.

. .
| Each office receiving this letter has direct airmail
flights from that city to various foreign countries and cities

other than Canada and Mexico. Each office, should make a discreet

contact_with local postal_authorities to determine the details of tre

i

:

i

i

}

d

| _(4) The use of more stamps than necessary on a

é

a

i

i

j

j

i

F

i

q

i to determin eae
Duripg this contact the followin,

handling of this overseas. airmail.
details shold be obtained:
(1) To which city and country is this airmail dispatched
directly from your city?

(2) How many flights per day or per week go from your
city to foreign countries

 

(3) What is the volume of mail per flight or per day or
per week?

 

 
      

HW 55095 Docid: 32989620... Page.3 2... _.

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

:
i
4

 

EEN RR a Parco Oa AR

 

55095 DocId:32989620 Page 4
Ge

Letter to SAC, Boston
Re: SAM SURVEY
65+65884

(4) Is the mail bagged and bundled in your city
or does it arrive there from another city
already bagged’ ahd bundled?

For example, it might be that overseas airmail
deposited in Seattle is precessed there, bagged and bundled
and sent on to Los Angeles or San Francisco for eventual
dispatch.

. In connection with the conducting of this inquiry,

a contact was made with the Chief Postal Inspector, Washington,
BD. €., and he was advised of our interest in determining
idetaiis of direct airmail flights to countries other than
:Canada and Mexico and he was entirely agreeable to our
‘conducting such an inquiry. He stated if any difficulties
lwere encountered he would be glad te have them brought tec.

‘his attention.

| You should aise determine the facilities used in Se

it your city for the handling of this mail and advise if these -

Facilicics could be used by Bureau Agents with full security
in the event a monitering program is established.

Also submit your evaluation as to whether a request
j could be made locally te permit Bureau Agents to institute
a monitoring operation on this mail or if it would be necessary
to make inquiry at headquarters level. However, no request. for
instiiucion of a monitoring program should be made” at “this time
and your evaluation should “be based on your knowledge of the
i focal postal authorities.
In the event a monitoring program is instituted, you
will be furnished with specific information and detaiis
“ concerning the methods which are used to attempt _to identify
a the particular items of interest in this mail. For your
‘ additional information, from the experience of the Bureau
-) with this program to date only a small portion of mail
\ examined will be of interest to the Bureau.

 

No requests or other action to institute this
cea te oer LC Cn reenter ge saraunnanenreennnt

emit

 

~ 3 «=

 

 
