 

 

Memorandum for Mr. Belmont

RE: COMMUNIST PARTY, USA
NEGRO QUESTION

100-3~75 ~

 

that would stand up in_testimony in court or before Congressional
committees that the Communist Party, USA, does wield substantial
InfTuence over Negroes which one day could become decisive,

The memorandum which the Director penetratively questioned,
while showing in the details the communist impact on Negroes, did
| suffer from such limitations. These limitations we will make every
effort to lift in the future. The great amount of attention this
Division is giving to communist activities directed toward the Negro
should enable us to do this.

For example, here at the Seat of Government, the Negro -
communist question takes up as a whole the time of one supervisor and
during the past few weeks four men have been so occupied. Additionally,
(1) specialized instructions are regularly given the field on communist
infiltration of the Negro; (2) monographs have been written on the
subject and widely disseminated; (3) regularly disseminated are memoranda
and reports; (4) August 21, 1963, we devoted the entire Current Intelli-~
gence Analysis to the communist plans for the Negro March of August 28,
1963, (149 copies of this Analysis were disseminated to 44 agencies of

| the Government); (5) much material on the issue is given to Agents at
In-Service; and (6) an SAC Letter is under preparation in this Division
now giving the field the benefit of what we learned from the Negro March
on Washington and issuing instructions for increased coverage of
communist influence on the Negro,

  
 

. As the memorandum pointed out, "this Nation is involved in a
form of racial revolution and the time has never been so right for
exploitation of the Negroes by communist propagandists." Nineteen millioy
Negroes constitute thé greatest single racial target of the Communist
Party, USA. This is a sombre reality we must never lose sight of. We

, will do everything possible in the troubled future to develop for the
,Director all available facts relating to Negro membership in the Communist
“Party, plus the more complex and difficult to ascertain influence

, of communist organizations and officials over the leaders and masses of
i Negroes. .

We regret greatly that the memorandum did not measure up to
what the Director has a right to expect from our analysis.

RECOMMENDATION:

a

For the information of the Director.

We

a Kee the
: 7 Ze ye ~
VY

me QM
HW 55254 Docld:32989666 Page 9

 

 
 

This document is prepared in re.

nation outside your Comm*tee,

AW Base Sie sunqposeséCuidwe 10

 

+ . - a,

+ 2% OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 iv " 5010-106 - 8 ey
. MAY 42°92 EDITION .

Oc 7 ae SESAOW,, REG. NO, 27 so >

~“é ° “ONTTED STATES GC” “RNMENT : Be,

Memorandum - eng

TO : Mr. W. C, suniyhe, DATE: September 16, 1963

1-Mr .Belmont

 

FROM : Me, F. J. Baumgardner 1i-Mr. Rosen .o&#
F AT Beep CONTAINED =} uw 'Casper =
J SMAMUP 1-lr. Sullivan,
SUBJECT “COMMUNIST PARTY, usa 1-Mr.Biand ,
NEGRO _QUESTION 1-Mr .Baumgardner
COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS 1-Mr.Morley

INTERNAL SECURITY — COMMUNIST [Mr .Kleinkaut
1-Mr Phillips

 

This memorandum recommends increased coverage of communist
influence on the Negro, The History of the Communist Party, USA
BUSA), iS “replete. with its attempts to exploit, influence and
recruit the Negro. Thé March on "Washington, 8-28 ~ 63, 1 was a stYviking
xamplé-6f-suth Communist activity as Party leaders early put into
otion efforts to accrue gains for the CPUSA from the March. Well-
rsdocumented information concerning the Party's influence on a principal
March leader, Reverend Martin Iuther King, Jr., is but an example.
i8The presence at the March of around 200 Party members, ranging from
several national functionaries headed by (CPUSA General Secretary Gus
Hair; ] jto many rank-and-file members, is clear indication of the ar s
favorite target (the Negro) today. . h

a
—

b:
PEO I

 

ngs OY. sone

‘3

 
 
 

“Brocegdi
¢

horize

aut,

ted
£ US disclosed

iy
G}

All indications are that the March was not the “end of ind!

ine" and that the Party will step up its efforts to exphit racial

rest and in every possible way claim credit for itself relating to
ahy "gains" achieved by the Negro. A clear-cut indication ‘of the.
;Sharty's designs is revealed in its plans to hold a highly secretive
leadership meeting in November, 1963, which will deal primarily with
‘ie Negro situation, This meeting is to be preceded by alGus Ha:
“Dernstorming” trip through key areas of the country to meet Paxty?
ople and thus better prepare himself for the November. meeting! . 4

ni

onse to your request and is not for dissemt-
3 Oriciar
to un

Its use is

SP
i}

eee
8 apo

The entire field is being alerted to this situation tin a

oposed SAC Letter (attached). The field is being. ingtructed to &
tensify our coverage of communist influence on the Négro by giving x
Tlest consideration to the use of all possible investigative de
chniques. In addition, the field is ‘bedng‘stold to intensify its | Ze
verazge of those communist fronts through which the Party ity its |
s influence and to intensify its investigations of the many pertyVg Ady
mbers and dupes who engage in activities on ‘pehalt of the Party Sy
Bh the Negro field. Further, we are stressing the urgent need for i

aginative and aggressive tactics to be utilized through our Counter—
intelligence Program~-these designed to-attempt to neutralize or
disrupt the Party's activities in the Negro field. Necessity for
prompt handling of all facets of this matter to insure timely dissemi~
nation to; the , Department and OR aan terestedvagencsoss Hs iso being

Feat

Committee and the cor
ree args

ig

your

emphasized ~ ¢ ‘ ak and a “: ed 1 ie go~ inka ° 2
100-3~1164 wD . Ma ocr 16 1368
i- 290-3225 (epuisiS Negro Question) a

(8405233

 

 

ee een |

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

onions: fou yo. 0

y.

“UNITED STATES GOVE jE .

Memorandum

a

TO : ae H. Belmont
oth

FROM : Mr. W. C, Sullivan,

SUBJECT: COMMUNIST PARTY, USA

NEGRO_ QUESTION
Is- Cp

Reference is made to the enclosed material on which the

"This memo reminds me vividly of those I
received when Castro took over Cuba.

his cohorts were not Communists and not influericed by Communists.

I for one can’t ignore’ the memos re King,
O'Dell, Levison, Rustin, Hall et al as having only an infinitesimal
effect on the efforts to exploit the American Negro by the Communists."

Director has written:

alone proved you wrong.

The Director is correct.

I do think that much of the difficulty relating to the memorar
dum rightly questioned by the Director is to be found centered in the

| word "influence,’' We do not have, and no Government agency or private .
offanization has; any yardstick which can accurately measure "influence",
im this particular context, even when we know it does exist such as in

~\/\ éhe case of the obvious influence of the concealed communist Stanley
Via evison over Martin Luther King and King's “influenc€ over other
Personally, I believe in the light of King's powerful
demagogic speech yesterday he stands head and shoulders over all other
Negro leaders put together when it comes to influencing great masses of

We must mark him now, if we have not done so before, as

the ,
most dangerous Negro of of the future in this Nation from +t the..standpod
of... communism, the Negro. and “Rational | wwecurity.
+

| denagos!

Negroes.

 

" On determining membership of Negroés fn the’ Commutf
we are not confronted with the same problen.
yardsticks for establishing membership.

very exacting.

but do not qualify as members.

   
 

Wes: im); idjw prvatiog
Oe

a

HW 55254 DocId:32989666 Page 6

 

nttee and the-con

}

This means there are many Negroes who are fellow-
travellers, sympathizers or who aid the Party, knowingly or unknowingly,
These we must not ignore,

communist pringple still holds: "Communism must;:be, byilt with non-
communist hepdsi" Therefore, it may be unrealistic ‘to Limit, ourselves as
\we have been ofng to legalistic Proot or definitely conclusive

Enclosure ; 13
1OGm3a7 3 PAs idem cared, i i resphese to your ye

iter Ms use is lintite
ithout, the.express approvak-of the FBI. «+

We were completely wrong about
believing the evidence was not sufficient to determine some years ago
that Fidel Castro was not a communist or under communist influence. On
investigating and writing about communism and the American Negro, we .
had better remember this and profit by the lesson it-should teach us. ~

     
   
 
  
 
   
  
     
   
     
 
   

. 1 DeLoachi=

Evans ______.,

 

DATE: August 30, 1963 Roeen Se
& , Suv =
Ll - Mr. Belmont Trotter

 

 

4 Tele. Root
1 - Mr. Sullivan Holmes ——

i - Mr. D.E.Moore Gandy
1 - Mr, Baumgardner

 

 

 

ONTAINED

ON C
ALL INFORMA ;
"BERENS LASSI

DAT

You contended then that Castro and -
Time -.

ans

egro

D> COy

os,

SAB. 5 f

UiINRECOHL,

253%,

We do have here ‘accurate
Of course, our standards are

The old

Ldence
“Lei
i

at Bee

me oa ot ibe isin ech f

a

 

 

L

 
Dat

 

HW (55254 DoclId:32989666 Page L

 

 

oe Tolson We
w Belmont

Mohr

md "Casper
Callchgn
—
i

 

 

 

   

 

 

rales Room

7 Holmes
Gandy

9/18/63

 

 

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE DIRECTOR

.

While the attached memorandum
bears the initials of Mr. Baumgardner,
it was prepared from a rough-draft furnished
to him by Mr. Sullivan. eee i
' It should be understood that _
Sullivan, Baumgardner, Sizoo and Belmont
read the memorandum and agreed with it
rior to its submission. , ae
prior to i /o-2-b-Q2 52 ¥
REC 5 beeentatelitevndetielations om

«
INF pengion conn Enclosure a po BEC & 5961
HEREIN DONNIE .Clyde Tolson a

 

    

 

        

   

: ‘ .
vain DG ait ras :
xz AN See wee Lae e ~ tts

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-
nation outside your Commitice. Its use is limited to official proceedings by
your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person-
nel without the express approval of the FBI .

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ener teh

AW 55254

While much propaganda is issued, there is no vA

 

\ and policies among Negroes in the labor field. The.

King himself has been, reported, to. be .a. Marxist.

“ . . . @
. ’

Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan
RE: COMMUNIST PARTY, USA

NEGRO QUESTION
100-3-75

| known substantial implementation of Communist Party aims

Communist Party has done all possible to exploit a great

number of events and issues among Negroes such as the
Scottsboro Case; Emmett Till Case; Montgomery, Alabama, bus
boycott; 1956 March on Washington, D.C.; 1957 Prayer Pilgrimage
to Washington; "sit-in"™ demonstrations; “freedom riders"; and
school integration campaigns. While not the instigator and
presently unable to direct or control the coming Negro August 28
March on Washington, D.C., communist officials are planning to
do all possible to advance communist aims in a supporting role.
Martin Luther King, a key figure in the March, does have as

an advisor, Stanley Levinson, a secret Communist Party member.

   

BSHMISITIEE fv fE4 YOTEL LI ber rr ar reer on™

Despite tremendous sums of money and time spent by
the Communist Party, USA, on the American Negro during the past
44 years, the Party has failed to reach its goal with the
Negroes. The Director, on January 26, 1960, said publicly:
‘'¥t is no secret that one of the bitterest disappointments
of communistic efforts in this Nation has been their failure
to lure our Negro citizens into the party. Despite every type
of propaganéa boomed at our Nation's Negro citizens, they have
never succumbed to the party's saccharine promises of a
Communist Utopia. This generation and generations to come
for many years owe a tremendous debt to our Negro citizens
who have consistently refused to surrender their freedoms for
the tyranny of communism."

Teweeceanee

Negroes represent ten per cent of the population of

the United States or 19 million. I£ one was to apply this
breakdown to Gus Hall's figure of 10,000 Communist Party .

. members today, it would give to the Party 1,000 Negro members.
(Applied to our classified figure of 4,453 active Communist
Party members, the estimated number of Negro communists would
be 445, This would not, of course, include communist sympathizers,
supporters or dupes but only those included under our very strict
and exacting Party membership requirements.) Despite the obvious
failure of the Communist Party of the United States to appreciably

~2-

€

 

Docld:32989666 Paye 5 . : _ —_—

 

 

 

 

 
 

HW 55254 DocId:32989666 Page 6

 

Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan
RE: COMMUNIST PARTY, “USA

NEGRO QUESTION
100-3-75

infiltrate, influence or control large numbers of American
Negroes in this country, the fact remains that the 19 million
Negroes in this country constitute the greatest single racial
target of the Communist Party of the United States. It would
be foolhardy on anybody's part to ignore this very significant
truth, Further, we are right now in this Nation involved in

a form of racial revolution and the time has never been so
right for exploitation of the Negroes by communist propagandists.
The Communist Party in the next-few years may fail dismally
with the American Negro as it has in the past. On the other
hand, it may make prodigious strides and great successes with
the American Negroes, to the serious detriment of our national
security. Time alone will tell,

# we

   
   

~ na. un ‘Badd NG
Core ifn, Bl.

aS . Moe LEVEL vets
my Salis ARO acai dm! ie Ao

,

(OREN ai Oe ae
tof Asie teas 0 bn ek
. W ep Hs Be
Corre bry MM aspr st
Qa A TR GENE zi SaNe i ee

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

tay

 

 

 

 

  
 
 

   
  
   

en

i HEINE crt
BIRR

 

 

     

 

     

   

    

     

HW 55254 DocId:33989666 Page °°
 

 

 

(g2-HO- (1¥3I5

 

 

 

Serial Scope:

CBE SRI

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

55254 Docld:32989666

 

SSG REQUEST 9/8/75
ITEM 12

+IDB-

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREW, Uh At) ASIF

i ASSAM ALE

ee

 
 

 

 

. orton rome stories y aur
. Sp GEN, REG. NO. 27 _ (og Taso x
UNITERB STATES @ MENT @ “ i / per

 

 

 

 

 

 

~ “ ’ ’ . ¢ ' £ Casper

ff yf fCollahan —

Memorandum Pe Fel

a ’ Evans —

ma . Gale; —_———--

TO : Mr, We. Ce Sullivan DATE: August 23, 1963 Sal eo
‘ p we aeial

aye 1-Mr. Belmont . Tole: Roos

FROM : Mr. F. de Baungarald l~lir. Rosen gone _

 

i-Mr, Sullivan
1-Mr. Baumgardner .

SUBJECT: COMMUNIST PARTY, USA l-Mr. Bland . |
NEGRO QUESTION l-Mr. Gurley )\ 7.”
INTERNAL SECURITY - COMMUNIST “4°

De
we . 1 Cal «
ye At
Pursuant to the Director's request, theré is attached

a detailed memorandum concerning the efforts of the Communist
Party, USA, to exploit the American Negro,

,

aA’
There is set forth below in this cover memorandum a /
synopsized version of the detailed memorandun.

Apo
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED /'/ L :
HEREIN 8 UI{CLASSIFY ,
SYNOPSIS DATE. lop BY a

The 19 million Negroes in the United States today
constitute the largest and most important racial target of the
Communist Party, USA. Since 1919 communist leaders have devised
countless tactics and programs designed to penetrate and control
Negro population, It has spent hundreds of thousands of dollars
propagandizing the Negroes in a variety of ways. These colossal
efforts havé been related to “equal opportunity” and "self-
determination" policies (the latter being. discontinued in 1959
with. the approval of Soviet Russia because it was ineffective),
front organizations, parades, demonstrations, articles, pamphlets,
1 books, films, speeches, civil rights, "peaceful coexistence,"
et cetera. These efforts, among other things, have resulted in

establishing today such active Negro communist front groups as

the African American Heritage Association, Freedomways Associates,
and Southern Conference Educational Fund (not yet cited by the

Attorney General). Additionally, efforts have been and are being

made to infiltrate with limited degrees of success such legitimate

Negro organizations as the National Association for the Advance~.

ment of Colored People, the Negro American Labor Council, and the

Southern Christian Leadership Conference headed by Martin Luther~

King, Jr. Other legitimate Negro organizations not known to be

infiltrated, influenced or controlled but are targets include

 

 

 

500238757 wee : & Te Rie #
. _ o y . 4 3% copes ret a
> « & BIBiskw ‘\ a “ vdcis.not for dissemi? |
entree (2 Baa . . £ your request andgis.NOv Ten a. taf.bty

ONS his document is prepared im TOSPOnn’ ©’ timitedl to Offtela eieed pephot | 6 /

non ‘ tside your Commi" ec. disclosed to unawenort ‘

. . gation outset? Yorn] the content may nut be MScloren - —-

se ur Committee am f the FBI «

 

i el without the express approval 0.
55254 DoclId:32939666 Page 4 |
——_ .

 

 

 
