 

 

 

 

 

RICHARD CYRIL FRANK

 

NOTE:

Memorandum classified "Secret" since it sets forth
data the unauthorized disclosure of which could cause serious
damage to the national_defense, and further, it sets forth data
obtained from orp le was so classified,

a
See cover Letter to Legat, London, dated 12-5-66,
captioned "Richard Cyril Frank, Susan Heiligman Frank; IS = Chinat! ..
prepared by JRW:dmt..

SECRET
¢@ Boe

 

 

 
 

 

 

with Tang-Ming Chae referred to above, The purpose of the

 

 

BICHARD CYREL. PRANE

 

1. dack Perry of the London Export Corporation = {_-
which supperte the expansion of trade with China.. . j

2.  Pang<Ming Chao (0761/2494/3564), who at one

. time edited the "China Daily News," and was regarded by

the Communist Party, USA, as a specialist in Far Eastern

affairs. He is currently the Vice Chairman of the Editorial

Board of “China Reconstructs" and a member of the China .

Peace Committee and the World Peace Congress. (5)

3. Israel Epstein, an editor of “China Reconstructs.'

in April, 1963, Susan Frank was reported to have
been contacted by an individual believed te be identical

contact was to extend an invitation to the subjects to
return to China, and/or te recommend people who would be
willing to travel to and work fer China.

During Septenber, 1963, the eubjeets attempted to
contact Peggy Pinckherd, 3 Heathview, Gorden House Road,
Leadon, England, with respect to their intended arrival in
London. ;

& confidential source abroad advieed that Peggy
Pinekherd was probably identical with Margaret Mary Joan.
Agnes Pinckheard, a faivly longestanding member of the
Communiet Party of Britain who visited Communist China in
1962. She hag been active in the Britain<China Friendship toon 4
Association sinee that time .(S ) 4

' In September, 1969, information wae received ‘
indicating subjects were planaing to travel to London. :
While Guean frank did not make the trip, her hushand did
and wag. apparently in Londen during the period September 13,
i863, to October 5, 1963.

. Sichard Prank left New York City on May 4, 1964,
Various confidential sources abroad have advised that on
May 5, be trangited Bilan, Italy, arriving in Geneva, _
Switzerland, on May 6, where he resided at the Hotel Victoria
and the Hotel du Jet d"Zau until my 14. He was in Paris of
Vay 17, and returned te the U. Si via Canada on Mey 19. ‘The
sources were unable te repert any significant information
regarding his activities while abroad. (Ss )

 

 
