a
-

MEMORANDUM

March 20, 1996

To: ~ «Review Board .
cc: David Marwell
CIA Team
From: T. Jeremy G
Subject: Board Guidelines on Rele|

 

_ The Staff understands the Review Board to accept the following general guidelines on
the release of true names of CIA officers:

When the true name of a CIA officer (i.e. past or present employee of CIA) appears in a
document, the Board will bring to its review a presumption that the true name will be
released. In order-to overcome this presumption of release, CLA must provide evidence
demonstrating that release of the name would be harmful. In order to meet its burden
of proving harm, CIA must tailor the evidence to satisfy one of the three categories
identified in Part I (below). However, when the name of an Officerisofsuch |
importance that the public interest would not be served in postponing a name, the

' Board may release the true name consistent with the principles identified in Part I
(below). ;

Part I. Categories of Officers.

1.-Living officers. For living (present or former) officers, CLA must prove that:

. (a) the officer is living outside the United States (or reasonably is expected to
reside or travel outside the United States in the foreseeable future); (b) the officer
is either working or is retired under cover; art (c) the officer objects to the
release of his or her true name. If CIA satisfies this burden, the Board
presumptively (see Part I below) will release a pseudonym and postpone the
officer’s true name until the year 2010.

2. Where current status of former officer is unknown. Where CIA has been
unable to contact the former officer because his or her location is unknown, CIA
must present a good faith showing that reasonable attempts have been made to
locate the officer. If the Board is convinced that CIA has-made a good faith —
shgwing that it was unable to locate the former officer, the Board will postpone
the true name until June 1, 1997. However, the Board may postpone the true

AW 53217 DocId:32404242 Page 5
name beyond June 1, 1997, if CLA provides to the Board, prior to May 1, 1997,
additional evidence that satisfies the criteria of either category 1 (above) or
category 3 (below). —_—

3. Names having effect on current intelligence interests. If CIA believes that ~
the release of a true name may compromise currently existing intelligence
operations or might otherwise cause an identifiable harm, it must provide
evidence that: (a) the officer currently is engaged in clandestine activities; (b) the
release of the true name would compromise ongoing intelligence operations or

- would compromise operations with current intelligence value; (c) the release of

the true name would reasonably be expected to cause significant harm to a living -
person (including family members), or (d) the release of the true name would
cause a significant harm to the national security or the foreign relations of the
United States. If CIA satisfies this burden, the Board presumptively (see Part II
below) will release a pseudonym and postpone the true name until 2010 or until
such other date as CIA reasonably shows to be a date on which the release could
be made without causing harm.

Part I, Names of Officers Who Are Important to the Assassination Story.

HW 53217

The Board presumptively will postpone the release.of names consistent with _
categories 1-3 of Part I. However, for certain persons whose names appear ina
context that is important to the assassination story, the Board may nevertheless
vote to release the true name. In all such instances, the Board will notify CIA of
the importance of such a person and provide CIA with the opportunity to
provide additional information in support of postponing the release of the .
names. .These names shall be reviewed on a case-by-case basis, with due
consideration being given to the importance of the person to the assassination
story and such evidence of harm as CIA may provide.

DocId: 324042942 Page 6
ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

 

CIA SPECIA\, COLLECTIONS
RELEASXIN FULL
00

29 July 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief Historical Review Group

FROM: Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.
DO, Focal Point for ARRB

SUBJECT: Proposal for Dealing with Employees' Names

1. Cover mechanisms are an integral part of conducting
clandestine operations. We are concerned about individuals that
continue to be dependent on particular cover legends and on the
organizations that cooperatively work with us to provide those
cover legends. The following proposal is offered to streamline
the process of handling names and minimize the potential damage
an inappropriate release could cause.

A. Incomplete and Unidentifiable names:

a. We will release the occurrence of a name when a
common last name appears by itself or in conjunction
with a common first name such that it does not tend
to specifically identify the individual.

b. We will release the occurrence of a name if it
remains unidentified after a reasonable search is
conducted. .

B. Identifiable names for employees that retired
_overtly:

In most cases, overt employees’ names will be released,

but in some cases overt employees may have a

portion of their employment remain under cover. Such

cases will require the same review as that of an

employee who. remained under cover into retirement.

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

AW 53217 DocId:32404242 Page 2
AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Released under the John
Kennedy

Assassination Records

ollection Act of 1992

AGENCY INFORMATION

CIA
(44 USC 2107 Note).
soe 10331-10113 ases:NiW 53217 Date:

 

PROJFILES - CORRESPONDENCE * B6=22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CIA

FROM : WICKHAM. DO FOCAL POINT FOR ARRB
TO : CHIEF, HISTORICAL REVIEW GROUP
TITLE : MEMO: PROPOSAL FOR DEALING WITH EMPLOYEES' NAMES
DATE : 07/29/1996 :
PAGES : 5
SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASSINATION
CIA NAMES
DOCUMENT TYPE :. PAPER .
CLASSIFICATION : ADMINISTRATIVE
RESTRICTIONS : 1A
. CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :. 04/23/03
COMMENTS : JFK-M-16 : F5 : 2000.02.08.16:12:00:590044
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTE 104-10331-10113

AW 53217 DocId:32404242 Page 1
HW 53217

a ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT: Proposal for Dealing with Employees' Names

~~ C. Identifiable names for employees that retired
*cévertly:

a. We will make a reasonable attempt to locate a
current address and contact the person. If the person
objects to the release of his or her name for reasons
associated with current life style issues, we will
object to the release of the name. If the person does
not have objections based upon personal circumstances we
will review the name for organizational issues. (See
para C. c.)

b. If reasonable efforts fail to locate the
current address, but it can be determined that the
individual is still receiving a pension, insurance or
other benefit based upon cover legend, we will need to
continue to protect the name since source of income or
benefits can not be altered without prior notification
to the individual. If we fail to identify a pension or
other, active benefit, we will review the name for
organizational issues. (See para C. c.)

c. We will make a reasonable attempt to review the
name to look for identifiable harm to the person’s
safety, family, ongoing operational activities, national
security or foreign relations. Assuming that none of
the previous concerns are identified, we will review the
potential damage to the cover mechanism or cover

=.> provider by the specific occurrence of the name if
released.

2. Because families of deceased employees could be the
beneficiary of pensions or insurance provided under the employees
cover legend, we must review them the same as we would the
employee. We also have second and third generation officers
following in the footsteps of their parents that could be
negatively impacted by the revelation.

3. Our efforts to locate current addresses will include all
internal record systems maintained by Office of Personnel

Security, Retirement Branch and Insurance Branch. We will
include, a checklist reflecting completion of these searches
~~

2

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

DocId: 32404242 Page 3
HW 53217

” : .ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT: Proposal for Dealing with Employees' Names

4. We considered options of contacting IRS .or.OPM during
our attempts to locate current addressing information, but based
upon the fact that these offices would be unwitting of the cover
arrangement for the individual, it was determined to be an
unreasonable risk to the cover of these officers.

Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.

3

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

DocId:32404242 Page 4
