   

Letter to the Director of Central Intelligence -
Re: Ocelot

Jack Anderson' s colunn in the Washington Post on May 6,

1977, claims that Antonio Veciana has testified before
the House Assassinations Committee that he was in con-
tact with Lee Harvey Oswald in Dallas, Texas, in August, -
1963. (v)

‘Phe above asset has furnished other sensitive
intelligence information, including the identities of ;
previously unknown CIO's, and it is anticipated that he
will be of future value to our foreign counterintelligence
. . effort. Any effort by the Cuban Government to exploit
ces _. the propaganda value of information obtained from this
uo .  . yregently develored asset over the period of seven previous
meetings would necessarily cost their intelligence service
the public identification of several CIO's currently in
Jamaica and Mexico, You are being made aware of the above
_ developments since it is recognized that the Cuban. Govern-
ment may elect to publicize this videotape for propaganda
' purposes and that such an event could impact upon current
policy decisions. (5S) . .

: this infoxmation is also being furnished to the

 Seeretary of State, the Assistant to the President for
“ National Security Affairs, and the Attorney General.

SECRET

- 4

 

 

HW 50529 DocId:32357037 Page 5
 

o a
“at poe

 

_ OFECE OF THE, DIRECTOR oO @ ct SECRET .
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ;

_ FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

  

BY LIAISON. =. >!
Date: | © June 6, 1977
To: - Director of Central Intelligence ae
From: ~ Clarence M. Kelley, Director . anysrocnet

 

a oar RELEASE OF TS
Subject: + -OCELOT; a de Se
. ".) LINTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA. a oo . ' te

- This is to advise of pertinent developments in
“a double “agent operation, assigned the code name "Ocelot,"
-which involves a meeting between our asset and Cuban :
.. Intelligence Officers (CIO's) in Mexico on May 19, 1977. -
' We learned, after debriefing the asset upon his return
from Mexico, that the format of the meeting had unex- | ~
pectedly involved a videotaped interview of our asset... .
by Cuban technicians: concerning his knowledge and partici- ~~
pation in ‘anti-Castro Cuban exile activities.” (8)- ; :

    

“The asset developed in this ‘operation first 5
became of investigative interest to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI). in November, 1976, when allegations
were received that he was in contact with known CIO's in’

-, Jamaica during October and November, 1976. Subsequent .
investigation, coordinated closely with the Central - 7
Intelligence Agency (CIA), confirmed_an_active relation= _

- ship with Cuban officials in Jamaica, Panama and Mexico.

A successful interview of aSset was effected on April 8,
1977, which resulted in establishing a double agent a
‘operation. At that point, the asset furnished details
of seven previous meetings with CIO's in Jamaica, Panama
and Mexico. In addition, asset furnished a typewritten.
note containing instructions for his next meeting in
Mexico City, on May 19, 1977, which involved a coded. ~~

_ telephone call to the Cuban Embassy, Mexico City, to

'. activate the scheduled meet at a pre-determined time ~ ©
and place. The. purpose of this meeting, according to
the asset, was for the passage of additional information
concerning the activities of Cuban exile groups in the ..
United States and Latin America, as had been done at
previous meetings. (S) : oo

 

SECRET
Classified by 5182.
Exempt from GDS, Categories 2 and 3
Date of Declassification, Indefinite

sorrow,

a

Ca
ee Wo
2 eo
Parone

Pgs

HW 50529 DocId: 32357037 Page ‘2
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
7“ IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

> AGENCY : CIA
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10103-10172
RECORD SERIES : JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : D/FBI KELLY, CLARENCE
TO : DCI
TITLE : MEMO: INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA
DATE : 06/06/1977
PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS : VECIANA
WITHHELD

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER
CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B 1c
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/22/93 :
COMMENTS : JFK36 : F29 : 1993.07.22.09:43:03:680530

{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10103-10172

AW 50529 DocId:32357037 Page 1
HW 50529

@ - BCRET e

 

Letter to the Director of Central Intelligance

- Re: Ocelot

: The asset has advised that he was transported
by automobile from the meet site in Mexico City to a
hotel room equipped with videotape equipment and occu-
pied by two Cuban technicians. The asset was then asked |
questions by CIO’s and his responses were recorded on
videotapa. They assured the asset that this tape would
be shown to high Cuban officials, including Fidel Castro,:
and that it would not be made public. There is, however,
obvious propaganda value in this film which could ke. .
utilized by the Cuban Government. Asset was specifically —.
advised by CIO's that Premier Fidel Castro has a forth-  —

coming television. news interview with an unnamed U, S. oe
_. news commentator, and that they wanted Castro to sae this
° videotape prior to his interview. (5) - .

According to the asset, the interview began

with questions regarding his family life in Cuba before
the Castro revolution, after which he was asked to comment

on the former Batista Regime in Cuba. He was then asked
to name the political movements of which he had been a
member. He told the interviewer that in 1964 he had worked
with Alpha 66, a militant anti-Castro organization head-
quartered in Miami, Florida, in helping approximately

: twenty-eight Cuban exiles and arms pass through Puerto Rico

. to Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, for use against Cuba

and that all but four of these Cuban exiles had returned .

to Puerto Rico. The four who did not return are now in

Cuban jails. {5)

Asset was also asked about his participation in’
an assassination attempt of Fidel Castro in Chile in 1971.
The asset stated that he had participated in the attemot
with Antonio Veciana, a Cuban exile now residing in Miami.
When asked if Veciana had been employed by the CIA, ha’ —
replied that he did not know, however, assumed that he
was, based on the fact that Veciana had used a car with

United States diplomatic License plates to transport the

necessary arms and equipment from Bolivia, where Veciana ~

Docld: 32357037 Page 3
 

Letter to the Director of Central intelligence
Re: Ocelot . .

‘was employed in the United States Embassy, to Chile. This
plan was aborted by other Cuban exile participants at the
last minute. Asset had previousiy furnished this infor~
mation to CIO's during other meetings. (8) os

. "| Asset was also questioned about a 1951 assassi-
nation attempt directed: at Castro in Cuba, in which the
asset participated. He acknowledged that he, Veciana,

‘ and Bernardo Pradreres had at that time tried to kill
Castro with a bazooka. They waited in an apartment, which

_ was rented in Havana, Cuba, by Veciana's mother-in-law,

_ for Castro to appear at the nearby Cuban capitol. .Pradreres

_. had hired two other individuals not known to the asset to

“do the actual firing, but when Castro finally appeared the
bazooka failed to fire due to its deteriorated state from
having been buried for an extended period of time. The
.Cuban authorities later discovered the bazoo! ka, which had_
been left-in the apartment, and wera then able to > identify -
all of the participants. (Ss). :

. During the initial interview of asset on
April 8, 1977, he made available a photograph obtained
from Antonio Veciana,- which Veciana claimed to depict
-. Tee. Harvey Oswald in attendance at an Alvha 66 meeting
.. in Dallas, Texas, in 1963. . Anothar photograph depicted
Veciana as a speaker at this meeting. The asset had
made this information available to CIO's at previous
‘meetings. In the last segment of videotaping in Mexico,
the asset was conironted with enlarged photographs oF
the alleged Alpha 66 meeting and was asked to point out
the individual similar in descriotion to Oswald, after
which the videotaping was concluded. . The whole taping
process lasted approximately 90 minutes and consumed
almost three reels of videotape. 3)

Photographs made available by the asset were
examined by FBI agents familiar with the Oswald investi-
gation and it was determined that Lee Harvey Oswald is
not depicted in these photographs. It is noted that

SECRET

RW 50529 Docld:32357037 Page 4
