HW 54214

 

e. Summary - Our knowledge of Cuban military order of
battle, especially ground order of battle, has dropped off con-
siderably in recent weeks. Changes in unit organization and in
the numbering system as well as the militia nature of the organi-
zation itself make OB material perishable. Until such time as a
definite target date and objective is set making it possible to
inject a sufficient quantity of trained observers into the area with
specific targets, this situation will probably continue.

4. Estimate of the Potential for Military Operations within Cuba -

Should a policy decision be made to militarily intervene in Cuba, the
U.S. could:

 
   
 

Vith-18-days of preparation, execute a coordinated airborne-
ious assault Which it is anticipated would gain control of key

military installations andthe principal centers of population of Cuba

within 10 days and result in’ minimum US and Cuban casualties.

   

b. Should the situati

yy,
2 demand, ‘a piecemeal commitment of
US forces could be mada 7

  
   

: conjunction with either of the actions described in a and b,
above, cover and deception plans have been developed which, if executed,

would result in prepositioning of forces. assigned to the invasion of Cuba
and could thereby result in an over-all reaction time of approximately
12 days for a coordinated assault. H

 

een
e. “Air- sea blockade can be initiated within 24 hours With. effective-_
ness increasing to a.complete blockade within approximately 48 hours.

5. Factors Worth Considering in Deciding on One of the Following Four

Courses of Action for the United States to Follow in Relation to Cuba:

a. Cancel operational plans; treat Cuba as a Bloc nation; protect
Hemisphere from it. 7

TOP-SECRET.

DocId: 32424900 Page 7
TOP-SECRET

c. PT Boats. DOD reconditioned a PT boat for possible
use by CIA. In addition, DOD obtained certain data on
characteristics and costs of PT boats manufactured by other

. countries.

  
 

d. Voice

 
 

e. Overflights of Cuba. DOD has conducted several
reconnaissance and photographic missions over Cuba for the
CIA.

{. Utilization of AVON-PARK, Florida, by CIA as a Base
for the Training of Cuban Refugees. DOD investigated the
feasibility of using certain facilities at AVON-PARK for the
training of Cuban refugees in guerrilla warfare.

 
   

g. [ou Drum Mines. DOD transferred 40 oil drum mines

   

fn Officer to CLA. DOD detailed an officer

   

i. Conti bn cy Plan for Overt US Military Intervention
in Cuba. In order to insure a decisive US military capability
for overt military intervention in Cuba, CINCLANT's regular
contingency plan for Cuba has been updated. Attempts are
being made to reduce the reaction time required for imple-
mentation of this plan, without piecemeal commitment of US
forces.

j. Alternate Contingency Plan for Overt US Military Inter -
vention in Cuba. CINCLANT developed an alternate plan which
accomplished.a a reduction in reaction time but requires piece-
meal commitment of forces.; In order to reduce the risk in-
herent in such an operation CINCLANT is.seeking means for

reduction of the reaction time without piecemeal commitment.

ed

    

Reception Plan.

   

This plan has been develo

HW 54214 DocId:32424900 Page 5
       

1. Air Strikes Against Cuba. A plan has been developed
for the use of airpower only following a national policy decision,
to suppress. and/or neutralize Cuban forces pending the execu-
tion of an assault or to be executed i in support of an internal
revolt.

‘ _

: m. Air and Sea Blockade of Cuba. A plan has been develop-

ed for the complete air and sea blockade of Cuba within 48 hours

after decision.

n. Civil Affairs and Military Government. An outline plan
providing guidance for the conduct of civil affairs and fora
provisional military government for Cuba has been prepared.

o. DOD's Position as to its Stake and Proposed Role in the
Removal of the Communist Regime from Cuba. This paper
included a statement of conditions under which Defense believes
that overt military intervention in Cuba could be accomplished
‘without leading to general war and without serious offense to
iw blic opinion.

   

q. Air Re-supply. Four aircraft and crews have been
readied for air re-supply missions over Cuba.

r. Risk Estimate. An estimate was prepared concerning

s risk involved in air re-supply missions over Cuba.

cerning the US capability for the covert production of facsimiles
of Soviet aircraft.

 

[xs . Manufacture of Soviet Aircraft. A survey was made con-

t. Military Intelligence. A detailed list of Essential Elements
of Information was prepared in February 1962 covering the require-
ments of the Caribbean Survey Group and CINCLANT and was levied
on the Intelligence Community for fulfillment. Reconnaissance
activities consisting of overhead reconnaissance, air patrols,

(@lectronic collection|and special operations were implemented.
Specific intelligence requirements to be used in the interrogation
6f knowledgeable refugees covering items of military, political

3

TOP-SECRET

HW 54214 DocId:32424900 Page 6
‘TOP-SECRET

.¢. PT Boats. DOD reconditioned a PT boat for possible
use by CIA. In addition, DOD obtained certain data on
characteristics and costs of PT boats manufactured by other
countries.

 

  
  

d. Voice 9m.a.Submarine:. DOD .
made:a:submarin i t for the conduct of voice
radio broadcastsfiear Cuba by the CIA.

e. Overflights of Cuba. DOD has conducted several

reconnaissance and photographic missions over Cuba for the
CIA.

f. Utilization of AVON-PARK, Florida, by CIA as a Base
for the Training of Cuban Refugees. DOD investigated the
feasibility of using certain facilities at AVON-PARK for the
training of Cuban refugees in guerrilla warfare.

*

g- [ou Drum Mines. DOD transferred 40 oil drum mines
to cra-7 i

 
 

h. Detail gfan Officer to CLA. DOD detailed an officer
to duty with Cl (to be in charge of small boat operations at
Miami, Flori °

i. Contingency Plan for Overt US Military Intervention
in Cuba. In order to insure a decisive US military capability
for overt military intervention in Cuba, CINCLANT's regular
contingency plan for Cuba has been updated. Attempts are
being made to reduce the reaction time required for imple-
mentation of this plan, without piecemeal commitment of US
forces. .

j. Alternate Contingency Plan for Overt US Military Inter -
vention in Cuba. CINCLANT developed an alternate plan which
accomplished'a reduction in reaction time but requires piece-

meal commitment of forces. | In order to reduce the risk in-

herent in such an operation CINCLANT is.seeking means for
reduction of the reaction time without piecemeal commitment.

k. Cover "Yivening ¢ Plan. This plan. has been developed

for the purpose vering the prepositioning of forces alloc :
to the contingency plans for overt. military intervention in Cuba..|

2

“TOP-SECRET

HW 54214 DocId:32424900 Page 2
AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

FROM :

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

AW 54214) Docld: 32424900

Aa Date : 08/28/98
Page : 1 :

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Peleased under the John
. Kennedy
kasagsination Records
ollection Act of 1992

AGENCY INFORMATION

JCS
202-10001-10169
FOIA SERIES

DOC 170

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#: NW 54214 Date:
P9=13-2017

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

END OF PHASE 1
07/23/62

24

OPERATION MONGOOSE

MEMORANDUM

TOP SECRET

1c

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
07/30/98

 

Reviewed by JCS, CIA, State, OSD.

EXEMPT PER E.0. 13526
SEC 3.3(b)_5¢

DATE EXEMPTED: MAR 2016

JS RE-REVIEW DATE:3/ 86203 -
ORM Te Reveasé AS Eebacreh o)( 21d Conccpbeence

Page 1
   

 

renee, =
It also includes means designed to provoke Cuban reaction and
(_thus act as a triggering device for US intervention.’ |

   

1. Air Strikes Against Cuba. A plan has been developed
for the use of airpower only following a national policy decision,
to suppress. and/or neutralize Cuban forces pending the execu-
tion of an assault or to be executed in support of an internal
revolt.

m. Air and Sea Blockade of Cuba. A plan has been develop -
ed for the complete air and sea blockade of Cuba within 48 hours
after decision.

n. Civil Affairs and Military Government. An outline plan
providing guidance for the conduct of civil affairs and for a
provisional military government for Cuba has been prepared.

0. DOD's Position as to its Stake and Proposed Role in the
Removal of the Communist Regime from Cuba. This, paper
included a statement of conditions under which Defense believes
that overt military intervention in Cuba could be accomplished
without leading to general war and without serious offense to
public opinion. ;

 
   

p. BW/CW Capabilities. A paper was prepared listing the
things that can be done against Cuba in BW/CW field. © .

a

 

q. Air Re-supply. Four aircraft and crews have been
readied for air re-supply missions over Cuba.

r. Risk Estimate. An estimate was prepared concerning
the risk involved in air re-supply missions over Cuba. ‘

 
  
 

s. Manufacture of Soviet Aircraft. A survey was made con-
cerning the US capability for the covert production of facsimiles _|
of Soviet aircraft. =

t. Military Intelligence. A detailed list of Essential Elements
of Information was prepared in February 1962 covering the require-
ments of the Caribbean Survey Group and CINCLANT and was levied
on the Intelligence Community for fulfillment: Reconnaissance
activities consisting of overhead reconnaissance, air patrols;

(@lectronic collection|and special operations were implemented.
Specific intelligence requirements to be used in the interrogation
of knowledgeable refugees covering items of military, political

3

| TOP-SECRET

HW 54214 DocId:32424900 Page 3
e. Summary - Our knowledge of Cuban military order of
battle, especially ground order of battle, has dropped off con-
siderably in recent weeks. Changes in unit organization and in
the numbering system as well as the militia nature of the organi~
zation itself make OB material perishable. Until such time as a
definite target date and objective is set making it possible to
inject a sufficient quantity of trained observers into the area with
specific targets, this situation will probably continue.

 

4. Estimate of the Potential for Milita erations within Cuba -
Should a policy decision be made to militarily intervene in Cuba, the
U.S. could:

  

8-days of preparation, execute a coordinated airborne-
ous assqult which it is anticipated would gain control of key
military installations and-the principal centers of population of Cuba
within 10 days and result in® minimum US and Cuban casualties. :
oN .
b. Should the situation demand, -a piecemeal commitment of
US forces could be madeéfwith reaction times approximately as follows:
¥ *, .

2 Airborne Divisions 4, 5 days (para-drop units only)
'4 Marine BLTS - 7- 8 days
Following Forces - \ 15 - 18 days

(This operation would involve a dangerous element of risk. )
;

c. In conjunction with either of the actions described in a and b,
above, cover and deception plans have been developed which, if executed,
would result in prepositioning of forces. assigned to the invasion of Cuba
and could thereby result in an over-all reaction time of approximately
12 days for a coordinated assault.

 

‘

_ Air strikes could be conducted against selected targets in
Cuba fwithin 6, 12 or 24 hours; e time dependent upon aircraft
availability and desired intensity of attack. ae
ae
e. Air-sea blockade can be initiated within 24 hours With. effective-
‘ness increasing to a. complete blockade within approximately 48 hours.

5. Factors Worth Considering in Deciding on One of the Following Four

Courses of Action for the United States to Follow in Relation to Cuba:
ES

a. Cancel operational plans; treat Cuba as a Bloc nation; protect
Hemisphere from it.‘ 4

 

HW 54214 DocId:32424900 Page 4
