 

their propaganda machines to allege at least U.S. connivance,
although this probably will not develop into a major campaign
unless the Soviets manage to turn up some tangible evidence
of U.S. implication. If there are recurrent incidents, the
Soviets may utilize diplomatic channels and possibly the UN
to bring pressure on the U.S. to get an end put to the Program.
It is barely possible that if a pattern of incidents
develops the Soviets through their own sabotage apparatus, or
by inciting the Cubans, may engage in some sabotage of U.S.
vessels. They would hope in this way to get across the message
that two can play the game and thus to get the program stopped,
But the Soviets would be aware of the risks of getting caught at
this sort of retaliation and these risks are likely to have a
very considerable sobering influence on them, Perhaps some-
what more likely, the Soviets might encourage the Cubans to
supply ship crews with small arms with which to attack the
sabotage teams, if they are detected, and thus to ward off the
program. In general, however, forceful reactions directly

involving the Soviets seem unlikely.

 

HW 54214 DocId:32977074 Page 9
AW 54214

 

B. HARASSMENT ATTACKS ON CUBAN SHIPS IN CUBAN WATERS

Surface attacks by Maritime assets firing on Cuban ships

in Cuban waters, Where the maritime asset cannot reach the target, shore
based attacks on shipping in port or passing among the offshore keys may

be undertaken.

CAPABILITIES

‘Our present maritime assets have an acceptable
capability to attack Cuban ships with recoilless rifles, rocket
launchers or automatic weapons such as 20 mm. cannon. The
craft which we would probably use are sport fishermen manned
by Cubans and capable of speeds in excess of 30 kts. By the
end of July we expect to add two PT type, gas turbine boats to
our fleet, whose 40 kt. plus speed and maneuverability will
significantly increase our surface attack capability. Adequate
intelligence support and targetting data are available properly
to plan and execute these attacks on selected Cuban ships.

For shore based attacks two separate groups, one of
22 and one of 16 Cubans have been given thorough paramilitary
training and, while only a few have had any operational experience

to date, they are considered operationally ready for two or three

 

Docld: 32977074 Page 10
 

indicates that the first such operations would probably take
place at Cuban south coast ports such as Manzanillo or Niquero

or on a Cuban ship in a free world port permitting access to

  

the vessel. The preferred port for doing this would be} a5 ‘

 

Sor but it could be done in some European ports
also. It is not anticipated that we could obtain sufficient
local support for such an action to undertake it Fal Genadel IX
BENEFITS
Increased strain on Soviet/Bloc shipping.
Destruction or damage to vital cargos.
Disruption of shipping schedules - particularly the
delivery of vital materials and spare parts.
Demoralization of Cuban crews.
REPERCUSSIONS
Allegations of U.S. sponsorship.
Alleged "murder" of Cuban sailors.
Claims that ships were torpedoed by U.S, submarines,
Possible reprisals against U.S. ships.
Estimate of Soviet Reactions:
Whenever an incident occurs, the Soviets will be quick

to suspect U.S, involvement; they are likely to set in motion

   

HW 54214 DocId: 32977074 Page @
 

I, NEW PROPOSALS
A. ADDITIONAL MEANS OF SABOTAGE OF CUBAN OWNED
SHIPPING
The placing of explosive devices with suitable time delays
on the outside of ships either in Cuban or in non-Cuban ports,
CAPABILITIES
A six man Cuban underwater demolition team (UDT)

has been undergoing training and will be in operational
readiness by the end of June 1963. They are competent in the
use of open and closed circuit SCUBA and have been conducting
simulated limpet operations using inert materials, Their
training will be completed in June, culminating in a series of
exercises using live demolitions under operational conditions.
Adequate intelligence support and targetting data are available .
to plan and execute UDT operations in selected ports. In some
cases non-UDT assets in small boats may be used to place
limpets on Cuban ships.

PACE

The first attack could be made in July 1963 and we

could mount one every other month thereafter, depending upon

the location and availability of targets. Preliminary targetting

  

HW 54214 DocId:32977074 Page 7
 

gradually being increased. We expect to increase the
infiltration of items for mailing within Cuba to about 800
pieces per month by developing additional diplomatic and
legal traveler channels. We are developing a comprehen-
sive pamphlet giving detailed instructions on the theory
and practice of resistance with an emphasis on subtle
sabotage. These will be introduced in a variety of ways
at the appropriate time.

The radio broadcasts currently beam 270 hours
per week at Cuba from 8 different stations, Throughout
these broadcasts subtle sabotage themes are inserted.
Plans are underway to increase the broadcast hours to 350
per week, utilizing a total of 12 stations and gradually
stepping up the emphasis on subtle sabotage.

B. SABOTAGE OF CUBAN OWNED SHIPPING

Two types of sabotage have been approved:

(1) The placing of incendiary devices and/or explosives
with . suitable time delay within the hull or cargo to disable or sink Cuban
vessels and/or damage their cargos while on the high seas.

(2) Introducing abrasives or other damaging materials into
the propulsion, communication and other systems of the ship to inactivate

the ship.

  

HW 54214 DocId:32977074 Page 5
 

CAPABILITIES

   

At the present time there are
varying quality aboard 12 Cuban merchant ships (approxi-
mately half of the Cuban Merchant Marine), Although a
quarter of these agents agreed to undertake sabotage during
the crisis period of September-October 1962, none of them
was tested in this regard. Most of the others have not been
asked. We are confident that a major act of sabotage can be
achieved against two or three of these vessels, It may be
possible, however, to develop more limited acts of sabotage
in a larger number of ships. .

PACE

Barring unusual circumstances, it should be possible to
accomplish an initial major act of sabotage on a Cuban ship
prior to mid-June. Following the initial effort and depend-
ing upon the reliability of the various recruited agents on

board, it should be possible to develop an operation of this

type at an approximate rate of one per month as long as

 

HW 54214 DocId:32977074 Page 6
ANNEX A

 

SUBJECT: A Covert Harassment/Sabotage Program against Cuba

L This paper presents a covert Harassament/Sabotage program

 

targetted against Cuba; included are those sabotage plans which have
previously been approved as well as new proposals. While this program
will cause a certain amount of economic damage, it will in no sense
critically injure the economy or cause the overthrow of Castro. It may,
however, create a situation which will delay the consolidation and
stabilization of Castro's revolution and may cause some of his 26 July
followers to doubt Castro's ability successfully to create a new Cuba.

Losses in men and equipment with the attendant adverse publicity
must be expected. Even without such losses, U.S. attribution will be
claimed. |

‘When the policy and guidelines of the overall sabotage program are
established, it will be possible progressively to develop up to a limit
additional covert assets and support capabilities. However, materially
to increase the pace of operations, a period of four to six months is
required. Ultimate limiting factors are weather, length of "“dark-of-
the-moon" period each month and appropriate targets. A source of
additional agent personnel is from Cuban personnel trained by the U.S.

Military Forces under the recent programs, but released to civilian

status.

 

HW 54214 DocId:32977074 Page 2
 

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date : 06/25/98
Page : 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

FROM

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

NSC

AGENCY INFORMATION

145-10001-10202

04/04/63
21

 

Released under the John
. EKennedy
Assassination Records

ollection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#: NW 54214 Date:

NEW COVERT POLICY AND PROGRAM TOWARD CUBA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

1B,

1c

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
02/24/98

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION
TO DECLASSIFICATION

RE RES CONCURRENCE OF

HW 54214 DoclId: 32977074

Page 1
HW 54214

 

I. PREVIOUSLY APPROVED PROGRAMS
A. SUBTLE SABOTAGE PROGRAM
The use of a variety of Propaganda media to stimulate
passive resistance and low-risk, simple sabotage actions by the populace
of Cuba. Acts such as the contamination of fuels and lubricants, the
introduction of foreign material into moving parts of machinery, and
administrative acts of omission and commission are illustrative examples
of type of activity which we will attempt to stimulate. This program was
later supplemented by approval to incite Cubans within Cuba to commit
acts of sabotage and harassment against Soviet personnel in Cuba, witha
view toward making the Soviet presence in Cuba increasingly more onerous,
embarrassing and untenable. Acts such as the use of "Russian go home’!
slogans would be urged and unattributable mail propaganda will call for
more aggressive actions such as physical violence against Soviet personnel
and equipment.
CAPABILITIES
The keystone of the Subtle Sabotage program is the

unattributed mailing program. The mailing program is being

conducted from most Latin American countries, some

European countries, and the United States and currently

involves about 50, 000 pieces of mail per month. Propaganda

 

DocId: 32977074 Page 3
 

and instructions are sent giving a variety of subtle sabotage
techniques in appropriate detail. Several hundred letters
are infiltrated into Cuba each month for domestic mailing in
support of this program.

The mailing program is being supplemented by
the use of short and medium wave broadcasts beamed at Cuba
from eight different stations. The main technique is to air
real or fabricated letters telling of acts of sabotage and
resistance within Cuba and referring to historical examples.
Thus without exhorting the Cubans to action, we are giving
them examples of what they can do and how to do it while
subtly encouraging them to participate. As other harassment/
sabotage programs progress, we plan to replay more and
more actual cases of happenings, both of our own activities
and of independent resistance elements. Our propaganda
efforts will also be intensified with increased emphasis on
stimulating active opposition to the regime and acts of
major sabotage and harassment.

PACE
The mailing program will remain at approximately

30,000 pieces per month with the emphasis on subtle sabotage

  

HW 54214 DocId:32977074 . Page 4
