 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assaseinati
, DATE: 11-14-2017

* :
. . ‘ “

NO 66-1230/pal

With regard to the presence of persons in the
building obviously posted there from a security standpoint,
it is to be noted that there has been considerable newspaper
publicity in the New Orleans area concerning efforts by the
Federal Government to deport CARLOS MARCELLO, as well as
requests made by local officials for a Federal Government
investigation of the gambling situation in Jefferson Parish,
La. In addition, local newspapers have carried stories that
Attorney General ROBERT F, KENNEDY was making a study of the
Jefferson Parish situation to determine whether some type of
Federal investigation could be-made. It is felt that this
publicity caused the management of Nola Printing Co. to post
a night watchman in the building. It is not believed that
the management of Nola realized that prior entry had been
made by us, since none of the locks had been changed and on
the night that Agents were challenged, they could observe that
no one had been tampering with disguised wiring, which led
from within the building to the protector block on the outside
of the building.

: Oh 4/7/61 as a final check of this installation,
the circuit was tested at the pole in front of the Nola
Printing Co. and from this test, it was determined that
the leased line from the pole to the New Orleans Office was
operating properly; however, the circuit from the pole to the
mite unit was not operating properly.

In view of the above circumstances, it is felt that
from a security standpoint we must abandon our efforts to
effect technical coverage at the Nola Printing Co. at this
time. We had previously requested authority for the installa-
tion of a technical surveillance at the Jefferson Music Co.,
Gretna, La., and the Bureau approved this request. As noted
in referenced airtel, all night surveillances conducted at
the Jefferson Music Co. disclosed that personnel constantly
enter and leave the establishment at all hours of the night as
they go about their tasks of repairing and putting back into
service pinball machines, which the Jefferson Music Co. has on

 

 

DoclId:32293024 Page 5
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 7i07 Hote).
oa 11-14-2017
?

jf cre ’ ‘ : . :

NO 66~1230

On the nights of 2/27,28/61 and 3/1/61, efforts were
made to gain entry to the building through the back door. We
had a key to the No. 5 Master Lock, which secured the iron-barred
door, but we found we did not have a key to the fire door and
accordingly were unable to gain entrance on the nights of
2/27 ,28/61. However, on thenight of 3/1/61, the fire door had
been left unlocked by theoccupants of the building and entry
was effected. On this night, a survey was completed to de-
termine the type of technical equipment needed and to decide
where to:locate the equipment. On this same night, a key was
found in PORETTO's office for the fire door and a wax impres-
sion was made.

By radiogram of 3/2/61, the Laboratory was requested ;
to furnish certain technical equipment needed to make the 4
installation. This equipment was received 3/12/61 and on the
night of 3/13-14/61, installation of the equipment was made
inside the building.

In order to complete a circuit from the physical
property of the Nola Printing Co. to the New Orleans Office,
a telephone company disguised drop line had to be installed
from the building to a telephone pole located in front of the
building on Iris Ave. Spot-check surveillances were conducted
on the Nola Printing Co. 3/15,16,17/61 for the purpose of
establishing when all employees left the building. It was '
determined ithat the employees usually left the building by
5:00 PM each day. A confidential source at the Southern Bell
Telephone & Telegraph Co. in New Orleans agreed to make a
telephone company truck available for our.use and explained
that the presence of a truck in any neighborhood created no
suspicion provided the truck and the telephone linemen were
working during day-light hours. This source pointed out that
the use of a telephone company truck after it became dark
could cause observers of the truck to become suspicious, The
purpose of the surveillance was to determine when employees
left the building in order that we could install the drop
during the day-light hours using telephone company equipment
and our own disguised wire.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32293024 Page 2
 

 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

 

DATE: 11-14-2017 JFK Assassination System Date: 5/29/201
Identification Form
Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10210-10300
RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 92-2713-148

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC,NO
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 04/12/1961
PAGES: 6

SUBJECTS :
CM, TESUR, NOLA PRINTING CO.

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT .
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 12/04/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: = INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

 

v9.1 6
Docld:32293024 Page 1

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

‘Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hotey:
// Dare: 11414-2017

vA

 

NO 66-1230

Using a telephone company truck, an effort was made
to install the drop 3/24/61; however, employees did not leave
Nola until about dark on that date. Another effort was made
to install the drop Sunday morning 3/26/61; however, Nola em-
ployees were at the building at that time. On 3/27/61 and on
3/29/61, plans were made to install the drop, but on both of
these dates, there was considerable precipitation. It is to
be noted that the telephone pole from which the drop would
have to be installed is also a pole carrying high voltage lines
and it was deemed unfavorable to climb the pole on these two
dates. :

Finally on 3/30/61, the drop was installed from the
pole in front of Nola to the outside protector block located
at the rear of the building.

On 4/1/61 the confidential source at Southern Bell ‘
Telephone & Telégraph Co. advised that the final leg of our
leased line circuit would be completed and ready for use. Later
i in the day of 4/1/61, after being advised that this circuit had
been completed, a test was made of the technical installation,
} and it was determined that the installation was not operating i
properly.

The circuit of the above installation in running from
the premises of Nola Printing Co. to the New Orleans Office in-
volves approximately 94 wire miles and passes through 3 central
offices. i

 

| The confidential source at the Bell Telephone & Tele-
graph Co. advised that he was not able to complete this circuit
for us by himself. He said it was necessary to use other tele-
phone company personnel in completing the circuit. The confi-
: dential source was aware from the outset that the circuit being
i provided for us was to be a dry (free of electrical current)
circuit.

It is the.:conclusion of this office that due to the
complicated nature of the telephone company circuit,.some time
during the completion of the circuit after the misur was installed,

 

DoclId:32293024 Page 3

 
 

jRezeased, under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017 ‘

eo -

NO 66-1230

telephone company personnel allowed electrical current to
enter the circuit, thereby burning out the mite unit.

On the night of 4/1/61 efforts were made to gain
entry to Nola Printing Co. to test the mite unit and to re-
place it if necessary. On this night, Agents observed that
all lights were burning in the building, which was unusual
in that on previous times only one light was burning over a
printing machine, which gave minimum illumination in the front
part of the building. Further, on this particular night it
was noted that an International Pickup Truck belonging to
Nola Printing Co. was parked in front of the building. Operat-
ing on the theory that the building might be occupied, Agents
working on this matter made pretext telephone ealls to Nola
Printing Co., but were unable to get anyone to answer the
telephone. An Agent using a suitable pretext: knocked on the
front door of the building, but was unable to get anyone
to answer the door. Still in an effort to ascertain if
the place was occupied, Agents looked in through the barred
windows and, although not able to see anyone in the place,
felt reasonably certain that someone was there. Consequently,
no attempt was made to enter the building.

On the night of 4/3/61, an additional effort was
made to gain entry. On this occasion, it was noted that only \
the one light over the printing machine was burning. No
truck was parked in front of the building. Again pretext
telephone calls and knocking at the front door failed to arouse
anyone in the building. On this occasion, Agents felt it was
safe to enter the building. However, when Agents attempted
to gain entry through the back door of the building, they were
challenged by someone inside the building. At the time they
were challenged, the No. 5 padlock was already removed from !
the iron-barred door at the rear of the building and due to
the circumstances, no effort was made to replace this padlock.

 

 

Nee

L a .

 

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId: 32293024 Page 4
