s DS)

conservative view, in that in some cases I would recommend oY
access as opposed to releases I believe the nature of some

of the documents is such that copies should not be delivered
tothe Committee. At least, that should be our initial position.
Because the Committee will more than likely buck at anything
less than full and complete disclosure, you will, more than
likely, want to consult either with Bill Hyland or General
Scowcroft. You should be aware that the Committee is very
anxious to have these documents made available and have
been calling me at least twice every day. Ihave informed
Mr. Epstein and Mr. Wallach, who are members of the
Committee Staff, that we are reveating these documents as
quickly as is possible, and because of the complexity and
involvement of many different agencies that it is taking a
considerable period of time. 1 indicated that although the
NSC Staff review is nearly finished, it will be necessary

to seek formally the views of other agencies. Although I
gave no definite time when we expected to complete our
review, I indicated that I thought by the end of this week
there would be an answer ready for them. When Mr. Epstein
called me at 1:30 this afternoon he indicated that unless we
produced the documents that he would be forced to have them
subpoenaed. I indicated, in response, that we had been
working diligently and devoting most of our time to this
matter. I stated that most of my own time on Friday and

all of my time today, Monday, had been devoted to this
project and, that in my opinion, a subpoena could not quicken
a review process that was already moving at full speed.

Mr. Epstein indicated that although they were unhappy with
this delay that, for now, they would wait on our review.

HW 54214 DocId:32981164 Page 7
SEcRS emg] oe

and then it was crossed out to state "Secretary's",
use at a6 p.’m December 2 meeting. There is

no further substantive discussion in that document.

I would defer, however, to the Department of State
as to whether or not that document could be released.

E. Bill Attwood Activities. Documents 26,27, 27a, 28,
28a, 29 and 29a relate to a special channel being
cultivated between Premier Castro and President
Kennedy. Although it may not. be necessary to
protect the information contained in these documents,
without knowing whether there has been another
public disclosure of the existence of this channel,

I would recommend that we not do so. In the event

that this, or another similar channel, were ever

to be used again in contacting or negotiating with

the Cuban Government, it would be important not

to disclose the existence or the substance of this

one. I would believe that the Department of State

would be the most appropriate agency to review

these documents and to inform us about the sensi- .
tivity of theexistence of the Attwood channel.

F. Mafia Assassination Involvement. Documents 24
and 24a concern plans of Cuban exile groups to
assassinate selected Cuban Government leaders
and their tie-in with elements of ''Cosa Nostra."
The covering memorandum from Gordon Chase
to Mr. Bundy discloses the substance of the
underH#ed CIA memorandum and I would propose
to make it available only en an access basis.
With regard to the CIA report itself, I believe
that we should defer to the CIA on the matter of
release or access.

information that was furnished by thd[Britis te OC) 2
Government. The{fpriti th} Embassy in Havana
monitored the trial of the alleged involvement of el) Kas
Majors Cubelas and Guin in assassination attempts

against Castro. (You may recall that the Washington :
Post article by Mr. George Crile 3 weeks ago

related to AM-Lash and Major Cubelas. )

G. Cubelas Trial. Documents 21, 2la an 1b y
b_

HW 54214 DocId:32981164 Page 5
SEGRESIODS)

Although the ~substance of the information contained ;

: ; in these documents is not sensitive, disclosure of Coli We)
the dgcuments would reveal our et that the{Bs with
the{British) Government and the fact that the (Gritisn) / Ree (+)
Embassy if Havamwas reporting information to the
United States Government. Whether this relationship
or information is disclosed is a matter that must
be decided by the Department of State and the. _
[British Government and I would recommend that
the Department of State be consulted.

ja

H.. Mr. Hoover's November 24, 1963 Report. Document 30
is an interesting memorandum. Either it is a transcript
of a telephone conversation with FBI Director Hoover
or it is a memorandum of conversation on his meeting
with an official whose initials are WJ (presumably
Walter Jenkins). The memorandum containing Mr.
Hoover's remarks is a substantive and relatively
complete report on points that he evidently made in
his conversation. Indeed, it appears to be a verbatim
transcript of what he may have said. Although it
is not so marked, I believe the document should be
classified SECRET and that we should effect that
classification.

 

You will note that the memorandum relates to events
surrounding the murder of Lee Harvey Oswald by

Jack Ruby. It discusses the Dallas Police Department
handling of the case and the eta ESntributions. In
addition, in indicates that we were tapping the telephone
lines of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico and opening

mail addressed to the Soviet Embassy in Washington.

John and I believe that the memorandum could be
made available on an access basis only to the Com-
mittee Staff and that the FBI and C1A should be
informed of its existence.

You may wish to review each of these documents yourself to

determine whether they may or may not be released to the
Committee Staff. Although my view may be a somewhat

HW 54214 DocId:32981164 Page 6
oe ’ RANDUM
| NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL

Log #7602957

May 24, 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR MRS, JEANNE W. DAVIS

FROM: Steven L. Skancke Mote

SUBJECT: SSC. Request for LBJ Material on Cuba and
JFK Assassination

As you know, research staff members from the Senate Select
Committee visited the LBJ Library in Austin three weeks ago
and reviewed material relating to alleged attempts to assassinate
Cuban Premier Fidel Castro and information related to the
Warren Commission Report on the assassination of President
Kennedy. .As a result of the review of those files, the Senate
Select Committee Staff has asked that certain documents be
returned and made available to them in Washington. In ac-
cordance with the arrangements made between the NSC Staff
and Archives, these materials have been forwarded for our
review prior to release to the SSC Staff. Accordingly, last
Thursday we received a package of 63 documents from Archives
for review. .

John Matheny and I have reviewed each of these documents
and believe that although it is probably not possible to with-
hold the documents in their entirety, thmt in many cases

the Committee may be restricted to only having access to

the documents on Archives or NSC premises. Staff members
from the Committee have already reviewed the documents
but were not allowed to take substantive notes during their
review.

The documents have been divided into eight separate categories

of information,and a brief discussion and recommendation for
handling documents within each of these categories now follows:

_SECRR PODS)

 

HW 54214 DocId:32981164 Page 2
‘\ . (S

a hed

Date : 07/14/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John
. Kennedy
kasagsination Records
ollection det of 1992

AGENCY : NSC
RECORD NUMBER : 145-10001-10258
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 42

DOCUMENT INFORMATION Siete Es

 

ORIGINATOR : NSC
FROM : STEVEN L. SKANCKE
TO : MRS. JEANNE W. DAVIS
TITLE : SSC REQUEST FOR LBJ MATERIAL ON CUBA AND JFK

ASSASSINATION
DATE : 05/24/76
PAGES : 6
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : : .
RESTRICTIONS : 1C, 4
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/18/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Duplicate of 145-10001-10259, without notes in margin.

HW 54214 DocId:32981164 Page 1
SEGRETSCIE)

-2e

The documents themselves are tabbed as an attachment to
‘this memorandum and the letter on the Tab corresponds to
the letter associated with the paragraph headings below.

A.
aa
Uy!
(wr
B.
\ wo

' Staff.

NSC/WH Papers. Documents 1, la thru lm, 5, 6,

7, 8, 17 and 19 were Prepared for,or as a result of,
White House or NSC meetings. Document #li is a

a briefing paper for the President for his participa-
tion in a meeting and Document #5 isa record of

the meeting of December 27, 1963 in which the
President actually participated. John and I believe
these documents constitute privileged information

and, as a result, as a matter of principle should

not be physically turned over to the Committee
Substantively, we have no objection to allowing
the Committee Staff to read this material or to have
repeated access to it, however. Such access arrange-
ments could be worked out through the National Archives
or could be handled directly by the NSC Staff,

CIA Papers. Documents 2, 3, 3a, 3b, 4, 4a, 4b,

li, 18, 18a, 20, 20a, 22, 23, 23a and 25 were pre-
pared by the Central Intelligence Agency and either
forwarded directly to the White House or were
generally circulated by that agency. John and I

have no objection to making these documents available
to the SSC Staff but believe that the matter should be
resolved by the CIA. We understand that Document
#3, for example, has already been made available

by the CIA and would thus believe that CLA would
have no objection to also releasing #4a which appears
to be an earlier draft of #3,

My own reaction is that the release of information
contained in many of these documents could be expected
to damage either our relations with a particular country,
Mexico for example, in the case of Document: 20a, or
compromise specific sources and methods of intelligence.
I realize, however, that we must defer to CIA on pro-
tection of sources and methods.

HW 54214 DocId:32981164 Page 3
HW 54214

SECRET sos) -3-

Cc.

DocId: 32981164

FBI Paper . Documents 10, 12, 12a, 14, i4a, 13, 13a,
15, 15a, 15b, 16, l6éa, 16b, were prepared’Sr are the
responsibility of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Again, although we have no major substantive problem
with the release of this information on a classified
basis, we believe that the FBI should be asked to
review it to ascertain that the sources of intelligence
described in these documents would not be unduly
compromised by releasing it to the Senate Select
Committee Staff. With regard to documents in the

#12 series, I don't believe that the two covering notes
concerning distribution of the document to Governor
Connally relate to the Committee inquiry and, thus,
would recommend that they simply be removed. In_
Document 12a itself the matter for resolution by the
FBI is whether disclosure of the information would
identify sources of intelligence.

Documents in the 13 and 15 series relate to intelligence
reports on the training of Negroes in Cuba for subversive
operations against the United States. Although we don't
believe this is relevant to the Committee investigation,
we believe the matter of disclosure should be considered
by the FBI. In this case, however, recent events would
seem to indicate that Cuban training of Negroes in sub-
versive operation tactics may not have necessarily

been geared toward the United States solely, especially
in view of recent developments in Africa. The docu-
ments in the #16 series, although they would appear

to be relevant to the investigation, relate to sensitive
intelligence source materials. This document, however,
must also be cleared by the CIA since the last page

of the document relates to the CIA Station Chief in

a European country.

State Department Memorandum. Document 9 is a

December 1963 memorandum from Executive
Secretary Read to McGeorge Bundy concerning
papers prepared for a December Presidential
meeting on Cuba. The memorandum indicates that
the papers were prepared for the. "President's",

Page 4
