 

-3-

2. Upon the cbhitpletion of the interview with the committee repre-
sentative the employee will prepare a summary of it for the file, with a
copy routed to his division head and a copy routed to the Deputy Attorney
General.

C. EMPLOYEES TESTIFYING BEFORE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES

1. When an employee is requested to testify before a congressional
committee regarding official matters within the Department the Deputy Attomey
General shall be promptly informed. When the Deputy Attorney General's approv-
al is given the employee is expected to testify freely subject to limitations
prescribed in A respecting open cases and data in investigative reports;

2. An employee subpoenaed to testify before a congressional committee
on official matters within the Department shall promptly notify the Deputy
Attorney General. In general he shall be guided in testifying by Order 3229
(Revised) and the President's letter of May 17, 1954, cited at the beginning
of this Order.

3. Upon the completion of his testimony the employee will prepare
a memorandum outlining his testimony with a copy routed to his division head
and a copy routed to the Deputy Attorney General.

D. REQUESTS OF CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES FOR THE TESTIMONY OF FEDERAL PRISONERS

Because of the custodial hazards involved and the extent to which
their public testimony may affect the discipline and well-being of the institu-
tion, it is the policy of the Department not to deliver Federal prisoners out-
side the penal institution in which they are incarcerated for the purpose of
being intervieved or examined under oath by congressional committees. However,
when it appears that no pending investigation or legal proceeding will be
adversely affected thereby and that the public interest will not be otherwise
adversely affected, Federal prisoners may be interviewed or examined under oath
by congressional committees in the institution in which they are incarcerated
under the following procedures, and with the specific advance approval of the
Deputy Attorney General.

1. Arrangements for interviewing and taking of sworn testimony
from a Federal prisoner by a committee of the Congress or the authorized
representatives of such a committee shall be made in the form of a written
request by the chairman of the committee to the Deputy Attorney General.

2. Such written request shall be made at least ten (10) days
prior to the requested date for the interview and the taking of testimony
and shall be accompanied by written evidence that authorization for the
interview or the taking of sworn testimony was approved by vote of the com-
mittee. Such request shall contain a statement of the purpose and the sub-
jects upon which the prisoner will be interrogated as well as the names of
all persons other than the representatives of the Department of Justice who
will be present.

3. A member of the interested committee of the Congress shall be
present during the entire time of the interrogation.

HW 54956 Doold:32989495 Page 9

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

a
4

~ he
4, he warden of the penal institution in which the Federal
prisoner is incarcerated shall, at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the
time at which the interview takes place, advise the Federal prisoner concerned
of the proposed interview or taking of sworn testimony; and shall further
advise that he is under the same, but no greater obligation to answer than any
other witness who is not a prisoner.

5. The warden of the penal institution shall have complete
authority in conformity with the requirements of security and the mainte-
nance of discipline to limit the number of persons who will be present at
the interview and taking of testimony.

6. The warden or his authorized representative shall be present
at the interview and at the taking of testimony and the Department of Justice
shall have the right to have one of its representatives present throughout
the interview and taking of testimony.

7. ‘The committee shall arrange to have a stenographic transcript
made of the entire proceedings at committee expense and shall furnish a copy
of the transcript to the Department of Justice.

E. OBSERVERS IN ATTENDANCE AT COMMITTEE HEARINGS

In order that the Department may be kept currently advised in
matters within its responsibility, and in order that the Deputy Attorney
General may properly coordinate the Department's liaison with Congress and
its committees, each division that has an observer in attendance at a
congrssional hearing, will have the observer prepare a written summary of
the proceeding which should be sent to the division head and a copy routed
to the Deputy Attorney General.

 

/s/ Herbert Brownell, Ir.

Attorney General

HW 54956 Docld:32989495 Page if

 
 

e e
-~2-

‘b. Before making the file available to the committee
representative all reports and memoranda from the FBI
as well as investigative reports from any other agency,
will be removed from the file and not be made available
for examination; provided however that if the committee
representative states that it is essential that information
from the FBI reports and memoranda be made available,
he will be advised that the request will be considered
by the Department. Thereafter a summary of the contents
of the FBI reports and memoranda involved will be
prepared which will not disclose investigative tech-
niques, the identity of confidential informants, or
other. matters which might jeopardize the investigative
operations of the FBI, This summary will be forwarded

_ by the division to the FBI with a request for advice as
to whether the FBI has any objection to examination of
such summary by the committee representative. The file
will not be physically relinquished from the custody of
the Department. If the committee representative desires
to’ examine investigative reports from other government
agencies, contained in the files of the Department, he
will be advised to direct his request to the agency whose
reports are concerned.

3. If the request concerns an open case, i. e., one which liti-
gation or administrative action is pending or contemplated, the file may
not be made available for examination by the committee's representative.
The following procedure shall be followed:

a. The reply letter should advise the committee that
its request concerns a case in which litigation or
administrative action is pending or contemplated, and
state that the file cannot be made available until the
case is completed; and

b. Should briefly set forth the status of the case in
as much detail as is practicable and prudent without
jeopardizing the pending contemplated litigation or
administrative action.

B. REQUESTS FOR INTERVIEWS WITH DEPARTMENTAL PERSONNEL

1. Requests for interviews with departmental personnel regarding
any official matters within the Department should be reduced to writing,
signed by the chairman of the committee, and addressed to the Deputy Attorney
General. When the approval of the Deputy Attorney General is given, the
employee is expected to discuss such matters freely and cooperatively with
the representative, subject to the limitations prescribed in A respecting
open cases and data in investigative reports;

NW 54956 Docid:32989495 Page 8

 
 

 

e e

OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
WASHINGTON, D. C.

May 15, 1956
ORDER NO. 116-56

It is the policy of the Department of Justice to extend the fullest
possible cooperation to congressional committees requesting information from
departmental files, interviews with department employees, testimony of depart-
ment personnel, or testimony of Federal prisoners. The following procedures
are prescribed in order to effectuate this policy on a basis which will be
mutually satisfactory to the congressional committees and to the Department.
{This order supersedes the Deputy Attorney General's Memorandum No. 5, dated
March 23, 1953, and his Memorandum No. 97, dated August 5, 1954. It formal-
izes the Attorney General's press release of November 5, 1953, establishing
procedures to permit committees of the Congress and their authorized repre-
sentatives to interview and to take sworn testimony from Federal prisoners.

It supplements Order No. 3229 (Revised) dated January 13, 1953, and Order

No. 3464, Supplement No. 4 (Revised) dated January 13, 1953 (with Memorandum
of "Authorization Under Order No. 3464 Supplement No. 4 (Revised)" dated
January 13, 1953), insofar as said orders have reference to procedures to be
followed in the Department's relations with congressional committees. In
support of this order, reference should be had to the President's letter
dated May 17, 1954, addressed to the Secretary of Defense, and to the Attorney
General's Memorandum which accompanied it.] ,

A. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION FROM DEPARTMENT FILES

1. Congressional committee requests for the examination of files
or other confidential information should be reduced to writing, signed by
the chairman of the committee, and addressed to the Deputy Attorney General,
who is responsible for the coordination of our liaison with Congress and
congressional committees. The request shall state the specific information
sought as well as the specific objective for which it is sought. The Deputy
Attorney General will forward the request to the appropriate division where a
reply will be prepared and returned for the Deputy Attorney General's signa-
ture and dispatch to the chairman of the committee.

| 2. If the request concerns a closed case, i. e., one in which
there is no litigation or administrative action pending or contemplated,

the file may be made available for review in the Department, in the presence
of the official or employee having custody thereof. The following procedure
shall be followed in such cases:

a. The reply letter will advise the committee that the
file is available for examination and set forth the
name, telephone extension number, and room number of
the person who will have custody of the file to be
reviewed;

 

| NW 54956 Doeld:32999495 Page 7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Office of the Attorney General
Washington, D.C. 20530

January 18, 1973

ORDER NO.501-73
RULES AND REGULATIONS

Title 283—JUDICIAL
ADMINISTRATION

Chapter I—Department of Justice
[Order 501-73]

PART 16—PRODUCTION OR DISCLO.
SURE OF MATERIAL OR INFORMA-
TION

Subpart B—Production or Disclosure
in Response to Subpenas or De-
mands of Courts or Other Authori-
ties
This order delegates to certain De-

partment of Justice officials the author-
ity to approve the production or dis-
‘closure of material or information con-
tained in Department files, or informa-
tion or material acquired by a person
while employed by the Department. It
apples where a subpena, order or other
demand of a court or other authority,
such as an administrative agency, is is-
sued for the production or disclosure of
such information.

By virtue of the authority vested in me
by 28 U.S.C. 509, 510, and 5 U.S.C. 301,
Subpart B of Part 16 of Chapter I of
‘Title 28, Code of Federal Regulations, is
revised, and its provisions renumbered,
to read as follows:

Subpart B—Production or Disclosure in Response
to Subpenas or Demands of Courts or Other
Authorities

Sec.

16.21 Purpose and scope.

16.22 Production or disclosure prohibited
unless approved by appropriate De-
partment official.

16.23 Procedure in the event of a demand
for production or disclosure.

16.24 Final action by the appropriate De-
partment official or the Attorney
General,

.6.25 Procedure where a Department deci-
sion concerning a demand is not
made prior to the time a response
to the demand is required.

6.26 Procedure in the event of an adverse
ruling.

er TORTE: 28 U.S.C, 509, 510 and 5 U.S.C.

wbpart B—Production or Disclosure
in Response to Subpenas or De-
mands of Courts or Other Authori-
ties

$16.21 Purpose and scope.
(a) This subpart sets forth the pro-

cedures to be followed when a subpena,

order, or other demand (hereinafter re-
‘erred to as a “demand”) of a court or

HW 54956 Dooid: 32985455 Page 5

other authority is issued for the produc-
tion or disclosure of (1) any material
contained in the files of the Department,
(2) any information relating to material
contained in the files of the Department,
or (3) any information or material
acquired by any person while such per-
son was an employee of the Department
as a part of the performance of His of-
ficial duties or because of his official
status,

(b) For purposes of this subpart, the
term “employee of the Department” in-
cludes all officers and employees of the
United States appointed by, or subject
to the supervision, jurisdiction, or control
of, the Attorney General of the United
States, including U.S. attorneys, U.S.
marshals, and members of the staffs of
those officials.

§ 16.22 Production or disclosure prohib-
ited unless approved by appropriate
Department official,

‘No employee or former employee of the
Department of Justice shall, in response
to a demand of a court or other au-
thority, produce any material contained
in the files of the Department or disclose
any information relating to material con-
tained in the files of the Department, or
disclose any information or produce any
material acquired as part of the per-
formance of his official duties or because
of his official status without prior ap-
proval of the appropriate Department of-
ficial or the Attorney General in accord-
ance with § 16.24.

§ 16.23 Procedure in the event of a de-
mand for production or disclosure.

(a) Whenever a demand is made upon
an employee or former employee of the
Department for the production of ma-
terial or the disclosure of information
described in §16.21(a), he shall im-
mediately notify the U.S. attorney for
the district where the issuing authority
is located. The U.S. attorney shall im-
mediately request instructions from the
appropriate Department official, as desig-
nated in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) The Department officials author-
ized to approve production or disclosure
under this subpart are:

(1) In the event that.the case or other
matter which gave rise to the demanded
material or information is or, if closed,
was within the cognizance of a division
of the Department, the Assistant At-
torney General in charge of that divi-
sion. This authority may be redelegated
to Deputy Assistant Attorneys General.

(2) In instances of demands that are
not covered by paragraph (b) (1) of this
section:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

(i) The Director of the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation, if the demand is
one made on an employee or former em-
ployee of that Bureau for information
or if the demand calls for the production
of material from the files of that Bu-
reau, and

Gi) The Director of the Bureau of
Prisons, if the demand is one made on
an employee or former employee of that
Bureau for information or if the de-
mend calls for the production of ma-
terial from the files of that Bureau.

(3) In instances of demands that are
not covered by paragraph (b) (1) or (2)
of this section, the Deputy Attorney
General,

(c) If oral testimony is sought by the
demand, an affidavit, or, if that is not

feasible, a statement by the party seek-
ing the testimony or his attorney, setting
forth a summary of the testimony de-
sired, must be furnished for submission
by the U.S. attorney to the appropriate
Department official.

$16.24 Final action by the appropriatc
Department official or the Attorney
General.

(a) If the appropriate Department of- -

ficial, as designated in § 16.23(b), ap-
proves a demand for the production of
material or disclosure of information,
he shall so notify the U.S. attorney and
such other persons as circumstances may
warrant.

(b) If the appropriate Department
Official, as designated in § 16.23(b),
decides not to approve a demand for the
production of material or disclosure of
information, he shall immediately refer
the demand to the Attorney General for
decision. Upon such referral, the Attor-
ney General shall make the final decision
and give notice thereof to the U.S. attor-
néy and such other persons as circum-
stances may warrant.

§ 16.25 Procedure where a Department
decision concerning a demand is not
made prior to the time a résponse to
the demand is required.

If response to the demand is required
before the instructions from the appro-
priate Department official or the Attor-
ney General are received, the U.S. attor-
ney or other Department attorney des-
ignated for the purpose shall appear with
the employee or former employee of the
Department upon whom the demand has
been made, and shall furnish the court
or other authority with a copy of the
regulations contained in this subpart and
inform the court or other authority that
the demand has been, or is being, as
the case may be, referred for the
prompt consideration of the appropriate
Department official and shall respect-
fully request the court or authority to
stay the demand pending receipt of the
requested instructions,

HW 54956 Doolid: 32985455 Page 6

§ 16.26 Procedure in the event of an ad-
verse ruling.

If the court or other authority declines
to stay the effect of the demand in re-
sponse to a request made in accordance
with § 16.25 pending receipt of instruc-
tions, or if the court or other authority
rules that the demand must be com-
plied with irrespective of instructions
not to produce the material or disclose
the information sought, in accordance
with § 16.24, the employee or former em-
ployee upon whom the demand has been
made shall respectfully decline to comply
with the demand. “United States ex rel
Touhy v. Ragen,” 340 U.S. 462.

Dated: January 11, 1973.

Ricwarp G. KLEINDIENST,
Attorney General.

[FR Doc.78-1071 Filed 1-17-73;8:45 am]

 
    
       
     
 

NR@22 WA CODE

- 1356PM NITEL 6-13-75 VLJ
: TO ALL SACS
FROM oH, (62-116464)

Rafenrron | | ee) a

HOUSTUDY 75. #¢

PERSONAL

REBUTELS MAY 2, 20, 1975, “SENSTUDY 75.”
BUFILE 62-116464 AND a NAME “HOUSTUDY 75" DESIGNATED

FOR ALL MATTERS RELATING TO HO ge SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY

 
  

GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RES ECT To INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES |
AND BUREAU" S HANDLING OF MATTERS PERTAINING THERETO. USF

THIS FILE NUMBER AND CAPTION FOR MATTERS RELATING TO HOUSE
COMMITTEE AS SEPARATE FROM SENSTUDY 75 FOR MATTERS RELATING

TO SENATE COMMITTEE.

 
  
 

END
R ca
pp > __
#? oN i ia
at o\\ UN eT >

1Z
a
iy

HW 54956 Doclid:32989495 Page 2

 

 

 
 

 

 

¢ 6

File #:

02-fAL-237

: in
| Scope:

 

 

 

 

Seria

   

     

[+h 4 |

 

 

 

 
 

 

I, @ @

‘a
4 OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

1-75
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535
May 28, 1975
MEMORANDUM TO ALL EMPLOYEES

RE: INTERVIEWS OF FBI EMPLOYEES

All employees are advised that Congress is conducting
an inquiry into activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Congressional staff members are conducting interviews of former
and current FBI employees. This Bureau has pledged its cooperation
with the Congress.

You are reminded of the FBI Employment Agreement
(copy attached) with which you agreed to comply during your employment
in the FBI and following termination of such employment.

Also, you are reminded of Title 28, Code of Federal
Regulations, Section 16,22 (copy attached), which reads as follows:

"No employee or former employee of the Department of
Justice shall, in response to a demand of a court or other authority,
produce any material contained in the files of the Department or disclose
any information relating to material contained in the files of the Department,
or disclose any information or produce any material acquired as part of
the performance of his official duties or because of his official status
without prior approval of the appropriate Department official or the
Attorney General in accordance with Section 16,24."

Also, you are reminded of Department of Justice Order
Number 116-56, dated May 15, 1956, (copy attached) which, among
other things, requires an employee upon the completion of his testimony
to prepare a memorandum outlining his testimony.

Our cooperative efforts, of course, must be consistent
with the above cited authority. Therefore, if you are contacted for
purpose of interview or testimony you are to request approval as
required by the Employment Agreement and await authorization before
furnishing information, testimony, or record material.

GQ-237(,
Enclosures (3) oii — TN a oe

Clarenck M. Kelley 5
sowtloy DirectogUN 13 1

&
: =
é permanent

gq
Sy |
HW 549m6s DooId:32989495 Page 3 _ one

 
      

  
 

ye
2 ‘)
“Nn ayw>

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

FD-291 (Rev, 11-1-73) @ @

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

As consideration for employment in the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBD), United
States Department of Justice, and as a condition for continued employment, I hereby declare
that I intend to be governed by and I will comply with the following provisions:

(1) That I am hereby advised and I understand that Federal law such as
Title 18, United States Code, Sections 793, 794, and 798; Order of the
President of the United States (Executive Order 11652); and regulations
issued by the Attorney General of the United States (28 Code of Federal
Regulations, Sections 16.21 through 16.26) prohibit loss, misuse, or un-
authorized disclosure or production of national security information, other
classified information and other nonclassified information in the files of
the FBI;

(2) I understand that unauthorized disclosure of information in the files
of the FBI or information I may acquire as an employee of the FBI could
result in impairment of national security, place human life in jeopardy, or
result in the denial of due process to a person or persons who are subjects
of an FBI investigation, or prevent the FBI from effectively discharging its
responsibilities. I understand the need for this secrecy agreement; there-
fore, as consideration for employment I agree that I will never divulge,
publish, or reveal either by word or conduct, or by other means disclose to
any unauthorized recipient without official written authorization by the
Director of the FBI or his delegate, any information from the investigatory
files of the FBI or any information relating to material contained in the files,
or disclose any information or produce any material acquired as a part of the
performance of my official duties or because of my official status. The burden
is on me to determine, prior to disclosure, whether information may be disclosed
and in this regard I agree to request approval of the Director of the FBI in each
such instance by presenting the full text of my proposed disclosure in writing to
the Director of the FBI at least thirty (30) days prior to disclosure. I understand
a that this agreement is not intended to apply to information which has been placed
in the public domain or to prevent me from writing or speaking about the FBI but
it is intended to prevent disclosure of information where disclosure would be
contrary to law, regulation or public policy. I agree the Director of the FBI is
in a better position than I to make that determination;

(8) I agree that all information acquired by me in connection with my official
duties with the FBI and all official material to which I have access remains
the property of the United States of America, and I will surrender upon demand
by the Director of the FBI or his delegate, or upon separation from the FBI, any
material relating to such information or property in my possession;

(4) That I understand unauthorized disclosure may be a violation of Federal
law and prosecuted as a criminal offense and in addition to this agreement may
be enforced by means of an injunction or other civil remedy.

I accept the above provisions as conditions for my employment and continued employment
in the FBI. I agree to comply with these provisions both during my employment in the FBI and
following termination of such employment.

(Signature)
(Type or print name)
t
Witnessed and accepted in behalf of the Director, FBI, on

, 19 ___, by
HW 54956 Bocld:32989495 Page 4

(Signature)

 

 

 

 
