 

f ’ . . . i
E . . ~ rs] ti

 

 

lL STATEMENT OF THE HONORABLE EDWARD Ii. LEVI, ATTORNEY
2 (GENERAL OF TNE UlITED STATES
a Attorney General Levi. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
4 Before r begin, let me say that I Gon't suppose that your
: 5 statenent is,meant to indicate that I am committed to agree - . ;
6 -with my friend, Professor Kurland, who may not be wrong as
' 7 often as mahy people are but occasionally is not correct. Ries
| - 8 , The Chairman. Mo, it was only meant that I agree with” |
Eg Wl ham.
; .
iz 10 Attorney General Levi. Then I hope the matter can he
12 xplored more in depth. 7 |
12 . Senator Mathias. Mr. Chairman, I think that's one of the
13 most graceful declarations of independence IT have ever heard.
14 Attorney General Levi. Mr. Chairman, the Comittee has.
15 asked me ko talk with you today about the future of the
16 Mederal Bureau of Investigation. I thought it might be helpful
1? if I outline quite briefly some of the points I would like
18 to make, some of the problems I. think ought to be considered,
19 and some of the steps we have taken. :
: 20 The first point is, that the statutory base for the
E operations of the Bureau cannot be said to be fully satisfactory.

22) The basic statutory provision is 28 USC 533 which provides
23 || that the Attorney General may appoint officials "(1) to detect
‘pa i} and prosecute crimes against the United States; (2) to assist

-p5 || in the protection of the’ President; and (3) to conduct such

AW 55110 DocId:32989560 Page

 
 

 

-of the Department of Justice and the Department of State

  
     

1 , * - . _
r x aid

investigations regarding official matters under the control

as may be directed by the Attorney General.” There are other

   

statutes, such as the Congressional Assassination, Kidnanping

   

and Assault Act, which vest in the Bureau special responsibilities}

    
  

to investigate criminal violations. In addition, there are

   

Dxecutive orders and Presidential statements or Cirectives

which place investigatory responsibilities upon the Bureau.

   

   

A number of questions are often asked about.this statutory}

   

base. It has the virtue of simplicity, but the Executive orders

   

which deal with government employee investigations are compli-

   

cated and confusing, and Presidential memoranda, or, perhaps,

 
 

oral instructions from a President may be difficult to collate.

   

I think it is important, in any case, to separate out the- kinds

   

of questions which are asked about the Bureau's authority base,

   

Some questions .are constitutional in nature, relating to the

 
 

inherent power of the President; others go to the interpretation

    
 

of the statutes and the relationship between the statutes and

 
 

Presidential directives; others go to the failure of

   

the statutes to define sufficiently the areas of the Bureau's

 
 

jurisdiction or to spell out sufficiently -- and this is

   

partly constitutional -- the means and methods which the

   

Bureau is permitted to use in carrying out its assigned tasks.

    

The sacond point, related to the first, is a continuing

  

ddscussion of the role of the Bureau in intelligence investigation:

  
    
 

were created to deal with.

  
    
         
     
   
 
      
     
 
   
     

2 . The crucial. responsibility lies with the Congress, "If

3 oversight by Congress is not to be the answer,” Professor ,

 

4 Kurland declared, "it is hard to conceive of an answer." The

  

~

5 essential requirement for Congressional oversight is informatior

6 about intelligence operations, and the greatest barrier is
: . . ‘ Ps
7 Executive secrecy. Consequently, Professor Kurland and others
8 have urged that we establish procedures which require the
9 ‘Executive to provide this information to.the Congress, This

10 | may be the only way to insure the responsibility of the

  

Ll Executive Branch to the people through the Congress.

Therefore, we especially hope that you, Mr. Attorney

TRADI SRE
Rr
nu

13 General, can help this Committee and the Congress develop.

by

   

not only standards for the FBI, but also procedures for

14
15 effective Congressional oversight to-assure regular account~
16 ability.

SEEN?

ree ss ee ED
»
oO

—

55110 ocld:32989560 Page &

 
          
     
       
     
   
   
   
  
     
   
     
       
   
   

. & .
G 1 _
: } . x de Pi

would like to take this opportunity, Mr. Attorney General, to
express the appreciation of the entire Committee and the

staff for your assistance in making available the materials

needed for this investigation. Our experience has demonstrated

 

8. “5 that the Constitutional principle of Separation of Powers has
6 enough flexibility to allow close cooperation between the
2 Congress and the Executive in a matter of the greatest public
8 concern.
9 ~ While our investigation is coming to an end, the task

-- 10 || of making constructive recommendations is beginning. We

 

  

li || have heard this week from former officials and from Director
12 || Kelley. We are exploring a wide range of -proposals, including

-13 || those being developed by the Justice Department. And we

WARD & PAUL

  

  

14 || look forward to working. closely with you on these issues.

15 One.of the best statements of the problems we confront

     

16 | was made last summer by Philip Kurland, Professor of
17 || Constitutional Law at the University of Chicago. Professor
Kurland spoke of the threats to an open, democratic society

from what he called the perversion of our intelligence agencies

   

20 || into political police forces, He rejected the proposition
gj || that we should be satisfied that these agencies will exercise i.

2g |) self-restraint. Professor Kurland did not deny the importance

  
    

 

‘93 || of the. individual qualities of the officeholder. But he

stressed the greater importance of confining our intelligence
ji .

  
 
 
 

25 and counter-intelligence agencies to the limited functions they

NRT pe RETR ALE
w
qi

  
      

“HW 55110 Docld: 32989560 Page 7
The Chairman. Our witness this morning is the Honorable
Edward E. Levi, Attorney General of the United States. Mr.
Levi has appeared before this Committee on previous occasions

and this Committee was most happy to welcome him back again +

 

this morning.

He has been asked to testify today about the future of
‘the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and especially. its
domestic intelligence operations.

(This morning's hearing marks both an end and a beginning
for the’ Select Committee. It is the end of a series of hearings
on -domestic intelligence which began in September with an

‘examination of the so-called "Huston Plan.” Those original
hearings explored the relationship of the White House to the
FBI and other intelligence agencies in the development of a
specific plan for using illegal techniques against domestic’

groups.

    
   

At that time the Committee learned the details of FBI

  

hirreseereoes

black bag jobs against domestic targets which continued at leas

gj

     

until 1968. We learned of a "do. not file” procedure in the

PBI for destroying the records of these operations and the Com-
: \

mittee was told that the FBI expanded its intelligence

IAEA a ae

ger TRE

é SAS
SST Ses FS

investigations along the lines of the Huston Plan, even after

the President withdrew his approval.

Our next hearings in this area dealt with improper

 

 

 
activities that overlapged foreign and domestic intelligence
operations. The Director of the National Security Agency:
testified that the sophisticated surveillance operations. of”

that agency had’ been targeted against the international

communications of American citizens for domestic intelligencé

 

purposes. ‘This was done in direct’ cooperation with the FBI,.
which supplied names of citizens for the NSA watchlist. .
Present and former FBI officials also testified that until
1966 the Bureau undertook programs for illegally opening the
mail of innocent citizens in the search for espionage agents
and foreign intelligence. The FBI used the CIA's mail
opening program after 1966 for domestic intelligence purposes,
again sending over lists of names of Anerican citizens who

The Committee's recent hearings on ‘the FBI itself have
raised some of the most fundamental questions that any democracy
must face. We have placed on the record deeply disturbing
information about the FBI's COINTELPRO activities over a period |
of fifteen years; the attempts to discredit Dr. Martin Luther

24

King, Jr., the broad surveillance of law-abiding citizens.

| oy
were to be watched.

and lawful activities, the practices of infiltration and dis-

xuption by informants, and the political use of FBI resources
by Presidents of both parties.
The Comaittee's work in this area has been aided sub-

stantially by the cooperation of the Justice Department. TI

 

HW 55110 DocId: 32989560 Page 6

 

 
 

 

Form DJ-96
5 (Rove 62086) DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
TING SLIP

(Cl signature (CO comment (7) PER CONVERSATION
(APPROVAL ([] NECESSARY ACTION [_] AS REQUESTED
([] see me (CUNOTE AND RETURN = [_]NOTE AND FILE
([)REcomMENDATION = [[] CALL HE Clyour mrormaTion

oO ANSWER OR ACKNOWL-
EDGE ON OR BEFORE

oO PREPARE REPLY FOR
THE SIGNATURE OF

 

REMARKS

AWLINFORVATION
HEREIYIS Lm nese eA NED
bare E40 S

HW 55110 DocId:32989560 Page 2

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

2-116 L345

 

 

_ Serial Scope:

| 726-1234. IZ 27% 2 AZ Oy 1S NE (gy Oo

241

Released under the John
. Kennedy
Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#i: NW 55110 Date:
fi-—18-2017

 

 

 

 
STATEMENT OF:

oe

STATIMSTY OF Sl HOIORARLE F
if PADLI Fh

QMIRPAL OF THE TRITTRND smacns”

 

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED *
HEREIN IS. UNCLAGSIF EL
RATE ALLO. BY

 

ENCLOSURE

Page 3
8 Tr SIROTA, WE TRO

 
 

EE

Ree RES LADLE STE LP BLISTER MICE ot

ee?

 

BE eg Be Meth wee.

Lee

RR

 

     

United States Senate,
‘Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations with Respect to
Intelligence Activities,
Washington, D.C.
The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 10:19 o'clock
a.m., in Room 318 Russell Senate Office Building, Senator
Frank Church (Chairman) presiding.
Present: Senators Church (presiding), Mathias, Morgan,
Mondale, Baker, Hart of Michigan, Hart of Colorado and Schweiker. .
Also present:- William Miller, Staff Director; Frederick
A.O, Schwarz, ox .; Chief Counsel; curtis Smothers, Minority

Counsel.

ater ee MINAS TRE SPIRE PU DASIIA, WE HCE SINGIN VT AI NETRE RAIA GATE IA TOE HET ON TOT REL ISDS

 

 
