HW 54214

:
\
-

—.
“~”

-4-

All Special Agents in Charge
and Resident Agents

"Following are the views of the writers from our experience and
observations concerning route surveys:

1.

Route surveys are beneficial in providing in-
creased protection for the President when he
travels, Outer perimeter security hazards can
be identified and countermeasures established

- to permit an increased degree of safety. Thus,

agents and police personnel can be assigned to
eritical locations as on roof tops and other
points lending to best possible protection.

When the President moves in an open car, a
survey Lends as a principal countermeasure
against hidden attack from the outer perimeter.
This from having advance intelligence and the
support and cooperation of the citizens as
developed through the advance contact with
them. ‘

Surveys conducted to date reflect that citi-

zens generally are cooperative and eager to

lend aid as by identifying and reporting
suspicious persons and circumstances. Also,

it has been found they are willing to assume

a degree of responsibility for their particular
area when called upon. We believe that when the.
President exposes himself, as in an open car,
that this cooperation and aid by citizens is a
vital security factor. -

Route surveys produce a favorable psycholo-
gical result. The belief that one is being
watched is of itself a deterrent to a wrongful
act,

We believe that if it was possible, it would
be desirable that surveys be conducted ex-
clusively by Secret Service personnel aided by
personnel from local police organizations.

DocId: 32977037 Page 5
HW 54214

"See
 @ @ -

-2-

All Special Agents in Charge
and Resident Agents

between the hotels where he generally stops. This was done by
Secret Service and Treasury Agents teaming with City Detectives.
They worked in two-man teams and about 44 teams were used. Com-
pletion of the survey required approximately seven working days.
Similarly, in May 1964, a survey was made in Chicago covering
the route from O'Hare International Airport’ to the Conrad Hilton
Hotel, The same team arrangement was used as in New York City.
In Chicago, about 30 two-man teams, Secret Service and Treasury
Agents. teamed with Detectives, were employed. They worked about
five days, although this does not include the clerical time for
the preparation of reports and data forms. Likewise, this is
not included in the total time shown above for New York City.

In Atlantic City, a survey was made of the route from the air-
port to Convention Hall and in Newark, N. J., the route from

the airport to the Lincoln Tunnel. In each of these surveys,
the work was done by uniformed officers of the City Police or

in rural areas by the New Jersey State Police having jurisdiction.
The officers assigned generally worked individually. Surveys
have been made in quite a number of other cities, such as Wash-
-ington, D. C., San Francisco, Los Angeles, St. Louis, Miami, etc.

“Concerning the actual work of conducting an outer perimeter
route survey, the first aspect is an observation process to
identify vantage points for attack as by rifle fire or thrown
objects. In this there must be taken into account roof tops,
obstructions, overpasses, waterways, bridges, construction work,
natural growth, terrain, and every other physical thing along
the way that lends to covert design and presents a danger hazard.

"A related aspect is the building canvass with the occupant, or
in the case of'a public building, the manager or security officer
being contacted and informed of the nature of the visit, i.e.,
for cooperation in the protection of the President of the United
States, who, while in the city, passes the area. Obtained is

any available security intelligence and identifying data concern-
ing the person contacted which is recorded for future reference.
There is left with the person contacted the telephone number of
this Service and the Police Department interested so that infor-
mation can be reported, ~

DocId: 32977037 Page 6
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE

 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20220
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF .

September 8, 1964

MEMORANDUM
TO: | All Special Agents in Charge and Resident Agents
FROM: Chief

SUBJ: Presidential Protection -- Building and Route Surveys

At my request, the Assistant Chief for Security and the Special
Agent in Charge of the White House Detail have submitted a
written evaluation of a new Presidential protective technique
‘we have been using since November 22, 1963. I believe their
evaluation will be beneficial to. all offices which are, or

- should be, conducting surveys of a similar nature, The salient
portions of their report are reproduced as a part of this’
memorandum. ; .

"A route and building survey of a route to be traveled by the
President encompasses a block-by-block or area-by-area physical
inspection and an interview with the occupants of the buildings
which are adjacent or overlook the route. Conducting such a survey
represents a considerable task. There is call for skill, ingenuity,
and a capacity for evaluating and identifying danger points and the
devising of countermeasures to be effected for the time the Presi-
dent is in the particular area. With this, there must be docu-
mented the information that is developed preparatory for taking
steps that are necessary to offset each of the existing hazards,
Also called for on the part of the personnel who engage in surveys
is an adeptness in the art of good public relations work.

"Concerning the personnel and the manner of conducting surveys,
during our testing process since November 1963, this has been
done in various ways. As afore indicated, the work is extensive
and a concentration of manpower is required although for a com-
paratively limited period. Thus, in New York:City, in March 1964,
a survey was made of the routes generally used by the President.
These included the routes from the airports to downtown and

AW 54214 DocId:32977037 Page 2
Date : 06/28/96
Page : 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION Released under the John
. EKennedy
AGENCY : USSS Assassination Records
RECORD NUMBER : 154-10002-10222 ollection Act of 1992

RECORDS SERIES : HISTORICAL VAULT (44 USC 2107 Note}.
. AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

ORIGINATOR : USSS
FROM : CHIEF-USSS
TO : SAICS AND RAS
TITLE : BULDING AND ROUTE SURVEY [ R ]
DATE : 09/08/64
PAGES : 5
SUBJECTS : METHODS AND TECHNIQUES USED IN BUILDING AND ROUTE
SURVEYS [ R ]

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 5
CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/21/96
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
HW 54214 Docld:32977037 Page 1
 

All Special Agents in Charge
and Resident Agents

“Pursuant to the observation and contact phases of a survey,
there must be developed protective measures to offset each of
the hazards uncovered. This is manifested in establishing
posts of duty for agent personnel and police officers when the
President is present and in employing such other safeguards as
called for by each of the existing circumstances, In this same
respect, by means of the survey, there is facilitated the ad-
vance programming for the security communications that will
serve best needs while ‘the President is there. Generally speak-
ing, the communications facilities for a Presidential movement
must be of scope to permit radio and/or telephone contact as
between the President's car (plane, helicopter, train), Secret
Service security cars, security aircraft, designated police
cars, designated networks of security posts, Secret Service
command posts, police headquarters, and others.

"Significant, it is felt, is that the results accomplished by
any particular survey cannot be calculated to continue inde-
finitely. In this it is thought that the benefits derived are
in direct relation to the length of time which elapses between
the time of the survey and the time of the President's visit.
If the elapsed time is extended, the benefit to be expected must
diminish, This due to physical changes as from construction,

.« from changes in occupancy of premises and for the fact that in
dealing with the public, contacts must be kept current. This
means that resurveys must be periodically conducted, However,
a resurvey or bringing one to date is of course easier and less
time consuming than an original one.

"Of interest to the question of the survey technique is that
this has long been a standard protective procedure relative to
-inaugural parades. This has been upon the premise that the huge
crowd assembled from country-wide and world-wide warranted the
added precaution, Our security personnel has recognized that
the same procedure was desirable incident to any public move-
ment by the’President but this could never be accomplished due
to our continuing critical personnel situation. Therefore, the
technique is not new or novel, Rather, it is a current all-out
effort by means of borrowing other enforcement personnel and in-
fluencing police interest to thereby gain the result and the
attending benefits.

HW 54214 DocId:32977037 .Page 3
aa .
‘ . 2, ed

fone 6 6 @ e
. ve . ‘

All Special Agents in Charge
and Resident Agents

This to have the benefit of persons who have
the best experience in such endeavor. However,
when this is not possible, surveys should be
made regardless from where the personnel who
do the work become available. We feel the

' benefits from surveys in any event outweigh
the inexperience factor."

It is imperative that all offices complete their surveys as
soon as possible in order that our protection capabilities
be extended to the fullest.

PPE

HW 54214 DocId:32977037 Page 4
