 

 

 

      

{OVAL

  

 

Investifation of Flotsan Recovered from Cubana DCB Mrcraft
ao EE ee eer art

Ton UoE 1201" Lost off Barbados on’ 6th October 4976
(RE OS Oe ae o2EX A210

  

 

     
 

(Additional ‘to Interim Report).

 
   
  
 
   
  
  

 

: Further. to “the ‘trials (experiments) described in “paragraph 4 of our
interim report, .we are now able to confirm that significant traces of

‘ nitroglycerine were present on the surfaces of some of the Suitcases »
: Submitted to us for examination, | : : Be :

     

    

Considerabla complications with the. enalyses for: ‘NG were ‘experienced :
because the suitcases had been immersed in sea water for Some hours and -

os had .become very heavily contaminated with kerosene,

 

  

   
 
  
  

 

ed

   

(Wt

  

“DG HIccs = . ;
-Forensic Explosives Laboratory
_ EM2 Branch’. :

 

 

 

    
 
  

Explosives and Materials Department,
* Royal Armament Research and Development Establishment,
Fort Halstead, ee wo . . . ;

ONr Sevenoaks,
- KENT. fe.

  

      

 

 

 

DoclId:32297767 Page 9

 
 

"Released:

 

 

“CUBANA De-8” Cc. U. T1201 OFF BARBADOS
Ln “6th OCTOBER 1976 :

 

“SPECIMENS SELECTED FROM WRECKAGE _ :

Brief description of specimen | :

ie 2 Two metal ‘Eragments (alum.) 5 x 2 mand 2 mm x 3 ™ .
; extracted from black suitcase (Cuban). - re

 
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 

Reference -. >

 

 

- One small metal Fragment (alum, ) about da rm extracted
from black suitcase (Cuban) :

 

One small metal fragment (lobules) alum. 21 ‘ma round,
Found in black suitcase (Cuban). .

“One piece. of red glass. or hard plastic 61 mm x 2 im
extracted from black suitcase (Cuban).

 

Cushion: cover ‘from economy passenger seat with many” :
, perforations.. Gample_ on x a" given to. Cubans). :

- Tangled mass of woven material (from cushion) found :
°\. jammed. in life raft cover F normally stowed in roof of
~ passenger cabin. . : ;

 

: Cushion with suspect ‘flash burns. and evidence. of last
: and heat.

 

 

Curtain from a fuselage side window - passenger cabin a
with blast shredding and tearing. : :

wl. Piece of life raft (Raft No. 178) with holes and a burning
Black suitcase with holes ‘in Lining’ ‘and suspect heat *

ae ‘with two other black Suitcases > and one odd lid of 0
black suitcase, : ; :

  

- Pieces of alum. probably from aircraft, reported stuck

“ EN/PATH/1, 2
sete Pk te . in one of the victims. _ Handed in by Cubans. - a

 

  

 

EN/PATH/2. °-

  

‘Piece of dark stained metal from knee of subject tat
» also 3 pieces of plastic, brown in “colour,

 

 

Docld: 32297767 Page 6

   
   
   
      
  

 

   
   
   
  
   
   
  
    
   
   
   
     

 
    
       
   
  
  
  
 
   
    
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
   

 

 

 

a: under | the’ John F “Kennedy Assassination Records Collection et “OE- F992; Erg USC “2107 Hotey :

 

“ inability to control.the aircraft. The flying controls (steel cables) are
located under the passenger cabin floor and routed towards the rear, centrally
“-“along the roof of the cargo/baggage holds. Disruption of these cables by an
explosion ‘would, of course, result in loss of control. This, apparently did
oy Mot occur immediately and the aircraft was able to turn and be flown-for | :
. Several minutes towards the airport after reporting "an explosion", .-The ~
» €@xplosive blast could therefore have been to one side of. the flying control”
- Cables probably close to the fuselage side wall. A severe fire at floor level’ |
in the rear cabin could, eventually, cause the fair leads, pulleys and structur

. supporting the tensioned cables to collapse with consequent | loss of (pitch and —
"direction control. « te h,

 

 

 

 

vA Likely. alternative, in this particular case, and a . known hazard from
_internal fires or cargo hold explosion, would be the obliteration of inside.

and outside reference by dense smoke and fumes. in the cockpit: resulting in. joss
of control. : " :

  
   
     
  
  

   
   

9. FINDINGS

A high explosive device detonated within this aircraft °

 

the location was probably in the rear underfloor - caxgo/begaege.h hold.

 

: As a “result of this explosion a fire developed in ‘the rear passenger
. cabin. os .

 

yA) “Control of the aircraft was lost, whilst attempting to return ‘to the ;
Be airport and the aircraft crashed into the sea.

 

   

10. CONCLUSION -

 

- The aireraft y was lost following the detonation of a high explosive device on
i board the aireraft.

 

 

   
    

“ERIC. ‘NEWTON, °
ISO, MBE, C. Eng

    

 

FRAeS

  

o>

 

 

DoclId: 32297767 Page 7
 

 

 

 

'. Kennedy. Assassination Records

    
    
  
    
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
 
   
  
 
    
   
   
   
   
    
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
   

Collection Act. of 19:

 

: and” in a ‘significant manner consistent with them ‘having been exposed close to
-/an explosive blast.’ Numerous small perforeticns and shredding of material” :
with signs of heat were noted. A number of very small metal fragments were
found embedded in these suitcases (see list at Appendix A). These were ©
. extracted for further examination under the scanning electron microscope.
’ Preliminary examination on site showed that some of these fragments were ~
*.gimilar'to fragments that have been explosively produced. Their very small
“size coupled with the fact that they-had penetrated into the suitcase also -
indicates that they had been subjected to extreme velocity. There is no
aircraft mechanism or system which could fail or explode.or cause a mechanical.
explosion in which. such small fragments of metal are produced and accelerated:
-with explosive velocity... They appeared mainly of aluminium metal. Some of
“these fragments, when examined microscopically revealed small fibres of white
. fibre glass adhering to them.and- white fibre glass strands were noted embedded
in other items. In the D.C.8, panels made from white fibre glass line thc
under floor cargo/baggage holds...

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

Further “evidence consistent with explosive blast was a side curtain from: the
passenger..cabin window. This took the form of numerous perforations and.local ©

shredding of the material. Oné passenger seat cushion cover also showed numerou
* Small perforations. A tangled and compressed mass of mixed fibres, similar to
a passenger seat cushion material, was found jammed into a life raft which is

~Rormally stowed An the ceiling compar tment in the rear part of the Passenger
me Cabin. : ee

 

 

 
 

     

\ These items were » subjected to forensic. detail examination at the RARDE labora
tories in the United Kingdom (see separate repott).

 

A 2 Fire. evidence ,

 

he was 5 evident, from the burnt condition of the left hand rear lavatory door
~ and bulkhead, and a piece of ‘coat room bulkhead, that there had been a fire
at the rear part of the passenger compartment. The layatory door and bulkhead |
“had been torn from their locations and their surfaces were. burnt particularly
“at the bottom, - The. blackened fractures suggested that these items.had been »
torn off before the: fire. The hand fire extinguisher and oxygen bottles which
‘are, normally stowed in the rear part of the passenger cabin also. showed signs”
of heat and soot... It was noted that the fire extinquisher was empty and the
i sealed safety wire ‘on the operating trigger was broken. .The oxygen bottles, -
‘;which had been torn from their locations, were also empty. However, though
they showed signs of heat and soot; they showed no other damage or disruption.
“One economy passenger -seat cushion and its cover showed evidence of burning, - »
- and damage in one corner after the burning. A small area of the life raft, which
“is normally stowed in the ceiling compartment at.the rear of the passenger
": compartment, was burnt. The general fire pattern appeared to’ track from
{: floor level up to the roof. of the rear passenger ecabine 9 -y :

   

 

 

 

»/,. There was no evidence to support fire at the forward end of the passenger
; s) eabin. : : . :

    

' The fire is considered to be a secondary feature to the explosions |

5. POST MORTEM BODY RAYS

 

 

Examination of a number of Xray negatives taken at Queen’ Elizabeth's Hospital,
_ Barbados, on some of the victims revealed in ~ Subject 'A' a fragment of metal”
embedded in the knee, and in Subject. ‘E! were numerous fragments of metal and

 

 

Docld: 32297767 Page 5
  

 

 

 

 

 
    

ination Retords Coliection Act of 1992 (44

 

  

   
  

‘other material embedded in the lower torso. These fragments were later |
removed and have been gubjected to forensic examination in the forensic -
explosive laboratory ‘in the United Kingdom (see separate report). _The very *.
. Small size of some of these fragments, together with signs of heat and extreme
velocity is consistent with the subject béing in the vicinity of an explosion.
Some of ‘the material is foreign to | that of the aircraft structure. a

  

  
 
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
 

 

6. ATRHORTHINESS ASPECTS —

 

“Nothing was found in the small amount of aircraft structure recovered which
. indicates, or -suggests,.that any mechanical defect or failure caused or
> “contributed to: this disaster. In addition the Journey Log for this aircraft,”

. which was recovered, showed | no recorded defects up. to the” time of the disaster.

 
     
   
    
  
 
  

: “FORENSIC” EXPLOSIVE LABORATORY "RXAMINATION

 

A number: of specimens (see Appendix A) were selected and with the agreement. of
the Barbados Government Investigating authorities these items were sealed and -
“sent to the United Kingdoms Government Forensic Explosives Laboratories at the:|.
Royal Armament and Development Establishment (RARDE), Fort Halstead and Woolwic

for examination. ‘These physical and chemical examinations, using advanced ~ i
techniques, suggested that a high explosive device had been detonated, - Traces
“of nitzoglycerine were found from the surfaces of the suitcases. | vag

  
 
 
   
 
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
  
   

8. ANALYSIS ~

 

_ Analysis of the material evidence obtained from the available wreckage, together >
with the circumstantial evidence including the R/T messages from the aircraft, |
‘indicates ’a gudden and unexpected occurrence unconnected-with the airworthinest—~
- of the aircraft or its operating crew.. This occurrence; whilst the aircraft
“was flying en route over the sea, took place about 8 mins after taking off.
-< There is little doubt, from the urgency in the voice recorded on the R/T tape,
_that a dire emergency existed in the airéraft at’ this time. Examination of
“. the small amount of floating wreckage recovered does not indicate, or suggest,
“any technical defect.or failure of the aircraft or its systems which could have]:
led up to this emergency. The recorded R/T message reported that an explosion .}
. had occurred in this aircraft and that a fire existed. . Inspection of a number
“of suitcases, furnishings and post mortem examination of. a number of bodies
> -Yevealed evidence consistent with a detonation of a high. explosive device. .
Forensic physical examination, metallographic and chemical analysis is oo
- consistent with a severe disruption -having taken place. The finding of traces
“of nitroglycerine | on the ‘suitcases suggests that an explosion probably | occurred

 

 

 

 

 

“the fire is considered to be secondary to the explosion and “affected the rear
-of the passenger cabin. There was no evidence to support fire existing at the
{frente Part of the aircraft although there could well, have. been ‘smoke

 

i. The. finding of numerous pieces of white fibre glass fragments in the ‘upper’
Xxear cabin, suitcases and a body, and the general, blast direction upwards
_’, through the rear passenger cabin suggests that the explosive device detonated --
io": in the rear underfloor cargo/baggage hold, the walls and roof of which are lined
Seek with panels of white fibre glass. : ° ne eS :
. Although there is no- positive evidence to show precisely why ‘the aircraft -
eveutually crashed into the sea after flying for several minutes after reporiing
the explosion, ait is considered likely that this was _associated with the erews

  

 

SECRET

 

 

 

Docld:32297767 Page 6
 

 

c : et
2a pe ob
| a oprisnat: “torwlno, 1p no \ ; ao. a e
° MAY 1962°EDITION . } eee .

(SSA PPM (GPR) IHL fog ; a

* UNITED STATES G6_ JRNMENT x “ Nt

emora ndum- ‘CIA HAS NO OPJECTION TO
DECLASS! JON AND/OR,

  
     

TO

    
  

STOR, FBI (2-2173)REL eee AL 12/9/76
THIS DOCUMENT S/Ab
FROM IN TILED SECRET

T, CARACAS (2-9) (P)

 

Sponsor: ' UNSUBS;

SUSPECTED BOMBING: Gn UBANA a h

NEAR“BARBADOS, WEST INDIES (Set We
if poelkbme At

$3 MEA

‘ & 1076775

NS Ni" CUBA - WEST INDIES  @ageified by

Ne :

EN yO =
x _ Enclosed for the:Bureau are three copies o

Lane
, titled, "Examination of the Floating Wreckage pies on 8 Recovered
We From Cubana Airlines DC8 CUT 1201," by Eric Newton of Great Britain. .@
Ss

 

 

 

 

The report was furnished on 12/8/76, in strictest confi-‘- oo
Se dence by Sub-Commissioner CARLOS FABBRI of the Directorate of Intelli- |
£ gence and Preventive Services (DISIP), Government of Venezuela, fis
2 Caracas, Venezuela, who requested it not be disseminated outside. the
FBI. MG)

  

2d Ine bey

frequent contributor to the FBI Bomb Data Program.

FABBRI is Chief of the Explosives Unit of DISIP and a He

FABBRI advised he had just returned to Venezuela from

Vie

England, where he had been permitted to examine all evidence by
= NEWTON: - ‘NEWTON had stated during personal conversations that he was
% convinced’in’his own mind on the basis of the evidence that the . a,

. Cubana Airplane was sabotaged, that the explosive device was nitro-
- glycerine based, probably dynamite, that a fire had followed the y
‘explosion, and the explosives had been placed “in the aft cargo hold

of. the aireratt. GB) “, REC: 13 J-&f JS _ R2E

FABBRI stated he was very surprised the blast had been
the result of a nitroglycerine-based explosive as anti-Castro-Cuba ns |
have not typically used this explosive (5) 4
@ DEC 21 1976 Z

He added that the report would be placed in the hands of ©
the Venezuelan judge in charge of the case on 12/9/76, and=eprred ===
that it would. be a serious setback for the prosecution as their cas “h)
|

 

a

is based upon’ the concept that C- 4 explosive was used, and that it:
was: planted in. the cabin area, perhaps a lavatory, by FRE DY LUGO |
and HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO. 5)

  
 
  

  

al)- Bureau (Enc .3)
1 - FLU g
Vig 1 - Caracas %e mie

q " Ao, a ay

(4). Buy. Uz s. Savings Bonds Regularly on the 9) en” -

  

 

  

a roll Savings Plan.

x 5010-108-0F

 

“ Relepsed “under the John F. Kennedy Hssassination Records Collection Act of 1997 ae usc ote).
‘PATE; 11-14-2017 « 3

   

 

  
    
   

 

 

DoclId: 32297767 Page 2
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AGENCY:
RECORD NUMBER:
RECORD _ SERIES:

 

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR: FBI

LEG. CAR
TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

FROM:

TITLE:

PAGES: 9
SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

 

DoclId: 32297767 Page 1

Kennedy
ae ttt

 

Tee

 

cn

 

ea

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

FBI
124-10220-10043
HO

2-2173-228

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

DATE: = 12/09/1976

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
‘REVIEW DATE: — 12/05/1996 UPDATE_DATE:
STATUS  Redact
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1\(B)
JFK Act 6 (4)
COMMENTS:

 

 

 

As i ti Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hote}.
Te oon vig aE

ee

ip

   

 

 

 

 
i

 

 

 

P eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records carci Act
PNPATE: 11-14-2017 — e

 

c
2 b
< - a : eo
at : : * a

. : ue

 

CAR 2-9 . SECRET

He pointed out that if the explosive had been placed in
checked baggage, the baggage would had to have been checked through
to Havana on the basis of a ticket to Havana. The possibility, of
course, exists that the infernal device was placed on the aircraft
as air freight at any stop between Georgetown, Guyana, and
Bridgetown, Barbados.

FABBRI stated that a full forensic report of the examina-
tion of the recovered flotsam would be forthcoming, and he would
endeavor to make that report available to Legat, Caracas, e

Ambassador and [E14 Station, Caracas,| have been briefed. eo
ae :

 

 

A |

 

DoclId: 32297767 Page 3
   

 

    

'Released under the Tdhn.F. ‘Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act “of .1993"(
0S DATES Err ea a ON ge

     
   
  
 
  
    
   
    
      
      
  
   
 
  
      
     
   
  
   
   
  
  

 

 

 

  
  

by

 

- ERIC NEWTON ISO, MBE, C.Eng, FRAeS _

“Specialist ‘Investigators “Adviser

 

CLs vrropucrron

 

On 6th October 1976, about 8 minutes after taking off from Barbados International |}

- (Seawell) Airport-en route for Cuba via Jamaica, the pilot of the above aircraft

“ Xeported to the control tower that there had been "an explosion" and that. there

“-Was.a-“fire on board",.” About 5 mins: later, whilst attempting to return to the -
“ h-airport the aireraft crashed into the sea about 5. miles off the. West coast of

. Barbados- and sank in deep water. . All .73 occupants were killed, “A small amount

_ of £loating wreckage and 15 bodies were recovered. The main wreckage has not. . ‘-

“been salvaged. An immediate investigation was initiated by the Barbados Civil

.., Aviation and Police authorities. aoe ae . BR ps ;

 

 

 

 

2. STATUS IN THE INQUIRY

: : On 10th October -1976 I arrived in Barbados at the request of the: Barbados -° .

“Government to assist both the Civil Aviation and Police investigating authorities.
in the role of specialist investigator. and adviser. et :

 

3a" CEXPERYENCE “AND QUALIFICATIONS
‘ .

 

 

"IT am an independent aircraft accident investigator specialist and adviser.
» LT retired from the British Governments Accidents Investigation Branch in:
| February 1975 after 33 years service, I was. Principal. Inspector in the as
_ engineering division and, in addition to normal aircraft accident investigations, ;
~T have made-a special study, over the last 26 years,.in the detection: of explosive |

Sabotage in aircraft wreckage.. I have investigated a number of such cases in :.

“). ¥arious parts of the world, . whe x an : wet fe Be ae 7

 

 

 

the Royal Aeronautical:

 

-* I am a Chartered Engineer (C.Eng) 1968 and a Féllow. of
Society (FRAeS) 1962.0 8

 

     

“Ae INSPECTION OF AVATLABLE ‘WRECKACE °
= _SREEECTION OF AVAILABLE ‘WRECKAGE

 

 

 

    
      
       
  
    
     
 
  
 

 

. All’ the available wreckage was confined in a Police. Building near Seawell Ai
under strict security.” This flotsam consisted mainly of light structure, -
~ personal baggage, and cabin futnishings, and included 20 seat cushions, 14: ye"
‘suitcases in various states of damage, 5 life rafts, one ‘escape chute,. one main

wheel, one nose wheel, pieces of wing structure fairing, aileron trim tab and.
Spoiler, one fire extinguisher, 3 oxygen bettles, one rear passenger cabin.
lavatory door and bulkhead, pieces of. the forward bar - and 2 pices of forward
yo cabin bulkhead. “The fiight recorders were not recovered. © The Journey Log. was
recovered. . : So, woe, : no bee eg .

rport

  

 

 
   

4,1 Explosive blast evidence 0
» A detailed examination of the available suitcases revealed 3 Cuban made suitcases
of black plastic simulated leather, and all of the same pattern’ damaged extensiv

 

 

 

 

DoclId: 32297767 Page 4
