 

Section G. The use:of the pseudonym '"'Hedgman"' for the
ay ey waiomin Leopoldville/Kinshasa would be illusory _

if it is intended to conceal his identity, Those knowledgeable
would soon penetrate the device. Some more general reference
to the CIA Station is a minimum requirement, ,

    

Section G. p13. The direct citation of Station use of :
a Congolese security man who was in liaison with the CIA Station .
would permit his ready identification,

Cryp tonyms

The draft report employs cryptronyms of agents and
operations that probably should not be contested. New digraphs
may be necessary in the Latin American Division (c.g., AMLASH, .
JMWAVE), but these probably cannot be avoided. Preferably :
they should not be used, but the Rockefeller Report set a precedent
that might as well be followed, - . :

Section F, p 21, Reference to the initials "CAS" is no
more than a designation employed by other government agencies
in referring to CIA in certain communications. -It should be
replaced by the "'CIA'! initials, if used at all,

‘Sources and Methods:
en Methods:

It is impossible to treat the entire subject of these various
operations, recording day-to-day activities in such detail,
without revealing a great deal about patterns of thought and.
activity that will reveal a great deal to foreign intelligence
analysts about CIA techniques, attitudes and modus operandi, ©
The draft report is highly revealing, in its extensive detail,
While it would be misleading in some respects, it nevertheless
reveals a great deal about staff planning at lower levels {prior
to elevating the results, if ever, for senior review), methods
for approaching potential agents (and considerations in how to
try to bring them under control and direct them), use of-cut-

_ outs, etc. Some specific revelations are noted below:

PHOTO copy
FROM
6. GERALD R. FORD LIBRARY

 

HW 53244) DoclId:32112719 Page 9
 

Section D. 1. pp 22-28, in describing Harvey's past and
other roles, interesting: bits of information are revealed to the.
knowledgeable analyst, Harvey's role with the Berlin tunnel
is cited. Description of his later division--surreptitious
‘acquisition of codes--could Present an interesting organizational
concept for the analyst, The recruitment of a foreign agent for
his criminal talents, by a named Agency employee working for:
Harvey (according to the draft report), would be read by foreign
analysts for what it-was, a man to stéal.coédes. The speculation
in the draft report doesn't seem to Support a rationale for including
these bits of information,

Section D.I, pp 29-34. It is noted above that AMLASH could
be identified by the pattern of his foreign meetings. It also
highlights the ability of the Agency to follow the coming-and-
going of foreign intelligence fargets, an item that would attract .
the attention of foreign CI analysts, . .

Section D.I. p 38. Reference to a meeting in Madrid .
between AMLASH and anotherA gency operational contact,.
arranged by the Agency without the knowledge of either participant, |
is a technique that should not be publicized,

PHOTO COPY
FROM
GERALD R. FORD LIBRARY

 

 

HW 53244) DoclId:32112719 Page 10
 

Uninvolved Bystanders

Recitation of the Las Vegas bugging incident is such as
to expose both:Dan Rowan and the person associated with ‘him
in the incident. Official publication would give the press a free
run at this unnecessary detail ina private life. (Section D. I,
pp 13-17). . :

Identification by Description

In some instances, where the actual name is not recorded,
the description is such that the identification can be made |
readily by knowledgeable persons,

Section D.I. p. 4. The Summary of an offer by a Cuban
pilot in July 1960, to cause an accident that would kill senior
Cuban officials, makes his identification a relatively simple .
thing for the Guban DGI,

Section D.I. pp 29-34. The description of AMLASH/I is
such that his identity is fairly simple. Were there any doubt,
the citing of specific dates on which he was met outside Cuba
(pp 31, 33, 34 and 35) would make it very clear who-he is,

He is now in prison in Cuba and is entitled to this protection,

Section E, Even if the name of COS Ciudad Trujillo is
omitted, the title is still revealing to knowledgeable persons,
More general’ reference to cables to and from the ''Station'*
would generalize the identity, assuming that any reference
is necessary, :

Section F, p27. The COS is cited but not named, It is
preferable that reference be to the "Station" and not to him
as an individual,

Section F, pp 30-42, In conjunction with a listing of i
Unilean otticers by name (supra), the additional identi-
fication of a ''Lieutenant Colonel," a *'Navy Captain,'' and. -
an ''Air Force General," presumably not previously identified,
could lead to further inquiry in Chile. General reference to
"Chilean military figures" should suffice, if any treatment is
necessary.

PHOTO copy

FROM.
GERALD p rons

 

HW 53244) DoclId:32112719 Page @
 

and Maceo is debatable. Both are entitled to this protection.
Roselli, now engaged in deportation proceedings, may wish
the publicity to strengthen a claim to special consideration,
but he nevertheless is entitled to the same protection that
tne othera are, . :

Great care is taken to conceal the identity of an action
asset inside Cuba (Section D.1,, pp 18-19), but his true .
name appears at page 21. He is believed to still be alive,
and is entitled to protection,

The full name of Tony Varona appears often, (Section .
D.1, p 19,. ff), He is entitled to protection.

One man named in the draft, but unknown to this reviewer,
(FNU) Gomez (Section E, p 5), should be checked for identi-
fication, He would seem entitled to protection, in the context
that he is mentioned.

The name of Alonzo Berry is included (Section E, pp 16-22,
p. 31). Although he has received publicity in the past, he is »
entitled to protection from official confirmation of his role
in the Trujillo affair,

Section F. pp 30-42. The listing by mme of a number of
Chilean officers, some of whom have been tried in Chile for
their role in plotting, would reveal additionally contacts with
a foreign power. This might open them to new charges at some
time in the future.

Reference Inaccurately Conveying
Impresgion of Operational Involve-

ment.of American Citizen
eem or american Citizen

D.1. pp 28-29. In reporting the various schemes conceived
at working levels in CIA to infect a diving suit, the impression
is conveyed that Attorney James Donovan might be aware of
what was being discussed, while there is no evidence that he
was. His being mentioned in true name, in this context, is
subject to correction,

PHOTO COPY
. FROM
GERALD p FORD UBRARY

 

HW 53244 DocId:32112719 Page 7
 

Those Still Living

The liat of names in the report of those still living,.
who had some role in the various activities, ig long. The
names picked out in the review of the draft are below: -

(1) | James O'Connell
(2) Robert Maheu -
-(3) John Roselli

(4) Santos Trafficante
(5) (FNU) Maceo

(6) Tony Varona

(7) “Juan Orta

(8): J, C..King |

(9) William Harvey
(10) Samuel Halpern
(11), Bronson Tweedy
(12) Sidney Gottlieb
(13) Arnold Silver

(14) Edward Gunn . . :
(15) (FNU) Gomez (otherwise unidentified in text)
(16) Henry Dearborn
(17) John Barfield

(18) Robert.Owen _.
(19) Alonzo Berry

(20) Colonel Wimert
(21) David Phillips - .
(22) Justin O'Donnell
(23) Glenn Fields

(24) Lou Conein :

(25) John Richardson
(26) David R. Smith

This list omits persons not directly involved other than in the
line of command, from the level of Deputy Director up. Two division
chiefs are listed--J.C, King and Bronson Tweedy--and might, by reason
of their seniority, be omitted from the list of those whose names
should be deleted. The list, otherwise, is a mix of Agency employees,
cooperating individuals, and agents. The comments below first treat
the question.of Agency employees. :

PHOTO COPY
FROM
GERALD R. Foro LIBRARY

 

HW 53244 DocId:32112719 Page 5
 

Agency Employees

The day-to-day record of events is subject to relatively
direct reconstruction, and the draft opts for detailed recitation.
In some instances, the format calls for. treatment of the same
subject matter from more than one point of-view. Relying on
this approach, there has been extensive recording ‘of the true
names of individuals, ‘This is so extensive in some sections
of the report that major editorial revision will be required to
protect. those entitled to it. -

Those employees still living--either still active or retired--
require protection from whatever repercussions that might
flow from official connection with the reported events. They
are enlitled to this both in traditional terms of protection of
employees and agents in their work, and.in terms-of separating :
them from such unpredictable incidents as may flow from :
publication.

Other U.S. ‘Employees

Publication of the names of Henry Dearborn, John
Barfield (Department of State) in connection with the
Trujillo affair should be omitted (Section E), Mention
of Colonel Wimert (Section F) in commection’ with the
Schneider affair also should be accorded'the same treatment,

Coop erating Individuals

Robert Maheu, whatever publicity he has been given, is
entitled: to protection from official confirmation:of the press
stories. Not only is he entitled to protection (rom direct.
association in the Castro operation, he is entitled to protection
from incidental revelation of his. involvement in other unrelated
activities (The report cites‘his involvement: in an Onassis-
Niarchos contest, on which he reported to the government, and
in making a motion picture to discredit a foreign leader).

The Syndicate members through whom Maheu worked
pose a somewhat different problem, but the same central
issue remains. We cannot divine how publicity would impact
on their future. Giancana is déad, presumably as a result:
of unrelated events, but how publicity would affect Trafficante

 

HW 53244 DocId:32112719 Page 6
     
  

  
  

 

INSPECTOR GENERAL

|_——_. oa nee

75-2707

Executive Registry
STIKEEE

ae

178-10004-10117

 

20 OCT 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence
SUBJECT | : SSC Draft Report on Assassination

T.. On 16 and 17 October I reviewed the SSC draft report on
- assassination. My review was for the express purpose of addressing
the question of such:security revelations as there were; and that
required correction if the report is to be considered for publication.
Because of this my review was somewhat more detailed and technical
than the review by the representatives of the Department of State and
Defense: _I did, however, also reach more general conclusions.

2. Attached is a summary of the. problems raised by the disclosures
by the draft report of the identities of persons associated with the
various operations. The attachment also addresses the report's disclosure
of intelligence methods.: I have more detailed rough notes that I am pre-
pared to use in discussions with the SSC Staff members: on these technical
questions about the report; they are further reinforced by extensive -
penci] notations made on the face of the draft report provided for my
review, but which remains with the SSC Staff. If my reservations‘ are
taken into account -- some of them were conveyed orally in summary
fashion Tate Friday afternoon -- some sections will require extensive
revision. Mr. Schwarz stated that the SSC plans to act on the report
this week; the required changes are so extensive that it is doubtful that
they can be made within the stated time frame. « ;

‘3. The editorial treatment in the report, and the selected format,
has resulted in anything but a crisp paper. We were told that the SSC
experienced difficulty in reaching conclusions on some facts and simply
decided "to let the facts speak for themselves." There is :a great deal
of on-one-hand-and-on-the-other-hand discussion that: leaves something for
everyone; it may reflect disagreement. within the Committee, and constitutes
a poor compromise, making the report repetitious and discursive. It is
inconsistent in treatment of information, shifting from application of
strict tests of proof in some instances (what did the White House know
and.approve) to generalized interpretation (what-was the Agency's direct

E-2 IMPDET
CL BY 013190

PHOTO Copy

cp. FROM
GERALD g ForD LIBRARY

 

HW 53244 DocId:32112719 Page 2
 

v9.1

HW 53244

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

- AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM: -
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

8/27/201

 

Agency Information

CHENEY
178-10004-10117

GENERAL SUBJECT FILE

INTELLIGENCE--REPORT ON CIA ASSASS. PLOTS(2)

 

Document Information

CIA
BRECKINRIDGE, SCOTT
DCI

SSC DRAFT REPORT ON ASSASSINATION

10/20/1975
9 .

AMLASH

ASSASSINATIONS, FOREIGN LEADERS
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CIA ,

CHURCH COMMITTEE

MEMORANDUM

Unclassified

Consulted Released under the John F. Kennedy
Redact Lssassination Records Collection
09/01/1995 Act of 1992 (44 USc 2107 Note).

Pase#t: NW 53244 Date:

06-12-2017

 

 

Docld: 32112719

Page 1
. Stet ——
SUBJECT: SSC Draft Report on Assassination

  

involvement). The resulting presentation is incongruous on occasion --
an effort seems to have been made to reinforce considerations absolving
the White House of responsibility for the events leading to the deaths -
of Diem and Trujillo and planning against Castro, while direct evidence
to the contrary is rationalized into an apparent implication of Agency |
involvement in the death of Schneider,

4. Were there more time to critique the report, with a copy in

hand, a more thorough and balanced treatment might be provided. Regardless

of critiques, the report will leave the reader with one fundamental con-

clusion. The degree of detailed treatment, showing .high-level approval

of courses of action that led to the death of foreign leaders, can only

be injurious to the international status of the United States. The fuzzy
‘picture of executive responsibility, as Presented by the draft report,

will be clarified by our foes and reported stridently to an obvious end..

5. Beyond the grave damage that publication of the report will do to

the international position of the United States, consideration must be .
given lesser aspects of the problem. If CIA were to survive the atmosphere
_created by the report, it would experience new difficulties in operating
~abroad, aS would any successor organization. -Foreign agents, who: must
trust tne Agency to protect their iives, would ~- as tney reportediy are
doing already -- demonstrate a new reluctance to associate themselves

with the American intelligence services. Foreign services, which now play
a key role in the American foreign intelligence effort, would have to
review the extent of their relationship with the intelligence services of
a nation that cannot -- or will not -- protect its own secrets and, by
extension, theirs. .

6. The sections of the draft report entitled Findings and Conclusions
and Recommendations contain. the conclusions that the United States govern-
ment, and its instruments, have been engaged in planning assassinations,
stating the Committee's opposition to such activity, and recommending
legislation against such activity. Those sections. while providing the
“stark conclusions as noted, do not include the extensive detail of the
preceding several hundred pages, with its many disclosures. Its publi-
cation would be harmful in general, but would tend to reduce the basis for
succeeding criticism, thereby reducing the extent of the damage. Damage
there will be, but limiting publication to the sections on Findings and
Conclusions and Recommendations may provide a basis for discussion with the:
Select Committee.

S. D. Breckinridge

Attachment:

As Stated . PHOTO Copy
FROM

GERALD 8. FoRp Lip.
Ree

HS

32

bRY

   
  

       

HW 53244 DocId:32112719 Page 3
 

Security Revelations in SSC Draft Report on Assassination.

sideration of further treatment ofthe report. From this point of
view, alone, it remains a highly classified document,

- 2. The report specifically names a number of individuals:
Agency employees, employees of other government departments or
agencies, cooperating individuals --both foreign and American--and
agents. It so describes others, whose names are concealed, that
their identification is readily ascertainable. It is inevitable, in.
such detailed review of the various events, that a good deal is
reviewed about operational staff Planning, and operational patterns
and techniques. These are treated below, .

Identification of Individuals
a ot individuals

-R ecording of Names

The draft makes extensive use of the
true names of employees, agents, and
cooperating individuals who were involved,

Those Now Deceased
ee meceased

; The deaths of such persons as senior government officials

and of Allen Dulles, C. P, Cabell, Desmond Fitzgerald,

. Sheffield Edwards, Tracy Barnes, and Salvatore Giancana
may obviate the need to protect their names in association
with the events treated in the draft report, either from Personal
retaliation or from harassment by unstable Persons to whose
A@tteuiion they are Urvught by the Publicity. The Purpose of
publication in any event is unclear. .

 

HW 53244 DocId:32112719 Page 4
