Released nder. the the ~wohn Fo Kennedy Assassination Records. Collection Act.of 1999 (44-t1He-7107 ~
Hote} ~-—DRTES—t1=1a=7017

“

    

 
  
 
 

  

    

Page Rives - . ; F
Gor these veangous and wefers th situation ;

QUES nto a boubchell meat exbarassds Pr your

edsinistvation, wandrede of EIA erreloyess wio knew

 

of this BR: z oF Danard 38 gis a0! Adact

sing to Ud alls will weleone your por~

to the matbere Your might} Like te

ve Macy, Ife, Ghaitaan of the United

States gaye: cryles Gormissiony look inte wals wabeel
end make a gurvey of the Last sevVersL humired 2m Gane

een of atuliniatrative action, taken by Hoover against
His pexsorwmehe uch a soview with uiblased aD Dgkoreht
WALL tevead, ay bellevs “sLé acticn tukea, involving many
Hecdless tranerers at erest ecst to the toxpsyora,
fixings, dens SLones Forced vetirewetis, otee

  

          
 
     

 

    

   

  

 

Jaane the most éianvacefal ta be found withis
oe so wilh be Hoover's cepecnene bus ann)
ainst twelve to fifte a Loyal B28

 

the pact y
Qetion taken x

       
  
   
 
      
  
  
  

   

leyees © $ devided ta blewes at the Pesosaste
dation of ai Nivecter Gel action eontres

  
  

puting to
Kennedy »
oritician
Dalles off!
Host hea
young ff

gesgination of

aby hoplag £6 volleve hi

he torren’ &e wuigesicte Reverel in sur
2 ereraly Ong Gf the

Agent sosee" Hestys |.

# oe ei at eetiasons one suffering fron F

Prenigent

   

garedral Sy, nia wife pregaant, who tas suepended
eh thouts 3 £

fov 4 month and tte

 

asferred to ane of the
nae | moat & dreaded goeetigt mry offices, Tale acti on

aportediy folieved ¢ niiuary actier alraady imken
ageine’ this gan’ “pemaed ing the sare matiere

a]

 
   

   
 
 

 

; Hany af us think the time has coms for a

quist look 2% the Edwards oss, the fastors davolved g

a a8 veLL ag the oveleoll cudinous porgonrel pold ey of the
e aii before Lt tho as n6S Mecesstary for & con gressioned

  

 

 

   

committee of the news media to undertake the task at . }
great umberasauent te your ontes noipg afministratiens Z
You ate the one man in America sho ean somes this a
Gituation in oar areat organisation vhie we think is |
gontribating mugh to the witdesak sac curity and high

ean PLL afford aves éne of the

   

dvates type in.ite widste f

 

sin carely yours,

3 Loyeks concerned Dalles
BS eapleyse

 

  
 

gopy tos Mere Nickolas Uatserbact
; and Bry do deat Goa vez

 

 

 

Poctd: s2i9e65e” Page oO
  
 

 

Gliection Act of 1999 (44 usc.2107

Page Foure

2 ay

PBLs edmanisereative hedghte and rumoved to oe the
nex$ ibd Directors — :

    

Bohr ant tdvuertde, close friends, also have F
bean emanig the prime pushers of Hoover's weight prox a2
gear resulting in do aens 2 of agents bebnag run aus of

 

tho #si of to guifer many transfer ox Lozg of ine
gome because of theix inability to ect Bie soils
vigié and wareslistie weight Ligita shiek Mel

 
       

wever botherad te g@ond i¢ is doubtful if Ueover
and aGwards on 8B Hok¢e sed ei

 

from inflicting untold hard shina on handresa of ins
nocent woavers of TSE agente? fomtiiies and dn aetue |
Zz of many wok

    
 
 

   

 

ally undermining the health and welleveing
agent persaniels

ten ag being wed ften te Yous 3 Ms ne:
you ps tendsney
1O n gorress th 43 olte 2
in the past has ever questioned
persartel poliey oF guestie:
aides eho have Tiouted ure =
_ Other peominoat Wi ofPioicis
heve Yeached 2 at those eleshaliice and ‘ ‘3
the Sdvards oi rtiquleciy isnortans Oe : ‘
except for the telnowing eoesonss :

he
gust as surcliz
BAvg, Desa oF
Bibslities invok

 
  

 
 

 
 
  
 
 

Ho. at
Roover'es
Ris eovatouns
tules af dese

    
   
 
   

 

 

 
   

fend

  
 
 
  
 
 

 

fe skoule ge Lived a aa & security rigk
GLE exces & 0 eee Galter sean :

not only wae in violation of Loew © ,

Be
Lava But wes yioletion of one of the RBI'S striate t
eek FuLGs 3 ari giving on the feb, and ia this ni
inetange ab erent cubutatement te ‘the gE ah Ehoowis ok

esd in the entirg soutmwest among a ost ampor tant |
group of dew ent Coxcenen 2% gagvecent ativote

So Mi 1s aigdation yoints un the gad pose
sibility thas Reet fet is not being told the truth ed E
Ris top eidegs & feel sure Me would have fired
sarda at the tiwe of she ineldent or recently, if ‘Re k

 

wate

%
had teen told the shold truth shout tha matters

 

 
 

 

 

  
 

“Hote).,:

 
 

“tii = Ton
DATE :- 11-14-2017

Page Doe oe :

Sinelly, when Lt become painfully clear that
Mothing vould ever be done about this matters 48 vas
reuontly proucht to the attention of BBE iMrector
Koover and attorney Genetal Ratgzcusach Dy ono Tho ate
tended the esnfereres and knew of the disgtacefaul wis)
eomiuet of Idvavde. Usually a situation of this type
vosuLts in the ioymediate dismissed of any government
offigkal urnier tee teras of Prenident Slecnhover’s

     
 

 

ry

Raeontive Grder 10480, dasued aptll 275 1985, sreserib=

ing rigid security requirements for goverment
wants The overesll oriterion waa that any pers

 

ei rele
exployment Was Hot clearly eoncisatent with the matianal

interest should be barred from federal services He

‘tem “soorrlty risk® wae redefined to indizde heavy

dpinkers, Loess talkers, gex nervertea, persens gudged

 

 

shera:so190050 Page 5

‘unroliahles, uitrugtworthy or immoral, and persons gYee
vieusiy eomvictell of PoLenies of misdemeansrse

in additions S82 roles of soéuet axe most

atringent in matters of such flerrant wivocheavior and

denané the isuediate dlewigsal of avy cunleyes found
te have been engaged in such conducts Ut appeara the

 

a OS
rules were waived dn Sdwards? ease for sone ugitnowm:
Porsongs

  

¢ Beqent commutiention tebling of Sdwardst
Glaseteued another top aide
S Sltuations <A Whitewash

 
   
 
  
  

   

o
3 UEY
of The serioud abbegations ‘

& $6 bu Sfue, and we Ristisative action tas

oh agalngt Riverds, corlulniy meme epotozching that
wighdly fequivedby ESL fubes of conduet of Execative
Order 10459» ;

      
  

 
 
  
  
 

  

 

ers

Rt woulé take the comndvence of a aucde
Sh IBY offleiais to sever thie situation oo okt

 

 

   

Et io undexsead thes as gost ag Hoover vee

dministered, ao the dges
Onde Wee inrocent
kuows te dosene of -

32
iiLfuliy

ecords Collection Act of 15992 (44

 

 

 

 

Use 2107
 

THeléased under. the John F. Kennedy Azsassination Rec ri i
4 Se y~-thewJ FF. = ecords CoLlection Act of. 1992 ¢
Hote}. : DATE: °11-1472017 cag use gne7

 

 

. Page rede

for Favarie, whe ia Enon for many yoearo by many felq |

Low euploycos to be on expresely Menvy dyinker if tot ;

an gloololicn Davards? conduct was undoubtedly covered: |

for and aot 4i8elosed to Hoovef at the tise A Repperie

ed py hia dumediate gsunerior, Taner He Geld, an Ags '

igtant Mivectors by John Pe Nour, an assietant to the |
i a

 
   

    

Mivector} and Lefer by the high venking. offic who
nag just eaaploted an inquiry inte the matsex’s and
possibly tha agent in Charge of the Phoemix Offies who i
yeportediy ® ust been promoted for his outatanding 7
suecess in Walsing to adeinioter a.gote of vhitetash
to Sduarda? west Feprehonsible toncucte

 

fe

 

  
  

 

 

Solin Pe Mohws ineidentally isa ove of the E

Big ®ive in the Bat Rieratety and is a velieknowa ;

Reavy Grinkes, probably et abegholiog Several years ‘

e age he Gas involved in a dfunmkea scene ia Toots wor’s |

- Bar in Sew York Gity bub was covered Por by His egooge '
Leta y suifered severe adainisirst

oes, action iseluding Que took the fop ¢

“dy for Mohr, wad beoken from hic hich position

‘phe voinstased da charge of one of.our Large ont

BSZ off.ees in sayaertt for services rendered in

tho fap fot Mote That offielel also Gas a Lois Lge -

tevy of heavy dcinkings Wei knows to BE hoadquerterge

 
   
 

   
 

    

 

@ Su

 

ck ah
es

 

 

 

Keay Bes alge been dnvelved in drunken
im othef placve including iidend,. where he
of arrested ab ene tide, Chitnga, Loe Angew
gto, Beles end his assecistes have best
Lo Keep him fvou being ovrested at other
nom dvanks. Bobr aloo has a brother whe

 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
  

 

“24800 in Dad checkS ong agaivet nin wher

 

gadis s
clivinets any other agent auplicant. Hie brother than
easily co shich ovdineriiy enkle for fidelity, | [
bravery, Lt : Hehe clso reportedly |
ic the brat
San," notor
ous of ESnegston, New Yorks
Wan never interfers@ with bis dazeling assent to the

 

 

 
i

|
|

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107
ote). | DATES 11-14-2017

| OPTIONAL FORM NO. 1 3010-106 ot : -
MAY 1962 EDIMON i
w=, "GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27 boot, . ye

4 UNITED. STATES GOVERNMENT. >

Memorandum.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TO - : MR, MOHR - pare 6417465 “Ren
an . : 7 . a . . Trotter
prom. W. STAVE st Bee
; 7 : . . Gandy
susject: ANONYMOUS LETTER DATED 6-10-65 TO Roure IN»
PRESIDENT JOHNSON POSTMARKED ON yy VEL OPE
-FORT WORTH, TEXAS, CONTAINING ALLEGATIONS ~~ \

AGAINST INSPECTOR-H-t,$EDWARDS AND OTHER =’,
BUREAU PERSONNEL” ’. a Co

: ; - : f et
- - Anonymous letter writer, signing himself "A loyal, concerned Bas FBI
employee," by letter to President Johnson dated 6-10-65, postmarked Fort Worth, Texas,’
makes several allegations against Bureau personnel. Director stated, 'Look into this
promptly. Isuspect someone in the Bureau here may be the author or is furnishing
infor mation to such ex-Agents as Turner or Levine. The postmark Ft.’ Worth means
nothing. H.’) . : . oo
“> Allegation #1: That Inspector H.L. Edwards attended Attorneys General
conference at Phoenix, Arizona; was found drunk in hotel room, was unable to deliver a
speech; later same night was stopped for driving on wrong side of road and running through
stop signs; and that ticket was fixed on instructions of high FBI officials in Washington.
Facts: Almost identical allegations received in previous anonymous letter to Director

‘dated 5-15-65 postmarked El Paso, Texas. My inquiry in Phoenix, as contained in my

memo 5-24-65, reflected allegations were distorted exaggerations; indications were that
Edwards delivered scheduled speech; was awakened next morning in hotel room, but no
evidence he was drunk; received ticket for unlawful speed which was not "fixed" but is still
on file in Phoenix Police Department; plea of guilty was entered by former SAC Edward
Boyle and judge suspended sentence. Edwards was censured for failure to report traffic
ticket. Allegation #2: Writer of present letter states above matter was recently brought
to Director's attention by one who attended the conference and a top aide was sent to
Phoenix where a whitewash was apparently administered as decision reportedly reached
that Edwards- was innocent and no administrative action was taken against him, certainly
none approaching that rigidly required by FBI rules. Facts: This obviously refers to my
inquiry. No "whitewash" was administered. - I obtained signed statements from Bureau
personnel, verified movements through #3 Cards, .personally examined police records,

 

‘

_ interviewed hotel manager,, police officers, judge, and others having ‘knowledge. of

incident and presented full facts to Director, who approved censure for Edwards.
Allegation #3: Edwards' conduct. was covered for and not disc lO eae Director at time it
happened by 4 ries)

happened by Assistant Director James Gale; you (Mr. Mohr) ne Y arid possibly

         

    

SAC at Phoenix, who eportedkyhas just been-prometed-for-his-suecesszin whitewashing —
ZENCLUSURE DEF Flihiy Ot 778 F/O

WST:jnir fe} Gibran: vo au piste Sone BEM
BS aes aa Co RECIAO Av JuL2@ 96S -

   

(2) :
one PO RABI tS te 5
wh we bert Boley LOB

ogda 32198458 Pea 25 19Bh CONTINUED ~ OVER

   
 
 

   

 

 

 

DATE: 11-14-2017
‘ : JFK Assassination System Date: 4/13/201
Identification Form
Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER:  124-10266-10151
" RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: — CR 67-798-3150
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: .CIT
FROM: ALOYAL, CONCERNED DL FBI EMPLOYEE
TO: JOHNSON, LYNDON B.
TITLE:
DATE: 06/10/1965
PAGES: 9
SUBJECTS :
JFK,-ALLEGATIONS OF MISCONDUCT, BUREAU OFFICIALS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 05/03/1995
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS: INC MEMO |
v9.1 1

DoclId:32196658 Page 1
’ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107
Hote). + DATE: 11-14-2017 i

Memo to Mr. Mohr from W. 8S. Tavel. . ; os
Re: Anonymous Letter dated 6-10-65 to President Johnson, etc. -

Edwards' conduct. Facts: Gale denies knowing of incident when it happened and no white-
wash resulted, SAC William Soyars has been transferred from Phoenix to Cincinnati since
my inquiry, with Director's approval, but his transfer had no relation to my inquiry.
Allegation #4: That several years ago you (Mr. Mohr) were involved in. drinking incident
at Toots Shor's in New York but were covered for-by associates, several of whom suffered
severe administrative action including transfers. One "took the rap'' for you, was broken
from his high position, but is now reinstated in charge of large eastern office as reward
for "taking rap" for you. Facts: On night of 5-8-57 SAC MacLennan, Pittsburgh Office,
then ASAC at.New York, had dinner with you and former SA T. F. Ring and non-Bur eau
personnel, and about 10:30 P.M; left the others and was stopped while driving personally
owned car alone shortly thereafter going wrong way on one-way street and did not have autc
registration with him. No charge was placed and officer said MacLennan was not under
influence of alcohol. MacLennan did not immediately report incident and was censured,
placed on probation, removed as ASAC, demoted to GS-13, and ordered under: transfer to
Kansas City but transfer was later canceled, and SA Joseph M. Zimmerman, Night Super-
visor who knew of incident and did not report it, was censured and removed as Supervisor
and Inspector's Aide.’ MacLennan has held several positions, including assistant to
Mr. Belmont,’ after leaving New York and prior to his present assignment. Allegation #5:
That you (Mr. Mohr) have also been involved in drunken escapades in other places,
including Miami where you allegedly were arrested at one time, Chicago, Los Angeles,
and Washington, D.C. Facts: You have denied this whole allegation categorically and have
stated that you have never been arrested in Miami or. elsewhere; Allegation #6: Your
brother, Paul J. Mohr, reportedly had upwards of $1,000 in bad checks out against him
when he applied for Special Agent position and investigation had. to be held up 3 times befor:
you were able to cover this blemish. Facts: Paul Mohr applied as SA 9-8-51 and entered’,
on duty 10-29-51, reflecting no delay in investigation. He listed $557 of outstanding debts /
including $300 loan from his brother, Chester, and $160 to General Services Adminis-
tration Credit Union where his credit was satisfactory. Credit agencies and police records
checked-reflected no credit difficulties or bad checks outstanding and he was earning ©
$3100: per annum. .Paul denies allegation, states is outright lie, and that he never had any
bad checks and didn't even have a checking.account prior to his entering Bureau. :
Allegation #7: You (Mr. Mohr) are reportedly brother-in-law of Sam Astoli, alias |
"Kingston Sam," notorious east coast bookie and. hoodlum operating out of Kingston,
New York. Facts: You have advised that the mother of Samuel Astolas, Jr., is a distant
relative of your mother's and you have had no significant contact with him. Bureau files
reflect he was.known as:Kingston Sam," is a professional handicapper,, and had associatec
with bookies and gamblers in Kingston, New York; Cincinnati; and Newport, Kentucky,
according to reports in 1953, 1960 and 1961. . ;

 

 

 

Writer also criticizes Bureau's weight program and what he:terms.the
Director's "destructive personnel policy." He suggests the President may wish to have
John W. Macy, Jr., Chairman of Civil Service Commission, review recent instances of

~2-

,Decld:32196658 Page 3 8 (OVER)
Released under“the-Tonn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act—ef-1992- {44 US€ 2107
Hote}. ! DATE: -i- 14-2017

i ~ - ow | ; . eo ' .

ao no, Qables, Tans Sg
hee Sune 20, 29e8
i : .

Pi MASOUA

 

es zyndea Be Johnsen co
Preeident of the Vaulted Stetes . I
. fag sdte House a
: Yash AnsGony Gove

 

seat Bre Yohugene

   
            

ne £ ones at being to yoee |
feotine oar ae vibonad ne of ;

 
    

   

& ae

         
  
        
 
 
  
      

tention & ectaeaa. masse
. i the fe
a

pete
proginen’
ie SS e280
Samad nt wl

  
   

 

   
 

   
    

ee an ble asked Pout
tea goviveds 4
$o the efor BE

  

 
   

ma Baus

 

  
      

 
   

sos to Lot Bebb gtough atone
e Ea% amas ae ns Waa <
ten ghopsed |

ot

    

8
nie es < maa 2 penis
ae oa the $0
; arise

    

        
  
     
    

 

*. to tee ote

. er eegeh] ‘sgh is ede *
be emis Sollee Depariienhs & eeeeanee
: ay 2 Pal ching tou wi Enou AG x8 pepgaen tions. o

 
 

 

yadies of ihe. Fe
cna allow fee UO. Foe

Sate nine

 
  

 

 

    

 

 

 

og OSURE 6 PP = BLED

“BooId: 32196658 Page 4
