Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hote) -
date! 11-14-2017
a 8 oxy coe . ra 7“

. . 5 : . . N\.

Bdne Exanigan te fulliven
rei EL OF PANSZNNT IN US. SECRET
: AND Fils COMMONWEALTH OG} SCERTO Rzco .

   

has vroturned to the USSR and wo do not know tho identity of

oy Volbortha'’s new Soviet prdneiy. aL Any inadvertent interview om

eraane of You Yolborth by anott nex Tedozal agoncy or local
clais would alert the KG to the fact that there is a
conotrats On ot thelr New Youle Robidoney since Von Volborth was’
handled fvom that resideacy and only a limited nuwver of porzong
thero wore avare of bigs oxistonco, The KGB has boon particularily
aise’ to the gituatien as it. affeeta the residoncy in Row York ever

“pines the asweste in the Eutenko e290 in the Fall of 2963, Any
further alarm gonerated by the uncovering of Von Volborth would
Serve te theay suspicion en our FEDORA informant, particulavly

“a2 zive ether sources of the EGS whose identities have beon
Senet ned to us by FEDORA and whe are Linted in the Special Section
e2 the G2, wore Likewise intesyioved or placed under vosuzaint by
ethos Fedora o1 agoncies or local authorities 3)

 
  

 

ao canoe ia true iss ‘tho. ease of four oepfonase agents

“. serving the Soviet Military Intelligence (GhU) whose identities
ae were given us by cus TOPHAD ingormans who is mow in the USSR, £2
, one of thea was inadvertently notified of Government interest, 4%
at be considered accidental by tho GlU. 22 four of them wore °
gnc svertent iy slexted, wo would have placed ow ESPHAT inafornmant’s
aize in geopar eer)

    

wey

   

 

£3 tose ag the Porsau made taing a gent grip on the
anvestications of these esedonage agents and controls the activities
Sh agencies vragerding then, furaishing only that information
which “: nosessavy for the covering of honds os for tho alerting of
torme-loyel offZelalg of eur Goverment, wo can choose tho anprorpriate
: . tine to sove an om the subjocts and their principals lcoking toward
wee, proceeut sow ean tho ene hand and povgona non grata ection on the other.

13)
ty
°
ng

 

 

Yhea-we relonse the facts “to the Seoret Bozvico to handle —
they wilt whenever the Prosidont travols, we can no Longe: control
: towday Gporaticns o- take nocessary steps to protect our
3, Without which ouy coverage of bles intelligence would
exad restricted. : .

a) a

 
 
 
  
   

 

ies
is]
Be

GE

 

was believed that you would want te know the true fzcts
sstnaae vbogarding theses capes, If the Director atill wants to —
SmonLGato these 16 sensitive eapdonage ences to the Seceret Services,
wii be done, This Division feclis the Birecter would want to know
: ; S80. _broblons dnvelived and the possible. hara whieh would come theeuga
y Luca c& Dhanket Siscomination.. ' wer I think OX not

to disseminate data on
these 16. T f1

 

    
 
 
 
  

 

Docld: 32319667 Page 5 _
 

| Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
BaTE: {1-14-2017

amy : os At Fotront

a C ; ( ’ Bebaivan

" e. . . : 2
yen IN ENVELOPE bre:

. iy ~ ‘SECRED i © Beanies

We CG. Sulldven | Ga

 

  

Ve A. Branigan

ae Fi « Wattson a

 

IN fn Ue Be
ca OF PUERTO RICO

 
  

is

 
     

Deoletiiy on: OR Lyfes

Ba

  

 

   
    

 

   

: Forvinent references
So espionage subjects appear in paragraph 3, pare 2, and tho Last
paragraph on paga S. The SAC Letter points out the necessity for

protecting cur dowble agents, sources of information and infowmants.(e\

| . _Somorandum Rranigan to Sullivan 6-24-64 pointed ews when:
Bureau L4icet drafted its proceduve for the Security Fades (SZ) it
8 was recognized there would be subjects dnvolived in eaploaage whou
ae | io would uot be desirable to apprehend in en emergency. Tho .
Be - DSivcetey indicated that he did not recall asy such understanding.
Bae . : ; CH a : ;
eB 4 3 SAG Letter S23¢e)7 wories 1952, dated Mawch 3, ISS1, pointed
Ce 2 , esplonces subjects ava maintained in the Sreceial Esotion -
4 ea z
; Ee ga atvoy chances of penstratien and control of an oporatinge espin ace:
i 2 5 ae ‘ee Sees
|e % peraliel og would dostz known chances of motration and contros
a is] ‘a + Py ~
eo @ a ce pe Tain SAC Lotter rolating to the Epecial
SERS Seats °
“nu eed

fe. Tolson has oxpretsed the opinion that a2 SI ecbsgects
gue

vmdshed to the Secret Service, and the Dircoter has

    

- 6 As kelieved the Ditector would want to know gone cf the
of the prebliens wo face. (fot forth boley ave sono specific

 

 

  
 
 
   

we v2 foom tho 16 cases mow contained in. tho Eephonage Spceial
| Seetaen of the 82, which have not yet been given Sserot Sorvico [OA
ent

Sinetion mish bo drawn between Limited dissemination at s bifh
‘ek wivactly fer the purpose of. information ov for tha hendling

2 a Limited Acad by another. agency and dissominatics to the Secrot
Services where we do nob control their further dissemination to othe,
Coveriasns agencies ox local authorities,

: : . oe : : te

   
  
 
 
 

mutay ~ Smatay has been identified by ous high-Lovol ponc~ _
von Cf Ceach Sntelligence os a Czech Lilegal agent. Hoe has been

cho 0.5. sizes duly, 1959,. and is currently employed by the s )

 

 

 

CLASSIFIED BY St6¥ sep /;
‘DECLASSIFY ON: 25x

  
   

  

 

 

 

DoclId:32319667 Page 2
 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC INT Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

 

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/15/201
Identification Form
Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10371-10198
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: = 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-A12
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: BAUMGARDNER
TO: SULLIVAN
TITLE:
DATE: 02/26/1965
* PAGES: 205
SUBJECTS :
HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, SECRET SERVICE
DISSEMINATION POLICY FOLDER
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 05/18/1999
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE .
COMMENTS : INC FOLDER, MEMO, LET, SUMMARY, A/T, MANUAL, AGREEMENT, DRAFT

eS — — — — ———

vol
Docld:32319667 Page 1

90
' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination, Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
bate: {1-14-2017 ;

  

pe - . aaa
2 la : “ »
. Sy vf ‘
Mond Deaniens to Sullivan. @EUNEL
Poe NAGS: OF PRESENT IN TSS Us.
é ium wat ue tee sates, €
(™ AS TEE COMONWEALTN OF BUERTO RIOG

 

this ilicgal by Czech Antellinenea ain the U.S, was by ow informant,
Cuo Ingoruant ig new back dn his native country and 46 oxgpectcd to
coutinus to Zuvaish to the U.8. high-level intelilégoncs tnforiatione¢)

an inedvertent 4uterview of or ‘physical restraint placed

upon Onwtny ky another agency of the Government or by Lecal 2
sutaoritics could jeopardize the safety of cur Czach Antornanti(s )

 

fenot Vivo» = Ulver has likewise been identified by cur Righelevel
od of Czech lntelidgence as 2 Czech illegal agent, Ho
entered tha U.S. in August, 1953, from Horway, Ho as currently
enployed a8 a traveling salesman out of Hew York City selling
roligious svtleles throuchout the Middle Vest. According to our’
Caech infsvmant, Ulvor has notified Croch antollicence that he vas
_ Roady t begda optwations, but our investigation indicates ho nas
- . ten traveling extensively in pursuit of his employment and hag
yot to take any action inddeating he is filling an intellisencs
_aeaigument, faadvertent action by another agency of the Government
or by Loesk authorities purcuant te a wequest by Secret Serviee would
unquestionabiy alert Ulwer and make it utrensly ditficault te cover hd:
; . wubcequent movements. He might be. replaced by an illegal wo know
acthisg about and our Czech fdafermant mow in Bia native country would
be undes suspicion.(s) . oe

  

«

Paviecka « Paviecks ig an outetanding mochanfeal and

af engukeor enurrently onmployed at the Rockotdyne Divinion o2
Howth Jmoelean Aviation, Canoga Park, Calivornaia, Gux hishelovel

' Eutoemant ia Caech tatelligenes has identified Paviecka cs a paid
Croco goures of dnformaticn. Uere again, our Czech informant was in
aosual contact with Pavlecka and since cus informast’s rota to his
mative country, Pavlecka has not boen in 2 meeting with other Cech
intollicescs representatives. Ee bas sent 2 ‘gignal letter to

soloyakis Signaling for a meeting with Cz¢ch intelligence, in

Eere again, inadvertent action by other Federal or iscel

| AUERGTICICS could disvupt our entire coverage of this case and would
 eertainly Seopardise cu Czech ingormant. If the two other Gncch
eae ; subject o2

| Overt aitontion by Iscai ov Federal authorities, moat cortainly

 

    
  
 

 
    
 
 
   
 

 

ii Merreto = Harress ta a Castro-Cuban agent presentiy
n wow York Clty, Be had a background of Communist Party

rsrip wp %o 1950, Tho Sdentafieation of Morrero as a Castro<

- Cebah cgony grew cut of infornation develepsd by Commeicationzs

. Extelligencs through the Natioual Security Agency, which information

: ()

any . o

 

 

     
 

 

 

 

 

[secre semaeer Page 3
; Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) -

PATE: £1-14-2017

Py f
© 4 .

 

os . .
i liom Girandcaa te fullivan
: bat ‘TRAVG CP? PRESENSNT 2M ULS,

430 S28 COSMONWEALTH @ PUSHTO RECO ,

Seunty

  

ennnot to duciuded tn communications prepared for dinsentuation. |
iin Cactwo-Guban agent activities have so faz toen the furnichiay
of dsta volating to anti-Castro individuals and erganimationg. Eo
unce Letter drops in Cuba and Menleo, employing eooret writing,
Eundvertont action on the part of othor Fedoral or Local awthoration
would slort Mayrero toa the fact that Ho was euxvontly under +,
cueplcicn. Bo would no lonsor use ccwmunications channels wate
We aro covering and we would lose the benefit of cur current /
coverage With BS assurance, particularly 42 thaerrere was replaced
by tae Cubans, of being able to cover his wreplacenont. (&)
Exihus Hovey Ruandel » Svandoliag a native-born eftison tesiding fin
VRSHLagtcu, B.C, Be is a former “New Yorks Times" porresponcent,

cwrently 8 Sreddance weiter ands member of the OQvercoas Brass Club
Go is a pald coures of the Teposlay Intelligence Service wheee
Tugouiav principal is our informant. Any inadvertent daterview op
physica! restriction of Braadel. by anether Governnont agency os Local

| Bwehoritics would ba extremely detrincntal to our Yugoslav inforneant

and might, of course, raise the question of administrative pregsuvo oz
hows madla represcutativess (6). ae oe

 

o

 

       
  

tote: Bonner = Bonner 4a ea aatdive-born eitison who is Vice
an Uiarge Of Foreign Operations fer Daco Zastrument Coupany,
: New York. Ho is a paid seurce of Yugoslav intelligences.
Untad Horch 80, 1064, ho had boon an ongincoring divictanm chic? cf

    
 

de
2%

ae

    

Suet

     
  
  

nNash background who came to this
in 1955 and has a petition for American citizenship pending.
nenerelogist empleyed at the University of Hovada, Reno, -
Vo. ar@_ aware of one clandestine meeting with a KGS agont,
Svan Eslev, in San Srancisco’s.China Town dn February, 1953. Lolov

 

         

 

we ne ‘ Se eee De eee cae

 

 

DoclId:32319667 Page 4
