i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

O

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 Usc 2107 Hotey.
[ DATE: 11-14-2017 ,
[
i

@ O

SECRET

Oo

Two other points are also worth making. First, if we
officially confirm what the public may logically suspect about
the nature and extent of our counter-intelligence investigative
activities outlined in these documents, the countries in question
woulda be all but compelled to diplomatically respond. We may
presume that most nations will tolerate in diplomatic stoicism
the clandestine intelligence activities of their peers so long as
such activities remain officially covert but no country can be
expected to countenance the publicly avowed targeting and
investigation of their diplomatic inviolate establishments and
agents without reaction. The inevitable ramifications of such
official acknowledgements would complicate and impair the
relations of even long-standing allies, much less those of former
enemies or neutrals. Uncertainties in this arena may. adversely
affect evolving relationships in others. When the relationships
in question are in a state of evolution, such as those ‘between
Russia and the United States, the impact of such a disclosure may
prove especially harmful. ore)

Second, if we declassify today the investigative
techniques that we use when targeting foreign establishments, .
officials, and agents, we may not under prevailing classification
principles keep classified the same information tomorrow.

Thus, even though the consequences of a seemingly innocuous
disclosure may be well understood in a particular context,
assessing their impact from all other relevant perspectives is
difficult at best. rf, ‘for example, we declassify our use of
mail covers, wire interceptions, lookout logs, money traces, and
so forth to investigate Soviet officials in this instance, then
all other uses of the same techniques on the same officials in
other situations may: prove impossible to classify in the future
en the grounds that disclosure would compromise foreign
relations. Put differently, once we discard the policy against
officially acknowledging our use of particular investigative
techniques against specific foreign establishments and agents, we
can no longer use it to justify withholding similarly sensitive
information in the future. Just as importantly, once the policy
is breached, we may not be able to use it to shield our use of
similar techniques on other countries which we target for
surveillance. The same issue, for example, can be expected to
arise with regard to our investigation of other members of the
former Soviet bloc,/France, Venezuela, Israel, and a large number
of other nations. 3)

 

7 See Fitzgibbon v. CIA, 911 F.2d 755 (D.C. Cir. 1990).

SECRET
10

oclTd:32319956 Page 6
 

 

iy fssassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 707 Hote;.
O C

SECRET

, DATE: 11-14-2017

' between a Polish government news correspondent and an American
attorney while the latter reports onfan intercepted teletype sent
by one component of the Cuban governimént to another ] (S)

Again, one may surmise that the FBI has an interest in
eavesdropping on the telephone and teletype conversations of the
agents of its adversaries without being privy to any classified
materials. That, however, does not mean that the how, when,
where, and why of such electronic interceptions are well or even
hardly known. On the contrary, our abilities in this regard are,
and should remain, closely guarded secrets. Electronic
intercepts of foreign conversations is an investigative technique
that we employ on a daily basis. We cannot afford to compromise

its effectiveness by admitting that, as long ago as 1963, we were
able to and did intercept aftranggceanic telephone conversation
conducted on a dedicated eircui etween two foreign individuals,
one of whom was located in the” Soviet capitol, or that we were
able to ang did intercept a(wire transmission from Havana to New
York city}©)pisclosure would also reveal the speed with which we
were ablé& to translate and digest these conversations and
transmissions, our interests and priorities, and what we
considered important or trivial. Such information will be used
to develop and deploy effective countermeasures. a

 

Similar arguments apply to documents 10019, 10140, and
124~-10027-10405 (HQ 62-109060-1739) concerning mail covers on the
Soviet Embassy. Together these documents show that we were able
to track a wide variety of correspondence going to and froma
number of Soviet officials at the Embassy. Our abilities,
interests, uses, and priorities can all be cogently surmised if
this information is released. Perhaps more importantly, official
acknowledgement of this technique will cause the government
concerned and others in which we have investigative interests to
reassess the security of their written communication systems,
complicating, if not weakening, our collection efforts. u

 

Portions of document 124-10027-10133 (HQ 62-109060-
2155) should be protected for essentially the same reasons.
Here, however, we would note that our ability to compare
typewriting specimens and fingerprints to known samples from
Soviet officials is not commonly known or even suspected. Even
if it were, an official acknowledgement that we employed such
techniques as long ago as the early 1960's under the
circumstances outlined in this document would provide foreign
governments with ample reason to tighten their security, change
: their habits, and deploy false leads, making it all the more
; difficult to execute our counter-intelligence mission. (XL)

 

SECRET

 

 

 

 

}

" PocTa: 32319958 Page 7
 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 7iUT Hotey-.

‘ DATE? 11-14-2017
. om,
O WS

SECRET
(s)
Governnend} é We also seek to postpone disclosure of other
nformation in the document which would reveal that the

information was derived from a telephone conversation. At least
one of the parties to the conversation is alive and would likely
recall that the conversation vas [telephonief: this_information
is not protected, thus confirming the existence of (our tarhe =

Document 10222 is a two-page teletype that discusses a
statement released to the press by the Cuban government. We seek
to protect from disclosure those portions of the document,
including the symbol number, (Enat reveal our interception of
teletype traffic between the Cuban government in Havana, Cuba and
the Cuban Mission to the United Nations in New York, New York-]6)

)

Document 124-10027-10133 (HQ 62-109060-2155) is a one-
page memorandum that discusses an apparent crank letter sent to
the Bureau alleging that President Johnson conspired with
communist agents to assassinate President Kennedy. We seek to
protect the words "Soviet official" and "Soviet officials in the
U.S." since, in context, they demonstrate that we had typewriter
specimens of Soviet government typewriters and fingerprint
samples of some Soviet officials in the United States. 9)

Discussion

In executing its law enforcement and counter-
intelligence missions, the FBI employs a wide variety of
investigative techniques and procedures. Some of these methods
are widely known. That we implement wiretaps and mail covers to
gather information, for example, is hardly a surprise. How,
when, where, and under what circumstances we make such
interceptions, are, however, closely guarded secrets. Similarly,
that we often attempt to "follow the money" through analysis of
financial records may be intuitive but how, when, and why we do
so are matters the disclosure of which may seriously erode our
ability to carry out analogous operations in the future.
Further, if the target of such activity is a foreign nation,
disclosure of the activity's existence will inevitably prejudice
foreign relations. (U)

© Yn the second paragraph of the State Department memorandum of 4/3/96, the State Department
inadvertently refers to the "name of the informant" when discussing this document. Although the document
refers to an informant, the source of the information was, as indicated above really an intercept of a
conversation between two individuals] (S).

SECRET
6

DoclId:32319958 Page 5
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (4d USC 2107 Hote).

, DATE: (11-14-2017
ofS
O ~

~ SECRET

Even were Russia to pay little heed to the practical
aspects of these disclosures, it surely could not diplomatically
countenance this direct acknowledgement of our use of the
technique to monitor its diplomatic establishment's bank accounts
and financial transactions. We cannot with certainty predict the
exact nature of the Russian reaction, but we are confident that

| United States-~-Russian relations will significantly suffer. The
State Department concurs in this view. 4) VA)

Just as importantly, other nations that utilize
| diplomatic bank accounts and locally issued monies will be
‘ sensitized to our ability to monitor their own financial
activities. In addition to employing their own countermeasures,
we would expect such countries at the least to seek assurances
from the United States that we will respect the security of their
accounts--assurances that may prove diplomatically difficult if
not impossible to provide. Foreign nations could also be
expected to argue that our use of such techniques against their
establishments and officials violates international treaties and
law, as well as diplomatic standards. For these and similar
reasons, neither the State Department nor the FBI officially
acknowledges that the FBI uses particular techniques to
investigate foreign officials or establishments. Given today's
uncertain and evolving relationships between the United States
and many countries, particularly Russia and the other former
members of the Soviet blog, we cannot afford to reverse that long
standing policy now. (KYM)

We seek to postpone portions of Document 10396 for
similar reasons. As noted above, this two-page document
originated in New York and reports on a telephone conversation
between two Soviet news correspondents, one in New York and one
in Moscow. The Board has agreed to postpone disclosure of the
symbol number. We are gratified for this action since disclosure
of the symbol would have revealed that the document was the fruit
of a telephone intercept in New York City. The Board, however,
refuses to postpone the name of the subject--the correspondent in
New York--and his Tass affiliation, the identity of the
individual to whom he was speaking and her Pravda affiliation,
and language which suggests that the information was gleaned from
a telephone conversation between the two. In other words, the
Board refuses to protect the very information that we sought and
the Board decided to protect by postponing disclosure of the
symbol number. (mC

For virtually identical reasons, we also seek to ?
protect the indicated portions of documents 10048 and 10222. The
former concerns an interception of #Fetephond) conversation

5)

 

i SECRET
8

DoclId:32319958 Page 6
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 Usct 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-24-2017 C CO
: 7 an

SEReP
May 10, 1996
BY HAND

The Honorable William J. Clinton
President of the United States
Washingt

 
 
 

   

Dear Mr. President:

For the reasons set forth in detail in the enclosure,
this letter requests that you exercise your authority, under
Section 9(d) of the President John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992, to postpone public disclosure of
portions of thirteen documents ordered released by the
Assassination Records Review Board. (U) :

. Consistent.with the spirit of the Act, the FBI has
cooperated extensively with the Board and made the broadest
disclosure of documents in our history. Over 600,000 pages of
material have been transferred to the National Archives, and we
are working to transfer another 250,000. We have withheld very
4 little, deferred to the Board whenever possible, and appealed on
only one previous occasion. Nonetheless, when vital national
interests would be compromised by the release of certain
information we have asked the Board to postpone disclosure.

Unfortunately, in this instance the Board has refused to accede
to our request. (U) : :

Disclosure of the documents in question would reveal
investigative or surveillance techniques used to gather important
information from foreign countries. Disclosure of this material
would compromise those techniques and impair foreign relations

 

\ \a nif Ey :
eee kee!

$005 If

- Director 1 - Mr. Lewi:

 

 

 

1 S. Keeley
1 - Mr. Kennedy 1 - Mr. Collingwood 1 - Mr. P. Kelley
dea Or, 1 - Mr. R. Bucknam 1 - Mr. K. O'Brien 1 -,Mr. D. Evans
om «1 - Mr. Bryant 1 - Mr. Maddock 1 - ALU Tickler
so: = dl = Ms. Morris 1 - Mr. Bowman 1.- ALU Library _
cmiw. sis. += Mr. Perry 1 - Mr. Divers Ku9 So AY :
SSa——  ‘PWK:pwk (22) OL aSpFIED ay DGG? eo :
men, on 37, 19... AEE S CE eres
os eaerer eRe crepe
id Legal Coun. . .
. tone Ne SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHED
Ot of SEOA __ \ UNCLASSIFIED “Dp FROM SIFIED ENCLOSURE
= PLOVER" CasereTED gras
Off. of Pupec .
a — ay Sera (aborary Maire
Telsonone Obexas Prece _ Naknd Soc Otoe of Public &
; *omee— MAILROOM | Copy Ohad Gen Corns LN Penars Cony Nem FavDON
DoclId:32319958 Page 2 : MO
 

Date: 3/31/201

! :
‘ JFK Assassination System
' Identification Form

Agency Information
i .
AGENCY: FBI ;
i RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10372-10290
i
' :
RECORD SERIES: | HQ . ~
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 62C-HQ-1029205-1182

‘
————— ~~ rrerw sc CO Sc

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ
TO: WH
TITLE:
DATE : + 05/10/1996
PAGES: 15
SUBJECTS :

; JFKARCA OF 1992
DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT>
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: —Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 04/01/1999
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
- COMMENTS : INC PETITION

 

ee i

v9.1 4
DoclId:32319958 Page 1 ,
 

 

 

 

Docld: 32319958

ion Records Collection Act of 19927 (di USC 7iIvT Werer™

 

FT DATE: 24-14-2017

with the concerned countries. Those

 

disclosures, the State Department consi
documents significantly prejudicial to

I must, consequently, appeal the relea

(U)

 

  

countries and others in
111 quickly. take 0...
ignificance of ‘the

   

    

Sincerely,

Louis J. Freeh
Director

Enclosure

1 - Honorable Warren M. Christopher

1-

The Secretary of State

U.S. Department of State .
Washington, D.c.

The Honorable Jamie s. Gorelick
The Deputy Attorney General

U.S. Department of Justice
Washington, D.c.

Mr. David G. Marwell
Executive Director

Assassination Records Review Board
Washington, D.c.

srener

SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHED

UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED FROM CLASSIFIED ENCLOSURE

Page 3
 

    

  

eleased under the
_ PATE:, 11-14-2017

ennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 USC Pi0T Hote;.

O O

Document 10019 is a two-page document that relates to
various investigative activities, including an interview of an
individual named Cedric Younger Von Roldeston, who was also known.
as Arthur Swift. Von Roldeston claimed to have visited the
Soviet Embassy in Washington, D.C. To confirm this claim, the
document reveals that the "lookout logs" maintained by the Bureau
on visitors to the Soviet Embassy were checked. Similarly, the
document notes that Arthur Swift wrote to, and received a reply
from, the Soviet Ambassador, thus revealing the existence of a
"mail cover" on the Soviet Embassy. We seek to postpone ;
disclosure of the words "lookout logs" and "USSR Ambassador." 109)

Document 10140 is a two-page teletype that originated
in Boston and describes the activities of a mentally disturbed
individual. The document is unremarkable from our perspective
except for the portion which discloses that the Bureau maintained
a "mail cover" on the USSR Embassy. We seek to postpone the word
"correspondence" from the document. Similarly, document 124-
10027-10405 (HQ 62-109060-1739) is a three-page document that
describes the activities of a man named Allen. We seek to
postpone language on the second page which would reveal the
existence of an FBI “mail cover" on the Soviet Embassy. 16,9)

 

Document 10396 originated in New Yo and concerns a
telephone conversationfon a dedicated circui etween a
correspondent in the United States of Tass, “a Soviet government
controlled news organization, and an employee in Moscow of
Pravda, a communist-party controlled news organization. We
intercepted this conversation through technical surveillance of
the ffransoceanic cable on which the circuit was carrie The
convérsation focused on American press coverage of Lee Harvey
Oswald and related matters. We seek to postpone disclosure of
the Tass correspondent's name, his Tass affiliation, the identity
of the individual to whom he was speaking and her Pravda
affiliation, and language which suggests that the information was
gleaned from a telephone conversation between the two.

Similarly, document 10048 concerns a telephone [S )
conversation between a correspondent of the Polish Government's
official newspaper, "Trybuna Ludu," and an attorney hired by the
mother of Lee Harvey Oswald. We seek to protect the symbol
number for the "informant" mentioned in the document since the
number reveals that the information was(freally obtained from a
telephone tap on a diplomatic establishment of the Polish |)

SECRET

DoclId:32319958 Page 4
