 

218. ROE was asked point-blank how long he

 

required a visa to enter the U.S.S.R. ROE and his wife did
not obtain passports which would obligate tnem to the :
U.S.S.R., preferring to remain stateless. RO#'s brother -
and sister, Michael and Dorothy, registered for Soviet pass-
ports and with the Shanghai Soviet Citizens' Association. .-
nad been
assisting the Russian: Intelligence Service. He was aston-
ished by this accusation and denied any connection in this
respect; -He was then asked about his knowledge of FUZZY

and ne emphatically denied knowing such a person. He was
prompted that this person may have resided in Alberta at

one time. His recollection of the person indicated was ~
quite spontaneous then and he stated that he once sent

money to a man in Peace River, Alberta, but could not recall .
his neme. He explained that his wife's mother, Mrs. Maria
SKOURTHINA, and her daughter were living in Harbin,

Manchuria during the time the ROEs were in Shanghai. Jack
ROE and his brother-in-law, Herman MUENSTER and his wife
(Mrs. ROM's sister, Lucy) had been supporting Mrs. SKOURIHINA
by sending parcels and money. After the ROEs left Shanghai
for North America, Mrs. SKOURIHINA's support was carried on.
by MUENSTER and in part by Dorothy ROE, subject's sister.
When MUBNSTER and his family left for Germany in.195u,

Mrs. SKOURIHINA had to locate additional avenues of support.

   

19. _ At this time there were a good number of people
who wore planning to leave or had left China and, due to
strict currency controls, were using various methods to get
their funds out of the country. Mrs. SKOURIHINA contacted
@ number of people who were willing to use their funds to

‘support her in return for her relatives in Canade depositing

equal amounts with persons they designated in Canada, the
U.S.A., or other countries. ROE stated: that he forwarded
funds to some five or six people in Canada and the U.S.A. in
this respect, but could not recall the names. The names of
FUZZY and SIDOROFF did not mean anything to him, but the
mention of Peace River brought to mind the transfer of funds.
Re believed that, in all, he forwarded some $200.00 to the
party in Peace River in 1955 or 1956. ROE stated that he .-

’ never knew the name of the party who supplied the funds in

China. Although he cannot recall the exact amounts, ROE
stated that his mother-in-law was receiving between $20.00
ana $25.00 per month from 1955 until leaving China in 1958.
ROE assured the writer he would attempt to locate his old
bank-books and any other documentation which might corrob-
orate and further clarify his submissions. . :

20. Mrs. ROE's story agreed with that of her husband
with a few natural differences. She was later allowed to
answer questions in the presence of her husband in
connection with the money transfer. Her narration in this.

HW 53199) DocId:32348311 Page 9_
 

-
ij
i

| HW 53199

 

 

regard tallied with that of her husband, but she could not
shed any additional light on the names of the persons ~-

connected with the money transfers.

21. : Mrs. ROE supplied the following background infor-
mation on herself: Lowes wee -

Nadejda (Nadine) ROE, nee BEKETOFF, born July 1,
1914, Handoletze, Manchuria. She moved to
‘Harbin with her family when several years of
age. She attended private schools and has Co
obtained an educational equivalent of Grade 13. . ° -
Mrs. ROE was married in Shanghai on August 10, -
19l, and has one child, Catherine, born in.
Shanghai, November 13, 1946. She has been with.
her husband since marriage and has never been
employed other than as a housewife.

22. - In addition, Mrs. ROE related the names of the
following persons who are former residents of China with.
whom they are acquainted in Canada:

: Igor and Irene MASHEN, R.R. #1, Maple, Ontario.
He is a self-employed architect whom they
’ first met in Toronto. MASHEN was born in Harbin.

" .Soye BORODKIN, 419 - h2nd Ave., San Francisco,
a single woman they both knew in Shanghai.

ROE produced a copy of a letter to one P.K.

23.
PAINITSKY in Wellesley, Mass. from Herman MUENSTER, which

outlines the methods used to transfer money, also the
address of the recipient, Mrs. SKOURIHINA. The letter is
attached hereto. Also attached is a copy of an account
statement prepared by MUENSTER for ROE, showing the names
of some of the persons involved in the money transfer. You
will note that SIDOROFF's and FUZZY's names are shown for
March, 1956. In.addition, the names of Miss WEISSMANN, to
the account of RIVKIN, JAKOLEVA, Australia and account of
KRUIKOVA in Australia. ROE stated that he has never met
any of these people, nor is he aware of their whereabouts
now. His only contact with them was in the transfer of
funds and he can only remember their names by virtue of
the account sheet. lso attached is a letter of thanks
from J.M, LIFSHIZ of Los Angeles concerning a cheque for
the $25.00. This is in connection with the RIVKIN account.

2h. _ To substantiate his story in connection with the .
Paragon Men's Wear Shop, ROE produced the attached letterhead
indicating the existence of this firm at 1291 Avenue Joffre.
He could offer no explanation for the allegation that he was
a Brigadier in the 7th Brigade of the Shanghai Soviet

DocId:32346311 Page 10 .

 
 
  

. . a . 7 -
wn ad : . ed eee tenes Bee wet eee vent tte ee

ne

Peper 7 }
siegt adOo! . . 4dO> * t
Ouse: . ee Ouaxi . . “Lousx . ou!
., eS? Napete’ Me
.
s

Paul POLOTSKY, 7461 Kingsley Rd., Ste. 704, Montreal,
. an a Russian Jew who had worked for ROE in Shanghai, ~
now a manufacturers' agent. :

Arthur KUPITSKY, 4.30 Willowdale St., Apt. 7,
Montreal, a Russian Jew who had been in the fur
aay business in Shanghai. He presently operates a
stocking factory in Montreal. , .

Alex KELEN, 582 Plantagenet Pl., Montreal, Hungarian
Jew, civil engineer whom source had known in China.

Alex GROSSMAN, Apt. 02, 4855 Cote de Luc Rd.,
Montreal, lawyer whom he met in Shanghai..

ROE also mentioned that he had met Eugene ELENSKY of
Weston, an electrical engineer, who was a former
resident of Harbin. , .

16. ROE then advised that he had the following
; relatives:

Miss Dorothy ROB, sister, Canadian citizen, employed ~
as a nurse, 128 Glendale, Toronto. .

Michael ROE, brother, deceased, Australia. _

Nura (Mrs. Thomas) O'NEIL, 421 Poplar St., Santa Cruz,
California. Sister. ~ .

’ Adele (Mrs. Paul) KOMOR, 115 Anthony St., Santa Cruz, .
California. Sister. .

. Riva (Mrs. Robert) HARPER, 129 Los Altos Ct.,
Santa Cruz, California. Sister.

Joseph RUGALSKY, Los Angeles (?), left China in
1914. . Brother. , :

17. At this point ROE was given time to think over his
_ answers and to consider carefully if he had been truthful and
complete in his story. He indicated that he had. He was 7
then questioned as to his feelings about the Soviet Union.
RO stated that he had spent most of his adult life in China
: . . in the compang-of Russian emigres who no longer wished to
. return to the U.S.S.R. and, in addition, he indicated that
: Paul KOMOR, who is anti-communist, had a strong influence on
his life and, therefore, had no pan-Slavic feelings about
the U.8.8.R. In an effort to prove his point, ROK stated
; that after the war the Soviet Consulate in Shanghai was
: issuing passports to all Russian citizens. However, the
HW 53199 Docra:3Rassporta, wore Of a restricted variety in that the holder
 

“12, Since his arrival in Canada, ROE has had the
- following employment: . : ‘ a

1950 - 1955 - Frank Hacking Ltd., hh Yonge St.
: . ’ Import and Export - Salesman of
: sundries and chinaware. i :

1955 - 1961 - Wentworth Trading Co., Hamilton -
Manager. Importers of giftware,
including Czechoslovakian and . .
Hungarian glassware. (32 McNab St. S.)

1961 ~ 1962 - 9 months, Frank Hacking Ltd.

7 Oke

Hamilton. Agents for Wickware-_
Stackbin Ltd. of Perth, Ontario. .
ROE is a sub-agent of Travers Co. .-
selling steel shop bins to various
manufacturers in the Southern .
Ontario area.

In addition, ROE was considering starting his own import-
export firm after leaving Frank Hacking Ltd., but he stated
after writing for a number of samples of various lines, he
felt it was too precarious a venture and decided on a
position offering more security, and thus, the Travers job.

1962 to present - R.D. Travers Co., 1 Duke Ste,

13. ROE is operating on a part-time basis as a manu-
facturers! agent representing the Swedish Cordage Co.,
Sweden, producers of plastic-coated clotheslines which ROE
has marketed to Simpson's and Eaton's. He has imported
approximately $3,000 worth of goods from this firm. In
addition, he represents the Evertex Wall Covering of
Rochester, N.Y., having imported some $1,000 worth of goods.

Ly. . ROE advised that he has resided at the following
’ addresses in Canada: . ;
1949 - 1950 - 6 months, 1229 Yonge Street,
; Toronto ; :
1950 - 1951 - 6 months, 309 Indian Road,
Toronto

1951 - 1953. - 138 Glendale Avenue, Toronto
1953 - 1954 - 136 Government Road, Toronto
195h-+ 1955 - 92 Haddon Av. South, Hamilton
1955 - Present -129 Haddon Av. South, Hamilton.

15. At this stage, ROE was asked to provide the names
of associates and friends living on this continent who were
of Russian origin or those he had known in China. - They -
were: : .

 

AW 53199 DocId: 32348311 Page 7 woe
HW 53199

Docld: 32348311 Page 5 . . Cr a

: {agg .
— @.-. EY
: . » ; : :

 

of the then incumbent maneger resigning over difficulties
with the management. The firm specialized in the import
of sundries and textiles. In 1933, the Swiss principals
withdrew their interests and the control of the company
was taken over by the Shanghai representatives. The firm
continued in operation for approximately a year and then ~
went into bankruptcy. In 1935, ROE, in company with his
brother-in-law, one Paul KOMOR, took over operation of the
company under the name of two firms, the China Import Co.

and the China Export Co., with ROE handling the import and

KOMOR handling the export. KOMOR had been the employee of
the Huber Company and was an expert in the leather trade.

One other additional trading company was formed under the.
name of Paul KOMOR Co. Ltd. . cc Do

uo

4. KOMOR and ROE operated their companies all through

the war and the Japanese occupation, and ROE did not liquid-

ate his interests until it was quite apparent that the
Communist Chinese would soon be taking over the area. ROE
stated that trading opportunities were very slim during the
war but he also stated that he could have made a consider~
able fortune if he had been willing to trade with Germany
and he had had plenty of opportunities to do so through
Chinese fronts, but had refrained from doing so on patriotic
grounds. He further stated that he had reported through
KOMOR to the Dutch Consulate in Shanghai of eny Shanghal
traders who were dealing with the German government.

S. _ ROE readily admitted that both he and his wife
had been registered with the Shanghai-Russian Citizens!
Association, but further stated that he had never been
active in the organization, nor had he ever had any dealings
with the official Russian representatives in that city. .
Prior to the Japanese occupation of Shanghai, ROE had been
a corporal in the Shanghai Self-Defence Corps under Colonel
Moore COSGRAVE, whose civilian occupation was Commercial

‘Counsellor for Canada in China. ~ .

6. ROE advised that the only travels he had made
whilst living in China were as follows. In 1935 he visited
Hong Kong on business for the Huber Company. Some time
prior to the war, he visited the city of Tientsin for one
week's holiday, and in 1937 or 1938 he spent two weeks'
vacation in the northern part of Korea at a well-known
vacation resort called Yankovsky's. ; :

7. On direct questioning, ROE denied any. connection
with the Soviet Citizens' Association in Shanghai, other
than being registered with this group. The allegation that
he was a Brigadier of the Seventh Brigade was met with :
incredulity. He reiterated that the only organization with
which he had been connected was the Shanghai Self-Defence-

ade
Ou:
|
|
|

 

Corps and this was disbanded on the occupation by the
Japanese of the city in 192. ROE denied any connection
with the Paragon Book Store but indicated that he was aware
of the purpose this organization served. By way of explan-
ation, he stated that he had been connected as a partner
with a firm called Paragon Men's Wear, which was located on
the Avenue Joffre, Shanghai. acd

8. ~—s- ROE explained that his brother-in-law, Paul KOMOR,

-had been, an executive of an organization which was assisting

refugees from Europe during the early years of the war. One
of the persons he had assisted was Liza ALTURA from Austria.
In 1942 at KOMOR's recommendation, ALTURA approached ROE to
secure financing for a men's wear shop she was to set up.

ROE loaned her the equivalent of a thousand dollars and was

a non-active partner in the shop until it was liquidated in
1947. ALTURA is now married under the name of BEER and lives
in Caracas, Venezuela. : a
9. After the war, the subject and his brother-in-law
continued trading and among some of the firms dealt with
were Davis Leather Co. Ltd. in Huntsville, head office

37 Front Street East, Toronto. When it was evident to hin ,
that the Chinese Communists would soon be taking over the
country, he decided to leave. .

10. - He claims he made application to the U.S. Consulate
in Shanghai for a visa for permanent residence in the U.S.A.
Before the Chinese Communists entered Shanghai, the subject
had disposed of his business interests and cleared all his
debts. He and his family therefore had little difficulty in
leaving Shanghai. :

ir. With the help of UNRRA, he was able to obtain
passage on the U.S.S. "General Gordon" which was evacuating
U.S. diplomatic personnel. In order to obtain a U.S. transit
visa, he renounced his application for permanent residence in
the U.S.A. ROE and his family arrived in San Francisco on
October 13, 1949, destined for Brazil. ROE had plans to
begin his import-export business again in Brazil. He spent
some three weeks with his brother-in-law, Paul KOMOR, who
managed to convince him that the government of Brazil was
quite corrupt and he would be better to attempt to remain

in the U.S.A. ROE decided to visit Canada to re-establish
connections with the Davis Leather Co. and also Anglo-
Canadian Leather Co. Ltd. in the event he did go to Brazil.
They entered Canada on November 7, 1949 with a six months
visitors! visa. ROE stated that they were so pleased with
Canada they decided to stay and, in February, made appli-
cation for permanent residence. Their application-was turned
down but later they were granted an extension, and, finally,
landed status on March 26, 1959. -

HW. 53199 DocId:32348311 Page 6
PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

.
Ly | NO INDEXING REQUIRED .
OMLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

 

 

avec RADNGOD LoLmpRGys AEPETREL ARVALIANT’
John A, ROE @ ROGALSKY

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES
Ref: OCOA 6190, 15 February 1963 aw,
gol-2773 , ;

1. Attached is a copy of the SMABOVE interview of John A.
ROE @ ROGALSKY, together with reproductions of documents and .
correspondence obtained from ROE, and photographs of the ROE
family. “AEVALIANT/1" should be understood wherever "FUZZY"
occurs in the text.

2. . The ROES were interviewed simultaneously but separately
in Toronto. Their recent application for Canadian citizenship
provided a pretext for the interview.

3. ROE has explained his deposits to AEVALIANT/1's Peace
River bank account in terms of a series of three-cornered
‘transfers of funds for the support of ROE's mother-in-law, who
was still in China at that time. The documents which ROE has
. Supplied seem to substantiate his explanation of these transfers.

. _ 4 As noted in para 30 of the interview, SMABOVE is
apparently convinced of the plausibility of ROE's story, but

he and his wife have been asked to obtain more factual evidence
from his bank and from his mother-in-law. .

5. SMABOVE states that from the time ROE was contacted
by phone to arrange for the interview, he was under surveillance,
which continued for an unspecified period after the interview.
SMABOVE states that his actions at that time appeared normal.
ROE's encounter with his friend, Paul POLOTSKY (para 29) was
observed, and his later admission of it is considered by SMABOVE
. as a sign of sincerity on his part.

Attachments:
1. Interview report
2. Copies of documents
3. Photographs

"EE COPY
ribution:

Vorie &1- fin w/atts 1, 2 and 3 h/w
3 - C/WE wo atts

29 )- 29 79

DATE

2 October 1964

HQS FILE NUMBER:

201-2973 Waa

 
- Y

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 12/14/04

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS.

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
COMMENTS

oe oe ee oe oe oe

AGENCY INFORMATION

CIA
104-10068-10154
JFK

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CIA

CHIEF OF STATION
CHIEF, SR .
JOHN A. ROE. @ ROGALSKY
10/02/1964

17

JFK ASSASSINATION

ROE: J
ROGALSKY J

1B

Released under the John
Kennedy

Assassination Records

ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#: NW 53199 Date:
6-08-2017

 

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

05/25/04
JFK12 : F15 :

20031216-1026018

{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DocId: 32346311 Page 1

104-10068-10154
 

 
 

 
  

  
 

   

view.

‘ J CONTINUATION OF
. DISPATCH

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OCOA 8607

 
 

  

6. SMABOVE requests Headquarters comments on this inter-
In addition to your comments on the interview itself,

we would also appreciate your guidance as to the advisability .
of continuing the investigation of ROE and any other AEVALIANT/1

contacts,

53199 DocId:32348311 Page 3

   

 

 
    
 

 

 

:
: a
i a
en eee ee

3. . Jack Arthur ROGALSKY, now knowm as John ROK, born
on April 27, 1905 at Melitopol, Crimea
