 

pees te C a

Memorandum to Mr. Brennan
RE: LOUIS BALBUENA CALZADILLA

 

Cube

DeMille of ONI said that while Navy has not maintained
contact with subject, it has received Wich geeree engaged in
ith ;

some sort of activities conne with | ee ‘ situation. A
base worker named Miss. Alicia}Cruanes haS*toid’Navy that she is
connected with a group which Has been involved in uprisings against

Castro. She has also advised Navy that she had in her possession U. S.
postal money orders worth $1195 issued in Miami. These orders
were made out to her and showed the purchaser as HiginigyDiaz, 119.
N.W. 48th Place, Miami. DeMille said that these money orders have

been traced back to subject. At the time Miss Cruanes contacted the
Navy ary.(X) i) U. pe support for uprisings to take place last

February. (: lu) i Bplay ; RC tloee

Subsequent to receiving the above inforriation about Cruanes,

DeMille said CIA advised ONI that it was le d that. Miss Cruanes
receives the money orders from a Charles each who, is also employed
on the base. Miss Cruanes then endorses ney orders and gives
the money to another base worker, -Charl: otman._Trotman then
sends the money . to various accounts jm the U. S. for Cuban citizens
and in return receives Cuban pes 6m those persons.— Trotman then

_ turns these pesos over to Maria egalado, resident, of Santiago, -.
Cuba, who gives the money to various groups of the LURR (Movement —
for th

 

   
  
 

:

ie Revolutionary Recovery in the Escambray, Boniaco and Pinar
del Rio Areas). (8) li)

DeMille said that ONI does not know exactly what is behind
this manipulation of funds but is sure that subject is behind it.
DeMille reiterated his caution in any contacts with subject.-—He also
pointed out that some of the information furnished by him is actually
that 8) and should not be disseminated without checking with that

Agency. y)

“
ACTION:

This memorandum is being directed to the attention of the
Nationalities Intelligence Section.

 

 

AW 53025 DocId:32306397 Page 7

 
 

: . « . ’ : Lo
eA oe . -
"5. OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 = .
PIONS |

Tolson

Belmont
Mohr
Casper
Callahan

a

UNITED STATES GOVER,, (ENT

‘
J
Conrad

Memorandum "
| | | OGY BSS
TO: D. J. BRENNAS</) [A~_- DATE: 20, - Roten

Sullivan
Tavel
reo : J, M, FITZGERALD nit

Trotter
Tele. Room
supject: ., LOUIS BALBUENA CALZADILLA
' ° SOURCE OF INFORMATION - CUBA

Holmes
hy | |
Va ° On June 17, 1963, Mr. George DeMille of Office of Naval

 

Gandy

Intelligence (ONI) headquarters made available the ONI files which
appeared to pertain to ‘captioned individual. DeMille emphasized
that the ONI files are classified "Secret" and the former relationship
between ONI and the subject is considered very sensitive and has. had
only very limited distribution. DeMille added ONI had used subject
as an intelligence source for a number of years but discontinued ~
contact with him about November, 1961, because He was using his
position on the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base for his own personal

4 purposes. About that same time the Navy assisted him in coming to

\.. the U. S- Cg) U).

iN DeMille said that no further contact has been maintained
\ with the subject by the Navy since his arrival in the U. S. but it
~, ‘is believed that the CIA may have had some contact with him. Delfille
wh said that the Navy.does not know anything about the present sympathies
\S or activities of subject but recommends that extreme caution be us
Ny .
‘ in any dealings with him CBX Uy
‘

 

\ The ONI files on subject contain several different birth
dates, A "Secret" ONI report} of December 20, 1960, reflects his
birth date.as December 15, 1928, at Guantanamo City, Cuba. Another
form dated January 4, 1961, shows his birth date as April 9, 1929,

Guantanamo, Oriente Province, Cuba. A form dated December 15,
960, ae s,nis birth date as December_15, 1927, at the last mentioned
place.

   

  

   

 

 

DECLASSIFIED By ; ae
1 - Mr. Wannall ~ BY SOL SLD f . ~
11 BE! Nasea ow G:6-27, ote ABS aun 27 10
1 - Liaison *“ res LES DID oa
“1 - Mr, Fitzgerald (JFK ("| “3-97 AN
IMF: 9p £9 (5) 4 Vee
ie uv ALL, INFORIRATIOW CONTAINED |S,
~ Me \ HEREIN I$ UNCLASSIFIED EXCERE

WHERE SHOWH/ONIERWISE. 3°"

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AW 53025 DocId:32306397 Page 5
Memorandum to Mr. Brennan
RE: LOUIS BALBUENA CALZADILLA

at Uvero Beach, Guantanamo. As of December 20, 1960, he was
assistant to the Special Services Officer at the Guantanamo Naval
Base. This was described as one of the most responsible positions
held by any Cuban on the base. He was responsible for hiring and
firing and the administration of Cuban nationals employed by Special
Services. ONI discontinued his employment and its contact with him
after they found out that he had been receiving money from Cuban

" refugees; -had used his position to force female refugees to have

sexual relations with him; and because he was suspected of smuggling
marijuana onto the base for peddling to refugees and Navy personnel.
It was alleged that many Cubans wanted by the Cuban Government had
peen expelled from the base on his recommendation and had been
arrested as soon as they were brought to the base gate. The ONT
files reflected that among the, latter were persons named Elbo
forres and Manuel Dapena. ® u)

- According to ONI files subject had worked on the base
since he was a teenager. He received a high school education in
Cuba and had been active in the July 26th Movement during Castro's
fight against Batista. Subsequently, he was an official of the
Revolutionary Democratic Front described as a.clandestine anti-
communist and anti-Castro group. He was also active in church
circles, including the Knights of Columbus, politics and was said
to be ambitious to be mayor of Guantanamo City. The ONI files
show that he was an intelligence officer in the Castro forces as
late as 1960 and was said to be in charge of Intelligence Section,

Oriente. Province. (#)(uy) Cuber.

ar epee . .
As of 1960, subject was married and had two children.
DeMille of ONI believes the wife gnd-children still may be in Cuba.
Subject also had a brother, Ram albuena employed at the Navy
Exchange on the base; a brother Felix who is manager of the Navy
Exchange; and a cousin Victor who was \descrdbed as an official of

the Union of Base Workers. G®) u) tute Ad Clee

Subject is further deScribed in ONI files as 6' 2" tall,
weighing 266 pounds, obese, stocky build with tan complexion and
a black heavy mustache. His hair is described as dark brown, short

- and wavy; eyes, brown (wears glasses occasionally); good teeth; and

a small mole on his left cheek and a one-half inch scar on left
forehead near the hairline. Subject is said to be a friendly,
capable individual who has leadership qualities. He is also said
to be fluent in English, as well as in Spanish. He i¢ right-handed
and likes sports. (¥) (¥)

 

 

 

AW 53025

DocId:32306397 Page 6
 

 

 

Q

1 - Mr. Nasca
dune 25, 1963

 

Director 5 ¥Bi

Pia HAS Mo OBJECTION TG

ae POY LQ OROUIS _EALBUENA CALRABILLA pecs ae
nr BATS are CUBA QNTAInED

\ it y 5 pos if Fit) aL ca 4 FED Excers:
{eeter Jane 7) 1963. HERE SHOWN OTHERWISE. #

On June 17; 1963, Er. George DeMille of Office of
Naval Iatelligence (ONT) Headquarters made available the ONI
files which appeared te pertain to captioned individual. Delille
emphasized that the ONE files are classified “Secret” and the
former relationship betvesn ONI and the subject is considered
very sensitive and has had only very limited distribution.
Bellille added ONI had used subject as an intelligence source
for a number of years but discontinued contact with him sbout
November, 1961, because he was using his position on the
Guantanamo Bay Naval Base for hie own personal purposes. About
that same tine the Navy eesisted him in coming te the U. 8. ‘CO (tu)

DeMille said that no further contact has been. mointained
with the subject by the Navy since his arrival in the U. 5. but
it. is believed that the CIA may have had seme contact with hin.
Ballille said that the Navy dees not know anything sbeut the present
synpathies or activities of subject but recommends that extreme
caution be used in any dealings with him. Cy uy)

   
  

The GNI files on subject contain several different
birth dates. A "Secret ONI report of December 20, 1960, reflects
his birth date as December 15, 1928, at. Guantaneno City, Cuba.
Another form dated January 4, 1961, shows his birth date as
April 9, 1929, at Guantanano, Oriente. Province, Cuba. A form
dated December 15, 1960, shows his birth date as Becenber 15,
1987, at the last-mentioned place. Gu)

‘The GNI files reflect subject's name as Louis @uis)
Eusebio Balbuena (Calzadilla). He is described as a Cuban; a Z
Caucasian, and a Catholic by religion. In 1960, his address :
was Calle Marti No. 1071, Upper Apartment, Guantanano City, Cuba.
toma He also owned @ beach house at Uvere Beach, Guantanamo, As of. .f
"Belmont -__"Decenber 20, 1960, homme mssidtant to the Special Services fg

JUN 25 1963 DECLASSIFIED 6Y ADLER [S&S
COMM-FBI ? Niabetey. dD

     

Sune

Callahan —1 =» YRPO 134-8020

Conrad
DeLoach

Ge’ ——— SEE NOTE, PAGE 3

Rosen —

nL lg

    

     
   

 

 

 
 
  

Trotter
Tele. Rggin i eeIUL r 4

Belmore Ae
Gandy =? ihe ROOM

 

 

é a
La fe Pi .
ES reveryec unit CL]

 

 

AW 53025 DocId:32306397 Page 2

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10290-10037

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE-NUMBER: SEE TITLE

 

 

ORIGINATOR’ FBI

 

FROM: FITZGERALD. J. M.

TO: BRENNAN. D. J.
TITLE: 134-12019-3

DATE: 06/20/1963
PAGES: 7
SUBJECT: -

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

REVIEW DATE: 07/02/1998
STATUS Redact

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

AW 53025 DocId:32306397 Page 1

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

 

AGENCY INFORMATION
. Released under the John
. Eennedy
Assassination Records
Ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#iNU 53025 Date:
p5-23-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

NEW
CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
2.

 

 

mh" Oo

Letter to Miami - ee ‘PERE i
RE: LOUIS BALBUENA CALZADILLA \ ;
. . /

Officer at the Guantanamo Naval Base. This was deseribed aa
one of the most responsible positions held by any Cuban on the ;
base. We was responsible for hiring and firing andthe sdministra-
tion of Cuban nationals employed by Special Services.
discontinued his employment and its contact with him after they
found out that he had been receiving money from Cuban refugees;
had used hig position te force femmle refugees to have sexual
relations with him; and because he was suspected of smuggling
marijuana onto the base for peddling to refugees and Navy personnel.
It was alleged that many Cubans wanted by the Cuban Government
hod been expelled from the bawe on hie recommendation and had
boon arrested as soon as they vere brought to the base gate. The

_ ONE files reflected that among the latter were persons named
Bilbo Torres and Manuel Dapena. (%

u)

Accerding to ON files, UO ace had worked on the Base
Since he was a teenager. He received 4 high school education
in Cuba and had been active ia the duly 86th Movement during
Castro’s fight against Batiata. Subsequently, he was an official
of the Revolutionary Democratic Front deseribed as a clandestine
anticommunist and dutieCastre group. Hoe was alee active in
church circles, including the Knights of Columbus, politica

and was said te be ambitious te be mayer of Guantaname City.

The ONI files show that he was am intelligence officer in the
Castre forces as late az 1960 and was said to be in charge of
Intelligence Section; Orieate Previnee. (: u)

4s of 1960, subject wae married and. had two children,
Dellille of ONI believes bis wife and childwen Still may be in
Cuba. Subject also bad a brother, Ranon Balbuena, employed

at the Navy Exchange on the Base; a brothexs, Felis, who ia
manager of the Navy Exchange; and a cousin, Vietor, who wag
deserived ag an official of the Union of Base Yorkers, >)

u)
Subject is further described in ONI files as 6* \
tall, weighing 266 founds, obese, stocky build, with tan
éomplexion and a black heavy mustache. Hie hetr is deseribed
as dark brown, short and wavy; eyes, brewn (wears glasses
eecasionally); good teeth; and a small mole on hia left cheek

: and @ one-half inch sear on left forehead near the hairline.

, Subject is said te be a friendly, capable individual whe has
. leadership qualities. He is also said to be fluent, in Engii

BR»
. , @8 Well as in Spamieh. Me is right-handed and likes sports. (i) (4)

 

 

AW 53025

 

DocId:32306397 Page 3

 

 
 

 

AW 53025

accounts in the ¥. 8. for Cuban citizens and im return reeéives ©:

Cuban pesos from those persons. Trotman then turms these pesos. :
: over te Harlane Regalado, a resident of Santinge, Cuba, who gives
_ the money to various groups of the LURR (ovement for the oe

: Revolutionary Recovery in the Escambray, Boniace and Pinar del
Rio arene) (9) (ul oo.

y behind this manipulation ef dunds but is sure that subject is
‘subject. He aleo pointed out that some of the information
digseninated without ehecking with that Ageney. uy

“no efforts should be made te develop subject aa PSE, There is
_ BO Objection, however, to his being utiliged as a source of

 

°

. oe ins,
Letter to Miamd I fa RET.
§ BALBUENA ¢ \

RE: LOUI

 

   

. . : BY -

_ DeMille of ONE anid that‘#hlid Navy has not maintained
contact with subject it has received vord that he is engaged
in some gort of activities connected with the Cuban situation.
A Base worker named Miss Alicia Cruanes has told Navy that
ehe is connected with a group which has been invelved in uprisings
against Castro. She has also advised Navy that she had in her
possession U. &. postal money orders worth $1,195 issued in
Miami. These money orders were made out to her and showed the
purchaser as Higinia Diag, 119 N. WU. 48th Place, Miami, Dellalle -
Said that these money orders have been traced back to subject.
At the time Miss Cruanes contacted the Navy she reques vu. 8.
support fer uprisings to take place last, February .(j@) u) ;

me Subsequent te receiving the above information about  °
Crusnes, DeMille said CIA advised ONI that it was learned that \,
Miss .Cruanes receives the money orders from a Charlies H. Leach, ty
who is also employed on the Bags. Miss Cruanes them endorses ~- = —~
the noney orders and gives the money to another Base Worker, §

‘Charles Trotman. Trotman then sends the money to varioue :

 

 
 
 

 

Dellille said that ONE dees not know ezactly what is
behind it. DeMille reiterated bie caution in any contacts with \

furnished by him ia &etually that of CIA and should not be

Bufiles contain no additional pertinent information
concerning subject... ; . |

in view of the information contained in this letter,

information, and you are authorized to accept any. information
he may desire to volunteer. :

e

OY)
NOTE: Records of fons] 7 W) eviowed by Liaison.

   

 

 

DocId:32306397 Page 4
