 

 

gpg eo |...
& ; ; tio ares ; 28 ; ey \ \ . . ees. Gen, wn OOPESIENT AR

 

_ She Autorngy Gouczel . Win! Beh 8, 1946

Jol Biger Snover « Birestor, Pederal Bureau of Investigation

"AS a remy of vecent dovelopnonte internationally ond “tn the
Ganadian and other: ‘Rusgsion, aspinnage cases, the FBI has found 1t necessary te
intensify its dovéstigntion of Commonist Party activities and Soviet espionage
Cada. .

- She Bureau ia now teking steps to list all members of the Commaniaé
Party and any others who would be dangerous ér poténtially dengerms in the
event of a break in diplomatie relations with the Soylet Union, or other sefious
erisis, involving the United States and the U.5.5.R. 2 wanted you to know this
Ke bd that you can advise ne whether such action mects with your approval.

4 Yary few of the nevibers of the Communist Party are aliens, and of the
.. BBall number who are aliens nob o11 are of Russian nationality. Yery nearly aki
of the wenbers ove citizens, elther neturaliaed or native born. Since most, if
“aot all, of the membors of the Commmist Party would undoubtedly adhere to the

\ . Soviet Union and wonkd constitute a very serious threat to the security end

“{ “* interests of this country ia the event of o crisis, a siteation my conceivably

“' - aise wherein $$ will be necessary to the existence and safety of this country

“he amnedin’ ely detain a Largs suxber of Amerigen citizens,

= ' ° $m vow of this situation, you may desire to initiate a study te :
tetermine what legislation ia availeble or shovld ba sought te authorize effective

ation ef & general ani Brocaakionary nature in the event of a serious emergency.

   
 

 

a

i . 4 : \ , &

fem een cancers Sot eet feet mmieteen elgacene Maton tare

 

: $697 Page 9 : oe ‘

 
 

“*
HW 55305 DocId:37989697 Page io *

} A ath 2 oF
+
E. Tigi 70 tt .

  

| ES REDURDEREESE SS

 

THE ATTORNEY GENERAL a vee 0-2 BSbA OQ x / August 5, 1946

    

Director, FBI gf. 4, BansoHA ONF “EUBREA -
a 2b bok Per eeenrraiGn OF TT’

; TEMINTION OF COMONISTS IN THE -
“ , RVENT OF SUDDEN DIFFICULIY WITH RUSSIA

Reference is wade te your memorandum of duly 18, 1946, which forwarded
a@ memorandum to you dated duly 11, 1946, from Mr. Theron L. Caudle, Assistant
Attorney General, Criminal Division. . .-

‘Hr, Caudle's memorandum was a reply to my memorandum to you of March Ss,

1946, in which it was pointed out that very nearly all of the mezbere of thé-—~-~-

Comminist Party in this country are citizens of the United States, either
“naturalized or native-born, and that most, if not all, of those individuals
would undoubtedly adhere to the Soviet Union in the event of a serious crisis
involving the United States and that country,

It was suggested that you might desire to initiate a study to determine
what legislation is available or should be sought te authorize effective action
of a general and precautionary nature in the event of @ serious emergency.

’ With regard to the adequacy of legislation, with which Mr. Caudle's
memorandum is primarily concerned, it is noted that except for the possibility
of @ declaration of martial law which might. have to extend over the entire
United States, there is no existing legislation which could be invoked with
the exception of a possible application of 18 U. S. Code, Section 97a or the

: suspension of the writ.of habeas corpus.

It would, of course, be dangerous to the security of this country
should we have to wait until paratroop divisions were lending in our industrial
areas or until armed rebellion of Commnist elements occurred before we conld ©
take action under any suspension of the writ. Acts of sahotage by Commnists

_ must be prevented by prompt measured against them in an emergencys? Ye cannot

afford to wait until their acts of sabotage are carried out before proceeding
against them. . . ~

With regard to the application of Section 97a in al Me Men | een;
it would be necessary in order to take action against Communist Party wonbees .
to Seclare the greater part of the United States a military area ‘ind + to. set
upia relocation procedure under Executive Order. , ete: aE L the wore

 
 

Pte.
et

  

ee cee

ae

 

ee RC

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

¥

 

HW 55305 DocId:32989697 Page @

 
 

 

4
ADDITIONAL FACTORS TO BE TAKEN INTO
CONSIDERATION IN ARRIVING AT A DETERMINATION
, AS TO WHETHER A SUBJECT REPRESENTS A
MOTENTTAT THREAT TO TIT INTERNAT, SECURITY
@ ian True OF AN EMERGENCY
|

1. Contacts with Sino-Soviet-bloc establishments (including
Cuba) where purpose of contact cannot be determined or
contact indicates communist sympathies. .

 

"2, {Contacts with Sino-Soviet-bloc, Cuban or Yugoslav
| intelligence agents where purpose of contact cannot be
‘determined or contact indicates communist sympathies,

{i ?,. aindividuzis who have defected, revoked or sought revocation

y 2 of their United States citizenship in:favor of a Sino-

j . . .Soviet~bloc country, who have returned to the United States,
and who have taken no positive steps to counteract such
action.

fade ree

 

reasonable grounds to believe that his loyalty would lie
with communist nations in the event of armed conflict
between the United States and communist nations.

"] Statements or activities on a subject's part establishing

‘ 5, | Training and/or participation in espionage, sabotage,
or intelligence activities. .

 

on the part of an individual with a subversive background
whose prior acts depict a propensity for violence and hatred

6, ,A history of emotional instability or irrational behavior
| against organized government.

ob stent tempest Retna mee at ee terete

EXHIBIT B
PRCLOSURE - |

 

 

 

 

. AW. 55305 Docld:32969697 Page 7

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont f |
RE: SECURITY INDEX ,
100-358085 2

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
       
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  

as “constant support of the Soviet Union in acts and utterances" and
Violations -of penal laws arising out of activities as a subversive.”
The Manual specifically points out that the above factors are not
all inclusive and will vary with each case in some degree, We propose
to enlarge upon the specific factors that must be taken into
consideration by the addition of 6 other factors relating primarily
to Soviet-satellite internal security matters and including a factor
dealing with individuals who have defected, revoked or scught
| revocation of their United States Citizenship in favor of the
Sino-Soviet-bioc countriés who lave” returned to the United States and
{ who have taken no positive steps to counteract such action, These
new factors as well as those already listed will not automatically
result in individuals engaging in such activity being included on
the Security Index.but our listing of them in the Manual will make
it mandatory that anyone engaging in such activity be considered for
the Security Index and that activities in these categories will be
evaluated in connection with the individual's over-all sympathies
LOns in deciding whether he should be included in the Security
Index, The Manual will still point out that the factors enumerated
are still not all inclusive; however, as has been indicated, the
proposed additions will _efford field personnel as well as supervisory
personnel at the Seat of Government a more detailed guideline for
consideration in arriving at a.determination as to whether subject
represents a potential danger in time of an emergency and thus
Should pe~included" iii ths Security index, The additional 6 factors
\ EPS" AtTaCHEM as Exhibit B. .

§
ate

ACTION:
- Submitted in accordance with the Director's request, A

proposed SAC Letter and appropriate manual changes are being forwarded
under separate cover,

HW_55305 DocId:32989697 Page 5 ‘ 1

 

 

 

 
 

. .
‘ i . ,
‘ . ' - .

CRITERIA FOR PLACING AND RETAINING
NAMES IN THE SECURITY INDEX

(A) Subject has had membership or participation in the

- activities of a basic revolutionary organization with-
in the last 5 years as shown by overt acts or state-
ments established through reliable sources, inform-
ants, or individuals,

(B) Subject has had membership or participation in the

- affairs of one or more front organizations, which
adhere to the policies and doctrines of a revolu-
tionary group, in a leadership capacity or by active
substantial participation in the furtherance of the
aims or purposes of the front organizations within
the last 3 years as shown by overt acts or state-
ments established through reliable sources, inform--
ants, or individuals.

(C) Investigation has developed information that an

. individual, though not a member or a participant
in the activities of a subversive organization, has
anarchist or revolutionary beliefs and is likely to
seize upon the opportunity presented by a national
emergency .to endanger the public safety as shown by
overt acts or statements within the last 3 years
established through reliable sources, informants,
or individuals,

(D) Although investigation has failed to establish
overt acts or statements on the part of a sub-
ject within the time limits set out above, facts
have been developed which'clearly and unmistakably

| depict the subject as a dangerous individual who
could be expected to commit acts inimical to the
national defense and public safety of the U. S. in
time of emergency,

 

}
op - 3s ro 66 Que :
IBIT A i
ENCLOSURE wo ‘

ocld: 32989697 Page 6 . :

 

 
 

a
9)30 |as~
lols ere

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

AW 55305 DocId:32989697 Page 3 . -

 

 
 

fe . eed

 

*? GSA GEN, REG. NO. 27 Tolson

 

 

nad
“ " . . " | .
gett ue ORTON HFORN 10, 16 p ¥ §010-106 _
f MAY 19¢4 EDIION rn ©

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNITED STATE, IMENT / Bolnont sae
Sea . Conte 4
Calichan ca
‘ onrat a -
Memorandum an —
(y (Mr. A. He petnothy DaTE: December 11, 1963 we i -
Tavel
03 2 = Mr. Belmont eae haan
FROM : Mr, Wo C, Sullivan’ 1 = Mr. Sullivan . wr pad, api fF tolmes
Ya 1 = Mr. Gale 24 ent
. wh 1 — Mr. Branigan 1 - Mr, Baumgardner
SUBJECT: “SECURITY INDEX 1 ~ Mr, Bland 1- Mr, Wannall |.
: . 1 - Mr, Smith iL - Mr. Rushin: ri
, Guns
The essential question for determinations to whether im |

subject's name should be included in the Security. Index is "Does this

‘| individual represent a potential danger to the national security of

‘ the United States in time of a national emergency?" The present
Security Index criteria, established in 1955, reviewed and concurred . :
in by the Department as falling within the basic terms of the Presidential
Proclamation that would trigger the Emergency Detention Program calling
for the arrest of Security Index subjects, are utilized as guidelines
in arriving at an answer to the essential question quoted above,

We have found that the Security Index criteria afford

practicable and workable assistance in arriving at a conclusion and

Q are sufficiently elastic so that when applied with the necessary judg »

¥ ment the complex questions which arise can be resolved, These eriterya.
are well devised for this purpose, - They were not intended to be nor”
can they or any other criteria be rigid rules since the ultimate pognt,
to be determined is not whether a case fits a particular rule but .;~“
whether the subject of the case represents a danger, The breadth of

! these criteria is demonstrated by Criterion (D) which reads: “Although .
investigation has failed to establish overt acts or statements.on the i
part of a subject within the time limits set out above, facts have been
developed which clearly and unmistakably depict the subject as a
dangerous individual who could be expected to commit acts inimical to
the national defense and public safety of the U, S, in time of emergency," .

| A copy o e Security, Index criteria is attached as Exhibit A, ;
Wwe Brod reek wae aly ad voatens Cecrrmunvvcena) (Ediuivtindd © FA, |
U| What we really need is a broadening of the factors which

 

must be considered in\evaluating ah individual’s dangerousness, In
evaluating a security case for the purpose of determining whether the
subject thereof falls within the Security Index criteria, Section 87D
of the Manual of Instructions contains 17 specific factors that must
be taken into consideration in arriving at a determination as to
whether a subject represents a potential threat, including such factors

 

Encs, ce 4

. ; ; bs

100-3 6 " 7. REC- 12 [GV . cir a 3 y SR AES ey (2
’ ” “se dG ae

Se ee

TDR:cad Je HAP ye nach
a0" A \ nv My ao . 10 mae a
af WS EB 7 0EC 201963 ae

NW 55305 pocld: 32900697 Page 4 , 99] i

 

 

 
