 

 

 

 

ASGASSIGATION OF PRESIDEN?
JOUN FRPZGRRALD KENNEDY

On the afterneon of March 2, 1977, Special Agent
Udo H. Specht, Dallas PBI office, attemptad to telephone
Group Manager Puhlendorf, hut he had already gone home for
the day. | ‘

: ; Ow the morning of March 3, 1977, Special Agent
Udo H. Spacht, Dallas FBAoffice, televhonically contacted
Group Supervisor Arlen, Fuh endorf, Internal Revenue Service,

intelligence Division, Dallde, exas, concerning the
information in the above let¥er. Fuhlendorf advised that
it is a pelicy ef the Interna Revenue Service that before
the Internal Revenue Service can release the identity of
an informant, that it has te obtain the consent of the
informant. He will attempt to contart his informant and
obtain this consent. Be will contact Special Agent Specht
&a soon as he has contacted his informant. Once the consent
is obtained, he will introduce Special Agent Specht to the
informant, in order that the PBI can interview him. This
informant has been out of town quite a bit, and it might
take a few days to contact hin.

 

 
   
 

During the afternoon
advised that his informant is
is in his office now. He is sending
FBI office to be interviewed, and the
at the Dallas FBI office at 2:30 PM, March 4, .

At 2:25 PM, March 4, 0977 9 ee who
furnished his address ag 502 Monte V 7 RS, TGkAS,
Telephone Number 327-7656, telephonically contacted Special
Agent Udo H. Specht and stated that on the way to the FEI
office, he bumped his lip, and that it is bleeding severity.
Se said he found out a few days age that he hes cancer of
the lip, and also has a herpes sore in the area where his
lip is bleeding. He stated that he will he at the PRT
office at 8:00 AM on March 7, 1977, to furnish the
information.

rs not personally appear at tha
Dallas FRI Office on March 7, 1977, nor did he telephonically
contact the office in an effort to maka other interview
arrangements.

7, Mr, Puhlendorf

 
  
 

will be

 

Ms

 

DociId:32167992 Page 9

 

@ that he OTHER 4
 

 

 

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT -
PITEGRRALD KENAEDY ____

At 3:60 Pt, Mareh 7, 1977, Special Agant Specht
telephonically contacted Leen A
woman, who identified herself as Mrs. advised
thet her husband was not at home, and that she would give
him the message to contact Mr. Specht.

 

On the afternoon of March 7, 1977, eafferts were
made to contact Group Nanager Arlen FPuhienderf, Internal
Revenue Service, Dallas, Tezns, but his secretary advised
that he is at a meeting all week long. A meseage was left
te have Mr. Fuhlendorf contact Special Agant Specht.

On March 14, 1977, Arlen iL. Puhlenderf, Group
Managex, Internal Revenue Service, Inteliigence, Dallas,
Yexas, telephonically coatacted Special Agent Specht, FRI,
Pallas, Texas, and advised that he was at a school 211 last
week, and therefore, could not get im contact with Bpecial
Agent Specht. Ne was advised that [to date
has not made bimeelf available to be interviewed by the Dallas
of€iee of the FBI. Fubhlendorf advised that has,
been Furnishing information to Intexsnal Revenue Servica in
connection with a special enforcement program thet Internal
Revenne § igence has concerning the eriniaal
element. has furnished information te Internal
Revenue Service on cai Dallas bookmakers. Puhlandorf
advised that as far as he knows, that the information that

furnished has bh ; .. Uuhlendorf advised
talked to m March 4, 1977,
sked Rim that Ww talked to the FAI, what

@ made of the information. Fuhlendorf told
that he might get a frac trip to Washington ta

testify ore a Congressional Commi & concarning hia
information. Puhlendorf stated that might have
te .

 
   
  

had second thoughts efter he tolé him tha
¥uhlenderf advised that_several weeks ago,
located on the twenty-fifth floor oF the Manor Houze,
: aet, Dallas, Texes, Puhlenderf stated that
talked to kim about Candy Barr, a former stripper
Tn one oF cack Ruby's nightclubs. This conversation lad te

 

NW 46102 DocId:32167992 Page i0

specific date wnrecalled, he met at the restaurant

co

OTHE:

R 4

 

 
 

 

  
 
  
  

c™
C O
Dallas, Texas
April 6, 1977
REVIEWED BY ‘SBYJFK TASK FORCE ow ny
own 66-95 dt ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT 9.
. JOHN PI KE) . :
@ RELEASE IN FULL NOVEMBE Rae 1963. "gos
O RELEASE IN PART DALLAS, TEXAS 0s

QO TOTAL DENIAL

On March 2,°1977; Robert J.
Intellige Division, Internal Revenue evi
texan. Vered a letter to ted L. Ged
Special Agent in Charge, the Dallas FBY: of 8
letter is on Internal Revenue Service statione
states as follows: -

"Dear Mr. Gunderson:

“Recently, Arlen Fuhlendorf, a Group Manager in .
the Dallas Intelligence Division, received information. from 7
a confidential informant that might be helpful. in: the
investigation of the Kennedy assassination. :

"the informant stated that on ‘the morning. of
the assassination, Ruby contacted him and asked 4f he
would ‘like to watch the fireworks.’ He was with Jack
Ruby and standing at the corner of the Postal Annex
Building facing the Texas School Book Depository Building
| at the time of the shooting. Immediately after the
shooting, Ruby left and headed toward the area of the
Dallas Morning News Building.

“If you desire, Group Manager Arlen Fuhlendorf
can be available to discuss this matter with your agency.
i Group Manager Puhlendorf can be contacted at 749-1801,

 

  
 

"Sincerely yours, =
5.- Bu (62~109060) */s/ Robert J. Potrykus
- Da 89-43). (P) Chief Intelligence Division”
HS snr

is’ document contains neither recommendations
‘ nor conclusions of the FBY. It is the property

~
~“
S

 

 

y | Lx .Y of the PBI and is loaned to your agency; it and { Lf
pO a its contents are not to be distributed outside NX
_ | eK your agency. : '
| ah Speke tha .
| 9-43 [0603

 

NW 46102 Docid:32167992 Page 8
 

 

aw

9 9

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT
SOBN PITZGERALD KENBEDY

“March 4;°1977, and left a message with her for
to call him. The last time he talked to her was Las

Wednesday or Tharsday, and shé told him that(~ 1]
was in the “Wichita Falls. fexas, area, trying te "make
a buck here and there.” ‘ . a

uhlendorf stated that en March 4, 1977,
gave him every indication that he was going
to keep his appointwent with the FET, and told him that

. he Knew where the office wa: He advised that
the possibility exists that might have bean

untruthful, ox he could have gotten co feet because of
all the publicity surrounding.the reinvestigation of the
President Kennedy assassination.

6*

 

NW 46102 Docid:32167992 Page 7

oe FN

a i

=
| NW 46102 Docid:32167992 Page 5

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDEN?

ere nr ep) Siscussing his knowledge of Ruby. a

o t on the morning of the assessination, Jack

Ruby called him on the teleptione and asked him if he would
like to go te the Presidential Parade wit im a af he
would “Like to watch the fixeworke.“ a FTE that
he was with Jack Ruby and standing at @ corner of the
Postal Annex Building facing tha Texas School Book Depesitery
Building, at the time of the shocting, ZImnediately after

the shecting, Ruby left and headed toward the area of the

Dallas Morniag News Building, without saying anything te
him.

a also teld hin that after Jack Ruby
waS arrested for killing Lea Harvey Oswald, that he was

also arrested on an unrelated crimina charge, and incarcerated
at the Dallas County Jail. got to know Ruby
better im the County Jail, since he was 4 trustee at the jail,

and as Ruby‘s mind began to deterforete, he would paxform
services for him, like bring him his feod and reading
material, because Ruhy became very suspicious and felt
that-someone vas trying to pofison his Feod and do him harm.

Pehlendort c when he initially get
the information croft he put this information
in a memorandum for thé Tntarnal Revenue Service National

Office 46 be disseminated to Congragsmsn Downing 's Committees,
The National Office returned tha memorandum to Dallas, Yexas,

ang told Internal Revenue Service to disseminate the
information to the PBY in Dallas.

Mx. Fuhlendorf advised that he hag not seen

the memorandum since Robert J. Potrykus, Chief, intelligence

Division, Internal Revenve Service, Dallas, Texas, had it
prier to delivering the letter to the FBY in Dallas.
Fuhiendorf was requested to furnish a copy of the merorandun
to the FBI, but he did not respond to that request, and
Stated that he dia not know whe ; ee Adu was.
Fuhlendorf will attempt te tr (2 determina why
he has not made himself available for interview,

 

OTHER 4

 

 

 
 

O
O

ASSASSINATION OF PRESTORNT
JOHN PITEGERALD KENSEDY

Be. FPuhlenderf is being traneferrad to Fort
Borth, Texas, as of March 15, 1977, and can be raached
at 817-334-3382.

Special Agant Ude FR. Specht, FET, Dallac, Texas,
telephoaieally contacted L—____] residence OTHER 4
@auring the mornias, afterncer, and evening hours on
Hareb ll; March 14: Mare: 15,; March 21; March #2; Mareh 24:
Aprii 4; and April $, 1577, but no one responded.

On Haroh 22, 1877, Speeinl Agent Udo Hi, Specht
PBI, Dallas, Texas, parsonally want te
resiGence, $92 Monte Vista, Gallas, Taxas, bet ne one could
he located at the residence, A seasage wee left at the
residence for[~ S~S~=*éidzi CR COMA Mr, Specht.

an Maren 2 O77, SseetaL Agent Specht telephonically
contacted residence, and his wife
answerea the telephone. She stated that she gave him the
Message to contact Mr. Specht, ami that she also received
the note that Hr. Specht left dn the mailbox. She advisad
that her husband hes been oat of tewn, and should be
howe sometime this wack. She advised thet she will give
him the mersage to contach Nr. Specht.

On April &, 1977, Avlan &. Puhlendorf, Fpecial ,
Agant, Internal Revenue Service, Intelligence Division,
Fort Worth, Taxas, telephonically advised that he hae
etilizged ag @n informant sinae March 4,
i974, and another Internal Revenue Service Agent had cerntact
with hin beginning sonetime in December, 1573. Puhlendort
advised that Internal Revenue Service has baen using hin
in their special enforcenent predqram concerning Lilecal
eriminal ectivities. As a rasnit of inforeation furnished
by internal Revenus Service has opened up
approx tely fifteon tax investigaties, and thirty audit
examinations, Te advised that in the past he has cousidered
reliable, but that he does aot know whether or
nek was truthial eonceradndg the: information he
furnia: Be abnut fack Avisead “chat he has not
rs taliced to gins 28 Raroh &, 1977, and that
has net = ele alis. Fohlendort
advised that he has talked to | wite twice since

se

  
  
  
 

 

 

 

| 46102 DociId:32167992 Page 6
 

yy,
>

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  

Dallas, Texas
April 6, 1977.

 

REVIEWED BY TevsK TASK FORCE
ON G-b9s fo/ ie eae
RELEASE IN FULL ASSASSINATION « OF. PRESIDENT
RELEASE IN PART . 63
TOTAL DENIAL ~ |

 

Intelligence Division, Internal. Reve:
Texas, hand-delivered a letter to Ted:
Special Agent in Charge, the Dallas’ PBI

states as follows:
"Dear Mr. Gunderson:
"Recently, Arlen Fuhiendor£ , a ‘Group ‘Manager in’
the Dallas Intelligence Division,. received: information: from :

a confidential informant that. might’ be. he
investigation of the Kennedy. assassination

v4

 

  
  

"The informant atated that on the morning of
the assassination, Ruby contacted him and asked if he.
would ‘like to watch the fireworks.' He was with: Jack
Ruby and standing at the corner of the Postal Annex
Building facing the Texas School Book Depository Building
at the time of the shooting. Immediately after the
sheoting, Ruby left and headed toward the area of the
Dallas Morning News Suilding.

"If you desire, Group Manager arlen Puhlendorf
can be available to discuss this matter with your agency.
Group Manager Puhlendorf can be contacted at 749-1801.

"Sincerely yours,

5 - Bure@u (62-109060)
(89-43) (P)

    
  
 

*/a/ Robert J.. Potrykus
Chief Intelligence Division"

is document contains neither recommendations
ner conclusions of the PBI. It ia the property
of the PBI and is loaned to your agency; it and
Zz its contents are not to be distributed outside
seach :«C<‘«‘éOU«AG'TNNCY-

| Serialize
| Index

 

 

NW 46102 Docid:32167992 Page 2
 

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

 

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER:: 124-10163-10469
RECORD SERIES: © DL
| AGENCY FILE NUMBER:  89-43-10083

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: = DL .
TO: HQ © ‘ |
TITLE:

DATE: 04/06/1977

 

PAGES: 12
SUBJECT: SEE FBI 62-109060-7699

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL . NEW
CLASSIFICATION: __Un-lassified CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: 12/31/1998 UPDATE DATE: 02/12/2001

STATUS Redact ~
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 46102 Docid:32167992 Page 1
- _ - : - = = Line ene ne

 

() .
_
V-#

ABSASSINATION OF. PRESIDENT
JOHN EBTTZGERALD KENBEDY

On the afternoon of March 2, 1977, Special Agent
Udo 8. Specht, Dallas FRI office, attampted to telephone

Greup Manager Puhlenderf, but he had already gene home for

the day.

On the morning of March 3, 1977, Special Agent
Ude H. Specht, Dallas ¥BI office, telephonically contacted
Groug Supervisor Arlen Fuhlendorf, Internal Revenue Service,
intelligence Division, Dallas, Texas, concerning tha
information in the abeve letter. Fuhlendor? advised that
it is a policy of tha Internal Revenue Sarvice that before
the Internal Revenue Service can release the identity of
an informant, that it has to obtain the consent of the
informant. He will attempt to contact his informant and
obtain this consent. He will contact Spectal Agant Specht
as soon as he has contacted hig informant. Once the consent
is obtained, he will introduce Special Agent Specht to the
informant, in order that the #8T can interview him. This

informant has been out of town quite a bit, and it might

take a few days te sontact him.

During the afternoen_of »#
adviseé that his informant is
is in his office now. He is san ne
FBI office te be interviewed, and that
at the Dallas PBI office at 2:30 PM, Maral ’

77, Me. Fuhlendorft
ad that he

    
     
 

At 2:25 PM, Mareh 4, 1877, ——————sdwwho
furnished his address ag $92 Monte Vieta, Dallas, Taxa,
@eslaphone Numbex 327-7656, telaphonicaliy contacted ¢pecial
Agent Udo H. Specht and stated that on the way to the PRI
office, he bumped his lip, and that it is bleeding severly.
He said he found out a few days age that he has cancer of
the lip, and alse has a herpes sore in the area where his
lip is bleeding. He stated that he will be at the PRT
office at 8:50 AX on March.7, 1977, to furnish the
inforriation.

ee nok personally appear at the
Dallas PBI Office on March 7, 1977, ner did ha telephonically
contact the offices in an effort to make other interview

arcangenents .

we

 

NW 46102 Docid:32167992 Page 3

 

OTHER 4

 

Td
 

; O 7 O

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIORNT
JOEM VITIGERALD KERNEDY.

ed

At 3:66 PM, March 7, 1977, Special Agent Specht
telephonically contacted idanca. & OTHER 4
woman, who identified herself as advised
that her husband was not at home, and that she would give
him the message to contact Mr. Specht.

  
 

On the efterneon of March 7, 1977, efforts were
mage to contact Group Manager Arles Fuhlendorf, Internal
Reyenue Service, Dallas, Texas, tut his secretary advised
that te is at a meeting all week long. 4 message was left
te have Mr. Fubhlendoxf contact Special Agent Specht.

fm March 14, 1977, Axylen bh. Puhlendorf, Group
Manages, Internal Ravenue Service, Intelligence, Dallas,
Sevas, telephonically contacted Spacial Agent Specht, PSI;
Pallas, Teves, and advised that he was at a school all last

week, and therefore, could not gat ith Special
Agent Specht, fe was advised that to date

hag net msde himself available to ba interviewed by the Dalias
office ef the PRI. Fuhlenderf advised that has

been furnishing information to Internal Revenue Service in
connsetion with a special enforcement prograa that Internal
Revenue barvice Intelligence has concerning the criminal
alament . has furnished isferwation to Internal
Revenue Service on Lotal Dallag bookmakers, Puhlendert
miiued that as far as he knewe, that the information that

furnished hae bean x blo. Fublendor? advisad
that he last talked to on Mareh 4, 1977,
that a him that af he talked to the PRI, what
ise woule bs made of the information. Fuhlenderf told
a o he might get a free trip to Washington to
tastity before a Congressional Committes goncerning his
information. Fuhlendorf stated thee> | ight have
had secend thoughts after he told his that.

Fuhlendor? advised thak_several weeks age, —
specific date unrecalied, he met at the restaurant.
looateé on the twenty-fifth fleer o: @ Manor House,
Commerce Street, Dallas, Texas. Fuhlendoerf stated that

talked to him about Candy Barr, a former stripper
in one of Jack Ruby's nightclubs. This conversation led te

 

 

NW 46102 Docid:32167992 Page 4
