I ” . = fa re eee, os oe

 

CG 92-349

Investigation to date has revealed that the only
possessor of a key to this building is the owner CARMEN FANELLI.
Investigation has further rey d that an elderly Italian OTHER 4
caretaker, described by PCI as a relative of FANELLI, opens Was
the Armory Lounge at approximately 9:00 A.M. and proceeds to ae
the Armory by foot, which indicates that he resides within a few
blocks of the establishment. (J

 

s In view of the location of this establishment close
‘to heavy traffic and due to the fact that. there is-no cover

or concealment to individuals attempting to penetrate it, it
is not felt that it would be feasible at this time to attempt
any such penetration even though a coverage at this Place would

render available assista 5§ to the investigation of top hoodlum
activities in this area .(U

Attempts will be made to explore the ‘possibilities
of obtaining a key which would permit immediate access to this
building and if such is met with success the Bureau will be

immediately advised as to the feasibility then of attempted
coverage. (1) : cee

LOPEZ
4
e

 

 

‘i - 4-

 

; NW 45792 DocId:32292608 Page 5
‘ ‘ wt
FD-36, (Rev. 12-13-56) .

FBI
Date: 10/4/60

Transmit the following in

 

(Type in plain text or code)

q AIRTEL {

(Priority or Method of Mailing) 1

. 20)

"JUNE"

Re Bureau airtel to Chicago 9/30/60.(0)

RE: Feasibility of Special Coverage at Armory
Lounge, 7427, West Roosevelt Road, Forest Park,
Illinois. (Y

Enclosed herewith are three photographs of the
Armory Lounge taken in September, 1960. (UV

Locat ion

The Armory Lounge is a one story brick building”
located in a western suburb of Chicago adjacent to Oak Park,
Illinois. The immediate neighborhood is one of mixed commercial
and residential establishments, the residences being considered
middle class homes and apartment buildings. West Roosevelt
Road is one of the areas busier thoroughfares, and is heavily
trafficked: by trucks and vehicles utilizing U.S. 30 and the
Illinois toll road system. Immediately across the street from
the Armory is the Naval Ordnance Plant and Naval Reserve Center,
a ‘series of buildings extending approximately two blocks long
employing several hund V)

Bureau (Encls. ‘Sau 2 2317 /- 74

1 - Chicago , 5 a 3
REH : cme ‘ ; AU OCT & 1960
(4) ay a ; ad

4\ ti

at

 

 

 

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge
N

NW 45792 Docid:32292608 Page 2
 

JFK Assassination System Date: 5/7/2015
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

 

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10209-10384
RECORD SERIES: HQ JUNE MAIL
AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 92-3171-74
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, CG
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 10/04/1960
‘PAGES: = 12 ~
SUBJECTS :
SGI, SUR, ASSOC
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT, PHOTO
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 05/20/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

NW 45792 Docid:32292608

INC A/T, ENV

147
Page 1
CG 92-349

History and Relative Importance
to Hoodlum Activities -

The Armory Lounge is owned and operated by one CARMEN
FANELLI of 328 Wesley, Oak Park, Illinois, a white male,
approximately 60 years of age. He is considered a long time
acquaintance of SAM GIANCANA, JOSEPH AIUPPA, ANTHONY J. ACCARDO
and other hoodlums residing in the western suburbs of Chicago.
FANELLI at-one time was a bookmaker and small time hoodlum, and
has been associated with the Armory Lounge for approximately
ten years. Chicago informants have been reporting for some time ao
of the fact that frequent meetings of Syndicate hoodlums take :
place at the Armory Lounge, which they refer to as the place ‘out
west". These meetings are presided over by GIANCANA when he is
in town, and in his absence by such lesser luminaries as WILLIAM
DADDANO, one of GIANCANA's lieutenants. CG 6343-C* has reported
conversations between MURRAY HUMPHREYS, FRANK FERRARO and others
wherein they have referred to meeting "ou " tters of
importance. One neighborhood source, PCI owner OTHER 4
of an apartment building overlooking the Armory reports large :
gatherings of "hoodlum type" individuals congregating on occasion
at this establishment. One she positively has identified as
GIANcaNA .(U))

 

Bureau Agents, as recently as September, 1960, entered ;
the Armory on pretext, noted a large dinner party in progress, ‘

attended by, among others, ANTHONY ACCARDO and JOSEPH P. GLINCo. (U)

| Physical Description

| of Building

}! The exterior of the Armory is of face brick,
approximately twenty-four feet in width and sixty feet in
length (deep). It is located on the intersection of a one way

street and the nearest building is a three story apartment
ro building located approximately sixty feet west of the Armory.

4 -2-

\

 

se 45792 Docid:32292608 Page 3 ;
TS
4
ran
ie
o

CG 92-349

The space between the Armory and the apartment building is

taken up with an asphalt parking area suitable for about forty
vehicles. An alley runs east and west immediately to the rear Vv)
of the Armory, and is occupied by residential, one family homes. (

 

. The interior of the Armory is divided into three
sections; bar, dining area, and private dining room, the latter
being located to the rear of theestablishment. The dining
area is relatively small, having accommodations for no more
than thirty persons. It contains six tables. The private
dining area is a room approximately fourteen by eighteen feet,

containing two tables, and is separated from the main dining room by
an accordian type door .(U,

Entrance to the building is gained either through the
front (facing Roosevelt Road), or into the main dining room
via an entrance way through the parking area. This entrance
is protected by a canopy, and requires gaining access through
two doors. There is a small (4 X 6') enclosed area between
the first and second doors. An additional exit is located to

the rear of the buildin ff the main dining room. This exit is
not used, and is barred.(5

On 10/3/60, a physical surveillance of the Armory
Lounge was conducted between the hours of 12:01 A.M. and 7:00 A.M,
in order to ascertain the degree of traffic and possibilities
of being observed in the event special coverage was attempted.
This surveillance revealed that there is considerable truck
traffic on West Roosevelt Road (U. S. 30) in the early morning
hours and it was also noted that a Forest Park, Illinois squad
car passes the lounge at a very slow speed approximately every
fifteen minutes. The Forest Park Police Force is commanded by
JOHN CORTINO, who has cooperated with the Bureau in the past,
however, he has been observed by: PCI[____]in the Armory Lounge OTHER 4
on numerous occasions.and a remote possibility exists that there
may be some association between the owner of the Armory Lounge
and Chief CORTINO, so that any contact with the Chief with |
relation to the Armory Lounge is not going to be attempted (Vv)

 

-3:-

- Se /

 

|
|
{
t
{
i!
iz
5
{

NW 45792

DociId:32292608 Page 4
