 

- 9 | . ,
Memo to Mr. iHohr
Re: Channelizing Memoranda .

i Security-type Cases

ADVANTAGES: Saving of file cabinets, office space and prevent
case files from becoming voluminous, particularly
in larger offices. As an example, during the last New York
inspection (completed 3-25-60) in four Internal Security case
files, there was an increase since the last inspection of 17,
20, 16, and 12 volumes respectively. These files contained
some reports, letters and airtels, but the bulk of the files
was channelizing memoranda.. These examples reflect the increase
of storage space for these files.

DISADVANTAGES: The purpose of these memoranda is to insure
that all information from informants pertaining
to a particular subject is placed in the subject's file and
‘readily available. Comparisons of channelizing memoranda against
reports reflect ali information from the memoranda is not in-
corporated into the report such as information of intelligence
nature, Intelligence information available in channelizing .
memoranda is often needed in conducting surveillances and other
investigation relating to a subject. If the memoranda were
destroyed, the Agent would be required to review numerous in-
formant subfiles to insure he had all information. It is a
possibility he might miss some valuable intelligence information.
Security reports are prepared for future prosecution. Should
there be an emergency, it would be virtually impossible for all
Agents involved to review the original reports or original
channelizing memoranda due to the great demands which would be
made for such material.

CONCLUSIONS: While this matter has always been decided in favor
of retaining channelizing memoranda, we continue to
receive suggestions from the field that consideration be given to
destroying them once they have been incorporated into a report.
It is obvious there would be a great amount of filing space saved
if this were possible. However, in view of the objections set
forth, it is believed this matter should again be considered by
tthe members of the Internal Security Espionage Confrence on
June 9 - 10, 1960, in an endeavor to establish whether it is
possible to overcome the enumerated objections. It is the con-
sensus of the Inspection Staff that if the material objections
can be overcome the destruction of channelizing memoranda after
they have been incorporated in a report would be desirable.

RECOMMENDATION: That this matter be discussed at the Internal
. Security - Espionage Conference, June 9 - 10, 1960.

; .
ye “ . . .
4 ol¢ :

 

 
   
 

 

 

t
QPTIONAL FORA NO, 10 ef;

UNITED STATES GOVER! “ENT

 

Memorandum 3
vo: Me. W, C, Sullivan pare: June 12, 1962 a

‘ ‘ . ‘ .. , ; oS
EPROM: Mr, F. J. Baumgardner . MDE ’ . _ “oo = 2

supyect: SECURITY REPORT. WRITING, - HERE iS UNCLASSIFIED J
THOROUGHNESS | or aka ene

From a review of investigative reports concerning security
matters in recent months a tendency has been noted on the part of
Jace field to report plans of a subversive group to take certain

j
: “kh INFORMATION CONTAINED |
wt
aH

actions without a follow-up to report that the action did or did not
take place. This is an undesirable practiceas it may infer inadequate
investigation and could prove embarrassing because of the fact that
we disseminate information to many other agencies which rely on us

for the full facts in given situations.

Examples of the foregoing may be found in the following:
Bufiles 97-401-1291, 1292; 100-3-29-1162, 1163; 100-3-63-1037;
100-46808-820, 823. In all these instances the reporting period
encompassed the dates when certain activities were to have taken
place but the reports failed to resolve the actuality of the situ-
ation.

OBSERVATIONS: *

It is basic that we are asmuch interested in actions taken
by a subversive group or individual €Rd4 what it or he may plan to
do. To report only an intention or plan without the necessary follow-
up is to leave the matter unresolved in the mind of the reader. It
is believed that a reminder to the field in the form of an SAC letter
would be desirable and is therefore recommended.

D

ACTION: -

 

Attached for approval is an SAC letter reminding the field
of the necessity for thoroughness in security report, writing. Manual
changes not necessary.

f=, * 100-00 Hg

 

ry .

HW 55027 DocId:32989610 Page"10
L 4: 329

 

 
 

 
 
    

   

~~

-* “Nginten’ stares cole . , 6}
. Memorandum _ So
ro Mr. Mohr DATE: “6==6-60
FROM : J, F, Malone | M pR ~Ib

yo  HEREINIS UN FED A, eS
SUBJECT: Aeanare.tzine MEMORANDA DATE Jolin BY SEES ferj

as ee eee
HW 55027 DocId:32989610 Page 8 ~
Le

ALLINFORMATION CONTAINED.”

SECURITY-TYPE CASES |

- 7

tha

OTT

‘

ne

The purpose of this memorandum is to call atten-
tion to the problem of retaining channelizing memoranda in
field case files.

BACKGROUND: Under the present procedure, when data is
received from security informants either their
reports or a memorandum on data furnished is prepared and
is placed in the subfile relating to the particular informant.
A memorandum, which is called a channelizing memorandum, is
then prepared setting forth the various items of information
furnished and copies are designated for each file for which
the contents of the memorandum relate. The original memo-
randum furnished by the informant is placed in the subfile of
the informants file. Any memorandum which is prepared on the
basis of oral information is placed in this file and also
referred to as a channelizing memorandum. :

Many suggestions have been received starting in
September, 1952, and up to April 18, 1960, to destroy these
memoranda in case files after the information has been
incorporated into a report. In all instances, these
suggestions have not been adopted. The Executive Conference
on 7/6/53 considered this matter and was unanimously opposed.
The Domestic Intelligence Division has consistently opposed
these suggestions.

This matter was discussed at the Internal Security~.~_

Espionage conferences, January 12-13, 1959, and recommended
study by the Training and Inspection Division during inspec-
tions of larger offices. On September 17, 1959, in a memo-
randum from Mr, Tamm to Mr. Tolson, (100-00-1481), it was
recommended that the channelizing memorandum be retained

_in individual subject files. .

e
The Inspection Staff has frequently been, presented
this problem during inspections. In discussing- tits -matter
with field representatives, there is a divergence of opinion.

ral -

a ere }00- 00> NEE

4 | | ;

sine ‘ele ite inenbnanven seh A

 
 

INSTRUCTIONS

e_ Type or print clearly in ink.
e Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.
e Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

e "FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the
information.

e if additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to
HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a
copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing
substance.of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community
matters if appropriate. Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests
should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be
noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,
e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether
interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript
is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional
pages may be attached if necessary.

 

 

HW 55027 DocId:32989610 Page 7

 

 
 

AW 55027

DoclId: 32969610

 

5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
3 > m= WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535

% . ind
Addressee: ..\ nate Select Committee

COLTR (QLHM [Memo [Report dated. 6/18/75
U.S. Senate Select Committee. Re; Further
Gaption of Document: Documents Pertaining to the FEI
land Department of Justice; Policies and
Procedures. Appendix B, Item I, Number 2

—

Originating Office: EBI p ,
¢ ;

 
 
    

Delivered by:

Received by: Ds
Wud
Title: - (Me

<)
Return this receipt to the Intelligence Division, FBI

MDR

Page 5 Be
 

HW 55027 DocId: 32989610 Page 6

 

 

-_ am
Pe OTE: SEE INSTRUCTIONS Of REVERSE
weak CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE i BEFORE COMPLETING.

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

 

1. HOW PROVIDED (check appropriate term. If a document was made available 2. DATE PROVIDED
for review but not transmitted, so note.)

x | pocument | BRIEFING INTERVIEW TESTIMONY | 6/18/75
FOR REVIEW

3. TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)

 

 

 

ALL Mpg Ie CONTAINED
UNCLASSIFIED
BY SP SALY

. IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data for documents; give name or identification number of briefer,
interviewee, testifier and subject)

 

Further Documents Pertaining to the FBI and Department of Justice.

. IN RESPONSE TO (List date and item number if im response to formal request, other- | 6. CLASSIFICATION OF
wise state verbal request of (name), initiative, subpoena, etc.)

SSC Letter 5/14/75; Appendix B, Part 1, Item 2. can

 

. KEY worDs (enter the appropriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not listed are
used underline for emphasis)

Operating procedures

 

. SUMMARY (See reverse side before completing this item)

At the request. of SSC, copies of policy memoranda and other
communications of a general nature pertaining to specific
classifications investigated by this Bureau are being made
available at FBIHQ for review by SSC members.

ny

gy
“apeaT as YELOW

TJM:1hb ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX IN
(4) CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75. LES 7-2-2277

 

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE
3791 (6-75)

 

 

 
 

 

 

lh
2- Hr, Ts. 4 -Yigt~govs).
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
The Attorney General June 18, 1975
Pivrector, PBE 1 - Mr. W. 0, Cregar

1 - tiv. K. A. Mendenhall

©) ows
UNITED STATUS SENATE SULICT COMMITS
OH INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SEC)

 

3 Ragerence is made fo a letter i¥en the SSC dated
> . iny 14, 1975, with attached appendices A thru B requesting
oN certain docunonts and other information from the FBI.

yt. ~—™ Attached for your spproval and forwarding to

5 ; | , 88C is the original of a memorandum which responds in part
5 _, , to one of the requests contained in above SSC letter,

“ . i

A Gopy of the memorandum is being furnished fox

 
 
 
  
 
   
   

 

 

 

 

~ ¢) your records, MDR—Ilo
SS Bactosures (2) ALLINFORMATIONGONTANED ||
yo, NGLASSIFI , . ee
OO Sis 62-216395 Dane/Of4200. Br Sballbnlend: -
AN i - Tho Deputy Attorney General .
4 Attention: EK. Willian O*Connor
. f Bpecial Counsel for
t Intelligence Coordination
| KAMsdjs od°>
be) TS
an ;
J) \.
a pec: 102 oy, \
_ ba. M627 BHO
Assoc. Dir. —__ ‘ : 4
Dep. AD Adm. — Y
Dep. AD Inv. ) 5
Asst, Dir.: . tag
min. j Ne ea
wf yi | a
Ext. Affairs __ f NS
tone ‘s Sk oa,
ident. wi > Ve C
ra ger IS aw
Laboratory —_ va 4
Plan. & Eval. _ $
Spec. Inv. t opts
Train Ug

 

Telephone R,

a
os rin fi’ Vg7g Room 7 TELETYPE UNIT [_} wee BE \
344 be2ra:32989610 Page 2?

 

 
 

(a= - MOZ4D

 

 

 

 

 

 

| GIL TH BOO
|

 

 
 

 

gk r ° r wet
w kee

a “* .
wn ra
2-Mr. J. A. Mintz
(lL - My. J. B. Hotis)
1 ~ Mr. W. BR. Wannall
62~L16305 Juno 18, 1975.

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

1 - Mr. K. A. Mendenhall
UNITED OTATES GHUATO SELECT COMMITTED
£6 STUDY GOVERRUGITAL OSERATIONS
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVETIES (SSC)

RE: DURTHER DOCUlICNTS PmNTAININs To
MoR— Ie THE ERI AND DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Renews Wir a Alm eye POMCIES AND PRocEDURES

Referenee is made to lettor, with oxttached
appendican, dated Nay 14, 1975, te the Attorney General
fron the Chairman of captioned Comiittes, requesting certain
docuncnis and other information from the Federal Bureaw
of Investigation (TBE.

. Appondiz DG, Iten I, number 2 of referenced —
appondices vequegced this Bureau to provide: ‘Cornitics
stati access to all so-called "0" Sikes or other gonoral
poliey files with respect toa each file classification
goutinely used by the Intellicence Division for the period
1530 to the presont.” Ft ig believed this requost netually
refers to the "60" iiles of the FBE which contain policy
menovanda and other communications of a general nature
pertaining to o particular classification.

At a comgorence held on [ny 30, 1975, totucon
oe lissees. John T. BELLS’ and Uark Gltenstein of the Sonate
a Salest Coumitteo; Ur. K. Vilkian O'Cennor of tho Dapartnent
ea. of dusties; and Vessrs. Willian ©. Crenay and Elmer W.
ee Larson of the £DE, it was agreed, im response to above roquest,
that this Burcan would make available to appropriate

 

 

 

 

 

Assoc. Dir. —— persomnel of tho SSC atafz, for review at EBIHQ, copics of

oe aDsin- pertinent policy nesoranda and other communieations

Asst. Dita vapresentative of the type unlutained in the "00" filo as it

Admin. relates to one clussiciention routinely davestigated by the 7

como — - Entelligence Division. The classification chosen bears the

Files & Com, — eophion “Investications of Subversive Organizations and

Gen. Inve —— Individuals" and instructions relating te investigations of

Meenom an individusls and organizations falling within this category .

inet are contained in Section 87 of this Dureau's Manual of | 2"
lon & Evel KAMisdjs wel.% m™ we a3"*
p Spee: Ines (8) ~ 4° sy SEE NOTE.PAGE TWO 4

Legal Coun. ‘ O vA o ’ on Toa

Telephone Rm. —

’
Director Sec'y —- MAIL ROOMC_] TELETYPE UNIT ([_] Enety . 5 GPO : 1975 © - 560-920
;HW 55027 DocId:32989610 Page 3 “ SURG C- dt 7.7200

   

 
 

 

~~ _ Po ce —— ee 1 _ ~

 

Rk: Fourthor Hocusonte Portaining to
the FRE and Department of Justice

Foligics and Procedures

Tnoteuctiong. Communications vontainod in this "00" 2ije
poxtaining toe Special Agent in Charge (S4¢} momoranda and
rovisions to tho Manual of instructions are not being
provided for roview inasmuch ag thoss items axe being handled
undor a separate request.

fortinent dacuugnts, believed rosponsive ta above
“agreement, are now ready for review ak FRIEQ by appropriate
personndl of the Sst statz.
1 - The Attorney General
NOTE:

Section 87 of the MOI pertains to 100 classification
matters. Memoranda and communications being made available
to SSC staff members were extracted from 100-00-28 thru
100-00--32 which covers the period 1960 to the present.
Request for SAC memoranda are being handled under Appendix B,
part I, item la, attached to the SSC letter.of May 14, 1975.
Request for revisions to the MOI from 1960 to present are
being handled under item 1 of the SSC memorandum dated
April 30, 1975. Serial numbers of memoranda and communications
being furnished SSC have been noted on our copies of thése
communications.

HW 55027 DocId:32989610 Page 4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
