 

“ReTeased tnider the John f. Kennedy B¥sassination R ior 5
DATE: 11-14-2017 Cc ssina ion ecords Collection Act of 1992 (44 Usc

Page 6/ : mo . Do 7 a

Lee also said that before she had relations with Lane, he attempted to _

enter her rectum, and asked her to place her mouth on his penis. When she

refused asking Lane "are you crazytt. 0°.

Q. at any time during this orgy did you or Phyllis tie his hands? .
Ae Fnyilie tied hishandss _

Q. , Where? 7

 

A. Behind his back, right at the beginning of it, at his requests

Q. and were his hands tied to any fixed position?

 

“As dust behind his back, and not too securely.

-@. And was this pursuant to his instructions also?:
A. Yese > : ;

(Sworn to on January 30, 1962.) , : a
; Page 7, Section 1140 of the Penal Codes =»

The picture mentioned herintofore shows Lane fully unclothed with hand on
nis testicles which is that of another person.. Lane has part of a black
sash belt on his body and still ‘has ‘has. his ‘glasses one _ A copy of this
picture was obtained through extremely confidential means, and is available
only through the Staff Director. - Pot :

po The affidavit taken from Phyllis Coldenwas never signed by her, but was

"taken in the presence of. a witness. “On the night the affidavit was taken
: irs. Colden had -her baby with her, and it was agreed that she cowld take
i "the baby home because it was crying. Rather than have her wait until the

.. affidavit was typed up°by the reporter. Prior to the tine Golden was to.
' -> appear in the District“Attorneys Office to sign the affidavit, she called
i Detective Goldstein of the District Attorneys office on the night of :

.. January 31,.1962 and advised him that Mark Lane was coming to her apartment _.
and that she feared bodily harm from hime . On this night Detective Goldstein
went to the Golden apartment and secreted himself in a closet.-. However 4
noise gave: him away, and Lane left the Golden apartment without making any
statements of a threatening nature. : However it is believed by those con-
cerned that Golden was frightened. into signing an affidavit for Iane, re-
to futing the statements made by her to, Assistant District Attorney Patten.

: This affidavit was dated February 1; 1962, and was-a handwritten document
| and witnessed by Stanley. Geller and Norman Dorsens Both alledged professors
at New York Universitye
between the statement made to Mr. Patten -and the denials made by lirs. Goldene -
A fow of. these points .as' follows¢ ; ar ‘ . Chat ;

ay Golden. claimed that Detective Goldetedn asked her if sho knew Mark Lane
after he told her of the charges made by Alexanders Department Store. .

\ :

 

 

   

This: atatement’ contained seven points of dispute .-

“2107, Hoppers

 

  

 

 

 

| Docld:32312113 Page 9
 

Released under © the John F. Kennedy M¥sassination Records Collection Act” of 1982 (44 USC Zio} Ho
_ DATE: 11- 14- 2017 7 1 i .

: “Page W/ - a ,

Detective Sidney Goldstein:and Walter Re Andergon of the Queens District «
Attorney's office state that. Goldstein handed Phyllis Golden.a supboena ~
on January 23, 1961, returnable January 3, 1962, that :Goldstein advised
Golden it was for a bad check for $144.77 made out to Alexanders Depart=
_ment Store, which was returned by the bank upon. which drawn, marked "no |
ccount. at this bank.": Goldstéin further states that. Phyllis Golden told

im sh: was Secretary for Vark Lane and that.lane was obligated to her for’
rest of his lifes And that’ she would get money. from him to-take up

_ check. © OB en ee as

 

 

   

 

Golden claimed she received a. telephone call from Goldstein asking —
to come down to the District Attorney's. office, and that on the same
day she received a telegram requesting: her to dome down to. the District .
Attorney's of fice. OA ho ; a :

7 Goldstein and Anderson state that this is: true- but that this matter per='
tained to other bad’ check gases. » bedng handled by Assistant District L Attorney
William T. Garvins - Sad ;

 

Goldstein ‘said that he aid not bother’ her since She. had served her with a
supboena. : . a]

      

; oe 3. Point three is covered in part by above one and’ two. ~

4. Golden states that she was handed : ‘a yellow sheet of paper, - and asked
to identify Mark Lanes. signature, she claimed in her own affidavit, that.
she did not know: then, (January 30, 1962) and does not now, (February 5a
1962) know. whether: it. was Mark lanes handwriting. :

  

Detective “Anderson: d. Goldstein state ‘that point ‘four is ‘hot true. : That :
' actually: tat. her placett, ‘that. Detective Investigator We Re Anderson, in

 

the presence of Sidney ‘Goldstein, | Detective Investigator, was given a yellow . *

piece of paper with handwriting | on it. on ‘January. 2h, 1962 by Mrse.Golden | -
at 6:05 PM which. contained "a series: of. instructions to be imposed: upon
the person of Mark Lane,'t which was in| the. handwriting | of Mark.Lane.: But -
she Mrs. Golden told them,, Anderson’ ‘and Goldstein that she. knew Mark: lane's”
handwriting’ ' since whe Was. his, Secretary. | oak oe. . :

5. ors. Golden said she never. saw. the. hanavierditane (lark Tanets) before at
was shown to, her in’ the District, Attorneys office, and that she never :par-
ticipated in any, such tests with, Mark dane. as: described: ye the " Yeliow piece
of paper. = rity : :

  

‘Detectives Goldstein ‘and ‘anderaon. ‘state that. this isnt true, - that on the.

date of January 2i,: 1962 when Mrs. Golden turned over the yellow instruétion a

shcet to them, Detective Anderson received a picture of a nude male from:

Mrs. Golden, which depicted. a aman dying. in.bed. with.a hand, not his. own,

placed near. his private :parts.: ‘And. that. the picture according. to. Mrs e ca
; Golden: was: that of Kark lane ‘the New, York Assemblyman. oe

a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i

| DoeId: 32312113 Page 10
 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hp

DATE: 11-14-2017 C Sa ' po . C ‘

'. Page 5/: _ me i

later came to the apartment and that she knew he was Mark Llane. That he
asked Phyllis to-ask her if’ she wanted to be a witness to one of his tests.
That Lane said they were tests a psychiatrists was running with taking the
pulse for the electric chair... That she consented to be a witness, that :
the tests hegan at 3:30 or.4:00, and that the tests started when Lane un-"™
dressed and Phyllis started by sticking a candle into his rectum. . That
Lane had given Phyllis a list of instructions before the tests started. ©
That she didn't see lane hand over the list to Phyllis, but Phyllis had
told her that Lane had given the list to her. That Phyllis did show her -
the instruction sheet. (Patten during this investigation received affirm-—
ation that the sheet which he showed her on yellow paper was the same one .

 

‘2 Phyllis had shown her.) _

- That the first thing Phyllis.did was to stick a big candle into Lane's’

~ rectum, and then took a small one with vaseline and shoved it into Lanets:
rectum; that Phyllis then plucked hair from his testicles with tweezers, .'
and then put a cocktail stirrer in the hole of his penis; that Phyllis
then put alcohol on the cocktail stirrer and stuck it in the hole of his ~-
penis; and then put alcohol on his penis; that they gave. Lane an enema, ~~.
and had him hold the water while he masterbated, but that he couldntt hold —
the water and had to go and relieve himself; that: they beat Lane witha .

belt (Lane's) until welts appéared on his buttocks; that they: took humil- -
dating pictures of him so that evidence would be there if needed; that they
repeated the candle, and tweezer. bit, and the enema; then heated candles ©
over a@ cigarette lighter and then poked them into his testicles and his
rectum,’ and beat him with his belt; that Lane wanted to keep on but Phyllis
had to feed her daughter, so she Lee continued to beat him. That she used
the cocktail stirrer and the alcohol; that Lane wanted her to masterbate
him which she started to do; that she tried and Lane started to take off

“her clothes; that finally she said "the hel]. with it" and she removed the -
balance of her clothes; that later Phyllis came to the door, and at Lanets on
request she told Lee not to come in for a while; that Lane made love to rn

Cher; that he was sadistic and trying to hurt her, that he tried to repeat. °. °° }
tne act of intercourse, but she put on her clothes and told him she was | ;
ashamed and never wanted to see him again. | That she showed him the pictures 3
they had taken and some other pictures, such as Phyllis. Had a vase with « . Bos
long stemmed flowers which:flowers they stuck in his rectum and took pictures...

 

of that. That Lane had asked them to use their immagination, so Lee used

matches and set fire to’ the hair-around Lane!s rectum and testicles. Lee *

identified a photo which she said Phyllis. took with a poloroid camera. ‘
"2 Concerning this picture, Patten asked the following of Lee Stephens:

_Q. I direct your attention to a hand in’ tthe lower part of. the picture,
“is” and I ask you'who's hand that is? fos, oy wo

 

A.’ It must be my-hand. ne
. Qs.

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

“And what were you doing at the time?:
I fmagine-I

was sticking needles in his testicles, hot teedles.

      

 

 

Docld: 32312113 Page &
 

 

  

i
|
4
4
|
t

 

  
  

E: 11-14-2017. 4 oo oe oo
Page &/ : ; C ee AL at a

\'  * Miss’Lee gave him another enema. She left the room about 6:00 PM and told
Lee she could continue the tests. At one point I heard from another room -
what sounded to me like someorie. being beaten with a belt. At this point,
. Patten asked Golden when she came back into the room and did she see lee :
oS Stephens. a ne poe. .

i
ot
t

 

Q. Was: she dressed or “undressed?

  
   
 

“A. She was wearing a two piece suit. She still had her jacket on and :
_skirt on, but her skirt was pulled uP. to her waist and under that she
was nudes

i

(Didn?. see lane) She said Lee told hor what happened.
Q. What did Lee tell you happened?

_ A. She told me that after I left, that she and Mark had been looking at
~ the pictures that had been taken, and that she inserted the Martini stirrer
into him with the alcohol on it; and that she had beaten him again and that
Mr. Lane made advances toward her, and that because she had been aroused :
> by what happened, she told me she had intercourse with hin. .

   

Q show you B. photograph ‘and ask you ant that as: one of the pictures. that,
you took? ., :

 

  
   
 
 

A. Yess
Q. Who's picture is‘ that?.
A. Mark lane. :

a, “ind is there another. ‘Persons. han in the ploture? : :

 

A. Yes.
Q. Who is that?

Ae lee Stephense _ . oy

fae

  

* Elizabeth Lee Stephenson, also known as Lee Stephens gave a statement

to Bernard Patten of the District Attorneys Office on January 30, 1962.
Which was also reviewed by the reporting investigators.. In this statement _
Hiss Stephens said that she resided at 11 5th avenue, New York City; New ..

- . York. That she was 2h years of age and singles That she was employed by ..  -.
| Pacific Enterprises of los Angeles; and that she was the firms New York ~ = 7° j-”

representative selling advertising specialties. She also said that she

had known Phyllis Golden since August or September 1961.. That she knew

Golden lived at 104-20 Queens Boulevard. Parker Towere Apartment. That
- She visited Golden” on January 18, 1962 at.2:30 or 3:00 P.M.. That a man.

 

 
 
 

 

sed under the. John, F. Kennedy Assassination. Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hoey

 

Lo.

 

| DocId: 32312113 Page 7
 

 

 

 

 

T
CRATE? i ta2017 John F. Kennedy Astbseination Records Collection Act of 1952 (44 USC 2107 Noor
“Group. 3, Page 1 © , ae pe : Co 8 ge moet! 7 |
March .18, 1964 f a , So , : fal a ue |
VARK JANE = PALS DIVISE GOLDEA ~_(oasoEtE)

 

  

A confidential source -having knowledge of the Queen's District Attorney's
office furnished the above named investigators with a copy of an affidavit
for review only, made by. one Phyllis: Denise Golden, on January 30, 1962. |
Which affidavit was taken in.question and answer form by Bernard Patten, 7
Assistant District Attorney. for Queens. County, New York. Golden resides -
at 104-20 Queens Boulevard, Forest Hills, New York. :

The cireumstances leading to the taking of this affidavit involved a bad. a
check complaint against lirs. Golden. This complaint was made by Alexander's
Department Store in Forest Hills on December 22, 1961. After the complaint
was made, Investigator, Sidney Goldstein of the Queens District Attorneys
office was assigned’to servé-a’ supboena | upon Mrs. Golden requiring her |
appearance on January 30,, 1962 in the District Attorney's Office.

The check involved | was for Abe Te “After the supboena was * served on Mrs.
Golder: ste made statements to the effect that she knew Mark Lane, the Assembly~ -
min and that he would take up the check for here When Golden beceie un=-
sucessful in having Lane pick up the ‘check, she became bitter and said she

~had something to hold over him for the rest of his life, and that the ss0eb.

‘was responsible for her financial predicament, because he had never paid:

her for some office work she had performed for hime Jee, :

 

On January 29, 1962. Golden was quéstioned by Assistant District Attorney:
Patten and on the following day the affidavit from Golden was taken. Extracts
from this affidavit. are quoted or, quoted. in part as. follows: mn : ‘

Statement taken. on. January 30; i962 ‘in: ‘District. Attorney's office by District .
Attorney Patten,.. from ‘Phyllis: Denis. Golden Apt. 15 Xrt :

  
    
 
 
 
 
 

 
          

Name: Phyllis Denise Gol er 204-20. ‘queens, Boul, ds Forest Hills. -

      

 

a How Mess + Goldens do you. iow one, Mark lane

 

ARS ‘Yess

 

Qe How Leng. have you known him
A. Two years | and three months. .
Q. Where did you meet: hin: for 1 the first tine?

A. in an address...

  

Q. Yes? ‘ : : 7 ; : , .
‘Ae 339 East Tbh St. “(purpose ‘of the meeting was to ‘aiscuss ‘legal aroblenss
* several legal problems of a- personal nature. Mrs. Golden: is an heiress.

a and receives’ money monthly from her father's estate.) . ee

  

irs. Golden aid she subsequently saw Hane at his office; at his home; at

 

  

 

 

DoclId: 32312113 Page 5
 

 

ov ~3/ a, b .
-Q.-What is 46? oo poe E ee a 4

 

A. That was the test that ark harided to. me in. a sealed envelope on
January 18, 1962. . no

Q. At your apartment?

   
  
  
  
  
 
    
   
   

:

A. Right.” a

 

@ Are you familiar with Vark lanets bade ng and. prinbing? fod
A. Yes. |
Q. I ask you in whose handwriting or printing this is? ;

i.

A. In Mr. Lanes printing.

 

Q. Now tell us what tests, so called tests were conducted in; syour apart=
ment on January 18, 1962. In complete a ‘and just what you did and*
what Lee did, and “what Mark did. - :

A. “the first thing was: Mr. Lane had his temperature taken. First he un=
dressed himself 48 far.as the shorts were concerned. Then he laid face
down on the bed, and I said‘'tyou will have to remove your jockey shorts
too." And he took them down, ‘and*in-that I-assisted him. After that I
inserted a candle into Mark annaly. After that I tweezed some pubic hair
‘and then Lee beat Mark with his own belt on the buttocks, then pins were -
inserted around the annal aréa and into the testicles. Then he got an
‘enema, both of us-gave him-the; enema, I believe I held the-boy and then I
put it in, and then he Started to masterbate after the enema.was completely
in him, and he wasntt supposed.to relieve himself until after he masterbated.
But he claimed he had to relieve himself.and he did. And then when Mark
came back into the room the next thing on the instruction sheet was for _
him. to masterbate himself, and at which point he got embarrassed and he.
decided he couldn't do it, anda comment was made by either Miss Stephens |
or myself that the tests cantt continue unless he does it, so then Lée |
inserted a candle into his anus, and then I believe she beat him again, I-
am not positive. Then Lee, having read the instruction sheet with me”.

‘and needles were just regular, so "Lee lit the needles and I put them in,
for him to masterbate, ‘or something like that, and "Lee asked him" if it

“..... would be easier if. she aid it. And with that “she proceeded to masterbate
ee him." yo, : peta : - : ; a

 

Qe Did he. reach a eLimax?

A. Yes he ‘did, it was at this point that Lee suggested taking the picturo
.and I got the camera. ‘One of the pictures showed Mark lying face down on

‘ the bed with the candle inserted rectally. Another was taken of Lee beating
“~.him. Another was taken of Mr. Lane on his stomach not only with a candle

inserted rectally, but also with two.stems of artificial flowers. A fourth

was taken of, Lee’ singing his hair around the. testicles with a lighted match.

After a few pictures were taken, his- hangs. were tied behind | his back and

 

suggested the obscene pictures. ‘Before the pictures, the first set of pins ~

 

we both did ite" About this point Golden said Lane said it was too embarrassing

NL

 

 

 

 

|

| Docld: 32312113 Page 6

 

 
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 use 2107 Hote}.
DATE: 11-14- 2017

-FD-263 (Rev. 12-19-67) © So! . ie - :
- FEDERA BUREAU OF INV™“STIGATION -

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

REPORTING OFFICE | OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE TiNvesTieaTive PERIOD
BUTTS | NEW YORE W/T/TR 6/2/71 = 6/21/72
TITLE OF CASE “| REPORT MADE BY ~ : TYPED BY
LESLIE B, DIECKMAN imw
MARK LANE, ake CONF IN VT ORBRACTER OF CASE
SM — SUDTERSYTE
. al
2 €4 WAURE A, MILLWARD, New Orleans, 8/31/71;
i: GA LESLIE B, DIEC man, Butte, 5/1/72 2
- DP mw
ADMINISTRATIVE Cagle

  

The poriod of this report is somewhat extended; however,
it has been maintained in a constantly current status through f
iateroffice communicetions, meen

DECI ASSIFIED BY SOC8 Sale

i

vy 30-97 (DEE) nm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3
< ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED - Cg NONE acquit CASE HAS BEE
~ ° Ni
2 tpenvie AUTO.| FUG. FINES SAVINGS RECOVERIES TAL a
PENDING OVER ONE YEAR yes [Jno

0 PENDING PROSECUTION °

2 ; OVER SIX MONTHS yes [_jno
a= 7
oS

SPECIAL AGENT

ne sero I ouanGe DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW
: z -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

}, COPIESM E ‘i a (ecm
OE Wrccan aoo-s08"92) (ieg.) | (DD-|4OL LEAS Ret
e “L- 15% h Diets ot, “O87, ) 101
8, Malmstrem APB, Montana (Reg. q Jv
aa @ - Wew Youk (100--117844) (Reg.) a om | SELLS
a 4 - Butte (100-9266) an
(1 - 160-9224 ~ TCW)
(1 ~ 105-1043 -— MUGAR) aan
Dissemination Record of Attached Report Notations
Agency T
- 4
. Request Recd. .
. Date Fwd. | ~
How Fwd. C| NTIAL-
By T CO} i : i

 

 

 

 

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1970 0375-139

COVER PAGE

Docld:32312113 Page 2
 

Released under ‘the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
: DATE: 11-14-2017

 

 

JFK Assassination System Date: , 4/10/201
Identification Form
Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10320-10430.
: RECORD SERIES: HQ
. AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 100-409763-313
| Document Information
| ORIGINATOR: FBI
| FROM: BT
1 TO: HQ
i
TITLE:
DATE: 07/07/1972
“PAGES: 53
SUBJECTS :
MARK LANE
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3:4
} CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 06/09/1998
i OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
i COMMENTS : INC ENV, STATEMENTS, MEMO.

 

 

—_— eee

v9.1
Docld:32312113 Page 1
 

 

cae e Jon a PSST (iF WO 2OT Weer
DA ea DDET ‘ 4 .

1 “i . t yoy +

  
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 

BT #1060-9200

JNFORMANTS

   
    
 
 
 
    

“Br Th i
2 pe
Hogsrchusetts,

BT T-

Br T-<

SADLY» Secuz nity Officer, Idaho. State i

University, Poca) celep > whose identity is concealed at his
IN HONE» IDAHO
Follow a @ report: activities ‘of Subject. nee . hes
. . . - Be ~ . ; :
% COVER PAGE CONE ENTIAL é

 

 

 

| Doeld: 32312113 Page 3
 

BR

  
 
 
 
    
  

eleased under the John F. Kennedy H¥assination Records Collection Act of 1999 (47 usc 2107 HoPep™
‘DATE: 11-14-2017, rr re : a

Page A, ‘Group: 2. 7? oe O

MARK

’

  

wR
. . - oo on . > > Sogo Te
Reference is made to investigation conducted at the District Attorneyts ©. -
{fice Qugents County New York, in:which one Phyllis Golden, and one ~ :
- flizabethAStephenson, aka: Lee Stephens. madea written depositions we rag?)
concerning\the sexual devise of the. above’named subject, and the~ +* €D
jaescription of the masochist acts which they performed on hd body; oe A
A) Mba) Ah ihe (pe MGR Eli, aber Le d\Sfaphesay/ is
An attempt was made ‘to interview Lee Stephens at her last known address,,.
“A11 5th Avenue,. Mew York./;The manager of this apartment house furnished
information that Lee Stephens had moved out of her apartment, January 1,
1964 because: one Marilyn Durand, her former roommate had previously
vacated the premises and Stephens could no longer afford the apartment
which rented for $450.00 per month. The mamager stated that to the best _ Pa
“ Of his knowledge Stephens was never legitimately employed, but that she ‘
_ ce: Was engaged in prostitution. He stated further that she and her room mate
v Were "part of a call girl ring" operated by "unknown madame!'. Stephens
“* had also been the subject of investigation by another federal investigative
'. agency since ‘approximately January 1, 1963. This investigation, accord-.
“ dng to the manager was not so mich concerned with her activities as a
prostitute, but with. her. "political and social connections." The manager”
_ further stated that.this federal investigative agency had placed an audio-
; surveillance device ‘in her apartment with his knowledge and consent. He -
«had also furnished information from time to. time to this agency concerning ee
* her activitics. The manager could not-positively, identify by name any of ~ “
her political or social associates, but stated that he could identify
then Jf shown photographs. Stephens left a forwarding address of 180
Thompson St., New York City. : oe

        
 

 

 

 

Attempts to locate her at. this address révealed that she no longer lived - |
there, nor did shé leave’ a forwarding address. This investigator found - ;
out that Stephens ‘is currently living ‘at 21 Mest 12th_St., New York City. \
This investigator with committee investigator Lewis J. Russell contacted. en
and interviewed Stephens at this address. In reference to her activities’ H i
with Lane, Stephens said that the deposition which she made to Queenté ° - ~ :
County District Attorney Bernard Patten was true in itts entirety, and no”
that she could identify Lane.as a masochist. Stephens. revealed that OO i
she had met Phyllis Golden while she was, working as a:volunteer for the oa |
political machine of Carmine DeSapio in New York City. No attempt was — t
made by Conmittee Investigators to further delve into her current activities ‘
as a prostitute, nor did-we ask of her ‘current associations. Stephens i
further stated that shé “had not. seen Mark lane since the afternoon of the oo a i
.incident, nor has..any: Attempt been madé by; Lane or his’ assocjates to,have. |
{
|
i
I
!
{

 

   
   
 

 

Plphtss Deus Seatoed 6

 
  
 
 

ws (bard Forest fi Bie, i

Steere tsa ace POT Ta NA
,

  

 

? oo
CME fi
Posen ints an te decent AI

   

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Docld:32312113 Page 4
