Airtel to SAC, Dallas
Re: "MINUTEMEN"
62-107261

information ond activities concerning the members of Pollerd’s
“group.” You should also determine whether Pollard’s "group"
is autonomous group or whether it is affiliated with PePugh's
"Minutemen,"

You should insure this matter rcecives expeditious
continuous end intensive investigative attention and in this
regard you should inmire that the instructions contained in
referenced Buairtel dated 11-10-64 are taken inte consideration and
closely followed,

in the event it ie determined Pollard’s "group" is not
affilinted with BePugh's "Minutenen" your communications should
be submitted under a caption so that your investigation in this
matter will not be confused with the investigation of DePugh's
organization,

You should furnish the Bureau with ten copies of all
correspondence prepared for digsemination with at least four copies
of the transmittal communication designated for the Burcau,

The importance of determining the facts in this matter at
the earliest possible date cannot be emphasized too strongly and
the Bureau should be kept promptly advised of all pertinent
developments,

 

 

HW 53074 Docld:32335756 Page 7

 
-

11<16=04

os REVIEWED BY SBWJFK TASK FORCE | .
. Airtel . on __Th8 len clel
— Or RELEASE IW FULL,

to: BC, Dallas (105-1500) (RELEASE IN PART

| ‘Pram Divector, FBI (62-107262 C_TOTAL DENIAL gl
ae ” ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED”

om NOTRE” 0 — HEREIN 1S UNCLASSIFIED ~~
"- GRERMAL GROUSE) DATE_22/1¢ [5 2BY 7 [ce
+ . . 74 o

 

Your off ce, relevance 19 slap made to Buresn | ; Und
captionad oged Klen Purticips fi =i
Recial Matters. insurzectica | “eno

A review of the correspondence subaltted by gour office

E ;

ate the reliability ef bis informant. Dat ous

“AL eneas Chty (62-9797) be /2€@0 pey-
SEaROHED Tonnes ANDEXED. wy
"| SERIALIZED esenensFILED sony
NOVA 7B
FBI— DALL

     
     

 

HW 53074 Docld:32335756 Page 5
 

Airtel to SAC, Dalles
Re; “HINUSEMEN"
620107261

On a third occasion the ATTD agent advised he did not bolisve

his informant was "being honest with him." The sbove ore merely
exanples of unansvered questions regarding this matter and ere not
intended tobe all inclusive,

It is noted that in your communications you did not
set forth the results of indices searches of your office concerning
the various individuals mentioned by Pollard ner concerning the
individuals identified by him as members of his group. For your
information, no record could be located in Bureau files identified
with the folloving individuals other than that information submitted
by Pollard; Arthur Seals, William T. Seals, Lester Winders,
Shirloy Bob Renshaw and Arthur Pollard, the infermant’s brother.
The only reference identifiable with the informant located in
Bureau files ie that velating to your case ontitled "Van Wiloy
Pollard, Et Al, Theft of Governnent Property," Bufile 52-31892,
A Feview of this file indicates thet Pollard was arrested in 1945
in connection vith the the?t of some ammunition and a U. 8. Arny
rifle from the Texas State Guard Armory, He entered a plea of
guilty and was fined $50. In this connestion, there is enclosed
f& copy Of FAI Identification record amimbear 4268867 regarding Pollard.
In addition, a check of the "civil" prints in the Bureau’s
fdentification Division disclosed an applicant-type print ror
Pollard taken 9-20-43 for employment as a laborer with Swift and
Company, Fort Worth, Toxas. No “service” print was located for
Pollard despite the fact that he wes born in 1923 and vould have been
subject to military service during Vorld War II. In checking out
leads concerning Pollerd and his background, you should bear this
in mind to determine the basie why he vas not called into military
service during World War If.

You are instructed to have Follard imnecdiately and
thoroughly interviewed by two experienced Agents for ell information
in his possession regarding his “group.“ Prior to the intervicy,
the Agents chould thoreughly review o11 of the information furnished
by ATTD during its contacts with Pollard and Pollard should be
questioned thoroughly regarding such information. The results of
your intervicws should be furnished the Burcau in form suitable for
dissemination and you should include, at least in your transmittel
communication, your evaluation of Pollard, his reliability and the
accuracy of the information he has furnished.

“You should insure that all potential leads are followed
to their logical conclusions including the development of background

-2-

 

 

HW 53074 Docld:32335756 Page 6
 

 

0-9 (Rev. 5-22-64) fom : 8

- FBI

Date: 11216464

Transmit the following i
ran: e following in (Type wn ; “BY ASWJFK TASK FORCE

Vio _Airte].

earn Fr RELSASE NUE
a SAC, Dallas (105-1280) " Tora oma
bt: t ° I 2 : , v wrellf
veut ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
INFORMATION CONCERNING. HEREIN I$ UNCLASSIFIED
(INFERNAL SECURITY). T BY_SZ

or ee Mb.
Reference is made to previous correspondence between —- |
your office and the Bureau, the latest being your airtel 11-10-64,
concerning information furnished your office by the Alcohol and
Tobacco Tax Division (ATID) regarding a group known as “Minutexen"
operating inthe Fort Worth, Texas, area, You referenced airtel .
11+10~64 set forth the results of your initdal interview with
Van Pollard who is the source of the information ATTD furnished
your office. Reference is also made to Bureau airtel 11-10-64
captioned “Alleged Klen Participation In Insurrection Plot,
Racial Matters," _ - . . .

~ A review of the correspondence submitted by your office
in this matter discloses that there are numerous unanswered questions
which should be pursued by your office through interviews of Pol d
and intensive investigative effort by your office, For example,
there is no information indicating that Pollard*s “group" is
associated or affiliated with the “Minutemen” organization headed
by Bobert DePugh of Norborne, Missouri, In this regard, it is
noted that, according to the ATTD agent wko has been in contact with
Pollard, he advised that when he queried Pollard if the groups were
the same all over the country, Pollard seemed surprised that anyone
would think there were several such groups, Another example is

seen in the fact that the ATTD agent on one occasion stated he "“belitesws
his informant to be reliable” while on,asother occasion he advised

he was “unable to evaluate the reliabijety\of his informant.”

    

Ls

mb ae

 

AW 53074 DocId:32335756 Page 2
 

ro _

 

 

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/4/2015
identification Form
Agency Information
y Released under the John
AGENCY : FBI . . EKennedy
~ RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90129-10147 . Assassination Records
Ollection Act of 1992
i RECORD SERIES: DL (44 USC 2107 Note}.
’ . . . , ase#:NW 53074 Date:
AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 105-1280-144 : P5-30-2017
; . Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI -
FROM: HQ
TO: DL
TITLE:

DATE: 11/16/1964

“PAGES: 6
SUBJECTS
MINUTE MEN

MINUTEMEN _
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
‘_ CURRENTSTATUS: —Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : AT

<

val 3 fa
HW 53074 DocId:32335756 Page 1
Airtel to SAC, Dallas
Re: "MINUTEMEN"
62~107261_

On a third occasion the ATTD agent advised he did not believe

his informant was “being honest with him," The above are merely
examples, of unanswered questions regarding this matter and are not
intended to be all inclusive, ad, baths be
| It is noted that in your communications you did not

set forth the results of indices searches of your office concerning
| the various individuals mentioned by Pollard nor concerning the

individuals identified by him as members of his group. For your
information, no record could be located’ in Bureau files identified
with the eae ther an that inforfiation submitted - ’

  
 

by Pollard:}, ArthurSeals, William T.’Seals, Lester Winders,

Shirley Bob}Renshaw/and Arthur f} @, the informait?s brother.
e only’ reference identifiabig with the informant Jocated in \

 
  
  

in connection with the theft - some ammunition and a U. S. Army
‘rifle from the Texas State Guard Armory, He entered a plea of
guilty and was fined $50, In this connection, there is enclosed
a copy of FBI Identification record number 4258867 regarding Pollard,
. In addition, a check of the “civil” prints in the Bureau's
, Identification Bivision disclosed an applicant-type print for
«* Pollard taken 9-20-43 for employment as a laborer with Swift and
Wy Company, Fort Worth, Texas, No “service print was located for
; | Pollard despite the fact that he was ‘born in 1923 and would have been
subject to military service during World War II, In checking out
leads concerning Pollard and his background, you should bear this
in mind to determine the basis why he was not called into military
service during World War II, Oo me
You are instructed to have Pollard immediately and
thoroughly interviewed by [ere experienced Agents/for all information
in his possession regarding his "group." Prio the interview,
the Agents should thoroughly review all of the information furnished
by ATTD during its contacts with Pollard and Pollard should be
questioned thoroughly regarding such information, The results of
your interviews should be furnished the Bureau in form suitable for
i dissemination and you should include, at least in your transmittal
communication, your evaluation of Pollard, his reliability and the
accuracy of the information he has furnished,

oe
=

‘You should insure that all potential leads are followed
to ther logical conclusions including the development of background

 

AW 53074 DocId:32335756 Page 3

 
 

 

 

t
2)

Airtel to SAC, Dallas
Re: "MINUTEMEN"
62-107 261

information and activities concerning the members of Pollard's
“group.” You should also determine whether Pollard‘'s “group”
is antonomous group or whether it is affiliated with DePugh's
“Minutemen. "

You should insure this matter receives expeditious 7
continuous and intensive investigative attention and in this ¥
regard you should insure that the instructions contained in :
referenced Buairtel dated 11-10-64 are taken into consideration and
closely followed,

In the event it is determined Pollard‘ts “group"™ is not
affiliated with DePugh's “Minutemen,’ your communications .should
be submitted under a caption so that your investigation in this
matter will not be confused with the Jnvestigation of DePugh's
organization,
: You should furnish the Bureau with ten copies of all
correspondence prepared for dissemination with at least four copies
\s the transmittal communication designated for the Bureau,

The importance of determining the facts in this matter at
the earliest possible date c&nnot be emphasized too strongly and
the Bureau should be kept promptly advised of all pertinent
developments,

 

 

AW 53074 DocId:32335756 Page 4
