 

ro BETS AVY ™

  

  
     
   
 
  
   
      
    
    
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
    
  
    
  
  
 
   

: ” -
. wy het he peal
direct lines. Two Lines go to a ‘switchboard of unknown capacity
in_the gatehouse/reception room. These lines receive an average
of two thousand calls each per month. Many times, in reading
the take, we note that a person will call and say that he is
coming by at a certain time - or he will be called and told to
come at a certain time. If KDAFGHAN could corelate these calls
with the photographs he takes he could make many identifications
which, in turn, could be exploited by other Station assets, .
KDGLACIER, or LNERGO. Even of more assistance would be the "hot
‘miking" of these lines. That way we could not only identify any
caller to the’ Constilate or gatehouse, but. also who the gatekeeper
calls inside to announce the visitor. In addition, we would, also
expect to pick up quite a bit of conversation of interest, for the
gatehouse seems to be a favorite hangout in the Embassy for DGI
personnel. KDAFGHANS 1 and 2; being experienced LP Operators,
could easily handle the take. KDAFGHAN-1, being fluent in English.
could also handle the English language portions of any take -
which in view of the number of English-speaking visitors would
probably be considerable. :

  
 
 
  

16. Therefore, we request that we be advised what technical
information is necessary for WOACRE to determine the feasibility
of a hot mike installation into the gatehouse and Consulate
(assuming no access to. the instruments): serviced by an LP located
‘in “the curfent KDAFGHAN OP. “Iii thé meantime, we will investigate
the possibility of tapping one of the gatehouse telephones
currently monitored by KDBADGER and running it into the KDAFGHAN
OP where it will not only be transcribed but live monitored.

 

17. PRODUCTION: Production figures for this period were
normal. KDAFGHAN provided an average of 600 contact prints and
150 enlargements per month. No new identifications were made.

 

18. ADMINISTRATIVE: There were no changes in costs or.
personnel during this period. :

‘19.° SECURITY: There were no security incidents during this
period. To improve security, meetings have been reduced to an
average of one every two weeks. Use of the safehouse is now held.
to a minimum and wherever possible meetings are by car pickup.
While KDAFGHAN~1's cover for his darkroom is that it is supposedly
his hobby, there is not one photograph or camera visible anywhere
in his house. He has been instructed to correct this deficiency.

 

  

—~

. sse R&R. GAR ALPHE

 

 

PAGE NO.

[No] CONTINUED 6 of 6.

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

    
 

Sort -iaa/s

- HW 53320 DoclId: 32392929 Page 7
may read more like a project termination request than a progress
report, the Station does believe that this project could be made
productive if not extremely valuable to both JKLANCE and LNERGO
if faces could be related to names and other operational leads
inherent in the KDAFGHAN production were abstracted and followed
out. Our plans to do so are outlined below.

; 9. PLANS: Technical quality needs to be improved. The
present enlargements are only poor to fair in quality. This is
due to the lens now in use, which only has an effective aperture
of £-22. The Station WOACRE officer will soon initiate corre-
spondence. to obtain_a better lens which will not only result in
higher quality photos, but’ extended coverage in conditions of >
darkness or twilight by increasing the light-gathering capability
of the camera. A camera with a behind the lens light meter will
be used from now on to prevent underexposures in poor light
conditions. The present enlarger lens has a fungus growth which
lowers photographic quality. This will be repaired or replaced.

 

: : - 10, Since the move to this OP, a-street sign in the line

: of sight to the target area obstructs ‘or spoils over. half of the ™
i photographs. This prevents the Station from using the photo-
graphs with agent personnel or contacts who might be able to
identify the subject of the photograph. For, unless heavily
sterilized, it provides a very easy means of identifying where
the photograph was taken, and conceivably, by using a theodilite,.
determining the exact location of the OP. An operation, throug!
liaison, to remove this obstruction has been initiated. /

- 11. Identification of PCS personnel, out-bound TDY and in-

; transit passengers can easily be raised to.near one-hundred

percent. The Station will arrange for our current KDGLACTIER

| passport .coverage to-be passed on a routine basis to KDAFGHAN

; and, using these, he should be able to identify all of the

: Subjects that fall in the above category. He will also be
iinstructed to start a photo file on all TDY and in-transit
'personnel and, as he builds this base up, he should be able to
‘identify more and more of the in-bound in-transit personnel.
Consideration is also being given to have him develop and process
these passport photos for both himself and the Station. This
would not only speed up identification of these subjects - and
the exploitation of possible ops leads - but- relieve the Station
Technician and Support Section of some of their work load.

tpt SR er TL SRL TN ae Nn ae

12. The exploitation of potential operational leads through
the compilation of data on license plates, servicemen, known
visitors and arrival and departure times, has previously been
tried by the Station on a sporadic basis with no success. This
is primarily due to the fact that the workload involved on
‘Station personnel has prevented a continuing effort. Since
KDAFGUAN-1 and 2 are underworked (and would probably welcome
some change in their incredibly boring routine), this job will
be given to them. They will be required to submit monthly
reports on:

 

naeatten Sy te OD:

a. All vehicles that call at the compound (frequency
., figures). . .

All service calls.

All visitors and or servicemen who get inside the
compound.

 

Loy Continued

 

 

PAGE NO.

[x] conrimven 4 of 6

FORM

~ SUASSTFICATION
8-64 53a USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
(40)

 

_ BW 53320 DocId:32392929 “Page 5 ee ne se enentamaremenmecmmmmmimmen es eee 4
  
 

pn isk eepcemneeneanaettisy
. HMMA ~ VOT

d. All visitors and or servicemen who get inside the
gate. :

e. Compiled statistics on the arrival and departure
time (and. method) of each known or suspect intelli-
gence officer.

' This should considerably improve the Station's ability to exploit
any leads that might arise.

 

13... The one problem area remaining, and the one where we

_ stand to strike the most "pay-dirt" is that of identifying the
photographs of non-Cuban personnel who visit the Embassy or the
Consulate. While, true, we are unlikely to identify any D&I
agent personnel or illegals, we would be most likely to obtain
identification of subversives traveling to Cuba and on local
sympathizers or contacts who could possibly serve as access
agents. Linking unknown faces to nameS can only be done by
technical means. The target situation and our proposed means
of attack are given below.

 

14. Since the arrival of the new DGI Chief of Center and
the DSE security officer last year, secupity at the Cuban Embassy
and Consulate has tightened drastically. Metal shutters have

een placed on all [but one of the windows in the area suspected
of being the DGI center. Not-even a crack of light now shows
from these windows at night. The entire compound and the sur-
rounding wall have been floodlighted. In KDAFGHAN's words, "the
only shadows in the place now are during the daytime". The
former open grill ‘gate to the automobile entrance has been re-~
placed by an electrically operated solid metal garage door.
Passerbys can no. longer look into the compound or gatehouse and
KDAFGHAN can no longer observe the latter. The door into the
gatehouse, which is in the outer wall alongside the automobile
entrance, has been changed to a heavy metal door with a one-way
mirror for observation. No vehicles except those belonging to
the Embassy are now allowed inside. All delivery trucks must
park outside and carry their items inside. A completely. new,
and unknown, telephone system has been installed. Access control
is now rigorous. When a visitor now calls at the Embassy he
must ring the doorbell, wait for the door to be opened slightly,
and, if he is not recognized, announce his name and business.
The. door is then shut in his face, the gatekeeper calls the
person he wants to see and the person is then either let in or

 

   
   

turned away. If Jet in he no longer _allowed into the
compound ~- with some Tew ra i =“but_is led into the
ormer gatehouse wh. epti

ha
area. The person he came to See comes to thé véteption area
and interviews him there.. Very rarely is the visitor let into
the compound. If the visitor calls at the Consulate he may
freely enter that one room on the ground floor, but is allowed
“no further. Usually the secretary handles all requests. Some !
times a visitor to the Consulate who requires an interview with j
one of the consuls .is taken or. sent to the Embassy entrance ;
g and interviewed in that area. Our chances of implanting an audio}
[sorice inside the Embassy, the Consulate, or the gatehouse with |
our current assets and under these conditions is nill. :

compound. _ Five of these go directly to the Ambassador's office,
the cultural Office, the Press Office, the Commercial Office
and the Consulate. As far as we know, the DGI center has no

|
1b. There are seven telephone lines into the Cuban .
if

}
“po Continued...... ae i
£ wane}

|

; PAGE NO. |
[x | covrimven

 

CLASSIFICATION ©
BA 53a USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

5 of &

 

 
 

 

 

oe

pe SUTURE we REESE

qerir
nye

 

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
FO. .
| Chief, _WOACRE :

NO INDEXING RFQUIRID
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK.
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

 

 

  

 

MICROFIUA

39 EE
D KDAFGHAN Progress Report: 1 July -:°30 September 1971
RCTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES. ;
Action Required: Paragraph 16 (WOACRE)

 

 

 

1.’. SUMMARY: ‘Daring the. reporting period ‘this ‘Project coutinued

with no change, The KDAFGHANS continued to provide the Station with

pl :otographic coverage of visitors to the Cuban Embassy... A new case.
oitficer took over the Project at the beginning of the period and “bas:

spent the. major part of his mectings with KDAFGHAN-1 and 2 on dis-
cussing and planning ways to improve the percentage of identifications
made by them. What follows is a ‘description of the operation as it
‘now Stands and the Station's plans to improve ‘it. :

2. PRESENT KDAFGHAN ROUTINE: Visual coverage of ‘the ‘entraice
to the Cuban Embassy compound is provided from 0900 to 1800 (the
anproximate hour at which lighting: conditions prevent further.
puotography with the present equipment.) - Embassy hours are 0800-
2100, approximately, KDAFGHAN-1 provides the majority of the man-
power, with KDAFGHAN-2 filling in for rest breaks, lunch and while
KDAFGHAN-1 processes the previous day's take. The general practice
ts to observe the entrance without optical assistance until a person
or vehicle is seen to be entering or leaving the gate area. Tho
restricted size of the aperture possible in the OP for this viewing
fa rectangular opening approximately four by five inches) prevents
oS HnulFaneous viewing of any other area of the compound. When a
xkarget is seen, the observer shifts his head a few inches to the
aeflex finder of the camera and is given a 20 X magnification of
‘the target. This.is more than adequate for identification of any
target. If the target is unknown and/or a previous photograph has
‘not been taken, the observer takes one. At the.same time he records
the time of artival/departure, whether the target is known or oe
unknown, and records any obvious identifying data-such as license’

   
 
    

 

      

_' ‘phate, apparent nationality, apparent occupation, etc. ©In addition
| . Continued
Attachments: ms . vet ole

A - as stated. h/w . , . te : ;

B= as stated w/sye ~ Ole AT A pefan ool ay

Distribution: oo ,
NJ Ovig. & 2 - Chief, WHD (w/atts. A and B h/w & uw! \'s/e)
1 - Chief, WOACRE (w/o/atts.) -.1 rote See a Bo

 

 

SY

DISPATCH SYMABCL AND NUMBER

 

HMMA — 41057

;

 

  

   

| wie=53320 Docld:32392925 Page 2

      
    
 
   

 
 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 
AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
COMMENTS

{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

AW 53320 DocId:32392929 Page 1

Date: (02/21/05
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION Released under the John

Fennedy

CIA
104-10414-10345 Assassination Records
JFK ollection Act of 1992

: (44 USC 2107 Note).
So aleaiateteteieeeeteeteteeaneneteiheneneee ase#:NW 53320 Date:

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

‘ DOCUMENT INFORMATION 6-26-2017

 

CIA
COS MEXICO CITY
CHIEF, WOACRE, CHIEF WH DIVISION

: DISPATCH-PROGRESS REPORT: 1 JULY - 30 SEPTEMBER 197

09/29/1971 ;
6 ‘ .

: AFGHAN

JFK ASSASSINATION

PAPER
SECRET
1B
RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
07/07/04 .
JFK-RHO7

F133 20040324-1064411

104-10414-10345
  

to the above general visual surveillance, the agents are
occasionally provided with photographs of targets the Station
believes might visit the compound and on whom we wish a specific
alert - such as visiting agent personnel and third country
subversives known..or believed to be in the area. Each day,
KDAFGHAN-1 processes his notes and the photographs taken and
submits them to the Station in the following form (one day's
production is illustrated in Attachment A):

a. A timetable of arrivals and departures (the number
in the left margin indicates that a photograph was
taken). .

‘b. The original negative. The daily average seems to
be about eighteen photographs.

c. A contact print of the above negatives (the “inked
i . numbers on the photographs correspond to the
marginal numbers on the report).

 

d. Enlargements of selected subjects: (not included).

3. THE_AGENT PERSONNEL: GARDALPHE spent one day, from

0645 to 1800, inside the OP, observing the agents and their
routine. Both seem to have adapted to a very boring routine

7 quite well. Their eyesight, which has been the subject of quite
a few off-the-record comments at both Headquarters and at the
Station (viz, that they are blind), was checked out thoroughly,
but innocuously, by asking them who such and such a person was
at the gate or in photos and by asking them’ to read some very
small print film-processing instructions.. While KDAFGHAN-2's
eyesight is definitely poorer than that of KDAFGHAN-1, she easily
identified the subjects-and was able to read the test literature
_with no problem. She was observed carefully while manning the
OP and she missed no one in that one and one-half hour period.
Previous cases of missing known targets scheduled to visit the
Embassy are more probably the result of boredom and a resultant
lack of attention. Their job requires them to be hermits. They
have very few friends and even fewer visitors. To break them out
of this rut, the Station will soon start altering their work .
hours to provide more extended coverage of the target, and give
them more interesting work to ‘do.

4. PRESENT KDAFGHAN FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT: The present
OP is located on the roof of a three-story apartment house
located about eighty yards from the compound entrance (see
Attachment B). Concealment is excellent. Windows on other
floors allow visual observation of most of the compound facing
the OP and of the entrance to the Consulate. However, they do
not permit photography, except on a selected basis, because of
the concealment problem. - The OP proper is a small bathroom
about five by six feet in what used to be the maid's quarters
A captain's chair, the tripod, camera, lens and a small worktable
have been fitted in between the various plumbing figtures.
Adjacent to this is another room'of approximately twice the size
which contains a desk,. cot, the printer and- a wardrobe for’
storing photographic materials. This room has a large picture
window overlooking the entrance to the Consulate.

 

Continued.......

  

 

 

CLASSIFICATION

S ECU-RET

PAGE NO.

2 of 6

  

 

53a USE PREVIOUS EDITION. |

 

 

CONTINUED

AW 53320 DocId:32392929 Page 3

. U — i] ete meena eectnernee

   
 
    
 
    
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
    
   
   
   
   
  
    
  
  
 
  
    
   
   
   
  
  
    

 
  
   
 
 
   
   
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
    
 
   
 
 
    
   
  
  
    
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
   
 
    

5. The photographic equipment used by the KDAFGHANS at -
present consists. of a Bausch and Lomb spotting scope with 20-X
eyepiece, and a Pentax H-3.camera. This equipment is not
satisfactory (see below). Except for the printer, all darkroom
equipment is located in-.a darkroom on the first floor. The
darkroom is well equipped and adequate. KDAFGHAN-1 makes no
attempt to conceal the darkroom. His cover for the darkroom is

“that it is his hobby. . ,

   
 

 
      

6. iGnOE THE KRARGUAN PRODUCTION, Time-
C - at present. If the Station

is looking for confirmation of-+an agent report or a surveillance
/ report, they are sometimes consulted. u
H UAL s fot retention jinwthe Archives. Th
nd contact prints are handled in the same way. \

     
 

       

   

negatives a

; 7. The enlarged photographs are processed in the following
way:

a. Certain photographs of unidentified persons are
sterilized and forwarded to the local office of
LNERGO. The Station receives no feedback or
identification of these individuals from LNERGO.

b. Photographs of PCS or known TDY Embassy personnel
are kept and used for identification purposes at
the Station and some are forwarded to Headquarters
for the same reason. :

c. Photographs of other identified persons are placed
in Station personality files.

d. All other photographs (the major portion) are simply
destroyed. .

8. LNERGO was recently queried on the value of this
operation to them. They replied, "(these photographs) are
compared with the photographs of known leaders of extremist
groups in WOCORK as well as with photographs of persons who are
subjects of Identification Orders prepared on badly wanted
fugitives in WOCORK. It is requested, therefore, that you
continue this service if it does not cause problems or unusual
costs to your office." While this project may be of some value
to LNERGO, it. is of little. alue, as presently constituted, to
the Station. “There are other, and cheaper, means of obtaining
photographs of PCS and .TDY personnel. No identification or
operational use is made of the. photographs of the unidentified
subjects - at least by JKLANCE - and no operational use is made
of the timetable. For instance, license plate numbers are not
now traced as either a possible means of identification, or
leads to CI or recruitment targets. A previous effort at
analyzing the timetable for possible patterns of activity was
unproductive and has not been repeated. Only in selected
instances do we try to correlate the information received from
KDBADGER coverage of the Embassy and that provided by the ©
KDAFGHANS. But generally this has not been successful, since
most often people with previous appointments are going to the
Consulate (which we do not cover with KDAFGHAN), or too many
unidentified people arrive around the same: time at the gate,

_ precluding a positive identification. While the above evaluatior

Continued.........

i

 

PAGENO,

CONTINUED 3 of 6

 

 

ug3320 DoclId: 32392929 Page,

 

 

 
