 

SECRET

x
FOREIGN INFLUENCES IN THE
BLACK NATIONALIST MOVEMENT

~

Indications are quite clear that SNCC is attempting
to obtain international recognition. It has appointed a
Director of International Relations, James Forman, who is
stationed in New York City, and has attempted to establish an

international headquarters at Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. Tanzania

would appear to be ideal for such a headquarters because of
that country's pro-communist orientation, the heavy influx of
‘Communist Chinese technicians and scientists, and the large
Communist Chinese Embassy located there. Further, Carmichael
in his public utterances abroad has called for international-
ization of the black power movement. :

The development of international contacts by SNCC
could have begun as early as 1964 when some members of the
organization visited Guinea at the invitation of its President,
Sekou Toure., SNCC representatives participated in a national
youth seminar on racialism held in Tanzania in April, 1966.
James Forman participated in a United Nations Seminar on
Apartheid, Racial Discrimination and Colonialism in Southern -

Africa which was held in Zambia in July, 1967, in which a wide

* variety of Governmental representatives including some from
the USSR and other Soviet-bloc countries participated. Fay’
‘Bellamy, Vernon Crutchfield, Dwight Williams; and Muriel
Tillinghast, SNCC representatives, visited the Soviet Union
in June, 1966, at the invitation of the Soviet- Committee of
Youth Organizations and at the suggestion of the Communist
Party, USA. The Soviet Union paid all the expenses of this
travel. William Hall, a SNCC representative, attended the
Seventh Congress of the World Federation of Democratic Youth,
a communist organization, in Bulgaria, in June, 1966.

Revolutionary Action Movement
ere arte I IEE SARA EEN GSI GH SA BA PATRONS IE RE :
The Revolutionary Action Movement CRAM) was formed.
‘in Detroit in anne It is an all-Negro black nationalist
rgani f in New York City and Philadeloh

 

 

NW 55142 Doeld:329897T61 Page 3 °

Vi

 

 

sy

 
Southern Christian Leadership Conference
Se OPSRCR TREC eS Ter ard eae OZ Ter ae Ee OEY ETO EO

The Southern Christian Leedership Conference (SCLC)
under the leadership of Martin Luther King, Jr., publicly

    

._ Pennsylvania, Its recognized leader in exile, to whom

members in this country look for guidance, is Pobert F,
Williams who sought refuge in Cuba in August, 1961,
hours bofore he vas indicted on a charge of kidnapping

a white couple during a racial disturbance in Monroe,
North Carolina, ‘hile in Cuba he directed a propaganda
campaign against the United States urging Negroas in '°
the United States to take up arms against the whites,

In the Summer of 1966 Williams went to Peking,
China, where he is a guest of the Chinese Government. He
continues to enzage in anti-~‘merican propaganda activities
through press and radio channels. At Williams! urging,
MAO Tse-tung issued a message in August, 1963, expressing
support for the American Negr oes! strugsle against racial
discrimination by United States imperialism, His
message was reprinted in the "Peking Review," a Chinese
communist publication, in August, 1966, and 1957,

There is evidence of an existing line of comnu-
nication outside the normal lines of communication betveen

 

 

. Williams and members of RAM in the United States, While

Williams was in Cuba these lines of communications included
representatives from the Cuban Mission to the United Nations
and the Guinaan Mission’ to the United Nations, There ara’
also allegations of Communist China financial support of
RAM; however , these have not been substantiated,

' RAM leader,
. He visited
o China,

Paul Edvard Brooks, a well-educate
is devoted to the idea of violent revolutio
Cuba in May, 1965, and has spoken of zoing;

  
  
 

 

 

 
 

 

on

 

SECRET

FOREIGN INFLUENCES IN THE
BLACK NATIONALIST MOVEMENT

 

*

claim of assistance by Cuban Embassies is the fact that as
recently as December 27, 1967, James Forman, the International
Director of SNCC who is headquartered in New York City, was
advised that tne Cuban Mission to the United Nations in

New York was holding some money for his organization and
arrangements were made fer him to visit Jose Vieri at the
Mission on the afternoon of Decamber 27. Vieri is a known
Cuban intelligence agent JC) .

Julius Bernard Lester of the International Affairs
Department of SNCC, previously mentioned as having traveled
with Carmichael to Cuba, also visited Hanoi during 1967. His

.trip was sponsored and paid for by the Bertrand Russell Peace

Foundation, London, England. Lester is the author of an article
captioned "To Hell With Protest"! appearing in a recent SNCC
newsletter which contains a vicious attack on the President of
the United States and veiled threats to his safety. :

Numerous other members of SNCC have traveled abroad

during the year, 1967, seeking support for their movement.-
‘They have reached such far-flung countries as Cuba, England,

France, Sweden, Norway, ‘Cambodia, North Vietnam, Tanzania,
Czechoslovakia, and Russia, John Tillman represented SNCC

at an anti-Vietnam conference held in Bratislava, Czechoslovakia,
in September, 1957, which was attenéd by representatives of North
Vietnam and the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam.

; Five members of SNCC traveled to Havana, Cuba, on
January 1, 1958, reportedly to attend a "cultural" conference
in Havana scheduled for January 4 - 11, 1968. This matter was
handled through the Cuban Mission to the United Nations.

Although billed as a cultural congress to inelude
writers, artists, “and scientists from all over the world, the
general theme of the conference will be colonialism and neo-
colonialism a. pos2 is to obtain witty of

action in fights,

ran nasa
a tae ennouncad

    
   
 

we

  

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_SEQRET

FOREIGN INFLUENCES IN THs
BLACK NATIONALIST MOVEMENT

visits to Algeria, Guinea, Syria, Egypt, Tanzania, Denmark,
and Sweden. He attended portions of the second session of
the Vietnam War Crimes Tribunal in Copenhagen, Denmark, in
late November, 1967, as the SNCC representative on this

tribunal. . . .

Carmichael arrived in Paris, France, from Stockholm,
Sweden, on the evening of December 5, 1967, and was initially
refused permission to enter; however, friends of Carmichael who
had been involved in the War Crimes Tribunal, including Jean-
Paul Sartre, a well-known French communist, applied a great
deal of pressure on the French Government to admit him. As a
result, he was admitted for a period not to exceed 90 days.

- Interestingly, most of the known contacts of Carmichael while
in Paris were communists and others of that ilk active in
opposition to the United States war effort in Vietnam.,. In
speaking at a meeting organized by the National Vietnam Committee,
which opposes United States involvement in Vietnam, he stated,
"We do not wish to see peace in Vietnam but victory by the
Vietnamese over the United States. The moment has come for we

.» black Americans to move from protestation to resistance; it is

now that we must fight in order to avoid becoming a nation of
assassins. If necessary we will plunge the entire United States
into chaos." Carmichael returned to the United States on
December 12, 1967.

It is interesting to note that Carmichael's travels
abroad in some instances paralleled the travels of Malcolm K
in 1964. . 4
In an interview in Tanzania in November, 1967, Carmichael
stated that Cuban Embassies had been most helpful to “us” wheraver
"we've gone." He further stated that "lots" of success had bean
obtained as a rasult of "our' trip on the coordination of black .
_ power, around the world and that good concrete steps had been
taken in that direction. o add significance to Carmichael's ®

Boold: 32989761

   

Page 7

 

ee BETTIE RY

 

 
 

NW 55142
arene

 

FORKIGN INFLUENCES IN THE an .
BLACK NATIONALIST MOVEMENT :

intended to include all people of African descent in the Western.

Hemisphere, as well as "our' brothers and sisters on the African

continent. The initial aim of this organization was to inter-

nationalize the American civil rights movement by taking it to

the United Nations. ..
. vo.

Malcolm X was murdered in February, 1965, and his
organization for all intents and purposes has/ceased to function
effectively.

Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee
renee stern inet Ral ETP EMAAR IEA AIDCHER RIS Tarn E ROPE DANS HEE feieF mm

Stokely Carmichael, former Chairman of the Student
Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), was a great admirer
of Malcolm X and his teachings have undoubtedly influenced
Carmichael and other leaders of this organization into moving
‘the SNCC into the militant black nationalist organization that
it is today. The SNCC is now motivated by a revolutionary
direct-action, antiwhite ideology that places no faith in

_-mormal democratic procedures... It follows the Communist Party
. 2 s > * 2 > 2
«line in.its criticism of United States policy in Vietnam and

in its recent charge that Israel was guilty of aggression in
the Middle East. .

The actual as well as tHe potential extent of foreign
involvement and participation in the black nationalist movement
is highlighted by the recent foreign travels of Carmichael and
other members of SNCC, Carmichael, George Ware, Julius Bernard -
Lester, and Elizabeth Sutherland, also members of SNCC, traveled.
to Cuba in July of 1967. Carmichael as a guest of the Cuban
Government and an "honorary delegate" attended the conference
of the Latin American Solidarity Organization (LASO) held in
Cuba in July and early August, 1967, where he sought to tie
in the Negro extremist activities in the United States with
the anti-imperialist revolutiongry struggle, which was the

   

Docld: 32989761 Page 5 5

 

 

 

 
Ww 55342

 

?

 

 

FOREIGN INFLUENCES IN THE
. BLACK NATIONALIST MOVEMENT

  

basic theme of the conference. He expressed support for a
policy of armed struggle declaring that violence is the only
mathod of struggle. He stated that it was necessary to "create
50 Vietnams" in the United States "in the same way as outside
of the United States."

At ceremonies in Santiago de Cuba,. Fidel Castro intro-
duced Carmichael as "one of the most distinguished leaders for
civil rights in the United States." In a press conference in
Havana on Augist 1, 1967, Carmichael praised Cuban communism,
ealled Abraham Lincoln a "white racist" and listed his idols
as the late Malcolm X, Cuban guerrilla warfare expert Ernesto
"Che" Guevara, and Chinese communist leader MAO Tse-tung.
Carmichael is reported to have stated in Cuba,"We have to fight
in the United States in order to change the structure of that
eapitalist society.” He called his talks with Fidel Castro as
"the most educational, the most interesting, and the best
apprenticeship of my public life." He was successful in
getting Castro's promise to take up the cudgel for the American
Negro. |

, :
On his way to Cuba, Carmichael visited England in
July, 1967, where his contacts included Ralph Schoenman,
Director of the Bertrand Russell Peace Foundation, which is
sponsoring the Vietnam War Crimes Tribunal, Michael De Freitas,
a self-styled leader of an alleged black muslim movement in the
United Kingdom, and allegedly some leaders of the African
“National Congress, a communist-infiltrated group. While in
England, Carmichael made a violently antiwhite speech in which
he advocated the internationalization of the colored peoples'
struggle, including a policy of violence and guerrilla warfare.

From Cuba Carmichael traveled extensively abroad
seeking support for his movement in the United States. He
visited. Hanoi, North Vietnam, where he was received by North

‘ Vietnamese Government officials. His other travels included

EPZRET

Boold:

  

3338 87s Te See mer ren EI

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9. /17290- ¥66

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

   

—____]

 

   

 

 

 

Serial Scope:

EBF- £66

    
   
  

 

DO NOT
DESTROY
FOIPA#_Wt

 

 

 

 
 

  

  
  
  
 

 

ak, an
UNITED STATES sale MENT OF FESTICE
FEMERAL EVREAU OF INVESTICATION

 

In Reply, Please Refer to WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

   

 

Fils No. uo
~ Jenyary 1h, - 1963 SAC
| Bs Sad
_. FOREIGN INFLUENCES IN THE ST ,
ang rere ” “) BLACK NATIONALIST MOVEMENT .
eee cet Although evidence to date is lacking-WHicH would

show the black nationalist movement in this country is either
under foreign control or direction, it must be recognized that
a real potential for foreign exploitation exists and presents
a definite threat to our internal security. In fact, as
evidenced by the following, considerable data has already been
developed indicating varying degrees of foreign participation,
influence and/or involvement among black’nationalist groups
and individual militants.

Organization of Afro-American Unity
ITY ADL IS RHEE IE OEY SER ST EEE IN Att

Malcolm X Little was an articulate member of the
Nation of Islam, a black nationalist organization headquartered
in Chicago, Illinois, until his expulsion in late 1963. While
with the Nation of Islam his violently antiwhite utterances
brought him widespread notoriety.

 

 

“* In 1964, Malcolm X, as he was known, with the assist-
ance of a United Arab Republic advisor at the United Nations
made a trip to Mecca. In the course of this trip and subsequent
ones in 1964, he visited such countries as Nigeria, Ghana, Morocco,
Algeria, Tanzania, Guinea, Kenya, and Uganda where he was fre-
quently received as a guest by the heads of state. In Ghana he
was received by the Cuban and Communist-Chinese Ambassadors. 1

In June, 1964, he announced the formation in New York *
City of a militant biack nationalist organization known as the
Organization of Afro-American Unity. This organization was

LL fIFI-Z

ee

 
    
 

JAN 2. Aaa

FBI-—~SAINT LOUIS___

| Fert tevedtiye TRE

 

 

 

| MW 55142 Docld:32989761 Page 3 . " , . . . |

 
 

 

0 - 10080

 

 

& _

NW 55142 Doold: 32983761 Page 4

 
