a 2. Supplesental Agreements to the Delimitations Agreement .
U On 6~2-49, five supplemental agreements to the Delinitations Agreement
4

- were approved by the members of the Interdepartmental Intelligence Con-
ference, and they are set out below. Instructions, where necessary, COon~
cerning each of the supplements will be found at the end of that supple- .

ments
[ a. Supplemental Agreement No.[Ir]to the Delimitations Agreement:
: 1 : a

COOPERATION AND COORDINATION BETWEEN -
. HE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
. THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION OF TKE ARMY
° {HE OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE ‘AND .
. @HE oYrice OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS, JHSPECTOR GENERAL, U. S. AIR FORCE ~

. : "the Director of Intelligence, U. S. Arny, the Director of the
* Federal Buresu of Investigation, the Director of Naval Iatelligence
- and the Director of the Office of Special Investigations, Inspector
oo General, U. S. Air Force, with a view to promoting the ciosest
possible cooperation and coordination between the Field Services of
these agenoies agree that the fo] lowing recommendations will be trans— .
mitted to their field installations: .- .
®(a) Special Agents in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Iavestigation
Divisional Offices, Military Intelligence Officers of the pertinen®
Armies, District Officers of the Office of Special Iavestigations,
Inspector General, U. S. Air Force, and Ha District Intelligence
Officers will maintain close personal lisison between those offices
and their representatives, svoTading a meeting of representatives of
the four agensios, preferably the officers ja ckarge, at leas twice,
ser month; ror the purpose of discussing pending and contemplated
Povedtigative activities, and any other subject necessary to iasure
that there is proper coordination of their investigative work..

Pry

. I . ®(p) The close personal liaison to de maintained between represent=

2 me : atives of the four agencies at all -times shouid insure that there is -
‘ : po duplication of effort_in any. field, and that a proper coverage of

" - “he whole investigative field is mailatained. Particular attextion
should be paid to svoiding any duplication in connection with she use

en EAE

: : of informers. .

®(0) A distinction abould be recognized. between the investigative
Anterest of individual agencies and the coverage interest. It is
o _ believed that all four agencies should study, from time to tise, the
oa coverage of the investigative field in order to insure that ail
channels of interest and avenues of information are adequately
covered by at least one of the participating agencies. .
'

©(a) Where there As doubt as to whether or not ene of the other
agencies is interested is information collected, it should be. trass~
mitted to the other agency. - - : ,

 

- eee ‘

° . ®(e) Consideration should be given to the fact that certain classes
of information are of general interest to the Military, tiaval, and ©

 

53216 DoclId:32390930 Page 9
Air Force intelligeace services in connection with dDackground and
* fnowledge of espionage and sabotage organizations, even though the
. military, Naval, acd Air Force intelligence services may have no
“bo . apparent direct dnvestigative interest. ; a

.@({g) Should differences of opinion of a minor nature <ccur, the
directors of the four intelligence agencies feel that with proper
personal liaison, such differences cao be satisfactorily adjusted |
lecally by the officials in charge of the varioua divisional organi-

(1) Instructions . :

. This supplenent recommends mectings at least twice monthly of

. . the interested agencies. Where desirable or necessary, these

° meetings may be held wore often than twice per month ard in
certain areas, because of the travel distances involved or other
factors, meetings are being held once per month by special
agreement. It is not necessary that the Bureau be advised of
the business discussed at these meetings, ualess there isa
particular matter of which the Bureau should be cognizant. The
Bureau should be promptly {nformed of any change in the schedul—
ing of these neetings or of any agreement to comzence or dis~-
Oo continue meetixgs din a field office area.

Ct be Supplemental Agreenent No. Il to the Delimitations Agreement: (Rescinded.]
. ce Supplemental Agreenent No. III to the Delimitations Agreement:

| WINVESTIGATIVE JURISDICTION ON VESSELS :
oF MILITARY SEA TRANSPORTATION SERVICE : vot .

®1, The investigative jurisdiction of all activities under the .
eategorics of espionage, counterespiorage, subversion and sabotage
on vessels of the Military Sea Transportation Service is as follows:

*s. Investigative. jurisdiction on vessels purchased by the

 

° “- Navy will. be tho responsibility of the Office ef Naval Intelli-
gence. - en
_¢ -. =p, Vessels obtained by the Navy through a ‘bare boat charter’ -.

- will be under the investigative jurisdiction of the Office of”
Haval Intelligence.

"6, Vessels allocated. to the Military Sea Transportation Service
which are managed and supervised by their private owners are under
the investigative jurisdiction of the FBI. :

¢

 

AW 53216 DocId:32390930 Page 10
HW 53216

ayprenDix B

_ + jpentops oF PREDOMINANT \OLITARY
. THESIS, NOT THVOLVING MARTIAL wi
3 vi1 come into prominence 3

aI, In tine of war certain area’
araed forces c er of suc

  
  
 

theaters of operation. hen ap
gheater is designated, ‘he definitely has 4nterest din, thoush
the ed Life within the areas 3m order that the axned for
may pre hinself for tne discharg® of the possible responsibility which... :
may affix to his, the following procedure 4s agreed upont . |
#1, Agents of the Fel; of ONT; TD, Ars ani the OST, G, U.S. Air at
ordance with the provisions of Sections -  - Pe

Force wil contime to function in acco
rr, mm, Tv, and Ve :

° : e2, In addition thereto,
to explore *he szanner ia whick cone

Nentatives of the other ‘agencies.

arned forces er is auhorited to request and receive
ovine may desire and they SAY . D

. a3. The
such 4nforcation froa the other three agencies
be able to gurnishe ce :
° eyq. The analysis and exploration referred to above will show eke coverage
- furnished by each of the gubsersbing agencies and any additional coveras? each
“pubseribing agency ca undertake. Shen the ceomander feels that more plese ~
sed, 4% zed that he 19 authorized %° augent the
at 4

_ 7,” eoversge 44 is recognl!
~ coverage with such elexenss 9 she subseri dirs agencies 29 are uncer
asion of the sgheres no coning wcer

bs ang inv
e of tho other scribing agencies, she araed gorces commander

« the cognizanc 3
.. should obtain the necessary authority froa the secretary, of Befensee

eyII. _ Irrespective of the fact that the preceding recomendations have
. ed the gnitaative in the hands of the arued forces commander s whenever
- any of the other services feel that such a survey to determine adequacy of
coverage be undertaken 4% should be 9° recomended." .

 

qQ Instructions
. The major: differences between the foregoing Delinitations agreement
o> and previous versions. 2re 35 followss : .
: co qhe Directors OSI, USAFs isa party thereto.
_. The Burest pag jurisdiction over & lea
counteresPlonas®2 subversion and otage are med, ?
Seymente ag subversr en cm one ened
a 2 . .

DocId: 32390930 Page 6
P

HW 53216

. stated above. o

aasunes goverrmental direction in such areas of occupation.

PYII. Fron time to time it may be desirable in the light of changing

conditions to ~odify or amend this Delinitations Agreement. Subject to
the exceptions already provided for above, general amendments or modi-
fications involving all of the four subscribing organizations shall be

: §nsyed in the form of a revised Delinitatioas Agreement and not as sep=—

arate instructions. .

®yIII. During pericds of martial law, or periods of predominant armed’
forces interest not involving martial law, when agreed upon by the sub -
seribing agencies, the provisions of sppendix A or B, hereto attabhed,
will additionally apply. co, .. :

: aes

wIx, - ALL agreexents of a continuing nature and applicable to two or more
ef the subscribing agencias to the Delizita.ions Agreenent which affect
the basic jurisdicsion thergof which are sow or hereafter mutually entered
4nto by any of tha sutserthers thereto will be reduced to writing; will
thereafter beceze surplesents to the Delinitations Agreement, and dise
tributed only to the extent agreed upon by the co-signors.

 

APPENDIX A .
PERIOD OF MARTIAL LAT

"ay, It ds further agreed that when a state of martial lay has been da-

elared by the President, the armed forces coauander will assumes. respon=
sibilities for ccverace in these casegorics. His authority to direct

‘gid control the susscribing agencies of the armed forces will be limited
only by such instructicas as ha may receive fran the Secretary of Defense.
Be will have authority td coordinate the intelligence activities of the
subscribing agencies in his area of responsibility, within the linits of
their available personnel and facilitios, by the assignnent of missions,
the designation of objectives, and the exercice of such coordinating control
as he deems necessary. Ha is not authorized to control the administration,
er disciplines of the subscribing agancies in the area of his responsibility,
Hor to Issue instrustions to thom beyond those necessary for the purposes

®IT. Personnel of the subscribing agencies in the area of responsibility
ef the arsed forces commander will still send reports to and be under the
continued supervision of sheir respective headquarters. They will render
such aid and assistance to the armed forces ccumander and his designated
representatives as are possible and practicable. Thy will furnish all .
pertinent, informatica, data, and other material that are or may be necessary
or desirable to the arzed ferces coscander by the most expeditious means
and pothods possible censistent with requisite security. Each head-
quarters of the subscribing agencies will promptly be advised by its agen-
eles of all infcrzaticn snd data appropriately identified as having been
furnished to the armed forces commander. . .
n .

.

DocId:32390930 Page 7

7 . o o-
aivememamengrens nonema.speBarcs an m6?

: fot :
: . foot
TEA Tne 2 censthinbahnatentindain_satehemneaeaniigip ana
yt yaiinenenpcaensaner seiraiapaiinststsiedan-aeuaaneesie ad
er wa

oo

.
yomrnsenenn soe SO)

oe a cee icon

sat eee

 

 

.
snvearesmaid ote

   

2 eveeme ariees

 
.
. 1 - ° . . . i |
except that part of such dnvestigations as have. ramifications tf
fp + dm the United States, Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands. . ti
0 : i
|

. 4, The investigation of all cases in these categories involving
. . civilians and foreiga nationals who are not employees of the other
5 : subscribing organizations, in areas where the Army Coomander }-.s
suprene jurisdiction over the armed forces stationed therein,
t dncluding possessions of the United States other than Puerto Rico
‘ and the Virgin Islands. .

 

®5,. Informing ‘the other subscribing organizations of any impertast

; dovelophents. . : . .
6, Advising the Federal Bureau of Investigation of the identity and
loontion of the plants engaged in Army contracts... :

®IVS ONL will be responsible for:

8 u "1, The Anvestigation and disposal of all cases in these categor!es
: u* dnvolving active and ‘retired saval personnel of the Havy..

®2, The disposal, but not investigation, of all cases in these
. . eategories involving civilian employees of the Navy in the United
.. € _ States, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands. .
®3, The investigation and disposal of all cases in these categories

dnve_ving civilian employees of the Navy stationed in areas other
: . t a then the United States, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands,
“. " except that part of such investigations as have ramifications
. t : an the United States, Puerto Aico, or the Virgin. Islands

: . . ®4, The investigation of all cases in these categories {svolvisg ©
Cor civilians and foreign nationals who are not employees of the other
i . _ gubseribing organizations, in areas where the Navy Commander has
supreme jurisdiction over the armed forces stationed therein,
es { dnoluding possessions of the Usited States other thas Puerto Rice
t : and the Virgin Islands, and[(ia}the State of Alaska except as .
. + @esorided in Section 5, below. :

 

. . 95, The investigation of all cases in these categories involving
. oiviljans and foreign nationals who are not employees of the .
other subscribing organizations and with the exception of eiviliaa

. employees of the Executive Branch of the Government on Kodiak and
° _ Afognak Islands adjacent to the Alaska Peninsula and Adak Islaad
. : in the Aleutian Chain.* : . ;
a . . "6. Informing the other subscribing organizations of any important
- : . “’ developments. . . .
. : ’ .
_— *7, Advising the Federal Bureav of Investigation of the identity

and location of the plants engaged in Navy contracts.

 

. + . . .
: . .

t {"*This paragraph added. See IIC Working Comnittee Minutes ef
if _ September 15, 1954, and June'&, 1955.) .

-

 

an

  

HAW 53216 DocId:32390930 Page 5
ey, The Office of Special Investigations, Inspector Geveral, uv. S.

o Bir Force will be responsible for? . -
le oy ” 1, The investigation and disposal of all cases in these categories
. , invelving active and retired military personnel of the Air Force.

2 "2. The @isposal, but aot investigation, of all cases in these
: : - . categories involving civilian employees of the Air Force in the
. . io United States, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islaads.

3, The investigation and disposal of all cases in these oateg:rtes
§nvolving civilian edployees of the Air Force stationed in areas other
than the United States, Puerto Rico, aod the Virgia Islands; except
-" that part of such investigations 33 have ramifications in the
a § - . Unlted States, Puerte Rico, or the Virgin Islands.
: °4, The investigation of all cases in these categories involving
. civilians and foreiga nationals who are not eaployees of the other
- 1 subsoribing organizations, in areas where the ‘Air Force Commander
. has suprece jurisdiction over the armed forces stationed therein,
C . . dncluding possessions of the United States ether thaa Puerto Rico
and the Virgins Islands. The investigation of the same cases.
@escribed above dn that portios of Alaska described in Section Ss,
delow, with the exceptica of civilias employees of the Executive
i _ Branch of the sovernment. . : ;

. : . "5. The investigation of sll cases in these categories involving

. : civilians, except a3 desoribed hereinabove, (1) 4s that part of the.
. . Alasks Peninsula which is separated by a line draws from iliansa
‘Bay northwest to. the towa of O16 Tidanaa ‘and thence following the
south shore of Lake Tidamna to the Evichak ‘aiver to the Evickak .
Bay; (2) in the islecds adjacent to the Alaske Peninsula excluding
Yodiak and Afognak Islands which are the responsibility of the
Office of Naval Intelligeace; (3) in the Aleutians Islands exclucing
Adak Island which is the responsibility ef the Office of Naval
Intelligences and (4) in the Pribilof Islandse* ~ : .

"6, Informing’ the other subscribing organizations of sny important .
. Gevelopments. 7 :

coe 87, sAdvisicg the Federal ‘Bureau of Investigatien of the identity — °
‘ and location of the plants engaged in Bir Force contracts.

. a ° «SWE. ‘2, Where Sections IIl, Iv, end V {nvelve general territorial
. . eoverages responsibility: for such coverage will pass from one
element of the armed forces to another automatically when a change
. ef: command responsibility ensues. This provision 4s subject to
-modifigation by direct agreement between the interested elements

. . of the armed forcese
i? oot 22, While investigative jurisdiction over the civilian populace in
. " former enemy territories occupied by the armed forces has been :
rovided for in Sections 111, IV, and V above, those provisions are
. subject to @irect adjustment with the Department of State if and

- when that Department

 

tc (PeOriginal paragraph ohanged. See IIc Working Conmitteo Minutes of
. 4 September 15, 1954, and June 8, 1955.)
Fs < . . ot
10, oo, ORE

    

AW 53216 DocId:32390930 Page 6
, WATERIAL REVIEWED AT ‘CIA HEADQUARTERS BY Me

HOUSE SELECT com Tre ON ASSASSINA ATIONS. STAFF MEMBERS

' FILE TITLE/NUMBER/ VOLUME :

 

INCLUSIVE DATES:

 

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

 

_ ROOM:

ooo

 

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

 

 

DATE DATE : . : ”
| RECEIVED ‘RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE. OF REVIEWING OFFICIA)

ols falas | _rasewsy Ha vale rons
2 BETS _

e

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

 

NW 53216 Docld:32390930_ Page.2.

 
Date: 09/27/01
' Page: 1

'. OFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM _
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION . Released under the John
. Eennedy
AGENCY : CIA , tesassination Records
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10439-10114 allection Act of 1952
RECORD SERIES : JFK . : (44 U5c 2107 Note).

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE paced iN 53216 Date:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :
TO :
TITLE : MATERIAL REVIEWED AT “CIA HEADQUARTERS : DELIMITATIONS
AGREEMENT.
DATE : 00/00/78
PAGES : 18

SUBJECTS : AGREEMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT ©
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED ‘ ;
RESTRICTIONS : . : an
CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL : : we
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/23/98 . . :
OPENING CRITERIA : . : :
COMMENTS :. JFK-RH04:F089 1998.12.23.13:28:24:403128:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 53216 DocId:32390930 Page 1
       
   

       

 

a.
a :
ot ae “8 .
: .
, : .-°
: :
. ~
3 »
- wee aw ee me meme ae am wep ees te ee re ee -—< . -
Be AGREEMENTS = . : 7
-21, Delimitations sgreement . i
The following agreement was approved and signed on 2-23-49 by the . .
Directors of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Int -lligence Division .
ef the Army: Office of Special Investigations, Air Forces and the an
| Chief -of Naval Intelligences . “4 an : 3, .
"Subjects Delimitation of Iavestigative Duties of the Yedorali °
. 7 Bureau of Investigation, the Office of Naval Intell- e
igeuce, the Intelligence Division of the Army, and .
the Office of Special Investigations, Inspector . 7°
General, U, 5S, Ai Force. .
The reement ror Oorainatson of the fe era. jureaa
. ef Investigation, Office of Naval Intelligence, In- : . . wwe
. : telligence Division of the Army; and the Office of .
Special Investigations, Inspector General, U. S. Air . ce
Force. :
*I, The undersigned have reviewed the directive contained in the Presi-
dent's Memorandum ef June 26, 1939, a8 augmented by his Directive of
September 6, 1939, the Delimitations Agreement of Februsry 9, 1942, and
¢ October 30, 1947. In addition, cognizance .

the Presidential Directive °
has deen teken of the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1946, and - .

the specific application of tha* Act is set forth in Sectior IZ hereof.
All other provisions of this Agreement are apart from and have no relation
to the stated requirements of the Atento toerey Act. In view of the .
“above, it is now agreed that responsibility for the qnvestigation of all .
° activities coming under the cate ie e, counterespionz fe There GeTe gerne .
subversion and sabotage (here to as ‘these categories ) De frree€
wi @ deramite
by one organization in a given field carries with 4t the obligation to .
exchange freely and directly with the other “subscribing organizations
all information of mutual interest. When the organization with primary
. operating responsibility is unable for any reason to produce material
dn that field desired by the subscribing agencies, such special arrange— : .
ments ss may be legal or desirable will be worked out through negotia~
tion at the national level prior to activity by one agency in another

  

    
  

  

special arrangements, the matter will be referred to the Director of
Intelligence of the Army for further negotiations at the national leval.
Clese cooperation and coordination between the four subscribing organiza~
tions ia a mutually recognized necessity .

AW 53216 DocId:32390930 Page 3
 

. _, O1t. FBI will be responsible fors . choose
ewe . a
eee 2 M2, Ald gnvestigations of cases in these categories f{avolving
. t ° oly. ans and foreign nationals of all classes in the ‘continental
. t . mated States, Puerto Rico, the Virgina Islands, [the State of .
. ‘Hawaiice,jand tbe State of Alaska* except a3 specifically deso: tbed

: hereinafter in Paragraph V, Section 5.

ere ®2, all investigations of violations of the Atenic Energy Act of
. . . 1946, There are ne gerriterial or personnel Limitations on this

‘. _ provis fone

. . 3, The coordination of the investigative potivities of oivilias
t : egenoies ‘in the United States, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands»
. and the State of Alaska except a3 specifically déescrided hereinafter
‘ dn Paragraph ¥, Sections 5, which provide information regarding
. . « subversive movements and activities in these eategories.

‘ =4,: Xeeping the ether subscribing organizations advised of importent
. . + @evelopnents in these oategorices within its cognizance, particulariy?

® Aotivities of {uactive rescrves of the armed corvice
Anoluding the Bationsl Guard. . . ; a

 

. ep, Developnents affecting plests engaged in armed forces

vO Coe contracts. so : -
#0, Developnents concerning the strength, composition, and
fZatentions of civilian groups within its cognizance which —
are classed as subversive aad whose activities are 3 por °*
tential danger to the security ef the United States.

. - 8a, Developments affecting those vital facilities and vital
coe ..) «wba Lities which have been designated by the Secretary of
, . - -BDefenses . . a

‘ To ee Developaents affecting critical points of transports—
ote tion and communications systems which have been designated
by the Seoretary of Defenses

cet .@(For b, dy and © above no protective coverage ie contemplated.)

: . ’ .
. . uct STII, ID, Army wil? ve responsible fort : : . wate
: woe 28 . woot .
fl ar OR, The g{nvestigatios ‘and disposal of all cases in these categories.
wo Anvolving active and retired ‘military personnel of the Army.

°2, The aispesal, but not investigations, of all cases in these
: categories {avolving civilian eaployees of the Army in the United
t States, Puerto Rice, and the Virgin Islands.

3, The qavestigation and gisposal of all cases in these categories

moe , .- a involving civilian employees of the dray stationed in aress other
{ than the United States, Puerto Aico, and the Virgia Islands, .

. . : Perditorial revision of this Agreesent to reflect the statehood ef .
- . Alaske was approved by the IIC on January 7, 1959. . .

. t (eeRevision to reflect the statehood of Hawaii was approved by the
Ct LIC on September 9, 1959.) . |

 

  

AW 53216 DocId:32390930 Page 4
