guest Daa

 

- PG 92226 . - . |

“FRANK . VALENTI and TONY RIPEPI, all top hoodlums, daily, but
. the exception of the GENOVESES and NELSON. He recalled that ~ ; i
Distributing Company regularly. and always took orders. from

MESSER, ‘who admittedly - ran “acon and numbers joints" in the : ‘
early thirties and was well acquainted with "Big Mike" SPINELLI, :
who. killed. ARTHUR; JIMMY. and JOHNNY VOLPE, advised that there ; :
is absolutely no numbers organization in the metropolitan :
Pittsburgh area. He said that there are numerous independent -
books which are well distributed and that there are no con=
cessions or defined areas. MESSER stated that. anyone with
money can operate as he pleases and that the police. prefer
it. this way because they can collect protection. money easier.
He said the police will not allow any organization now.

 

MESSER advised that at one time he saw "Monkeyface Joe" ROSA; i
that he has gotten away: from the Italian element now with
VALENTI and RIPEPI visited. the offices of the. Coin Machine : os

MANNARINO. and LA’ ROCGA, He said RIPEPI was a more important . oa
racket man than VALENTI and that LA ROCCA seemed to be the key |
man.in the Pittsburgh area. MESSER: would place LA ROCCA and ~
MANNARINO as. the two men who control the rackets in Western —

Pennsylvania and he .sees MIKE GENOVESE as - ‘the logical successor

 

~ to. the. top position. a .

‘MESSER, who drives a 1955 blue and’ white Oldsmobile sedan,

1957 Pernsylvania license E3914, recalled that in about. 1947
labor leader NICK STIRONE visited the company ‘offices’ to Visit.
his close friends, LA-ROCCA and MANNARINO. He asked SAM. MANNARINO
to get “gorillas” to handle some men who weré giving STIRONE’ ‘|:
labor trouble.on a highway being built in the Monroeville: section:

,and more.specifically to give the dissehters’a "going over"

while. upsetting their equipment. The job was ‘done .for STIRONE . a
by MANNARINO who became incensed when. he learned his gorillas os
had hurt: some older Italian men. MESSER said MANNARINO was: “under 4
the impression that the men who had defied STIRONE. were young punks ~
and he. let STIRONE know what he thought. of } him in’ ‘fron 0; MESSER. <

     

 

 

 

AW 56792 DocId:32333121 Page 9
 

 

| PG 922226.

v

HW 56792

ve Re TRAVEL

23 advised that MIKE GENOVESE had left. town during “the early
portion, of February, ostensibly with his. wife, and that-he:
learned from other racketeers that: GENOVESE and LA ROCCA went .
to Florida and’ were » ‘there during the months of February .and-.
March, 1958... It was his opinion that they might remain there
until. after a Pittsburgh Grand Jury ‘to, investigate rackets has.
finished its deliberations. It should be noted that MIKE
GENOVESE. and his wife returned to the Pittsburgh area during
the firsé week of March, 1958 and that T-7 subsequently
advised that. it was rumored among the Pittsburgh racketeers
that: Shey had been in Cuba as ‘well as Florida..

On March - 24, 1958,. JUDD. MECHLING, Chief Deputy U.S. Marshal,
. Pittsburgh, advised. that when Deputy Marshal RAY ECGHEMENT
bried. to serve’a subpoena onthe subject at his residence on .
“that date, he. was informed that the subject’ was "vacationing.
down south and would definitely ‘pe home for the Easter season. '
He. advised ‘that. ECHEMENT contacted. Mrs. JOHN LA ROCCA in this
regard and was. treated very cordially, although he was not-
allowed to enter the house. . .

On. this’ same. ‘date SA ROBERT A. VOECE ‘observed the 1957 cream =.
colored: Gadillac belonging to. the subject.parked in his garage
and it. ‘SbilL bore 1957 Pennsylvania licerse 11FML.

The Albany. ‘office advised on March 15, 1958 that TROY WILLIAMS,
Manager of ‘the ‘Arlington Hotel at Binghamton, N. Y., had advised
_ SA- PATRICK A. MUNLEY on February 21, 1958 that all records
pertaining’ to. the subject had -been taken by an investigating
committee but -hé recalled the fact that the subject. and (FNU).
GENOVESE were. at. “phe: hotel on November ‘14, 1957,. the date of ‘the
. Apalachin meeting, ‘and ‘had two bedrooms and a living room .
which would. call. for-a rate of $22.00. He stated: that the,
rooms were: paid for in cash and were not. charged to.Canada Dry
Bottling. Company of Endicott, N. Y. He related. further that |
there was only, one telephone eall placed from the roonis oc
by. the subject ‘and that.call was to, Pittsburgh. telephone |
Forest 4<5296; whichis the home telephone of the subject. He
‘Stated that he had located a duplicate telephone ticket which
Shows the call was made on November 13, 1957 but he advised
that ‘the telephone operator evidently was in error in view of
the fact that the subject registered at. 8:58 AM on November 14;
957.

  
   

7 ~33- |
G2 GYO -17

 

ied .

 

 

DocId: 32333121 Page 10
 

 

 

PG 92-226

a

Pittsburgh top hoodlum, turned in to him during the early numbers
days but said that he has not seen LEVINE in years, although he. .
is familiar with his McKees Rocks book. He said he was. friendly ©
with LEVINE's brother RALPH, a promising dentist. who is a United
States Army officer at presens.

MESSER advised that he and LA ROCCA became friendly following
their feud and that in approximately 1943 LA ROCCA invited him
to sharé equally in the ownership of the Coin Machine. Distributing
Company which later set up offices at 5746 Baum Boulevard ‘in
Pittsburgh. He recalled that LA ROCA was completely bankrupt
‘because af numbers setbacks but managed to raise enough money
to put.up his share. He personally visited Chisago. to arrange
for the purchase of the machines and made a verbal agreement with
ART ROONEY, who allowed him te place the machines throughout. the
East Liberty, Homewood and Garfield sections and in other areas
_where, ROONEY wes mot operating Accoral & to MESSER, ROONEY, who
t t Fistsburgh Steelers professional |
who could. gé6 paste reels before
ied the entire | sburgh vicinity in
sae ESSER said the Government placed $100 tax-on each
machine and that: the city put a $50 tax stamp on each machine.
He said the other owners of ‘SI fa niaddition to himself and
LA ROCGA, were FRANK AMATS, 1 burgh hoodlum, BARNEY .
MC GINLEY, SAM BENWARINO, a Pi veh top hoodlum, and Pe We ZOGG
from Chicago.

 

 
 
  
 
  
    

 
 

  

 

se

  
 
 

 
 
 
  
 

 

MESSER advised that the company was doing well financially before
Allegheny County authorities raided establishments where the
machines had been placed and forsed it ouS of business. He ~
recalled that. although each of the six owned an equal share in.

the company MANNARING and LA ROCCA seemed to run everything. and
held meetings at. which important subjects were discussed in’ Italian.
AMATO and several other Italians attended these meetings but. MESSER
did not understand Italian.. He advised that he realized that

LA ROCCA was only using him for his proven protection methods and
did not: mind’as long as.he got-his cut. out of the profits. He

said his chief. protection was the then Superintendent.of Police
SCOTT, :

MESSER recalled that during 1946 or 1947 MIKE GENOVESE came on
the scene. MIKE had been a pickup man for LA ROCCA and was a
‘Gough | id, who , according to MESSER, "was almost begging to go to
jail. St

30

 

 

AW 56792 DocId:32333121 Page @
PG 92-226

The informant advised that the girlfriend of "BIG. JOHN" LA ROCCA
- whose name is not recalled, died approximately ten years ago
from an illness which LA ROCCA tried to cure by securing the
best medical aid money could obtain. Informant. advised that
MIKE GENOVESE is a quiet individual who does not date openly
‘but. forces his common-law wife ALICE to remain home alone
constantly in a house "in the middle of nowhere." Informant...
advised that none of the wives. of the racket men accompany-

. them at. their hangouts. and seem to be reconciled to remaining
‘iin. the background while their husbands date and support other
women, openly.

. GEORGE "MOON" MESSER, a. well-known and self-admitted Pittsburgh
numbers writer. who is now sixty-three years of age, was. inter-
viewed at his residence, 124 Elysian Street, Pittsburgh

. (Emerson 1-6684 or Emerson 1-5332) by SA VOEGE on February. 27,.
1958. ° He’ advised that he began his numbers activity during

"the oldcclearing: house days of 1928". and is still active in

‘this regard. He said that most of Pittsburgh's. present day

big racket men once depended on him solely for protection

purposes since he knew local and state police. figures and _
recalled that JOHN LA ROCCA was. one. of these racketeers. MESSER

stated. that LA ROGCA became acquainted with him-in about 1941

or 1942.when LA ROCCA was handling all the numbers. activity in

the East Liberty. section of Pittsburgh and had set himself up .

as 8. "little God." . When LA ROCCA became. dissatisfied with his.

' financial gains he left Pittsburgh on a trip to Chicago to.see.
friends about paste reel machines with which he felt he could

- make more money. MESSER said a paste reel was similar to a

"one-armed bandit" with the exception that.a small paper-wrapped
mint was dispensed after the coin was placed in.the slot and the
play was. registered. - Its Chicago manufacturers got around the

"strictly for gambling purposes phraseology in the law in. that

“manner, he explained. ;

~~

While: LA ROCCA was in Chicago MESSER moved into East Liberty
and took over the entire numbers operation. He. turned in to
GEORGE CHRISTY ‘(now deceased) in Pittsburgh. When. LA ROCCA
returned he. became angry at the MESSER move and had.a car run
over MESSER one night. when he was - crossing a street. When
MESSER got out of the hospital he found his automobile had
“numerous bullet holes in it. Because he.thought he'd make money:
: MESSER. stayed in.East Liberty and. actually foreed LA: ROCCA out
‘. of the numbers business. MESSER recalled that SAM LEVINE, a .

-29-

 

 

 

 

AW 56792 DocId:32333121 Page 7
PG 924226

1

f

\ 1
from whom she .is divorced. It.should be noted that at about this
-same time CARMELEA ‘GENOVESE was interviewed ‘by Bureau Agents in
Califormmia and shé was uncooperative in furnishing information nN
about her. former husband. :

lpecalled, that at Christmas time, : “LO5T s the entire GENOVESE °
amily; including the mother and father of the GENOVESE brothers,
gatheréd in the dining room of the lounge and. that she ‘received ~.
a large tip for serving them. | TS had previously been reported that.
old Mrs. GENOVESE had died.

fits the following description as observed by SA VOEGE on
‘February. 19, 1958s : .

Name :

   

‘Gaueasian |
Female . oo,
Bien
“ wH2
155-160 lbs.
Heavy, big boned
Dark brown, long; worn straight
back of f the ‘face with large bun
eo a ; in back; never dyed.
yes: : : ; “Brown.
Complexion : : : Clear and swarthy
Other characteristic a Has large nose; wears blouses
: -and skirts. rather than dresses;

 

an : on me . is chain smoker of filter-tip
JFK Act 6 (4) - 7 cigarettes; enjoys eating and
oe drinking to-excess; resides with ~
mother (age 73) and brother (laid
off from'U.S, Steel, Homestead .
Works.) and brother's wife and two
children (ages 10 and: ‘2)3 Drives
1957 red Ford with’ gold strip
along sides, bearing’ Penr yivania
: license 563373 ° ~ :
Residence: 4310 Vista View, West Mifflin, Pa.
Telephone: .- _ Homestead 1- 0551. ;
Hangouts ; Se Genovese Cocktail Lounge, |
nae : 412 Larimer, Ave:,. Pittsburgh;
i i a Holiday House, Moriroeville; ~:
y : : Hanna's Restaurant, Centre and
. , Craig, Pittsburgh.

 

 

~19~

 

 

HW 56792 DocId:32333121 Page 5
 

| 92-226

  

his brothers and LA ROCCA want to ‘keep him "clean." Informant .
advised that ARCHIE NELSON; another of Pittsburgh's Sean hoodlums,
_ does not attend the meetings either, nor do "BOOTS" BELLINI,
‘a numbers baron, and CHUCK TEEMER, another Pittsburgh top
hoodlum. All of .the aforementioned individuals have been °
‘ observed by the informant at the lounge at one’ time or another:
|, Informant advised that arrangements had been made for a close girl-
friend of the informant to purchase a car through HYMIE MARTIN,
approximately two weeks prior to. this interview, but that the
informant had seen none. of the other racketeers recently with
the exception ‘of PHIL and FIORE GENOVESE, "JO JO" PECORA and
LOUIS VOLPE, who. frequents the Holiday House almost nightly.

The informant; had’ no knowledge of the numbers or "sports book"
arrangements of the GENOVESES but had recently received a
-telephone call for PHIL GENOVESE from a Jewish racketeer working
“along Fifth Avenue to whom PHIL ostensibly owes money. Informant.
eould’ not recall this individual's name but promised to endeavor
“to Locate. it-among some check stubs on which a notation: was ‘made.
“Informant recalled that. during September or October, - 1957, two - or
‘three. racket. men from New York City visited the Genovese~' '-
Cocktail Lounge and were closeted with the GENOVESE brothers

and LA ROCCA for a period of time. Following the’ meeting, one

of ‘these men, who introduced himself as JIMMIE’ (last name-
unknown), spoke: with the informant.for sometime. Informant
described JIMMIE as an immaculately dressed Italian man in his
“fifties and thinks his name can be determined through PHIL.
GENOVESE, who has confided in the informant during the ‘recent

| past. ne a . : . ;

“Informant advised that: PHIL. or FELIX GENOVESE, as he is sometizies
“ealled, is definitely not "top. dog" in the GENOVESE family
although, he is.close to the MANNARINO brothers. -In the opinion -
of the informant, his overindulgence in extra-marital ‘relations,
whi s’ preference for drinking grea’ quantities of. scotch, and his
-. wLolent,. temper’ and strong arm tactics will prevent . PHIL GENOVESE
“from éver obtaining "big" status in the group. -Informant’ advised
that a girl named EVELYN, whose nickname is "PEPPER", and who.
‘Ls employéd on.a part= time. basis. as a waitress at the Merry-Go-Round |
- Restaurant in Pittsburgh is known to everyone as "PHIL's. girl".
‘and no one else dares to touch her.. Informant) advised that. PHIL
GENOVESE | dates EVELYN two or three times a week openly and. helps
support ‘her. According to the informant, the 1957 Ford now. being
driven by PHIL ‘GENOVESE was. given to him as.a Christmas gift’
by KELLY MANNARINO, Pittsburgh top hoodlum, in December, 1956..

6 eBBe

  

 

AW 56792 DocId:32333121 Page 6

4

 
 

 

 

av
Ni

 

, \ ‘a

Th wee noted that this individual euvered the U. S. Aray. on
‘ @l Numbe
He Fated his uncle, JOHN BEST, OF LEYOSL ¢

indices of the. New ‘York office contain no reference bo, anyone

_
ION

f

PE 92226

The New York office advised that-.on January 28, 1958 Mrs. KATHRYN
TOOMEY, Chief Clerk, Local Board 64, Selecbive Service System,

8909 Sutphin Boulevard, . Jamaica, advised that the. following

persons residing at 118: 36 Bonet Plase, St. Albans , were registered
with that. board.

Name 3 EHOMAS. ALVIN TURCOTE. ; ‘
fe Sex: S  !Mate : ~ :
J Races, White
; Date of November 4, 1935
i) baiwthe : : ; : : .
~ Byes: ; Blue ;
‘Hairs - Brown
Retghts aren
Weights 150 ‘be.

-Complexion.s Lignt

 
   
  
 

us ‘51368857.
i by Elmont,
N. ¥:.,°as She person whe wii always know his address.

Maréh , 1996 and has been assigned Army

 

salted

ROBERT HENRY ERGOT

 

Male:
: White .
. Date, of -
. births’. daly 14, 19237
‘Eyes? ‘Blue; :
Haire | . Blond

Ib. was noted. ‘that’ this indvidual enlisted in the... Ss. ‘Marine

‘Corps on January 18, 1956. and.was assigned Marine Serial Number

1589517. He listed. VERONICA’ TURCOTL, his mother, .as: the ‘Person

who wild always know his ‘address.

the New York of fice advised: that the records of. the New. ort ity
Policé Department: contain no record for HENRY TURCOT! and; the

 

 

named, FURCOTT.

   

Upon the determination that a telephone eall. was. ade ‘from the
LA ROCCA residence to OX 11680 ab Vineland, New Jersey on ;
November 24, 1957,. the Newark office was requested to determine the

“ase.

 

 

  

HW 56792

DocId: 32333121 Page 2
 

JFK Assassination System Date: 5/11/201

Identification Form

 

Agency Information

 

 

AGENCY: FBI Released under the John F. Kennedy
RECORD NUMBER : 124-90104-10419 Assassination Records Collection Act
of 1992 (44 USc 2107 Note).
RECORD SERIES : HQ Case#: NW 56792 Date: 04-11-2018
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2940-19
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PG
TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE: 03/28/1958

PAGES: 51
SUBJECTS : ;
SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: — Consulted; 4; 10(a)2
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 07/31/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF SSS .
COMMENTS :

RPT, REFERRED TO SSS

—_

v9.1

AW 56792 DocId: 32333121

Page 1
JFK Act 6 (4)

om 92-226

p-2, who has: furnished reliable information in the past, advised
on. March 24, 1958:that the subscriber to Pittsburgh telephone
| GRant 1- 4L53, which number has been called in. the past from the
.. LA ROCCA residence, is Margiotti and Casey, attorneys, 720 Grant
_ Building, Pittsburgh, Pa. It is to be noted that both. men
“have represented the subject in the past and that VINCENT CASEY ~
is presently handling all legal affairs of the subject.

Lerereromr 4310 Vista View, West: Mifflin, Pa., paramour
EBA AN’ JOHN DA.ROCCA,; Pittsburgh top hoodlum; was
/ interviewed at length by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE on February 19, 1958..
- She advised that she has known LA. ROCCA and his brothers for
approximately fourteen .years,~having met "Big John", as she calls -
him, when her brother-in-law extended LA ROCCA credit for
automobile. gasoline. This brother-in-law, whom. she. did not
Wish to identify further than to. say his name is "CHANCE"
and that.he had served time atthe Lewisburg Federal Penitentiary,
operated a filblin tation on Baum Boulevard in Pittsburgh
at that time. — who is. approaching thirty. years of. age,
said LA. ROCCA "had eyes for her" when she was: sixteen and that
' she has always. appeared at least five years older than her actual
“ ..age... She. said he has approached her on more than one occasion
during the past three years and asked her to be "his girl" but that
she has not seen her way clear to take him up on this proposal.
» She said she has met:his wife, a very retiring and suppressed
woman, and has always admired LA-ROCCA for his conservative and
gentlemanly manner.- His. proposal was. made more difficult, she
admitted, by the fact that she has been "going steady" for
approximately nine years with JOE FOREMAN, a Pittsburgh . racketeer
-who..does- not care for any: of the East Liberty “musclemen" , ‘as he
‘ealls. them. ; ; ak

: a the youngest of fifteen children born toa mother. ‘who came
@ United States from Hungary when eighteen years of age,

recalled that:

LA ROCCA had

h and. that

  
   

approximately seven or eight. years ago FOREMAN .and,

axvehement disagreement over a. property settlement

IL KE JG and his brother "PHIL", also known as FELIX, -
were’ sent to EMAN as.a threat to a~ “going over" She said

Nipysvatten prevented “violence by contacting LA ROCCA directly and

  
 

challenging him:-to.a personal. fight and that he has. referred. to the
GENOVESE boys as "musclemen" since that time. - ae

a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AW 56792 DocId:32333121 Page 3
 

o
CO

JEK Act 6 (4)

PE GAS2D6

 

 

,
Ay

: [Jaavisea. that she is. an” “accomplished waitress who has

_ worked at all the best places in Pitésburgh and is a member of the

| local hapon - For the past three years and up until two weeks ©
prior to this interview she was the main waitress, in the Genovese
Gocksail Lounge ab 412-Larimer Avenue. She also worked at the
Holiday House in Monroeville for a time during 1957 and is well

_aequainted with’ the Italian: element operating that establishment.

| She intimated that she accepts."dates" on a selective. basis..and

prefers racketeers who are willing to spend a great deal of money
on her. She placed "Young John” LA ROGCA in this category and

 
 

   

  
  
 

stated aS she preferred to dave him more than anyone else except
F j “Young John" was deseribed whee being "Big John's
you e- brother who controls the rackets In Uniontown, Pennsylvania

with an-iron hand." She said "Young John" telephones her long
“distance regularly and that she is his date whenever he arrives
“P Sbaburgh for a meeting with other racketeers. She- said che

 
  

 

i ~“roreed, has children and is a "very eligible catch." ' She said
GDA) "ROCCA ts other ‘two brothers, JOE and TONY are barbers in the «..
Pittsburgh vicinity nAVIRE absolutely no tle-in with the mack ks >
fe: her. knowledge. vote hak

     

seemed disconcerted during the interview because of the fact...

‘ boyfriend JOE FOREMAN was on trial in Allegheny County

y for burglary, receiving stolen goods, and illegal possession
fibpearn. . She advised tha’ he isa weed car salesman on Baum
Bou'l vard, is married and has four grown children. » FOREMAN .
“telephoned her during the | interview and expressed the wish that he had
money’ ‘to: “buy eff someone" because he felt that he was being

: “railroaded" on the burglary charge. coy

  
    

Te esvteca that she quit: at the Genovese Lounge because she had
fo Wash dishes and-because. the GENOVESE brothers seemed to be...
getting "tight" financially. ‘She said there has been very little
business at the lounge "since that Apalachin thing" and that -she
‘was umable to clear even four dollars a night in tips... :
estimates that a waitress with obligations must clear at. Teast ‘
seven dollars a day in thts regard in order for it to. be _Profitable

to work at all. . . votes

  
  

 

 

She recalled receiving a teleptione call approximately” three | “tol four
weeks prior’ to this interview from Mrs. CARMBELLA GENOVESE in ;
California who wanted to speak person-to-person to MIKE GENOVESE,

\

’

‘ ~18-,

 

 

AW 56792 DocId:32333121 Page 4
