 

 

°  @

 
    

Following are typewritten clarifications of the
handwritten comments of J. Edgar Hoover on the attached
docurent s

| ; j
Fage 2+ "J seriously question essential need for those I 4

have marked. H" i
Page 2, bottom of pages left to right ~ "I thought by closing out the }
substantial liaison operatiom.
I would gain at least 8 Agts ||
but it seems Dom. Int are 5
going to use these. Ht me

Hanéwritten comment of Clyde Tolson «+ "I suggest Felt look into
this"

- "Ves, qu . he

 

 

HW 55322 DocId:32989714 Page 9
72 oot avd

 

‘ 7
=,  O7stonat fotm NO, 10 4 3010-106
APY TGR FOITION
a Yorn. 389, NO. 17

UNITED STATES covIgpMent oo @

-... Memorandum...

Me. 6. DL ”

wot artes a!
eLoach

  
   

  

os tO et ele hy

FROM oW. C. Sullivan , .

4

wD

“SUBJECT: DISCONTINUANCE OF LIAISON FUNCTIONS” -
ae ot os

aot Ke my memorandum dated 7/15/70 in which I pointed 1

out that liaison was being discontinued with 65 agencies and
that six Agents from the Liaison Section are available for

|. reassignment, JI contemplate using five of the six Agents to

{£111 some of the~éxisting vacancies in the Domestic Intelligence

‘Division which have been approved for filling. The sixth Agent
will be used to staff the midnight to 8 a.m, Shift. This shift

:\has-previously been filled’ on a rotation basis by the Sections

tjin the Division but the increased correspondence engendered

‘Loy the reduction of liaison will not make it possible for the

t?Sections to spare a man for this shift. .

 

ae eed

I certainly agree with the Director that contacts

with the agencies with which we will continue liaison can in a

great many instances be made by telephone and this was considered

in my request tor tne retention of Lines Agents to pertori LEBRSOR
4,;with the agencies indicated in my memorandum, Even then, because
lot the tremendous volume_of, business: we have with these agencies,

it will be necessary for the Section Chief and.the Number One

Man to both pérform active liaison functions outside the office,
t{visiting, as the other men do, the approved agencies.

. a
weet

These liaison contacts with whom we would be doing
pusiness by phone must be developed and maintained by personal
contact and because of the substantial turnover in agencies,

new contacts must be constantly developed on a personal basis.
These remaining liaison men will aiso have to act as alternates
for one another during periods of leave or illness and where
energency situations arise that require handling of an item when
the regular liaison Agent is otherwise engaged. The liaison

 

 
   
  
   
  

ae assignments will be as follows: 1 ' :
314 'J.. Leon F, Schwartz - Department of State * an
_— 7 Air Force Office of Special i

_ Ce . . Investigations”
jt . . ‘
H

s ‘ . : ‘ ; . . .

Ghis document is prepared in response-to your request and ‘is not for dissemt-
nation outside your Commitee. Its use.ts limited to official proceedings by
your Committee and the content'may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-
; nél without the express approval of the FBI.

| MW 55322 Docld:32989714 Page 10 :

 

 
 

     
  

Coast’ ‘Guard
. Commerce Department |
Export-Import Bank >
Farm Credit Administration

Federal Aviation Administration ,.
LEederal, Communications. Commission?
Federal Maritime Commission
_ Federal Trade Commission. senha td eaten let cook Pitty Deng acetyl

   

 
  

 

hog neta rd elutes eb I

“Government Printing Office

Immigration and Naturalization Service
Public Iiealth Service
Railroad Retirement Board
Renegotiation Board

Small Business Administration
Smithsonian Institute

Tariff Commission :
Department of Transportation . |
Arms Control and Disarmament Agency

 

>

HW 55322 Docld:329897 £4 Page @
 

 

 

  
    
   
  

Agency f£6¥ ‘Intérnational ‘Development®

; Agriculture (Department) :

nest toate ot Credit. Union. Administration’ wets fee ee RR x ented th nS tees
Office of Public Safety (AID)
Library of Congress

-: Federal Deposit .Insurance ‘Corpor
Pederal-téme Lodh Bank Boded

Federal Power Commission .
egies Fedeval-Reserve Systemi:. ee Seg der alte Sates git ot

Food and Drug Administration

Health, Education and Welfare

International Police Academy

National Science Foundation

Office of Civil Defense (Army)

Office of Emergency Preparedness

Securities and Exchange Commission

Social Security Administration

Supreme Court

Atomic Energy Commission

Defense Atomic Support Agency

Defense Communications Agency

Foreign Claims Settlement Commission

General Accounting Office

Marine Corps

Bureau vf the Budget
General Services Administration .

Treasury (except Secret Service and Internal Revenue Service)
Department of Housing and Urban Development .
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
Interior
Labor
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
National Labor Relations Board
National Security Agency
Office of Economic Opportunity
Peace Corps
- U. S. Information Agency
. Office of Secretary of Defense
Defense Supply Agency
Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs
Civil Rights Commission
Equal Employment Opportunity Conmission
Joint Chiefs of Staff . . ,
Defense Intelligence Agency — :

Post Office
Veterans Administration

 

 

“ . e

HW 55322" Docla: 32989714 Page 7 s
 

 

    

 

geht woh Gidea eed TyanteS CoD! DeLodeh
Re: DISCONT s

Soar Miele gem ee Mente at ce ete te

     

 

  

; wr 1, in,addition, in.order to give better, balance to.
Gas Rodtion, would Sugeest transterringthe-responsibi li tyr,
L for the handling of all security informants, domestic and —
2» o|-foreign, toate. This meang-the. transfer -of..three men from the., Le es
Internal Security Section and one man from the Nationalities soe
Intelligence Section, “The reorganized section would have 2

complement of eleven men and would be known as the Informant~
Liaison Section. As indicated, both the Section Chief and

Number One Man would be handling liaison matters outside the
office, as well as administration of the section, . 3

Pere pha TVS we Te eee toa aes

5 Pyrmont. rere) a ea aed ;
pita te pO PMY EY ae ree . RE

ry

Ae ae}

eer ite
That the Director give consideration to the |}
recommendations set forth ae .

ACTION;

 

ae -
a“ . .

te,

 

 

Memb ater

ADDENDU-_ BY MR. DELOACH, 7/15/70 (CDD:¢sh)

T thoroughly agree with Mr. Sullivan's recommendations
and sincerely hope that the Director will give consideration
to those recommendations.

. Having been a liaison agent for a number of years, and
\Shaving supervised such activities for a period of time, I am
-{well aware of the fact that considerable respect for the Director
¢ jand- the FBI is engendered by the men on these assignments, -The™

{ ‘Viaadson men and their activities represent a strong defetise fox ~~

\ fithe FBI at all times. We have friends and close contacts in’ ~

nost all of the Government agencies---~-but we also have many -

‘ . enemies who lurk on the sidelines waiting to shoot us down, The
“yliaison men prevent this through the medium of developing close
figontacte and maintaining those contacts, so that our enenies

‘ficannot take advantage of us.
ae Sy de 3 Ef .). (continued ~ next page)
_* ~~ if hs tele Peete shietire. Voy dn 6 A

wh
oes Oe Bett of we “oo SBN,
oe SIT Vee Pyke 1 rer ere wtp ae qe ser, tt wt
ot . tw mre wee
Paid ‘ >
le of ep ie wee ONS OD . NY :

t
aw 55322 Docld:32989714 Page 5

 
 

 
    

    
 
 

Sate :
ca ty ahs

Memorandum W.°C. Sullivan to C. D. DeLoach._
“Re: °s DISCONTINUANCE. OF LIAISON: FUNCTIONS ©

Sees ts
see Be

 

    

a ne Pe oe a ce ee Res

“"Nadendum by Mr. Deoach (continued)

  

voicty» The liaison nen.have been.both. the eyes. andears of .:
"the Director :-and)the:-Buveattfor* many Yearsi"*Many “of ‘thé have:
ispent personal funds in order to develop contacts, There will
jie can jbe. times, of course; when. enemies. of the Bureau,-.despite : wists
ieffective liaison, will-.attempt to cause criticism of the FBI,
- {The liaison men will always serve as good witnesses, however,
; } ito the fact that they have tried to set up effective liaison
: i ‘despite, the dgliberate hatred of our enemies... wid od bed
ee tere) TA es beet ye oS ot ET aay (US Vergy ~ thie &)Y -,
x For these reasons I respectfully hope that the Director
will give consideraticn to Mr. Sullivan's recommendations,
i

women “= EC, D, DeLoach

 

 

 

 

55322 DocId:32989714 Page 6

 
 

 

t . Z.
UN s@BSTATES DEPARTMENT OF e
res :

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAT

 

* WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535
In Reply, Please Refer ta ;
File No. April 30, 1970 |
“ %
. MEMORANDUM TO ALL BUREAU OFFICIALS AND SUPERVISORS

(A) COMMUNICATIONS TO FIELD OFFICES -- Communications of any
type sending instructions to field offices should be short, clear and sim-
ple. Use telegraphtype language. Reference prior communications to
avoid needless repetition of previous instructions. :

(B) UTILIZATION OF LIAISON SECTION -- A reduction in the number of
Supervisors handling liaison with other Government agencies makes it
necessary that the ‘time of the remainder be utilizéd most efficiently to
permit the productive handling of contacts with those agencies. It is de-
sired that Supervisors refrain from designating mail for delivery by
Liaison unless a reason exists for such designation. Mail should and
will be delivered by Liaison if it requires discussion with or delivery to
a high-ranking official of another agency, if its sensitivity requires
special liaudling, OF if its Content rcquircs some axynlanation ar ramment.
In the absence of some such reason, mail should be designated for deliv-
ery by the Courier Service or by regular mail.

Dissemination of Bureau reports and memoranda to other Govern-
ment agencies is the responsibility of the substantive Supervisor, and not
,of the Liaison Section. Transmittal form 0-14 should be used whether
such dissemination is being made by Liaison, by Courier Service, or by
regular mail. Transmittal forms in the 0-14 series, sometimes referred
+. -s .. ,to.as form routing slips, contain blocks to be checked which will inform
: the addressee that no further investigation is contemplated, that the other
agency will be advised of pertinent developments, that the status of the
case is complete or incomplete, and that the item or items are being fur-
nished for the information of the addressee. The last notation is some~
‘times checked without any indication as to the status of the case or whether
further material may be expected, resulting’in later inquiry from the ad-
dressee. It is desired that when this form is utilized, it be fully executed.

 

 

      
   
 
 

ate aes

This document is prepared im response to your request and is not for dissemt-
nation outside your Committee. Its use 3 limited to official proceedings by
your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person-
nel without the express approval ‘of the FBI.

232989714 Page 2 . ” # . : FE

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

   
     
     
  

BPeleased under the John
Kennedy
kesagsination Records
ollection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note).
ases#iNl 55322 Date:
(4-12-2018

 

  

 

  

 

 

     
   

 

 

 

Seria!

 

Scope:

EUX ~ bub

 

55322 DocId:32989714 Page 1

 

 

 

 
  

e

If a Liaison Supervisor is being asked to pass information orally
to another agency, he should promptly be furnished an appropriate letter-
head memorandum or other communication which will confirm his oral
dissemination. Do not send serials to Liaison with a routing slip asking
"please handle" or "please pass information to --."

   
    
  
 
    
 
     
   

. Affirmative contacts are being discontinued with twenty-four :
agencies with which we have relatively few interests in common. Liai-
son Supervisors will, however, continue to handle urgent matters re-
quiring personal liaison with those agencies. Supervisors should con-
tinue to designate for the Liaison Section tickler copies of memoranda
discussing matters involving other Government agencies, and consider-
ation should be given to discussion of such matters with the Liaison
representative prior to preparation of memoranda in order that full facts
concerning our relations with the other agency may be ascertained. *
Matters involving our relations with other agencies should be coordin-
ated, wherever possible, with the Liaison Supervisor at the outset. .

i
Very truly yours, oo ;
John Edgar Hoover

Director

 

 

HW 55322 Docld:32989714 Page 3 . ~ Fr ea

 
 

    
   

   
  

, Memorandum i * * sullivan, to
RE: ‘DISCONTINUANCE OF “LIAS

 

en SP ES

INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE:

  

. ! ck its. gz
Nevelhie Service are’ éntively
datial tax information from them basea on a special arrang
‘taent’ tides Which’ We secute “the written” Signature of ad se
Assistant Attorney Geheral, subsequently presenting this
bere our request to a designated point within the Internal
mevenue Service, Obviously it is not feasible to get the
/ snecessary Signatures by mail and, further, the Internal
le

      
  

 

‘Revenue Service would not want to send tax returns by mail

for review

te yp Lod Laren # tbe. fad Heb glk we Cael
STATE DEPARTUE WES ON we . rats ° aN x
SoA Dae Rede e \,

Direct contact with stall enables us to secure within
the same day passports for Bureau officials or personnel who
| * @ taust travel abroad immediately. This could not be done by
4 icorrespondence, Our sensitive espionage investigations involving
.~) diplomatic personnel are cleared in advance with State, and

pers onal contact is necessary to clarify questions raised by
State handles many of our investj gations aproad in areas

State. rexvrrevrommretepecee aon

AS
«pppoe covered by Legal Attaches. Here again, direct contact is

vital, in.order to achieve expeditious responses, \ | 4. ay Pea
AA Ets ee je ot AD NS

    

foo) Lye Lt ded ted A oh, PO teeth PE OS wee
In summary, we, have much to lose by dx sopping direct bend on

| contact with these agencies, Our ability to get tliings done a7 tT.
immediately in these cri itical areas requires direct liaison.

 

If the Director agrees with the thoughts set forth
above, I would like to retain Special ! Agents Joseph | Fitzgerald
and Leon Schwartz, as well as s Robert “Hayxes; ‘in addition, it

“ would be necessary for ‘Section Chief D. J, Brennan and Numbey
f Oe Han G, A. Day to engage in active liaison assignments in =~
/ order to share the work load involved in contact with the-major, ...,
agencies referred #0. above, ‘ Re mB ve ree BS te Bel eel Lge’

on te

 
 

 

a >

 

7 teey re SEO < E « oe a : .

“ . Vihe Supervision of “the Bureau! stforeign liaison '
operations; as well as the Bureau 's Defense Plans, would continue
to be part of the Section's responsibility, as would coordination
and handling of the requests and information veceived from the
foreign liaison representatives stationed in Washington, inciuding
the Canadians, British, French Japanese, and Australians.

   
 
   
    

.

HW 55322 DocId:32989714 Page 4
