 

DATE:. }1-14-2017

} .

Poste under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992°(44 USC 23107 Hotey.

y

po, O oO

Bray to have no interest in the Bail Bond General Agency.

Things went as planned and Bray, quite truthfully, testified
before Examiners of the McClellan Committee that he and his
family were the sole owners of Oxford Agency and that Oxford
Agency was the sole broker on the Teamsters Bond.

The loss record on the Teamsters Bond was excellent and the loss
record on the Bail Bond business was even better.

United Benefit, Central Casualty, Oxford Agency, American Bonding
Agency, Bray and Weiner were all doing well and 1960 saw a great
intimacy growing up between the Bray and Weiner groups and insur-
ance activities between them expanded to Taxicabs, Financial Guar-
antee Bonds, Mortgage Guarantees, Contractors Completion Bonds, etc.

Central Casualty and the Bray interests needed more capital to
handle these lines and so did United Benefit, whose then President,
Earl Cefry, was an intimate friend of Bray.

Weiner arranged for a $200,000 loan to the Bray group from the
Exchange National Bank. of Chicago secured by a Guaranty Bond of
United Benefit and then later for a $150,000 loan from the
Southmoor Bank (now Guaranty Bank) of Chicago secured by the
pledge of Central Casualty stock... . :

Bray's Vice President Jim Egan also negotiated a $150,000 loan
from the Pan American Bank of Miami, which loan was also secured
by Guaranty Bond of United Benefit.

The capital of both Central Casualty and United Benefit was
increased, Central's largely by indirect subscriptions from
those who did the borrowing and United's in part from this

method.

In 1961 things began to go bad. The Teamsters Bond and the Bail

Bond business remained very profitable from an underwriting stand- .
point but the orthodox agents of both Central and United Benefit

began drawing away from these carriers because of the "gangster

types" with whom they were forced to deal.

The loss record on the taxicab business was horrible and the
claims under financial guarantee and contractors bonds, tremendous. -

The Chicago Tribune and other papers started a campaign against
Irwin Weiner as being the front for Crime Syndicate ownership of
a@ Chicago Lard Processing firm "Twin Foods of Illinois".

Court action over the licensing of Twin Foods ensued and the courts
held that “unsavory ownership and affiliations" had been proved.

ut oo

 

 

Docld:32329636 Page 9
 

 

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 Usc 2107 Hote,
DATE: 41-14-2017 :

5 4

-3-

  

' The Company's license was refused and the papers shrieked about
Weiner and his Crime Syndicate pals--Sama(Tootsie) Bataglia,
Milwaukee Phil Alderesio, Joey Acaro, etc. They tied in the
American Bonding Agency and rehashed the Teamsters Bond situation.

This was too much for the British controlling stockholders of
United Benefit. In May 1961 they fired the company's President ’
Earl Cefry, and cancelled all contracts with the Bray, Central
Casualty, Oxford Agency, American Bonding Agency group.

Bray was able to replace the Teamsters Bond with the Resolute
Insurance Company of Rhode Island, through that Company's
President (Morganstern of Hartford) and to once again get heavy
reinsurance back for Central Casualty Insurance Company.

The United Benefit gave an extension of six months for the Bray~
Weiner group to get a new market on Bail Bonds and meanwhile :
Bray's Central Casualty Insurance Company granted 100% to United
Benefit.

All other classes were cancelled by United Benefit.

“Without United Benefit's help the Bray group simply did not have.
enough resources to weather the storm caused by loss of agency
plant, terrific losses on taxicab fleets, financial guarantee
bonds, contractors bonds, etc. and they rapidly approached
insolvency. : : !

Weiner and his associates saw "the handwriting on the wall" and
began to make moves to protect. themselves. :

Charles Bray was ordered to appear at a meeting which was Chairmaned
cy “ee Phil Alderesio, flanked by several sinister "guards"
sic!). : :

At this meeting Bray was instructed to sign his Oxford Agency
stock in blank and turn same over to Irwin Weiner. .

There was a considerable display of 48's and a very blood curdling
. discussion as to what would happen to Bray and his family if he did
not obey.

Bray signed and at a later meeting held in the offices of Harris &
Burnhem, control of the Oxford Agency was turned over to:Weiner and
his associates (i.e. control and ownership of the commissions on
the Teamsters Bonds).

A little later Bray “was instructed to appear at another meeting
and this time he was ordered to have the Central Casualty Company .

5 |

 

Docld: 32329636 Page 10
 

‘leased “Gnder the. John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1952 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.
DATE: 11-14-2017 .

5 3
,
2

wo OC - O : :

APPENDIX B |

Copy of anonymous letter to this Department, postmarked
Chicago, Illinois, April 30, 1962, 2 p.m., with return address
Moore, Case, Lyman and Hubbard, 175 West Jackson Boulevard,
Chicago, Illinois.

The Irwin Weiner-American Bonding Agency-
Teamsters Bond-Guaranty Bank-Bray-Central

Casualty-Crime Syndicate tieups

In 1959 the Bond required of the Teamsters Union officials and
employees under the. terms of the Magnum-Griffin act was written
by the Summitt Insurance Company. .

The broker of record was the American Bonding Agency of Chicago ‘
which is headed by Irwin Weiner. i

The Chicago Tribune and other papers claimed that Weiner was a
well known partner and associate of gangsters and insinuated

that Allen Dorfman, Hoffa's favorite broker, and perhaps Hoffa |
himself were sharing in commissions estimated at close to i
$1,000,000. :

The "heat" on the Summitt Insurance Company was too great for ;
that company's owners to stand. (The Allen Blank-Reserve '
Insurance Company group). They cancelled the Teamsters bond i
and cancelled the "General Agency" authority which Weiner-
American Bonding Agency held for the writing of bail bonds
nationwide.

Weiner and his associates were desperate for a market.

Charles W. Bray, President of Central Casualty Company of Illinois,
President of Homer Bray Service Inc. (a General Agency) and President
of Oxford Agency, Inc. (a local agency) developed a market via the
United Benefit Fire Insurance Company of Omaha, Nebraska.

Bray's company, the Central, took heavy reinsurance but it could '
not "front" the Teamsters Bond because it was not on the U. S. \
Treasury Approved List.

 

The deal that Weiner and his associates made with Bray was that
Bray's Oxford Agency would get the entire commission on the
Teamsters Bond but that Bray would secure for Weiner-American {
Bonding Agency a nationwide Bail Bond General Agency for both |
United Benefit and Central Casualty at extraordinarily high

commissions {60% ‘on the published basic 2% rate and the right

to keep 100% of dnything above the published rate that they \

could gouge out of customers).

o3-7FF 3-3

ENCLOSE 3

 

 

|
| Docld:32329636 Page &
 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (42 UST ZIUT Hotes.
f DATE: ji-14-2017° .

- y
eo:

- 7 0 ; .. e

-2- , \

fe

Panama. It has been reported that the reason Panama is used for
these purposes is that in Panama the day of incorporation can be
backdated to any date the incorporator desires.

Among companies with which Hopps has had some connection
and which are not described in the chronology of IBL Bonding, are:

Draftsmen Underwriters Agency: a personal service corpora-
tion to give advice and act as insurance broker. The company was
going to move to California in 1960. .

Exchange Cabush Underwriters, Brotherhood Building, ;
Kansas City: a small concern in which Hopps in May 1960 is ; '
liquidating his interest.

‘Exchange Casualty and Surety Company: Hopps had an arrange-
ment with them in an advisory capacity and, although Exchange wanted
to pay him directly, Hopps wanted to receive the fees through
Affiliated Brokers, Inc. because of income tax difficulties.

Tropical Holdings, Inc.: Hopps said he had no interest
in this company but had borrowed money from.it to purchase a house.
The mortgage was held by Republic National Bank and Hopps paid the
company back through the U. S. Marine Company, 44 Wall Street.
(Although Charles Bray had admitted having a 75% interest in this
company, Hopps maintained that Bray did not have any interest in
the oymeany and felt sure that he, Hopps, would know if Bray did
have.

Hopps has listed his bank accounts as follows:

Manufacturers Trust Company, New York, N. Y. (checking)
First National, Bank, San Raphael, California (wife's checking)
No other accounts and no safety deposit boxes.

Stewart Hopps (1960 address: 2 Cliff Road, Belvedere,
California, GE 5-4889; office: c/o Ehrlich, 333 Montgomery Street,
San Francisco, California, GA 1-4530; 44 Wall Street, New York City,
but not after May 31, 1960). In May 1960 Hopps said he first met

- Charley Bray (in June 1960.Hopps said he had known Bray for sometime).
Hopps had known Bray's father. Hopps contacted Bray soliciting
reinsurance.

 

 

Docld:32329636 Paye 7
  

DATE: 11-14-2017 -
{

x

°

Poet ‘the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (42 USt ZI0T Hote).
° ° . {

+
°

pO O- wa O me,

Toll call studies have revealed that the Dorfmans played
, @ prominent role in the Bonding Program though nominally not officers
of the companies. :

It is requested that Charles Bray and James Eagan be
interviewed and an investigation be instituted to trace the money
that went from the Teamster Locals for bonding premiums through the
various companies in order to determine whether or not the funds
may have been diverted to Chicago racketeers or Teamsters officials.
This investigation should include a determination of the amount of
commissions receivedby Weiner, Schwartz and Bray - and the identity
of the bonding agents.

 

The investigation should also determine the recipients
of the profits of the .l bond business since this is alleged to .
be in the control, of, racketeers. In that connection, it should _/ /)
be noted that t ‘2 olitan Company..of..Chicago took over Central's—~"~
bail bond businéss’ in early 1962 and has since acquired control of
United Benefit Fire of Omaha. Cosmopolitan officers and directors
include the names of Volin and Bergman. Determination should be
made if the Volin is the same person who was in the Weiner-Volin
agency and if the Bergman is related to the Bergman-Lefkow agency
frequently used by Dorfman.

Perhaps significant is the fact that serine jamin, the
Illinois state insurance investigator in charge of Central ©
Casualty review, has since taken a position with Cosmopolitan.

   
   
   

Toll call records are available in many instances relevant
to the proposed examination. A chronology of known events in the
bonding scheme is attached (Appendix C).

Potential violation include § 13(c) of the Welfare and
Pension Plans Disclosure Act, violation of 18 U.S.C. 1001 in connection
with filings required by Treasury and Interstate Commerce Commission,
and other Government agencies, tax evasions, mail fraud and interstate
transportation of stolen property. os

 

 

 

Attachments

 

Docld:32329636 Page 5
 

Released under the John F. Xennedy Assassination Reeords Collection Act o
“ DATE: pi-s- -2017°

es

APPENDIX A

: BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON STEWART HOPPS

 
 
  

6 is an international highbinder of the
Lowell Birre “Allegedly he at one time had some connection
with Lloyds of London » and he may be British born. The State

' Insurance Commissioner of Idaho lists Hopps' associates as:

Lowell Birrell, Carl Betts, P. R. Cairns » Roy H. Callahan,
0, B. Calloway, Virgil Dardi, G. L. Gotz, Louis B. Meet» Mrs. M.
Birrell Pryor, Walter Ricker, Paul M. Roca, Mrs. B. E, Shoglund,
and Robert F. Six.

 

And companies as:

American Leduc Petrol Ltd.

| Arizona West Insurance Co.

; Bonami Co. (N. ¥.)

Cent Standard Insurance Co. (S. D.)

Doeskin Products (N. Y.)

Greater New York Industries (N. Y.)
Guardian Insurance Co. (S. D.)
Inland Empire Insurance Co. (Boise, Taeho) in Utah and Arizona
Louisville Fire Marine Co. (Ky.)
Pioneer Equitable Insurance.Co..
Rhode Island Insurance Co. (Providence)
Royal American Insurance Co. (Ala.)
Swan Finch Oil Corp. (N. Y¥.) .
Trans-Pacific Insurance Co. (Ariz.)
United Dye and Chemical Co. (N. Y.)
William Penn Fire Insurance Co. (Pa.)

Practically all have since been liquidated.

hy Others who have been associated with Hopps are Robert
| Hopps; Geraldine Hopps (Stewart's wife), Nadine Offenbach, Ida
: . Strombach, Robert Gotz,.J. W. Ehrlich, Harold C. Ridlick, and
' Stanley Borgenight. Hopps has allegedly used the alias of
Van Galder in running the International Guarantee and Insurance
Company.

Many of the Hopps' companies have similar names; the last
named company is believed to be identical with the International
Guarantee and Trust Company of Tangiers, a company in which Hopps
and Ehrlich were officers and the assets of which were seized by
California.

It appears that several companies connected with Hopps
and/or figuring in the bonding situation were incorporated in

 

 

Ne

 

Docld:32329636 Page 6
 

 

‘Beleased un undex~ the John F. _Kemundy Assas¥ination Records Cottection Act of 1992 (47 Usc 2107 H ate y-
DATE: 41-14-2017 | |

3fanpARD FORM No, BA * . 2 ° . ° 7
|
i
t
t
{
i

Office Mem ~undum. - _ UNITED si _ TES GOVERNMENT

   
 

TO : ‘Director . .
Federal Bureau of Investigation DATE: = October 1 5, 1962
rrom ; / Herbert J. Miller, Jr. .
4 istant Attorney’ General, Criminal Division
; Pa SUBJECT: International Brotherhood of Teamsters, neds
Dn Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and .
i).

    

Bonding Program
- James Riddle Hoffa alar/7€ - REN
i Paul L. Dorfman pln, 22. B(ra, 1% 16,2%, B2,
f Allen M. Dorfman B+, 36,%8,39

fe ——ee 5
JT
Allegations have been received that Paul and Allen, O
iJ

Helpers of America Coe reo] tor HS.C.4 Ww

 

 

L

Dorfman are and have been the liaison between Tcamster officials :
and Chicago racketeers. Reports have been received alleging that,
; Allen Dorfman has supplied subject Hoffa with large sums of money
! One of the areas in which misapplication of moneys has been — sy
alleged is the Teamster Bonding Program. |
. . I
After passage of the Landrum-Griffin Bill in September,
1959, the Teamsters began to set up a program to handle the

bonding requirements made mandatory by the Act. fometiincis Pidelit;
and Surety Company of Akron, Ohio. Qhio, a subsidiary of ¢ hofettinois

 

;-f'Reserve Insurance Company y was chosen toywrite the, nase he,
q ~“Benefit Fire ‘Insurance Company of Omaha ana esant. cnsuance
NOM fang Company, wer apy, were to be the reins ng x companies! An” Tllino 3 “agency neyo

“Summit was set ‘up by Sol C<7Schwartz, a clgse associate of Allens///
Dorfman, and Lacie feiner .a business associ of Chicago racketeers

— Seok » Mexsha, festieno and P| derisio. (Subjects of \

: stigation in the Organized Crime Program). When the McClellan ;

! Committee released a letter publicizing the Dorfman and mob control

: of the Teamster bond commissions, the Illinois Reserve Insurance a

Company . withdrew its subsidiary, Summit, from the progréin.. ca :

  
 
 

  
 
  

The Teamsters then searched for another vehicle for their
bonding prog: Through Sol rtz and San Francisco criminal —
lawyer Jake Lich, St Hopps, reinsurance expert and alleged
swindler, ee ‘Appendix ix A) was contacted. Hopps, a former associate
A, of Lowell Birrell, has been under indictment in Baltimore and New !
“York and has a reputation of gaining control of companies to siphon '
off good securities while replacing them with worthless ones. Hopps
contacted several companies but was unable himself to put the deal
together. He did introduce a young insurance man, Charles W. Bray,
to Schwartz, Weiner and Dorfman; Bray in ‘the Jatter part of 1959 :
succeeded in establishing a program. f TF

 

 

ENCLOSURE

wwbed © Gc

  

 

 

 

DoclId:32329636 Page 2
 

 

 

“Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 Ust 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System Date: 5/4/2015

Identification Form

 

 

Agency Information
. )
- AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90087-10019
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 63-7893-3
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: DEPT. OF JUSTICE
FROM: DOJ/CRIM
TO: HQ
TITLE
\
DATE: 10/15/1962
PAGES: 55
SUBJECTS :
IRWIN SIDNEY. WEINER
JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA
DOCUMENT TYPE:: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: Withhold
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 07/14/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ
COMMENTS : MEMO, REFERRED TO DOJ, INC APPENDIX A,B,C

 

v9.1
DoclId:32329636 Page 1
 

  

Greased under the John F. Kéentnedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 sc 210 F-HSEE -
DATE: 11-14-2017 . |. . ° . S

j : ° °

t

eg LG

i

. Bray, who inherited an insurance business from his father,

had a small company in Illinois called Central Casualty Company, ;
the former LaSalle Insurance Company. He also had an agency, Homer

Bray Services, Inc. Central Casualty was unable to be the prime
underwriter because it lacked the Treasury list certification required

by the Act. Bray arranged for United Benefit Fire Insurance Company

of Omaha to be the unde: r. Bray's contact in United Benefit

was a man named Earl E '» & vice-president and a director of the

company . jhe -_
. _
Bray then cmpanies-ficisState Tus up to the first $100,000

  
 
  

 

with the-following companie i-State Insurance of Tulsa, Oklehoma \
(30%) Kinited Bonding of fndianapolis, Indiana (1 j andicuton :

Fire and Casual ort Worth, Texas (15%). United Benefit'was to ;
Keep 25% and Central Casualty, Bray's. company, was to take 20%. :
The excess over $100,000 up to $500,000 was to be reinsured with
Lloyds of London. :

 
 

Bray's agency, Homer Bray Services, Inc., was designated
| thesg@neral agency for the bonding. Bray also set up a local agency,
KEXP O’ cy, Inc., incorporated in Illinois in December, 1959, and
Homer Bray Services (Canada), Ltd. Schwartz and Weiner gave Bray
the applications that Summit had received before it pulled out.
These applications reportedly represented approximately 80% of the
Teamster locals throughout the country and an estimated $1,000,000
in commissions over a three year period. .

Pa ; Bray arranged a reinsurance treaty for Central with
“Antercontinental Insurance.and Guarant Company of Panama. (later of
Y Nassau, the Bahamas) allegedly a Hoses Somany with unknown assets.
There have been conflicting reports as to the percentage
shares of the participants but apparently Schwartz and Weiner were
to receive 20% of business they brought. Bray was to get 25% as
general agent out of which he would pay his sub agents, and United
Benefit was to get 3TSbE om the other companies for the reinsurance. =
/: a .
he Lowe Angelo Bianchi, former President of Summit Fidelity,
~~ “joined Central to supervise’ bail bond activities which Central was
also assuming along with the Teamster bonding business. It has been
(faljeged that this was done in order to give Weiner's agency, the
American Bail Bond Compa: nationwide coverage through Central
' Casualty and United Benefit. .

  

oad

The business which should have been a highly profitable |
one crashed in approximately two years. Various reasons have been
assigned for the failure - (1) that Bray, relying on Dorfman's

 

 

 

 

Docld: 32329636 Page 3
    

1

 

 

DATE: 11- 14-2017 |

‘

Se QQ
promises to send Central Teamster A & H & Health & Welfare
‘business, as well as various types of insurance related to loans
from the Teamsters Pension Fund, overextended himself in
anticipation of the added business which never came; (2) that,
although the Teamster and bail bonds were highly profitable,
Central wrote high risk auto and taxicab insurance which resulted
in heavy losses; (3) that money was diverted from the company to
Schwartz, Weiner and Dorfman.

In November, 1960, Oxford which had been in Bray's name,
was taken over by Schwartz and Weiner and a special account opened
at the Exchange Bank in Chicago - with which bank Dorfman and the
racketeers have frequently dealt.

In 1961, United Benefit was denied a license in the
District of Columbia reportedly because of a false filing. United
Benefit was shaky and the decision was made to replace it as primary
carrier.

Rhode Island, whose pre ident-is7 Lewd rn. g

“*O 5 become the underwriter. In Septe! entral Casualty and
United Bonding were canceled as reinsuring companies retroactive

to July 15 and, in November, Houston Fire and Casualty was canceled
and Resolute became the only carrier of the first $100,000.

; The agency for the insurance was,c d‘also from Oxford
Titan Management Corporation - an ir einer Company.
A

In December, the state insurance director, Joseph Gerber
(of whom there have been reports of collusion with Dorfman and
Hopps) investigated Bray's firm, Central Casualty. In Januzry,

1962 3» Gerber announced that the firm was short one and one-half
million dollars and shortly thereafter the firm was liquidated.

   

According to an anonymous letter to the Department (See
Appendix B for copy), in early 1962, Bray was summoned to the offices
of Bieber and Brodkin, at s who frequently represent racketeers,
‘add was confronted by P! Alderisio who told Bray that he, Alderisio,
was interested in seeing Bray pay his debts and that Alderisio did
_wiot go to court to enforce them. Alderjwio told Bray that he expected
Bray to pay off debts“to the Weine ip, the R. 0. R. agency
eet are Don/Roth ‘and Coz:
the old Sout on ank) i James Egan of Denver,
Célorado, an associate of Bray's who is now in business with
_of Miami, was also visited, three days later, in Miami by Santos

      
  
   
 
 
 
 

  
    
 
 

 

Docld: 32329636 Page 4

eased under the John F. _xennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (42° USC ZIT Hopes.

 

     
  
