 

 

 

 

{NW 45817

 

we - - a

Re: Intercontinental Penetration Forces © Pee

they told the police, but the police said there was

nothing they could do about it. The article said ~

that the climax of Interpen training is parachute
jumping at an abandoned South Florida airfield.

The article continued that Hemming hires
a sky diving instructor and rents a light plane for
the exercises, and during the jumping drills on the
previous Saturday, the Sheriff's patrol officers
looked om and made no attempt to interfere. The
article went..on that _Interpen has about one hundred
members, including some at bases in California and
in the North, and its purpose was to fight Communism,
look for advapture, or "because they just like soldier-
ing." Jo xman, a member frem Kentucky, was quoted
as saying? “"Z would rather be shot to death than —
bored to death." Fea

. ere yur

4MM-T-1, on June 27, 1961,fadvised that

the above-mentioned article was out of proportion
‘to. the true situation, and served no other purpose
than to obtain publicity for Hemming and attract
more adventurers to the Miami area.

 

MM T-1 explained that on Jume 27, 1961,

a plane was rented at. Howe Aviation, Tamiami: Airport,
Miami, and flewn to an abandoned field at Davie,
_ Florida, where the.plane was met by Hemming, Jos Joe
an, Larry) ‘Worley, Frankyfittle and one other

“individual, name unkh , all Interpen members. FLA.

Also there were FrankYiorini, a notorious would-be
soldier of fortune, a’ fourteen year old Cuban boy,
and a news photographer from the "Miami Herald”

newspaper. OA

DociId:32309468 Page 9

 

 
a

‘NW 45817

Res Intercontinental Penetration Forces

 

 

Joe Gorman and Larry Worley got in the airplane,
and each made a parachute jump. When these, two only
available parachutes were repacked, Frank Little and

Hemming boarded the airplane and made a parachute jump.

The photographer ‘took photographs, which appeared in a

later issue of the "Miami Herald." /

MM T-1 said that these were the first and

only parachut

e@ jumps made by Interpen members; They
_ were practice jumps, and. fortunately, nobody was inijured,

fmasmuch as none of these individuals has had any train-
they are not in adequate physical

ing or experience, and
condition...

; On June 28, 1961, the "Miami Herald" contained
an article stating that Interpen’s Conmander is the
"biggest, strongest, and most handsome member of the

~ lot, and in his marine camouflage suit, Australian |

bush hat, wavy hair and beard, he has the look of ~

an old-time French musketeer."

The article’ continues

by stating that Hemming is convinced that the proe=
Communist Government of Cuba will be overthrown only
by infiltration of Guerrilla fighters; that he and
his men live in a rooming house, and when they are’
not on training exercises in the Everglades Swamps,

‘or parachuting ‘at an abandoned airfield, ‘they practice

rigging parachutes in the street. The article con-
tinues that neighbors have complained, but the police
contend there is’ nothing they can do.’ Hemming claims
he does not try to hide the fact that Interpen is

part of the International Anti-Communist Brigade, which
is associated with the Revolutionary Junta of National .
Liberation, led by Aureliano Sanchez Arango. :

 

DocId: 32309468

Page 10

2 Qo

 

AS
 

 

 

|
i,
|

| aw

45817

 

Re: Intercontinental Penetration Forces ©

Hemming had another plan to obtain a 106 foot

salvage boat to take his group on a commando raid against

Cuba. lowever, he was unable to obtain access to this

beat. Tel explained that Hemming has a new and different
plan ly, does not follow through on any of them, and
none of them ever succeed. & )

Press Publicity

_ The "Miami Herald," a daily newspaper published
in Miami, Florida, on June 27, 1961, contained an article

~ concerning Interpen, stating that most members are: Americans,

although the leaders claim the greup includes Canadians,
Venezuelans, Cubans and other antieCommnists. The
article stated that the existence of this group was known _
by the Herald, but it became generally known to the

public on June 26, 1961, after Florida Senator George

A; Smathers disclosed that Cuban exiles are training in
Florida. The article said that Senator Smathers’ dis-
closure on a nation-wide radio. network brought other :
newsmen and television cameramen to Interpen headquarters
on June 26, 1961, . ‘

giant, 6 feet 7 inches tall, with long wavy hair, a
trimmed beard, an Australian bush hat, who looks
like Errol Flynn in his earlier matinee days." The
article stated that.Hemming said the recruits are
first housed at the headquarters, and then sent to

a training site in the Everglades, accessible only

by boat. The article continued, stating that Interpen
holds parachute rigging classes in the middle of a
street in Miami, and one elderly Miami couple stated

The article described Hemming as a "young

loge

 

DociId:32309468 Page 8

 
 

Re: Intercontinental Penetration Forces

organizatiens, these organizations have refused to _
Support, donate, take into membership, or cooperate
with Interpen. (A)(W)

During May and June, 1961, the following
individuals: advised that. their organizations would
have nothing to do with Interpen:

Antenipffiaceo, member of the Cuban Revolution-
ary Council em

OrlandefGarcia, Assistant to Aureliano Sanchez __
Arango, head of ti olutionary. Junta.of.....
Cuban

eration

  
 

t 7

   

. oo eee o . . S Lamict
Ernesto/@€spaigne, in charge of intelligence [f/f
for FRD ~ ‘ ennai |

Rafael Mflaa\Selart, a leading menber of the

White Rose organization, and presently work=""~

ing with Carlos Prio Socarras, former President Ghyu)
of Cuba :

ena oe ° ?
Failure of Plans .

  

MM Tel explained that many of the irresponsible
plans of Hemming have failed. fone involved driving a
car from Miami, Florida, to Guatemala, for some unknown
revolutionary _purpose. Hemming also was involved in
another plan with Agustin Capo, a: Cuban national, to

g© On a reconnaissance trip by boat to the Cay Sal Bank
of islands, north of Cuba, and later establish a base

for Interpen there for future commando raids against '
Cuba. This failed, inasmuch as. Capo is being watched

by the United States Border Patrol, and is afraid if

he leaves on his boat, he will be arrested H¥Yu)
-66¢

 

whe -. teen ee enee ee ee a ee ane . a

4
j

I nw 45817 Docid:32309468 Page 7
Re; . Intercontinental Penetration Forces Sassy

said that it would be extremely doubtful that Gamba,
or any other FRD official, would in any way help or
take into membership any American group of volunteers.

MM subsequently advised that Hemming
and fom cainfllieiccec anid RD headquarters on
June 8, 1961. xThey were trezte courteously, but
received ne promises of help or offers of membership
in the FRD, and were politely referred to Manuel
Antonio de Varona, Coordinator of the FRD. MM T-1
explained that the FRD’s policy has always been
against accepting Americans, and it was extremely

doubt that Interpen would receive any aid from
the FRD b) ,

; Jur
fm ny a that Hemming and Interpen
—_ members have contacted many other Cuban organizations
and individuals, seeking money donations, equipment
. and members, but they have always been refused. «.

 

{Contact with Venezuelans | ¥*)
S| “t :

On May 25, 1961, MM T-1 advised that lemming
| fad made contact with a (first name unknown) ftato, an
associate of Marcos;Pere. etme: _ -Or via
_f Venezuela, presently residing in Miami Beach, Florida. ](WiW
Hemming had offered his services tofPerez Jimenezhfo
‘future revolutionary activity in Venezuela. (7)

   

; Prato later took Dick¥Watley and Rebert =) (< LB
willis, members of Interpen and assistants to Hemming, \

to see Perez Jimenez. However, Perez Jimenez was unable -

to confer with them because he was too busy with the Cha)

eho ;

i
|

a — a aewener _— oe . . i ed

‘aw 45817 Docid:32309468 Page 5
 

 

 

 

 

ee ee en ee

ee
| nw 45817

 

 

Re: Intercontinental Penetration Forces

matter concerning his pending deportation hearing, to :
be held in the United States District Court in Miami.
Prato said that Perez Jimenez wondered how it was
possible for American adventurers, such as the Interpen
members, to maintain a training camp, wear uniforms |
and practice military maneuvers in the United States,
after they have publicly stated they plan to violate {
United States neutrality laws by proposed military i
attacks against Cuba. Perez Jimenez expressed some

apprehension in cooperating with them, for fear they

would be arrested by United States authorities. Willis

and Watley planned to make an appointment to see Perez

Jimenez at a later time concerning offering their |

services and those of Interpen to Perez Jimenez. beh a)

On. June 5, 1961, MM T-l advised that (first
‘name _unknown)¥Peleaz, 5733 Northwest 6th Place, Miami, Free >%
representing Perez Jimenez, bought one hundred sixty
dollars worth of food. for a donation to Interpen.-
This food consisted mainly of rice, beans, and canned

items. GAM a tl

Om June 28, 1961, MM T-1 advised that
representatives of Perez Jimenez were supposed to
visit a camp site established at Key Largo, Florida
by Interpen. At the camp site, they would be given
demonstrations in milit training and jungle
survival by Hemming AL)

    

ceptable to Leading Organizations

MM T-1 advised that although Interpen had
visited mest of the leading Cuban revolutionary yu) ~

e 5°¢

DociId:32309468 Page 6
Date: (A -a $-C/

 

 

 

 

 

 

|
|
I
|
PLAIN TEXT |
(Type in plain text or code) a
Via AIRTEL AIR MAIL |
goo
pK
jFe .
i TO:
pt | PROM:
L0,-\- _
a& RE: ys ;
tat ERCONTINENTAL PENETRATION FORCES ECL IFIED BY SBTC Hee —
MO 4 INTERPEN) did ... QF i
vt NEUTRALITY MATTER

MIAMI)

The title of this case is being changed to
reflect the new n ce this organization, which was
previously known a ~'Anti-Commun -Communist Legionnaires.'

ReMiamitel to Bureau, 6/27/61, entitled:
"Anti-Communist Legionnaires" and telephone call from
Mr. F. BAUMGARDNER at Bureau to Miami, 6/27/61.

Enclosed herewith are 9 copies of a letter-
head memorandum, dated and captioned as above. / /

MM T-1 isfm 639-S4(¥ fo
T-2 is [i Assistant Coordinator,

i Miami will continue to foLicw ac tivities of
captioned organization through MM 6394S CA wi

y, MGT = 2p A= 693- -/f

N (3) - Bureau (Encl. - 2) (AM - RM) ----
s 2 - Miami (2-31 (a oe .
RJD:ems — M2

a
Ft JUN 29 1961

 

  

 

 
  
   

 

5 ‘Wier.’
Approved: rae

S62 sULit eter

gent-.in Charge

    
  

     
 
   
   
 
 
 
 

MM
“FRD, Miami. (%& Yur Zz

  

 

OTHER 4

 

 

'NW 45817 DocId:32309468 Page 2
JFK Assassination System Date: 5/27/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10298-10255

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 2-1693-18

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC,MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/28/1961
PAGES: 12

~ INTERPEN, GPH, AKA, DESCR, RECRUITMENT, TRAINING,
MEMBERS, ARRESTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
. RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS:  Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 08/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM

eee
v9.1 29

NW 45817 Docid:32309468 Page 1
 

ral

\ue
UNITED STATES, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTLGE
ee ped

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

  
    
 

- In Reply, Pw Rf L-4 $ , a,
2-312
_ CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECIAS ES GNTES ANDICK, Miami, Florida

 

RELEAS if CORMATION
IN THis DOCUMENT. KP 16-16-47
DKS,
ae Waa FKL)
Res tnlles one: tal Penetration Forces ;

SCE ee:

       

 

iS Nature of Organization ©

Re ‘fol, who has been involved in Cuban
a 3 revolutionary’ activities for the past four years, _ }
| wy and who has furnished reliable information in the
SN past, is closely associated with}Gerald Patrick
| ENG Hemming,. head of the Intercontinental Penetration
‘ 2 Forces, also “known as Interpen. fhe}

ag

MM T-lkadviged that _Jerry, Henning tannon _
and Gerald Patrickfienning are nam names used by the press
and by other individuals referring to Gerald Patrick

“Hemming, and are oe identical with Hemming.

ifee uy GRnAED PArR tele. eek y

Kw
Sons ike, that Interpen, until recently,

was known as the Anti-Communist Legionnaires, and is

an organization made up of American volunteers, mer-

cenaries, vagrants and adventurers, having a member-
ship of fifteen to-twenty individuals. The membership i
has a high turnover, inasmuch as newspaper publicity i
caused these adventurers to come to Miami, Florida |
to join the organization, but lack of any serious i
accomplishment causes them to become disillusioned |
and leave. At any one time, there are several
i members in jail in Miami for fighting, vagrancy |
Nand drunkenness. They beg food from Cuban grocery ‘.- |

yf) q buy MALL | ew)
DO Lia AF EL O

 
   

 

 

 

 

 

i

‘NW 45817 DocId:32309468 Page 3
\ iy, >
\

 

Re: Intercontinental Penetration Forces

On May 17, 1961, Sergeant Sapp advised that , ;

Redmond and Roma had again been arrested for vagrancy - ‘

, Bayfront Park, along with Alfre shane and Albert + _ :

‘Mariner, who were also charged with vagrancy. ; A s i

Sergeant Sapp advised that these members i

of Interpen have developed into a police problem, are

rowdy and drunken, and cause considerable comment by: i
residents of Miami and tourists visiting the city.

Contact with Frente Revolucionario Democratico 4 a |

\| = ; T-1, on June 5, 1961, advised that Tom |
i Dain andifrank (last name unknown), Interpen. members, ) .

about a month previously, went to Chicago, Illinois val kay .
ahd contacted headquarters of the Frente Rév6lucionario
Democratico (Revolutionary Democratic Front - FRD), an {
alliance group of anti-Communist Cuban revolutionary i
| organizations. Cain and Frank were seeking aid and
\ backing for Interpen from the FRD, and received a {
— letter of introduction, addressed to Mr. Gamba, FRD 7 i”
| headquarters, Miami. (YY in.)
|
}
|

 

 

 

 

 

: MM T-1 said that at that time, Interpen
consisted of about fourteen members, most of whom
were staying at 1925 Southwest 4th Street, the
\ residence of a Mrs. Hamilton, who allows them to
i. stay there free, and frequently provides meals for i

i . them. my) .
. RENTE REVOLvVEYON AAA DEMecRATICa
tm T-2, Who is—an-offictal-of-the-FRD+-and--<r enemas

who has furnished reliable information in the past, //¥) u)
advised th, Tomas}amba is an assistant to Manue! C FRAD
Antonio deWarona, Coordinator of the ERD, [MM T= # eee

Nese amare thee asentaorim

2 36

 

é
t

‘NW 45817 DocId:32309468 Page 4
