 

 

 

BIF-004-07-1482 |
~2-

4. We request your ruling as to whether the value of the bacnesor

. Quarters on base or houses in-town supplied to our employees under
_ these circuiistances must be considered income for tax purposes. The —

Australian Government has advised that for purposes of Australian taxa- _
tion of American employees, it will treat the value of the quarters in.
the. same manner as the United States Internal Revenue Service does.

5. If the tentative ruling is that. the value of quarters is taxable,
we respectfully request a Conference prior to issuance of a final ruling.

oe. ; ‘Very truly yours

; : Robert B. Corpening
a General Counsel
. i TRW Systens Group

 

 

 
 

 

[hoy \ ececrrosye EMS, ING.

' of about one-half the rental value, like the U. S. Government's provision of

 

 

GARLAND DIVISION

   

. u : . : P.a BOX 6
. . . DALLAS. TEXAS 75:

. . . . AREA’ CODE 214

BROADWAY 6-7011

"15 December 1970

4-60000W/0L-58

Commissioner of Internal Revenue
Washington, D. C. 20224

Attn: Mr. Erskine H. Hatfield -
Subj: Request for Ruling _
Gentlemen:

LTV Electrosystems, Inc. is a subcontractor under a prime contract with
the U. S. Government and has approximately se enty-five (75) employees

‘working at a joint United States and Australian installation in Australia,

The installation is in a remote location approximately 1,000 miles from
the nearest city of any size. The largest town nearer to the installation

_{s Alice Springs, which has a population of approximately 9,000. Alice

Springs is 15 miles from the installation and is the only town within
commuting distance. . : e
Because the installation operates on a 24-hour basis, the U. S. Government
requires all prime contractors and their subcontractors’ employees to be
available. for duty at any time and that employees live in quarters assigned
to them by the U. S. Government. Bachelors are assigned rooms in B0Q's on
the installation and married employees are assigned specific houses in
Alice Springs. The need for immediate availability of all employees is
such that all quarters, including those for married employees, would be on
the base except that security regulations do not permit family members to
live on the installation. It is a condition of employment that employees
live in the’ quarters assigned to them. They are given no choice in
selection of the quarters, may not elect a cash allowance in lieu of

quarters, and are not allowed to lease, purchase or build houses or apart-

ments on their own.

The installation is a. joint U. S$. - Australian facility. The bachelor
quarters were constructed by the U. S. Government and the houses by the
Australian Government, for occupancy by both American and Australian
employees. Bachelor quarters on the base are rent free to both Australian
and American employees and the houses are rent free to American employees. -
In accordance with Australian Government policy Australian employees are :
charged rent of $17.50 per week for the houses. Similar houses in the town
rent for about $35 per week. The Australian Government subsidy to Australians

free. housing, is paid in recognition of the housing shortage and the require-"

. went to live in assigned housing. The Australian. tax department does not

 

[PSE etn yc pom andetone me
 

 

BIF-004-07-1482
COPY een:
TOTAL PAGES 002

age Jheb C6 Sy

5 vanwar,, 197

- Coumissioner of Internal Revenue

Attn: Mr. Erskine H. Hatfield
Masnington, 6. C. 20224

1. .Tais Company is a subcontractor under a prime contract with tne
United States Government and has about thirty-seven enployees of the
Company working on a Joint Australian/U.S. Government installation in
Australia. The instaliation is in a remote location approximately
1,000 miles from the nearest city of any size. The largest town nearer
to the installation is Alice Springs, which has a population of approxi-
-Mately 9,000. Alice Springs is 15 miles from the installation and is
the only town within commuting distance. .

2. Because the installation operates on a 24-hour basis and euployees
must be available for duty at any. time, the Company's contract requires
that employees live in quarters assigned to them by the U. S. Government.
Bachelors are assigned roons in BOQ's on the installation and married
eniployees are assigned specific houses in Alice Springs. The need for —
immediate availability of all employees is such that all quarters includ-
ing those for married employees, would be on the base except that security
regulations do not permit family members to live on the installation. It -
is a condition of enployment that employees live in the quarters assigned. .
to them. They are given no choice in selection of the Quarters, may not .
elect. a cash allowance in lieu of quarters, and are not allowed to lease,
purchase or build houses or apartments on their own. ;

3. The installation is a joint U.S.-Australian facility. The bacheior
Guarters were constructed by the U.S. Goverrment and the houses by the.
Australian Government, for occupancy by both Anerican and Australian
employees. Bachelor quarters on the base are rent free to both Australian
and Ajerican enployees and the houses are rent free to Anerican enployees,

if accordance with Australian Governnent policy Australian employees are

Charged rent of $17.50 per week for tne houses. Similar nouses in the
town rent for about $35 per week. The Australian Government subsidy to
Australians of about one-half the rental value, like the U.S. Goverrment's
arovision of free housing, is paid in recognition of the rousing shortage
ana the requirement to live in assigned housing. Tne Australian tax
cepartuent does not require Australian employees to report as income the -
difference between tne value of quarters and the rent paid, although
Austraiian income tax law provides that the value of lodging supplied

by an employer is taxable income. an .

+ mere omen,

ee |
paneer
Z

 

“aw 53216 Docld:32358065 - Page &

ound SYSTERIS * ONG ePace Pank © AZCONOO BEACH * Cauiroania, conve + ac...

    

 

 
 

os . @ ” ; COLLINS RADIO COMPAN:
Mr. Matfteld . ar, / January 22, 1971

Australian Tax Department does. not require Australian employees to report
as income the difference between the value of quarters and the rent paid,
although Australian income tax law provides that the value of lodging
supplied by an enployer is taxable income, .

 

4." We request your ruling as to whether the value of the bachelor

of Australian taxation of American employees, it would treat the value of

the quarters in the same manner as the United States Internal Revenue
‘Service does. : .

5. If your tentative ruling is that the value of quarters is tax-
able income, we request a conference prior to the issuance of the final

; ruling. ;
‘ Yours very truly,
(UP Codnene
W. P. Cochran
Manager, Tax Department
» MPC: Tm, .

ce: J, Morrison, dr.)
EL C. Christerson

 

 

          

MW 93216 | Dacta:32358065° age 7
   

    
   
 
 
      
 

   
  

  

BYCO 1S requ:

employer 23 a condiison of his

ncone Tax Regulations provides *
enployes by the oaploycr s
ancone if three tests are i:

 

 
 
   

 

2. fhe lecgiag is furnished ror the convenience of the
cnDLoyer, an a oo,

2 a8 required to aceept such lodging as
of nis caployment. . oe

       
 
 

 

. a tha representations mado, we concluce that on
“thres tests » Conpare Example (7) of section LU9-i(d) of

Regulations, elore, tno value of tie lodging fuimishcd 4a 5
Gaployees eithcr inthe installation barracks or in the city nouses
is excludadle from the gross dacome of such employeos. :

Sincoroly yours,

- KW heck l.

Chief, Corporation 7ax. Bsuich

  

 

   

 

   

inw 59216 ‘Doola:32358065 “Page

 
OGC 71-0143 -

>\N

Poa ma i ;

  

OGC Subj: FEDERAL TAXE.,

     

Dallas, Texas 75207 Area Code 214 235.9511 Cable: COLINRAD DA

January 22, 197]

Commissioner of Internal Revenu
Attention: Mr, Erskine H. Hatfield
Washington, D. C. 20224 ° .

Dear Mr. Hatfield:

1. Under a contract between this company and the United ‘States
Government, five U.S. citizen employees of this Company work full time

lation of approximately 9,000. Alice Springs is 15 miles from the instal-
‘lation and is the only town within commuting distance. .

2. Because the installation Operates on a 24-hour basis and these
st be available for duty at any time, it is necessary that

installation. It is a condition of employment that employees live in the
" quarters assigned to them. ‘They are: given no choice in selection of

quarters, may not elect a cash allowance in lieu of quarters, and are not

allowed to lease, Purchase or build houses or apartments on their own.

3. The installation is a joint Australian-United States facility.
The bachelor quarters were constructed by the United States Government
and the houses by the Australian Government for occupancy by both American
and Australian employees.’ Bachelor quarters on the base and the houses in

! ; about one-half of the rental value, like the U. S. Government's provision
: ; of free housing,- is paid in recognition of the housing shortage and the
_ requirement to live in. assigned housing. ‘It is our understanding that the

poo wo

     

aw 53216 ‘Doclaxg 358065 | Page 6...
Nr. RL. Levis

mS . Vice President

* . : ~ LI Electvesys
re : P.C. Box 6118 .

. . Dallas, Texas 7$z22 og

     

Foyt : Tois is in reply to your request Sor ruling dated December 1S,
1970, whether the value of the bachelor quarters supplied to your
A employes $ under tha Chrevustances you present must be considered
cot Ancome for tax purposes.

 

The pertinent Sects subnitited are as follovis:

LIV Blectrosyste: t8,y Inc. is a subcontractor under & prime contract
with the U.S. Goverment and has eppres abely seventy-Sive (75)
employees working ata Joint United States and Austral Jen installation
in Australia. The installa a is in a renote loca Lon appromin
. : 1,090 mi3es from the nearest} city of any size. Tne Largest toa

oN : Nearer to the installution is Alice Spri.nj 3s, which has « papyd

NO approxtuatoly 9,000. Aiea Springs is 15 mil, ma the inst

. and is the only toi within Courting Gis’ a

 

    
   

  
 
 
 

 

 

. “Because the. “Snstallatic on opsrates on @ 2hehour be asis, the U.S,
Gov: ernnent require eS: all prine fete eae and their subcontractors!
employees to be ‘availeble for daty ab any time and that eaployees Live
jn qverters essizacd to thes by the ves, Goverment. Dechclors are

‘ “Tassigned rooms in BOQ's on the installetion and married (or
assigned specific houses jn Alice Springs. Tne need for

 

 
   

    

 
  
 
 
      

 

  

: : availabdi li, ty of all exployces is such that all quarters, i cluding
those for married e:aplosees 8; would te on the vase execpt that security
regulations ¢ y nenbers to live on the Jnsialletion,
It is a condition of heat eaployecs live in the c qiarters
assigues to th 7 ce aN selecticn of the quarters,

’ ¢
ce in lieu of quarters S, and are not alloca
W5ES OF Aparinments on their orn,

“may not elect a\cush ald
. 7 to Leese, purchase or build
. a P

 

    

' Section 62. of the Interael. Revere Cece Pr ides. thet, unless ;
otherwise ¢ ted Jat, gress incone 1:2: $.211 incone fron whatey er
a &
Savion for § services.

 
        
 
 

 

DocId: 32358065 Page 2 OL . .
 

 

 

 

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/14/201

Identification Form

 

Agency Information Released under the John

Fennedy

 

 

AGENCY : CIA Assassination Records
RECORD NUMBER:  104-10107-10191 ollection Act of 1992
; (44 USC 2107 Note).
RECORD SERIES: JFK ase#: NW 53216 Date:
p6-14-2017
AGENCY FILENUMBER:  80T01357A 7
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: = CIA -
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: — COLLINS RADIO
DATE: 01/01/1977
PAGES: 21
SUBJECTS : °
"NBR
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER - TEXTUAL DOCUMENT . {
CLASSIFICATION : = Not Marked :
RESTRICTIONS: = Open in Full ~
CURRENT STATUS: Release
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

COMMENTS :

“VOI
HW 53216

 

DoclId: 32356065

 

OPENING CRITERIA :

06/14/2017

JFK38 : F24 : 1998.08.04.11:49:29:123081 : NOT BELIEVED RELEVANT (NBR) THERE ARE 4
DOCUMENTS; THEY WERE DECLARED "NBR" BY THE ARRB, IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE ARRB MEMO DATED 8 OCTOBER 1997.

 

Page 1
 

. &

 

Value of lodging furan:

 

 

 

Hr. RL. Lewis .

Section 119 of the Code provides, in pertinent part, thet there
shall be excluded fron Bross incowe of an eaployee the value of any
Lodging furaished to hia by his exployer for tie convenience of the
employer, out only if the cuployee is requived to accept such lodging
on the business prenises' of his cuployer as a condition of his exploy-
mont. : : ° : oa .

 

Section 2.119-1(b) of the Income Tex Regulations provides that the

  

&

hed to an enployea by tho caployer shall be ex-
Cluded from the employee's gross incoue if these tests are net:

1. The lodging is furnished 6n the business premises of the .
employer,’ . . .
.2.° The lodging is furnished for the coavenicnce of the -
employer, and . . .

3. The employee is required to accept such icdging as a
condition of his employnont, . :

“Based solely on the represcntations made, we conclude that these
three tests are met, Coapare Hyasple (7) of scetion 21.119-1(d) of the
Regulations. Therefore » the value of the lodging furnished to your
employees cither in the installation barracks or inthe city houses
is oxcludable froin the gross incoue of such eiployces,. :

Sincerely yours,
. yay an nf

Chief, Corporation Tax Branch:

 

 
NW°'53216 DocId:32358065 Page 4°. oe

 

 

instaiics:

 

 

 

 

 

ie ee ra BS te wee

Rion 1 0 ion

WAR

 

ie

   

  

uns dadie C
Dollas, Tokes

Dear Me. Cochran:

  

request Lor ruling dated Jan way,

y Oo
“baciiclor quarvers Supplica vo

  
  

 

     
    

   

   
 
 
 
    
 

    
  

a

Staves Goverruisat installation dx
-The instalia’ on is in a rexote location approxinately i, 005 1
the nearest ci Liy of eny sine, except Lor Alice Sorin:
mY ? pe 1
populaiicn oe Spproxinataly 9,000. jico Springs is

      
      

   
    
     
 
  

  
   
   
  
    
    
  

vhe 4 for dus ay at any tas “Cy at ie nec:
455izne4 to then oy %

in bOs on tho ingtalleiion and i:
c houses in Alice Spells. The nuod sox
enployees is such that all quarters, inc)
Aoveos, vould da on tho base axcopt tar
ly meadery of the cor:
it is a condition of enployment tr Leyuas
siGied to thome thoy are givea no choco in
Hey HOS olect a casa allowanco in li

ang aXI 10% Gllowed to ieace, ‘purchase or ouild houses or Apsie ua,
theiz OWN.

    

 

    
  

otion SL of

weeracl Revenue Codg Provides that,. unt
sdud oy haw, é2038 income means all incozio Fey
Source Curived, including coapensa tion’ for services,

       

atover

     

 

antenatal ad Sa

 

 

 
