 

     

a

 
 
   

   
   

S-NO OBJECTION

A

   

5601 Potomac Avenue, N.W.
a. 201

  
 

Honorable William
Secretary of State
Washington, D.C.

   

Dear Mr. Secretary:

 

In winding up my affairs at the Department of State, there is a pend-
ing matter which I believe merits your attention.

Lee Harvey Oswaid, the presumed assassin of President Kennedy, was

alledgedly present at a party given by a Mexican communist sympathizer

and attended by the Cuban Consul, a veteran intelligence officer, when

he was in Mexico shortly before the assassination. There are allega-
. tions that the Mexican Government may have been aware of Oswald's

—_ presence at that party and that the Cuban Government may have tried. to °—
intimidate others who saw him there. ° . ,

   
  
    
   
     
  
 
  

 

A careful investigation of these allegations could perhaps explain’.
them away. Until then, however, their public disclosure could reoper
the debate about the true nature of the Kennedy assassination and
damage the credibility of the Warren Report.

Since I was the Embassy officer in Mexico who acquired this intelL
gence information, I feel a responsibility for seeing it through:
its final evaluation. Accordingly, I have prepared a memorandum

(enclosed) explaining this information and its initial assessment
to three memoranda of conversations with my Mexican informant.

I believe you would want to consider carefully whether to.
enough alone in this case, or whether the risks attendin

public disclosure of these allegations make furthér.investig
warranted. : :

  

let.w

   

Respectfully,

: Charles William -1

Enclosure: : .
Memorandum and four attachments.

AW 53244 DocId:32172661 Page 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

 

~ AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10176-10180
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:  105-82555-5612

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

ORIGINATOR: DOS ~
FROM: THOMAS, CHARLES WILLIAM

TO: ROGER, WILLIAM P. Peleased under the John
TITLE: . Kennedy

kesagsination Records
Ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note}.
DATE: 07/25/1969 ase#: NU 53244 Date:

6-12-2017

 

PAGES: 33

SUBJECT: LHO, POST-RP, TRAVEL, TRIP TO MEXICO, SIGHTING

 

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW _ DATE: — 09/24/1997 ~ UPDATE DATE: — 02/12/2001

STATUS _ Redact
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B) ‘

COMMENTS: EBF, INC NUMEROUS DOS MEMOS

\

 

 

AW 53244 DocId:32172661 Page 1
 

ee : ard

‘Durans after the assassination about a a party which Oswald had reportedly °
attended, but that the transcript of the interrogation was ‘entirely.

» unsatisfactory by normal’ investigatory standards. Furthermore, ° ‘the party.
~ inquired about.was not the one at Ruben Duran"s house, reported by :
Elena: Garro, ‘but at’ an entirely different. place. . ‘This transcript may ee
well be the source ‘of Mr. Ferris' belief that. Elena Garro's story “had been. :
checked out. and found to be untrue. | ~ nn . . SS

     
 
   
     
        
       

 
  
 
    
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
      
  
 
 
  

“10.~ “te “gould hppear ‘that wheréas, the ¥BL has discounted the Elena Garro oo
allegations, the CIA is ‘still considerably disturbed by them. The CIA -
“may not “have “pressed for~ further. investigation, however, for a number of:
reasons: 1) considéring: the sensitive overlap and ,subtle competition -
between two. intelligence ‘collecting agencies, it had to yield to the :
~FBIY s clear: jurisdiction; 2) there are obvious complications in “conducting *
such an investigation in a foreign country; 3) there isa close and = -:

- delicate relationship between the CIA Station Chief andf{the former Minister.
of, Interior -= President Gustavo. Diaz Ordaz3] and 4) some“of the people
_appearing -in the Elena Garro scenario may well be agents of the CIA. Under *
~ the. circumstances it is unlikely that any ‘further “irivestigation of: this
_matter will ever. take place unless itis ordered by a high official in’
“Washington. : he _ ; : : Mes

 

; 1L.>: If all the allegations in the attached memoranda were true,. they

ve would ‘not, -in themselves, prove: that there was- a conspiracy to_assassinate

President Kennedy, However, if they were ever ‘made public, those. who,

have tried to discredit the Warren Report could have a field day in.
‘speculating about their implications. The ctedibility of the Warren Report .

: “would -be damaged . all the more if it.were learned that these allegations.

“s were known’ and never. adequately investigated by the competent . American
o authorities. { . : .

a

 

    
       
     
      
      
      
      
   

: 12, " Reference’ is made again to the biographic report: “(Tab A) on Elena
~. ,Garro.: She is hardly’ an ordinary or average person. Her strengths and
weaknesses become exaggerated precisely because she is not. . It would...’
“be easy ‘and convenient to sweep this matter under the rug by claiming, poe

_ that Miss Garro is an unreliable informant since. she is emotional; |

ye opinionated, and “artistic.” ‘I have been affected at times by that.
“temptation, ‘myself; No American official, however, knows Her better than
_I do. .On'the-basis of :the’facts that-I have presented, I believe that, -.
“son balance, ‘the matter warrants. further investigation,

13. Finally, the record should show that a represent tive of a major
“American publication has, at least “some. knowledge of

 

 

AW 53244 DocId:32172661 Page 3
