 

“A

NY 65-18217

| ' With regard to his mother's occupation he stated

. that she was mainly a singer, but she was also @ musician.

| When he got older he used to accompany her on the piano when
she was appearing in night clubs. At this time, she used her

maiden name for professional reasons. The subject later

changed this statement to the fact that she used a "nickname"

like" VON SONNENBERG", but stated that she always used CLARA

as her first name.

.

He advised that he had no formal education and he
only went as high as the sixth grade and never remained for any
length of.. time at any one school due to his mother’s travelling.
He stated that the school in Munich which he attended for about
two years was the longest time that he was ever at one school,
He advised that he had no schooling whatsoever in English and
that he has learned English since he arrived in the US.

While in Germany, he never belonged to the Nazi
Party and constantly stated that he could recall very easily
how hard and difficult everything was in life for him. He
advised that he remembered his mother and Jewish friends
speaking in Yiddish in hushed tones in a manner so that he
eould not overhear the terrible things that were happening to
the Jewish people at this time. He advised that he understood
Yiddish from being brought up in this atmosphere but was not
fluent in it.

Sometime prior to the beginning of World War II
or in 1940, he and his mother left Germany and fled to
Switzerland. They travelled to Switzerland by train but he did

* not recall anything concerning dates or places connected

with this travel. He stated that he did recall, however, that
they proceeded directly from Munich, Germany +o Basel,
Switzerland, and later, from Basel. to Zurich, Switzerland,
After he left Germany he never heard from his school friends
again, but his mother heard from her friends.

He recalled staying in a small hotel in Zurich
named Engemathof, He also recalled going to a private music
school in Zurich, Until they left Zurich to come to the US,

Te tern nee rae neeeenes some

 

 

 

-3- ¢

SECHEL,

@

 

 

HW 55080 DocId:32989537 Page 9

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
NY 65-18217

both he and His mother moved around quite a bit in Switzerland.
He advised that during his period of residence in Switzerland,
he never served in the Swiss .Army. fa

Prior to leaving Switzerland, his mother heard
_from his father who was egain in the US, in patreit tts
Michigan; that he had renarried and had a new wife who was
fifteen to twenty years younger. than..he.....The-subject stated
that: he. could’ nob ‘recali definitely, but-presumed :that ‘he and
his mother.were* travelling on;an American passport :from*.

. Germany :to ‘Switzerzand. . atk ;
/ oc: i. His-mother applied at. the US Embassy in Zurich
. (later said ‘Geneva): for papers to come to the US. He was a
“US ‘eitizen by birth and while. he accompanied his mother, —
ue his mother did.ail. the “explaining necessary at the Embassy”
“$6 get papers as he could not speak English and nobody at
the Embassy could speak German. His mother ‘brought his birth
certificate and otherrapers to the Embassy and she was the one.
handling these documents. She obtained from the US Embassy
“documents which allowed them to come to the. US. He did not
say passport, and when asked how he could come to the US without
a passport he advised that if you needed a passport to enter the
US, then he did not understand how he got in, but his mother ~
arranged to get “papers” at the US Embassy and he did not
recall anything concerning this matter. He was unable to
describe these papers in any respect stating that his mother
handled all of this. He stated that even though he was certainly
at an advanced age in life at this time, he did not handle
his ow papers when coming into the US because of his lack of
‘knowledge of the Engiish language. :

- ; With regard to the date that he came to the US, he

* advised at various times that this date was 1944 through 1947,

_ and at no time could he be specific regarding this date. He
believed that it was after World War II.ceased in Europe.

He advised: that they travelled from Switzerland .
to a port in France by train. He could not recall the name of

 
 

a wena cee eet a nner eterna atti

 

 

SECRET

" NY 65-18217

pregnant, and on her arrival in the US his parents were

married here. He had no brothers or sisters. While in the ee
US his father was employed as @ cabinet maker, salesman

and clerk. They resided in Detroit, Michigan, at an unrecalled
address and returned to Germany together at an unrecalled

date, but he believed that at this time he was about two or

three years of age. After returning to Germany at some

unknown time his parents separated for personal reasons. His

father then returned to the US but he did not know how or when.

He remained in Germany with his mother, .

At this time his mother was a singer and musician
and utilized these occupations as a means of support-for both
herself and him. At this time they travelled quite a bit all
over Germany and they also travelled in France and Belgium.

He stated that he definitely remembered being in France
because he noticed that they spoke a different language when
they crossed the border He also recalled staying in a hotel
in Paris and remembered living in Berlin, Hamburg, and Munich,
Germany, in thatcréer, He could not recall the dates or
residences in any of the above-mentioned places.

He stated that he remembered going to school in
Munich, Germany, and at this time he was in the fifth or
sixth grades, and this was the first time that he actually
remembered experiencing anti-Semitism in Germany. He
remembered that Aryan appearing beys 41.e. blond.haired, sat up
in the front of the classroom and they were allowed to "join
the "junior brownshirts". He stated that at this time he
never participated in this type of activity due to his Semitic
, background. He could not recall the name or the location of
this school which he attended in Munich, but he remembered that
it was about four to five blocks away from two night clubs
where his mother entertained. He stated that at this time
of his life his mother did not. accompany him to school as was
normal in the parent-child relationship because she. was Semitic
looking. Instead of his mother she would have various friends
fr hin him to school to remove any possible stigma
‘rom .

Pn tee ee ee ee le

-2-

SECRET

AW 55080 DocId:32989537 Page 8 : . . a

 

Pa

4

 

 
al . . ° oe

 

 

 

 

 

--".@  - SRT. @.

“(of Oe FBI

Date: 11/8/60 .

’

fransmit the following in

t
'
’
t
t
?
t
t
"

~ (Lype an plain text or codej

ar rey

eon -H-- ee ne
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (65-66132) /,
; JL
. i” . ~ _d
FROM : SAC, NEW YORK (65-18217) oe
SUBJECT: HEKLAR -|
ESP, - R
(00: NY) “

The subject was interviewed from 10/18/60 through
10/31/60, by Inspector DONALD E, MOORE, SAS JAMES E, FREANEY,
LAWRENCE MC WILLIAMS, JOHN J, O'TOOL2, and JAMES P, KEHOE.
During this period the subject was also interviewed on
occasions by SAS RICHARD F, MC CARTHY and DONALD F, WISEMAN,

LEGEND ORIGINALLY RELATED BY SUBJECT

The ‘subject stated that he was HELMUTH FELIX
WUHN and that he-was born 1/29/25, at Detroit, Michigan,

Hé-stated his parents were ALBERT and CLARA nee SONNENBERG.
He-stated both parents were born in Germany and that they
originally met in Germany. He did not know the exact location
of his father's birth, but believed that his mother was born
in Bavaria. His father came to the US first and was followed
later by his mother. The exact dates of their departure from
Germany or arrival into the US were not recalled. He stated,
- however, that when his mother left Germany, she was already

 
  
 

 

 

 

= FO. /
‘5'- Bureau (65-66132) (RM EEC. 34 sn
11 -.Yashington Field (55:8103) (RM) sh
4 .-.New York (65-18217) ~ ; ; A
: : pe Classified by 2e Le ox
. 4 ey Ex t fr , Cat ¥. o)
. DEM;c . yswi, a Date of Decla ifi ion badefinite .
JIOZ;TPK car 8 eee ee eee Ee
comm ter ae ee
2. ” ee ~
. Pa *
Approved: Sent M Per

Special Agent in Chatée

SECRET

 

HW 55080 Docld:32989537 Page 7

 

 

 
 

(ne nS ~
t

rn . —@ - _ ae ~ noe ———@

J

Memorandum Belmont to Parsons
Re: HEKLAR
65~-66132 ;

citizenship was established. His application listed his brother,
Helmuth, as then residing in Germany. State Department records fail
to reveal that Helmuth or Horst ever took subsequent steps to validate
their claim to U. 5. citizenship or repatriate themselves to the U. S.

Specimens of the handwriting of Helmuth and Horst Klawuhn
appearing in State Department files have been compared with subject's
ane by the FBI Laboratory. Subject's handwriting is not
identical with these specimens.

Inf. ion Developed he Subj

The New York Office (NYO) determined that subject's first
known presence in New York was 7/8/59 when he rented a room on
New York's west side. He has been at his present address since
7/8/60. He is employed as a salesman by Service Guidance Corp.,
jobbers of household services. He does not walk like a cripple.

Information developed through an anonymous source reveals
that subject is in possession of a Hallicrafter short-wave radio
receiver with earphones and a long coil antenna concealed in a
locked foot locker. He also has a black portable typewriter,
various types of pills, pads of writing paper, several books on
grammar.

The FBI Laboratory determined that one of the pills made
to resemble "Creamalin" tablet, a common antacid preparation sold
in drugstores, is a "phony" and closely resembles other tablets
which have been used as developers for secret ink messages in Soviet
espionage operations.

At the present time NYO is maintaining most discreet
coverage of subject through an observation post, spot check
surveillances and mail coverage. His only activity, other than
his employment, is dating an Irish immigrant waitress, Rose McKinley,
who appears to have been a “pickup.” She spends many nights and
weekends with him.

Analysis

__. It is believed we can safely conclude that from the infor=__.
[_. “mation known. .concerning.the-Klamihn—family,-subject-is an impostor.— ~
Further, from information developed through the anonymous source and
from our knowledge gained in the Karot case, it is believed reasonable
to conclude that subject is in the U. S. as a Soviet illegal agent.
arot is the Soviet illegal agent we i i in i
and who is now cooperating with us as a double seconsin in March, 1959,

 

  
    

€

HW 55080 Docld:32989537

Page 5 ~2-+

 

 

 
 

Remorandis Belmont to Parsons
e3 ait =
65-66132

Course of Action

We have carefully analyzed all aspects of this case and
considered various possible courses of action. As can be seen, we
do not have sufficient legal evidence for a prosecutive case.
Whether admissible legal evidence can be developed in the future

’ in light ef the clandestine nature of Soviet illegal operations
appears unlikely. From what we have learned in the Karet case, we
consider. it extremely doubtful that surveillances and other investi-
gative techniques would produce anything of value.even if continued

or an.extended period of time. There is always the possibility .

_that an extended investigation would alert the subject and he would .

disappear, and we will have gained nothing.

We, therefore, feel that the best course of action is a

most thorough interview, similar to that conducted in March, 1959,
in Wisconsin during which we developed the Karot subject as a double
agent. It is recognized that subiect mav be difficult te break ;
since he has been in the U. S. at least 14 months and probably longer.
Karot was in the U. 5. fer about two months when we approached him.

. Despite the uncertainty as to success, we believe the ultimate
. possible gain is worth the attempt. if we are unsticcessful, we
will have at least neutralized hin. .

. We also feel that if we are to interview the subject, it
should be done very soon. If delayed, his relations with the Irish
.., Waitress may develop to the point that would cause us additional
problems in our efforts to handle our approach to him in a most.~
discreet and unobtrusive manner. ; Loe rad
NYO has advised tlat it has a suitable location for use
in a most thorough interview of subject.

If you approve,. ve will plan to make our approach to the
subject during the week of October 17, 1960. Also, i? yow: 4pprove,

Inspector D. E. Moore will go to New York and with New York Agents
conduct the interview of the subject. ,

. HW 55030 - Docld: 32989537 Page 6
 

NW sob ad bbersis Aas fe 7/

 

HEKLAR
ESPIONAGE - RUSSIA

 

Heklar is code name for a Soviet illegal agent
using the identity of Helmuth Felix Klawuhn.

Through the Socap Program (screening of new
Social Security applicants in Baltimore) the Social
Security application of Klawuhn dated May 2, 1960, was
located. He gave his birth date as January 29, 1925, in
Detroit, Michigan, and residence as 315 West 94th Street,
New York City. A preliminary check verified Klawuhn's
birth in Detroit to German alien parents and there were
no traces of this family after 1933 which suggested they
had returned to Germany. It was determined that Klawuhn
was born a cripple with a hip disease and would probably
have the appearance as walking like a "duck" all his life.
State Department records revealed the Klawuhn brothers
were taken to Germany by their mother in May,* 1932.
Specimens of the handwriting of Helmuth and Horst Klawuhn
appearing in State Department files were compared with
subject's handwriting by the FBI Laboratory and found not
to be identical.

It was determined subject's first known
presence in New York was July 8, 1959, when he rented a
room on the West side of New York. He was employed as
a salesman by Service Guidance Corporation and was
observed not to walk like a cripple.

Information developed through an anonymous
source revealed that the subject was in the possession
of a Hallicrafter short-wave radio receiver with ear-
phones and a long coil antenna concealed in a foot locker.
He also had a black portable typewriter, various types of
pills, pads of writing paper and several books on grammar.

Wu
Classified by 3 ret _
Exempt from GDS, Category, ax

Date of Declassification Indefinite

SECRET

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

‘ile #:

 

@2Z—- HE WWb3IS

 

 

 

' HW 55060 DoclId:32989537 Page 1 -
FBI Laboratory determined one of the pills was
a "phony" and closely resembled other tablets which have
been used aS developers for secret ink messages in Soviet
espionage operations.

It was concluded that the subject was an impostor
and based on the information developed through the anonymous
source and the knowledge gained in the Karot case, it was
believed reasonable to conclude that the subject was a Soviet
illegal. Karot was a Soviet illegal interviewed in March,
1959, who cooperated with us as a double agent.

Subject was interviewed from October 18, 1960,
through October 31, 1960, under secure conditions and was
permitted to return to his residence in New York City on
October 31, 1960. Subject furnished information as to his
true status as a Soviet illegal and furnished complete
details regarding his selection, training and dispatch to
the U. S. and agreed to cooperate fully to the extent of
disclosing all available information concerning his knowledge
of Soviet espionage activities. In January, 1961, subject
disappeared after being in contact with Special Agents of the
FBI since October 31, 1960.

 

SECRET

-27

HW 55080 DocId:32989537 Page 3
Ce

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

eRe . . ‘ : a {
So a i HE mn thsi

= ’ -
ae a eee ee -

7 me he 2 e@ ° ee ee
aAOPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 - SECRET ‘
“we : . .

. cy
UNITED STATES GOVi. |.MENT V/
Memorandum ~
TO : dD. J. parsons] pate: October 11, 196!

a From : Ae H. BELMO

CO. ,
SUBJECT: ~ HEELAR..--‘ ; a
ESPICNAGE - R .

, Above caption is the code name for this case which
an individual using the name of Helmuth Felix Klawuhn who, we are
| Feasonably certain, is a Soviet illegal agent. This memorandum is
to consider our future course of action. .

Q : 2 £ C *

Through our Socap Program (screening of new social security
applications in Baltimore) the social security application of Klawuhn
dated 5/2/60 was located. He gave his birth as 1/29/25, Detroit,
Michigan, and his residence as 315 West 94th Street, NYC. His hand-
writing contained foreign characteristics. A preliminary check
verified Klawthn's birth in Detroit to German alien parents. There
was no trace of this family after 1933, suggesting the possibility
they had returned to their native Germany.

The Detroit Office determined that Klawuhn was born a
cripple with a hip disease and would probably have the deformity
of walking "like a duck" all his life. He had a younger brother,
Horst Albert, born 5/23/30, Detroit.

State Department records reveal that the Klawuhn brothers
were taken to Germany by their mother in May, 1932. Their father /
followed them the following year. In March, 1947, the American /
Military Government in Beriin received a letter in the German /
language from a Helmuth Kiawuhn residing at Parchim, Mecklenburg‘
Germany, advising of the birth of himself and his brother, Horst,
in Detroit in 1925 and 1930, respectively, and their trip to Germany
in 1932, The writer wanted to know whether he and his brother were
still considered as U. S. citizens and whether they would be permitted
to immigrate to the U. 5S. The letter was referred to the American

‘Consulate. General who. advised.that. his. request should he. pzésentei .
‘-~ to that office.: : a cee - Fa wart te

 

tre veer State Departmea* records also reveal that in 1951-Horst .._.
Klawuhn filed application for registration as an Ame.'ican citizen
before the American Vice-Consul in Berlin indicating his intention
to return to the U. S. for permanent ALT soon as his
‘ Classified by_BGIG)\L-
} SECRET Exempt from GDS, Category_2. 43

MW 55080 DocId:32989537 Page 4 Date of Declassification indefinite

©

 

 
