 

 

 

oe “RLE Dai 7
“Ofticeo of th Director; yg! ;

. | ‘Deputy. Directo? Général: Santiago: L Alito
2 Philippiries National Police oO

un am: Writing to you about a matter that T belie
‘United ‘States People. - .

‘United States, ‘governmental documents-in’ ‘one :

. -Administration (Archives), fot.access to those: ‘individuals interested i inthe history: surrounding the
CaN ‘assassination of Président Se olin F. “Kenniedy- The. Act'states tat,“| “fall ‘government :records” ~.”

. -conceming't the assassination. éf President John F’ Kerinedy should ¢ carry a presumption of immediate
disclosure,” ‘ requires’ call United States government agencies to find all'documents related: to the>
assassination. and to review.and release ‘the identified. documents to.the maximum extent. possible to
we ublic: The: EBI has. been wo king diligently since 1993; to fulfill our ir responsibilities under the. mo

2 The pu Dose of thisetter is: 0) to informy you that. the FBI s assassination records contain:

information ori iginating with’ your agency or your original, documents; (2) to respectfully, request | that.

Your’ ‘agency. review your information: for’ maximum disclosure toithe fullest extent possible, and Q)t to"

explain the p provisions for: ‘your, request to protect, your information: from isos io \

hoa tts 2 EN ge
1} achieve’ ‘maximum disclosure’ of assassination records, ‘he Act esablsied the: JFK
“Assassination Records: Review Board (the Board’ E
* charged with overseéing;the identification: and rel .
her, | 3Eh 1 of our! “continued dedication of “cooperating. .

. with: them to meet, the. objectives of the'Act. «In: that spirit, ‘the FBI ‘would. appreciate your: “agency? 'S.

review “of the enclosed assassination records and consideration of: whether the information’ can be <.

released. i . ro Cote | oe .
RET INITS evrincty
EIICLE, 1YK(d)(6)

 
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 Usc 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017 JFK Assassination System Date: 3/31/201
Identification Form

 

 

 

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: _ 124-10379-10060
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER:  62C-HQ-1029205-3767
. Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: [Restricted]
TITLE:
DATE: 04/04/1998
“*PAGES: = 2
SUBJECTS :
JFKARCA OF 1992
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 05/11/1999
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.4
Docld:32322269 Page 1

253
 

Re leased under the ToRA, F. Kennedy | Asgassination } Recorils follection Act: oan saa “Use PTET “Hotes: *
DATE: ad- 14- 2027 : 5

wes

   

    

ee “Peputy Bi Director General Santi “Alino, Acting Satie’. pee

     

ia t ae

. : ify your agency “has no “objection to the releasé ‘oft its information: in ‘the: enclosed records, _ please’ 7

 

 

     

, “notify” the FBI so that wé may, take steps to reléase the récérds to the Afchives. ‘If your agency. Ws .

4 roy i ‘ ‘determines that the information cannot be- released, ‘please provide an: explanation: so that the FBI may ss

1 4 ts > present the vidence to the Board for their. approva The Act requires the. FBI to- present, “clear. and “75
i a : " convincing: evidence” of a harm that would’ outweigh the need for publi¢ disclosure to the Board for - . ’

Lo

es oa “any information that we request to. protect:from disclosure. Such. ‘evidence to protect. inforthation i Is.
an » explained i in the ‘Act a8, “the public disclosure of; the. assassination, record would compromise the a
DL) ca existence. ofa an understanding of confidentiality currently requiring protection between. a 1 Government: * Sa
Ne agent anda cooperating. individual or a foreign | government, and public disclosure would: be'soo | ye O
“'. os harmful that it outweighs: the public interest.” Upon receipt of ‘your instructions and. explanation for 60.
(i. > jhe protection from disclosure: the FBI will provide the- information to the Board! Hand, wequest that ere
woe * they sustain. the’ request for withholding the information, from distlosure. ae sent

 

   

 

Poy i of
nar te Moe

lel

 

> ~Piease’ Be aware ‘that. the Act requires that. all information it dn the. assassination collection aby ee vo.
ae Archives (even i in the closed. section) be réleased to the public i in the year 2017, including information’ : Boks ‘
woe ‘that. the Board ¢ agrées to protect. The Act has provisions to extend postpriements (protection of" - Se
So » inforniation from disclosure) past 2017 with’ the certification of} the President of the United States that: of,
aS “the information“ contiriues to meet the requiréments for. postponement. The FBI will pefiddically - ao owes
Teview the postponed ‘material for the heedof. this certification. arr ‘ So aes

 

  
 
   
 
  
      
  
   
   

  

7 “As you know, ‘ihe’ FBI normally protects information from your agency pursuant { 16 applicable -

as, Exectitive Orders- arid thé Freedom of Information’ and Privacy “Acts exemptions”: However, ‘the Actis
“) aunique: Federal law that appliés. only to JFK assassination ‘records. Please note, it is our opinion that an
release of. information i in the JF K assassination. récords should notin the ‘future affect. thé FBI’s ye a

standard Policy of] Protecting your agency’ s inforthation’ in other investigations or in other‘ ‘contexts: oe

oan

 

 

“The FBLi is commitied to ihe openitig of. all inforthation related. to ‘the assassifiation to the Le

fa

- United States public, but appreciates 4 that certain information is ‘sensitive and: not proper for release Crs

| Therefore, the FBI requests. “your consideration and understanding of this matter and the continuance we tS
. of your outstanding association with > our agency a

ane LPs

 

 

 

“ Thank: you, in advance, “for your cooperatiori, Please direct any question’. to our Lagat. Office >
representative oF to: Carol L, : Keeley, Acting Unit Chief of the Historical and Executive: Review-Unit cee
of the FBI, 935 Pennsylvania, A Avenue, N. Ww. » Washington, D. C. 20535, (202) 324- 0671.

u . oe

 

4.

. Leo si éerely yi yours,
oe Sine “ vo

fe |

   

 

 

 

“Louis ae Freeh
* Director .

 
