Bag os

 

  

AW 54653

DocId:

Gece

‘rst @

  

Re: "MINUTEMEN"

Dallas T-1 at this point advised that he did not
feel INFCRMANT sas being entirely honest with him inasmuch
as he believes the identity cf the above man was known to
informant.

"WEDNESDAY, Oct. 28, 1964 : Up to the time of our
meeting, the INFORMANT had no contact with anyone in the
MINUTE MEN". Dallas T-1 advised "I picked up the INFORMANT
about 4:00 p.m. and drove him to Dallas, Texas. I drove
him to the vicinity of The Gun Shen, 7402 Harry Hines Blvd.,
a business cperared by cone JOHN THOUAS. ‘MASEN. I pointed
out the business to the INFOAEANS "We tben-drove by and -
observed several men in the front of the shop. The INFORMANT
picked cut MASEN from the group and identified him as the
man that he thought was Oswald. I parked around the corner
and the INFORMANT walked back to the shop. He returned about
ten minutes later and said that MASEN recognized him when ©
he entered the shop and appeared glad to see him. That
they talked guns a few minutes and Masen invited him to come
back. The INFORMANT stated that he does not know if Masen

.4f a member of the MINUTE MEN oromot."

On October 30, 1964, Dallas T-1 advised that
about 9:30 a.m., he received a telephone calli from informant
who advised him that he had decided not to work any longer
on this investigation, Informant stated that he trusted
Dallas T-1 personally, but had come to the conclusion that
eitber the people he worked for were not interested in his
information or there was "something going on that he did not
understand." Dallas T-1 further states that he believes that
informant had, been irked by the fact that the government had
not installed or furnished him money for him to have a

telephone installed and also that informant was under consider-

able pressure from his wife to get out of the investigation
due to danger she seems to feel involves the entire family.

 
   

Re: “MINTTEMER"

“SATURDAY, Oct. 24, 1964 "1: The INFORMANT met
several members of tne group at the Shady Cakes Cafe during
the course of the evening but no MINUTE MEN buainess was
discussed.

“SUNDA?, Oct. 25, 1964 : About 7:30 p.m, SUBSECT
’A' came to the INFORMANT's house and told him that he was
secagepeuty to meet a man the next night. The INFORMANT was to go to
st the 7th Street Kontocoméry Ward's store at 7:30 p.m. and
wait in the spsrting gocas department to be contacted,

 

"WONDST, Oct. 26, 1964 : The INFORMANT did as
irstructed, He was approached by a white male, 4G to 45
meets years old, 160 pounds, medium build, 5 foot 8 or 9 inches.
~ in height, fairly well educated but not of professional -

atanding in conversation or appearance, The INFORMANT said -

; that this man drove a 1963 Ford Galaxy 500 black and white
tee es sedan, He said that he failed to obtain the license number
of the car. They drove to the west part of Fort Worth -
probably the Rivercrest arez. The man ask the INFORMANT
to wear very dark glasses, . They went to 2 house that the
‘INFORMANT assumes was the man's, They talked in the garage.
The manquesticned the INFORMANT for some tige about “bis
knoviedge of, and interest in, the ideals ef the JOHN BIRCH
SOCIETY, The man.also questioned the INFORMANT at consicer=
able length about his kncowledge on weapons. The INFCREANT
stated that he felt he pzeases in both areas. The an
showed the INFORMANT a Browning .50 caliber auteomytic rifle
with two metsl cans cf ammuniticn. He was also shown two
Reising ang one Ingram submachine guns. He theught the
reason he wag shown these weapens was to impress him and
to see if he wagfmiliar with them, Tieiman advised the
INFORMANT to begin drawing away from the people he had been
associated with in the pret in the MINUTE MEN, That these
men were too likely to g2t into trouble with the law and
could not be trusted to any extent. The INFORMER stated
that the man implied he waa to given a gore trustworthy
position in the future. Tae m2n.21le0 advieed the INFCAMANT
to move to a different house if he could afferd it.
Eenecially one with a double garage. The man took the .
IKFORMANT back to his car.” ; :

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

‘¢

 

 
. _

oe e

 

Re: "MINUTEMEN"

“the Thompson submachine gun to some ‘very important people.’
This is supposed to take place at some later date. The
SUBJECT stated that he used to be expert with this weapon
but had nct fired it fer quite some time. .

Big dos dei ph ate bra diem Pods

ae

"MONDAY, Oct. 19, 1964 : At about 8:00 p.m.
SUBJECT 'A' came to the INFORMANT's house. SUBJECT 'A' and
. the INFORMANT went in the INFORMANT'S car to a point (inter-
aanemied section) on the Randel Mill Read, and at that point under
two large trees, they found a car waiting for them. The
car was a late model blue Oldsmobile or Buick sedan, Five
men were inside. The INFORMANT had seen only one of these
men previously. (This man was the one referred to as The
Speaker in the report of Oct. 6, 1964.) SUBJECT 'A' did -
most of tle talking. He went over some of the sime subjects
discussed by the group the previous night and told the men
that a meeting was planned later. That the meeting would
be at either Benbrook Lake of Fisherman Paradise (in Johnson
County, Texas). That they would be notified when and where
later. The INFORMANT staed that these men were all armed
with .38 caliber revolvers. The meeting lasted about
fifteen or twenty minutes. ‘ :

 

“Sh vate.

"TUESDAY, Oct. 20, 1964 : At about 8:00 p.m.

SUBJECT 'D' came to the INFORMANTS house and they went, in

SUBJECT 'D's’ car, to Eagle Mountain Lake, Near an

excavatgd area for a new spillway, they met a 1959 Ford
: sedan, black with gold trim en the rear fenders. There
aes were four men in the car. As usual, no introductions were
made, SUBJECT 'D’ repeated pretty much the same information
ag SUBJECT 'At had the night before, This meeting lasted
about twenty minutes. The INFORMANT stated that all of the
men were armed with .38 caliber pistols."

 

 

Dalles T-1 advised that informant stated he has
: heard the organization referred to as both the 'MINUTEMEN'’
; : and the "Anerican Underground." Informant stated that
normally the group was not named as such when talking among ~ 5
themselves inasmuch as they all knew what it was. Dallas — :
T-1 queried informant as to whether the group was the same
all over ..the country and informant seemed surprised that
anyon? would think there were several such groups. Informant

 

-4-

 

Gswwarceewr ad

Byegs

Pe oe

 

| WW"34653 “becld 322498016 Page 507

 
 

 

 

  

 

 

Rev "MINTTEMEE"

stated thet frecusnt mention iz mide about the crg2niziciccs

“elsewhere, ususiiy to impress somecné with how large and

powerful it is. Dalles el advised that infermant has
disclesed the nare of Subject "E" 22 Otte "Deke". Koling,

enn
2341 Harrie Lane, Haltom City, Texas.

—_

Dallas AOL nivieed the remainder of the information
originally reported by this informant is still correct as
far as he knows.

"PRIDAZ, Oct. 23, 1964 : At the INFOREANT'S request
Dallas Tel met vith both he and his wife, Se had ask
me to do this at she last meeting inasmuch as #ne had become
frightened about his working as an informant for the govern-
ment. He felt that she needed assurance from somecne besides
himself that his werk a5 an informant was of importance to
the government and was worth the personal risk all of then
were taking. I tried to do this and, up to a point, think
I was successful. sth the INFORMANT and his wife prosgat

+ up the subject cf the teielhone again, They both discussed

the danger to themselves in making contacts at either their
home or the INFCPMANT'S place ¢2 employment. They again
spoke of their inability to pay the $53.00 themseives.

"They did tell me that about six weeks prisr to
KRovember 22, 19€3 ene cf the members ef the MINUTE MEN (they
said they cculid not recall whe) cane te their house about
9:30 p.m. Be cers to the frent door and told the INMFCRUANT's
wife that he wanted some ammunivica. A man vas with hin.
Both men stayed in the rard and dia not-enter the house. The
INFORMANT got tae 2% ~+4on and gare it to then. heither
thought any more about 2% until Nayember 22, 1984 when ney
sa7 a newspirer phaotesraps of Lee Hervey Cswald. Both
noticed a cleze ressecblance betwesa Oswald and ¢he man who
gas with ths MINUTE MAN 2 fey weeks before. Esth were
afraid that hs waa Csv2ld and were afraid to eay anything.
Both said thee felt tne MINUTE WEN ware involved in the —
assassination aithcuga they claimed that very little was .
said by memoers they kas# fellcwing tas asszsesinatioa except
to express satisfactionr that it harnened. I told the
INFORMANT? I hed someone fa Dallas I wanted him to ses and

 
 
 
 

 

i. ge arranged to do go on Oct. 28%

sega

abe
C a a)
UNITED Q@ res DEPARTMENT OF JUL @E

PEDEBRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1

 

“Dallas, Texas
Foverber 9, 1964 FORE Ea aoe

"MINUTEVEN"

The following is supplemental to memorandum gated __
Bovember 5, 1964, at Dallas, Texas, captioned ze above. ,

 

 
   

ROY C
group
_Tbese reports vere date
1964, respectively.

ome In eubstance, these reports are as follews: |

ot “SUNDAY, Oct. 18, 1964 : At about 1:00 a...

: the INFORMANT met SUBJECT ‘A’, ‘B', and 'C' at Shady Oaks
Drive Inn Cafe, $16 Riverside Drive, Fort Forth, Texas.
They had their wives with them. They drank coffpe and
talked (nothing of any significance regarding the MINUTE
KEN was discussed hovever). Arrangements were made to —
~ - meet that same night at SUBJECT ‘Ajs' house and to then go

: to SUBJECT 'G's" far_ for a meeting.

"About 9:00 or 10:00 p.m. the INFORMANT went to
SUBJECT ‘A's" house. SUBJECTS 'B' and 'G' were already
there. There was also a man unknown to the IXPORMANT. He
was described as a white male, between 30 and 35 years old,
approximately six feet tall, 250 pounds, husky build, blond
hair, and poorly dressed, The IKFORMANT gained the impression
that this man worked in Dallas and had driven SUBJECT 'G' to
ot the meeting in a 1951 or 1952 Ford sedan. The INFORMANT
cswmmeerm- @eseribed thie vehicle as a ‘'junker'. This person did very
: little talking. The INPORKANT stated that they did not go
to the farm as planed but held the meeting at SUBJECT 'A's* .
house. .

 

   

 
   
 

Mais document esmic .
conciuzions of th: Fb: Mois th sporty Of the 2 le
Vio end is Iosured to your & :
contests are pyl to be diswivuics out
gcency. more neriom oy _ Ts

de et” Bese lecr—- wv

resrenge

HW 54653 DocId:32248016 Page 2

 

 

Date

ne fe
 

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 10/1/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

Released under the John

 

AGENCY: HSCA » Kennedy
RECORD NUMBER: —_ 180-10078-10074 Assassination Records
Ollection Act of 1992
RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES (44 USC 2107 Note).
. ase#: NW 54653 Date:
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :. 009963 pores e0 1
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: MINUTEMAN
DATE: 11/09/1964
PAGES: 7
SUBJECTS :
AMERICAN UNDERGROUND
AMMUNITION -
WEAPONS
JOHN BIRCH SOCIETY
MINUTEMAN
FORT WORTH, TX
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Confidential
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted
CURRENT STATUS:  Withhold
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 07/22/1993
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Tabbed 183-16. Box 183.

vo.b

AW 54653 DocId: 32248016

Page 1
 

 

Re’ "MINUTEKEN"

+ "The purprze cf the meeting was to get the members
together agsin and build up interest in the organization.
That they had been sumewhat quiescent since November of 1963
and the leadership desired that they become active again.
SUBJECT 'G' took the position of leadership within the group
and told them that the group was working on a plan to set
up various points throusut Tarrant County where the members
Yould meet. That a psssword would be given each member and ee
changed monthly. The reason for this reorganization was
given 2s the inzbility of individuzl members being able to
name co-conspirators if apprehended by the authorities
during or following acts of sabotage inasmuch 25 members
unknown to each cther would be assigned to each reporting
point. SUBJECT 'G' told the group that they would be advised
when the details were worked out. SUBJECT 'G' also talked
about what the INFORMANT referred to as ‘the usual stuff
they tell us about the government? being Communistic', The
INFORMANT recalled that SUBJECT °G' told them that the
> government said that there were only 20,000 Communista in
=< 2 the United Stated but that the MINUTE MEN had 60,000 under
: surveillance - hénce the government was trying to conceal

the strength of the Communists in this country. That there
were many negres among the Communists and that these negros
were arming themselves with 30/06 rifles, .38 caliber
revolvers, and 12 gauge shetguns. That in the event of a
- negro uprising, the governmént would tzke the side of the
negro and would support them against the whites.

 

   

vb

ES

sar dba

Ae

t

s

 

7

as
ca
%
a
ca
°
%

; “SUBJECT 'G' told them that they would not be able
* to use the farm any longer inasmuch as Federal Officers had
-,dt under surveillance. He said that 'they' had caught # man
on the farm (apptrentiy recently) end searched him. That

« he had F.B.F, sdentification on his person, That ‘they'

. have also noticed a brezd truck pszrked on a hill everlooking
the farm several times. That there were two men in the

truck and one wzs seen cbserving the farm with field giasses.
That groups from Dzllaez had been meeting 2nd firing at the A
farm and it w2s pessible someone had been follcwed from Dallas

to the farm, SUEJECT 'G' ask each cne at the meeting to

 

vei ce.

 

      
 

SFROeEeY try to locate a safe place in the country where they could 8
PORE. Eee e . - z
wom nrn eens MCCt and fire weapcens. 4
an ce . es
a F

3

Bere 4

 

[653 Docld:32248016 Page 3

 

 
PO TIA ere ag . tL ge

@e a @

a

   

 

.

_. Dallas 7-1 advises that in his opinion this would
be a possible mezns of infiltrating the group with a fecsral
agent. The informant said he would consider meeting another
government agent for this purpose so long 2s he were nota...
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) agent.” SO

 

Dallas T-1's report continues as follows:

"SUBJECT 'G' ask the INFORMANT to join the Fort
Forth Gun Club. 4s a member he could take guests to the
range and teach them to shoot. SUBJECT 'G' told them that
the organization was starting a membership drive. That they
especially wanted men from among the business and professional
men. That they did NOT want any men with criminal records ..
..-= ‘or who were likely to get into any trouble with the authori-
ort, ties. SUBJECT 'G' ask the INFORMANT to act as pistol coach
_ for the new members and told him to get ready to begin giving
we ae pistol training shortly. The INFORMANT ask that the govern-
ment provide him with $18.00 to pay the yearly dues at the
Fort Worth Rifle Club. He also ask that the government
arrange for the use of some ranch or farm land not too far
from Dallas or Fort Worth so that the MINUTE MEN will have a
place to train. He also pointed out the obvious advantages
to the government of being able to observe the various men
he teaches pistol shooting to at the Fort Worth Gun Club, to
be able to observe the MINUTE MEN during their fid@ld training
in the country, and especially of infiltrating a federal agent
- into the organization. .

 

 

 
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
   
 

"The INFORMANT stated that the MINUTE MEN have
provided him with approximately 10,000 rounds of .38 caliber
ammunition to use in training Minute Men in pistol shooting.
That about oalf of this ammunition is reloaded and half
military ammuniticn. He stated that he has also been supplied
with some 700 to 800 rcunds of .30 caliber machine gun
ammunition, The INPORMANT stated that SUBJECT ‘G” gave him
1,000 small pistol primers during the meeting to use in
reloading .38 caliber pistol ammunition.

"The INFORMANT also said that SUBJECTS 'A' and ‘G'
. pave told him that they want him to demonstrate the use of

 

DocId:32246016 Page 4

eee green erect nee tint

 

a fel "MINUTEMEN" a

MBS.

co a

re

. Bhs nthe

y
An

eee tua de +

wegen tubs +

 

aly avetta Q rouble

 
