Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination. Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107
Hote}. --DATE: 11-14-2017

EY

* |
: i .

 

‘significant and would: be. of some value to consumers in ;
evaluating the report. because of the similarity of these Be
remarks to those made byfothe. oviet officials around ]
_ the world in pursuance o what appears to be a semi-offi-
_Cial "line." (A good example. of this is to be found in
SITNIKOV's meetings with. Piérre Salinger in Moscow in
the spring of 1965. ) ;

  

9. Finally, it is ‘the part of the report that deals

with Lee Harvey Oswald's relations with the KGB--or

rather the lack of such - ‘a xrélationship--that raises seri-

ous problems. As you ‘are aware, much the same story about
Oswald, although in considerably greater detail and
. allegedly based on first-harid knowledge, has been related

by NOSENKO. This Agency firmly believes that NOSENKO did

not in fact hagye.first-hand knowledge of the relations

between the KGB and ‘OSWALD, |.and that NOSENKO's story on .
OSWALD is a KGB-prepared. message. Similarly, this Agency pa
believes that] SHAMROCK’ 's] statements on OSWALD cannot auto- Bg)
matically be accepted: as accurate or valid, and that the

exact nature of the’ KGB «r ionship with OSWALD has not

yet been established. B€ a . :

 

 

   
  

. Attachment
As Stated Above ©

Docld: 32136342 Page 5
Pirieasea under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collectign Act of 1992 (44 USC 210%,
‘ ote) + DATE: 11-14-2017 AN

     
 

         

1. Please refer to yo informal note, : dated
27 March 1967, captioned. as ‘above; in which you propose .
; to disseminate to .the Department of oe ice ye Depart;
\ ment of State’ a memorandum.containingfertam MROCK =)
information concerning conpgentatnine tne of P aoe
John EF. IRE HIS GY nn ts SSSR cane

   
   
  
   
   

TE Soe ease Gone EE ae ae oe

 
 

 

fs you are aware,.at-a meeting on 18 January
1967 betW@en representatives:.of your Bureay,and this
Agency to discuss [the ‘handling of SHAMROCKPit was agreed
that for the time being there would be no dissemination
to other agencies of information. from this source with-
aa . out prior agreement between your Bureau and: this Agency,
. * "and that there will be’ no notification gf other agencies
Ne hove the existence of this ‘new sourcefae the present.
5 ime. We gather that yo ré..now prepared to make some
dissemination Se ee to other departments
and a cies. We also beiieve that certain items of SHAM—
3,

     

   
   

      
     

ositive i

 
 
  

 
 
  

ka
f or this Agency: make any disseinination 1 of [SHBMROCE pflntor-
EN mation, we believe that we._should. -reach agreement on the
) division of responsibility “For

      
     

   

     
 
  
   
    

   

2
Si
4 os :
rR Se ei callys we’ “would
a ane i be responsible for the.d
‘Ms 8 bo pertaining to the . internal
ray Ey while ‘ we Would. handle, the ;
oa SDE agency's 4 count i
3 9 * if
é i
o™. i
wD :
e 4
S ;

2

&

 
 
PReleased under. the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

~DATE:- 11-14-2017

JFK ASSAaSssInatvion SYSLEML vac, tH Lou
Identification Form .

a

’ AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10053-10360

HQ

62-109060-49 13X

a

ORIGINATOR :
. FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :°

CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA <

COMMENTS :

Document Information

03/29/1967
4

JFK, ASSA, INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION, ADMIN

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B; 1C

Redact

03/22/1994 —

INDEFINITE

a eee

v9.4
Docld: 32136342 Page 1
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassinatidn Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2a07 ky
Hote). '- -DATE: 11-14-2017 :

wo

 

 

_* 4. As far as” ‘source descriptions are concerned, we
believe that it is important:-that the source description
used by both your Bureau’ and. "the Aggncy clearly state

. that the reliability. of: the *sourcé himself (rather than
simply thgt of his information has not yet been estab-
lished. or example, one’.o he following descriptions
might be appropriate .

   
  

a a. "ER confidential informant, contact with are
{ whom"has been insufficient, to establish his relia- A
\_ bility". : a

 

€. rfovied ous whose reliability has”
not been establisned"

fe. Fsovier official] who is aware that his
information is being passed to the U.S. Government. rr)

 

5. FEecause mu yok the positive intelligence infor-
mation Boise eget we: would prgnose to disseminate
at this time deals with United NationsPifatters, and much
of it will inevitably raise ‘questions from consumers, we.
believe that we wi timately find it hecessary_ to dis-

    
 
  
 
 

 

RY While we do
necessity for this” at’’th e present time; we
do wish to call your socefSnco to the fact that Nett nays.

   

dissemination of (SHAMROCKP?nformation on{United Nations
matters will very likely’ require that this be done XS)

G i Cer Even subject to agreement on the points raised
Lb ‘piel above , however, we still have serious reservations about
the dissemination of the information contained in your
memorandum. This report.deals with a subject which owing.
to exceotional circumstances makes objective evaluation
of the information set forth extremely difficult. Essen-

tially, the repor cong ns two basic elements: the cer
information about®th AKGB Seen established to in- RAs. re

 

   

vestigate the circumstances. resident Kennedy's déath,
ana informgtion on Lee Harvey- Oswald's. relationship with
the KGB. €As far as we know, there has been no previous

_reporting on the existence a commission. It is
important to note, however, Fens Sllegedfeonclasions
PE this commissio nK-that, ESiack Kennedy was killed by (wu

a conspiracy of i oa wing monopolists~-have long ‘com-
prised the standard Soviet. line-on this ‘subject. To cite
but two examples, KHRUSHCHEV ‘took this tack in an inter-
view he granted. to cok ist Drew Pearson in early 1964

 

     

‘Docld:32136342. Page 3-
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44

Hote}.

7

Docld:32136342 Page 4

1 (DATE: 11-14-2017

‘Brennan. In any event,

 

1964); a complete Tratonont Of, the Soviet lin Ken-
nedy's death is to be’ found-“in' a book cat’ here do

ORYSH and

‘the #racks Lead?" [Kuda ‘vedut sledy] by
5B, ASERGEYEV.,. which was submitted for publiéation on 2 Sep-

émber 1964. This ‘book. spells, out the theory of a cight
wing conspiracy in great detail... It is interesting in

usc 2107

USSK.

 

this connection that ‘the ‘Surname of one of the two authors,

SERGEYEV, is identical ‘with ‘the alias used by SITNIKOV,
in his contacts with both Piérre’ Salinger and Donald
Side from the existence of a

KGB commission to consid@ér the problem, none of the find-
ings of the commissio as: reportegpoy [Euanrock’) are
either new or significant (s

 
  
  
 

 

7. . Eurtner. in’ ‘this “regard, we note that the iden-
tification of SITNIKOV’ as: being chief of a sector, Infor-
mation Section, International
of the CPSU is Memzxor in that according to SHAMROCK |]

 

at the time that LINIKOV., was: studying the assassination”.

Department, Central, Committee

 

of. President Kerfriédy he was- BELL. Deputy Chief of he—-Ins—> °

EE: rate, KGB. See
Pranscript of Meeting #17;,-page @ 12, in which SHAMROCK
dates SITNIKOV's transfer “tothe cc in 1965, when SKRYABIN
retired and VIDYASOV became ‘chief, of the Infermation
Service.) ‘Furthermore, Guamrocy scribed £oXK ULEBYAKIN,.
who was then Chief of the American Department of the FCD,
the chief responsibility for: “weighing the evidence that
had been gathered by KGB sources'on the Preside .
death. (Gee f&cranscript .of Meeting #4, page 18 “H) ie sug-
gest, therefore, that the report be made consistent by

formation | Service, First Chief “Direct

 

 

 

 

 @ither including KULEBYAKIN's name or deleting SITNIKOV's;

or at least the SITNIKOV be.clearly identified as still

within the KGB at the cinch Bg OK

he Soviet assessment of

 
 
 
 
  

8. In connection wit
President Kengedy containeg:
we also notegthat [SHAMROCKisontinued higkdiscussion of
this topic by providing tge:current Soviet assessment of
President Johnson. Hee | (exanscript of Meeting. #4, page 20
While it is true that’ this assessment of President John- |
son was in answer to a direct question by one of the in-
terviewing officers f]and” ‘that the’ source's information on
this is not directly relevant. to the assassination of
President Kennedy, ‘we, nonetheless believe that the juxta-
position of [Buninccx' ‘s} remarks’ on. the two Presidents is

 

uss”

mn page 2 of your. memoranc’ By] :

16)

is]

wine we
