-8_

 

B: And what was said in that conversation by Fitzgerald
and this contact and yourself, if you can remember.

S: To the best of my recollection, it was Fitzgerald
assured him that the Government--that the U.S. Govern-
Ment was serious about this operation, that the policy assurance
that he was looking for was given to him by Fitzgerald. Fitz-
gerald also informed the contact that the U.S. Government was
prepared to support the coup and that when they launched the
coup as soon as they established themselves in any reasonable
manner inside Cuba that the U.S. Government would support them.

B: Do you know what the contact said if you can
remember?
S: He appeared, as I recall again, he appeared satisfied

with the answer, with the assurance that he received.
He accepted Fitzgerald, although using an alias, as a repre~
sentative, as a high level U.S. Government representative
talking for the policy level of the Government.

B: Did Fitzgerald use an alias or was the contact the one —
who used the alias?

S: Fitzgerald used an alias. He did not use--he did not
use, he was not introduced to him in true name. Neither
was I known to him in true name.

KaWaGIT quod “ad GIwWaaS AHL WOdd AdODOLOHaA

Bs Any other remembrance you might have of that conversation?
8: An insistence on the part of the contact that --
B: (buzz) Go ahead, we have another half-minute.
St they not be left in the lurch, that they--that the
U.S. Government follow through on the operation as
discussed.
(Tape 3) : :
Br Now after the meeting with Fitzgerald and the contact
did you have another meeting with the contact in
Europe?
Ss Yes I did.
B: Do you know about when this occurred?

 

HW 53244) DoclId:32204780 Page 9
 

8: It must have been a few weeks after the - that
contact or a month after that. But; precisely

no. I had a meeting before he, before Fitzgerald left

Europe with him to ask him if he was satisfied with the

policy assurances that had been given to them, and he was

-adding the qualifier provided you really mean what you said

of giving us the full and complete support that we require.

I then met him again in later November 20 ... well it was

a different date there because of the time change, but it

was approximately 22 November.. .

B: November 22, 1963?
S: Yes, with a date change - with a time change, it
was in late November. Yes, yes it was.
B: Now that was November 22, 1963?
8: November 22, 1963, yes it was. .
B: Now, can you give some background on that meeting

as to what the background was as to what conversa-
tions took place and then relate what did take place at
that meeting?

8: Yes, the contact, as with the policy meeting that

he had requested before, had always questioned as
to whether the U.S. Government was serious about entering
into this type of an operation and it questioned the
resolve of the U.S. Government to follow through with the
operation. He also talked about the support that they
would require, and the need for something to protect him-
self in case he was, in case there was a leak in the
operation once it was organized inside Cuba and he was
confronted by Castro. He had in mind some type of esoteric
gadget with which he would be able to defend himself if
this confrontation came about and it was in such a sur-
rounding in which he was not personally armed.

td
i
o
a
3
a
°
g
«
ry.
0
‘e}
z
8
es
bd
:
o
~
ny
g
be
ts)
ow
5
i<

B: By gadget, what kind of a gadget do you mean?

S: He never specifically came around to it. He had

in mind some sort of aspellet pen or anything that
was not a hand weapon that he could carry with him to, into
such a conference.

B: "He had made that request before the November 22
meeting?

 

HW 53244) DoclId:322704760 Page 10
 

-~g-

rather fast and talk to him if he was going to do that. or
if he was going to make.up his mind to defect md to stay away
~-not to return to Cuba. The answer that I got from Fitz-
gerald was that he would go to Europe as a representative of
the Administration to present the policy assurances to this
particular contact.

B: Do you know whether or not Fitzgerald ever contacted
anyone in the Administration on this?

S: No. I don't know, I would presume that this was

, cleared. :

B: But do you know if it was cleared inside the Agency

or inside the Administration, or both.

S: I don't know. I did not attend any of those meetings
with Fitzgerald with anybody within the Agency or
within the Administraton.

B: You mentioned that Fitzgerald did have a social rela~
' tionship with Robert Kennedy. Is that correct?

S: Well, again, to the best of my knowledge he had a
personal--I wouldn't call it a social--but there was

certainly, I would think, a I understood--there was a personal

relationship, in addition to the official relationship.

B: Had you ever been in Fitzgerald's office when. he
directly called Robert Kennedy?

oSs Well, as I told you during the interview, at one time

on a particular paper that was being prepared for:
the Special Group (Augmented) there was a question as to whether
the paper had been requested and was still needed by Robert
Kennedy. At which time Mr. Fitzgerald made a direct call to
Robert Kennedy to ascertain if this particular paper was still
required and received the answer directly from him.

AMVddIT Guod *y aTwago GHL WOW AdODOLOHA

B. Now, Fitzgerald did go to Europe, is that carrect?
_S: He did.

B: Were you with him at all, or not?

S: Yes, I was.

B: Were you with him when he met with the contact in Europe? :
S: Yes, I served as an interpreter.

 

HW 53244 Docld:32204780 Page &
 

felt that he should be prepared and that the group inside
should be prepared to spill blood if this is what--if this

is the way it went.

Bs Now, at the first meeting in Europe that you had, did
he make any specific requests of you?

S: Yes, he did.

B: , What were those requests?

S: He questioned the sincerity and the resolve and serious-

ness of the U.S. Government to follow through with this
type of operation. He requested a meeting with a policy--a
high level policymaker in Washington, specifically mentioning
Robert Kennedy as one of the people who, with whom he would
like: to talk, to ensure, to get some assurance that Washington
was serious about proceeding with this type of an operation.

B: Did he make any other requests?

S: That they would need some help in-~in arms probably--

in getting started, in kicking off the coup. He felt
that once that happened they would-~a small amounts of arms
because they felt that they could capture sufficient arms to
carry on once they started.

B: Did he mention any particular kinds of arms?

S:° High-powered rifles and scopes and---

B: Then what did you say to that request of his?

S: I said that I was not authorized to--to approve such

a request, and that I would certainly pass his thoughts
and his request on to Washington.

AUWVdGIT Gdod °a GIwayo aHL woud AdODOLOHG

B: Did you do that?
S: Yes, I did.
B: And who did you talk to?
S:- To Desmond Fitzgerald.
B: And what did Fitzgerald say or do?
S83 I. don't know what he--what he did, as to who he talked
to or who he saw because I wasn't with him when he-- oe

when he--when that--when he did that. I do know that in about -
a month--about a month after that, this particular contact was
preparing and was ready to go back to Cuba. We had to move

 

HW 53244) DoclId:32204780 Page 7
-4-

 

B: At that time, could you give by way of background, the

overall situation so far as the Special Group (Augmented)
and your relationship to it? What was the purpose of the Group,
and what were you doing in regard to the Group? .

S: I wasn't a party or had any~-attended any of the meet-
ings of the Special Group--Special Group Augmented.

My particular task at that time was--that was assigned--parti-

cular task that was assigned to me was to collect intelligence

and to try to organize a group of military officers inside Cuba

who were opposed to the Cuban regime--the Castro regime.

B: And in discussing matters with these people, I assume
you had contact with a number of Cuban exiles, is that
correct?

Si Not many, but with this one particular fellow I did

because of his--he was one of the few people who could
travel outside of Cuba at that time.

B: But he was not a Cuban exile. He was a--

S: --not an exile, excuse me. With exiles, at that time,
I didn't have any contact with the exile at that time.

B:

B: With this particular person inside Cuba, I wonder if

you could just summarize the discussions you had with
him at your first meeting, for instance in Latin America what
he said and what you said to the best of your recollection.

S: To the best of my recollection when we first met, my
objective was to attempt to find out what the feelings

were against the Castro regime within Cuba, to try to find

out if there were people opposed still within the regime but

opposed to the regime, and to find out by name and by position

where these people stood in the regime.

0
x
[o}
De
°
Q
~ oO
Le,
i]
ny
W
[e)
i 4
Lec,
iso}
ts
a
3
~
bs]
g
>
i)
wo
>
KS

B: And did you get information from him in that regard?
S: Yes, I did.
Bs: Were there any discussions at this first meeting about

possibly assassinating any Cuban leader?
‘S: No, there weren't.

B: All right. Now the next meeting you met with this
contact was in Europe?

 

nw 53244 Docld:3272047380 Page 5
 

Ss Yes. ook
Bs And do you know approximately when that occurred? .
S: : The month thereafter, it must have been in September
--as best I can recolleat.
B: Of 1963?
' S: ‘63.

Br And what happened at that meeting? ,

_ 83 We continued the discussions which we had started in

Latin America, again talking about the personalities
inside, getting into more detail on the organization of a group
inside Cuba which could be used in an internal coup against the
Castro government.

B: In connection with this coup, was there any direct
discussion of--well, I'll have to stop here, we're at
the end of the tape. I'll continue on the next tape.

(Tape 2)

During the meeting in Europe was there on the first
meeting in Europe, was there any discussion concerning possible
assassination of Castro?

S: The subject of assassination was never raised by me.

It was never discussed in that context. In discussing
the coup and how a coup would be carried out, the, this parti-
cular contact did raise the possibility and in his mind the
very real possibility that there would be bloodshed, and
that somebody would be killed. Their, or his, opinion was
that to even get the internal revolt, a coup, underway that
the leadership--the top leadership--would have to be neutralized.
Specific assassination of any of the people, it was not discussed
in those-~in those particular terms.

AMVddIT Guod *d GTwuad. AHL WOWd AGODOLOHA

B: I think during your interview you mentioned that you

said in substance that it is often in coups a natural
outgrowth that the leadership would be, you said, neutralized
or perhaps die as a resultrof a coup.

S: Yes. This was a position that he maintained, although ©
we were not willing to talk about this or to discuss
anything in conjunction with assassination or with the elimina-
tion of the leadership. We would have preferred, I presume, oe
to have seen a bloodless coup, but in his, certainly in his
estimation this was not going to be possible and we must-~he

 

HW 53244) DoclId:32204780 Page 6
 

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES ° ;
Washington, DC 20500

May 19, 1975

MEMORANDUM -

TO | : The File

FROM : David W. Belin

SUBJECT : Interview with Mr. Nestor Sanchez

Belin: Mr. Sanchez} this is May 19, 1975, and I'd like to

summarize the conference we've had here at the Com-
mission headquarters at 712 Jackson Place. I wonder if you
could state your name and address and your office phone where
we can get in touch with you.

   

Sanchezs < Néstor, Sanchez;~6636*tangdonzCourt “McLean, office
phone number is. extension 6176.

AUWdAGIT GYOd “ud GIWaaS FHL WOYT AdODOLOHA

 

B: And you worked with the CIA since 1961--51, 1951?

S: Yes, I have.

‘Bs And prior to that time, what did you do?

S: I started out in Korea, I was in-Korea '51 to '53. |

Br Had you been in the service during World War II?

Or shortly thereafter?

s: Yes, I had been.

B: And what did you do after World War II?

S: I went back to school.and was called back as a reserve
officer in 1951 when I was going to the Georgetown
Graduate School.

B: “Where did you take your undergraduate work?

S:

B:

Dictabelt: 178-10004-10390 Ade

 

"Transcript: 178- 10002. 10335

HW 53244) DoclId:32204780 Page 2?
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

 

v9.1

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :

- RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

HW 53244 DoclId:32204780 Page 1

Agency Information

ROCKCOM
178-10002-10335

ASSASSINATION FILE

A-I(1) INTERVIEWS RE ASSASSINATIONS

Document Information

ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION

BELIN, DAVID

THE FILE Peleased under the John F. Kennedy
Lssassination Records Collection

[Restricted] Act of 1992

Date:

(44 USC 2107 Note).

8/27/201

 

Pase#t: NW 53244 Date:

05/19/1975
15

KENNEDY, ROBERT

FITZGERALD, DESMOND

CUBAN EXILES

CIA

ASSASSINATIONS, FOREIGN LEADERS
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
OPERATION MONGOOSE

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

1B

Redact

07/09/1993

Attached to 1781000210334.

97

06-15-2017

 
 

S. An M.A., but I didn't write my thesis since I was going
on to a Ph.D. without writing the thesis, and going
on for the doctorate. I was called back to the Service at

that time.
B: And after you were in the Service you worked with the
CIA while you were in the Service?
‘ S: Yes, I was called back to active duty and assigned to
‘ CIA in 1951. ~ .
“Bs And then you've been with them ever since?
S: I've been with them ever since.
B:. And, where were you during the 1950s, so far as the

Agency was concerned?

«Se I started in Korea, I was in Korea for three years.

I then spent five years in--a short time in iguatema:
and Central America, in late '53, early '54. Then I spent five
CCO: sabl¥anea. I came back to Washington in

 

 

 

late 1959.

B: And then what did you do?

S: I was in charge of the part of the Arab States in the
Near East Division for two years.

B: And then what?

Se I was preparing to go to#@ai¥o. at that time and was

assigned on temporary duty to the Special Operations
Group on Cuba.

AUVAGIT Gaod ‘ad GIWuaD AHL WOMd AdODOLONA

B: And who was your superior in that group?

8: Bill Harvey was in charge of the group at that time.

B: Was there anyone else in the Agency in a supervisory
position that you had contact with, besides Bill
Harvey?

S: Seymour Bolton was part of the group and part of the

--on the psychological political action part of the
staff, and I was working first with him when I first got in .
there, but then after Bill Harvey left and Fitzgerald--Desmond
Fitzgerald took over I became a special assistant for the or-
ganization of the collection of intelligence first and the .. «
organization of the military inside Cuba. .

 

HW 53244) DoclId:32204780 Page 3
 

B: Bill Harvey left for Europe around June or so of 1963,

and did you say that Desmond Fitzgerald took over that
position?
“S: Yes. Later on during that summer sometime during the
: summer.
B: . Fitzgerald is now dead?
_ Ss Yes, he is.
B: And, Fitzgerald had a relationship with what was known
as the Special Group or the Special Group (Augmented)?
S: As I understand it, he did, yes.
B: Did he have a personal relationship with Robert Kennedy
also?
S: I understand that he did have a personal relationship

with the Kennedys. To the best of my knowledge he did.

B: Now, during the first part of 1963 or- prior thereto
were you aware of the existence of any possible plans”
for the assassination of any Cuban leader?

Ss No, I didn't.
B: Some time in the latter half of 1963 you stated that
you came in contact with a person who I will call a
contact, who was someone inside Cuba in a position of --a

relatively high position in the Cuban government or military,
is that correct?

St Yes, I did.

AUWdGIT GuOd “a GIWUIO AHL WOU AdODOLOHA

B: And I understand that you first met him in Latin America
on a trip some time in the latter part of 1963, is that
what you said?

S* Yes, in the Fall, early Fall of '63.

B: Then you subsequently met this contact in Europe?

“S: Yes, I did.

B: On one occasion in Europe, or two occasions in Europe?

S: Probably more than that --on three or four occasions-- ae

but at least on two occasions, yes.

 

HW 53244) DoclId:32204780 Page 4
