D. Investigative Leads

According to S/A Hill, two individuals with relevant
information might be the attorney, Jim Cantillion who is
presently awaiting sentencing in Orange County,California on
an aggravated assault-attempted murder connection.

Also, Tony Spilotio of Chicago who would have
knowledge of the Giancana and Roselli "hits."

Another good source of information would be the case

agents assigned to the major hoodluns service, their careers
were dedicated to surveilling these individuals...

AW 54653 DocId:322602738 Page 5
 

Ie

IT.

TIT.

HW 54653 DocIad: 32260278 Page 20 :

“entitying Information:

Recommended Follow-up (if any) :

 

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

003 76

DATE aL22 TIME Lien Sth

   

Name_

 

Lilies Hill

Telephone _

 
  

 

 

Address _

‘telephone - aa
TF _/Pérson es et

 

 

 

Signature: _ Wt. Bh “A a

     
AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

 

v9.1

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

HSCA
180-10103-10336

NUMBERED FILES
003076

Document Information

HSCA .
HILL, WAYNE

10/20/1976
1

CANTILLON, JAMES P.
CIA

ROSELLI, JOHN

HILL, WAYNE
PAPICH, SAM
HARVEY, WILLIAM

REPORT
Unclassified
Consulted
Withhold
05/18/1993

Memorandum attached 72-1. Box 72.

AW 54653 DocId:32260278 Page 1

Date: 10/1/201

Released under the John
. Kennedy
Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ases#: NU 54653 Date:
HO-23-2017

 
HW 54653

MEMORANDUM

TO: Gary Cornwell
FROM: John Hornbeck
Re: Interview tite FBI Case Agent For John Roselli

DATE: October 20, 1977

On Thursday, October 9, 1977, I interviewed retired
FBI agent, Wayne Hill, who shared the responsibility of
covering John Roselli with a fellow agent, Harold Dodge.
The: results of the interview are summarized in the following
categories:

A. Electronic Surveillance

 

’Roselli was the subject of two electronic surveillances
placed at his apartment in Cresent Heights, Los Angeles, Calif.
and the Diplomat in Las Vegas, Nevada. ‘The intercepts were
done in the early 1960's but were of a poor quality.due to an
inferior microphone location. Also, Roselli was extremely
cautious in discussing his business activities and preferred
discussions outside of his home. Transcripts exist of the
"overhears" and should be available at the Bureau.

Once permission for the interception was obtained
and surveillance begun, a "special employee" (clerk)%'€fanscribe
the tapes which were supposed to be reviewed by the case agent
for errors.. The "fruitful" information was sent to the
Washington headquarters and a periodic summary was prepared as
to the progress of the "tap" and the need to continue the
project. These records should also be available along.with
the Bureau's commentary.

B. Physical Surveillance

Roselli's activities were monitored rather successfully
due to.the combination of the electronic "plant", and a high-
level mob informant (deceased).

Footnote: near “the! planting:of electronic “Surveillance. equépres.
individuals: to be overheard, estimate, “of cost. and man ‘hours,
anticipated information;!:means of entry,':and comments” by- the
tants Director, andzDirectox.ir -Ll iene optiering

 

    

  

DocId:32260278 Page 3
HW 54653

For example following a ofip from the latter source
the FBI covered a meeting in the early 1960's in Richmond, Va.,
between Roselli and an individual whom the FBI later identified
as a CIA official. The Los Angeles FBI office was subsequently
informed by Washington that. Roselli was being utilized as a
"go-between" with Giancana for Cuban intelligence gathering
purposes only.

The close contact of Roselli and the CIA surfaced again
in the late 1960's when the FBI attempted to recruit Roselli
as an informant after they had obtained evidence that Roselli
had forged his birth certificate to disguise his true identity
as Filippe Sacco. Roselli's response was to contact his
attorney, James P. Cantillon, and then William Harvey of the
CIA. Harvey approached Sam Papich, the FBI liaison, to discover
what information the Bureau possessed and their prosecutorial
intentions.

C. Roselli's Death

In 1971 Roselli was subpoened before.a Federal Grand
Jury in Los Angeles and testified concerning certain Mafia
activities in Los Vegas. Word of his testimony filtered back
to Chicago and Frank LaPorte,. Roselli's cape, came to Los
Angeles to discuss the situation. Roselli refused to meet
with LaPorte but left a letter for him at Cantillan's office
indicating that he was not really co-operating. LaPorte was
furious with Roselli and the subsequent subpoena of Paul Ricca
and Tony Accardo did not help Roselli's situation.

When Anthony Giancana of St. Louis was indicted in the
Frontier Hotel case, he blamed Roselli:for the Government's
knowledge of his "hidden interest" in the Frontier Hotel.
Informant information obtained by the FBI in 1977 indicated
that Giancana had stated that "Roselli's Detroit problem;. but
he is going to get it". A subsequent statement was that the
Chicago organization would take care of Roselli and use someone
like Santo Trafficante to set it up."

Apparently Roselli was to meet with Trafficante the
day that he disappeared although the details of the telephone
call to Roselli on that day were not known to S/A Hill.

Details of Roselli's criminal involvements and CIA
connections were detailed in a comprehensive intelligence
memorandum prepared by S/A Hill in 1976. His recommendation
was that the Committee obtain that memo with the administrative
pages intact which would enable us to zero in on the relevant
documents and witnesses.

DocId:32260273 Page 4
