 

 

 

 

 

 

“Keléased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (a Tst 7I0? Hote).
DATE: 1i- 14-2017 .
’ ~ %

ae ed

; Director, FBI 1/22/62
; . Attention: FBI Laboratory’ - :
; Electronics Sdetion
Sac, Kansas City” (94-1504).

UNUSUAL TECHNIQUE UNE
INSPALLATION OF MICROPHONE SURVELLLARCE
_ KANSAS CHTY DIVISION

‘The Bureau will be interested in the ingenious
techniques and procedures utiliged by SA GEORGE BD, ADAMS.
to install a misur.at the Original foy and. dobbing Coupany,
: 305 West Sth Street, Kansas City, Missouri. This installa» ~
A a tion wae authorized by Bureau letter, dated 11/2/61, .
' captioned: NICHOLAS cr VIREALA 9: aie Anti-Hacketeering. my

/  Trancmitted ‘herewith are three photostatie copies
; ; of diagrams showing method by which installation wad:

‘ accomplished and one 1200 foot reel of magnetic: recording

‘| tape, recorded at 3 3/4. inches per second, an example of |:
the quality of: intelligibility. ‘ebtatned. through: this.
installstion, : soe

xt was determined that installation would be

“ made ta cover office ares of Store "X": (Diagram one)... .

4 Phrough development of-confidentidl source, Store "Y" was.

| rented under cover of business firm, to ad e utdlixed al
storage space: for merchandise. *

- whe aren an which these stores are located is
an older business section and the two are divided by a
common wall of solid brick and plaster, 37 inches thick.
Through legal access. to Store "Y¥", the plan was te bore.
through this wall at caseboa rd Ibvel te cover the asen of
the office @paeé in ‘Store “x,

 

 

 

SSS

on eloser serutiny, after project was begun, it

| was determined that there were two chimney flues within .

h the separating brick wall, oné at the rear and one at the
front: of the building (Diagram onc). These were no longer
in use, inasmuch @s the heating plant had been converted
from a conl furnace to a gas furnace... It was found that

’ ehimney flue "EB" (Diagrams two and three). was in an. idead
lecation with reapect. to the office ares 08 Store me
where coverage was desired. ; ee ;

7 . 2-Burean {fee. 4) (Re)
we Kansas City a a

a

 

a Ca
Gyo s Te eee |

 

 

I
Hh
_

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32315016 Page 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

‘Released under the John F.
DATE: 11-14-2017

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

- DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1
DoclId: 32315016 . Page 1

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information
FBI
124-10338-10126
LA
ELSUR 94-150A-223

Document Information

FBI
KC

HQ

01/22/1962
2

NICHOLAS CIVELLA (ELSUR)

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

1B

Redact

11/20/1998

INDEFINITE

Date:

4/23/201
 

 

“Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote}.
DATE: 11-14-2017 :
.
we A kee :

KC 94-1504

AS a result, to accomplish the desired penetration .
of the common wall, it was enly necessary to remove one thickness
of bricks from the wall identified as KX, and Wy (Diagram three).

Ynais allewed access directly to the baseboard of the
office space in Store "EK" and two mites, connected to separate
leased lines were concealed in are Kj]; an air passage was
made through the plaster to the back of the baseboard, and
vertically to the top of the baseboard in area K,.

 

_ The lines from the mites were run to the basement
| area of Store "YY" through chimney flue “BY and from there to
. ‘the plant.

enacie

Insulation was placed in the flue above areas Xy to Vy
to avoid possible air flow noise; the bricks were replaced and
nortared, ;

The mites were connected binaurally at the plant. i
This was done to allow tho gain control on the individual :
amplifiers at the plant to be set at a minimum, thereby decreasing
line noise without curtailing intelligibility. Further, it
was felt that this type cf installation would prolong the life
of the equipment, and each could be operated monaurally in the
event there was failure of one of the instruments.

it is felt that the method used in making this ; \
: installation and the means of egress might be of interest of

the Electronica Section and other field divisions, where similar,
problems of penetration are encountered. This is true particularly —
in older type business buildings separated by a common wall,

where in many instances, the heating plant has been converted

from coal to gas. The abandoned chimney flues thereby offer

an excellent means to an end,

It is further pointed out in connection with this
installation, at Kansas City that because of legal access to
Store "¥", where work was being done, it was possible te test
different types of equipment in various combinations to determine
which offered the best results, prior to sealing the opening
permanently.

The tape recording transmitted herewith is no longer
needed at Kansas City and may be disposed of by the Blectronics
Section when it has served its purpose.

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32315016 Page 3
