 

“Released under the’ John F:° Kenriédy Assassination Records “Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC DiIUT Hotes.
DATE: 11-14-2017 —

‘

CG 62-6006

right to keep 100% of anything above the published rate that
they could gouge out of customers).

"Bray to have no.interest in the Bail Bond General Agency.

 

“Things went | as. planned and Bray, quite truthfully, testified
before Examiners of the McClellan Committee that he and his
family were the sole owners of Oxford Agency and that Oxford
Agency was the sole broker on the Teamsters Bond.

"The loss record on the Teamsters Bond \ was excellent and
the loss record on, the Bail Bond business was even better.

"ynited Benefit, .Central Casualty, Oxford Agency, American

Bonding Agency, Bray and Weiner were all doing well and 1960

saw a great intimacy growing up between the Bray and Weiner

groups and insurance activities between them expanded to ‘
Taxicabs, Financial Guarantee Bonds, Mortgage Guarantees, ‘
Contractors Completion Bonds, etc. .

"Central Casualty and the Bray interests needed more capital
to handle these lines and so did United Benefit, whose then
President, Earl Cefry, was an intimate friend of Bray.

Weiner arranged for a $200,000 loan to the Bray group from
the Exchange National Bank of Chicago secured by a Guaranty
Bond of United Benefit and than later for a $150,000 loan
from the Southmoor Bank (now Guaranty Bank) of Chicago
secured by the pledge of Central Casualty stock. ;

"Bray! s Vice President Jim Egan also negotiated a $150,000 .
loan from the Pan American Bank of Miami, which loan was also
secured by Guaranty Bond of United Benefit.

tthe capital of both Central Casualty and United Benefit
was increased, Central's largely by indirect subscriptions
from those who did the borrowing and United's in part from
this method.

 

_ e
Se PA) OVN

Docld:32329634 Page 9
 

 

 

‘Released under the John F.” Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.
DATE: 11-14-2017 .

mn

aa

CG 62-6006

"In 1961 things began to go bad. The Teamsters Bond and

the Bail Bond businéss remained very profitable from an under-

writing standpoint but the orthodox agents of both Central i
and United Benefit began drawing away from these carriers |
. because of the ‘gangster types' with whom they were forced

to deal.

"The loss record on the taxicab business was horrible and
the claims under financial guarantee and contractors bonds,
tremendous.

"The Chicago Tribune and other papers started a campaign
against Irwin Weiner as being the front for Crime Syndicate
ownership of a Chicago Lard. Processing firm 'Twin Foods of
Illinois.” .

"Court action over the licensing of Twin Foods ensued and
the courts held that ‘unsavory ownership and affiliations’
had been proved. :

"The Company's license was refused and the papers shrieked
about Weiner and. his Crime Syndicate pals--Sam (Tootsie)
Bataglia, Milwaukee Phil Alderesio, Joey Acaro, etc. They
tied in the American Bonding Agency and rehashed the Teamsters
Bond situation.

"This was too much for the British controlling stockholders :
of United Benefit. In May 1961 they fired the company's '
President, Earl Cefry, and cancelled all contracts with

the Bray, Central Casualty, Oxford Agency, American Bonding
Agency group. i
"Bray was able to replace the Teamsters Bond with the Resolute
Insurance Company of Rhode Island, through that Company's

President (Morganstern of Hartford) and to once again get
heavy reinsurance back for Central Casualty Insurance Company.

-Q9-

Docld:32329634 Page 10
 

 

| Releasea ‘under the John F. RE nhedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 997 (44 sc FOF Hotey-
DATE: 11-14-2017 : |

CG 62-6006

"In 1959 the Bond required of the Teamsters Union officials
and employees under the terms of the Magnum-Griffin act was
written by the Summitt Insurance Company.

"The broker of record was. the American Bonding Agency of
Chicago which is headed by Irwin Weiner.

"The Chicago Tribune and other papers claimed that Weiner
was a well.known partner and associate of gangsters and ‘
insinuated that. Allen Dorfman, Hoffa's favorite broker,

and perhaps Hoffa himself were sharing in commissions estimated
at close to $1,000,000...

"The ‘heat’ on the Summitt Insurance Company was too great
for that company's owners to stand. (The Allen Blank-Reserve
Insurance Company group). They cancelled the Teamsters

bond and cancelled. the ‘General Agency' authority which
Weiner~American Bonding Agéncy held for the writing of

bail bonds nationwide. : : :

"Weiner and his associates were desperate for a market.

"Charles W. Bray, President of. Central Casualty Company

of Illinois, President of Homer Bray Service Inc. (a General

Agency) and President of Oxford Agency, Inc. (a local agency)
developed a market via the United Benefit Fire Insurance _ ij
Company of Omaha, Nebraska. :

"Bray's company, the Central, took heavy reinsurance but
it could not 'front' the Teamsters Bond because it was not
on the U. S. Treasury Approved List.

"The deal that Weiner and his associates made with Bray

was that Bray's Oxford Agency would get the entire commission
on the Teamsters Bond but that Bray would secure for Weiner-
American Bonding Agency a nationwide Bail Bond General Agency
for both United Benefit and Central Casualty at extraordinarily —
high commissions (60% on the published basic 2% rate and the

-T-

 

AGOR YO ONS

DoclId:32329634 Page 6
 

 

 

 

 

DATE: 11-14-2017

f Released ‘under the John F. Kennédy Assassination at

|

CG 62-6006

premiums through the various companies in order to determine
whether or not the funds may have been diverted to Chicago
racketeers or Teamsters officials. This investigation
should include a determination of the amount of commissions
received by Weiner, Schwartz and Bray - and the identity

of the bonding agents.

‘The investigation should also determine the
-recipients of the profits of the bail bond business since
this is alleged to be in the control of the racketeers. In
that connection, it should be noted that the Cosmopolitan
Company of Chicago took ‘over Central's bail bond business in
early 1962 and has Since acquiréd control of United Benefit
Fire of Omaha. Cosmopolitan officers and directors
include the names of Volin and Bergman. Determination
should be made if the Volin is the same person- who was in
the Weiner-Volin agency and if: the Bergman is related to 4
the Bergman-Lefkow agency frequently used by Dorfman. |

; "perhaps significant is the fact that Irving |
Benjamin, the Illinois state insurance investigator in charge
of the Central Casualty review, has since taken a position |
with Cosmopolitan. ;

 

“potential violation include 3 13 (c) of the
welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act, violation of 18
U.S.C. 1001 in connection with filings required by Treasury
and Interstate Commerce Commission, and other Government
agencies, tax evasions, mail fraud a interstate transporta- ;
tion of stolen property." | BUM g i
i

 

 

Enclosed with this memorandum was a copy of an
anonymous letter to the Department which was postmarked
at Chicago, Illinois at 2:00 pem. on April 30, 1962. This
letter stated as follows:

“The Irwin Weiner-American Bonding Agency~
Teamsters Bond-Guaranty Bank-Bray-Central

Casualty-Crime Syndicate tieups

-6'-

SOOBY NWP WS

DoclId:32329634 Page 7
 

 

 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection AGt of 1992 (44° Usc PiUT Hotes.
DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 62-6006

"There have been conflicting reports as to the
percentage shares of the participants but apparently Schwartz
and Weiner were to receive 20% of business they brought.

Bray was to get 25% as general agent out of which he yrould
pay his sub agents, and United Benefit was to get 374% from
the other companies for the reinsuyance.

"Angelo J. ianchi, formér President of Summit \
Fidelity, joine ntra oO supervise bail bond activities
which Central was also assuming along with the Teamster
bonding business. It has been alleged that this was done
in order to give Weiner's agency, the American Bail.Bond
Company, nationwide coverage through Central Casualty and
United Benefit.

"The business which should have been a highly
profitable one crashed in approximately two years. Various
reasons have been assigned for the failure ~- (1) that Bray,
relying on Dorfman's promises to send Central Teamster
A&H & Health & Welfare business, as well as various types
of insurance related to loans from the Teamsters Pension
Fund, overextended himself in anticipation of the added
business which never came; (2) that, although the Teamster
and bail bonds were highly profitable, Central wrote high :
risk auto and taxicab insurance which resulted in heavy !
losses; (3) that money was diverted from the company to '
Schwartz, Weiner and Dorfman.

 

"In November, 1960, Oxford which had been in Bray's
name, was taken over by Schwartz and Weiner and a special
account opened at the Exchange Bank in Chicago - with which
bank Dorfman and the racketeers have frequently dealt. *

"tn 1961, United Benefit was denied a license in
the District of Columbia reportedly because of a false filing.
United Benefit was shaky and the decision was made to replace
iN it as primary carrier.

"Bray contacted{Resolute,.I ps! Insurance..€
Providence, Rhode Island,’ whose présiden nt i
on enacremte

LrrMM ALESIS

   

 

 

-4-

BVA AS.

DoclId:32329634 Page 5
 

 

“Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 Usc FI0T HOt e).
DATE: 11-14-2017 . . |
|
{

CG 62-6006

Resolute agreed to become the underwriter. In September,
1961, Central Casualty and United Bonding were canceled as
reinsuring companies retroactive to July 15, and in November,
Houston Fire and Casualty was canceled and Resolute became
the only carrier of the first $1609900%.

from Oxford tojfitan Management Corporation = an Irwin

"The a éncy for the insurance was changed also |
Weiner tonal taf

 

LL
"In December, the state insurance aireGicn, Joseph
Gerber (of whom there have been reports.of collusion with | i
Dorfman and Hopps) investigated Bray's firm, Central Casualty.
. In January, 1962, Gerber announced that the firm was short
one and one-half million dollars and shortly thereafter the
firm was liquidated.

 

"According to an anonymous letter to the Department
in early 1962, Bray was summoned to the offices of Bieber
and Brodkin, attorneys who frequently represent racketeers,
atid was confronted by Phil Alderisio who told Bray that he,
Alderisio, was interested in seeing Bray pay his debts and
: that Alderisio did not go to court to enforce them. Alder&sio |
; told Bray that he expected Bray to pay off debts to the i
Weiner group, the R. O. R. agency (partners are Don Roth |
and Cozie Rothfield) and the Guaranty Bank (the old Southmoor
bank) in that order. James Egan of Denver, Colorado, an |
associate of Bray's who is now in business with Sam Kaye :
| of Miami, was also visited, three days later, in Miami by |
: Santos Traficante who had a similar message for him. i
!
1

! "Toll call studies have revealed that the Dorfmans
played a prominent role in the Bonding Program though nominally
not officers of the companies.

"It is requested that Charles Bray and James Eagan

be interviewed and an investigation be instituted to trace '
the money that went from the Teamster Locals for bonding i

~5- oo

yOo’HnreV>

 

DoclId:32329634 Page 6
Réleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 Usc ior

DATE: 11-14-2017
“204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File No.:

Title:

Character:

Synopsis:

 

a a

UN. “ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF Ju.5TICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SA HAROLD B. ROSS Office: Chicago

11/15/62
62-6006 Bureau File No.: 63-7893

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;
CHARLES W. BRAY; .
CENTRAL CASUALTY COMPANY;
HOMER BRAY SERVICES, INC.

MISCELLANEOUS ~. INFORMATION CONCERNING _
(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

Department requested investigation be instituted
to trace the money that went from Teamster Locals
for bonding premiums for bonding requirements made~
mandatory by the Landrum-Griffin Bill in 9459 to
determine whether .or not the premiums may have
been diverted to Chicago racketeers or Teamsters
officials. Also requested investigation to deter-
mine the recipients of the profits of the bail
bond business since this is alleged to be in the
control of the racketeers. Background concerning
the Teamster bonding program set forth. .

-p-

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED,

ag

q

IEOEE

fa Sie be

Chae

fave

ie

|

   
 

 

iRCLASSIFIED
PUEDE

    

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency. YO

Ceo

 

DoclId:32329634 Page 2

2

 
 

“Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017 JFK Assassination System Date: 5/4/2015
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

 

v9.1
Docld:32329634 Page 1

“AGENCY: - FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90087-10017
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 63-7893-9
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: CG .
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE 11/15/1962
PAGES 19
SUBJECTS
IRWIN SIDNEY WEINER
JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted
CURRENT STATUS:  Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 07/14/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ
COMMENTS : RPT, REFERRED TO DOJ

 
 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 9IUT Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017 % .
~ tL ge 8

ran 2

CG 62-6006
DETAILS: AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

This investigation is predicated upon a memorandum
dated October 15, 1962, from HERBERT J. MILLER, JR., Assistant
Attorney General, Criminal Division to the Director, Federal
Bureau of Investigation. This memorandum stated in part as
! Zoniome: '

WF "Allegations have been received that_Paul and Allen.
fman are and have been the liaison between Teamstér Officials
icago racketeers. Reports have been received alleging ‘
| that Allen Dorfman has supplied subject Hoffa with large
\

   

sums of money. One of the areas in which misapplication of
moneys has been alleged is the Teamster Bonding Program.

 

 

"after passage of the Landrum-Griffin Bill in
: September, 1959, the Teamsters began to set up a program to
| handle the bonding requirements made mandatory by the Act.
: The Summit Fidelity and Surety Company of Akron, Ohio, a
subsidiary of the Illinois Reserve Insurance Company, was
chosen to write the bonds. The United Benefit Fire Insurance ,
Company of Omaha and the Styvesant Insurance Company were to :
be the reinsuring companies. An Illinois agency of Summit je oo

a 696” associate of Aljen A jé &

associate of Chicdgo
farchalis aifano and ‘Phi Alderisio.

   
  
 
  

Dorfman, and vA
racketeers a TE

(Subjects o € Organized Crime Program). ” “
When the McClellan Committee released a letter publicizing

the Dorfman and mob control of the Teamster bond commissions, .

the Illinois Reserve Insurance Company withdrew its subsidiary, . ;

j Summit, from the Programs . \ '
"4 pote . .

"The Teamatets  biek searched Sopcanlther vehicle

for their bonding program. Through Solyséin schwartz id San J
Francisco criminal lawyer Jaber Ebr lights Stewartitio pps, reinsurancss ~“
expert and alleged swindler; Was contacted. pps, a former 7

associate of Lowell Birrell, has been under indictment in an
Baltimore and New York and has a reputation of gaining control ee
of companies to siphon off good securities while replacing ‘

 

 

oe - . of

cer ——

ASSRIAGOD

 

 

DoclId:32329634 Page 3
 

"Released under the John F:° Kennedy” Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC PIUT Hote.
DATE: 11-14-2017

o {

1
\
1

CG 62-6006

them with worthless ones. Hopps contacted several companies
but was unable himself to put the deal together. He did
introduce a young insurance man, Charles W. Bray, to Schwartz,
Weiner and Dorfman; Bray in the latter part of 1959 succeeded
in establishing a program.

"Bray, who inherited an insurance business from ‘
his father, had a small company in Illinois called Central
Casualty Company, the former LaSalle Insurance Company. ; H
He also had an agency, Homer Bray Services, Inc. Central
Casualty was unable to be the prime underwriter because it
lacked the Treasury list certification required by the Act.
Bray arranged for United Benefit Fire Insurance Company of
Omaha to be the underwriter. eters contact in United
Benefit was a man named Earl Cefry, a vice-president and

a director of the company. tbe

"Bray then arranged for reinsurance up to the first
$100,000 with the following companies: Tri-State Insurance
of Tulsa, Oklahoma (30%); United Bonding of Indianapolis,
Indiana (10%); and Houston Fire and Casualty, Fort Worth,
Texas (15%). United Benefit was to keep 25% and Central — |
Casualty, Bray's company, was to take 20%. The excess over
$100,000 up to $500,000 was to be reinsured with Lloyds of |

 

London, oN

"Bray's agency, Homer Bray Services, Inc., was
designated the general agency for the bonding. Bray also
set up a local agency, Oxford Agency, Inc., incorporated in
Illinois in December, 1959, and Homer Bray Services (Canada),
Ltd. Schwartz and Weiner gave Bray the applications that .
Summit had received before it pulled out. These applications
reportedly represented approximately 80% of the Teamster
locals throughout the country and an estimated $1, 000 , 000
in commiss#6ns over a three year period.

  
  
    

7 “Bray arranged a reinsurance treaty for central '
ental Insyrance and Guarant Compan of .

ama” (later of" Nassau, the Bahamas) — alledge age a opps ,

“Company, with unknown assets.

NSO LOAD

DoclId:32329634 Page 4
