| DATE: 11-14- 2017

 

 

 

 

 

 

the most important parogfaph jn the eecision, the « one dun nedintely

_precading ‘tha thres eeoted: an ee

ment, orts mina ‘OX. otherwise, “Further, ‘there J is no “cormaon sense

SERBS - won, 2

 

 

 

 

 

éreused—under_the_John_F_ “Kennedy Agskassination Records Collection Act wt “1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotep™

 

 

June, Lost:

 

on, “cece fin Bedition, the House xegort: mates “at chiar ©
"that litigants are net ta ebtain special benefits
’ From this “provision, stating that 8.1160 ls. not:
Antendad to give a private party indirectly any
.@atlier ox greater access to investigatory files
than he would have directly in such” Litigation or
proceeding,’ «Report 11)" :

 

   

th ‘the sense ‘that the Actomney Gen nora v wag epesking, ‘the "uielgarke

would ba Lee fincvay Oswald. _The pla ntite in the present cause

Ny

s" than would have been granted

wante no Nearlior or ke eater acces

  

 

“conversely, ha wants ex actly]

  

to oawald, haa he Lived to be tri

&

  
  
   

the cane right of access us 5 Oswald. And under Jencks, ouwara WOU

 

 

have been entitled to the spectogruphic analyses... os a

 

defendant quotes at some Length ‘Exo as

 

    

sat. Be ok

202 FP. Supp. 540. foxtunataly, astondant omitted what is probsaply

 

rt

* the Court must agree that the datermination of the
Court in barcelonata ds sound, though’ not controlling
‘on this Court, In addition to the comnon sense noces<
sity of protecting the duvestiagary function. and
cedures of the Board, the legislative history of the
Act dtsel? makes. it clear that the exemption in question
is not Jinited solaly to- inal law forcement but
“" “rathex- applies to law’ enZ ant activities of all-
; “ “natures * ms ” “s :

 

    
     
     

 

   

sis, trus, pour Baxcolonata ta and lemon

 
 
  

an the present case where there 4 is ne dow enforce

 

are irrelay

necossity” in ‘protecting ceiontitic tests puch as. spectograph nie

 

analyses, as, ‘e. red to protecting witness statements before the

.

i

a

tha regordy pladn

  

‘< seeks havenot ‘beon nade port of any reserd

Rann 7

 

Docld:32312826 Page 9

~ Te =

“oa page 3 of its Hemorandus of! Points ‘and. Bathoritios, poe.

 
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (4a use 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017 -

 

 

: in any agency rroceeding he may not optain then ‘absent. ‘auch use.
: iz they had b

they: would cutquactemiy't be avellablo. Also, the -enalyses: wat Pp

aseassin.* oO

o logs, which area %&

Black were certain addi gion:

 

 

    

. “part cs "any record in any y agengy proceedings

    
   

S

to intense use by Warren c. salsolons as explained below, they wer}

a key to the ‘Cond saton' 6 banie conch don of a “sing le, lone

      

“The las st case y citea. by the defendant is Black vw. Sherato:

 

‘Corp. 50. FE. BD 13 0-133 wo D. C 1970), “gain, the emot ted passages

ard nie steading. In ‘the first place, the ease concerng - the bread!

of rule 26 of ‘the Federal "ules of civil Procedure, and touches oj}. ”

5°U,S.¢. $52 only in pas peng. : “Apconde when A Gommentng oa 5 U.5.C

 

a. Bee "Mwostigatory files compile for law enforconent purposes:

 

“except &6 the extent ‘availoble by law to a par’ ty other than, the

 

 

agency." mixd, ‘the folléving telling ragedph in the Court's

opinion was not ‘quoted: eo

 

*" Ag background for the present motion, the Court ~ -

. Motes that the United States has previously wade. .
available to the plaintif£é copies of all documents: |
in the PBI files which contain daformation fron

; the ,purvedliance, ‘thesd ine ie: (1) all legs of

. the surveillance, which are actual handwritten

. notes ef the agents who monitored the bugging

‘devices -(2) all. summary airtels prepared from the.

e of ths infor-

of all portions of

 

 

    

     

  

 
   
 

“mation in the loys; (3) cop.
_Poports: mich contain. infomation obtained from the
ance; and (4) two m wanda from the

tox of the “PRI to the Attorney General advising
tter of the ingornation vhich had boen obtain

- fron the surveillance, : :

 

 

   

 

Thus, thors is cortaimly no ‘anc tty enveloping all FEI files us-
| implica by defon dante in fact, ko the ex ent that Black is rele-
vant to the present case at au it would appear to weigh heavily

in favor. of plain stLi£.°— mat was ‘being held back hy the Court in

 

al txanserh sed conversations. fren an

: Page Ss

 

 

 

 

— _

, Docld:32312828 Page 10
 

Released | under the Jo!

in, F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act ‘of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hoterp™
-DATE: ii- 14- 2017 ” 7 . : : coy : :

      
   
  
   

     

There is also considerable reference An the defendant's Nenoxan-
i fs
“ain to debate on the. floor of the House, : The quotations are ine,

, complete, out of context, and genorally irrelevant. in’ vi Low of the

 

   

_ text ae Beenptton (b)} (7) o “the debate ie not-very helpful in asq |
cortaining legialative intent. . “It As trua that sone 2 menbers eit
_ preferzed ts okt ©) (7) in dts entizety of “to amend: bt in. part.

_ However, thoy aid not prevail, (b) 7) stays in, as reported by

 

othe Cond ties and it stayed in in tes present: text. the, cexempticy

7 are ‘caretebly dean in upecitic terms,’ and thera fa: no > Loose exes

tion: for "senaitivet govermcnt infornation as such, « cag a hinted ‘'b:

 

   

defendant.

   

 

In ‘this regards, EB ‘files are Lie ‘those, of any other

“agency. “Whether - a particular ‘FOr file te exempt froa ‘iectosure |

 

, depends on vhether it falls within one: of the nine’ ‘specific exempe ,

 

 

fy”

tions, not whether dt is. son: nitive." Paronthetically, what con.

     

ive! about spectographic enalyses' of bullets and pulle

 

nate dn a fact finding invectigation in 19632 2
“Spaato geaphie analysos, Like other scientific pieces of
evidence, are ‘not sa sasktive and shoula never ke withhold. TE

wpectograghie analyses can ba withhela froin a “defendant in a

  

‘exininal case, other echentific evidence, such as. “autopsies ana

 

. £Elngerx; prints, could also ba wit tmola ‘white woula lead to absurd

 

and patently unfaiz resulta, toe

 

 

CASE

  

The priiary allusion in defendant! s quotation fron

  
   

Baxyeploasta Shoe Coco. ve. on (272 F. Supp. $92) is to the

 

 

 

 

' Docld:323128278 Page 8
  
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
    

 

able by ‘Law £0 a party ¢

piointlet

 

  

nat ander sem oks “the ‘gpsetos

 

 

been evadiante to Lee uarvey | oswalee

 

peld Ero, plaintise. ‘

 
   

 

‘abla,

    

 
 
 
 
  

meghesks “ks “piace 2d. in gofencent

and puthoritice +o the 3

  

 

eapeckally in the Touse of.

‘een total of caiplanaticn 3} ghey a

Oe 14974 House

 

<ion (Report

and sessions at pelt), ne
* 7 investigatory & gies cory
‘puryose’ escopt to the extent
yi this &

force

ate par

  

 
  
 
 

   
 
 

a a tebor and | secur
, ghis would inci’

     

 

 

 

 

, Doeld: 32312828 Page 7

ave aS wail
ed in oe eon .
ation and agjuaicative

Released un
der the a
DATE: ohn F. =
. ATE: 11-14-2017 Kennedy Assassinatio
: a mn Records Collecti
O ans on Act of 1992 (44
: Me” - ve ve use 210
. BOE |
| TIL.”
i: ww
eo Pui . oe,
o> . % . . yt
The gocond cueaisteation in (io) (7) is thet egnvestigator
files" cannot be withheld | from the public red they would. | pe wavadt

other than an agency."
is. ‘not an " agency" * and se is nis contention .
graphic analyses would certainly navel

" yonces ’

 

AS “the warren coninteoton paid in “its
nad 4 1aved no ‘could, nave hea a ‘rial by anoxkean “ptandax aa

to exorcise his, gall rights

saoteeive pistory ot
Be agsenentatsnsee
‘an ‘che House “Roper | on this “exer

of sopeoinessivn: goth congress:

  

availople py Law ta Bl.

xiier © e geeater

 

   
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 

they cannot be with

vo

prefecsi oe awa

of gus

    

exemption, &) a '

   

dew enfoxcemen’=

rentige® ory |

 

 

 

  
 

dad to give 3 :
paces ©
aineckly an
 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44. Use 2107 Hotere
DATE: 11-14-2017 . we j

 

  

fotmat - progar din. 3” [undaxseoring added. le E Cy 2 thrust Way Or - .

 

  
 
 

may not be in accordance with the underscored chav

clear. that thee are two onplicit linita tions on

 

       

“Ninvestigitory silos" t. : - os oe

 

 

; 1) they are > exept only, ig conpiied | fox lew ‘enforeenont

 

_ Purposes, and

 

  

"they are exempt only at ¢ thoy would not be Foner aiLable

   

1 PY. law te a a private party:

   

“there was BR “lav ent

 

a! to whethor

 

ecomen’ purpose" ln

 

ed

coup lation of: the sought spectopraphic analyses, no batt aa witness)

 

      
  
  
 

Ly:

can. be found than Er. pizector a Eqar Hoover." zn tes bison ny pefer

_ he Warren Conmisedon on Ney My 1964, the foLlowing collowy ve toh, :

 

   
   

place between Mey Hoover and ir. Te hee Rankin; Gonarel Counsel t

the. Comai.se sion :

“Rr, Rankin, You have provided ny thangs to us!

in assisting the. Commigsion in connection with ~
“Anvastigation and I ansune, at least in a gens

you: axe familiar with the investigation of the asseseLy.

nation of President Kennedy, la that correct?

en sr Boover, “that is correct, Whon Presidst

returned to was ington he comnuniea
the first 24 hours, and ani tha Buroay ip: pick up

- tha, ‘investigation of the assaseination because ao you

are avere, there ig no 5 on fox cuch
. an investigation, . It is not @ Fe 10 to kKALL
en or attack tne sident ox the Vico nt or any
of the continuity of officers who would succeed to .
the Presidency. .
However, the: president. hag & right to pegue at the
“Bureau to make special investigations, and in this -
inotenece he anked that this investigatio we pade. :t
jrmediately assigned a special force e
special agent in charge at pallas,
tho investigation, Gh
concerning it, which we obtains a,
report which we submitted to the
for transmission tothe President. :

 

% ohnaon |.

  
 
 
  
 

 

   

  

 

    
  
 

 

 

[Hearings before the ‘Warren comission, vol. 5, p. 03.
Unde recoring added. y : o. ; :

. whus, eccording to the FBI'a Director, there wae no law

 

and, hence, thera could be no “Law forcement purpose." In fact

page, 3

 

 

  

Docld:32312826 Page 5
 

 

Released under the John F.

b Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 0st Fioy fore
DATE: 11-14-2017 | ,

\

        

i
|
i

    
    
  
  
 

according to Mr. Hoover, when the Anvestigation wag undertaken,
[7 . 7 : - . . fot 7
thare was nO federal jurisdiction for $4 at all} except a xreques

. . vets o ot yee

 

by the! Presidents:
: “Lest tha argument be made that, porhogis ‘the desing Jaw:

; wags @ dae of the state of Rexas, it should be noted that the: spo

 

ee

tographte anklyees wore not given: to. “either the ‘Dexas, or , Dallas

  

author itde Se

 

- zn beiot, the “spectographic ‘analyses were mage as part

   

any _Anvestigation requested by the proatdant and by, the PBI aa “th

 

investigative arm of the iVexven (Con namtsstone Backing up the lack

of any “Law enforeament. purpose in the following quote from the

. forevord to the ‘Conaiaaion' Report fat pe xiv)

 

     

“ the “Comission hae gunstioned “neither : ‘ao @ court |

 

   

 

. presiding over an advers waxy proceeding nor ag a = be
© _'pyosecutor aetermined to prove a cage, but as a ae ;
“fact finding agency comultted to the ascertainment '
- of. the truth." vot aa oT |
A . weet a a . eet {
mis contention to gurthor strongehonea by the Commissic ‘a

se os e

  

tenth: Recommendations .

  

   

* whe Comission xecomnends to Co! yress that he adopt”
: _ Legislation which would ueke the agaassination of tt
r ~ president and Vice, President a Pedoral exime. A state
an of afiains where U.S, authors ties have not clearly
. G@efined jurisdictica to investigate the assassination, -
“of a President is anomalous. [Rage 26 of the Report}

 

 

 

 

ent perpouse* requires & ‘Aes of some kind.

 

therefore, ine. bardea is on. the defen dante ig he wishes. to. avail

   
 
 
       

himself of exe: on co) my es stato epactttealty “etth citation

 

| tho Law ox das

ware made. £0 “fax

   

Paga 4.

 

 

 

 

' Doeld: 32312828 Page 6
 

[ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of.1992 (44 USC 2107 Hoter™
“DATE: 11-14-2017. “ : : ; : - ; '

 

   
 
  
 

    

‘United States “Attorney en mite 26, 19
District of Coluzibia, ; .

 

WDR WPAselrad:
WS 932 HAS

 

William DB. Ruckelshaus
Assistant Attorney Gener eal, Civil Division’
oo By: Harland F. Leather:
Chief, Ge eneral ii thpation Section -

. rinvortthes :

ste Peas Action io. 2301-70 "|

ene

   
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
  
   
  
     
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
 

 

 

z ee eatment of Justice

neces

 

   
 
  
  
  

 

   
   
 
 
  

:

Qhaank you ‘for sending ws “copies of Answer of Pl
our motion in these preceens ea We suggested the ba
of these proceedings exber 3, 1970, Sept
jand Cetober 9, wie Q Y As our Getcber ay 2
(SOREL ES y pie davit ‘exeeuted bi

shoring. that the ‘fale reraining to: th

rf demands wos com

ional reports pertas
aten ded to protect <
% + Reps: How 813;-5
Report Ho. “lust, &Gbh Cong. 5.
of Amer dome 50 P.R.D. 130

 

 

 

 

  

 

&

uggest that you file a- supplene mentary stat
ant to Local Rule ¢ 3a) incorporating.
Wit. ,

 
 

       
   
  

beg

rar Hoover ;
Federal &
(é/epy of Ansver of

 

rs

Tiare s

  
  

   

    

Be
»
2

eonollus Lor

 

 

| Docld:32312828 Page 2
“Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2IO7 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

 

 

 

 

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10325-10077
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER:  197-636-7
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: | DOJ
FROM: _ [Restricted]
TO: EOUSA
TITLE :

DATE: 10/26/1970

‘PAGES: 16
SUBJECTS : _
HAROLD WEISBERG
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: = Withhold
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 06/11/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ .
COMMENTS :

 

ESS

v9.1
' DoclId:32312828 Page 1

 

REFERRED TO DOJ, INC LTR, SUMMONS, EXHIBIT
 

Released under’:

1 use 2107 Ho .
K me dy Assassination Records ,Collection Act of 199? (44 :
° .
' DATE: 11-14-2

    
   

wa

  

 

   
 

          
    
    
  

. eS La. A 7
_, \
. t
. UNITED. stares prsicr counn 74
FoR sia bustazes OF coLUEDTA :
mu ;
woe - HAROLD WATSBERG, i i
Plaintizs, | '

 

Vee

 
  

Civil Action

   

Ho. 2301~70

   

 
  
  
  

ATeve, t

Plainti¢e dentes

  

that there - are no issues of material _
fact and that thre io

 
 

no claim upoa which relict can be granted,

  
  
 
  

 

  

17}. OCT 28-1970

    
 

QUESTIONS ©
SUESETO® 15 OF

 
  

    

In its "preldninesy Statonente

  

  

_¥andam of Pointe ana Authorities," Aefendont statos that. pleintige

 
 
 

 
 

"has requested be rnigeion to inepoet certain epactograph nie analysl

 

   
      

Of bullets and bullet > fragr

 

Monts reg

 

overed from ‘the acene of tho

 
 

assass ination of President Sohn F.

 

Kennedy in Dallas, Tenas on

ovenbor 23, 1953." ° a : ta 7 nn men

 

 

 

 

 

2 on Rowen

 

aT 23

 

: Hoeven, 42 go,., plaintifs is uanvpre of thon;

 

@ feagment of

    
  
 

  

fxagnentes were pairs covered" from @ pas

    

 

 

: pocla:32312828 Page 3
 

Released under. the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records ‘Collection, Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Ho
DATE: 11-14- 2017 : . oe , : ; : ey \

   

fe _ The pullets and bullet feaguents, opsctosraphte analyse
of which are sought PY plaintise, were recovered" prinority on,
Roveuber Rand, “tthe gate of tho assnunination, put aon0 were & redo

vered on Rovenber 23ed and at later, times. . they wore “recovered!

genevally not: at. the “seens" put. at Dallast poxklena Hospital,

 

 

Washington, De c. ;

 

“Boxe important, defendant states as a matter ‘of fact |

 

“(sea page ons of his sty ent of hateriad Fact) that ‘the records :

 

sought Mare part of an ‘tavestigatory Eile conpited. fox Law en- |
forcement purposes. !* Tt is plainetssta contention that this ig

; incorrect and ‘that: the records. in fact were not compiled tor any

daw enforcencit: purpose “put exclusively as ‘part ot an investiga~

tion xeque ested by President hyndon Be “Johnson on 1 Hovoxber 24, LOGB?

ae *

Exccutive order 2120; and &. a. Res . 2137, “sath. Con gesse.. none

 

of which tnvolved “law enforcement,

ne

  

   

- - : On pege two of ite Henorandum ‘of Points and Authorities),

degendant properly chtes ex ption oe) 7. ‘corres tly ag “investin

 

 

gatory files complicd ‘fox Law enforcer ent purgotea except to the

extent available by ‘law ‘to! a party ‘other ‘thai an’ agency." Plain

 

tite then addss “The thruct (ef ths ox

 

dinctocure all £iles which the government compiles in the cours:

of haw enforcenent investisations which may ov me ay hot Lead to

  

Bethesda Naval Hospital An » Hasiylang, and at othe places, ineludi ao /

 

 

 

| DoelId:32312828 Page 4
