UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL RUKEAU OF INVESTICATION

 

opty, Pirase Kefer to . WASHINCTON, D.C. 20535

Ne : November 3, 1967
| TRAINING OF NEGROES IN CUBA

Intelligence Agency (CIA) communication dated October 31,
1967, regarding the training of Negroes in Cuba. The original
of the communication was addressed to the Honorable Walt W.
Rostow, Special Assistant to the President.

Information is contained therein to the effect that
three Cuban sources during the past four months. have reported
the existence of a training school near Santiago de Cuba where
from 100 to 150 young men are being groomed for subversive
operations against the United States to include sabotage in
connection with race riots directed at bringing about a Negro
revolution in this country. One source reported that the
training includes courses in English, taught by Soviet
instructors. While two of the CIA sources described the
students as Negroes, there was no indication that any of the

- Negro students were from the United States. The third CIA
source described them as young men from North Vietnan,
North Korea, Africa, and Latin-American countries.

I
1
i
This Bureau is in receipt of a copy of a Central :
1
|
i

: Information in the possession of this Bureau indicates
that the above-described training school may well be an outgrowth :
of the .Tri-Continental Conference, held in Havana, Cuba, in
January, 1966, the declared purpose of which was organizing | |
guerrilla warfare in Asia, Africa and Latin America. During the
year following the conference this Bureau received continuing
reports that the Cubans were endeavoring to implement the aims
of the conference. Since Castro first came to power in Cuba :
in 1959, we have been alert to his possible use of refugee |
channels to infiltrate agents and saboteurs and have initiated
appropriate investigative steps to detect this. In January, 1967, :
an additional program was instituted aimed at detecting Cuban- |
trained agents and saboteurs entering the United States through !
legitimate Cuban refugee channels. Such refugees have been arriving
in Miami since December, 1965, at the rate of approximately ‘ |
4,000 each month. (Ha the ten months since our Cuban refugee |

program was first [odStituted, over 1,700 cases have been opened
based upon information in the backgrounds of various refugees
pointing toward a potential or propensity on their parts to [6
undertake intelligence, sabotage, or other subversive missions

On behalf of the Cuban Government. Current] » these cases are
being opened at a rate of About 200 a nontiisy

  

6m automatic
and.

  

 

 

HW 54214 DocId:32977087 Page 2
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

@

Date 07/14/98
Page : 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

FROM

_ PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSC
145-10001-10264

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE-FBI
TRAINING OF NEGROS IN CUBA
11/03/67

2

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT |

1B, 1¢
RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
02/17/98

Released under the John
. Eennedy
Wesasgsination Records
ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ases# i NW 54214 Date:

 

HW 54214 DocId: 32977087

([R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Page 1
_ [ NAPY

TRAINING OF NEGROES IN CUBA

During late July and early August, 1967, a Latin-
American Solidarity Organization (LASO) conference was held in
Havana, at which the Cubans indicated that they were continuing
their efforts to implement the declared aims of the Tri-
Continental Conference. Numerous resolutions were promulgated
at the conclusion of the LASO conference, one of which exhorted
North American Negroes"to respond to the racist violence of
the imperialist United States Government with an increase in
direct revolutionary action.”-.tHé American press and other news
media extensively reported on the presence of Stokely Carmichael,
foremost “black power" advocate of violence, in Cuba at the time
of the LASO conference, which began on July 31, 1967. Since ©
that date all field offices of the FBI have been alerted to
Castro's obvious intention of infiltrating agents into this
country for the purnoses of sabotage and influencing the black
nationalists and other subversive movements throughout the .
United States. .

Our Agents on a selective basis have briefed officials
of various local, county and state police agencies of the
problem posed by the possible use of minority groups in carrying
out sabotage on behalf of Cuba. These officials have been
requested to alert their racial and security informants to
provide any clues which would aid the ferreting out of potential
saboteurs. In daily contacts with cooperative security
officials of plants handling key Government contracts, department
stores, supermarkets, and similar establishments employing.
sizeable labor forces, our Agents have alerted such officials
to our interest in being expeditiously advised of data indicating
groups or individuals within their organizations are potential
tools for use by Castro in subverting the United States.

To date, no concrete evidence has been developed to

-gndicate that any Cuban-trained saboteur has entered this

country since the widely publicized Cuban sabotage ring in

New York City was discovered and immobilized in 1962. Neither
has any evidence been developed of clandestine entry of Cuban-
trained Negroes for any other purposes, including infiltration
of the nett nationalist movement. The FBI currently is
operating

or potent double agents against the Cubans. None of these |
Cuban-trained intelligence agents have any information indicating
Castro has been successful to date in infiltrating Negrocs

for the purposes described above]

CSPOT

HW 54214 DocId:32977087 Page 3

8 Cuban-trained intelligence agents as double agents 2! Ib:
pe:

 
