@leased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.
DATE: 11+14-2017 . . ; i

.

or "amigo Nost(rja"

SP_92-593

RLE/Ir ,

When the informant was taken in, it was explained
that he may be called upon to commit crime. It was further
explained that he would be told why a crime must be commited
and assured of the complete backing of the organization.

The initiation itself is an oath, and the final thing stated
is words to the effect that the person initiated can never
leave the organization except through death. He has been
told that although the organization may order them to commit
erime, they cannot commit crime on their own without the
approval of the organization. Each member is often called a
"Soldato", meaving "Soldier" within the organization.

DUES

 

‘

When he first came in, he learned that they were
expected to give $5 per month to the organization. This was
dropped two years ago. He himself was not required to give often
because no one told him who to give his money to. He has
been told that contributions originally depended upon the
ability to pay, and ROSE CAMARATA recently told him that her
"father-in-law" had to put $100,000.00 into the Apalachian
meeting. When he was told that he could even be called upon
to commit a crime but could never commit a. crime without the
okay of the organization, he was also told that they should
try to do good work and that if any crimes were commited, they
were expected to pay 10 per cent of any "take" to the
organization.

RECORDS

The informant advised that he has never heard or
seen any indication that records for this organization are
maintained. He has never seen any written instructions :
and has heard that they should never keep notes or things
such as phone numbers or addresses on their person since -
these could be picked up and used against them.

He has never seen any such thing as an insignia for
the organization. The only introduction he has heard that
would specifically mean that the person being introduced is
a member is by introducing the person as a "friend of ours"

-7 -

'

i
i

 

 

DoclId:32296344 Page 7
Pies under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hofey.

DATE: 11+14-2017
“ : ( : ° . !

| SF 92-593
, RLE/1r |

On one occasion JOHN MISURACA told the informant
he would be taken into the organization. The informant asked
him if he was to. understand that this was the "Mafia", and if
he was to be "made". He advised that he used this word
because he had read it in books. He was told by JOHN MISURACA
that it was the "Mafia" and that he would be brought into the
organization on the recommendation of JOHN MISURACA.
MISURACA told him that he may have to be proved before
getting "pinched". The informant was later told by PETE
MISURACA and ALEX CAMARATA that JOHN MISURACA had talked
to them about the informant who called him a cool customer
pased’ on his actions in Reno.

INITIATION AND OATH

 

The informant recalls that when he was about to
enter the organization, JOHN MISURACA called him to see him :
at the home of ALEX CAMARATA. At that time, MISURACA |
explained to him how he entered the organization. He told him
that someone would take a needle and draw blood from a
finger. He stated that anything could happen and that
someone might create an incident to see how he would react.
He recalls someone saying that they might even throw a gun
to him to see what he would do. The informant talked over
these matters subsequently with ALEX CAMARATA and PETE
MISURACA who were also entering the organization and who : i
seemed to know more of what was going on than the informant. ‘

i]

 

When they were actually taken into the organization,
they went to the cheese factory in San Jose. There were
several members from the San Jose area as well as from the :
Modesto area. The informant, ALEX CAMARATA and PETE . i
MISURACA remained outside and were taken in one at a time for '
their initiation. This was in 1956.

The initiation consisted of words delivered to the
informant by two different people, to his recollection. He
stated these people were MANNY FIGLIA and CHARLIE CARBONE.
They were hard to understand. They did not explain the
organization at that time but the details came out from
these two as well as several others a little at a time over
the succeeding years. oO :

~ 5 -

 

 

DoclId: 32296344 Page 5
féleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hi
DATE: 11-14-2017

O

SF 92-593
RLE/ir

At the initiation, he was told that whoever
"pinches" him would-be his godfather. LEO CUSENZA turned
out to be the godfather of the informant. The informant
had never met this individual before.

During the procedings, a picture of a saint was
burned . Those giving the statements to him would read or
utter a sentence and require him to repeat it. He recalls
the, word baptised being used. He recalls that the words
included statements to the effect that they were never to
contact law enforcement officials personally or otherwise,

that they were to have nothing to do with such a man, regardless -

of consequence, that they would uphold the organization over
everything else and would qo all in their power for the
organization.

He recalls them also saying that the organization
would do all possible for the "Family," and that no member
could take action against another member without the okay of
the "Council.

The proceeding was similar to the reading in a
wedding ceremony in that a sentence would be stated and the
person initiated repeated the. sentence given. The climax of
the ceremony was the pricking of a finger by the godfather
using a needle or a knife.

DISCIPLINE

Immediately after entry into the organization, the
informant learned that the person they should go to at all
times was the "Copo." They were told never to go above him
without his approval. This directive has since been changed
and ‘they now. can go to higher authority without seeing their

"Copo" first. He does not recall any suggestions or orders
to use other than their true names. He himself used the name
AL COSTA on a trip to Reno but does not know the reason for
this. He learmed that a "Don" could not go back east unless
he got the permission of BO 0, which makes him believe that
the headquarters of this organization would be in the east.
Since the original orders of never cooperating with the law
enforcement officials, a change has been instituted allowing
them to talk to law enforcement agents where practical. They
have been told that even though this can be done, they still

"make their own law."

~5-

totes.
i
f

 

ee

 

DoclId:32296344 Page 6
TO

 

 

 

OPTIONAL FORM No. to

FROM

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL "COMMISSION"; et al

“in the usual instance, nor can he now recall the time or

 

Sassindtionm Récords Collecti

   

   
  
   
 

ct of 1997 _

30%0-104-02

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-5054) DATE:1/23/63

f _sac,-SaHY FRANCISCO (92-593)
J 4
LO

AR - CONSPIRACY

Re Bureau letter to New York, 1/8/63. isos

SF 2550-C-TE is an American born citizen of »
Sicilian extraction. He has been in the organization involved. {
Since 1955. His command of the Italian language is not io
complete since he has learned it in this country, speaking it :
among Sicilians although generally using the English language
among his associates. “His spelling and pronunciation of words
is not always accurate by. his own admission.

The following information concerning the organization
to which he belongs has been given the informant by other
members of the organization. . The informant was interyiewed
for the information reported herein on January 18, 1963,
by SAsROY L. ERICKSON and HAROLD V. CATES. He cannot now
recall the person who made statements or gave him information

place the information was given to him, but when recollection
is available it is set out.

The informant may in the future recall further
items of interest and these will then be reported.

eit ere - - :

ge" Bureau. ; : 4

2-="New York City (92-2300) ;

1 - Phoenix : we i

JO- San Francisco (92-593)

92-42 Criminal Intelligence Program) ’

a3raean. SF Beare 4

2-508, ALEX CAMARATA , ca

92-211, PETER mxsuRaca) REC 9 - 603 J —~
JOSEPH BONANO) econ

- 92-507, EMANUEL FIGLIA) “oot vA

- 92-505, CHARLES CARBONE) ; 8 JAN 25 1963

- 92-124, JOSEPH CERRITO)

- 92-180, ANGELO MARINO)

 

bate

Sea HPP EEE
1
Lo
P
te
Ww
Be
.

O16 . Ao

   

 

 

DoclId: 32296344 Page 2
 

DATE: 11-14-2017

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
‘PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

COMMENTS :

v9.1
Docld: 32296344 Page 4

DOCUMENT TYPE :

OPENING CRITERIA :

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI
124-10217-10120

HQ

92-6054-159

FBI
SAC, SF
DIRECTOR, FBI

01/23/1963
8

LCN, MEMBERS, ORGANIZATION

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

05/27/1998

INDEFINITE

 

‘leased under the John F. Kennedy &ssassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (442 USC ily Hote).

Date: 5/14/201

 

eee
Document Information

a eee
Veased undér the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 usc 2107 Hotey-
DATE: 41+14+2017 ; :

SF 92-593
RLE/Ir

Following is the information he can presently
give concerning the organization to which he belongs received
through participation as well as statements made to him by
other members. .

ORIGIN

The organization SF 2550-C-TE belongs to was explained
to him as being an old organization started by people of °
Sicily to protect themselves from land barons and others of
autocratic rule. When these peaple came to this country, they
naturally remained closely knit and continued their specific
organization -in this country to make money. -

‘

STRUCTURE

The informant states that the group to which he
belongs is nationally organized. He has received no information
indicating that it is controlled by or affiliated with any
Similar organization in Sicily. He has asked JOHN MISURACA,
‘during the time he was being indoctrinated, whether this
organization was the "Mafia", and MISURACA told him it was.
He was told that they do not use this term now but use the
term "Cosa Nost(r)a", which means “Our Thing™. The informant
does not seem to pronounce the letter "R" in Nost(r)a and
indicates that the use of the letter "R" in pronunciation is
used more among main-land Italians than Sicilians. He stated
he has not heard this organization called La Causa Nost(r)a.

The informant advised that the smallest organized
unit to his understanding is a "Circle. When the informant i
entered, he was initiated with two others, ALEX CAMARATA and ; !
: PETE MISURACA. The informant and ALEX CAMARATA were assigned ‘
‘ to a “Circle” having “ANGELO > MARINO as the head, while PETE
MISURACA was assigned to a "Circle" having MANNY FIGLIA as
the head, or Copo.

The informant advised that the basic group in the
lower organization next to a "Circle" is called the Nost(r)a
Brigada, which the informant says is a "Group" headed by one

“man calied a "Copo". This "Group" is frequently called a
"Family," and may be the same as a "Circle."

tty ~e-

a

 

Se eee

 

DoclId:32296344 Page 3
g éleaged Quider the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hofe;.
DATE: 11-14-2017

. > e

SF 92-593
RLE/ir

can deal with others outside even though they are not actual
members. The informant was first advised of the existence

of this organization after his work with ALEX CAMARATA and
PEE MISURACA in connection with their attempted extortion of
HAROLD SMITH, SR., Harold's Club, Reno, Nevada. ALEX CAMARATA
had been a close friend of the informant for several years.

The informant stood up for the son of ALEX CAMARATA.at his
christening, and the daughter of the informant was a school
mate of the son of ALEX CAMARATA.

CAMARATA came to the informant around 1954 and said
that they had a chance to make a little money. He said that ‘
Wis uncle, PETE MISURACA, had been selected to work with of
CAMARATA and the informant in connection with a "little job"”
that had to be done in Reno. He was told that he had been i
"checked out" and the organization felt he would listen to any
proposition and would be a safe risk. He had never met
PETE MISURACA. The first meeting involving this matter was
held in the home of CAMARATA, at which time the informant was
introduced to PETE MISURACA. The informant was told how
HAROLD SMITH, SR. had “welched" on a deal and owed PETE
MISURACA money. Several meetings were held in connection i
with this matter. It was decided that this Group" would
contact SMITH to secure $100,000.00 because SMITH had made a
‘contract and broke it. The informant was told this was
necessary because the organization took care of its own
problems and never went to the police.

 

During one of the early meetings he met JOHN MISURACA.
He-learned that this individual had been in Reno and talked
to a FRANK SORCE. ART PRICE was also in attendance at some
of the meetings in this matter.

During the activities involved with the attempt
to secure the money from HAROLD SMITH, ALEX CAMARATA told the
informant that if the problem was worked out, they would be
asked into the "Organization." Details are vague to the
informant, but he states he knows he was lead to believe this
meant the "Mafia."

-~ue

Le

 

DoclId: 32296344 Page 4
