 

 

LA 100-17448

MOHRENSCHILDT has been married at least four times.
The first three times he married women of means, but never
seemed to have any real love for any of them. He was very
interested sexually in the daughter of one of his wives,
His present wife ig a white Russian from China. LA T-4 knows
nothing regarding her beliefs or convictions.

His mother was a "pure white Russian" who died
early. MOHRENSCHILDT spent a considerable amount of his
youth in Russia.

During their [AbileneJdays especially, LA T-4
and MOHRENSCHILDT discussed politics frequently. LA T-4
stated, "There is no doubt concerning the strong pro-communist
convictions of GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT." He is an opportunist
and without moral scruples. He has contempt for the American
way of life and for capitalism and has stated that he appreciates
the security derived from a communist government. After one
of these discussions in @bilene, LA T-4 told MOHRENSCHILDT
that if the United States ever goes to war with Russia, he
would get a gun and "take care" of MOHRENSCHILDT. MOHRENSCHTLOT
merely laughed. In reply to a question by LA T-4, MOHRENSCHILDT
stated that If this country is ever invaded by Russia, he
would have a very good chance of coming into a top position
with the Russians.

Because of LA T-4's personal convictions concerning
MOHRENSCHILDT, he declined to sponsor MOHRENSCHILDT for
citizenship in this country when requested by MOHRENSCHILDT.
Also LAT alluded to MOHRENSCHILDT's pro-communist beliefs
and, convictions when talking to MOHRENSCHILDT up until the
last time he talked to him in/1962,] LA T-4 considers
MOHRENSCHILDT entirely capable of communist conspiratorial
activity, but considers him intellectually shallow and
incapable of originating or executing a complicated scheme.

~ 1.

 

 

 

 

 
Sh at

 

    
 
 

by

BE9RE (Reve 1-28-80) FQ RAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGA WEY

Date 3/ 16/ 64

 

LA T+4 advised he met GEORGE DE_MOHRENSCHILDT for
the first time about 1942 at the home of/R. LEE BLAFFER ]in
Houston, Texas. (fir. BLAFFER) was one of the founders of the
Humble Oil Company and in the 1940s made a practice of enter-
taining interesting and unusual people. MOHRENSCHILDT was
a professor of geology at the University of Texas sometime
during the 1940s and it is possible that he was with the
University at the time that LAT-4 met him.

LA T-4 and MOHRENSCHILDT became good friends, primarily
pecause of their mutual interest in women, and saw each other
frequently in Houston from about [1942 ]to about 1946.) They
were also involved together in one shot o11 deals|" in[ Wyoming]
and /Albany} Texas, during this périod, although they were never

artners.~In (1946) LA T-4 went to/Abilene’, Texas, and from
1946 jto about /T950) when LA T-4 left Abilene.) MOHRENSCHILDT
came to Abilene frequently on business, although he never lived
there permanently. During these visits MOHRENSCHILDT often
visited ata cottage (owned by LA T-]on a lake near Abilene
where they sometimes entertained girl friends. After leaving
(Abilene) and returning to{Dallas, LA T-4 was visited by MOHREN-
SCHILD? several times a year, up until about November, 1962.
At that time MOHRENSCHILDT called LA T-4 stating that he had
some interesting pictures which he and his wife had made
while walking from Mexico City to Panama and to South

America. He invited LA T-4 to the Annual Ball of the
Petroleum Club of Dallas. By his tone of voice, LA T-4

let Mr. MOHRENSCHILDIT know that he was not interested in
seeing him at any time. He has not seen or heard from
MOHRENSCHILDT since that time.

MOHRENSCHILDT told LA T-4 that his father was a
paron from Sweden and his name was originally VON MOHRENSCHILDT.
MOHRENSCHILDT changed his name to DE MOHRENSCHILDT during World
War II. One of MOHRENSCHILDT's brothers was very close to
ADOLF HITLER at one time, but was later executed by the HITLER
regime. Another brother is a professor at Dartmouth University.

- 13 -

 

 

 

On 3/11/64 at File #__Los Angeles 100-17448

Date dictated 3/11/64

 

 

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI, It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

 

poy

 

 
oo

a

ES

wade.

tines

2

Leash

  

LA 100-17448

"vou yesterday, you cannot do this by correspondence, neither
by telephone.....luckily. Do you know that Dr. Arvizu's wife
died last night, at the moment of having her first ehild, after
eight years of being married. I think that is what might
happen to me, but no matter, life of mine, what better proof
could I give you of my love, than to die for you, suffer unto
death?

“My adored one, when you have the money for me, please
‘deposit it in the Bank of Julio Beache on Wall Street, deposit
it in my name, telling them to communicate by direct wire with
the Leishman Bank here in Mexico, and put at my disposal here,
immediately, the amount that you deposited there, that way I
ean receive it the same day.

“you know, that you should not be surprised that the
ambassador does not answer you, nor will he answer you, I will
explain later the reasons, but two or three days ago, I sent
him a letter, like the ones I can write when I want to, and I
am certain that I am going to make him ashamed of his conduct,
after all he offered me here. In the first place, I am certain
that Duhart has influenced him with his black opinion of you
that he has, I do not know why, and in the second place there
are certain personal and egotistical motives that make him act
like a fool, like there was nothing he could do to arrange it.
I do not think that they will giver you a permit to leave, but
I again insist that you do not need it. If you accept my
suggestion, which I assure you is a good one, for I have all
my documents in order, the line of conduct you should take is
to go to the Mexican Consulate, that they may give you documents
to enter here and calmly leave the United States. Several
persons in the same circumstances as you, have lately done this,
so heed my advice. Naturally in Washington they told you you
needed this departure permit, but they told you this only to
cause you trouble and complications, for they know very well
that they are not going to give it to you and want to laugh at
you, when you ask for this permit to refuse you, when they know
perfectly well that you can leave the United States: without
needing this permit. In any case, the Polish Ambassador should
complain as to why and with what right they are detaining you

there.

 

 
es MS ee)

LANE 2 ata.

oe

  

LA 100-17448

"I do not believe, life of mine, that you have worked
on these people with the energy that you should have. You
should cause a real scandal for all of these unjustified
abuses that they have made you a victim of, and I believe that

.sooner or later you should make them pay dearly, all of the

money, time, reputation and even health, that they are making
you lose with their stupidities, fear and petty vengeance.

"Beautiful baby, several days have passed without
receiving a letter from you, and I do not like it at all, that
the two times I have talked to you, you have not arrived until
four or five in the morning. With whom were you out so late?
Life of mine, if I knew that you wanted or caressed another
woman, I would die of sorrow. Save yourself for me, little
love, you know well that nobody but me knows how to appreciate
the value of your kisses, the sweet strength of your arms and
the loving look of your eyes. Save yourself for me, as I save,
even to the slightest breath, for you. A kiss from your,

Lilia

"p, S,. About errand you have for me about the money, please,
ask in other places also. Even though your friends
gave you the price of $4500.00 you should ask other
people, because in these times I think you can hope
for at least $1500.00 more. It is insured for
$6000.00. Make the insurance company pay the breakage,
because when I insured them they were perfect.”

 

 
   

LA 100-17448
; vapiuep vay mses ae
file reflects that LILIA PARDO LARIN, nee LILIA CAMARGO, born |
May 19, 1906, Mexico D.F., entered the United States at San °
Ysidro, California, on March 3, 1961. She had Mexican Passport
No. 15259, issued by the Mexican Foreign Office April 29, 1960,
to expire April 28, 1962. She entered the United States as a
non-quote O-1 immigrant.

 

LILIA PARDO LARIN was sponsored by her son, ALFREDO
ALVAREZ LARIN, who then resided at 3276 B Street, San Diego,
California. ALFREDO LARIN filed an affidavit of support for
his mother on September 7, 1960. He was then employed as a4

. puilding designer for George Lykos - A.I.A. Architect, Spreckels

Building, First.and Broadway, San Diego, California. ALFREDO
LARIN has Alien Registration No. 7135679, and was admitted
to the United States as a permanent resident on January 31,
1950, at Houston, Texas.

5 fare Agency, .
The ile concerning LILIA PARDO LARIN. reflects

the following residence addresses during 1961: 3532 Herbert
Street, San Diego, California, and 3334 Altadena Avenue, San
Diego, California. in 1961 ALFREDO LARIN resided at the :
first address above and JOSE ANTONIO LARIN resided at the
second address above.

ee ee niet een

Ca aT nn Ly

wee
.

This file reflects that in September, 1940, LILIA
PARDO DE GUASCO filed an application to extend the time of
temporary stay in the United States. On this form, she listed
a relative, LOUIS RODRIGUEZ, Minister for Mexico, Vichy, France.
At this time she listed as her husband one GEORGE GUASCO,

s Vichy, France. ghird Ageasy,

This q@P Cile reflected a photograph of LILIA ‘PARDO
DE LARIN dated November 4, 1961. This file reflected no
residence address for LILIA PARDO DE LARIN for the years 1962

or 1963.

LENO Og fata eee

rn 9

iets _

LA T-2 furnished two letters dated October 17, 1942
-and October 30, 1942, from LILIA PARDO LARIN, Dickens ho,
“ Edificio San Luis, Apartment 202, Polanca, Mexico D.F., to
A GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT, 950 Park Avenue, New York City. LA T-2

4 advised that these letters had been translated to the English
m4 Language. These letters are quoted as follows:
=
—_
| “He
i

 

 

   

HW_50529 ... Decld:32206556~ Page .2-- oS
oe Rn EE

    
Date:08/16/93

 

 

 

 

Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
“ (|, IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 179-10002-10109
RECORDS SERIES
WC DOCUMENT REVIEWED BY FBI FOR HSCA
‘ AGENCY FILE NUMBER
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : WHIDBEE, HARRY H.
TO :
TITLE
DATE : 03/18/64
PAGES : 7
SUBJECTS
DEMOHRESNSCHILDT, GEORGE
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED 2)¥
CURRENT STATUS : P Sole?
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 86/10/93. YISIOE™
OPENING CRITERIA 109 -wees-raie
Sere D par rr TA rakece 1/0) TE |
COMMENTS
PP. 4-8, 13-14.
‘CD #777A

HW 50529) DoclId:32206556 Page 1
LA 100~-17448

"October 17, 1942
“My Adored Turrocckka:

“Tt received your letter from Washington and the one
you wrote me when you returned to New York. I received them
today, and one bears the date of the 7th, thus it took 10 days
when it should have taken 3 at the most, it is a scandal and a
shame. But we can only tolerate the law of the stronger. I
have received notices from Washington and they are very
pessimistic. It seems there have been persons who have made
declarations against you and have sworn, Gringo style, to their +
declarations. Also they do not forget your expressions and

; opinions, that you have foolishly and unwittingly made so
1 many times in public. And it seems that all of those personages,
: high personages, to whom you used to say you were related, have
: said these were your lies, and that they deny being your
~ relatives even remotely, nor do they even care for being your
a : friends. How much I regret this life of mine and the bad part
is I do not know if it will have a solution or when. I do not
know what to say or to whom to turn.

Ps Lo ek.

"TY am completely certain that the friends whom TI have
trusted the arranging of this matter are true friends of mine
and that they have done with complete sincerity and interest
all that is necessary. You already see how I was able to
obtain your permit to enter Mexico, when there exists a
Presidential Decree strictly prohibiting the entry (to Mexico)
of all European aliens. But the matter of Washington is beyond
Z my reach and only you, asking for a conscientious investigation
and asking them to clarify your situation, only you can get
something. If you continue patiently enduring your situation
in the United States then detained you are. Now that they will
not let you leave there, you are playing the part of a coward
or culprit. .Firmly demand that they show you what gives them
the right to treat you thus, and if they do not have the right
that they let you leave that country and let you go wherever
you please. It seems that neither do they like your economic
situation, that is to say that you do not recelve income from
employment business and naturally the poor things cannot obtain
from you the corresponding taxes. I think that is the only
reason for they do not have the right, nor is it their business,

 

 

 

 
LA 100-17448

c '4f your income is from practicing the noble profession of

‘ gigolo or hiring yourself as a Sodomist. I am sad and furious,

* and disconecerted. I could come to join you there or at least

‘ we could spend some two or three months together. From the

{ Embassy (Mexican in Washington) they will give me telephonically

i the visa and airplane priority. This they have promised me

| formally, but unfortunately my economic situation at the present,
what with the construction of the house and the payment I have

. just made for the College will not permit me to be able to make

“ the trip’ to spend a few months with you, something which TI

“ desire with all the forces of my body and sould, and which would
make me very happy. But I am seeing if soon they pay me a

| mortgage, and my adored if I have a little money I will go to

| give you all my life in my kisses. If you could see how unhappy

| I feel. I cry so much thinking that even the 'Morito' nas

! the happiness of being with you, unless in his ignorant brutality
he should know the happiness he has, and of which I am so

~ cruelly deprived. I kiss you a thousand times, adored, write
om me and love me.
™ Lilia"

“Mexico - October 30, 1942
"adored Love of Mine:

"vesterday, or better said, early this morning, I
spoke to you, I got up from bed to speak to you and returned
to bed crying like a little girl. Life of mine, I now cannot,
cannot physically stand your absence, I feel that my flesh is
flesh of your flesh, and it is a cruel agony to live without
you. My adored one, light of my eyes, I want you desperately,

and each time more.

“Baby mine, I am now ready to have a son by my
wonderful man that you are, but yesterday over the telephone
you asked me this with such seriousness and urgency, that
really I do not know what to do. While you tell me that you
are a true little man, strong and virile and wise, to make your
little woman turn (or go) crazy when you make her yours, I
cannot give you pleasure having a little son, now for as I told

 

 
