 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: SECRET
Memorandum to
The Director
Re: FBI Foreign Liaison Program

THIRD STAGE

. 1 .
In regard to the Third Stage, namely the continued

| expansion and creation of new Legal Attache Offices (such as

| } Manila; Rio dé Janeiro; New Delhi; Santo Domingo; Canberra,

’ Australia, and Kuala —buumpliz) , Tat am wnalterably “opposed, » for

reasons stated,

‘

suggestion of adding additional men to such “offices as Beirut,

By the same token, I am adamant in opposition to the
| eases Caracas, Madrid anc and Tokyo.

VIEWS OF MESSRS,
BEAVER, DALBEY AND FELT -

I have read the comments of the above-named men, It
was somewhat more than mildly distressing and saddening to me
to observe the lack of objectivity, originality, and independent
thinking in their remarks, The uniformity and monolithic
character of their thinking constitutes its own rebuttal. While
I am certain it was not the intention of these important Bureau
officials, who occupy unique roles, to create the impression
in the reader's mind that they said what they did because they
thought this was what the Director wanted them to say, neverthe-
less it seems to me this is the impression conveyed.

It has been my experience that the Director certainly
does not want officials of the Bureau to try to guess what he
would approve of, but rather wants men to think a subject-matter
through and give their views, calling "a spade a spade," and
“letting the chips fall where they may.'"' The Director is fully
capable of deciding for himself among conflicting viewpoints.

To use any other approach is, I think, to render a disservice
to the Bureau,

This current situation reminds me that a number of years
ago it was pointed out that Inservice training, as it then
existed, was of very little, if any, vaiue to our field agents,
All the agents in the field knew this. However, when it was

CONTINUED~~~-OVER

~4-
SECRET

HW 55146 DocId:32989637 Page 9

 
 

 

oe @ ®@

Memorandum to :
The Director
Re: FBI Foreign Liaison Program

called to the Director's attention a number of Bureau officiais
{went to great lengths to insist that there was nothing wrong
‘with Inservice and that it*should remain as it existed at the
time. Change was opposed. The Director will recall the results
pf this controversy, for there was plenty wrong with Inservice.
{It had to be overhauled, and it was at the Director's instructions,

: Iam also reminded of a statement attributed to Tom Huxley
which, though uttered years ago, fits the present subject-matter
with rare exactitude. Huxley said that, when faced with a
difficult problem, one should give up all pre-conceived beliefs,
notions, prejudices and desires to please, and sit down with

an open mind before the evidence, and follow wherever it leads,
for otherwise no worthwhile contribution can be made.

I do wish, however, to point out that I think Mr, Felt
made a useful contribution and a most valid observation when he
commented favorably on the Mexico City Office (and I share his
view), and concluded, "However, Mexico City is an operational
office, whereas the others are not, and in my opinion this goes
to the crux of the matter."' Of course it does, and we should
not lose sight of this major and decisive fact, or inundate it

with irrelevant words.

SUMMATION

To sum up, Since the offices to which I have alluded
(in the first stage of this memorandum) were opened, we have
spent a total of $2,256,715, as of 6/15/71, It seems to me,
from the standpoint of efficient administration, this money
can be far better spent in the domestic field, where’ our primary
% responsibilities are and where our problems are increasing and
becoming ever more complex. I am sure none of us are wholly
satisfied with the way we are discharging our operational
| responsibilities in ail areas of the domestic field. Further,
we would be deluding ourseives if we believed that our Legal
Attache positions are not the "plums" of the Bureau. They
carry fine salaries, plus living allowances, opportunities
for foreign travei, et cetera. These positions do not even

CONTINUED ~-~~-~ OVER

 

. AW 55146 DocId:32989637 Page 10 .
ee OS™
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

, @ ®@

: SECRET
Memorandum to- .

The Director
Re: FBI Foreign Liaison Program

MI fail to see that it is worth the money being put into it. The
‘Legal Attache, H. L. Child, is in Grade GS 17, $36,000 per year.
i(Parenthetically, I am preparing a separate memorandum in regard

‘to salaries. For example, Mr. Child receives $36,000 a year and
lhas only. one man under him, with obviously very limited responsi-

, jbilities, whereas Mr. Courtland Jones of the Washington Field Office
| jhas over 200 men under him and is in Grade 14, $27,061 per annum,

i ji want to state without e¢quivocation that in my judgment Mr, Jones
pms more complicated and heavy responsibilities in one month

nee (continued)
i

than any of these Legal Attaches handle.in an entire year.)

 

I.recommend that the Tokyo Office be closed because the
product is not worth the huge sum wé hive-béeén spending on it.

BUENOS AIRES -

The Buenos Aires Office, since it was opened in March,
1965, has cost the Bureau $380,477, Again, I do not think what we
are getting out of this office is worth the large sum of money we
are putting into it. This is no criticism of the Legal Attache,

J. J. Wachter, who is a very able man and performed most creditably
when he was in the Dominican Republic.

 

——_

ualit
I recommend closing 1 the Buenos Aires Office for Jack of/ ,
productivity. (Once again, Iam aware that Ambassador ‘Lodge wants
Mr, Wachter there to assist him, and that Mr. Lodge is very friendly
to the Director and the Bureau.)

SECOND STAGE

In regard to the Second Stage, namely the Legal Attache
Offices which were opened up last Fail; I seriously | doubt. “the value.
to date of ali these offices _becausé™ they are purely liaison and
j not operational. Unless _they : are operational; along with other
‘1 offices we are not going to develop any high quality, hard, inteili-
\ gence information. In particular, I question to date the value of
3;| what we have received from Caracas, Venezuela; LaPaz, Bolivia;
il and Managua, Nicaragua, However, as these offices were opened
only last Fali, I “do not recommend closing them at this time,
tip~but rather recommend that the offices just mentioned, plus Tel _ Aviv,
| [Beizat, and Copenhagen, be allowed to continue for anothe¥ six
ifimonths, At the end of this time a searching, honest, objective,

j impartial analysis should be made to determine if the product
received from such offices is worth the money being spent; if not,
pu of them should be closed,

SECRET — conrinuED----oVER

-~ 3 -
HW 55146 DocId:32989637 Page @

 
 

 

 

 

 

: @ e
co SECRET
Memorandum to

The Director
Re: FBI, Foreign Liaison Program

 

I realize that Mr. R. E. Potocki, Assistant Legal Attache in

Paris, has been recommended to be the Legal Attache in Copenhagen;
however, if this is cancelled it would mean moving only Kolombatovic
to Copenhagen, léaving Potocki where he is, thereby keeping expenses
down.

(I am aware that Ambassador Hill asked to have an FBI man
assist him; that Mr. Hill is a personal friend of President Nixon; and
that it is said he intends to retire soon. If the Bureau wishes to
base its decision on this I have no further comment to’ make relative
to this office.)

HONG KONG -

~~" - This office was opened in April, 1966, and since then it

[has cost the Bureau $331,453, Again, I do not think we have in any.
; way received value from the office which would even approximate
| remotely the cost of this operation. On the other hand, I recognize
that Hong Kong is a sensitive area from the standpoint of Chinese
| intelligence operations. Therefore, I recommend that either the
present Legal Attache, Dan Grove, be returned to this country for
i obviously failing to make the office productive and a new Legat be
! pout in his place, or the Hong Kong Office be closed now. Mr. Grove
is in Grade 16, with salary of $29,067.

e

BERN, SWITZERLAND -
—— THs oftice was opened in October, 1961, and since then
it has cost $457,085. Again, I fail to see that the product coming
out of this office during the past ten years has in any way equaled
the large expense involved. In view of the fact that the Paris
Office can cover the situation at Bern, Switzerland, I'think the
unnecessary work in the Bern OfficS can “be 6 eTiminated and this

area should be covered by Paris. I recommend the closing of the
Bern Office.

Neen

eee

 

monet

TOKYO - : :

q This office was opened for a second time in November,
1954, and since then it has cost the Bureau $934,748, Again,

on examining, coldly and impartially, the product of this office

SECRET CONTINUED --~- OVER
- 2 -

 

MW 55146 Docld:32989637 Page 7
re ee DS

 
 

 

 

MR. MOHR , June 3, 1971
N. P. CALLAHAN , Ho ot
. ; . * “ . gs . ‘
’.-ESTIMATED COST OF PROPOSED ae
EXPANSION OF FOREIGN LIAISON 7

The Director noted on the attached memorandum from Mr. W.'R,. ,
Wannall to Mr. C. D. Brennan dated 5/28/71: "What is estimated cost of this
if approved?H."- |

‘* The proposed expansion would require the assignment of an
additional 29 employees (15 agents and 14 clerks) to Foreign Liaison. It is
anticipated that we will not ask for additional employees but we expect to take
the number from the 851 employees (500 Agenta and 351 clerks) in our fiscal year * sis
1972 request which begins on 7/1/71. The 29 employees if put on foreign assignment =|;
will cost the Bureau approxina tely $100,000 additional, We have not providedfor
such funds and if the project is undertaken, the funds will have to come from some |
other source in our budget such as equipment. If we keep taking money from our :
equipment item we will soon be operating with obsolete equipment, .

 

The total cost of foreign Haison operations would be increased in
by approximately $1,083,000 on an annual basis broken down as follows: Cote Z
(1) expansion of existing offices --$813, 680; (2) reopening of former offices=~ | :
$315,502; and (3) opening of three new offices ~-$463, 818, ys

A cr ACTION

.None. For information

i. ‘Mr. W. C. sBivan (sent direct)

-Mr. C. D. Srennan, "
i. Mr. W. BR. Wannall: " "
NPCigt oo , HESAB an Faw

3 | s3 pea)

  

 

HW 55146 DocId:32989637 Page 9
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

r [
f , % rs
~ ‘OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 r )

MAY 1962 EDITION.

GSA GEN, REG, NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum scores

TO : THE DIRECTOR

5010-106

cc Mr.

Mr.

. Mr.
Mr.
Mr.

FROM : We C. Sullivan

ia ,
SUBJECT:

e

pate: 6/16/71

Sullivan
Mohr
Brennan
Beaver

a Sullryan . 4. _
Wail ¥—

‘,

  

idhop . .

 

+ Callahan. .
Casper,

 

Tavel
Walters

Soyars EGS
Beaver _...
Tele. Room .
Holmes
Gandy

 

 

 

 

   
    
   
     
     

acne an cet em
peatansas ot een one en 7

HW 55148 “Docld:32989637

FBI FOREIGN LIAISON PROGRAM Dalbey

Mr. Feit

: ee
fe
. pie ft
This memorandum, with a11 ticklers attached (including
my own), is_being sent directly to you. I am doing this in
order to prevent any gossip that might circulate around the
Bureau had I taken the ticklers off and routed them, This will

give you an opportunity to consider the entire matter and decide
at what time you want to release the tickler copies.

As you know, this memorandum is predicated on your state-
ment, written on Mr. Felt's memorandum of 6/10/71 to Mr. Tolson,
which reads; "I would like to have from Sullivan a list of:
foreign offices he would recommend be closed new."

This complex subject matter will be handled in three
stages: First, I will discuss the offices to be closed now, or
within the foreseeable future. These relate to the long-established
foreign liaison offices, Second, I will discuss the liaison
offices which were opened during the latter part of 1970.

Third, I will make reference to the proposed expansion of foreign
jiaison and the proposed opening of additional foreign offices.

FIRST STAGE

MADRID, SPAIN -

I recommend the closing of this office now. It was re-
[ openea in Jane, 1969, Sincé that-timé thé opérational cost

has been $152,952,
The Legai Attache
|suestion st man.

The Legal Attache's salary is Grade 15, $25,867,
is Mr. V. V. Kolombatovic, whom I regard as an
However, the work is simply not there and I
that what we have received is worth the cost
office.

question strongly
of operating this

I believe consideration should be given to transferring
Mr. Kolombatovic to head the office in Copenhagen, where the
Legai Attache is being recalled because of a security violation.

 

CONTINUED ~-~-~- OVER

_.’ SECRET.
"BAG GUY

WCS;CSH (7)
“YY SRD

Classified by A383 —
Fxempt from GDS, Categor¥__
Date of Deciassification Indefinite

nae

Page 6

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JII - D (1 thru 7)

FBI LEGAL ATTACHES

RETAIN

 

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
: Unauthorized Disclosure
Subject to Criminal Sanctiong

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemt
nation outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by
your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person=

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Released under the John F.
ennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of
na92 (44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#iNil 55146 Date:
-12-2015

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9
. =. 3 OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 Ps 5010-106
. al MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN, REG. NO. 27
a % me AP

 

- @ UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT ay} we,
_ Maa J Cisy
. refikereC.D.
Memorandum a lade alle
. asper
SER Conrad ——
To : MR. TOLSON pare, 6/7/71 dalbey Zia
. . . : Gale
: ec Mr. Sullivan Tavel
FROM :W. C, Sullivan . Mr. Mohr Sones
: Mr. Callahan - Tele. Room
‘ Mr. Brennan Gane
SUBJECT: ESTIMATED COST OF PROPOSED wer
EXPANSION OF..FOREIGN LIAISON” ; - votes
wT .
a

Please refer to' the attached copy of a memorandum
\from Mr. Callahan to Mr. Mohr, dated 6/3/71. This memorandum
‘points out that the proposed expansion of foreign liaison
jwould result in an approximate cost of $1,083,000. In regard
to this matter, I must take what will be an unpopular position;
one which runs counter to the present trend.

{ Frankly, I do not think that what we are getting from
our foreign liaison offices warrants such a tremendous
expenditure. We must face up to the hard realities in this
matter, Specifically, I refer to the fact that, with the
ftexception of one office, we are operating on strictly a liaison
\ basis in foreign countries. We are not operational; therefore
‘ithe Kind of information we receive, in the main, cannot be
‘considered high quality, firm, positive intelligence data,
his is the kind of data in which the President is interested.

I recognize fully that there will be some who will
disagree with me, but as I follow and understand our foreign
liaison operations the more convinced I am that what we «+
receive falls into four main categories, i.e., &
(1) there is information given to us which is in the nature
of gossip;

‘(2) we receive opinions of native contacts in the countries
where we are, or in some instances people in. those countries,
foon other nations; RECS. hu ee

ow 2 AL

    

{ (3) we receive what might be called "planted" ‘information,
{expressly material which our native contacts give to us which
_ they want conveyed via the FBI to the White House or other
‘pertinent high-ranking U.S. officials----information that
\would serve the interests of their own countries; and
} (4) lastly, we do from time to time develop information that,
at least to us, appears to be of value, but this is not in
Suticient quantity to justify the expense of our operations.
he same can be said of data relating to our criminal

RDS
voubonsweanDesep A wh ass 93 cONDINUED __oveR
HES: CSH y- f ‘ 'Exempt from GDS, Category

ot
“ENT LOsure-~—— { Date of Declassification Indefinite SECRET
HW 55148 DocId:32989637 Page 3

 

e Fyn

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mr. Tolson SECRET

.

ate It is a matter of, common sense to conclude that

"je cannot develop hard, high quality, positive intelligence

tt by sending men to these countries only in a liaison capacity.

ts4They would have to be operational, with penetration of

ul communications and the development of covert sources in
sensitive areas. It would take years to actually develop
ioperationally in foreign countries to the point where the

\irresnee can be considered to be in depth and of great value,

It has been recommended, among other things, that we
reopen our office in Brazil. Some years ago I strongly recom-
mended closing that office because it was clearly unproductive.

There is no reason to believe now that it would be any more so.
l[vhe same is true of other offices.

It seems to me that the time has arrived to take a
very honest, cold, impartial look at our foreign liaison
operations. We should ask ourselves the question, "Would any

real harm be done this nation if, we did not expand and if a.

i number of | our current “‘Tiaison offices were_ closed, with” ‘the:
money “Saved thereby being put‘ to ‘Something ‘moré Worthwhile

(reas the manpower applied to our heavy domestic responsibilities?"

 

|
|

(

RECOMMENDATION -
NS For the information of the Director.

wn. Mriepay mane rd a ra
Aas ikon nwo Tt taal AEM AKS

Teas sory ae y

a eu Voge Le caagar Dracrinewrierad.

 

"I can't agree with ‘this. Certainly

_ the President & Dr. Kissinger have

| in writing & orally complimented pny
FBI on its liaison production abroad." ey

~-2-

SECRET

HW 55148 DoclId:32989637 Page 4

 

 
