 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
HW 53244

. . ; 1. .
that something behind the. Iron Curtain had been put in motion in his’
behalf, .Our investigation of this particular problem has come up with
the following results: ; ;
. In the first Place, both Chayes and NeVickar . have their dates ~
wrong. This does not reflect on their capabilities, because they are
; undoubtedly basing their conclusions upon State Department memoranda .
_Which were in turn based.upon statements made at the time by Oswald
hinseLf, and subsequent investigation has shown that these were probably
inaccurate. Oswald's American passport, which he of course had in his
possession at the tame he traveled to Russia, was subsequently surrendered. :
to the Department of State, after he was repatriated, and has since been —
placed in the hands of the Commission. Stamps on this passport show that
the Soviet Tourist Visa was issued (not ‘applied for) in Heélsinid on.
October 1h.. Confidential information made available from a source which
the CIA says is "very reliable" relates that Oswald arrived by airplane
from,London in Helsinki on October 10. Everything we know about his trip :
‘points to the fact that he proceeded to his destination, } Moscow, as rapidly
and as ‘directly as his financial resources would permit. | Despite state-
ments made to fellow travelers along the way that he was only a tourist
or "just a student on his way to college," he in fact wasted no tine in
sightseeing but made connections as rapidly as he reasonably could.

" Therefore, although we have no direct evidence indicating when he first’

applied for a visa, it seems highly probable that he applied for it as . 7

soon as he arrived in Helsinki, namely, on the 10th of October. Perhaps,
however ? his airplane srrived in. -Helsinic. too late for him to have

reached the Consulate before it closed, that evening. Should this have

 

DoclId: 32209897 Page 2.

 
. .. Date: 08/12/93
: . : : . ‘Page: 1.
‘JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM’ ~

_ IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION — :
; : . * Released 3 under the John
, AGENCY: WC. _-F. Kennedy
‘RECORD NUMBER : 179-40001- 710256 © Wesassination Records
: Ollection Act of 1992

   

" RECORDS SERIES : an (44 USC 2107 Note).
27: REP 3 ., ; ne ase#:NWU 53244 Date:
; i ve 6-13-2017

 

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

‘ORIGINATOR :
us ' FROM. :
TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 00/00/00 © me Ne -
PAGES : 16 ;
’ SUBJECTS ::

OSWALD, LEE, FOREIGN ACTIVITIES:. SUMMARY OF EVIDENCE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: S ;
_ RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P.
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: / /

OPENING CRITERIA :
'-COMMENTS :

P. 17, 20, 56, 77, 86, 92- 3, 97- 8, 100- 2, 104, 106, 109- 10; ‘COLEMAN- SLAWSON
MEMO; 2 COPIES; BOX co2

‘{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 53244 Docld:32209897 Page 1
FOP -SEEREF—

-100-
Gutierrez came around a corner of a wall and tumped into the Cuban wih was
talking with the American, thereby seeing ther: bota for a split second
face-to-face. He apologized, the Cuban gracicusly accepted the apology,
and all three men inmediately continued walking in their respective directions.
When he overheard their conversation, however, which mst have been resumed
almost instantaneously, Gutierrez turned arourd to get another look. Thus,
he got a good look only of the backs of both men. Likewise, when he followed
them to their automobile, he saw them only from a iistance and again only

“their backs. The conclusion of the FBI representatives assigned to this

case is that Gutierrez probably did see money being passed to a man who
appeared to be an American, but that whether that nan was Lee Harvey
Oswald is by no means certain.

From reviewing his work schedule, which 1e says he rigorously
adhered to, Gutierrez is able to fix the time at waich he must have seen
the Cuban and the American as 10:50 a.m. on October 1,. give or take a very
few minutes. From the CIA wire-tapping facilities in Mexcico City we know
that at exactly 10:30 acm, on October 1 Lee Hervey Oswald telephoned into
the Soviet Embassy and spoke very briefly with somzone there. The con-
versation was short because he was not able to reach the person who was
handling his case (the Consul) and therefore was quickly asked to call back
on a different number. We do not know, nor do we have any way of finding
out, from where Oswald was telephoning. At 11.230 a.m., exactly, he
telephoned the number which had been given to him at 10:30 a.m. - the
Russian Consulate - and had a slightly longer conversation about whether
the telegram sent to Washington had been answered. The Cuban and Russian
Consulates in Mexico City are located very close to one another, only

 

AW 53244 DocId: 32209897 Page 3
HW 53244

TOP-SECRET

~100—
Gutierrez came around a corner of a wall and bumped into the Cuban who was
talking with the American, thereby seeing them both for a split second
face-to-face. He apologized, the Cuban graciously accepted the apology,
and all three men inmediately continued walking in their respective directions.
When he overheard their conversation, however, which must have been resumed
almost instantaneously, Gutierrez turned around to get another look. ‘Thus,
he got a good look only of the backs of both men. Likewise, when he followed
them to their automobile, he saw them only fron a distance and again only
their backs. The conclusion of the FHI representatives assigned to this
case is that Gutierrez probably did see money being passed to a man who
appeared to be an American, but that whether that man was Lee Harvey
Oswald is by no means certain. .

From reviewing bis work schedule, which he says he rigorously
adhered to, Gutierrez is able to fix the time at which he must have seen
the Cuban and the American as 10:50 a.m. on October 1, give or take a very
few minutes. From the CIA wire-tapping facilities in Mexico City we know
that at exactly 10:30 a.m. on October 1 Lee Harvey Oswald telephoned into
the Soviet Embassy and spoke very briefly with someone there. The con-
versation was short because he was not able to reach the person who was
handling his case (the Consul) and therefore was quickly asked to call back
on a different number. We do not Imow, nor do we have any way of finding
out, from where Oswald was telephoning. At 11:30 a.m., exactly, he
telephoned the number which had been given to him at 10:30 a.m. - the
Russian Consulate - and had a slightly longer conversation about whether
the telegram sent to Washington had been answered. The Cuban and Russian
Consulates in Mexico City are located very close to one another, only

— TOP-SECRET

DocId:32209897 Page 4
