 

 

 

 

 

AW 55120

Doct

     

 

Fh 88

1s for specific counterintel ligence
meet separate commmications and the
vill be submitted beginning 1-1-65.

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Mermoranaduint — x

DIRECTOR, FBI pare: 10/12/64

TO

 

   

COU
INFERNAL SECURITY
DISRUPTION OF HATE GROUPS

 

 

ReBulet 93/2/64 to Atlanta and other offices.
sts as one of the target organizatio

is suggested it be deleted from this List.

Tt is noted this letter li tion
as Wo. 7 on page 2, the Ind epenes mt Klavern, Fountain Inn, S. c.
Since this organization is no longer active or in existence, it

n Charlotte Division

rganization i
ica, Inc., of which Birmingham is
er is being designated to Birmingham

owing represents the consensus of Charlotte
i

ivity should not be undert
meral rule, uniess there
nformant coverage to be
instituted. Such
ghten up" the organization
informant in thereafter.

 @
y
oO

sy
Q

 

B

idereda doubt tut that newspat

ve in reducing new applicant
resent members to drop out The
ch nas wide distribution throughout Nox
lished in August and September, 19

a
oO
y

 

che

 
 

Bureau by Charlot
: Unite

    

 
 

     
 

 

  

mw Ot
1 O rh O

 

thing : t have the backing of the

governor since he has indicated such to them. This type of
thing, of course, will be used at places where technical
installations are not feasible or productive.

sticipate with the governor in press

ts of klansmen when appropriate. This
sts in McComb, Mississippi,
gs in that area. — ,

4. Will pa
vceleases on the arres

“bombtn:

     

_ 5. Information has been developed through an informant
that a faction of the klan is interested in putting another
man in office rather’ than the present person. More information
is being obtained on this so as to exploit all possibilities .
and ereate dissention among the leaders, and by doing so the
opportunity may present itself to have the informant But in a

The above is some of the potential counterintelligence
action contemplated by this office. Lit is being studied on a —
day to day basis. The Bureau will be furnished with complete
details on all the above plans as the opportunities are made -
and present themselves, prior to any specific action being
taken by this office. . :

ACTION GROUPS
Recent actions of violence in McComb, Mississippi,
were for the most part believed to be carried out by an “action
group’, As a result of an intensive investigation and informant
coverage, 11 men were arrested. One had a membership card in
the Xu Klux Kian and another a card for membership in the
“Americans for the Preservation of the White Race”. Some

| HW 55120 Docld: 39989629 Page 8

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

pes areal UNSUBS; EXPLOSION “oN LAN OF “RES
ORNROSSERy- NATORERS;-MESSISSERRI, 9+25- 64, stated “that a an
Investigates of the Mississippi Highway Safety Patrol QHSP)
dvised he was instructed by Gevazner-PAUE-B+-JOHNSON to
orm Adams—County.Sheriff QGDELL~ANDERS- that the -gevernor
was sericusly considering sending the National Guard into
sxéams County to close down all gambling and liquor activity
in the. county. Sheriff -ANSERS advised he is in the process
o£ contacting ali gambling and liquor establishments in Adams
County to inform operators’ that if pertinent information regarding
Ss possession by October 15 he.

    

 

ye

   
 

d
a
Nazeher bombings are not-in hi I
will close all such establishments on October 16.

The Jackson office will, in each instant that presents

itself in other localities and counties, arrange for similar
action and fellow through on each. ; ;

2. Repeated contacts and constant interviews of”

This has been & done since e July, “1964, and is being
This has a three fold purpose. It lets the klensmen

 

A
f

 

 

know the FBI is interested and will be around, It also enables
FBI to know theix whereabouts on that day, become better
acquainted with their habits and gain more background information
vezarding the person being interviewed. -In several instances
during such interviews it has been possible to convert certain
kiensmen into informants, During interviews of klansmen who
are compktely unco-operative and who want to know how we got
cheiz name and why they are being interviewed we can flip
Ehrough the cards and pick out a name of another klansman who
is compa etely unco-operative. This is a disruptive tactic
which can breed suspicion among themselves,

P 3

. ; .
| q

232989629 Page 7 ~ .

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nr eee

DSYATES GOVE “MENT : . a

   

UNE aL
sn ” — le a
themorandum ~~
yo; DIRECTOR, FBI ot pats: 10-15-64

PROGRAM,

NEERNAL SECURITY, .
DISRUPTION OF HATE GROUPS - ne

 

 

Re Bureau letter to Atlanta dated 9-2-64, = 8° .._..
To implement a counterintelligenceé program as
= referenced letter, this office has been and will

Oo penetrate kian and hate organizations with -

er formant coverage. This ‘is the first step to learn

the complete organizational structure, members, their activities,
sympathizers and followers, action they plan, including actions
of violence and distrection of property.

 

iv activities, etce., are detexmined through
D x ac

 

xoper action can be taken to disrupt and
etivities and efforts can be directed to
ms, In addition, those specifically

8
z
rh

 

sul actions are determined through informant .
coverag

 

Informant coverage will be specifically concentrated
on the White Rni the Ku Klux Klan since this is the ©
largest and most important of-fhe klan groups in Mississippi.
Othex pertinent organizations considered for counterintelligence
action are: - , -

 

 

issippi Knights of the Ku Klux Klan.
ed Kians of America, Inc.,

shts of the Ku Kiux Klan,

ieans for the Preservation of the White Race. ~

7 nes

 

 

HW 55120 DocId:32989629 ‘Page 5

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ney iduals to first consider are the
Knights of the Ku Klux Klan. They

iM a,

SAMUBE BOWERS, -—Laurel Mississippi, imperial Wizar
soutys HARPER: - Crystal ‘Springs; Ee ldrserness Grand
“Dagon , oo
BIEEY BUCKLES ; Roxie, .Mississippi, Grand Giant .
+ -Ce IARRINGTON, Ruth, Mississippi, > Staten Organizer
TLBERT ».. Brookhaven,, . Mississippt,- Chiet of
Klans’ -Bureau of. Investigation(KBI)
PAUL FOSTER, Natchez, ‘Mississippi, State Chaplain
ACE WEATHERS, Hattiesburg; Mississippi, Contact
Leader .fox the County and Secretary’

 

 

 

   

 

Informant coverage will be supplemented by technical
ons where pact ical. Specificall 2 ae has been

g esp cially built for this ‘purpose in Gopiah
hese méetings are held on a weekly basis. The
in a rural area several miles from the nearest town
ess by only one road, During meetings guards are
trategic points outside the building to insure
xiv vacy. An appropriate survey is being made to
he feasibility of a technical installation in this
. The- Bureau will-be advised by separate communication
g this. Other logical points are being determined for
s type of coverage.

   

ma

lou ate)

 

ch

CCUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTION

1. Ltaison is established with the governor’s office
to bring pressure to bear on local officials, such as mayors,
chiefs o£ police, sheriffs, etc., to solve recent bombings, .
church burnings, and other acts of viclence. :

nh

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

; The Senate Select Committee (SSC) letter of
July 14, 1975, to K. William O'Connor, Esq., requested
a response to Item #3.

Item #3 is set forth as follows:

"All memoranda and any other materials which
relate to or reflect discussions about the Ku Klux Klan
at the Executive Conference held on October 1, 1958, and
all memoranda and any other materials which relate to or
reflect recommendations, proposals, and decisions made
either prior to or following said conference."

A diligent, extensive, exhaustive search was
. conducted in an effort to obtain a copy of the minutes
of the Executive Conference held on October 1, 1958.
However, this search disclosed no memorandum reflecting
an Executive Conference being held on October 1, 1958.
Executive Conference memoranda for the year 1958 were
reviewed. This review did not disclose any memorandum 4
which related to discussions about the Ku Kiux Klan.

 

 

ei 55120 Docld:32989629 Page 2

 
 

 

The Senate Select Committee (SSC) letter of
July 14, 1975, to K. William O'Connor, Esq., requested
a response to Item #3.

Item #3 is set forth as follows:

"All memoranda and any other materials which
relate to or reflect discussions about the Ku Klux Klan
at the Executive Conference held on October 1, 1958, and
all memoranda and any other materials which relate to or
reflect recommendations, proposals, and decisions made

either prior to or following said conference."

A diligent, extensive; exhaustive search was
conducted in an effort to obtain a copy of the minutes
of the Executive Conference held on October 1, 1958.
However, this search disclosed no memorandum reflecting
an Executive Conference being held on October 1, 1958.
Executive Conference memoranda for the year 1958 were
reviewed. This review did not disclose any memorandum
which related to discussions about the Ku Klux Klan.

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection act of 1992 (44

 

 

 

AW 55120 DocId:32989629 Page 1

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIT NMENT

SD STATES GON

EMOTENAUT

  

 
  
     
       
 
 
 
 
      
      
     
      

xe) :
” :
yROMS 2
as
SUBJECT: SE

ReBulet 9/15/64.

e Jacksonville

 

  

S

vadios nor
code,

whew
RUnDSL OF

Da

 
  
  

bt 0

wh

Bobb ck GQ pe

      
 

 

 

is its informants, particularly
Lt ma ad will promptiy advise the
5 yer int received indicating the Xlan
ho ple miss 1@ Dlanning stages wherein :
Pa bone an part. Depending upon the
ou he "miss could be formulated for some -——
ds tacks on itseli. , : :

  
  
      
    
   
     
 

 

a .
DATE: 9/23/64
°
CGRAM
= . :
Ss.

a

ere

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
   
 
    
       

NMENT . , -

orandum ~

  

“O : DIRECTOR, FBI . DATE: 9/23/64

SUBJECT: 2OCAAM

 

The Jacksonville Office has carefully noted the
obvious intent of reBulet and agrees that there is a real
x for taking some counter-— intelligence
Klan through this. medium.

   
 
 
 
 
  

Was ré-conte eted and he stated at the
is no additional information concerning
vadios nor has the local Klan in Jackson—
ny code, This would indicate that at the
&@ nunber of local Kiansmen have radios,
ity to introduce deceptive transmissions
missions" on the planning board. The
venorted that it is anticipated addi-
purchase more two-way radio equipment
ative of an expansion in plans of the
4 To date there ca |

 

 
   

 

to use this me
beer no operation o
tions have played an

  
  

   

© two-way radio communica-

 
    
 
 

  

niorments, particularly
1 promptly advise the

in ed indicating the Klan
Ang stages ‘wherein

 
 

    
 

   

w
1
iN]
oo

it O 4S seh]
oO Fb [5

  
 
   

itself. : .

 

HW 55120 DocId:32989629 Page 4

 

 
