Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017

Letter to Director
NY 92-632-Sub B

 

‘With respect to information concerning locations
. £xequented by NYC hoodlums, information has been received
' from NY 2151%¢ oncerning a closed, member, Brooklyn social
‘club, curren being frequented by hoodlums ,6£ importance,
such as JOHYJODDO, wa. ‘Johnny Bathbeach", JOP/SCHIPANL, and
other _hood1um. _associates. Informant regularly frequents this
club, “and it is contemplated informant will be of assistance ,

in the event the club lends itself to investigation by con-
fidential installations.

In further attempts to obtain maximum coverage, >:
certain closed informant files have been reviewed on a select
basis and a number of these files have been reopened for use
as souxces in the top hoodlum program, This review determined
that a certain percentage of these closed sources. had furnished
significant information concerning mob activity and GIIF in-
formation but had not furnished sufficient information in
Bureau cases to sustain their status... These sources are being '
recontacted to determine their current value in this program.

Also included in this particular category is former NY 956-C, i
who was released from a NY State prison during early Nov., . |
1958.. This informant has previously furnished information
concerning mob activity, and arrangements are being made to
recontact him to determine if he will be in a position to : ‘
furnish information of interest in this program. '

_The NYO also plans to use former San Juan 414-C
who recently moved to NYC for the purpose of participating
in the operation of a numbers bank. Initial contact has
been made with this informant and a letter assigning him a
NY symbol number is being prepareda

Accomplishment (Dissemination)

In addition to a number of matters which have
’ peen disseminated to other agencies, which will not be dis-
cussed in detail here, is the following situation which is
felt sufficiently noteworthy to be discussed briefly as
follows: .

 

 

-7- §
, }
Eee

 

| DocId: 32327763 Page 5
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 USC. 2107 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017 a : .

‘ id -
Say
°

Letter to Director :
NY 92-632-Sub B

followed effectively through the use of this source. This
source should also prove to be a valuable addition to current
coverage of mob activity in Brooklyn, }

 
 
  
   
   

dd, NY 211-c furtished —
SALERNO, wa. "Fat Tony",
dously furnished by

tion, resulted ina vy

-.-—s« During this period since 8/15}
extensive information concerning ANTHO!
which, when coupled with information p
this informant and other available inf
‘new case being opened on SALERNO.

 

  
   

It is noted that SALERNO is reputed to be MIKE
COPPOLA'S representative in East Harlem, NYC, and among other
ctivity, bosses the biggest numbers operation in the NY
2tropolitan area.

Concerning coverage of logical meeting places for
hoodlums in NYC, a new PCI case has been opened on the manager
of the Chateau Gardens, a lower East Side catering hall known
to be used regularly by hoodlums for such gatherings as wedding
receptions and christenings which have in the past. been shown
to be a convenient way for hoodlums to meet. The NYO has re-
ceived this individual's full cooperation in obtaining discreet
‘coverage of one gathering to date in which this office had an
interest, and this PCI has indicated he will alert the NYO to :
future gatherings believed to be of interest to the Bureau. |

NY 2412-c, a hoodlum recently qualified as a new
Cl, has for many years operated various rackets in Brooklyn
such as bookmaking, numbers, shylocking, and was a well-known
receiver of stolen merchandise on a large scale. This in-
formant knows and has associated with many of the major
hoodlums in Brooklyn, NY, and his recent development as a
criminal informant should prove extremely valuable both to
the Top Hoodlum Program and in hijacking and other criminal ;
activity in which the NYO has an interest. Because of
excellent underworld connections and respect built up over
“the years as boss of his own operation, this informant is

 

SSG ee gre ps

 

Docld:32327763 Page 2
 

 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017 ‘ JFK Assassination System Date: 5/21/201
: Identification Form

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90066-10004

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 62-9-34-262

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI ,

FROM: NY
TO: HQ
TITLE

DATE: — 11/13/1958 -

PAGES: 12
SUBJECTS
SALVATORE GRANELLO
TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : MEMO

 

v9.1 4
Docld:32327763 Page 1
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017 coos . . : :
a

Letter to Director
NY 92-632-Sub B

in the desired strata in the NYC underworld which should enable
him to develop information on the upper levels necessary in
this program. :

; Another source currently being converted. to a CI
has furnished extensive information concerning the West Side
NYC mob previously run by NYO top hoodlum JOHN MICHAEL) EARLE,
who was murdered in NYC in June, 1958.” “This source is regulayly
furnishing current information on the activities of the r
of. this mob and concerning the attempt by a member, EDD
to take over the mob and sustain its operation. Of particular 4, /’
importante with respect to the placement of this source is the...
tendency of members of the EARLE mob to participate in crimes '
within the Bureau's jurisdiction, it being noted that 6 members
of this group are currently serving lengthy prison sentences in
Atlanta Penitentiary. most of which were imposed in NYO bank '
robbery cases. This source has also been used recently by this
mob to pass messages between the mob in NYC and the above- ;
mentioned members in the Atlanta Penitentiary. :

 

 

 

NY 34-C has furnished information regarding NYO top
hoodlum CARMINEXGALANTE'S meeting two NYC judges, identified by Theil,
! . informant as HELDER and DI 'FALCO, in Paris, France, during 1957 serene

; and defraying their expenses on that occasion.

t has been determined that NYC Judges SAMUEL{DI FALCO

R were registered at a Paris hotel at the\ same France .
ge, 1957, and it was also determined that GALANTE ,
ONANNO, Phoenix top hoodlum, formerly from Brooklyn, 4 be
were in P&ris together during Oct., 1957. GALANTE and BONANNO ¥) 7) #<'h¢,
were sufsequently in Italy in Nov., 1957, just prior to the /y, he
Apalachfin meeting, 11/14/57, which BONANNO was known to have™-—~-~—~—=
attended. Frequent reports have also been received that

GALANTE was present at this meeting although his presence

went: undetected. ; ;

  
  
 

 

 

With relation to the July, 1958, murder of CHRISTOFORO
RUBINO, a hoodlum reportedly closely connected with LUCKY

 

 

 

DoclId:32327763 Page 3
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote}.
DATE: 11-14-2017 “ . so

ony : seek

Letter to Director
NY 92-632-Sub B

‘ LUCIANG and at the time of his murder under indictment in |
a Federal narcotics conspiracy case in the EDNY, information
was received from NY 169-C regarding an allegation made by

' two Brooklyn hoodlums that members of the Brooklyn underworld

-had received information from a "DA" in connection with the
narcotics case in which RUBINO was named as a defendant.
During subsequent contacts by this informant with these
hhoodlums, information was developed that the "DA" was named

- SOVIERO. This informant also learned that members of the’
underworld had suspected that a few racket people might. be’.
ready to do some talking and that the killing of RUBINO was

_ also to serve as a lesson to others who might have a tendency
to inform,

It is nogfed that immediately following RUBINO'S ~~
murder, AUSA JOSEPHYSOVIERO, JR., EDNY, issued a press release
to the effect that RKVBINO was scheduled to appear before ay A
Federal Grand Jury in\ Brooklyn within a week from the time he-——"~
was murdered and was expected to be a cooperative witness:
regarding the operation of the narcotics ring in question.

NY 169-C later advised during Sept., 1958, that a
source told informant that SOVIERO ''got some heat from someone
in the Government"' and had left the USA'S office for fear of ‘
trouble and questioning. Informant was also told at this time
that SOVIERO was going to work for the State of NY as an
attorney. In the course of informant's conversation with his
hoodlum sources, informant was told that SOVIERO had been
given a quiet dinner a short time before in Manhattan, NY, at
which /time SOVIERO was given $15,000. The informant was told
tha money paid SOVIERO had been furnished directly b
VITOXGENOVESE. /y ,/“, ,
oo . Seramoem

t

 

It was subsequently determined that JOSEPH SOVIERO ;
had resigned from the USA'S Office, EDNY, on 9/12/58 and. took
employment in the office of NY State Attorney General LOUIS J. i
LEFKOWITZ. . ;

ah a oc oS

 

DoclId:32327763 Page 4
