ST, - CONFIDENTT NTRACT

various reasons, it remains a highly restricted issue,

é Despite this minor misconception, for which the author, wes
cannot be blamed, _ the Wise book is otherwise factually
correct and is another cautionary tale Management should

bear in mind.

e : le Se t Worl Le arvey Oswa by Edward
Jay Epstein; The Reader's Digest Press/McGraw-Hill Book
Company (New York, N.Y.), 1978=--382 pages

Epstein is a ign bright and able writer who took his
MA at Cornell and his doctorate in government at Harvard
(1972). He had made a name for himself with his book
Inquest; The Warren Commission and the Establishment of
Truth, done as his master's thesis at Cornell. As. one of
the first serious works to expose the shortcomings of the
Commission, it sold well and made Epstein momentarily well
known. Epstein became aware of the Nosenko case through the
Reader's Digest, from which he became acquainted with James
Angleton. Their association flourished and Angleton became
Epstein's major source on Nosenko and the issues surrounding
him, Eventually The Reader's Digest sponsored Epstein's
research to the tune of $500,000. The book was a best
seller, projecting Epstein into the forefront of those who
were popular exponents of the ideas of Angleton. Following
the. publication of Legend, Epstein wrote numerous articles
for New York magazine, Commentary, and other publications,
mostly~-though . not siveye--supportive of the Angleton

theories.

Legend is in fact two books: the first is about
Nosenko and the Angleton belief that he was part of a KGB
deception operation while the second is about Oswald's
service in the Marine Corps in Japan where it is suggested

he acquired information about the u-2 flights flown from the Cc

airfield on which he was Stationed as well as his later

-CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONT CT

“HW.53320.. Docld:32397298. Page 9 . Ll Sas me
AW 53320

a

/

{
1
l
\

DocId: 32397298 ,Page 10

\ they read the Fieldhouse/Snowdon study on Nosenko

 

sojourn in the Soviet Union. In brief, Epstein accepted
Angleton's conclusion that. "Nosenko was a Soviet
intelligence agent dispatched by the KGB expressly for the
purpose of delivering disinformation ‘to the CIA, FBI and
Warren Commission." In this scheme of things, Oswald, the
supposed lone assassin of President Kennedy,.likely was
working for the KGB; Nosenko said this was not true, but,
therefore, by the logic in Legend-~it is. Oswald the ex-
Marine who defected to the USSR in 1959 and returned three
years later, had been living a "legend," a false biography
concocted for him by the KGB. Amongst these two stories is
a central theme, carefully stated but always present, which
is that. the highest level of the intelligence community, and
certainly the CIA, is penetrated by a Mole! working for the
KGB. Although by 1978 this "mole" had not been found, the
best proof that he existed rested in the assertion of
Nosenko that he knew of no penetration, which contradicted
statements made to the contrary by a "Mr. Stone," who proves
to be Anatole Golitsyn. Epstein thus promoted the Angleton
twin beliefs of deception and penetration by the KGB which

was enshrined in his concept which came to be derisively

 

called "The Monster Plot.") For CIA officers who wish to

 

learn the full story of the Nosenko case, it is recommended

‘commissioned by then pcr Casey in 1981. en “ee

 

In his source notes, Epstéin is quite frank in stating
that his work is based on interviews with Nosenko ana
retired CIA officers. He then lists a number including
Gordon Stewart, Admiral Turner, Richard Helms, James
Angleton and members of his CI Staff, Willian Sullivan and
Sam Papich of the FBI, and others connected with the
Golitsyn and Nosenko ases. Although Epstein is careful to
ion his sources by never quoting them verbatim or
airectiy,( P by As) leas that a number of CIA officers had

provided “immense amount of classified information to

     
 

18

CONFIDENTIAL WN QCONTRACT

   
 
AW 53320 ..DocId: 32397293 . Page @ vine

    

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN

but instead he lenf it impetus by suggesting the Mounties
consult Golitsyn. That sealed Bennett's doom and brought
his dismissal from the service although no substantial

evidence existed against him and he passed his polygraph

‘tests. The case tore the Mounties: apart and furthermore Nees

gave ammunition to those who argued! the Security Service
should be removed from the RCMP. Within a few years Canada
had a civilian security service. Sawatsky's book drew

considerable attention in canada but little in America,

In 1988, one year after Angleton's death, Epstein
produced his book called Deception. In the years between
Legend and Deception Epstein had become something of a
specialist on the subject of Soviet disinformation and
deception. These twin subjects, along with "active
measures" (to which they are related), wet! occupied a
number of scholars and writers during the 1980s. in this
they were assisted by the testimony of several Soviet
defectors, including the indefatigable Golitsyn who added
his own volume to the field called New Lies for 0 id, whose
turgid prose had to be endlessly rewritten before it was

i

rendered readable. | oy

Epstein's book Deception, like its predecessor, is
really in two parts. The second part in which he describes
various deceptions practiced throtigh the centuries can be
ignored as it Says nothing new. / IW te the first 105 pages
that are of interest, wherein he repeats the old theories
about Nosenko, and then in the section "Acknowledgments"
names all his sources for the years past: Angleton, Bagley,
Miler, Sullivan, etc. He also indicates in this part that
his informants understood crearly they. were providing him
with classified information. ce: ‘is an astonishing set of
revelations. (xe is difficult to avoid the feeling that this
book is Epstein's last hurrah, at least in the world of
intelligence. He senses with glasnost the days of the

; 15

con OCONTRACT

 
  

NOFORN NOCONTRACT

supporters. It came as no surprise when ten years later

4 (and after Angleton's death). Epstein admitted his sources to
have been Angleton, Bagley, Miler, and other supporters.
Despite some negative reviews such as George Lardner's in
The Washington Post, which denounced the book as
"essentially dishonest," the book sold well and was. very
important in spreading Angleton's ideas of a super KGB
manipulating American society and politics via its
sophisticated deception apparatus.

‘

The theme of Legend is extended in a novel which
appeared in 1980 called The Spike by Arnaud de Borchgrave
and Robert Moss. Be Borchgrave, soon to be editor of the
new Washington Times and Moss, then editor of "The Blue
Economist," were close friends and admirers of Angleton,
whose conspiracy theories largely jibed with their own.

Moss had been spreading bogus Angleton propaganda in his
sheet for some time, an example being his claim Golitsyn haa
provided the lead to Philby. This caught the eye of then
DCI Turner, who inquired of the CI staff. ‘The latter
replied from solid knowledge that Golitsyn could only be
credited for an assist on Vassal and none on Philby or
Blunt.

_ The low quality and general crudeness of theme in The
‘Spike exceeds that even of the Latham novel. Briefly, it
told the story of a young liberal taken in by leftists who
came to realize his error thanks to timely guidance received
“from an elderly former CIA counterintelligence officer who
had been fired by a Director obviously acting on the
Kremlin's directions. Moscow's secret designs are revealed
by a KGB high level defector whose escape is managed by MI~6

. because the CIA is so penetrated it could not be trusted
with the mission. The KGB defector then uncovers the Soviet
agents in the White House, CIA and elsewhere and the wise
old counterintelligence chief, obviously meant to be

11 ;
CONFIDE ORN NOCONTRACT *

AW..53320...DocId: 32397298.) Page, Foo cen

   
SoS acer

WR 53320

’ CONFID _NOFORN NOCONTRACT

for negligence of duty. This task was given to his loyal
aide, N.S. Miler. Miler took on the job but found he was
his own researcher as well as secretary. Foreseeing a dim

future of virtual servitude, he took his family and withdrew

to remote New Mexico.

Angleton's activities in this period, while not
neglecting the idea of KGB penetration, focused more

immediately on his strong belief in the threat from the KGB

of deception and disinformation. To support this thesis he

continually raised the issue of Nosenko.
“th&t caught fire amongst some of his supporters and led to a

sort of cottage industry in which Many academics and think

tank specialists propagated the theory. Oddly, however,

Angleton's allies in Great Britain took a different line.
There they concentrated on KGB penetration largely because

events threw up some exceptional examples, such as Sir

Anthony Blunt. Because of the so-called Cambridge "Ring of

Five," public attention was more easily caught by the idea

of moles in Her Majesty's government. This eventually led

to much embarrassment for the Thatcher government,

culminating in the "Spycatcher" trial in Australia in 1986.

8
CON; ENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRAC?T

Docld:32397298 Page 5 7. one

£4 iaea Lush

NY
| XSONPEDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

endeavor, Angleton was on surer ground. For starters, he

4 had the support of the large number of FBI retirees as well
as many from CIA. This was the period when the Pike and
Church committees in the Congress were in full cry and a
number of ex-intelligence people who believed Congress had
gone too far were rallying a defense. (David Phillips was
also starting the Association of Former Intelligence
Officers.) The drive by Angleton was very successful; over
$600,000 was raised and six months after its founding SIF
was reported to have more than 17,000 members. Angleton was
made chairman with his friends in senior positions. But
your soon after, the US Attorney General decided not to
pursue the prosecution of the FBI men and the reason for SIF
more or less evaporated. NiSiever, “khgneton converted it
into a forum by which he spread information about what he
saw as various forms of Soviet deception and it continued
into the next decade until, after Angelton's death and the
coming of glasnost, it withered away.

The publication of Legend in 1978 provided enormous
stimulus to the deception idea by suggesting the Soviet
defector, Yuriy Nosenko, had been sent by the KGB to provide
a cover story for Oswald. Epstein had made a small
reputation with an earlier book on the Warren Commission
called Inquest, which was generally well received because it
pointed out some obvious inadequacies in the Warren
Commission report. In Legend,’ Epstein wrote what in effect
were two books: one focused on Oswald's Marine career in.
Japan, his time in Russia‘and then his return to America;
while the second portrayed Nosenko as playing a key rolein
a major KGB deception operation intended to provide cover
for Oswald (and the Soviet government) as well as to negate
the effects of Golitsyn's revelations. As so much
classified information could only have come fron a person or
persons with intimate knowledge of the Nosenko case, blame
for the leakage naturally focused on Angleton and his

10
i NOFORN NOCONTRACT .

HW ,53320 DocId:32397298 Page 6 a : Fo angeeg ete eeenagae panne oe
   

DENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

DRAFT

May 1992

Teste mae net tat et dt ae AONE RTE NEN A ns mele naan ee eae
a

A_REVIEW OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE LITERATURE, 1975 ~ 1992

By Cleveland Cc. Cram

| NOTE: - Final version will have. proper

page breaks, etc.

 

—GONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

AW 53320 DocId:3239729% Page 2
we

 

Date: 02/18/00
Page: 1

' JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
Released under the John

 

AGENCY : CIA : Kennedy
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10431-10107 . Assassination Records
RECORD SERIES : JFK : collection Act of 1992
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE (44 Use 2107 Note).

ase#iNU 53320 Date:
DOCUMENT INFORMATION R&23:201"

 

 

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM : CLEVELAND C. CRAM
TO :
TITLE : A REVIEW OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE LITERATURE,
1975-1992.
DATE : 05/00/92
PAGES : 18
SUBJECTS : OSWALD
: NOSENKO
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT .
CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/22/98
OPENING CRITERIA : 8
COMMENTS : JFK-RH18:F20 1998:12.22.15:03:47:250108: THE ORIGINAL

DOCUMENT CONTAINS 103 PAGES; ONLY THE ATTACHED 18
PAGES ARE JFK RELEVANT.

AW 53320 DocId:32397298 Page 1
 

AYW..53320

DocId: 32397298 Page 3

 
   

TIAL NOFORN. NOCONTRACT

Introduction

The year 1974 was a watershed in literature about the
cra. beicr“to that time therefnad been\yety tow books /
critical of the Agency and they had been by outsiders;
usually professional journalists such as Wise and Ross.

Most books had been GAtnbe neutral or even positive, ,
especially those written by former Agency officials such as
Allen Dulles and Lyman Kirkpatrick. But in 1974 a
disgruntled former Agency employee, Philip Agee, published
his highly critical book, Inside the Company: CIA Diary.

He was followed by others in quick succession: J. B. Smith,
John Stockwell, victor Marchetti (with J. D. Marks), and R.
W. McGehee--placing highly confidential information in the
public Gonainy These ay thors _pgeally made their disclosures
about oun eS8ei geet see had special knowledge BE
interst, but the cumulative effect was to breach the walls
of confidentiality dlicn had protected Agency operations and
personnel. Although the net effect was damaging, especially
in the case of Agee where his efforts were directed at.
revealing the identities of officers serving abroad under
cover, this general scatter shot approach, while
distressing, did not reveal information about the most
sensitive operations, namely, those directed against the

main target--the Soviet Union and its intelligence organs.

In the mid-seventies this changed with the publication
of a series of magazine articles authored mainly by Edward
J. Epstein, a New York writer, which culminated with the
publication of his ‘book in 1978 called Legend. The
articles, but especially the book, publicized for the first
time a series: of clashes within the Agency {both the cI
Staff and the Soviet Division} concerning the bona fides of
a defector from the KGB named Yuriy Nosenko. Epstein's

articles and his book contained so much detailed information

z ; 6
CONF TIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

     
snr eenite

HW 53320

CON. NOFORN NOCONTRACT

about sensitive operations by the CIA and the FBI that it

4 was generally agreed Epstein had a willing and knowledgeable
source, either a serving officer (which was thought
doubtful) or a retired person 6f@ sufficiently senior

chesition that he had wide knowledge of operations against
the Sovi el target’ both overseas and in the "U.S." Although
from ab lat’ 1978 onward Epstein admitted on occasion he spoke
with sages Angleton, the retired former Chief of the cr
Staff, rhe never admitted Angleton was his source.. In fact,
Epstein, wisely perhaps, never sourced his articles not his
book, leaving the. reader in the dark as to how he came upon
such rare nuggets of sensitive information.. Then in 1988,
with Angleton dead, Epstein in a new book called Deception
admitted that from 1977 onward. he had obtained large amounts
of highly classified information from Angleton, : N.S. Miler,
Tennent H. Bagley and others who shared Angleton's beliefs,
: on ‘

When Angleton was dismissed by Der William Colby in
late 1974, he haa@ no thought of what he would do in his
retirement. For the following six months he spent part of
his time at Langley,. assisting the new CI Staff by
introducing them to such persons as his defector friend,
Anatole Golitsyn. After a few months it became clear to
Angleton ‘that he really had been dismissed and his future
with CIA was finished. The whole matter was a terrible,

y\ low; he becane embittered and at first withdrew into
alcohol. But quite soon people began to seek him out and he
began to formulate some ideas about the future. As he got
more attention from media people, he began to cultivate a
method of playing them off one against another, planting an
idea here and there amongst them. He changed his luncheon
venue from a local restaurant to the more politically
congenial atmosphere of the Army-Navy Club. One~idéa~
Angleton develope a Loe eetpB_a counterattack a the
Agency and, in particular, the new cI Staff Psd which he

would prove © tay wrong their new approach oh Bolt in indict ® then

CONFIDENTEAL_NOFORN NOCONTRACT

DoclId: 32397298 -Page 4

   

 

Nee
