 

SRORET

November 20, 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. TOLSON
ER. SULLIVAN

ER. LOHR

ER. BISHOP

UR. C. D. BRENNAN
MR. CALLAHAN

 

Seeretary of State William P. Rogers called. Ho stated he vas
ealling, after a discussion with the President, about the Bureau's liaison
offices abroad, and, of course, he thought it was a good idea and thoy (the
State Department) are enthusiastic about it, but he had just one question
which he thought could be handled on the phone due to his busy schedule.

He said the only one he had any reservation about is Helsinki, Finland,

the reason being, if word gets out, it could appear that it is in connection
with the SALT talks or that we are trying to be provocative. He continued
that if I thought it will be productive, he thought they vere perfectly
proparod to take the slight risk that is involved in open discussion about
it, but if I thought it is not apt to be productive, he would prefer not to.

I told him I am perfectly willing to postrone it and not have it
included in line with the recommendations ve have made until after the
SALE thing is over and if at that time it is felt desirable to have it there,
it ean be taken up again, Mr. Rogers suggested then why not go ahead on
that basis as to the schedule I have proposed and not make a negative
decision on Helsinki but hold it in abeyance as he thought if we could do
this and it not get mixed up in SALT talks, it would be a good idea. I said
it is a good listening post for information ve might obtain, but on the
other hand, if 1t would irritate the SALT talks, I am willing to postpone it.

kr. Rogers said that was good and we would do that then; that he
has spoken to Faul Macomber (iHlliam B. Macomber, Jr., Under Secretary
for Administration), who is an old-timer and a Republican and sort of an
Administrative Assistant, but he is the only one he has spoken to and the
only one who knows about it, but he is willing to go ahead and put him in
touch vith anybody I would like. I told him I would arrange for an
| Assistant Director to get in touch with him and give the names of the
| peop. ue want to put in these places so the Ambassadors in turn can be
| notified.

JeH:cam (10) : NATIONAL STCURITY INFORMATION
. Unauthorized Disclosure
Subject to Criminal Sanctions

 

SECRET
Classified by C2QER

Exempt from GDS, Category,
Date of Declassification Indefinite

 

_ 55123 Docld:32989630 Page 9

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

     
 
  
  
   
   
   
 

> SOS

November 20, 1970

Hemorandua for Messrs. Tolson, Sullivan, Fohr, Bishop, C. C. Brennan,
and Callahan

Mr. Rogers commented he thoughtthis was a good development,
and I said I thought it would help in getting additional information.

Mr. Rogers asked if Richard Holms, Director, Central Intclligence
Agency (CIA), knew about it, and I told him he did not and I did not believe
the Fresident was desirous for him to knov. I said that in September the
President made the suggestion to me as he wanted botter intelligence.
Me. Rogers said he, the President, mentioned it to him and it was his
idea and nobody else's. I said when the President handed it to H. R.
Haldeman he told him to take it up with him, Rogers, and only him, so
I assume he did not notify the CIA and certainly ve have not. Mr. Rogers
said he would not do anything about it and will let the White House do it
as he did not think State should or that we should. I said I thought it was
up to the Fresident. ;

 

Very truly yours,

John Edgar Hoover
Director

 

| HW 55123 DoclId:329689630 Page 10
Lek

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HW 55123 DocId:32989630 Page 8

 

 
 

 

Honorable He ry A. Kissinger SECRET

   

Ambassadors, no doubt concerned at this apparent intrusion
into their responsibilitics, raised questions; and it was
necessary for special clarification to be furnished to our
Ambassador in Bolivia, Awhassador Elisworth Bunker, Saigon,
South Vietnan, attempted to impose intolerable restrictions
with the result that I have canceled my request to open a
liaison post there.

Lohave made every effort to be cooferative with
bow the Department of State in this matter. When it appeared
that the post in Helsinki, Finlinnd, created a probiem, 1f
suggested Copenhagen, Deniurk, as an alternative. Again,
when the Ambussader in So Jose, Costa Rica, pointed out
the "simply overwhelaing” United States presence in that
tiny country, E readily sgreed to establish our Central
- American post in Man udearasua. On Becember 3, 1970,
' despite Secretary Fr ptatenent coneerning notification
to the Central inteliige: ency, ZL was informed that
Under Secretary of BEat Erwin iI had, in fact,
discussed out cxpaAi fentyrnl Intelligence Agency.

 

 
   
    
   

. Ja the abrence of
raised hy the Departwent <:
being opened in La Fun,
Venezuela; Banagua, Wier
Copenhagen, Danmark.
been selected, trainue
destinations by Bec

i)

    
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 

 

additional problems being
“ute, ney liaison posts are .
ny Beirut, Lebanon; Caracas, oh
"3 7

   
 

201 for these posts have
WLLL have arrived at their
Be in addition to the new
offices, I have furthe sned our oporations by the
addition of personne] + ing posts at Paris, France;
Bonn, Germany; Buence Airc: cprentina; and Rome, Italy.

a
Py
5

at

z

 

  

 

A reduction is being male in ico City, Hexico, in view
of the transicr of th teal #merican territory, formerly
te

to onr post at Managua, Nicaragua,

st
43

lacerely yours,

NOTE:

 

See memorandum €. D. Brennan to W. C. Sullivan,
dated 12/11/70, captioned “Expansion of Foreign Liaison,"
prepared by GAD:bsf. :

Tay ee ee

 

 
5

TY INFor

Disclosure
minal Sanctiong

 

aaa

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. “OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10 $010—306
eee ees, @ @ Tela
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT ~~ sullivan
* ay 1 = Mr, Sullivan | 4 Sas —
Memorandum 2 urs one °° Cf ge
1 ~ Mr. Callahan Casper
. Felt
TO : Mr. W. C. Sullivan DATE: 12/11/70 Gale -
Tavel
ali SECRET “J = Mr. C.D. Brennan Severe
FROM : Cc. » Brenn EF a 1 - Mr, Wannall Tele. Room
i - Mr. Day Gandy

°

SUBJECT: ExPuNS}ON OF FOREIGN LIAISON li a prt .
: Fore: LEH Gea rea L °
Pursuant to the Director's instructions, there is

attached a letter to Dr. Kissinger informing him of developments

in our expansion of our liaison abroad.

¢ We point out that subsequent to his discussion with

the Director on 11/10/70, Secretary of State Rogers telephoned

‘@ the Director 11/20/70 and made arrangements for a meeting of
Bureau representatives with Deputy Under Secretary of State

* William B, Macomber, Jr., on that date. At this meeting the
details of the proposed expansion were discussed and confirmed

by letter to Mr. Macomber dated 11/23/70. We note that on

12/1/70 State sent a cable to the proposed new posts which

advised that our representatives would be maintaining a
relationship with the policy (rather than police) agencies
in the new countries and asking whether the new offices would
present any difficulties. The letter points out that although

“the Director and Secretary Rogers agreed that no notification
would be made to the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), we
were informed, 12/3/70, that Under Secretary of State
John N, Irwin II had, in fact, informed CIA, 4 teep ee a

The letter indicates that State's typographical
error resulted in several unfavorable responses but these
have been overcome with the exception of intolerable restrictions..
insisted upon by Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker, Saigon, as
result of which we have canceled our request to open there,

We also inform: Dr, Kissinger of the several instances

(Helsinki and San Jose) in which we have agreed to changes in

an effort to cooperate. We conclude by naming the new posts
being opened and advising that our men will

before Christmas.
/ 4& Dis

ACTION:
4 wucars 1: fe stn
Attached for approval is the letter diseusséd above,

5) AV): \ ay “

EGA \ SECRET

JEU 7

 

MATION,

 

4

NATIONAL SECURI
Unauthorized
Subject to Cri

 

     

we

    
 
  

Enclosure
fad ZR ld 20
. GAD: bst soe

(7)

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HW 55123 DocId:32989630
 

 

 

SECRET

G- Becenber 11, 1970
(AS opin the LIAISON

 

Lpre

1 - Mr. Sullivan
: 1 = Mr, Mohr
Honorable Henry A. Kissinger } ” oe oe nan
Assistant to the President i- Me. Wannall
for National Security Affairs lo Mr. Day

The White House
Washington, B.C.

Dear Dr. Kissinger:

I feel that you should be informed of develonnents
in our expansion of foreign liaison operations which have
occurred since cur discussion on November 10, 1976.

On November 20, 1970, Secretary of State Willian FP,
Rogers telephoned, stating he had discussed our expansion
with the President and asking that E send a representative
to work ot the details with Deputy Under Secretary for
Administration Willian B, Macomber, dr. Mr. Regers said

_}

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION.

! he had some reservations concerning Helsinki, Finland, 2s SS}
' an FBI liaison post there micht he misinterpreted as being ~

Unauthorized Disclosure
Subject to Criminal Sanctions

im connection with the SALT talks, Mr, Rogers also said he A?
would do nothing about informing the Central Intelligence ~S

 

Agency aS he felt that noither State nor FBI should do this! ae
in view of the President's participation in the natter,. ta, FP)
which E agreed. Py BEY
Ey
le > FBI representatives discussed the detaild of our Ss oa
RQ) exprusion with Mr. Macomber and his staff on the same date 7 1s
! and were informed that clearance for my proposals was Ge
granted, I confirmed this by letter to Mr. Macomber on a
' ¢ Rovenber 23, 1970. On December 1, 1970, a Department of Wa
aie State telegram was dispatched to the Ambassadors in the . wl _

countries where new liaison posts were to be established, Yi

This telegram informed the Ambassadors of the approved GF
expansion and asked whether it would present any difficulties.”
In a statement of the purpose of the new posts, the telegram
said that my representatives vould develop and maintain a.
relationship with policy egencies of the various countries
althovgh the Department of State had been informed thet this
relationship wouns We with polige agencies. Several of the

Classified by O-<' Ud DRIAYS~ wa f Cy B “ee
xempt from GDS, fategory_ SEE NOTE PAGE. 70 §S /

Tolson
Sullivan
Mohr
Bishop
Brennan, C.D. —_
Callahan
Casper
Conrad

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
  
 

 
  

 

 
 

6e- HQ@-116395

Serial 547

HONEA =

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

CL MEFES

 

 

Ml

9
.
Ha
——
7,
i
i

|

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

en cay tm ER Mewar eR
fs. :
pemtrapenbave= in Beaman Seat we Esigge

a i

: i

aR ee

we ; ; whe . ;

. . , be. . :

 

 

   

   
 
   
  
  
  

 

 

 

  
  
   

 

 

FBI - CENTRAL RECORDS CENTER mt
_ HQ- HEADQUARTERS BOX 3590 “of
Class/Case# Sub Vol. Serial # . a
0062 116395 1 847 ONLY | :
.
2/13/88957 : .
en |
RRPOO4Z75Z, = 3 .

 

 
 

 

 

HW 55123 DocId:32989630 Page 4

 
