directing the armed invasions of big ranches in
the Andean highlands by land-hungry Indians. This
information contributed to the decision of the
Peruvian junta to crack down on Communists in Jan-
uary. Unfortunately, by that time the Cuban na-
tionals had either gone underground or fled the
country, and the Peruvians are still looking for
them. “We have no direct reports that these Cu-
bans have worked with the Peruvian guerrillas.
Cc. ‘In Brazil, in fact, the complaint of guerrillas
in training camps there was that they had been
recruited by a promise of Cuban instructors, but
' found there were none. This came to light when
the report of a Cuban intelligence agent, relay-
ing their complaints to Havana, turned up in the
wreckage of the Varig airliner which crashed in
Peru in November.
D.  We-do not rule out the possibility that there are’
Cubans in the field with active guerrilla forces,

but we have no evidence at present to prove it.

-6-

AW 53244 DoclId:32205167 Page 7

 

 
—SEEGRET

Tit. The basic training covers cross-country movement of
guerrillas, firing, care of weapons, and general
guerrilla tactics. One of our Brazilian agents took
such a four-week course more than a year ago, ostensi-
bly going to Cuba for a convention, and returning to
his Havana hotel every few days during the course to
spread the word that he had been sightseeing.

A. An Argentine trainee who took a longer course
and. then was sent home by way of Europe has
given us a great deal of detail on the type of

training. He reports that some of the trainees
remain indefinitely. The Cubans sometimes re-
fer to these men as their International Brigade.
Sometimes they are formed into national units

_ from a particular country, in effect forming a
packaged cadre which can be returned to the home-
land to lead a "Liberation Army."

B. A trainee who recently returned to Peru after
several months of training Cuba, ((a controlled

_ agent even before his departure for Cuba, who
is still being debriefed)) said that all his
fellow trainees were asked to mark bridges and
other similar demolition targets on detailed

maps of Peru. They were also required to fill

AW 53244 DocId:32205167 Page 5

 
out a lengthy questionnaire on sabotage targets,
possibilities for subversion of police, methods
for illegal entry and travel, suitable drop
zones for air supply, possible points of attack
against police and military posts, and similar
information necessary for directing subversion
and insurrection,

Iv. We keep getting reports that in such countries as
Colombia, Venezuela, and Peru, where there are guer-
rilla forces either in action. or in being in the hills,
the Cubans carry on their training by providing instruc-
tors or advisors for these forces. These reports are

"invariably second-hand, and we have not been able to
confirm any of them.

A. In some cases, it has turned out that a reference
to "a Cuban" ‘with the guerrillas referred to
someone who had-been trained in Cuba and was
training others, rather than a Cuban national. .

B. We know positively that three Cuban nationals

-were involved in the strike violence at La Oroya,
Peru, last December, which culminated in some
four million dollars worth of damage to the
smelter of the American-owned Cerro de Pasco min-

ing company. One of these Cubans has also been

~5-

AW 53244 DocId:32205167 Page 6

 
—SEGRET_

DRAFT BRIEFING NOTES Oo 18 February 1963
TRAINING

I. We estimate that at least 1,000, and perhaps as many
as 1,500 persons came to Cuba during 1962, from all

the other Latin American countries with the possible

exception of Uruguay, to receive ideological indoc-

trination or guerrilla warfare training or both.

More have gone in 1963 despite the limited facilities’

for reaching Cuba at. present.

AW The largest contingents. have come from Venezuela,

‘Peru, Ecuador, Argentina, and ‘Bolivia,

B. ‘Some of the courses are as short as four weeks,
designed to let it appear that the trainees had
merely attended some conference or celebration
and done a little sightseeing.

°C. Other courses last-as long as a year, and may

. include intensive training in “such things as
sabotage, espionage, or “psychological warfare,
Many trainees have stayed on in Cuba indefinitely.

IIS: We ‘have devoted a great deal of effort to monitoring
Latin: American travel to Cuba at the main jump-off
points such as Mexico and Curacao, We have to do this

because the Cubans go to great lengths to conceal the

fact that some of these trainees have ever been to Cuba,

and how long they stayed.

HW 53244 DocId:32205167 Page 2

\=

 

 
 

v9.1

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :

” RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

AW 53244 DocId: 32205167

JFK Assassination System Date:
Identification Form

Agency Information

LBJ
177-10002-10014

NSF, UNARRANGED FILES, LA/CUBAN SUBVERSION, BOX 5

Document Information

CIA

Released under the John
Fennedy

02/18/1963 Assassination Records

6 Ollection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#: NW 53244 Date:

NEED SUBJECT ASSIGNED pais —2017

DRAFT BRIEFING NOTES

Unclassified

1A

Redact

04/21/1998

8/26/201

 

 

19

Page 1
HW 53244

—SEGREF—

We know a great deal about this travel from our

penetrations of the Communist parties, from con-

"trolled ‘agents we have been. able to maneuver into

the training courses in Cuba, and from coopera—
tive travel control authorities in Latin American
countries,

The Cuban Embassy in Mexico City gives the trainee
a visa on a-separate piece of paper, so that his

passport, when he goes home, will only show that

he has. been in Mexico. We have a record, however,

of those who fly on to Cuba.

In other cases, particularly in the case of travel

through Montevideo before the quarantine, the Cu-
bans furnished passports under other names for
travel by way of Curacao. .

We derive some of our figures from travel control
points, and another set from the information we
receive from penetration agents of established
reliability in the Communist parties, Some of the
Latin American governments are also able to main-
tain fairly accurate lists of their nationals
known to have been in Cuba. We get a certain

amount of crosschecking from lists of names fur-

-nhished us by. several of our agents who have

-2-

DocId:32205167 Page 3

 
SECRET—

undergone training, and in confessions of cap-
tured guerrillas who had been in Cuba,

E. Thus in the case of Peru, for instance, we come
up with a list of 235 names of individuals known
to have made extended stays in Cuba in 1961 and
1962. We have to make allowance for Some who

did not receive guerrilla training, and allowance
in the opposition direction for those whose names
have escaped our surveillance. But we are guided
in these adjustments by the cross-checking infor-
mation I have mentioned, .

F. ; Some ‘of the trainees arrive, and many go home,
by way. of the Iron Curtain and Western Europe,
‘using Soviet, Czech, or Cuban aircraft and prob-
ably shipping as well for the trip between Cuba
and the Bloc. This is another attempt to conceal
their movements, and in some cases permits fur-

y ther indoctrination and training in Bloc countries,
_& We feel fairly certain that under the circum-
stances our estimate of 1,000 to 1,500 guerrilla

‘warfare trainees in 1962 is an accurate one. We
_also believe that the tempo of this training is
being stepped up, just as we know that it increased

in 1962 over 1961.

-3-

HW 53244 DocId:32205167 Page 4

 

 
