AW 53090

 

JOHNSON
page 6 ot

however, he feels that the benign picture in the Warren
Report about the FPCC may have been incorrect. He feels there
is reason to suspect that it had Cuban intelligence ties and
it may have acted as aconduit for intelligence information.
Johnson suggested a cross check on the Cuban-American
and the FPCC from all possible agencies.

Johnson briefly mentioned other areas to look into,
including:

1) The U-2 which went down into the Gulf around
the 19th or 20th of November. Johnson only
saw newspaper accounts of this incident.

2) Oswald's travel to Moscow in 1961 should be docu-
mented.

3) He reiterated the possible importance of the
four Cuban groups previously mentioned, noting
that groups such as Alpha 66 were sophisticated--
perhaps sophisticated enough to send someone like
Oswald .to contact the Soviet Embassy or engage

in intelligence operations.

DocId:32267309 Page 3

 

 
JOHNSON
page 5
very good coverage of organized crime activities either).
He did feel that it was significant in that Oswald would
probably have read about the seizures in the newspaper and
Oswald's contacts after these events with Bringuier
and Arnesto Rodriguez of the Berlitz School would be con-
sistent with low-level infiltation attempts.

Johnson believes that the incident with "D" in Mexico
City may have been orchestrated by Somoza to put the blame
on Castro. Johnson felt satisfied with "D"'s confession
to the Mexican authorities. He noted, however, that Gibson,
an FPCC member, fits the description of the red-haired

man described by "D".

Johnson stressed the FPCC angle as particularily interesting,
especially the Canadian and Mexican aspects of the investaigation.
He did not elaborate on this point, except to say that members of
the FPCC located in Moscow when Oswald was in Minsk, were
also in Mexico in 1963. Johnson also called our attention
to page 63 of Book V of the Senate Committee report regarding
the "strange travels" of a Cuban-American who crossed into
Mexico at Nuevo Laredo on November 23, 1963 and then returned
to Cuba. This individual had a brother in the Soviet Union
in 1963; he also attended a meeting of the Tampa chapter
of the FPCC, which becomes more interesting since Vincent T.

Lee suggested Oswald get in touch with the Tampa chapter.

JOhnson only examined the FBI files on the FPCC and never

looked at CIA documents on the subject. From this review,

HW 53090 DocId:32267309 Page 7

 

 
JOHNSON
page 3
anti-Castro movement, usually exiled to the United States).

Johnson believes that activity in Puerto Rico in
August 1963 also bears looking into. Several Cuban groups,
such as the DRE, were meeting in Puerto Rico at this time
for fund-raising activities. Johnson pointed out that
Orest Pena visited Puerto Rico in August of 1963, however,
the purpose of his trip may not have been fully investigated
by the Warren Commission. Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo of SFNE
also began his fund-raising tour at this time.

Johnson recommends we specifially check station files
in Puerto ‘Rico and other stations for integration of reports
into the main Washington files, since many files were not
sent to Washington headquarters as a matter of routine. The
Senate Committee made no attempts to obtain these files.
JOhnson found military intelligence had destroyed many
files and hence, it was difficult to reconstruct their
operations. Also, in 1963 there were many intelligence
operations and special groups which did not fall into the
agency structures in any normal way, and these might
be more difficult to obtain documentation on. However,
Johnson recommended we request files on operations directed
against Cuba after 1962, with special attention to Puerto
Rico in August of 1963.

Johnson also went over some specific events and individuals
of interest, such as AM/LASH, which in October 1963 was

completely insecure since the FBI had received information

AW 53090) DocId:32267309 Page 5

 

 
JOHNSON
page 4
on October 10, 1963 from an informant about the identity
of AM/LASH and the imminent meeting between AM/LASH and his CIA
contact. Johnson said the FBI would not give the Senate
Committee the name of the informant, however, he did
not believe it was Victor Espinosa Hernandez since the
FBI was trying to locate Espinosa at this time in regards
to the summer explosives arrest at Lake Ponchartrain.
With respect to the nature of CIA operations against
Cuba in 1963, Johnson maintained that agency plans had
become more sophisticated, such as the use of AM/LASH
in assassination plots. Some military raids were taken
agasint Cuba in the summer and fall of 1963 to keep Cuban
exile morale up, but generally there was a tough crack-down
on such activity and agency involvement was usually restricted
to intelligence gathering rather than hit-and-run tactics.
With respect to Lake Ponchartrain training camps,
JOhnson believed the camps were set up mostly to obtain
right wing backing for anti-Castro operations. The McLaney
camp, which was not fully investigated by the FBI, appears to
have been a relatively low-level operation. Although the
groups had in its possession 4000 tons of explosives, it
did not have the airplanes to carry out bombing raids
over Cuba, unlike groups such as Alpha 66, which were strong
enough for that type of operation. Admittedly, however,
Johnson said it was not known who McLaney and the others

were working with. (Unfortunately, the FBI did not have

HW 53090 DocId:32267309 Page 6

 
 

| WW 53090

 

— Routing Slip

yo. CO8H/3F—

 

 

DATE
socument I.D.
INDEX COPY. TO

    
  
   

et—Biakey
Gary Corns)
fein

Charlie Mathews
Jim Wolf
‘Donovan Gay
Jackie Hess
Cliff Fenton

 

CE

 

 

_ a Team #1
Cail 2K Team #2
- Team #3

Team #4

 

 

Crean? ay

Special Instructions:

 

 

a 908138.

JFK Routing Slip

   

Robert Blakey
Gary Cornwell
Kenneth Klein
Charlie Mathews

    
  
  

Cliff Fenton
“Mike Ewing

‘special Instructions:
DoclId: 92267005 Sa eSeNEO

 

    
   
 

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 9/21/2041
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: _ 180-10118-10034

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 008138

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: JOHNSON, JIM .
TO:

TITLE:

Released under the John
Kennedy
Assassination Records

ollection Act of 1992
DATE: 03/17/1978

PAGES: 6

(44 USC 2107 Note}.
ase#:NU 53090 Date:
b6-O7-2017

 

SUBJECTS :
«ACTIVITIES
ALPHA 66
AMN/LASH

OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, POLITICAL AND
SUBVERSIVE...

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

LEADS AND INFORMATION

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: — Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: — Withhold
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 06/21/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Box 148.

 

v9.1 1
HW 53090 DocId:32267309 Page 1
 

ae ; KENNEDY 008138 -

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

 

pareMarch 17 prme 10:30AM .

; I. Identifying Information:

 

 

: Name Jim Johnson . Telephone
Address So,
Type of Contact: _ Telephone
; ASA Person

Ir. Summary of Contact:

Jim Johnson, formerly with the Senate Select Committee on Intelli-

 

gence. Activities, was interviewed today by John Hornbeck,

 

 

Patricia Orr, Jonathan Blackmer, Bill Triplett, and Jim

 

Wolfe regarding his knowledge of the Senate Committee. investiga-

 

tion of the possibility of Castro or anti-Castro Cuban involve-

 

ment in the Kennedy assassination. Johnson was able to.:

 

answer questions put to him, but was restricted as to what

 

information he could volunteer. He did indicate that there

 

 

were certain areas which he felt should be further pursued.

 

He called our attention to pages 11-14 of Book V of the

 

Select Committee's final report, which deals with Cuban

 

groups active in 1963 after.the U.S. government withdrew its

 

lo . __. "Support. of much of the military action against Cuba; the

 

“impact of ongoing Cuban exile activities in the New Orleans

ae TIT. Recommended Follow- up (if any):

a ere Bae Request files on operations against “Cuba prior to ‘the assassina-. |

 

tion; “files on the "Cuban-American" of Book V; and other -

ir ; files as reyo nded in the summary. . .
: . Signature: : : : -Form #5
. u . :

HW 53090. bocId: 32267309: Page 3/

 

 

 

 
 

JOHNSON
page 2
area and Lee Harvey Oswald's interest in it; and the
approach that the Special group and government agencies
were taking in their actions against Cuba.
! There are three Cuban groups which Johnson felt were
. worth further investigation: Alpha 66; SFNE (although it
was unclear to Johnson what role SFNE played vis 4 vis Alpha 66);
Comandos L-66; and the DRE, the group with which Carlos
Bringuier was associated. Several DIA and CIA case officers
were interviewed by Johnson, but the staff of the Senate
Committee did not interview or take testimony of any Cubans in
these groups except Antonio Veciana, whose credibility
is high, according to Johnson. Johnson indicated that
while Veciana's case officer did not fit into any neat
categories, he was connected with military intelligence.
The committee attempted to locate or identify Maurice
Bashop without success.
Johnson said he did not look at documents dated
prior to 1963 in many instances, and recommended that we
look at the earlier dated files. He also indicated that
the June-July 1963 meetings of Cuban leaders and Somoza
or officials of other Latin American countries interested
in the anti-Castro movement could be of interest, since
they reflect attempts to reorganize the anti-Castro movement
following the withdrawal of most U.S. support. These
attempts may involve wealthy Cuban emigres. (Proverbially,

the wealthy Cubans went to other Latin American countries;

the poorer Cubans, who often became the footsoldiers of the

HW 53090 DocId:32267309 Page 4

 

 
