 

i
E
5
ab
i

 

 

   
 
 
  
  
  
  

wreaw- hes’ ‘tnveattgattu responsibility, ‘tn “bat: specific.

F fre yrinvolve LatinsAmerican nationals ~
tion Acti and Neutrality matters. ©: b1T. bej :
phe. be ond Ce “where: thése.: ‘statutes. are discussed

ve def have not gonfined

 

   

such ‘ae Bt 2 * tansy for ‘any: “Tnformetion oy interest “ties iigne’ haves
b etton

offices. or emts an
covérage ‘in this ae KG placed Gt ohateat ‘coverages with

 

Genéral'’s: approval, DABS Ys, Bashingtons Ds
Gonsulates| ab Mi ottt ind New York City, MS)

(in addition, - we have nade. ineveased efforts”
possible, to correlate or "package" the results of num

investigations and disseminate summarystype reports £0 other qenoten o

affording thém a better insight into significant trends anda”.
comprehensive picture ‘of developments. This efforts og well as our
‘inereased stress on Latin=dmerican investigations, ts ‘shown in face
' that. since April, 1959; no less than nine issues of our weekly
Current Intelligence Analysis (CINAL) letter have been devoted tn
‘uhnole or part to Latin-American motteres chiefly ‘Cuban. developments.
.. Be Rave eleo put stress on keeping high=level and policyemaking ,

officials of thé Government . ‘advised of significant developments
concerning Cubase In addition to our regule? dissemination to the’
wring levels at Statey. Central Intelligence Ageney and the military
agenciés, on a number of . occasions dn the post year we have furnished :
the White House, Viee President Mixon, the Secretary of State, and
the Attorney General special reports summarizing significant trends
and. developments relating to Cuba and the Capgbbean arede ua

‘
,

- . SECRET

 

 

HW 45834 DocId:32571514 Page @

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

{ ;
i HW 45834

 

,f¢eerding te plan outlined by Alweijeiras,. informant :

‘would procure bombs with U.S.. Government markings and would

deliver them toa Almeijetras after landing at prearranged
landing strip outside Havana. It was indicated that Cuban.
outherities would then tssué prese release claiming that’
ifomiebased plane had dropped bombs. on Cubay. offering es
proof ane or more of the bombs with U.S. markings whtch..
supposedly had failed to explode as weil -as fragments from
other bombs which Cubans would explode. Almeijetras told
informant this hoax wuld enable the Gastro regime to. ~
propagandize against the UG. State Department in order to.
force WSs action against antt«Castro elements tn this .
COUNLT Ye: Almeijeitras said he wanted this ruse to take place

on 10, 26/59 ond deserthed the operation as “highly important”
: to the Cuban Governments. ‘Informant will endeavor to develop
; additional information concerning this proposed. plot. ;

Publi¢ disclosure of the above information could

very well: place the informant's life in jfeapardy ond,, accordingly»
this ‘information és being classified Confidential.

 

 

 

 

DocId:32571514 Page 7?

 
 

  
   
     
   
    
    

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

HW 45834 DocId:32571514 Page 5

> s
c iD oY
: f wt
" peguested of Miami by telety; 50, Miamt teteryse |
40/25/59 advised Hor ale and would testizy :
but only had hearsay: ¢ tte om ag ; Wake ,
. abo YE. Hormel nae rr Feo
7: ership on benaly y 26 -An
itovenent but, without ite knowledge. He planned 1 ‘incident.
- a
;
i
 

 

Je

By teletype 10/25/59, Miami Office has furnished
information from MY 639=S (Howard Kenneth Davis, a wellaplaced
‘source who has beén in close touch with both proxGastro and
-antisCestro forces) which eléarly reveals the hypocrisy
of Castro's accusations as well as the Castro regime's _
Teodiness to stoop to any means to discredit the U.S. and
make it appear that this country is to blame for ali of |
Castro's troubles. This information has not. been disseminated
as yet in order to ajford Director an opportunity to review
tt prior to dieséminatians It tag. howevery being furnished
to the Attorney General by detter today (10/26/59) and will.
‘be made avatlable to State and other interested agencies
tumediately theréaftere — re

Lo Informant advised that from 9/18=20/595 he met
in Havana wlth Sergeant Fernando Puentes Cdba and Chief of -
Police Hfigento Almeijeiras of Cuben National Police.
Alméijetras. propositioned informant to take part in deal

_ 9 set trap for anti#Castro forces in US. He suggested

_ tuformant organize a 10Geman expedition in UsSs. whieh he:

_ would Jeed in tnvasion of Cuba at a prearranged spot and
which. would be ambushed by ugiting Castro forces. Almeijetras
aul informant subsequently discussed this tdea with Raul. Castro
who approved plan and furntshéd our source with Havena address

to be used as mail drone

On 10/10/59 informant met with Almeijetras in

- Havena and latter reiterated his destre to have Mf 63968
organtze invaston of Cuba from U.S. The source tndicated he
would consider the matter further but gave no definite reply.

; informant conferred with Alméijeiras and Cobo again
on 10/23/59 and was offered another assignments Almetjeires
proposed that source approach Rolando Masferrers prominent
antisCastro leader in Miamt, or some other leading antt=Castra
feader in U.5s and volunteer to undertake bombing attack

‘against Havana from the WS.

-22- SECREL

: ~

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HW 45834 DocId:32571514 Page 6
 

 

 

we \

 

 

 

with, yy ond returned at 9 Poms sana dates

He said ne-made flight on behalf of July 26 anti-Commmi st aoa

” Cubase He e6id his movement not gooperating with any persons:

oo ; - rat 7 es fh re : . ; : oe
. oe i ee : Po ; oS
7 Wiska® 4 ye a
. . . po . . : an

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
     

ed on presé port da/eays5 4 that: “leaflets
ane on fevana- on 10/21/59. were atgned by —
instituted immediate’ inquiry ace
. J jurtedi chtcn .

ted by Di ea tay
feted Remmert Warner ivports, ee "Florida, ab. S Doltts:
An

oy

. a Land was interviewed by Miami agents On ‘.
10/22/55 ter being advised of hia’ righta, Bide bans
said ne pi oted thie paiane, departed Pompano at 4.pems,—

avanad £220. peme and departed Havana £830. petes
returning to Pompano, Hé said he. dropped 250,000 veafiets.
over Havana and emphat cally stated he carried no bombs nor.
é : : 7 ‘Was unaware of being “fined: wey
j his was only-plané on misaion. we
by one of more peréons, would .
a aecept full .
arad cortes ie
&

  
 

 

        
 
  
 
 
 
    
 
   

 
  

 

 

   

pandane ‘and dated Batonehs 1959. ;
bea le : task for Ris procommunist polletés.
‘and accused him of being trattor to legitimate revolutions —

Movement, of whieh hé 18 founder and leaders He said thia. ~ |
flight was net coordinated with any gots of. terrorism inside

proninent. in former Batista governments He advised

Major Aubert Matos, who was arrested b Castro in Cubas:
wag member of his movements was. senéduled to have-set up -
resistance group in Guba next month and Ris arrest was —~
unfortunate s He timed his Pligne. with convention. of travel

 

 

 

 

: :
‘AW 45634 Docld:32571514 Page 2
 

 

  

j AW 45634

_ Internal Seourtty Division advised on 10u240$9

co . fe) APs a
; Pedro Diaz Lanz) a . a ;
~ jol2e210 (Foretgn Political 4“atters = Cubs) i

Ae Be Belmont : October 26, 1959

y _ i - Mr. Donahoe

i 1 © Mr. DeLoach

&. B. Donahoe iN 2oMn Tene
Nasca

ANTI@FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES i Br. Belmont

INTERNAL SECURITY « CUBA

Aselatant Attorney General J. Halter Yeagle

    

pet that of State chr
mould contact Attorney General on (10026-
American revoluttonary activities, with ee i
ard. to express hie heps that interested use 8a :
wobilise reapective resources co Cuban st fon. Attached \y
meno has been prepared to present conctae ploture of efttuation and
show Bureau poeition.

 

MECLATSIFIED eT J

4 - 149- on nee ee

2. Events Leading Up 4 irrent Cuban S 2
2 Sureau Action arding Pedro Dies Ianz 3
a. <Intttal Involvement of Diaz Lanz 3

4

 

bo Posstbility of Planes from Donintecan Republic
Ce Biesemination and Presentation of Case
@. State Department and ‘Department of Juattee Requests 2
é. Subsequent Discloaures of Diaz Lanz
fo Investigation of Statements by Diaz Lane Zl
3+ Efforts of Castro te Create Incidents Discrediting U.S. 22
4, Bureau Coverage ef Cuban Revolutionary Acttvtties 14
ae Intelligence Coverage 4
bo Regietration Act 1s
cs, Neutrality Statutes - 16
(Efforts to Get Concurrent Selsure Powers with
Customa to Setze Arma in These Cases) i?
Se Possibility of Arrest or Extradition of Pedro Diaz wal 19
fe.

a4

?
3
i
3
ORIGINAL COPY FILED 8 SOP-S8 of _ KES

Zoe

         

ACTION:

  

For information.

ke

   

DocId:32571514 Page 1
 

 

 

 

 

 

oie,

reasons. He had agreament with
iba eo. ‘provide propaganda: against
; a re sees

     
     
      
      

Reyes is oidely acquainted
nished red able data . in

 

from Do m representa
bombing 10/20/59 9 of. 3

  

01 y and intel li gé
E written dissemination Sollwued
'. Jeasop of State Deportment b
gag on, morning of Ee, as
4 ay BD: fanz tn view of widespread

     

 

aye

 

x
| 45634 Docld:32571514 Page 3
 
  
 
  

} alénough: 86 wae: not known:
r they yt Belmon called

SA iil Sutth of Miami 0, 7 sa
be given. Custome and FA

inserueeed Miani— ffi

 

0 interview Long again to!
rly as to future fi ightes
4 fz

 
  

: ant’ se éretary

 

   
   
  
   

tao agent Os be He ,

 

 
 

=: 2 deat ify.
a gave déta in
urn of eieee

 

 

 

 

DocId: 32571514
