 

 

Agency could have no part in the assassination of a government leader
(including Castro) and it would not aid subject in his attempt. This
included the following. "We would not furnish the silencer, nor scope
nor any money for direct assassination; furthermore, we would not lift

a finger to help subject escape from Cuba should he assassinate Castro."

The same document states this message was communicated to Amlash
in November 1964 by EMEP*SanéHez?s

 

Despite this decision, the CIA in fact continued to assist Amlash
through a cut-out until Amlash's arrest in 1966.

Later documents on Amlash are also relevant to the September-
_ November 1963 Amlash operation. Several such documents report informa-
tion received to the effect that Fidel Castro had long been aware of
Amlash's plots against him. For example, Amlash's one time Cuban
mistress was believed to be working for Cuban see ce and her
brother was known to be with Cuban intelligence. RIOR Lo DIR
in December 1964 warns that Amlash's objective may be known to too
many Cubans. And, one CIA informant reported in 1966 on one known
double agent of Cuban intelligence working for CIA and said the CIA's
Cuban operations had been penetrated at a high level by Cuban intel-
ligence. He identified this latter individual only as one of the Cuban

exiles who was knowledgeable of a number of the most important opera-
tions. Nevertheless, Anilash's file contains nothing to indicate any
detailed analysis of these possible penetrations of the CIA's Amlash
operation, although a cryptic handwritten note on at least one re-

port rejects the suggestion that Amlash was himself reporting to Castro.

 

One other document bears on the testimony Amlash's case officers
gave before the Select Committee to the effect that Amlash was given
a poison pen for self-protection. That document reports that Amlash,
and other Cuban officials in Paris in 1963, were carrying pistols for
self-protection throughout their travel in Europe.

fac oes

Finally, although the staff has not reviewed all possible CIA
_files to determine what other operations Castro might have been re=
ferring to in his September 7 statement, the Amlash file indicates
that some coastal landings of supplies in August were the only other
CIA operations conducted against Cuba in this time period.

   

AW 53244 - DocId: 32202181 Page 7
 

 

 

In a Memo for Record dated 19 November, one case officer summarized
the actions to be taken at the next meeting with Amlash. Amlash was to
be told the U.S. was prepared to give full support to Amlash's coup.

He would be shown President Kennedy's speech in Miami of November. 18
and told this reaffirmed support for Amlash's proposal. Headquarters
had approved giving Amlash scopes and rifles and other equipment. The
memo ended by stating that "C/SAS* requested written reports on Amlash
operation be kept to a minimum."

 

Busgto DIR of 20 November indicated Amlash had been called
on the night of November 20 and had agreed to postpone his return to
Cuba in order to see case officer 0 “if it something interesting." The
CIA officer said he could not assure it was interesting but -that it was
to be a meeting which Amlash had requested. (Obviously, CIA wanted to
give Amlash the "technical support" he felt he had not been promised in
the 29 October meeting.) .

Case officer O flew from the U.S. so as to arrive in Paris on the morn-
ing of November 22 for this meeting.

Dekens #to DIR received at Langley at 6:25 a.m. on 23 November
is the only message in Amlash's file reflecting the fact the meeting
had taken place. It indicated that Amlash was anxious to return to

Cuba and that case officer 0 was to arrive in Washington at 1810 that

day.

         

 

The file contains no outgoing cable Beeson November 23 or
any other time telling@Raeis) to break contact with Amlash.**

On 25 November, a contact report was prepared. There is reason
to question the authenticity of this document which is three pages
and reports the 22 November meeting with Amlash. The first two pages
have dark type as though prepared on a typewriter with a new ribbon.
The type on the third page is much lighter as though prepared on a
typewriter with an old ribbon. Itimade no mention of the passing —_
gf a poison pen to Anilash.. oo .

 

On November 27 ,@Barmigtooo)to DIR reports information obtained
in October possibly by clandestinely listening devices. A source com-
plained bitterly about official (Cuban) visitors to Paris and how they
denigrate the revolution. The source said she wished she had a con-
cealed tape recorder to record these conversations. She named Amlash
as.one of these visitors.

* Desmond Fitzgerald

** In its 1967 report, the IG stated such a message had been sent
but could not be found. : :

 

AW 53244 | DocId:32202181 Page 5
 

 

  

 
  

 

AW 53244 | DocId:32202181 Page 6°

 

On 3 December, Headquarters furnished JMWAVE some details on the
Amlash meeting including the fact that he had been promised "full U.S.
support if he is successful in a real coup against the Castro regime."
He was also promised arms which will have to be furnished through
JMWAVE's operations. ;

A series of confusing cables passed between Headquarters and JMWAVE
on December 6, 7, and 8. Apparently, Headquarters first gave JMWAVE
authority to drop a cache of arms in Cuba. Then Headquarters called
off the operation. In DIR 87615 of 7 December, it is noted "major
top level Cuban/Caribbean policy review scheduled early next week which
should provide basis: for decision." -!

JMWAVE complained about the change in orders in a cable of 8
December. JMWAVE 8702 pointed out that one Headquarter's message
indicated December infiltration operations were approved by higher. author-
ity but a second. message indicated a scheduled operation should be de-
layed and not run in December.

Headquarters responded in DIR 87880. Headquarters procedure
was to present infiltration operation plans to "higher authority"
even though there is a reasonable chance operation may be postponed
or delayed as was case with the scheduled operation. "This procedure
will secure approval for the operation with only telephonic reconfirma-
tion needed when previously relaxed. operation finally mounted." Head-
quarters recommended delay until January after considering and equating
objectives against risk factors for Amlash and others. "Believe by
January , CIA should be in position better evaluate status of internal
assets. :

   

 

   

yeperigtgid of 13 December AESEIRP reported that Amlash left
Paris for Prague on November 27 but did not seek recontact with case
officer. DIR 90966 to JMWAVE of 23 December reported that Havana radio

on 2 December stated Amlash arrived Cuba on 1 December.

The last document in Amlash's file for the period ending December
1963, is a long report on Amlash, but it does not contain information
relevant to the October-November activities. Nevertheless, in red p.
“on the cover page appears: "Dec 1963 Not to leave this office on SNESieore
,(Sanchéy orders." followed by initials that appear to be "GM." ~

  
 

One later document in the Amlash file contains more information
about the November 22, 1963 meeting. That. document, a rough draft of
a biographical information sheet on Amlash (no final draft was found)
appears to have been preparedi!in 1966 at the time of Amlash's arrest
for_a later plot against Castro. It states: "22 Nov. 63 Mr. Fitzgerald
Zand MreSanchezy assured subject that this Agency would give him every-
thing he needéd: (telescopic sight, silencer, all the money he wanted).
The situation changed when({Mre Sanchez ands Mr.. Fitzgerald left the meet-
ing to discover that President Kennedy had been assassinated. Because
.of this fact, plans with subject changed and it was decided that this

     

 
Loe &
CIA HAS NO one fon 6

     

 

[ DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
MEMORANDUM PeLtase geen set ;
TO: ; Senator Hart (Colorado) and Senator Schweiker _)) (>3| K
FROM: Jim Johnston , 0

Dan Dwyer
Ed Greissing
DATE: January 27, 1976 oe
SUBJ: Connection Between Amlash Operation and Investigation at
of JFK Assassination ~ :
Background ; ; ; _Y

‘The staff's memorandum of January 5, 1976, postulated that the
Amlash operation might have had some effect on CIA's response to
the investigation of President Kennedy's assassination. On January
9, 1976, the staff asked for access to the Amlash file at CIA; and
after a delay which was not explained, the staff was permitted to
review the file on January 23 and 26.

pSummary of Amlash File 2 .

Amlash initially contacted by CIA in 1961 met occasionally with
case officers through August 1962, at which time he was given instruc-
tion in secret writing and explosives. Interest in Amlash continued
after the August meetings, but there was no further direct contact by CIA
agents until mid-1963. Why there was a year lapse in contact with Am-
lash cannot be determined; the Cuban missile crisis in October 1962
undoubtedly made CIA cautious in dealing with Amlash.°

 

* ;
In any event, DIR 48198 to Rome of 19 June 1963 states that
‘Amwhip, a Cuban exile who assisted CIA, had sent a letter as part of ©
an “activation effort to reluctant dragon."' Presumably, Amlash was
“reluctant dragon" and was, by this letter, asked to recontact CIA.

In late August, Amlash traveled with a large contingent of Cuban
officials and athletes to Porto Alegre, Brazil. He cabled Amwhip -
about his arrival on August 29: This cable apparently was the signal
that he was prepared to meet Amwhip in Porto Alegre.

Amwhip and two CIA case officers met with Amlash in Porto Alegre
between September 5 and 8. The two case officers have testified to
the Committee about their understanding of events at this series of

   
     

  
   

     
 

meetings which they viewed essentially _as_a get acquainted session.
CIA-messages tell a different story. MRomtopAePrero Oc ComnL RM ry 7

September stated that Amlash told Amwhip he felt there were only two
ways of getting rid of Castro. The first was an invasion by U.S.

forces which Amlash knew was out of the question and the second was

an "inside job." Amlash indicated he was awaiting a U.S. plan of action.
He referred to the explosives demonstration CIA gave him a year earlier
as "too cumbersome" for his purposes.

 

 

 

NW 53244 *yocthl Rios re1 Meagages sent from Langley.
Date:09/07/94
Page:1
Fa JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

 

Released under the John

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10292 7 xeanedy

Assassination Records

ollection Act of 1992
RECORDS SERIES : (44 USC 2107 Note).

MEMORANDUM ase#:NW 53244 Date:
b6-13-2017

 

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R 2255

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM : JOHNSTON/DWYER/GREISSING
TO : SENATOR HART

TITLE :
CONNECTION BETWEEN AMLASH AND INVESTIGATION OF JFK ASSASSINATION

  

DATE : 01/27/76

PAGES : 6
SUBJECTS :
AMLASH
INVESTIGATION OF JFK ASSASSINATION

CASTRO
CUBA

 

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U :
RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, 1C, DONOR REST., REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/07/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

 

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

AW 53244 DocId:32202181 Page 1
 

 

  

AW 53244. -DocId: 32202161 Page 3

 

At the conclusion of the meetings with Amlash, Headquarters
cabled on 9 September that, based on what little feel Headquarters
had, Amlash appeared hopeless as an intelligence performer and should
be approached as a chief conspirator allowed to recruit his- own co-
horts. He should be urged to recruit a few trusted friends to assist
him, initially in "FI and Ops reporting" and then progress to sabotage
and more serious matters on an orderly basis. (DIR 67110 to Wor

save SESE!)

On 11 September, SRG toma KO8* to DIR summarized the intel--
ligence information Amlash had given on Soviet units in Cuba, saying
all IRBM and bombers had been removed. By this time Amlash had left
Brazil apparently heading for a vacation in Europe. - |! .

 

Aleere,

   

     

   
 

A document in the file dated 16 September and marked€ORRA 72775
appears to be a transcript of a conversation obtained by covert means.
There is no indication as to where the conversation takes place, but

it probably is gis

  
  

— "Mary: “I don't want to imagine things but
this thing of Amlash. i
Moreno: It is either a tremendous secret or a N
top secret matter (unreadable) then the
word "treason" or "reason"),

Betty: I believe it is a top-secret matter."

   
       

By letters of September_14 and September 16, Amlash stayed in
contact with Amwhip. “Ory 1

Bearropscactony picking up responsi-
bility for Amlash at this ‘time, since gto DIR dated 19
September asks for some background materia ash.

  
  

 

On 19 September, JMWAVE 4580 to DIR warns that Amlash is part of
an anti-communist group in Cuba and details the membership of his group
as well as a communist group. The message also notes that Fidel is
allegedly aware of the two groups and acts as moderator between them
in order to maintain cohesion in the Government of Cuba.

Nevertheless, Amwhip is asked to continue to work with Amlash
and is assigned to accompany him around Europe. According tog mari:
to. DIR dated 7 October, Amlash met with case officer O* on 5
er. Case officer Q sat and listened permitting Amlash to get
everything off his chest. Amlash seemed to be complaining about the
low level espionage matters that had been discussed at the September
Meeting in Brazil, implying he had a more valuable role. Case officer
O "provided necessary assurances his feelings not in fact true and
that his case receiving consideration highest levels. (emphasis added)'!"

  

  
  

_"With this problem which had undoubtedly been bothering Amlash con=

 

* The files do not accurately identify these case officers. @=RED
Cemiep and EE, however, were the principal case officers.

 
-3- (TPA IES!

    

siderably, off his chest, a much more relaxed Amlash departed restating
his desire return Cuba to undertake ‘the big job.7"

   

On October 15, Mondons 5004 tto DIR states case officer O met with
Amlash and Amwhip on 13 October. Although. the case officer had been
forewarned by Amwhip, he was not successful in discouraging Amlash's
request for a high level meeting. 'Amlash convinced that if such meet
does not take place at this time it will be almost impossible come out
again and we will be in same situation as last year with no definite
decision. Also finds it difficult to believe why RFK who receives many
Cubans would refuse to see a major" such as Amlash. The Message notes
the fact remains that Amlash does "have excellent entree to highest
target level which believe we cannot afford overlook." i

- This message seemingly moved Headquarters to re-evaluate Amlash's
role. DIR 75683§ ondon-Yon 15 October directed case officer 0 to -
return headquarters soonest

   
 

for discussions of all phases of the case.

The next meeting apparently took place on October 29. One case
officer met Amlash holding himself out as the personal representative
of RFK. He informed Amlash, according to a 13 November MFR,. that
the U.S. was prepared to render all necessary assistance to any anti-
communist Cuban group which succeeded in neutralizing the. present Cuban
leadership and which assumed significant control to invite the U.S.
to render assistance. He emphasized that-U.S. support could come only
after a successful coup. Amlash responded by saying that without Fidel,
the military would break up into 4 or 5 groups and the regime would
disintegrate. He also said he was satisfied with the policy discussion
but desired to know what technical Support he could get.

 

Since Amwhip was closer to Amlash than the case officers, he was
asked about Amlash's reaction to the meeting. His reactions are
summarized in Attachment A to Amwhip's Memo of Meeting dated 14 Novem-
ber. Amwhip said Amlash was still not pleased with support from U.S.
government. While Amlash was satisfied on policy grounds, he was not

‘ at all happy with the fact that he still was not given the technical
assistance for the operation plan as he saw it. Amlash could not under-
stand why he was denied certain small pieces of equipment which promised
a final solution to: the problem, while, on the other hand, the U.S. gave
much equipment and money to exile groups for their ineffective excursions
against Cuban coastal targets, Amlash had accepted the fact he had to
work with the CIA, but CIA might lose him if it continued to procrastin-,» _

“Yate. Amlash talked about going t6 the Trench térrorist organization,
the OAS, but realized that was not feasible. The memorandum ends with
what apparently is the author's conclusion: "It is hoped that he does
realize that Havana must first be taken’. .-. or failing that, a
truly sizeable piece of land (say, almost an entire province) -which
could be true rallying point."

 

  

HW 53244° DocId:32202181. Page 4
