 

 

v a

; wo ; ane,
OPTIONAL \ ape a ~ "010-106 C :

 

MAY 1962 EDS

  
 

we 4 ONO Red Vea ad
| “.” , UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT”?
| ° Memorandum
_ TO > Mr. DeLoach DATE: June 9, 1966
; J. H. Gal

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA
ANTI -RACKETEERING

 

; In connection with the Giancana situation, a
informant of the Chicago Office, CG 6913, overheard a d-

telephone conversation on May 31, last, the day Gianca 4]

‘was released, in the office of Joseph Bulger, a prominent

Chicago attorney, who is closely allied with the top . :

b echelon of the Chicago hoodlum element. The conversation

7c was with an unknown person and the informant heard only

Bulger's part co) the discussion, which was as, follows:
arnt, Oo °
The i eported Bulger bie Po Z

statement that the last bstacle had been remo
there was_no doubt
Bulger opServed that Niry" and "Ric!
dida g00d@ job, using. skill and
been; very @fficient in putting across. in Vinson' 's mind
the .idea, that Hanrahan's tactics were unconsti utional
discfiminatory and that Hanrahan was ruthless with his E
collaborator ie d uncooperative with Government officiaisss
and others. /, Pp Spe |e

    
     
     
  

«, ff ae

“alegre

Bulger said tha anrahan had choked himself
with? his own hands and that "Irv" indicated everyone
3Was provoked because of Hanrahan's defiant attitude. and ©

 

 

‘ethat Hanrahan had gone as far as to threaten the ©
“attorney General's office. Hanrahan told the Attorney
General - “he was frustrated by failure and lack of
cooperation and that he would not be made to look like A
a heel in®Chicago. "Irv" indicated that late on the o
day ,of May331, Hanra had made a last attempt9. !to oe) j é
right" put“that Fre Vinson) would not buds, ig BIA GG

Ko) ph ed Reh , %

-Bulger reportedly_ commented. tha e" (not Mo es

identified) ‘succeeded in causing : ‘Hanrahan not to. Prudin 2
anybody, includingthe FBI and his two assistants and 4 1966
that "he" deserved a good reward for bringing this
abouth Bulger'@lXo « commented! ‘that , ,Hatirahan was under ale,
pressure and was: confused: “and “that- ‘he/'tried to issue
grand jury subpoenas ,for John D'Arco- and’ others, but
Had not ete 5: tre

ihe: Oe rea
Lig & “. Mr. ‘McAndrews \ VY

r. Leggett CONTINUED - OVER “4

Hi
=

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘HW 45792 DoclId:32585260 Page 1
