q

HW 54653

- outside your agency,

Re: Foreign Political Matters - cuba

According to MM T-3, it is not even a secret, but
is generally known, especially to Cuban revolutionary Leaders
like Fidel Castro,that Chomon and Cubela were unscrupulous,
conniving informers, who many times played both sides against
the middle. He therefore agreed with the. other Cuban sources
above to the extent that Castro is not interested in the cause
of justice, but is interested in turning this case into a
powerful political weapon for his personal aggrandizement,

‘and in order to weed out certain individuals he considers to
~. be a hindrance to his progress and to his control over the

many new members of the Cuban CP. . He does not expect, however,
for repercussions to be far-reaching at this time, and does

“not expect executions of old line CP members who “have erred

in their judgment in the past’.

This decument contains neither vecommendations nor conclusions

o£ the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and.is loaned to

your. agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed

REG- °° FROM
os 1916

ce JU

“eo Sk =

Docld:32202130 Page 9
. :
POI2) (Hew, ° 1629-50) rn ae

’

UNITED STATES DEPARTHENT OF JUSTICE ve

 

FEDERAL BURSAS G?-4NVESTIGATION
@ In Reply, Please Refer te , . Miami , Florida
Ne
Fille No. wR os 663
Mtie FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA
\ Character 7

Reference memo dated and captioned as above.

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities
are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable
+ infomation in the past. : :

 

a * .
Thle document containa neither recommendations hor conclusions of the FBI. tt is the property
ot the FB! aad te loaned to your agency; il and ite contents are not to be distributed outside
your ageacy. .

HW 54653 DoclId:322702130 Page 10
.

Re; Foreign Folitical Matters - Cuba

MM T-2 concluded that Ordoqui may now be reduced

. greatly in importance, Fidel Castro may use the trial as
a springboard to show that other people guessed wrong and
that the "old guard" of the CP, including Carlos Rafael
Rodriguez, made some serious mistakes, since ‘the informer,

‘s+ "Mareos Rodriguez, admittedly was a member of the Cuban

. Communist Youth Movement for many years and even enjoyed a
position of confidence among old Cuban Communist leaders.
MM T-2 stated Carlos Rafael.Rodtiguez may again be reduced in
importance, as well as Edith/Auchaca, also a Communist Party Leu fr
‘ leader, former wife of Carlos RafaélRodriguez, who is —
presently married to communist leadey Joaquin ‘Qrdoqut .
ae ' hh, ‘ a
MM T-2 said that no American observer should be.
illuded that this indicates any kind of break between Fidel
.- Castro and the CP. It is merely to show: (1) that Fidel
‘Castro is still the “maximum leader" of the Cuban revolution
and the Cuban people; and (2) that while those downgraded .
‘are communists, he will direct all of his energies and
~ speeches to showing they are bad communists who have made
- serious mistakes and errors in judgment. MM T-2-concluded
that in all probability those downgraded for mistakes and
errors in judgment, since they are in no position to defy
Fidel Castro, can-expect no backing from their Russian
_—--masters. --—. or Y

 
 
   

MM T-3
3 eh (au

    

  

 

gees 9) 2

a i > at mown fact that Faure Chomon and

Rolando Cubela, both fest friends and degenerate perverts,

were: partetime. informers of the Cuban police. According to

.» -his information, they each re¢eived part of the money which
was paid to Marcos Armando Rodriguez Alfonso, curd io who

    
 

allegedly gave the information directly to Ventura lovo.
, : ” . prdle ‘ t} ‘
°6- =a CRDAN
oo peg 4 FROM
7 a Cuts ‘QT .
. iN
ud

HW 54653 DocId:32202130 Page 8
a

@ , Re; Foreign Political Macterz - CUBA
we Se a Bee
natRoa’Garcia » had stated that a movement would begin in
Cuba in the not too distant future which would not be an
’ . actual purge in the sense of putting leading old line menbers -

of the CP to death, but which would remove them from posts

of responsibility and gradually reduce them to positions of
less and less importance.

MM T-2 stated on March 30, 1964, that Castro's
action in demanding this retrial cannot be imagined by any-
one familiar with Castro or with Cuban politics, as being

~. evidence of an interest in justice, MM T-2 stated that Castro

actually loaths and despises Faure Chomon.

—-ituadide-te recalled that Faure Chomon withheld from
the new Castro government a large amount of ammmnition and
- gims immediately after January 1, 1959. Lt was his possession
of these weapons which led to Castro's now famous slogan, -
“Armas, para que?" (Arms, for what?) He made Chomon turn in
-.his arms and allegedly sent him to Moscow for two reasons.:
- °° Qne reason was thiit-he had promised Chomon, when fighting in
T »the mountains, that if and when Cuba established relations
with Russia, Chomon would be Cuba's first Ambassador to
‘Russia. The second reason allegedly was to get rid of Chomonr.

MM T-2 stated that Castro also has nothing but dis-
dain and contempt for Major Rolando Cubela. It is, of course,
.@ matter of common knowledge that Chomon and Cubela are
widely regarded, by Cubans in a position. to knowK}them well,
¢ - &8 perverts apd as having no réal moral or polit cal scruples.

MM T-2 stated Ordoqui has béen naming some of his

political cronies to important positions in the PURS, which

- ould-correspond to Commissars in the Soviet Union. While

_he is only.an old man, MM T-2 stated that Ordoqui has been
growing in stature, to the annoyance of Fidel Castro.

/,

=5- Peet
want aye

@ 2 27

HW 54653 DocId:32202130 Page 7
t
.

@ Re: . Foreign Political Matters - cuba

' Director of "Hoy", which.bas long been the official orgen of
the Cuban CP. In this letter Castro pointed out there is
.8ome confusion concerning the trial of Marcos Rodriguez, and
...8ome “intriguers" who are trying to make capital of it. He
stated some people are "so brazen as to insinuate that the
o.-¥evelution is afraid to make the whole trial public." He
'-gaid the statement of Comrade Faure Chomon at. the trial did
not appear in its entirety, but only sketchy parts of it,
and this has delighted certain elements. who do not have the
slightest concern for truth themselves, elements described
fs by Castro as not being "honest revolutionaries".

Castro concluded the letter by instructing Blas
-Raca to publish Faure Chomon's whole testimony, and. declared
~he was ordering the trial to be reopened. and. to be made
. . public. - : Coe,

a Radio Rebelde at 1:00 P.M. on the same date, March
21, 1964, gave a detailed summary of Faure Chomon's testimony

Yd . at the trial.

Chomon pointed out that: Rodriguez had long been a
suspect, that he had large sums of money,and had paid for
his own trip to Brazil and Costa Rica. Chomon noted that
-that.Marcos Rodriguez had succeeded in getting a scholarship
to go to Prague, where he was arrested and returned to Cuba

-- + @8 @-possible agent of CIA, and it was after this that Marcos
. Rodriguez confessed his guilt. . ot

- t
4 Chomon read a letter which the defendant sent to
Joaq AQedoqui, in which he explained that his mission was - i;
to do intelligence work for the Revolutionary Directory. dn

Ordequi also long-haa been an "old guard" member _
- .and leader of the CP. He is supposedly in charge of the

oa RECERES

tte mA

@ : . | :
. a
.

HW 54653 DocId:32202130 Page 5
“~,

*

~Re:-- Foreign Political Matters - Cuba

training of the military and guerilla tactics in the militia
under the present set-up of the Cuban CP which is known as
the PURS (uaited Party of the Socialist Revolution).

AIP (Agencia de Informaciones Periodisticas - Agency
of Newspaper Reporters) for March 16, 1964, noted that there

-had been considerable discussion about the difficulties be- —

. tween Carlos Rafael: ‘Rodriguez, Minister of the National Insti-

tute of Agrarian Reform (INRA) «and Ernesto "Che! Guevara,.

, Minister of Industries. AIP noted that on March 6, 1964, at

~ iN

‘a meeting in the Palace, Castro stated "Che" deserved the

eat high title of “Worker of the Vanguard!'!,-a statement in-

od-to meatr a pat on the back for the Argentine communist

land an indication of which side Fidel Castro favors.

AIP further noted that the creation of the Ministry
of Industries, and the appointment of "Che" to direct it,
took away some of the power of INRA, headed by Carlos Rafael
Redriguez.

Possible Consequences of the Trial

MM T-1 stated on March 27, 1964, that since Fidel
Castro is not actually interested in justice or in who in-
formed on whom in the matter of the Humboldt #7 affair, he

believes a power struggle is in order in Cuba which may not

"have any. great significance, or which may touch off a large-

  

HW 54653 DocId:

scale removal from power of cartain old line communist
members.  *

   

“ * eH: ! rep
October, i96 ,» that Raul ‘Ro our i, Cuban Aubaseador to
Brazil, and son of Cuba! 8 Minister of Foreign Relations,

‘

i 4 bal . 7 wot BtyN a
TET RecEe ™O

+ EN 316

jyso,

-

32202130 Page 6
tec rr

Lo BE” rae “CHA Rx 7
mS a essai FIDENTI cia t ECTION TO

 

NITED STATES 0s
vi
ce ae my
Vir) eats,
© TO : Dixecte:, ‘F2I (109-12-210)

     
    
  

A iMAT ] iON

UuENY, Gm8 ete

APR

polly sve, eet (LOS 7) (P) g

}
SUBJECT: = ° FOREIGN POLITICAL i:

  
      
 
  

| A hap AG
‘ ee core ne “iteansmi teed herewith are 9 copies of LIB
ow) dated and captioned as above.
. /
iY

; “.ON qd

IM T-2 is qoutes acest
ELEASE IN Stas

T- "3 : is SOS? «= TOTAL DENIAL

 

-
by
b

=
ws
xd
roy

  
 
 

advised SA EDVIN L. SWRET chat he wes
t Humbolcs #7 at the time

  
 

  

< ot cme was mace te arrast the young revolutionari ies,
L i Cand thet all of then were armed and were firing on the
e f 2 a? olice when they were killed.
i
fs This informati ion and memo are submitted to
28 3 | the Bureau at this time because in addition to con-
G<‘e » stant broadcasts from Cuba and news Yepercs appearing in la
oN 23as the Cuben newspapezs coming out of Cube. cne local Kiani
SS BoOS* papezs are offering numerous possible ovjectives of the
DY SZE\ trial enc the macter of the trial is a main diet of con-
3. O° 1] versation in the Cuban exile.colony in Miami. It is
SND S EX felt that am enalaysis at this time of the vossible
aw z= 2d outcome of the trial, as viewed by three Cuban experts
YS § BA Camthe matter, may be of interest to the Bureau and to i
~~ & |. other branches of the United States governmenc.
i ogure . .
Sy, PeaRA, - Copjes are disseminated or ne to the
Modi \."~" interest of INS and CIA, | > eT Ibe 1 i \
xs > . weeees 1
‘ 72> Bureau (onels’ Ee, SF Mt. 2 sl

- Miami (2-1

hy

/ sncLosvic ah
| * " (1-100-13077)
“OS > BY NELS sis a

Jefiy
FIN NENTIAY Classified by asemalan

HW 54653 DocId:32202130 Page 2 CONF I Uy bap di . Declascif fy on OAD PH)

 

‘ ~ ie.
Date:09/01/94

Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
® IDENTIFICATION FORM
: AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10241 Feleased under the John F. Kennedy

Lssassination Records Collection

RECORDS SERIES : bet. of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).
CABLE Case#:NWU 54653 Date: 10-23-2017

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 109-12-210

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : SAC, MIAMI
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA

DATE : 04/06/64
PAGES : 9

SUBJECTS :
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA
CUBA EXILES
HUMBOLDT INCIDENT #7

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 2, 4, DONOR REST., REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/01/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
BECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 54653 DocId:32202130 Page 1
~ UNI _D STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
- .

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to. , Miami, Florida
Rile No 195-1747
‘ KE Hy

 

RE: FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS © CUBA
(Humboldt #7 Incident)

Present Publici ty

Radio broadcasts emanating from Havana, Cuba, heard

clearly in Miami, Florida, and Cuban Newspapers "Revolucion"

- ..and "Hoy", both under the direction and control of the Cuban
. Government, have been devoting lengthy newscasts and news

police action at Calle Humboldt #7, Hawana, on April 20,

. : Joe Westbrook, Juan Pedro. Carbo Servia, and Jose Machado
-- . «Rodriguez, during which period Fulgencio Batista was President
.9f Cuba.

advent to power on January 1, 1959, refer to this matter as
; - . . the “assassination of the students" by gunmen in the employ
+... 0£ Esteban Ventura Novo, then Chief of P§lice. There are |
". ss. ea Cuban police sources, some of whom. actually participated in
“++ .the action at Humboldt #7, who stoutly maintain that those
- om. . -killed were wild vadicals, all armed, who refused to surrender
“u.2 ute the Police upon demand. There were, and continue to be,

eo i " All Cuban newspapers in Cuba, since Fidel Castro's

a ee Castro's Interest is Not Justice
. . ye
“Knowledgeable Cubans, identified below, declare that
Fidel Castro has no interest in justice, or in the merits of
the case at all; chat as a matter of fact, the four atudent

 
  
  

This document is prepared
nation cutsid2 me
your Commiiice ait w

: p a fii y sod
ithout the express ay? ate
@ nel unin : : ° aid ,

 

 

HW 54653 DocId:32202130 Page 3
.

@ Re: Foreign Political Matters - Cuba

revolutionaries killed were not in favor of Castro as a
leader and he either held them in very low estimate or
actually regarded them as rivals for favor and publicity.

oe It appears further, according to these sources,
undoubtedly to be true that Castro loaths and despises Major
a-, (- RolandoXcubela, the first leader of the Federacion de Estud-
Ce dantes Universitarios (Federation of University Students -
a FEU) and Faure-Chomon, Castro's former Ambassador to Russia, | ,
now Minister of Communications; however, Castro now allegedly
sees a chance to use Chomon to direct attention to himself,
grow still stronger in the ranks of the Communist Party (CP),
and uphold his popularity with his cuban supporters.

“> Stage Setting for Retrial of Informant oy oY

a

Be ea

  

Pao, Migs ovate 1,
LP gM BNE Lg a eS ih, Wd

    
  

   
  
 
  

CANIS 069 OATS gut, Gillie hw
a copy of the newspaper "Hoy" for Marcel
mo 704. Page one arinounces that the death penalty was given
@ moo to Marcos Rodriguez Alfonso for informing on his comrades on
-April 20, 1957. He allegedly confessed he had notified
-... "Batistan" Esteban Ventura Novo that the revolutionaries were
meeting at Humboldt #7, and in the ensuing raid the above
four young revolutionaries were killed.

 

 

One of the most important witnesses for the prose-
cution wee-Faure Chomon, who told the court about the low

‘ - Moral character of the defendant and agreed with other wit-
-. -‘..Messeg that the defendant had long been suspected of being

the informer.

. Radio Progreso in its newscast of March 21, 1964,
quoted a letter from Prime Minister Fidel Castro to Blas .
Roca, one of the “old guard'' leaders of the CP, and presently

pe~yee

ade . PECTS be
4 196

r CO ote juJ :

HW 54653 DocId:32202130 Page 4
