 

 

«5, on the course of tho conversation, AMBESS vao nsked a mumbor of questions
about officers in the Embassy and gave the following replies: ; .

C/O: What in Ascouo (Busobio AZCUE Lopos) doing now? .
Awl, We is working with Lechuge (Carlos LECHUGA Havia) who recently
toot over the Cultural Couneil] repimoing that Communist woman,
It 49 interesting to note that Leamiga, who is not a Conmmist,

replaced a Communist, (Confirms LITAMIi=9 reports)

C/os Where 4a Teresa Proenza? (Teresa PACENZA Proenza) —

Aelt In Cuba, Probably in: bed with’ some other "marimasha,” (lesbian),
She works in the Casa de Las Amerioas, She was pulled cut booause
»of her notoristy ag a losbian, Habana got tired of hearing
complaints about her from people who came through here on trips,
(Confinas LITAMIL=9 reports) y

C/o: When 4s Buenaventura (Buenaventurs REYES Adosta) coming baok? _

Aels It looks like he won't, for two réagona, He is having trouble
getting a viga (Mexican) and, more important, his fatke lives
in Puerto Rico, (ConZirms LIMUD information, Notes the report
of MEXI 0679 to the effect that REYES was back in Mexico was
erroneous ). : an

, ¢/oi The Ambassador (Joaquin HERNANDEZ Armas) is due to go back soon
and there are reports from Habana that he might be fired, Is

; this true?

Aeli He was scheduled to go back Sunday but got a cable telling him
to wait a couple of weeks, He will take his wife and daughter
with him when he goes, He came hore under a bit of a cloud ==
seems he made some statements in Brazil at the timo of the
October Crisis (1962) that were not too well received in Habana,
He ims done some things wrong here, too, He has a very good

_reputation as a lawyer in Pinar del Rio, He was married before,
began playing around with Clara (Clara CARBONEL Reyes, his
present wife) md his first wife divorced him, Clara is not a
Communist, The Ambassador is an old PSP type, (Confirms
LICLOD=-1 reports),

C/o: When is Dra, Machado (Margot MACHADO Padron) leaving? Is Bortioa
(Berta PINO Machado) going with her? . co

Ael: She is Leaving very soon, probably on the next plane, end will
take Berta, She has been unhappy here, By the way, Aparicio |
(Raul APARICIO Nogales) just got cabled orders to go home, His
wife doesn't want to go, she likes it here in Mexico better,

C/o; What is the news on Sinobas? (Ramon SINOBAS Casado) We hear
. from Habana that he is coming here again,
Aelt That's right, he will be here very soon, He is going to replace
Dra, Machado,

C/o: Is Camilo (Camilo DOMENECH Gadea) still around? ;
fel: Yes, he is.my boss, (A=1 appeared little disposed to talk about
Domenech), . .

C/O: How do you get along with Vega? (Manuel VEGA Perez)

Ael: Fine, I like Vega a lot, He 4g a nice person and I consider him
a very good friend, Vega is a most unusual type of Communist,
(During the conversation Ael mentionedthree or four times his
‘friendship with Vega).

16, When the matter of an additional meeting was discussed, AMSESS said that he
would be willing to meet the C/O and AMNIP in December or January (1965). The C/o
gaid that he was unable to see why it d take AMSESS so long to make up hie mind,
that he, the C/O, could come back to Mexico to see AMSESS at any time, and that he |
would like to see AMSES8 soon after AMSESS' return from Cuba, AMBESS repeated his
eonoern about needing time to think things through and said he could not possibly
| j meet egain before November, He was invited to pick a date and chose 10 November
to which the C/O readily agreed, Although the matter never came up for discussion, |
the C/O had the impression that AMSESS in interested in seoing which way the elections
$3199 Docld:32349780 Page 9

 

 

 

CragSInC ATION i Troe no
 
       

- tes tte United States go before having further contact,
17. Tee C/O euggoated that. the next mecting take place at sone cutaofatheaay

|

% end was abeut to suggest the Restaurant Jardin in Villa Obrogen when by
idenes AKEESS suggested the camo place, explaining that he and hia wife had .
ehoro a fow tamea and that it seemed to be a good spot for holding an unobserved
ing, Tao contest plan as agreed upon io as followss Qm or soon after 10 Bovenber
2000 hours, AMMIP or the C/O will phone ANGUSS at home and tell him that "ae
40 Jaime, leg medieinas llegaren bien.” If AMBESS’ reply ic favorable or

» Guch as “He alegre mucho quo hayan lldgado" the meeting will take place the
at 1400 hours at tho Jardin, If his reply fe nogative, such as "Siento.

he podido mandar mas" ho will be unable to make the meeting the next day but,
at the Jardin two days later at tho hour indicated, AMSES@ cautioned the
AMNTP not to leave any measagos for him with his maid,

 

5

 

3

 

 

 

Be

 

a
&3

a
$
Rs

 

 

 

“18, Ono problem which had been bothering AMMESS since AMNIP first made contact
eoncerned the advisability of reporting to his superiors that AMNIP had contacted —
him, He brought thio up. repeatedly, saying that he felt he must Feport the ocntact
to Gover himself in case the two had been seen together, however he wie clearly _
‘undecided, At ono point he caid, "If I do report it before I go to Cuba they will

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

. . 2
. 19, Although only a partial success at beat, the meeting seemed to ‘go well,
AwnrIP toid the C/o later that he felt that the case was much more promising than
the LIOOZE oase at the same stage when LIOOZE aaked for two months to think things
through, AMNIP also noted as a good sign the fact that AMSESS was very friendly

with the C/O whereas AMNIP had expected AMSYSS to be somewhat standoffieh in his
initial déalings with a KUBARKER, .

 

 

 

 

 

 

20, The C/O represented himself as coming from ZRMETAL, This fiction was
supported by appropriate props such as book matches, which AMSESS noted, as well
as by AMNIP's remarks, At the same time the C/O displayed considerable knowledge ~~
of Mexioo City and goings on in Habana and the Cuban Embassy; this was done in an
effort to convince AMSESS of the ommisoience of KUBARK and to reinforce the state-
ments that many of AMSESS' colleagues were already cooperating, A number of
questions were phrased in such a way as to cause AMSESS to believe that the
information in the C/O's possession came from sources in Habaga, .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

24. AMSESS conveyed an impression of sincerity to both the C/O and AMNIP.

He {co a strong personality, quite sure of himself. and ready to face the consequences

of his acta, He has a welledeveloped sense of humor, The information he provided
} makos him a tantalizing prospect for future development since he is obviously in a
much better position than LITAMIL-9 to furnish information of value, Much of the
information he supplied is confirmed by other sources and no evidence can be found
of deception, AMNIP feels that AMSESS would not have imparted so much detail had
he not already made up his mtnd to cooperate and that with the continued exercise
of patience in dealing with AMSESS his recruitment would appear to be assured,’ At
this tims AMSESS8 cannot be considered as recruited, He expects to remain at his
present post until June 1965 and the Station hopes to persuade him to. cooperate in
place and accept transfer to Habana after the completion of his tour, The matter
of financial compensation hag not yet been broached, : ;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22, Depending on the .cutoome of the November meeting, the Station may wish
to bring the father of AMSE88' wife to Mextoo, If he is unable to obtain a Mexican
visa by his om offorts, it is felt that he should probably be brought to Mexico on .
_ Pusrto Rican documentation since Station efforts to obtain him a visa through Mexican
goverment channele might possibly jeopardize the security of the operation,

 

 

 

 

 

23, It ip requested that AMNIP be made available to the Station for the follow= ©
up contact’ in November, AMNIP and AMSESS are close friends and AMNIP's presence in —
the initial stages of the operatian will do much to insure AMSESS' cooperation, The
“Btation would appreciate it if he can be scheduled to travel to México on 9 November,

| _ ead

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

  

 
 

Docld: 32349780

‘(soguridad), Por exemple; recently they issued now Soourity
eredentials, replaeing all thé old onen,’ and thoy sent ore to
my home all filicd out,

‘Here or in Habana?
In Hobana, m -

What do you do for "M"?

Little jobs from time to time, Pameing out money, for example,
X is going to Paris co I moot him on a street corner at right
and hand him an envelope with 2,00) dollara in it == that sort -
of thing, : .

What olse? ;
That's about it,

Ye Villaviceneio with "M"?
(Pussled exprogsion, looking to AMNIP) Who?

Enrique VILLAVICENCIO Argudin,
gh! No, he 4g not with "M", (Breaking into wide grin) He does
special work, —

What kind of speotal work?
You know. .

{ne same thing Interian (Elpidio INTERIAN Comezanas) used to do?
Tha’s right.

What Sardinas (Armando SARDINAS Garcia) did before that?
Right,

Where {a Sardinas now? ; ;
In Yugoslavia, By the way, he got into some trouble when he was
here == fell in love with some gifl in Bolivia where he was bofore
he came here--wanted to marry her == trouble was ho already had a
wife in Cuba, He's older than he looks == about 51 == but he sure
was in love with that Bolivien girl, (This information confirms
data from LIMUD and LICARD=1)

. e
Have Villavicensio's wife and sun arrived yet?
Yea, thoy arrived just recently, (Confirms LIFIRE and LITAMIL-9
reports ) : - .

Fs
A

Yas Nico (Jose Antonio GARCIA Lara) with "M7? :
Yes, but he did work of even less importance than I do,

What ever happened to Earle PEREZ Friman?

He's in the Uruguayan Embassy in Habana, Whon he came through
here he gave us some cookeand=bull story about having been kide
napped «= said his gun was taken away from him but he had another
one tucked in his belt and got away from his captors (Same story
told to LITAMIL=9), Just before he loft here he got a call at
the Embassy from some. foreigner who claimed to be a Canadian, I
took the call (Call was.made by a Station officer), I escorted
‘PEREZ to Cuba as a prigoner, Over there they put him in the
Preeidente Hotel for a couple of months «= told him to sit tight
while they investigated his story, Then soifeone told him that
Security had a case on him and he slipped into the Uruguayan
Embassy just in time, He's a crazy kid <= sandwiohes,three lies
in between each two truths, He got into trouble when another
guy, @ Granma expeditionary from Montevideo, defected -here in
Mexico en route home, : 2 a,

 

 

Santana? (Rolando SANTANA Reyes)
Right, Santana never was anything, A real nullity.

we Fo
; if
bo | : |

 

 

Page 3

 
 
  

 

Go

 

 

 

 

 

4,

 

 

 

 

 

 

f,

 

 

 

 

 

h,

 

 

1.

 

 

 

 

Jo

 

 

 

 

 

k,

 

     
 

i.

 

 

       

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

   

Aels

54199 Docld:32349780 Page 7

a

against hia and they desided’ not to testify, -

Capitan Carlos PIOUENEDO was sentensed to three years in jail for
setting fire to his hemo after a quarrel with his wife tio is a
sioter of Jose ABRAHANTES, ‘Thore wore a lot of axplosicus then
the flames reached ammunition and explogives in tho howe,
Pigueredo has been sent to the prison on the Islo of Pines,

The offies of Manuel PINEIRO, cha “Barbaroja," has beon moved -

from hia heme to the Ministry of Interior building, It waa moved

besauso Pineiro was affaid that a naarby embassy would be used as
8 listening post for technical oporstiong against hie office,

Captain Armando TORRES, aka "El Frances," is in charge of
ooordination of guerrilla warfare training courses,

Major Ouillerso JIMENEZ and Camilo COMEZ now work for tho DOI,
(Throughout Aql refered to the DOI cs “N° == he did not uso the
term DOI).

Antonio ARGUELLES is now in charge of technical operations of
DE,

Captain Orlando PANTOJA is in charge of the counter-infiltratioan
group of DSE,~

: j :
Aeql was assigned to a course in countersinfiltration techniques
when groups specializing in this were being set up, but when the
Communists found out about this they removed him from the cource,
A Soviet general taught in, this oourse,

(fmu) SANTACOLOMA {se in charge of the Plan Norte and recently
went through Mexico en route to Canadaj he did not return via
Maxgoo, (DEGRIP-1 recently reported Enrique OLTUSKI in charge
of this plan kmown as the Plan Norte de Matanzas, a cattle-
raising enterprise), +

A Security official named (fnu) CAMPOS recently went through
Mexidoo,

Alberto PEREZ, aka "El Loco,” is now in Paris,

14 On the subject of "MW" (Direcoion General de Inteligencis), the following
exohange took place:

C/o
Ael: Vega, (Manuel VEGA Perez)

 

Who is the "mM" chief in the Embassy?

C/o: Is he here permanently now, or temporarily? -
Aol: Permanently, I think,

C/o: Who else is with "M"?
Rogelio (Rogelio ROLRIGUEZ Lopez), Bit he is Just a. second reter,

C/O: Was Mirabal "M"? (Alfredo M. MIRABAL Diaz) an
. Aeli Yes, But he had to go home == something to do with an .infeotion
. here (Pointing) on the outside of his mouth, It wouldn't oloar up.

C/ot Are the other consuls with "M" s- Mariano Mariano GARCIA Perez)
; \ Qvidio (Ovidio BAMA Viamonte ) and Posada (Jcse Lute POSADA Torres)?
~ Aels No, Mariano is a very good consul by the way, Gama ia a jerk,

C/o:- Are you with "M"? ; -
-Ael: Well, yes,

c/o You are considered an "M" officer ‘mo by "M® and by yourself?
Awl: Yee, but I am on tte fringe, I don't domything important.

Nevertheless they consider me as still connected with Security

 

[var a)

ascuced Areia of. boing 4 hamosemual but Aroia threatened witnesses .

 

 

{
\e

 
 
     

.

   
 
 
  

 

 

 

 

 
  
  
 

   
   
 
 
  
 

 

de

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
  
 
  
 

4,

 

 
 
 

f,

  

  
   
 
 

   
   

49, In gho animated ecnversation whieh ensued 4t coon becand elear that

of. any of then from

12, Bome of the information draw from AMSESS follows)

‘3199 Docld:32349780_ Page 5

concern if eocperation ecnserned hig security; ho seemed to sensider

4% almost a certainty that he would sooner or lator be diseovered, Tae 0/0 devoted
several sinutes to the cubjcet of operational seourity, assuring AMSESS that ho had
never lost a man who faithfully followed tho simple rules of ecapartmentation whoreas
pany people hed been lest because they had, like so. many Cubans, decided to interna
ceme third party of their involvement in intelligence activity, ASSESS mma informed
_that noone else in ODYOKE Imew.that the C/O was talking to AMBESS, at Headquarters -
4% was: anly know that the C/O waa in Mexieo on offi.etal business, AMBERE inquired
about the possibility that the C/O might try to introduce him to other people,
' offleials or agents, and was told that-no such action was. contemplated at this timo
. 6 im the forevéable future and that ANSESS would always be in a position to rofuse
ugh contact if he felt 1% endangorod his security, As an example of tha organisatian’)
eonsem with the eafety of those cooperating with 14, AMSESS was reminded thst many
of his colleagues are already cooperating but that le would never learn the identity
we the C/o; in a similar manner hiv identity would be proteeted from
both friend and foe, : i

ii, Im oseordance with AMNIP's assesament of AMBESS as willing to talk but not
' willing to submit st this time to a grilling, for the first part of the meeting the

éonversationtas allowed to drift with a minimum of direction; later on the C/o

poosd more direct questions and AMSESS provided direct answers, AMNIP had cautioned
the C/O repeatedly to go easy on AMBESS, not to push him or to bring up topics which
he night: eonstrue as designed to exert pressure, For example, the fact that AMSESS
waa, involved in a theft ease involving official funds in Camaguey was not mentioned,
Tne approach was designed to entice AMBESS into ooperation rather than to foree him,

Awl. has & great and enduring love for his homeland,

He 4 blamed by a lot of people for the imprisonment and execution
of many persons in Cuba, At the time that he functioned as Second
Chief of the Habana Police Patrol he arrested many people on orders
from his superiors, Sowe of these are etill in prison, others havé
been shot, People who don't know any botter look upon him as
arrosting officer, trial judgo, jury, and firing squad, Not too
long ago a lady he never remembers having seen before shouted
®gurderer" at him in Habana as he drove down the street, Many
poople think he ta a murderer, He doean't really care what they
think,

Hig economic situation is good in Mexico, At one time he could
have gotten his hands on 700,000 dollars, now he could make off
with about 125,000 dollere if he wished, Hs salary is just

over 500 dollars a month (confirms LITAINT trash report) and he
gots ah allowence for expenses of some 150 dollars a month, The
government paye him for gasoline used by his car, If ho wore to
be transferred to Cuba his situation would be mueh worse since hig
salary would drop back to about 200 Cuban posos a month,

He buys some clothing items from the United States by mail,

His: servant is not to be trusted, She used to work for Ramon’
SINOBAS, No clandestine communication with him should be
through hor, : :

‘His wife 1s completely trustworthy in every respect, It..would be
alright to leave messages with her,

His wife would very mush like to see her father, 1f possible around -
January 1965, He lives in Hialeah, Florida (confirms JMMAVE .infor=
mation), Axl doosn't mush care for his fatherwinslaw, The feeling
io mutual but Aq] thinks it would do his wife a lot of good if the
fathor=in=law could visit Mexico, He has been unable to get a

' Mexican visa,

 

 

 

 

Doemibty

 

 

IBD

Se

Ais

     
ae

Ke

1s

Mo

Fe ne.

Oo

Po

Qe

Pe

we
8.

b.

 

 

He would not roport from Cubs ‘by vedio ao pP’ing stations are
tink thiek thers as mushrooms, * _ (Nothing vas said about a radio

wish Aoi up to this point, He woo assured that he could
i sre dn a soeurd method of commmnication not involving
radio or thin parties. AMNIP endorsed this statement),

He was surprised reogntly to learn .tist his mother had ones been

& Communist in the 1930's, This fact was brought to his attention
by Security offieers in Habana who had run a now asourity ohock on
Ael, Hie mother 4e from “uneducated sountry took.”

a
if

Hia mothor and father are divoréed, fe ie mich oloser to iis
father, Hie father ta about 105 birtndate unknown even to himself,
and has had prostate trotible recently, .
Before the revolution he wea acoountant and vorked for a man now
reaiding in New York, The accounting, firm was cailéd Falla»
Gutderres,

He has never visited the UB. He planned to visit Washington in
the early days of the revolution when a friond was Conmil General
at Washington,

Fidei cAsTRO'a reaction to the trial of Maroos RODRIGUEZ Alfonso
was not surprising to Ael, CASTRO had no alternative, “Had he
used the trial to clobber the Comminis ts the people of Cuba; fed .
up with Comminism, would have taken this as license to mm amok
and turn the country iipeide down,

He was. onoe in Prague, Ceechoslovakia, He found tiie a drab | as
presenteday Habana even though it is touted as the most capital~
istic oity in Commniem,

His commercial activities don't keep him very busy, He made one
trip to Sinaloa to buy garbanzos (chick peas), He negotiated the
recent purchase of medical equipment from Hoffman=Pinther & Bosworth .
that caused so much trouble and publicity in the papers, He got the
nowefamous cheek from the Banoo del Atlantico because the bank was
short of cash at the moment; when it was not acceptable he took it
back and got oash instead, This affair caused so much trouble, he
had to go to Habana to explain things to his superiors.

Antonio GARCIA Lara did a lot more traveling about on commercial _—
activity because he knew so many more people in Mexico having

_ lived here during the time CASTRO was fighting in Cuba,

The Ambassador is spooked by the thought that the Embassy ia full
of hidden microphones, Ho oalled a staff mocting and read an
artiolo from Time or Life about elestronic eavesdropping; since -
then he has "seen" microphones everywhere, (Confirms LITAMIL~9
reports), ; .

The Soviet Embassy is also very worried about hidden microphones,

The code clerk of the Cuban Embassy in Montevideo once left the
Embassy with the code materials in hig posseesion, He was gone

for two days, was unable to make contect with KUBARK ond eventually
went back to the Embassy to his wife,and children, He wes sent
back to Cuba as a prisoner, (This item was revealed to AMNIP on

24 Boptember ), .

13, In reminiscing with AMNIP about mutual acquaintances dating from the time
- of their service together in O=2, AMSESS revealed the following:

Jats GOMEZ is now Segundo Jefe de Operaciones, DSE, Camaguey,
His father is ean oldetime PSP militant,

Temasl ARCIA Domingues, aka "El Chine," is Jefe'de Inspecoion %
de lo Policia for the entire island, Camilo GOMEZ, a DOI man,

r $3199 DocId:32349780 Page 6

wane

 

 

bo

-&

 

 
   

  
    
    
 
    
     
      
    
    
     
      

‘REX 1024
a BEX 3028
4. tn the afternoon of ah Septenber 1984, ‘vinen 5 suryottlanse by ‘ht LSIRORACE
team showed thet AMSESS-1 was at his home, AMNIP=] entered angess'
woleozed with a varm embrace by AMBESS, Soon afterverd AMIGO ond WOU
Greve to & restaurant on the Cuernavaca Foed where ecaversed, for about one .
hour, ms results. @ thio meeting wore reported in 1014, 24 ‘Geptenber ,

wi @e “Ba Feepense to AmamP'o cuggection that AMaESS agree to mect with & KUBARK
offieiad ho had com from ZAMETAL to, talk to AMGESS about cooperating in the fight
to wad Cubs of Comminien, , AMEESS agreed to meet the next day with the official =~
(Lesrranao P, BARKER (P); horeinafter C/o) with two recorvationsi (&) ANGEES would |
Goession on cooperation without time to think things over

    
 
   

' mot make a yes or :
| afer the aseting; “and (b) AMGESS vould mect only with AMNIP and the C/O, he would .
not ecet with afiy “other | ‘RUBARKERS how or Later, Amsrss* principal preosoupation x 5

t the rseting take place at sone outiying’ ri steurant

     
    
  

- 3. AMiRSS: cuggocted |

{but AMNEP cuggosted that 1t mf: t be ‘more secure to meet in a hotel

tp AREF in front of < AMGESS agreed to this suggestion and said he wi .
+ front. of the Dians theater at * 1350 houre & September froa vasnee the

    

 
  
 
     
   
   
 
    

& The Station obtained tr0" adjacent. hotel ‘Toons . cond, “Jooeph He RESC ONO (e)
installed three trananitters in the Foca! seledsted for the interview, Station ;
personnel, eugzented by’ John Ro SANDAMANIB (P), curveilled both the pick=up point
ema the hotel, ANSESS arrived at tho piekeup point at 1538 hours and explained
hed Geolded not to prosced to a hotel, Ho explained to AMMIP that he did not
be reeorded, ag. could easily be dono in a hotel reon, aineo he di pot Ot. thio H
making a deofeion, Again roitorating his | dotermination -
j F to the C/0, AMSESS suggected that the secting bo held |

° ‘© continued 4.

 
 
 
  

     
Date: 12/08/04
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM °

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John
Kennedy

“AGENCY : CIA a ;

RECORD NUMBER : 104~10072-10234 Assassination Records

RECORD SERIES : JFK ollection Act of 1992
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A (44 USC 2107 Note).

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ase#:NW 53199 Date:
Hdé—-08-2017

 

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM : COS, MEXICO CITY
. TO : CHIEF, WH DIVISION
TITLE ; OPERATIONAL-INITIATION OF CONTACT.
DATE : 09/30/1964
PAGES : 10
SUBJECTS CONTACT
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER
CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/03/93 :
. COMMENTS : JFK15 : F45 1993.08.03.20:16:03:530033

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Docld: 32349780

Page 1

104-10072-10234
 

“am o nesvtg rogtaurent, the Gaalet Guise.” MEMP asquicesed, ‘paid be would sso
ares armcnteitns te oss Sie ie

- §, Station porsonne] wore. quickly alerted and transfered the curvedilence
to the viciaity of the Chalet Guiso whore ANZESS and ANG? mot at tho deor at
1863 hours, At 1450 the 6/o chowed up and found AMTESS and AMITP soated nt a”
table for two in the upstairs portion of the reoteurant, No tables for three

|. wore avadlablo, After a quiok handshake with the ©/O AMSESS suggedted that the
gPoup ropair ito tho nearby. rostaurant Manu Kai where tables would surely be availe
able, As a security measure AMSEBS proceeded to the restaurant alone followed by
AMHIP end the C/O, Only two othertables were oooupied, oné by e Mexioan family,
ons by two American tourists, AMBESS. was sented at o table in the rear, Tho
C/o sat dow opposite AMSESS and AMNIP sat at the o/ors side,

' 6, AMNIP introduced the C/o as "Bob'tee," and moberto * AMSESS was vory
friendly, He appoared to be somewhat nervous for the first hour of the two hours
forty five minutos that the meeting lasted, looking down at the table and genorally
avoiding eye ecntact, After this he wos completoly relaxed and maintained eye
| eentect with the C/o, He spoke in rapid, rather sloppy Spanish heavily larded with
‘f. Guban slang, A musak loudspeaker over the table effectively blanked cut the oonver=
eation for other eustomers and the waiters,

‘1, AMSESS quickly reminded the C/O that he did not intend to make any oomaite
ments. at this session and that he wished thia to bo understood before the meeting
proceeded, The C/O said that he was interested primarily in exchanging opinions
with AMSESS, had plenty of time at hia disposal, and did not wish to rush into

_A round of drinks was ordered and the C/O proposed 4 toast for Cuba,
Sensing that thore was nothing to be gained by further delay or attention to the
amenities the C/O launched into hie piteh,

a om

8, In csscnce the pitan to AMSESS was aa follows;

ye: need facts. in order to build a sound Cuban ‘polioy, In

too many cases those coming out of Cuba ag exiles toll us what
they think we want to hear, rather than the truth, For example,

\ we constantly hear that people are starving in Cuba yet one hos
only to look at those stepping off the Cubana planes here to know
that thia ie not the case, We need facts, good news or bad, but
facts, In turning to you, we have no intention of asking you to

take action = to plant bombs, to moet with other people, All

we are after 1s occasional meetings to talk over the situation

_ and we will not expose you to any cther people,”

®you would be surprised to know how many of your companions
inside Cuba and in the Cuban diplomatic missions are working
with us for the liberation of Cuba, Wo feel that the future
of Cuba will be deoided principally by people who are now
offiedally tied to the Cubsn government == people tho are
cooperating in place «= rather than by those tho charge around
in speedboats shooting up sugar mills, We have been studying
all Cuban officials abroad, Among those I havo studied, you
Look like the sort of man who oan. be counted on to help build
“anew Cube, Some people in oxilo think you are o real rat but”
ae in studying you I saw something solid which our friend here
, (AMNIP) confirmed, I em not trying to butter you up, I am
porfeotly capable of. calling a a. "eabron® or “hijo de puta®
if the words fit, but I think I'a a pretty good judge of
character,”

"our sole interest is in a free Cuba = f
As a matter of possible intorest to you, I was a re!
rabid Fidelista myself, My government has no desire to see
another Batiata in Cuba, or a corrupt "autentico,” We are woll
aware of tho reasana for the‘Cuban revolution and sympathise
_ with ita legitimate aims, We haven't forgotten the Platt
: Amendment or other dark pages of US<Cuban relations, We are . :
"net fighting the poople of Cuba, We = fighting Communism in
19d sche! 32449780 Page 3 - mo oe

= a TPAGE NO.

 

 

 

 
eng fora, that conn the Russ ‘ora thi G

and, Lora Shae ete SL ds sverrthing we oan to gaia Oube tha

Ghewplace of demcarasy in tho Western Hemicphare, Add wild

pour im, Cuba will have ite own Marshall Plan, beeause it da

am cur matienal interest to do ge. As you aro woll aware, cur

nations ¢ interests, those of your people and mine, are easentially
seme,"

"Symon the house of canis collapses wo want to make the tram
aition as painless and as blocdlesa aa pesaiblo and that is why we
need gocd msn like you to phase over into the new Guba and make it
work, After the fall of Fidel I will probably ask for six weeks
eave to drink Cuba Libres "en peehangs" with my many good friends
in Cuba «= then my government will send wo off to shasing Rugrians
and Chinese, We will have ascomplighed cur miseion in Cuba ,?

 

"tn retum for your eooporstion you wil redeive as your
greatest Feward the satisfaation of having played a vital part in
the liberaticn of your homdland, In eddition I can offer you two

(a) typ both economie and physical == you will not
he wall and shot in the paseions of tho moment,

 

end (b) 0 Butane,”
AMSESS replied as follows:

"y am not going to give you a definite yos or no today, I
have already told AMNIP this, I need tize to think things through,
If I dooide to join your team I will do so without reservations and .
will work with you to the doath if necessary == — am not afraid, I
have read a good bit about Communiem and I must be frank in telling
you that I. find it looks very good on paper, Bat in practice it
dose not work and I have not been blind to how it has wreoked Cuba,
Nevertheless there are a lot of convinced Communists in Cuba now o=
‘youngsters whose whole education has been in that direction, They
are a determined bunch, Futhermore, I do nat feel, as you apparently
do, that the Russians will ever relinquish their hold on Cuba, their
only solid base in Latin Amarisa, I long for the liberation of my
country but I cannot seo it on tho horison,*

"the last time I was in Cuba it seemed to mo thet things
were 6 bit better, There is food, There arg shoes, although not
many and of very poor quality, Of course, when you bring “eny’ people J
down as far aga the Cuban people have been brought, in steadydeoline,
betterment is instantly noticed and appreciated no matter’ haw
slight and regardless of the fact that conditions in general are
still way below what they should be,"

"then, I also have the problem of my father. I want to
bring him dut and that may take scme time, I don't want to do
anything now that will jeopardize my. chances of palling this off,”

 

=] would not know what to do if I were to seck asylun, I
have often thoughtof doing this but I would not fit into the exile
pioture, I would find it physically impossible to live away from
Cuba for more than a voor oo impopsible, I am too mish of a Cuban
_to contemplate that,"

   
 

oe

. "7 appreciate your viewpoints which are dearly stated and I
appreciate your sineerity, You in turn must appreciate the necessity
for me to think things over, to have another look at Cuba, I am ;
going on Sunday (27 September), to see about bringing out my father,
to talk to my friends there, All of this I must do before I see you
again to give you my decision,”

URE CARD. .REPR

  

 

 

CLaSSTCATION
