 

 

 

(E) ' STREAMLINING PROCEDURES - CHANNELIZING MEMORANDA -~ Numerous
channelizing memoranda, particularly in large offices operating a
large number of live informants, are presenting an increasingly
critical space problem and demands for extra file cabinets.

: In June, 1960, the Chicago and San Francisco Offices
were authorized to destroy channelizing memoranda following
submission of reports in security cases on an experimental basis
to determine the feasibility of adopting this practice throughout

the field. ; . :

Based upon the favorable results obtained in these offices,
particularly in savings in file space and streamlining of case files,
the Bureau is authorizing the destruction of these channelizing
memoranda following submission of reports in both individual and
organizational security cases.

In devising procedures for the handling of this matter
you should be guided by the following:

(1) The current procedure with regard to filing the
original informant report, the filing of the master channelizing
memoranda in the informant file and the serializing of channelizing
memoranda in the substantive case files will be continued as at

present.

(2) The Agent, at the time he dictates the report, will
, prepare a memorandum listing the channelizing memoranda to be
destroyed by serial or serial scope and requesting the Chief Clerk's
Office to destroy. The memorandum should indicate that pertinent
information contained in the serials to be destroyed was incorporated
in the report. It will not be necessary to set forth in this
destruction memorandum the file and serial number of original
informant reports or master channelizing memoranda as this information
will be listed in the cover pages to the report. In the case of
multiple volumes, the destruction memorandum should be prepared by
the Agent in sufficient numbers so that one copy will appear in
each volume of the multiple volume file being stripped.

(3) Prior to destruction, the Agent's recommendations
with respect thereto are to be reviewed and approved by the
Supervisor at the time he reviews and approves the report.

(4) Following destruction of the channelizing memoranda
the Chief Clerk will so note on' the memorandum. Thereafter, the
memorandum will be filed in the case file as a permanent record
of the serials destroyed.

2/21/61
Be (or nER NO. 61-8 -4.

HW 55044 Doclid: 32589526 Page &

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

(5) Technical and microphone surveillance channelizing
memoranda may be destroyéd without the necessity of identifying
in the cover pages of the report the exact location in the office
files of the original information. The use of an asterisk
identifies the source and the original information can be readily

‘located.

The channelizing memorandum should not be destroyed in
the following instances:

(1) When the original information is not contained
elsewhere in your office.

(2) Do not destroy serial one of a file regardless
of its nature.

(3) Do not destroy any serial containing indexing.
It would appear that if indexing was necessary to channelizing
memoranda, such indexing would only be done in the main case
file as set forth in the title of the communication.

(4) Do not destroy serial showing "action" information.
For example, opening, closing, posting, or instructions given
- by a Supervisor to an Agent concerning the case.

The destruction of these channelizing memoranda should
be subject to close supervisory control by you to insure that all

pertinent information contained in these memoranda is reported
in the investigative report.

Very truly yours,
John Edgar Hoover

Director

Enclosure for (C)

2/21/61
SAC LETTER NO. 61-8 ~5-

NW 55044 Doold: 32989526 Page i0

 

 
 

 

 

 

(D} SPECIAL INQUIRIES FOR WHITE HOUSE, CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES
AND OTHER GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES -~ In the future, you should
not conduct neighborhood investigation on individuals being
considered for positions of Cabinet rank. Further, neighborhood
investigation should not be made on,.any other prominent persons
without Bureau approval. In other investigations concerning
persons not falling within these two categories, the field should
be alert to any information which would indicate the possibility
that a neighborhood investigation would be inadvisable, in which
event the Bureau should be notified immediately prior to any
neighborhood investigation.

In those cases in which no neighborhood investigation
is being conducted, should information be developed which indicates
the advisability of making a neighborhood investigation, you
should immediately furnish pertinent facts to the Bureau for its
consideration.

The Bureau expects that these instructions will be
strictly adhered to.

(Security Letter on attached pages)

2/21/61 ;
SAC LETTER 61-8 -3-

HW 55044 Docld:32989526 Page 8
a

 

 

 
 

 

 

{C)#’ VOUCHERS -’ FORMS -“TRAVEL VOUCHER, SF 1012; REVISED ISSUE -
SUPPLIES --. Standard Form (SF) 1012, 1012a, b, and c, travel
voucher forms, have been revised and requisitions for these are
being filled with the revised issue. The revised issue is
substantially different from the old form and, therefore, in
requesting a supply from the Bureau, you should insure that
your initial order includes SF 1012, 1012a, b, and ec. You
should continue to use the old form until your supply is

exhausted.

For your guidance in the preparation of the new SF 1012,
@ sample voucher is enclosed.

\F

2/21/61
SAC LETTER NO. 61-8 -~-2-

 

| HW 55044 Doold: 32889526 Page 7

 

 

 
 

 

 

(D) FBI'S ANNUAL REPORT FOR 1960 FISCAL YEAR --~ Paragraph (C)
of SAC Letter 60-49 dated October 18, 1960, advised that three
copies of the FBI's Annual Report for the 1960 Fiscal Year were
‘being sent each field office, and that the Bureau's Annual
Report should not be distributed to outsiders until the Attorney
General had released the Department's Annual Report.

The printed Annual Report of the.-Department of Justice
for the 1960 Fiseal Year has now been made available to the public.
Accordingly, you may distribute the Bureau's Annual Report to
press contacts and other individuals who may have a special
interest in the data contained therein. For your use in this
regard, several additional copies of the FBI's Annual Report
are being sent each field office.

Very truly yours,
John Edgar Hoover

Director

1/31/61
SAC LETTER NO. 61-5 -2-

MW 55044 Docld:32989526 Page 5

 
 

 

PERSON, ATTENTION
SAC i. SER NO. 61-8
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

ln Reply, Please Refer to February 21, 1961 WASHINGTON 25, D. G.

File No. .

(A) “PERSONNEL MATTERS - CONTRIBUTIONS AND FLOWER FUNDS -- My
attention was recently called to a complaint concerning excessive
collections from our employees for gifts. Henceforth, there will
be no collections for birthdays, showers, baby and wedding gifts,
transfers, resignations, and the like. Your attention is directed
to SAC Letter 60-24 dated 5-10-60 setting forth instructions
regarding the proper use of the flower fund. Contributions to

the flower fund from employees should be strictly voluntary and
held to an absolute minimum.

2/21/61
SAC LETTER NO. 61-8 - i

(B) CRIME POSTER -- My Introduction in the March issue of the FBI
Law Enforcement Bulletin pertains to the alarming rise in crime
and calls upon the American public to lend assistance to law
enforcement. The Introduction makes specific reference to a poster’
on crime which is designed to enlist the aid of the public and
which is being introduced on the inside back cover of the March
Bulletin. This black-and-white poster is available in an 8- by
10 1/2-inch size in large quantities to your office and to other
law enforcement agencies, civic and service organizations, parent-
teacher groups, etc.

~ A minimum of 100 copies is being sent under separate
eover to each field office for the purpose of obtaining wide dissemina-
tion of this poster, and you should make every effort to see that the
public in your territory is aware of its existence and has the
opportunity to effectively use it. The public may obtain copies by
writing to FBI Headquarters in Washington, D. C.

In order to control the release of this poster in line
with our commitments to wire services, you may release this poster
immediately upon receiving the copies of the FBI Law Enforcement
Bulletin Introduction which are sent to your office each month.

| MW 55044 Doold:32989526 Page 6
= 7

 

 

Xan sete erica aise
ie.

 
 

ze

 

iCLOSUR

13275).

MLL

Re:

=331

 

1.

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

     

PERSONAL ATTENTION
SAL JETTER NO. 601-5
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to January 31, 1961 WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

File No,

(A) FIRST-CLASS MAIL ~- When first-class mail is packaged in brown
envelopes or parcels~(packages or boxes) and is not sent air mail
or special delivery, it should be labeled "FIRST.-CLASS MAIL" im-
mediately above the address with a rubber stamp having one-quarter
inch or larger letters or with labels obtainable from your local
post office. This labeling should be done to avoid mail transit
and delivery delays sometimes resulting from postal employees
assuming such mail envelopes and parcels are third-class mail
dispatches.. j an .

!
1/31/61 a
SAC LETTER NO. 61-5 ;

~~ (B)-;MAILING LIST - FIELD OFFICE LISTS OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS -
Your attention is directed to Part II, Section 6 (G), of the Manual
of Rules and Regulations. You are reminded that changes in your
field office list are to be reported to the Bureau as they occur.
They should be submitted in duplicate. Form for submission of
changes should remain the same except that the page number on

. Which the name appeared in the list originally submitted should

‘be shown. Appropriate manual changes being prepared.

1/31/61
SAC LETTER NO. 61-5

(Cc) FBI NATIONAL ACADEMY -- It is desired that you make the usual
arrangements for the holding of state or regional Retraining
Sessions for graduates of the FBI National Academy in your territory.
Carefully prepared programs of’training should be drawn up in order
to insure that the graduates attending the Retraining Sessions will
receive interesting, valuable and timely instructions. Emphasis
should be placed on the training aspects of these Sessions.

The dates and places of your 1961 Retraining Sessions,
together with the detailed programs to be followed, should be sub-
mitted to the Bureau by June 1, 1961, or thirty days in advance of
your Retraining Session, whichever is earlier.

Your attention is directed to SAC Letter 58-75 (c)
concerning the attendance of Bureau personnel at FBI National
Academy Retraining Sessions. These instructions must be closely

followed.

 

MW O55044  BDoold: 32989526 Page 3 t
a

 

 
 

/SEHBY

 

 

HW 55044 Docid: 32589526 Page 4
