. ij
fo
re ‘a

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUBE ORAITTEE 7 10 1 Lave VESTIGATE 1 TE

 

- COMMITTER ON-THE SUDIGARE _
mn HERD STATES SENATE oe

Printed for the use of the Committes on
t

 

 

the Jodicury

  

tee ea,

oO

HW 53216. DocId:32397478- Page 2

 

ADMINISTRATION Je THE LYTRENAD SE ne = a

      

 

  
     
Date: 12/18/98

 

Page: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM . S
AGENCY INFORMATION Released under the John
Kennedy
AGENCY : “
” RECORD AOUNER > Ooo /04- / oF 33- /o1el Assassination Records
RECORD SERIES : JFK . ollection Act of 1992
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE (44 USc 2107 Note).
Damn nn enn nn a ee ase#:NU 53216 Date:
DOCUMENT INFORMATION hé—-13-2017
ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : TESTIMONY OF GERALD WAYNE KIRK
DATE : 03/10/70 :
PAGES : 3
SUBJECTS : KIRK

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT.
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED uw
RESTRICTIONS : OPEN IN FULL sv foneP “a Fe
CURRENT STATUS : OPEN OF!
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/18/98 , -
OPENING CRITERIA : . :
COMMENTS : UJFK~RH19:F09 1998.12.18.09:32:46:530128:

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 53216 DocId:32397478 Page 1
Ae : +S agede

 

  

 

 

 

Rees

152

B couple of other peoplo there with us, but I can't remembor exnelly
who. sy oO me,
Mr, Nonpyn. What was the outcome of that discussion? --
Mr. JOrx, Wo realized our position wns very good. Our position
for influenging tho convention wns very, very good Leenuse we Jind |
seoplo who, oven if thay were not members of the Communist Party,
tea. word vory much in egreoment with our position, uven Hhongh
these people who were not members of the Communist Party, U.S.A.
* would use rhetorio that muy bo oe Jittle diferent from that of the i
Communist Party, U.S.A. One person that inflvenced people was; |

 

- Rennio Davis, for example. - : De

’ Mr. Noaper. Hisnaine came up in the discussion? ~ Dotan

. Mr. Kiss. Right. . yt : : :

Mr, Nowen. He did not participate in tho discnesion?- .

- Mr. Kaax. No; he did not. He hed othar things to do in othor paris:

of tha conference, but he wis insnoned os a person who was Yory,

very close to the position of fhe Communist Party, U.S.A., on almest _-

every matter that would comsup. ~ . . cee

’ As I mentioned before, Rennie Davis was involvedy-very deoply,

 

with Earl Durham, of the Center for Radica) Resoarch, and at Dur
on ham’s request, Davis asked mo to work for him, Davis, |. Lol
: ..,S0, you can sea that Davis, even though his rhetoric may ba 2 bit
different, it is still very close to-his bafic position. Ho is also vary
- close, not only in his positions but in his factics, beceusa-no matter-"_
what enyens may sa ) + know for a fact that he, Dayis, conld not hava .- 7)
.: traveled to North Vietnam end other places in the Red-bloc coun-/ | --
4, tries without having very, very close contacts with the Communist a
‘S.A. It is not possibla to do that unless you do haya close

 

 

 
    
    
  

   
 
     
  
     
  

   

 

. Noarst. Wes this meeting in Black's room to 3
rued os s party meeting, 2 party caucus?
Mr. Kran. Yes. : Lo . Fg,
Mr. Norpzi. In other words, what Gevelopad thera was an nssess-
inent of the party’s position and particularly within the black caucus
elating to the Nationel Conierencs for New Politics$ .. os
Bir. Kine. Yes. -- . | :
Mr, Norrsr, All right, would you continue, please? .” ca.
Mr. Kags. Well, I can’t remember whether if was that dey or ths
next one, we were on the floor of the convention making various notes .
end suggestions and the caucus had coalesred by thattime Itwos,in- -. ‘|! ; :
ony opinion, in very good shape. We had people who had been involved —
iin SNCC, people who had been involved jn RAM, people who had ~
- Leen invelved in varions things nreund the country, 2 few people
“who eventually, I think, becane members of the Black Panther Party,
-because there Was always a movement of personnel through theso vari- -
us orvanizations. So we started to take these varions votes nnd renl-
deed that tho black eancns? position wes even better than wo had
‘believed at first, and we did eventually in that convention moys it to -
: 2 Tew of the party's positions wanted on the wer and on tha -
definition of racism, and things of that sort. We got just about
ining we wanted, and that isborne out by the fact thef the pubd-

ich you ¥o-

  

   

          
  

  
   
    
  
  
  

    

 

 

icetions and the statements that came from NGNP, especially on the
decision te hays the ticket of Spock and King which ware basic party"

 

   

“A

 

NW 53216 Docld:32397478 Page-3-° ~~ oo
pees

 

NW 53216 __

 

 

 

 

153

i
| positions. ‘Phere. wery quife a few people who believed they wore rent
, revolutionaries who didn’t believe it Was jecessiry {6 have a ticket or
a presidential campaizn of Spock and Wing, but the party believed it
was absolutely necess: ry because it grew out of tho diulecReal position

they had, - ; _ fo.

Mr. Nouren, Ary you saying that Peajarnin Spock sad Martin
Luther King were chosen for n presidentin) ticket by the Communist

 

 

   

 

Party, U.S.AJin foct? - . . Lo ye ee
Ay. Hauc. Weill, the Communist Purty, U.S.A, decided that those

 

 

~~“ were the two of the best people that tha party position could move
: for, the purty personnel, : sO an
soos Afr. Norver. You ere not implying then that ojther Spock of King
Were or fra rgembers of the Cominunist Party? .
Mr, Tuas, No. Lol, ; . .
Ar. Noweer. You aranotin lying that? i .
. Mr, Kune. doubt they would have to'be, 0 mE
-=: Mr. Norper. Now, to go back to this black enucus; waswt jf tine
that the blacks were numerically inferior when jt cums to the young?
Bin. Hank. Vhatistrua, ~ . ,
. 3. Bir. Nonrze. hot the whites predominated or hold the majority of
voling participantsy : . :
- Mr, Kana, ‘That's true. a : .
a Ar. Nonven Was unything dons nbout that? Can you elabornte on
: the way the minority guestion representiny tha blact-s was settled rs
for ns the votes went, within the convention? :

~~ Mr. Kam, Well, a} through ths conference or convention there wus
8 thems that was promoted by the Communist ‘Paty, U.S.A. years
ago, that bacause of tho instinitional racism in Americo and all those
terms they threw out, » convention like the NCNP had to do some-
“+. + thing that would negate the faci that blacks didn’t nye ns many votes

as whites, and so one of tha positions of the Communist Party mem-

bers was to support anyons in the black cavsys snd anywhere else in

 

sre 2}
... + tha convention who wanted to change that numerical system. I, my-
|” ‘self, did not get to go to tha Anal nesting at which the black caucus
S} 5 9. voted, you know, on the specifics, but Twas there when they cama back
to the convention, becausa they hod left, and there was SOINS & aiye-

 
  

   
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
   
 
  

     

ments rode, I am not sure of the speciSes or the numbers but there

ode where the votes of the black caucus Were .

> WAS Soms arrangement
mors than they wonld haye been s mply on the br
Afr. Nozper. Would you continus on then w
the convention, 25 you récall it? - _ a
“Mr. Torx. Well, there were severn} Speeches amply covered by al

> “the press. Tha one speech that struck ms was by James Forman, who

- ‘hed been en informant—off the record, please. .
"Senator Tironaonp, Off tho record,

_ {Discussion offthe record.) . -

enator TRURMOND. Back on the record.

Afr, Noweer. Ars jon speaking of James Forman? _

Mr. Kms: Right: As you Lmow he baa been invelved in
& few other organizations in the South ene geye a very
lk. As you probzbly well know, but T don’t think mnony of the people |

o rend this would kp #, Speeches in conyentions, especially in thig

   
    
  

 

= numbers, per se.
th what happened at

 

 

  

 

 

fa

 

Q39747B .Page..d | 0. 2 .-----— ee ee

 
 

Doct

 

 
