 

ce . .
y .
é . .

SECRET

KOZLOV, of course, knew many important KGB operations,

and he told many anecdotes. Once, in the early or mid-1980s, he

-“— said to the source, "Do you know what we did in the 1950s? We
had a very, very high man in British counterintelligence." The
source asked KOZLOV who it was. KOZLOV said that it was either
the chief or one of his deputies.

More recently, following the publication of "Spy
* “ Catcher," the source heard about this previous penetration of MI-
5 from Nikolai ZHUKOV, a Directorate K Officer who was stationed
in Britain in the mid-1980s, and may have been expelled. ZHUKOV
is the KGB First Chief Directorate (FCD) counterpart of the
officers in the Second Department, SCD. He is responsible for
the Russian Colony in Britain and for all cypher reports from the

KGB residency in London. He is a frequent visitor to ScD
Headquarters. .

’ During a conversation between ZHUKOV and Second
- Department case officers (including the source) on such cases as
ne EMERSON and PATTERSON (see previous reports on these cases),
ZHUKOV boasted that these cases were not so significant. A
discussion then ensued about "the boys in blue," the SCD slang .

_term for MI-5. According to ZHUKOV, the KGB had a very high
penetration of MI~5 in the past.

In all four cases mentioned above, the subsources did
not tell our source the name of the MI-5 penetration. The source
is not certain whether it was Roger HOLLIS, former chief of MI-5,

or one of his deputies. Based on the above accounts, however,
the source is certain it was a man in the top circles of MI-5.

He is also certain that his subsources were not referring to
BURGESS, MACLEAN, or BLUNT. None of his subsources mentioned the

name cf the KGB case officer who handled the MI-5 penetration or
how the penetration was handled.

DEBRIEFER'S COMMENTS: °

Needless to say, we will continue to debrief the source
on his knowledge of the above matter with the hope of acquiring
any additional information he may possess.

 

aS
MW 54934 _Docld:32989481. Page 9. . ay

   

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
    
   

Ee OE, ~REFERENCES : —_

1. January 11, 1990, Debriefing. Tape #1B. Counter 7356-426.

2. danuary 12, 1990, Debriefing. Tape #1A. Counter 7550-560
and #534. -

HW 54934

   

Docid: 32989481

 

Page if

 

 

 
 

HW 54934 Doold:32989481 Page 8 ey

 

 

% KGB PENETRATION OF MI-5 :

Even before the publication of Peter Wright's book,
"Spy Catcher," the source heard that the KGB previously had a
mole in the high circles of British Counterintelligence (i.e.,

MI-5). The source heard about this KGB success from four
separate sources.

First, the source heard about this success from his
instuctors in the Minsk Higher Counterintelligence School in
1981. These instructors were all retired intelligence and
counterintelligence officers. Some of them dealt very closely
with the British intelligence target. The only instructor the
source could recall at this time was, Colonel (first name unknown)

C. » Who spent 10-12 years in_East Germany and was
responsible for the flood of illegals from EaSt Berlin into West

Berlin. sre

The~source did not believe these instructors at first.

He assumed they were exaggerating such accomplishments for their
own aggrandizement,.

Subsequently, however’, the source had a conversation

“with his boss Nikolai STEKLOV, then chief of the second (pritish

and Commonwealth) Department of the KGB's Second Chief +
Directorate. STEKLOV told the source that the KGB did have- a
very good success in:MI~-5 at a certain period.

The conversation with STEKLOV took place in the early
1980s, perhaps 1983. During this conversation, STEKLOV was
recalling old cases and a personal meeting he once had with
British defector Kim PHILBY. STEKLOV told the source, "Don't
you know, there was a third man they couldn't detect. It was a
guy who passed all information he could and was as reliable as
PHILBY." According to STEKLOV's account, the man was still in

place after PHILBY's defection, and he continued to provide
reliable information to,the KGB.

PHILBY's defection did not
interfere in the nase NY Wan,

Aleksey VictorovichNKOZLOV was a thiva source who told
the sourc@=abotit this previous penetration of MI-5. KOZLOV was a
long-time KGB officer who served in Britain during the 1950s as a
member of the KGB residency's counterintelligence branch. KOZLOV

had started his KGB career in 1945, right after the war. He
retired from the KGB in 1986.

 

 

 

 

 
fj

The KGB believes that PENKOVSKIY's disclosures.
“¥egarding nuclear missile silo shafts and. their locations were
. 4. the most damaging items of information he passed to the

Americans and British. As a result of his disclosures, the
Soviets were forced to destroy all equipment in the silos and
fill them with water. The technical equipment and auxillary
material were so heavy that the Soviets simply left them behind

and buried them. =wratb

“Ivan’ ARKELOV, was one of the original SCD case officers
in the PEN iWinvestigation. He received an Order of the
Red Star for this operation. Everybody was promoted for- working

on the case. MARKELOV eventually replaced Gregoriy GRIGORENKO as
Chief of the SCD in the early 1980s.

 
  

PENKOVSKIY was, of course, executed by firing squad for
his treason. Before he was executed, he admitted that he had

. made many mistakes. He asked for leniency in the form of a
‘ prison sentence, but to no avail. PENKOVSKIY was quite brave
: during the entire judicial proceedings. Mr. WYNN, however; was

° not so brave, and he frequently cried. The SCD knew that Mr. -
Qo. : WYNN was not a British intelligence officer, but was acting as a

co-optee 'to handle PENKOVSKIY.

So mie ghurce Learned nost of the shove information from
his review the file, although STEKLOV told him some things

about the operation, including the location of the dead drop
under the radiator.

REFERENCES:

1. January 12, 1990, Debriefing. Tape #1A. Counter 7392-525.

-3-

 

HW 54934 Docid: 32989481 Page 7 oo .

 

 

 

 
 

—: —. OLEGRPENKOVSKIY\CASE
SS

When the source first joined the Second (British and
Commonwealth) Department of the KGB's Second Chief Directorate
(SCD) in 1982, he was allowed to read the original ScD files of
| the PENKOVSKIY case. The Second Department was directly

responsible for investigating PENKOVSKIY, and they encourage new
| case officers to read..the file to enhance their knowledge and
_ +. expertise. The source was’ required to get the permission of the.

Chief of the Second Department (at that time Nikolai STEKLOV) to
review the file.

The PENKOVSKIY file consists of twelve ox more thick
volumes. Much of the file consists of rather tedious technical
and physical surveillance reports on PENKOVSKIY.

PENKOVSKIY first came under suspicion in 1960 during a
; period of time when the SCD decided to place total ‘surveillance
, on all British Embassy personnel and their families. The file
: did not indicate why the SCD made this decision, and the source
. does not know the reason. According to the source, there was
nothing in the file to suggest that information about PENKOVSKIY
had leaked to the KGB, thereby prompting the SCD to initiate full
‘ ~surveillance of all British nationals in the Embassy.

The full surveillance of British Embassy personnel
lasted for several days. Finally, one of the surveillance’ teams
observed the wife of a British diplomat, who was not an
intelligence officer, coming out of the entrance of a shabby
Russian building. It appeared strange to the surveillance tean, .
particularly because she was pregnant. They continued to watch
the building: A few minutes later, a man emerged from the house.
The KGB followed him with five or six men in two cars.

They followed the man to an office building of the

- State Committee for- Science and Technology (GENT) . His entry
into this office building fueled their suspicions. They

subsequently identified the man as Oleg PENKOVSKIY.

The SCD then thoroughly checked the entrance of the
shabby Russian house and discovered ‘a likely dead drop under a
radiator. Investigation of PENKOVSKIY rapidly escalated.

The SCD and KGB surveillance used a camera to film
PENKOVSKIY's movements and activities. They observed that he
acted in a very suspicious manner.

     
 

_ HW 54934 Doold:32989481 Page 5 (6S x

 

 

 
 

SECRET—

 

em. The SCD also equipped his living areas with cameras.
The source does not know what types of cameras, but he was’
=<, certain they were primitive at that time.

On one occasion, they observed him photographing or
making a picture of an artillery guidance system. At that point,
the SCD realized that they had to intercede, and he was arrested.
The SCD had some thoughts about using him in a controlled double
agent manner to entrap British or American intelligence
personnel, but it was thought to be too risky in this case.

his review of the file, the source estimated that the entire
investigation took about 6-8 months.

Fron

After his arrest, PENKOVSKIY immediately informed the
scD of his contacts with Greville WYNNE and how he was handled by
the CIA and British intelligence. He told the SCD that he first
went to British intelligence, but they didn't believe him and
thought he was a provocation. He then went to the Americans who
accepted him. Later, the British also jointed the operation.
During one of his foreign trips, the British made him an ~
"honorary" Army Colonel and gave him his choice of uniforms. The

_ SCD did not find any espionage paraphernalia at PENKOVSKIY's
workplace, probably because he was too experienced to make that

3 “mistake.

. KGB security officials in the First Chief Directorate

(FCD) had previously noted that PENKOVSKIY exhibited behavior of
possible security concern (e.g., too many girls and too much * 1
money), particularly during his tour in Turkey. The KGB's Third
Chief Directorate, which was normally responsible for the
investigations of GRU officers who are suspected of treason,.

never seriously suspected PENKOVSKIY, however. PENKOVSKIY had
excellent connections in the Soviet military through his wife's
father, who was a highly-placed General in the Russian Army.

These connections probably protected him.

Following his arrest, PENKOVSKIY fully disclosed the
extent of information he had passed to the Americans and British.
He admitted passing vital information on the Soviet Union's
strategic nuclear weapons and air defense systems.

He also
admitted passing information on GRU operations.

_ HW 54934 Dockld:32989481 Page 6

 

 

 
 

“SECRES

= TSeD SUSPICIONS CONCERNING IVAN YEFREMOV wt

we sanucexuos was one of the most prestigious and
talente SSian Scien

fiction writers. He was also a Soviet
scientist and paleontologist.

book written by YEFREMOV.

 

Nearly every Russian home has a

 
   
  

The source heard.a bizarre s
~ ™ at least two different sources: Nikolai EKLOV, former chief of
the Second (British and Commonweat @parement of the KGB's
Second Chief Directorate (SCD); and his instructors from the 41,
Minsk Higher Counterintelligence School. The story is as mt

y, about YEFREMOV from

    
 

follows.

Shortly after YEFREMOV's death in the 1980s, a man ne
to SCD Headquarters and asked for a meeting’with KGB British
specialists. The man claimed that he had been recruited by

‘ YEFREMOV: to work for British intelligence against the USSR.

The source does not know whether the information’was
valid or not. After some investigation, however, the SCD .
concluded that YEFREMOV, although Russian, was acting as the .
British illegal resident in the USSR. The SCD believed that he
“may have been handling a network of Soviet agents. The SCD
started to review His travels within the USSR and determined
that his trips were always tq closed areas of the country...

| The source could ndt recall any additional details on
| : this case.

REFERENCE:

 

1. January 11, 1990, Debriefing. Tape #1B. Counter 7427-458.

|. HW 54934 Docld:32989481 Page 2

 

 

 
 

   
 
 

   

 

Serial Scope: ©

 

 
 

 

 

—SEGRET 1a.3r 40039 -7@

HW 54934 Doocid: 32589481 Page 3 ne
be . So z *

 

 
 

= The KGB believes that PENKOVSKIY's disclosures.

’ “Yegarding nuclear missile silo shafts and their locations were
. . the most damaging items of information he passed to the
. . Americans and British. As a result of his disclosures, the
Soviets were forced to destroy all equipment in the silos and
£ill them with water. The technical equipment and auxillary

material were so heavy that the Soviets simply left them behind
and buried. them.

“al

 
 

Ivan MARKELOV, was one of the original SCD case officers
‘in the PENROVSRIWinvestigation. He received an Order of the
! Red Star for this operation. Everybody was promoted for. working
: on the case. MARKELOV eventually replaced Gregoriy GRIGORENKO as
Chief of the SCD in the early 1980s.

PENKOVSKIY was, of course, executed by firing squad for
his treason. Before he was executed, he admitted that he had
: made many mistakes. He asked for leniency in the form of a
’ prison sentence, but to no avail. PENKOVSKIY was quite brave
| ! during the entire judicial proceedings. Mr. WYNN, however; was
oy . not so brave, and he frequently cried. The SCD knew that Mr.
Lo. > WYNN was not a British intelligence officer, but was acting as a
se co-optee ‘to handle PENKOVSKIY.

a -

The source. learned most of the above information from
his review of the file, although STEKLOV told him some things

about the operation, including the location of the dead drop!
: under the radiator.

REFERENCES:

1. danuary 12, 1990, Debriefing. Tape #1A. Counter #392-525.

 

“NW 54934 Doold:32989481 Page 4 ; 2 e

 

 

 
