 

    
    

i

a : .
18. In May 1982, because of Mr. O'Connell's assignment
to an overseas post, it was decided to turn Roselli over to
Mr. William Harvey, .who was at that ‘time Chief, Task Force W.
Harvey was introduced as ‘William Walker, It is not known whether
Roselli ever became aware of Harvey's true name: .

a

 

teh 7. t
crassirien BY POSSIVE Ir ¥2e.
CMERAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF E.: pore LAPTIOH CATEGORY:
2 § $Bt1), (2° + (circle one oF

§ AUTOR... tt DECLASSIFIED ON
swngeaded. fo confislentreed

_ Cunles: impossible, insert date of event)

  

  
 
 

   

 

HW 53320 DocId:32403481 Page 7
     

it

forty

16. O£ significant interest was an incident which involved
a request levied by S4m upon Maheuland now shapes up 2S 3
potential flap.) :

At the height of the project negotiations, Sam
expressed concern about his girlfriend, Phyllis
McGuire, who he learned was getting much atten- .

~totd Bam-he didn't have the facilities, whe reCPoes .
Sam threatened to-leaye-Miamt to go to Ve gas and
take-.care of the matter himself. “In order to pre-
vent this, Maheu contacted Edward Dubois, 2
Florida investigator, and asked him to handle the

job. f ~- . . LO,
Jristead of installing a bug’ in the room,_the
technician placed.a.tap.on the phone, which ‘ob-" |
viously did not serve Sam's. purpose “Ihe techni-
cian involved in the assignment was discovered in
the process, arrested, and taken to the Sheriff's
office for questioning. After-he fated tio = each
Dubois by telephone,! he called Mahevat the ~~
. Kenilworth Hotel,’ Miamf, and informed him that
7 he had been detained by the police. This call was
made in the presence of the Sheriff's personnel.

Subsequently, the Department of Justice an-
nounced its intention to prosecute Maheu along
with the technician. On 7 February 1962, the
Director of Security priefed the Attorney General,
Robert Kennedy, on the circumstances leading up
to Maheu's involvement in the wiretap. At our re~
quest, prosecution was dropped.

    
 
  

 
   

CLASSIFIED BY

 

     

   
 

Assi O633SF 17%4e 4
PMOT RR hose ——
SCHEBUG “EL DECERSSIFICATION
§ Shri Clea CATEGORY: =. mo
- > + 4 (vitele one 0 E eee Rvs 7
NW 53320 ‘ere TESTOR SAM PTITSEES AM

oclId:32403481 Page 5
    

AW 53320

crassiricn sy 26
SCHEDULE OF E.( °- LELMCTION CATEGORY:

AUTOR: 2 aed DECLASSIFIED ON ee
den drated fosontrlenfial

DocId: 32403481 Page 6

 

Peas c=
é

 

; Two artickgs appeared in tha Chicago press, ~ 4
one on 16 August 1953, and one on 20 August 1963, :
that suggested Sam was working with the Agency.
_ ‘The first article appeared in the Chicago Sun-Times

written by staff writer, Sandy Smith, and had as its

headline: CIA Scught Giancana Help for Cub: Spying.

It relates that the Agency reportedly was in touch ~
with Sam in 1959 and requested that he assist them .
in obtaining intelligence out of Cuba. It also men-

tioned the Las Vegas wiretap,: which the article

claimed was handled by a "Florida investigative

organization. " It further went on to state that,

upon inquiry of this organization, they stated the

tap was placed at the request of the Central Intelli-

gence Agency. The other article appeared in the

Chicago Daily News, authored by Columnist Tony

‘Weitzel, and commented that during March 1962,

Sam confronted an FBI Agent who was shadowing

him and said, "Why don't you fellows leave me ;
alone? I'm one of youl" Sam allegedly stated that,

after Castro's rise in Cuba, a CIA operative con- °
tacted him and wanted to know if Sam could do.any-

thing for the Government on the turbulent little island..

Sim said he had friends on both sides, but no clout.

That. was it.

17. ‘Roselli was introduced to James P,’O'Connell, of this
Office, who was identified to him as an employee of Robert A.
Maheu, Associates. Over the several months of close contact be~
tween these two individuals, Roselli began to speculate as to
O'Connell's true employer and, at one point, stated that he was
convinced he was employed by the CIA, and that the project was
sponsored by the Agency. He hastened to state that he was not
forcing the issue, nor would he want confirmation of this and,
further, he would not mention this to anyone else, including Sam.
Sam was never introduced to any Agency personnel and, while CIA
was never méntioned to him, it is Mahcu's belief he eventually sus~
pected the Agency was the powcr behind the operation.

 

  
   
 

33
TAL DECLASSIFICATION

5 NFIDENTIAL

 

v-) (circle one of more)

 

 

 

 
—— woh

fm +. ane
. A ) far eae pees)

  

. a 24 June 1996

MEMGORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

oe SUBJECT PoMAEOSU, cnhare A.

1. This memorandum is for information only.

2. In August 1960, Mr. Richard M. Bissell approached
Colonel Sheffield Edwards to determine if the Office of Security
‘had assets that may assist ina sensitive mission requiring
gangster-type action. The mission target was (he-Hgnidatt
Fidel Castro. :

2“

aiet

 

to _ 3, Because of its extreme sensitivity, only 4 small group
: . was rnade privy to the project. The DCI*was briefed and gave his .
approval, Colonel J. C. King, Chief, WH Division, was briefed,
but all details were deliberately concealed from any of the
IMWAVE officials. Certain TSD and Commo personnel partici-
pated in the initial planning stages, but were not witting of the
purpose of the mission.

4, Robert A. Maheu was contacted, bridfed generally on
the project, and requested to ascertain if he could develop an en-
tree into the gangster elements.as the first step toward accom-~
plishing the desired goal. ve

68, Mr. Maheu advised that he had met one Johnny Roselli
on several occasions while visiting Las Vegas. He only knew
him casually through clients, but was given to understand that
he was a high-ranking member of the “syndicate” and controlled.
all of the ice-making machines on the Strip. Maheu reasoned
that, if Roselli was in fact a member of the clan, he undoubtedly
had connections leading into the Cuban gambling interests.

cLassiFieD BY PX
EXEMPT FROY

SCHEDULE OF -

§ sB(1), . oO
AUTOSALICALLY,

down

     

* By
EN EA Parcres

1 Page 2

SE week ws
HW 53320 DocId: 3240348
AW 53320

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10320-10095

c)
a
1

DocId: 32403481 Page 1

Te (44 USc 2107 Note).

Date: 03/07/05
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

CIA Released under the John
104-10320-10095 . Kennedy
-OFK Assassination Records

CIA-OGC FILES ollection Act of 1992

DOCUMENT INFORMATION base#:NW 53320 Date:
cra h6-24-2017

OSBORN, HOWARD J. DIR. OF SECURITY
THE RECORD

MEMO:MAHEU, ROBERT A.

06/24/1966

6

 

: MAHEU, ROBERT

CASTRO OP.
ROSELLI , JOHNNY
GIANCANA, SAM

PAPER
CONFIDENTIAL

1A .

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
03/26/99

JFK-M-12 : F2 : 1999.03.26.15:09:09:106120 : DUPLICATE
OF 104-10057-10355 AND 104-10122-10218.
AW 53320

 

 
 
 
   

CLASSIFIED 8 04 3846 _127ye7 22
p re Thiet DE

SCHEVULE GF:

§ B.D .
AUTOS aLiY DECLASSIF

 

Sepnst
eo “CLUTEY

 

4. Maheou wis asked to approzch Roselli, who knew Maheu' ~~
as a personal wolatiess exacutive handling domestic and foreign ;

accounts, and tell Lin that he hid recently been retained by 2
client who represented several international business firms

_which were suffering heavy financial losses in Cuba as a result

of Castro's action. They were convinced that Castro's removal
was the answer to their problem and were willing to pay a price

of $130, 000 for its successful accomplishment. It was to be made
clear to Roselli that the y. S. Government was not, and should not,
become «ware of this operation.

7. The pitch was made to Rossii on 14 September 1960 at
the Hilton Plaza Hotel, New York City. His initial reaction wae
to . void getting involved but, ‘through Maheu's persuasion, he
agreed to introduce him to a friend, Sam Gold, who knew ‘the
"Cuban crowd." Roselli made it clear he did not want any moncy
for his prt and balieved Sim would feel the same way- Neither
of these individuals w@Nover paid out of Agency funds.

8. During the week of 25 Septembsr, Mzheu was introduced
to Sam who was staying at the Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami Beach.
ig initial inverosston of Sanrwas that of a hard, uncouth indi-

vidualwwho looked and acted lik: + common run-of-the-mill hood~.

‘um. However, his living accommodations at the hotel belied“

this, 4s did the fact that Maheu leatned Sam was under periodic
surveillance by the FBI. It was several weeks after his meeting
with Sam and Joe, who was {identified to him as 2 courier operating
between Havana and Miami, that he saw photographs of both of
theses individuals in the Sunday supplemental "parade." They :
were identified as Momo Salvatore Giancana and Santos Trafficant,
respectively. Both were on the list of the Attorney General's -
ten most-wanted men. The former was described as the Chicago
chieftain of the Cosa Nostra and successor to Al Capone, and the
Jatter, the Cosa Nostra boas of Cuban operations. Maheu called
this office immediately upon ascertaining this information.

9. In discussing the possible methods. of accomplishing
this mission, Sam suggested that they not resort to firearms but,
if he could be furnished with some type of potent pill, that could

ASSIFICATION
TON CATEGORY:

sone or more)

    
  

   

C TIAL

 

DocId:32403461 Page 3
   

AW 53320

. . ~

' nee ee eS

fi fui oo

be placed in Castro's food or drink, it would be 4 much more

effective operation. Sam indicated that he had a prospective

_ nominee in the persorMof Juan Orta, a Cuban official who had
been receiving kickback payments irom the gambling interests,
who still had access to Castro and was ina financial bind.

10, Cornelius Roosevelt, \hief, TSD, was consulted anc
assigned Dr. Raymond Triechler «+ develop 2 pill that had the-
elements of rapid solubility, high lethal content, and little or
no traceability. Six of these items were produced and, after
being checked out for their effectiveness by Dr. Edward M.
Gunn, three pills were ultimately turned ever to Sam. for the
mission. Neither TSD nor Dr. Gunn w#@ briefed on the ultimate

use of the pills. —

11. Joe delivered the pills to Orta. After several weeks
‘of reported attempts, Orta apparently got cold feet and asked out
of the assignment, He suggested another candidate who made
several attempts without success. :

12. Joe then indicated that Dr. Anthony Verona, one of the © -

principal officers in the Cuban Exile Junta, had become dis~
affected with the apparent ineffectual progress of the Junta and |
was willing to handle the mission through his own resources.

-13, Dr. Verona was approached and jumped at the oppor~
tunity of getting involved in an independent operation. He was
told that the private interests-backing the project did not want
the U. S. Government and, particularly the CIA, to know of their
involvement. (So far as thte Cffice knows, he bas never divulged. .
: his participation in the project to the Agency.) — “

14. He asked, as a prerequisite to the deal, that he be given
$10, 000 for organizational expenses and requested $1, 000 worth
of communications equipment. -

15, Dr. Verona's potential was never fully exploited, as
the project was canceled shortly after the Bay of Pigs episode.
Verona was advised that the offer was withdrawn, and the pills
were retrieved. ; :

 
   

 
   
 
 

CLASSIFIFD. BY 0633:
cote

EXEMPT FRO CBS

SCHEDULE Gl. a ant
+ te) (circle one or more) ~
bes ae

Goiene sss -LiY DECLASSIFIED ON

Sows quractoss. fo conkrdan teat

Cankess impossible, insect date or event)

 

     

  

    

 
 
 

 
   
   

DocId:32403481 Page 4 oo eeeeee meee

|

 
 
