 

 
  

 

[ww 54214" Docra:3

 

A monthly progress ‘report, due by the first of each month, with the

. first report to be. submitted by 1 March 1964, should be submitted — coe
| to ARPA by each agency or contractor having tasks as signed ‘to ity

. ARPA will submit a monthly consolidated progress report by the
- tenth of each month to DDR&E, OST, and USSS,

oe Detailed proposals and firm. cost estimates for the above tasks will

' be sought, with submissions to ARPA by 15 February 1964, of as
' soon thereafter as possible. Implementation of each task will be

proposed to the’ Director of ARPA by the Project Manager of STAR :

in accordance with established, ARPA ‘procedures,

 

: a Harry E Tabor :
: Colonel, USA’ >.

 
   
 

- Enclosures: : 7
_ Security Classifications o
“Second Generation Auto ||
. RAC Report, 622. :
- Rand, L-820 dtd 1/13/64
: IDA Ha 64- 2254 rae

 
 
      
 

 

 

 

1311099 Page '9

 

 

 

  

 
 

   

pe oo "PR T STAR - a a
I v8 CO Security Classifications ie mg

: os At the request of the U.S. Secret Service the following security
ye ; “guidance has been adopted for Project STAR:

The acronym Project STAR is, itself, unclassified, unless the name
. is associated with other material which is of a classified nature in ..

‘accordance with following guidance. In this latter case, the higher :
'* classification involved will apply. :

 

lo .". " “Written materials should be Confidential or Secret, according to ——.. Es
' "-. their content, Any written material containing substantive analyses,. : :
: _ + -data, or recommendations should normally be Secret. Other written
materials should be Confidential, Nothing in writing which identifies
the subject matter of the writing with the substance of Project STAR
should be classified below Confidential,

 

 

- Physical items - mock-ups, etc. - other than in written form, which |.
are not identifiable as being related uniquely to STAR, are to be.
_ classified according to their own nature, However, if they are-
_... identifiable by an observer with Project STAR and its purposes, they
“will normally. be Secret, .

   

 

 

 

 

. Itis emphasized that all materials which could identify the purposes

.- of Project STAR, and tactics, techniques and device's as well as per-
‘>. formance data on materials which might be adopted as a consequence of

. the Project are.to be. classified no lower than Secret and protected ona.-

» |. strict need-to-know basis. Furthermore, STAR materials are not re-

. : leaseable to any agericy other than ARPA without-the explicit prior ap-" °-
“proval of ARPA, ;

 

  

lacie eee elton hetenntnnemtereat te ir cane nena tte me ttn ete oa toe

 

In addition to the foregoing guidance, itis "strongly emphasized that yes
in contacts with people or organizations other than within the Depart-— 4
os ment of Defense and the U.S. Secret Service, there must be no at- an . ;
oo ea > > tributable identification of Project STAR with the question of Presidential | -
i an . ¢:°, security, Project STAR is, as you know, the short title for Security -
Fo | /Threat Analysis.and Research. As such, it is concerned with threats
to political figures in general and any mention of its relation to :

Pe ' Presidential security in contacts with people other than from ARPA eG
|. : a and the United States Secret Service is both needless and prohibited, |

 

 

 

 

ro, a STAR materials transmitted to ARPA, will be coordinated with the U.S. ‘ i ;
\  Sécret Service by ARPA and concurrence of the Secret Service will be we
__-obtainedby. ARPA-before: such materials are. released. to any other agency.
DOWNGRADED AT 3 YEAR INTHRVALS; |
1 | DECLASSIFIZD * SFTER 12 YEARS ..

 

  
  

 

Dao | DIR 5200. 10

 ecmencseamnacrararenrmermae

  
 
     

 

Encl 1 to Progress Report .

 

  

[94914 -Docld:32311099' Page: 10.
 

   

 

possible, _IDA, -in coordination with the USSS and the USAERDL, )

i, Armor Materials: Conduct an accelerated program ‘to test

_ the effectiveness of transparent and opaque materials now available
in defeating .30 cal. AP projectiles, grenades, and explosives,

. ; Various combinations and configurations of materials should be

i “. 3, tested at various appropriate degrees of impact obliquity, and results

: "reported, Rigid and flexible materials in shapes and forms suitable

_. for use on automobiles, helicopters, speakers? platforms, and on

‘ment. (Tests to be carried out by Development. and Proof Services,

“Aberdeen Proving Ground in'accordance with test plans to be developed _

by RAC, in coordination with U. S.A. Ballistics Research Lab, U.S.A.
Materials ‘Research Agency, Bureau of Weapons, AFMT-RTD, and
Bureau of Standards, Initial report of results of testing of materials
for models of speakers! platforms and second generation automobiles -
by. 1 May 1964. Comparative evaluation of results and development

_ of specifications for needed additional research and development by

je Distraction Devices: Develop and evaluate means for dis-

tracting or disrupting an incipient attack by. nonlethal méans, such

 

Pe oo opaque, Both manually-operated and automatic means are to be con-_
"|. sidered, Man-portable means which are normally inconspicuous, -
and means attached to autos or speakers! platforms are desired.

 

yo, needed additional research and development. (Report by 1 May. 1964
Pa te be as complete as possible at that time; completion as soon there- :
mS ~ after as possible, Design of the means, development and technical -

: guidance of the implementation of a test program, and evaluation of .
. . results, to be accomplished by IDA, in coordination with Bureau of
ee Weapons and AFMT-RTD. Hardware development and implementa -

 

 

contractors, )

 

_- It will be noted from the foregoing that the remainder of the program

a 7 _ Subsequent to 20 January 1964 consists of two categories of tasks.

Pose" " =" “Biyst, for the transportation and public appearance situations, evalu-
ate such practicable materiais, techniques and devices as can be de-
livered to the USSS by 1 September 1964, and prepare specifications

' . ‘for any needed additional research and development, Second, carry
out longer-term analyses, experiments and developmental work to.
be completed as soon as. possible. It is expected that useful results
will be furnished the USSS as rapidly as they can be obtained rather
than awaiting some fixed date for report submission, . ue, .

e eet ar B . :

7

 

 

 

. ° persons. should receive priority, Furnish quantitative data on results, .
pot _» | Prepare specifications for any needed additional research and develops -

 

 

 

 

 

. as light, smoke, and means for rendering normally transparent areas :

oy Furnish quantitative data on results. Prepare specifications for any a

tion of the test program by USAERDL, with assistance of appropriate _

-Copies. .

  

 

 

 
 

 

Security Division in carrying out their personal security responsibil- ..
ities, Make recommendations for improvements. (To be completed
_ by 1 May 1964, Rand in coordination with the USSS, )

. (2) From historical data, develop methods and techniques ~ an
if - "\\ for evaluating the effectiveness of security operations for use by
| ee \S and the Department of State Security Division in the training of

: their security agents, (Rand in coordination with the USSS, Depart-
ment of State Security. Division, and others: who may be designated by :
» ARPA, ) © .

 

 

h. Detection Devices:

 
     

-tect the approach, i we
“to 5000 ips in the vicinity..of.the.tarcer. : Separate systems should be =..."
. éSigned to. be carried inconspicuously by an agent, to be installed on .
an automobile, and to be installed on rotary and fixed-wing subsonic |
-aircraft, Priority should be placed on detection of supersonic pro-' ,
jectiles, In the case of subsonic projectiles, detection of the muzzle
blast is acceptable. In both cases evaluation and design should elimi- -
‘nate false alarms to the extent practicable. (Aircraft units to be the
responsibility of the U.S. Army Limited War Lab, using Thiokol or |
‘ Bissett- Berman as the contractor, as an extension of an esisting-
joint Army-ARPA project; the man-carried and automobile units to
' be the responsibility of the U.S. Army ERDL, using Melpar as a con-
_-tractor, Work on all of these units should be completed prior to ~-
1 July 1964, ) -

    

    

 

   

(2) 2 nuandevaluate. sy '
‘ete -coussaledizenmee enades ‘Both man-portable and fixed
. systems, to be utilized inconspicuously at locations which give ac-
‘cess to the target are desired, It is essential that the false alarm
“pate be extremely low, Furnish quantitative data on results, Pre-~-
‘pare specifications for any needed additional research and develop- ©
“-ment, (To be completed as soon-as possible through parallel efforts
_by Rand and by the Southwest Research Institute or Melpar under
_ _USAERDL contract. ) .

        

   

, for detecting iptrusion.~ -. . :

yas the White House grounds, Furnish gj
Prepare specifications for any needed :
additional: research and “development, (To be completed as soon as . i

   
 

 

 

"2K 54214 Docld:32311099 -Page
 

 

 

QO Se oO —
1 September 1964, These protective measures are to be the best that .
can be developed and evaluated in this time-frame, bit it is recognized -

_ that optimum measures will require more lengthy investigations and. he
. experimentation, | . io

‘The plan of work under: Project STAR subsequent to 20 January 1964 ey
includes the following tasks: ; Dee bo

ae Second and Subsequent Generation Automobiles: In coordina-
tion with manufacturers to be designated by the USSS and USATAC, 7
complete the detailed design of protective measures for two. automobiles”

to be delivered to the USSS by ‘T September. 1964 and provide technical

“advice on their fabrication "ONG DULG te to be, losed, but: with maxi-

mum visibility of the passengers; the other is to be .

_ line, but also have optional means of enclosing t the "pas senger com- we

. partment. Within these limits, the dictates of conventional styling, : |

- and the time available, protective measures listed in Enclosure 2 re

should be incorporated to the extent feasible. (Initial report on 1 March“

1964 on the second generation automobiles to be as complete as possible

‘at that time; modify and update the initial report as the results of the an
--other tasks under Project STAR become available, RAC.) Sp

   

 
 

be Speakers! Platforms: ‘ alua. n, at~.' +. :
“ing .30 calibre AP pro jectiles,.prenades,.. Pe ex losives at indoor i. ; ' a . .
“and outdoor speakers! platforms, These means should be inconspicu- 7 os
:. “§us and transportable, and should permit rapid placement, we com~- eS "
. ponent or section should weigh more than 100 pounds. Nonlethal . ; im
means for distracting or. disrupting an incipient attack, and acoustic . a i
sensing devices to detect the approach, impact, or passage ofa od
projectile should be included with platform protection kits. Results ne
of the other Project STAR tasks listed herein should be applied to. co oa
. these requirements as those results become available. (An initial :
‘design and report of its evaluation should be submitted by 1 May.1964.
. Continuing work should be carried out beyond that date to incorporate
_» significant improvements in the initial design specifications as progress
‘on other tasks permits, i”

 

ce Helicopters:

(1) Analyze t the eosnee of, the helicopters utilized by the

“.. President 3 forattack by .30 calibre AP.
ammunition, and to asséss per sonnel survivability in a crash,

-““P¥epare Specifications for means such as light weight armor to

reduce the vulnerability of critical areas, Prepare specifications

 

 

 

 

 

  

, 54214 DoclId:32311099 Page 5
 

 

 

 

 

.. . an individual and their performance characteristics, int

 

‘eo

 

. “4°

for modifications needed to enhance the pos sibility of Survival of
persons aboard in a crash, Include an acoustic or to detect the
impact or passa rt “T964 to be as

“complete as possible of thet ime; continue studies and experiments

to seek significant improvements through 30. June 1965, USATRECOM. )

       
  

ge of a projectile, (Report by T iN

 

   

(2) Evaluate the expected performance of the protective
‘Measures and of the aircraft, and perform a -comparative analysis of the
vulnerability, survivability, and aircraft performance with and without :

the proposed protective measures, (Complete these tasks on the 1 May .

: - 1964 specifications prior. to 1 July 1964, and on additional improved
. specifications proposed by USATRECOM as soon as possible, ‘RAC)

ad. Weapons: Identify likel classes of weapons employable by

   

_,. probability against an unprotected human target as a function of range,
ngle of attack, CEP, and relative speed of the target. Also, identify _

_the penetrating force of likely projectiles as a function of their velocity, -
weight, shape, angle of incidence, and Structure, and specify in useful. --

terms the forces to be defeated, (Progress report by 1 May 1964; to.
_ be completed as soon thereafter as possible. RAC, in coordination
‘with the USA Ballistics Research Lab, )
e. Situations: Develop and evaluate a methodology for quickly’
. identifying and assessing the relative significance, in terms of kill
probability, of vantage points available for the launching of an attack.

olsin typical travel and public appearance situations, (Report on 1 May

 

 

 

 

| WW 54914

. 1964 to be as complete as possible at that time; task to be completed

“as soon thereafter as possible, RAC in coordination with the USSS. )

f, Persons and Data Processing:
a RE ete = tocessing:

 
   

           

        

and tec al.means for extreme g
numbers of suspected persons order to identify th some
E asset aceon LEAL

oo Specified degree of surveillance is.wasmanted:. and to facilitate estab-
ecurcuaaea aan aa ELE SE EN GENTE one ON z

“lishment and maintenance of the required degree of surveillance by the
appropriate authorities, (Report on 1'May 1964 to be as complete as -

“possible at that time; task to be completed as soon thereafter as pos-.
sible, Rand in coordination with the USSS.) , So,

‘ge Procedures: .
amocedures: ‘

(1) Evaluate procedures for marshalling the security capa-
bilities of the U, S. in support of the USSS and the Department of State

 

 

 

 

DocId:32311099 Page 6

 

 

 
 

—v
\
2
cp

{ e os :
f OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 By ‘5010-106
ekg SE av tv02 eoition 5 :

 

 

 

 

 

 

= ae GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27 oy — : Tolson
aot UNITED STATES GCX \__XNMENT (J \ =
Casper
Memorandum a wee
* joach
we/ yh =
7] MR. We Ce SULLIVAN paTE: February 13, 1964 Posen -
“xlovel

 

 

 

 

| A be Sie
FROM : MR. D. J. BRENNAN, mf V4 “Wes =
y =

CS OF THE PRESIDENT
PN accent AA TLS

  

My memorandum January 17, 1964, reported t Kat the § £
Department of Defense,-in conjunction with industry and the ©
Secret Service, was attempting to develop technical methods of
protecting the President. - 3 ae

ee

ar oft ware 4
Defense O¢partment has now furnished the attached
| Progress Report on oject Star," which is.‘the jcode_name for
; this research effo This — report reflects thatreséarch is
i under way to modify an existing Presidential. Limousine so that
‘ its armor will stop 30-caliber ball ammunition. «Defense hopes
to be able :to produce a design for a car by -Septémber 1, 1964,
which will.be so well armored that it will §top-30-caliber
; varmor-piercing ammunition.
* - or
* ‘Additional research is being carried on to de¥elop*
a bullet-proof, grenade-proof, and explosive-proof speakers¥.
K platform for Presidential use. In connection with this, sf
He ow research is, being done on means ugtpfiistracting or disrupting
(ae an attack on the President nd Bn Meoustic and elecd ronic 3
. a devices which will détéét the approach of any- prosegiite :
SS toward the President. et: eye! SY oHa
{
a

 

i

The helicopters teed: by the President are to. be
armored, and research is being conducted to make them safer.

ao Ae |
“ACTION: os RAY

; For information. We will continue to follow this
matter with Defense and Secret Service.

Enclosure

Bay ; hke 2 SURE

  
    
 

‘ef

“M99

beri Belmont

ihr Conrad gEL oe yd “
1-Mr. Sullivan {
1-Mr 9 Halley ey
lie? Bartlett. 42
‘Topisieon *

1-Mr. Wells

 

 

 

HW

-§4214 Docld:32311099 Page 2
 

 

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/14/201

Identification Form =~

Oe  —  —  ———Y—

Agency Information

Released under the John

 

 

AGENCY: FBI . » Kennedy
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10311-10121 Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992
RECORD SERIES : HQ (44 05¢ 2107 Note).
: ases#: Nl 54214 Date:
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —62-27799-464 po ore2o1"
Document Information
“ORIGINATOR: FBI -
FROM: BRENNAN, D. J. JR.
TO: SULLIVAN, D. J.
TITLE:
DATE: 02/13/1964
‘PAGES: 11
SUBJECTS :
USSS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: — Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 11/26/1997
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOD
i . ~
COMMENTS: INC 3 RPT, REFERRED TO DOD °

v9.1

AW 54214 DocId: 32311099

Page 1
 

 

 

 

PROJECT STAR... we
PROJECT STAR.

SECURITY THREAT ANALYSIS AND RESEARCH
' Progress Report .

; 12. December 1963: - 20 January 1964

I . * sot .

7 a : “In early December 1963, elements of the Department of Defense

pee . initiated a research and development program in support of efforts

i oe ', to reduce the vulnerability of important political persons to assas-

4 oo ,. ,Sination, This action was the result of arrangements made by the

i : U.S. Secret Service (USSS), the Director of the Office of Science. may
i oe and Technology (OST), the Director of Defense Research and Engineer-.

: : ing (ODDR&E), and the’Director of the Advanced Research Projects

Agency (ARPA).- . : : :

 

‘The principal tasks are:
_ to defea Q ipre

    
    
   
 
 

tial analysis |
a survey of possible

o"be completed by 15 January 1964; _

 

a - 1 May 1964, and completion by 30 June 1965. The first task'is re-
ferred to as the "quick-fix automobile, ' while the remaining tasks ;
-. are identified as Project STAR, — - oo - oO : ue

sy

 

. Quick-Fix Automobile:

©. Under the direction of representatives of Dr. E, G, Fubini, ‘ODDRE&E;- a
"a group of people was.assembled from ballistics and materials organ- © wo
izations in ODDR&E, ARPA, Army, Navy ard Air Force, to design 9
and specify modifications for the "quick-fix automobile." A mock-up (9) 7c:
of. the modified auto was prepared by Hess and Eisenhardt of Cincinnati.
[ee was approved by the USSS, and ODDR&E representatives on 30

December 1963. ;

   

 

 

Armor materials are being tested by-the U.S, Army’ Development and © an
- Proof Services (DPS) at Aberdeen Proving Ground in:accordance with 7 : ee
a test plan developed by the U.S. Army Tank’ and Automotive Center Doe
' (ATAC) and the U.S. ‘Army. Materials Research Agency (AMRA). This ~

   

 

 
 

 

. work has been funded by the U.S, Army and ARPA, Transparent armor . a
"materials are being provided by PittsburghPlate Glass. es

The Ford Motor Company and Hess and Eisenhardt are incorporating eo

the approved modifications in the existing limousine. At this time : :
. (20 January 1964) work on the quick-fix auto is on schedule. A more oe . ws
: _ difficult phase of this task - namely, thé molding of curved transparent | ‘
armor sections - has been reached and some difficulties are expected: | Sg

although no serious delays are anticipated. ‘Detailed specifications for. |
the quick-fix auto are in the hands of the usss - ed .
Q . a ; ; . TET . . : Ce

 

 

, Project STAR:

‘Project STAR - the remaining three tasks listed earlier -.is under the

: direction of representatives of Dr. R. L. Sproull, Director of ARPA,

. Members of ODDR&E, USATAC, USAMRA, USADPS, USARO, the .

’ Bureau of Naval Weapons, U.S.Air Force, USSS, CIA, State Department
Security. Office, and the FBI have participated with ARPA in STAR,
‘However, responsibility for any shortcomings in the work thus far rests
. solely with the undersigned,

 

oy

 

Security clas sification instructions under which Project STAR is operating :
at the request of the Secret Service are contained in Enclosure 1, :

- Preliminary design specifications for.the second-generation auto have
“been developed by the Research Analysis Corporation (RAC) and were
given to the USSS on 15 January 1964, Preliminary analyses of securi-- ;
. ty threat ‘characteristics and possible countermeasures have been com- 3. 8
_. pleted by RAC, Rand and IDA, and were sent to the USSS on 20 January a
-:+, 1964, Details are contained in reports designated RAC-622,1, Rand
L-820, and IDA Hq 64-2254, (Copies are attached as Enclosures 3, 4&5). :
_ ‘These deal, respectively, with scheduled transportation situations, ,
a scheduled public appearances, and nonscheduled public appearances.

 

   

 

 

“These reports contain preliminary assessments of threat character- ~ ../-- J
_ istics and tentative suggestions for countermeasures. They identify - 7 :
"some countermeasures which could be implemented immediately.

But they principally serve to identify areas which warrant detailed
study and investigation. Among these are some which should be com-
'-pleted insofar as possible by about 1 May 1964 in an effort to establish |
‘detailed quantitative specifications for materials, techniques, and

devices: to. be incorporated in vehicles and speakers’ stands prior to -

Ba

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- AW 54214 DocTd:32311099 Page 4
