 

 

Avajiahle exercplars of stateless pacaporte indicate that they are

walie for one year from date ofiesve. An exeniplar from the year
2960 (the year of lasue of OOSWALD's document) shows that it bad

been renewed for an addittenal one-year period beyond ite original
exptretion date {as OSWALD claimed for his own documeat}. Available
exemplars ¢how that the bearer wae chiiged ty report to the local

OVIE, (Vien and Registration Department} or the DRG (Paseport and
Registration Department) office quarterly to register, we have ne
tafarmation te indicate whether OSWALD reported peviodically for

the same purpese.

9. There is no indication in State Departoent correspondence
available to this agency that the content of the State Department
somnunication (4-127) dated ) Febeuary 1941 waa tranemitted to
the Sovied Ministry of Foreign Affairs or te any other component
of the Soviet goverment. iff Evckassy Dispateh $45, dated 28 February
195: and referencing State Departaient Airgram A-!27, forwarded the
centents of GSA ALD's letter gostinarked 5 February 1961 and Included
the fsllowing statement: “OlWA2d0's present address as given on the
envelope and in bis letter is: Ulitsa Kalinina, House 4, Aparticent 24,
Minsk. The Department may eieh te trananiit this addreas te ire.
Marguerite COWALD. it would presumably fulfill the requizement in
paragraph three of the Departuwent's referenced Airgram.” (Faragrapk
three requested the Zn. bassy to inform the Ministry of Foreign Aflsirs
of Mrs, Marguerite GSWALD*s cancers absut her gon.) It would appear
from the statement qaoted above, and from the absence of any other
raferance to action by the Embaeay regarding A-127 that the canteats
of the airgram had aot yet been transmitted to Soviet authorities. It ie
our understanding that State Departicent Airgrams are not eneoded, Sut
are forwarded in clan text by diplomatic pecch. We cnderetend
further that delivery time for each pouches varies from three to ten
days, therefore Aiygram 4-127 would not have arvived at the Cnchaswy
vefore ¢ February, and probabiy would not have arrived until several
days later. Although the alrgears coamy not have arrived until after
the § February pustmark date oa OSWALD's letter, the possibility that
the Soviets engineered the writing of the letter cannot be compictely
excioded, for the postmark could have been fabricated at Oovist
technical incilltles in Moscow as iste as the day before COV ALD
letter wee delivered te the Embassy. Gnu the basis of evaiiable information,
however, we have a6 reason to believe that tie con:murication was
intercepted or that COWALD's latter was enginesved by the Soviets.

 
 

 

 

 

 

{ NW 55538 Doold:32212045 FPage 5

 
 

 

 

 

} SUBJECT: (Optional)

CA] UNCLASSIFIED ==] {RTERNAL, C CONFIDENTIAL [1] SECRET

ete ) ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

 
 

 

tfse
G/sefer/s

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building)

 

EXTENSION

 

OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

INITIALS to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
RECEIVED | FORWARDED

 

fol.

C/ei/RrA

 

pf oe. Sea anal approved ti

 

 

 

_DDd/F

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

  

fom 610 “re C] SECRET (] CONFIDENTIAL [) INTERNAL 7] UNCLASSIFIED _

    
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| NW 55536 Boold:32212045 Page 6

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

1. OSWALD's travel from Minsk ts Moscow and return in July
196) would normally have required priov authorization. Bearers
of a Soviet “passport for foreigners” (vid na ehiteletve v SSSK diya
innestrantsa) are required to obtain travel authorization fvom the
Visa and Registration Department (OVIR) (or Passport Registration
Department (FRO) in smaller towne) if they desire ts leave the city
{or oblast) where they are domiciled. This same requizement is
believed to apply to persons, such as OSWALD, aolding Soviet
“etateless passports” (vid na zhitelstvo v EESR diya Hits bes grazhdanstya).

2. The practicality of even “unauthorised” travel was demonstrated
by events related by Bruce DAVIS, a United States citizen who defected
from his US Army undt in Germany on 19 Auguat 1950, and subsequently was
sent to Kiev te study. After his repatristion im 1963, DAVIS told US
authorities that he had musde a total of saven unauthorized trips from
Kiev duving the 1961-1963 period, Gne of these trips was a fight to

Joscow on | May 1961, oaly two monthe before CSWALD's Might.
DAVIS was approhended on two of his eeven trips, and was returned to
Kiev each time, the secand time under cecort. On beth sccasisas he
wag merely reprimanded by the deputy chief of the ingtlmte at which he
Was ctudying. Since Marina had o Soviet citizen's internal passport,
there would have been no restrictions against her making the trip
to Moscaw.

3. There are no legal restrictions against persons, including Soviet
citizens, enteriag the American Embassy in Moscow; in fact, the Soviet
goverument guarantees the principle of unhindered access to the Embausy.
la practice, however, the Embaasy perimeter ig patrolled by unformed
militia [ civil police] personnel, and the Embassy gnte le guarded
constantly by two militiamen. These “militiamen' are actually personnel
of the Committee for State Security (KGB). Anyone whois nut readily
identifiable ac 4 foreigner and who has not bad his visit announced in
advance, is etopped and asked fer his name, documents, and buginese with
the Embaasy. Any Soviet citizen who does not bave legitimate business
with the Embassy is taken away for interregation. Should semeenc force
er bluff his way into the Embassy, he would be picked up when he departed.

/ Such measures are

 

NW 55538 Doold:32212045 Page 2

 
 

 

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM = + apa wee
RELEASE iN PULLS a #77"

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. J. Lee Rankin
General Counsel
President's Commission on the
Assassination of President Kennedy

SUBJECT : Reply to Questions Contained in Your
Memorandum dated 12 March 1964

Attached herewith is the information which you requested
in your memorandum dated 12 March 1964 and entitled "Certain

Questions Posed by the State Department Files. '*

SAME AS ,
“hO “£69 &

tichard
Deputy Director for Plans

     
 

Attachment: As stated above

Distribution: Orig. & 2 - Addressee
rt - DDP
1 « CI/RAG
2 - SR/CI/Research

C/SR/CI/ Research: LHW;cl
3 April 1964

 

 

f NW 55538 Doold:32212045 Fage i

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

    

Guach meagures are tahea, according to Soviet explanation, to protect
the Embacey from intrusion by “hooligans and other undesirable
elements. OSWALD might well have beea stopped by the militia at
the gate, but since be carrict & etuteless passport and was probably
identifiaihie ae an American by name, accent and powsibly clothing.
would probably net have been prevented from entering. Marina alse
would probably not have been hindered, since she wae the wife of a
foreigner and had legitimate hueiness in the Ewmbasay.

& GSWALD said that he aeked for Sovict citizenship on 16 Cetober
1959. According to his diary, he received word a month loter that he.
could stay in the USSR pending isposition of his request, but it was
another month and @ half before he was given hig stateless passport.

§. When compared to five other defector casas, this procedare
seems unexceptional. Two defectors frerm US Army intelligence unite
in West Germany Sppear te have been given citizenship immediately,
put both hed prior KGB connections and fied as a veault of Army security
checks. Gf the other three cases, one was accepted after not more than
&ve weeks and given a stateless passport apparently at about the same
time. The second was immediately given permission to stay for a while,
and hia subsequent request fer citizenship was granted three months later.
The third was allowed to stay after he made his citizenship requeat, but
almost two months padeed before he was told that he had been accepted.
Although the Soviet Ministry of Foreign Affairs soon after told the US
Embaasy that he was a Soviet citisen, he did not receive his document
until five or six months after initial application. We know of only one case
in which an American asked for Soviet citizenship but dié nct take up
regideace in the USSR. In that instance, the American changed bis mind
and voluntarily returned to the United States less than three weeks after
he had requested Soviet citizonship.

6. Se faz as we are ebie te determine, there ig ap Soviet law which
would prevent a Soviet citisen married to a foreign national from
accempanying his or her spouse from the USSR. ‘Thia situation ia also
believed to have existed at the lime of the CR WALDS' departure from the
Soviet Union in 1962. in practice, however, permission for a Goviet wife

j/ to accompany her

 

| NW 55538 Doold:32212045 Page 3

 
 

 

 

to accompany her foreign national hueband abroad is rarely given.

in almost every case available for cur review, the foreign national
was oblized to depart the USGR alone and either return te escort

hie wife out, of arrange for her exit while he was still abroad, In
gome cases, the wife was never granted permiasiva to leave. The
majority of cases reviewed involve foreign students, exchange
teachers, and other velatively transient persons, and while a number
of cases have certain points in comrmon, they bear Httle simUarity
to the GEWVALD case; acne involved a defector who married prior

to repatriating.

7. The time lapse iovelved in Soviet processing of the OS WALDa‘
departure documentation appears to be no¥mal, Marina began
assembling the documents neceesary for an cxit vise in May 1961, and
both OS WALDs actually applied on 20 Auguat 1961, according to

| Marina's statement and GOWALD's diary. Marhoa's exit visa was
jasued at the tine her new passport was isaued, 11 January 1962,
although she had Seen informed by Coviet authorities about 1 January
1962 that the view would be tesued. Lee CS WALD's exit visa was not
issued until 22 May 1962, although he, too, apparently had been told
in early Jannary 1962 that the viea would be granted, The time lapse
between actual application and actice of approval was cvex four nitnthe.
By. way of comparison, some Soviet wives have been held in the USSR
for years, while in two specific cases iavelving Gwedish national
husbands, the Soviet wives were processed out in less than four monthe.

& Isauance of a statelens passport (which may de called a
sojourn permit or stateless pergon identity document ~ vid na zhitelstvs
diya lite bes grazhdanstva) is aot unusual. Suck a document was /
issued to US Army deserter Bruce DAVIS, who defected through East
Germany to the USER in August 1969 and was subsequently sent to Kiev
ae @ atadent before he repatriated in July 1963. According to United
States Embacsy Airgram 4-319, dated 4 Sestember. 1962, DAVIS was
‘pfficially documented by the Soviet authorities as a stateless person,
which is normal for a non-Goviet citizen not in posseesion of a valid
national gaseport."' DAVIS, of course, did not have a passport when
he deserted and OSWALD had left his at the US Embassy on $31 Getober 1959.

 

{Available exemplars of

 

 

 

} MW 55538 Doold: 322912045 Page 4

 
