 

HW 50529

G.

J.

-8-

You know how we get:mixed up with Lipski. He was a dairyman in
Chicago. Lipski started the Farmers Co-operative Association and

he wanted the Dairyman Union, of: which we are interested ‘in, and ‘he
wanted us to OK him and his Cooperative Union. After while Lipski
left the Dairy. business and left us. He went into the black market
whiskey business with a fellow named Louis Isharo (phonetic) and they
made about one million dollars quick. Lipski and Isharo bought the-
Lockheed factory in Los Angeles. The Internal hevenue moves in on
him and he lasés everything. Lipski goes to fick DeJonns and said I
am broke. I want to leave Chicago and would like a little help. He
had never been to Vallas, texas in his life. I got nim a room and he
came to Dalias and just drove around and told me he would like the li-
quor. Wanted to know the law on beer here. He said he had an opening
for 5,000 gallons of bonded whiskey in kegs.

5,000.

Yes, he said + would like to have a store to put it through. I said
what's the deal. He told me. He said i have already talked .to Nick.

I said why don't you go back to Cnicago-and talk to Nick and It'll

call Nick and tel him you'll be down. We opened a store, then.a

bigger store as the first.one wasn't big enough. He said send me

two clerks from Chicago. I ask why he didn't hire local clerks and

he said he had rather have somebody he knew:and could trust. I said
OX. He sent 2 fellows whom 1 did not know. 4e told them to come to
me. They called me and told me they were in room so and so at the
Adolphus, so i went down to see them. 1 look at them and they tell me
that Lipski sent them dow. They continued living at the Adolphus.
Next time I talk to Nick 1 told him these 2 licuor clerks sent from
Chicago were still living.at the Adolpmms, cating at big places, and
opened charge account at Neimans.. i said how about it, a little high
isn't-it., de’ said move thems. 1 moved them-to thé Scott Hotel.’ They
dida't like it. One of them said that is a ‘hell of away ‘to treat me
after what my dad did for you: What your dad. did'for me. He said, yes.
I said, who is your dad. He said beeo Mangano. I-said sure your dad
was a good friend of minue, but what ehe-pou-eed Jimmie doing clerking
ina liguor store, He said, clerking in a liquor.store, we are going
to take over all the whiskey places with Lipski. 4 call Nick and said
come to Yelias and bring “ipski with you.' ‘they came that night. I
said before I tell you anything 4 said tell Nick what you told me.. He
said sure 1 will tell him. tre are going to take over all the retail
whiskey: stores in Dallas with Lipski, Marty Ochs, Jimmie (the) Bee. oO
Nick says, Lipski, you are out of the whiskey business in Yexas. "you
are out". I want that store closed down as’ quickly as possible,
liquidated,.ana you and Jimmie come on back.to Chicago. When you
arrested them there wasn't a bottle of whiskey in the store.

But they had their orders in.

DocId:32241873 Page 9
 

 

HW 50529

J.

J.

G.

-~g9-

I want to explain how that happened, because thet stinks to high heaven.
Lipski said he was going to lose lots of money liguidating the store. He
said he would stay here if Nick would let him. Nick said.Paul is there
anything you can do with him. I said there is a distributorship that can
be bought. Lipski said I'll buy it. I said where ere you going to get
your $70,000. He said I'll get it from Paul. Paul's night Club, Chicago.
Sgt. Akard from the Chicago Police brought $60,000 and he bought one half
interest in Southwestera #nusement Co.
Is Lou Schneider one of his men.

en enentceanany gages .
Yes, Lou was one of his men but Lou came- later, he was in the ray at this
time. Lou says to. me 1 want to operate in Dalles.. Lipski says to me, ©
look I'il guy in in Yallas. I say, now “arcus if you want to. get in
Dallas I'll co to Chicago with you and we'll sit down with the man in
Chicago and get their UK. After we did this they said, look Paul what-
ever you say is OK, we'll hold vou responsible youtve been at Dallas 6
years and you know how .thims are

!

Paul I thought you were a Dallas man.

J. No I have been here 6 years.

G

J.

Are you from Chicago?

Yes, but 1 heve lived here 6 years. My epople are from lexes; my cousin
is ae mechanical engineer in Gainesville. ‘The Chicago people said. they
would hold me responsible for Lipski's activities in Texas. Lipski says,
Paul here is what 1 want to do. I want to take over all slot machines.
I say, all right you tell me how you want to do and we'll see what we can
go. lipski says to me, Paul wetll grab Minion, Miller, Daiton,, and |B i

 

'Bickers, those four, and park them in a car in front of tné police Etation.dedd,
T puta stop to that. I'm not going to spend the rest.of my life in the "stir".

i told him that 1 have lived with these*people, I havé worked with them and
iayed with them and 1 think 1 know their reaction. That would be the
wrong thing to doe, in the first place you're not going to take them over.
If the opportunity ever presents itself I'll take them over, not you.

We argued for several days. He said well’ Paul what about the slot machines,

-how about me taking over all-them. I said all right Itll give you the

slot machines but you are going to have to buy them and at their terms.
i'll get them all together and find out how much money it will take if
they want to sell. So 1 bought out the slot machines and juke boxes in

Shreveport, “onroe, Huston, Louisiana, Ft. Smith, Arkansas, Mineral Wells

and first oen place and another. If then left for Mexico Vity and Nick
called me in Mexico “ity and told me to.come to Dalles... He had gotten some
reports from Dallas and they weren't very good. So I came back and the first

DocId:32241873 Page 10

Re i te tee we ea
 

 

Be

Do you remember one of the fellows who was in your line-up at Dalles.
You remember Breakstone. Here George you cen tell me. Supposing,
and you damn good and well. who controls belles now, supposing

Binnie Binion and ail this bunch, you know they control it, and
suppose somebody else comes in here and they happen to buy me off

or not buy me off but happen to take care of me, what's going to
heppen to Binion and them. They are going to do lots.of shooting.

There ain't going to be no shooting.
fiell, there would have to be.
In friction like that Paul ------

In the first plece those people are pretty smart and in the second
place they are not as rough as they claim to be. Don't let nobody
ever kid you that he wants to invite trouble. Don't nobody want to
invite trouble. Wow let me tell you something. It is like a lawyer
that came to me orle time and said he wanted to advise me that there
might be some trouble. He says course + want you to kmow that if
you get into any trouble I'm a lawyer and if any of your boys get
into any trouble I'll kelp defend them. I knew he sent for me and

I told him that you go back and tell them "that for every hair

that is harmed on the hesd of my people I will put 10 stiffs in
your door every morning. Every morning there will be 10 stiffs
packed in your door.’ You can go back and tell them that. *e operate
awfully funny. in first place we are armed. We are honest: People
cannot understand that. We are very very honest. -1 mean, in other
words suppose Butler is with us and we sent him somewhere to see
somebody. He tells me who he is to see and who he sees... lf‘ any-
thing happens to him we go to see and get the person whom we went to
see. Suppose we sent him somewhere to take some ‘money and he don't
come back with the money. it may take one month or 6 months: but

we will eventually imow what. happened to Butler and what happened
to the money, and if Sutler was in thewong, that's all, but if
Butler was in the right we will see that Sutler's-people are taken
care of and the people who were on Butler are taken care of. Let me
tell you something. Let me show you how we operate as a syndicete.
We O.K.’a lot of people, peopé who are in no way at all connected
With us. ‘They come to us wanting to know if we will UK them”
operating place... We investigate them and if UK we let them operate
for apiece of the operation. ‘ie OX'd Lipski down here. We did not
OK him for some things tnat he said he would like to do and as soon
as we knew those things we immediately took our OX off Lipski and
ran Lipski out of here.

{i though Lipski was the head chief.

| AW 50529 DocId:32241873 Page 8
 

 

HW 50529

J.

Je

Je

J.

G.

Hets still there isn't he?

ie ‘didn't help bring Lucky. danciana.to Mexico although U. S. Immigration
gets thé idee that we are responsible for Luciano.coming here so

they tried to put the heat on us. The Trade Department came down

and 1 had a.long:talk with them. I explained to them, I told them
I'll take your people and show you what our interest is. We operate
nearly 100% legitimately. We have a distillery in Mexico. We

control nearly 80% of the textile industry.

Are you all the ones that have 2 controlling interest in the Ice
Cream business in Mexico? -

We have nearly all the ice cream business in Mexico.

I heard something about that, let's see, if they wouldn't buy their
milk from somebody, somebody didn't get something.

Didn't get the machines. We had the machines that made the ice
cream. :

You don't have to pick him up, we pick him up. Or if anybody robs

a filling station in a district, we control. There are districts
you do and districts you don't, .

Oh, sure.

We understand that. ite do that ourselves because if we have a man
in office who is co-operating with us it is to our advantage to

re-elect him. We have got to keep him in office. We've got to

protect him.
; ‘

Monterrey.

Monterrey, Mexico.

How do you pronounce this, Sutcliff.

Sutcliff, he is an Englishman. What is the.name of our company
down there, the Textile Company.

Are they Englishmen or -~--~-
All Mexican.

This is a comfortable chair.

DocId: 32241873 Page 7
 

 

“NW 50529

G

-~4-

to me and asked me to support you and he told me he was a very
good friend of yours'and asked me to make a statement concerning
a little action $ hmid took:to get’ a little publicity.: He
took some picture put in’ the paper. saying we ren then out
of town, done run them out of town; Benny Goodwin ran them out
of town. .

 
  

A publicity stunt for his campaign.

I raised 4e11 about it, and this friend of yours said. will you tell
a couple of people about it. I said not only will 1 tell them but
I'm going. to tell the Federal Judge about it. Before 1 £0 any further
you tell me whether ne is a good friend of yours, - CHLCK LaNCca

 

 

Chick is a fair friena of mine. I went to school with him. Played
football with him. We were good.friends and Chicago was a good boy.

There is no shooting. No shooting. But here is what I want to do,
just like we opened in Charleston, West Virginia the first of the
month. Same set up thet I propose to you. We operate .all over the
country’, understand.

Didn't you all take New Urleans.

We put Morrison in town tnere and paid his father-in-law and supported
him in Mexico City.

His dad has control of something big-in Mexico City doesn't he?
That's right.

is that Dean, orrison,

phan
Yes.

Is he the Chief of Folice of —------ no he is ilayor of New Urleans
isn't he. .

That! s right. tn tlexico City ‘we did sométhing even Capone failed to
do. .1 went down there and there was a little heat on, and I wanted
to go to Mexico City for vacation. 1 met people: 4 had never been sable
to meet before. If you will live like they live and become one of
them, 1 will grant you they offer you enything. Friendship, that's
what £-like. i'll show you a card from Chief of Federal Police “in
Mexico. It's in Spanish. He is Chief of the Federal Highway Petrol.
He let me haul anything in exico and let me alone.

DocId: 32241873 Page 5
 

Je

G.

‘AW 50529

7 seeente

+

EE te tke wet Se Mm

~5~

Is he a German Paul. You don't have to answer this if you don't want
to. Isn't any Bastard Vommunist or Nazis or those crappie guys tied
to this deal are they.

With me? No.

I fougat for this country and if i take anything or meke any deal with
anybody ---—~ . /

Look, you want me to tell you something. We have had more men in
Service than any one comp
always wanted M Och

 
  

 

-I was the only one in
the group, two were Masons and Shriners ana the other a 22 year old
kid. They were held in jail two aays and two nights without even
being asked their names. When the lawyer came in with writs they re—
ieesed them and ran then out of town, that is they took their. pictures
and said they ran them out, and i am raising Hell beceuse they didn't
have any record. .

Who is Tamsyo?..

He is chief of the Federal Highway Patrol.

 

I can speak Spanish a little.” Euge

 

Tamayo.

If you think this guy is not a German listen to this name. "Maus", who
in the Bell is he. a .

He used to be plant superintendent.

Zassenhaus, that is a pure dee German.

Here it is Jonn Wetterman, New Urleang, Walnut 4763.

Casino, I've heard the name.

Mayor's private telephone number, Boco 10 (other numbers not identifiable),
Watterman don't live there, he lives in Mexico City. Well I'11 tell

you what. There wes a lot of trouble started down there when Luck
Luciano came out. He left Italy headed for Sentucky.

DocId: 32241873 Page 6
 

 

 

The first seven recordings of this meeting are not transcribed in deteil inasmuch
as-they are not pertinent to this matter but the following brief is set out. ,
hej. PR. , utc

Record 1 buf Y/Y uae

Discussion of the new home which GUTHRIE has purchased at co of & 4 500. O06
JONES steted that he had built a house on Blanch Circle which nome cost him $6,500.
It is to be noted that this home was purchesed from Poliard—Simmons.

Record 2

Discussion of GUTHRIE's German Shepherd dog 2} months old.

Record 3

JONES discussion of the power of money relating that a few years ago $50 a week
was good money but now was nothing. :

Record 4

GUTHRIE steted that he had chance to ‘buy a..357 Megnum revolver and he described
to JONES the penetrating power of the weapon stating it would shoot completély
through a Packard automobile. PAUL advised GUTHRIE not to buy any kind of gun.
Ke steted friends will give him guns and guns he will confiscate at the Sheriff's
Office will more than satisfy his needs. JONES discusses the relative merits of

' verious firearms stating that in his estimation a 32.20 is a gun he believes best

suited for his purpose as it will penetrate a bullet-proof vest, however, JONES

stated this gun nad no shocking power, that it Would go through a men and not do
much Gamage. He advised GUTHRIE to carry a firearm with the most shocking force.
PsUL says his gun is a Colt.45 eutomatic with hammer and trigger guard sawed off.

Record 5

He described this gun as being loaded with a clip contsining three shells, which
clip nolds the ejected cartridge case after the bullet hes been fired. He re-
lates that this gun is extremely handy inasmuch as it is difficult. on.a rainy
night to crawl around on your hand end knees looking for ejected cartridge cases.
He states ne knows a man who smuggled in 100 gunds from Germany and they are
perfect. JONES stated that he never hit e man with a gum in his life and never
wants to be hit by one. The only time he had ever taken a gun from his pocket,
or would ever take it from nsi pocket would be for one purpose and that would

CLINT

be to kill someone. A gun to him is a weepmonly to be used fortmurder.Ch

fe 7 NEC No Nw RSL Ae Usha Usui -

BPE Toe ee FE

  

 

60-¢-|

Lid Page 2? be san

 
 

 

\
1
1
|
|
i

i
‘
,

| AW 50529

 

v9.1

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

DoclId: 32241873

 

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

HSCA
180-10065-10407

NUMBERED FILES
008754

Document Information

CHICAGO CRIME COMMISSION

03/29/1951
78

DALLAZ, TX, RACKETEERING AND SUBVERSIVE
ACTIVITIES
GUNS

ORGANIZED CRIME

KNAPP, JACK

MEXICO, RACKETEERING AND SUBVERISVIE ACTIVITIES
GUTHRIE, STEVE

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT.
Unclassified

3

Redact

10/16/1996

159-1. Box 159.

 

Page 1

Date:

9/2.1/201

 
 

HW 50529

Record 6

JONES relates again, my epople do not like automatic guns because they eject the
shells. If you ever stop in the rain on a Gark night and try to pick those things
up you will understend what I mean, GUTHRIE ask PAUL if that was @ voice of
experience speaking, to which he made no reply.

Record 7

Further discussion by JONES, BUTLER, and GUTHRIE of the value of a .357 Magnum
and Jones agrees he will give both COUPERLE and BUTLER a magnum which he will
purchase on his-trip to Chicago in a few. days.

GUTHRIE: Dallas, Texas is the hottest spot in the country and George knows
' it. I aon't have to tell George.. I'11 bet Dallas is the hottest
spot in the United States today, the.hottest spot. Not only that,

but ------~-- .

JONES: Way is it hot?

G. Because they let this vice get out of control. I know there is
going to be dice games, bookie joints, and —-~

Je Why not control it?

G “That's what they should have done, but they let it get out and the
only way to control it is this way now, ---~-

Je 1t can be controlled.

G I'11 tell you what Paul, I don't have to tell you who B Binion,

 

Reni.
is, who lyy M Miller is or Dalton, and you ‘knor all'.the big boys:in the
racket here inthis syndicate.” Binion takes. off one million flat

dollars a year, one flat milhkion, On policy alone.

J. What does he get —------——

G. Probably two thousand dollars a week peak.
Je They offered the thing to me when the blow up came and Binion and

ali of them got.scared when some of. these people were identified
bere in town, right after Minyard was bit and they came to me and
offered me the thing for $5000 dollars a week. I told them if'-the

toyvm wasn't worth more than $5000 a week I didn't want it.

DocId:32241873 Page 3
bee,

 

AW 450529

Je

G.

Je

Why, that! s chicken feed.

They said ‘well, we'll let you have everything for $5000 a. week. I
said I don' t want it for $5000 a week. | They said. how about $4000.
I said you are going the wrong way. 1 said because you -can't:do'
for money what I would want you to do or you would want’ a hell of a
lot more then $5000 a week.

Well, ------

Because + can show you. I know what they make and that is the reason
you laugh about it. .

I know it is.

Because they hang out with each other. I can show you Binion and
Cauldin in the Century room together.

 
  

din the “istrict 4ttornéey goes with Binion the big
gambler. “be “seen on the street with that Bastard; would I
be seen on the street with one of those Son-6f-a-bitches, Hell no.
Here is the deal Faul, Everybody knows the city, the Mayor 1 guess,
the Sheriff's Uffice I. don't know 1 guess that they are paid off, we
know they are paid off but-what 1 watit to know is this, how in the
Hell they get all the way to Austin and get a pay off dom: theree
You can't pay off a Ranger.

No they tel me they arepretty good.

I have turned down a pretty good offer. I told you what'l turned
down. Look who 4 would be bucking, I would be bucking ji Wilson,
Listrict Attorney, Conzaulles the Hanger, I would-be bucking every—
body. How could I get" “on a'eitket like thet without. knowing. something.
How in 1 the Hell ‘would I know. ns

 

Ti show you how you can do that. Here's what i propose. As 1 told
Mr. Butler, we are not interested in you.for two.years. -It]l tell how
we can control Binion. I'll show you. There would be no trial. ite
wontt have to shoot nobody .an¢ you worft.have to shoot nobody.

Well, now that shooting in Dallas county. I'l) tell you right now,
I'm fed up with that shooting. + don't care.if.a man is a gembler he
don't have any right to be shot up.

We don't shoot nobody. le don't shoot nobody. There: won't be no
shooting. : :

We're not going to bring no more people in here. iie need no more
than we already have. I propose to use this man as example because
he says he is a good friend of yours. ‘uring the campaign he came

DocId: 32241873 Page 4
