 

  
 
  

[st 2107 Hote).

 
 
   

. ‘gere-te0: >
vee) CoD .
ot ee we me

ww .
UNITED STATES ((AB.RNMENT

      
   
  
     
  
    
   
 
  
    
   
    
     
  
   
    
      
   

   
      
  
 

  

“~~ Memorandum
. ‘Mr. DeLowh “ Ne “December 82,
te Looe 1- Mr, DeLoach

 

 
 

 

1- Mr. Wick

a 1-Mr. Gale :
“ ; Sn , oO 1- Mr, Callahan :
sumect UNKNOWN SUBJECTS @) °. . 1 - Mr. Rosen ‘
THEFT OF $2, 034, 63L 25 “L- Mr, Malley weed
STOCK CERTIFICATES, 7/20/65 1 - Mr. Shroder :
QcoopBopy AND COMPANY 1+ Mr Schmidt _ i
NEW YORK CITY -YICTIM ; }

 

. I talked with Assistant Director Malone at New York concerning
current developments. He advised me plans were made for the subject Gray,
-who is acting as our informant, to proceed to Miami with the Agents this ~~
-afterncon, Tentative plans, if all develops, are for the delivery of the
] securities tonight at Miami, This is subject to change depending upon develop- .

ments.
o the District Attorney's office of New York,

clarification was needed concerning this relationship. Malone advised me

" that yesterday after he had been informed that the insurance company had
alerted the District Attorney's difice to the possible solution of the case, he
called District Attorney Frank Hogan, Hogan stated that he had not been fully

_ informed by his men of the developments and that he was ag preciative of °
Malone's call, Malone tol? Hogan th -t this was a matter which we planned to
handle and that we did not want any interference from the District Attorney's
office, He stated it was to be clearly understood at the outset either Hogan's
office or the FBI would hanaie the matter and that one or the other would be
completely out of the picture. Malone states there was complete understanding

that the FBI would handle the matter there, would ke no intgyerence
from the New York District attorney's eg. woo r _ 26 oo
— 7 - Sosl~ 4

Po, : Malone states the underatajing with the insurance company is to

i '. pay Gray $100, 000, contingent upon the subject or subjects heing arrested -

i. _ and the securities delivered, The insurance company feels -hat an arrest ad
return of the securities is tantamount to a conviction and would be willingto

pay the $100,000 after tne contingencies are resolved,

 

“4 _espienmade 4

  

 

1d:32310683 Page 2
 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/27/201
Identification Form

 

 

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10306-10092
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 87-84051-26
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: ROSEN, A.
TO: DELOACH
TITLE
DATE: = 12/22/1965
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS :
NRO, THEFT, STOCK CERTIFICATES, DIO, FRANKIE, BOND
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: —Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/05/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : INC ADMIN PAGE

 

v9.)
Docld:32310683 Page 1
 

   
        
         
   
  
    
  
  
  
   
 

aL the John F. Kennedy Assaseipaty
; 44 USC 2107 Hote}.

   

* iemorandum to Mr. DeLoach _
Re: UNKNOWN SUBJECTS ~~
RO THEFT OF $2,034,68L.25 2. -

 
 

bo . : - In view of the importance of
ol . ° press release would be made from Wast ington
; : New York and Miami Offices should be ciose:

. “ with reference tc the two detec’
matter solely to be determined by the District

developments,
_ allowed to interview any subject or subjects until we
do so, -Insofar a8 Hogan's office 15 concern
\\ is to be a complete blackout until the deal is completed, After w :
news release we will then determiue who will be given access to the subjects.
It is noted that after the subjects are arraigned they will be placed in c
of the Marshal and if New ‘York, asks for authority to allow the representatives 7
of the New York Police Department to talk to the subjects, this should be done ~~
providing we have fuily and thoroughly gotten all facts developed in possession
of the subjects, ‘diami and New York should clearly understand this and

Mr, Malone hag this understanding.

Be Agent Nehrbass, who is the front man for the FBI, and Agent Casey, —
. who is the case Agent, are proceeding to Miami with Gray this afternoon,

: Nehrbass, in addition to being given expense money, witl also have a roll of
bills for front money, which he will use in case good faith is to be displayed.

No money, of course, is to be given by the Agent to anycne in return for

the securities at this time. The roll of mopex. As merely for show puree.

; A current development lends additional color to the case. A large
cache of narcotics was picked up by narcotics agents in Miami yesterday.
Involved in this was one Frankie’ fo, His arrest got corsiderable publicity. .
He was to be released on payment of $100, 000 bon.i, which bond was subse-
quently reduced to $25,000, and Malone advised me this morning that it is

_ Just a forma’ 4 before D!o is released today. This is significant iyasmuch as
last evening talked to Miami and stated that he had been in tough with =
incipals involved are Frankie Yio and Norm Rothman.

  

-2-) . oe
CONTINUED - OVER

‘

Docld:32310683 Page 3. .
 

” Memorandum to Mr, DeLoach .
Re: UNKNOWN SUBJECTS (2)
-.. ‘THEFT OF $2, 034, 631.25 _

     

Gray said that if Dio does not get out he is sure that Rothman will go through |
with the deal, The news items indicate that Frankie Dio is the brother of
Johnny Dio, a notorious raceteer in the New York area, whose name was
frequently mentioned jn conrection with Hoffa investigations and with the a
investigation of rackets in the New York area. — moe SS

_ Malone also said there is a possibility that the delivery of the
securities m vy take place in New York. This could occur if the contact in
Miami is made and at this time Malone does, not know whetuer there will be
a delivery in Miami or New York. J inquired of Malone as to whether there
vould be a viol: tion if there is a payoff in New York City. He said that the
New York Office was going on the presumption that the, information available
indicated the securities were in Miami and this is the basis for their *
proceeding. Under the avove set of circumstances the interstate transportation

of the securities, which is a necessary element of the offense, does exist.

 

ACTION TO BE TAKEN:

AC LON

New York and Miami Offices will need io closely coordinate all

activities. Bureau will be kept advised of all developments. Malone has
been instructed to go forward with the arrangements,

 

  
