( Continued) i

if Polige;. Prince Georges County
NODDY. ‘under: GOLTATE) o

: g ffi er, Barracks. H, Waldorf; :
Maryland, “Maryland State: Police. (Personally, known to PERRALL

under - GOLIATH) .

Emergency: Ambulance - Greenbelt. Volunteer Fire ‘Department.
“( Can be obtained through SNODDY) «

 

 

 

 

“HW 53320) Docld:32393015 Page 6
 

 

 

 

HW 53320 DocId:32393015 - Page 7. *

 

  

EMERGENCY INSTRUCTIONS
(« Continue a) :

   
     
   
 

  

oo 8. - Windows’ in ‘cellto remain placked. out ‘and doors to other: rooms ~
6 on “3rd floor ‘to be- closed: ‘and locked when SUBJECT Leaves eel, in « ‘order
to prevent’ his becomin riented to surroundings.

 

 

oo Qe Noe ‘unnecessary ( aversation. shall be condticted with SUBJECT. or
" among agents, 1 nor Shall any ment ion’ of jast names ‘be nade within SUBJECT 's
hearing. - : . Be

     

10. SUBJECT ‘is not to ‘have access to newspapers and magazines,: nor -
permitted to hear radio.or television, nor shall there be any discussion .
of news events within -his: hearing. He may be provided selected reading .
material upon authorization of Headquarters personnel concerned with the
case. be .

 

  
   
   
  
 
 
   
  

     

li. . Recording devices to, be promptly activated in ordér to pick up. oe vas
any comments by SUBJECT or conversation between him and the doctor or’: 7
other. operational “personnel.

 

.. 12. Any’ unusual or’ significant’ comments, ‘movements or. ‘activities
of SUBJECT to. sbe promptly: ‘brought to the attention of ‘the ‘SSA. ve

 

43h c Telephone | ‘number's: of key Security and Operational personnel,
as well as photographs and physical description of SUBJECT to be maintained
in & secure © place for gy reference by the SSA. :

a whe necessary “to answer questions by the’ Polic
or Fire Department regarding the site, personnel at the site,.or with
specific reference to the SUBJECT,‘ such inquiries should be handled .
by the SSA with the. senior Police or Fire Department -official on the
scene. The SSA should converse in private with such official, and.
identify himself by utilizing his DODD credential. He should explain 2
: briefly, and only to the extent necessary, that the property is leased.
and that it is used occasionally for training purposes. All inquiries
concerning the SUBJECT should be parried, if possible. However, if. ° . |
necessary, it may be explained that the SUBJECT has a mental disorder - °°. '
which sometimes requires special treatment. He: should not be identified
under his alias or otherwise. The SSA should tactfully but firmly request
that his own identity, plus his DOD affiliation, be held in strict confidence,
especially with regard to the press. Inquiries by members of the press.
or members of the civilian population should be answered by stating that .
the site is rented by a private group who meet. periodically for recreation. :

 

  

  

   
   

   
   

 

   

. EMERG. ENCY. INSTRUCT Tons
( Continued)

    
   

 

3. .At the first<available opportunity, the- SSA ‘should call ‘the-
. SAC or ASAC, or if they,cannot be reached, a senior DFO Agent, and
“furnish - him, with: full: particulars concerning the situation and the =
action being taken woos : a : .

    

ESCAPE OR ‘ATTEMPTED ESCAPE *

1. Strict’ "vigilance and “security should be. maintained on a ot
2h hour basis in accordance with established procedures in order to’ Lol, -
discourage and prevent the SUBJECT's escape. If SUBJECT should make 07.

_. an attempt to escape, sufficient force should be tised as is necessary °

. under the circumstances in order to subdue the SUBJECT and maintain “.

* eustody and control” over him. However, unnecessary ‘brutality and ‘the er
indiscriminate: use of Force will not be condoned. - : ae

 

    

2." au personnel assigned to the Special Security Detail on auty
- at the site shall be alerted by means of the emergency alarm and/or - - oe
_., other appropriate means,.and brought into play on any escape attempt... o> >
' Should the SUBJECT ‘succeed in escaping from the-house proper, the SSA’...
shall be responsible’ for, coordinating and directing a hot pursuit. of Boe
am the SUBJECT by. all means available. . ; :

 
   
 

 

; “3. The use of firearms ‘should be scrupulously avoided except - in
extreme circumstances.of self-defense. . However, the SSA under circum--
stances that indicate there are no other means of preventing SUBJECT's
total escape, may direct’a qualified firearms-trained agent to fire
shots over SUBJECT's head followed by verbal warning to halt. In no ~
event, except in self-defense as stated above, will an. agent shoot :
directly at the SUBJECT... . oe coe

 

 

 

kh. At the first “available opportunity, the SAC/DFO, or in his
absence, one of the ASACs, should be telephonically advised.of all
the circumstances surrounding an escape attempt. In no case.shall .
the Police be notified unless authorized by the SAC or ASAC. 2 =

_ TLLNESS OR INJURY

 

a i. In case of sudden illness or serious injury to the SUBJECT, |
Dr. Charles BOHRER, or other physician designated by him inthe event

 

at

“HW 53320 Docld:32393015 Page 5 2° an
  

EMERGENCY INSTRUCTIONS ©
(Continued):

 
   
 
 
 
   

 
 

rgency . action which: ‘should be taken pending his arrival.:
° : ASAC/DFO:. should be notified immediately after =
in order’that he might be apprised of the situation.
ha treatment: prescribed by ‘the.-doctor. Regardless B
ziven by. the doctor,. no action shall be taken to ,

  
   
     
 
 

= houla it. become. necessary to remove the SUBJECT to: a hospital ©
or other location ‘away from ithe premises, every possible precaution *.”:
_ Should be ‘taken to maintain. close custody and control over him, and to
' prevent disclosure. of. his € identity and status to unauthorized.

 

    
      
 
     

; "GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS AND INFORUATION.

     

1. “Two men’ on duty ¢ ‘on third floor -who WALL wee | SUBIECE under :
. constant observation, ‘twenty ~four hours a day.

     
 

: Bix men in attendance “whenever ‘SUBJECT is taken to interrogation aan
. room on second floor, all to remain available in adjoining room for. a
: removal, signal from: ‘visitors. .

 

  

he Coveralls. taken from SUBJECT. at 2200 hours and returned ‘the
following morning at O700 hours daily, leaving SUBJECT in shorts and
undershirt overnight.

 

5. Military appearance ana prompt shift schedules maintained « at.
all times when in presence of SUBJECT. - a

6. Careful room n search, including clothes and bunk, “to be conducted
every time SUBJECT leaves cell.

7. SUBJECT must stand in West corner of cell facing wall whene ver
anyone but Dr. BOHRER enters cell.

HW 53320 Docld:32393015 Page 6 ye
   

Emergency’: Instructions, ‘Regarding Custody of):
#262 622 SD/1°°-

  
    
 
 

   

 

“Attached are instructi ms and procedures to be Followed in-
the event -of emergency. situations affecting the SUBJECT's health,
‘safety and. custody, : as well: as the security of the gatehouse where

   
   
  

 

   

oo nstructions ‘which, for the most part ,. ce . Coe :
are already. in effect and have been briefed to the personnel of the
ae ‘District “Fierd-Orrieewno-are” cons erned with this case.

   

. a Dissemination of “copies of these instructions to ‘members of .
the Special Security ; Detail will ‘be made “upon notification. of _Headquarters a
approval... i :

      

 

 

 

   

AW 53320 ' Pocld: 32393015 Page 2
“a

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

“AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM :

TO
TITLE

DATE
PAGES

SUBJECTS

: MEMORANDUM FOR:

. JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

‘RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

Date: 03/04/05
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

CIA Fi
104-10418-10016 eleased under the John
OFK Fennedy

Assassination Records
Ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#:NW 53320 Date:
bé6—-26-2017

DOCUMENT, INFORMATION

CIA
SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE
HEADQUARTERS

 

(EMERGENCY INSTRUCTIONS REGARDING
CUSTODY OF)
07/01/1964

er #

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

COMMENTS

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

AW 53320 DocId:32393015

Page .1

SAFEHOUSE

PAPER
UNCLASSIFIED

1B :
RELEASED IN PART
08/13/98
JFK-RHO9

PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

F161 1998.08.13.08:29:52:123128

104-10418-10016
   

 

    

EMERGENCY INSTRUCTIONS ©.

  
   

 

. ~ A - ‘ ao a :
. Instructions and procedures-are set forth below for the handling
‘of emergency. situations. such as: fire, the-escape or attempted - escape *.
of SUBJECT, and the sudden illness:or serious injury to the SUBJECT.
Should ‘such - situations arise, it might be necessary to-call-on the

. Police, :the Fire Department, or outside medical. facilities for ass istance..

-It-is possible that in-such an event representatives of the press or -
curiosity-seekers..in “the local community might be attracted to the. site,”

'. thereby.creating’ security problems with respect to the’ custody. and .
protection of the SUBJECT from a ‘Publicity standpoint « .

  
 

   

   

In view of the “above ’ it is therefore imperative that ‘these in- =
structions be thoroughly understood and memorized by all personnel.

' assigned fo the Special Security Detail on this case. ao

 
 
  

 

FIRE
(Main House )

   

1. “Tn case of: fire in the Main House, the person » discovering the
fire should apply the nearest fire extinguisher, unless » in his judgment,
the fire has reached such. proportions where available equipment would be
‘useless. Simultaneously,.he should dispatch another member of the Security
Detail to alert the Senior Security Agent (SSA) and the other occupants."
_ of the house. If no one is available im the immediate vicinity, the... —

‘Person ¢ discoverin, the fire Should’ alert others in: the Rouse: by: shouting :

    
         

(Qe Upon being notified of a fire, the SSA shall be responsible for
directing the fighting of the fire, protecting classified and sensitive
documents and equipment on the premises, calling the local Fire Department —
if circumstances warrant, and evacuating personnel. Also, at the first
available opportunity, the SSA should call the SAC or ASAC, or if they’
cannot be reached, a senior DFO Agent, and furnish him with full particulars
concerning the situation and the action being taken.

   

 

3. In utilizing members of the Security Detail in fighting a fire,
it shouid be borne in'mind that two guards must be maintained on the
third floor at all times, so long as the SUBJECT remains confined to
his quarters. If it should become necessary to remove the SUBJECT. from ©
his quarters during an emergency,.a minimum of four guards. shouldbe:
present unless circumstances are such as.to make this infeasible. In -

‘

 

 

HW 53320 DocId:32393015 Page 3. i
  
  

; EMERGENCY. INSTRUCPTO
: (Cc Cont tinued)

 
  
    
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 

 

> it, shall be his responsibility to notify the
on this event, the Security Detail should .

     

Clinton Fire Department. .

 
 

partment. ‘The SUBJECT should be placed in an :
‘automobile, > -accompaniéd: by four members of the Security Detail, and ee
driven ‘away: from the premises. .At appropriate intervals, telephone .

: o*the safehouse. -If.no answer ‘is received, the...
djhe contacted for_instructi ons as to. whether

 

 
 

: (tenant House)

  
           

- n. the “Tenant House > the occupants thereot : on
“should ‘be instructed “to immediately notify the Main House and to use. oe,

“ any available means’to-combat the fire until assistance arrives, | unless J

_ the fire-is out of éontrol,. in’which case all efforts should be directed
towards the evacuation of the- occupants of: the’ _premises. It should be -
clearly understood that in:no case should any of the occupants of the ~ oe
Tenant House call the Fire Department... This decision is the sole respon-'. -/~
sibility of. the S8Ac- Bote woe oo a

  
 
  

Cae! 1.. In case of.

    

2. Upon notification of a fire in the Tenant House, the person -
notified should immediately inform the SSA and assist in the dispatching ;
of available personnel and fire extinguishers to combat the fire. if, |
in the judgment of the SSA, the fire has reached, or is likely to reach,
proportions that it could not be controlled by the available firefighting
equipment, it shall be his responsibility to notify the Clinton Fire
Department and to take necessary precautionary measures to prevent the
observation of the SUBJECT by firemen or other unauthori zed persons who
might be attracted to the scene. .

AW 53320) DocId:32393015 Page 4 _ -2-
