NW 45742

CG 137-4143

U. S. Bargain Town Center in Melrose Park. These
individuals were named as:

JOSEPH LOMBARDI, JR.
MARIO DE ANGELIS
FRANK DE ROSA, JR.
GUY CERVONE

JOHN DE MARIA
ANTHONY SCUDIERO

One of the reasons informant suspects these
individuals is that he has received word that they are
very active and that they are doing so with the full
cooperation and consent of BOBBY DOER. From his personal
knowledge, informant said, he knows that LOMBARDI .and
DE ANGELIS are loaded with money and are spreading it
all over. He has seen them in frequent contact with DOER
in recent weeks, and DOER.has continually made a check
through a police department contact known to the informant
concerning the above individuals to see if any "heat" is
on them. Informant said that his contact on the police
department was discussing the activity of these men, that
they were making money, that the modus operandi used at
the National Tea Store was similar to the U. S. Bargain
Town in Melrose Park, and that if there was a weak link
in this gang it was FRANK DE ROSA, JR. Informant said
that if this police officer from the Melrose Park Police
Department is on the level, he will grab DE ROSA and try
and break him down, However, informant said this is hardly
possible as no police officer can do this on his own in
Melrose Park.

Informant stated that the word has gotten around
that BOBBY DOER has to clear any holdup activity in the
Melrose Park area.

Informant stated that a week or two ago he was
having coffee in a restaurant on Mannheim Road. He noticed
in the restaurant several guys, holdup men and burglars,

and they were talking in "Swearing" terms about "THE GREEK".

He overheard their discussion and heard them use the name
SCHANG. He then realized that they were talking about
PAT SCHANG, whom they consider to be a possible Government

 

DociId:32327177 Page 9
 

CG 137-4143

witness in the case involving WILLIE DADDANO, JOHN VARELLI,
ROCKY INFELICE, MIKE D‘ALESSIO, all top hoodlums, and
other hoodlums involved in a federal indictment charging
them with the theft of silver and photographic material
from interstate shipments (Chicago files 15-26351,
15-26968, 15-26263 and 15-25085). Informant gathered

from listening to these "characters" that any one of them
would do anything possible to locate SCHANG and kill him.
It was informant's opinion that there is no contract let vc.
out, as such, Informant said, however, that it is understood
by all members of the criminal outfit not only in Melrose
Park but anywhere in this area, that there is a good price
on SCHANG's head, that anyone able to do anything about
SCHANG's demise would be well rewarded, and that there is
no doubt that efforts are being made by any number of
individuals on their own and collectibly to find SCHANG
and kill him,

Informant stated that he has heard from some
individuals that if SCHANG is caught, he will not be given
the benefit of a quick demise, The individuals discussing
SCHANG said that they would return him to this area and
torture him to death, thereby making an example of him,
Informant stated that from his own knowledge and discussion
with "these people", they have definitely been hurt by
the breaking up of the silver hijacking gang, which
resulted in the indictment of eighteen individuals actively
engaged in criminal activities in the Chicago area. He
stated that the crushing blow concerning criminal activity
was the arrest of WILLIE DADDANO, who was regarded as
untouchable. Informant stated this seemed to shake their
confidence, and where there had been hijackings, robberies,
and wholesale thefts on a weekly basis prior to this whole-
sale arrest, activity has slowed down to an occasional job.
Informant stated that should any information come to his
attention concerning inquiries on PAT SCHANG, he will so «
advise. One person contacted on this matter by informant
said he had heard SCHANG was "on the street and in some
town in Wisconsin". Informant stated SCHANG's whereabouts
is of daily concern to a number of individuals.

a = ee eae

NW 45742

DocId:32327177 Page i0
NW 45742

CG 137-4143

daily and appears to be abandoned... Informant said the
Syndicate has a quarter of a million dollars standing in
that building and it is costing them money everyday.

The informant said Mayor, censon is jin Florida
and would like to stay in Flori wo remaining
years expire as Mayor of Melrose © Park. (ere SON wants
"out" the worst Way but the “outfit hasét: him that he
has enjoyed their profits and he can stick with their
troubles until his term runs out. His probabl uccessor
from talk around Melrose Park is Attorney LOUISXNICHOLS. / Law €.
eens z =

Informant stated that one of the most profitable
deals involving the police and a few politicians at the
present time is a judicial setup at Oak Park, Illinois.
Informant stated under the new judicial system the magistrate
court in Oak Park handles all cases from a number of
surrounding towns, including Melrose Park. Whenever a
felony charge is brought to the attention of the judge
and states attorney in charge of this court, a lot of
wheeling and dealing goes on, The judge's name was recalled
as CONFIST (phonetic), and the states attorney's name is
ROMAN. Wherever these two can do it, they will attempt to
reduce a felony charge to a misdemeanor and shake down the
defendants involved, This is generally done through the
attorney representing the defendant. The informant said
that one police officer told him the only way he could be
sure that a felony rap would be approved by the Oak Park
Court and sent to the Grand Jury at 26th and California
was to threaten ROMAN or the judge with publicity. This
police officer also told him the only other way it has
worked to satisfaction is for the police officer to tell
ROMAN or the judge that he has a personal interest in this
case and plead that it be presented to the Grand Jury for
indictment. If ROMAN or the judge feel there will be any
trouble, they will avert this,

Informant said concerning recent robberies in
the area, namely the robbery of a National Tea Store on
West Madison Street in Chicago and the Armored Express job
at North Riverside, Illinois, that the individuals involved
could well be part of the six member gang that hit the

 

DociId:32327177 Page 8
 

»
Co

(

CG 137-4143

also dislikes being used as an arbiter in an argument.
Whenever there is trouble between some members of the
outfit, they are steered to NICK PALERMO and CHARLES
NICOLETTI, who generally settle the dispute without any
further reference to BATTAGLIA.

BATTAGLIA’s chauffeur, "JOSE", is also rising
in the outfit in the western suburbs, and like JOHN
TARRARA (phonetic) is a coming member of the top circle
in the Melrose Park area. TARRARA got his clout from his
prior association with "PAUL THE WAITER" RICCA. BOBBY
DOER is also a leading syndicate hoodlum and in control
of several profitable enterprises for the outfit in the
western Suburban area,

The Charm Club, which had been controlled by
DOER, has been closed and operations are moving from this
site to the Old Chicken House on North Avenue in Melrose
Park, This place has been remodeled and is now called
the Country Pub. They are having a grand opening 1/19 or
20/67, and no doubt this will become a hangout for syndicate
members, While this place was being remodeled, BOBBY DOER
was constantly checking on its progress, It has become
known that once operations start at the Country Pub, DOER
will be in complete control and probably will use this as
his hangout.

Informant said that discussions among members
of the syndicate concerning JOE SHINE are amusing. Some
say he is being persecuted and others say he is nothing but
a "stupeé!’. The outfit, according to one source, would like
to "throw him a bone", but every time he shows up with
something the "Government" is on top of him, Ina recent
discussion by several local characters concerning SHINE,
it was said that SHINE has no future in the Melrose Park
area and the outfit cannot see where he can fit in. . They
also plan to do nothing about it.

Word has gotten around town that the syndicate
has given up on Strangers in the Night. Word has gotten
around to sell the club building and all, and salvage what
they can. There have been no offers coming to informant 's
attention, but the building has been observed by informant

 

NW 45742

 

Docid:32327177 Page 7
CG 137-4143

den with after hours bar, along with dozens of decks of

playing cards, card table, records of race horse bets, - 7
scratch sheets, Slot machine, and miscellaneous gambling
paraphernalia, all valued at $1,000. SCACCIA was charged
as keeper of a gambling house. Four others on the scene .
were released because of lack of evidence. Records seize
disclosed that this location obviously functioned as a
bookmaking operation during the day.

WOODS and NEWBOLD in news releases gave full
credit to the FBI for initiating a successful raid which
is receiving excellent coverage in the Chicago news media
due to notorious reputation of Melrose Park as a hoodlum om

stronghold and this being the first raid conducted by
Sheriff WOODS,

4. CG 6688-PC

On 1/16/67 informant advised that his business
had expanded at a faster rate than he anticipated, which
resulted in him becoming involved in a financial crises
to meet expansion needs. He said that his position was
Such that unless he could come up with $15,000 immediatel
business would fail. As a result, he got together with

who has backed him financially in the past, who
took him to an individual informant did not name (however,
indicated to be "MILWAUKEE PHIL" ALDERISIO) to borrow the
$15,000 on "juice". Informant said that he figured that it
would be a very short term loan and that while he knew it
waS poor judgment on his part to become so involved, he
felt that it was the best way to overcome his difficulty.
He went on to say that almost immediately thereafter, the o:
person who lent him the money demanded a share of the
business. Informant claims that he became very distressed
over his situation and actually contemplated going on a
"score" in an effort to raise the money in order to pay the
$15,000 debt. He then got together with OTHER 4
and the two of them went to see the individual. Informant
demanded to be released from the obligation which resulted
in a violent argument. The person picked up a chair and
threatened to hit the informant with it. After an exchange

 

NW 45742

 

DociId:32327177 Page 5
CG 137-4143

of threats, the informant left and contacted other friends
of his high in the syndicate. Informant claims that he

is in the process of settling the matter although he is
paying two per cent weekly on the loan of $15,000; however,
he expects to get the full $15,000 paid by approximately
1/20/67, at which time he will be released from this
obligation,

Informant advised that prior to the time he went
into prison, he had been operating a "juice" venture backed
by He said that they lost approximately $80,000
in this venture. He explained that because he had to go
to prison, he was unable to enforce collections and the
people that were supposed to take care of the collections
for him failed him. He said that GUS RUBINO took him for
$10,000, He said that he had collected some of the money
including a large amount from "NICK THE GREEK" (believed
to be NICK KOKENAS). He added that he took MARSHALL
CAIFANO with him to see NICK, which resulted in NICK paying
up. :

OTHER 4

5. CG 7049-PC

Informant mentioned that "TEETS" BATTAGLIA is
now the real boss of the outfit. He described him as the
"tightest guy" he has ever come across. Informant said
BATTAGLIA is "loaded" and yet about three weeks ago he
chased a small time gambler half way through Melrose Park
and beat the guy up just because he owed him $320. He
said BATTAGLIA watches all gambling games in this area very
close and nobody gets away with anything. He said that he
is also a great guy to utilize free labor on his farm.
There are always small time hoods who are looking for favors
and trying to get in good with BATTAGLIA. He said these
punks often get "Sucked" into performing sizeable jobs
for BATTAGLIA, thinking that they are going to gain his
favor. . Informant said none of these guys are ever recognized
by BATTAGLIA, who regards them as "dopes", Informant said
BATTAGLIA chooses to avoid any publicity, and since
GIANCANA fled to Mexico and wants out of the organization,
BATTAGLIA knows any heat will be focused on him, BATTAGLIA
goes out of his way to keep his name from being used. He

 

NW 45742

DociId:32327177 Page 6
{ Mr. Tolson.__—
Mr. Dele ach...
Mr. Mohr _.

~FD-36(Rev. 5-22-64) »

    
  

x
(2.
Cy?

 

 

 

i, .
Loe
Lal\ FBI a
| \ Date: 1/20/67
Transmit the following in - - -
(Type in plaintext or code)
Vi AIRTEL
. Via —
(Priority)
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (66-254-11-9)

FROM : SAC, CHICAGO (137-4143)

SUBJECT:~~“TOP ECHELON CRIMINAL INFORMANT
PROGRAM (TECIP)

Re Chicago airtel, 12/13/66.

A. Summary of Significant Information

a ~_and Development in TECIP
f

1. CG 6855-C-TE i A
Y
bA
that WILLIAM MESSINO’s wife is divorcing MESSINO and i

that MESSINO has moved into apartment number 8 in the

building he owns at 426 Wesley, Oak Park, Illinois.

The CTE advised that MESSINO's girlfriend, ALICE IRWIN,

is presently hiding out in Florida for fear of receiving

a subpoena to testify in the current local kidnapping,

assault, and extortion SRE CBB NS MESSINO, Papsentyy lia 2
C

on trial in local court CC ~ 2S oe — | f— a7 =

The CTE on 1/19/67 furnished information that -

AT CG 6855-C-TE on 1/15/67 furnished information

PASQUALE "BUCK" CLEMENTI, local "juice" loan operat8rfEB 2 1967 |.
works for WILLIAM “POTATOES " DADDANO. The CTE stated
CLEMENTI, DADDANO, and possibly other hoodlums are Te7?vi
for Florida within the next two or three days.

 

()
2. CG 6884-C-TE ,
On 1/17/67 informant advised he had had a \_ Ae
meeting with JACK CERONE at Armond's Restaurant: on , “sy

1/13/67. Informant learned at this meeting, CERONE was
sending an envelope two inches thick to local Judge STARK,

6)- Bureau (RM) " f i yh A \ yt
Chi - ! SOKO f om fj 4
icago  [. ce L ON i frye.

ONE ro 91967 - y ,
bs JO j \ y ; \] iV V(b
C. C Wick Ae Gi J JY PSY
K Approved: Sent ___ OM Per
bp écial Agent in Charge

NW 45742 Docid:32327177 Page 2

 

 

 
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/28/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90059-10073

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 66-2542-11-9-113 .

 

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG
TO: HQ
. TITLE:

DATE: 01/20/1967
PAGES: 19

SUBJECTS :
; RICHARD CAIN
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4 -

CURRENT STATUS: —Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : AT

a

vol 5

NW 45742 Docid:32327177 Page i
CG 137-4143

Room 602, The envelope was given to a bailiff introduced
as AL CYEENEY (phonetic). CERONE indicated to source
this was a monthly envelope and that if he got in trouble
he would arrange for his case to be brought before Judge
STARK. .

Informant also advised the bookmaking operation
of JACK CERONE won $18,000 from customers placing sports
bets. Of this amount about $4,500 was from the Green Bay -
Kansas City Chiefs Super Bowl contest. Source stated the.
game closed with Kansas City a thirteen point underdog.

As all customers took Kansas City and Green Bay won thirty-
five to ten, all of the customers lost.

Informant has every reason to believe he will be
given a “good job" by CERONE if CERONE is satisfied with
his work.

3. CG 7049-PC and CG 6890-C-TE

As the Bureau is aware, both of these sources
have furnished information concerning gambling activities
of the SAM BATTAGLIA group in Melrose Park, Illinois.

As a result of this information, the following gambling
raids were made by state and county law enforcement offices
who received information concerning these activities from
the Chicago Office:

On the early morning of 1/16/67, RICHARD DERRICO,
one of the key operators, was observed entering the gambling
lotation at 2413 West Lake Street. Since this gambling
location is also a large scale horse and sports bookmaking
operation during the day, all information regarding this
location was furnished to Sergeant MICHAEL O'MARA, Cook
County Sheriff's Police, who raided premises at 1:00 p.m.
on 1/16/67, Entry was gained to the gambling room by
Smashing through two front doors, one barricaded with two
reinforcement bars, revealing professional casino type
setup in back game room, including kidney shaped poker
table with elevated platform for dealer, smaller poker table,

 

NW 45742 Docid:32327177 Page 3
CG 137-4143

as well as professional cloth covers for tables. Arrested
was RICHARD JOSEPH DERRICO, who was charged as gambling
keeper. Confiscated were numerous race horse bet slips
recovered from DERRICO'’s person, as well as volumes of
other race horse and sports betting slips, scratch sheet
ledger sheets used for pro football betting, sports parlay
cards, numerous decks of cards and dice, two poker tables
and miscellaneous gambling paraphernalia, all valued at
$2,000. DERRICO admitted to Bureau Agents gambling activities
as evidenced by bet slips found on his person but denied
large scale casino type operation at this location. No
indication of any interstate activity. Additional records
discovered at site of raid included names, addresses and
phone numbers of numerous hoodlums within SAM BATTAGLIA
group.

Sergeant O'MARA expressed great satisfaction over
results of raid, especially in view of the fact this was
the third successful gambling raid within city limits of
Melrose Park, Illinois, in the past three days. O'MARA
in news release gave the FBI credit for another significant
raid in hoodlum stronghold of BATTAGLIA group. ,

Information regarding the GUY CERVONE gambling
operation at 2111 West Lake, Melrose Park, Illinois, was
furnished to JOSEPH WOODS, Cook County Sheriff, who at
11:30 p.m., 1/13/67, led a detail of his men, The raiding
party smashed through heavily barricaded rear and front
doors simultaneously to gakn entry to the first floor
premises. Individuals were observed gambling in two rooms.
Eleven persons were arrested including WILLIAM DEL PERCIO,
ELMER DEL PERCIO, GERALD NARGIE and ANGEL PACHECO, all of
whom are part of the SAM BATTAGLIA hoodlum gang. ELMER
DEL PERCIO was charged as gambling keeper. Over one
thousand dollars in cash, plus gambling paraphernalia
valued in excess of $3,000 was confiscated.

Information regarding the gambling operation at
Square Deal Auto Wreckers, owned by JOE DOM SCACCIA, was
furnished at 11:30 p.m., 1/13/67, to JOHN NEWBOLD, Chief of
Crime Section, Illinois Sheriff's Police, who led a raid
with his men on Square Deal. They smashed through the front
door to gain entry _to the gambling room located in the
center of a compost ie structure, revealing plush gambling

 

NW 45742 Docid:32327177 Page 4
