. -7-
largely unknown. The Program, which makes use of Cuban exiles and which
is-not yet fully underway has already achicved a degree of success -- e.g.
in demonstrating to Cubans that Castro is not invulnerable, in forcing
Castro to divert valuable resources for defense against covert activities,
in inflicting small, but cumulatively significant economic damage, and
perhaps in stimulating to some degree the insurgency which is evident in
Cuba. As yet our covert Program has not been directed in such a way as to
inflict serious economic damage on Cuba. There are those who believe that
much can 1 be done in this regard, as wellas in stimulating further resistance.

A hand bre LTT -
But our covert program presently operates under several handiespe—
oe

present policy prevents air attacks on Cuban targets and prevents free-lance

exile raids on Cuba from U.S. territory.

lil. Where are We Going?

In theory, at Icast, our present offensive measures, vigorously
pursued and, to a degree, complemented by our defensive measures, could
lead finally to one of the following three eventualities, each of which con-
stitutes a removal of the Soviet satellite from the Hemisphere,

A. Overthrow of the Castro Regime

Most Cuban experts in the U.S. Government regard this as the most
likely of the three eventualities. Hopefully, by exerting maximum pressure
by all the means available to the U. Ss. Government; short of military force,
we will be able to bring about a degree of disorganization, uncertainty, and
ill predispose elements in the power centers of the

raAsy |

HW 54214 DocId:32977085 Page 9
FOP SECRET - SENSTIIVE_
-8-
regime to bring about the overthrow of the Castro/Communist group and
”
the elimination of the Sovict presence in Cuba; at some stage of the revolt,
it is likely that direct, or indirect U.S. support will be needed to ensure
its success. Theoretically, the Cuban people, tired of economic hardship,
lack of freedom, and isolation from their Latin American brethern, will
embrace the revolt, :
B. Accommodation with Castro on U.S. Terms
Under this eventuality, Castro would agree to break his tie-line
with the USSR, stop his subversion efforts, and perhaps renounce the Com-
munist ideology. While highly unlikely, it is not inconceivable that such
factors as (l) U.S. isolation and covert measures, (2) further Cuban
economic deterioration, in spite of Soviet aid, and (3) distrust of the Soviet
intentions will lead Castro to believe he has no choice but accommodation.
Indeed, there is evidence that Castro may already be thinking along these
lines. In the past few months he has made a number of accommodation noise:
and since he undoubtedly has a pretty good reading of our minimum terms,
these noises could conceivably indicate that he is willing to go a long way
towards meeting them. Che Guevera's reported nervousness at Castro's
that
accommodation tendencies substantiates the view / Castro's desire to
negotiate is genuine and not a ploy to reduce U.S. heat on Cuba.

But there are obvious major problems with this alternative. Not the

least of these is whether the American people would tolerate accommodation

ener eos

HW 54214

CNDBV 4

DocId:32977085 Page 10
| 6,

(2) Covert Measures -- Our covert program over the past year
has covered essentially six areas. First, through a variety of techniques,
we have collected intelligence for both U.S. strategic requirements and for
operational requirements; the quantity and quality is good but there is always
room for improvement. Second, CIA-controlled radio programs and other
propaganda media, directed at Cuba, have been used to encourage low risk, |
simple sabotage and other forms of active and passive resistance, and to
‘stimulate tension within the regime and between Cuba and the Soviet Bloc.
Third, CLA has worked with State and other agencies to deny to Cuba com-

. modities which it urgently needs, Fourth, we have been trying to identify,

seek out,” and establish contact with potentially dissident non-Communist
elements in the power centers of the regime, with a view to stimulating an
internal coup which would dislodge CaStro; we currently are in direct contact
with several people in Cuba who may be of significance. Fifth, we have
directed four small-scale externally-mounted sabotage operations for the
purpose of stimulating resistance aoa Bet latte sip Sixth, in
order to ‘expand sabotage and resistance activities we have been involved in
aiding autonomous Cuban exile groups and individuals, who will probably be
ready to begin infiltration and sabotage in mid-January, and who will not
necessarily be responsive to our guidance, (A financial breakdown of CIA's

covert Cuban operations since 1960 is attached at Tab lL)

The most outstanding characteristic of our covert action program so

teat ite potential for bringing about a basic change in Cuba is still

LF ADY

HW 54214 DocId:32977085 Page @
ee TL TLS yore of
Americans have had to travel to and from Cuba via Prague. , Free World
Stee Cuba j in 1963 is running at roughly 40% of 1962 levefs. Prospects
for further reduction are good since we now seem to be making good
progress with the three principal shipping countries -- Greece, Lebanon,
and the UK. In this regard, the Grecks have recently issued stiffer laws
to prevent their ships from going to or from Cuba, while the Lebanese

.

have drafted (but have not yet enacted) legislation to the same end; and on

important British shipping companies «if Mave have finally aces @:

that they should play ball with us.

But there is plenty of room for improvement. There are still roughly

30 Free World ships per month in the Cuban trade. Free World countries
oth the. fete dp,

still send many commoditie s,to Cuba which Cuba needs desperately, And

there are still air routes between Cuba and Spain and Mexico.

The effectiveness of our isolation policy in hitting the target is
impossible to gauge accurately. While Hurricane Flora, ina few days,
probably hit the target more squarely than our isolation measures did ina
year, it is generally agreed that the economic chaos which now in fact exists
in Cuba and the enormity of the Soviet aid bill is, in part at least, due to
our efforts. Castro's repeated and loud public protestations about our
isolation policy and his serious and energetic efforts to break at of Free

World isolation substantiate the view that the isolation measures probably

hurt him, economically and politically.

(o£ AY

 

HW 54214 DocId:32977085 Page 7
: - , . -3- . , ,
(3) Subversion -- We have been intent on impeding and if possible
: stopping Cuban based and supported subversion in the Hemisphere. -To
-this end we have made a special effort, | bilaterally and in ‘multilateral
forums, to direét Latin American attention to, and to assist (materially
! where appropriate) Latin American efforts in the problem of controlling
internal insurgency and in controlling the subversive movement of people,
funds, arms, and propaganda between Latin Are rica and Cuba. On the one
. hand we have had some success -- there is now an increased awareness in.
Latin Ame rica of the extent and nature of the threat along with an increased
capability and will in Latin America to do something about the problem.
“ One measure of our success is Venezuelan readiness, in contrast to
previous reluctance, to make an international issue out of the erzmom~cashe
of &. Libew ars cock,
discovery, Another small measure of this success is that primarily through
_ the use of travel control by Latin American governments, there has beena
50% drop over the past year in the number of Latin Americans traveling to

Cuba.
On the other. hand, with Castro still exceedingly intent on producing
“another Cuba" in the Hemisphere, and with many Latin American govern-
ments still unwilling or unable to cope effectively with subversive efforts,
much remains to be done, In this regard proper exploitation of the recent
discovery of the Cuban arms cache in Venezuela might take us a long way
towards getting wholehcarted Latin American cooperation in the fight against

_ _ subversion, Such cooperation is a vital key to success in this field.

' POBY |

HW 54214 DocId:32977085 Page 5
-4-
B. Offensive Measures
Offensively, our ultimate minimum target is to remove the Soviet
satellite from the Hemisphere. We hope to achieve this by concentrating
mainly on three intermediate targets -- intensifying Cuba's already-serious
economic difficulties; increasing the cost and unpleasantness to the Soviets
° of maintaining Cuba; and stimulating direct and indirect internal resistance
to the regime. Our chief weapons for achieving these offensive targets are
two -- isolation measures and covert measures (which also have an impact
on our defensive targets, particularly Cuban subversion),

(i) Isolation Measures -- The most outstanding characteristic of our
isolation measures is that they have been exceedingly difficult to implement
-- primarily because implementation depends on the cooperation. of others
and not merely on U.S. will alone. Nevertheless, while one could have
reasonably expected our isolation policy to break up as the world moved
away from the heat of October, 1962, in fact, this has not happened,

Instead, while far from performing BS ty over the past year,
our isolation policy generally has held the ground already made in some
fields, while making further Progress in others. About a year ago, only 5
OAS countries maintained diplomatic relations with Cuba; the number not
only remains the same now, but anticipated OAS reaction to the discovery

- of the Cuban arms cache in Venezuela gives some reason to hope for further
ruptures, The low level of Free World trade with Cuba reached in 1962 has
generally been maintained in 1963. Air isolation of Cuba has been fairly

t
sufdm Sb Waramatic demonstration of this is the fact that many Latin

HW 54214 DocId:32977085 Page 6
. . . . ot we ; b

FOP SECRET = SENSE DRAFT 4
12/15/63

MEMORANDUM FOR THE PRESIDENT , +

SUBJECT: 23 Mceting on Cuba - December 19, 1963

. At 11:00 A.M. on Thursday, you will be mecting primarily with

State, Defenses CIA, to discuss further possible measures we can take

against Castro, which stop short of invasion and blockade. The following

is an attempt to describe the Cuban problem as a whole -- where we have

' been since January, 1963; where we are now; and where we seem to be headed.

i The paper ends with a brief description of a number of further possible

measures we can take against Cuba. State, Defense, and CIA, which, by
_and large, have reserved their positions on these measures, will be prepared

to discuss them with you in detail at the meeting.

I, Current U.S, Policy
The bare minimum objective of our policy is a Cuba which poses no
threat to its neighbors and which is not a Soviet satellite. In moving towards

this objective we have rejected the options of unprovoked U.S. military inter-

vention in Cuba and of ayeffective, total blockade around Cuba -- primarily

because they would risk another US/USSR confrontation. Instead, we are enge:
in a variety of unilateral, bilateral, and multilateral measures, both defensive
and offensive, which stop short of these drastic measures.
Tl. Review of U.S. “Measures Against Cuba Since January, 1963

. On January 8, 1963, the White House set up an interdepartmental task

______ force, headed by State, to coordinate all matters pertaining to Cuba
ee

" LADY | (

.

HW 54214 DocId:32977085 Page 2
 

 

 

Date : 07/14/98

Page 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
ee ee AGENCY INFORMATION. t—t«=*d Feleased under the John)
. Kennedy :
AGENCY : NSC WSsaagaination Records
RECORD NUMBER : 145-10001-10262 ollection Act of 1992
RECORDS SERIES : (a4 USC 2107 Note).
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 58 ase#iN 54214 Dates

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSC
FROM : MCGEORGE BUNDY
TO : THE PRESIDENT
TITLE : MEMORANDUM FOR THE PRESIDENT
DATE : 12/15/63
PAGES : 22
SUBJECTS : MEETING ON CUBA 12/19/63

CURRENT U.S. POLICY AND REVIEW OF MEASURES TAKEN
AGAINST CUBA

 

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/17/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS

  

HW 54214 DocId:32977085 Page 1
-2-
!/ i , With the establishment of the Cuban Coordinating Committee, our post-
missile crisis measures against Cuba began. These measures have been
essentially either defensive or offensive in nature. °
A. Defensive Measures
Our defensive measures have primarily aimed at three targets:
(1) Cuba, the Military Threat -- We have been intent on ensuring that
Cuba does not become again an “offensive weapons" (e.g. missiles) threat to the
U.S. or Latin America. To this end we have conducted intensive air and sea
_ surveillance around and over Cuba and have collected intelligence from within
Cuba. So far as we know, we have been entirely successful in this effort and
“ Cuba is not now an Noffensive weapons” threat to either the U.S. or to Latin
America.

But even without "offensive weapons" Cuba remains a powerful military
establishment in Latin America. To dis¢ourage possible Cuban military attacks
against its neighbors, we have put ourselves clearly on record that wares happen
any such Cuban moves sed will have extremely dire consequences Hr Cuba.

(2) Soviet Troops -- We have been intent, for domestic political, as we::
as national security reasons on effecting the removal of all Soviet military persc:
nel from Cuba. To this end we have made it eminently clear to the Soviets on

. . steons!n f\aeed . ;
numerous occasions that we caanerto the permanent assignment of Soviet
military personnel to Cuba. As a result of Soviet self-interest and our pressure.

there are now 4, 000 to 7, 000 Soviet military personnel (mostly advisers and

technicians) remaining in Cuba, representing a drop of about 65% to 75% from th.

SB ee te the raterne of 1962; a net outflow appears to be continuing. How-

el OE wsuy remains a aetleate one. At any moment the Russians could

HW 54214 DocId:32977085 Page 3
of ers SE . - |

= 2(a)- .
; Pmtt,

arbitrarily decide to send more troops into Cuba. Also, the fact that volatile:
° a

, o-

Cubans will probably control the surface-to-air missile sites by mid-1964 is

disturbing.

© LDS

 

an

HW 54214 DocId:32977085 Page 4
