Bi om

 

 

con ABS Salat ne

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      

2 ecco

nd

ae :
a Mw. McCone said that CIA has concluded that Cubans are not auic~-

able fer night supply drops, although they could ba used for Leas
demanding wisatons such as leaflet dropa. However, CAT pilote could
be availeble {m 30 days and arrangements could be wade to remove their!
attributability to the U.8. Government. The Group appeared to feel |
thet euch U.8. ciwilians would not be essentially different from “
sheep dipa.

ML April 1962 a , -

lite. Metone said that present reatrictionascn attribution present

. difficulties with respect to training agents and supply uisalons.

. ‘de Seeretary of State asked about the adequacy of existing policy
approvals. In response, General Lansdale said it would be useful cto
have approval to go further with fofileraced agenta rather than
westxicting then to intelligence. It was agreed that within the frame-
work of present understandings more people could be dafilerated. it
wea noted that it would be difficulr if mot impossible co maintain
motivation, smd without at leaet an implied promise of evencual U.S.
action.

12 April 1962

Mie. MeCome urged that activities in addition to intelligence
sheald be authorized, and that the 0.8. should be prepared to accep
mors attxibutability than it perhaps now is. It was agreed that the
Guidelimes did not require revisiog at this time but chat the operation
a8 pregently conceived, with cha steppimj up indicated by Mr. McCone,
should be continued until August.

Mx. Gilpacric thought it necensary to achieve ag high « posture

of raadiness ae possible, for example by acquiring materiel necessary
for more active operations.

wep Sete]

NW 54214 DocId:32424921 Page 5 rcs wear baal

 

 

 

 

 
 

oy

to Sactisey” would |

 

the 5 araay: noted that the agale of the covert intelligence ‘effort
ie about’ the maxisane that can be supported with the assets available.

rsh 1962

> fe waa agreed thac CTA would coatieus to bring specific proposals
which invelve policy considerations, to the Special Group for ‘approval.

rs

 

y= CTA was asked to Look into private sites for training, and to ve=|)
| Cuming mith the possihility of using Xselation. (Mote: This waa in, S
copmection with . Saggestion to uae a epectitc Defensa tachidey-)

    
 
  

    

Pores tas asked to coma up with an estinate wit
ft Sepabilicy to provide one or two aixcrate for int

 
     
  

: x ‘counection th small boat operations, che beceetasy Defense
: ook to provide anything available within Defense for which @

‘pequicensnt might be established. CLA will present a specific request
| for equipment othes FT-boata (these oot being svakiable) withia.

  
 

    
 
   
    
   

ve é —
Oy | 32 Maveh_ 1962 -
: : real TON TC : e
cin HAsO no Obl Caneral Craig sinnairtipet am dix Force study on rhakc whi i would: ©

ATION
DECLASS! ON ENT be imvolwed in air resupply. Ea emphasized that the Air Force study.
SE OF THI

¢/r3 /9 is only “ws firat look” becaus# “a detailed plan has not been subateeed
; 6 pores by CIA.” eo
Ep a3b: ke gow

aS ; The Group agreed that aach projected flight would be subairred
te ic for epproval. oa

ae The Actormey General urged thet eirptate pilots and other Cuban
defecters be carefully locked at in counectioa with resupply missions.

’ J sep : Bt 4
($4214 Docla:32424921 Page. 2 ; tis Gear ‘ Mel n | (Oe Di as

   

 

 

 
 

AGENCY :
‘RECORD. NUMBER :

; RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE. NUMBER

ORIGINATOR

TO

TITLE
DATE
PAGES
SUBJECTS

“DOCUMENT TYPE
RESTRICTIONS

. CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW

| OPENING | CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

 

_, DocId: 32424921

: OSD
FROM :
: OPERATION MONGOOSE

: MONGOOSE

Page 1 .

 

a4 Date 08/28/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Released under the John
. Eennedy

oes Assassination Records
202-1L0001-10190 ollection Act of 1992
FOIA SERIES
DOC 191

AGENCY INFORMATION

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#iNiW 54214 Date:

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

08/07/62
3

 

: MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION :

TOP SECRET
ic

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

07/30/98

Reviewed by JCS, OSD, State, CIA.

 

NOJOINT STAFPORJECTION
FO DEGLASSIFICATION

 

 

 
 

 
   
  
 
 

  

CTA adi ne: oo supply

      
 

‘ be available in 30 days
ateributabilicy co the |
_ sheep. dipe.

AL Apeti i962

ee

action.
“12 Apetl 1962

should be authorized, an

of readiness as possible

 

HW 54214. DocId:32424921

 

"Mir. MeCone said that CIA has concluded that Cubans
able for aight supply drope, although they coultl be used for lesa

. ~Nee MeCoue said thae present Yestrietiong
diffieulsies with respect te training agent

‘the Secretary of State asked about the adequacy og exists: lucy

Mr. Gilpatric thought (ec laceasary to achieve a

 

 

(General Lansdale reported that two Air Forces: aixplanes and crews :
an readied for. aiz resupply alssious, although Qo such Mission —

(Me. MeCone said he waa not yet informed on ~
nou-U.8. crews) Lansdale aaid thet the Ale Fore.

as leaflet drops. Howewer, CAT
and arrangements could be made
of. Government, The Group appes

som attribution present

i to train personnel and run the air operation completely for |

ee
*

are not suite.

red to feel |
: 2

Ui
| that euch 0.8. ciwillens would not be aesentially different from |

t

# and supply missions.

  

Mr. McCona urged thet activities in addition to intalligenca

ad that the U.8. should be prepared to accapp

‘ore attributability than it parhape now ia. It wea agreed thac the

8 high 4 posture
» for ¢xmuple by acquiring materiel necessary
for more active operstions. : :

 

 

 
 

 

  
 
  
 

? _
(x

~ 7 Auguste 1962

y boata useded by cma om |
asd

2 gon

to facility would

 

a not be considered at th. i.

S Merch 1962

The Group voted that the seale of the covert intelligence effort
is about the maximum that can be supported with the assets available.

}3 March 1962

ie wan agreed that CIA woyld contimue to bring specific proposals
which inwelve policy considerations, to the Special Group for approval.

  

a GIA wes asked to leck into private sites for training, and to re- |;
_ § ecemtsie wbehe the posaibility of using Isolation. (Hote: This wag in /
’ : ection with & éeuggestios to use a specific Defense facility.) coat

cae

        
 

 

 

‘ : " i a al
"JZ Maweh 1962
ECTION TC .
CIATAS NO CATON ANDIOR Cemeval Craig eumerized an Air Yorce study on risks which would
DECLAGE OF THIS DOCUMENT be iswolved in aie resupply. He emphasized that the Air Yorce study
me g/rali is only "a first look” because "a detailed plan has not been submitted
pro ofl en *7 CTA
i uw

030 acd? The Group agreed that each projected flight would be submitted

to it for approval. a

. 4 .
we The Actornay Genaral urged that airpiées pilota and other Cuban
defectora be carafully looked at im connection with resupply missions.

“ spe
HW 54214 DocId:32424921 Page 4 ne Wey é (7 V)) . /dog® 4 7 (on

 

 
