 

 

 

. HW 53216 Docld:32404364 Page 9

  

break between 5 and 8 in pwns As I already said befcre Mescew Headquarters

until later July er August 1953 working hours were from 11 AM to 12 PM

with aireak from 5 to 8 in “he even: Bee ui eblast’ KGB , inc uding Moscow

 
   

city , working hours were frén 10: 30 a ~ o verning te 1 etcleck in the :
wee

/. .
uerninge Semewhere at the onder Ag way the beginning of August 1953,

&
Then it is passible te think sty jose somewhere

Leningrad, er seme other citys bo FENKO used te lee as aN base efficer

   

ph eblast! KCB. ‘That is whers he learned the

 

., the mistake x regarding the verking

I, i

\

 

|
-

i .
ogy 3 is writing ant ‘the summary a NCSENKO's psychelogical

 

Lee
assesarsity/ / Ae called him a bright. ‘sociopath. tage he is, but in my epinion

  
 
 
 
 

Aa Wery well trained agent with. great angsty and bxrkgxsun preparation.
byelutely disagrree with the gocter's statement! ‘that, "He has been essentially
‘neing ana! accurate in general if not always truth. 3 in detail." In
int it ‘9. possible to agree with the decter that Re senKo dees hot

\
it te us ‘the cemplete legend. In ny epinien,, ress developed

 

his own story 4 or “Legend hinself in respense te leading a ist ors, pepectally

 

about his early lite and schoeling up to 19536 An\ fron spi2-1959 om and on.. 7 oP
te his defection » we should believe that it was a vishal develo: sed for ea -

NOSENKO by che KGB, of course, with his help.

  
 

HW 53216

(@ SEGRET e

“ SUGCESTICNS

 

1. It is suggested that I participate in the next hostile,needling
interrogaticn. It would be helpful for ne te have a disguse during the
next interregation, altheugh he will prebably knewH whe I am regardless
of iam any disguise I use. His alse suggested that 1 interregate him
alone in theinterregation reom , although I prefer that someone be present
in the room » But if I am aloneit will give me greater sutherity in

NCOSENKO's eyesy and this may be a psychological facter werking te ny

‘penefit. B ut if NOSENKO is taken to another place , ‘then it is pessible te

interregate him under KBSR flag to represent myself as a member ef KESR
whe

du asked CiA authorities tax fer a long time to talk to NOSENKC. In the
event of ry +: participatien in the interrogation te aveid mistakes and

misunderstandings, fhe interrogation should be held in Russian. It is net

 

possible “to make the interregation as hostile as it night be and to “hoedle’

him if the interrogati:n is held in English, as NCSEBKO dees not understand

streng words in English as well as he dees in Russiame Ivrhng the interregation
I wii) not speak fast an order te rake it understandable. It ie understood

that I am geing te be cerrect , but net polite. I weuld try te avela getting

inte any arguzents with NOSENKO, In case ef arguzents,1 vould ask him te be seated
and to answer the questions. In the event he recegnizes and tells me who 1

am, it is pessible te give twe ansvera: 1. I am not he but he is coming soon

to talk te you, and you are mistaken. 2. Yer, I-am D and yeu are geing to

give me proof that yeu are N. You have to give me proef that you did werk -

for the KCB.

 

Docld: 32404864 Page 10
‘ o. Gn 5 May , NCSENKO nared more friends. He menticned again SABURGV's
-song. Cne of them killed his wife (Valya Yefrimova}, the daughter of ‘
de;uty minister YEFRIVMOV), He killed her because he found her in bed with —

another ran. Desuty Minister V. V. YEFRIMOV was deputy te NUSENKO's father.

 

He was at his funeral and delivered a speech in Red Square during the
funeral ceremony, It was netiduble that sdooctioebimamedas when we questioned

Als
him abeut friends he always menti.ned SABURGV, ESBNKO only sentioned

washer ae se

 

YEFRUMOV by name and did not give a y details. If N-SENKO is the persen [~~
daepersen he is suppesed te be , he would known mich mere abeitt the

life and background ef the deputy to his father. And here ag ain we have

an example ef a person ybo,is,pentigcgd whe is ne lenger a VIP, .

6. Cn 6 May NOSENKO told us stories about the oldest sen ef SABUROV whe wes
married the daughter ef the former Minister of Railroads KOVALEV. It

Fl should be neted here that the full stery of KCVALEV was published in my

book The Secrot World, KOVALEV was punished and lest his VP status in

1950. . a

Te. on 21 May , in answering the dector's questio:s# about his first work in-
the XGB , NCSENKG told us a stery how he received an order to write a statezent
te arrest a Soviet citizen whe was cennscted with foreigners. ( HAXXESYSX The
Seviet citizen wrete a letter te the American Embassy) According te NCSENKG

he rejected this type ef werk although there was BERIYA's resolutien fer

felt :
arrest ( Russian wer is razmetat'). Further, NCSENKC expkainmd that the

 

man was net guilty. The point of this stery was to prove that he was werking
in the SCD,
8. On 20 May NOSENKO onse again renbioned that the werking hours ef the

KGB were frem 10:30 in the morning until 1 e'cleck in the morning, with a

SEBRET

HW 53216 DocId:32404664 Page 8
 

3. Accerd.ng to NOSENKC'ts latest story, he voluntarily went te
the naval preparatory school ef Frunze in 1944 but he diantt start any
studies until November er Decenbsr 1944 because the whele school vas.
working in the ferest.. Then in February or “arch 1945, the shosting | -

accident teck place and he spent some tine in the hospital and in May

he enrelled in a shipbuilding techicum, NOSENKO trie@ te make us
believe that while ba was in the naval preparatery school he studied
icth grade subjects, but as we can see, in actual, fact, he did not study
‘anything because he had no time. Later he stated that wimm he enrelled
“in the shipbuilding technicum in May nthe next nonth he gunduated —
and received his certificate as if he graduated from a high schsol,

and got the right to ge to a higher institution. Only a crazy persen
could believe this stery.

4 During all the interrogations, we never got a clear picture
internal

how he received his first/passpert in Leningrad and how he received his
first military ticket. If he really was demeblized and put in the mserve
it should take place semevhero later than October 1945 when he became

18 years old, Definitely there will be ne talk about any military ticket
before’yol reach 18 years old. And mere likely at that tine he sheila hive
been 19 years 43a to have been called inte the service or pested to the
reserve, It bhould be noted here if NOSKENO really was in the naval
preparatory sched] in 1944, and 1945 and received his military ticket in

1945 then he definitely should be two years older than he claizs.

HW 53216 DocId:32404664 Page 7
 

 

 

 

 

 

HW 53216 DoclId:32404664 Page 5

 

nn e
7 schools and the schcels only accepted students ‘whe were ready fer regular
fer acceptance in these Scheels was

military service, and the lowest 8g0/watancha 18 years. Then we still have

unanswered questiens en where, Vhen, ” and how NOSE, KO Link&shed high ce :

 

      
 

 

schcole NOSENKO's story that he took = me courses i
Gornyy
Sch:.ol Attached to thotkty Institute and his attend

 Nescow Evening Hig

   

“at the Leningrad .

     
     
   
     
 
 
   

legical .
fit any/patcern ef Seviet reality. j
: } ft A . 7

10, It is my belief that NCSENZO pfsbaby never wes’ i
Ko 3

service ana defintely did not taye/aiis ory eath the way |

ies, that he a teek the oth, at the ade ef 15 or 16 :
conduct ees t
necessary to mike any naar 5 rae research since an sna

BO
7 iw

the service. anfe der to be cligibas §

 

 

a

    
 

 

be 18’and‘on active duty.4
o Eb. Ge

 

the military eath, If ws Believe that NCSEN Xe adnd tied to th

 
 

Leningrad Higher Military; Preparatory, School! in
: 3, however, / | ;
education 5 he would net be udmi tod te the schoo} bebayse of Ai .

   

because he could not take the oath ust] Octeber 12.

 

11. During the last interrogation , , ‘phere | was score eanfus 8 on NOSENAO'S

part abeut his nilitaty ranks. Ani ‘now we have three aitterent stories about

‘

bis ranks. Jr. ite — / June 1947 {

 

\.
Lt. ~ Spring of 1951) iH

 

Sr. Lt — “end ef 53 or, ii

Lt. in 60 rast interview, he stated thet he was prometed te Sr Lt in April

or May 1953.

 

alse has stated that he: was promoted to
°@ Tk ©@

Capt —~ July 1956

 

Majer — Aug/Sept 1959

He new states that he never was a major.

Lt Col-Nov 1963

He said his ;

Promotion had te be appreved by the Central Committee because ef his
yeuth, These stories about his military ranks shauld not be taken

should be
seriously and/censidered as a complete lies

SOME PCINTS FROM THE pOCTCR's INTERVIEW
1, NCSENKCYEX stated (7 Msy 1965) that he teck the cath in Baku
in 1943 when he was 15 years eld, but he did not remember how he enrelled
in phe B aku school. In the saze reoting, he stated that while he was in
the Baku scheol he was konindir etdeloniya . Also in the same interview he
stated that he wag in the Meskovakiy Flctskiy Biipazh. It should be said thet
‘the Moskevskiy Fletskiy Eklpazh was only fer naval persennel who were called

jn the regular naval service. All of this should be consideredas a lie.

 

2. On 10 May 1965, NOSENKO stated that somewhere he was arrested

\ when he was 16 years cld and was Mpx put under hone arrest. If this ionic
ineigent really teck place, it is mer @ likely that papa helped him to

gat eut of the arrest or it is possible te think that after this arrest

i fer seme crime unknewn te us he was put in jail ana then in a concentration er
laber cam. This is why NCSENZO tells us a stery that in 1944,in the fall,

he was working for two or three months in the forest, where he got sick

and cunditiers were very bade As NCSENKO deseribed it, the e.nditis s

 

wero nore Xcix like a labor camp than a regular wilitary unite

HW 53216 DocId:32404664 Page 6
HW 53216

. ‘® “SESREL_ 2 May 1965 ad

i. It was tho :ntenti mn of the undersigned te attend every session canducted
by the dector in hope to ga:n something new and useful. for our future
interregations. .During these sessions, I managed only te refresh ny

memory ef things NOSENKO had provisusly aaid, Noth: ng new or significant
developed during these sessions except for a few minor facts which have no
great value. It shauld be mentioned that many ef the facts that NCSENKG

stated about his past life were more mixed up than the story he had

' previously related.

2e It is not the intent ef th.s paper to criticize the work which the

_ octer has done because the sessions have alreadly taken phace and

the werk is completed. My pain objection te this type of interrogation
is thet the dector tried te maintain a neutral attitude and never
uy epinion that

challanged any ef NOSENKG's Statements. It is/the dector made a mistake
in the lest session when he teld NUSENKG "You are NOSENKO." Thia leads
NCSENKO te believe we accepted his life stery and family backgreund,and
it would be very ward te question him again en this ‘subject. It is ny
epini.n that we did net have eneugh information to make a Gefinite
¢-nelusicn that he is NOSENKO. What NOSENKO told us could be obtained
or learned by another persen very well brtoftlon these matiers, Mes ef
the inferuation that NOSENKO gave te us about his parents is stilinst
cenvine:ng te make conclusions . Mast of the questi:ns during the recent

sessicns were of a leading nature and NUSENSO's answerma appsared to

be of the type that the decter wanted.

SECRET

 

Docld:32404864 Page 7?
wos ? . SY 6407

 

\
5 Date: 02/13/01
Page: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION feleased under the John F.
ennedy Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992 (44 USC
AGENCY : CIA Bio? Mote}. Case#:NWw 53216
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10534-10198
RECORD SERIES : JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : NOSENKO RECORDS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA
~ FROM :
1 TO :
CS TITLE : UNTITLED AND UNSIGNED DRAFT MEMORANDUM:IT WAS THE

INTENTION OF THE UNDERSIGNED TO ATTEND EVERY SESSION
CONDUCTED BY THE DOCTOR

DATE : 05/24/65
PAGES : 16 .
SUBJECTS : NOSENKO
NBR
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

 

OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : UJUFK-M-24:F55 2001.02.09.14:35:16:470084: NOT BELIEVED
RELEVANT (NBR)

HW 53216 DoclId:32404664 Page 1
1 ## In ny opinion, NCSENKO did not say more about his father,and in many
instance less, than the newspaper Pravda said in 1956.

3. In the doctér's opinion, NOSENKC nentioned to us quite a few family

 

Po NG
i friends who wera round the NOSENKO family and at the first look it is

¢ nvincing thet | is NCSENKO, In my opinion, NCSNEKO gave te us

i , associated

only names whe Jogivally would be sogcockschad with NCSENKO er NCSENKO's
| . revealing

; father, and nethis \g BRARAs about their actiyities or private lives.
t OR

Significantly, Hester the information NOSENKO has given us is about

  
 
  

 

odeeple whe are the ‘either dead ¢ or ne longer in authority, For example,

i
: MA iALYSHEV, (forner | ced chairman ef the Ceuncil ef Ministers, died);

VAKHRUSHEY, (act 3; scibuace, (ne longer a ak)s KABULOV, (shot) 5 vl rR

LA vlned: dayey AD

BULGANIN, ( na. vane nh KUZNET6OV, ve, (shot); SHCHERBAKOV, ~

 
  

¢ ‘othe : ut

‘sentioned a! few nakes whe are ViPs new , but did not say anything ;
: }

terest.ng abeut +h 10m « For example, he mentioned SHVERNIK whe liveson

MO a vicha \ i ar .§ the

Serifinoevaiagma Stree ¥, a fact known te everyone, er/family friendship

 

with KCSYGIN . He aad much mere abeut KOSYGIN from PENSOVSKIY ,
already
Lately he mentioned va\'shal ZHUKOV!'s da ghter whs he knew wo/have

 

a good picture of Rima \yusoia trem one of eur employees as wall as a good

4
description ef ZHUKCV's * ‘apartrent.

 

5. The »wnly c-nelusion we can core to from the foregoing is that HOSNEKO

 

has been allowed te say little or nething about the lives ef important

Soviet efficialsax, «this nan is net NOSENKO and all he knows is the

 

: .
‘

: oEeneT

HW 53216 DoclId:32404%64 Page 3
‘@ $F ancy _®

ig the legend which has been provided hin er er answers’ which’ he ‘could: figure

 

 

out hizself.
6. Withe regard te his ether, he did not rention anything of impertance ‘te
us, He did not mention any of his rether's friends ameng Seviet VIP8, and
triea te avasa er change the subject when this matter was bewught up.

7. Iam not convinced that NOSENKO lived on Serimovicha and Granovskiy”*”

Streets because he gave se little information abeut these areas thet

‘4t is impessi:le te judge if he actually lived there. Although he

 

gave’ corréet informatien about a few VIPs whe lived 4 in houses:n that”

area, other details are lacking which weuld confirm his residence ‘theres

8. NCSENKO's latest information on his educaticnal background is se es

 

mixed up and be made so many mistakes regarding Seviet realities that at
is impessible te believe tix any part of his education.
9. I don't believe any part of HOSENKO's story about hie ‘mil. tary services

 

"The Naval Preparatory School in Baku and Leningrsd." Accerding to Soviet

regulation ; a person was usually called in the arny when he is 19 ‘(those co
called be called at age 186

who have. graduated from high school er otherwise have a higher education

. NCSENKO xoox was pern en thax 30 Octeber 1927 , then ho woula be 18 years :

7 ola on 30 ‘Octeber 1945+ He could be called inte the arny at this time, dees,

 

the fall, of 195, although he should have been 18 by September of that years

  
 

 

“Ordinarily, he:! Kwoula be called te service in 1946. In uy opinion, wvorything

A
«

NCSENKO ‘said adput his military packgreund in any kind of service scheot

: : prior te the eal of 1945 is a lie. NOSENKO, then did net attend the Higher

HW 53216

> Naval Schools in \eningrad and Baku because he was too young te attend these-
Zz

 

Docld:32404864 Page 4
