 

|

 

 

. ri. +. 12-13-56) . o~

f
-
‘ . f \
ca * fA , , a i
ieee * YX Ve hip y~
FBI i Ay |
Date: 9/19/61

Transmit the following in

 

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL AIR MAIL

 

 

Via (Priority or Method of Mailing) I
—--e —- ee ee as ee _.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (63-5327)
FROM: SAC, LOS ANGELES (62-4945)
RE: JAMES RIDDLE“HOFFA

MISCELLANEOUS. - INFORMATION CONCERNING

(Accoumerna AND FRAUD SECTION)

For the assistance of the Bureau in evaluating the
information d to the Los Angeles Office by the informant,

K | described as the following observations are being

set forth:

Informant continually states that his life would
be in critical danger if it ever becomes known that he is
talking to Bureau Agents. It appears that informant is
basically furnishing good information but is deliberately
furnishing inaccurate details in the hope that it will force
the Bureau to conduct investigation to obtain accurate
details and result in making it appear that. the > ortginal
information did not come from informant.

Examples of ‘this is informant “originaliy stated
AL WEISS is the individual at the Essex House, New York
City, and after he was confronted with the name PHILIP
WEISS, informant readily acknowledged that PHIL WEISS was
the man he was talking about and then went into specific Al,
details. The same situation relates to the St. Thomas ft
Hotel, San Juan, Puerto Rico. After being told no such hotel
existed in San Juan, informant readily admitted he did not
recall the name of the hotel but that the hotel is located
on the Island of St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, and is the
largest hotel Pai that island.

It fs béticved-that in running out additional
information furnished’ by “informant, it will be found that AY a
the basic information is correct, but that eepye de 7

are not complétely as ai yoo gS
Pr \

a- Bureau ;;, ye WB
lig Los Angeles’ = f

ATT « aa aan Ui J 5 ‘3
we BE av ; ys = @ SEP on “2
‘ Approved: ae ae Sent eo, . Bex { Ey

Special Agent in Charge

 

 

| HW 45864 Docld:32326233 Page 2

OTHER 4
 

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/1/2015
Identification Form

 

 

Agency Information _

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90044-10082

RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 63-5327-1588

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LA
; TO: HQ
TITLE:

 

DATE: 09/19/1961
PAGES: 5

SUBJECTS :
FRANK MATULA
JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 06/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : AT

 

 

vo HW
NW 45864 DocId:32326233 Page 1
 

 

 

 

| NW 45864

 

. LA 62-4945

It should be noted that the above information was
obtained during initial contacts with informant and that this
situation will probably not exist after informant and Bureau
Agents become better acquainted.

To date, other than original contact, informant
has been interviewed in restaurants, Bucars and public
parks. It seems he appeared mistrustful of Bureau Agents
and showed signs of suspecting the interviews were being
recorded, which he does not want. He continually says that
Bureau Agents must trust him completely, as if he is not
trusted he and Bureau Agents are wasting time. He has made
this statement when asked how he knows about specific
facts, situations and individuals and it is becoming apparant
that he is more and more willing to explain how and why he
knows certain information. It has been pointed out to
informant that Agents have responsibility to Bureau to
protect Bureau's interests in this matter and informant
acknowledged fact that Bureau Agents have to be concerned
about informant's motives in this matter. He. now says his
j only motive in talking to Bureau Agents is an attempt on
{his part to "put HOFFA where he belongs. '

: On each successive contact, informant appears. to
‘be more and more at ease with Bureau Agents. Informant is
being contacted exclusively by SA ALBERT A. HUSTEDT and
SA LOGAN J. LANE. When asked during the course of the last

personal contact why he did not call os Angeles Office fei
immediately after his meeting with FRA TULA, on 9/8/61, oa
informant said he did not call. becaus was afraid such '

a call would have put his life in extreme jeopardy. He -
noted that he could not conceive of any way the situation could
have been handled without putting himself "right in the middle."

Informant said another reason he did not call the
Los Angeles Office was because he was not sure he could
reach.either SA HUSTEDT or LANE and that he does not want to discuss
HOFFA matters with any other Agents. At this point informant
said that he never wants to be contacted by any Agents
other than SA HUSTEDT and LANE and that he will not discuss
HOFFA matters with any other representatives of the government
including the FBI. Arrangements have been made and informant:
is aware of the fact that he can contact SAs HUSTEDT and _LANE—
anytime of the day and 4 BAgAt.

  

 

DocId: 32326233 Page 3

 

ry

 
 

‘HW 45864

 

, ey | OP CO

LA 62-4945

Informant pointed out that he will be in touch
with SAs HUSTEDT and LANE on numerous occasions in the
future and he is confident similar situations such as the
meeting of MATULA on 9/8/61 will recur in the future.
He based this information on the fact that he is continuously
being contacted by Teamster officials and is continually
meeting them on the street. He noted that if a similar
situation occurs in the future, he will make every effort
to determine more specific details regarding the incident.

Informant is now self employed and from all appear-
ances is quite busy. He conducts his business during all
hours of the day and night and because of this fact he is
not available for interview at all times. He has said that
in an extreme emergency he will break any appointment he may
have and meet with Bureau Agents. However, he stressed |
the point that an extreme emergency must exist for such a
situation. Practically all contacts with the informant have
time limits on them because of business commitments of the
informant. Informant is a well known figure in the Los
Angeles area and as a result caution must be exercised in
meeting with informant.

Informant has telephonically contacted SA HUSTEDT
on a daily basis since the date of the last personal contact
(9/13/61) and a personal contact is scheduled during the
evening of this date.

There is no question that this informant has a
wealth of information on HOFFA matters and on numerous
other subjects on which the Bureau has an interest. It
is obvious that informant does not readily recall incidents
and individuals without some prodding. To date Agents have
been reluctant to ask specific questions of informant for
fear more information will be given than obtained. This
has been a primary concern as informant's motives in talking
to Bureau Agents are not completely understood. Since some
of the information furnished by informant has been verified
through investigation and file reviews, and none of the
information furnished has been basically disproved, this
question does not appear to pose the problem in talking to
informant that it did in the past. Agents are now of
opinion,to a certain degree,situations can be discussed
freely with informant. Of course, investigative techniques,

-3-

 

DocId: 32326233 Page 4

 

 
