 

U.S. Marshals Service, and U.S. Department of Health, Education,

and Welfare.

It was also necessary to establish three field
Command Posts in the United States to adequately investigate
the murder.

A Deputy Assistant Director of the Identification
Division was placed in charge of the FBI's "Disaster Squad"
at Dover Air Force Base, Dover, Delaware. The FBI's "Disaster
Squad" along with representatives of the Department of Defense
and the U.S. Department of State had the responsibility to
identify the dead returned from Jonestown, Guyana.

A Command Post was established at Charleston, South
Carolina, to handle the interviews of all survivors expected to
return there from Guyana. The FBI's Command Post was under the
personal command of a Special Agent in Charge. There were also
representatives from local law enforcement; Health, Education,
and Welfare; Secret Service; Marshals Service; State Department;
Defense Department; as well as U.S. Attorneys from Columbia, South
Carolina and San Francisco, California.

A third Command Post was established in San Francisco
under the personal command of the Special Agent in Charge. All
three field Command Posts were under the direct control and
supervision of a Deputy Assistant Director of the Criminal

Investigative Division.

HW 55268 Poold: 329896834 Page 9

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Again, this is one example. Depending on the
seriousness and complexity of the case, our response could
vary. But whatever the extent of our investigation, it will
be as thorough and well-ordered as we are capable of making it.

OBSTACLES

We recognize that there may be obstacles to
the speedy completion of an investigation. Some may be
foreseen, based on past experience. These include the

immediate performance of a thorough and completely reliable

 

autopsy; the preservation and accessibility of material
which may substantially assist in resolving doubtful aspects
of investigation, such as media or spectator photos or
recordings; and accessibility of financial, communications,
or other records.
AUTOPSY/MEDICAL INVESTIGATION

A memorandum of agreement between the FBI and the
Armed Forces Institute of Pathology (AFIP) requires the AFIP to
provide medical investigative support to the FBI on a cost-

reimbursable basis upon request in the event of assassination

 

of the President, Vice President, a Member of Congress, and |
certain other designated individuals described in the Presidential
and Congressional Assassination Statutes.
The memorandum provides that AFIP will conduct a
forensic autopsy for the FBI upon the President's body;

further, that AFIP will dispatch designated personnel to the

MW 55268 Doocid: 32589634 Page i0

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

é e oe

The Major Case Operation Plan can, of course, be i
utilized in other serious cases. In fact, our investigation of
the assassination of U.S. Representative Leo J. Ryan of
California gives a good illustration of how the major casé
plan works in actual practice.

We premised this investigation on violation of the
Congressional Assassination Statute. A Deputy Assistant
Director of the Criminal Investigative Division was désignatéd
to take charge of the investigation. Under his personal
direction, the FBI Headquarters Command Post was activatéd.

Oral and written reports were submitted to me daily on the
progress of the investigation,

The FBI Headquarters Command Post was staffed by
supervisory personnel who were responsible for various aspects
of the investigation which were coordinated with other agencies:

The Command Post was further broken down in a
Manner that fixed responsibility for all investigation if
Guyana and for investigation in various sections of the United
States.

FBI personnel were physically located at the U.S;
State Department Command Post as well as the Péntagon Command
Post in Washington, D. C. The Députy Assistant Director
immediately established liaison with officials of the U.S.

Department of Justice, U.S. Secret Service, Military Services,

NW 55268 Docid: 32989834 Page 8

 

 

 

 
     
    
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   

  

e ©

kill President Ford, a direct, personal attempt, which was
solved immediately, would generate a different degree of
response than a sophisticated, possibly conspiratorial, or
successful crime.

Because I can't describe how we would react in every
situation, let me first consider how we would respond in
the most important and most traumatic--the assassination of the
President.

If this occurs, the field commander would immediately
implement our Major Case Operations Plan. The SAC, as field
commander, would initiate a major case investigation under
that plan. In addition, I would consider sending an Assistant
Director or other ranking official to the scene to assume
overall command of the case in the field.

The Major Case Operation Plan involving a Presidential
assassination would include the follewing arrangements:

Following confirmed reports of the assassination,
two command posts, one at headquarters and one in the field,
would be established. Supervisory personnel from all affected
divisions would man the headquarters command post. Here, all
leads and investigative results would be coordinated. The
field command post through a multiple communications capability
would forward information developed by its investigative task

force to headquarters.

HW 55268 Doold:329859834 Page 7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

to kill or kidnap. The same crimes committed against Members

of Congress-elect are also covered.

Federal laws also prohibit the killing or kidnaping
of foreign officials, official guests, or internationally
protected persons. In addition, these laws make conspiracies
to kill or kidnap unlawful.

We may assert jurisdiction under a variety of other
statutes. The basic Federal criminal civil rights laws, for
example, give us jurisdiction when federally secured rights
are violated or when parties conspire to violate these rights.
We investigated the Martin Luther King, Jr., assassination on
the premise that his Federal right to travel had been denied.

Other kinds of violations occurring in a political
assassination context could also give jurisdiction to
investigate.

For instance, we would have jurisdiction over cases
in which someone had transported interstate explosives with
intent to injure or had bombed U. S. property or an institution
or organization receiving Federal financial assistance. These
situtations could coincidentally involve political assassinations.

Other pertinent statutes might include various
sections of Crime on Government Reservations Statutes
(involving murder, attempted murder and manslaughter, kidnaping,
destruction or injury to buildings or property); the Racketeer

Influenced Corrupt Practices Statute, if the assassination

HW 55268 Docld:32889634 Page 5

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

wére Gofifiitted in furtherance of a pattern of racketeering
activity; the Election Law Statute if the assassination, for
example, injured, intimidated, or interfered with a person
Gampaigning as a candidate; and the Foreign Agents Registration,
Federal Train Wréck; and Aircraft Piracy Statutes.

FBI_ RESPONSE

Assutiing there is an assassination over which we
havé jurisdiction, how would thé FBI respond? Let me preface
my réply with two poitits.

First, as Director, I am responsible for all
investigations conducted by the Bureau. I délégate authority
for the handling of investigative mattets to our special Agents
in Charge (SACs) through the Assodidtée Director and appropriate

Assistant Director.

 

The SAC carriés out his responsibilities by dirécting
his assistants and squad supervisors who, in turn, diréct
the éfforts of the investigators.

It shotild bé noted that assignment of responsibility
does not abrogate or dilute responsibility; éach superior must
instiré that his instructions are promptly and properly carried
out.

Second; our response to any assassination would be

 

of a magnitude commensurate to the impact of thé specific
crime on national or international society and to the complexity

of the act. Thus, the aborted attempt of "Squeaky" Fromme to

NW 55268 Docild:32989834 Page 6

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

, orrice’ OF THE DIRECTOR
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

 

INTRODUCTORY REMARKS
BY
WILLIAM H, WEBSTER
DIRECTOR
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
BEFORE THE
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
WASHINGTON, D. C.

DECEMBER 11, 1978

SEARCHED INDEXED

SERIALIZED Da FILED
Dk 22 1978

   

. FBI-SAN FRANGIS£P

: , Te
* (
HW 55268 Docld:32989834 Page 2 hfe 4 4GL -Ih FRI/DO4

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

I appreciate the opportunity to appear before you to

discuss the FBI's current and future capabilities with regard

to the serious problem of political assassinations. Although
much has been learned from inquiry into our investigations of
the assassinations of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and President
John F. Kennedy, I would prefer not to deal directly with these
Matters today. I take this approach for two reasons.

First, the FBI has already cooperated with this
Committee in making available personnel and material from our
files. Since December of 1976, at a cost to date exceeding
$800,000, we have produced approximately 700,000 pages of
requested documents. As many as 75 persons have worked together
searching, clearing and assembling this information. We remain
ready to provide assistance.

Second, as a practical matter, there is little I
could personally add in commenting on historical matters which
preceded by ten years or more my appointment as Director.

I want, therefore, to look ahead. My comments will
address three issues: first, our response to any future
assassinations including our jurisdiction to investigate
political assassinations generally; second, potential obstacles
that might be encountered during related investigations; and
third, arrangements which have been made to interact with

other governmental agencies in conducting these investigations.

“gus s260_poera:32905054 Page 3

 

 
 

 

a Y
é e a

JURISDICTION ¥

Let me take up jurisdiction; first.

After President Kennedy was assassinated in November
of 1963, Director Hoover advised the Attorney General that
there was a lack of Federal jurisdiction over offenses of
this nature. Lee Harvey Oswald was, in fact, in the custody
of a local law enforcement agency at the time of his death.

Today, owing to a number of subsequently passed
statutes, we can assert jurisdiction over this kind of
offense.

The Presidential Assassination Statute provides
that the FBI shall investigate the assassination, kidnaping,
assault, attempted killing or kidnaping, or conspiracies to
kill or kidnap the President, the President-elect, the Vice
President, the Vice Président-elect--or if there is no Vice
President, the officer next in order of succession to the
Office of President of the United States--or any individual.
who is. dcting as President under the Constitution and laws
of the United Statés.

Under this statute, when we assert jurisdiction, state
and local jurisdiction is suspended. Their role, by statute, is
limited to providing assistance to the FBI.

A similar statute provides FBI investigative
jurisdiction over Congressional assassinations, kidnapings and

assaults, attempted killings or kidnapings, and conspiracies

 

HW 55268 Doeid:32989834 Page 4

 
