 

[ Released under the John F, Kenedy Assassination Recerds Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017

\

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT
JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

iH

: ‘On the afternoon of March 2, 1977, Special Agent
Ude H, Specht, Dallas PBI office, attempted to talephone
Group Manager Fuhlendorf, but he had already gone home for ~
the. day. : : :

&

On the morning of March 3, 1977, Special Agent
Udo H. Specht, Dallas FBI office, telephonically contacted
Group Supervisor Arlen Fuhlendorf, Internal Revenue Service,

_ intelligence Division, Dallas, Texas, concerning the _

information in the above letter, Fuhlendor? advised that
it is a policy of the Internal Revenue Service that before
the Internal Revenue Service can release the identity of
an informant, that it has to obtain the consent of the
informant. He will attempt to contact his informant and
obtain this consent. He will contact Special Agent Specht ~
as soon as he has contacted his informant. Once the consent
is obtained, he will intraduce Special Agent Specht to the
informant, in order that the FBI can interview him. This

.- informant has been out of town quite a bit, and it might
take a few days to contact him, .

During the afternoon of March 4, 1977, My, Fuhlendor£é
advised that his informant is Bob Vanderslice, and that he
is in his office now. He is sending Vanderslice to the
FBI office te be interviewed, antl that Vanderslice will be
at the Dallas FBI office at.2:30 PM, March 4, 1977.

. Neve,

 

At°2:25 PM, March 4, 1977, Bob Vanderslice, who
furnished his address as $02 Monte Vista, Dallas, Texas,
Telephone Number 327-7556, telephonically contacted Special
Agent Udo H. Specht and stated that on the way to the FBI 7
office, he bumped his lip, and that it is bleeding severly, _
He said hé found out a few days ago that ha has cancer of
the lip, and also has a herpes sore in the area where his
lip is bleeding. He stated that he will be at the FBI
office at 9:00 AM on March 7, 1977, to furnish the
information. ; -

; Bob Vanderslice did not personally appeay at the

i ‘ Dallas FBI office on March 7, 1577, nor did he telephonically
vO _ eontact the office in an effort to make other interview
arrangements. ,

 

 

Doclid: 32149267 Page, 9
 

EféGleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017

. c
wm oe : o .
. ‘ De = .
i ar . Le
5 t~ s -

At 3:00 PM, March 7, 1977, Special Agent Specht |
telephonically contacted Mr. Vanderslice's residence. A
woman, who identified herself as Mrs. Vanderslice, advised
that her husband was not at home, and that she would give
him the message to contact Mr. Specht.

On the afternoon of March 7, 1977, efforts were
made to contact Group Manager Arlen Fuhlendorf, Internal
Revenue Service, Dallas, Texas, but his secretary advised
that he is at a meeting all week long. . A message was left
to have Mr. Fuhlendoerf contact Special Agent Specht.

On March 14, 1977, Arlen L. Fuhlendorf, Group
Manager, Internal Revenue Service, Intelligence, Dallas,
‘Texas, telephonically contacted Special Agent Specht, FBI,
Dallas, Texas, and advised that he was at a school all last
week, and therefore, could not get in contact with Special
- Agent Specht. He was advised that Bob Vanderslice to date wee, .
has not made himself available to be interviewed by the Dallas ~~.
office of the FBI. Fuhlendorf advised that Vanderslice has ~---
been furnishing information to Internal Revenue Service in
connection with a special enforcement program that Internal
Revenue Service Intelligence has concerning the criminal
element. Vanderslice has furnished information to Internal
Revenue Service on local Dallas bookmakers. Fuhlendorf
' advised that as far as he knows, that the information that
Vanderslice furnished has been reliable. Fuhlendorf advised
that when he last talked to Vanderslice on March 4,.1977,
that Vanderslice asked him that if he talked to the FBI, what
use would be made of the information. Fuhlendorf told ‘
Vanderslice that he might get a free trip to Washington to
N testify before a Congressional Committee concerning his
information. Fuhlendorf stated that Vanderslice might have
had second thoughts after he told him that.

Fuhlendorf advised that several weeks ago,
specific date unrecalled, he met Vanderslice at the restaurant
located on the twenty-fifth floor of the Manor House,
Commerce Street, Dallas, Texas. Fuhlendorf stated that
Vanderslice talked to him about Candy Barr, a former stripper
| in one of Jack Ruby's nightclubs. This conversation led to

 

 

DocId:32149267 Page 10
mm Act of — (OF Hote).
i Ei Act of 1997 (42 USC 21
o F. Kenner ination Records Collection
° t hn F. Kennedy Assassina
Released under the Jo
DATE: 11-14-2017

    

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
In Reply, Please Refer to

n Dallas, Texas
File No. April 6) 1977

ASSASSINATION oF PRESIDEWP _ :
JOHN PITZGARALD RKENNMDY,

HOVEMBER 22, 1963, :
DALLAS, TEXAS. _

 

On March 2, 1977, Robert J. Potrykus, Chief,
Intelligence Division, Internal .Revenue Service, Dallas, .
Texas, hand-delivered a letter to Ted 1. Gunderson,
Special Agent in Charge, the Dallas Fnr office. The

, letter ig on Internal Revenue Service stationery, and
states as follows:

“Dear Mr. Gunderson:

“Recently, Arlen Fuhlendorf, a

the Dallas Intelligences Division,
"@, a confidential infornant that miqh
. investigation of the Nennedy assas

Group “Manager in
received inforaation from
t be helpful in the
sination,
“The informant Stated that on the morning of
thea assassination, Ruby contacted him and asked if he
would ‘like to watoh the fireworks. ! He was with Jack
Ruby and Standing at the corner of the Postal Anne:
“ailding facing the Texas School Book Depository Building
at the tine of the shooting. tmmediately after the
shooting, Ruby left and headed toward the area of the
‘orning laws Sudlding.

 

 

 

danager Arlen Puhlendor?
Can ba availahlo to discuss this matter with your agency.
Sroup “lanager Puhlendorf can he contacted at 749-1801,

"Sincerely yours,

 

No fos ;
eo aauee . ‘

. “/s/ Robart J, Potrykus
8 PART Chief Intelligence Division®

o

  

: {
Li TOTAL DENIAL: docuvent .gontains neither recommendations
ner conclusions of the Par. It is the property

    

oWTOy (of the PRE and is loans fo your acencv: it ant
& Se, its conterts ars not to he ristributed outside
* s FE your ney
%, i

«
DoclId:321492767 Page 6
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1999 (44 USC FIT Hote}.
DATE: “11-14-2017

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT
JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY '

March 4, 1977, and left a message with her for Vanderslice
to call him. The last time he talked to her was last
Wednesday or Thursday, and she told him that Vanderslice
was in the Wichita Falls, Texas, area, trying to "make

a buck here and there."

Fuhlendorf stated that on March 4, 1977,
Vanderslice gave him every indication that he was going
to keep his appointment with the FBI, and told him that ©
he knew where the office was located. He advised that —
the possibility exists that Vanderslice might have been
untruthful, or he could have gotten cold feet because of
all the publicity surrounding the reinvestigation of the
President Kennedy assassination.

 

6* °

 

 

 

SO —_—__—— |

BDoclId: 32149267 Page. 7
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 USC 2107 Hote}.
DATE: {1-14-2017

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT
JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

Vanderslice discussing his knowledge of Ruby. Vanderslice -
_ told him that on the morning of the assassination, Jack
Ruby called him on the telephone and asked him if he would
like to go to the Presidential Parade with him, and if he
would "like to watch the fireworks." Vanderslice said that
he was with Jack Ruby and standing at the corner of the
Postal Annex Building facing the Texas School. Book Depository
Building, at the time of the shooting. Immediately after
the shooting, Ruby left and headed toward the area of the :
Dallas' Morning News. Building, without ‘saying anything to
him.

Vanderslice also told him that after Jack Ruby
was arrested for killing Lee Harvey Oswald, that he was
also arrested on-an unrelated criminal charge, and incarcerated
at the Dallas County Jail. .Vanderslice got.to know Ruby
better in the County Jail, since he was a trustee at the. jail,
and as Ruby's mind began to deteriorate, he would perform
services for him, like bring him his food and reading
material, because Ruby became very suspicious’ and felt
that someone was trying to poison his food.and do him harm.

Fuhlendorf: advised that when he initially got —— - i
the information from Vanderslice, he put this information

in a memorandum for the Internal Revenue Service National

Office to be disseminated to Congressman Downing's Committee. i
The National Office returned’ the memorandum to Dallas, Texas,

and told Internal Revenue Service to disseminate ‘the ©
information to the FBI in Dallas. /

   
 

Mr. Fuhlendorf advi that. he has not seen
the ‘memorandum since Robert J/fPotrykus<Chief, Intelligence ©
Division, Internal Revenue Service, Dallas, Texas, had it
prior to delivering the letter to the FBI in Dallas. |
Fuhlendorf was requested to furnish a copy of the memorandum
to the FBI, but he did not respond to that. request, and
stated that he did not know where the memorandum was.
Fuhlendorf. will attempt to call Vanderslice to determine why
he has not made himself available for interview.

 

DoclId:321492767 Page 5
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote). ”
DATE: 41-14-2017

* ~ “

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT
JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

Mr.. Fuhlendorf is being transferred to Fort
Worth, Texas,:-as of March 15, 1977, and can be reached
at 817- 334-3381.

Special Agent Udo H. Specht, FBI, Dallas, Texas,
telephonically contacted Mr. Vanderslice's residence |
during the morning, afternoon, and evening hours on

- March 11; March 14; March 15,; March 21; March 22; March 24;
April 4; and April 5, 1977, but-no one responded.

On March 22, 1977, Special Agent Udo H. Specht,
FBI, Dallas, Texas; personally went to Mr. Vanderslice's ©
residence, 502 Monte Vista, Dallas, Texas, but no one could '
be located at the residence. A message was left at the
residence for Mr. Vanderslice to contact Mr.. Specht..

On March 28, 1977, Special Agent Specht telephonically
contacted Mr. Vanderslice's residence, and his wife ~™
‘answered the telephone. She stated that she gave him the
message to contact Mr. Specht; and that she also received
the note that Mr. Specht left in the mailbox. She advised i
that her husband has. been out’ of town, and should be
home sometime this week. She advised that she will give
him the message to contact Mr. Specht.

On April 5, 1977, Arlen Le Fuhlendorf, Special
Agent, Internal Revenue: Service, Intelligence Division , ‘
Fort. Worth, Texas, telephonically advised that he has
utilized Bob Vanderslice as. an informant since March 4,
1976, and another Internal Revenue Service Agent had contact
with him beginning . sometime in December, 1975. Fuhlendorf
advised that Internal Revenue Service has been using him
in their special enforcement program concerning illegal
criminal activities... As a result of information furnished
a : by Vanderslice, Internal Revenue Service has opened up '
approximately fifteen tax investigations, and thirty audit . :
examinations. He advised that in. the past he has considered
. Vanderslice reliable, but -that he does- not know whether: or
not Vanderslice was truthful concerning the information he
furnished about Jack Ruby. He advised that he ‘has not ‘
personally talked to Vanderslice since March 4, 1977, and that ‘
Vanderslice has not returned his telephone calls. Fuhlendorf
advised that he has talked to Vanderslice's wife twice since

 

DoclId:321492767 Page 6
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017

.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE .

   

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Dallas, Texas

In Reply, Please Refer to April 6, 1977
File No.

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT
5 JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY ,,-

NOVEMBER 22, 1963, ,
DALLAS, TEXAS Z oe

Q

 

. On March 2, 1977, Robert J. Potrykus,.Chief, .~
Intelligence Division, Internal Revenue Service, Dallas,’
Texas, hand-delivered a letter to Ted. L. Gunderson, :
Special Agent in Charge, the Dallas FBI office. The |
letter is on Internal Revenue Service stationery, and
states as follows:

"Dear Mr. Gunderson:

"Recently, Arlen Fuhlendorf, a Group Manager: in
the Dallas Intelligence Division, received information from os
a confidential informant that might be helpful in the
investigation of the Kennedy assassination. : :

: "The informant stated that on the morning of
the assassination, Ruby contacted him and asked if he
would 'like to watch the fireworks.' He was with Jack
Ruby and standing at the corner of the Postal Annex
Building facing the Texas School Book Depository Building
at the time of the shooting. Immediately after the _ ;
shooting, Ruby left and headed toward the area of the '
Dallas Morning News Building. . ; .

"TE you desire, Grétup Manager Arlen Fuhlendorf
can be available te discuss, this matter with your agency.
Group Manager Fuhlendorf ‘can be contacted at 749-1801.

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON
i) RELEASE IN FULL
(3 RELEASE IN PART
TOTAL DENIAL

This document scontains neither recommendations
nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property.
of the FBI and is loaned to your agency;. it and -
its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency. : 2 (09040 1697

  

"Sincerely yours, - : Z.

 

"/s/ Robert J. Potrykus
Chief Intelligence Division"

im

6

   

DoclId:321492767 Page 2
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

DATE: 11-14-2017
!

” AGENCY :

Peer ereeer Tes eC ectyy

Identification Form

Agency Information

 

FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10087-10143 .
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —62-109060-7699
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, DL
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 04/06/1977
‘PAGES: 18 .
SUBJECTS :
JR, ASSOC
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 01/06/1999
OPENING CRITERIA: = INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

 

of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hote}.

 

v9.1

Docld:321492967 Page 1°
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hofey.
DATE: 11-14-2017 i
nn (

aed aay

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT
JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

On the afternoon of March 2, 1977, Special Agent.
Udo H. Specht, Dallas FBI office, attempted to telephone ©
Group Manager Fuhlendorf, but he had already gone home for
the day. :

On the morning of March 3, 1977, Special Agent
Udo H. Specht, Dallas FBI office, telephonically contacted
Group Supervisor Arlen Fuhlendorf, Internal Revenue Service,
Intelligence Division, Dallas, Texas, concerning the
information in the above letter. Fuhlendorf' advised that
it is a policy of the Internal Revenue Service that before ©
the Internal Revenue Service ‘can release the identity of
an informant, that it has to obtain the consent of the
informant.: He will attempt to contact his informan#® ‘and
obtain this consent. He will contact Special Agent Specht -
as soon as he has contacted his informant. Once the consent
is obtained, he will introduce Spe¢ial Agent Specht to the
informant, in order that the FBI can interview him. This
informant has ‘been out of town quite a bit, and it might
take a few days to contact him.

 

vf

During the afternoon of March 4, 1977, Mr. Fuhlendorf
advised that- his informant is Bop\Vanderslice, and that he
is in his office now. He is sending Vanderslice to the
FBI office to be interviewed, and that Vanderslice will be
at the Dallas FBI office at 2:30 PM, March 4, 977.

At 2:25 PM, March 4, 1977, AVanderslice,, who
furnished his address as 502 Monte vista, Dallas, Texas, —
Telephone Number 327-7656, telephonically contacted Special
Agent Udo H. Specht and stated that on the way to the FBI
office, he bumped his. lip, and that it is bleeding severly.
He said he found out’a few days ago that he has cancer of
the Iip, and also has a herpes sore in the area where his
lip is bleeding. He stated that he will be at the FBI
office at 8:00 AM on March 7, 1977, to furnish. the
information.

 

Bob Vanderslice did not personally appear at the ;
Dallas FBI office on March 7, 1977, nor did he telephonically
contact the office in an effort to make other interview :
arrangements.

 

 

 

Docld:32149267 Page 3
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017

ae ao , CO

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT
JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

At 3:00 PM, March 7, 1977, Special Agent Specht
telephonically contacted Mr. Vanderslice's residence. A
woman, who identified herself as Mrs. Vanderslice, advised
that her husband was not at home, and that-she would give
him the message to contact Mr. Specht.

  
   
      

On the afternoon of March 76 1977, efforts were
made to contact Group Manager Arle uhlendorf, Internal
Revenue Service, Dallas, Texas, bit his secretary advised
that he is at a meeting all week long. A méssage was left
to have Mr. Fuhlendorf contact Special Agént Specht. .:

On March 14, 1977, Arlen Fuhlendorf, Group
Manager, Internal Revenue Service, Intelligence, Dallas,
Texas, telephonically contacted Special Agent Specht, FBI,
Dallas, Texas, and advised that he was ‘at. a school all last .
week, and therefore, could not get in contact with Special
Agent Specht. He was advised that Bob Vanderslice to date —
has not made himself available to be ‘interviewed by the Dallas
office of the FBI. Fuhlendorf. advised that Vanderslice has
been furnishing information ‘to Internal Revenue Service in
connection with a special. enforcement program that Internal
Revenue Service Intelligence has concerning the criminal
element. Vanderslice has furnished information to Internal
Revenue Service on local Dallas bookmakers. Fuhlendorf >
advised that as far as he knows, that the information that ;
Vanderslice furnished has been reliable. Fuhlendorf advised
that when he ‘last talked to Vanderslice on March 4, 1977,
that Vanderslice asked him that if he talked to the FBI, what -
use would be made of the information.  Fuhlendorf. told
Vanderslice that he might get a free trip to Washington to
testify before a Congressional Committee concerning his
information. . Fuhlendorf. stated that Vanderslice might have
had second thoughts after he told him that.

Fuhlendorf. advised that several weeks ago,
specific date unrecalled, he met Vanderslice at the restaurant
located on the twenty-fifth floor of the Manor House,
, Commerce Street, Dallas, Texas. andyieaer stated that

 

Vanderslice talked to him about Candyedrr, a former stripper
in one of Jack Ruby's nightclubs. This conversation led to

TK

, | Yo a
\ a

 

 

 

Docld: 32149267 Page 4
