LA 100-17448

"October 17, 1942

§ : 3 ; .

"J received your letter from Washington and the one
you wrote me when you returned to New York. JI received them .
today, and one bears the date of the 7th, thus it took 10 days
when it should have taken 3 at the most, it is a scandal and a
shame. But we can only tolerate tne law of the stronger. I
_ have received notices from Washington and they are very.
“o.. pessimistic. It seems there have been persons who have made
declarations against you and have sworn, Gringo style, to their
declarations. Also they do not forget your expressions and
opinions, that you have foolishly and unwittingly made so
many times in public. And it seems that all of those personages,
high personages, to whom you used to say. you were related, have
said these were your lies, and that they deny being your
_ relatives even remotely, nor do they even care for being your
~ friends. Eow much I regret this life of*mine and the bad part
4s I do not know if it will have a solution or when. I do not

 

 

“know what to say or to whom to turn. .

i
"T am completely certain that the friends whem I have

‘trusted the arranging of this matter are true friends of mine
and that they have done with complete sincerity and interest —
all that is necessary. You.already see now I was able to -..
. obtain your permit to enter Mexico, when there exists a .
_,... Presidential Decree strictly prohibiting the entry (to Mexico)

/ of all European aliens. But the matter of Washington is beyond
“my reach and oniy you, asking for a conscientious. investigation
-and asking them to clarify your situation, only you can get .
something. If you continue patiently enduring your situation
. an the United States then detained you are. Now. that they will
not let you leave there, you are playing the part, of a coward
_or.culprit. Firmly demand that they show you what gives them
the right to treat you thus, and if they do not have the risht
_that they let you leave that country and let you ¢0 wherever —
“you please. It seems that neither.do they like your economic:
“situation, that is to say that you do not recéive-income from
“employment business and naturally the poor things cannot. obtain
..fron you the corresponding taxes.’ .I thinit that is the only
~vpeason for they do net have the right, nor is it their business, .

 

   

 

‘HW 50529 DocId:32210665 Page 9 ~ - 5; -
LA 100-17448 _

"4f your income is from practicing the noble profession of

gigolo or hiring yourself as a Sodomist. I am sad and furious,
and disconcerted. I could come to join you there or at least

we could spend. some two or three months together. “From the
Embassy (Mexican in-Washington) they will give me telephonically:
the visa and airplane priority. This they have promised me a
formally, but unfortunately my economic situation at the present,
what with the construction of the house and the payment I have
just made for the College will not permit me to be able to make
the trip to spend a few months with you, something which I
‘desire with all the forces of my body and sould, and which would
make me very happy. But I am seeing if soon they pay me a ;
mortgage, and my adored if Ihave a little money I will go to
give you all my life in my kisses. If you could see how unhappy
I feel. I cry so much thinking that even the 'Morito! “has

the happiness of being with you, unless in his ignorant brutalits
he should know the happiness he has, and. of which I am-so -
eruelly deprived. I kiss. you a thousand times, adored, write

me and love me. : Tans

 

4. = October 30, 1942 —
"Adored Love of Mine:

-"Yesterday, or better said, early this morning, I
spoke to you, I got up from bed to speak to you and returned |
to bed crying like a little girl. Life of mine, I now cannot,.

' cannot physically stand your absencé; I feel that my flesh is
'.flesh of your flesh, and it is .a cruel agony to live without
you. My adored one, light of my eyes, I want you desperately,...
‘and each time more. -. -: a : : oe ,

  
 

4.) "Baby mine, I am now ready to have a son by .my
_wonderful. man that. you are, but yesterday over the telephone...
you asked me this with such seriousness and urgency,~that :
really I do not know what to do. While you tell me that you ”
“are a true little man, strong and’ virile and wise, to'make. your. _

little woman turn (or. so) crazy when you make her yours,..D- 0 2°
Cannot give. you pleasure having a little son, now for as I told: ©

AW 50529 Docld:32210665 Page 10
LA 100-17448 ©

MOHRENSCHILDT has been married at least four times.
The first three times he married women of means, but never
seemed to have any real love for any of them. He was very
interested sexually in the daughter of one of his wives. .
His present wife is a white Russian from China. LA T- knows
nothing regarding her beliefs or convictions.

His mother was a "pure white Russian" who died.
early. MOHRENSCHILDT spent a considerable amount of his’
youth in Russia.

During their Abilene days especially, LA nh
and MOHRENSCHILDT discussed politics frequently. LA T-4
stated, "There is no doubt. concerning the strong pro-communist
convictions of GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT." He is an opportunist
and without moral scruples. He has contempt for the American .
way of life and for capitalism and has stated that he appreciates
the security derived from a communist government. After one
of these discussions in Abilene, LA T-4 told MOHRENSCHILDT |
that if the United States" ever goes to war with Russia, he
would get a gun and "take care" of MOHRENSCHILDT. MOHRENSCHILDT
merely laughed. In reply to a question by LA T-4, MOHRENSCHILDT
stated that if this country is ever invaded by Russia, he
would have a very good chance of. coming into a top position
with the Russians. i

Because of LA T-4's personal convictions concerning
MOHRENSCHILDT, he declined to sponsor MOHRENSCHILDT for
citizenship in this country when requested by MOHRENSCHILDT.
Also LA T alluded to MOHRENSCHILDT's pro-communist beliefs
and convictions when talking to MOHRENSCHILDT up until the
last time he talked to him in 1962. LA T-4 considers
MOHRENSCHILDT entirely capable of communist. conspiratorial
activity, but considers him intellectually shallow and
incapable of originating or executing a complicated scheme.

~ be

AW 50529 DocId:32210665 Page 8
_ FR-902 (Rev. 1-25-60) @ FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAQSN

Date 3 16/64

LA T-4 advised he met GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT for
the first time about 1942 at the home of R. LEE BLAFFER in
Houston, Texas. Mr. BLAFFER was one of the founders of the
Humble O11 Company and in the 1940s made a practice of enter-
taining interesting and unusual people. MOHRENSCHILDT was
a professor of geology at the University of Texas sometime
during the 1940s and it is possible that he was with the |
University at the time that LAT-4 met him.

LA T-4 and MOHRENSCHILDT became good friends, primarily
because of their mutual interest in women, and saw each other
frequently in Houston from about 1942 to about 1946.. They
were also involved together in “one shot o11 deals" in Wyoming
and Albany, Texas, during this period, although they were never
partners. In 1946, LA T-4 went to Abilene, Texas, and from
1946 to about 1950 whén LA T~4 left Abilene,. MOHRENSCHILDT —
came to Abilene frequently on business, although he never lived
there permanently. During these visits MOHRENSCHILDT often
visited at a cottage owned by LA T-4 on a lake near Abilene
where they sometimes entertained girl friends. After leaving
Abilene and returning to Dallas, LA T-4 was visited. by MOHREN-
SCHILDT several times a year, up until about November, 1962.

At that time MOHRENSCHILDT called LA T-4 stating that he had
some interesting pictures which he and his wife had made -
while walking from Mexico City to Panama and to South
America. He invited LA T-4 to the Annual Ball of the
Petroleum Club of Dallas. By his tone of voice, LA T-4

let Mr. MOHRENSCHILDT know that he was not interested in,
seeing him at any time. He has not seen or heard from
MOHRENSCHILDT since that time.

MOHRENSCHILDT told LA T. 4 that his father was a
baron from Sweden and his name was originally VON MOHRENSCHILDT .
MOHRENSCHILDT changed his name to DE MOHRENSCHILDT during World
War II. One of MOHRENSCHILDT's brothers was very close to so
ADOLF HITLER at one time, but was later executed by the HITLER
regime. Another brother is a professor at Dartmouth University.

 

 

 

+ 13 -
On 3/13/64 at File #___ Los Angeles 100-17448
by Date dictated 3/11/64

 

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI -and is loaned to”
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

AW 50529 DocId:32210665 Page 7
HW 50529

LA 100-17448

"you yesterday, you cannot do this by correspondence, neither

by telephone.....luckily. Do you know that Dr. Arvizu's wife |
died last night, at the moment of having her first child, after
eight years of being married. I think that is what might
happen to me, but no matter, life of mine, what better proof
could I give you of my love, than to die for you, suffer unto
death? :

"My adored one, when you have the money for me, please
deposit it in the Bank of Julio Beache on Wall Street, deposit
it in my name, telling them to communicate by direct wire with
the Leishman Bank here in Mexico, and put at my disposal here,
immediately, the amount that you deposited there, that way I
can receive it the same day. - : . :

"you know, that you should not be surprised that the
ambassador does not answer you, nor will he answer you, I will
explain later the reasons, but two or three days ago, I sent
him a letter, like the ones I can write when I want to, and I~
am certain that I am going to make him ashamed of his conduct,
after all he offered me here. In the first place, I am certain
that Duhart has influenced’ him with his black opinion of you
that he has, I do not know why, and in the second place there
are certain personal and egotistical motives that make him act
like a fool, like there was nothing he could do to arrange it.

I do not think that they will giver you a permit to leave, but
I again insist that you do not need it. If you accept my
suggestion, which I assure you is a good one, for I have all

my documents in order, the line of conduct you should take is
to go to the Mexican Consulate, that they may give you documents
to enter here and calmly leave the United States. Several
persons in the same circumstances as you, have lately done this,
so heed my advice. Naturally in Washington they told you you

needed this departure permit, but they told you this only to

cause you trouble and complications, for they know very well
that they are not going to give it to you and want to laugh at
you, when you ask for this permit to refuse you, when they know
perfectly well that you can leave the United States without
needing this permit. In any case, the Polish Ambassador should
complain as to why and with what right they are detaining you
there. ;

DocId:32210665 Page 5
LA 100-17448

"T do not believe, life of mine, that you have worked
on these people with the energy that you should have. You
should cause a real scandal for all of these unjustified
abuses that they have made you a victim of, and I believe that
sooner or later you should make them pay dearly, all of the
money, time, reputation and even health, that they are making
you lose with their stupidities, fear and petty vengeance.

"Beautiful baby, several days have passed without
receiving a letter from you, and I do not like it at all, that
the two times I have talked to you, you have not arrived until
four or five in the morning. With whom were you out so late?
Life of mine, if I knew that you wanted or caressed another |
woman, I would die of sorrow. Save yourself for me, little
love, you know well that nobody but me knows how to appreciate
the value of your kisses, the sweet strength of your arms and
the loving look of your eyes. Save yourself for me, as I save,
even to the slightest breath, for you. A kiss from your,

Lilia

"Pp, S. About errand you have forme about the money, please,
ask in other places also. Even though your friends
gave you the price of $4500.00 you should ask other
people, because in these times I think you can hope
for at least $1500.00 more. It is insured for
$6000.00. Make the insurance company pay the breakage,
because when I insured them they were perfect."

AW 50529 DocId:32210665 Page 6
LA 100-17448

file reflects that LILIA PARDO LARIN, nee LILIA CAMARGO, born

May 19, 1906, Mexico D.F., entered the United States at San

Ysidro, California, on March 3, 1961. She had Mexican Passport

No. 15259, issued by the Mexican Foreign Office April 29, 1960,

to expire April 28, 1962. She entered the United States as a
~non-quota O-1 immigrant.

LILIA PARDO LARIN was sponsored by her son, ALFREDO
ALVAREZ LARIN, who then resided at 3276 B Street, San Diego,
California. ALFREDO LARIN filed an affidavit of support for
his mother on September 7, 1960. He was then employed asa
pbuilding designer for George Lykos - A.I.A. Architect, Spreckels
Building, First and Broadway, San Diego, California. ALFREDO
LARIN has Alien Registration No. 7135679, and was admitted
to the United States as a permanent resident on January 31,
1950, at Houston, Texas.

The INS file concerning LILIA PARDO LARIN reflects
the following residence addresses during 1961: 3532 Herbert
Street, San Diego, California, and 3334 Altadena Avenue, San
Diego, California. In 1961 ALFREDO LARIN resided at the
first address above and JOSE ANTONIO LARIN resided at the
second address above. .

This file reflects that in September, 1940, LILIA
PARDO DE GUASCO filed an application to extend the time of
temporary stay in the United States. On this form, she listed
a relative, LOUIS RODRIGUEZ, Minister for Mexico, Vichy, France.
At this time she listed as her husband one GEORGE GUASCO,
Vichy, France. . ‘

This INS file reflected a photograph of LILIA PARDO
DE LARIN dated November 4, 1961. This file reflected no
residence address for LILIA PARDO DE LARIN for the years 1962
or 1963. : :

LA T-2 furnished two letters dated October 17, 1942
and October 30, 1942, from LILIA PARDO LARIN, Dickens 42,

_/ Basics San Luis, Apartment 202, Polanca, Mexico D.F., to
GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT, 950 Park Avenue, New York City. LA T-2
advised that these letters had been translated to the English
Language. These letters are quoted as follows:

HW 50529 DocId:32210665 Page 2
Date:08/12/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY . INFORMATION

AGENCY : WC
RECORD NUMBER : 179-40003-10120

RECORDS SERIES :
08: NUMBERED COMMISSION DOCUMENTS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM :
TO

TITLE

DATE : 03/18/64
PAGES : 7

~ SUBJECTS :
DEMOHRENSCHILDT, GEORGE
DEMOHRENSCHILDT, JEANNE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : / f

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :
P. 4-8, 13-14; TWO COPIES OF PAGES 5-8; BOX FO1 #ITIA

([R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50529 DocId:32210665 Page 1
HW 50529

LA 100-17448

"October 17, 1942
“My Adored: Turroeckka:

"I received your letter from Washington and the one
you wrote me when you returned to New York. I received them
today, and one bears the date of the 7th, thus it took 10 days
when it should have taken 3 at the most, it is a scandal and a
shame. But we can only tolerate the law of the stronger. I
have received notices from Washington and they are very
pessimistic. .It seems there have been persons who have made
declarations against you and have sworn, Gringo style, to their
declarations. Also they do not forget your expressions and
opinions, that you have foolishly and unwittingly made so
many times in public. And it seems that all of those personages,
high personages, to whom you used to say you were related, have
said these were your lies, and that they deny being your
relatives even remotely, nor do they even care for being your
friends. How much I regret this life of mine and the bad part
is I do not know if it will have a solution or when. I do not
know what to say or to whom to turn.

_ . "I am completely certain that the friends whom I have
trusted the arranging of this matter are true friends of mine
and that they have done with complete sincerity and interest
all that is necessary. You already see how I was able to
obtain your permit to enter Mexico, when there exists a
Presidential Decree strictly prohibiting the entry (to Mexico)
of all European aliens. But the matter of Washington is beyond
my reach and only you, asking for a conscientious investigation
and asking them to clarify your situation, only you can get
something. If you continue patiently enduring your situation
in the United States then detained you are. Now that they will
not let you leave there, you are playing the part of a coward
or culprit. Firmly demand that they show you what gives them
the right to treat you thus, and if they do not have the right
that they let you leave that country and let you go wherever
you please. It seems that neither do they like your economic
situation, that is to say that you do not receive income from
employment business and naturally the poor things cannot obtain
from you the corresponding taxes. I think that is the only .
reason for they do not have the right, nor is it their business,

BN

DocId:32210665 Page 3
450529

4

LA 100-17448

"af your income is from practicing the noble profession of

gigolo or hiring yourself as a Sodomist. I am sad and furious,
and disconcerted. I could come to join you there or at least

we could spend some two or three months together. From the
Embassy (Mexican in Washington) they will give me telephonically
the visa and airplane priority. This they have promised me
formally, but unfortunately my economic situation at the present,
what. with the construction of the house and the payment I have
just made for the College will not permit me to be able to make
the trip to spend a few months with you, something which I

desire with all the forces of my body and sould, and which would
make me very happy. But I am seeing if soon they pay me a
mortgage, and my adored if I have a little money I will go to
give you all my life in my kisses. If you could see how unhappy.
I feel. I cry so much thinking that even the 'Morito!' has

the. happiness of being with you, unless in his ignorant brutality
he should know the happiness he has, and of which I am so
eruelly deprived. I kiss you a thousand times,.adored, write

me and love me.

Lilia"

"Mexico - October 30, 1942
"Adored Love of Mine: oo
"Yesterday, or better said, early this morning, I

spoke to you, I got up from bed to speak to you and returned
to bed crying like a little girl. Life of mine, I now cannot,

_ cannot physically stand your absence, I feel that my flesh is

flesh of your flesh, and it is a ecrvel agony to live without

. you. My adored one, light of my eyes, I want you .desperately,

and each time more.

“Baby mine, I am now reddy to have.a son by my’
wonderful man that you are, but yesterday. over the telephone
you_ asked me this with such seriousness and urgency, that
really I do not know what to do. While you tell me that you
are a true little man, strong and virile and wise, to make your
little woman turn (or go):crazy when you make -her yours, :I
cannot give you pleasure having a little son, now for as I told

DocId:32210665 Page 4
