; . A confidential source advised that Gus Alex, through
his contacts with Alderman John D'Arco of the First Ward of the
City of Chicago, has been put in touch with Paul C. Ross, who
is a Republican politician who ran unsuccessfully in the last
elections for alderman of a near north side ward. Informant
stated that D'Arco has been using Ross as an informant for
obtaining information concerning strategy of Republican
leaders in Chicago. /()

: (CG 6443-C)

A confidential source advised in April, 1961, that
John D'Arco, Jake Arvey, Frank Chesrow, and an individual by
the name of Anzennio (phonetic) went to see Mayor Richard J.
Daley in March, 1961, to push the public appointment of Judge
Daniel Covelli for a federal judgeship in the Northern District
of Illinois at Chicago. Covelli is currently judge of Cook
County Superior Court and formerly judge of Criminal Courts
of Cook County. Frank Chesrow is chairman of the Chicago
Sanitary. District and according to informant is a member of
the Sicilian Fraternal Society and also godfather of one of
Tony Accardo's children. Informant stated that Aygzennio is
a Silent: partner of D'Arco! 's insurance company. (UY,

(CG 6443-C)

A confidential source has advised on numerous occasions
from 1959 through early 1961, that John D'Arco is uséd by Chicago
"*hoodlums*”’ on frequent occasions when they desire favors from top
officials from the Chicago City Administration. As an example of
this informant-said that when the Chicago “hoodlums" desired to
have Captain Frank Pape of the Chicago Police Department
transferred from a remote south side district to the Central
Police District they,called Alderman D'Arco and instructed him
to contact Mayor Daley of Chicago concerning their wishes. In
this regard informant stated that the very next day an
announcement was made that Captain Pape was being transferred
to the Central Police District as a commander. (V

(CG 6343-C*)
A confidential source advised during the. winter of -
1960, that John D'Arco was attempting to intercede on behalf of
Gus Alex, Sam Giancana, and their associates with the States
Attorney of Cook County, Benjamin Adamowski, in an attempt to
gain Adamowski's assurance or promise that the activities of
Alex and his associates would go more or less unhindered .(U,

AW 45792 DocTd:32585200 Page 9
nervousness. Source related Alex made several visits to
the Sanitarium until approximately March 10, 1961, when GONT ENTIAL
condition was pronounced cured and his anxiety apparently. |

“removed. [U Laas
(Dr. William Terhune, Silver Hill

Sanitarium, New Canaan, Connecticut)
- Another confidential source advised he has known
Alex to frequent the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota,
in the past, stating that Alex is bothered by ulcers and a
heart conaition. (u), (CG 6272-C)

Current Residence

: A confidential source advised that Mr. and Mrs. Sam
Taylor rented Apartment 10c at 1150 North Lake Shore Drive,
‘on February I, 1961. It was subsequently. determined that
Sam Taylor is identical with Gus Alex and that Mrs. Taylor
is identical with Suzanne Fueger. (v) :

(Frank La Croix (PCI))

Position of Alex in Chicago
Organized Criminal Setup

A confidential source advised in 1946 that Gus Alex 5
has been connected with the "syndicate" since-he was ZZ
aproximately 17 years of age. He stated heCunderstands hat
at that time Alex was residing on ‘Wentworth Avenue,-€hicago,
and Alex had come’ to the attention of the "syndicate" due to
his unusual physical strength. Source further advised that in
1946 the disciplinary portion of the "Capone syndicate" was
headed by Gus and Sam Alex and "Tough Tony" Capezio. Amther
source advised in 1958 that in the late 1940's and until
the death of Jake "Greasy Thumb". Guzik in early 1956, Gus
Alex was Guzik's righthand man. He stated Alex began his
association with Guzik as Guzik's bodyguard. (y :

—— EgggehdespotAdas, Madigneigy Country
; Records of the Chicago Crime Commission contained
a memorandum from operating Director Virgil W. Peterson
dated October 30, 1952, stating that according to reliable

“7 -

contgpenms

HW 45792 DocId:32585200 Page 10
; 5

Editor of the "Sun-Times" newspaper, Chicago. He advised that
for some reason Pape. gave quantities: of money to Walsh. qu)

: ro : (CG 6443-C)

“It. is to be noted that source has stated.in the past
that ‘Louis Briatta is the top lieutenant of Frank Ferraro
and Gus Alex in Chicago's First Ward gambling activities and
that Briatta is a delivery man to Ferraro, of the profits
from the gambling activity in Chicago's First Ward. (VU

A confidential source advised that during the Fall of
1960, Chicago top hoodlums Gus Alex and Frank Ferraro, and others
were attempting to contribute $20,000.00 to then Cook County
States Attorney Ben Adamowski for his re-election campaig
through one Les Trilla referred to as "The Barrel Man," iy

(CG 6343-C*)

A confidential source advised that Gus Alex has been
a long-time associate of Alderman D'Arco and that from time to
time money has passed from Alex and his associates to D'Arco.
Informant advised that it is his belief that this money is
passed to D'Arco from profits of gambling organized by the
hoodlums in the First Ward of the City of Chicago. This
informant also advised that D'Arco is very closely associated
with Gus Alex, Frank Ferraro, and Sam Giancana, as well as
Humphreys, all.of whom have been identified as associates of
Alex under the caption "Associates". Source advised that Gus
Alex utilizes the services of Alderman John D'Arco on many
occasions for the purpose of obtaining favors from other
politicians and public officials. This informant noted that
D'Arco is used by Alex to contact Mayor Richard J. Daley of
Chicago but pointed out that he is not in a position to advise
whether Mayor Daley is aware of the close connection of D'Arco
and Alex or whether Mayor Daley is aware that when the favor
is asked of him by D'Arco whether D‘'Arco represents Alex and
his associates ./y)

- . . (CG 6343-C*)

Roswell T. Spencer, Chief Investigator, States Attorney's
Office, advised when he became employed for the States Attorney
Daniel Ward in the early part of 1961, he cautioned Ward
concerning the "hoodlum connections" of Alderman John D'Arco.
. Spencer advised. that when he so cautioned Ward, Ward commented
to him that he was identically cautioned by Mayor Richard J.
Daley. (~ , .

AW 45792 DocId:32585200 Page 8
_ @ e
cal Tin & eiAL.
A confidential source continued to eurnguit octal.

during 1959 and 1960, concerning relationship between then
Lieutenant Mc Cain and Gus Alex and his associates. He noted
that when the Chicago Police Department under went a shakeup

and Orlando W. Wilson was appointed superintendent of the
Chicago Police Department in early 1960, he appointed Joseph
Morris as Deputy Superintendent of the Chicago Police Department
in Charge of the Bureau of InsSpectional Services which included
the Intelligence Unit. Mc Cain, then still’a lieutenant, worked
under Deputy Morris until approximately the middle of 1960, when
he was transferred to a division called Human Relations and made
a captain.: Captain Mc Cain continues to occupy this position y
with the Chicago Police Department as of the date of this report.(U)

(CG 6343-C*)

A confidential source advised on February 21, 1961,
that during the past eight years he estimated that a half million
dollars in “fix money” for the "outfit" was given to various
policemen of. the Chicago Police Department for various favors
received. He stated that the money was generally paid by the
"Hoodlums"? engaged in gambling activities with Lester Kruse.
He stated that the money would be left in an envelope for the
various police officials to pick up at a certain location and
that each envelope would be numbered which would indicate the
specific policeman to receive the envelope. He advised that one
Julie Epstein was the individual who always dropped the envelopes
of money off at a certain restaurant. Informant further stated
that Epstein is a very trusted individual by Gus Alex and his
associates and ran and supervised the gambling activities at the
J & J Picnic Grove during the Accardo trial when Ralph Pierce
was out of the country and Gus Liebe stayed away from the game. ( »)

(CG 6443-C)
A confidential source on March.2, 1961, named police
officials who received numbered envelopes containing fixed money
over the past eight years from Julie Epstein:(U)

Kyran Phalen, former Deputy Commissioner of Police,
Chicago Police Department, now retired from the Chicago
Police Department and associated with the Coroner's
Office, City of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois{V

Captain James Hackett, a well known Chicago Police
Captain. (U

 

HW 45792 DocId:32585200 Page 7
HW 45792

RE: JOHN PHILLIP CERONE, SR.

 

advised that in the summer of 1963, a raid was conducted on

a -bookmaking establishment at the Lawndale District which

was owned by Cerone,; and that Cerone expressed great concern
over this inasmuch as this establishment was a large money maker.
The source stated that besides Cerone's wife, he has a son ‘
approximately 23 years old, Jack Jr., who was then attending

-law school in Chicago and is married and has one child. The

source advised that Jack Jr. received support for his family

and schooling from his father. Source also advised that Cerone
reports legitimate income for tax purposes from the Ritelite
Company which is operated by Cerone's nephew called "Tar Baby"
(Jack S. Cerone). Source advised that approximately eight years
ago, Jack Cerone suffered a heart attack which caused him to

be hospitalized in the Garfield Hospital in Chicago, but that
since then he seems to enjoy good health. /{/

(Former CG 6729-C-TE, contacted by SA Robert J.
Tompkins, Jr.) .

; A confidential source advised on October 6, 1964, that
on October 5, 1964, Jack Cerone and Irma Green visited Orlando's
Hideaway, Manheim Road, Schiller Park, Illinois, where Cerone
made a telephone call on a pay phone to the Foxhead Brewery in
Waukesha, Wisconsin. According to this source, Cerone advised
the person to whom he spoke that he should search the records
of .the brewery for all data concerning dates of employment and
moneys paid to Cerone for his employment.

‘ uv)
(Former CG 6799-PC, to SA John ( Roberts, Jr.)

On November 11, 1964, Special Agents James W. Gerblick
and Paul J. Neumann observed Jack Cerone and twelve other
individuals board Delta Airlines flight 83 for Miami, Florida.
Prior to the boarding, Cerone had been observed in a conversation
with Anthony Accardo; however, Accardo did not board the plane
with them. At 1:28 AM, November 12, 1964, Special Agents Ralph
R. Hill, Eugene Mc Kinney, and Vince Stacey, observed Cerone
and twelve other individuals deplane from Delta Airlines flight
83 at Miami, Florida. Agents observed among others Jack Cerone
and Lou Rosanova among this group, and all proceeded to the
King’s Bay Country Club, South Day County, Florida, where they
checked into the hotel section of the club. It is noted that
the manifest for Delta flight 83 contained the following persons
with reservations for this flight; reservations being made by the
Nitti Travel Agency, and all listed their addresses as Riverwoods

Country club :(U

DocId:32585200 Page 5
HW 45792

RE: JOHN PHILLIP CERONE, SR.

J. Schiller
P. Lavery

J. Leavy

B. Leavy

R. Witz

J. Cerone

L. Bush

J. Campenalla .
P. Rothchild
J. Slavin

D. Serafin
v. Serafin
L. Rosanova

On January 18, 1965, Special Agents Elliott W. Anderson
and John H. Wilmes observed Jack Cerone, Murray Humphreys, Paul
De Lucia, Lesley Kruse, Ralph Pierce, Hi Godfrey, Anthony Pinelli,
George Dicks, and Michael Brodkin at a luncheon meeting at the
Palmer House Grill, 114 South Wabash, Chicago, Illinois, between
the hours of 11:40 AM and 1:05 PM /y)

A confidential source advised on March 10, 1965, that
on March 8, 1965, Dave Yaras, Jack Cerone, Vincent Aloisio,
Pete Sarnoff, and Alfred George Fillice, held a djinner meeting
at Joe Sonkin's Restaurant, Hollywood, Florida./l,

(MM 1003-C-TE, furnished information to SA Ralph R. Hill).

On March 23, 1965, Special Agents Ralph R. Hill and
Eugene Mc Kinney observed Jack Cerone corm with Dave Yaras
at the Bayshore Coffee Shop in Miami, Florida (U)

On March 29, 1965, Jack Cerone and Dave Yaras were
observed conferring with Lou Rosanova at the Bayshore Municipal
Golf Course, Miami Beach, Florida, by Special Agent Ralph R. Hill.

: v)

DoclId:32585200 Page 6
 

   

pry ; pe

U \

come, to him, aS a man in a poSition of public trust, in order

that the Significance of this list might be determined. D'Arco

replied that he had no idea as to the meaning of this list.
He stated thatthis was the first he had heard about it.

He declined to speculate as to the significance of the
list. D'Arco advised that although he knew Giancana in his
youth, Since Giancana grew up in the old 20th Ward, he has
not seen Giancana for a "long time," and does not associate
with Giancana. He refused comment on four occasions when
he was informed that information had been developed that he
is a close associate of Gus Alex. He indicated that he did
not feel, even aS a public spirited citizen, that he should
talk to Alex or Giancana concerning the Significance of the
list. When he was asked whether he would desire that Agents
hold off making inquiries until he had a chance to learn
the sgnificance of the list, he replied that the Agents had

‘a job to do and they should do it as theymw fit. When

he was advised that if the FBI could perform" their functions
discreetly without embarrassment to him if: ‘he would show any

inclination to be of assistance, D'Arco made the following

statement: . "You guys can't embarrass me in this town. I'm

a big man here and if my constituents are satisfied with. the
way I yerresent them, I don't have to worry about nobody
else."U) ;

Charles Postl, now deceased, owner of Posti's
Health Club, 188 West Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois,
advised in 1962 thatat that time Gus Alex and Edward Vogel,

both leaders of organized crime in the Chicago area, frequented

the health club on an average of two, three or four times a
week, Postl advised that while at the club he observed
them frequently in conversation with John D'Arco and Pat
Marcy. (?) ; .

Information was received in 1962 that at that time
Louis Briatta worked as a collector from handbooks in the
First Ward of Chicago. Information received indicated that
Briatta, a brother-in-law of D'Arco, was given this position
by Gus Alex upon the request of D'Arco. This source advised
that he has personally observed that when John D'Arco is
in the presence of Alex he is completely subservient to Alex.

©)

(CG 6443-C contacted on numerous
dates in 1962 by SAs William A.

~ 3 - Meincke and Joseph G. Shea

)

 

HW 45792

DocId:32565200 Page 2?

 

 
 

Date : 01/07/99

; Page : 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION Peleased ander The “John ,
. Kennedy
AGENCY : FBI . A5sassination Records
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10204-10000 ollection Act of 1992

RECORDS SERIES : HQ ‘ : (44 sc 2107 Note).
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-1869 ase#:NW 45792 Date:
woe ee ee Hee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eee Hi-i6-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, CG ;
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI :
TITLE : :

° DATE : 06/30/66
PAGES : 252 ‘
SUBJECTS : SGI, GAL, ASSOC, OC, LCN, POLICE PROTECTION, POLIT TIES

s

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED .
RESTRICTIONS : 4, REFERRED, SECTION 10(a)2, SECTION 11(a)
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/07/99 1
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF RCMP, IRS
COMMENTS : INC 8 LHM, REFERRED TO RCMP

 

HW 45792 DocId:32585200 Page 1
a
‘
|
.
~
s- |
.
4

 

 

 

Om s Fan
ae, C C)

detail noted the license numbers of cars of visitors who
attended this party during the course of the day and evening.

_He advised that one such person attended in a car bearing 1954

license number 18670960, which he advised he had found to
be listed to one A.P, Tisci, 1512 South Wisconsin Avenue,
Berwyn, Illinois. (u

Lieutenant Morris advised on May 21, 1955, that his
officers observed visitors to the wake of the mother of
Samuel M, Giancana at the Rago Funeral Home, 5132 West Fullerton
Avenue, in August, 1964, Lieutenant- Morris advised that his
officers noted the license. numbers of individuals who drove
cars to attend this wake. He advised that one of these
cars bore a license number 1867-960, which he advised to be \
listed to y)” Tisci, 1512 South Wisconsin Avenue, Berwyn,

Tllinois, lv

Captain William J. Duffy, Director, Intelligence
Unit, Bureau of Inspectional Services, Chicago Police Department,
advised. that his files contain the information that an
investigation of his unit determined that Charles English
sold his home sometime prior to 1960 to Anthony P. Tisci,
the son-in-law of Sam "Mooney" Giancana, Captain Duffy advised
that his file showed that Tisci had previously resided at
1645 South Harlem in Berwyn, Illinois. (¥)

: Information has been received that amo the close

associates of Antony P. Tisci are the tottoving:/U)

Charles English,

Sam Giancana,

Tarquin "Queenie" Simonelli,

Joe Marks, and.

Dominic "Butch" Blasi.

(Agnes Coyne, PCI to Special
Agent Marshall E. Rutland on
September 21, 1965)

-~-4-

 

 

HW 45792

 

DocId:325865200 Page 3

 
HW 45792

.- ©

 

RE: JOHN PHILLIP CERONE, SR.

- On March 27, 1963, a confidential source advised
that Jack Cerone and Skippy Cerone, a cousin of: Jack, were
both staying at the Thunderbird Motel./() ;

(Former PCI James William Cariota of the Miami Division)

A confidential source advised in May, 1963, that
Irma Green is the wife of Irving Green, President of Mercury
Records Corporation, and resides in Half Day, Illinois.
According to this source, Irma Green has been Jack Cerone's
paramour for a number of years, and it is the opinion of this
source that Irma Green and Jack Cerone may possibly be connected
in some kind of business enterprise)

(CG 5951-C furnished information to SA William L. Bailey

during period of May 8 to 31, 1963.)

_On July 29, 1963, Special Agents Vincent L. Inserra
and Robert J. Tompkins, Jr. observed Jack Cerone, Anthony J.
Accardo, Gus Alex, Frank Ferraro, Michael Brodkin, Eugene
Bernstein, Fred "Jukebox" Smith, Joe Glimco, Ralph Pierce, and
Hi Godfrey at Staley's Res ant, Congress Parkway and Wells
Street, Chicago, {ilinois.(U) . ;

On,September 26, 1963, Dre Sol T. DeLee advised Special
Agents Dennis W. Shanahan and John W. Roberts, Jr. that he has
been acquainted with Jack Cerone for approximately six or seven
years having met him at the Tamo'shanter Golf Course. - He stated
that he often played golf with Cerone's foursome which Ted to
a regular thing and involved wagering. Dre DeLee stated that
at the outset he was a consistent Winner; however, as the wagers
increased, his winnings diminished and he subsequently lost
heavily to Jack Cerone. He did not state the entire amount of
his losses, but did state that in addition to several thousand
dollars he had paid Cerone several hundred:dollars a year for
his numerous losses. Dre DeLee stated he paid Cerone by check
and that Cerone was agreeable to this. Dm DeLee stated that in
addition to Cerone, he often played golf with Lou Rosonova and 4
Marty Stanovich and a few others whose names he could not recat. (U)

On January: 7, 1964, Captain Thomas Mahon, Cook County
Sheriffts Police, Niles, Illinois,~advised Special Agent Logan c.
Pickerl that-on December 27, 1963 the English Brothers, Charles
Nicolette, and Jack Cerone were observed at the Red Steer ‘Located
at River Road and Grand Avenue in Niles, Illinois, by members of
the Cook County Sheriff's Police. These individuals met at the
supper hour and sat at a table in one corner of the roon.///)

DocId:32585200 Page 4 6 -
