 

 

| WW 45803

 

SV 13-93 oe
This agent can teatiffy that on Agral 285. Wily eubject HERUAN gave the

. Lellowing signed statevents:

/*Savannatiy,
| April 2s 19h

‘YT, Thomas Harvey Hema, nake- ‘the foltdwing voluntary statesent to
Taylor J. Sins, who has. identified himself as a Special Agant of the
Pe Be Te No threats or promises were tate ‘to get ne to give this and
IT know it may ke used in courte

|

When X gave ure Sing the signed statenent shout a “nonth Bg, x told hia
several things that are. not the truth. Actually I was never on the 8, Ss
Wills and have never bean in the Yorehant Marine, Algo I hava obtainad
noney by eaying I wag in the Navy. 1 did this aix or seven times, and
each tine I was with Jack Williacs, whe was arrested with ne here” an

Savannahs I really don't knew what bis veal nave ies We got $10. te 012.

to 915. each tine, and I know that the people gave usa the

money begause ;
wo hed told then we ware in the Navy. This happened in Norfolk, Baltdsora,

and a few other placess I have had the Navy uniform abouts 9 monthe and
was wearing it when I got the noney fron these people.

tyy mother’s nema de Glada Homan, and abe last regided on 216 Califomia

AVG@o, Atlantic City, Ne Jo My brother Oilbert Herman is in ts Navye
Len li? yrse Olde

‘ have read the Above statenent which ‘As fae to the boat of ay knowledge. . - -

_ /sf thozas Herman
Wfnaaes Taylor J. Sins, Tid; ¥BI Savannahs Cae

Special Agent srs can also testify that sublént oRosst on April 23, 1944

. gave the following signed statenentt

Nga Ca.
Apri, 28s 19uk

"I, Jolin Jack Groseiy make the following voluntary statement to faylor de .

Sing, who hes identified himself te me aa a Spacial Agent of the FoI. No
threats or growiaes were made to me to give ‘this statenant and I knéw it

may be used in courts

ce yh Ayeets

 

 

DocId:32563819 Page 9
 

 

 

 

BY 43-93

‘When I was first questioned by Mrs Sinus aréund the last ef March this
your, I told him that my nane was Jack Tale Williane, but this is not
. ‘rue and wy veal name ta Jehu Jack Gxoesi, 2 did’ @ris becuase I didn’t

. Vike the nane and becexte I didn't sant my nother te know about my troubles
I algo told tr. Sins before that I ned pe eriminal vécord, ims this aldo
ja not time because I wag arrested and placed in New Jersey State Home for
Boys at Javosbarg, Ne Ja Yowas. arrested in Pemeylvania, the tom of
Hedia, I wan arrested for running away from hone.

' "TL alae stated in my first staterent that my hose wag in Florida, but
this is net te, My hone iv 268 17th Ave., Pattersons Ne de where ny
nother, Hire. Rese Grossi, Lvese ‘My brother, Albert, is in Army Alp
Copa, and my sister, Jean Engold, Lives with my mothers I told Sine

' before that I had no brother ov sister, aid sade.up the first name I gave
for wy mother. vy father, John Grossi, is in the dray, (so I have never
been on. the Ss So Wille ag I first seid’ . ;

_ hg T said before T Have not registered for tha draft although I an 16
_yeare olds

\

‘About six tines during past year 7 have told people Iwas in the Navy and
by means of such statement. I hava asked ard received from then various

guns of-money ranging frou $10_ to 328. each timo, Usually this happened
whila Thomas Harvey Berman ard 1 werd hitebhiking. The first tie was
coming out of Philadelphia, and other times in Baltimore, Raleighy Me Ces
Washington, Bs Co, and Norfolk, Yao Of course neither Neruan or 2 have
aver been in the Navy. 4% these tixes we were wearing the uniforms we wore
wearing whan fivet picked up here in Savannahs 1b was not trues es 1 fixed
said, that 1 juet bought the unifors a month ago. I have had it about 8 or
9 months. I can’t ronomber any of the people who gave us the nonay, tut

i do know that they gave sé the money becausG I said X waa in the Havy and
because I had tha unifora ef. Hernan wag algo woarlng his uniforn during

thed Sino, and he hag never heen a Merchant aeazans 1 don’? renexber getting

any monay by this seang in’ Savannahs
"I have read the above atatewant of nearly 2 page’ and At is trae to the
best of my mowledges Towodld alao lke to gay at this tine, thad any
neroy show by the court will be very deeply appreciated. If released, 1
hope to return to HW, Jo and try me best to enter in the armed forces
janodiatelys ., re -o

‘ Se (Signed) John Jack Grossi,

” Witness: Taylor J. Sims, IT, FRE oo .
~ Savannah :

 

aN

 

| AW 45303 DocId:32563819 Page 10
 

 

 

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No, 1 :
THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

 

REPORT MADE AT

Savanngh

Savarnn : mee adie

DATE WHEN MADE: PERIOD FOR REPORT MADE BY
WHICH MADE

 

TITLE

610-1 Parca $29 TAYLOR YACHSOH SEG, IT

CHARACTER OF CASE

CHANGED: THONAS HARVET TSRUAR 5 gor JaCk GHOSEL.
Whe, Jack Dale Willinss. | SETECTIVE SERVICE

TILEGAL WEARING OF UNIFORE

 

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

Referenca:

Beteilss

APPROVED AND.

Subjects interviewed several tinea and told various
stories and unteathe but subjects GRISST consistently
Stated: thet he was uo and had nob registered for
Eelective Service, AUSA Savannah disalssed INU

charges against. ¢ Soest on bagis ef additional inforsa- |
tiow tending te show that uniform GHOSST was wearing

was not of UEE,. At later-date, AUSA dismissed $5. charges |
va. GROSST on grounda he was only 16 years old. On basis
of information “received from probation atithorities, GROSST
released to New Jersey State Howe for Boys. Information
filed against subject HERXAY charging TAU (Navy unifora)

. and HERWAN entered plea of guilty under fuyenile delinqnency

act. en guch illegal wearing. Received tuo years’ probation. -
Disposition sheet and probation flash subaitted. Uo #ecord
Washington, De Ce that elther subject enlisted USHe

- Pe
Roport of Si Taylor J, Sins, Savannah, -2lilte
The title.of-this case is being marked changed to rafleet the
true: nawe oF the subject previcualy designated at dack Dale |
Willians a4, JOH! JACK CROSSI, with alias Jack Bale Williens.
. ‘ 7

PAYIOW JACKS. SinS, TU, Special A Agent
‘Federal ou Horeaa. of investigation .
Sauienth, Cea Gorgia ~ +

 

 

‘SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES ~

 

FORWARDED:

43 2EgS PA a

 

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

3 \Buraad (Ene.)
2 Neware :

1 USA, Savannah

2 Savannah

| HW 45803 Docld:32563619

 

14?

CORY

 

 

 

 

 

Page 3
 

 

 

 

| .
| HW 45603

 

SV 13-93
- UNDEVELOPED LEADS -
“THE NEWARK FIELD DIVISION: - .
AT JAMESBURG, NEW JERSEY, will obtain from the records ‘of the New

‘Jersey State Home for Boys, subject GROSSI'S legal residence, his
birth date, place of birth, identity of relatives.

It is also requested: that the Bureau of Vital Statistics be checked

to further verify subject GROSSI'S birth date. (This lead was set forth

in Teletypes to Newark dated May 8, 194) and May 16, 194.)

y

- PINDING-

 

 

DocId:32563819 Page 7
 

 

| BW 45803

SV 43-93
PROSECUTIVE ACTION

The facts concerning the uniform worn by subject GROSSI as related by Lt.
WILLIAM C, LASSITER, U. S, Naval Reserve, were discussed with Assistant

Ue. S.-Attorney JULIAN HARTREDGE, Savannah, Georgia, who advised that it

was his opinion also that the uniform which subject GROSSI was wearing :
was not the uniform of the U. S. Navy and that he was dismissing the charges
which had been brought against the subject GROSSE for TLlegal Wearing of
the Uniform. He stated that the Selective Service charge would be continued
against him, however.

On May 8, 19h, Mrs HARTRIDGE advised he had received information from the
Ue. Se Probation Officer at Savannah, Georgia, to the effect that subject
GROSSE is. only 16 years of age and that accordingly there was no violation
of the Selective Training and Service Act for failure to register on the
part of the subject and that. he was dismissing such charges, He stated
that the subject would be held for the New Jersey State Home for Boys and
that GRUSSI would be returned to the custody of such institution.

MR. EDWIN C. HARDISON, U. Se Probation Officer,Savannah, Georgia, advised
the writer that he had received information from the probation officials
to the effect that GROSSI is actually only 16 years old and that he
served some time for juvenile delinquency at the New Jersey State Home
for Boys at Jamesburg, New Jersey.

' Mre SCOTT A, EDWARDS, clerk, U.S. District Court, Savanah, Georgia,
_ presented court records on THOMAS HARVEY HERMAN which reflected that a

criminal information was filed by the U. S. Attormey on one count for
violation of the juvenile delinquency act in that HERMAN did unlawfully,
wilfuly and knowingly wear the duly prescribed uniform of an enlisted man
of the U.S. Navy. On May 11, 19h) he entered a plea of guilty to such
charge and was given two years probation with the exception that he would
be discharged from probation on and after his entry in military service
of the United States for the period of such service.

il

By teletype dated May 2, 194, Washington Field Division advised that a
check of the records in the Navy Department failed to reflect any Navy
enlisted ‘personnel record issued for either of the subjects but it was
stated that one GILBERT ARTHUR HERMAN, born November 24, 1922, Cuba, home
address 342 Taft St., Bristol, Pa., serving aboard the USS Thomas Jefferson,
might be HERMAN'S brother.

~ Su
WAKO 9 S&

 

DocId:32563819 Page 5
 

 

 

 

45603

SV’ 43-93

_ ENCLOSURE: TO THE BUREAU - one disposition sheet for GROSSI.

_one probation flash letter for HERMAN.

- PENDING -

 

DocId:32563819 Page 6
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| HW 45803

 

SV 43-93

This agent can testify that on April 28, 19h, subject HERMAN gave the
following signed statement: °

"Savannah, Ga.
April 28, 19k

"], Thomas Harvey Herman, make the following voluntary statement to |
Taylor J. Sims, who has identified himself as a Special Agent of the
F. B. Is No threats or promises were made to get me to give this and
I know it may be used in court.

When I gave Mr. Sims the signed statement about a month ago, I told him
several things that are not the truth, Actually I was never on the S, S..
Mills and have never been in the Merchant Marine. Also I have obtained
money by saying I was in the Navy. I did this six or seven times, and
each time I was with Jack Williams, who was arrested with me here in .
Savannah. I really don't know what his real name is, We got $10. to $12.
to $15. each time, and I know that the people gave us the money because

_ we had told them we were in the Navy. This happened in Norfolk, Baltimore,
.and a few other places. I have had the Navy uniform about 9 months and

was wearing it when I got the money from these people.

‘iy mother's name is Glada Herman, and she last resided on 216 California

Ave., Atlantic City, Ns J. My. brother Gilbert Herman is in the Navy.

T an 17 yrss old. : .

"y have read the above statement which is true to the best of my knowledge.
/s/ Thomas Herman . "

Witness: Taylor J. Sims, ITI, FBI, Savannah, Ca.

. Special Agent SIMS can also testify that subject GROSSI on April 26, Agus

gave the following signed statements

"Savannah, Ga.
April 28, 19h

"I, John Jack Grossi, make the following voluntary’ statement to Taylor Je
Sins, who has identified himself to me as a Special Agent of the FHI. No
threats or promises were made to me to give this statement and I know it
may be used in courte - 4

 

 

 

DocId:32563819 Page 2
| _. FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1
THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

43-93 ddk

FILE NO.

Savannah

 

 

 

. REPORT MADE AT DATE WHEN MADE PERIOD FOR REPORT MADE BY “
- Savannah 6-1O-y 12, lh 5 5=B 95 TAYLOR, JACKSON SIMS, ITI
“Gilacup: THOMAS HARVEY HERMAN; JOHN Jace” Grossr, | ““™*cTRorcss
Me Jack Dal&Williams, < } SELECTIVE SERVICE
: é “ TLLEGAL WEARING OF UN IFORIE

 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 

: ; | __———$8" GROSSI on grounds he was only 16 years old.

References

Details:
We OWbl Ob Wenice
an AED-H¥HB0

OF 8) 22S By de

APPROVED AND CY a

Ags) 8, tending to show that uniform GROSSI was wearing

‘Whe osition sheet and probation flash submitted.

yy De oFepgit Aeenr
FORWARDED: /™ 1 f @

Subjects interviewed several times and told various .

stories and untruths but subject GROSSI consistently
stated that he was 18 and had not registered for
Selective Service. AUSA Savannah dismissed IWU
Charges against GROSSI on basis of additional informa-_

At later date, AUSA dismissed 5S charges
On basis
of information received from probation authorities, GROSSI

was not of USN.

Lon led against-subject HERMAN charging IWU (Navy uniform)

‘ Ray released to New Jersey State Home for Boys. Information
Fined kal

(and HERMAN entered plea of guilty under juvenile delinquency
on such illegal wearing. Received two years' probation.
No record
gton, D. C. that either subject enlisted USN.
: age se
o Pe eon V8 Nes

" mat
Report of SA Taylor J. Sims, Savannah, osc. rex ON ©

Lene g-yoee

The title of this case is being marked. ‘changed ‘to reflect the ‘

true name of the subject previously designated at Jack Dale
Williams as* JOHN SACK GROSSI, with alias Jack Palle, Williams.

 

: , I we
TAYLOR JACKSON ‘SINS rit special ‘Agent " , &
Federal Bureau Bureau of in Bh gation oe

Savannah, Geor Georgi

IN CHARGE DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

 

 

 

1 USA, Savannah!

 

 

 

2 Savannah -
OOK Bt iit a3
~ ~
' _

™~
Fo
HW 45803 DocId:32563819

AR UR BSEF >

COPIES OF His, REPORT

 

 

SRT caper

 

 

Sige el - oe
“So 29
SUN "2Qy, a4 | « NY 4 I toe

 

a al
Xy-aoss “SUN ye me mw x 3 3

 

 

 

Page 1
PSV 43-93

: : ‘When I was first questioned by Mr. Sims around the last of March this

: year, I told him that my name was Jack Dale Williams, but this is not

i : true and my real name is John Jack Grossi. I did this becuase I didn't

: like the name and because I didn't want my mother to know about my trouble.
I also told Mr. Sims before that I had no criminal record, but this also
is not tiue because I was arrested and placed in New Jersey State Home for
Boys at Jamesburg, Ne J. I was arrested in Pennsylvania, the town of
Media. I was arrested for running away from home.

"T also stated in my first statement that my home was in.Florida, tut

this is not true. My home is 268 17th Ave., Patterson, N. J. where my
mother, Mrs. Rose Grossi, lives. My brother, Albert, is in Army Air

Corps, and my sister, Jean Engold, lives with my mother, I told Sims-
before that I had no brother or sister, and made up the first name I gave
for my mother. My father, John Grossi, is in the Armys Also I have never —
_been on the 5. S. Mills as I first said.

| "As I-said before I have not registered for the draft although I am 1B
i; years old.
i

"About six times during past year I have told people I was.in the Navy and

by means of such statement I have asked and received from them various

sums of money ranging from $10, to $18. each time. Usually this happened

t while Thomas Harvey Herman and I were hitchhiking, .The first time was

; coniing out of Philadelphia, and other times in Baltimore, Raleigh, N. C.,
Washington, D. C., and Norfolk, Va. Of course neither Herman or I have ~
ever been in the Navy. At these times we were wearing the uniforms we were

. wearing when first picked up here in Savannah. It was not tue, as I first
said, that I just bought the uniform a. month ago. I have had it about 8 or

‘ 9 months, I can't remember any of the people who gave us the money, but

i I do know that they gave me the money because I said I was in the Navy and

| because I had the uniform on. ‘Herman was also wearing his uniform during

that time, and he has never been a Merchant seaman. I don't remember getting

any money by this means in Savannahe . .

"I have read the above statement of nearly 2 pages and it is true to the
. best of my knowledge. I would also like to say at this time, that any
i mercy shown by the court will be very deeply appreciated. If released, I
f hope to return to N. Js and try me best to enter in the armed forces
i . imediately.
\ i
(Signed) Jom Jack Grossi, *

y _ Witness: Taylor J. Sine, iI, FBI
Savannah

 

 

~3- | Savy ~NET LS Sst

  

  

ee

 

 

HW 45803 DocId:32563619 Page 3
 

 

 

 

 

 

SV"43-93

Special Agent SIMS can also testify that on May 8, 1944 he interviewed
Subject GROSSI at the Chatham County Jail, Savannah, Georgia, and that

at such time subject GROSSI was again given an opportunity to tell the
tyuth concerning his age. Subject GROSSI stated that he fully realized
that he would not be guilty of a violation: of the Selective Training and
Service Act of 1940 if he was not 18 years old. He stated that it would.
certainly be his desire to state that he was born in 1927 in order to
avoid such prosecution but he again stated that he was born’ duly 5, 1925 at
Patterson, New Jersey and that he had never registered under the Selective
Training and Service Act. At such time he was questioned carefully about
whether he was a parolee or an escapee from the New Jersey State Home

for Boys.at Jamesburg, New. Jersey, He stated that he was only a parolee
and he had never escaped from such home,

Special Agent SIMS can also testify that on May 8, 19kh, he interviewed
Subject HERMAN at the Chatham Bounty Jail, Savannah, Georgia, at which

time he admitted that several facts he had previously given were not

true; namely, that he was living at the Young Hotel, Tennessee Avenue,
Atlantic City, when he met subject GROSSI and that he had previously run
away from home because his mother, MRS. GLADA MAE HERMAN, 216 California
Avenue, Atlantic City, had made him stay home. He stated that she was not
dead as he had first told the agent. He stated that he had later gone

back and tried to locate his mother but that she had moved from such address
and he did not know where she was located at the present time. :

WILLIAM C. LASSITER, Lt.
U.S. Naval Reserve ~—
Savannahi, Ge Orgias

Lt. LASSITER who had originally questioned the two subjects on the day

they were apprehended by military police authorities was interviewed by

the writer concerning the uniform that subject GROSSI was wearing at the

time of his apprehension. Lt. LASSITER advised that it was his opinion

that the uniform iteelf was a Merchant Marine uniform and not one of the

Ue Se Navye He stated that since GROSSI was not wearing any Navy insignia
that such uniform, although it appeared very similar to a regular Navy
uniform, would not be classed by the Navy as suche He stated that he could
not say as to whether the two red service stripes which GROSSI had on one

of the sleeves of the uniform which he was wearing were Navy stripes although

it was his opinion that ordinary Merchant Seamen do not wear such service

stripes, He stated that the main distinguishing feature between the uniform
of the two subjects was that the Navy uniform which HERMAN was wearing con-
tained three small stripes around the collar which definitely designated

it as.a Navy uniform, and that GROSSI'S uniform did not have such three small
stripes.s

7“ | Sars NS S SS a

 

HW 45803 DocId:32563619 Page 4
