 

PO
NW 53294. -

 

 

#e62 622

OSWALD's case was not the same as obher Americans in Russia because
he was considered not normal and he was not considered a defector as
were MARTIN and MITCHELL.

“ SUBTECP heard that OSWALD applied in Mexico for return to Russia.
Word went from Mexico to the First Main Directorate! to the Second Main
Directorate. Second Main Directorate told First Main Directorate that
he had trie@ suicide in Russia, married a Soviet citizen, departed Russia

and: was considered not normal so the request should be rejected.

SUBJECT was then shown some photographs and he naia he had seen a

ph ebare, of Marina OSWALD in a magazine.

OA long list of names was read and shown.to SUBJECT but he failed

“to ‘daentity any of them. Many of the names were of people in Minsk.

JIB: ins

 

 

sauna:

 

 
 

 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
 

‘53294

 

LEST Ky: Cooxseeeo(y)
#262 622 -€ spf.

   
 
   

and thereby get an idea as to what the milibary was planning in the
yay of armanents and things of that nature. The SUBSECE alco advised
that the responsibility for getting laformation surreptitiously from
fAmorican Ewbossies in foreign countrics who employ, indigenous personnel,
falle within the confines of the KGB. We etated that the way they go
nbowt this i¢ to work through the indigenous persodnel and arrange to
onter the énbassy at special tives during the might. They would firat
make a-close survey and a photograph of the area in which the enlboscy
keeps its Classified material, then they would subsequently enter this
area and open-up the safes. “hen he wos asked how this was done he_
stated, “oh, eonbinations to cafes ave not hard to aeqitre". Ne sald
thot the fmportart ond difficult parb.of bhig activity is taleing the
mxterial out and photopraplttig 1b end then placing 16 exactly as 1%

was before they touched Th. eee .

  
            

iaaane ee {
Tr

[ihn Avant ae, oo

 

 

DoclI

 
    
 
  
 
   
 
    
   
        
       
     
      
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
    
   

LLSSHIKy -Ceorgetheta)
fo62 622. ¢ SD/L

   

   

SUBJRCE'S FATHER

(1) The SUBJECT also made reference to his father during this

eal, describing him asa very tall end extremely wi ebuilt indlviduel,

and one who was exbremely Intelligent end a self-made, golLf-educated
nom. He learned the shipbulldimg trade mostly therovgh his own rescarch
and study, and also from the CUMIECE's grandfather, who was one of she
first shipbutiders in Pusefa, The SUMECT added thet his grandfather

ated at ‘the age of 9k, He also stated that after the death of his

father, acviemorial was built dn hie memory elnce he was considered

a very capable director of the government shipping Industry. That

van about the last time he saw his mobher and brother and sister, as

they all went to thie coremony im honor of his father. He also

tndleasted that there was a porlodical whlch gave a complete run-down
“op hin family background, ineluding that of his grand abher and his
father, audit wos well publicized; and this he belfevea had a Lot

to do with his teing able to get some jal proference and move

along og fast as he did in tho RGB orgenteation.

  
    
   

 

 

 

RGB PRESSURE OW FMGLY

(3). On 27 February 19Gh during Jmech, the CUBIECGT stated that. he
has been informed that the KGB te putting pressure on his immediate
family, portieularly his mother, Movever, he enld he was not overly
yourted about her because she is voll-off financially, and being up
in age there ds nob much they can do to hers Hovever, vhat coneorns
him most Le the fact that they have already started ta -play on the
sympathies of his two childven and hie wife. The SUAIECE shebed: that
he was anbieipating thie; hoover, he did oot batuk that they weuld -
gtnrh so soon to preacure the family. llevever, he doos have none hope
} fn due time he may be able to get tis family cut of Russia. This
he sold was given to him by the Chlef of SR Divielon.

 

itt

 

() One} February LOGH dieing o sightseeing tour of Vashingbon
yohicle, as we passed the Library of Consresa, the SUBIC? pointed
ing and stated thet “ve have people vorking in there".
Agent Stanley C. LACH said, "vho ts ‘welt" snd the CUBIECT

ly "KGB". He continued by stating bhat this was a good place
ople because they could veadlly Lear by just vatelring 2
wearch was being done in the Tdhrary of Congress by the military

ie

  

 

 
 

 

 

PONE Gaonee. Med.
fe62 cc Sp/t

 

vas in his room, the clerk nodded afflouatively, avd the travel agent
proceeded to OSVALD's voon. He tried the door, but the door was Locvads
He knocked, got no response, and then with the assisbance of the cleok
they broke inte the room and found OSWALD lying acvocs the bod with both
of his wrists alacshed. The travel agent and the clout responded damodiately _
by taking OSWALD to the néar-by yicdical facllity whove he was given blood.
tvousfusiona and after a period @ regained his woyvength. Daring the
drostigation the following day the SULINCE sbabed that the doctor indented |
that hed OSWALD nob been found for epproximetely ton move minutes, ha would
lave been dead. It is here that the SUBJECT agein pounded the table and
said Lf the travel agent had uot brokon dite the room, but had imetcad ~~
contacted the KGB offfec like thoy are instructed to vhen thoy do not
get any response from people with whom they have appoirbments, that he
(sungEcr) would have most 1h rely digected the travel agent to forget
bout him, and on the following day or later thet ¢ yontag he vould. heave
sent one of ‘the KGB agenby to eheck on OCWALD, ot which tiwe he would.
have been found dead. This, he went on to abate , ie whot hurts bin
vhon he realizes that he could have been dngbrercntal in disposing of
OSWALD without any special dnquixy or perious luverlication, COUALD
being nothing, and at the same time toflay the Teosident of the United
u woarhes y Prastdent KISMIEDY, would be alive. The OUBINCE then wort on’
bo state thab after OSWALD wae eont to Minsk 2t was there thet he mot
Morte. Like himselr (OSWALD), Mario was. a girl froaa poavant’ fondly
with no special background and soc (| Diliverate. Tb was becouse
of her poor background that she vos given permincion to marry OSWALD
and return to the United Sbates as his wife. .

 
 
 
  

 

 

 

 

  

 

The SUBIECT then warb on to de oseetbe hat took place on the day.
that President KEMUNDY was.ascaesineted. Na caida that this vas actually
on Saturday In Moscow, the e@nd of Movember. Me was hone ab the tine
and Tappened to have the radio on, vben he Jicard that the Prosideat of
the United States. had been agssacetnated.  Aopr ly one hour Intex,
the yadto infovned leia that the os Dowad T OD. hie euncmecmont,
he gold, veolly gbunned hin. Ne pyabed hile ook ss ‘ached to his of flee.
Tnmodietely wpon his avriveal he seared for tho GOVALD file. When he
found the file he veviewed it and found that OSWALD had not been used
“ or-even approached for use by. the Raneton Intelligence. Us pub ina oe
long distance call-to the Chief of the MB Beebion in Minsk ond inquired
whether - they had ueed, trained ov prepared OSWALD in any vay for intelli-
pence acbivity. ‘The Chict informed hin that according to what he could
peel, they had nob wade any uce of COVALD. dust cbout this time, he
(ounsnet) stated that hig superior walked inte the office and direeted

    
 

 

 
 
 
  
 

 

  
  

 

 

 

  

 

 

 
 

PUENTE. Gooreaecblentls),
fe62 622 CG SD/L

the subir to get all the toformrtion available of OSWALD and prepare
a curmary bo be furnished the top officials of the Communist Party.
The SURJEGE then divected the KGB Agent in Minsk to likewise prepare
a suiimary of his file on OSWALD ond Informed him thet within tventy
minvtes a KGB agent would arrive by special militery plane to plek”
up the summary for vetuin to Hoscow. He sald this vas agconplished,
and within one hour they wore preparing a detailed veport on OSWALD's
activity In Rissia. This, c Gluded the CUBIECE, 1s the story of
SVALD in Rossin.

 

 
 
 

 

. Pe AFPLULATION

 

 

(ft) The SUBJECT alco indicated that-he did not join the Commmist
_Parby uvsll he was 27 yeara old, end he did thie out of respect Vo lis
father, who at the tine was-on his death bed and asked hin (amrech) —
whether he would do him one more fovor before he died. That is how”
the SUBIECE stated he joined the Commmnist Party. Otherwise, he probably
yould net have been a menber bo thia days ;

“DIPEONNES AUD | INTELLIGENCE TYPES

 

(ex) The GUBIECT stated thet the BOB are oble to differentiate

“between Arerteans who are nsetpned 6 Meccow and are acbually the

Stave Department type, fromthose iho hove ou inbelligence background,
by the feck that the intelligence type of peeple do not aecoclabe with
the Ruseian gixle, thot is they will not go out with them alone, yhereas
the State Department type wills Also, over a poclod of a month og iyo,
they duvarlably are able to find evidense that the. Intelligence types
chove been mechivbebing. Uhia de nucvallly doteebed timough close cxan-
on of the individual's tovel.e and bed choets.

   
   

   
   

5

  

  
 
  
 
 

 

JAN Wel ATRORAPT

hy. On 25 Februnvy J9Ck during the eventng meal, a discussion was
vogording the recent aleplane es noted in the newvepapers aad on
dn the United States. The SORIECE commonted. that he has a Lot of”
: ends whoare test pul ota ond who are now engaged In testing. what. he | ce
-peforred tbo ns ’a U-1 type of atreratt that is faster then any other 4
ola the world. We added that. these friends are highky pala

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

  
  
    
    
   
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
 
  
   

: pk ND. BY ECADDRIESER 2 one

District Fleld Office
LL March LOGh

MEMORANDUM POR: Headquarters

 

yoce 622. G sp/.

1. Reference is made to Headaartors letler of assignment in
this case dated 4 Mach 1OGh.

2. During the period 20-23 Potumiry 106k, virile CUBINC? ves
“under the protective eustody of Special Agewls Stanley C. LACH,
- George BR. BREWER and Alfred B. MeCARRACHY, SUDIECT voluntarily
ontched Information concerning his bh rekpround and activities,
a well: ag other -informvtion of operational interest, the oubstance
ee which ig cet forth in the guececd Lng poxagraphs, Tb is to be
“noted that ot no time did any of the choveenamed agents colieit
gay. of this information or make Inquiries of the CUPIECT recarding
any of the matters discussed by him. SUBJECT spontaneously related
these dneidents In casual conversation during leieure perfods end
while cnroute with the agents to and feom places of entertainment ete.
Ta 6st cages nevapapers , magaeives anl PV programs prompted the
 BUBSECE to make comeonte relative to these matters. Following is
a emmpr tration of this Inform vbioni

 

   
   
  

 

     

 

 

 

 

OLIN pole “RA RAVE, \
Ce yruily +4 x

  

‘b) He paleo revealed that he hegepreviously boon in they vinta
tates whitle enroute to Cuba, Veuesuiala and other Detin Amorigan o
wixvica. He hag ct one tine ov anobher during his cervice with the.
detted: and worked on operational, projects for the Soviet Union
eblenlly” all of the countefes of Murope; hamver, he his never

 

 

 

ocld:32366704 Page 2

 
   

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

  

DATE :

PAGES

 

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION Released under the John

Kennedy
kasagesination Records
ollection Act of 1992

CIA
104-10134-10015
JFK

SOTOL357A

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ases#: Nl 53294 Date:
bé—14-2017

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CIA
NOBLE, JOHN D.,
HEADQUARTERS
MEMO RE YURI NOSENKO #262622.
03/11/1964

SPECIAL AGENT

epee

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

ae ose

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

COMMENTS

[Ri

OSWALD, LEE
YURI, NOSENKO

PAPER
SECRET
1B
RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
08/05/93

TFR48 1993.08.05.08:18:39:370037

FL7/3 :

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10134-10015

 
 

pee CEM
debe 622 CG BD/L

  

traveled te the Par East, exeeph while handling an agen’ who was
aetive againet the Japanene. Ge (SURIECT) steyed tn the Kurile

Islands vhich are within sight of Jopan. This was in 1949. Ile

said. that be wae active in the pleking up of agente by plane and.
shiv in thie area.

PARTLY BACKGROUND

(ce) In the latter pert of the evening on this vame date,

20 February 1964, the SURTECD steted that nis father vas a menber

of the Comuntet Conbral Comatttee, one of the first menbers of

the Commuiiet Party, ond that he had great respect for hia father.
“the SUBJECT also indicated thit his fother was a shipbuilder and
later became one of the first to organize and eck up the Russian
\ e Muergy Plant. Ib was during th's latter nebiviby that he
(the SUBJECTS father) and thece other offfelala camo in contact
“aith vadlation, which affected bis futher's liver end a few years
oe inter at the ape of ‘Sh whe father died of cancer. The SUBJECT

- , on to etate thet his father, betag a very proalnent Comounist,
Vas elven treatment for this cancer in a spectal hogpital which is
ealed in the hills outside of the clty of Mescow, and during his
nure In-this hospltal the fanijy resided wlth his fothey. They
five roon Living gunvters ‘beside the room in which His father
g coifined. This privilege, he enld, is only given to the especially
prominont VIPs of the Comminist Party, indleating that hie fvther was
- oe of the top men in the Communities Party.

    
 

   

 

 

  
  
  
   
    
 

ARC ACLTY: VEY

(a). the SUBTECE revenled that in 19h9, at the ope of 16, he was
vol Cadet. Ue was called into the service before graduat iti front
de our equivalent of a high school. He had taken part: In: the
fignting in the Black Sea Arca where he deserthed hond-to-hand combat
with Cormang, elated he was wounded, and becauce of his bravery he
tus owirded the Soviet Order Medal find the Order of Sbalin. Whe CURJSCE
 phated this vas unusual for a person of his age and gained hin great

veapect, At the end of the war ha had no more desive fox allit ry Lite
although his superiors tried bo keep hin in the military. Tnetead, he
for four years to the Tnetitute of Foreten Relutions and ‘learned
Eaglish Jongudge. Upon graduation, a tien came to him and told. hin
iad a jcb lined wp for him. He stated thes this actually vas |
s Idke being ordercd to take this perticular job which turncd out

 

 

 

  

 

 
  

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

   

spasrte-o
yebe 622 6 “SD/L

 

to. be with the Naval Intelligence. Ne claimed thet there vera tvo
wilitery intelligence organizations at the time, the Naval and the
Peound, Foree military type. :

 

EEG OCUARD Ty RUSS TA
fe) On 83 February 196 — ag F OPUECE approached the Gable for
the evering ircal, he nobed that the Mro maganine lying on the coftce
table in the Living room nad a. “plobuxe of Moosic OSWALD. As he sat
dom he hit the table with, his Plet and seid, "I feel thet I could
have stopped oswALD". AG this point Speeiel Agent Stanley C. LACH
acked him “how?". Te proceed sd hovetabe that he (suszner) was head
of the KGB Tourist and Visitors Settiion wirteh kept control over the
ackivities of OSYALD while he vas in the Soviet Unies. Me said at
the time, OSWALD war of no specind. concern om interest to the KGB
beenuce he locked Intelligence backwround, Whorcfore, when he applied
for permisaton to leave Ruceia, they (80D) under hie (suRJECT) direction
“4uformcd. OSNAND thet he vould have to moke Wis appliestiden through the
appropriate channels of the Seba Dopa sab, who in ‘uxn would request
his releace from tho Russian cumrterparbo-in hendling of vieas. This
‘he cuid was all done for propaganda ond chow purposes. Te vent on to.
eidte thet if they really wanted to release GSUALD, Lt could have pect
doue ou the spur of the moment, but. since OGWALD hed nothing. and wag
hob worth erything, they decided that this ves an opportunity to show
the Aseriean State Department that they did not mind releasing Individ~
wile if they applied for releace bhyouply the approprinte channels.
Prior te this application Lor ve af OSWAED, ‘the SUBJECT. stated
: ' ge to them amd there vas -
nothing tn Moscow that they Inia Tox or place bin into, they
deelded that they would gond OGVAND to Muck where ho vould be placed
“aw Tactory working on radlos tu the B that. sono training. in. the
: Becieleal and slectronie scieeel aight 2 1% in his developnent dnte

  

   

 

    
 
  

 

  
   
  
  

  

   

   
    

od, before. sending

 

jast ab this pe
me tht Tape heapponed.

   

STAD 8 bo 5 Finale, that a yoy ets

  

 

ed prey tions for his colne to Minek ob “ty o'clock in the afternoons
AR G 6 feloek he still did nob veport to the travel agent, so ‘the travel

agent deéided to go to the hotel where OSWALD tas staying to see if he.

could: Locate ha. When he gob to the hotel he asked the clerk if OSHALD

 

 

 

 

y he @ waned no capability dn this lela.

 

OSUALD woe supposed to have a noobng wlth a travel agent In. i o¢erd a

 
