 

  

[ Rekeasea under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2

DATE: 11-14-2017 oO Co .
” we me a . :

.

   

Techaical equipment a know-how are available for misur
installations in this office, Liaison with the telephone. company
is such that nearly anything can be accomplished. It should be
pointed out that technical installations are made only with proper

‘Security to protect the Bureau's interests. A memorandum dated
3/21/61, maintained as top serial of 66-75, gives instructions to.
agents having cases assigned in which a misur installation could

be used to advantage, as to the procedure used in the installation -
ofa misur, This memorandum points out the responsibilities of
agents involved in this type of operation. :

In summary, it appears at this time that:
1. No extra pairs should be installed by the telephone

Company in view of statements made by NICK SCAGLIONE, JR. that he
is able to trace out the telephone equipment. :

 

 

 

2. Wo installation should be made in the telephone booth i
to be installed in the Dream Bar.

3. Techniques considered secure are installation cof a
radio transmitter with off-on’ Switching possibilities and a nearby
receiving location for the installation of equipment that can use
telephone lines already in use for telephone service. This -
equipment could be installed in the most desirable location in
the building. A plant would be located nearby.

f

 

the building requiring consideration of possible alarm systems or
a watch of the building from 4:00 AM until morning.

; This installation continues to receive consideration for
installation in spite of information furnished above. Careful
consideration is being given at the present time as to whether — ,

. an installation at the Dream Bar would warrant the risk involved
er whether installations at other locations might be more productive.

; lt is realized ‘that a long period of time has elapsed
Since authority was requested for this installation, Every effort

' Will) be made to bring this case to a logical conclusion in the
i beer! future, i

| | ERED 4
| - —- 76 - ,
po , - "

t

| Docla: 32289497 Page 9

  
   

 
|

 

i

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey-
DATE: 11-14-2017 ao : :

_ installation would be complicated by the fact that telephone wires Pr
in this building now run in conduit.. - ‘

-to give an audible alarm when a door is opened or to leave an une”
‘noticed indication that someone has entered the ‘building could have

when monitoring is desired. This would cut down chances of

‘or more leased lines:

 

    

 

of the claims sade by SCAGLIONE. With this installation it would
be necessary to have a plant site near the Dream Bar. (This
equipment is deser‘bed in Bureau airtel to Tampa 12/4/61; file
66=231-2 Z,) Consideration was given to obtaining access to the
telephone booth which will be installed in the Dream Bar on
4/27/62, nquiries at the telephone company revealed that the
telephone company installs the telephone booth and later installs
the telephone in the booth. This would make necessary the .
installation of the device in the booth and then when the tele=
‘phone is installed the wires from the device would have to be
Connected to the wires serving the telephone. This is not a
GéSireoLe arrangement in this case. It was also noted that: we do -
not know where the telephone booth is to be installed and that: the
eguipment. might be in such a location that it would furnish little
cor no information of value. In this connection, it is felt that a’
better installation could be made after. the telephone equipment has
been installed and has been in service for some time, This

. Nothing is known of any alarm system installed in this me
building when it was renovated. It is felt that no alarm system
with an outside connection has been installed as no wires have
been found leading from the building. An alarm system of the type

been installed. Consideration to this would have to be given at .
time of entry into. the building. :

. A radio-type installation could be made in this building
which would require no external wires, The disadvantage of this

type of installation is that it broadcasts on a frequency which

Can be picked up by anyone with equipment which will receive on !
the band on which it broadcasts. This equipment would have to be |
connected to the AC circuit to give long-time operation and
shailld be equipment which could be turned on by radio Signal

 

~

detection, This type of equipment would be available from the By

laboratory (possibly the off and on feature would have to be

{
devised, but this is no real problem). This office has battery» i
operated radio equipment of this type available for temporary - |

{

- installation. This equipment will transmit for only about 24

hours without replacement of batteries. A radio: installation

such as that described gbove would require a nearby installation

where an antenna and receiver could be located. This signal Gy
could then be fed to a plant or to the FBI office through one }.

 

 

| DocId: 32289497 Page 6
 

  

DATE: 11-14-2017 he

‘Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 USC 2107 Hotey>*
oe

 

\ oe on ff
boot, so .

oy

 

company will not enter a home to replace an instrument and that

' ‘they are unwilling to supply a leased line from a location near ~

' a subject's home or place of business to the office of the FBI.
He pointed out that in matters involving the security of the

: United States, such as Communist or Espionage matters, these

| instructions do, not apply and that the company has no reservations

of any kind. (Serial 2X of 66-231.) <=

As is pointed out by Inspector FAISST, a memorandum was

& in the file on 2/28/62 recommending "....now is the time for

w2ai-txained and telephone and misur observations with action.” |
Daytime surveillance made on a spot-check basis revealed that the
Dzcam Bar was watched by one or more of the persons operating the
sutablishments at all times. At no time was this building seen
by me to be in a boarded-up condition which would provide easy
access, If access to the building had been arranged, it would M
be extremely hazardous to make an installation while workmen were *
in the process of renovating the building. This could be done
with security provided a close watch of the building was made to vee
follow exact progress of the interior construction and many entries — :

_ made to place technical equipment and wiring in the building as

. construction progressed. Even then, a change in plans could cause

, removal of work already done, revealing wires and/or equipment ,. ,

_ Placed in the building. it is felt that installation of a cable
Gontaining extra pairs with the subsequent connection of microphone
equipment to these cables would not be secure at the Dream Bar as
NICK SCAGLIONE, JR. is familiar with telephone procedure, according
to statements made by him to SA LABADIE, and is able to conduct a
security check of telephone equipment in this bar. This is a com-
pietely changed situation from the case when a pair of spare wires 1
was available for our use. These wires did not approach other .
telephone wires and extended from near the top of the building. -

   

 

; The possibility of installing equipment in the building” ;
which will not need spare wires exists.. As a result of communica= ‘
tion with the Bureau in these matters, the Bureau advised by letter
gated 1/26/62 that they would furnish the Tampa Office with two*,
wlectronic switches, each complete with ap,amplifier and a micro- cu) :

one nd in addition two( SPIT switch inghini ts and special relays Cu
to op the audio path when’the line is ‘Used for telephone con-
versations. This equipment has not yet been received in this office
probably because it has only recently been invented and must be
built at the FBI Laboratory.| Using this equipment, it is possible
to install a microphone in the building either in a telephone or i
adjacent to the telephone line or at some other location and con-
nected with the telephone line. This microphone would use the
telephone line used by the telephone and would require no extra

It is felt that this installation would be secure in spite

 

©

 

 

 

:
! DocId:32289497 Page 7
i
 

 

 

nedy i i ion Ac Hotey.
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 Use 2107 Hotey
pate: 11-14-2017 _ . ~ .

mo Ve os

aa

4

my

 

noted that in report of SA LABADIE dated 4/13/62 in latter case
(162-51), serial 46, on administrative page the information is set
out that the Dream Bar now has glass front doors, installed by

G. &§, SHORE, Shore Giass Company, per CASIMIRO HERNANDEZ, and

they are made by NATCOR. Yhe above is noted so that master keys

may possibly be obtained for the locks which are used in NATCOR
peoduets. Having the keys yauld give ready access for any - ~
subsequent re-survey.

SA EARL M, PETERSEN (sound-trained Agent) - 4/20/62:

In letter dated 9/20/61, advising the Bureau that an
Fi-i42 was being submitted requesting authority to install a misur
in the Dream Bar, the Bureau was advised that the Dream Bar is
iocated near a busy intersection in Tampa where both streets ‘have
a considerable flow of traffic on a twenty-four-hour-a-day basis.
Two cleaning establishments are located within a block of the
Dream Bar and are operated on a twenty-four-hour=a-day basis.. me
Another bar and a billiard parlor, both open long hours, are
located nearby. The billiard parlor is adjacent to the Dream . i
Bar and in the building housing the Dream Bar, owned by the ‘
Trafficante estate. The Dream Bar is usually vacated between
3:30 and 4:15 AM, with the venetian blinds in the front of the
building raised and lights left turned on inside the building.
Ali doors and windows at the rear are barred and bolted from the
inside and only one of the front doors is not bolted from the ingide,
The remaining front. door has a boltstype lock which would make it
necessary to pick this lock both open and closed.

5 :

 

e

 

. 1
It was pointed out that it would be dangerous to work in
the front part of the building, but that work could be done in the !
réar rooms of the building provided access could be obtained. -
It was pointed out that during the course of this survey i
a fire damaged the interior of the Dream Bar. In addition to this, i
. the operation of the Bream Bar was being taken over by FRANK PETER
ALBANO, who is married to a niece of SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.. It,
‘Was surmised that because of the fire and change of ownership it.
was possible that: extensive interior redecorating would take place
in the near future. .

Technically, it seemed possible to effect an installation
in the Dream Bar as a spare pair of telephone lines lead from a
pole at the rear of the building to the back wall of the Dream Bar.
ft would have been possible to install a hidden microphone in the
Dream Bar and conceal wires inside the building which could then
have been connected to the wires leading to the telephone box on :
my the pole in the alley and from there to a plant or to the office

 

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32289497 Page 5
 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey-

  

DATE: 11-14-2017 C : caan

 

 

of the FBI through one or mdre leased lines. It was felt that a
good possibility. existed of obtaining a key or a copy of the key
ta. ‘. the building through contact with NICK SCAGLIONE, JR.,
who was operating the bar and who was at that time an informant
of this office. :

Authority was requested in order that we could move |
‘without delay should conditions be such that this could be done
with security. .

: It was felt that a key was necessary for access to the
Degem Sar because the only available entrance to the building. was
“On a busy street patroled by uniformed police in cars. Close .
iisison with police officers in the area is not deemed advisable

_ because of -the possibility of police protection being afforded
the Dream Bar in connection with bolita activities,

 

A key had not been obtained and renovation of the Bo
building had not occurred when on January 14, 1962, a fire ruined is
the interior of the building. :

As a result of this fire, the entire building has been
renovated. The rear has all windows and doors completely barred, _
allowing no access from this direction. No spare wires exist .
between the pole in the alley and the. building, and new GT-~7~2 f
wire has been installed to the one non~published business tele
phone, number 229-5759, now in the Dream Bar. A similar telephone
line leads to the billiard parlor next door, also rebuilt as a
result of the fire.

The telephone presently in the Dream Bar is a black HSC
instrument. It was installed on March 29, 1962. This telephone. !
Was installed for NICK SCAGLIONE, JR. A pay Station has been
requested for the Dream Bar and will be installed on April 27. '
A three-wire cable will be installed to this telephone booth
which will be located inside the Dream Bar. The General Tele- |
phone Company of Florida does not ‘install cables containing 2 i
spare wires to a building such as the Dream Bar, Any installation
other than a three-wire cable would be an abnormal installation..

Teiephone Company of Florida, has specifically assigned Mr. DONALD
WITHERS, head of the Training Division, te furnish anything of a
technical nature wanted by the FBI. . On October 16, 1961, Mr.
WITHERS advised that Mr. BROREIN had instructed that the telephone
. company is not willing to become -involved in anything other than
normal telephone procedure in view of the possibility of becoming
Sunject to a law suit. He advised specifically that the telephone

we , :
~ 5 od.

Mr. CARL BROREIN, JR., Operating Vice President, General |
t

  

fo:

 

| Docld: 32289497 Page 6
 

  

i leased ‘tinder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act ‘of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Horey—~

DATE: 41614-2017 oO . v ne’

 

. n “8, SAC, Tampa (92-1) / May 23), 1962
et Director, FBI (92-271) 09")
4 Ed 7 é
2 (j a
SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR. me “y
ABA ie
é ANTI-RACKETEERING. Mee —

  
 

4 A review of the recent Tampa inspection report indicates that wd
° you are giving consideration to the use of thefelectronic swite. pment C

in effecting MISUR coverage at the Dream Bar. You now have two complete

; units of this type equipment. Since you have tional microphope surveys

| pending, there is a possibility that additional/electronic switc] ite may be C u}
; | needed by your office. In the event the surveys indicate that additional

  
 
 
  

equipment of this type is necessary, you should advise the Bureau at the
earliest possible date, giving complete details concerning the environment
where it will he used so that appropriately disguised equipment may be
prepared for your particular installation.

   

Should your survey reveal a.situation where additional technical
information, assistance or equipment are desired, you should advise the
Bureau, attention FBI Laboratory, the details of the problem,

ZOE Sed

DECLASSIFIED &
oe

NOTE: It is noted from Tampa inspection report 4-19-62, that Tampa
has a MISUR installation pending at the Dream Bar, Tampa, and one
additional survey each pending in Tampa and Orlando, Florida. Nature
I, of telephone wiring and equipment used in some areas of Florida makes
& microphone egress difficult unless existing wire is used. This requires
special equipment such as the twof€lectronic switches| previously built(| usd
especially for the Tampa Office.

OW,

   

a ran Ae

MAY 2 3 1962 "
hoy me

wa Soa CONNER i: a en
Belmont = LICE

» -Mohr
Callahan

 

   

   

We OEbs Os

 

 

 

ontad
“Sele ay Pe HOA Vries pag 28 62 .
soa 4h ~
alone ms , gy Sei i eit CAL Omen
Ag Sane ser es RS |

Tele. Room

Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel KN

 

conty ee JL Nad. noon drcvetyee untr CI

hee

 

 

 

 

 

i
DoclId:32289497 Page 2
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 199? (44 USC VIO7 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017 JFK Assassination System Date: 6/11/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10201-10273

' RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 92-2781-552

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI
! TO: SAC, TP

TITLE :

 

 

DATE: 05/23/1962
‘PAGES: 9

SUBJECTS :
LST, MISUR, INSTALLATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact

DATE OF LASTREVIEW: —_.10/13/1998 -
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE ~ £
COMMENTS :

 

 

po
t v9.1 22
} DoacId:32289497 Page 1

 

 
 

  
      
 

' Réleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote
See, 11-14-2017 .
*

a toe

-
.

 

7 uo, rw
ADMINISTRATIVE MEMORANDUM RECESS a

\
SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.

aka. ; vs
ANTI-RACKETEERING 4
Tampa file 92-1 Clessif?

  

Bureau file 92.2781

INSPECTOR. R. L. FAISST: This pending case, Tampa Tigin, is

: assigned to SA STEPHEN J; LABADIE,
and supervised.on Desk of SAC. TRAFFICANTE is. a top hoodlun,. .
who has been selected for early Federal prosecution, He

z sly heads the Italian criminal elemeat in Tampa.

 
    

The Dream Bar, 2801 Nebraska Avenue, Tampa, is
Eeportedly owned by SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.'s estéts'aniqmerated
by NICK SCAGLIONE, who was recently discontinued as TP 50-C,

because of being on a Department of Justice list for prosecu-
tion, .

_Tampa letter to Bureau 7/14/61, requested authority ee
to conduct survey to determine feasibility of installing ‘
misur at the Dream Bar.
Bureau airtel 7/18/61 granted such authority. _
Tampa letter to Director 9/20/61 (FD-142) recommended 7
installation, ¥ “ss
en Bureau letter 9/27/61 granted authority. t

 

‘ installation had not been made when on 1/14/62, a
fire ruined the Dream Bar.

a ‘& Office memo 2/28/62 to SAC from SA STEPHEN J, LABADIE~
(66-231-2 HH) recommended "...now is the time for sound trained '
and telephone and misur observations with action," This memo . sO
Zise Sontained information that the Dream Bar was under repairs, ;
‘the place was boarded up at night, and the roof was being repaired :
at-, that (time, ‘

1h

oa

“,

¢ Dr : = ed c=)
oe Ce “eT memorandum was routed to SA EARL M. PETERSEN, a
. (9, Theré,is né& additional. information that any action has beep x
_ “\takensto date. io S—~ 5
oe ae y

~ i

ae ¥ 5 we wn 4

“&, _“G Bxplanations arevidduested of SA STEPHEN J? LABADIE, ©:
SASEARL M, PETERSEN)\“and; the SAC, as to what has caused the <=
_ delay inthe installation of pipe en sstag 2MO@&t specific work hasw
been performed, to make! thisidstditadion, it being noted: that;
it Aas approved 9/27/61, and what target date has been s@ét to
make'the installation, if suqly if s@ili bdeibe actively considered, .

PA INSPECTION

119/62 i ueee Mae thes :
saurpd Habbunsty J 92-279! - 5? G aun.
70 Lom ot

RAMips ENGIN Ike pebt wi Cone. Srdlee’

.

  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

i

| DocId:32289497 Page 3
 

 

 

. ~ = tape
eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Ho ay

  

: -14-2017
DATE: 11-14 om oN
. ne we : No

 

SA STEPHEN J, ZASADIE ~ 4/20/62; SA LA % has the Santo

TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka., AR case
assigned, he being < subject of Bureau "crash" investigation.
Efforts to eater his part-time residence at 2505 Bristol Avenue,
Tampa, where it is known he spends very few days a year, have been
negative since some members of family or the maid are in the house
at all times, Furthermore, the risk involved may not warrant the
effort as TRAFFICANTE is seldom there.

   
  

in view of the above, fully realizing the aims and
desired accomplishments to infiltrate and penetrate the "TRAFFICANTE"
group 2% Tampa, it was ascertained that somes of the close
TRAFFICANTE” group hang out, not regularly, at the Dream Bar,
2801-03 Nebraska Avenue, and appropriate Survey was requested.

 

It was thereafter established that entry could only be
gained to the Dream Bar, with relative security, from approximately
3:30 AM (when FANO TRAFFICANTE and his trusted helpers and friends’ "
left the bar) to approximately 9:30 ~ 10:66 AM, when they reopened.

 

or daybreak. Survey indicated that the above entrances, even with
key, would have to be made on numerous eceasions to bury wires,
sand such entry was not deemed secure. :

 
 
   

_ On 1/14/62 the Dream Bar was gutted by fire. Thereafter
‘the building was checked and it was noted it was boarded up. Such
being the case, it Suggested the probability that new telephone
instruments and new telephone booth would be installed, and such

phone or new booth and therefore a memorandun was submitted suggest-

ing this be checked and considering the fact that new possibilities :
now existed,

. Since the Dream Bar was to be reconstructed, entailing
perhaps all new Plans, new materials and changes, it was realized
by SA LABADIE that installation of misurs for concealment in old
building was not the desired method, as such would undoubtedly be»
changed, completely torn out. and rebuilt. Being aware of the above
situation, SA LABADIE set out to determine new construction.

SAs FRANCIS X, O'BRIEN and LABADIE, after appropriate .
checks, obtained from CASIMORO HERNANDEZ the reconstruction plans
and materials used at the Dream Bar and adjacent poolroom., The
Plans and material used were photographed and Photostats made,
respectively, and thereafter made a part of the 1A files for
NICK SCAGLIONE, AR, subject of Tampa file 92-27, which is 1A5,
and of the 1A file for SALVATORE CACCIATORE TRAFFICANTE, aka., IGA,

. Nurvers, subject of Tampa file 162-51, which is 142. It is further
a RET

ha Set

 
 

 

 

r .
| Docld: 32289497 Page 4
