 

 

 

& ~
”

(F) BUREAU APPLICANT MATTERS ~ CLERKS - SUMMER EMPLOYEES -- The
following policy has been adopted regarding summer employment of
clerical employees at Seat of Government this year. In view of
limited need for such employees, only those applicants will be
considered who have previously worked for Bureau as summer
. employees, with satisfactory work records, fulfilied their
agreements to work at least 90 days, or their entire vacation
period, and who agree to work during coming summer for minimum
of 90 days, or their entire vacation period. In addition, sons
and daughters of Bureau employees who have not previously been
employed by the Bureau will be considered for summer employment.
There will be no exceptions to this policy. All applications
for summer employment snould clearly refiect that applicant is
interested only in employment during summer months, and such
information should also be reflected on the interview sheet in
every instance.

s

2/9/60 . |
SAC LETTER NO. 60-9 ,

(G) .BANK ROBBERY MATTERS -- The recommendations of all Special
Agents in Charge concerning the dissemination program in bank
robbery matters instituted by SAC Letter 59-43 (3), dated July 7,
1959, have been analyzed by the Bureau. Effective immediately
the office of origin at the outset of the investigation in
unsolved violations of the Federal Bank Robbery and Incidental
Crimes Statute will furnish to surrounding offices and other
offices deemed pertinent by appropriate communication a succinct
summary of the modus operandi and descriptions of the unknown
subjects involved. Appropriate leads may also be set forth

in this communication. In cases of an aggravated nature, such
as those in which a large amount of loot is taken, a shooting
occurs or a hostage is taken, the office of origin should

prepare an appropriate communication for all continental offices.
‘Unless some reason to the contrary exists, there will not be any
necessity to furnish copies of such a communication to the
Anchorage, Honolulu or San Juan Divisions.

Photographs and descriptions of subjects apprehended
in violations of the Federal Bank Robbery and Incidental
Crimes Statute should be furnished by the office of origin
* to those offices previously advised under this program,

2/9/60
SAC LETTER NO. 60-9 ~ 4.

  
     

_ HW 55063 Docld:32989527 Page 9

 
v
a 38

 

and to any other pertinent offices developed during the
investigation. Copies of communications concerning
dissemination need not be furnished to the Bureau; however,

an appropriate statement that the dissemination has been made
should be set forth in the cover pages to the report submitted
by the office of origin. Manual and Handbook changes are
forthcoming.

Very truly yours,
John Edgar Hoover

Director

2/9/60
SAC LETTER NO. 60-9 -5-

_ HW 55063 Docid:32389527 Page i6

 

 

 
   

Brochures setting forth full details as to coverage
and rates are being made available to all field offices. The
availability of this protection should be brought to the
attention of all employees. The premium for the coverage
offered is very reasonable and it is worthy of consideration

. by any employee who desires this type of protection.

All applications should be forwarded to Parker
and Company, 1300 Connecticut Avenue, Northwest, Washington,
D. C. Further information can be secured if desired by
contacting Mr. Frank Wright at the above company.

   

~ 2/9/60
SAC LETTER NO. 60-9

  

    

MW 55063 Doocid: 32585527 Page &
;

WNW_S5063 Docid:33989527 Page 7 _

 

(C) FORMS - SURVEY -- A detailed review should be conducted

of all forms specifically approved for use in your office. Delete
forms serving no useful purpoSe, consolidate forms with similar
functions, and revise forms to improve and streamline operational
procedures in your office. Forms proposed for adoption, revision,
consolidation, or deletion must be accompanied by a communication
justifying proposals and requesting Bureau approval in accordance

-with Manual of Rules and Regulations, Part IT, Section 8, G, 1.

Results of your survey, including all forms proposals, should be
incorporated in one letter which must rsach the Training and
Inspection Division not later than February 19, 1960.

2/9/60
SAC LETTER NO. 60-9

(D) LEAVE ~ STATUS OF EMPLOYEES -- it is the responsibility of
each employee to know the status of his own leave account and
employees shouid therefore be encouraged to maintain their own
leave records. It is not the responsibility cf supervisors to
notify employees how much leave they nave to their credit or will
lose if they do net use it by the end of the year. Of course,
any employee with a question in regard to his leave status may
make inquiry concerning same. :

i

2/9/60 : : -,
SAC LETTER NO. 60-9 - ;
(E)'" SPECIAL ACCIDENT AND TRAVEL INSURANCE - SATI -- Renewal

applications for present members ov captioned group have been
sent out covering the new poli cy year woich began February 8,
1960. This accident protection is ayailable to all FBI
employees and in addition, the wife of e@ member can be covered
at the same rates.

SATI affords pretection twenty-four hours a day, anywhere
in the world, against a11 getieral accidents. In addition to the
basic policy covering accidental death, dismemberment or
permanent total disability, med= eal reimbursement and weekly
accident indemnity coverage is also available. These provisions
provide for reimbursement in full, up to the limit of protection
purchased, for medical expenses resulting from an accident and
for weekly indemnity paynents ir you are unabie to work due to
an accident. This policy o of ers x protection on a full-time basis
against accidents “occurr .c@, while on Bureau business,
while driving or riding ; bale © or as a _pedestr pedestrian, as
well as aceider ents that occur. ‘around it

  
 
 
 
   
 

ye

  
 
 

 

xt occur | house, in the Workshop, —

on vacation, on hunting or fishing tr: 2 che.

2/9/60
SAC LETTER NO. 60-9 -~2-

 

 
   

v

PERSONAL
NO NUMBER SAC LETTER 60-C
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

In Reply, Ploase Refer to January 25, 1960 WASHINGTON 25, D. G

File No.
pe v4
RE: BUREAU CODES
i AFSAM 7

 

One set of AFSAM 7 key lists for the months of
March, April, and May, 1960, being forwarded separately
to all divisions except Washington Field which will receive
none; three copies being furnished Bureau's Emergency
Relocation Site; and five copies Seat of Government Code
Room.

. Acknowledge receipt of key lists promptly by
routing slip, indicating serial numbers which appear thereon;
return address label of individual tamperproofed envelope
containing the keys even though torn in opening package;
and destroy, by burning, each monthly sheet thirty days
after the last effective date thereof, advising the Bureau
promptly by routing slip, attenticn FEI Laboratory, this
has been done.

It is essential the address label mentioned above
be returned. If the label is not returned, explanations
will be secured and consideration given to appropriate
administrative action.

Very truly yours,
John Edgar Hoover -

Director

eo

SWW 55063 Doold:32989527 Page 5

 
 

 

PERSONAL ATTENTION
SAC LETTER NO. 650-9
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

In Reply, Please Refer to February 9, 1960 WASHINGTON 25, D. ¢.

File No.

(A) FBI NATIONAL ACADEMY -~ In the past the fingerprints of
National Academy students have been taken on the opening day
_of the National Academy class. Hereafter the fingerprints will
be taken in the field and forwarded to the Bureau for search
prior to the issuance of the invitation for the officer to

attend the Academy. This program will be implemented as follows:

1. As each applicant is interviewed by the SAC,
* Following the submission of the application, the fingerprints
will be taken and forwarded to the Bureau with the application
and interview form.

2. ‘The prints of those applicants who are presently
being investigated for the 65th Session (beginning March 21,
1960) should be taken immediately and forwarded to the Bureau
by routing slip, attention, training and Inspection Division.

3.° The prints of those applicants who have been
interviewed but who are not being investigated for the 65th
Session will be taken at such time as the Bureau orders the
investigation of the applicant for @ particular session, and
forwarded by routing slip to the Bureau, attention, Training
and ‘Inspection Division. .

2/9/60
SAC LETTER NO. 60-9 a

(B) PRESIDENT'S TRIP TO SOUTH AMERICA-1960 ~~ Beginning
February 22, 1960, the President is making an official visit

to the following countries: Brazil, Argentina, Chile and
Uruguay. The President will return to Washington on March 6,
1960. The President will make overnight stops in both directions
at Ramey Air Force Base, Puerto Rico. At the request of the
White House, a Bureau representative will accompany the White
House group on this trip. He will handle Bureau matters with
both the White House staff and the United States Secret Service.

You are instructed to alert your sources for
information that may be of interest to the White House group
prior to and during the President's trip. You should be
particularly alert for information concerning the activities
of the Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico. Furnish pertinent
information to the Bureau expeditiously and in a form suitable
.for dissemination using above caption.

. AW 55063 Docld:32989527 Page 4
ee

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

bial Se iet Mowe gil sects ee aR Be . :

 
 

ba lo BGS

 

 

 

@ E

rial Scope:

 

 

NW 55063 Docld:32989527 Page 3) ee eis naa. eee J+

 

 

 
 

rs

 

 

D..0-: Docid: 32983527 Page 3

PERSONAL
NO NUMBER SAC LETTER 60-A

ty
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

January 15, 1960 WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
File No. .

rat
RE: -/ BUREAU CODES

Change No. 3 toKAM-1/TSEC, Repair and Maintenance
Instructions for TSEC/KL-7(AFSAM 7)-Joint, being disseminated
as follows: one to each office except Washington Field; one
to Code Room, Seat of Government; five to Bureau's Relocation
Site.

: Comply with Letter of Promulgation which appears
on front cover. Page 3, entitled List of Effective Pages,
through page 226, shall be inserted as in the case of other
manuals and superseded pages removed. Revisions listed as
Corrections and Instructions, pages 3 and 4, should then be
handled. Check Manual for completeness and accuracy and enter
appropriate information on Record of Corrections included
therein.

Execute all copies of Flyleaf Receipts. One copy
requires signature of SAC in two places. Employee who made
changes will sign all copies, each twice. That bearing the
SAC's signature should be placed in Manual immediately fol-
lowing original Flyleaf Receipt.

The address label of the individual envelope con-
taining Change No. 3, two Flyleaf Receipts and all residue
including Letter of Promulgation, Corrections and Instructions,
superseded pages and back cover must be returned immediately
to Bureau, attention FBI Laboratory.

Very truly yours,
John Edgar Hoover

Director

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

— JUNE \

PERSONAL
NO NUMBER SAC LETTER 60-B
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

In Reply, Please Refer to January 22, 1960 WASHINGTON 25, D, G

File No.

RE: MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCES

You are reminded that whenever requesting authority
to install a microphone surveillance of any kind, complete
details of the proposed installation must be furnished,
specifically pointing out if trespass is involved and whether
the microphone will be installed in the telephone or a tele-
phone instrument will be utilized in any way. Mere statements
that trespass is hot involved or that microphone will be in-
stalled in a living room are not sufficient. Bureau desires
specific details of each contemplated installation.

In addition, when advising that a microphone
surveillance has been discontinued state whether you have been
able to remove all equipment at the time of discontinuance.

It is realized that due to lack of maximum security such removal
may not be immediately effected and if such is the case keep

the Bureau advised every 15 days after discontinuance of efforts
being made to. remove all evidence of the microphone surveillance.

rn
: Each: Special Agent in Charge must continue to personally
supervise all microphone surveillances and the Bureau will closely

scrutinize each installation and discontinuance to insure that
you are acting in compliance with the foregoing. .

Very truly yours,
‘John Edgar Hoover

‘Director ©

 

NG] 55063 Doold:32989527 Page 4
La

 

 
