pn i ee [Dapp

regular visitors from abroad, ‘He was Trotskyite’™ (according to
the Soviet press) and an American spy, and yet he was allowed

- to return to the United States and marry a Soviet citizen who

is a communist spy.... Moscow never lets its citizens go abroad
unless they are trained agents from Moscow or Leningrad.

“Because of such statesmen on this continent, we also
have to suffer here, both morally and materially, from communist
henchmen, tyrants and agents who killed S, Petlura, E. Konovalets,
L. Rebet, S. Bandera and, finally, the. President of the United
States, John F, Kennedy. ‘ ,

The remaining Chapters deal with the history of the
Ukrainian liberation struggle against Poland and Tsarist and
communist Russia.

’

    

covmermap

 
 

 

a ind e . . @ e

-UNITED. STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

In Reply, Please Refer to... ++. ' CONFIDENTIAL:. ©: == WASHINGTON 25,D.c. | - +

File No. . et Foe yt at . . >
June 8, 1964

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

In connection with the book entitled "The Sinners"

“written by Wolodymyr Nemyliwskyj, a copy of which was forwarded

to the FBI in an envelope bearing the return address Wolodynyr
Nenyliwskyj, 71 Elm Grove Ave., Toronto 3, Ontario, Canada,
a confidential source abroad advised that WOLODYMYR NEMYLIWSKYJ,
1 Elm Grove Avenue, Toronto, has come to its attention on
numerous occasions in the past. The source said NEMYLIWSKYJ,
who is also known as NEMYLIWSKY, has been the author of several
letters to the source during the period between 1956 and 1964,
and described NEMYLIWSKYJ as a self-styled detective and under-
cover investigator. The source advised that on receipt of the
first letter from this individual, he had been interviewed at his
residence and had been: found to be mentally disturbed and suffering
from a persecution complex yc)

(The source cited several instances of material received
from NEMYLIWSKYJ to substantiate the above information and said it
was felt that any undertaking to have him interviewed concerning
comments set forth in his book concerning LEE HARVEY OSWALD Woulac ~)
prove fruitless and would only. ‘Berve An: provoking his mental
disturbance further. ;

The source advised further that | on March 23, 1964,
NEMYLIWSKYJ appeared in police court in Toronto, Ontario, charged
with unlawfully being in a dwelling house and impersonating a
police officer. Charges were withdrawn on the charge of unlawfully
being in a dwelling house; however, he was convicted and sentenced
to 15 days on the charge of impersonating a police officer. /c)

d2us¢

, Classified by SEER nde.
paeeee re Deckgsy wy! PE SFE

CONFIDENTIAL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Date:08/16/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

. IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER ; 179-10002-10173

RECORDS SERIES :
WC DOCUMENT REVIEWED BY FBI FOR HSCA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM :
TO

TITLE
LEE HARVEY OSWALD

DATE : 06/08/64
PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :
NEMYLIWSKYJ, WOLODYMYR

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : C
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS
One unnumbered page and pages 1-3.
Folder: 9

HW #50529) Docld:32206620 Page 1
4!

 

‘ © . @

PAR ng eee

CO "SUMMARY FROM UKRAINIAN

The author and publisher of this book, entitled
"The Sinners," is Walter (Wolodymyr) Nemyliwsky (enyliwsky3)
71 Elm Grove Avenue, Toronto 3, Ontario, Canada,

In “his introduction, W. Nemyliwsky states:

"I am dedicating this book to our Hetman Bohdan
Khmelinytsky and Symon Petlura, Commander in Chief of the
Ukrainian Armed Forces, whom the Jews lampoon and impudently
criticize in the local Canadian publications and include
among their enemies.... I am taking the liberty of protesting
against these Jewish lies because we used to defend these
parasites against the Nazis and now they are beginning to
‘fight' us here, Their comaunists have murdered S. Petlura
and E, Konovalets; and General ‘Taras Chuprynka, L.: Rebet and
8. Bandera have died at their hands.... The glorious memory
of S. Petlura does not deserve such rot and, therefore, we
have to defend his honor in all parts of the world. In order
to avoid my persecution by the Jews for some of the terminology
here, I have objectively used all our publications, foreign
language encyclopedias, "The Canadian Intelligence Service,'
(Flesherton, Ontario), 'The Ottawa Anti-Communist Report,’ ‘News
Behind the News,' etc. We all are citizens of this country
and, therefore, we should strive toward the common national
good of all its citizens and not employ propaganda against
other nationalities of our Canada. Hetman Bohdan Khmelnytsky
and Symon Petlura were not 'Plato's wolves' for the Jews of
various races and color, therefore the Jews should not lampoon

_ them as it can be seen on the. cover page of this publication."

In Chapters 1, 2 and 3, the writer explains the
"Biblical history of the Old Testament," trial of Jesus Christ
and his crucifixion, and the sins committed by the Jewish people
for which God is punishing them to this day.

Chapter 4, entitled "Philosophy and Communism,"
identifies leading jewish philosophers who are listed in the
"World's Philosophies." Among those mentioned, the writer
includes Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, who founded the theory ~
of dialectical and historical materialism and atheism, and
Y. Lenin, who put their theory into practice,

   

rea ae Sak
sian ot or raare

 
 

i In Chapter 5, the writer proves with "facts" that the
upper echelon of the Russian Communist Party were Jews,
Po. including Lenin and Stalin. Their successor, N. Khrushchev,
. 1 continues the conspiracy of Moscow~Jewish communism to enslave
i the free world, To prove this point, the writer points out
' the fact that the U. S. and Canadian Communist Parties are
| run by Jews and that the overwhelming majority of the Moscow
; spies in Canada and the United States have been and are Jews
(Harry Gold, Mr. & Mrs, Julius Rosenberg, David Greenglass,
: Dr. Sidney Weinbaum, Miriam Moskovic, Jacob Golos, Morton
poo Sobeil, Abraham Bortman, Fred Rose, Sam Carr, David Sugar,
i : G. S. Gerson, S. S, Burman, Gerhardt. Eisler).

Chapter 6 is devoted to the question of Ukrainian-
Jewish relations in the Ukraine.

é

. Chapter 7 deals with the Ukrainian traitors and the
: KGB agents of the “red butchers" from Moscow. One of them is
i Lee Harvey Oswald, "who could not find a place for himself in
his own country -- the United States. A man who did not finish
his secondary education; he served in the Navy which discharged
him for undesirable conduct. At the age of 15 he came under the
influence of the Reds who trained him for the subversive work
of the communist adherents. In 1959 he went to the Soviet Union
{ where he stayed for three years and got married, Next, he
' asked the American Embassy in Moscow for permission to return.
. to the United States. He came back to the United States in .
1962, after concluding his training, and started to shadow .

i President J. F. Kennedy in order to carry out Moscow's plan,

! which he executed on November 22, 1963, Americans have put

1. . : our Christians and nationalists through 'screening' and even

' : delivered some of them into the jaws of bloodthirsty Stalin,

1 . however, the FBI has failed to investigate its own citizens

who delivered national secrets to Red Moscow and finally

| murdered their own Catholic President who stood in the way of

a the Bolshevik-Stakhanov shock-troops in the United States. The
ae Jewish communeSin the United States are the vermin: who carry

| : out the Marxist plans of the Moscow Commintern and their
on aristocrats care only about their bellies and pockets full
ae of dollars. -

 

"Yictor Rizel (sic) -~ American journalist -- is better
oriented about this murder than the FBI.because he rejects any
suggestion that,L. H. Oswald and Ruby are mental cases and states
that Killer L. H. Oswald is connected with Moscow. Oswald stayed

-in the Soviet Union from 1959 to 1962, and gave the Soviets the
secret codes of the U. S. Marines in which he served. He could >
-freely travel in the Soviet Union -- a privilege not accorded

é

 
