 

 

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 Cy Tolson

UNITED STATES covean iter uo ‘ : ihe —
. ailahan

, : Conrad 3
Memorandum oe

; ° ; : Evans
. , Malone a
. . “4 ; Rosen
To : Mr. Belmont DATE: May 11, 1962 tae
- . Trotter

“ : Tele. Room
: Holmes

FROM : ° C. A. Evans. . : Gandy —__

 

 

 

 

 

 

QC a anim.o Gdun0 ; a 2-/ 7

ANTI-RACKETEERING . a

 

or. |
A Philadelphia informant who is being developed in connection
- with the Top Echelon Criminal Informant Program reported that on the
week end of May 5, 1962, he went to New York City with John Cavelli,
a Philadelphia hoodlum, and spent the week-end at the home of
Dan Cherito. .

Informant stated that a meeting took place at Cherito's
: Yesidence on May 6, 1962, which was attended by ten individuals,
_ including Phil Testa,who is Bruno's chief lieutenant, who controls :
-? Bruno's Philadelphia numbers operation. The informant was not permitted |
“to enter the room where the meeting took place. Informant pointed out :
‘that aside from himself, Testa, and Cavelli, the remaining persons i
were all from New York City‘ with the exception of two from Boston.
Informant was introduced to a Henry Noise, and later identified a
photograph of Henry Selvitella as being identical with theindividual

introduced to him as Noise. Selvitella is a Boston racketéér. “

:

 

“ Informant related that Cavelli did not indicate to him the
purpose of the meeting, but did tell him that he wished hilh to accompany
-him (Cavelli) in the near future on a trip to New York City in 6rder
to deliver a large sum of money. I

. ; ba a
_-The informant stated that in his opinion, “the Néw York
meeting had something to do with Bruno's Philadelphia numbers’ operation
because of the presence of Testa and Cavelli.

This information presents a definite opportunity to further
penetrate the operation of Bruno,who is the leader of. the Italian... *)

mob in that city. aA: 2 454
ACTION . X05 REC. 50 /. oe ~ AUT ws 1962,

7 “ : =o een

5 The New York, Philadelphia and Boston Offices are being .
instructed to vigorously pursue this investigation and to make every 1
effort’ to'déveTepia violatidnlilindér2hé* new antigambling statutes. -
, 41 mo = ; - /

Lae der:

    

 

 

\_ | _

 

 

HW 45737) DocId:32561697 Page 1
