 

22 May 1975

  

' MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Chief, Operations Staff

SUBJECT -: Review of Agency Holdings regarding
i Photograph of Unidentified Individual -

in Mexico City published by the a

‘Warren Commission . : -

REFERENCE : Letter dated 15 April 1975 by ;

. a Mr. David W. Belin, Executive Director
of the Commission on CIA Activities
within the United States, to me
Mr. E. Henry Knoche (copy attached to
accompanying report)

1. This is further to, and in completion of, my
inter!m memorandum of a few weeks ago.
2. The attachment is a detailed review in narrative,
chronological order - together with appropriate comment-
-ary - of our extensive holdings on thé OSWALD case that
have a bearing on the matter of photographs taken by
Mexico City Station on{l, (44;and 45 October 1963 of an
- Unidentified Individual. As a consequence of a combina-
tion of analytical error, misjudgement and under the
stress of an urgent desire to contribute to the develop- —
ment of the investigation of the assassination, a
cropped version of one of the photographs: of the
Unidentified Individual was introduced into the chain of
evidence in the OSWALD case’on 23 November 1963 by an
FBI representative in Dallas. The successive vicissi- —
tudes which have now made this event a cause celebre ~*~
xight down to the present moment are detailed in the
narrative.

e SE T _
Bk aPoET ot sp

moo eee

HW 53320 DocId:32392819 Page 2
ce

fa

1 Date:
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM ™
IDENTIFICATION FORM

02/21/05

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John
Kennedy

 

AGENCY. CIA
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10414-10235 Assassination Records
RECORD SERIES JFK Ollection Act of 1992
AGENCY FILE NUMBER RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE ]{44 USC 2107 Note).
Tota a tres nm ee a aaa a ase#i NW 53320 Date:
DOCUMENT INFORMATION hs-26-2017 ,
AGENCY ORIGINATOR CIA
FROM RAYMOND G. ROCCA .
TO DEPUTY CHIEF, OPERATIONS STAFF
TITLE MEMO: REVIEW OF AGENCY HOLDINGS REGARDING PHOTOGRAPH
OF UNIDENTIFIED INDIVIDUAL IN MEXICO CITY PUBLISHED BY
THE WARREN COMMISSION
DATE : 05/02/1975
PAGES : 3 .
SUBJECTS
DOCUMENT TYPE PAPER
CLASSIFICATION SECRET
RESTRICTIONS 1B
CURRENT STATUS RELEASED IN .PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW 11/16/98
COMMENTS JFK-RHO7 F0128-2 1998.11.16.19:31:23:013115
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10414-10235

AW 533200 DocId:32392815 Page 1
’ consideration should be given now to "whether or not the

3. The attached report is not intended to be an
answer to the Fensterwald/O'Toole article which Mr. Belin
attaches to his memorandum. (I have prepared a paragraph-
by-paragraph refutation and comment on that article, .
which I believe is more appropriately handled by a sepa-
rate memorandum to Mr. Belin, and I will prepare this as
a memorandum if that is desired.) ; . ;

' ; SL SA 3
4. The point of the referenced memorandum is that

  

entire matter can be fully disclosed at ‘this time."- This phtele
submission is designed to make it possible for you,..the

IG and others whom you may desire to consult to make this ©
decision. The narrative-interpretive summary has been

put together in such a way that it discloses no cyptonyms,
pseudonyms or other CIA jargon. However, its contents qo ae ;
well beyond what has been released to the public thus far os ;
in the Warren Commission documentation. ° This point must

be borne in mind in making a decision on Mr. Belin's ..” Coote
question. To remove any question in anybody's mind about
our good faith in this matter, the narrative is backed up
by copies of actual documentation from our files. It
seems to me necessary, in reply to Mr. Belin, that he. or oo.
his representative review the documentation that backs up ; i
the narrative. The documentation has not been keyed into

the narrative presentation, but it follows the chronologi-

cal order of presentation from 9 October into the latest
developments in the matter, and there is an overall index
to facilitate reference to individual items.  [NB: There

is only one copy of this collection; this is it.]

5. As noted above, one of the photographs taken in
Mexico City on 4 October 1963 was introduced into the /
Warren Commission public record. However, it was intro-
duced into that record in two cropped versions.. The
Warren Commission and its staff were made fully aware in
the course of their inquiry at Headquarters and in
Mexico City of the origins of the photograph, the fact
that we had additional photographs of the same. individual
taken at different times in Mexico City and on the basis
of full knowledge of these facts reached their own con-
clusions regarding the irrelevance of the photograph to

 
 

 

   
  
  

- OSWALD and the assassination.

AW 53320:

. ( ele
6. In fact, we actually hold twelve different photo-
graphs of the Unidentified Individual. Each of these are
reproduced in the collected documentation backing up the -
narrative report (see Items 25 - 27). Chief, LA Division,

2
: Se T =

 

DocId:32392819 Page 3
AW 53320 DocId:32392819 Page 4

 

had indicated in writing to Chief, CIOPS, that he has no
objection for Mr. Belin ‘to do whatever is desired with
these photographs at this time. It should be noted that
Mr.'Fensterwald in 1971 —- 1972 was actually shown, by
Mr. Houston during a visit to the Agency, two of the
twelve photographs, other than the one already published
in the Warren Commission report. (It is these two that
he has published in The New York Review of Books article
which Mr. Belin attaches to his memorandum.)

7. j%X.t- seems to me that whoever makes a decision on
whether the entire matter can be fully disclosed at this
time should bear in mind that a subsidiary decision must
also be made, i.e., whether to crop or otherwise fuzz up.
-the background of the photographs or, alternatively, to
publish the entire run of the photographs for the first
time without taking out the background. Obviously, none
of these questions apply to the passage of this material
to Mr. Belin and the Rockefeller Commission itself. I
think. they should see the entire documentation as it:
stands. Perhaps after that, the question of what could
be discussed and the question of "how?" and "how much?"
could be taken up with Mr. Belin himself. My personal
recommendation is that the more we can say about this
Matter in a fully open and final manner, the better off
-we will be as an Agency. But it is my understanding
“that there are still sensitivé aspects deriving from the
fact that the operation which produced the photographs
was jointly rin with Mexican liaison and as a consequence
. publication at this time would create additional problems
at that level in Mexico. Also, it should be noted that
the Ambassador, according to Win Scott's memorandum to
J.C. King on 22 November 1963 (see Item 8 in the backup
documentation), allegedly played a direct role in the
decision to put the photographs into the hands of the FBI
in Dallas laterally from the Field. As far as I know,
there has not.been anything published about this aspect
at any time in the past nor have we had any discussions
with the State Department about that aspect of the matter.

Raymond G. Rocca

Attachments: —
as stated

 

 
