 

 

Letter to the-Director_of Central_Intelligence-.
“2

Jack Anderson's column in the “Washington Post on ;May 6,
1977, claims that Antonio Veclana hes testified before
the House Assassinations Committee that. he was in con~
tact with Lee Harvey Oswald’ in Dallas, Texas, in August,
1963. (u)

The above asset has furnished other sensitive
intelligence information, including the identities of
: previously unknown CIO's, and it is anticipated that he
4 will be of future value to our foreign counterintelligencsa
4 effort. Any effort by the Cuban Government to exploit
: . the propaganda value of information obtained from this

recently developed asset over the period of seven previous

. meetings would necessarily cost their intelligance service
2 the public identification of several CIO's currently in
: Jamaica and Mexico. You are being made aware of the above
developments since it is recognized that the Cuban Govern-
ment may elect to publicize this videotape for propaganda
purposes and that such an event could impact. upon current
policy decisions. (Ss)

 

 

 

This information is also being furnished to the.
Secretary of State, the Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs, and the Attorney General.

te

SECRET

 

AW 50529 DocId:32356760 Page 5
 

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR - aN SECRET

 

 

HW 50529) DoclId:32356760 Page .2

   

 

 

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

: BY LIAISON .
: . V

Date: |. June 6, 1977 ,

To: ". Director of Central Intelligence ~

From: Clarence M. Kelley, Director

“Subject: + OCELOT;

INTERNAL. SECURITY ~ CUBA ~

“This is to advise of pertinent developments in
a double agent operation, assigned the code name "Ocelot,"
which involves a meeting between our asset and Cuban .
Intelligence Officers (CIO's) in Mexico on May 19, 1977.
We learned, after debriefing the asset upon his return
from Mexico, that the format of the meeting had unex-

_pectedly involved a videotaped interview of our asset

by Cuban technicians concerning his knowledge and partici-
pation in anti-Castro Cuban exile activities. (S)

The asset developed in this operation first
became of investigative interest to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI) in November, 1976, when allegations
were received that he was in contact with known CIO's in
Jamaica during October and November, 1976. Subsequent
investigation, coordinated closely with the Central
Intelligence Agency (CIA) ,. confirmed_ an.active. relation-
ship with Cuban officials in Jamaica, Panama and Mexico.
A successful interview of asset was effected on April 8,
1977, which resulted in establishing a double agent
operation. At that point, the asset furnished details
of seven previous meetings with CIO's in Jamaica, Panama
and Mexico. In addition, asset furnished a typewritten
note containing instructions for his next meeting in
Mexico City, on May 19, 1977, which involved a coded
telephone call to the Cuban Embassy, Mexico City, to
activate the scheduled meet at a pre-determined time

-and place. The purpose of this meeting, according to

the asset, was for the passage of additional information
concerning the activities of Cuban exile groups in the
United States and Latin America, as had. been done at
previous meetings. (S) ‘ ,

: SECRET
Classified by 5182 :
Exempt from GDS, Categories 2 and 3
Date of Declassification, Indefinite te:

 

 

OBJECT:
DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT __

 

1 B/0F
HW 50529

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

TITLE
DATE
PAGES

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

COMMENTS

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DocId:32356760 Page 1

: MEMO:

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

CIA
104-10102-10212
JFK

80TO1357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
FBI

KELLEY,
DCI

CLARENCE M., FBI
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA.
06/06/1977

4

: VECIANA

WITHHELD

PAPER
SECRET
1B 1C

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

07/20/93

JEK34 F22

: : : 1993.07.20.13:18:55:210630
OF 1041010310172

104-10102-10212
 

 

te

AW 50529 _ Docld: 32356760 Page 3

 

SECRET Lee

petter to the Director of Central Intelligence
Re: Ocelot.

“Phe asset has advised that he was transported
by automobile from the meet site in Mexico City to a
hotel room equipped with videotape equipment and occu-
pied by two Cuban technicians. The asset was then asked ©
questions: by ciIo’s and his responses were recorded on
videotape. They assured the asset that this tape would
be shown to high Cuban officials, including Fidel Castro,
and that, it would not be made public. There is, however,
obvious propaganda value in this film which could be
utilized by the Cuban Government. Asset was specifically
advised by CIO's that Premier Fidel Castro has a forth-
coming television. news interview with an unnamed U. 5.
news commentator, and that they wanted Castro to see this.
videotape prior to his interview. (5) .

Recording to the asset, the interview began
with questions regarding his family life in Cuba before
the Castro revolution, after which he was asked to comment
on the former Batista Regime in Cuba. He was then asked
to name the political movements of which he had been a

member. He told the interviewer that in 1964 he had worked

with Alpha 66, 2 militant anti-Castro organization head-
quartered in Miami, Florida, in helping approximately

twenty-eight Cuban exiles and arms pass through Puerto Rico

to Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, for use against Cuba

and that all but four of these Cuban exiles had. returned

to Puerto Rico. The four who did not return are now in
Cuban jails. {5) .

Asset was also asked about nis participation in

an assassination attempt of Fidel Castro in Chile in 1971.

The asset stated that he nad participated in the attempt
with Antonio Veciana, a Cuban exile now residing in. iiiami.
When asked if Veciana had been employed by the CIA, he |
replied that he aid not know, however, assumed that he

‘was. based on the fact that Veciana had used a car with
‘United States diplomatic license plates to transport the
necessary arms and equipment from Bolivia, where Veciana

SECRET

-~2-

 

 
 

 

  

SECRET

Letter to the Director of Central Intelligance
Re: Ccelot

was employed in the United States Embassy, to Chile. This
pian was aborted by other Cuban exile participants at the
last minute. Asset. had previously furnished this infor-
mation to CIO's during other meetings. | (5)

é
fa

. + Asset was also questioned about a 1961 assassi-
nation attempt directed at Castro in Cuba, in which the
asset participated. He acknowledged that he, Veciana,

and Bernardo Pradreres had at that time tried to kill

Castro with a bazcoka. They waited in an apartment, which -

was rented in Havana, Cuba, by Veciana's mother-in-law,

for Castro to appear at the nearby Cuban capitol. Pradreres —

had hired two other individuals not known to the asset to
‘do the actual firing, but when Castro finaliy appeared the
bazooka failed to fire due to its deteriorated state from
having been buried for an extended period of time. The
Cuban authorities later discovered the bazooka, which had
been left in the apartment, and were then able to identify
all of the participants. (Ss) ;

During the initial interview of asset on
April 8, 1977, he made available a photocraph obtained
from Antonio Veciana,..which Veciana claimed to depict
Lee. Harvey Cswaid in attendance at an Alpha 65 meeting
in Dallas, Texas, in 1963. Another photograph depicted
Veciana as a speaker at this meeting. The asset had
made this information available to CIO's at previous
meetings. In the last segment of videotaping in Mexico,
the asset was confronted with enlarged photographs of
the alleged Alpha 66 meeting and was asked to point out
the individual similar in description to Oswald, after
which the videotaping was concluded. The whole taping
process lasted approximately 90: minutes. and consumed
almost three reels of videotape. (35)

: Photographs mada available by the asset were-

examined by FBI agents familiar with the Oswald investi-

gation and it was determined that Lee Harvey Cswald is

not depicted in these photographs. It is noted that
SECRET

-3-

HW 50529 DocId:32356760 Page 4 ; . me

 

 
