 

Pase §' 4 7
Mr. Rawhins
June 21, 1957 ; RE; Lillie Mac hichMaines

RESULTS (conttd):
She continued that her husband (Harold MicMaines) spoke up and stated that he -
did not want to let her go and that he wanted to consult with an aftornsy. She
said that the two investigators then offered to buy a ticket for her husband
also. She said that alter her husband insisted on talking with an attorney first,
the two investigators told her husband not to consult with an attorney because
she might get hurt if be did and they wanted to keep everything quiet. She
thet they did leave however. ;

 

nid

 

2)

ained that she told this entire story to a reporter named
ixamerman wit ih the World-Herald in Omaha, She said that after the stery
ner husband beth lost their job:
merroan teld her that she aceded an attorney and arra
v her to meet attorne y Lex Hawkins. .

J om
or
oO
roy
Lx)
oO
[ot
oh
o
Pa)

crea!
a

 
      

UY

tt
5)
ces
o
iss]
*y

   

>)
ta ef
oe

The Subject was given four separate tests and was asked the following relevant
questions and gave the answers indicated:

| ©

 

Do you have any intention of trying to He to me during this test? A. No.
Have you told me the complete truth since we have been talking? A. Yes.
Did you attend the party at Terrie's home that Perry claims you attended ?
A. No.

Dic you ever meet Shaw? A. No.

Are you deliberately trying to withhold any information from ine regarding
the party? A. No. .

 

 

 

Have you told me the complete truth here today? A. Yes.

Did you attend the party Perry says you did? A. No. ;

Are you trying to withhold any information from me regarding this case?
A. No.

 

3. She went onto relate

wae

 

HW 54046 Docld:32136697 Page 9
 

 

Page’9, re .. .
Nor, Hawhing : : .
duns 21, 1937? Ra: Lillie biae MeMaines

 

RESULTS (cont!

Third Test:

 

CG. Did youNe to Mr. Hawkins atall? A. Yes.

Q. Did Perry ever tely you that the President was poin
A. No, .

(asa Did you go to the party at Dave's house that Perry says you did? A, No.

be Ave you atternpting to protect or cover up for anyonas? A. No.

| &. Are you trying to hold back any information from me now? &. No.

  
 
 

A. Yes.
t would help you stay ‘out of jail? A. Yes.
i. Were you ever pr resent when any pcople talked about aasassinating the
1 President? A. N
ay!

 

 

 

No. .
». Is Perry telling the truth about you attending the party? A. No.

Q. Are you attempting to withhold any laformation from me naw? A. Ne.
a. Have you purposely licd to any ef my questions? “A. No. |

IP, , a . ~

question: ware you trying to withhold or conceal any information from! me?"
Following the third test, she explained that she suspects Perry Kusso Laight be
Na litthe queer" for Mike Fitzgerald. There was not a reaction to the question
\P nthe test following this explanation,
jo

 

 

: \
oct was asked by this examiner why she thought Perry Russo was telling
| nis story. She explained that the lest time she saw him, which was in June or
July of 1965, he asked her if she would marry him. She steted that he said that
ew ‘ent’ to marry her so that he wouldn't have to go into the military service.
| She stated that she told him she would not marry bin:. She then quoted him as
eying "You have got to marry me and help keep me out of the service." She
stated that she again told him she would not marry him anc then further quoted
himag saying, “If you won't marry me, I'll ave to find someone else whe will.
ed that she believes he is telling this story in an endeavor te avoid yoing

de
into th ae military service, . :

 

 

HW 54046 Docld:32136697 Page 10
 

  

RESULTS {conttd)s

 

4

Khe & Subject ¢ explained that Perry Russo habitually made aotes about everything.

She said that he made notes of things he nad to do, the thucs he was supposed to
be somewhere, and places he had to go. She said that Perry told her he rnade
notes of everything because he was so busy that he cid not want to forget anything.
poset blu a humo se 1we.f
ton one occasion she went to Perry’ s house a
Titsearald was there, nid that Mike | told her that he had just at foand ‘Be
PUTS SathPoorn with his ts all slashed up and the at he had tried to co
vicide, She said that she then left and did not see Perry. :
ye a a .
” The Subject stated that whea-Perry first intreduced her to Jimmy Ervin, he

_ suggested they all go to Jimmy's apartment and he would like to make photographs
(F\et be her and Jimmy a ades in ecitus., She said that a girl friend of hers aamed
Jeannie became very angry with Perry when he made this su :
hey did not go. a

oy a“

The Subject stated that the most men(she ever engaged in ses

 

    
  

(av jhe Subject explained

    

   

 

 

sal intercourse with

   

 

 

one immediately sous the other, |would be two. She said that these were two
C= ’
r\men she hustled when she was workinf.as a prostitute, She related that she

t 4 Pa

fhastled one man one night and he went into the bathroom after undressing. She

  

tb Sat

\
4 1 A t
said that she locked him in the bathroom, fook $120, 00 from his pocket and ran

 

 

 

 

™~ .
1 out ofthis room, Sho stated that on one cecésion Perry waated to photograph her
Uooanda girl named Kathy engaged In a sex act teget but she said that someone
came in unexpectedly ¢ and the act was never consu a
The Subject related that two inve esti xs from District Attorney Garrison’s

cffice came to her home in the m eles ol the night of March 8, 1967, ia Oranha.
She said that they requested her to leave immediately with them and return to
New Crlcans for the purpose of.locking at sorne photographs. She said that they
1

 

&
teld her that they did not know what the photogra phs were. She continued that she
told thern that she could not leave then because sne hada ‘coat and ether clothing
inthe cleaners. Ghe said that these two rnen, * stenris and Jonzh, told her not to
worry---they would buy her sorne new clothes. She said that they further told her

that she would stay in the finest hotels and eat the finest foods.

\

 

 

HW 54046 Docld:32136697 Page 8

 

 
 

 

 

Page @* 7, . .
Mr. Tiawkins — .
Sune 21, 1967 , RE: Lillie e MicMiaines

RESULTS Acontta):

The Subject said tuat the next time she saw Dave Ferrie was less than a week

after first maeeting him and was ona Sunday. She explained that Dave invited

her to his apartment for luach with him and his tvo roommates. She said that

Dave picked her up at her place Ina blue Ford Station wagon and they arrived at

Dave's apartment at approvimetely 12:30 or Ll: 00 P.M. She said that she stayed
vet this apartment until about 5:30 P.M. at which time he drove her back to her

 

   

j that she next saw Dave Ferrie on the following Wednesday or
Fhursday when he came by Sam's plice where she was employed. She eaicd that
Dave asked her if she would go out with hins the following Friday night.

 

(~: ubject gaid that on this erey night, Dave picked her up at her apartroent

¢ 6:30 P.M. and mey first proceeded to Dave's apartment where one
hi Dave's roo t is date were waiti ‘said the four of them the
went. to several places to dance and driak but they wave dinner.Ca

 

 

By

n
Hid not

  
   

The Subject emphatically denied ever meeting Shaw orkOswala he
in foxes atten ed a party at Dave Terrie's housé. She stated that sho h
UE a iootkall game but ste did attend basketball and bascball games wit
Russo and Laity Peterson. -

   

 

d never bec
h Perry

   

 

 

 

 

The Subject sta ted that Perry Russo was extremely interested in politics. She
‘gaid that he vas a Republican and a strong advocate and backer of Goldwater.

\ /The Subject stated that she attended a political mecting with Perry Russo and
three other men but she could not be sure of thelr names. She related that the
meeting was held in a big house on Canal Street in either April or May er 1965.

! She said that she and three men stayed ins back reorn of the house and watched
television. She said that she did not ace all of the people at the meeting. She said
that she cid not hea¥ anyone apsaking Spanich nor did she gee any Spanish, Cubsns
or Puerto Ricans at this mectings :

}

 

The Subject commented that Lefty Peterson is "off upstairs" but is a good puy
otherwise, :

HW 54046 Docld:32136697 Page 7

 

 

 

 
 

 

‘Page d. | . f

Mey. Hawkins

June 21, 1967 — . RE: Lillie Mae Meciiaines
RESULTS (cont'd):

 

Subject stated that when she was about four months pregnant, she rnarried a
Fram¥Acams in Dallas, Texas, She did nat tell the circumstances surrounding
a divorce from Adams. - C
" . uv

The Subject stated that when she was between 15 and 16 years of age, her
Ntenother "took her to a psychiatrist because eh @ had run away irom home.
(Waic that she visited the psychiatrist about four times bul she did not know w pat
he reported about hey. , .

 

harsoe related that she gave birth prematurely on August 30, 1963. She said

é was released from the hospital on Septernber 3rd or 4th, 1963, She said
went to Pe. sexy Russo's house the day iollowing her release from the

1 bet she did not sce or talk with him again until June or July of 1964,

 

 

$ubject then related how Perry Russo’ photographed her on several occ:
VU svhile she was engaging in the act of coitus with different ren, She e
thet Perry had his own dayk room and developed the pictures himsel!.

 
 

 

 

  

requently. She further stated that her "parents" came from Alabama to New
Orleans and also visited the baby in the hospital,

. Simm my
Subject continued that her baby was sed from the hoSpifalo very
1963, and on this sare date she leit New. Crleans with a James 2
Russo had introduced her to hin:). She said that the two of the

 

[| bubject then related that she anda girl named Ann visited her bea nby in the hospital
=

 

   

went by bus to her ‘parents’ home. She pave her "parents" accress as Box 326

in Night Mile, Alabama and she said that this town iglecated near Mobile.
(cr ~amesteottettl  btheleinetett Law
Siewert om to-esplaimrtisrdaines Hobert Lrvin was unable to tind @mployment
in Mobile and so he went to New Orleans and obtained a job in an establishment

called Little Crystal Ca Sho said that this establishment is located on Royal
Street in New Orleans. She said that Jinuny worked and stayed in New Orleans
Guring the week and re would hitchbike to her ‘parenta" home in Eight &
Alabama, over the weekends.

   

 

 

 

 

HW 54046 Docld:32136697 Page 5

 
 

Page 5 5 “4 - - : :
Mr, Hawkins ;
Jurie 21, 1967 RE: Lillie Mae MecMaines

 

Subject stated that she and Jimmy leit Eight Mile in February of 1964 (heaving ; }
the baby with her 'mother') and they went to San Bernadino, California, where
they stayed with an aunt of hers, She said that from the time she leit New ,
Orleans to po to Bight Mile and then to California, she did not make one trip
to New Orleans.

related that she and Jimmy w ent th rough a wedding ceremony in Tiajuana,
, ta June of 1964, She continued that Jinumy left her the latter part of
me.month, She said that the day after Jimny left ber, she went to New
3 by bus.

 

age bject related that when she arrived in New Orleans, she called Perry Russo
dad he came to the tus depot and drove her and her personal belongings to his
jome. She said that she spent the night in Perry's apartment and then the follow-
bag day she rented a room for herself, She said that after she rented the room,
ghe went job hunting and she met James Robert Ervin on the street. She said
that they decided to live together again. She said that she did obtain a jobasa
barmaid. She said that she and Jimmy Hved together for only cone week and h
[Ppesin walked out on her. She said that he left on July 3, 1964.

 

 

The Subject said that she then turned to prostitution a a rneans of supporting
| herself and intorder to save up enough money to get hey baby back from her
"mother.'! She iurther explained that she gave Perry Russo "around a hundred
dollars" to keep for her but he never gave it back to her. She said that on cne
ther occasion, she loaned Perry $20. 06 to use to pay his insurance but he did
20f repay this rnoney cither. . L Qa
: —— y
The Subject stated that the first time she met Davdfixerrie was in either the latter
part of January of the first part of February of 1965. She explained that she was
with ‘Perry Russo and he wanted to see Dave Ferrie about something and so the
‘two of them went to Dave's apartment. She said that Perry introduced her to
Ferrie and his two roommates. She said that they aan) at Dav vere apartment

for only a few minutes and they lett. deceased 2-22-67

 

~~ .

HW 54046 Docld:32136697 Page 6

ne

 

 

 
 

 

 

| canal

  

# 9816 - 67
June 21, 1967 \

CONFIDENTIAL

Lez’ Hawkins,
Attorney at Law X
836-842 Filth Avenue
Des Moines, Iowa

| aBee ANCGCEMENTS:

     
   
 

 

iC MAINES was examined on the polygraph, a Tex

(9)

Nee [Motte rt mers
ns Harborne’? Menéa) |
jin ard polygraph procedure was exercised throug he this\examination. .
- Life Mee (Samd ea) ERUIN. -
“Wis James Kober ex-levins '

[Buvject was examined in this gifice on June 19, 1967. She waa given a Relevant !
_apd Irrelevant type examination. for the purpose of ascertaining if she possessed _ i
[any knowledge of an alleged meeting in Dave Ferrie's home wherein there was
verbal intercourse relating to a plot to assassinate the late Joha ¥. Kennedy.

; puna DURE: "Sand j otfe

 

 

 

 

!
During the pre-test interview, the Subject sta ated that she was | boxn Lillie Mae

T\ iorfett on October 22, 1944, in Lucedale, Mississippi. She stated that her real
\\ fener died when her younger sister was born and that’she was raised by one of
Veer father's cousins,f James’ otfett, and his wi hel. She referred to these
people as her sarents. She stated that she was “paised near-hobile,-Alab
She said that she does not know whether or not Jarmnea and Ethel Moffett «
adopted her. : ; - ‘

      
 

   

. }
Subject stated that she is presently married to darolttgsiaines, aged 38 years.
She said that he docs not have a regular job and works out ofan “employment |
office’ in Omaha, Nebraska, as a truck driver and as a furniture mover.

  

The Subject stated that ever since she wes old enough to understand and remeber,
her "mother" constantly told her that her older sister Gertrude, who lived in New |
' Orleans, Louisiana, was "a tramp and no good." She stated that these statements

"ems £2. 169060-— EKO

COPIES DESTROYED ,
foo |

 

A A jan 151973: ENCLOSURE

HW 54046 Docld:32136697 Page 2
 

 

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

 

ennedy Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992 (44 USc
Bio? None) . Case: NW 54046
AGENCY: FBI :
RECORD NUMBER:  124-10054-10414
RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:  62-109060-5483

 

 

 

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

ORIGINATOR: CITIZEN
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 06/21/1967
PAGES: 10

 

SUBJECT: GARRISON, JIM INVESTIGATION, POLYGRAPH

DOCUMENT_TYPE:

ORIGINAL

Unclassified NEW

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

REVIEW _ DATE: 11/06/1998 UPDATE DATE: 01/19/2001

STATUS Redact

RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (4)

 

COMMENTS:

HW 54046 Docld:32136697 Page 1
 

Page 2 *
Mr. Hawkins :
June 21, 1967 . RE: Lillie Mae WicMaines

RESULTS (cont'd):

finally caused her to run away from home in 1962 and proceed to New Orleans
to locate her sister Gertrude. She said that she just had to find out if her
sister was really "bad." ,

During six hours of interview and interrogation, the Subject gave the following
information regarding her stay in New Orleans, her return to iobilc, bama,
then on to San Bernadino, California, then back to New Orleans, then to Omaha,
Nebraska, and dinally to Des Moines, Iowa.

 

‘pe

 

yabject stated that when zhe first went to New Crleans she decided to u

e
name Sanira Moifett. She explained that she had been in New Crleans tor appron-
imately three weeks before her sister perimiticd her to go out "on the town!

wiexseli, She said that the first night she went out alone she met Perry Russo. . La

he said that the meeting eccurred about 10: 30 P.M. as she was walkin

     
 
  
  
 

Lorils 30 walking ‘along Pourt bon Street. She ‘pelated Hat as they ; ‘ he street,
—Timiny winked at her and she Smiled. She continued ¢ ped on the
sidewalk and talked. She

, isc } ears : sso volun-
Ores to drive her home. ; Cenree | u rian 4
i | ; :

[She continued that she, Perry Russo, Letty, Ken and Timmy all got into Perry's
| car and proceeded to drive toward her sister's home where she was staying but
v they stopped on the way ior coifce and gaseline. She seid that Perry Russo asked
“ner if she would go to school with him the following morning and she replied to him
\\ fat she would go with hin provided her sister would permit her to do 30.
4
She continued that Perry Russo stopped by the house the following morning but her
ie ister would not permit her to go with him \but her sister did agree that she could
attend a party that was being given for Ken that night. ,
a
Subject stated that that party was held at a place called the Frenchman's Inn. She
said that Perry was supposed to pick her up at &:06 P.M. but he was late because
it was raining hard. She said that she and Perry arrived at the party at appro»
mately 9:00 P.M.

 

  

 

 

 

 

N

The Subject stated that she and Perry continued to cate until the early part of 1943.
She said that she became pregnant and after she told Perry that she was pregnant
- he told her to "get lost" until aiter the baby was born and then she should look hirn
‘ up again.

be tn elt

 

HW 54046 Docld:32136697 Page 3

 
 

Page 3 sO, “4 . ;
My. Hawkins : Coe
June. 21, 1967 ; RE: Lillie Mee McMaines

The Subject stated that when she first told Perry Russo that she was pregnant,
a man (unknown to her) placed Perry in a hypnotic trance and questioned him. ; “4
She said that while inthe trance, Perry acknowledged that he was the tather of vol
her yet unborn baby. She said that Perry later denied that he was the father. ,

She went on to explain that she, Perry, aud the unknown "hypnotist" (she des-
rribed his age as ‘petween 49 and 50 years) went to a place called the Royal
astle and, while there, this unknown “hyp note again placed Perry ina :
hypnotic trance. She said that he did not question Perry at this time but gave
nim a post+ hypnotic suggestion, ‘When I cna iny fingers you will awaken, got
offthe stool, walk to the door and then return to the stool where you will freeze
in your tracks and will be unable to move." She said that when the man snapped
a sig Yingers, Perry opened his cyes, got off the stool, walked to the door and
then turned and walked back to the stool. She enid that Ferry stood by the stool
ond went through what appeared to be attempts at moving his body but he
|_|petually move. She added that, in her opinion, Perry was faking his inabil
“tnove while standing by the stool.

   
  

   

 

 

rary
oe
A
oe
o

‘

 

_fjSPubject said that the next time she saw Perry (aiter telling hira that shee was

| pregnant) was a very short tirae later aad she spent about one~hali hour talicing

“with him in his home. She said that when she ceparted his home, a friend of his

named "Fico" knocked her down on the lawn, hit ker in the etornach with his fist,

) and made the comment, "Why don't you leave him alone?" She explained that she
screamed loudly when strack by Fido hoping that Perry would come outside bat

N fpe did not. She said that Fide went into Perry's home after knocking her dow

/ond striking her. She said that as soon as she regained her sense of direction,

 

 

 

VWs ne got up and went home.
, ;
i The © Subject stated that when she wag about three months pregnant, she attempted
e by taking 17S aspirin. She said that a girl friend named Kathy found ber

and took her to the Charity Kospital in New Orleans by taxicab. She said that her
stomach was pumped at the hospital and she said that the hospital notified the
police departinent but her girl friend Kathy tall ced the ofiicer out of taking her to
jail. ; ‘ . ,

 

 

HW 54046 Docld:32136697 Page 4

 
