 

 

 

DATE: 11-14-2017

  
 
 
 
  

FOLSON

al tolZl AL : MR. MOM Des. 3. nafs Ws. Le Rewtns
cS, foun in ta gs us. passens eet
RASON-F ea 3a, BEL
yt] Sse SELON ent

 

Auioy a tae Internal Security q
rdeafsted he thought he oagut to brig? ad
g ArcouiDunelorrer fojas case (Neutrality xatters). J “4 i
Mr. Yeagley stated that the Bureau had investigated and submitted a R yo ot
wees report on the case lact- Thursday or Friday and hia Division thinks they AN 8 \y
Nbave a case, not 9 real open and shut cage, but ae far ag the facts and lawa are > oy
| Rbonces ned, it looke like enough to go before a Grand jury. Mr. ho, fine *% a ws

 
  

 

 

Ws is delicate in view of the break in diplomatic yelations with Cuba, wise i?
Dan start a Grand Jury, people are going to ask which side ave we on, Cabtro’ ° a
ee ihe United giates. Ma. Yeagley continued that as late ag last Vriday, he palievst, mn
is * sit was, he had a eall from the Siate Department to see what we were doing, whetrad, °
2 hizoing ahead or not, and he, Mr. Yeagley, thought when he called the State Departiiiat
& 31 back, as he intended, te get confirmation that they ought to go abead deapite the
2 g™ break in relations, but he thought he ought to mention & to me because from the
_duaties Department's standpoint, they would normally proceed, but when n they go.
d Eto Miami, Suatice ig going to have the public relations problem.
6 A mf oO 9 a
told Mx. Yeagley that 1 UREGgA it would oo a difflealt one and that f
“recalled last week, I thought it was, some fellow in the State Department bad
wanted to know if we would not go to 2 er and ask him to refrain frena any
-activities that might embarrass this Gaverhvhent and we refused and sald Rh waa
the State Department's place to de it? a chap replied he at least made the effort
to gel us to do it but thought our reaction would be what it was, but it took go many.
days and weeks to get something like that. clearad in the Gate Department, he had
“hoped we might de it on his requeat.. Mr. Yeaghey inquired if I thought thie |
ik" —yepresented Masferrer's position, and [told Mr. Yeagley it did not, that it was
Pasow —he-roan in the State Department, but that we had received werd in Miami from
Callahan Bf ferrer ov big Iman, te Masferrer would ne very glad to vefrain from any

|) DeLoach aad ;
: fC smreaene | te
Che prac iOS- ss ob eee

: Dect

   
  
 

LINRECORDED corr

 

 

 
  

 

Malone

» McGuire Glasstiied ras fe
| Beclassi Hye (GY gaat Te ZT TT  v Ja 10 198
eae meee “ype 7
Ingraun . : aes 3

Gay =. wT cen g rows a
We wD OT 16 mh SAMECENTIRE

DoclId:32330063 Page 2

    
 
  

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

> Kennedy Aesazeination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotes.
. : 1

 
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 Usct 2107 Hote;.

DATE: 11-14-2017 JFK Assassination System Date: 5/29/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90089-10098
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER:  2-1622-65
eee
Document Information :

ORIGINATOR: | FBI

FROM: HQ
TO: TOLSON
TITLE:
DATE: 01/05/1961 i
PAGES: 4 -
SUBJECTS:
ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: | PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted’
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 07/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS : MEMO, REFERRED TO DOJ

 

v9.1 6
DoclId:32330063 Page 1
 

   

1 a9 1d lin J t .
eased wmder 7 Kennedy Assassination Recerds a eotio eto
DATE: 11-14-2017 . _ .
ca ous Cae Shvnbabio £
Paid oe , ; ;
ae Bey es Sa » E2 : t oo '
vs oe . BONES | * oy

danuary 6, 164
Memorandum ior Megara. Toison, Mobr, Parsons, Belmont, DeLoach

 

stated Pearson had jumped on Vice Pragident Nigon for having tried te preveat

the prosecution of Sofie and susceasially preventing the indictment until after

the election and then the Attorney Generai had gone ahead and indicted and

now leaves it all on the new Attorney General. 7 stated 1 did net know whether
t Nixon intereeded and I had my doubis, bat, oa the other hand, the case in

Worida against Hoffa ie fabriy strong and J thought the indictment was proper.
Ie i stated I did know if had been held up a long time before finally goin abead; —
that the Special Assistant on the case, Dowd (phonetic), seemed to be a capable
fellow and he had been trytag to get an indichment fer some {ime but there was
&@ Question as to the individuals to be inciud » that there was no question about
Hola, but a question about a third party in Detroit. 1 stated now Pearson is”
trying to make it appear as if it were done just as a dying gasp by the current
Adsinisivation and { think there would be the same reaction inthe Magferrer
case,

Tadvised Mr. Yeagley that be could use the information about the call

fsom Devine and indicate the position we took and it Seemed to. me that the State

Department oaght to put in black and white what they want dome. Mr. Veagley

stated lie thought he had to agk them te. [ stated this was loaded with dynamite,

because of the way the public kas bean reacting in Florida; that there is a hatred
. of Castro and 1 cited some incidents which had oecurred while I was recently in .
ila and it seemed to me that with that kind of public opinion, they were inviting.
great trouble Hf they weat ahead against Masferrer. wer. teagley stated he thought
Iwas right and he appreciated my help.- oO > °

i taeationed to Mir. Yeagley that { thought Masferre? was under some
Kind of Imenigvation bond to refrain from certain activities, Sut I did not know.
Mr. Yeagley gaid that was 2 good thought. { stated there were several factions
of the Cubans who were anti-Castre, but each one wants to’ve sing. (Gar. Veacley
stated that might be what is behind this and mentionad thet the Senate Commtitee 4
is going to start investigation rest wees af thig fellow Wieland.) Tatated Gearge [.}
Sokelaky had come out with a column and Senator Bastland's Committee was going
to hold pablic hearings on him as they think they have an Alger Hiss case. I stated
thal sreasure te ge againet Masierrer may emanate from element like this in
State[and CIA. 1 stated CIA bag a group training to go over and invade Cuba and] Yeu

 

 

   

0.3. miPs (Be. witP2) HAS ae on by
' dod. shee wee AS a : C14 Wfo2

i2lanlao UTR... BEMARDER OF a: r m

CosTmves TH BE CLARKS IFIED | - ch “ou, 33%
fer THis TIME. : ‘ 2

- ot . Sees oa) a
$06 BTA 211,326 fete, a a SOND ES
— : - _ as =

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32330063 Page 3
 

DATE: 11-14-2017

 

PReleased under the John F. Kennedy ASeassination Records ee of 1997 (44 Use mmaryerey-

  
 

°

Jamary §, 1861

Memorandum for Messrs. ‘folson, Mohr, Pargons, Belmont, DeLoach

 

ul
VA Grestnon Castro and while it is supposed to be hush-hush, aroudd Sliami it is
tore or less public knowledge; that Cagtve probably knows about it aa he has
his agents over here who, no doubt, have pencirated the greup; that Masferrer -
hag not jotaed the group that CIA is backing and it may be some elements like that
are involved. (ir. Yeagley stated he could net say he has been told but it has
been inferred that they did not want Masferrer in.| I stated Masferrer was wealthy &]
and i thought he got some money out of Cuba before he came to this country, bat
he has connections and is getting money and living in case and comfort while other
refagess are serving 25 waiters, colera. (i stated Masierrer has not been
allowed to join the group CIA has been supposed to be secretly backing and
there may be some motivation te tey to knock him off, but t woyid backfire

against Justice and not C1A,] LE by) (SLES If Goa Meech one mie)
980 ssehirohr

(tr. Yeagley stated they Rave 3 case where they would normally go
ahead and indict with one count and maybe more, and he can’t say don't do it, but i]
the State Dopartmant can.] 1 stated it seems in view of the action of the President,
it does not make cense and I did not see how getting an indictment against
somebody trying to overthrew Castro can be explained te the public. 1 stated I
had noted in the press that ii had been intimated by somebody in the State
Department that the only way diplomatic relations with Cuba could be reaumed would
be the overthrow of Castro and here you would be prosecuting somebody whe may
_ pot have the good will of our Administration but who wants io remove Castro

(wand hes more facilities really than some of these groups eitth CUA backing.) i
stated the sympathy down in Miami is all with the anti-Castro forces and it seems
if any move is made, it ought to be at the apectfle request of the State Departayent
and ib showld be in black in white, that it oaght te be put in writing by them.

 

 

(sir. Yeagley stated that wae excellent and he thought that is exactly the
kind of hels he needed and he would let ave know the outcome. He stated we had
gone ahead with the investigation and we are holding the bag and we ought to make i
the proper disposition]. stated it seemed to me if the disposition is made pregerly,
the State Department. should indicate that prosecution would be Ul consideren ges <~
lil advised and should so'state their desires. Mr. Yeagley stated he appiy 2

    
   
 

ey hedp and he would let me know the outcome. U
DoT. nfo (Pitas Bees . _
Ps SIeD WAILe @E- Vory truly yours, Vins coud
MAwI0EZ OF A Cos TUES . ot Lf ins
Jf Be R ,

RENAIDS OUCLASEIFEO, . ,
SPeOarfCk ~2u,326-'faula foan Edgar Boover

bor: Lx bro Mizilao — or cain eetor ho a
ee Ae la

_ ~ ses ne

  
 

 

   

TD SE CLASSIFIED At TS of
Aime. bS.T who na Pa, Te

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32330063 Page 4

 

 

 

 

 
