 

TOP-SECRET _

They are given open U.S. assistance to remain in this country, yet

are participating in covert actions in a limited way. Only a fractional
opening has been made to release the frustrated energy of these refugees

in freeing their homeland and in creating a favorable political climate in
Latin America for the liberation of Cuba. Policy limitations of "audibility"
and "visibility" apply directly in considering the handling and use of this
dynamic refugee potential.

As a working document for U.S. operational guidance, State
developed a definition of a political program for a free Cuba, with the
understanding that any real political program must be developed by the
Cubans themselves.

Psychological. Psychological activities for Operation Mongoose
make use of existing assignments of responsibilities within the U. S.
government: State, having the policy role, chairs an inter-agency Cuba
Psychological Operations Group which meets weekly; USIA disseminates
any U.S. government information (VOA and Press Service) fand-generates
"gray" or non-official information (5 million cartoon books and thousands
of Spanish books on Cuba disseminated in Latin America); CIA passes
information appropriate for "gray" and covert psychological channels
(radio, mailings to Cuba, and dissemination inside Cuba) -|

—

Conditions and events in Cuba have provided many effective themes,
which have been promptly and sharply exploited by available means in the
Western Hemisphere. However, the U.S. still lacks the capability of
effectively getting information to the majority of the Cuban people. Our
short-wave broadcasts are highly regarded by the Cuban people, but short-
wave receiver sets are limited inside Cuba. Our medium-wave broadcasts
compete against stronger Cuban signals; it was felt that greater U.S.
competition in medium-wave broadcasts could lead to Cuban interference
of U.S. commercial brpedcasts over a fet ly wide area of the U.S.
Clandestine broadcast faim a esha ig appeasing as broadcasts by _
Cuban guerrillas insidé™Guba) have been’ itiated; they are in their infancy,
and have a long way to develop before their messages are believed and
get passed among Cubans b ord-of-mouth. ‘Dissemination of leaflets
and propaganda. inside cubdfoy balloon oxfaircraft}has not received policy
approval. ont

Economic. State has the main responsibility for developing economic
actions. State has chaired an inter-agency working group, which generated

TOP-SECRET

i
HW 54214 DoclId:324274899 Page 2°
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date : 08/28/98
Page : 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER -:

RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

gcs
202-10001-10168
FOIA SERIES
DOC 169

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

OSD

REVIEW OF OPERATION MONGOOSE
07/25/62 oe

25

MONGOOSE

MEMORANDUM

TOP SECRET

1c

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
07/30/98

Reviewed by JCS, OSD, CIA and State.

EXEMPT PER E.O. 13526
SEC 3.3(b)_ SOX>

 

DATE EXEMPTED: MAR 2016

 

Released under the John

. Eennedy

Assassination Records

ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#: NU 54214 Date:
po= +3 -20tF -

 

JS RE-REVIEW DATE:31 DEL 2037
OKM Te RELEASE AS BenwcTeh § 44/CIh Conleulltrlé

HW 54214 DocId:32424899 Page 1
HW 54214

They are given open U.S, assistance to remain in this country, yet

are participating in covert actions in a limited way. Only a fractional
opening has been made to release the frustrated energy of these refugees
in freeing their homeland and in creating a favorable political climate in
Latin America for the liberation of Cuba. Policy limitations of "audibility"
and "visibility" apply directly in considering the handling and use of this
dynamic refugee potential.

As a working document for U.S. operational guidance, State
developed a definition of a political program for a free Cuba, with the
understanding that any real political program must be developed by the
Cubans themselves.

Psychological, Psychological activities for Operation Mongoose
make use of existing assignments of responsibilities within the U. S.
government: State, having the policy role, chairs an inter-agency Cuba
Psychological Operations Group which meets weekly; USIA disseminates
any U.S. government information (VOA and Press Service) fan: fand. generates

"gray" or non-official information (5 million cartoon books ‘and thousands
of Spanish books on Cuba disseminated in Latin America); CIA passes
information appropriate for "gray'' and covert psychological channels
(radio, mailings to Cuba, and dissemination inside Cuba). +]

—

Conditions and events in Cuba have provided many effective themes,
which have been promptly and sharply exploited by available means in the
Western Hemisphere. However, the U.S. still lacks the capability of
effectively getting information to the majority of the Cuban people. Our
short-wave broadcasts are highly regarded by the Cuban people, but short-
wave receiver sets are limited inside Cuba. Our medium-wave broadcasts
compete against stronger Cuban signals; it was felt that greater U.S.
competition in medium-wave broadcasts could lead to Cuban interference
of U.S. commercial b Sly wide area of the U.S.
Clandestine broadcast appearing as broadcasts by
Cuban guerrillas inside hgmitiated; they are in their infancy,
and have a long way to develop before their messages are believed and
get passed among Cubans by.word-of-mouth. Dissemination of leaflets
and propaganda. inside Cubdfby balloon orfaircraft}has not received policy
approval. coat

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Economic. State has the main responsibility for developing economic
actions. State has chaired an inter-agency working group, which generated ~

“FOP SECRET

DocId:32424899 Page 3
