Oo ome

AL 62-1152) “4 7 PAM:PAG

‘The following investigation was conducted by Special
Agents PATRICK A Ae MUNLEY and JAMES >C.. MEE. on 4/28 and 5/1; 2/58:

 

Confidential Informant Albany T- 34 whose ‘reliability
is unknown at: the’.present - time due to the fact that there have
been only 2-few cdntacts made with him, advised that he has been

associated with JOSEPH BARBARA, SR. since March of 1955, and has
had access to the estate and home of JOSEPH BARBARA since that
time,

; He advised waen. he first became acquainted with Mr,

BARBARA it was the usual routine for BARBARA to leave his 4
home about. 6 AM,in the morning to go to the Canada Dry Bottling
Company plant af Endicott, New York, and that he would return

home around’3 PM for. his meal and then would return to the plant

and return home later in the evening. He usually drave himself .

to and from the plant and..on his business trips around the . .
Binghamton, New York area, . .

 

He stated that the -home of JOSEPH BARBARA was s always
well supplied with food and drink, He related that in the
basement of the ‘home canned goods, soup, sort drink, ice cream,
fish and other items are maintained in ice*cream coolers, and tnat
also in a separate section of the basement -are foodgssuch as
oranges, grapefruit and other fruits, He statéd there was nothing
‘unusual about the basement,:no vaults or safes or any.locked rooms
maintained there. He related that in the garage BARBARA maintains

_ a walk-in meat cooler, an ice cream freezér ahd a shelf ~type :
freezer wherein meats and vegetables are stored,

He stated that there is only one phohe line into the . "
; home of BARBARA, but there are connections from BARBARA's home
ve the summer nouse and also to the two other homes that are ~ !
intained on’. the BARBARA estate, He related the phone connections
between the main home and the. summer house and the two houses on
the estate are strictly house to house phones and not connected
with the main telephone line.

 

. He said when he first was in the emQloy of BARBARA b i
noticed that an Italbn couple named LUCILIE. Last Name Unknown .
and JOE (Last Name Unknown) visited the BA RAs frequantly during
the years 1955-1956. - He believed LUCILLE. was a nurse and JOE
worked in a. furniture store in Endicott, New York, He said he
also noticed that EMANUEL ZICARI visited BARBARA regularly. He
. said that-from.what he observed ZICARI and BARBARA were old friends’
ran and frequently ZICART brought Als wife with him. ~

! ; \ 31 -

a ee i,

}
' HW 45836 Docld:32332691 Page 3

 

 

 
OO 09

AL 62-1152

  
   

He also advised that RU: f URAL INO was a frequent
visitor at BARBARA's home. | * ia

He’ stated that from his re@lilection since 1955 tek
ave been three what hé would call. big parties held at the home
of JOSEPH BARBARA. He stated that in the Fall of 1955 a large.

Jeroup of men was at BARBARA's home, He related that this group

numbered about 35° men; that in-the Summer of 1957 there was
another large group of people, both men and women and this. party
was considered an engagement party for BARBARA's daughter
ANGELA. The next large group that he recalls was on “November 14,
1957

. He related when each of these groups wag at
“BARBARA's home they appeared .to be regular barbeques
where people were walking around the estate: and steaks were
being cooked and other food was being served to the zuests..

At no other time he said that he noticed any large
gathering in BARBARA's home or onvthe estate. He said that on
numerous occasions BARBARA had visitors at -his home during the-
day at which time they would have lunch and visit and then leave
the estate. He said these luncheons never included more than
three of four individuals,

In connection. with the, November 14, 1957, group he
related he had no ‘advance notice that such a large group was
going: to be at BARBARAs.. He said that on November 13, 19575 -
Mr. BARBARA. told. him-in the early morning hours that there was.

. an order of meat at Armour and Company in Binghamton, New You,
to be picked .up and that:he could.pieck it up anytime during ‘that
day.. He said that this was the usuel thing for ‘him because he
has been doing the same. thing since 1955, and had picked up

vegetables and fruit.ah the Green Lantern, groceries from McTighe
Groceries and. other items at different: stores at Endicott and
Binghaniton, New York,

He said that. it was his job to see that the ‘fireplaces
at the summer house always had charcoal ‘and.wood and -it was his
recollection that Mr, BARBARA asked him on the thirteenth whether

“or not there was enough charcoal and wood:at the fireplaces but
he is not. sure of thav.-. : Noe

32 - i

f

 

 

Qo ee ee

 

‘ a Q
i

i HW 45836 Doocid:32332691 Page i6
 

 

 

a

 

 

 

AL 62-1152

T-32' said that after talking to both CIVELLO and
FILARDO-and observing CIVELLO's attitude toward answering
any questions about the Apalachin meeting he had formulated
_the opinion that the meeting was’ for an illegal purpose
and-that those who attended hav been warned that they ®8re
not to discuss its purpose with enyone under any circumstances,
T-32 stated that he feels that the reorganization which he
believed to be the purpose of the meeting was not effected
because of the investigative attention the local, state and
federal agencies have been giving the meeting.

 

 

By airtel: May 13,°1958, Philadelphia advised. that
Confidential Informant T-33, who is widely acquainted in
_ the Italian underworld in Philadelphia and is. probably one
of the best persons in that area to develop information.
concerning captioned | meeting had been contacted on April. 15, :
29 ‘and on May 7, 1958, but wes unable to furnish any. addittona}
information concerning any other meeting.

Philadelphia reported that at the time T-33 was
reactivated and eontacted on January 20, 1958, he pointed
out that the doubts of many concerning the existence, of
a mafia should now be settled in view of the publicity

“coneerning the. meeting of hoodlums at Apalachin on November 14,

1957. T-33 said that he felt that the. proof’ of the meeting
vogethe “e with the identity of the persons there and the ‘amoun$
of meady cash on their person should be a concrete example

of the power held by the mafia. The informant advised that
from his contacts in South Philadelphia, he had learned that
this was a meeting of the bosses and under-bosses, but he °
did not know the purpose of ‘the meeting-other than that’

there was some ‘indication of discussion of business which:
concérried ALBERT ANASTASIA, ,

“Te -33 has referred to the mafia as the "organization"
and he insists that the "organization" is the present day
maria, -In his. description of the organization, its membership
and ‘activities, according to Philadelphia, oe has. always

- stated that.to be a member one must bé an Italian, either from
the Old Country or a direct dé&endent thereof and must be
sponsored by a member of. the Organization, He has pointed out
that by far the majority of the.members of the organization —
originate either from Sicily or from the Province of © Dadpy. J
near the top of the boot in Italy. Informant is from Colazezs,
and is an alien. He said there are a few individuals who are
believed by him to be active with the organization whom he
believes originated from .Napoii, Italy.

 

 
  

 
  

27

 

i .
| WW 45836 Docld:3233269i Page 8

 

 
 

 

 

 

AL 62=1152

they did not require the services of an attorney: however,
they did decide to retdin the counsel selected by T-32 for
their appearances the following day. 5 :

The informant related that the elderly beker (FILARDO)
was naturalized about 13 years ago and was. extreme /y arraid . 3
of losing his ecitizenshin and of being deported. t - |
record, according to T+32, and had never even been “hy x
by police before, T-32 said he was unable to speak Eng lisn
very well ane was seared to death,

  

T-32 said that FILARDO’ gave the impression he would /
have talked to the attorneys except that CIVELLO counseled
him frequently against saying anything, CIVELLO told
T-32. chat he would not and could not admit to him that he had
been present at the captioned meeting @énd his story.was that : {
he had been in the area to visit a girl friend who was. married {
and whom he did not care to involve. CIVELLC said that he . : ;
would be unable.to admit to.the Grand Jury that it was raining
‘outside even if it was at the time he appeared before them.

 

 

T-32 said that the two hoodlums and the attorneys :
conferred. for about an hour and a half before the noodiums | .
appeared before the Grand Jury and the attorneys briefed 4
the hoodiums on what questions they could refuse to answer

and ‘invoke the Fifth Amendment, A series of possible questions
which they might be asked were reviewed: with them and CIVELEO..
would frequently state, with respect to those directed to the”!

baker, "he can't answér that,” - 7-32 stated the review was ~
conducted in a reception room outside the room where the Grand
Jury was sitting 7 {

  

 

T-32 said that numerous witnesses who had been
subpoenaed to appear and who had been in-attendance at the
captioned meeting were present and absolutely refused to

 

j talk to one another and acted like strangers.

 

P~3P > related that he had no knowledge’ of the

subject matter discussed at instant meeting at “Apalachin, t

: but related that from his experience and various contacts

' he was of the.opinion nat in the tate-20's or early 30's a

national organization was. formed.for the purpose of controlling

illegal activities, This organization had a national council ~

poo and local ‘overiord! who would communicate with each other

. by courier not trusting mail or telephone contacts. He stated

i he believed that JOH BIANCO was.a courtier. in the Pittsburgh :
: district. (It is noted that BIANCO was convieted in about 1951
: for Interstate Transportation of Lottery Tickets. He was .

an arrested.at that time after getting off an airplane with a

Ee : 25 j
‘ ~
' HW 45836 BDoold:32332691 . Page 7

 
 

ere

one 60

AL 62-1152

 

JEK Law 1li{(a)

 

 

. |
y f
: . 18 :
| 63-¢426-/7 (
- =
| WW 45836 Docld:32332691 Page 5
‘before, the

[omen oO

£L 62-1152

By memorendum to the Director May 9, 1958,
in instant case, the Pithsburgh Division forwarded copies of
a memorandum detailing comments made by an attorney in
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Confidential Informant Albany T-32,
in respect. to instant meeting 7[+32 was interviewed after he had
indicated a desire to discuss the meeting with a Bureau
representative. Pittsburgh commented that T-32 is a politically
prominent figure and a somewhat controversial one since
unconfirmed rumors have linked him with wacket figures over
a considerable number of years.. The rumors have never been
substantiated, according to Pittsburgh, Pittsbursh noted
that T-32 was very close to Mayor DAVID L. LAWRENGE. of
Pittsburgh who is a likely successor to the zovernorship of
Pennsylvania in thé néxt election. ‘

It should be nted that T-32 gave the impress ion:
to. interviewing agents that he felt there might be some
possibility JOSEPH FILARDO could be infiuenced to talk about
instant: meeting © as his attitude was far léss rigid than that
of CIVELLA and his position on citizenship more ‘tenuous. “Te -32
stated that hé ‘feels that FILARDO may have attended as a vietin
of the group. rather than a member of it, It is believed an
Italian speaking agent would fare better in attenp: ing to:
interview PILARDO, Both FILARDO and CIVELLA are mentioned
specifically below by T-32.

 

    

 

0 T432 was interviewed on May 6, 1958, by Special
Agents DAMON W, PITCHER and JOHN S$. PORTELLA - He said that
after the meeting of the jnoodiums at Apalachin, New York,

he was te ephonically contacted by NICK CIVELLA and an
elderly’ lian whe owns a bake shon.in Kansas City (velieved:
to be JOSSPH PILARDO}, They requested him to represent them
Federal Grand dury and State Grand Jury in New :
York City. T+32" ‘said he told the hnoodlums he was unable

to represent them directly, but would look out for their
interests and would arrange for them to obtain counsel

in New York, which he did T-32 did not identify the counsel

 

 
  

 

he obtained for CIVELLA and FILARDO,

T=32 met the two hoodluns in New York City the night
before their hearing befdore the Federal Grand: Jury and, . although
he had an eight o! eiock apointment, they kept him waiting
until 12:15 A, M. When they appeared they refused to say anything
to the attorneys. whom T-32 had arranged to represent them. They
said. that they had conferred with some. unnamed persons while en
routé to New York City and had been told to say nothing, and that

a4

 

|

 

‘HW 45836 Docld:32332691 Page 6

 

 
 

AL 62-1152 AVE PAC

DETAILS: . :
A. MUTUAL INTERESTS OF HOODLUMS Ar MBRTING |

Origin : : oe

a On April 18, 1958, Albany .Confidential Informant
TT. 28, contact with whom has been insufficient to determine reliability
and who is an Italian businessman at Apalachin, New-York, advised
Special Agents PATRICK 4. MUNLEY and JAMES C.. MEE that ne was,
born and raised at Pittston, Pennsylvania, and that ne has known
DOMINICK ALAIMO, RUSSELL .BUFALINO, JAMES OSTICCO. and ANGELO. SCIANDRAG.
_ 11 of Pittston,\Psnns ylvania, who are hoodlums who attended instani
meeting at 0 ap ‘BARBARA.=8r,..'s estate on November 14, 1957, as “ed
being members of the Sietiian. “Group in the Pittston area.

T-28 related’ thag sannonoure of Pittston, Pennsylvania,
is the: head’ of all the Sicilt nt astern Coast and that nets;
probably the individual who gave the orders for the meeting which Mb
was held at BARBARA's, 1-28 said that BARBARA, from his observations
of the Stceilians, would rank about either number three or four in
the Sicilian: ‘Group. : . *

     

The informant’ said that ‘the group that met at BARBARA's
was made’ up of mostly "muscle men" and apparently few of the real
leaders of the Sicilians. He said that from his knowledge of the.
Sicilians he would say that the meeting was for the purpose of
instructing those that\were there concerning the new "bosses" so.
that they would return |\to their own areas and pass the-word to other
Sicilians in the SYOUD ¥)

. . 7-28 stated that the Sicilians for years have been
running the Taekete" in’the Pittston, Pennsylvania-area, and that

he has observed the activities of the individuals mentioned above

who were at the meeting and others in the Pittston area, and knows
that they have always been involved in some kind of illegal activity.

‘On April a5, 1958, T-23 advised SA MUNLEY that he had

talked. to SALVATORE’ (SAM) ALECCIA, with alias BLACKIE ALECCIA, an ,
associate of top hoodlum ANTHONY ‘ B GUARNIERI.on April 22, 1958.
He said that ALECCIA told. him that ALECCIA and. LOUIS CORDI, another’
associate of GUARNIERI, were supposed to have attended the meeting
at JOSEPH BARBARA's on November 14, 1957, but did not make it because
of having to work during the day. Informant said he did not ask-

_ whether they had intended to be at the meeting in the evening.ALECCIA

le

 

 

45836 Doold:32332692 ' Page 2

 

 
 

 

 

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90103-10092
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 63-4426-171
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: AL
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 07/08/1958
*PAGES : 191
SUBJECTS :
SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: — 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)
CURRENT STATUS: —Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 01/21/1999
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS
COMMENTS :

 

‘ v9.1
“HW 45836  Doocld:32332692

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

“Agency Information

Page i

 
 

AL 62-1152

allegedly. said that the meeting was for the purpose of naming the

bosses and that the meetng was strictly a Sicilian Group. Informant

said ALECCIA believes the informant to be a Sicilian.

- On May 7, 1958, T-28 ‘informed SA MUNLEY that
SALVATORE ALECCIA had appeared at informant's place of business
on Tuesday night, May 6, 1957, and he had tried to get ALECCIA
talking, but was unable to. have him make any conversation.

In pespect to the above information, it is noted
that the investigations of the individual top hoodiums who
attended instant meeting have reflected that they are all of
Italian origin and a major portion of them-were porn abroad, and
became. naturalized citizens of the United States, —

By etter dated May 2, 1958, the New York Office
forwarded to the Bureau and to Albany copies of the report of
New York State Acting Commissioner of Investigation ARTHUR L. REUTER
on the activities and associations: of persons identified as
present at the residence of JOSEPH BARBARA, Sr. at Apalachin,

-New York, on November 14, 1957, and the reasons for their presence,

This report bears date of April 23, 1958...

-+ The report is 2 summary of the investigation conducted
py REUTER's office into captioned meetinz upon instructions of
the Governor of the State of New York issued November a5, 1957.

The New York Office réceived the. report May 1, 1958,
from Chief Investigator HYMAN ROSENBLADT of the office of Commissioner
REUTER. It should be noted that the office of Commissioner of
Investigation is no’ longer exist@mt, having been supplanted by the

‘New York State Crime Commission, set-up by les islative enactment
in 1958. ey

: ; The New York Office has forwarded summaries of.
information . on individual hoodlums mentioned in the HEUTER report
to interested offices for their files on the particular individual

hoodiums.
. Additional details from this report will pe set out
hereinafter. , ; ; : : ;

 

 

 

| AW 45836 Docid: 32332691 Page 3

 

 
onene ener
AL 62-1152

In the instance ‘above, related from. Commissioner |
REUTER's report of JOSEPH BARBARA, SR. being ‘stopped and
found in possession of a gun. in New York City in 1931,
investigation has determined that he was accompanied by. NATALE
EVOL, This was approximately 27 years AZO. Also with them
. was VINCENZO COPPOLA.

The. data set forth from Commissioner REUTER' s
-report concerning BARBARA's arrest for murder. hdve previously

been reported. It is noted that: these incidents also occurred _.

approximately 27 years ago,.and that the first murder mentioned
was allegedly due to a dispute between. the victim and “SANTO |
VOLPE, SAM VOLPE and. CHARLES . BUPFALINO,.

-.In.the second murder it is noted that SANTO VOLPE
and ANGELO POLIZZI. were allegedly involved and that during
- he investigation calls were traced. from BARBARA's home to the
telephone of SALVATORE FALCONE and Brothers, 550 BleeGker
Street, Utica, New York. Brothers SALVATORE and JOSEPH FALCONE
were, of course, attendees at ‘instant meeting, at BARBARA's home.

It -is ‘note a ‘that ANGELO POLIZZI was a Detroit hoodlum
who visited JOSEPH BARBARA, SR. at Apalachin, New York, not
long before POLIZZI's death in September 1957. :

Since. the above-mentioned murders occurred nearly
30 years ago, it is seen that. ‘the period of friendship. covered.
is extensive.

‘In connection with the relationship between BARBARA
and SANTO VOLPE, Albany Confidential Informant T-29, woo has
furnished reltable ‘information in the past, on Februa
1958, made available to-SA i

   

   

ie SRE bie fo on

3 -PBL6~-/>/

 

 

r=
i

| HW 45836 Docld:32332691 Page 4

FK Law li(a}

 

 

Nee
