 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CERTIFICATION

“I certify that I have read the names of the above Hsted organizations.

To the best of my knowledge and belief, I am not, nor have I been a member of, contributed to, received iter-
ature from, signed petitions of or in behalf of, or attended meetings of any organization Usted above, or any
organization outside the United States espousing Communist, Fascist, Totalitarian or Nazi causes, except as noted
below.

To the best of my knowledge and belief, none of my close relatives are, nor have ever been members of, con-
tributed to, received literature from, signed petitions of or in behalf of, or attended meetings of any such organiza-
tions, except as noted below. . ~ ol: aoe : Looe

ee abi?

re INSTRUCTIONS

For the purpose of this certification, if an applicant or employee is completing this form, the term “close rela-
tive” will include spouse, children, parents, brothers, sisters, uncles,and aunts. “Close relatives” of the spouse, for
this purpose, will include children, parents, brothers, sisters, uncles, and aunts.

If there are exceptions to this certification, set forth below under Remarks au pertinent information concern-
ing the nature and extent of your activities or those of your close relatives in such organizations, including the
names of the organizations, dates of membership, meetings attended, titles of positions held, amounts and dates
of contributions, nature of petitions signed falling within the meaning of the above certification and circumstances
thereof, titles and authors of literature received, and dates on which received.

In exceptions ¢ concerning = relatives, include only such information presently known to you or available from
your own records... . . . tee

If necessary, use additional sheets and sign each sheet. Write none if there are no exceptions. -

REMARKS: To be completed by Spouse - REMARKS: To be completed by Applicant or Employee
: ALORS _

 

 

Date

Signature of Spouse cy tenets .. | Signature of Applicant or Employee

Address — City and State Address — City and State

Waa —— "Hp Eg

Address — City and State. “peldrons—_ Gity ind —
SOU Hawes St, MAelean, Ve

 

HW 53294 DocId:32399271 Page 5

 
 

 

 

 

 

HW 53294

FORM
11-58

 

 

  

“a

PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT — (Appendix I)

Listed below are names of organizations identified by the Attorney General, under his responsibility pursuant to

” Bxecutive Order 10450, dated 27 April 1953, to list the names of each foreign or domestic organization, association,
movement, group or combination of persons which he designates as Totalitarian, Fascist, Communist, or subversive, .

or as having adopted or having shown a policy of advocating or approving the commission of acts of force or vio-

lence to deny others their rights under the Constitution of the United States, or as seeking to alter the form of

government of the United States by unconstitutional means. © 7 :
Each applicant or employee and spouse (if any) must review the following Mst of organizations for certification

purposes, and sign on the last page.

Abraham Lincoln Brigade sot -

Abraham Lincoln School, Chicago, Ilinois

Action Committee to Free Spain Now .

Alabama People’s Educational Association (see Communist Politi-
cal Association)

American Association for Reconstruction in Yugoslavia, Inc.

American Branch of the Federation of Greek Maritime Unions

American Christian Nationalist Party

American Committee for European Workers’ Relief (see Socialist
Workers Party) 2 8-200 2 :

American Committee for Protection of Foreign Born

American Committee for Spanish Freedom

American Committee for the Settlement of Jews in-Birobidjan, Inc.

American Committee for Yugoslav Relief, Inc.

American Committee to Survey Labor Conditions in Europe .

American Council for a Democratic Greece, formerly known as the
Greek American Council; Greek American Committee for Na-
tional Unity .

American Council on Soviet Relations

American Croatian Congress

American Jewish Labor Council

American League Against War and Fascism

American League for Peace and Democracy

American National Labor Party

American National Socialist League

American National Socialist Party

American Nationalist Party

American Patriots, Inc.

American Peace Crusade

American Peace Mobilization

American Poles for Peace

American Polish Labor Council

American Polish League

American Rescue Ship Mission (a project of the United American
Spanish Aid Committee)

American-Russian Fraternal Society

American Russian Institute, New York, also known as the Ameri-
can Russian Institute for Cultural Relations with the Soviet
Union

American Russian Institute, Philadelphia

American Russian Institute of San Francisco

American Russian Institute of Southern California, Los Angeles

American Slav Congress

American Women for Peace

American Youth Congress

American Youth for Democracy

Armenian Progressive League of America

Associated Klans of America

Association of Georgia Klans

‘Association of German Nationals (Reichsdeutsche Vereinigung)

Ausland-Organization der NSDAP, Overseas Branch of Naz Party

Baltimore Forum
Benjamin Davis Freedom Committee
Black Dragon Soclety

444d use PREVIOUS EDITIONS

DocId:323992971 Page 2

Boston School for Marxist Studies, Boston, Massachusetts

Bridges-Robertson-Schmidt Defense Committes

Bulgarian American People’s League of the United States of
America .

California Emergency Defense Committee

California Labor School, Inc., 321 Divisadero Street, San Francisco,
California

Carpatho-Russian Péople’s Society .

Central Council of American Women of Croatian. Descent, also
known as Central Council of American Croatian Women, Na-
tional Council of Croatian Women

Central Japanese Association: (Beikoku Chuo-Nipponjin Kai)

Central Japanese Association of Southern California

Central Organization of the German-American National Alliance
(Deutsche-Amerikanische Etnhettsfront)

Cervantes Fraternal Society

China Welfare Appeal, Inc,

Chopin Cultural Center

Citizens Committee for Harry Bridges

Citizens Committee of the Upper West Side (New York City)

Citizens Committee to Free Earl Browder

Citizens Emergency Defense Conference

Citizens Protective League

Civil Liberties Sponsoring Committee of Pittsburgh

Civil Rights Congress and its affiliated organizations, including:

Civil Rights Congress for Texas

Veterans Against Discrimination of Civil Rights Congress of
New York

Civil Rights Congress for Texas (see Civil Rights Congress)
Columbians .
Comite Coordinador Pro Republica Espanola
Comite Pro Derechos Civiles
(See Puerto Rican Comite Pro Libertades Civiles)
Committee for a Democratic Far Eastern Policy-
Committee for Constitutional and Political Freedom
Committee for Nationalist Action
Committee for Peace and Brotherhood Festival in Philadelphia
Committee for the Defense of the Pittsburgh Six
Committee for the Negro in the Arts) _
Committee for the Protection of the Bill of Rights
Committee for World Youth Friendship and Cultural Exchange
Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland
(See Congress Against Discrimination; Maryland Congress
Against Discrimination; Provisional Committee to Abolish
Discrimination in the State of Maryland)
Committee to Aid the Fighting South
Committee to Defend Marie Richardson
Committee to Defend the Rights and Freedom of Pittsburgh’s
Political Prisoners
Committee to Uphold the Bill of Rights
Commonwealth College, Mena, Arkansas
Communist Party, U. 8. A., its subdivisions, subsidiaries, and

 

-1- (4)

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
jh HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HW 53294

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER :

. RECORD SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM :

TO
TITLE

DATE
> PAGES

SUBJECTS

. DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
COMMENTS

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Released under the John

Kennedy

 

 

CIA Assassination Records

ie 0112-10099 ollection Act of 1992
44 USC .

80T01357A { 2107 Note)
ase#:NU 53294 Date:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION me ia-201"

CIA

CONEIN, LUCIEN E.

FORM: PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT~--APPENDIX I SIGNED BY

CONEIN

09/24/1961

4

CONEIN, LUCIEN

PAPER

UNCLASSIFIED

1A

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

07/22/93 - ;

JFK41 : F2 : 1993,07.22.18:51:56:430390 : RELEASED

EARLIER INCORRECTLY AS 104-10112-10093.

Docld: 32399271

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Page 1

104-10112-10099
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ra Ey
Communist Political Association, its subdivisions, subsidiaries,
and affiliates, inchuding: .
“Alabama People’s Educational Association

Florida Press and Educational League

Oklahoma League for Political Education

People’s Educational and Press Association of Texas

Virginia League for People’s Education
Congress Against Discrimination

(See Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland)

Congress of American Revolutionary Writers
Congress of American Women
Congress of the Unemployed
Connecticut Committee to Aid Victims of the Bmith Act
Connecticut State Youth Conference vo,
Council for Jobs, Relief and Housing
Counc} for Pan-American Democracy
Council of Greek Americans ©
Council on African Affairs ,
Croatian Benevolent Fraternity

 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

Dai Nippon Butoku Kal (Military Virtue Society of Japan or Mili-
tary Art Society of Japan)

Daily Worker Press Club

Daniels Defense Committee

Dante Alighieri Society (between 1935 and 1940)

Dennis Defense Committee

Detroit Youth Assembly

  
  

 

 

 
 
 

Elsinore Progressive League

¥mergency Conference to Save Spanish Refugees (founding body
of the North American Spanish Aid Committee) .

Everybody's Committee to Outlaw War

 

 
 

 

 

Families of the Baltimore Smith Act Victims

Families of the Smith Act Victims

Federation of Italian War Veterans im the U. 8. A. Inc. (Associa-
gione Nazionale Combattentl Italiani, Federazione degli Stati
Uniti d’america)

Finnish-American Mutual Aid Society

Florida Press and Educational League (see Communist Polttical
Association)

Frederick Douglass Educational Center

Freedom Stage, Inc.

Friends of the New Germany (Freunde des Neven Deutschlands)

Friends of the Soviet Union :

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

Garibaldi American Fraternal Society

George Washington Carver School, New York City

German-American Bund (Amerikadeutscher Volksbund)

German-American Republican League

German-American Vocational League (Deutsche-Amerikanische
Berufsgemeinechaft)

Guardian Club

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Harlem Trade Union Council

Hawaii Civil Liberties Committee

Heimusha Kal, also known as Nokubei Weleki Gimusha Kal, Zaibel
Nihonjin, Heiyaku Gimushs Kal, and Zaibel Heimusha Kai (Jap-
anese Residing in America Military Conscripts Association)

Hellenic-American Brotherhood

inode Kai (Imperial Japanese Reservists)

Hinomaru Kal (Rising Sun Flag Society—-@ group of Japanese
War . Veterans)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

ciation)
Hollywood Writers Mobilization for Defense
Hungarian-American Council for Democracy
Hungarian Brotherhood

 

 

 

 

 

 

Idaho Pension Union
Independent Party (Seattle, Washington)
(See Independent People’s Party)

 
 

 
   
 

 

AW 53294 DocId:32399271 Page 3

Hokubei Zaigo Shoke Dan (North American Reserve Officers Asso-

 

  
  
  
   
    
 
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
   
  
 
   

    

. a
Independent People’s Party
(See Independent Party)
Industrial Workers of the World
International Labor Defense
International Workers Order, its subdivisions, subsidiaries and
affiliates
Japanese Association of America in
Japanese Overseas Central Society (Kaigai Dobo Chuo Kal)
Japanese Overseas Convention, Tokyo, Japan, 1940
Japanese Protective Association (Recruiting Organization)
Jefferson School of Social Science, New York City .
Jewish Culture Society . .
Jewish People's Committee
Jewish People’s Fraternal Order |”
dJikyoku Tinka! (The Committee for the Crisis)
Johnson-Forest Group
(See Johnsonites)
Johnsonites :
(See Johnson-Forest Group)
Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee -
Joint Council of Progressive Italian-Americans, Inc.
Joseph Wedemeyer School of Social Science, St, Louis, Missourt
Kibet Seinen Ka! (Association of U. 8. Citizens of Japanese An-"
cestry who have returned to America after studying in Japan)
Knights of the White Camellia t
Ku Klux Klan
BeU . also known as Kyffhaeuser League (Kyffhaeuser
Bund), Kyffhaeuser Fellowship (Kyffhacuser Kameradschaft)
Kyffhaeuser War Relief (Kyffhaeuser Kriegshilfswerk)

Labor Council for Negro Rights
Labor Research Association, Inc. * ~
Labor Youth League

League for Common Sense

League of American Writers.

Lictor Society (Italian Black Shirts)

Macedonian-American People’s League
Marlo Morgantini Circle
Maritime Labor Committee to Defend Al Lannon
Maryland Congress Against Discrimination
(See Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland)
Massachusetts Committee for the Bill of Rights
Massachusetts Minute Women for Peace (not connected with the
Minute Women of the U. 8. A., Inc.)
Maurice Braverman Defense Committee
Michigan Civil Rights Federation
Michigan Council for Peace
Michigan School of Social Science

Nanka Teikoku Gunyudan (Imperial Military Friends Group or
Southern California War Veterans)

National Association of Mexican Americans (also known 85 Asocia-
cion Nacional Mexico-Americana) ~

National Blue Star Mothers of America (not to be confused with
the Blue Star Mothers of America organized in February 1942)

National Committee for Freedom of the Press

National Committee for the Defense of Political Prisoners

National Committee to Win Amnesty for Smith Act Victims

National Committee to Win the Peace

National Conference on American Policy in China and the Far East
(a Conference called by the Committee for a Democratic Far
Eastern Policy)

National Council of Americans of Croatian Descent

National Council of American-Soviet Friendship

National Federation for Constitutional Liberties

National Labor Conference for Peace

National Negro Congress

National Negro Labor Council

Nationalist Action League
 

 

 

 

 

  
  
   
 
  
  
 
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 

   

Santa Barbara Peace Forum

Schappes Defense Committee

Schneiderman-Darcy Defense Committee

School of Jewish Studies, New York City .

Beattle Labor School, Seattle, Washington

Berbian-American Fraternal Society

Berbian Vidovdan Counc ss cos

Shinto Temples (limited to State Shinto abolished in 1945) ~

Bilver Shirt Legion of America

Slavic Council of Southern California

Slovak Workers Society .

Bloventan-American National Council

Socialist Workers Party, including American Committee for Euro-
pean Workers’ Relief ©

Sokoku Kat (Fatherland Society) 7

Southern Negro Youth Congress

Buiko Sha (Reserve Officers Association, Los Angeles) .

Syracuse Women for Peace -

Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico
Nature Friends of America (since 1935)

Negro Labor Victory Committee _ .

New Committee for Publications - :
Nichibet Kogyo 'Kalshsa (The Great Fujii Theatre)
North American Committee to Ald Spanish Democracy
North American Spanish Aid Committee
North Philadelphia Forum

Northwest Japanese Association

 
 

  

  
   

   
  
 

 

  

Ohio School of Social Sciences

Oklahoma Committee to Defend Political Prisoners

Oklahoma League for Political Education (see Communist Politi-
eal Association) .

Original Southern Klans, Incorporated

  
   
     
   
 

Pacific Northwest Labor School, Seattle, Washington
Palo Alto Peace Club °
Partido del Pueblo of Panama (operating in the Canal Zone)
Peace Informstion Center’ . . 7
Peace Movement of Ethiopia
People’s Drama, Inc. - ae :
People’s Educational and Press Association of Texas (see Commu-
nist Political Association) ete ee et
People’s Educational Association (incorporated under name Los
‘Angeles Educational Association, Inc.), also known as People’s
.. Educational Center, People’s University, People’s School
“People’s Institute of Applied Religion woot
Peoples Programs (Seattle, Washington) ~"
People's Radio Foundation, Inc. .
People’s Rights Party so .
Philadelphia Labor Committee for Negro Rights
Philadelphia School of Social Science and Art
Photo League (New York City)
Pittsburgh Arts Club
Political Prisoners’ Welfare Committee
Polonia Society of the TWO
Progressive German-Americans, also known as Progressive Ger-
man-Americans of Chicago -
Proletarian Party of America
Protestant War Veterans of the United States, Inc.
Provisional Committee of Citizens for Peace, Southwest Area
Provisional Committee on Latin American Affairs
Provisional Committee to Abolish Discrimination in the State of
Maryland .
(See Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland)
Puerto Rican Comite Pro Libertades Civiles (CLC)
(See Comite Pro Derechos Civiles)
Puertorriquenos Unidos (Puerto Ricans United)

   

Tom Paine School of Social Science, Philadelphia, Pennsylvanis
Tom Paine School of Westchester, New York
Trade Union Committee for Peace _
(See Trade Unionists for Peace)
Trade Untonists for Peace
"(See ‘Trade Untontste for Peace)
‘Tri-State Negro Trade Union Council

   
   
  
   
  
   
 

Ukrainian-American Fraternal_Union_

Union of American Croatians

Union of New York Veterans Lot

United American Spanish Aid Committee .

United Committee of Jewish Societies and Landsmanschaft Fed-

_ erations, also known as Coordination Committee of Jewish
Landsmanschaften and Fraternal Organizations =~

United Committee. of South Slavic Americans

United Defense Council of Southern California

United Harlem Tenants and Consumers Organization

United May Day Committee

United Negro and Allied Veterans of America

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
  

Veterans Against Discrimination of Civil Rights Congress of New
York (see Civil Rights Congress}

Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade

Virginia League for People’s Education (see Communist Political
Association) .

Votce of Freedom Committee

 
  
 
  
 

 
 
 
  
 

  
 
  
 

Walt Whitman School of Social Science, Newark, New Jersey
‘Washington Bookshop Association

Washington Committee for Democratic Action

Washington Committee to Defend the Bill of Rights
Washington Commonwealth Federation -
‘Washington Pension Union ~

Wisconsin Conference on Social Legislation

‘Workers Alliance (since April 1936)

   
  
   

 
  
    
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  

Quad City Committee for Peace
Queensbridge Tenants League

 
  
 
  
 
  
  

Revolutionary Workers League
Romanian-American Fraternal Society
Russian American Society, Inc.
Yiddisher Kultur Farband

Young Communist League
‘Yugoslav-American Cooperative Home, Inc.
Yugoslav Seamen’s Club, Inc.

Gakura Kai (Patriotic Society, or Cherry Association — composed
of veterans of Russo-Japanese War)
Samuel Adams School, Boston, Massachusetts

 

 

 

AW 53294 DocId:32399271 Page 4

 

 

 

 

i
i
i
