Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)...
DATE: pth -14-27017

. “Seventeen? reas Yee
’ - . G38 GEN, RLS. NO. 27 a —
-_ UNITED Si NTES GO SNMENT . ~

“CIA HAS NO OBJECTION 10. x
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR, ke
, RELEASE OF CIA } SFORMA TION FE

= WN.THS, bogus

“DeLoacn
Suilivan io. ny

     
 
   
  

      

 
    
    

; BB rosea

ie
x eS
"es 3 of

 

Ends Bid
This memorandum summarizes the results of interviews of
Yuri Nosensko by Bureau Agents during the week of 2/24-28/64. ¥ y

Yur. Nosenko is the Soviet intelligence agent who defected

oO CIA in Genewa, Switzerland, 2/5/64. CIA furnished us with
information concerning its interviews of the subject. On 2/24/64 our
lAgents began interviewing Nosenko. Tye furnished considerable (—
information concerning recruitments and recruitment attempts made
against United States citizens and United States Government employees
in the USSR. He stated that the Soviet Intelligence. vice (KGB) hag -*
NE n infiltratéd thé FBI. | Most of — the information whi Yosenko
antiated 2d _by_: facts_; alxe eady_: in_our file: [fyonceming
Lee Ha. LEY id, Nosenko said the KGB considered hin to Be mentally
Hunsta én told that he could not stay in the Soviet Union, Oswald: z
attempted suicide by cutting his wrists and was rushed to a hospital.
Through the Red Cross or Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA), Oswald
was permitted to stay in Minsk, Russia, Nos cko next heard of him wuen'
he visited tse Soviet Embassy, Mexico City, ead M’A made inquiry of
the KGB ana was told that he was of no value. Nosenko last heard of
Oswald in connection with the assassination ci President Kennedy.
According to Nosenko, Marina Oswald was not a KGB agent. She was not
considered particularly intelligent and hac seen dropped from the
Komsomol (young communist group) for nonpayisient of dues, Oosenixo
furnished info.aation which indicates Anatole Kotloby, subject of a ‘
current investigation is identical with a KGB agent. ‘He also “urnisned
information that a former governess of the children of the Un ze States.
Ambassador in Moscow and now a teacher in the American School -

recruited by the wll ca basis of i seduction by tre~ifricce—ae

Ww f

students in Mosco
NOT RECORDED > TARr25~i9g4
CIA has stated it believes EMRE goa Deception agent

lane a plant to disrupt American intellfence work. We™@@™not acvept.
jthis- analysis as necessarily ccrrect. ‘2 are interviewing Noseske
with an open mind aad are checking out the information which
After this has been done, it is believed an intelligent evalus’.ion can’
be made of his worti. Details of the highlights of the info
3 during the weex. of, mer are attached

} ui ormahion yeni shed

 
 
  
 

 

    

   

 

 

i

:

  
  
    

ORIGINAL FLED’

  

 

 

  
  
 

      

DoclId:32129553 Page 2
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DAFB4l1-14-2017

National Archives and Records Administration

 

2

 

&. Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

 

| Back to Brief Results’.

“Back to Seaich:

 

 

  

Exit'JFK:

 

Hits 1-1 of 1

 

Hit 1 of 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

DOCUMENT TYPE
SUBJECTS
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA

 

\

AGENCY INFORMATION

FBI

124-10035-10387

HQ

105-82555-1ST NR .2506

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

FBI

BRANIGAN, W. A.
SULLIVAN, W. C.

{No Title]

03/04/1964

3

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
LHO, RP, ACT :
UNCLASSIFIED

3

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
05/01/1997

INDEFINITE

Audit histor

 

 

Hits 1-1 of 1

 

for this Record Identification Form

 

[;Back to Brief Results | [ Back,to Search ] |:

 

 

National Archives and Records Administration

ivehmaster@nara.gov

Doc HR ARs a age yrtaptercw 4 | | "
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017
ary .

Memo W. A. Branigan to W. C. Sullivan
Re: YURI IVANOVICH NOSENKO
65=-08530

ACTION: K

For information. Interviews with Nosenko are continuing
and all leads are being promptly set out and resolved. ¥u

DETAILS:

Yuri I. Nosenko, former KGB agent, defected to CIA in Geneva,
Switzerland, 2/5/64. CIA furnished the results of the preliminary
interviews of Nosenko along with its evaluation of him. CIA is
convinced Nosenko is a plant sent by the KGB as a tactic to disrupt
American intelligence. x 7

 

On 2/24/64 we began interviewing ea os "safe house" rs
which CIA maintains in the area of Washington, D. ollowing. are th uy
highlights of some of the information furnished by" A nko. “%

1. Lee Harvey Oswald. Nosenko stated that he was familiar
with Oswald and recalled when Oswald arrived in the Soviet Union as a
tourist. He said Oswald told Intourist he desired to remain in the
Soviet Union. However, Oswald was discouraged against doing this and was
told to return to the United States and apply for admission to Russia
as an immigrant. Nosenko said Oswald was regarded by the KGB as
mentally unstable. He said that at 10 o'clock in the morning on which
Oswald was advised that he could not remain in the Soviet Union, Oswald
was to take part ix a tour of Moscow, but he could not be found. Efforts
were made to find him and after breaking into his room in the hotel, it
was discovered that he had attempted suicide by cutting his wrists. He
was taken to a hospital and upon release was told that he could not stay
in the Soviet Union. He stated that he would again attempt suicide.
Through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Red Cross, Oswald was
allowed to remain in the Soviet Union and was sent to Minsk. The KGB
center in Moscow lost interest in him until he appeared at the Soviet
Embassy, Mexico City, at which time that Embassy checked with the KGB
and was told that Oswald was of no use. Concerning Marina Oswald, Nosenkc
stated that she was not a KGB agent, was not regarded to be particularly
intelligent and had been dropped from the Komsomol for nonpayment of aan
dues. The last time Nosenko heard of Oswald was following the assassina~
jtion of President Kennedy. ¥ Y goenee

oan ee cee

 

 

 

2. Anatole Kotloby. Anatole Kotloby is the subject of an .
intensive investigation resulting from information which originated with’.
Fedcova. Nosenko gave information about the arrest in Russia of an :
American citizen named Zernard Koten. He said that Koten was a mpting -
| to visit in Russia the sister of an agent of the Scientific and chnical
{Directorate of the KGS in New York, Nosenko did not know the name of
this agent in the United States; however, from the descristion, itis.
levident that he is TOW to Kotloby. ‘ ne information...

7. | furnished by Fedora. -2-

 

   

Docld: 32129553 Page 3
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act.of 1992 (44 USC 2107
Hateda. ~ -DATE: .11-14-2017

- te

- . - = - oe - i | @ me

Memo W. A. Branigan to W. Cs Sulliw
Re: YURI IVANOVICH NOSENKO
65-68530 .

Lee 3. Johanna Ross. Johanna Ross is an American citizen _
who h. to Russia as a governess for ‘the children of the American
Ambassador Nosenko stated that she is promiscuous and was seduced
by two African students and was then compromised by. the KGB. Our.
files show that Ross is the holder of-a current United States passport
and investigation. of her background has been instituted .(& WY

have been compromised. in the USSR and recruitment attempts made. against
them has been given by Nosenko. (He referred to the attempt to recruit
Robert James Barrett, American medical student. who was an interpreter
at the United States Plastics Exhibition in Russia in 1959. No
recruitment attempt was nade in 1959; however, when he returned to
Russia in 1961, he was recruited on the basis of the compromise effected
during his 1959 trip. Barrett is now an informant of the Bureau. In
addition, Nosenko told of recruitment operations against employees of
the American Embassy, such as James E. Keyzers, Joseph Marone, Matthew.
Zaujus, Edwin Smith, James Storsberg, Peter Binder and Walter tule, all
of which we had previously row] (By .

ts : 5. XGntornation about attempts to Fhe se newspapermen

 

E ar oa Information concerning various American citizens who

stationed in Moscow has ben given by Nosenko. (He said an Associated Cu
Press representative in Moscow had been recruited. . At this time there
are three representatives and ‘we have opened cases to attempt to
| identity the one who has been recruited. Yosenko told of the recruitment
| 33 Sam Jaffe, American Broadcasting Compgny correspondent in Moscow.
We have interviewed Jaffe and he gave us this information prior to his
recent return to Moscow. Gfesento also claims that Thomas Whitney had
furnished nonessential inférmation to the KGB in Moscow but refused to
do so on his return to the United States... He also said that Eddy Gilmore
of the Associated Press was a recruitment target and that Francis Stevens
of United States. News and World Report was compromised. We knew of the
compromise action against Stevens since he had told us about it and we
also kne hat ‘ahi tney and (Gilnore, both married to Soviet citizens, were
Heseees. (6) . ;

6. WY also gave information concerning individual
travelers to Russia, who had been recruited and individual case’ files

have been opened on mee m.,

   

DoclId: 32129553 Page 4
