 

LESHIK, George M. (A)
fe62 622 ¢ SD/L

and thereby geb an idea as to what the wilitary was planning in the
voy of armauents and things of that nature. The CuBJECT alco adviscd
that the responsibility for getting information ecuircptitiously from
Anerican Enbassies in foreign countrics who employ. indigenous personnel,
falls within the confines of the KGB. He etated that the way they co
about this is to vork through the indigenous personel and arrange to
enter the enbassy at special times during the night. They would first
make a close survey and a photograph of the area in which the enibassy
keeps its classified material, thon they would subsequently enter this
area and open up the safes. “hen he was asked how:this was done he
stated, "oh, combinations ‘to cafes ave not hard to acquire". Ile said
that the important and difficult part of this activity is taking the
material out and photographing it and then placing it exactly as it
was before they touched it. © . .

  
    

 

“ o soit De MOBLEL-WK
4 [Vrrcrior Agent aay A (e fs

 

HW 53320 DocId: 32395229 Page 8

 
 

LESUIK, George M. (A)
fe62 622 ¢ SD/1l

CURJECE'S FATHER

(1) The SUBJECT alco made reference to his father during this
meal, describing him as a very tall and extremely l-built individual,
and one who was extremely intelligent end a self-mate, cel f-cducated
man. He learned the chipbullding trade mostly throvgh his om research
and study, and also from the SUMWECE's prandfather, who vas one of the
first shipbuilders in Russia. ‘The SURIECE added thot his gvandfather
died at the age of 94. He also stated that after the death of his .
father, a.memorial was built in hio memory cinee he «as considered
a very capable director of the government shipping } ndustry. That
yao about the last tine he saw his mother and brother and sister, as
they all went to thigs ceremony in honor of his father. He also
indleated that there wos a periodical vhich gave a ccaplete run-down
on his tamily background, including that of his grandfather and his
father, and it was well publicized; and this he believes had a lot
to do with his being eble to get some speetal prefercnee and move

  

along as fost as he did in tho KSB orgentzation.

KGB_PRESSURE OW FAMILY

(4) On 27 February 19G! during mich, the SUBJECT stated that he
has been informed that the KGB is putting pressure on His intodiate
family, particularly his mother. Jovever, he ecaid he vas not overly
worried about her because she is well-off financially, and being up
in age there: is not much they can do to her. However, vhat conecrns
lim most is the fact that they have Already started to play on the
sympathies of his tvo children and his wife. The SUBJECT stated that
he vas anticipating thie; however, he id not think that thoy vould
stunt 60 soon to pressure the fuinlly. Nowever, he do2s Inve sone hope
that in due time he woy be able to get his family ot of Rusela. This
hope he cald wes given to hia by the Chlef of SR Division.

LIBRARY OF CONGRESS PuIpeRATOM

(k) On 25 February 1964 during a sichteecing tcur of Vashington
by vehicle, as we passed the Iibrary of Congress, the SURTECL pointed
to the building and stated that “ve have people working in there",
Special Agent Stanley C. LACH sald, “Who is 'we't" ond the FUBJECT
ensvered, "KCB". He continued by stating that this vas a goed place
to place people because they could readily Learn by gust catching
what research was being done in the Library of Cougvess ty the military

LF

6+

rte cert sttateNte eine SN ET BNE TTT

AW 53320 DocId:32395229 Page 7

 
 

LESUIK, George M. (A)
#262 622 ¢ SD/L

yas in his room, the clerk nodded affiruatively, ani the travel agent
proceeded to OSWALD's room. Ile tried the door, but the deor was lo “ade |
Ne Imocked, got no response, and then with the assistance of the cle ik ,
they broke into the room and found OSWALD Jying across the bed vith both

of his wrists slashed. The travel. ay and the clork responded fmmoadiately
by taking OSWALD to the near-by scdical facllity whore he vas given blood.
treusfuntous and after a period of tin: regained his stveugth. During the. :
hLyestigation the following day the SUPRJEC! stated that the doctor Indicated
that had OSHALD not been found for approximately ten more minutes, he vould |
bave been dead. It is here that tha SUBJFCT again .nounded the table and
cnid if the travel agent had not broken into the room, but had inetead
contacted the KGB office like they ave fustructed to when they do not

get any response Lrow people vith vhon they have appointments, thet he

 

      

 

  

n!
(SUBIJECE) would have most likely direcicd the travel agent to forget
about him, and on the following day ov later that czoning he vould have
sent one of the KGB agents to check en OSWALD, ot which time he would
have been found dead. This, he vent en to state, is what burts him
when he realizes that he cowld have been inebrucntal in disposing of

OSWALD without any special ingiisy or ceriouc lavectignélon, OSWALD

being nothing, and at the same time today the President of the United
States, President KAMIEDY, would do alive. The SUBJECT then went cn’
‘to state that after OGWALD was cent to Minsk ic was thera that he met.
Korie. Like himself (OSWALD), Marie was a girl froaa peacané fomlly
with no special background and somevhot U1iterate. It was Lecouse
of her poor background that she vas givon permission to marry OSTALD
and return to the United States as his wife.

The SUBJECT then went on to deserihe what took plnce en the day
that President NMEDY vas ascascluwsed. Me endd this was acbually
on Saturday in Moscov, the fend of Moverber. Ne wae how at the tin
and happened to have the radio on, when he heard that the Preeideut of

_ the United States had been ageaccinated. Approchiavtely one hour later,
the radio informed hin that the asceccin was Lee OGVALD. This announcement,
he said, really stunned hin. He ¢ Wa his cout cad darched to his offiee.
Tnmediately upon his arrival he scared for the OSVALD file. When he
found the file he revieved 1t and found that OSWALD had not been used
or even approached for use by the Rucsien Intelligence. Te put ina
long distance call to the Chief of the KUB Scetion in Minsk and inquired
whether they had uced, trained or prepared OGVALD in any vay for intelli-
gence activity. The Chief inforued Nin thet according to viet he could
yeeall, they hed not wade any uce of OMUARD. Just abowt this tine, he
(SURTECR) shated that his euperioe valled Lato the office and directed

 

 

 

 

HW 53320 Docld:32395229 Page 5

 

 
| HW 53320

 

LUSNIK, Gore Me (A)
f262 622 ¢c SsD/l

the SUBJECT to get all the tuforrmtton nvailable on OSWALD and prepare
a curmary to be furniched the top offictals of the Commnict Farty.
The SUBJECT then directed the KGB Agent in Minsk to likewise prepare
a suumary of his file on OSUALD and informed hia tht within twenty
minutes a KGB agent would evrive by spevial military plane to pick

up the summary for return to loscov. We said this tas accouplished,
and within one hour they vere preparing a detailed report on OSVALD's
oebivity in Russia. This, ecc.cluded the SUBJECT, is the story of
OSVALD in Russia. . :

Ce Be AVETETALTON

(f) The SUBJECY alco Indicuted that he did not join the Conammist

_ Party util he was 27 years old, end ie did this out of respect to his

father, who at the time wis on his death bed and ached hia (suBIECE) ©
whether he would do him one more favor before he diced. That is how

the SUBJECT stated he joined the Cemumnist Farty. Otherwise, he probably —

vould not have been a meniber to this day.

DIPLOMATS AUD INCKTLIGMICN TYPFS ; ae

(g) The SUBINCT ctuted that the MGB are able to differentiate
bLetveen Anoricans vho are assigned to Méecow and ore actually the
State Deparbuent type, frea those vo hyve an intelligence background,
by the fact that the intelligence type of people do not agcoclate with
the Pusefan girls, that is they will nes go out with them aloue, vhereas
the State Department type will. Also, over a period of a month or two,
they invariebly are nble to Tind evidence that the Intelligence types
have been mocburbating. This is urcvally detected through close cxan-

invtion of the individual's tovels and hed eheets.

RUGHIAN U-1 ATRORAET

(nh) On 25 Pebrunvy 180k duving the eventng ecw, a discussion ves
had regarding the reeeut nivplane ewishes noted Ju the newspapers and on
TV tn the United States. The SURINCT commented that he has a lot of
friends who are ‘tert pilots and vho are now engaged in testing vhat he
referred to as a U-1 type of alreraft that is faster than any other
atreraft in the vorld. We added thit these friends are highly paid
but they live very deugerous jobs.

 

DoclId:32395229 Page 6
 

TO BE _OPFRD BY ADDREESES

District Field Office
11 March 1964

MEMORALDUM FOR: Headquarters

SUBJECT : LESHIK, Geouge M. (A)
_ fa6e 622 ¢ SD/1

1. Refexence is made to Headauarters Letter of assignment in
this cace dated 4 Iarch 196h,

2. During the period 20-28 Fubouwy 1064, ville SUBJECL was
under the protective custody of Special. Agents Gtanley C. LACH,
George R. BREWER and Alfred B. McGARRACTIY, GURJECT voluntarily
Munished information concerning his background and activitics, -

“as well as other information of operational interest, the substance
of which is cet forth in the succeeding poragraphs. Tt is to be-
noted-that at.no.tine didany-of the. abpve-named agents solicit... .,
any of this information or make. duguiries of the SURJECT regarding | .
any of the watters discussed by him. SURIKCT spoutancously related :
these iuefdents in casual conversation during leisure periods ond
vhile enroute with the agents to and fvom pleces of entertaininent ete.
Iu most cases newspapers, migazines and TV programs prompted the
SUBJECT to make conments relative to these matters. Following is

a summarization of this Informtson:

     

SFOR(S, HOBBIES

(a) On 20 February 19Gh SURINCE disclose >a that he enjoys ‘the _
following cporta: football, hockey and billiards.

VORICH TRAVEL oon \
weamah av she

| .
(b) Tle also revealed that he hos previously Lren in the, United
States while enroute to Cuba, Venevucla and other Intin American
countries. We has et one time ov another during his cervice with the
KCB vindted ond worked on operational projects for the Soviet Union
in practically all. of the countries of Purope; however, he hos never

 

 

SECRET

Docld:32395229 Page 20 pes ae ee

 
Date: 02/14/05
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM :
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION Released under the John
; : Kennedy
AGENCY : CIA : Aesagsination Records
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10437-10056 ollection act of 1992

AGENCY FILE NUMBER RUS: HOLMES WORK ee ecg caso eee
E NUMBER : S HO: PILE ase#:NW 53320 Date:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION p62 4-2017

 

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA :
FROM : DIRECTOR OF SECURITY ’
TO : HEADQUARTERS
TITLE : WITHHELD
DATE : 03/11/1964
PAGES : 7

SUBJECTS : BIOGRAPHY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER
CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1A
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 11/20/98
COMMENTS : JFK-RHO5 : F108-5 : 1998.11.20.10:30:07:966129
DETAILS INFO REC'D FROM PROMINENT KGB DEFECTOR

({R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10437-10056

HW 53320 DocId:32395229 Page 1
TISHIK, George M. (A)
je6e G22 oC sD/1

traveled to the Far East, except while handling an agent who was
active against the Japanese. Ne (SURTUGT) stayed i the Kurile
Islands whieh are within sicht of Japan. This vas tn 1929. Mle
eaid that he wae active in the picking wp of agents by plane and
chip in this areca. . :

-. (e) In the latter part of the evening on this came date,
20 Vobruary 1964, the SUBJECT stated that his father vas a meniber,
of the Coimmniet Central Comittee, one of the flrct merhhers of :
the Comunist Forty, and that he had great respect for his father.
The LULJECT also indicated that his fother vas a-shipbuilder and
later became one of the first to organize and set wo the Russian -
- Atcule Energy Plant. It was during th's latter activity thet he
(the SUBJECT's father) wend three other offlelals eae in contact
with radiation, which affected his futher's liver and a few years
i ; Jater ot the age of Sk his father died of cancer. The CURIFRCT
- vent on to etate thet his fathor, being a very proatnent Commmist,
was given treatmart for this cancer in a epeeial hospital which is

  

 

was confined. This privilege, he unid, is only given to the especially
prominent VIPs of the Corumnist Farty, indicating that his fether was
one of the top men in the Communist Party.

HELITARY ACULVETY

(a) The SURJEGE revenled thit in 1949, at the age of 16, he was -

a Naval Cadet. He was cnlled into the service before graduating from
vhat t6 our equivalent of a high school. Jie had taken part in the
Lighting in the Binck Sea Arca where he deseribed hend-to-hand combat
with Germans, elatmed he was wounded, and because of his bravery he

yas avarded the Soviet Order Medal und the Order of Stalin. The CURJECT
stated this ws unusual for a person of his age and gained hin great
respect, At the end of the war he had no more desive for military life
although his superiors tried to keep him in the milltary. Instead, he
vent for four years to the Institute of Foreign Nelations and Learned
the Pn¢lich language. Upon graduation, a man ene to lina and told hin
thet he hand a job lined up for him. He stated thet this actually was
more like being ordercd to take this prrticuwlar job viich turmed out

 
  

   
 

 

AW 53320 Docld:32395229 Page 3
.
\
| AW 53320

“tho tine, OSVALD was of no special concera or Jubtores

LESHIK, George M. (A)
#262 622: ¢ SD/1

to be with the Naval Intelligence. He claimed that there vere tro
ullitary intelligence organizations wt the time, the Naval and the
Ground Force military type.

JRE OSWALD IM WUSSTA

(e) Cn 23 February 1964, ag GURIUCL approached the table for |
the evening meal, he noted that the Piro magazine lying on the coffee
table in the living room had a picture of Marie OSWALD. As he sat
dom he hit the table with his fist and enid, "I fecl that I could
have stopred OSUALD". AG this points Speeiel Agent Stanley C. LACH
asked him “howi". Ie proceeded to gbnte thrt he (SUBJECE) was head
of the KGB Tourist and Visltorn Section which kept control over the
aebivities of OSVALD while he wns in the Soviet Union. Me caid at
xb to the KGB

  

  

 

beenuse he lacked intelligence backeround. ‘Therefore, when he applicd
fox pornlspiion to leave Buccia, they (KB) under his (suBIECT) direction
dnformed GSWALD thet he vould iave to eke his applicetion through the
appropriate channels of the Stabe Department, who in ‘win vould request
hig releuse from the Russian ecunterparts in handlin;, of vicas. This.

   

  

he said. was.all Gone for propayanda ond show porpasce.- Ie went onto...

gtate that-if thoy really vamted to velease OSUALD, 1t-could have been
done on the spur of the moment, but eince OSWALD had nothing and vas
not vorth anything, they decided that this was an opportunity to show
the American State Department that they did not mind releasing individ-
uals if they applicd for releace through the appropriate channels.
Yrior to this application for veleace of OSWALD, the CUBJECT stated
that since he wis of no particular interest to thom and there was
nothing in Moscow that they could use hla for or place him into, they
Geeided that they voild send OAIATD to Ulusk where he vould be placed

 

 

tn a factory working on radios in the Jinpe that sone training in the
oleetrical and electronule field might result in his development into

md no capability in this ficld.
at this pevlod, before. sending
ng haypaneds, :

   
 
  
 

   

an elecbronies enghicex; however
The GUAJECT then stated that
OSWALD to Minsk, that a very c

i jn
uuge th:

  
 
 

i
OSUALD vas supposed to have a mocting with a travel agent in regard
to preparations for his going to Minck at. h. o'clock Jn the afternoon.
At G otelock be cbill did not report to the travel agent, so the travel
neers decided to go to the hotel here OSUALD waa staying to see if he
could Locate him. “han he got to the hotel he asked the clerk if OSWALD

arepey

meer
are)

Docld:32395229 Page 4

 
