 

“Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection ROUGE T1992" (AE USC ZIOT WOE ey
DATE: lipis— 017 . te .

 

a

 
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
   
  
 
 

Ad SUR VRIL ANCE REPORT

- Subject ete devncgniccoatel

     
 
 

Nickname.

ay ‘

9. : “Attached is a | photograph of the cockney who
is described as follows:- : -

British mele aged 45 - 48, Height 5'9"-10",
Medium build, large round head, light grey
-.. hair on sides, bald on top. Round Pace, tanned:
oo. vee @omplexion, Broad nose, wide nostrils.-
Sov. l0. Wearing dark blue suit, blue shirt , bine, tie
: “and black leather shoes. Of very smart annearance,
Smoked cigerett es and spoke with a cockney
accent, : : 5

 

 

~ 40.0 KUZIN is described as follows:-

   
  
   
  
 
 

' American male aged 42-45. Height. 5'73
Medium build, Long héad, dark brown &
on left hen side. Thin face, sallow co
Long thin nose-which has been broken S90F
Wearing black mac, black mohair sult,
shoes, Smoked cigarettes and spoke wi
American accent. ‘lad a large gold ring.
ruby in.it on the smili finger, |

 

   

“48th April, 1967
WDH/PUG

Enc. ©

 

 

 

 

DoclId: 32301778 Page 9
  

“Released under the Airy
DATE: 11-14-2017...

 

   

 

   

ie

: ta

 

~~

 

oo lone.
ae OXFORD re-established contact on 24th April, 1967 and Ger inhand
. gaid that he was about to return to Nassau. Without prompting he et
admitted that he wes unable to rendezvous with Ralph FARRA in . .
Teneriffe but edded thet he had seen him when on his way back to
the U.K. , Here he was clearly lying as it is known FARRA returned
te the U.K. direct from Hadrid and that since his return he has not
left the J.K. OXFORD said that everything was now organised and it
has been arranged to see him in I'rankfurt on Friday 28th after which
_it is his intention to return forthwith to Nasseu. :

 

 

2a  FARRA has continued ‘to avoid OXFORD and in the last week
- ‘there has been no direct ecntact between them. CHPORD, Honever, is
' yeported to have spoken to FARRA's girlfriend who was non-committal

‘an her replies when OXFORD enquired about progress. FARNA hes been

   

S/o %phone"off the hock'to avoid HAW!
to get hold of hin. Oe

  

i0RNE and other people who were trying ==

: ‘

   

“3. -~ Perhaps, however, the-most interesting report has been ;

i re one which relates to a business negotiation im which FARRA and Vick

; os os arg undertaking in respect of a susply of arms to Nicaragua. An —

4 ne order for these is being arranged through somecne called KENNEDY.

i Pall details of the order are not known but included is: ammunition

boats ths... for "10 anti tank recoilers". These recoilers are reported as”
“oc. peing "rifles M40 or 440 Al or HOA 1. 300 to 800 are required

“gna the ammunition is 106 millimetses. 8 HEAT 2344 A 1 with fuse,

. specification P.1.B. 3#501, quantity 50,CCO to 100,000 or more”.

 

|
: .
fr oe he Acoording +o our informant this is 2 genuine order from cae
BSB | Ricaragua (as others have been in the past) and there is an “end | =
" yser certificate and contract. FARRA has pointed out that the
Nicaraguans are working as internediaries and have cecue to FARRA's
<< gourse of supply as the order cannot pbe.net in the United States.
= Reference was alse nade to "four months" ang the*inpression given.
Gg that this is the time which would elapse between plecing the —
-° order and delivery. There was nothing in this report te indicete
- that either OXFORD.or the Bahames are involved with"this particular

  
   

order. en Dee Be . ity
5. °° ThesKENNEDY menti hed above may be a person who was.

 

reported in the U.K. Press (The Observer) a year or two.ago as.
.. dnvolved in a proposal to supply arms to South Africa through. —
che s+. Niearagua. A copy of this press statement is being obtained and
f. "  S. .. df awailable in time for the current bag will be enclosed, if not

: " 4% will followin due course. © ae . :

   

 

    
   

reported as admitting that LepXWAINSTAIN) has been leaving his Enalani.}

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32301778 Page 10
 

' Released -under the John F. Kennedy Assassination. ‘Records Collection. Act OFA 982. (44

‘DATE: 11-44- 2p. oe
, of oe “SECRET O.

Ad SURVE! ILLANCE REPORT

‘Subject. usm sesseanes ee sans .

   
   
  
   

   
  

 

Section...

a Officer _Nickname..

He mentioned. the figure of 1650 in connection
with these, items and this brought a whistle oF
. _ amazenent from KUZIN, :

i. _ Jour officer i _- e) ., He also mentioned 200 Tanks but /” could not
Baa oo (gather any other details of this, .

Ce “f£) Tt appeared that KUZIN is going to Germany and
i “© es : _ >... part of the reason for this trip is to see

 

: an ; All this was overheard from the cockney, who’
rane Loe : suggested that KUZIN should stay at the Palate
- : oo: - \. Hotel in Manhiem, it being the best. .
oe He also mentioned the names Jaék Ellis ard Joe
oa Levy, and our. officer also thought he said that
Ralph (pronounced ‘Raylph) was coming to join
them at Grosvenor House at five o'clock, Sevéral
‘other towns in Germany were mentioned, the most
frequent being. Frankfurt, but our officer could
gather no details of this. . The.cockney spoke
of money on several ° occasions, aluays - large sums

Lways el dol ler

ge. + *

h) From 16. 45, until they separated at 17.30 XUZIN-
joined in the conversation but our officer Was
not ina position to hear’ what he said.

ae 4

 

6." Both the men freouently admired and remarked on young
attractive girls who happened to’ pass throush the Hotel .

cease. abruptly while each concentrated on. bbe passing of :
‘the girl in question, woo :

 

: 2 When they parted KUZIN stooped the cockney paying the
bill and told the waiter to charge it.to room 809, The
po ee Lo ; . cockney left the hotel and got into a grey Jaguar K Y KX
Be mo, th0 D.. KUZIN collected his key and disappeared upsta sire.’
+8, These events were reported to you verbally by our
. officers, - s Lo

 

 

 

-‘'Hoffner'., He is going to Darmstat and Nanhiem,

‘lounge.. Even to the extent that their conversation would 2

 

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32301778 Page 6
 

 

. Released bp Aes John F. Kennedy: 4 dss

ssination Records Collection et of (“1992 (4a USC ZIOT Hotes
DATE; _11-1° 2017 cs oo ty ae
7 Ae a. 7 - SECRET con

 

 

    

  

“Ad SURVEILLANCE REPORT

~ Subject Lesesates BARROW.

  

7 Section... ses BoB

: Officer : a oo Nickname heats .
“Copy to svvoeecenennsinsnnseens ssnsasnrtsn Cae ne PF. No.....

“AA Reb... 8.Zli

 

i

   

vaseeenees sesesee a Datereced

; ; Following your telephone request on the after-
. |. noon of Priday 14th April we were able to get ‘some officers |
“7% to the Grosvenor House at 16,00 hours.

2. : Initially our officers could not identicy « anya .
one as FARROW from the photographs .in their posession, Jf
in the lounge of the hotel. However, our officers aad
: en. ; discover two characters who seemed likely to be of interest
O° po and a certein amount was heard of the conversation ” to-.
Fa Loo 3° wards the end. of their tea, ~K me ae |

oe ; hog Kuzing ,
73. The two. men taking part part inthis “meeting, are a
ee . referred to hereafter as the "cockney" and a man
Co ; subsequently identified as Loui KUZIN of 19100 West. 8
es ' Mile Road, Southfield _ (Detroit! igan, U.S.A.
vio 0 Raa man is enployed~ by Shelly Company. XUZIN-is (or. wes) Enal at
Be , Staying in room 809 of the Grosverior House for four nists

He was due to leave on Monday 17th, His American
Port number | is AL 127252 | issued in New York,

 

 

*

 

      

  

Cerneny -
a From 16. 00 to 16, 45 the 'oockney* monopolized :
: the Sonversation and KUZIN listened apparently intently. “ee

 

rt

es oe 5. - The following Snippets of conversation weré
_ noe : gleaned:-—

rn + a) The cockney spoke about. jewelzy and said: the

Som next time I (Saw it Marge was Wearing it

“b). “Hey was next heard to talk about Ben and. Fran«-
», ¢olse concerned in an event in Paris Which
involved 826, 000, :

 

 

 

 

“e): . Our officer thought he heard the names Vie a
"and Bet mentioned. mt

 

   

aan ae . +; a) He ‘then talkea about "scrap", referred ts ‘some~
er arn . - body as a“ttank' and later talked at. length
ae : ce oat : about Germany. .Qur officer gathered that. he

. ; - had bought some goods in Germany for 920, 000.

2 Jo? ‘and their true value wes 28150, 000,. He talked
on “2 7 s.- of some goods which our officer interpreted
to be assemblies of some sort, probably. engines -
‘or: the like for mechanical: vehicles of .some sort,

   

 

 

 

DoclId:32301778 Page 7
 

  
 

  
  
    
  
   
  
 
   
    
    
 
  
  
    
  
    
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
     

. 80

_imnediately to London. He then went to South Wales to the home of
Miss. RICHARDS. He kept their room on at. the Carlton Towers during
’ the whole. of his visit to the ‘UK Keo. : ok i

8. During the tine he was, in London, FARRA, WESTON and Vick
"concluded an arms deal worth 4,000,000 Sollarss, HAWTRORNE did not
' know the details. - aio

9. “ Because of HAWTHORNE! s failure to give satiefactory ;
circumstantial detail of his visit to Geneva I an convinced that this
‘ trip did not in fact take place,

"he Gurrent Visit to Geneva

10. "I asked HANTHONE if he would now produce the Letter of |

Credit which was to have been hended to him at Nassau prior to his. -

departure. He said that.this had not in fact happened and that BENTON - -

had taken this from Miami or New York’ to London and was now at the

: Carlton Towers where he would give it to HAWTHORNE. I also asked
HAWTHORNE, for identifying details including addresses of the three :

_ individuals at (a) (b) and (ce) above, but he said that his wife, who had

travelled in advance of hin, had these in her baggage at the Carlton a

Towers, All that he could recall was that WESTON! 8 flat was close to

’. the. Cunberland Hotel.

44. oO As a result of further questioning ‘HAWTHORNE said that he had
come to London at the present time. at the behest of McLANEY and his role
was to make the necessary introduction to FARRA and the -otherss. For . ‘this
service he would get 10% of the Letter of Credit which was for the sum of
250,000 dollars. He did not then know at which Bank ‘this was to be drawn.
Having got this detail of the order fron BENTON. (who aid not know FARRA

and the others) HA‘THORNE would make the. .necessary contacts.at the Hilton
_and from there he would then go to Geneva-to draw the money, pay this)” +
“over with the order and then collect his: O30 ° HAWTHORNE, did not imow.

' what the delivery details would be but he thought that the Bahamas were

~. ‘the point of unloading. He did not mow for-whom the’ arms were required - -
“he admitted that it was difficult to ‘see: what use, ‘Premier Pindling could
“make of them although he inferred that Pindling ” ‘knew of! the transaction.

‘He thought that u CLANEY' s intention was ‘to resell at a profit elsewhere
: then the Bahamas.° : :

 

 

420° Referring to PROBINSKY, HAWTHORNE said that he 1 was NoLANEY' 5 '

right hand man- who had been part. of the’ investiient in the ‘Bahamas. a

McLENEY had brought Pindling to power and. now expected . gambling concessions, |

> PROBINSKY had an office next to Pindling's ana ‘the: latter turned to. ;
 PROBINSKY for advice and guidance.  PROBINSKY ‘was aware of the’ reason for *'

- HAWIHORNE's present trip.  PROBINSKY had visited London in February and

was now beck in Nassau. - . : ae : oe o +

 

136 I asked HAY WIHORNE what he would do if he 3 was . finally refused

‘ leave to land (at that time the Hone Office was still considering his case).
. He had not considered alterriative arrangexents but would have. to consider |
this with his wife. He had already rung her at “the Carlton Towers and .
_ She was. on her. way to. the Airport ready, to accompany - -him. ».. He “did not see :
‘any point in going on. to Geneva and was vague, in his replies | when asked oo
‘what action, if any, he would take, to: pursue. the contact with Len WESTON.
vend | Vick. B ee ; : ;

 

 

 

>

DoclId:32301778 Page 5

 
 

" Released under “the * ‘John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1592 (2 USC 7107 Hote).
DATE: ,11-14- 32017 5

 

 

 

i :
pole, te, . Little progress was | being made-at this stage of the interview,
| ca.» > HAWTHORNE being more interested in kmowing why he was refused ,leave to :
| : land and speculating as to whether it was “because of his gambling antecedent.
| He admitted he was wanted by the Belgians and also that he had been sentenced
to ten years in the U.S.A. but. had. not served the sentence as by appeals he ©”
had had this reduced to two years and he was still appealing. This process
“had cost him 1,000,000 doliars and his view was. “that thé U.S. authorities
were more interested in breaking people such as him financially than in
: Putting them in gaol. een :

oO Be I accordingly broke off the neeting. I subsequently discussed
oA, “-- the course of the neeting with the Special Branch representative. He agreed
Or . to question HAWIHORNE's wife on her arrival at’ the Airport. He also under °

 

|

!

|

{ “7 Ss..." took to warn Dover to keep a look out for BENTON in case he tried to. °° 4"
1 “sus, \\ wendezvous with HAWTHORNE on the continent. I provided BENTON's particulars

> as furnished by the F.B.I. oo ; Be ;

:

|

|

i

i

16. . ' After my ; return to Head Office the ‘Special Branch . representative
- ') wang me to say that HAWTHORNE and his wife were on their way to Frankfurt
Vv 7 eo route for Luxembourg, and also. that HAYTHORNE, in “order to avoid having

- his wife questioned had admitted that he did have in his” possession oo
identifying particulars of FARRA and Co. hich are as followsi-- So

 

 

» BARRA ed elephone No. ‘Anbassador 7733
. ; "Extension 496 - Apartment N.

 

 

ee , Hoe WESTON - Telephone No. Paddington Wi. ; i coals
bes fo ee = Address: ad Scourclif? Glose, Wa “ oe 7

 

 

Po A 4 Wick = Ambassador 4350 oe aren

 

It was ‘also established that, his wife's previous London address was Flat E10.
. Sloane Avenue Mansions and that she was sravelling on her 1958. passport. She .
ae ‘was very surprised at what had happened did ‘not appear to be in her anna
s -. .» Rusband's: confidence about the reason” his présent trip. HAWTHORNE’ had 5.
7 \. previously said that she had come to th ‘
She was Ussappointed that he wuld not see them, S.

   
    

 

" 17. . Before: HAWTHORNE left ‘he showed some interest in a Adentitying,
“ George RAPT's solicitor. a

    

_ 18. : . Regarding - further ‘contact HAWTHORNE was ‘told to ring the ‘8. Be
- office’ at LAP who would then if necessary, get in touch with me.

 

: : oe a : A subsequent enquiry made at the Carlton. Towers revealed that
ue BENTON had not arrived by 22nd March 1967. and was not. staying ‘there by
22nd March 1967 either under his* ‘own name or the’ aliases he is known, to. use. |

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32301778 Page 6
   
  

/ Kennedy Assassination Records

Tae eee ery SECRET On

 
 
   
  
   
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
    
  
   
  
    
   
   
    
  
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
   

16th May, 1967.

try

ue . ve Do @
vl James HAWTHORNE

audi als yee AY, Janes HAWTHORNE Wh (e

te vvagsity on: OADR © fd 7 | c

7 Please refer to my memoranda reference SF, 52/5 of 9th

cy February and 7th March 1967, and to your memoranda in reply
ae dated 17th February and 2nd March 1967.

 

 

  
  

 

gn 2. In view of the serious security implications of the
jeer allegations relating to plans to smuggle arms into the Bahamasi
aad from Europe, and the need to elicit the truth of these aiioeattons, x
ae contact with HAWTHORNE was maintained both in the Bahamas and in ly
Europe, which he visited again in March allegedly to make contact
with those concerned with arms smuggling. He did in fact leave
for Europe via the U.K. (where he was refused permission to land
we being already the subject of an exclusion order) on 21st March,
oa some two days before (so I understead) your Miami Office notified
“~~ the Bahamas Police that he is currently regarded as a fugitive, NY

 

 

te

a 3. During the course of his visit to Europe, he and his ong

- g>, contacts have been subjected to an intelligence type investigation\!

jar while at the same time contact has been maintained with HAWTHORNE
for the purposes of determining the truth or otherwise of his

ae story. ws
. 4e As a result of our investigations we are “now satisfied tha

(a) HAWTHORNE's story about arms being purchased in

_ Europe for use in the Bahamas is without substance, ,/
; _ and as)
on
Qt (b) HAWTHORNE did have some part to play in plans in-

volving certain other U.S. as well as U.K. citizens
to ship arms (within the letter of the law) to Centra
America with'a purchase certificate to be provided

py the Nicaraguan Government, and possibly for trans-
shipment elsewhere. This deal is beY¥ieved to be

worth 4,000,000 dollars, and no doub AWTHORNE and
his American contact, Sa amuel ABENTON, at present in.

London) hoped to make a handsome prpfit themselves.

    
 

“MI-6
MAY 1 7 1967

 
  
  

 

 

J aie d &
5. HAWTHORNE was last Heard” ‘of by us staying at they
os, Frankfurterhof ‘Hotel in Frankfurt, Germany, as,a guest in either
- Room 126 or 162, and registered in the name of RICHARDS /= actual
“= the name of his recently acquired British wife, Marian A MRICHARDS
' He is without. funds even to cover ee hotel bilis and (least of al
his telephone bill for calls neger0t the Colo Clubsin London, to-:
Dino* CHLLINI\in Madrid and Lis and to, Ray Po eet ve (@: PARRARA)

 

 

i
\
“4
_ | his English accomplice, in,arrengi iy ieee referred to at
i (b) above. aaa Aoi eee REE SAT B.Gof pos
- : é vw en Pe a ‘
boed the {nformation boot tiaw aan wiles as at paragraph” 5
‘Bledsoe today py telephone, et nad said that as™™faT ws--
d we ha@ no further,use for HAWTHORNE , apd would

so R ic hagas Mar 25

 

        
 

        
       
 
 

\.
i
)

<2 JUN.

 

 

b= 1967.

d

 

DoclId: 32301778 Page 2
 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 Usc 2107 Hote}.

DATE: 11-14-2017 JFK Assassination System Date: 4/22/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10279-10113
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: = CR 105-91841-39

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SEE TITLE
FROM: _ [Restricted]
TO:

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 00/00/0000
PAGES: 20

SUBJECTS :
[Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 11/14/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

 

v9.1 1
DoclId:32301776 Page 1
    
 
 
 

 

 

r j la / : . oS 2 (44 USC 2107 Wotey
fer aos ww ER =o O PES:
: _ : 7 . . we XY ;
i . |
be glad +6 see you take appropriate action in conjunction with the
West German police authorities, subject to the source of your
information not being quoted sutside the F.B.I.

RE unde e John F. Kennedy A i i
: R207 on ly Assassination Re ave Collec Ton Acts:
N i

 

As a service we are not concerned with arms traffic to

 

Central America and.will be making no further enquiries on this
matter. Nevertheless, we think you may find the various reports
of our contacts with HAWTHORNE to be of interest both in the
Domestic Intelligence and Special Investigative, Division, and in
this connection I attach:-
(a) A Security Service internal memorandum dated 21st
March 1967. |
vO ; . .
(b) A Security Service surveillance report dated Auth . bond
April, referring to a meeting between Ralph,®ARRA (hp Een
@\GARRARA (born 26 February. 1.91.8_.and on record with
us as an asSdéiate of arms trafficking up to 4956),
and a U.S. citizen named Louis KUZIN.
(c) A Security Service note of 27th April headed OXFORD
(the code name used for the operation involving
HAWTHORIE) .
‘ . (a) A press cutting dated 28th March 4965 which appears
' to relate to the KENNEDY referred to in the report
i at (c) above.
ine .
A (e) <A Security Service note on a meeting with HAWTHORNE
ios in Frankfurt, 28th/29th April.

(f) A&A note of a telephone conversation subsequent to
the meeting at (e)

' (g) A note on Sam BENTON dated May 1967, prepared 26 4

| : prief for Special Branch, Scotland Yard in the hope
that they would feel able to interview BENTON while

in the U.K. In the event this intefview did not take
place. :

     

  
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  

8. The paper at (g) above refers to DinckGELLINI in Toronto;.¢
the R.C.M.P. have been aavised of this possibility. The latest ., ,.,:
information we have about the arms order which HAWTHORNE and his Oe
- friends were ehasings is, eventually destined for Peru, and that an oc
“, American conpanyp "americas Finansaz Inc" of New york, may be the .

=  enemensor Roumeaonnen

intermediaries. mmm moment NAY

 

 

 

essere

96 The information HAWTHORNE gave about a venezuelan freighter,
off loading arms at Cooperstome to a person named GAWYER is, we
pelieve entirely without foundation. Regarding the other references
in the material referred to above to Columbia and Panama, we propose
_ to report on these ourselves to C.I.A. as soon as we are able to
complete a Dpalanced report which will.take into account all in-
formation available to us.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Docld: Page 3

 
 

r the John FE. Ker

2017

 

"James Russell GANTHORNE' = = Oxher pop!

The above named arrived at. London Airport | on Tuesday
. 21st March at 08.30 hours. Following advice from the Governor Bahamas
| prior warning of his arrival was given to ‘the Chief Inmigration Officer
mo '. who was also-esked to give the ‘Security Service and/or Special Branch the
bo opportunity to interview hin. toe
_ 2. HAWTHORNE was to be refused leave to. Land under the terns of
the entry in the Hone of ffice Suspect Index. © ne

: 3. °°. He duly arrived and informed the Tain gration Officer that he .
a had married (at Nassau in mid-February) a British Subject - Marion RICHARDS ~
7 .. who was now staying at the. Carlton Towers. In view of, this new circumstance
‘ © the case was referred to the Home Office who confirmed that HAWTHORNE, should
not. be allowed to enter the U.K. :

‘le In the neantine we had been advised of the arrival and I‘went to .
‘London Airport. I introduced myself as arranged by HSB Bahamas and > :
subsequently had a Special Branch representative join me. I Antroduced him.

s age “colleague”. HAWTHORNE was not given my name. ~.
, Bee In questioning HAWIHORNE I confined myself to two broad

. objectives:~

@) to check the story previously tla by ANTHORNE of his”
Visit to Geneva in December 1966. 7 Mone

 

; (a) ‘to establish the reason for his present visit, whet his
sO intentions were, who his contacts cre to beand- finally...
how the Government of the Bahamas: was involved.

   

 

The December Visit to Geneva

 

 

°6 ... Regarding (i) HAWTHORNE told me. ‘that, shortly after his
: arrival in London he had nade contaot with:~

   

. (a) Ralph FARRA
()  Len{wisston - E nal nd ae
(e) Vick ? : a

 

   

He knew that he could meet these individuals ain the coffee ‘shop of the :

Hilton Hotel any afternoon and that- they would’ organise the supply of arms. ..

With WESTON and Vick, in the latter's ‘Jaguar, - ‘the party drove to Geneva .~
' grossing the channel at. Dover. HAWTHORNE travelled under his own name “put:
, G@id not remember which port he arrived.at in France nor where Switzerland” ~ .

_-was entered - he was asleep for nost ‘of the time. He said that he did not
_have any entries in his passport for this trip.as the immigration, ‘formalities
had not required this. He did not on either the outward or inward boat
have to fill in any landing cards. He had had-to visit-a passport’ officer.
‘en board the ferry: but was unable to > give. a 8 istactory description of :
the Procedures cs . : te

 

  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  

 

  
 
    

       

7 . The trip to Geneva took. one aay and the party arrived one
morning After’ the: Letter. of Credit” was found unacceptable: ail returned.

  

 

 

 

DoclId:32301778 Page 4
