 

: . OTHER 4
2

No Special Agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation
has been in contact with Mrs. LUCY BLOSSOM within the past year
and ee Speelal Agent has served any subpoane « on Mrs.

BLOSSOH.

in regard to SHOEMAKER, on November 9, 1959, Assistant,
Chie£ of Police, JOSEPH SULLIVAN, Binghamton, New York Police
Bepartment, advised that SHOEMAKER had been under investigation
ur his Department's Vice Squad fox soliciting for his wife and
bringing men to his apartment. for purposes of prostitution.
Assistant Chief SULLIVAN seid that his police files did not
reflect an arrest for either SHOEMAKER or his wife ELLA SHOEMAKER,

LAWRENCE NABINGER, Patrolman, Endicott, ——7 '
Police D tuent, om November 9, 1959, said that OTHER 4
of 632 Dickinson Street, Town of Union, New York,

had been arrested on December 9, 1950, charged with soliciting

and vagranicy. Patrolman NABINGER ald that was

smtenced = tan months in the Onondaga County Jail and fined
$500.00, iman NABINGER alse advised that ELLA SHOEMAKER,

wife of d been arrested on the same date !
for soliciting (prostitution) and had been sentenced to i
Bedford Hills Women's Prison for an indefinite term.

NABINGER said that police sources had furnished
information that [sds was again soliciting for his 5 sad OTHER 4
and currently resided at 39 Walnut Street, Binghamton, New :
York,

On November 9, 1959, DAVID FOULKB, Broome County
Sheriff's office, ton, New York, advised he had no
axvest record for Penehe et TA SHCEMAKER except the arrest OTHER 4
by the Endicott Police Department, above mentioned.

 

oe

 

NW 45754 DocId:32295048 Page 9
 

 

Inquiry determined that. Mrs. MELVIN J Lucy).
BLOSSGM, mentioned tn above statement b had 4.
breast operation approximately. two. and WEEKS ago,
for cancer, and that her condition required that she return

to the Tioga General Hospital, Waverly, New York, on November 9,
1959, for additional treatment.

 

Mra. BLOssan! 6 last hone edacoie was Route 1,
Post : Mobile Bama ‘Tratler Sots apatathin, New Yorle.,

“This ‘memotendum is loaned te ‘you by the EBL
and neither it nor tts contents are to be - | —
 diseedbuped outside the a agency t to which soaring,

 

 

NW 45754 DociId:32295048 Page 10

 

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

 

 

 
 

OTHER 4
Ad .

"ehat one of the Baxbaras told him in edvance that they were -
going to have guests at their hame om the day of the incident.

"Melvin Blossom also said that at the time of the
‘gaid, he ebserved some of the visitors running {into the woods
and he seen those men throw guns into the woods.

   
 

“E have read this statement, which consists: of
this page and three others which I hava initialed. I¢ is

txve aud correct. OTHER 4
| wf

"Witness
“Pateick A. Munley, Special Agent, FBI 41/9/59.
"Stanley 8. Czamecki, Special Agent, FBI, 4179/59. '

“Z also want to state that Peter Streno asked me for

$1800.00 on the night of October 23, 1959, and told me £ would
have to have it by Getober 25, 1959. He gave ne reagon for this,
request but told me he would get statements from people go that {
IL would loge my home and my childgen. I have talked to the
District Attorney, Broome County, Binghamton, N,¥. about this.

- Since that time Peter Streno was committed to the State
Hospital for ebservation. I signed the complaint against him
and Dectorg Dizon and Sargeant committed him to the State
Hospital. He ig stili at the State Hespital. Since Peter :

 Streno was committed his son Steve Strenc, Syracuse, N.Y.

called me and my wife answered the phone and he said he would
fix both of us and hung up. f have not heard anything more
from him. * ,

"| Rave xead the above statement and it is true, :
jh] om
“Witness
"Patricks As thmley, Special Agent, FEI, 0.8. Dept. of Justice 11/91
"Scanley S. Gaarnecki, SA, FBI, 11/9/59."

NW 45754 Docid:32295048 Page 8
 

 

“About two or three months ago, Streno, while
visiting in my apartment told me and my wife that at some
future date Mr. Russell would appear missing. Me didn't say
who would do it. W Streno inferred that Me. Russell talked
“tao auch to the investigators concerning the Barbara incident.

"Sereno hag cepeatedly told me that Lucy Blossom will
never tell the truth canearning what. she knew about the Barbara
incident, ‘

“puring the past year, ducing, the course of many
conversations between myself and the Blossoms, they both stated
that Lif they ever talked about what they mew about the Barbara's
ineident theic lives would not be worth two cents, therefore,

LE possible, they will attempt not te say anything before
any cours proceeding.

"Ruey: Blonsom alsa told 2 me that Mrs.' augeelt
was. shown some photographs of seme of the men present at
the Barbara. incident by an investigator and she identified some
of the pictures, Lucy Blossom seid that Mrs. Russell was a dem
faci for identifying those plecures.

“Lucy Blossom told: her. father while in my presence
that the Barbara's had a secret tunnel on thé estate which
entrance. is now covered and ‘the Barbara's had kept things in it,

: "Melvin: Blosson told me that when the investigators
were locking for guns in the woods on the estate after the raid,
he was surprised that: they did not find the tunnel because, if
they had, they could have have found: something in ae and. it
; would be "quite a surprise to somebody.

"Melvin: Blossom algo: told me that he knew in édvanes
that. ati the men were coming to visit Joseph Barbara, because
he had to wash all the Barbara dares, clean up the gerage and the
barbecue area: and also to. pick up the food. He also told me

abe .

. OTHER 4

 

 

NW 45754 Docid:32295048 Page 7
~ oe gn

x —
UNZIED STATES DEPARTMENT OF .JSTICE

 

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION |

In Reply, Plec® ve Refer to

File No. . Albany, Rew Yorks

November 13, 1956

. 39 Walnut Street, a

on Yox

oa tovenibear 9, 1959, the captioned individual
volunteered the following information to Spectal Agents
Ratrick 4, Munley and Stanley $. honiiaroie ef the Federal
Bureau of Investigation at. Binghamton, New York, in the
form of a aigned statement a9 follows:

"Noverber 9, 1959
| . Binghanton, HAY.

| 39 Walmat Street, Binghamton OT 4

ake vohuntary statement to Patrick A. ;
ey anley Czarnecki, who have identified theuselves

to me ag. Special A Agents of the Federal Bureau of Tavestigation,

U. S. Depattmene of duacice: They have made no promises or

threats to me. I contacted the above mentioned Agents to

furnish then the follewing information.

"E am acquadated with Peter Stveno, who is the
father of Lucy Blessom. -He resides at ay hema in a first
floor aparteent at.39 Walnut Street. I live on the second
fleor, Peter Streno has Lived: at my heuse about a year and.
i have known him since 1949 when we both worked at Endicott

' Johnson Shoe factory. ot

 

“Sonetine.im late September er carly Gcteber Lucy
Blesgam came te’see her father about getting. money to buy clothes
Se go to New York City to eppéear. before the Grand Jury
‘ dsvestigating. the Bavbara incident. At. that. time she was in
my kitchen which ie on the second fleor of the house and ay
wife Elia end Peter Stveno, her father, were. alao there.

Fe nom fea 6 _—
ENCLOSURE

 

ros . . eae oma “ N +* __J

 

NW 45754 Docid:32295048 Page 5
 

Nw 45754

. OTHER 4

“Lucy Blossom was talking about going to New
Yerk end she said ‘if they did not leave her alone she would
swear with her hand on the bible that an FBI men got fresh
with her. .

"Concerning investigators who have been contacting
her the past three or four months she stated that some time azo
when an FBI Agent came to her home she told him that she would

bosom. She said that this happened in the past 3 or 4 months.

. "After the Blossoms went to New York on. another
occasion concerning Federal Court proceedings they said they
thought the Russells squealed on them, The Russells are another
couple who worked for the Rarbaras and the Blossoms think
the Russells told the District Attorney that the Blossoms knew
more than they were telling regarding the Barbara incident.

“Shortly after the Barbara incident while 2 wag
visiting Peter Streno at his former residence in Endicott,
Melvin Blossom was alse there and stated that all the men who ware
at the Barbara kebecue took an cath after the New York State
Police raid that they never would disclose what took place
at the Barbara estate and that i£ anyone of them would talk,
his life would be taken. oe

“Peter Streno instructed Melvin and Lucy Blossom
before they went te appear before the Grand Jury, not to say
anything about what happened at Barbara's, Lucy Blossom and Melvin
. Blossom agveed to Streno’s instructions. This conversation took
place at my home. It took place just before the Blossoms
were to appear in Federal Court in New York City.

-2s

 

 

DocId:32295048 Page 6
 

 

.? Nai

11/13/59
PLAIN TEXT
ARTEL AIR MAIL
70: DIRECTOR, FBI N
FROM: SAC, ALBANY A
SUBJECT: ALLEGATIONS OF MISCONDUCT BY vt

UNTDSN TIE TED PBI AGENT, t

 

Al
aE
8
il

“ ay
: Cae

Re my Radiogram, 11/ 10/59, and telephone call to
we Director JOHN MOHR by STEPHEN S. SMITH, ASAC,
11/9/59.

f,
?

‘8
Yb

 

2 ane

Since this matter is concerned with the case
entitled, "U.S. vs. BONANNO, ET AL, Seuchern District of
New York, Criminal 159-35, TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM," two
additional copies of this Airtel and two additional copies
o£ the enclosed letterhead memorandum have been forwarded
for Bureau use in connection with that matter.

an
&é 2

of a letterhead memorandum
captioned, » 39 Walnut Street,.
Binghamton, New York," setting out allegations made by
SHOZMAKER that in late, September or early October of 1959,

5 © Bureau (Encls.8) Baw x 4940 ¢ laSeG
} 1 © New York (U.S. vz. 3ONANO,ET AL File
| 2 » Albany cy a, oe?
AvE/hevy ; Bi —f ed ss
(3). AROT RROORDED

. 87 ney 2% 1959

excro™ . . “ eid

ORIGINAL FILED IN

 

mee x yearn  F

 

Se

NW 45754 DociId:32295048 Page 2
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/24/201
Identification Form

en |

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER:  124-10214-10324

RECORD SERIES: HQ

\ AGENCY FILENUMBER: 92-4225-1ST NR 179

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, AL
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

| DATE: — 11/13/1959
4 ‘ PAGES: 9

i SUBJECTS : ;
[Restricted]

f DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
i CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified ; me
RESTRICTIONS: 4 ‘ ~
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 08/19/1996

 

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM

|
i

v9.1 6
| NW 45754 DocId:32295048 Page 1
7

L.

NW 45754

wes. [| (LUCY) BLOSSOM had said that if she was not
left alone (in regard to testifying in U. S. vs. BONANNO,
ET AL), she would swear that an FBI man got fresh with her
and that when this agent and another came to her house to
serve a subpoena on her they placed the subpoena down her
front, pointing to her bosom.

((__Jelleges she said that this happened in
the past. three. or four months and involved investigators who
had been contacting her in the past three or four months.

For: the Bureau's information, Mrs. BLOSSOM has
not been contacted by any FBI Special Agent for over a year
and no FBI Agent; of course, has served any subpoena on Mrs.
BLOSSOM. :

It is pointed out that Mrs. BLOSSOM’S husband,
was formerly Confidential Informant

AL 3002-G. He was initially contacted by Albany Agents
on 4/28/58, after a prior contact by Buffalo Agents while he
was being treated_at the Veterans Administration Hospital,
Bath, New York. [__]was designated a Confidential
Informant by Albany letter, 8/6/58, and was deleted as an
informant, for lack of production, by letter dated 3/24/59.
Mrs. BLOSSOM was seen on oceasions by agents in connection
with locating her husband,

In] statement, allegations also appear
that Mrs. BLOSSOM’S father, PETER STR&NO, 39 Walnut Street,
Binghamton, New York (who has in the past been committed to
a mental institution, according to a statement) ,
instructed Mr. and Mrs. BLOSSOM before they went before the

Grand Jury (in New York City) not to say anything about what

happened at JOSEPH *§ and they agreed not to do so.
Among other items, further alleged that Hes, ‘Ro

BLOSSOMssaid, in his presence, that the BARBARAS had a secret
tunnel on the property and that something in it would be quite

a surprise to somebédy.

 

DociId:32295048 Page 3

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

 
 

 

Oo 9

Two Thermofax copies of === original OTHER 4
are attached for the Bureau’s information.
has requested that the information he furnished

be’ held’ confidential, -

In respect (1) it is noted (as set out
in detail in the attached letterhead memorandum) that in (
1950 he was charged with soliciting in respect to his wife
and that they both received jail terms in respect thereto;

In addition; as. set out in the memorandum, information was
received that he was again soliciting. for his wifes :

In respect to Mrs, LUCY BLOSSOM, she was operated
- on about two and a half weeks’ ago at the Tioga General
Hospital; Waverly, New York, for breast cancer and returned :
to the hospital on 11/9/59, for another” operation. |

On. 11/13/59 Mrs. BLOSSON's - doctor advised that
Mrs. BLOSSOM would-be reheased from Tioga General Hospital
on. the evening ‘of 11/13/59 and would be at her Residence and
available for interview at. that time. .

In view of this agents from Albany are eccauaings
to Apalachin, New York to interview. Mrs. BLOSSOM regarding
this matter on Wovember 14, 1959. The Bureau will be’
promptly advised of the results of this interview.

 

 

 

NW 45754 DocId:32295048 Page 4
