AW 55157

SUBJECT:

WASHINGTON POST Request to Talk to an Agency

specialist in the Kennedy Assassination

DCI/PAI/Earnest :ncbx37758 (11 March 1993)

Distribution:

Original

PRE BP REE

Addressee

DO Registry
D/PAI

D/DO/CIC
C/DO/NROC
C/DO/CE

C/CSI

C/History Staff

DoclId: 32404522 Page 9 \
Names of Russians we should try to track down about Lee Harvey Oswald, Yuri Nosenko and the
1. General Oleg M. Gribanoy, head of the Second Chief Directorate of the KGB in the early 1960s
where Nosenko says he worked, primarily against American tourists, as deputy chief of the Seventh
Department. Nosenko described himself as sort of favored by Gribanov and he said Gribanov in-
atructed him, after the JFK assassination, to retrieve the Oswald file from the Minsk KGB right

would bave had a hand in or supervised preparation of the “apravka’ orsummary. . -
_ §. Gribanov and more than 40 other KGB officers were kicked out because of Nosenko’s defection,

6. Ms). Geonal Rastogi Wes in 1959 a senior case officer in KGB responsible for Intourist mat-
ters. Nosenko says that it was Rastrusin who told him about Oswald and how be wanted to stay in
Soviet Union. Nosenko said Rastrusin said. Oswald “docsn’t present interest” to KGB and Nocenko
checked out with his superiors. Word came back not to bother with Oswald. Nosenko was told to tell
Rastrusin to tell Intourist to deal with him.

7. Rastrusin returned next day and said we got a roblem. Oswald tried to kill self, etc. KGB
washed hands of him, decided to let Intourist deal with him. Intourist then part of Ministry of For-
_ eign Trade. Nosenko said he believes question of what to do with Oswald was run to top of that min-

istry and beyond, to Khruschev or one of his deputies. In any case, decision was made to let Oswald
stay in Minsk. But Nosenko says, by KGB.

8. In the fall of 1963, a colleague, in, Service No. 2(counterintelligence in foreign

countries), First Chief Directorate, told Nosenko orally that Mexico City station had just sent acable
about a request by Oswald for a visa to-re-enter Soviet Union. What should be done?

Nosenko said be said, ‘wait a second. How come he’s back in America?’ At that point, Nosenko said |

he badn’t know Oswald had gone back.
\ 9. Nosenko gaid he sald let’s go to chief of department who he identified as a Col. Chelnekov or
Chelnenko(but liter seemed to say his timing might be off and somebody else may have been chief of
Nosenko’a department at the time). In any case, Nosenko quoted chief as saying, in effect, I remem-
ber this crary nut. No. No. No. Tell them we don’t have any interest.”
Cable back to Mexico City advising KGB there get rid of Oswald by telling him to go back to bis
own country and apply for a-visa at Soviet Embassy in Washington, etc., etc.
10. Col. Grumdey, was chief of the KGB department in Minsk that was responsible for foreigners

11. Oleg Nechivoreato, one of three KGB officers stationed in Mexico City who reportedly inter-
rogatad or dealt wit id on his visit to Embassy there. Now living in Moscow area.
Other two Mexico City officers, both still alive m Russia: Valeriy Kostikov and Pavel Yatzkov.

)

4

AW 55157 DocId:32404522 Page 10
AW 55157

SUBJECT: WASHINGTON POST Request

all their questions aren't answered. Considering that they
are trying to do serious research on the Kennedy
assassination, I think any effort on our part to Help them

would be seen as a gesture of good will.

we “JEK Act 6 (1) (A)
JFK Act 6 (1)(B).

Peté#¥ Earnest

Attachment:
As stated

Agree to having a specialist talk to them on background
about the Nosenko information if an appropriate person is
available.

No, do not want anyone from the DO talking about ‘the
Nosenko information.

DocId:32404522 Page &
  
 
 
 

NOTE FOR:

  

FROM: eter Earnest

Chief, Media Relations

 
  
 

¢

SUBJECT : WASHINGTON POST Request to Talk to an Agency
Specialist on the Kennedy Assassination

The WASHINGTON POST is preparing a series of articles on a
the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the Kennedy
assassination.

With the help of CIC, we recently arranged for George
Lardner and Walter Pincus of the WASHINGTON POST to interview Aa
former KGB officer Yuri Nosenko about his knqwledge of Lee l
Harvey Oswald during the time Oswald lived in the Soviet
Union. To ensure that’ Nosenko's resettlement identity and
location would remain protected, I made the arrangements for
Nosenko to come to Washington for the interview.

The POST reimbursed Nosenko for expenses and paid him a
$250 consulting fee. The interview was done on Wednesday,
3 March, at the POST offices downtown. I did not remain for
it. Lardner and Pincus also hosted a lunch for Nosenko which
was attended by Ben Bradlee. Lardner and Pincus were very
pleased with their session with Nosenko and appreciative of
our making it possible. I also spoke afterwards with Nosenko
who said he was satisfied. with how the interview. was
conducted and with the financial arrangements.

Shertly after the interview, Lardner faxed me a list of
the questions that he and Pincus had prepared for themselves
to use in chécking out Nosenko's information. They asked if
there was anyone at the Agency they could talk to about the
individuals named. I told them that developing information
in response to:their questions would probably take a good
deal of research arid that I doubted the Agency would be able
to take on such a task at this time for the POST; However, I
said I would take it up with the appropriate offices.

Although I told the POST that I do not believe anyone
would be willing to undertake research on their questions,
I‘m wondéring if there is anyone around who might be
knowledgeable of Nosenko's information who would be willing
to talk with Lardner and Pincus on background based on!
his/her existing knowledge. I think Lardner and Pincus would
be grateful for making such a person available even if

 

AW 55157 DoclId:32404522 Page 7
minat if the paper is withneld, anda court test results, the Agency

salust expect to failin withholding the paper. The Office of the General
‘-ounsel, the Office of Security, SE Division and CI Staff favor making the
paper available under the conditions set forth above. .

14. Recommendation: That you approve granting access to a limited
number of staff members of the HSCA to a classified, Sanitized version of
the Hart Report. Such access shall be conditioned on agreement to limit

use of materials contained in the Report to those matters relating to the
question of Nosenko's bona fides. . :

S.D. Breckinridge

Attachments

CONCURRENCE:

Slcxep oo, : 3.1 MAY 1978 :
~ General Counsel Date

 

~ ' Chief, SE Division

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Date

~ Chief, CI Staff Date
4 Jun i978

S Date

“OPK Act 6 (1) (A) b
7 JEK Act 6 (1) (B)
Date
Director of Central Intelligence Date
4
»

AW 55157 DocId:32404522 Page 5
.SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinatiozs
‘ Request for Access to the "Hart Repert™

Distribution: . ,
Orig - Adse

- DDCI

- ER

- OGC

- C/SE Div

C/CI Staff

- SA/DO/O

- D/OS

- OLC/Subj

- OLC/Chrono

OLC/SDB/ksn (30 May 78)

BER ep
i

 

\
i
i
'
i

AW 55157 DoclId: 32404522 Page 6
 

pate Cop. ons
wend 3O if —————~

. oo OG 78-3545
Fide Vl “S-31-95

 

io
awe

<a +

APPROVES FOR RELEASE 1993.-0°° EVER
ACIAHISTORIGAL REVIEW PROGRAM OE 782201278 wy 5 10 ov ANT.
an Ma

Executive Registry

   

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

LOLs
VIA : Deputy Director of Central Intelligence
FROM : S. D. Breckinridge
Principal Coordinator, HSCA
: Office of Legislative Counsel
i ;
SUBJECT : House Select Committee on Assassinations

Request for Access to the "Hart Report"

1. Action Requested: That you approve the recommendation at: *
paragraph 14 for limited access of selected House Select Committee
on Assassinations (HSCA) staff members to a classified, sanitized
version of the Hart Report. :

2. Background: As you know, the HSCA Staff Director, Mr. Blakey,
has requested you in a letter dated 9 May 1978 (Tab A), to provide access
to a report prepared by John Hart in 1977 on the subject of the Agency's
handling of the Nosenko case. This request is part of an inquiry into
hypotheses arising from Epstein's book Legend, in which the view is
presented that Nosenko was a dispatched agent with the mission of

. concealing KGB ties with Lee Harvey Oswald. Central to HSCA interest
is the question of Nosenko's bona fides. Additional to that issue, interest
has deyeloped in the manner in which Nosenko was treated during the period

that his bona fides were suspect. These two issues are treated separately
below. . . .

I

3° The Hart report is directed at the handling of the Nosenko case,
addressing the actions and conduct of various officers inthe Agency. These
matters cannot be treated without also considering the question of Nosenko's
bona fides, so there also is considerable review of the methodology employed
and the analyses of those handling the matter. Mr. Blakey. states in his
: letter. that he has been informed that the report contains no information on
; the issues of bona fides, being concerned instead only with personnel and
internal procedures. This understanding on his part is incorrect, and
his letter suggests that he himself has reservations about it.

 

AW 55157) DocId:32404522 Page 2
Date: 03/14/05
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10332-10009
RECORD SERIES : JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PROJFILES-DECLASS STDS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : ARRB-CIA ISSUE: YURI NOSENKO
DATE : 05/30/1978
PAGES : 76

SUBJECTS : NOSENKO YURI
JFK ASSASSINATION
UNIT INDEX
ARRB ISSUE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER
CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1A IB
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/01/03
COMMENTS : JFK-M-17 : F10 : 2000.02.14.15:37:00:280044 : UNIT
INDEX: 4 PAGES DIF.

{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10332-10009

HW 55157 DoclId:32404522 Page 1
~

>
4. The Agency has made available to the HSCA two studies conducted
in 1967 and 1968 by SE Division, both of which questioned Nosenko's
bona fides. A subsequent study by the Office of Security in 1968 has also
been made available; it reached a conclusion contrary to the preceding
studies and supports Nosenko's bona fides. Other Soviet defectors have been
interviewed by the HSCA staff, as wellas knowledgeable CIA officers and
retirees. As a result, much of the information on the case has: been
“revealed to the Committee.

report has the advantage of having been prepared after a ten year period,

6. Because of the above, the Agency has everything to gain and nothing
to lose in providing the Hart Report for its review of the issue of Nosenko's
bona fides. . :

II

7. In addition to the central issue of Nosenko's bona fides, Chairman
Stokes has expressed interest in the treatment accorded Nosenko during the
period that his bona fides were in question. Nosenko reportedly has provided
the HSCA with some detail on this. We have made the point that how

includes this. The rationale appears a bit contrived and stretched 'in terms
of the realissues. How ‘Nosenko was treated may indicate how concerned
CIA was with’thé man's bona fides, but so far as relating further to the
jaquiry concerning President Kennedy's assassination, it seems marginal at

best. The rationale is so far-feiched that we have been led to consider that its

dramatic qualities are attractive for the Projected TV spectacular this
coming September. It also doubtless Provides an opportunity for public
criticism for those staff members who have been acknowledged by Mr.
Blakey as hostile to the Agency.

 

AW 55157 DoclId:32404522 Page 3
stbicr
»

8. If the rationale of the HSCA for pursuing the question of
Nosenko's treatment is contrived, and largely peripheral to the real
purpose of the Committee, as we believe it to be, it should be faced
in those terms. No one would disagree with there being relevant .
inquiries, but it is hardly proper to take an internal critique and turn
it against the Agency on a point irrelevant to the central purpose of the

inquiry. The HSCA staff poSition is tendentious, and reflects on its
face a hostile attitude that the Committee may not otherwise want to be

to its charter, but the Agency should also assert a similar right to defend
itself from truly peripheral and hostile fishing expeditions: ~

9. Therefore, while we believe that the Hart Report should be made
available to the HSCA staff, we do not believe that such action should be

Til

10. There are aspects of the Hart Report that contain information on

' therefore, a question of some sanitization to be conducted prior to the

ll. A version of the Report has been prepared for the FBI in which the:
names of employees below the DCI have been removed, as well as certain
modifications in more dramatic rhetorical phrases. That version is in
other respects faithful to the original Report. It provides a-working basis
for further sanitization. Sanitization prior to review is not foreign to the
HSCA, as the Directorate of Operations has had a continuing policy of
selected sanitization. Extending this practice to the Hart Report would
be consistent with the extant working relationship with HSCA. The Report

12. If the paper is made available, classified and Sanitized, it should be

on a highly restricted basis; the HSCA wants six named persons to have
access to it, which is at least three times the number needed for bona fide
research purposes. :

13. Staff Position: This Paper favors making a sanitized version of the
paper, in classified form, available to 2 limited number of the HSCA staff
representatives at the CIA Headquarters Building at Langley. Any such
release should be preceded by appropriate discussions limiting use of the
material by the Committee. The General Counsel is of the opinion (Tab B)

Lon]

ew sislos
cc

VIL?

AW 55157 DocId:32404522 Page 4
