We suggest that the section be made more
specific, including a clearer statement of the
intent. For example, with respect to
cryptonyms, codewords, guides, etc. a more
precise link to events related to the
assassination or to a timeframe could be
helpful.

c. Section 1400.5 Requirement that assassination
records be released in their entirety

The introductory paragraph specifies that “no

, portions of any assassination record shall be
withheld--solely on grounds of non-relevance.”
This appears to open the door for access to
entire documents that contain information on
sensitive activities even when the documents
contain information that is only incidental to
the assassination, such as a passing reference
to a name. There is a potential risk that
sensitive, non-relevant sources and methods
would be compromised.

We suggest that the Board consider adding wording
to this section that accommodates those instances
when there is a need to release ample information
from a document to disclose assassination-related
material, while still protecting obviously
unrelated, sensitive information. The Board, of
course, would continue to have access to the
entire record. .

d. Section 1400.7 Additional guidance

Paragraph (d) states “any records identified
with respect to a particular person also
includes any records for that person by any
other name, pseudonym, codeword,” etc. This
appears to require that all records on any
individuals who are merely mentioned in an
assassination record be made available. We
assume that the purpose is more specific i.e.,
to assure that all files on an individual or
activity be made available regardless of the

' labels on the files. We suggest that the text
be modified to reflect this.

AW 53217 DocId:32403996 Page 5
L
ac

“CENTER for the STUDY of INTELLIGENCE

16 March 1995

Mr. David Marwell

Executive Director

Assassination Records
Review Board

600 E Street, N.W.

Washington, DC 20004

Dear David, o .

We appreciate the opportunity to comment on the
Assassination Records Review Board's proposed interpretive
regulations as published in the Federal Register, February
8, 1995. We recognize the value of providing guidance for
those who are responsible for implementing the Assassination
Records Collection Act.

Our general view is that the regulations are
comprehensive in identifying the range of records that would
potentially be relevant to the JFK assassination or the
scope of the investigations into the assassination.

In a few sections of the regulations the wording seems
somewhat: overly broad or the meaning is not clear: Attached
for the Board's consideration are comments on these
sections. In some parts of the text we suggest possible
changes in wording for purposes of clarification. Our
Office of General. Counsel has provided some legal comments
on the scope of the definition, which we have included in
the attached.

We would be pleased to discuss these comments at the
Board's convenience. It is our intention to continue
cooperating fully with the Board and to make every effort to
release assassination records held by the Agency.

  

John F. Pereira
Historical Review Group,
Central Intelligence Agency

Attachments

AW 53217 Docld: 32 483099lorel|Pmigheta + Washinctan YC 2050S « (703) 281-2602 Fay (702) 2422242
’ Date: 03/09/05
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA . Released under the John

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10330-10005 Kennedy
“RECORD SERIES : JFK Assassination Records
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE
Toe eee ota neers sess sss sesso oo ad USC 2107 Note).
. DOCUMENT INFORMATION ase#:NW 53217 Date:

6-22-2017

ollection Act of 1992

 

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM : JOHN F. PEREIRA. HRG
TO : MR. DAVID MARWELL. ARRB

TITLE LETTER: DEAR DAVID: WE APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
- COMMENT :
DATE 03/10/1995
PAGES 4
SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASSINATION
ARRB REGS
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/21/03 :
COMMENTS : JFK-M-15 : F2 : 2000.02.01.12:28:36:640054

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10330-10005

HW 53217 DocId: 32403996 Page 1
1. General Comment: The Act authorized the Board to
issue interpretive regulations. Interpretive regulations,
while entitled to great deference, cannot be inconsistent
with the congressional intent to cover only certain specific
activities. Rather, they should stay within the clearly
articulated definitions provided by Congress. This is
particularly important with respect to definition of
“assassination records” since the Assassination Records
Collection Act (ARCA) has an overriding effect on other
statutory grants of power found necessary in the interest of
national security, such as the National Security Act's
direction that the Director of Central Intelligence protect
intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized
disclosure. The ARCA provides a statutory standard for
protecting or “postponing” intelligence sources and methods
that can be protected in “assassinations records.” The
Review Board is given the ultimate authority to apply that
standard, subject to being overridden only by the President.
Thus, the ARCA reflects a congressional desire to limit the
DCI's authority to protect sources and methods, but only for
“assassination records” as ARCA defined it. An interpretive
definition by the Board that would sweep in records not
covered by the Act, we believe, would exceed the Board's
limited rulemaking authority. Thus, the proposed definition
should be limited more clearly to those records identified
by Congress as “assassination records.”

HW 53217) DocId:32403996 Page 3
2. Following are comments on specific sections of the
Assassination Records Review Board's interpretive
regulations, as published in the Federal Register,

February 8, 1995.

a. Section 1400.1 Interpretation of Assassination
Record

In paragraph (a) the reference to “activities
and events that may have led to the
assassination--"seems overly broad, and appears
, to go beyond the limits established in the
Assassination Records Collection Act. We
believe that .it would be helpful to include an
articulable standard in this section. The
present text would permit inconsistent..
application of the regulations, which might
encourage massive and expensive, additional
records searches that are of doubtful value.

The following change is suggested in
paragraph (a):

“activities and events that may reasonably be
considered to have léd to the assassination--”
(This would be consistent with the Act.)

 

b. Section 1400.2 Interpretation of additional
records and information
Paragraph (a) raises a question as to the
purpose and definition of “additional records
and information.” The meaning of the phrase
“all documents used--during declassification
review of assassination records as well as all
other documents--”seems overly broad and
unclear. As presently worded, this section
would appear to include any document, book,
index, record system, etc. regardless of
relevance to the assassination or
investigations, including for example, legal
opinions. We assume that the purpose is to
enable the Board to request and review
additional records.

HW 53217 DocId: 32403996 Page 4
