 

but that we defer to them on both sources and methods
(they don't have a problem here) and the paper's balance,
The two aspects I pointed out to Karalekas involved: 1.)
quoting closed session testimony of George Kennan re
State's Policy Planning Staff interface with the NSC on
European covert action in the late 40's (I called State
and advised Jennings and Hitchcock), and 2) the descrip-
tion of HAK as Nixon's chief intelligence advisor (vice
the DCI) by virtue of his use of the NSC Staff as an inter-~-
agency clearinghouse for intelligence aspects of policy
(SALT, etc.) and his morning "briefings" of the President.
I attempted to clarify the latter conception of a "briefer"!
(and replacement for the DCI) and commented on the
former as being a relative judgment in the sense that no
intelligence reporting for the DCI was ever withheld
from the President (he got the PDB, etc.), and agency
views were always included in policy: options papers
generated by the NSC Staff through Kissiriger. She
agreed to check with State on Kennan (as well as Kennan
himself) and to try to re-phrase the Kissinger portion.

I, will, of course, ask for another look at this one.

I have not reviewed the Committee's work on the Warren
Commission Report (CIA tells me its virtually the AMLASH
theory, as depicted in the Sunday 2 May Washington Post
article -- Castro probably did it when he found out we were
trying to do him in), or the Assassination Report addendum.
As to the latter, I'm told by both CIA and Rick Inderfurth

of the SSC Staff that the pitch is that the CIA soea8éus to attemet &
topple Allende through a coup in contradiction to instructions
by President Nixon, Kissinger and Haig that the Agency
drop this line of pursuit, I intend to review what they have
in these two areas during this week and will keep you posted
on what I learn.

As a final nade, the Senate debate is now in progress re:

S. Res. 400 (attached), and the word is that a compromise

has been reached (with Senator Baker's active participation).
whereby a new oversight committee will be given exclusive
authorization and oversight jurisdiction over CIA (in drect

contravention of present law, whereby CIA hes given a

nm
‘Mn
2 An,
Yew,

HW 53244) DoclId:32105785 Page 5
—CONEIDENTIAL _ a

standing authorization approval), and shared authorization
and jurd diction over the intelligence activities of State,
Defense, Justice, Treasury and the IRS. I am plugged
in to Bill Kendall and to George Cay (CIA) and have
stressed to Bill that, if passage of the compromise
resolution appears inevitable, to at least urge a con-
current adjustment in the Hughes-Ryan Amendment

to remove Armed Services and Foreign Relations from
the "fully and currently informed" notification process.
I personally think we haven't done enough on this. Duval
apparently hasn't pressed on this issue (although Mike
Madigan of Baker's staff has asked for options). If you
wish, however, for me to take a more active role on

S. Res. 400, just say so, and I will work with Bill

Kendall to feed the friendlies as best I can. Kk
pow OA

HW 53244 DocId:32105785 Page 6
MEMORANDUM

THE WHITE HOUSE

WASHINGTON

CON TAL May 11, 1976

INFORMATION
MEMORANDUM FOR: BILL HYLAND Lm
FROM: JOHN MATHEN

178-10003-10233

SUBJECT: : Senate Select Committee
(SSC) Activities

; Given that the Senate Select Committee intends to go out 4p
‘business as of 31 May, there is still a full plate before them to
accomplish:

-- The last of the domestic abuse papers will be released
on Wednesday, followed by a consolidation of these
(Martin Luther. King, Black Panthers, etc.) into a
third volume of findings to be released next week. At
that_time there will be three reports still outstanding
to be issued, an addendum to the Assassination Report,
a History of CIA, and the SSC Investigation into the
Warren. Commission Findings. All three are in various
stages of drafting and CIA has viewed preliminary ver-
sions of each,

-- There will be a section of the SSC's final report that
will remain classified, and made available only to
Senators upon request. Included in this section is
the SSC report on Espionage (59 pp); CIA Relations
with U.S, Academic and Voluntary Organizations, the
U.S. Media, U.S. Religious personnel, and U.S. Labor
(82 pp); Cover (15 pp); Oversight of the CIA budget (16 pp);
and classified portions of the previously released report —
on Covert action (78 pp), the cover portion of the report
on the State Department/a1 fd the portion of the General
Findings and Recommendations on intelligence liaison
with foreign governments (1 pp).

:
; Fen, Copy
SEP ALD p FROM

| » FORD L Papy

HW 53244 DocId:32105785 Page 2
JFK Assassination System Date: 8/27/201
Identification Form

 

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: MATHENY
RECORD NUMBER: — 178-10004-10233

RECORD SERIES: SSC SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: COMMITTEE REPORTS

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: WH
FROM: MATHENY, JOHN
TO: HYLAND, BILL

TITLE: © SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC) ACTIVITIES

DATE: 05/11/1976
PAGES: 5

SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
AMLASH
CHURCH COMMITTEE
WARREN COMMISSION

Released under the John F. Kennedy

 

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM issassination Records Collection
CLASSIFICATION : — Confidential bet of 1992 (44 Use 2107 Note).
RESTRICTIONS : 1A; IC Pase#:NU 53244 Date: 06-12-2017

CURRENT STATUS: —Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/11/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Contains handwritten annotations.

 

 

v9.1
HW 53244 DocId:32105785 Page 1

i]
i]
co NILAL , -2-

-- The Espionage Report details practices of agent
recruitment and the gathering of information from
voluntary sources, both domestically and overseas.
The SSC alleges that agent recruitment overseas
has serious foreign policy ramifications should such
recruitment become known, therefore, an NSC
sub-committee should review these activities on a
regular basis. In addition, the Committee takes
the same line as that found in the published report
on the State Department, i.e. , the Ambassador
should be in control of such activities overseas.

The SSC also objects to CIA's Domestic Collection
Division (DCD).referring-candidates:for? os'sible
tionalerecruitment ‘to the Foreign Résources

(FRD) when previous association with the

Agency has been open and voluntary, and with no

inherent potential for co-option of these candidates

(American citizens) by their involvement in a

clandestine relationship. In this regard the Com-

mittee also feels that attempts at recruitment by

CLA of resident aliens who have applied for citizen-

ship is also not kosher because of the implied threat

of unfavorable consideration by the U.S. Immigra-
tion Service should the applicant.refuse to cooperate,

 
  

 

-- The two parts of the Covert Action paper which
: + ge ai tevgs : : :

remain classified Aeckniques involved in conducting
such activities and the working relationships that
have developed over time between the Executive
Office, the CIA, and Congress in carrying ot these
operations within the context of over all U.S. foreign
policy. The Committee comes down on the use of
para-military techniques without Congressional
approval as contrary to the intent of the WAR Powers
Resolution and also asserts that notification practices
under the Hughes-Ryan amendment are insufficient to
involve Congress in the decision-making process.

-- The Cover Paper discusses past and present cover
techniques from a purist standpoint (as if to exculpate
the Committee from the Welch assassination in every

Porgy Copy
GERary k : Rony
10RD Uy
: BRaRy

HW 53244 DocId:32105785 Page 3
CON: TIAL . -3-

way). There are, however, extensive quotes

from Isenstadt on the relative merits of cover
vis-a-vis operational flexibility. The conclusion

is that the subject should be addressyby both
branches as a matter of priority because the old
methods are no longer adequate (there is no mention,
of course, of whether these investigations have con-
tributed to this inadequacy).

-- The paper on CIA relations with U.S. media, labor
academic and religious institutions is also naive in
its approach. Although the Committee endorses
voluntary cooperation in all counts except religious
(the game is not worth the bad PR if found out, to
say nothing of the ethical straitjacket imposed on
the clergy), they use the argument once again of
potential co-option in recommending more stringent
Executive Branch restrictions on: how these rela-
itionships are promulgated.

-- The Budget oversight Report details CLA budgetary
practices and contains a liberal amount of figures
depicting expenditures, resource allocation, etc.
The agement is made that only by consolidating
the intelligence community budget can efficient allo-
cation of resources take place (or oversight be
effective).

-- The CIA history paper (an expanded version by Ann Karalekas
of what is contained in Book I already) runs about 200 pages.
I read it last week and aside from two aspects, judged it to
be one of the more balanced papers by the Committee and
relatively free of sensationalism or extremely one-sided
exposition. The Agency disagrees somewhat with this ;
assessment based on 1.) the SSC's reversal of a promise
to keep the longer version classified, and 2.) their view
of the paper's objectivity (or lack thereof). While I support
the Agency's contention that a previous understanding (which
among other things allowed them access to the McCone files)
has been breached, I am in no position personally to confirm
or deny the objectivity argument. I have told the Agency
that we will support their contention of a breach of faith

Phar
A} a EOD
OPA» i Fitts }

lop,
Cee

HW 53244 DocId:32105785 Page 4
