MEMORANDUM

- March 20, 1996 ; CIA HAS 0 cmECtiON Te
TION AND/OR
RELEASE OF Tl
To: Review Board HIS DOCUMENT
cc: David Marwell

CIA Team
From: ——_—s*iT.. Jeremy G ‘
Subject: Board Guidelines on Relegse

The Staff understands the Review Board to accept the following general guidelines on
the release of true names of CIA officers: _ ,

 

When the true name of a CIA officer (i.e. past or present employee of CIA) appears ina
document, the Board wiil bring to its review a presumption that the true name will be

- released. In order to overcome this presumption of release, CIA must provide evidence
demonstrating that release of the name would be harmful. In order to meet its burden
of proving harm, CIA must tailor the evidence to satisfy one of the three categories
identified in Part I (below). However, when the name of an officer is of such
importance that the public interest would not be served in postponing a name, the
Board may release the true name consistent with the principles identified in Part I

(below).
Part I. Categories of Officers.

1. Living officers. For living (present or former) officers, CLA must prove that:
(a) the officer is living outside the United States (or reasonably is expected to
reside or travel outside the United States in the foreseeable future); (b) the officer
is either working or is retired under cover; and (c) the officer objects to the
release of his or her true name. If CIA satisfies this burden, the Board
presumptively (see Part I below) will release a pseudonym and postpone the
officer’s true name until the year 2010.

2. Where current status of former officer is unknown. Where CIA has been
unable to contact the former officer because his or her location is unknown, CIA
must present a good faith showing that reasonable attempts have been made to
locate the officer. If the Board is convinced that CLA has‘made a good faith
showing that it was unable to locate the former officer, the Board will postpone
the true name until June 1, 1997. However, the Board may postpone the true

AW 55157 DocId:32404520 Page 9
-2-

name beyond June 1, 1997, if CLA provides to the Board, prior to May 1, 1997,
additional evidence that satisfies the criteria of either category 1 (above) or
category 3 (below).

3. Names having effect on current intelligence interests. If CLA believes that
the release of a true name may compromise currently existing intelligence
operations or might otherwise cause an identifiable harm, it must provide
evidence that: (a) the officer currently is engaged in clandestine activities; (b) the
release of the true name would compromise ongoing intelligence operations or
-would compromise operations with current intelligence value; (c) the release of
the true name would reasonably be expected to cause significant harm to a living
person (including family members), or (d) the release of the true name would
cause a significant harm to the national security or the foreign relations of the
United States. If CLA satisfies this burden, the Board presumptively (see Part II
below) will release a pseudonym and postpone the true name until 2010 or until
such other date as CIA reasonably shows to be a date on which the release could
be made without causing harm.

Part II. Names of Officers Who Are Important to the Assassination Story.

The Board presumptively will postpone the release of names consistent with
categories 1-3 of Part I. However, for certain persons whose names appear ina
context that is important to the assassination story, the Board may nevertheless
vote to release the true name. In all such instances, the Board will notify CIA of
the importance of such a person and provide CIA with the opportunity to
provide additional information in support of postponing the release of the

" names. These names shall be reviewed ona case-by-case basis, with due ;
consideration being given to the importance of the person to the assassination
story and such evidence of harm as CIA may provide.

AW 55157 DocId:32404520 Page 10
11 December 1995

NOTE FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: Briefing of JFK Board Staff: Cover

1. On’I December} Barry Gibson, Deputy Chief of the
Office of Central Cover, briefed the Executive Director of
the Assassinations Records Review Board and othe

staff members. Also participating from.c A were
and Eleanor Neiman of ms;[ oGC; and Barry
Harrelson and I from HRG. ‘,

2. The focus of the briefing was on the, need to protect
the names of former Agency employees that appeared in the
JFK records. Gibson discussed the risks involved for people
who retired under cover if they were identified in the — i
public record as former CIA employees. He discussed the
‘efforts made by his office to obtain written statements from
the more than 100 individuals whose names appear.

3. The purpose of the briefing was..to. assist. the Board

in its review of names when it ‘meets 6n12= 3°December./ The
Agency was asked in particular to present, in writing,
evidence of risk for each of the names that will be
discussed at the Board's meeting.

SEK Act
John F. Pereira OPK Act

con sy. OSS ICY ween eee

CLEEASON:_ Cev 2-572 376.

DECL ON: AL :

piv FROM: ___ EYE Per PZ

HW 55157 .DocId:32404520 Page @
Mr. John Pereira
November 9, 1995
_ Page 2

We also believe that the Agency still is not providing the type of evidence that will be
the most convincing to the Board. Where issues exist that the Board has not yet
addressed, and where the Agency would like to see postponements upheld, specific
information must be provided to support a postponement. General statements, while
useful in identifying the underlying issues involved, do not provide the Board with the
complete knowledge and understanding of the issue that is necessary to make an
informed judgment regarding release of the information. ~

The Board is looking forward to receiving the CIA's evidence in support of the
postponement of true names. As you know, we have planned for some time to devote
_the December (12 and 13) meeting to this important issue.

Additionally, you will find enclosed with this letter the next in our series of information
requests, covering boxes 7-9 of the Oswald collection. We are submitting these requests
now in an attempt to give HRG as much advance notice as possible of which records we
will be reviewing for the January 4 meeting. Evidence for records to be reviewed
January 4 should be provided no later than December 13, 1995. :

We hope that during HRG’s review of the January documents, the standards outlined in
this letter will be kept in mind. If at any point an issue is deemed so sensitive that a
briefing is required, ARRB staff will meet with you at your convenience. -

Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Sincerely-yours, \:

ek Miharve ll fe
David G. Marwell '
Executive Director

Enclosures

AW 55157 DocId:32404520 Page 7
  

‘

 

SUBJECT: Position on Cryptonyms, Country Designators, Action

Indicators and Employee True Names

context identifies a source or a relationship with a
specific liaison service.

True Names of Staff Employees —: In most instances we
will release names of employees who have retired in an overt
status. and were serving in Headquarters when cited in a
document. We will continue to protect the true names of
employees cited as serving in a field position. References
to field personnel in true name are uncommon, however, since

' pseudonyms are normally used in correspondence between
Headquarters and the field. . .

    

Jv.

09

- Wickham,

UPK Act -6 (1) (A)
JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

AW 55157 DoclId:32404520 Page 5
Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW « 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

 

November 9, 1995

HW 55157

 
 
  

tECTION TO
DIOR
HAND DELIVERED =“CRMATION

Mr. John Pereira, Director -

Historical Review Group’
Center for the Study of Intelligence .
Central Intelligence Agency oe

Washington, D.C., 20505

Re: ARRB requests for evidence
Dear John:

I thought that it might be helpful to you if I were to provide you with our current -

. assessment of the status of our review of the Agency's assassination records and point

to where we would like to proceed in the future.

I would like to begin by acknowledging the efforts made by the Historical Review
Group to facilitate our review of records. It has been, as you know, a difficult and time-
consuming process both for the Agency and the Review Board. We very much
appreciate the personal cooperation of you and your staff.

We continue to be concerned by the slow progress that has been made. Although we
perceive that the task has been more difficult and time-consuming than Cohgress
anticipated,-wehave found that the careful education process in which we have been
involved has helped educate us with respect to your concerns and, we hope, has helped
demonstrate to you the Review Board's concerns.

We must, however, begin to pick up the pace. In many circumstances we are reviewing
and then re-reviewing the same documents over and over again. We are also
frequently put in the position of not being provided with evidence in a timely manner
so that we can make our presentations to the Board. While many of these difficulties
are understandable -- and perhaps even inherent to the start-up of the process in which
we are engaged -- we must expedite the process. Rather than dealing with dozens of
records-at Board-meetings, we need to move towards a schedule where hundreds of

records will.be reviewed at Board meetings. From our perspective, it seems that it is

essential that the Agency be prepared to allocate significant additional resources to the
process of reviewing the records and making evidence available to the Board.

{ a

 

Bosro Memeers: John AR. Tunheim, Chair + Henry F. Graff + Kermit L. Hall « William L.-Joyce - Anna K. Nelson
Docld:32404520 Page 6 Executive Orrector: David G. Marwell
f l 0, le
ie + “CONABEN AL
CHO quidaly.
Nones
7 January 1994 Cala a )
MEMORANDUM FOR: J. Barry Harrelson @ DA
FROM: Bryant Rogers
SUBJECT: MEETING wif | ~ ===""TPK Act 6 (1) (A)
: ee JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
REFERENCE: ae

On 6 Jan we met win{__ ron the 00 to discuss HRS concerns with regard to CIA's contacts in the 60's with well
known Cubans and Cuban Organizations.

The outcome of this discussion was that the DO agrees that we can release the names of those major players with whom CIA
worked with as long as we stay within the 60-63 time frame, with some overlap into 1964 for continuity, when needed. We then
discussed our relationships with major anti-Castro organizations. It was agreed that we could release the fact that as a funding vehicte
for the US Govt, C1A provided support including funding in general terms. In some cases we may find it Necessary to reveal gross ballpark
figures for annual budgets. The DO. would prefer that we continue to protect specific funding amounts where possible. They were
Specifically concerned about releasing specific amounts paid to individuals or families of Bay of Pigs members where individuals could

. claim that one was paid more than another. In supporting these organizations it was acknowledged by the DO that we could release
generic operational activities such as-publishing journals or financing goodwill tours by prominent exile Cubans to Latin America The DO
reminded us that in reviewing these relationships with Cubans and organizations, it was important to protect CIA personnel, agents and
assets and any specifics on tradecraft. :

When asked about Bay of Pigs training sites, Linda felt that the actual location should stil! be protected in Spite of the fact that
they have been mentioned in open literature.

With regard to D0 location numbers (19 for Cuba} she thought this was OK for the 60-63 time frame but would check with LA
Div. She had no problem with the release of the Bell location in cables since it was no longer used.

ce: J. Barry Harrelson @ DA
Richard 0. Kovar-Y- @ DA
John F. Pereira @ DA

AW 55157 DocId:32404520 Page 2
_ ; |
: Date: 03/11/05
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10332-10007
RECORD SERIES : JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PROJFILES-DECLASS STDS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : ARRB-CIA ISSUES: EMPLOYEE NAMES
DATE : 01/07/1994
PAGES : ,347 2 i

SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASSINATION
UNIT INDEX
ARRB ISSUES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER
CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1A 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/01/03
COMMENTS : JFK-M-17 : F8 : 2000.02.14.15:12:41:437044 : UNIT
INDEX: 54- PAGES ARE DIFS

as

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10332-10007

AW 55157) DocId:32404520 Page 1
8 November 1995

&

MEMORANDUM FOR: Jeremy Gunn,
ARRB Staff
FROM: Barry Harrelson, / ‘
: : CIS/CSI/HRG a
SUBJECT: “ Issues re Cryptonyms, Country —

Designators, Action Indicators and
Employee True Names (U) :

Attached is memorandum from the DO Focal Point for the
ARRB addressing the release of cryptonyms, country” |”:
designators, action indicators and employee true names. The
memorandum is intended to provide guidance to you and your
staff and complements information provided in previous . :
discussions. Ellie and I welcome the Opportunity to discuss -
these issues with your staff. (U) ; i

S

SPE ACES (1) 1)
JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

Attachment .

 

Unclassified When Separated
From Attachment.

   

HW 55157) DocId:32404520 Page 3
 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Historical Review Group

FROM: ' Fredrick c. Wickham, Jr.

DO, Focal Point for ARRB

SUBJECT: | Position on Release of Cryptonyms, Country |

Designators, Action Indicators and Employee True
Names . So

‘

During the period since the ARRB last met, the DO has

considered the four issues listed below that have not yet been
addressed with the Board. These issues appear throughout the JEK
collection and by stating our position up front we hope to
facilitate the Board's review and to reach an agreement that will
be mutually Satisfying to the Board and the Agency.

Cryptonyms ~ Except for cryptonyms related to~ 7
operational assets or activities involving Mexico or Miani,

' material.

AW 55157

Country File Desi nators - We will delete the first
element of operational activity and Operational interest.
files in those instances when the Credibility of’ the.

country name which is easily discernible, whereas -the
subsequent two elements relate to type of activity or

Occasionally, however, we will withhold Portions when the

_ CL BY
~ ae / | = DECL OADR
- DRV HUM 4-82 -

DocId:32404520 Page 4

SOFK Act 6
© ORK Act 6

 

(1) (A)
(1) (B)
