 
 

 

 

HW 53080 Docl@e329@25ro Payeoe Oswaid's contact with such groups. (Miami}

   

Dr. Joseph Dolce :

_ Consultant fo Warren Commission on ballistics testing. Clairs
conclusions contrary to findings of Warren Commission Report.
(Riviera Beach) ; . : ° :

 

John Downey : : _@
Principal U.S. Customs agent involved in arrests of anti-Castro — .
activists based on No Name Key. Possible knowledge of Oswald
relationship with No Name Key group. (Miani) .

 

Tom Dunkin , .
Freelance photographer formerly with Life and C.B.S. Close .
associate of Andrew St. George, Mitchell WerBell and :

key leaders of No Name Key group. Possible knowledge of ; .
intelligence activities in relation to anti-Castro operations . .
connected with Kennedy. assassination. (Ft. Pierce) /

 

Alfred Gonzales Duran 33
Son-in-Taw OF Carlos Prio. Member of Operation 40, special - .
assassination team employed in conjunction with Bay of Pigs

operation. Possible knowledge cf Prio's connection with :
Kennedy assassination, possible knowledge of Oswald connections . °
to members of 2506 Brigade. (Miami) . : ‘ - -

 

Lo ov
John Dyer — : . ee ; me, , ; .
Connected with C.I.A. front, Zenith Corporation, and major
C.1.A. operational complex on University of Miami campus, . .
JM WAVE. Latin American marketing specialist who conducted 2
debriefing interviews. Possible knowledge of anti-Castre :
or intelligence agency elements link to Kennedy assassination. ,

» (Miamiy

 

 

Ralph Edens ce .
Private investigator and soldier of fortune associated with .
key members of the No Name Key group. Possible knowledge of °
anti-Castro intelligence operations. (Miami) ; ;

OO — et.

‘Manuel Angel Espinosa

“lenber of the Commi’ istance, active
ember of the Committee of Help te the Cuban Resis >
in anti-Castro activity, associated with members of Orlando . ie

Bosch group and Alpha 66. Possible knowledge of anti-Caatro
activity with links to Kennedf assassination, possible associate
of Carlos Bringuier. (Miami) _ ;

 

George Faraldo : ; co — .
Former manager of Key West Airport. Reported seeing Oswald
and Ruby in Key West terminal on way to Cuba with Fair Play ’
for Cuba group. Former contract agent for U.S. Information

Agency, aerial audio and photo reconnaisance expert. (Key West)

 

 

8s
Julio Fernandez . -— ;
Reported by Claire Booth Luce to Senator R.S. Schweiker. to have .
“been part of an anti-Castro group which Oswald allegedly had ‘
contact with in. Miami. (Miami) . ae
ih ae — cee a
°9

Pablo Fernandez : : : .
Tlose associate of Eugenio Martinez and veteran CIA operative.

i i jami tic Convention
Involved in staged demonstrations at Miami Democra ; -
and at funeral of J. Edgar Hoover. Possible knowledge of early
intelligence operations involving Oswald or associates. (Miami}

ee

Ye

Dr. Armando Fleites -

Former general Secretary of the Second National Front of
the Escambray and one of original founders of Alpha 66. :
Close friend of Antonio Veciana and Andres Nazario. Possible

knowledge of intelligence associations with Alpha 66 and
Oswald contacts. (Miami) -, ; o

 

 

Tino Fuentes : . a u
Brother-in-law of Carlos Prio and resident in home. Possible | .
knewledge of al1 of Prio's associations. (Miami) ; .
Tee Carher rn |

Barr Garber | .
Attorney for Antonio Veciana. Very knowledgeable of Cuban

groups and involvement with narcotics and organized crime.
Possible knowledge of intelligence agency contacts with
   

Evaristo Garcia :

ose associate of Santo T i .
CI as i s rafficante. Involved in gamrbli
overations in Cuba. Possible knowledge of Ruby vistt to Crba
other aspects of Kennedy assassinatio Mae-thi .

    
  

 

Justin Gleicoff . : ,
Nani station chief, C.1.A., 1950 t 3.0

i : -T.A., o 19735, Reportedly played
a major role in Bay of Pigs operation. Requires questioning

 

regarding all possible links of intelligen y i °
to Kennedy assassination. (Miami) gence agency operatives :
Celia Godinet , : a, a

ormer ticket agent for Aerovias Q, Cuban airli : £
F ick ; ! >” airline. Possib
_knowledge of Oswald and Ruby flights to Cuba. (Miami) te

 

Joaquin Godo : i 96

Former member of the MRP, anti-Castro Cuban group. Associ ‘ .
e C . | . SSO

of Antonio Veciana. Possible knowledge of Norris Biship,

through contacts with American Embassy and associations in ~ : -

intelligence agencies. Has had contact with 3
. re
of H.L. Hunt. (Puerto Rico) | , Presentative

 

Mrs. Leonore Gonzales Oo uO
Daughter of Julio Lobo (Spain),
g E i pain}, the Cuban banker fo
Veciana worked in Havana and possible intermediary betncen
yeciana and original contact with Oswald associate Morris — : °
Bishop. May provide knowledge of father's association with .
-I.A. and/or contact with father. (West Palm Beach)

   

Virgilio Gonzales : Ss ‘ Co, :
Associate of Bernard Barkér, Eugenio Martinez and Frank Fiorini
Sturgis. Involved in intelligence operations and initial Natergate
entry. Possible knowledge of anti-Castro groups involving Oswald .
, or associates. (“iami) ; *
Max Gonzales Gorman : . . a . 99 .
: Close associate of Frank Fiorini Sturgis, involved with numerous
gntelligence operations in Miami and Latin America, possible
assassination attempts. Possible knowledge of links of ; :
intelligence community and/or anti-Castro Cuban groups to
Kennedy assassination. (Ft. Pierce)

 

 

Julio Greco ve , . : few.
- Kgsociate of Santo Trafficante. Possible knowledge cf
: C.I.A. operations with organized crime relative to Castro
; assassination attempts and association with Jaék Ruby. .
(Dania) : Lo oo ;
(en 7
Melvyn Greenspahn : mo : fap .
Former attorney for Orlando Bosch: when Morales was: chief
FBI informant in case involving bombing in Miami. Possible
intelligence agency connections. Possible .knowledge of : -, .
relationships between Bosch, Morales, Posada and Oswald
pocnooo fee,

Felix Guittierez , : . : . .
fisnortedly one of the leaders of Operation 40, secret assassination
H team alliened with Manuel Artime during Bay of Pigs operation.
Possible knowledce of Oswald contact with anti-Castro groups. -

 

(Miami) .
a ee

3 | a yey

Sims Griner - oe ; vo

Reported witness to death of Carlos Prio. (Miami)

Dennis Harber . - ; oo. ay.
Wenber No Name Key group. Involved in anti-Castro activities . .
in Cuba, Mexico and Dominican Republic. Known as "The Professor.
Homosexuality possibly significant re reports of Oswald being | 4
associated with homosexuals in New Orleans and Dallas. (Miami?) :

err atrick Hemming . (es
K close associate of Loran Hall, who originally told the -

FBI it was he, Lawrence Howard and William Seymour who had
visited Sylvia Odio. Hall later recanted. Hemming a menber
of the No Name Key anti-Castro group, an early associate of
Frank Biorini Sturgis and has had extensive contact with
intelligence agencies. Also the owner of a rifle Loran Hall
retreived from an adventurer's supply shop in California
eks prigt to the JEK assassination. (Miami)

 

     
   

AW 53030 pocka: S58 28 FF Page 1

Co i a ae Esler eda

   

ap omipnie om

 

crag te
 

 

 

 

Se :

Miguel DeLeon :
Involved in initial reports of Oswald in Miami with Fair Play
for Cuba Committee. Associated with Manuel Artime. (Miami)

Alexandra DeNohrensch ildt

Daughter of George DeNohrenschildt, friend of Oswalds. Requires

extensive questioning concerning her father’s activities and

‘career, relationship with intelligence agencies, relationship

with the Oswalds, her own relationshi ; .

h the p to Oswalds and her
activities end travels. Also corrokcration of detail

to father's suicide. (Palm Beach). oS es related

Edith Daigle ——
Sister of Tate John Rosselli.

 

 

gambling and organized crime intere i ibli
connection, (Plantation) sts with possible Ruby

: t Possible knowledge of b ot *s-
' involvement in Castro assassination plots, weeociation with” .

 

William Darnell — ; :
Executive with Lykes Steamship Co., ° i $1

v : z p Co., owner of ship Oswald took
to Russia. Long time association with intelligence agencies.
Very knowledgeable of anti-Castro Cuban group activities as

Arny Intelligence operative in Puerto Rico.. Possi
t 2 ive in .- ssible knowled
of Morris Bishop and association with Oswald. (Puerto Rico-New

Orleans)

Howard Davis | : re . .
Heavily involved in anti-Castro activity. Close associate
of Jerry. Patrick Hemming and Loran Hall. Has had contact

. with General Walker and memters of the National States Rights

Party. Associated with members of the No Name Key grovp,
where Oswald reportedly had contact. Also possibly connected
with organized crime figures in Chicago, possibly involved

jn gunrunning with associates. of Jack Ruby. (Miari)

cones nee ae

 

Arthur Desser - : Se

Former director of Miami National Bank, associated with.
International Bank of Miami, which has former C.I.A. officer
James Angleton on board of directors. Possible connection to
Meyer Lansky. Possible knowledge of intelligence agency
relationship to organized crime, Teamsters Union and Howard
Hughes organization. (Miami) .

 

William Dempsey - 0
tember No Name Key group, (Canada) ~

Nino Diaz. : a oo oe,
Leader of diversionary Cuban force of Bay of Pigs invasion.
Involved in numerous anti-Castro operations and assassination
attempts. Was target of unsuccessful assassination attempt
in 1975. Involved with training camps inNew Orleans and

may have knowledge of Oswald's reported contact with those.

camps. (Miami) ;

 

 

AW 530380

Norman Diaz . ae : oe
Member 2500 Brigade, associated with members of assassination

team Operation 40. Possible knowledge. of relationships
of anti Castro groups with possible Oswald contact. (Miami)

Raul Diaz

Former member of Dade County Organized Crine Bureau, son-in-law.

cf C.I.A. contract agent Eugenio Martinez. Has: knowledge of
relationship between Riccardo Morales, Orlando Bosch and Luis
Posada. (Miami) . ,

 

Marcos Diaz-Lanz

Brother of Pedro and deputy chief of Castro Air Force.
Also extensively involved in anti-Castro activity and also

has possible knowledge of intelligence operations involving
relationship to Oswald. (Miami)

Pedro Diaz-Lanz

Former chief of Castro air force. Defected with Frank Fiorini

Sturgis. - Possible knowledge of anti-Castro intelligence
-operations and association of Cuban groups with. Oswald.

poctd:4o98b54 7 Page 3

 

Ww

es 7 a |" aq.

po ae / . 7 37

 

 
 

James Cogswell III. oo :
Veteran intelligence operative. “Possible knowledge of Morris .

: Bishop through close association with intelligence officials
in American Embassy in Havana. In contact with Antonio .
Veciana on anti-Castro activity. Possible knowledge of °
Oswald contact through close contact with major Cuban

leaders. (Palm Beach)

 

 

 

 

 

Ben Cohen Oo?
Attorney for former S & G Miami Beach criminal syndicate and .
currently legal counsel for prominent organized crime figures.
Possible knowledge of Ruby contact with Miami Beach criminal .
elements or interest in hotel and gambling operations in

Havana. (Miami Beach) : : ,

_ ee 7
Francisco Manuel Condom-Gil 7 .
Private investigator, associate of Manuel Artime, alleged
‘associate of Santo Trafficante family. Possible involvement .
in anti-Castro operations and training camps in New Orleans
with reported Oswald contacts. (Miami). .

my

Luis Conte-Aquerra , oe

Cuban anti-Castro propaganda operative for the. C.I.A. Associate
of key Cuban leaders, Reportedly involved in Cellula Fantasma
operation by Frank Fiorini Sturgis. Possible knowledge of -. .
‘operations of Oswald contact Morris Bishop. (Miami) :

 

 

Hector Cornillot ; Tt
Convicted terrorist bomber, associate of Orlando Bosch and : .
Luis Posada. Possible knowledge of anti-Castro activities .
_ directed by Oswald contact Morris Bishop. (Miami) :
ann ane = ee Oe
Mario Alverez Cortina | 6)

Ived i i } ciation
Pitot anvolved in anti-Castro operations. Probable asso:
with Frank Fiorini Sturgis and £. Howard Hunt. Possible knowledge

bos - of associates involved with activities relative to Kennedy . ;
a assassination. (Miami) ; . a

ouis Coticchia- _ : . ; ;

topartedly a Key figure in negotiations between C.I.A. and : .
Mafia in Castro assassination attempts. Close to Giancana,
Rosselli and Trafficante. Possible knowledge of organized
crime involvement with Kennedy. assassination, knowledge of
Jack Ruby connection with Chicago organized crime figures.

Chicago and Miami) . co ee
(Chicag = . ~—§y

i wis Crespo. : - oo, -
a teained by the C.I.A., active in anti-Castro activity.

: i e of intelligence agency relationship
Possible knowteds 8 Kennedy assassination. .

 

with Anti-Castro activity and links to
(Miami) : . . ; . iy
Fred W. Crockett : . ,

Pentist associated with right-wing groups, close associate of
Howard Davis and Jerry Patrick Hemming and others in No Name .-

 

 

 

io Key group. Reportedly was in possession of Hemming's sniper - .
rifle after it was retreived by Loran Hall. (Miam1) 7 .
ens Se :
. 6

Steve Czukos — . , :
Enforcement section, U.S. Customs, Miaml. Contact for Frank
Fiorini Sturgis. Possible knowledge of intelligence agency

r . activities related to anti-Castro operatinns.. (Hiami} .

 

fame ~ ~ 66.

i Diego - or _ . ;
fesobiave,of Hernerd Darker, Eugenle WereisS tence agency operetionss
Involved in numerous anti-Castro an’ chiatrist's ectice. Possible

 

i ing break-in of Ellsburg's ps i : ‘ .
ine oaee of early intelligence operations involving Oswald
associates. (Miami) . - 7 7

Antonio DeLaCova — . .

Convicted bomber, member Cuban terrorist group Abdella. Possible
ae knowledge of intelligence agency relationship with Bosch, Prio,

, Posada and Kennedy assassination. (Miami) .

 
a

. ae

 

 

M1 aan as Eugene Hale Brading. Questioned on scene of ive
\rSO mons ination. Requires extensive questioning chats
Kenney eeects of association with organized crime oper ions»
fo eilagence agency connections and possible associa
in u 2

Kennedy assassination. (Atlanta)

 

 

we
n. E. Browder : hoes ky associate. Possible .
Kssociate of Norman Rothman, Meyer Lansk) ate. i - ,
knowledge of Ruby connection to organized crine and relationship»
with Carlos Prio. (*iami)
3
_ James & Jerry Buchanan oe. oo. a
Brothers, close associates of Frank Fiorini Sturgis involved
in anti-Castro activity. Reported knowledge of Oswald in oo .
Miami active with pro-Castro groups. Jerry Buchanan working
as a Drug Enforcement Administration informant on case of
Kenneth Bernstine, former associate of Mitchell WerBell.
.. (Mother, Mary Buchanan, in Miami). _ ; yy

L

 

Dr. Fdgardo Buttari_ ee

_ operations with links to Kennedy assassination. (Miami)

| ——ceSER

William Artega Burns .. —- - ; So

Reputed arms smuggler with contacts to organized crime. Has ;
possible knowledge of Morris Bishop and Oswald contact through .
association with Army intelligence. (Puerto Rico) = ..- SO
Forner Cuban Minister of Commerce and Mayor of Havana. Business Oe
associate of Manuel. Artime and alleged associate of Santo Traffi r-
Passible knowledce of intelligence on fficante-

: n e i perations involving association |
with organized crime figures, (Miami) : g.

 

Leopoldo Cainas oe

Possible inveive i ip ; oe ; 36

with contacts having poseibie nec ttigence operations, associated -
. a p wald connection in

Possible involvement in Sylvia Odio incident. (Stuart) noes

Antonio Calatayud - _ 32.
Involved in anti-Castro operations supported by Orlando St

Bosch and Carlos Prio. Possible knowledge of relationships
involving links to Kennedy assassination. (Miami).

 

Robert Carballo ; : ; : _ 38
President of Combatants Association, 2506 Brigade; involved | , .
in anti-Castro terrorist activity. Possible knowledge of :

Luis de Cardenas . . . a ° mo ORT
wlose association with No Name Key iv

C $ ia : No Name Key group and C.I.A. operatiy
connected with Jerry Patrick Hemming. Possible knowledge of
alleged contact by Oswald with No Name Key group. (Miami) .

 

Guido Carillo ae ‘ ; : .

Another conspirator in Nieves murder, also probably connected : .

to Trafficante. Possible knowledge of possible links of " .

fiend crime to anti-Castro connections to Kennedy assassination.
iami

 

Justo Carille ; . ” : ”
Leader of anti-Castro group "Montecriste." Possible knowledre ~ .
ef intelligence agency activities relative to anti-Castro |

operations directed by Oswald contact Morris Bishop. (Miami)

On nnn nce |

Alex E. Carlson | : _
Attorney for Nouble-Check Corp, C.I.A. front which recruited

pilots for anti-Castro operations and served as conduit for

payments to widows. Possible knowledge of intelligence agency

involvement with associates of Oswald. (Miami) ~ ; - oe
. Richard Randolph Carr : os B
Witness to assassination, Reportedly saw.individual on .

fifth floor of DSBD then later with two others flee froz

HW 53080 Docld,ap2ggsuyy iPaben®. (See PJ TIL,64) (Atlanta)
 
   

 

Martin Case : . :
Close sey. of No Name Key group. Soldier of fortune involved
in. anti-Communist operations. Associate of Army Intelligence

operative Robert K, Brown, questioned by the F.B.I. involving
prior knowledge of the 2_Kemnedy assassination. (Hiani)

Gustavo Castillo

‘Member OF militant anti-Castro Cuban National Liberation .
Front CFLNC), charged with assassination attempt on Cuban.
consul in Mexico. Possible knowledge of anti-Castro activists -
with links to Oswald, (Miami)

 

Frank Castro oo a ae be
Trained C.T-A. agent, “close associcte of Orlando Bosch and oe
Orlando Otero. Possible knowledge of association with — , :
operations directed by Oswald contact Morris Bishop.: (Miami)

 

Teresa Casuso| :
ornerly con idential secretary to Fidel Castro. Possible Imowledge.
of pro-Castro or anti-Castro clements having connection to. :

Kennedy assassination. (Miami) -

 

“Dino Cellini “ ~ Os
Top associate ‘of Meyer Lansky and Sante Trafficante. ‘Qperated
gambling casino in Havana. Probably knowledge of Ruby .
association with gambling interests in Cuba and with gunrunning.
operations in Miami. (Sister is girlfriend of Roy Paine,.

- associate of Richard Hathcock, who gave rifle te Leran Halt

in California. ) (Miami) |

 

John Philip Cerone ss a ne 71
Associate of the late Sam Giancana, acting underboss to So
Chicago Mafia family. Probable knowledge of C.I.A.-sponsered .

Castro assassination attempts, knowledge of Ruby links to

 

 

 

organized crime. (Miami)

Ralph Cerrano ° _ . ° 2
Associated with Santo Trafficante in ganbling operations in’ 2 oS ~
Cuba. Involved with Rolando Masferrer in Ilaitian operation. a
Pessible knowledge of Ruby connection to Havana interests,
McWillie, and organized crime, possible knowledge of. Masferrer °
association with Eladio Del Valle and David ‘Ferrie, No Name
Key group, (Miami) : . oo

 

 

Dan Christensen : i i
.. FreeLance Journalist and author ‘of articles concerning Sonersett

and Milteer. Possesses original documents and personal papers

taken from heme of Nilteer (deceased) in Georgia. (Otiari, on Lt.

 

Rogelio Cisneros oe a . &

A agate of JURE, the anti- Castro organization of which Syivia a .
Odio was a member. The FBI originally suspected he may have os .
-been one of the three men. He had visited Dallas for the

purpose of making’a contact to buy arms. _ (Miami) re ve

Lynn Clark . le -
Photographer involved in anti-Castro activities. . Possib e- _
“knowledge or photographs of Oswald association with No :

Name Key group. (*liami) ;
SY 2

 

William Clay : PY:
@o-counsel for Rolando Otero. Possible knowledge of Otero’s ~
relationship with anti-Castro activists, No. Name Key group — ;
and.intelligence agency relationship. (tliami) : .
ES

aaa . . J s

 

Arturo Cobos
Associate of ‘Orlando Ctero, Mrilando Bosch, Luis Posada.: .
Passible knowledge of anti-Csstro operations with ‘links to -

, Oswald contact Morris Bishop. (Miani)

 
 

 

53080

DocId: 32262517

Page 2

MIAMI WITNESSES

Provided by Gaeton Fonzi

May 10, 1977

 
mii eee ee eee as

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 10/13/20
Identification Form
:
Agency Information
AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: —180-10108-10086
RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES.
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 015107 (FOLDER 3 OF 4)
——- ef eee
Document Information ;
ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: FONZI, GAETON.
TO:
TITLE: MIAMI WITNESS.
DATE: 05/10/1977
PAGES: 20 Released under the John
UBJE . . Kennedy
s CTS: Assassination Records
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES. olleetion act of 1992
BAY OF PIGS. (44 USC 2107 Note).
ORGANIZED CRIME. ase#:NU 53080 Date:
LEADS & INFORMATION. P5—30-2017
MIAMI, FLORIDA.
CIA, METHODOLOGY.
DOCUMENT TYPE: LIST.
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 07/06/1993
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Box 297.

eee

v9.1

AW 53080 DocId:32262517 Page 1
—

Fernando Acosta
Veteran operative i
narcotics dealer.

ve

n anti-Castro operations and major
Possible knowledge of Castro assassi

nation

. attempts involving organized crime figures and association
: with Jack Ruby. (Raiford) : . id
—_——_—$—$—$—$—_ sss

Richard K. Agnew

Former manager of Marat
_ intelligence agency associ

activities at No:Name Key,

Andres Rivero Aguera

Former Batista associate an
Possible knowledge o
with possible. lin

Manolo Aguilar.
Kssociate of No N

a clo

 

ame group,
Communista (FRAC

of Hall associ

hon Airport
ations.
possible Oswald contact. (Key West) |

.

and has had frequent .
Reportedly has photos of

2.

se friend of Carlos Prio.

 

- Duney Perez Alama
Ssociate of Manue r
Director, probable associate 0

£ Oswald relationship

 

knowledge 0
: _Jose. Aleman

. Yavolved in AML
intelligence agency operat
Trafficante. that Kennedy w

 

AS! Castro assass
ive.

as going to be assa

f Prio's associations and operations
ks to Kennedy assassination. (Miami) :
- 7 ri
‘head of Frente Revolutionaria Anti- .
Involved with Loran Hall. Possible knowledge
ation with Oswald. (Miami) oO .
oo - £
1 Artime, member of Student Revolutionary -
f Carlos Bringuier. Possible
to associates. (Miami) -
— A
ination attempt. Veteran .

Reportedly told by Santo

ssin

ated. . | .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- ;
ll - 4
Gus Alex oo, : =: ; -
| ASsociate of Chicago Mafia family with interest in nightclubs
and vending machines companies. Possible knowledge of
| Jack Ruby ‘associaton with organized crime. (Ft.. Lauderdale.) .
<< eee ee eee ee waa en th he TTB ae =
| Angelo Ali er 4
I. Attorney and close friend of Santo Trafficante. May have
i knowledge of Trafficante reputed knowledge of Kennedy's
assassination prior to the event. i ee
Anselmo Alliegro : . : oo. 4 4
Close associate of Jerry Patrick Hemming and Loran Hall. :
Active in intelligence activities related to anti-Castro
operations. Son of Batista's finance minister and Lucky
. _Luciano's Cuban attorney. Possible knowledge of C.I.A. . °
| relationship with or anized crime. (Miami) —— _
, : — oe Jo
Vincenzo Alo : enone : .
: op associate of Santo Trafficante. Probable knowledge Of
Ruby connection to organized crime, Havana opera zon
Castro assassination attempts. (Miami) / os
—— > a n
| Eleno Oviedo Alvarez oe .
Member No Name“Key group Cfliani)
~ ss cr 7 .
Remigio Arce - . I
Nember No Name Key group. (Miami) -
wee one —;
Manuel de Arnas ; : , . i)
Seif-prociained C.I.A. agent who defected to Cuba, returned . .
| and was arrested as suspect in Masferrer murder. Possible
: knowledge of Masferrer connections to Kennedy assassination. .
; (Miami). , : 7
! Manuel Artime ~~ m
Selected by the C.1.A. as Cuban leader of ‘Pigs
: q «LA. | f the Bay of Pigs °
: 2506 Brigade. Very close friend of E. Howard Hunt. Invelved
in Castro assassination attempts. Possible knowledge of
1s phases of Oswald and Ruby contacts with indivi ls .
znd group. (Miami) Y Cuban individuals
ane ec hie  nie
Fred B. Asche Jr. a 7 "
Former husband of Barbara Nood ossi i .
“ee Nd OF ' y- Possible association wit!
organized crime figures with possible association with Ruby
—_ - nt

 

Dr. Manuel Avella . :
nvolved in current anti-Castro activi i
Tnvolved i a i ity, associate of Orlando
oo Bosch and Veciana associate Luis Posada.Reportedly identified
ww 53080 Doctdi 3036009 Gage A827" in Dealay Plaza on November 22, 1963. (Miami)

ae Aneta Tae NS

 
  

        
! 3 . Me . .

 

  

   

 

. Ruth Bastholn

Luis Balbuena : : ;

Involved in Castro assassination attempt. Probable link to _
Naval Intelligence. Possible knowledge of anti-Castro operations
involving associates of Morris Bishop. (Miami) . ;

"W

 

: rr
Fernando Fernandez Barcena

Probable C.I.A. opérative (re doc. 12-28-512), associate
ef No Name Key group, Possible knowldge of International |
Anti-Communist Brigade operations and possible contact
with Oswald. (Miami) ~

 

 

 

Bernard Barker . ay
Veteran intelligence agent. Close associate of E. Howard Hunt. ~
Former consultant on counter-insurgency to Cuban police. Active
in Cuban Revolutionary Council prior to Bay of Pigs. Key
liaison with all Cuban groups, including those reporting

contact with Oswald. Repsrtedly involved in planned Castro
assassination attempt from Nicaragua (Second Naval Guerilla).
(Miami .) oe :

 

Augustin Barres : . . an :
Former business partner of Antonio Veciana. Possible contacts ;
with organized crime and narcotics. Possible association with ~ .
intelligence agency involvement to destroy Veciana'’ credibility.
(Puerto Rico) ; ; oe, te me

William Barry : me : ; -.

Former investigator in Garrison prebe. Has extensive knowledge

of all phases of possible Cuban involvement in Kennedy assassination -
and possible connections with intelligence operations. (Miami)

Donald Partone J
{Ssoclate of Vitchell WerBell.

Possible knowledge of Ruby connection j,
er organized crire associates

and gunrunning operations. Cfiani}

(TE
Tiend of Lillian Spingler who was told of Martinez incident

prior to Kennedy assassination. Requires confirmation of

details. (Miami) 20 uw... :

Lauréano Batista a : re : :
Former chief of Cuban Christian Democratic Movement, associate

. of Mario Garcia Kohly (friend of Richard Nixon) and Carlos ; .

Bringuier. Involved in Castro assassination attempt in 1961.
Extensive questioning required regarding all activities. (Miami)

John H, Bennett ; ; :

Reportedly among passengers on bus who departed Nuevo-
Laredo, Mexico, with Oswald on October 3, 1963. (Miami)

(re Vol. XXIV,612;CD 87) : - oe _

 

Donald Ber ; ' :
Real estate promoter, business associate of Bebe Rebozo,
associated with front for national crime syndicate and
Meyer Lansky. Possible knowledge of relationship with

organized crime, intelligence agency and Howard Hughes
arganization. (Miami)

 

3 : — eee

8)

Paul Bethel : :

Former press attache, American Embassy in Havana. Closely
associated with members of intelligence agencies. Co-founder of
Citizens Committee for a Free Cuba. Possible association with
anti-Castro groups involving Oswald contact, possible knowledge

of Oswald associate Morris Bishop. (Miami)

Juan Francisco Blanco-Fernandez . mc
Member Student Revolutionary Nirectorate (DRE}. Possible knowledge
of associate Carlos Bringuier relative to contact with Oswald.
(see CD 87) (Miami) :

 

David Bludworth | oO
State Attorney for Palm Beach County. Holds original documents.

and material found in the possession of George DeMohrenschildt.
(Palm Beach) ; , ‘

Richard Booth . Bo
Attorney for key leaders of No Name Key group. (Miami)

   

 
