 

 

 

Released undexX the Joti’ F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of-1992 (44 Tse [i ote).
[Sonre: 11-14-2017 _. Pa
Lop bos p o id “ey : . ‘
7a - &e voy SECRE I :
ot \ 1 os °
a. m, i
POR SEOTT
[Pa a

f LOFTS 2 }
Classified by SES September 26, 1963 -..

   

Wf Sullivan‘
Wr, Nasca

Qeclassify om: OADR

  

 

Classified me | i

X“Refexence is made to ay memorandum dated Apzil 2, 1963,
captioned “Anti-Fidel Gastxe Activities,” which dealt/with the
use Of British territory by anti-Castro groups, Le i; 4

(Oo

For your additional information, Santiago Alwaves |
Rodsiguez, a responsible official of the captioned anti-Castro
organization which is identical mith the organization known i
6s L 66 mentioned in the referenced communication, advised
rocontly that the captioned organization was planning to leave
the United States and that Andros Island in the Bahamas was
the most preferable location. Reportedly, the organization i
has cent representatives to Andros Island and has received So

 
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
    
 

promises of cooperation from cextain private individuals on the

isiand. According to Alvarez, Andros Island would be an ideal

place from which to operate for the purpose of setting up a

small attack base on one of the keys off the north shore of / 6)

N Cuba, He indicated that the organization, however,,has no

‘ guarantee that British out would allow them to” ms
yS r

 

 
  
 

operate from the Bahanas.

uv) f
On September 3, ee oe advised thet gépairs ““""
on a thirty-eight-foot boat named "Silvia" had been completed ~
r and that final preparations were being made by the captioned a
2 organization to leave the United States, Alvarez indicated wood
that he and about tworty of bis men planned to leave in the “ONS
immediate future and that they would proceed by small boats
‘@ ¢ to the Bahatas where they would set up a camp, From there they  ..
@% plan to go to an unidentified key off the north ceagt of Cuba “oy
= & where another base for attack and rald operationg against Cuba oe
would be set up. we S NC

  
   
 
 
 

 

ae:

  
  
 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ay Alvarez stated that the key off the north coast of 2
; --Guba has fzesh water ond dense foliage, There is a canal
» gunning inland fxom the sea. Repdrtedly, the canal is between ia
\ four and five feet deep and is completely covered by trees, ic
\pec- 28 12.2 soon owson rT as ge GOW ok
fis 2105117220 * “MAILED FROM DIVISION FIVE BE " J pes.
yo poe oe Ey ao
per why! P26 1982 ati fa ae bat am / ]
fs London . se a es cxpnebl © LAS Sh Aled! a o &
Sich my roe one = Ss
{1 ~ Foreign Liaison Unit ele Re eprer Ei
F : : a AS OE
"i = «109-584 (Anti-Fidel Gastro Activities) £. a5 8 Ay
St ci gee note pg 2 .

 

 

 

Docld: 32333163 Page 2
DATE: 11-14-2017

 

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

\ TITLE:

DATE :
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

COMMENTS :

 

v9.1

Docld: 32333163 Page 1

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

FBI
124-90106-10019

HQ
105-117222-122

Document Information

FBI
HQ
LO

09/26/1963
2

COMANDOS L

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B; 4

Redact

08/07/1998

INDEFINITE

MEMO
 

Released under the John F.
DATE: 11-1

  
  

Alvazes stated thet this i¢ an ideal spot for his group _ .
to senduct gfaid and aabotage operstione against Guboa, in
addition, Alvarez stated that had sone siedical supplies
in tne Mlgml,.Flopida, axes which would be sent feom ‘cho .
ites States. to the Sahanas am thence to the island base -
a aie the Cubgn coast. Transportation of theso medical supplies
Nae will be mado by omall fishing vessels manned by Cubans
a opens ag out of Miami clese to and in Bahanign waters.
Adicated there were hundreds of Cuba: flshezten. in
hieial using native Fishing baats ond other. ty of (one boats
ang in comexeial fishing, These boats fish & the.
Ploriéa keys; off the shore of Flovidas off Cay sel Bank,
fishes nm ape e orf the Groat Dakona Panke Behanas. forty toee
mgnties oata very in rom twont we te. eo
and avo known to ares ive and depart. re at. all hours of the
filght and dey. Some of thease hoate will sexve te transport.
supplies from the United Stetes y° the Gaptioned ozoandzatian’s
bade in the Behamas. Ry (w

Alvaves indisoted thet sbout., twanty Gubans wit
accompany him when he leaves end that others will cone later. AL bo.

the fact that Alvavoz mado this. ipfosnation gvailable 2
to us is for your confidential infosuation, Should % S)
infomation. sequit in the apprehensian of Alvawez ox “any of | of his /
ron by yous ferces, fo inkling should be given them tha ~
infemiation actually oviginated with Alvarez, We. ‘have. aise”
made the Alvaxea information available to the interested
agencies in this countxy. GfK Us

 

 

 

“ “ATER. We have previously pinpointed the locations in the.
. s for the British which reportedly were used by anti-Castro
~. Bs for attacks on Guba. It is felt the foxegoing information
: d be‘of interest to the British, In submitting this informatic’ -
Miami ‘Office advised that Customs representative in Miami had
ff+the-record private discussion with the Coordinator of Cuban /
irs, State Department; Miami, Florida, According to this
fidividual although the British Government has publicly announced \
hat it deplored the. use. of the Bahamas by either pro-Castro forces
rv anti-Castro. forces, there was: fio" jopjection by the British
Government to the establishment of fses there by the anti-Castro | .
forces. This. information was furnisHed with the u derstanding thet
{ would not be disseminated outside the Bureau. a

 
   
 
 
   

Cc) / So 3

    

 

> Santiago Alvarez Rodriguez is one of the subject in. this
8 “who. was involved in an attack on Cuba on Mazch 27, 1963./ y
. u

eovof_asres mote

a 7 : eyieg at EETHA DY, ‘

SEGRE! 34 | AB ete por eg,
fo nll bd EE RP

eae

 

 

 

 

 

 

Docld: 32333163 Page 3

0 =).
; 9
