 

 

 

Airtel to Legat, Bern
Re: Gus Alex

Note continued:

Robert C. Ode, American Embassy, Bern, has received
request from State Department for information concerning the
Alex ban and has requested Legat to furnish him with infor-
mation to answer this request. In making request of Embassy
at Bern, State Department representative Frederick Smith, Jr.,
indicated Department of Justice has file on Alex, but that he
had not yet heard from the FBI.

No record located that Smith or Department of State
has made any request of Bureau for information on Alex (per
Records Section). Inasmuch as no record located of State
Department request and in view of current controversy involving
foreign travel of American citizens, no contact with State
Department being mde.

Legat Bern being instructed to advise Embassy
representative we do not know reason for issuance of ban by
Swiss authorities and, therefore, are not in position to
furnish information..ce erning this. Previous instructions
to Legat to handle matter to avoid involvement of Bureau being
restated. i

   
  

  

Ge BEB-M13?

 

 

 

 

 

HW 45679) DocId:32556721 Page 2
  
 
  

  
  

MAILED 10
APR 1 1966

Tolson
DeLoach

y ek
Casper
Caliahan
Conrad
Felt
Gale
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
‘fele. Room
Holmes
Gandy

|

 

 

 

 

  
   
   
 
 

x,

COMM-FB}

  

 

QO

3/31/66

To: Legat, Bern (92-10) (P)
From: pirectd ee thr (92-3182) -~ l | 3

GUS ALEX, aka : :
AR

Reurairtel 3/25/66.

You should advise Robert ©. Ode, Consular Section,
the Embassy, (that we do not know phe reason for Swiss
authorities issuing a travel ban against the subject/and are,
therefore, not in position to advise him concerning this
situation,

: There is no record of a request having been received
by the Bureau from the Department of State relative to this and
consequently no information has been furnished.

This is for ‘your information and in handling this
matter you are again reminded of previous instructions that
precaution is to be exercised in order to assure that the
Bureau is not disclosed as.a source of information and does
ot become involved in any court or other legal proceedings
oncerning this matter. :

1 - Foreign Liaison (Cleared with Supervisor Mario Gregoxo)

'NOTE: Chicago top hoodlum, Gus Alex, and his paramour, Suzanne
Fueger, visit Switzerland each winter on vacation and Legat

Bern has established appropriate coverage in past years through ;
Swiss authorities. Following last visit of Alex, Swiss authorities
in February, 1965, on their own initiative, isstied a prohibition
against Alex's re-entry on the basis. that he was an undesirable.
,Alex is attempting to have the ,ban lifted and has retained

. counsel for this purpose in Switzerland and Washington, D. C.

(Note continued page 2)

on oa

oe cay J
wD ‘ a

Rm foo | Fthy &

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HW 45679

DocId:32556721 Page 1

 
 

> e.” id ye : + = 5

: FD-36 ev. 5-22264) .
ee Bo te
Ae fae &

- FBI
Date: 3/25/66 | . - Doe.

Transmit the following in

 

 

(Type in plaintext or code)

 

 

 

 

 

 

Via AIRTEL
(Priority)
TO DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3182)
FROM : EGAT, BERN (92-10) (P)

GUS ALEX, aka.
AR

  
   
  
    
    
   
    
 
 
 
  
   

ReBuairtel 3/16/66 and Berncab 3/11/66.) |

The Swiss Central Police Bureau (SCPB) has been
\travel of ALEX's intention to leave the U. S. next June and

 

 

4 | \gt" travel to France, Germany, Italy, England and Greece, : for two
Le months. ~ Wiiten S707 oe
hh -_BOBERT ¢..QDE,, Consular Section, the Embassy Lay)

Department of State, classified confidential, dated 3/16/66
enclosing a letter from, JOSEPH OSHA tT. attorney, rep
resenting ALEX. The Departme . Squested the Embassy to
information on this case, particularly.as to the grounds on. which{né
the Swiss have barred ALEX from Switzerland. The Operations oe
Memo also contained a letter from the Legal Adviser, ‘
of State, dated 3/3/6 ressed to SCS'Mr, ;
 Vyzon L/SCA_FREDERIC .. This letter mentions pee
from SHARLITT, Indicates that the Organized Crime and Racket-
‘cering Section of the Criminal Division, Department of Justice,
ey 7 fis wéll acquainted with ALEX and states that the writer has not
x leg, wyet heard from the RBI. A copy of SHARLITT's letter is enclosed
iW a for the Bureau. pee ‘

Abe

 

has informed that he received an Operations Memo from” the Sturt
Ut

   
   

  
   

oy . “ODE has inquired if I could furnish him with

| Le information to provide the Department of State in this matter,

1 OX

; since I was the one who had been in‘contact with the Swiss Polic

      

with regard to ALEX. 4 a , REC te AEG MS.

_ ‘Bureau ' Ca See aBQe info) ¢

‘T - Liaison (sent direct
.1.- Bern

 

 

 

' Approved:

 

 

 

Special Agent in Charge

 

 

 

HW 45679) DocId:32556721 Page 3
 

?

 

Bern 92-10
HDG: rn

It is suggested that I reply to ODE as follows:

In past years, the Swiss Police have been
requested to furnish any information they might have con-
cerning the activities and contacts of GUS ALEX while in
Switzerland, in view of his association with individuals

with criminal records. In February 1965 the Swiss

| authorities issued an entry ban against ALEX. No request

| was made to the Swiss authorities for an entry ban against

| ALEX, nor was it indicated to them that such would. be’
desirable.

It is understood from Swiss sources that the
Swiss authorities cannot be legally required to reveal
the reason for the issuance of an entry ban.

The foregoing is furnished for the information
of the Department of State and it is requested that it
not be disseminated outside that agency.

In view of the statement in the letter of
FREDERICK SMITH, JR., that he had not yet heard from the FBI,
it is presumed that he has made inquiry of the Bureau in this
matter.

The Bureau is therefore requested to review
what information, if any, was furnished Mr. SMITH, and then
inform if it considers the above information appropriate to
furnish ODE.. Mr. ODE has indicated that he would greatly
appreciate expedite action by me in this case.

 

 

 

Le | Sco MASB68-1/37

HW 45679 DocId:32556721 Page 4

 

po I

 

 
