“The above mentioned officers were an-

 

i . pronenea before Pig! s Bay and agreed: to participate in Re-  _
: bel ‘Army uprising in. Las Villas province as a part of in
ternal-external anti-Castro Plan, After Play Giron, which.
‘upset that plan, they remained in the Governnent and are
said to be disposed to do it again.

oe Bas HUQUPMENT: :

OA 25 or 27 speed boat which can navigate

 

an shallow waters and can cruise at 40 knots. Identifics..
tion documents, Cuban money and small amount of arms.

“? Data about Cuban sea patrols in Havana and Matanzas provinces,

“8 ~ equipment for communications, once contacts are established,
. A - GENERAL OBSERVATIONS :
It is considered that although the major-

“ity. of officials whom the participants of the missions plan

' to talk to have no. political ambitions and will act against
Castro: for ‘purely ideological reasons, mininum of assurances
and promises. have to be offered. It is also a concensus of

| -eptaien; that once initial steps are successfully. accomplished
-an additional number. of persons shou]d be used for the devel~
opment of - "Leonardo", working always in operational coordin--
ation. Each of them are known to have fricuds within the

' Cuban Government and their personal and representative

 

HW 53294 DoeTd:32356972 Page 9

 
HW 53294,

‘e. <Het e

intervention could help swaying many men of the Regime who

vould trust more the seriousness of. the enterprise.
|

The

following mon are > suggested for participation in the next

stages: of “Leonardo” ;

@)
(2) -

By,

Ge

(5)

  

‘pr. Reul Chibaa, ex-Rebel Arny Major.

Raul Parandels, ex-Rebel Army Captain,
Hubert Matos Broup.

Aldo: Vere,. ex-Rebel Army Major. ASEASS ‘ita

Enrique Barroso Dorta,”

_ox-Rebel’ Army Lieutenant. .

Julio Cesar Alonso,
éx-Cuban Navy Captain.

Mario Fontela, ex-CTC leader, has contacts. with
Rebel Army and agrarian leaders in the provinces.

Reinaldo ¢ Cruz (Simon) ;- ‘ex~Cuban Air Force capt.

Francisco Ilias, e ex-Militia Captain.

Dr. Antonio de la carrera, ex~secretary of

: former president Manuel Urrutia.

(10)

an

a2)

(13)

we (14)

(15)

J G6)
oe . (17)
aa)
a9)

  

An additional list,
Id: 56972 Page 10 ~ abt

Humberto brmade, ex-captain Cuban Army and
Air Force.

Antonio Perez, ex-Cuban Marine officer.
Alvaro Romero, ex~Rebel Army captain.

Pablo Campos, ex-Rebel Army captain.

Gutierrez Menoyo, ex-Rebel Army Major.

Berta Ferrer, ex-member of anti-Batista underground,
knows a large number of Rebel Army officers having
beet in Sierra Maestra.

Jose Lopez Castillo, ex-Rebel Army captain,

‘Alberto Padilla, ex-INRA functionary.

Dr. ‘Hiram Sahchez, ex-Rebel‘ Army captain. -

Dr. Manuel Marinas, a negro anti~Batista leader,
has great prestige among Havana former underground,

he furnished upon request.

  
 

 
LEONARDO If: Three disembarcation points

“are planned for this operation: a) the outer keys off Santa —

Clara Bay. (Matanzas province), b). keys. off Caibarien, ce)

keys otf Corraliilo area (Las Villas province). Santa Clara

4 Bay keys are thought most advisable as they are inhabited

by: fishermen and charcoal workers only | and military patrols

; visit them very infrequently, because of extremely difficult

Lavang: conditions: there: ‘Two men ” employed in this ‘mission:

. J.
‘Dr. Nestor Moreno 41, ard Miguel Diaz y Selgue 23, would
: arene erin ee a 2 ee RR RET RIT a

ee

use one of the fishermen (who are known to he willing to

work against Castro and had worked with them before), to go

to. the. mainland and. proceed to Cardenas with the message to

- arrange a meoting with Comandante Ramon Guin or a. person he
i

designates. The round trip to Cardenas might take two or

three days. If conditions are favorable and a meeting can

bes arranged at once, the two men would go inland. However,

  

if the. rendezvous with. Cuban ‘contacts cannot take place
immediately, they would have “to return to Key Sal or any

other base and go back on the date or dates previously fixed

by the message. _Through Coma n, who in INRA
and travels around the country, and through auti-Castro army
and civilian elements already active in Cardenas and Marti,

the following army officers would be. contacted initially:

Comandante Guerra, Comandante Parra, Comandante Jose Pinares,
. reer mean ar arene tty, eet ne en

Capitan Manuel Avila, ‘Capitan Layton. From there on the

———eet

. tt ne ee
“contacts: would be enlarged.
 

freedom wo that Cuban people may once more govern themselves".
This phrase’ is the ‘Leit-motif of “Leonardo”.

2} MODUS OPERANDI:. © ane
Ame une 2)

. _ LEONARDO I: Two men, Enrique Cayada pivera 24,
and Antonio Garcia Perez 2 29, would disembark near Punta

sagira, between Boca de Jaruco and Santa Cruz del Norte.

"at ‘this very. Place: “(Punta dijira), ‘a mae 1. fara, property of

  

“antonio Garcia Perez is. located, ’ where nis father ‘aud a iocal
“laborer are “Living.” Garcia father’ s car is always on the
' premises and would be used to take the two men to Havanz,
_ Bartque Cayado's family 18 in Havana and one of-bis friends,
coe Bisa Maria Negrin, secretary. of Jose. Rebellon, leader of
7 University Btudents Federation (FEU), can be counted to

 

serve iso ag.his cover and guide, In order to determine the
"present attitude of military and civilian officials who have
| possibilities to organize or speed up the internal upheaval,

   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  

the. following contacts would be ueed:. Jorge Vals

" (B) Comandante Jose Duarte; (C) Mise Juanita Castro Ruz.
ne re,

Jorge Vals and Jose Duarte have widespread
contacts within the Government and it is known that Juanita
Castro, Fidel Castro's sister, ig also helping the under
ground. She is currently in. Mexico,

Enrique Cayado and Antonio Garcis would return
to the u. 8. after two or three weeks, with messages, ,

Soe opinions and. ‘suggestions from their contacts in Cuba.’

  
. moe 7. AHCAPE~1j is of the firm belief that the concept
to “eavisage’d- by the LEONARDO PLAN is the one sure way of -
. splitting the regime and that the time is NO W. He stated ~

_he is at a loss to understand why there is not a huge — .
psychological warfare effort presently being conducted
against VPBQUMEN.- He further feels that it is self-evident

_ that the Castro regime ig engaged in such an effort against

. the United States as evidenced by some of the planted me

misinformation emanating from .PBRUMEN.. |,

&. The meeting lasted approximately 2 hours and
ended at 1949 hours, SP

ALBERT C, DAVIES

  
 

“Attachment: _
As stated —

HW 53294 DocId:a2356972 Page 5 . —_—
 

 

  

OPERATION "LEONARDO",

; des - _OBIRCTIVES:

“To establish contact with elenents
"within the Government, Rebel Army and Militia, in order to
penalize into action their present. anti-communist feeling
and induce those who maintain a passive attitude but who
~ are potentially susceptible to turn against the Regime,
to act now... The future plan of action and the size and de-
velopment of the present operation would be determined af~

_ ter first contacts are made and information thus gathered,

ag evaluated. . However, "Leonardo" should be considered as

2
4

 

merely a first step. towards coordination of anti-Castro
elements within the Cuban Government, for producing an in-
ternal upheaval. a.

It is the opinion of people with con-
tacts in Cuba, that the moment to act is now, because the
conditions tor action are ripening steadily. Reliable in-
formation from the Island points out to the gradual inter-
nal softening of the Castro Regime, to tensions existing
among its members, and to the effect President Kennedy's
‘words had in the highest governmental Cuban circles who
are said to have acknowledged with sympathy his phrase

‘that "I am confident ‘that all over the island of Cuba, in

- the. Government itself, in the Army, in the Militias, there

A A LS TR LS Re TERENAS . - aaa ceed Ke
: 7 a

are: wany. who 1... have viewed with - dismay the destruction
of freedom faith and who are “determined to restore that

 

__-Docla;:32356972__ Page: 6_
Zebmiary. 1963.

ee w

  

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Meeting with [iicare-1 | 6 February 1963

“TAD: SzuLe.

_ 1. The. undersigned net’ “with AMCAPE-1;at } his residence
Tuesday evening, 6 Pebruary 1963. ;

  
 
  
 

 

oS . The main purpose of the contact. was to discuss an
"| anti-Capteo plan to “split the regime" surfaced by AMCAPE.1 /
_to thei PBRUMEN Co ina . HURWITCH of
cnt TODACID "(uee Attachment iO I advised. ANCADIC 1 that I had
“yead the plan and we were interested’ in fully “exploring its
- possibilities. |AMCAPE-1 /stated that he discussed. the plan
> Monday . evening with Messrs, COTTRELL and HURWITCH and felt _
. sure’ that ‘we. would get the plan for comment although he
-- "did not expect such fast action,” His first thought was to
oo bring the plan to Seana ee haa had_ a standing invitation:

   

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

. MeGeorge | * that
_the normal” channel tothe Coordinating Group would be mor
.. proper. Initially, AMCAPE~1 was ‘reluctant to reveal who ketene Gy
'-originated the LEONARDO PLAN but did say that. Dr. Nestor
MORENO wrote a good portion of it.°. We stated that in
« order to decide-on a course of action we would need more
detail, It was pointed out. that-the plan was not-cleay as
to who would.crew the ships, run communications, conduct
necessary training, and that it would be post desirable to
talk to those. responsible for the plan. | AMCAPE-1 , agreed
and stated he was going to “level” with mé although he
realized that revealing his contact would compromise his
source. of information, We said he would rely on our dis-
cretion to safeguard his source and treat it as secret and,
in his judgment, the importance of the LEONARDO PLAN ;
warranted such disclosure. He then contected his source by
telephone in my presence. : .

 
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION Peleased under the John
Kennedy

kesagsination Records

ollection Act of 1992

AGENCY : CIA
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10103-10107

RECORD SERIES. : JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A (44 USC 2107 Note) .
eae eee ee ee ee eee ee eee ase#: NU 53294 Date:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION p6-13-2017

 

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM : DAVIES, ALBERT C.
TO : MEMO FOR THE RECORD
TITLE : MEMO FOR THE RECORD RE MEETING ON 6 FEBRUARY 1963.
DATE : 02/07/1963
PAGES : 11

SUBJECTS : CUBA
ANTI-CASTRO
WITHHELD
LEONARDO PLAN
GEORGE VOLSKY
SZULC, TAD

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER
CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/21/93
COMMENTS : JFK36 : F16 : 1993.07.21.18:23:57:090470 : ATTACHMENT
OPERATION "LEONARDO" ATTACHED, DATED 3 FEB 1963,
MIAMI; INCLUDES COVERING TAB SEPARATOR

{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10103-10107

AW 53294 DoclId:32356972 Page 1
 

So By / AMCAPE~1 ‘identified the person he was ealling as.
"George" and said that he had taken his ‘plan up with bis
friends here in Washington, and. that it was [AMCAPE~l'fe =
suggestion that "George" and whoever he thought he ‘Shovid
bring along should: come up to Washington for consultation,

He asked if a trip this weekend would be convenient and

"George" apparently agreed. When questioned as to who else
"George" should bring along, he said that outside of Dr,
MORENO the other 3 closely involved would be out of, their .
-eloment dealing with Vashington representatives, :AMCAPE~1 |

- then revealed that "George", . nicknamed "Chico", was, lu

a fact, eagtas VOLSKY, 2 friend of his for the past 3 years,

_/, “He stated that he considered VOLSKY one of the most -
- informed exiles on Cuban internal affairs and that he was,
vin fact, his contact for most of his important ‘information
emanating from inside Cuba. He referred to him as to ‘our |
man in Havana’ even though he is residing in Miami, Florida,
\ANCAPE-1 related a short biographical sketch of -VOLSKY,

_ “George VOLSKY (apparently true name) is a 36-year old male,

. born. in Poland. He was’‘in the Polish air force, was captured
by the Russians and interned in a Russian prison camp. .

' Later, be joined the Royal Air Force and, while in England; ©
met a Cuban girl who is the daughter of the RON ROVERO
(phoenetic) family whom he subsequently married, went to
Cuba where he acquired Cuban citizenship. His wife's
family set up, VOLSKY in a sign business (neon signs, Coca
Cola sign painting contracts and the like) in which he
prospered... By the nature of his business, he traveled

| extensively throughout the provinces. of Cuba and made many

.., friends." Like others, VOLSKY became disenchanted with the

*: Castro regime when they intervened both his wife's family

- and his own business enterprises, and he spent the latter
‘«' part of 1959 and most of 1960 actively supporting the
- “underground” activities, | AMCAPE-1,| of his own knowledge,

knew of instances of VOLSKY transporting explosives and
hand and shoulder weapons in VOLSKY's private car. During
the May 1961 G-32 roundup, VOLSKY was imprisoned in Cabana
prison and when a quantity of these prisoners were releised,
‘VOLSKY luckily was able to leave Cuba with his wife by
virtue of having a valid United States visa in his passport.
/AMCAPE-1,,. through Paul BETHEL, then USIA field station chief
“in Miami, procured a job Yor VOLSKY as a contract employee _
of USIA in their Miami office. VOLSKY has kept his internal
\Cuban contacts nnd passes on the information to /AMCAPL-1./

VOLSKY's Sister-in-law is and has been a lifelong friend of

Juanita CASTRO\and furnishes, what’ AMCAPE-1] considers.vital ~

joformation, by means of this friendship to VOLSKY, JANCAPE- 1."

   

i
tel

 

 

“HW 59994. Docld:32356972 Page 3.

 
b67

_|. vevealed thet Major PINIERO’(red beard) No. 2 man in the
i Ministry of the Interior was in contact with VOLSKY when

and etated, in effect, that"¥ide] CASTRO was mad as he

felt the Russians had sold the Cubans down the river,"

Continuing on with VOLSKY, /AMCAPE~l stated that VOLSKY 4
masterminding the LEONARDO ‘PLAN and is mainly assisted b
_Dr, MORENO, Dr, MORENO was once a 26th of July Movement
' Member and was also part of Faure Chomon's Second Front of

 

the Escambrey Group. (AMCAPE=1; stated?flatly that the op
: SAR SAIS fis ti SUAT ed.

LEQNARLO PLAN was not sponsored by any one group. It owed
no allegience nor did it want contact with Miro CARDONA

ond, the CRC, and that itdid not went.to.denl vith KUBARKers.!

4n_the Florida area.

4,. )AMCAPE-1/gaid that he would explain to VOLSKY and

Dr. MORENG that the operational professionalism needed in

' support of their plan would, of necessity, be furnished by
| KUBARK, He did not anticipate any difficulty in this ;

regard, It was then agreed that KUBARK representatives _

Would meet _with:AMCAPE and the two LEONARDO PLANers this _
i -. * Coming weekend here in Washington to further explore the

. ferpibility of their plan. © -

(5, AMCAPE-1, returned to the subject of Juanita CASTRO
and gtated that she was presently in Mexico but would return
. to Havana this coming Saturday. He said, of his own
knowledge, he knew that. Juanita CASTRO had been sympathetic
' to anti-regine forces and had lent discreet help to them
. . mainly by keeping her eyes and ears open. He related_an |
incident which occurred about June of 1960 when two jODENVY
_. ortmey BEOntE (accredited as attaches to the U. 5S. Embassy) hamed —
peer PRETTYMAN and SWEET were picked up by the G2. (AMCAPE-1'¢ _
first knowledge of this came from Juanita CASTRO directly
to ANCAPE-1 and stated as a warning that if any of his
friends were engaged in anti-government activities, he should
warn then. ; ;

 

 

 

 

6. AMCAPE-1 agked if I had seen last Sunday's
(3 February) "New York Times" article under his by~line |
about Cagtro's island fort, I stated that I had not received
it as yet so he let me read his only copy. If complimented
him on his article and he stated it was very helpful that
' he was able to check out with us most of the salient points,

 

he, PINIERO, telephon Miami during the Octo ja -
