 

 

ah

 

 

Se eo
~ A. ,
« - N a
. : — oF .
\ ” wy
N &
PH 92-4uy ..

Philadelphia believes that dissemination to the
Philadelphia Police Department at this time would abort plans.
to become thoroughly familiar with the extent of BRUNO's
numbers operation. Further, it appears that informant's trip

.to New York City is indicative of a possible ITAR violation.

‘~° Philadelphia believes that open surveillances of
informant and TESTA are premature at this time because of the
sensitivity of informant's relationship with TESTA, CAVELLI

. and BRUNO. It is further believed that no further action

should be taken until the informant has thoroughly ‘penetrated
and digested the extent of BRUNO's numbers operation and advised
the FBI of the identities of persons engaged in the illegal
activity.

Informant has again been instructed to be most
circumspect in noting information such as names, phone. numbers
and addresses. He has been instructed to telephonically
furnish this information to the New York Office while it is

. fresh in his memory in order that he can minimize note-taking.

Informant stated that he did not call the New York Office

over the 5/5-7/62 week end, as he was instructed, out of fear

of being compromised. Informant thoroughly appreciates the
danger of his position, but he continues to be most cooperative.

‘He has requested that a Philadelphia Agent be available in

New York to receive his telephone call because of his
reluctance to speak with Agents unknown to him. It is believed,
however, that this arrangement is at this time unnecessary.

-In the event it does become necessary, recommendations will

be made .

In the event informant contacts the New York orrice,

he will identify himself as FRANK THOMAS. If he calls, he
‘should be handléd with appropriate dispatch. The New York

office should vigorously attempt to develop a highly con-
fidential source in CHERICO's residence and should expedite

. investigation requested in reference airtel.

 

Likewise, Boston should expedite investigation
requested in reference airtel. .

~-2-

 

 

 

HW 45737

DocId:32561696 Page 2
FD-2@?(Rev, 12-13-56)

 

 

 

FBI

 

7
wing in PLAIN TEXT
(Type in plain text or-code}-——..._

 

 

 

I

|

l

I

!

. ; —
Date: 5/11/62 |
|

|

4

|

 

 

   
 

TO: Director, FBI (92-2717)
FROM: SAC, Philadelphia (92-444) (P)
SUBJECT : ANGELOCBRUNO, aka;

AR

Re Philadelphia airtel to the Bureau dated 58 0/se
and Philadelphia airtel to New York dated 5/5

 

ny ” PH 627-PC advised on 5/9/62 that he and JOHN
Pipa

CAVELLI would again go to New York on Saturday night,

5/12/62. While in New York City, informant and CAVELLI

will reside at the home of Dayhtico (pnonetic), 1.909

Ogden Avenue, Bronx, N THe’ purpose of the visit is to

deliver money £0 TORSORE™in New York City. Informant does
~notHknow Sto whom the money will be delivered or why the money
M48 being -baken to New York. Informant speculated that the
money with be delivered to CHERICO. He stated that he had

vagse notice on his last two trips to New York that

iotA would be in New York and would hold meetings
He does not know if TESTA again plans to visit

enarorke yhy He week end.

“ “por-the information of the Bureau, New York and
nosten, the informant obtained employment with BRUNO in his
numbers operation upon the suggestion of FBI, Philadelphia.
Informant is being groomed by JOHN CAVELLI, TESTA's close
confidante. To date, he has served in edge- off houses and
numbers relay stations. At present he is TESTA's “bagman, "
collecting money from various numbers offices.and he is © 2 su
furnishing the location of these offices to the Philadelphia
Division.

  
  

. 3 - Bureau (92-2717) (R.M.)
2 - Boston {35° 272). (R.M.). REC 26 Px won wend, LM KS
2 - New York (92-739) wats M.) BML =
1 - Philadelphia py dy. eT-19 13 MAY 19 wey

 

   
   
 

EDH:PHH, ¢ ° sick

vil

   

 

 

 

     

   

ar asa

 

 

 

AW 45737 DocId:32561696 Page 1
