_TERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY , Page 3. of 4

from either the President, the Attorney General, or the Special Group.
He further stated, that it was especially important to get the Attorney
General's approval. He stated that ifr. Dulles had direct access to
President Eisenhower. However, he doesn't know whether Eisenhower was
told of this operation. He stated that Robert Kennedy would have known
of the-nature of this operation from the May 22, 1961 memorandum, or :
would have found out from the CIA the nature of this operation. He
qualified this, however, by. stating this is his belief and nothing he
knows as a fact. He-did state that he got feedback from his people
regarding the Attorney General's concern with this operation's potentia
Flap. He found it strange that the Attorney General would be shocked
by the news of CIA involvement with the underworld in May of 1962.
Courtney Evans would have walked the May 22, 1961 memoranda over to
the Attorney General, or had someone in his office deliver it.

      

 

oe With respect to the interview of February 7, 1962, he stated
that if he interviewed Edwards, it probably would have been at
Courtney Evans’ request. He also stated that if he interviewed Edwards,
he was absolutely certain that the Attorney General’ would not have been
“present. He emphatically stated that neither he, nor to the best of
his knowledge anyone at the Bureau, ever knew of any’ assassination plot.
Ye stated that the nature of this operation wasn't the Bureau's concern,
it was a foreign intelligence matter. :
)

Pappich was quite certain that he would have filed a memorandum
of every contact with underworld figures as related to him by Harvey.
fle also was certain he would have done-the same with information given
him by Edwards. Pappich stated that he told Harvey from the beginning
of the stupidity of using underworld figures He stated that he ;
believed when Harvey took over the contact with the underworld figures,
he vas only doing so because they were strapped with these people. As
far as the FBI was concerned, the damage had already been done with
respect to the problems of prosecuting these underworld figures. de
stated that the FBI would not have been privy to much of what the
Attorney General would have known about this and other foreign intel-
ligence matters.

 

 

 

‘The agreenent between the Central Intelligence Agency and the FRI
was an understanding that the FBI would be informed by the CIA of any
contacts with underworld people, of their movements, and any intelli-
gence which directly or indirectly related to organized crime in the
United States. This information would include the movement of these
figures, their activities, their travel, and any meetings.

 

He again stated that everyone in the Bureau was madder than hell
about the Agency's involvement with these underworld figures. To the
best of his knowledge, he never heard that the Attorney Genéral was mad
about this contact. Tt was. his urderstanding, that the underworld -
figures were not being used operationally. When shown the references
in the May 22, 1961 memoranda to this operation as involving anti-
Castro activities and dirty business, Pappich stated he didn't ask what
the operationally use of these figures was, or get clearance from ahove
for staying out of this operation. He did state that the Bureau -kept

24

HW 54545 DocId:32281991 Page 5
the Attorney General advised on what it learned of this operation. Ie
stated that the Attorney General was concerned that this operation

would become known, and didn't want it to get out. Finally, Mr. Pappich

was most concerned that people at the Committee understand what the
nature of the. times were. Tle stated that everyone's primary concern
were with actions directed against the Soviet Union. That actions
directed against Castro's Cuba were an extension of this policy. Mis
primary concern, as a member of the Bureau's domestic intelligence
section, was with Soviet operations in this country. We feels it is
very important.to-have an intelligence community in this country, -and
feels that the Committee's work perhaps is jeopardizing this important
resource. :

LA

AW 54545 DocId:32281991 Page 6

 

_ATERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page 4. of
 

Released under the John
. Eennedy
Assassination Records

ollection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#: NW 54545 Date:
HO-12-2017

  

DATE-TIME-LOCATION: August 22, 1975, Mr. Pappich's Home in
Albuquerque, New Mexico ok ;

HAS OR SHOULD BE DIGESTED:

 

FOLLOW UP REQUIRED:

 

A

MATERIALS SUBMITTED BY. INTERVIEWEE(S):

to.

 

 

 

bh EXECUTIVE SESSION: YES ___NO

;
{
j
|

5

 

at

HW 54545 DocId:32281991 Page 2
. JFK Assassination System Date: 91227201
: - déntification'Form

 

 

Agency Information

 

 

. SSCIA Released under the John
RECORD:NUMBER: — 457-10002-10151 Kennedy
Assassination Records
RECORD SERIES: INTERVIEW SUMMARY ollection Act of 1992
. (44 USC 2107 Note).

AGENCY FILE NUMBER ¢ : . . ase#:NW 54545 Date:
a : HO-12-2017

 

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: ~~ SSCIA

 

 

 

 
  

FROM:
TOs
. t
TITLE;  INFERVIEW WITH SAM PAPICH |
|
|
DATE: — G8/22/1975 |
PAGES; 4 :
_ SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION
BISSELL
GIANCANA; SAM
HARVEY, WILLIAM
!DY, ROBERT F.
"MARIA
PAPICH
ROSELL, JOHNNY -
DOCUMENT TYPE! PAPER, TEXTUAL, DOCUMENT
‘CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
2. Consulted . :
Withhold ; : S
09/30/1993 ;

 

 

Box 256Folder 4

 

yop 96

 

$4545 DocId: 32281991 Page 1
INTERVIEW WITH SAM PAPPICH

Interview with Sam Pappich was conducted by Andrew Postal on
Friday, August 22, 1975 at Mr. Pappich's home in Albuquerque, New
Mexico. Mr. Pappich stated that he became the liaison between the FBI
and. the CIA in 1952. He was part of a liaison section at the Bureau.
He worked closely with Mef Khurtz. Khurtz handled relations with the
various intelligence subcommittees, and also handled much of the
relations with the Office of Security at the CIA.

Pappich stated that he had broad access to Agency personnel.
Pappich would file his reports with the espionage section of the
domestic intelligence branch of the Bureau. These reports, in turn
would be forwarded to the organized crime section of the Bureau when
information related to the activities of the underworld. In the
Office of Security, Pappich knew and had dealings with Edwards, 0'
Connell, Bannerman, and Osborn. In a directorate of plans, his con-
tacts included Bissell, Helms, and Harvey.

Pappich stated that he was aware, in general, of the CIA's anti-
Castro activities in Miami, but not of specific operations. Me knew
the chiefs of the Miami operations, but was only interested in the
domestic aspects of that operation. : :

    

Pappich heard that Attorney General Kennedy had direct communi-
cation with the Central Intelligence Agency. le described the Attorney |
General's involvement in the intelligence community as beginning almost}.
immediately upon the commencement of the Kennedy Administration. He
stated that Attorney General Kennedy was involved in, and aware of,
the whole range of intelligence activities.. He stated that the
Attorney General would put pressure on the intelligence community for
results. We stated that while the Attorney General's involvement with
the intelligence community began prior to the Bay of Pigs, his involve-
ment increased after this operation.

When shown the Bureau's memo of October 18, 1960, Pappich stated
that anyone in the Buredu would know the significance of the mention
of Giancana. He stated that he would have seen this memo’in the normal |
coutse of business, but wouldn't swear to having seen it. We stated
that he did not discuss this matter with Bissell. We also stated that
he doesn't rewember discussing this matter with Dulles. He stated that
at the time he would have communicated with Edwards or Bannerman in the
Office of ‘Security. He further stated that Mr. Belmont would have been
his superior in the, intelligence division of the PBI.

i :

Pappich stated that when the wiretap was discovered in Las Vesas
it really hit the fan. He stated that when the tap was found, the
intelligence of the Bureau would have been on top of the situation. He
stated that he would have talked to a Mr. Andrews in the organized
crime section after discovering the involvement of ‘the underworld in
this-operation. Tle stated that Courtney Evans’ interest in this
operation would have been Giancana's relationship to the wiretap, and
not to the CIA's involvement. He stated that Courtney Evans' reports

- would have reflected this involvement as a potential impediment to
prosecution. He did state that when the bureau learned of the wiretap

26

HW 54545 DocId:32281991 Page 3

awTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY — Page 1 of
and its relation to the CIA, everyone at the Bureau was really upset.
He also stated that the Attorney General didn't want this connection
surfaced. :

Pappich stated that with respect to the CIA underworld connection,
he would monitor agency contact with these- people. He would report
these ‘contacts to the domestic intelligence section of the Bureau and
they in turn would relate this information to Courtney Evans. He
stated that he would file a memo of every contact as reported to hin.
by personnel at the CIA. He stated that he was briefed on every
meeting with Roselli and the other underworld figures. He stated he
was told the nature of the talks. While the Office of Security handled
this operation, Edwards was the individual at the CIA who kept Pappich
briefed. He stated that at this time he believed there were two or
three meetings. with the Attorney General about this operation, but
doesn't know the specifics, nor was he present at any of these meetings
We stated that his reports would go to the intelligence division, ‘the
organized crime section and the Director of the FBI.

  
    
 
 

Pappich stated that the Bureau first became aware of the CIA's in-
volvement with the underworld at the time the Las Vegas wiretap was
discovered. Ue stated that reports of this connection might have been
made orally. He stated that Edwards and Bannerman kept himself and
Mef Khurtz informed in a general. way. Harvey, formalized the arrange~
ment. He stated that the May 3, 1961 interview with Edwards was pro-
bably handled by either himself or Mef. Khurtz. Courtney Evans' divisio
would have seen the May 22, 1961 memorandum. As to whether, or what,
was told to the Attorney General, Pappich stated he wouldn't have known
of any meetings with the Attorney General. The CIA kept the FBI well
advised after the tap was discovered.

Pappich stated that the Attorney General would not have gone to th
Bureau in order to find the object of this operation. The Attorney
General would have found out the nature of the operation by contacting
the DCL directly. He found it difficult to believe that McCone would
not have known of this operation.. However, he never discussed: this
operation with McCone. He did state that he had ready access to Mr.
McCone and that they discussed many subjects. He stated that the Bureau's
arrangement with the CIA was worked out prior to the McCone administra-
tion. He-also stated that the Bureau had no pre-wiretap information
on this operation. After the wiretap was discovered, the Bureau was
aware of the CIA's involvement, and the Attorney General was kept in~
formed,

When shown the May 22, 1961 memoranda, Pappich stated that this
clearly indicated that by this time, at least, the particulars of this
operation were known. He stated that when the Bureau became aware of
the CIA/Ciancana involvement, an informal arrangement was worked out.
He stated that Harvey always told him of contacts with the underworld,
usually in advance. Information he received concerning Poselli was
incorporated in reports he made to the Bureau. Harvey would tell him
all of Roselli's movements, and of all associations with Giancana. Ue
stated that to the best of "his knowledge the CIA always got authority

”

28

AW 54545 Docld: 32281991 Page 4

_«TERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY — Page 2 of 4
