 

 

/RTEUR JEFFERSON, | MARY DE ORROS—— wien ee
FORMER SENATE SELECT. COMMETTER oo
STAPF MEMBERS

 
 
     

Po cAsst. Dirt
Adm. Serv.
Ext. Affoirs
Fin. & Pers.
Gen. Inv.
. Ident.

Telephone Rm. __

BASIS! Sec'y

 

 

 

 

 

 

@

PRE
ete
K4
i)
fe)
BR
0.

2.- Mr. Daly-
1 - Mr. “Stassinos’

x

 

{
. For your information, Harold Taylor is one- ‘o€ three
Los Angeles, Salifornia, Black Fancher pore (BPP) members >

 
 
  
   
   
 

The defense has subpoenaed and is introducing the orgl frestimony
of Arthur Jeffersen, who qualified as an expert witnasg pa phe.
basis of being an investigator or employee of the Sanate\SilecH ©
Committee (SSC). Mr. Jefferson is identified in SSC rbp
an SSC counsel. Im the SSC finel report dated April 26,
and entitled * “INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES AND THE RIGHTS OF
CANS,” Mr. Jefferson is Listed as one of two principa
authors of the report. “The FBI's Efforts to Disrupt and

Weutralize the Black Panther Party.” zs *

org

In addition ‘to the Les Angeles trial, FBI empldyees;"
former e employees and an informant have been named as ~ defen nts
in a civil action captioned "Iberia Hampton, et al., v. Eduard

Hanrahan, et _al., (2.8.B.C., HOD. TID.) Civil Action aunk a
7§-C-1304 Consolidated,” in "Chicago, Illinois. This action was
hrought by heirs of two BPP members killed in a Decentiar 4,, 1969,
shooting betwean BPP members in Chicage and Chicago Pélice:

~soffieers assigned to the State's Attorney's Office, Caok County,
Illinois. Our CGINTRLPRO has been interjected inte this trial

Dehliviga 76 ine ¢ cheer asa toy ,

3 pgby the Plainei tte | allegations that ‘the shooting was a culmina- "ag
+ JAssoc. Dit ig Shon e

  

a series of FBI. COLNTELPRO actions directed against, thean
Pr, Hr. Jefferson is. ‘listed ag @,uitness for thamsa j j

this triel. EC: a base PRs pee

Alse in commection with the recent civil ‘action etyled
“Eldridge Clearer oé al, ¥E Giarence M. Keli 2. eet CSC
G. ex me ay .
astruction of Tited States DMestrice, Goure Judge Jon ibid Teen,
personnel met with Departeient. of Justice Gaya (Divs ion?

TO BE HAND DELIVERED BY CONTINUED - OVER
OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL AFFAIRS

j (LEGAL COUNSEL, ., DIVISION gg,
MAIL Sgr nom ErNQarRAGE THRE Haney ae

igi ‘iat ver aaun ft
REOS4 fPage i] i ; MdL- |G

 

  

    
 

  
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Attormey Coneral :

attorneye and plaintiffs' attorney in attermt to explore weys of
narrowing plaintiffis' Freedem of Information Act requast suffi-~
eLently to allow casy retrieval. Plaintiffs’ counsel, Rebert :
Comell, of the lay firm Truitt, Fabrikanr, Buclklin and Lenzner
of Washington, vas aceorpanied by one ifary De Oreo who was ap- |
parently serving as a consultant. Nr, Cornell subsequently
advised « Departmental attorney that Ms. De Orno is asseciated
with his law firm.

Senate Select Cormittee reports identify Mary Be Oree
as a Research Assistant of the SSC. Book II of the final report
of the Senate Select Committees report entitled “TUTELLICENCE
ACTIVITICS AND THE RICHTS OF AMERICANS,” identifies Ba Oreo as
assisting in the preparation of SSC repert entitled, “COTNTELPRO:
The FBI's Covert Action Proprars Arainst Americen Citizens," and
"Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Case Study."

 

Senate Resolution 21, of January 21, 1975, asteblish~
ing the Select Committes To Study Covernmental Operations With
Respect To Intellirence Activities, faction &, states in part
that, “As a condition of employnent---caech person shall arree
not to accept any honorarium, royalty or other rayrent for
speaking engarenent, magazine article, book, or other endaavor
connected with the investigation and study undertaken by this
Committee.”

Rele 7.5 of the Rules of Preccdure for the Senate

Select Committee, adopted April 9, 1975, states, “Mo testinony
taken including the names of witnesses testifyins or material
presented at an Exacutive Session, or classified papers, and i
other materials recalved by the staff or its consultants while
in the erpley of the Committee shall be made public, in whole
ox in part or by way of summary, or disclosed to any person

. outside the Courilttea, or after the termination of the Cormittec,
in such manner as may be determinod by the Senate."

Rule 7.6 states, “Before the Committee Is called upon
te make any disposition with respect to the testinony, papers,
or other materials presented to it, the Committea rerbers shall
have 2 reasonable opportunity to examine all pertinent testineny,
papers and other materials that have been obtained by the Corr-Lttre
steff, Ho members shall release any such testirony, papers, or
other materials, or any information contained in such testimony,
papers, or other materials, te the public or any person outside
the Committee wmless authorized by a majority vote of tha entira
Cormittee, or after the termination of the Cormittes, Im such
renner as tay be determined by the fenatke.”

 

 

CONTINUED - OVER

 

HW 55327 DocId:32989594 Page 10

 
FINCH DAYH, IND.

 

WILLIAM D. HATHAWAY, MAINE MARK Q, HATFIELD, ONEG. : :
WALTER D, HUDDLESTON, KY. BAMAY GOLDWATER, ARIZ, ny + g : .
JOSEPH R. BID a. CEL ROBERT T. STAFFORD, VT Bi ¥ ft 2 Dt t SD f
ROOERT MORGAN, 71.0. JAKE GAR, UTAH Wie LOLs emare
GARY HART, COLO, :
WILLIAM @. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
: *,

HW 55327 DocId:

* DANIEL K. INOUYE, HAYIAI!, CHAIRMAN an
HOWARD H. BAKER, JR., TENN., VICE CHAIRMAT

“, CLIFFORD PF. @. °
ADLAL £. STEVENSON, JR,, ILL, STROM THURMOIMMES.C.

  
  

. Director

NMashington, Ds C. 20533

Dear Director Kelley:

 

 

    
   
 
 
    
  

(punsuater ro 5, RES, «0, S17 CONGRESS)
. WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

June 29, 1976

| i, M4
Honorable Clarence M. Kelley Y

Federal Bureau of Investigation
Jd. Rdgar Hoover Building

Thank you for your letter of June 22, 1976, ealling my :
attention to the important questions raised by the proposed testimony
in various judicial proceedings of a former employee of the Senate
Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect
to Intelligence Activities. I am concerned about the possible
impact of events such as this on the work of the Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence and I have instructed William G. Miler,
the Committee's staff director to be sure that the issues which
are raised are considered during the drafting of both the Com-
mittee's rules and the Committee's employment agreements.

Daniel K. Inouye
Chairman

 
 

employees of tha.Sensre Select Gemmitree om Intelii

 

Honorable Denisl XK. Ttuye a

Rule 7.6 states, “Eeflere the Committee la called upon *
to uske any disposition with vasrect te the testimony, papers,
ee ether materiale wreagentad to it, the Comeietee menbere shall
heave a vesgornable omportunity to exanina all pertinent tagtiaeny,
papers and other materiale thak have been obtained br the Com-
mbttae atetf. de netbers shall ralease any such tastieny,
papeara, ox other meteriaig, or any internation contained in
guch testiueny, papers, or other materials, to the aublie or
any person outside the Courittes wilese matherizad by a
najoxity vote of the entire Committees, er after the termination
of the Comittee, in such manner an may he dererminad by the
Senate.* ,

 

Given the shove, I oueation the propriaty of
Hr. Jefferson's appearance at the Les Angeles end Caiexse
Black Panther Psrty trials and wialifyvings as an expert witriess
em the basis of his forser awployment with femake Seleek Cor
udctee, I aise question the prepriety of Ma. De Oreo agsistine
the plaintiffs! atterney in the Eldridce Cleaver case. I bring
this matter te your attention for whatever action: you deen

advigeble and for your consideratdéon dn deaftine out.

  

Sinecérely yours, - .

Clarence M. Kalley ; .
Biracter ; a

"HOTE: Reference meworandum dated 5/27/76, from J. G. Deegan

to Mr. Leavitt captioned, “HAROLD TAYLOR, EM~BPP.' Separate

commmication prepared for Attorney Goneral captioned, “ARTHUR -
JEFFERSON, MARY DE OREO; FORMER SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE STAFF -\
MENBERS ,"" dated 6/16/76, . .

iN

HW 55327 DocId:32989594 Page 7

 
 

 

| HW 55327 Docld:32989594 Page 5 ~-

. : “Me, Adans
» Me, Leavite

° - My. Moore

L- Mr, Mints

2° Mr. Daly

Jone 2, 1976

  

ye

‘Temorable Daniel K. Tneuwupre
Chai ran . *
_ Select Cowalthea on Intelligenee
United States fenate .
Waabingbon, 0. &.

1» Hr, Stassinos

C3

 

pear Nr. Chairmen:

Lo tske this onppertunity. fo write you concerning 4
éisturbing watter that has corm to my attention. For your
iufermation ar individual by the nane of Harold Taylor te one
of three Los Anpelas, Califernia, Riaek Fancher Parcy necthers
en trial in the Sunerier Court in California for atrenmmrad
muydex of a relioewan on September 14, LY71. Threushout che
trial the defendant has sttespred to establish that the FRIta
ceamtearintellizence Trougvam harassed the dezendantes and
‘aeuged them be commit 5 Eh
and is introdicing the oral teathmony of Arthur Jatfersen whe
qualified as an expert wituees om the basis of hoing sn investi-
seater ox employee of the Senane Select Committee. Me. Jafferson
ig identified in the Salest Committee's reports 28 enunesel and
as one Gf vo princiesi staff authora of the Selant Comaitrea’s
vepoxt, “The PRI's Eiferts to Disrupt and Heutralise the Black
Penthar Party.” . ‘

 

. In addiction to the Los Anreles telal, prasent end
former FRI employees have been named ag co-defendants in a
civil eetion captioned, 4

Henrahen, at ah., U.5.0R.0., Ben.,
Poo 238 snsolidated,” in Chicase, illinois. Thies action was
prought by heirs of twe Hiack Ponther Party members killed
in @ December 4, L969, shooting between Blask Panther Parry
twerbers in Chiceas and Chicaro Tolica offiesrs acsisned te the
State's Attorney's Offfea, Cock County, Lilinets. Gur Cemter-
dnateliivanes Frogxvam has been interjecrad into this trial br
the plaintiffe’ alierations that the incident wae « culmination
of a series of THE Coumterintelliranue Program setiene diracted
-agsinst the Slack Panther Party. x. Jaiferson is listed as
a witness for the plainviffs in the trial.

305 meet fond. | CONTINUED - OVER

(9)
SEE NOTE PAGE THREE 7 > Me 36 _
; . ed ae 7S aural

  
      

        
  

 
    

 

   

 

    

   
 

 

Honorable Daniel E. Inouye

   

. Alec, in cowmection with the recent civil sction
etyled “Eldvidze Cleaver, ot wh., ¥. Claceuce ii. belie

U.8.0.6., 8. C., civil Antion nusber 76-8795," ca I a,
at the dnstrnetian of Oodred States Dietriet Court Jexige dune L.

 

ways of nexrowing plaintifia' Freedom of Infornekion Ack requaeat
Pfietentiy ta alley easy ratrieval. Pliaincliie’ counsel,
Rebert Cornell, of the law fivm fruitt, Febxrtkanc, Lucklin and
Lenzner of Hashington, wad eecompaniead by one Mery De Oreo who
wae apterentiy serving as 8 consultant. My. Cernall subse-
quantiy advisesd « Uepartmental attormmay that Ms. De Oreo ie
agseeiatad with his law fix, :

 

Senate Selece Comittee (SSC) reports ideurifiy Hary
ie Oreo ag a Research Assistant of the G80, Eeok EE of the fing
reper of the Senets Seles Germittee report entitled “INTE
AGTIVICIES AND THR RIGUES OF AMORICANS, identifies be Gree as
aasiating in the preparetion of SSC report entitled, “COIATELPAO:
fhe FUE'a Covert Action Programs Againat Amariean Citizens,” end
“te, Martin Luther King, Jr., Case Study.” . -

   
  

   

  

Senate Reselution 21, of dJanvary 21, 1975. estab-
lishing the Seleat Commletes To Scudy Gevarnmcuental Cperarions
With Respact To Intalliscence Activities, Section @, states
that, “As a condition of eoployvment---aach person shall agree
met to accept any honerariua, royalty or other payuent fot a
epagking onzaxenent, i x

 

wasasine axticia, beck, or other endeavor
_ comneeted with the investipation aml study undertaken by thie
Comalitea.”
- Reale 7.5 of the Rules of Procedure for the Sonate
' Select Committees, adopted April §, 1975, states, “Ho tes tineny
taken including the namas of witnagses toatifving or material
pragented at am Exaeutive Session, or classified capera, and
ether materials received by the stxff ov its consultents while
in tha employ of the Committee shall be made public, in whole
_ox in part or by way of summary, or cisclosed to amy persen
eutside the Committes unleas authorized br a majority veta of
the entire Committae, or after the termination of the Committee,
im such manner as may be detereined by the Senate.”

CONTINUED - OVER

~2- .

HW 55327) DocId:32989594 Page 6

 

 
 

 

   

. “Owe € ge?
if

(i oh vee
a
“ier 3 haw

The Attoxney General

 

o- Mr. Adams
peevitt
Spt Pd

- ares

1 - Mr. wince
2 -'Mr. Daly ~
aw - Mr. Stassinos

 

/ . Diveater, FBI

AP ee

   

/ARTEUR a awerensa™ Ag fe ~
FOR ee SE Senate aso wk giner colsamenz * RD
F MEMBED .

. For your information, Harold T Ser oly -6F “theee
-Log Angeles, California, Black Panther Party (EPP) renbers on
trial in the Superior Court in Galiformia for attempted murder
of a policeman on September 19, i871. Threuchout the trial the
defense has attempt d to establish that the FBI's COINTELPR:
herassed the defendants and caused them.te cormit the erina.
The defense has subpoenaed and is introducing the oral testimony
of Arthur Jefferson, who dualified as an expert witness on the
~ basis of being an investigator ox employee ef th Senate Select
*. Committee (SC). Mx. Je: son is identified in SSO rapor
an SSC counsel. In the gsc £ final rerort cated | April 2s,
ond entitled “INTRLLIGENCE ACTIVITIES AND THE i
CAUS ," Mere Jafiierson is Tistad as one ef two principal s
aithors of the report “fhe FEL's Efforts to BD Disrupt and
Neutralize the Black Panther Farty."'

 

  

. In addition to the Los Angeles trial, FBI employees,
a former employces and an informant have been named as co-defendants
in a civil action captioned “Iberia Nazp et_al., v. Ecvard
Henrahan, et al., (U.8.9.0., 8.0. Lif.7 ¢ IT Aetion muxber
7O-C-135EL Consolidated,” in Chicago, Illinois. This action was
brought by heirs of two SPP members killed in a December 4, 1965,
| shooting between BPP mombers in Chicago and Chicago Police
: officers assigned to the State’s Attorney's Office, Cock County,

- Tilinois. Cur COINTELPRO has been interjected into this trial
by the Siaintifts! aliecs tions that the shooting was a culnina~
tion of a series of FEI COTUTELPRO ections directed against th
BPP. It is bell oved. that Hr, Jefferson is listed as a witness

. for the plaintiffs in this trial.

 
          

Also in connection with the recent civil action Poss
"Eldridee Cleaver, ec_ ai., v. clagence aie fe Ley, ct al. / U.S.D.C.,
po Cl, Civil Action musber 76-0795, on: F301 at the
‘instruction of United: States District Boney Judge June L. Green,
EBL personnel met with Department of Justice Civi il Division

 

_ —

Ch” NOF NOT KEeoioSe ONTINUED - OVER

CONTAINED" - 46 JUL 14 1976
: Bath Pet tame

cord, 35327. Docld: 32989594 | Page| 2 rere

 

 

   

 

 
File #:

LAR- 10575

 

 

‘Serial Scope:

e235 Tate [50 pe [E5B.
7ecO
157 fh fob, A Mk (ob2

    

[005
10GB

1o7/, 107A
/*7 WB koT8 1078

 

 

 

HW 55327) DocId:32989594 Page 1
 

 

 

“The Attorney General | , . So

‘assisting in the preparation of

ox in part or by wey of summary, or disclosed to any person

 

@ ee |
7 . g

attorneys and plat ntit f£fs' attorney in atterpt to explore ways of
narrowing plaintiffs’ Freedom of Information Act request suffi-
chently to allow easy retrievel. Plaintiffs’ counsel, Robert ~-
Corneil, of the lay firm Trut tt, Fabrikant, Bucklin and Lenzner
of Washiarton, Was accompanied by ona ilary De Oreo who was ap-
parently serving as a consultant. Mr. Cornell subsequently
advised a Departmental attorney that Ms, Da Oreo is associated
with hie law firm. ‘

Senate Select Comittee reports identify Mary ‘De Oreo
as a Research Assistant of the SSC. Book (1 of the final report
of the Senate Select Cormittee report entitled “THTELLICERCE.
ACTIVIZILS AND THE RICHTS OF AMERICANS,” identifies De Oreo as
SC report entitled, "COTNTELPRO:
The FBI's Covert Action Eroeress” Again 2st American: Gitizens," and
"Dry. Martin Luther King, dx. ; Case Study.'

       

Senate Resolution 21, cf January 21, 1975, establish-
ing the Select Committee To Study Covernn ental Operations With
Respect To Intellirence Activ ties, Section 3, states in part
that, "As a condition of employment---each person shall agree
mot to accept any honerariuza, royalty or other tayment for
speaking engasement, magazine arti cle, book. i other endeavor
connected with the investigation and study indertaken by this
Committee."

Rule 7.5 of the Rules of Procedure for the Senate
Select Committee, adopted April 9, 1975, states, Kg. testinony
taken including the names of witnesses testifying or marerial
presented at an Executive Session, or cla ssified parers, and
ether materials received by the staff or its consultants while
in the employ of the Committee shall be made public, in whole

cutside the Committee, or after the termination of ‘the Committee,
in such marmer as mey he determined by the Senete." :

Rule 7.6 states, "Before the Coomitteé is called upon:
to make any disposition with raspect to the testimony, papers,
or othor naterials presented to it, the Committee members shall
have a reasonable opportunity to examine all pertinent testinceny,
papers and other 1 materials that have been obtained by the Commtitee
staff. No members shall release any such testinony, papers, er
other materials, or any information contained in such testimony,
papers, er other waterials, to the public or any person outside
the Committce mless authorized by a majority vote of the entire, |
Cormittee, or after the termination of the Conmittee, in such
manner as may be determined by the Senate.”

 

e . CONTINUED - OVER

 
 

 

we ca Sol - .
eo, + _— ~ . a
a @. e

The Attorney General

- Given the above, I question the propriery of

Me. Jdeffersen’s aprearance ac the Los Anrelea and Caleaga BPP
trials, eid qualifying as an expert witrage on the basia of his
aesociation with tha SSC. I alse quastion Ms. De Orao's assist-
ing the plaipciffia' attorney in the sldvicga Oleavar cagu-

I am separately corresponding with Senater Baniel K.
nittac on Tntellipcneas,

to bring this matter te his attention, since he will be angased
i . de the preparation of guidelines for the new evereipht comel

  

 

L ~- The Beputy Athorneay General

‘lL - Assistant Attorney General
Office of Legislative Affairs

NOTE: Reference memorandum dated May 27, 1976, from J. G.
Deegan to Mr. Leavitt, captioned, "HAROLD- TAYLOR, EM~BPP"
-enumerating material contained in lettor to the Attorney
General. Regarding subpoenaed materials, mentioned in
referenced memorandum from our Los Angeles and San Diego
Divisions, these materlals are all contained in the footnotes
to Book III of the Senate Select Committce Final Report, dated
April 23, 1976, in chapter entitled, "THE FBI's COVERT ACTION
PROGRAM TO DESTROY THE BLACK PANTHER PARTY," pages 187-223.

 

 

HW 55327 _Doclda:32989594 Page 4

   
