 

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
* DATE: 11-14-2017

a \

Docld: 32313342

 

a lan

ste Fuk

(conversation, Graham,indicated that he had received a
telegram from Dettoyafand that he contemplated visiting
the Dominica epublic in the immediate future,
sked Delloyatthether. he should be uniform while in
the Dominican Republic, and (Delloygfdavisea that Graham
ishould wear a uniform because of Certain functions they
were to attend. Graham inquired whether he should
btain,clearance from the U. S. State Department, and
(Beitoy eplied that he did not know, and laughed. ,Sub-
‘sequently, Graham was in contact#with {Ana Maria DeéltoyalS)
fe of [the Dominican Ambassador nd asked her to tell
(ine Amhassadoythat he negpng wish to hurt [fhe Ambassador 's)6’)

Graham

feelings when he mentione nquiring of the U. S. State
Department whether Graham” should wear his uniform while
in the Dominican Republic. Graham volunteered that, at
tbeytime of that prior call, former President Harry §s.
Tr n was in his office and that Truman stated he would
like to tell those "striped-pants so and so's where to
get off if they didn't like it.'' According to Grahan,
Truman instrugted Graham to do whatever the Generalissimo
Rafael L, Trujillo wanted Graham to do and "'to tell all
f them to go to e devil." Truman suggested that if
Ambassador Betioyai esired Graham to inquire of the U. S.
tate Department>S Truman would do it for Graham because
ihe had been wanting to "tell them off for a long time."
No information is available indicating th rpose of
Graham's visit to the Dominican Republic
The same source has indicated t. t Dewtoya}S)
| continues his association with_Shirley Mdran of 3734 T
| Street, N. W., Washington, D.

 

Unless otherwise indicated, the foregoing
material has been obtained from confidential technical
sources,

Sincerely,

, UI (Ged

* ND V. BOARDMAN
SAC

 

Page 5
 

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of
DATE: 11-14-2017 Ae

   

Washington, D. C.
August 22, 1958

 

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES IN WASHINGTON, D.C.

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES IN WASHINGTON, D.

. Dear Mr. Hoover:

 

There are set out below certain items of interest
concerning people and events which have occurred recently
in Washington, D. C.

ACTIVITIES IN GOVERNMENT

Colonel Guy Bayless Goodwin, Jr., of Houston,
Texas, who is currently residing at heey. Hotel
and employed by Congressman James H. Morrison (D-La.),
while standing in front of the Statler Hotel with four
_ fellow Texans, was approached by an unidentified Negro
| on the night of August 20, 1958, to attend a sex demon-
[wet at the Leumass Apartments, 1201 Que Street,

ay

Cfhamtt

. \was instructed to put bis money in an envelope for safe-
hy i keeping and did so, surrendering $254 to a Negro accom-
S iplice of the individual who first approached Colonel

time both Negroes disappeared. When the Colonel opened
the envelope, he found only torn pieces of paper in the
tenvelope. Colonel Goodwin reported the matter to the i
‘Metropolitan Police Department and has made a tentative #:
lidentification of the first Negro as Richard Albert i
‘(French of this city.

 

Cw Gerth Gotapocept

“4
phe

4

oa

Captain Joseph Shon, of the General Assignments
Squad, Metropolitan Police Department, advised SA Joseph I.
| se of this office in confidence that the fingerprints of

O law hei

\Jack Andérson, legman for Drew Pearson, were,found on the
ipapers stolen in the burglary of Bernard Goldfine's secrer
itary's office. It will be recalled that Anderson and Baron
ShackIlette, former Chief Investigator, House Committee on
Legislative Oversight, were detected in the act of mperating

ra pee 6-190

    
  
    

  

 

CHET-3 169
173969

| Docld:32313342 Page 2 bh Hoo %-1

 
  
  
  
 
  
 

“Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 7107 Hote}.

DATE: 11-14-2017 JFK Assassination System ‘ Date: 4/15/201

Identification Form

 

 

 

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10328-10016
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 62-116606-1
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: WMFO
TO: HQ
TITLE :
DATE: 08/22/1958
PAGES: 6
SUBJECTS :
JOSEPH SHIMON
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: —Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 07/30/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : LTR, INC ADMIN PAGE

 

v9.1
Docld: 32313342 Page 1
 

“Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017 C : nN

Be

fo fee
Pep A

something to be desired." He pointed out that, while the
USSR and British exhibits are chiefly mechanical and appeal-
ing in their operation, the U. S. exhibit is a more "relaxing
display of culture in the U. 8S." He said he discussed this
difference with USSR fair officials, and they told him they
“ liked the U. S. exhibit. They indicated that everyone in
the world knows of the achievements of the U. S. in the
mechanical field and the fact that the U. S. makes more
cars and trucks than any other country, but they know little
about U. S. cultural progress. Congressman Michel, never-
| theless, complained about the incompleteness and the poor
maintenance of the U. S. exhibits. He said the few mechani-
cal displays in the U. S. exhibit were not functioning, and
one display built around a golf cart failed to have any
golf clubs in the bag on the cart, .

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITIES

John I, Bétt, who is affiliated with the Asiatic
Petroleum Corporation, 1700 K Street, N. W., has been in
contact in Jt recent past with(Domjnican Ambassador, i
Manuel ngidyadbort advised(DeMoyalSthat he had talked wit )
Michael/’Gill, the President's nephew, and that Gill was f
making motion pictures of various countries and cities. a
Bott added that Gill was having a "showing" at the,Motion
Picture Agsociajion of America,ind invited Demo vate
attend. (DeMoyaPAgreed to be present if poss ble, andj
Bott commented that one of Gill's films was being shown !
at t Brussels World Fair. Bott recomm ded%to (DeMoya Cy)
thagevnen next in New York city, Deliovabéontact Michelle
Hotise of 60 Sutton Place, South, New Yor City, Telephone
PLaza 3-6094, who was described by Bott as_an attractive oe
French girl. ott recommended that o&nen[Belloyafioe tied i
House, (DeMoya¥Was to tell her that he brought greetings |
from Michael Gill. According to Bott, Gill had indicated KN
to Bott that he had a nice arangement with House and ee
remarked "It was fantastic ."() Sy

 

 

 

Bott atied that Michelle's husband resides in '

Connecticut, and her husband recognized the fact "there :
re sous fires there that he cannot adequately quench,"

[Detfoy ndicated an interest, and stated he would call

House. ) LY .

 

he beauty salon at Saks 5th Avenue, New York

)
feott also gave[DeMoya the name of Jane Dugsan, :
manager o.
City, Telephone PLaza 3-4000, and described her as 30 year /

 

Docld: 32313342 Page 3
 

 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 UG Clete
DATE: 11-14-2017 (7 a

Ss
j .

aot \
t Soe ie

Nv

 

133 age, tall, blonde, with magnificent legs. Hex.home
telephone number was given as TE 7378. [PBenoy ‘1so )
stated that be would call Duncan, t will be recalled

that in the June 13, 1958, issué of the “Washington

Daily News" it was reported that Michael Doud Gilli of
Montgomery County, Maryland, had announced that, on

October 1, 1958, he would open "a little club where business-
men, lobbyists and professional politicians can get together
and have a wonderful time." The article continued that Gill,
a nephew of President and Mrs. Eisenhower and the stepson of
Colonel George Gordon Moore, brother-in-law to President
Eisenhower, planned to open the club at 1020 16th Street,

N. W. The article continued that Gill, in order to assure

a frolicsome atmosphere, intended to employ good-looking
college girls in low-cut blouses and short, short skirts to
wait on the tables. Lifetime keys to the club would cost
$50, and a gold key engraved with "VIP"' would cost anywhere
from $1,000 to 88, 00007

{n anot gr contact between John I. Bott and
Ambassador DeMoya/P’/Bott advised that he pag recently }
received a telephone call from Joseph C. ke, Sergeant-
at-Arms, U. S. Senate, concerning arrangements for Duke :
and U. 8S. Senazors James 0. E land of Mississippi and
Willjam E. Jerfner of Indiana, together with Julian G.
SourWine, to visit the Dominican Republic. Eastland is
Chairman of the Internal Security Subcommittee, U. S. Senate
Judiciary Committee, of which Jenner is a member, and
Sourwine is Chief Counsel. According to Bott, Duke stated \
that no official operations were to be conducted in the {
Dominican Republic, but the Senators ang Sour e wanted to}
talk to a number of top people there. Bette greed to .
make the arrangements, and was informed tha he party
would probably be in the Dominican Republic” from September 9
through September 15, 1958. as

Bott indicated that Duke had told the Senators
about being able to swim without bathing clothes in the
Dominican Republic and they were "tickled pink." rpoeelS),
then agreed to make available to Bott his bachelor hous
| in Washington, (%)

; It has also noon Bscertained from the same infor-}
mant that Dr. Wallac ham of Kansas City, Missouri, va
}was in contact with Pettoval on August 8, 1958. During this (LY)

 

i
i
i
:
i
i

    
 

Docld: 32313342 Page 4
