MM 105-4572

ew De? SEeRE
JOSBAALEMAN, JR. ae pee
SeGzcé, of Information” a
He owns the Scott- -Bryan Hotel at Miami Beach and
is a former anti-Batista ledder. He can furnish information
on suspected Cuban agents and on political and economic

He is the. director of he area of Statistics of
"The Truth About Cuba Committee, Inc."> an anti-castro-
group, and as ‘such can furnish in information about activities
and membership of this organization, and concerning communist

activities and individuals within Cuba.

— | : Pe an ; ,
NO . . .
As a male vone€X sactson Memorial Hospital in

Miami this person is in daily contact with many Cubans of
both pro- and anti-Castro sympathies, and would be aware
of any intelligence activities on their part.

  
   

Source of Info

 

  

a * ihe? .
Source#o Information jette ad

He can. furn wi Kovnation regarding activities of
the Movimiento Revolucionario del Pueblo, the Junta Revolu-
cionaria Cubana, the Alpha 66 and Second Front of the Escam-
bray, all anti-Castro organizations. He can. furnish infor-
mation regarding intelligence activities which he receives
from inside Cuba. ,

\. 45797 DociId:32330946 Page 9

OTHER 4
Mi 105-4572 - - SepREY

OTHER 4

 

This individual is widely acquainted in cuban
- newspaper circles, knows a lot of police and intelligence
officers, and is a former police reporter. He has furnished
information regarding alleged communists in Cuba obtained
from news and police sources. eu) oo

Source/ of\ Information E

He has contacts in many anti-Castro organizations.
He is an officer. in the Accion Democratica Revolucionaria
and. acquainted with leaders of the Cuban Revolutionary Council.
He is presently a Lieutenant in the ‘Cuban Army Training at
Fort Benning , Georgia, and will be discharged during the
summer of 1963..

arcaaDehant MORALE AVARRETE. »- —

; He is able to furnish information concerning former
G-2 activity in.Cuba and concerning activities of the anti-
Castro organization,. Cubanos. Libres, in Miami.

 

 

A self-adnitte
data regarding- intelligénce activities of the G-2 and identify
persons sven AO),

  

aw 45797 DocId: 32330946 Page 10
   

Acs acta i
‘S {809 sh

 

During training in the United States Army he cooper-
ated with Army Intelligence. He is acquainted with many Bay
of Pigs prisoners and furnishes information about their organ-
ization, the Brigade 2506, as well as the Cuban Revolutionary
Council. He is awgxe of pro-Castro sympathizers in the area.

Bh

She fought in the Sierra Maestra and knows persons
who were with Castro and in the G-2. -She knows many Cub
in Miami and.can d €lop information concerning them. ut)

   
 
      
   

 

Potential Security

ity ‘Informant ~
(under develo ment a

a
Potential Secari y, I ant cea 7

a a :

' He’ has rnished. information concerning a leading
Cuban G-2. officia sto has come to the United d States $A)

 

 

, He\can furnish Cuban diplomatic correspondence
"information. 5

Y cs 10 ge |

This is a [rash cover} on fGose Carbonell Marre oY
identified as subject of the] espionage case, "foxtrot"
Background investigation is being conducted concerning the -

city employee who furnishes [rhe trash}. to this office. &)
- 8-
; Y

SECRET

DocId:32330946 Page 8

OTHER 4
   

“Gov \F

(Cooperative

MM 105-4572

 

)
This individual was as (recruited by ‘Cuban G-2j}prior’

th representatives of the United States Gov-

to her civeftlen from:Cuba. She indicated she. would be

 

45797

{go

 

ernment and might be able to identify Cuban agents operat-
ange the United States. She is fbeing developed} as a {S)
ie ageghi@) . »)

 

Poteritial Security Informant ;
under development pe i a

 

He owns a small shop specializing in imported
articles, which is known as Ventura and Sons. He also owns
the La Cubanita Restaurant’ next door. Both businesses are
frequented by many Cubans, both pro- and anti-Castro. He
has furnished data regarding certain leaders of the pro- —
Castro element in a

JIGGS' and MAGGIE
otential Security On

(under development)

(ander “deve lopment) mer t Eee

He is liaison officer of the First National Bank of
Miami. - He is in a position to obtain information regarding
Cuban financial transactions. _He has many contacts among
Cubans on a high level'and keeps abreast of trends and
activities among the exiles - both political and criminal.

-~7-

ART
SERN

DocId:32330946 Page 7

_ OTHER

OTHER

4

4
vanessa

Revolucionario Estudiantil and other anti-Castro individuals.
-He has obtained information regarding suspected Cuban intel-
ligence agents and miscellaneous information regarding Cuban
political matters: PO. :

 ™ HERES MM-723- Ss

; . He ‘is presently a vacuum cleaner salesman and as
‘such has developed a wide. acquaintance. in the Cuban colony.
“He can obtain:-much information regarding pro- and anti- Castro
activity and sympathies of the persons he contacts in his
work. He is connected with no organizations.

: \ RIM: 724-8 3 a), .

In his position as‘a purser for Pan American World
Airways, Inc., he travels extensively in the United States
and in Latin and South America, as well as in Europe. He is
closely associated with, and has extensive knowledge of,
numerous anti-Castro organizations and individuals. He has
contact with some members of the pro-Castro element, as well
as being acquainted with ‘certain leadi ersonalities in
the Revolutionary Government of Cuba. ¥(u

\ fia 761-8 (uy

This informant has good contacts in ‘the field of
commerce and a wide general knowledge of persons in that field
in Cuba since the 1930s, particularly in the field of appli-
ances and fixtures in the plumbing-building field. He has’
contacts who are still in Cuba and Mexico. He also maintains-
general knowledge of backgrounds and former political activ-
ities and connections of persons now connected with the anti-
Castro movement. ¢ (ul

“ee 801-S md Cm

SECRET NN

ly 45797 DocId:32330946 Page 5
MM ana . ,
i SRRRER

fe 815 site

-This informant is largely a reporter on activities
of individuals, but receives information frequently concern-
.- ing Cuban police and’ intelligence operatio' He has furnished
‘-.a steady supply of information on evaiftatters Georonic
matters and Cuba's] relations withf{Soviet-bloc}countries.
, )
Potential Securit “Informant

 

“This is'a @oubje: ‘agent "she has. contact with(Guban
intelligence instructorsfand be able to,establish contact

witbh{Cuban intelligence’ agentsftind (EpottersfUsed by (Cuban
G- n the United States. She has just been relocated to |
the New York area and it is anticipated her Gerivicied) wit

be on eS ‘the & vores tee: CAL >

pe otential’ Securit “Informant

 

yoo!
This source was {Erained by “efit Cuba an ecently ,
eee in the United States. She is béing (handled}¥s ;

x agent .}She has not yet,been contacted by a Fepresenta-
Go Pie the uban en cover )) ok oo

Reversi JS) .
otenttel Security Informant

; This source, “who arrived in the United States asa
refugee, and who has just been relocated to the New York
area, is a ouble agent. He has identifiedfhis principal {S)
in Cuba,as identical with.a ‘pyesent employee of{the Cuban
Missionfte the (United NationsP¥n New York. He [imits his
_ activity to ewice]|/<) and contacts in the Cuban in-

telligence vervtce(S))

 

a

SECRET

 

W 45797 DociId:32330946 Page 6°
* © f~. }
- ’ ' 7 4 . :
= 22. O . \ . = = . .
, e7. ~~ Tayeee soos e
Seas r

i MM 105-4572

ere 4
. NET
; yenso1- Ske(u) a -

: ’ He can furnish information concerning members and 4
; activities of the pro-Castro element in Miami and concern-
i ing former members and leaders of the 26th of July Club of Qbear...

| ' Miami through his close personal association with the leaders
| of the pro- ~Castro element. a .

. . : t
GS and, MAGGIE EV?) - . oe : -
otential ‘Security ‘Inforaants - : : :
Under deve lopment eal . : : '
{anese individuals , (husband and vise} former nenbers [S€} OTHER 4
of the July 26th Movement in New Jersey, arrived as refugees, .
. in the United States at Miami on({july Wo1963X ‘and stated they
. had been recruited in Cuba to act as 2p1963ifan agents in i
: to Ge nited States for the Cuban G-2. Steps are being taken .

+ tofgevelop,them as double agents. 2 # :
* [es a .

‘i Formerly Gecretaryfer the July 26th Movement in : ot
New York Caty, and later employed ,asfswitchboard operator}and
translatorfin the (Cuban Consulatef® iami, this individual

 
  
  

 

rs
‘.
a
?

s closely acquainted with many individuals in the Movement,
in the Giplomatic idjand other pro-Castro persons, and
their activities. | a)

  

x an eS a . .

i i LA

.* This individual was one, of the founders of the 26th + J
? of July Movement in Camaguey, Cuba. He later associated ’

‘ himself with the Movimiento Revolucionario del Pueblo, an ’

2 anti-Castro movement, in Cuba and was head of intelligence .

§ of the MRP in Cuba. He is now associated with the anti- r

 

Miami. He can furnish information ‘regarding leaders, members
and activities of the organizations.

-2-

- EGRET

 

 

NW 45797 Docid:32330946 Page 2
RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

| ORIGINATOR :
. FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

 

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1
| NW 45797 DocId:32330946

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

DATE:
PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI
124-90094-10036

HQ
CR 105-97459-210-214

Document Information
FBI
MM
HQ

08/01/1963
44

JOAQUIN GODOY Y SOLIS
NATIONALITY GROUP COVERAGE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B; 1C; 4

Redact

07/16/1998

INDEFINITE

MEMO

Page 1

Date:

5/21/201
 

Wi 45797

 

- Source: of i if rma tion : pee

‘Decld: 32330946 Page 3

MM 105-4572

Sane

~ a . ey ‘OTHER 4

~Sourée £ Taforwation pil -*

\

[ __]was president of the 26th of. july Club of
_ Miami Miami from February._to..August:,..1959.. ‘His | previous associ-
“ation with this organization permits him to obtain informa-
‘ tion: regarding persons formerly connected therewith. In
“his position:with Interamerican Affairs Commission he can -
and ‘does. furnish background information regarding various
anti-Castro persons. He has knowledge regarding economic

_matters through his former position as business agent for -

Local 255 of. the Hotel ‘Workers. Union. i.

He 2,

She is’ office € manager of the Pacific Building in
“downtown Miami which was formerly the headquarters of the
26th of July Club. of Miami, at which location the records
of the Club were maintained. She on ela) identities and

 

names of* former: members 3. 0f the Chub

  
   

wae

_nformation:

 

| $he- was a ‘member of - the! “26th of... Suly:.club of. Miami
and acquainted ' with former officers and many members. She
receives information regarding these individuals as well as

 

: many anti-Castro Cubans in Miami. through following the

‘activity of the Cuban Revolutionary Council in Miami, an
anti-Castro Org dzation. .

 

‘He’ is able to, identify individuals who formerly

were members of the 26th of July Club of Miami inasmuch as
“he. former ly‘.was freasuret) of ~ the’ ‘Club. ;

 

-3-

sc tt
—— + — ; ~ |

MM 105-4572

Yo
SouredloRintormition —_--/} a

As a former treasurer of the 26th of. July, Club .of
‘ Miami he has knowledge of former members and officers, and
other pro-Castro persons. who were sympathetic to this Club's
- activities. ‘

OTHER 4

 

 

  
   

igence Activitie U

"Since submissio of th st letter, a Cuban intel-
ligence agent known~as (foxtrot ho has been operating in 68)
the Miami area, has been identified and his activities are:
receiving intensified investigation. (Qe

a

- Additionally, this_office has recently hadfander
[eve opment five double agent} cases as set“forth below. ea)

It is believed coverage in this field is adequate
at this time. through the: following sources: ,

mS o0ict92-8 Hy (ny

In the past this individual has been Director of
the Bureau for the Repression of Communist Activities in
Cuba, General Manager and Vice President of Cubana Airlines,
and Cultural Attache from Cuba. At present he is employed
as a part-time interpreter and translator for the Immigra-
tion and Naturalization Service in Miami. He has excep-
tionally wide acquaintance among Cubans of all ranks in both
the United States and Cuba. X(u

ico S34).
. . Through his associates he ‘is in a position to
furnish information regarding activities of the small anti-
Castro action group of Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz, of the Pirectorig. (i)
-4-

SECRET

f 45797 DociId:32330946 Page 4
