 

a

 

 

(ry homosexua |

\=Bistrict Attorney Carvison for usi

\\

ite The source stated that he i stead

 

On June 22, 1967, L. H. Harrelson, ina telephone conversation with a con-

fidential source in New Orleans, Louisiana, cbtaine

with regard to Perry Russo.
ar

d the following dniormation |
BS -I- lab wew OR Ie
This informant, who is well known to L.H.H. fae, isa polygraph’ examiner

 

  

having been trained at the Keeler Polygraph Inatifute, stated that Perry Russo was

\sxarained by another polygraph examiner with the"Sheriff's Office in New Orleans

nd that he had heard that the Sheriff's Office examiner stated that Russo was lying
regarding the story of the plot to assassinate the late John F. Kennedy. \ /
erry Raymevdt Russo
ewe} a3 ae :
ussovhad been’ subjected to
th and that he had farther been subjected
“ 2 : : .
hat a (local psychiatrist subsequently blasted
g these two techniques and suggested that Russo

should be examined on the volycraph Which shouldbe more reliable. This informant
POLVE

  
  

his informant also advised L.H.H, that\Péerr v
arco-interrogation, using sodium #
to hypno-interrogation. He stated

   

rrustated that he received a call requesting him to’exayhine Russo in regard to his
1 btory. He stated that he was told that Russo wanted to meet him first to see what

 

i
pkind of a person he was. v

 

‘ 1
. @ », , .

He stated that he made an appointment and met Russ thos first time Friday,

that he be given a trial run on the! palygraph and that he wanted to be asked 10 or 20
| questions and intended to lie to sofne f thern to see if the ¢waminer could detect ;
d Russo write-down a number ca a piece of
paper and place it in his pocket{ He stdéted that he then madé Rugeso a:bet-of $5.00
that he could pick out the number, He‘further stated that Russo called the bet, -the
test was run and the examiner picked out the number/

  

: . ‘

He stated that Russo appeared in hid office on June 19, 1967 te be examined in re-
gard to his story reporting the plot i ssagsinate the late John'F’ Kennedy. .&
stated that he:attempted to examine Russo but that hisPneumo tracing (breathi
was so‘erratic that he reported to D. A. Garrison that he felt Russo was an unfit
subject for polygraph testing at this time. He further stated that he did talk with

Russo about his tracing and explained to him that he obviously had somethin

  

bothering him. - He stated Russo told him that he told the story in court be€ause he ;
, fated that La ’

  
   
  

was getting so much pressure from D.AysGarrison and also NBC. He
“Russo further made the statement to him that he did not know if Clay¥ataw was
ad to say

“present at the meeting or not. He stated that Russo added that iFt=

“"yes' or "no" that he would have to say "no" that Clay Shaw was not presant.
~p- Gaps: ff hai
4A UMAR MENCLOSURG

HW 54046 Docld:32136696 Page 2

. r GOPIES DESTROYED / L2 ~ 1090 60 - 5 U g.4 a (i .

 

   

 
 

ra

o fo
June 16, 1967. He stated that at this time he talkeddor a while and Russo requested |

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10054-10413

AGENCY INFORMATION

ennedy Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992 (44 Usc

Bio? None) . Case: NW 54046

 

 

RECORD _SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:  62-109060-5483

 

ORIGINATOR:
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:
SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT_TYPE:

ORIGINAL
CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW_DATE:
STATUS

 

COMMENTS:

 

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CITIZEN

06/22/1967

2
GARRISON, JIM INVESTIGATION, POLYGRAPH

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified CLASSIFICATION:
11/06/1998 UPDATE DATE: — 01/19/2001
Redact ~
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (4)

DATE LOCATED FIRST PARAGRAPH ON FIRST PAGE

HW 54046 Docld:32136696 Page 1
 

 

° : ae . . u 1 - . . NA a
Page 2° « i . ,

This examiner stated that he asked Russo why he went into court and under oath
stated that Shaw was present at the alleged mesting. He stated that Russo replied
that he fully intended to go into court and testify that he did not know if Shaw was
present or not but became angered by Shaw's attorney's question, "Do you believe
in God" and afterwards did testify that Shaw was definitely present.

' This informant stated that Russo admitted having undergone psychiatric treatment
for one and one-half years. He stated that Russo admitted to homosexual acts.
his informant stated that he fully believes that he would have been able to break
(( usso had he continued, He stated that after giving a verbal report to Mr. Garrison .
that Mr. Garrison told him in no uncertain terms to keep his mouth shut and not to
gay anything about the test or what Russo said. This informant further stated that
Vitis official written report to Mr. Garrison is going to indicate that in his opinion
Russo was an unfit subject on Monday, June 19, 1967. .

NOTE:

Uo:

The erratic breathing pattern that was described by this informant can indicate
p—flaustrophobia, however, in all of the experience that I have had in conducting

[ polyer aph examinations, an erratic breathing pattern a as a general gule is an indica-
ition that the subject is heing deceptive.

 

 

i ; ) L.H.H.

HW 54046 DoclId:32136696 Page 3

 
