Ray said he also recalls that Rogelio Cisneros was at that
JURE fieeting. When told that a file review revealed that
Cisneros was reportedly scheduted to be involved ina
pick-up of a cache of arms on Regaldo Cay on November 23,
1963, a date which was changed to November 25th at the

fast minute, Ray said he recalled generally such an
operation. "We had a boat in Costa Rica and we were supposed
to pick up some weapons there but there was a mix up. |
can't recall the details or the date exactly," he said.
"Actually, Cisneros was the coordinator of such operations.
| was informed of them, but he was the direct coordinator
after they were improved."

Ray was asked about his relationship with Andrew St. George
who, according to file review, was with him on an attempted

infiltration into Cuba. "I think | first met him in Havana,"
said Ray, "when he passed through there on the way to the.
Sierra Maestras to see Castro. I! met him several times later

when | came into exile and we exchanged information and
ideas. He has something about him, a sincerity, that |
like."

Ray said he was not aware of the close relationship between
Andrew St, George and Mitchell Livingston WerBell III.

Asked if he had ever had any dealings with WerBell, Ray

said: "The sunavabitch. | would like to punch him in the
nose, if you will forgive my saying that." Ray said his
feelings about WerBell are based on an incident that happened
in the Dominican Republic in 1965. At the time, after two
failures, a final major infiltration operation into Cuba

was being planned. "This was to be the first of a series

of long and slow steps to build,a permanent opposition

movement against Castro inside Cuba. This was supposed to

be a very significant operation, not just another quick

raid." Ray said he had already had his share of problems

with the operation before his encounter with WerBell. Originally
it was to be based out of Costa Rica, but political problems
developed there and he had to move the operation out. He

made arrangements to send the infiltration boat, the Venus,

on to the Dominican Republic with its erew to set up a base
there, Meanwhile, a supply of arms that were especially
fabricated for JURE in California were seized in California.
(They had been financed, said Ray, by a major "Buy-A-Rifle-For-
$92" campaign among Cuban exiles; more than $100,000 was
raised’) Then came the revolution in the Dominican Republic
and the appearance on the scene of Mitchell WerBel!. Ray

said he frantically made arrangements with the Venezuelan
government to move his base of operations there and sent $750
of his personal money to the crew of the Venus for fuel to

move the boat as quickly as possible to Venezuela and out from
between the warring factions in the Dominican Republic. However,

 

 

-more-
AW 54756 DocId:32255005 Page 9
what he later discovered, Ray said, was that WerBell was
conspiring with his boat's crew, and mainly its leader,
Jose Rabell, to convince them to go to Miami with the boat
instead of Venezuela. That, of course, aborted the
infiltration operation. "That's how WerBell stole our
boat from us," said Ray. "After that our whole effort to
get going again failed. By that time | was completely

broke." Ray said he never did find out why WerBell was
in the Dominican Republic or why he stole the boat from
them. "Il believe he was a CIA man," said Ray. Ray said he

eventually wound up giving the boat to Nino Diaz_ for his
anti-Castro operations. ~

Ray was asked about the incident concerning the visit of
"Leon Oswald" to Silvia Odio. Ray said that when he was
first questioned about it by the FBI, he was asked mostly
about his feelings about her reliability and accuracy.
"They told me that she said she had met Oswald," he said.
"1 don't remember them telling me that the men who came to
her said they were membersof JURE and were interested in
buying arms. | don't think that was told to me. | told
them that | knew she had some domestic problems and that
she was under emotional strain from her divorce when she
was living here in Puerto Rico, but | told them | would
say she was sane. | think she was a good person, a very
bright person and a sane person,"

Ray was asked if he was ever told that Silvia Odio's sfster
also saw the three men who visited her apartment. He

seemed surprised. "| never did know that!" he said. "That
to me has a lot of bearing. They never did tell me that.
This is the first time | learned about that."

Ray said that at the time he knew of no members of JURE

-- going through Dallas in search of money of arms, He
does'‘not recall anyone by the name of Leopoldo or Angelo
associated with JURE at the time. Ray said he had no
American contacts in Dallas or major financial support
from anyone there.

Ray also said he did not recognize or had no association
with individuals of the following names: Justin McCarthy,
‘Bernardo DeTorres, Sam Acosta, Larrie Schmidt, Robert
“Morris, Tony Sforza, Warren Frank and David Morales.

He also said he had no association with Laureano Batista,
but heard that Frank Fiorini was working with him at one
time.

AW 54756 DocId:32255005 Page 10
usually talks too much to be directly invotved in
clandestine activity. But at the time Rufo had very
close association with high government officials and

the CIA and | -know that he and Veciana were very good
friends and in the same business sphere. | would say he
may have mentioned Veciana's name to some of those people
and they contacted Veciana as a result, knowing from

Rufo of Veciana's feelings about Castro."

Ray's feelings toward Veciana took a negative turn in 1972,

he said, when he was organizing the Parte Partido Revoluctonario
de Pueblo (People's Revolutionary Party) in Puerto Rico.

This was, said Ray, a great effort to reinvigorate the
anti-Castro movement, Ray said that Veciana wanted to

become part of the group. "At that time," said Ray, "we

knew he was working in Bolivia and traveling around

Latin America and we thought he could be of help to us.

Ray said that Veciana promised that he could get $10,000

to contribute to the movement, but the money was never
produced. “Almost as soon as he joined," said Ray,

"he began participating in an attempt to divide the

movement. He made a declaration accusing us of being

in consortment with Castro and he knew that was a fie.
Everything he said was just so unbelievable and he had

things printed about me in Replica accusing me of everything.
He just made everything up. Ray blames Veciana for

the lack of success of the movement and says he does not
understand why he attacked him. Basicaity, he said, he
believes Veciana is an opportunist.

Ray was asked if he was familiar. with the Moa Bay Mindgng
Company. He said he was. He recalls a meeting around’
June, 1959, when he was still in Castro's cabinet. "We
would meet at the Banco International everytThursday in
the afternoon with a group that dealt with the economic
problems of the new government," he said. “Lopez-Fresquet
was the Finance Minister at the time. At one meeting, |
remember Regino Boti, who was Minister of Economics, said
that the people from Moa Bay had contacted him to see what
could be done with the government to re-establish their
operation. They had about a $70 million investment. But
Castro said not to deal with them because they had worked
too close with the Batista government."

Ray was asked if he remembered where he was on November

22, 1963. Around that time, he said, he was spending most
of his time in Puerto Rico but flying regularly to various
countries in Latin America. The day that Kennedy was killed,
he said, he was at a JURE meeting in Caracas. Group leaders
from various countries were there, he said, and he remembers
the assistant to the President of Venezuela coming in after
lunch with the news that President Kennedy was shot.

. ~more-
HW 54756 DocId:32255005 Page @
Ray also revealed another instance concerning mention of
assassinating him. That was shortly after March, 1961,
and the formation of the Cuban Revolutionary Couneél was
announced, with Ray as a key member. Ray said he had

a very close friend who had been a detective under Batista
and had also had contact with the FBI both before and
after the Revabution. Ray chanacterized the friend as
"a very honest man," despite the fact he.worked under
Batista, and one he trusted. After the Council was
announced, Ray said, this friend called him and told him
he had been at a meeting composed of former members of
Batista's Bureau of Investigation, called BRAC, which
Ray characterized as "a repressive organization." Ray
said: "One of those at this meeting in this house in
Miami told my friend that they believed that Castro was
going to be overthrown by the United States and that
since | was getting too much power, they should eliminate
me. My friend warned me that | should be careful. He
said they made mention of using an American to do the
job of killing me instead of a Cuban. Even now | do not
know if the CIA had anything to do with that, or whether
it was just this group of Batisthamos." Ray said that
at the time he was told that the leader of the group

was named Faget (first name unrecollected), who is now
dead. (Ray said he believes his son is working for U.S.
Customs in Miami.)

Ray said he had heard of Frank Fiorini about that time

but he never met him. "I heard of Fiorini," he said,

"and | was told that he was something like an adventurer,
aman of action with many contacts, but | had no direct
knowledge of him. He was involved more with the Batistianos."
Ray said he knows of no relationship between E. Howard

Hunt and Frank Fiorini at the time.

Concerning the Castro assassination attempt in Chile in 197}
organized by Antonio Veciana, Ray said he was not associated
with it nor did he know of anyone, except for Veciana himself,
involved with it who had previousty worked with him. He was
told, however, that Luis Posada may have been involved, and

he remembers Posada as someone Cisneros once recruited for

an infiltration mission into Cuba. "Later," said Ray, "! found
out he was so close to the CIA | decided not to use him
anymore." Ray said he does not know Lucilo Pena or his

involvement in the Chile attempt.

Speculating as to who could have introduced Maurice Bishop
to Veciana, Ray said there is the possibility that Rufo
Lopez~Fresquettcould have been the link without knowing
it. "Rufo ts a good friend of mine," said Ray, "but he

 

-more-
HW 54756 DocId:32255005 Page 7 :
sponsored a plan to assassinate Castro. "However," said
Ray, "that doesn't mean we should not take the opportunity
to do so if it arises."

Ray said that, although he never met Veciana in Cuba, he
knew of him and his support of the MRP at the time. "I know
that he was very close to Rufo Lopez-Fresquet, the Minister
of Finance, and that he was working at the bank and that
through Lopez-Fresquet he was able to get some contributions
to the Movement. | know he was very active.”

Ray said that he heard through the underground that Veciana
was planning the Castro assassination attempt and that he
had gotten a bazooka for it. He later heard that Veciana
himself had left Cuba the day before the assassination
attempt and that he later gave the excuse that he had to
helptsome people escape in a boat and that he had to jump
into the boat himself to do so. "The story was that the
attempt failed because of the confusion that followed after
he teft," said Ray. :

Ray said that thére was no indication at the time that an
American was behind Veciana's planning of the assassination
attempt. He knew of no American that Veciana might have
been associating with at the time. Ray said he could not
identify Maurice Bishop, nor did his characteristics or
sketch resemble anyone he knew, although he said there was
some resemblance to a U.S. government official he met in
Tampa when he first arrived in exile. He said he met

at least four government officials in Tampa while being

put up in a motel there, but he wasn't told whether they
were CIA or FBI. Ray said he doesn't recall even the name
given to him of the one who resembled Bishop and he doesn't
recall! that it was "Bishop."

What Ray does recall about his initial debriefing in Tampa
when he entered the U.S. in October or November, 1960,

was that he was eventually told that a Mr. Frank Bender
wanted to talk with him. Bender then arrived and he had

a long conference with him. Ray said he got the impression
that Bender was mostly interested in his philosophy about
how Cuba should be governedn after the overthrow of Castro,
but Ray said he found it a bit strange that Bender, was
specifically interested in the future of the King Ranch

in Ray's vision of ithe future of Cuba. "I don't think

he liked my answer too much," said Ray, "because | told

him that the most important thing was to develop the
overall economy of the country and that, although | had
nothing against the King Ranch, they would have to contribute
more to the economy of the country. | don't think he liked
that answer too much."

=more-
NW 54756 DocId:32255005 Page 5
AW 54756

(When asked, Ray said he was not. familiar with the name
of Jack Malone who, according to a file review, was associated
with the King Ranch in Cuba.)

 

Ray said he subsequently had a number of meetings with
Bender in Miami, a few of which concerned his and the

MRP's joining of the united Frente prior to the Bay of

Pigs invasion. Ray was asked 1f he was aware at the

time of the opposition of the CIA's political liaison,

E. Howard Hunt, to his joining the Frente. [in his book,
Give Us This Day, Hunt points to Ray's joining the Frente
as one of the key reasons he resigned his position.

Ray said he was not specifically aware of Hunt's opposition
to him at the time. He said, in fact, that he never met

E. Howard Hunt, or "Eduardo," but knew only that the CIA's
"Golden Boy," as he was known, Manolo Artime, had the
personal support of a very influential and powerful government
official whom, Ray said he later found out, was Hunt.

 

Ray said that Hunt's portrayal of him in his book and of
his relationship to the Frente was misleading. Ray said

he was not anxious to jotn fhe Frente and that he resisted
doing so for some time. "We were in touch with the leaders
of the front at the time," said Ray, "people like Tony
Verona, and we told them, why should we join and be so
restrained as you, why should we want to become part of

the situation just to be like a poker chip with somebody
else running the show and not knowing what you are fighting
for?" Ray also said that because his group was so well
organized within Cuba at the time and had deep underground
penetration, some other exile Cuban groups were also not
anxious to welcome him in the front because they were afraid
he would take contro! of it.

Ray said opposition to him also came from certain influential
and wealthy anti-Castro Americans who saw the Frente as

a "social club" where they could have influence and, if successful,
reap their benefits tater in Cuba. He specifically cited
William Pawley as one such. Ray said he met Pawley only once.
TAT The Time," he said, "there was a lot of heavy propaganda
against us going around Miami. They were saying 'Fidelissimo
sin Fidel’ and that type of thing, accusing us of being
Communists. One of the members of our organization happened

to have an office close to Pawley's and got to meet him and
then arranged a meeting between us. So | went to meet him,

{t was very interesting because | found the man very arrogant.
We started discussing Cuba and the future of Cuba and so forth,
and then he said he was going to be sincere with me. He said
he believed that when Fidel was overthrown it would be better
if | were assassinated and that somebody might just do it."

-more-

DoclId:32255005 Page 6
Select Committee on Assassinations

GH. Bouse of Representatives
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

WORKING MEMORANDUM

BOB: At least three interesting points in
here: [) Fiorini admits being propositioned
by Barker for a "domestic assassination";
this indicates the subject might have been
Ray. 2) The credibility of Silvia Odio

is further enhanced. 3) The necessity of
getting someone knowledgeable to rake
Lopez-Fresquet with a fine toothcomb
concerning everyone he was ever in contact
with around the time of the initial Bishop-
Veciana contact. | feel he must be approached
with patient obliquity. The first interview
was screwed up and is an embarrassment on
the Committee's record. (The interviewer
didn't even know who Carlos Prio.was.)

jn

mt 54756 DoclId:32255005 Page 2
v9.1

AGENCY :
-. RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

AW 54756 DocId: 32255005

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form
Agency Information
HSCA
180-10093-10063
NUMBERED FILES
009005

Document Information

HSCA
FONZI, GAETON
BLAKEY, G. ROBERT

INTERVIEW WITH MANOLO RAY RIVERO

06/28/1978

9

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
RAY RIVERO, MANOLO
ODIO, SILVIA

CIA

MEMORANUDM
Unclassified

3

Redact
01/01/2003

Cover memorandum attached. Box 162.

Page 1

Date: 10/14/20

 

Released under the John
. Eennedy
Assassination Records
Ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#iNU 54756 Date:
HO-31-2017

 
O 0900S

MEMORANDUM - June 28, 1978

TO: G. Robert Blakey

FROM: / Fonzi & Gonzales

RE: Interview with MANOLO RAY RIVERO

dob: June 13, 1924

Manolo Ray was interviewed on June 7, 1978, in the offices
of Ray and Associates, Engineering Consultants, San Juan,
Puerto Rico. :

Background file research indicates that Ray received a
_ graduate scholarship from the Cuban Ministry of Public
Works in 1947 to study civil engineering at the University
of Utah. He returned to Cuba in 1949 and was appointed

a designer for the Cuban National Development Corporation
and then chief of its structural department in charge of

bridges and highways, In 1952 he became project manager
for Frederick Snare Corporation of New York in construction
of the Havana Hilton Hotel. In May, 1957, he organized

the Civic Resistance Movement (MRC), an underground
organization which-supervised acts of sabotage against
the Batista regime. Following the Revolution, Ray was
appointed Minister of Public Works by Castro in February,
1959. He officially resigned his position in November,
1959,

During the interview, Ray said that he had been active in
anti-Castro activity, organizing underground activity in
Havana, prior to his resignation as Minister of Public
Works. His brother, who reportedly tater committed suicide,
had been arrested by Castro in March of 1959 for counter-
revolutionary activity. Ray said his anti-Castro

activity eventually ted to his founding the Revolutionary
Movement of the People (MRP) around May of 1960. Among
those _Ray mentioned as being also instrumental in the

Cisneros.

When asked, Ray said there were no Americans involved in the
founding of the MRP. He said, however, that there was one
who had been active with him in anti-Batista operations and
later gave him support for his anti-Castro activities. His
name was Ira Wolfe. "He was very close to me personally and
we considered him Tike a Cuban," Ray said. At the time,

. Wolfe was a sales representative for a kitchen equipment
firm and married to a Cuban. After he left Cuba, he was
divorced and went to work for what Ray described as a
telephone company-related firm in Texas. He died there about
five years ago at about 55 years old. Ray described Wolfe
as tall, heavily built, with black hair and a round face.

AW 54756 DocId:32255005 Page 3 -more-
Although Ray said he was not as close to him as he was

to Ira Wolfe, another man who provided anti-Castro support
and was active on his own in anti-Castro activity was
Wolfe's brother-in-law, the brother of his Cuban wife.
Ray said he didn't at the moment remember his first name,
but his last name was Rosello. Ray said he had known him
for a number of years because he worked for a firm that
sold ceramic tile and that he had sold the tile for the
tunnel through Havana which Ray had been in charge of
building in the mid-'50s, Rosello, said Ray, was somehow
involved in the sale of weapons to Israel. Ray believes
that Wolfe's ex-wife, Angela Rosello, may be living in
the Miami area.

“Ray said he had been in touch with individuals connected

with the American Embassy in Havana both before and after

the Castro Revolution. One contact he recalls was with

Jim Knoel, the first of which was around September, 1958,
Ray said Knoel told him that he represented an agency
interested in intelligence and propaganda and he wanted

to exchange ideas and information concerning the 26th

of July Movement. . Ray said he seemed particularly interested
in whether or not there any Communists with Castre in

the Sierra Maestra.

After the Revolution, Ray said, he received another request

to meet with Knoel about the time he went underground with
anti-Castro activities. That was a general meeting about

what was happening at the time but it resulted in the setting
up of a channel for the passing of messages between them later.
Ray said that Knoel did not offer him any financial ‘support

at the time, but he later promised equipment which was supposed
to be air dropped to MRP guerillas in the Escambray mountains.
The equipment never arrived and Knoel later told hiim there

was a "mix upy" said Ray. ‘

Ray said he was unfamiliar with and had no contact with
’ David Phillips or Col. Sam Kail at the American Embassy.

Ray said he first met Antonio Veciana in Puerto Rico after
Veciana came into exile. Although Veciana was a member of
his MRP movement at the time, Ray said that Veciana's
attempt to assassinate Castro in October, 1961, in Havana
was not officially planned or sanctioned by the Movement.
Ray explained that, as the leader of the MRP, he did not
believe that leadership assassination should be a key part
of the Movement's strategy. He said it had too many "bad
aspects" to it as a strategy, the principal one being it
misled the members of the movement into believing that the
movement would be successful as soon as the opposition leader
was removed. That, said Ray, has a "weakening effect" on
a movement's over-all strategy and the reason why he never

-more-
HW 54756 DocId:32255005 Page 4
