 

 

 

 
        

the dot ° Freque’tiy” “oe institute specia %» to establish
L C.Atacts of various: Wndano oe Dink t known

  

 

lican dane who wasthere last. month to obtain United States eee sont
for his cfganizatidn. We have just completed special coverage of
this nature on Juan\Gosch, deposed President of the Dominican
Republic. This wastdene at the specific request. of the Honorable
. Ralph A. Dungan, of the White House StafZ, and resulted in pro#
Gucing information showing that Bosch is conducting an active’
canpaign urging that phe Dominican people overthrow tho army.

 

  
   
     
  

AS a result pf cur coverage of(Cheddi Jagan,}we have Cs’)
learned that his United States representative is considering
asking the Cubans and Hhssiuns to prepare a plan for guerrill
“warfare ,in[British Guiaha.| We have ulso cone up with strong
. indications the Soviets hife financially s por tne ase nrc ses
‘communist contacts in the United States. .

, Major Cr

Hoffa Ca ase vo \
“fhe two principa cases in which James Riddle Hoffa,
President of the Teamsters ¥Wnion, is now under indictment include

 

%
Bt.
minal “investigat

    

ions

       

'" an indictment of Hoffa and ‘Six othera at Nashville on May 9, 1963,

 

 

on charges of Obstruction of dustice and the indictment of Hoffa
and seven others in Chicarso cn June 4, 1963, for maii fraud, fraud .
by wire and conspiracy. TrBhi date in the Nashville case sot fer Paes
January 6, 1964, and tentative trial date - ou the Chicago case sat

for February 3, 1964. .

  
 
   
 

Baker Case : 3

; He have received thihty-eight requests. from ‘the Dopart~ . 4
ment for inquiries regarding popsible conflict of interest or... 7 Ja
fraud against tha Government onthe part of Robert é. » Raker, . ae
former Senate Majority Secretar} . :

 
     
  

Antitrust Investication of Stee Atndustr

; Gn Ustoner 21, i583, the snticrust Division requested
_ we locate witnesses and review ho§el registration records to a S

: determine’ whether representatives fof steal companies were in |
New York City and Cincinnati, Ohio! for meetings on the same
‘dates from 1955 to date, This is tc Sist a grand jury inquiry
authorined by the Attorney Goneral Rod former President Kennedy
locking into pricing activities of Steel companies on four major ee ey
steel products. This grand jury in ‘effect is a continuation of re :
-the 1862 grand jury inquiry relativelyto the increase of steel .
prices on April 10, 1962, he investigation requested of the oe oo \
Bureau by the Antitrust Division has heen completed. : ae en

 

Case Involving Bouhbing of Canadian Freighter
. Hea are Lavestigating the bombins on September 6, 1963,
"at Chicago of the Canadian freighter, oward L. Shaw," which

. appears to he: a direct result of a juriddictional dispute between

  
 

AW 55355 DocId:32195995 Page 9
 

   

(le
: Government wit 48s 4n this prosecution w: be a Soviet ‘illegal
ya agent who was sugcessfully doubled by us over four years ago |
_ ' end has. been opehating against the Soviets ever since. He is |
a.Soviet Hilitary\intellicence Officer (code name Karot) who |
entered this counigy through fraudulent.documents in December, .
1958. He was uncotered by us two months azter his is entry.4

   
   
 
  

 

   
   
   
  

  

f Beier cutific Counteral Mack

 

These operae
tions % cee ng mechanisns ca
on sates the ponetratia\ and Te poeauent estorat on of their”
Soatonce £3 of today, the value of Soe Co

x ts

  

obtained this Bureau ffom(47 foreign es rs has. been ca
$10,903, 00 Peithe real worth of the material, howeve lies. in

its. incalculable telligente value to agench 3 and officials of
our Government . F % : .

S

 
    

S\t8i -

Cubes Matters |

. ; Guz investigations in the Cuban area, have been. most
: He : intense since Castro ascended te power January 1, 1959. We have

  
 
   
 
   
  

os ps ’.. concentrated not only on pro«Castro individuais but cn such

qn FY groups: as the Fair Play. for Guba Committee, organiz zed. din New York:
a ent é. City in April, 1986, to serve as a propaganda organ for.Castro.
iD! Fa : (hee Harvey Csvald, accused assaseipator of President Kennedy,
eens ay clained to head a Chapter of thig group in New Orleans. ) S

53 3 U

; yod® “tmons tinder the guise of refugees to carry out

met "Intelligence activities against this country are Saeco Wth,

. the FBI and their activities are now being (rected against the
an Government. — _ a i ‘

nn In late Qetobex 1963
contidence of Cuban Fores on i
Foreien Minister's son, Cl

a CY on sony \to Brazii to yigit ease
. Spooner

i
|
| a £ oe bk
a Goneerning the extent of Castro's. influence in South iuerica and |

 

‘future pians of _the Cuban Government was Sra

Pore3 ay Giplosintae cstablielpents in this country. ; of tod lay we.
have puch surveillances: oh ifferent countries ae

Soham DW eemerest an us

    

Sree: ES a

 

X

AW 55355 DocId:32195995 Page @
 

   

     
     

. : Tl. feat RA a Nd ote oe
; , ‘September 14.) 1952, the cooperation of a[henber ee)
of the Cacchoqloy sian United Kations MissionJwas obta ned SS
(code mano(Gine) Shrough this sgurce we have tained CS): ,
yolunivous information concerning Ceechoslovek} intelligence C33.
porations and targets in the United Beaton.
: (issectos in pidce has returned to, szechosiov ai
te furnish information eon there. (S\
C

     
  

 

&.
kia \and has agreed

ee

 

The Candy Case

    
  
 
  
 
    
  
  
    
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
  

nis particular coe

our ivgormant entered the United States(es a Mongarsag C6) |

ry, |1987, Lander_cdver of jhe Hungarian EefugeseCS)

Progran,” \Followigs reeruiteent Gin Hungary lea an idiegal agentC$) een

. and diewateh to the United States with high-level intelligence: C.
: assignments, ho has successfully carried out an extresely valtie aae

 

able. double agent bole undex our .divection(for over Bax and one-
hel’ yeara, [ Tie mest Significant assignments are to(pinpointls

location of doaugerdkge pailistie missiles )in several areas of

  
  

Penotretion of (the veosiav Intelligence sexvies FG) eee _——
(Cin duly,\ 2962, we developed(the Firat Secretary of theCSJ
Yugoutav Mabassy (Gieilganiar Bowboid)\ as ource, | Through him aa
we have obtained, pe erating pictire of iugorla pinajer the |

  
  

perations “in the States, as well as policy plans for the CF
(Yugoslav Geverhnacay lsaling with im artant nelitiesl - Liu (5
tions, Ag a resar Mitormation furnished by this source,
action bas been inigiated to neut nlige Giz Government euploysces
Enows to have been Walued :
af, ‘
xtion of Soviet i122

    

 
 

Important in the oviet~bioc intelligence systen. is

the undercover or illegal agest gent te this country who has
no diplomatic or efficinl status, He is the soppisticate of |

- espionage who uses fraudulent @ecuments, elaborate coues, secret
inks, microiilm and covert fimancial support to avoid detection. — ;
Networks of illegal agents serve to bolster the espionage active _ ve
jtics of Soviet-blec officia A and are prepared to take over ali.
espionage operatious in the nt of war or other emergency Which :

-yesults in a break of diploma rolations.“Y (UL) .

: To neutralise the thrant posed by this illegal appara-
tus we have resorted ta highly tacenventional and dmaginative
techniques which have resuited fA our penetration oF a number
of these operations, Gne ef these operations duvolves che two
Soviet illecal agents using the i entities of Robert K. Baiteh
and Joy Ann Bbaltch who were arrested by us in Washington, D. Coy) ->
this sumer and are presently awaiting trial. The principal Hy) (ic)

  
  

 

 

   

    

     

AW 55355 DocId:32195995 Page 7?
 

 

   

  
       

nm yA

 

., (Bonetmatie

5

Sf Soviet-bloc Intelligence Services iC

ThakSoviet-bloc countries are conducting & massive, ..

 

ee
eee

 

. weliecoordinated esplonage attack against this country. As of

November 20,
‘Gavietebioc in
to the various

   
  

tellicence officers’ in
establishments of the

b63, there were(285 known or highly suspected CSD-

the United States assigned
Soviet bloc in this. country.

Ko thiart their offorts we have conducted an all-out
etfensive to foup cots theiy organization, defect their personnel

and develop tho:
gence apparatus.
such defectors,

(mee Tedera case

   
 
  

a
. W)

 

began cooperating
(Comaitiee of Stat

defectors in the very heart of their intesllile
We have been wousuelly successful in developing

For example, one Soviet officer (code name Padora)-
n May, Leo. He ig an officer of the EGB
Seourlty of the USSR) essigned to the Soviet

Higsion to the United Nations, He has furnished information
veparding approxima gely 6D agents being operated by EOS officers
in various countriesioz the world, Six of these are actually

_ ‘FBE double ageats operating against the HEB FU :

This offic niga furnishes inside information fren

  
 
 
   
  
 

KGB headquarters, Ff
engineer, and Igor Iv
om espiouage char
attached te the Soviet

 

irae

ober 29, 195°

 

apie, donn Butenke, en Aner dean -
& EGR Amtorg exmgloyee, were axrested

. hree other KGB orficers

iission to the United Nations were expelle

from the United Steves Gor their complicity im the conspiracy.

Our defector was able td

 

tell us of the extrone eonsternation

et EGS headquarters. Ob third oef.the KGB scientizic espionage
officers in New York hadgbecn lest at one surake (gil

 
  

[ms monbas case

Jack EZéward DunBep was an Aray sergeant assigned to |

 

the National Security Agens

nished Aray investigators ty
she claimed she fomd in hex
FBI entered the case August
documents were found and Dun

 
 
   

ay (NSA) who committed suicide the

night of duly 22/25, 1908. {His widew, on August 20, 1863, fure
give classizied Government documents

attic efter his death, After the.

2, 1963, edditional classified

p's widow adaitted Dunlap had

admitted to her before bis 6 ficide that he Wa selling informa-.

ticn to the Soviets. (YU)

: We received verification of this from an execlient
source, —n 1962 we lisd developed & Soviet intelligence officer

(code nawe Tophat) who had furibsned
mo hig xeturn to the Soviet Union. |

  
  

valuable data to us until

Prior to his return he agreed
na dates in dung, July or

Auguet, 1963, and place & specitied signal, dar a-been to
approval. ue SOUrCe_

 

N
AW 55355 DocId:32195995 Page 5

 
  

@)

a

es
 

 

        

Ba elear’ ‘the eo it guly, put State coultl® te permit hee With
tate approvalicaa ‘clesved the drop in Aveust and found a very
important, nessdge waich said, in part: “Eos st important agent

Jack Edward Gariep, 1 Gilmore Street, Glen Burnie, Maryland, at
NSA, He came tq Hou tyuk himself Hay, 1962," @ilkhail Kostyuk was |

‘Soviet Biv Attache, Seyiet BUbassy y Washington, De Ces Erom July,
: 196 3, to Augnt, | 39826 (S) ; ; a

cnteat the couplete ‘message “and the “manner. in

 

  
 

H

j

|

i

|

i

. which at was plac in ¢he drop indicates iv was ‘probably ‘placed. a

| | 4m the. drop in dure, L053. Fad the State Hepartuent pormicted Co ae |

    
 
   
    
 

 

_@YA to clear the as op. in early July, eppropriate ols) could

_ have been taken a BES ust Ponknp prion to his suicid 86 S)

    

 

. : in Hesch acing) 1958, (eo auecessfally ‘defected and operated! sa. :
$n ‘place another e wwloy se the Eoviet Mission to the United Cs
£

  
 

  
  

Rations Moen e(tiainacky |. He has urnished us escuments ©
miRLes eke cane noeLuding Rovere erniuations, of the defense ae
ins ted lations (jn the New York ang Boston jareas. Tis Bnaited Stated Ss

‘(Ate Bored \has advised thet these( Sovle eee bet eve comiete andts am
BeCura te Penorts oF eau guent Bn capabilities f& # the Porth amere 3

» dean Air Kefense \jas of he time th & wore priatten. Ths Laformation
Be

   
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
  

te ‘on our iustellafions was cotalned fy the [goviets through reco: nnadse
“, Bance onel throvgh the us of mobhie electronic aevicos\(S)

-_ fin source. ‘$a Row an the Soviet noi Through ens).
_ ingenious hethed(he renenthy communicated with and wSueaes
Ansornatlon Or. sigaivicant \mi} itary aneoatssences (2)

 
    

Caf e we ERS ove) Nese defected aa ad are nov developing C53 :
: a(E Goviet nteliigerce officer ede name Hiter) enpioyed in th ) .
United ations Beoretariat. Ye expect that hs will pe able +

 fureish information of spel gical, nature, ich he hae agreed to HS)

sO. '
: Moved [as | ‘a defectos an place ies

aa Sey an 1983 we aaved
“Code Clefk at the, Pol igh United Wations Delegation) in New York
ty (code nawe (Prin woo, \ Theeughy iutermation furnished us by this Cc sy
ese

ity
hours: the United Etares Governgcnt oF besis is ables to
an Svalusted taig sources noting that. =
ier 2x and newajor © yery well prove

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
av superhaut jot this cessen IS) ‘

   
     

(ene Prime Cas

  
 
     
 

    
   
 
    
   

  
  

  
 

 

5 dally

 

    
  
 

pesentative in Now Yorks.
his data eguia not be bovge
te be the (commnications | datellige

TASK FORCE.
we Ae |

 

        
  

 

AW 55355 DocId:32195995 Page 6
 

 

 

 

| 55355

 

 

DocId: 32195995

POP

ENCLOSURE

ID DELIVERED BY THE. OFFICE

 

\

Page 2

ence Coordination

 

cr
- Mr. 7.14 Mintz
(1 - >. V. Daly) -
- Mr.  W. ‘Leavitt

- Mr. ». F. Phillips
- Mr. T. E. Burns

May 19, 1976

 

3 ia WE
Poet apa
OF CONGRESS TOMEL Seerniieg |?

me ‘

 

( an
i) cag GPO: ™ © ~ 894-120

 
 

 

 

 
 
     
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AGENCY INFORMATION Released under the John
. Kennedy
Assassination Records

 

AGENCY: FBI ollection Act of 1992
RECORD NUMBER:  124-10264-10488 (44 USC 2107 Note).

ase#:NU 55355 Date:

 

_ RECORD SERIES: HO Hi-24-2017
AGENCY FILE: NUMBER: 62-116395-1639 :

 

FROM:

PAGES:
SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL
CLASSIFICATION:

 

REVIEW_DATE:
STATUS

COMMENTS:

ORIGINATOR:

TITLE:

DATE:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

FBI
BELMONT. A. H.
TOLSON

11/22/1963
81:
CC, REQ, OPINION

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT >

Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION:
12/29/1998. : UPDATE DATE: 02/14/2001
Redact ; ~
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

INC 19 MEMO, 3 TTY, 5 NEWS ARTICLE, 3 ADMIN PAGES, 3 COVER SHEETS,
1 TELEGRAM, 5 LTRS, 1 R/S, 1 TABLE.OF CONTENTS, 1 LHM

HW. 55355 DoclId:32195995 Page 1

 
 

 

  
 
 
   
 
     
  

  
  
 

“TABLE OF CONTENTS ~

Recent FSi High Lights 7

: Commaist: Party, USA.

-_ Commun sts and the Re 20 , ovement

 

Cel Fodora Case. (Alu) —

ase. @) [al I.

| Cruel Hicknack) C

&m 5] saver lensek 5) £

(ee ad Cage ae

    
 
   

   
 
 

     
   

* 19a 942 fo macs id

nm 07 pasoposyp aq pou Rai F
g STUY S$ O87 Sf

os

  
  

 

Let fo OF Pi

af We

 

“UOSLOE PAZLMOYINOY

fig sduepaasoid

 

ostigation of Steoh Badustey :

oie a oT Jo- P

 

AW 55355 DocId:32195995 Page 3

dsai up pesoda.

Des anol 07 esto

{ jou sy pum 1801

-yuassup Lo

 
 

 

 

 

     
   

nnovoval. ‘Of: the’

   

Bie Soviet Z dership: i

 
 
 
 
 
 
     
     
   
       
   

i St: Party," ‘USA
Ao: Ke leading ©
. ddued lage. 1583, -

2, eat 935 tol finance

A), aud has: describe aa ‘th
MMUNTES' ‘Parties. outside the: s
‘the. Soviets: have: furnished th
its subyersiva. activities, :

*R3

 

     
  

  
   

 

    

 

 

: anoung waa - fury ishea < the CPUSA. durins..
OX od Russ ia fer $1,255,000. Si ‘A Savio
Lois kan, rd. Socre’

  
  
 
  

  

iS st
Qhderorir od.

     
   
     
 
 
   

the: Soviet Un (at
ghana we sre. ‘pty dabriering hin
aqidant Eonncdy, source 1 has"
fcal “prostecnt. Reaned 's assassina BS
were syaputnetiec to the Exton’: they tolled ehureh: be

cized anvielcinedy ie¢ ing’. in: Rea China as >: “benaagh | contort
Soviets 2elt cortain shes. rests in the United States would utilis
the aceassinetion to step nepotiations with Russis . and BociAlis¢

countries, attack Cuba aud then spread: the Wat. . a result. of: this
feeling, Russia irmedio ely went inte a- state-of: Hational alert
, & KYoesuls oz Our covern

of these. trips. we have Gisserinated:
, Officials of cur Give at much Sour saxter. intellirence da
& has be ea aged in shaving foreign policy, ‘For exenple; nA
35 able information: pertaining’ to: the 89
‘reaction to “the “ehgmlng. 0%. the nuclear test- ban treaty.

  
      
   
    

 
  

   
   

   
 
   
 

 

 
  
 
  

         
   
 
 
 
  

 
  
 
 

 
   

   

 

    
  
    

: Rie crusa is as Astin. ‘tae Soviets on a very Limited. bas Sis.
nd on @ high Level in their intellice nee.operations in this: country.
ia October, 12 33, Nolobachkin requested his GPUBA ‘contact (HY G51e5R)

‘te furnish the nomes of three inddvidusis who are Auerican eltizons.
Ot nesocintg tod with the CPUS4 2a: order that the Soviets could. use
“these individuals in their Antellicénce operations in the United |
States, Tcse nanes have net as yet been: furnished to the Soviets,
~ Vaca they ara, they wiki -bs names of people” we walt, control,

 

 

 

Coscvunis 2A

 
  
 

Ais currenthy concentrating its efforts o

‘St with the hava of establishing a polities1

weeron in the form or a Hegro-l ber coalition. A key, to the
wena Sa pean A, Or, (scent _

    
 

   

} AW 55355 DocId:32195995 Page 4
