4 47 2 2 49 47 47 47 47 ~N

Classification: |

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

&4
that Oswald was at the Cuban Embassy on one.day only;
7) Deba Garro de Guerrero Galvan; 8) Eunice Odio;
9) Emilio Carballido; and 10) Victor Rico Galan. The
HSCA also asked to be shown the Cuban Consulate.

The Mexican representatives informed the HSCA
staff that Victor Rico Galan had, at one time, been
arrested on political charges but that he was subse-
quently pardoned by either Diaz Ordaz or Luis Echevarria.
The Mexicans’ said that they were searching for all files
and newspaper articles requested by the HSCA..

The Mexican officials also offered. their observa-
tions on the preliminary interviews conducted the pre-
vious day. They pointed out that they found it strange
that Silvia had told Oswald he could not travel while
in Cuba. They wondered what she was trying to tell
him and whether she thought that Oswald had some objec-
tive in going to Cuba other than that ascribed by the

popular version. They considered the manner in which

Silvia obtained employment at ‘the Cuban Consulate unusual.

Generally they noted that Silvia and her brothers seemed
to have almost programed responses and a defensive demea-

nor. They pointed out, however, that all -the Durans had

Classification:

& c “ O04 wd | Classified by derivation:

 

A ABA A A RB EB A B B EB B BW

 

 
 
 
 

 
4 A £2 2 £2 £07 4 427 47

 

0422 |

Classification: |

 

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

40

had been very interested in talking to us. In their
opinion, Ruben Duran was the most credible of those
interviewed by the HSCA the previous day.

At this point, a Mexican official who had been
checking the computer records informed us that Victor
Rico Galan was dead.

HSCA staff members provided the Mexican authori-
ties with the names of the Mexican officials who had
been involved in the investigation in 1963.

HSCA staff members met again with the Mexican po-

lice authorities at 10:00 a.m. on June 2, 1978. At this

time, the Mexican police provided the copies of the news--

paper clippings on the assassination from the Excelsior.
HSCA staff members asked if the Mexicans could persuade
the newspapers to reveal the sources of their stories
about Oswald and Silvia Duran. The Mexican officials'
response was negative. The Mexican officials informed
the HSCA staff members. that most of the data we wanted
from the files was in their Security Service files. The
Mexican officials working at the HSCA explained that
they were the Mexican equivalent of the FBI and that

the Security Service was the Mexican equivalent of the

CIA; hence there was the usual bureaucratic problem

Classification:

 

Classified by derivation:

 

N

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

A DRA A VB AM A A DM VTA DA WR VA.

 
 

 

4
4
W
W
W
.

 

eee

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

6%,
the Archives.

The Mexican officials left to set up the preliminary
interviews with witnesses. The preliminary interviews
were conducted by Gary Cornwell. HSCA staff members Dan
Hardway, Edwin Lopez and Harold Leap were present during
Cornwell's questioning. The Mexican Government was re-
presented by Dr. Jesus Yanez, Commandante Florentino
Ventura, and Jesus Meixueiro Kanty, second in command
to Ventura. Pedro Gutierrez Valencia was interviewed at
2:30 pm. Ruben Duran was interviewed at 5:00 p.m.
Horacio Duran was interviewed at 5:30 p.m. Silvia Duran
was interviewed at 6:15 p.m.

At 9:30 a.m. on June 1, 1978 the HSCA staff re-
presentatives met with the Mexican police representatives.
The possibility of other witnesses and evidence was dis-
cussed. The HSCA staff requested 1) the records of the
company that employed Gutierrez Valencia in 1963; press
clippings of the Mexican newspaper coverage of Oswald ..
and Silvia Duran (attached); an interview with Oscar
Rodriguez Molina; 4) an interview with Oscar Contreras;
5) individual files on Elena Garro de Paz and Silvia

duran; 6) evidence related to Silvia Duran's assertion

oa Classification:

Classified by derivation:

47 49° 427 47 49 47 4 47 47 ™N

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

f
f
f
,
,
f
f
f
f
f
f
A

  
r CA RE BD BB BA B BS BSB EB DA

o

Classification: :

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

87
informed the staff members at this meeting that they had
located Silvia Duran, Horacio Duran, Ruben Duran and
Pedro Gutierrez Valencia and that each person was willing
to be interviewed by the HSCA representatives. Proce-
dure for conduct of the interviews was also discussed
at this meeting.

The Mexican government decided that the initial
interview..would be an informal contact with the witnesses
to describe the Committee's objectives. The witnesses'
statements would be formalized at a later, taped inter-
view. The Mexican officials informed the HSCA staff mem-
bers that they had been unable to locate Oscar Contreras,
Elena Garro de Paz, Elenita Garro de Paz and Oscar
Molina. The Mexican Government had not had contact with
the Garros since 1968. The HSCA staff members provided
additional information on Oscar Rodriguez Molina. The
Mexicans said that they were trying to locate the Garros
through the Foreign Ministry since Elena's ex-husband,
Octavio Paz, was an important person in that ministry.
The Mexicans asked that we determine the name of the
Mexican Government contact during 1964 with the Warren -

commission so that they could locate their records in

Classification:

“a c v 04 i J : | Classified by derivation: _

  

 
 
 
 

 
  
 
a

4 49 42 42 49 47 47 47 47 ™

Classification: |

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

- 85 -

trip to Cuba by HSCA representatives and Congressmen.

At 6:00 p.m. the Committee staff met with Presi-

 
 
 

dent Fidel Castro who assured the Committee that neither
he nor his government had any involvement in the assassina-
tion of President John F. Kennedy. (See Castro inter-
view.)

The House Select Committee on Assassinations staff
departed Havana,..Cuba at 10:00 a.m, April 4, 1978, arriv-

ing in Washington, D.C. at 4:30 p.m.

 
 
 
 

Classification:

‘er Ary
aC 044 ‘ | Classified by derivation:

rr A aA ABBAS BD ADA BB BB AB WB
ae 2 a ee

Classification:

; (This form is to be used for material extracted
|g from ClA—controlled documents.)

Appendix 2: HSCA Procedural Write-up Mexico Trip

House Select Committee on Assassinations staffers
Gary Cornwell, Dan Hardway, Edwin. Lopez and Harold Leap
arrived at the Mexico City airport at 8:30 p.m., May
30, 1978. (All times are Mexico City times, unless
otherwise specified.) They were met and escorted
through Customs by David Patton, an employee of the
United States Embassy.

The following morning, May , 1978 the HSCA

Richard Howard concerning procedure. Mr. Howard sche-
duled a meeting at 11:15 a.m. with the Chief of the CIA
Station in Mexico City. This meeting was preliminary

in nature and concerned procedures regarding arrangement
of the interviews of ex-CIA employees in Mexico.

At 12:00 noon, the NSCA representatives and
Richard Howard met representatives of the Government of
Mexico. The Mexican representatives were: 1) Dr. Jesus
Vanez, Advisor to the Attorney General's Executive Offi-
cer; 2) Fernando Baeza, Chief Administrative Officer for
the Attorney General; and 3) Commandate Florentino Ven-
tura, Chief of the Mexican Federal Police. The Mexicans

Classification:

20.8 ai: q | Classified by derivation: __

0: A: MA: A Ma a a a ew

é representatives met with U.S. Embassy Political Officer

 

“N

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

p
p
p
4
f
p
f
f
p
f
L
p
BD 497 AW 47 £7 LF 4 47 47

Classification: |

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

- 82 -

Appendix I: HSCA Procedural Write-up Cuba Trip 1

Select Committee members Chairman Louis Stokes
and Congressman Christopher Dodd, accompanied by G.
Robert Blakey, Gary Cornwell and Ed Lopez of the Select
Committee staff arrived in Cuba at 3:30 p.m., March 30,
1978. They were met and escorted through Cuban Customs
by the Mayor of Havana, Honorable Oscar Fernandez Mell,
the Minister of Justice, Dr. Armendo Torres Sentrayll,

Senor Buergo, Ricardo Escartin and the Cuban government

Senor Mell escorted the Select Committee staff to a res-
taurant in Old Havana. The following day Richardson
Preyer arrived in Cuba at 7:00 a.m.

At 9:30 a.m. on March 31, 1978 the Select Committee
representatives met with Ricardo Escartin, Senor Buergo
and Captain Felipe Villa of the Ministry of the Interior.

The Cuban Government gave the members and Committee
their official reply to the Committdée's questionnaire,
given to the Cuban government prior to the Committeee's
trip to Cuba.

At 3:00 p.m., the Select Committee met again with

Classification:

A a VM Aa VM Aa VM VM TA WM TR WA

200414
0S: Ay: A £Y @ 4 4 4 AD A

| Classified by derivation:

p translator, Juanita Vera. At approximately 7:30 p.m.

 

 
JFK Assassination System Date. ~ 4/14/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

 

   

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: = 180-10144-10236
RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 30-59-01
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM:
_ TO:
TITLE: HSCA PROCEDURAL WRITE-UP: CUBA TRIP
. Released under the John
. Eennedy
; Assassination Records
ene ooro008 collection Act of 1992
. (44 USC 2107 Note).
. ase#iNU 530680 Date:
SUBJECTS : bé—-O5-2017
HSCA, TRIP TO CUBA .
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 08/21/1995
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

Box 24

Seemed

"v9.1
AW 53080 DocId: 32272523

Page 1
f
é
f
so
p
$
f
f
¢
s
f
p.

a se a ee ee a aT <

Classification: |

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

- 83.-

Ricardo Escarten, Senen Buergo, Felipe Villa and Juanita
Vera. During this session the two major areas of dis-
cussion were Lee Harvey Oswald's visa application and the
dates of Jack Ruby's visits to Cuba in 1959. (See trans-
cript.) At 7:30 p.m. the House Select Committee on Assas-
sinations staff dined with the Minister of Justice, Armando
Torres Sartrayll.

At 9:00 a.m. on April 1, 1978, the Select Committee
staff again met with the same Cuban officials for a
third session. Santo Trafficante was the major area of
discussion. (See transcript.) At noon, Committee members
and staff representatives met with Cuba's Minister of
Education, Honorable Jose Ramon Fernandez, who gave a
presentation on the improvement in quality of Cuban edu-
cation since the Cuban Revolution.

Following Senor Fernandez's discussion at 3:15 p.m.
Eusebio Azcue was interivewed by the Committee staff re-
presentative. Azcue was auestioned. extensively about
Oswald's alleged trip to Mexico City, Oswald's alleged
visits to the Cuban Consulate, and Senor Azcue's alleged
argument with Lee Harvey Oswald. (See transcript of Azcue

interview. )

Classification:
COALS

| Classified by derivation:

i: A a A a a a a me

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

f
‘
4
r,
‘
‘
‘
s
6
rr CA A RB BBE BABE BB BB Aa BW

4” 47 7 4 sap 47” IF 47 47
Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

- 84 -

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

At 7:30 p.m., April 1, 1978, Messers Escartin and
Hernandez accompanied the House Select Committee staff
to the Tropicana Club which, prior to the Revolution,
was operated by organized crime. The Tropicana Club is
presently run by the Cuban government.

At 11:00 a.m. on April 2, 1978, the Committee
staff again met with Senen Buergo, Ricardo Escartin,
Felipe Villa, Aramis Gutierrez and Juanita Vera. Santo
Trafficante, Jack Ruby and Mexico City. were the major

A terminated at 1: 00.

   

areas of discussion. This -sessio:

  

-ing-the: afternoon=session the major area of discussion
“was the alleged pro-Castro involvement in the assassina-
tion.

At 9:15 a.m., April 3, 1978, the Committee staff

met with the Cuban officials for a final work session.
During this session, the intelligence agencies and

- general questions derived from the questionnaire the Com-
mittee provided the Cuban government, were the major areas
of discussion. Also during the session the Committee

staff and Cuban officials exchanged listings of pending

material which might be covered during a subsequent

Classification:

| Classified by derivation: ___

ya av a a as

| MBM DM RB MBM A DM A BM VM VM WM TA

   
