   

i

 
 

At such time as essentfal US military control
is gained in Cuba, matters og civil affairs and mili-
tary government will be givef priority and undertaken

in accordance with policy egtablished by the Department
of State. This includes p byision for a provisional
military government prepargd to assume full legislative,
executive, and judicial coptrol until such functions

ean be turned over to other authority on direction in

an expeditious and orderly, manner. Remaining resistance
elements of the Communist buban government, armed forces

or other groups will be isolated, contained and destroyed

 
   
 

or captured as rapidly as possible. US military combat

units will be scheduled for early turn to the jinited
States consistent with security conside:
c. Department of State Operations.

(1) Phase I. The Department of State will seek to
Place the United States in as broad a multilateral
context as possible.

(a) Innediately sound out Latin American

Governments to determine whether the United States

can count upon a 2/3 majority decision authorizing

the use of military forces under Article 6 of

the Rio Treaty.

. 10
nw 54214 vod DoaSbADET,. 7CDEPIAL UAMNIIMA wacnn
or not the President's decision should be sought to
implement this plan.

(2) The initial stages of a spontaneous revolt will
be supported by the United States through propaganda,
covert operations and other actions as necessary] (out
maintaining the appearance of non-US involvement should
the revolt tatl.]] In the event that th revolt spreads
as a popular movement against the Communist regime, the
United States should be capable of rapid military action
to forestall a concerted md drastic reprisal program in
the interest of humanity and the mission of this plan.

(3) UIs Military Reaction.

    

ior warning and with eighteen (18)

ays of preparation a co

 
  
 

inated airborne-amphibious
assault could be executed whi » it is anticipated,
would gain control of key milita installations and
the principal centers of population of Cuba within
ten (10) days and result in minimum US and Cuban
casualties, }

(b) A requirement to reduce significantly the pre~
assault period would necessitaté incremental commit-
ment of US forces as they co A be assembled and em-
ployed. Under this circumstance the time required to

gain essential US militanpy control of Cuba could be

      

appreciably extended. owever, reduction of US mili-

tary reaction time may be of overriding importance.
In such case, air ang naval forces could attack in

Cubans with little delay from

Sol oh

support of the rebe

she time s ¢vecisicniis

HW 54214 DoclO:BesaAGANGBe FAONPAIAL tHAaINt tA Aran
epartment of Defense Operations.

  

(1) When directed by higher authority, or as tne

situation demands, the Department of Defense will

  
 
  

initiate preparatdzy actions for US military inter-
vention in Cuba. Th&se actions may include pre-
positioning forces and ‘equipment by execution of
current cover and deception plans.

(2) Upon final seeteton\ ot the President, the Joint

execution of military

  

Chiefs of Staff will direct

 

emvention plans for Cuba

nw 54214 pod Dos SPGARET,- cCDEPIAL WANNI INR MAcCNDW
  

or not the President's decision should be sought to
implement this plan.

(2) The initial stages of a spontaneous revolt will
be supported by the United States through propaganda,
covert operations and other actions as necessary {out
maintaining the appearance of non-US involvement should
the revolt tain] In the event that the revolt spreads
as a popular movement against the Communi st regime, the
United States should be capable of rapid military action .

to forestall a concerted md drastic reprisal program in

the interest of humanity and the mission of this plan.
(3) US Military Reaction.

¢

ays of preparation a co

dor warning and with eighteen (18)

  
   
  
 

> inated airborne-amphibipus
assault could be executed whith, it is anticipated,
would gain control of key milita installations and
the principal centers of population of Cuba within
ten (10) days and result in minimub US and Cuban
casualties. i
(db) A requirement to reduce jignificantly the pre-
assault period would necessitaté incremental commit-
ment of US forces as they coyid be assembled and em-
‘ployed. Under this circumstance the time required to

gain essential US milita control of Cuba could be

  
    
 
  
    

appreciably extended. owever, reduction of US mili-

tary reaction time may be of overriding importance.
In such case, air an naval forces could attack in

support of the rebe} Cubans with little delay from

she times tsicniis made. in air assoult ¥ Hy
eculd be initicte3 wv gpuf etent (8) hours, ex,

Ce.
“D
oO

  
 

 

en

 

zirborne assault could. Tejnitiated within

(5) aay] and a Tavy/larine ampnt force

could be count tted| tnnoe (3) days ater [ry
( y,

 

“ARN GCPANnFT OAPATAL WEIN ETA Aaranit

 

 

 

ww sazia DdbPL SECO Te GDEPIAL WANINIINA =o wiAcAne
AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

FROM

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Jcs
202-10001-10182
FOIA SERIES —
DOC 183

‘OSD

00/00/00

16

MONGOOSE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
TOP SECRET

ic

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
07/30/98

Reviewed by JCS,

~ NOUOINT.STAFF OBJECTION

 

OSD, CIA, State.

Date : 08/28/98
Page : 1

PEleased Bidet” the Toh ~~
. Kennedy

kesagsination Records
ollection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note).
ases#: NW 54214 Date:
Ho9-13-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

HW 54214 DocId: 32424913 Page 1
 

  

epartment of Defense 0 erations,

(1) When directed by higher authority, or as the

situation dema)

 

Ss, the Department of Defense will
; initiate preparatory actions for US military inter-
vention in Cuba. Th&se actions may include pre-~
positioning forces and quipment by execution of
current cover and deception plans.
(2) Upon final decision\of the President, the Joint
Chiefs of Staff will direc execution of military

  

_, intenvention plans for Cuba

  

(3). In concept, initial military operations commence §
with a blockade, concentratéd air strikes and coordi-
“ nated Naval gunfire to eff t destruction of enemy

air power and to neutralizé and destroy as much as -
possible of the enemy tank, armor, artillery, and
anti-air capability.

(a) In western Cu¥a airborne and amphibious
assaults will be condfcted by a Joint Task Force
with the initial objective of seizing the city
of Havana and obtainihg control over the seat of
government. Army airborne units will secre the
major airfields in tha area as well as major port
areas required for follcw-on forces and logistic
resupply. Navy/Marine mphibious forces will

secure a beachhead in tha vicinity of Havana: and

  
   

designated Army units will \follow the Marines over
the beach. The Marine amphibious forces will be

prepared to re-embark for furthe operaticns as
directed, :

(b) In eastern Cuba, Guantanamo wilh be re-

inforced by air-. an3 sea-lifted Marines for defense }/

ww sacra DLP SERRE Toe GDEPIAL WAMNIINA =o Aran
[28-te ase, Additional Navy/Marine amphibious

forces wil

  
   
   
 
 
 

e employed in operations against Cuban

 

forces in the § tiago de Cuba complex or in other
Operations in easteba Cuba as directed.
(4) Subsequent to the Seizure of Havana and San-
tiago and the Successful defense of Guantanamo,
Operations will be conducted o defeat remaining
pockets of Tesistance, Additidnal amphibious and
airborne operations may be required. The most likely
areas for such operations are: Matanzas, Nuevitas,
Nearo, Trinidad, Bahia de Coc nos, and the Tale of
Pines. '
“ (5) At such time as essent al US military control
is gained in Cuba, matters off civil affairs and mili- -
tary government will be give priority and undertaken
in accordance with policy egtablished by the Department
of State. This includes prpvision for a provisional
military government prepared to assume full legislative,
executive, and judicial coptrol until such func tions
can be turned over to other authority on direction in
an expeditious and orderly) manner. Remaining resistance
elements of the Communist Guban government, armed forces
or other groups will be isohated, contained and destroyed

ble. US military combat

  
 
 

units will be scheduled for early teturn to the United

States consistent with security conside tons. |

c. Department of State Operations. —
(1) Phase I, The Department of State will seek to

place the United States. in as broad a multilateral

context-as possible.

(a) Immediately sound out Latin American
Governments to determine whether the United States
can count upon a 2/3 majority decision authorizing
the use of military forces under article 6 of

the Rio Treaty.

10

HW 54914 TB... SELOET vaef DECI DARING tha tinrana.
