rR eased under the ohn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act o€ 19927;.(44 USC 2107'Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017

fatty

ty
Sw

 

assisted in

probably the Soomunia tes -
sal os

are Ebeesns ee

ae ce

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32164546 Page 7 ° ”
 

 

[Released ahder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 US€ 2107Hote).
DATE: 11724-2017 .

     
  

' He was bern on s Suly ol, LOSS, and liyea ca Bor; ar Gory -
Re hed aspirations: te become. a diplomat dur the dgsot aoand. 9:
was at the Forsigh Affairs Institute... However; he fail ri hy
medical and was rejecteds HE pibed this failure to the
"fact that from the age of ¢1 s he hed been regularly’ given o
powdered poison ‘which | had the effect ef inducing oxygen | .
starvation Of the bratne : This Led to per anent. physical |
damage. to his brain widen eased. trembling in his iimbs and
blanks. the poyder waa given to hin toe prevent him - .
getting in tas way (mes ‘)s° He was unwilling: te. talk : about |.
whom he might get an the ¢ : os Dn

   

 

5 After fa ailing z C preasure wes z
goin the ReGebe - - boos the form of brain-nas
association of horets she and. coposite idéas which ae ecaned a
physical breakdown (a abreact cn" is, I believes ‘the technical
term: 'perelom’ in Rugsian),. - The whole proctss was accompanied
by such severe mental strain as. te produce physical illness.

é@ admitted to succumbing.to ¢ bs peessure, which had the nicks |

namé of "prese cor erenge™ buty in some way which he. would not |
explains he mane, Bey so Be saids not to work for t ReGebe |

  

 

   

: poh : His’ ‘nectings with Osy sald GOoUk
place iy wri aoe Boy. SS 360 ww th the apparent purpose, according
to hing of inducing him to think that “they” had cooaridence in’
him, It seemed to him the Gswald wes being or had been . :
subjected to the same "“prags conference" treatment because he
hed a persccuted ‘Look and resembled a -madmans As 8 continuation
of the “press con erence’ brain-waching process a form of semix ©
hypnosis. was used ind duced by sucking éisguised opium cigarettes.

 

        

   

o sergieveky was nervotis but talked. “peasonablyy seened Boo
‘perfect possession of his facultles and insiated on the ee
accuracy of bis story, although he would have. Like to see ae
hotegraph of Mra. Oswald to meke abscolutel Upe- of hex identity
Unfortunately we could not find one)» Ne seemed pleasant, not
unnaturally pather nervous, md qoite well dressed (goed sporte |
acket and: trousers) « - Ee threw dn one more piece of evidence, .
yithout any eubellishnent te give it more apparent connexion:
with his basic story, which, losever; doea not bear. the interpre]
tation he ‘pad on | abe : Hor whes Lt. ie ageths, Bt af 68 follows.
; oo & [SER ‘, x
‘Some. time in 4960. i) Sastre” ves Sea tiGe Co.
ergievaky: got mear te him in the crowd and was taken by Castro
or arn Ameplicatte. Gastro addressed a few worte to him in :
mgbish and when he discovered that: he did not. undergtand © hem
Ot an interpreter ome Bey te him words. te. the effect that th
would work together. © Serg gieveky neant wee ag. evi
‘his thesis: that a plot Was being
dt ‘probably demonstrates da th
Soviet cuban frien

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32164546 Page 5
fPReleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 US€ 2107‘Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017

 

 

“106 5°" Sergievsky ° :
earlier he Seen offered a job. in a af eoloak Pac tory dn
Gorky (secording to bis Adentity aoc nt he is an eg loyes'
= 88 opD08 ed to s Séeneh worker ~ ‘slough nehit) Re had
-Hoscew many times and had tried to get into the /
American mbascye biet (EeGeB.) Enew he was in Moscow and
what he was oe {ieee te a : about Cswald) _-
and knew how thiz bably eins why be
disregarced cur waniing abo eaves sguping devicés in the |
i ing ery worried at what woud en bo °°
‘han when he left’ Fe On belig tole the mas &
surely haye » &
welied. On. ee te he sip hime
When 4 o
£. shia, he
e though it would wnaleo ne dai
2 the Embassy op went out by car and
‘stations  . yp would still
home. He spent a long time
what excuses he could give when olcked up fer co.
Enbassye He finally walked out, past both. militia:
the militia car, but mo move wes made to detain Aim,
deast dn: Siuht ‘or ‘the DaSaye © ee ON

Lis - it ig Admpes 35 whe ‘for me to evaluate the reliability |
oF gergleva sy 3 évidence.: I do not think that “he was "sens". ”
wmlless he was a very good actor, eapeciaily as there Was
no point. in giving: us this story. On his own evideacé (out
1ot in behaviour or epgcarance) he is to some extent. mental
defective but iY a mentally defective person were going to
make up a story of this sort he would surely pack at A th
uch weightier evidence and gresutes detail, end would hayes:
€levorated the indident described in paragraph 9. It may -
be thet the KaGebs did try and reepult Kim and that at the
same times Oswald did make some unconnected autinAmerican -
reparks ineluding penarka. about Ageaisinating the Presidente
It ig even conceivable that the E.G Bo really were dreaning
uy some plot of assassination (wresumably wit thout higher
authority %) 3 connexion with the possible succession of
‘a Pightwing Presidents. and that Cawald’on his return home .
avried out 4% “his: own instigation ‘an idea which had been put mo
Anto his hesd three years earlier in a different contexts, 2."
Sergievsky said that May 1960 was the last time he saw Cawald’
so that even iP Sexgievsky! 8 gtory ig true and could.bear —.: .
‘the interpretation he puts on it, Oawald's relations with = >
the heGoBe da. che period 1960 - 62 2 are totally ann owie:,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32164546 Page 6
 

i 44 USC 2107 Hote).
‘ $s i i ds Collection Act of 1992 {
Kennedy Assassination Recor
Released under the John F.
: 11-14-2017
DATE: 1 . . io | -

 

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION -
POSTPONEMENT INFORHATION SHEET (JFK MATERIALS)

S

 

Page(s) withheld entirely at this location in the: file.

One or more of the following statements, where indicated,
explain this deletion (these deletions) . TA Ag

/

{] Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement | ot
rationale indicated below with no Segregable material
available for disclosure. All references relate to - ;
Section 6 of the “President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 199 :

  

2."

{[] Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

{Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)
‘
W Subsection ic (other matter rel
defense,
‘ the condu

ating to military
intelligence Operations or
ct of foreign relations)

[] Subsection

IN]

(living person who provided
confident ial. .information).

{] Subsection 3 (unwarranted invasion.of privacy)

 

 

  

(] Subsection ¢ (cooperating individual or foreign
government, currently requiring poe
protection) 7 ana

{]} Subsection 5 (security or protective procedure,.

: currently or expected to be utilized)
{] Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK
Assassination investigation. .
€]. For your information: . ; .
: .
4 The following number is to be used for reference

‘regarding this page (these, pages): . -

iS ~~

LOS ~ Kage ge YU pas [~S

XOCOOCOCOXK .

DoclId:32164546 Page 2
  

Eh Magalbee tH A992 ih eo RC ee hte be inn

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

.. AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: §124-10156-10019

RECORD SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:  105-82555-4717

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

ORIGINATOR: DOS
FROM: |
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 07/29/1964
PAGES: 1]

SUBJECT: LHO, RP, ASSOC

DOCUMENT_TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION: cere CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: — 10/22/1998 UPDATE DATE: 02/12/2001

STATUS — Redact

RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1B)
JEK Act 6 (1(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DoclId:32164546 Page 1

 
 

. ased wyder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 199a (44 USC.2107 Hote}.
DATE: Tatas _o:
= a
. a} - * ° x
: “JP. - * . ra
on 6 Ld - a
oe SG . © >
: erenk

eC a nel RE sieaay,

» foe August, 1964.

Nee Vag .° . ~¥ s o|

 

 

yf poe

/ aa,

if ,

y a . Konstantin Petrovich SERGIEVSKY. . )Y
fl - é t

NI

I attach for your information an account, written

by a member of the British Embassy. in Moscow, of-an interview

with the above-named Soviet citizen, who visited the Embassy

on 29th July saying that he had important information to give

on-who killed Fresident Kennedy. An officer of the American

Embassy in Moscow attended the interview. His Embassy is

-stated to be of the opinion that this matter might provide a
5 CTR “link in the chain of evidence before the Warren Commission.

“76!

ee eS
PCG:

At the end of the interview SERGIEVSKY asked for
. political asylum. In accordance with instructions the .
. British Embassy were obliged to refuse this and SERGIEVSKY
left the premises.

_ 1-10-94
- Gsasiied by 1203_€DD Ik
«. Daatessity ow HENIEA)

  
   
 

 
 
  
   
  
 

__ Macon COPY FILED IN

 

 

SG)

meenincst See
peek
i 4

XEROK
AUG 31 4.

 

 

 

DoclId:32164546 Page 3
  
  

[Released~ahder the’ John fF. Kénnedy Assassination Records Collection Act o€ 1992 (44 US¢,2287;Hote).

 

 

   
 
 
   

_“\he ebove-naméd Soviet citizen came into” the Embassy on
duly 292 I was called out to the desk to apeak to hime iis ..
said that he dad importaat information on who E421 Gd Fresident :
Renmnedy ond that he knew Osweld. | He wanted to make a-.state=# a
ment about ite Could I get’ him inte contact with the Amepican |
Embassy? - He explained that the American Embassy was too welk |
guarded for him. te get in. He had ¢ gucces ea in slipping Ante. o
‘cur Embassy because one of the two gates was net Baarceds

“Be

 

   
   

 

 

     
   
 

 

 

 
    
    
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
    
    
  
 
 
      
  
 
   
   
 
  
      

“The American Eubasay on being inforsed of this rect

sent ee We Horgan (Second Seeretary) over to see hin.
Ep. Morgen and.I inte:

 

fLewed him tegether. His story was
rather ea Ltn end disconnected and he was very unwilling

to talk about some things., He started off by showing us a
slip cof paper on which he had written the three points be

 

wished to tnake (gphetocesy and translation attached original Po
with the Americans}. fhe" following ig a conpilawi on of, what: |

  
 

he saide._ cTexas: - Sere 7
3 : 6 net. Oswela in 1960 if Gorky: (place of. meeting? Fh.
rae art). Gs weld teld him through an “interpreter (on being aa
asked why an interoreter was used, he said that Oswald's ee
tussian was nos gece} that hé had an old friend called Ruby, | a
whose deserigtion as a. ehedy night-club owner accorded with .
what came out Later end whe would give Rin hélp in the futures: |
‘Sergievsky made a gréat deal of this points) | Cewald invited

Sérgievsky to do some shooting practice with bin (using pifles)s
He pefuseds in this connexion Oswald. asked nim what he thoug. ht
would happen if the President of the United States should be
assassinated.e There were groups in the United States We.
could Go thise’ Sergievaky said that he assumed that. Cswala |
méant some sort of seclalist op radical group but Oswald denied.
this and phasised that he had the Communist Perty in mind. |

Hisenhower was President, but Oswald explicitly
ined that they were thinking of Nixen as their candidate.
oF the assassination was to produce a reaction ae the

 

 

 

 
 

      

   

 

i.

|
: pet
United tates against the so=< alle wi oa hy
nited states against, the eo-calied wild mene ye Lo P|
ke. In sengievs zy "so. opinion rand ETited Tennedy for the | us
Same purpose under an exter neign of the samé plane . Sergiovsly | {|

was certain that ere .G fas a member of the K.eGsB. - Hig 8
ter, whom he knew worked-£6F them, knew rss Oswald before per!. |
=f

ig
marrlege' to Csvald and hed Lived with her. He also congidered {

that Oswald was working for the KeGeBR. and that Oswald's

connexion with him (Sergi eveky) Was, Dart of a KeGeBy effort to
gst hin into. their services. too (see da: ragraph 7 below) »

 

    
         

 
 
 

5a During qhes stioning the following p
background smengeds~ was .

 

    
 
 

points in Sergievsiy’ 8.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32164546 Page 4
