 

P.S.:. Just located and called Faradido's former secretary
who now tives here in Miaml.- It's by no means hard
~ corroboration, but she does recal! the group being at the
airport and Faratdo running up and down to his office
ctaking photos. She doesn't remember anything in particular
“about. the group, except that it was:at the Key West ‘Airport.
She: worked. upstairs in the office and only went down to. the
. coffee shop: to get a cup of coffee. .She says she went to
work-for Faraldo shortly after the Cuban missile crisis in
October, 1962. She left Key West 10 years ago. Although
her memory, wasn't detailed, she thus far provides the best
backing of Faraldo's recollection that the incident occurred
in the: summer of 1963. ;

ate

   

 

 

HW 54653" DocId:32262492 Page 8.
 

Faraldo said’he didn't believe Abe - totd him to deposit the :

‘money first in his bank account, The man sald he would but,
“according to Faraldo, he never showed up again. Faraldo said
che thought he still had. the man's card, but. before | left

on Monday night, we spent two hours looking. for it, first at
his home and ‘then at his office.

In the course ‘of that search here are-names from other cards
we came across, ‘each of whom Faraldo says he has had contact
with:

Reinaldo Padial - a "hunting and “fishing guide"who led Faraldo
to the’ Cuban. fnterior on one trip to a possible submarine base
near the- ‘Bay: ‘of Pigs,

Gordon Kelty - United. States Information Agency; Nashington |
#383-7700.. |

Forrest. K.. ‘Geerkin - Consul of the United States of America.
Cc. ‘Conrad Hanley - Officer. in. Charge, USTA, “Miami
G. Lt. Latimer - U.s, Customs, Enforcement, Miami.

Faraltdo wouldn't tell me the details of his relationship-with
any of :these fellows, neither would he tell ‘me the name of
his regular contact with the "USTA, "

Faratdo says. he stopped working for the USIA. a few years ago
when after a dangerous trip to Cuba he personatly hand-carried
his film to Washington to the USIA office.on Pennsylvania Avenue.
vet when he checked on it several days latér he was given

the. run-around about what had happened to it and & finally

fold it had been "lost in the soup.""-(ruined while being developed).
50; Faraldo: says,-except for his supplying information to ~
certain drug enforcement agencies, he is out of the intelligence |

vuSiness today.

tmmm. ” Funny how these casual over-thé-transom leads turn out
jo be far more maze-like than they first appear.

* * %

ddendum: However the Faraldo lead turns out, | may have come .

cross a bigger break in coincidentally meeting ‘the current ‘manager

f the Key. West airport, Ken Agnew. Faraldo told me he had once ;
anaged. the Marathon airport and my grapevine sources here in Miami™-

ad some ‘time ago told me that the fellow who once managed the. Marathon .

irport had extensive photos of the’ ‘No Name on.-: Turns .
ut Agnew is the. man. He had, in: ‘fact, _gotten-to ‘know the boys
retty. well. Yes, he knew Richard Whatley and,yes, he remembered

 

he fellow with. the mohawk haircut. He didn't. remember his name,
lut his ‘description of the guy makes him a pretty warm prospect.
or the Odio connection. Agnew ts going to ‘dig up some photos
or. me. ‘(Remember the No Name Key group was a-Fiorini/InterPen/IAB-
peration described by ‘Hans Tanner as. financed by. "dispossessed hotel”

nd. ‘gambling room owners ‘who operated under Batista." sae

 

HW 54653 Docld:32262492 Page 7

a
 

ro. by Aerovias Q ‘personnel

»Godinet; ‘Through her brother who
_< got me her address In Miami.
iwhen it: closed down its flights. In 4

Nevertheless, Faraldo specifically remembered where
that box of -mani-tests -at fhe airport. With the help

and said that. the person
“| Prepared the. manifest for the flight
‘ is'stil
She. told me she left Aerovias 9

who would ha
in question_was Celia.
in Key West, Fara]

961...

he had ke
of the c

airport.manager,* we rummaged through: every, possible storage a

The current Manager, R,

where Faraldo is most

“a rain storm ruined the c
The box, said Fara]

do, was on a shelf suspen
1 f The ceiling
in’ a ‘black soggy heap

Kenneth Ag

said everything that had been stored in that room also was

We probed through the-h
without any luck, :

eap of discarded material

With the Key West angles almost exhausted, téinal ly decided

“check. Ral phoRentck. at WIV) this=morn

Faraldo's: names he said, "]
and couldn't find anything,
for us to break, obviously, if we di
and Ruby in the group, right?"
Because of my interest,
He said he did vaguely recall’ such a
“coming or going." He admitted, how
stringers. doesn't get the same caret
own. “film,”

it didn't happen."

So, in-sum,
point,
: We ‘in fact,
suspect and may even fit into a
investigations. ©
which make-it difficult to totally d
He is, most ot att,

and is nationally. known
diesel .injection servicing business
Photography: - He has provided

and was. described by one. Federal

ranking". whose information is always

Faraldo retained his credibility over the many hours }
however, very anxiety ridden and perhaps on

him. . He's now,
edge of a nervous breakdown.
weetold the’ manifest records
S50 casually discarded. tn addition,
upset about the shooting
out that incident, |

HW 54653 DoclId:32262492 Page 4

n, and that's not too careful,
the possibility it slipped through our fingers.

On the-surtfdce we have,
corroborated with hard evidence
a few-factors that. seem strangely
pattern of misinformation ass

@ guy witha good reputation.
graduate of Auburn, -he was airport m
in his field

and sinking of their
am absolutely certain now

bog. Assoon as lomentio

Id : ‘Know-what. you're talking about. H
mentioned it.fo.us some time ago and we went
I+ wout

d have been a damn ‘good s
d find it. He had: Oswatd

That took care of my oblique

he would check the files
.9Foup. being ‘in Key West. '
ever, that contributions.
ul .treatment as the stati
» "so," he said, "there's
If it's not

up unti

There are; however, other
iscard.‘Faratdo's contenti.
: An enginee
anager ‘at. Key West for. 31
+ Today’ he runs a-succes
and does commercial aeria

information for other govenment
agent for. mé as a source of

_"very good.™

he and his wife are extr
houseboat.. In
it has nothing

ve

do:

pt.
urrent.
rea
sure
eiling
ded.

on
new,

to
ned

approach,
again,

"el teer
from.
on!

filed.
l this: |
in’.

octated

factors =

on.”

ring
years

sful}

!

“agencies: .

"highest

emely .
checking
“to: :

A pe nen epee ne et ene

 

 
 

 

 

do with our investigation. A few weeks ago, Faraldo had filed

a clatm.in court against a fellow named Michael Gill for an ©

unpaid $599 bill for repair to his 40' sailboat, the "Restless
Lady." Faraldo won the case and got. a Judgement against. Gill.
Gill's lawyer-was Key West city attorney Manny James, recently

indicted with a few tuk other city officials for drug“dealing; -

most were convicted, James was acquitted on a legal. technicality.
Faraldo had noticed some marijuana stashed on Gill's boat’ when

he was repairing it. Before the judggment, Gill had the boat ownership
transferred to a friend named Hollifiéld.. A week after the ;
judgement’ was ;filed, Gill was arrested for-cocaine dealing.

It appears that Gill and his friends are seeking revenge.on

Faraldo. “Hollifield was seen just. hast Saturday mw cruising

around the boatyard where Faraldo is repairing his boat.

As credible as he is, there is another factor which may be

an influence on. the. quality: of Faraldo's memory: Several years
ago he-was- attacked by an irate tourist who had gone bezerk after

_ being told. to move his car out of a no~parking lane. °A huge ee
guy, a building contractor from North Carolina, he smashed Faraldo's:.
face in; crushing his facial bones and-damaging his eyes... He then
kicked. him: on the ..ground,..breaking his. neck and back. Faraldo

“still wears.a.neck brace constantly and often aback brace.

He hasbeen unable to get the guy extradicted from North Carolina,
despite ‘the fact ‘the fellow has attacked three other people there..

Here are a few other things | found out: about George Faraldo:

A Navy veteran, he is an expertenced pilot, an expert photographic.
technician. and an’ electronic expert. | would estimate the. value
.of photographic and electronic equipment |. saw-myself at well

over. $100,000. He was very early involved in intelligence ®

Agency. (l,asked him if: he thought it was possible: that he was

gathering activity. in Cuba for the United States Information: .° y gnu

Ppeee?

_ He’ said he had ‘known Batista personally.("l think he was one-of
the best. friends the United States ever had," he said) and was
very friendly with former Castro Air Force 6hiet, Pedro-Diaz
lenz -- although, ltike Howard Hunt, he didn't remember the guy
who fled Cuba:with Lanz, our friend Frank Fiorini.

really working for the ClA.. "Yes," he said, "I‘would 2s ane of

Féraldo..said he. made a number of intelligence gathering trips into
Cuba after. Castro took over and was once retained and beaten’ by

Castro police. He also flew numerous aerial photographic missions :;
and claims to have shots of the missile sights long before Kennedy
announced they existéd. He explained how he had aerial cameras

built: into the bottom of his plane and wired to be triggered by

him from the cockpit. He claims he. never accepted a cent jin pay

for his intel ligence-gathering work but when | asked himawas ‘funding ..~
his equipment, he smiled and said, "No comment," nn

Once, Faraldo said, he was approached byca.man from Washington who _-
gave himjcard which said he represented: the. "Union"-something.
(Perhaps "Union News," Faraldo isn't sure.) ‘The man sdid he was ©
interested in Faraldo's "Cuban operations" and sald he would

-pay him a quarter of ow million dollars if he worked with him.

HW 54653 DocId: 32262492. Page 6

fentkA

 
 

 

 

TO:

ET

_ . i tyr

MEMO ~ 5/25/76 ‘

“Dave Marston

FROM: Gaeton Fonzi

returned from Key West early this: nerning more frustrated than

tired. “Although there are a few lines I lett out down there which
Phy check back on in a couple. of days, and a few here in Miami
-yet to be checked, there's a possibility that George Faratdo' Ss
“story may eventual ly wind up a valid question mark. For that
reason,” there should be a record.of the details of my investigation,
in addition to minor nuances and suspicions which later may turn
out to.be relevant. More importantly, - however, are a couple

of, fascinating investigative sidestreets. which coincidentally al
like. to believe) popped up.

initially talked. to Faratdo Vast. ; Feigay ‘by telephone. After an

hour's. conversation with him, 1 was left: with the impression,..as

mentioned then, that he seemed a credible” ‘character. There were,

'. however, istrange, undulations in his: ability to recall -detaits. “Some

‘recollections were extremely detailed, others extremely fuzzy.

~~ “(He was- absolutely sure the number of the plane was *CU-T 583; yet
he wasn't too sure about the month or even the year.) Still, .
there.were no inconsistencies in the details. he told Sarah, those
he told to me on the telephone and those he told to me in person.

“And,
’ of memory after 13 years.

in fact, undulations in recollected details may be a characteristic

 Thé basic details remain “the same: The incident occurred in the.
late summer months, late July, August or early September, in, he

believes, 1963. He is absolutely not sure of ‘the year, but doubts

 

whethér he would have remembered Oswald or Ruby if he had seen
- them more than a year prior to the assassination, fFaraldé was -

in the hospital wen Kennedy was killed. He had had, J believe, ao
heart problem.- His recollection of: the. incident 1s that it Occurred
not too tong before that. He was: manager of the Key West :International
Airport..then and arrived at work between 9 and 9:30 in the morning.

The group was in the Sobby of the airport when he arrived. The Jobby:
‘has two-parts to it, the ticket counter. area and the waiting area,

both very small, a glass partition. and doors separating them.

The group was'in the ticket ‘counter. area, and most of them remained

‘in that area all day. There were between 30 and 40 in the. group..

They. were, most of the time, in clusters, many sitting in. small -
circles on-the floor, a few with guitars. They were relatively.
quiet, well-behaved and caused no disturbance. Neither, according
to.the guy who was janitor then, did.they leave much of a mess.
They were. mostly young, boys:: and girls, "hippie-looking," a-few
dressed in olive-drab fatigues. Faraldo recalls he had a rule_
against being shirtless in the lobby area (not a general rule Yn.
“most Key: West establishments) and he did have to tell’ a few (of
the guys, | presume) who had wandered outside, removed their shirts
in’ the heat, to put them back on when they returned to the lobby.
That's one of the factors which makes him sure it was in the summer.

HW 54653

DoclId: 32262492 Page 2
 

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 10/13/20
Identification Form

 

Agency Information Peleased under the John
AGENCY: HSCA + Kennedy
RECORD NUMBER: —180-10108-10061 Assassination Records
. Ollection Act of 1992
RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES. (44 Use 2107 Note) .

ases#: NU 54653 Date:
HO-23-2017

 

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 015107 (FOLDER | OF 4)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: FONZI, GAETON.
~ TO: MARSTON, DAVE.

TITLE :

DATE: 05/25/1976
PAGES: 7

SUBJECTS :
FAA.
KEY-WEST INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT.
USIA
OSWALD, LEE; POST-RUSSIAN POLITICAL & SUBVERSIVE
ACTIVITIES.
RUBY, JACK; BACKGROUND ASSOCIATES & RELATIVES OF
OSWALD,
LEADS & INFORMATION.

‘DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM.
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
-__» RESTRICTIONS: — Consulted
-. CURRENT STATUS: — Withhold
‘DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/24/1993

¥

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Box 297.

v9.1
AW 54653 DocId:32262492 Page 1
 

 

 

. Faraldo says he learned from tafking with a few in the group

: that ‘they were going to Cuba to:cut ‘sugar cane and that they
had.something to do with the Fair Play for Cuba Committee.
The leader of the group appeared to be a guy with a beard, but
che. wasn't an obvious leader barking -orders or giving commands.
‘Although Oswald was a part of the group, Says Faraldo, he
was more distinctive than the others! in- that he moved about
‘more and: appeared a bit nervous. (That, at least, made him
distinctive to Faraldo who was then daily on the look-out for
potential ‘hizjackers.). Oswald was dressed casually, sport shirt

. and-pants.:’ Ruby also was casually dressed, but he spent most
.of the time.not mingling with the group. but standing against
the doorway that led from the waiting area toarear plane-boarding’
area. (There are no ramps or corridors; the airport building is
rectangular, the planes taxi right’off the runway and up to
the building. ) :

Once, as “Faraldo reported to Sarah, he saw Oswald approach Ruby.

eard:himzask: "Havesyou~heard..anything. ‘from the Big Bird

. “: Faraldo recalls thinking Oswald may have been asking about

when the plane was coming in, but he later had doubts about that
assumption when he again overheard Oswald asked others .in the
group, specifically about the time the plane was coming in.

  

. Faraldo recalls that a plane finaily did arrive late in the evening
to pick*up the group: He says.Oswaid got on the plane with the--
group.'. He didn't see Ruby get on and doesn't know if he did.

  

1g: photographs of the group. He used.a movie camera and a-

35- mm still) camera. (At first he told.me. he used a Pentax 35mm,
later said he had thought about it and didn't ‘think he had hig
Pentax at the time and used either a Leica or’ an Argus.) He ;
shot the movie film for WTVJ-TV, a Miami: television station, for:
‘which he Was a ‘regular stringer. He sent both his movie film

and his 35mm f. 1m: undeveloped to-Miami with-d crew member of

a National Airlines flight, which was his regular procedure.

‘His movie: film was in an envelope marked WTVJ. The crew member was
told to give it to a cab driver-at the. Miami airport to deliver

‘to the television station. 1+ was. addressed’ to Ralph Renick,. the :
news director. The still film was put ‘in a brown manilta envelope,
folded. over, taped and addressed to: "Director, FBI, Washington,D.c."
‘(Faraldo believes: he put just his name as a return’ address. ) The

National crew member was told to drop the envelope in‘a mail. pouch or box

at the Miami airport. Faraldo doesn't remember the crew member” s-
name or the National ftight number.

| spoke with about 20 persons who might possibly have been in a position
to corroborate Faraldo's memory of the group being at- Key West Airport.

Less than a half dozen were directly suggested. by Faraldo. ‘Only

a few remembered: such an incident,*.none with any clarity or detail.
Clennié Demeritt, for instance, who worked the ticket counter. for
National ‘Airlines at Key West then, says he does remember something

HW 54653 * pocld:32262492 Page 3

lous. times during the day, Faraldo wandered around the airport

 
 

| about a group going to Cuba to cut sugar cane, thinks they were

| Amertcans, and Canadians, but doesn't remember when they went.

He thinks it might have happened on his day off and he was

Ftold about ite’ a ae

| Herbert Carmen, with the Immigration Department then, vaguely
‘remembers reading something about ‘such.a group in the newspapers,
but thought. they: left from Canada, or; Mexico.

at Key West.for 20 years, also vaguely remembers reading about such
a group;- but thinks he didn't see them because he was on the late
shift: then. a ;
Anthony Alonso Sr., then the Key West Airport janitor, does recall
the group, corroborated Faraldo's: contention: that there were 30 or
40 in the group, thinks they were "foreigners" or "strangers,"

and pins the time down as "'62 or “'63.". (He-is “a very old.man,
initially answéred "Yeah!" to most of my questions and would not
‘be considered a reliable witness, probably, because of his age.)

| Don’ Pinda, a-photographer for the. Key. West Citizen, who Faraldo
thinks might have. covered the Incident, doesn't remember it at :
all.-and says.all his negatives from that time were lost ina.
shurcbcane, 2) ; ; -

“A:page=by-page.check of. the.bound volumes:at the Citizen's office
produced :no record, The Histortan ‘at -the Public library, a Mrs.
Betty Bruce, who was described as “remembering everything," could
not-recall the incident but will doublecheck: the microfilm files
this week.for me, ; oO : oo

John Mangialleto, currently gt Chief at Key West, told me FAA

 

 

records are kept only 15 day before being destroyed. He had. "+
no recollection of the incid :
Neither U.S. Customs or Immigration has any: records:of any such
outgoing flight as Faraldo describes..: | . :

No one who.worked the control tower Fn-1963 has any recollection

of sucha flight. (Prior to the Cuban missile crisis in October of ©
1962, Key West Airport had no control’ tower.) : ; .

_ One of ‘the-key questionable factors in Faraldo's contention ts that

a Cuban-owned. Aerovia Q Airline plane was sent up from Cuba to pick’ ~
up the.group tate at night. Although wé spoke. to about a half-dozen

former Key. West employees of Aerovia Q, none could-remember such
an incident. “Aerovia Q, however, quit ‘ifs. regular flights from |
Cuba ‘to’ Key West late in 1961 and°records indicate that the last.
payment for office space in the airport was made in March, 1962. -
Faraldo contends it would still ‘have been possible for am.Aerovia
Q plane to: fly in from Cuba to Key West. in 1963 merély by filing

a flight “plan with the FAA. (As noted, -flight plan records’ are” not

retained beyond 15 days.) Henry Till, flight service attendant for -

the FAA in Key West since 1961, says it's "very unlikely" that a-
Cuban plane landed in Key West in 1963. ; :

There is another major inconsistency. in.Faraldo's contention. He™
says he is.absolutely sure he kepf a copy of. the manifest (the
passenger, List) of the flight. He says he kept the manifests of
all of Aerovia Q's daily flights, each day would staple them.all
together, fold them and put them in.a white envelope and put the |
envelope in.a cardboard box. He says the manifests were prepared -

NW 54653 ~ DocId:32262492 “Page 4

Kenneth Bauman, who has been with the. Federal Aviation Administration.
