 

[Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 3107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017 4

EDWIN MARGER

In July, 1959, he departed the United States at
Great Falls, Montana, on a pleasure trip to Canada; he
returned to the United States at New York in July of the
same year. ; ‘

Filed as Exhibit B.ig:a letter in Spanish and
English dated February 25, 1964, to Edwin Marger, 765
Arthur Godfrey Road, Miami Beach, Florida. This letter
was "for the Triumvirate". over the signature of Dr..Pompilio
Brouwer, Secretary of State for the Presidency.

The above letter stated that the Dominican Republic
was interested in giving facilities to foreign investors
willing to help the development of that country, noting that
it had been considered that Marger could contribute toward
this goal. The letter further stated that Marger had been
appointed to promote the establishment of new industries and
the development of trade with the Dominican Republic, pending
the final approval of the proper Government department.

Also enclosed as an Exhibit B was a statement that
it had been agreed between the Dominican Republic and Marger
that the Dominican Government would pay the expenses of
Marger, which he incurred by reason of travel and/or other
type of communication between him and the Dominican Govern-
ment, and/or any of the parties contacted by Marger on behalf
of the Dominican Republic. Compensation will be paid to

_the registrant on a commission basis for any new industries

or trade made available to the Dominican Republic and
accepted by them. This compensation will be paid on a brok-
erage basis by the parties entering into the new business .
or industry. This financial arrangement is subject to change,
but it was noted in this statement that no further agree-
ments, promises, or commitments had been made by the Dominican
Government to the registrant. This statement further relates
that the registrant is to have the cooperation of the Dominican
Consulates in the various cities in the United States to |
obtain the purposes enumerated in the Registration Statement.
This memorandum contains neither recommendations }
nor conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It '
is the property of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and yl
is. loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be
distributed outside your agency.

-~4-

 

Docld:32340544 Page 9
FReleased under the John F.
,, DATE; 11-14-2017
MEIN. ty
° Sent OF

 

 

UC FED STATES DEPARTMENT OF \USTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

WASHINGTON && D. 6.20535

In Reply, Please Refer to
File No. APR 1 4 1964

EDWIN MARGER
REGISTRATION ACT - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

Records of the Registration Section, Internal
Security Division, United States Department of Justice (USDJ), ‘|
reviewed on March 26, 1964, disclosed the following concern-
ing Registration Statement Number 1703 submitted by Edwin
Marger in accordance with Section 2 of the Foreign Agents
Registration Act of 1938, as amended. This Registration

Statement was received at the Registration Section on
the registrant.

March 24, 1964, from Marger,
Edwin Marger, born on March 18, 1928, in the Bronx,
New York,
Florida, and Hotel El: Embajador, Santo

Road, Miami Beach,
Domingo, Dominican Republic. He listed his residence as

571 North Bay Drive, Golden Beach, Florida. Listed as the

foreign principal of Marger was “The Triumvirate," the

{
|
i
|
i
listed business addresses at 763 Arthur Godfrey }
j
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.
i

National Palace,

In describing the purpose of his registration, i

Marger stated he had been appointed for the purpose of j

promoting the establishment of new industries and the j

development of trade on behalf of the Dominican Republic. }

He described his duty as an attempt. to interest business

people in investing their money. in the Dominican Republic

“either in conjunction with the Dominican Republic, either

public or private, or alone." He further indicated that as

an attorney he would advise prospective investors of the i

advantages of obtaining a United States Agency for Inter- :

national Development. investment guarantee and also of the i

ibili He stated

|

3

:

1

i

Foreign Credit Insurance Association possibilities.
in essence, he would do all other things within his

that,
ability as an attorney and a businessman to inform the public;
both American and foreign, of the possibility of investment
in the Dominican Republic and thereafter to represent any
such potential investors within that country. As further
stated by Marger, his duty would also be to obtain for the
Dominican Republic financing for any of the projects of the |
’ qT

ATION CONTAINED

HEREIN URICLASSIFIED
DATELO {E796 _ By g sup fet,
re

 

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (42 Usc P10? “Hates :

 

DoclId:32340544 Page 10
VReleased under the John F.

 

DATE: 11-14-2017

S

O | O

EDWIN MARGER

He departed the United States at Miami, Florida,

on approximately May 19, 1959, for. Cuba, as an attorney

representing a.client. . He’ returned to the United States at

Miami in May of the same year.

: During 1961, Marger was a resident of Haiti, where
he maintained a business through 1962. This, business was
identified as Haiti Airways. He stated that: ‘his initial
visit to Haiti was from San Juan, Puerto Rico,. and that he
made subsequent and innumerable exits and entries into Haiti
from and to San Juan,- Miami, and Fort Lauderdale, Florida.

Marger made a pleasure trip to the Dominican
Republic. in May, 1960, departing the United States at San

Juan, and returned at Miami, Florida, in May of the same year.

From October, 1962, to October, 1963, he was a
resident of. the Dominican Republic maintaining a business
within that country. He identified this business as Aerovias
Nacionales. Quisqueyanas, C.por A, a Dominican corporation.

He also maintained an office at the El Emba jador Hotel as
a business' representative. Marger explained that he sub-
sequently re-entered the Dominican Republic in approximately

_ February of 1962, and had entered and departed innumerable

times since then, either from Miami, Fort Lauderdale, or
San Jaan. : ; : : .
In August, 1962, he departed the United States at
Miami and returned at Fort Lauderdale, Florida, in August of
the same year. During this time, he made trips to Argentina,
Chile, Peru, Ecuador, and Panama. in connection with legal
business for a client in Argentina. He added that he had
‘picked up aircraft in Argentina and subsequently had flown

it' to Fort Lauderdale, i
1

; Marger explained that he had made «= business trips |
to Netherlands Antilles, Trinidad, and Martinique, explain- :
ing that he had “departed many times to Netherlands Antilles:
‘from Santo Domingo on airline business, and departure. to i
Trinidad and Martinique approximately July, 1963, was: made |
from Santo Domingo, re-entering via\‘San Juan, Puerto Rico, |
in transit to the Dominican Republic." H

; - i
Marger made a business and pleasure trip to Panama
and Colombia, having departed from the Dominican Republic :

and returned in September, 1963.
-3-

 

DoclId:32340544 Page 6

i

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hotey-
 

FReleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 Usc 2107\Hote,.
DATE: 11-14-2017
sof oc a ot .
. .. . LY Lo ‘

iS

EDWIN MARGER

Dominican Government or private persons within that country
for the improvement of the Dominican Republic as a whole,
He pointed out that inasmuch as the Triumvirate is the
Executive Branch of the Dominican.Government, he would be
working with that branch and would be responsible solely

to members of the Triumvirate through the. Secretary of
State of the Presidency, Dr. Pompilio Brouwer.

In describing the nature of his relationship
with the Dominican Government in a later part of the above
Registration Statement, Marger stated that. he had. the
cooperation of the Executive Body and the Cabinet of the
Dominican Government, subject to obtaining commercial trade
and financial advantages for that country, and subject to the
approval of the proper Dominican Cabinet officer of any
proposals obtained by Marger for the promotion of commerce,
industry, or finance.

 

Marger,. in describing his other business interests,
stated that ‘he was engaged in the general practice of law
in Miami Beach, Florida, and was also a business representa-
tive of the Hotel El. Embajador | in Santo Domingo, Dominican
Republic, acting as ‘an agent for any persons interested
in doing business within the Dominican Republic.

With ‘deference to membership in various organiza-

tions, Marger stated that sifice 1956 he has been President

of the Miami Beach Lodge of B'nai B'rith. He was a member
-of the Miami Beach Elks from 1956 to 1959; Miami Beach Moose
Lodge, 1957 - 1959; Biscayné-Miami Beach Democratic Club =

from 1955 - 1959-as President and member; Miami Beach” Junior
Chamber of Commerce, 1957 - 1959; Miami Beach Toastmasters |
Club as President and member,. 1957 -.1959; Aircraft Owner |
and Pilot Association, Washington, .D. C., 1957 to date;. "United |
States Naval Institute, 1960 to date; Lawyer - Pilots: !
Association. as, Vice President and Director from 1960. to ‘date;
Miami Beach “Optimistic Club" from 1957 - 1961; The National
Flying Farmers' Association, 1961 - 1962, and Boy Scouts of i
America, Century Club, 1960 to present. |

In describing his travel outside the United States | i :
within the period of the past five years, Marger furnished
the following information: |

,

 

DoclId:32340544 Page 7
 

’ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 Use 2107 Hotey-

DATE: 11-14-2017
i a

moe

woh

EDWIN MARGER

In July, 1959, he departed the United States at
Great Falls, Montana, on a pleasure trip to Canada; he
returned to the United States at New York in July of the U
same year. : :

Filed as Exhibit B.is:a letter. in Spanish and
English dated February 25, 1964, to Edwin Marger, 765
Arthur Godfrey Road, Miami Beach, Florida. This letter
jwas ‘for the Triumvirate". over the signature of Dr. Pompilio. U/
ABrouwer, Secretary of State for the Presidency.

The above letter stated that the Dominican Republic
was interested in giving facilities to foreign investors
willing to help the development of that country, noting that
it had been considered that Marger could contribute toward
this goal. The letter further stated that Marger had been
appointed to promote the establishment of new industries and
the development of trade with the Dominican Republic, pending [J
the final approval of the proper Government department.

. Also enclosed as an Exhibit B was a statement that
it had been agreed between the Dominican Republic and Marger
that the Dominican Government would pay the expenses of
Marger, which he incurred by reason of travel and/or other
type of communication between him and the Dominican Govern-
ment, and/or any of the parties contacted by Marger on behalf
of the Dominican Republic. Compensation will be paid to
the registrant on a commission basis for any new industries
or trade made available to the Dominican Republic and
accepted by them. This compensation will be paid on a brok-
erage basis by the parties entering into the new business .
or industry. This financial arrangement is subject to change,
but it was noted in this statement that no further agree-
ments, promises, or commitments had been made by the Dominican
Government to the registrant. This statement further relates
that the registrant is to have the cooperation of the Dominican
Consulates in the various cities in the United States to Dv
obtain the purposes enumerated in the Registration Statement.

This memorandum contains neither recommendations
nor conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It
is the property of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and
is. loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be u
distributed outside your agency.

wal

-4-

 

DoclId: 32340544 Page 5
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote;.
(DATE: 11- “eet?

UTED STATES DEPARTMENT 0” JUSTICE
“FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION F

 

In Reply, Please Refer to WASHINGTON && D. 620535,

File No. ‘APR 4 2 49G4

EDWIN MARGER
REGISTRATION ACT - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

Records of the Registration Section, Internal

Security Division, United States Department of Justice (USDJ),
reviewed on March 26, 1964, disclosed the following concern-
ing Registration Statement Number 1703 submitted by Edwin
Marger in accordance with Section 2 of the Foreign Agents”
‘Registration Act of 1938, as amended.. This Registration
- Statement was received at the Registration Section on

March 24, 1964, from Marger, the registrant.

Edwin Marger, born on March 18, 1928, in the Bronx,
New York, listed business addresses at 763 Arthur Godfrey
Road, Miami Beach, Florida, and Hotel El:Embajador, Santo
-Pomingo, Dominican Republic. He listed his residence as
571 North Bay Drive, Golden Beach, Florida. Listed as the
foreign. principal of Marger was "The Triumvirate," the
National Palace, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.

Marger stated he had been appointed for the purpose of
promoting the establishment of new industries and the
development of trade on behalf of the Dominican Republic.

He described his duty as an attempt to interest business

people in investing their money. in the Dominican Republic
“either in conjunction with the Dominican Republic, either
public or private, or alone." He further indicated that as

an attorney he would advise prospective investors of the
advantages of obtaining a United States.Agency for Inter-
national Development. investment guarantee and also of the
Foreign Credit Insurance Association possibilities. He stated
that, in essence, he would do all other things within his. :
ability as an attorney and a businessman to inform the public, }
both American and foreign, of the possibility of investment i
in the Dominican Republic and thereafter to represent any i
such potential investors within that country. As further ‘|

 

\

\

j

I

|

|

In describing the purpose of his registration, |
{

I

stated by Marger, his duty would also be to obtain for the
Dominican Republic financing for any of the projects of the

ALL INFORMATION coo
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFI
caine GCL.

 

DoclId: 32340544 Page 6
 

‘Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Record=’Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC Zi07 Hotey.
_ DATE: 11-14-2017
eAGe ce .

Le “TED STATES DEPARTMENT Q7 ‘JUSTICE
“PEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

In Reply, Please Refer to ; WASHINGTON £& D.. 6.20535

File No. APR 4 4 1964

EDWIN MARGER
REGISTRATION ACT - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
_ Records of the Registration Section, Internal

Security Division, United States Department of Justice (USDJ),
reviewed on March 26, 1964, disclosed the following concern-
ing Registration Statement Number 1703 submitted by Edwin
Marger in accordance with Section 2 of the Foreign Agents
Registration Act of 1938, as amended. ‘This Registration
Statement was received at the Registration Section on :
March 24, 1964, from Marger, the registrant.

Edwin Marger, born on March 18, 1928, in the Bronx,
New York, listed business. addresses at 763 Arthur Godfrey |
Road, Miami Beach, Florida, and Hotel El: Embajador, Santo. i
Domingo, Dominican Republic. He. listed his residence as. |
571 North Bay Drive, Golden Beach, Florida. Listed as the |
foreign-principal of Marger-was “The Triumvirate," the — i
National Palace, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. u |

In describing the purpose of his registration,
Marger stated he had been appointed for the purpose of :
promoting the establishment of new industries and the
development of trade on behalf of the Dominican Republic. :
He described his duty as an attempt to interest business ‘
people in investing their money in the Dominican Republic
“either in conjunction with the Dominican Republic, either i
public or private, or alone." He further indicated that as
an attorney he would advise prospective investors of the ; \
advantages of obtaining a United States Agency for Inter-
national Development investment guarantee and also of the
Foreign Credit Insurance Association possibilities. He stated i
that, in essence, he would do all other things within his
ability as an attorney and a businessman to inform the public, a,
both American and foreign, of-the possibility of investment
in the Dominican Republic and thereafter to represent any
such potential investors within that country. As further
stated by Marger, his duty would also be to obtain for the
Dominican Republic financing for any of the projects of the tu

ALL INFORM ATION CONTAINED

SSID
ic eS hus. oe

 

 

DoclId:32340544 Page 2
 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 199? (44 Usc 2107 Hote;.”

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System Date: 5/4/2015
Identification Form

 

 

Agency Information
“. AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90115-10115
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 97-4882-4
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: WMFO
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 04/14/1964
PAGES: 12
SUBJECTS :
EDWIN MARGER
MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: = Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/07/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : LHM

v9.1
DoclId:32340544 Page 1

16
 

| Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Wotey.
DATE: 11-14-2017

C , C

EDWIN MARGER

Dominican Government or private persons within that country
for the improvement of the Dominican Republic as a.whole,
He pointed out that inasmuch as the Triumvirate is the
Executive Branch of the Dominican Government, he would be
working with that branch and would be responsible solely \
to members of the Triumvirate through the - Secretary of (Ue
State of the Presidency, Dr... Pompilio Brouwer.

In describing the nature of his relationship

with the Dominican Government in a later part of the above
Registration Statement, Marger stated that he had the

. cooperation of the Executive Body and the Cabinet of the
Pominican Government, ‘subject to obtaining commercial trade
and financial advantages for that country, and subject to the
approval of the proper Dominican Cabinet officer of any
proposals obtained by Marger for the promotion of commerce, u
industry, or finance.

Marger, in describing his other business interests,
stated that ‘he was engaged in the general practice of law
in Miami Beach, Florida, and was also a business representa-
tive of the Hotel El. Embajador in Santo Domingo, Dominican |

: Republic, acting as ‘an agent for any persons interested
in doing business within the Dominican Republic.

‘With “‘$eference to membership in various organiza-

tions, Marger stated that. since 1956 he has been President
of the Miami Beach Lodge of. B'nai-B" ‘rith. He was a member

of the Miami Beach Elks from 1956 to 1959; Miami Beach Moose
Lodge, 1957 - 1959; Biscayne-Miami Beach Democratic Club:
from 1955 - 1959 as President and member; Miami Beach ‘Junior :
Chamber of Commerce, 1957 - 1959;° Miami Beach Toastmasters .
Club as President and member, 1957 - 1959; Aircraft Owner .
and Pilot Association, Washington, D. C., 1957 to date;- ‘United t
States Naval Institute, 1960'to date; Lawyer - Pilots: ;
Association as. Vice President and Director from 1960 to date;

Miami Beach "Optimistic Club" -from 1957 - 1961; The National

Flying Farmers' Association, 1961.- 1962, and Boy. Scouts of 4,
America, Century Club, 1960 to present.

In describing his travel outside the United States
within the period of the past five years, Marger furnished U
the following information:

}

 

DoclId: 32340544 Page 3
"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 use

 

DATE: 11-14-2017

«

_EDWIN MARGER

ee

CG | O

He departed the United States at Miami, Florida,
on approximately May 19, 1959, for Cuba, as an attorney
representing a client. He returned to the United States at U

Miami in May of the same year.

puring 1961, Marger was a resident of Haiti, where
he maintained a business through 1962. This,business was
identified. as Haiti Airways. He stated that’his initial
visit to Haiti was from San Juan, Puerto Rico, and that he

made. subsequent and innumerable exits and entries into Haiti wu

from and to San Juan, Miami, and Fort Lauderdale, Florida.

Marger made a pleasure trip.to the Dominican
Republic in May, 1960, departing the. United States at San
Juan, and returned at Miami, Florida, in May of the same year.

From October, 1962, to October, 1963, he was a
resident of. the Dominican Republic maintaining a business
within. that country. He identified this business as Aerovias
Nacionales Quisqueyanas, C.por A, a Dominican corporation.

‘He also maintained an office at the El Embajador Hotel as

a business’ representative. - Marger explained that he sub-

sequently re-entered the Dominican Republic in approximately LU
February of 1962, and had entered and departed innumerable
. times since then, either from Miami, Fort Lauderdale, or.

San Juan.

In August, 1962, he departed the United States at
Miami and returned at Fort Lauderdale, F ‘lorida, in August of
the same year. During this timé, he made trips to Argentina,
Chile, Peru,. Ecuador, and Panama in.connection with legal
business for a client in Argentina.-.He added that he had

picked up aircraft in Argentina and subsequently had flown

it: to ‘Fort Lauderdale.

. Marger explained that he had made = business trips
to Netherlands Antilles, Trinidad, and Martinique, explain- |
ing that he had "departed many times to Netherlands Antilles

-from Santo Domingo on airline business, and departure. to

Trinidad and Martinique approximately July, 1963, was. made
from Santo Domingo, re-entering via San Juan, Puerto Rico,
in transit to the Dominican Republic.”

Marger made a business and pleasure trip to Panama
and Colombia, having departed from the Dominican Republic
and returned in September, 1963.

-3-

 

DoclId:32340544 Page 4

mores
