 

 

AW 530380

response to these requests. It was Ronis' recollection
that the above-cited domestic exploitation section was

a task force within the Special Affairs Staff. He also
stated that in 1963 the CIA's Domestic Contacts Division
might have been requested to locate Luisa Calderon's sis-
ter. Ronis told the Commitee that he had no recollection
of recruiting any person associated with the Cuban Intel-
ligence Service. He did recall that he had recruited

women to perform tasks for the Agency. However, he did

“not recall ever recruiting any employees of the Cuban
Embassy/Consulate in Mexico City. Finally, Mr. Ronis
stated that he had no recollection that Luisa Calderon
was associated with the CIA. (HSCA Staff Interview August
31, 1978)

Various present and former CIA representatives
were queried whether Luisa Calderon had ever been asso-~
ciated with the CIA. The uniform. answer was that no one
recalled such an association. (Cites: Helms, Hearing, August
9,.1978,..p. 136;“Rocca, Dep. p.148, July 17, 1978; Lima
Interview of August__, Piccolo, Interview of_ )

Calderon
Thus, the Agency's file’ “and the testimony of former
CIA employeed Yevea lho connection 4 Calderon ZS the
CIA. Yet, as indicated earlier, this,file i incomplete

~ 6k oF rime Ray Cdecskt
the most glaringomission being£th® + __——— Cedcteserr' s

heytryptic remarks following the assassination of President

Kennedy.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Docld:32271350 Page 3
 

 

An earlier CIA dispatch from the CIA Chief of

 

Station in Mexico City to the Chief of the CIA's Western
Hemisphere Division records that:

Wilfredo of the Cuban Consulate, Tampico,

reported that Luisa Calderon has a sister

residing in Reynosa, Texas...Luisa may go

up to the border to visit her sister soon--

or her mother may make the trip--details

not clear. press, July 31, 1965)

At the very least, the above dispatcheg evidenceA
an interest in Calderon's activities and those of her
family. Whether this interest took the form of a clan-
destine-agent relationship is not revealed by Calderon's
201 file.

The Committee has queried the author of the above-

cited dispatch requesting that Calderon's sister be con-

woke tacted by the CIA's "domestic exploitation section."

   
 

David Ronis, the-dtspertcir“s=wuthor, was a member

of the CIA's Special Affairs staff at the time he wrote

the dispatch. He worked principally at CIA headquarters
and was oon responsible for recruitment and handling

of agents for collection/intelligence data. Mr. Ronis,
when interviewed by this Committee, stated that part of

his responsibility was to scour the Western Hemisphere
division for operational leads related to the work of

the Special Affairs staff. Ronis recalled that he normally

would send requests to CIA field stations for information

or leads on various persons. ~2gigiine he would receive no

AW 53080 DocId:32271350 Page 7
 

 

provide the Calderon conversation to the Warren Commis-
sion; secondly, wy didn't the Agency reveal to the War-
ren Commission cheese full knowledge of Calderon's intel-
ligence background, her possible knowledge of Oswald and
her possible connection to the CIA or some other American
intelligence apparatus.

The first question can be explained in benign terms.
It is reasonably possible that by sheer oversight the
conversation was filed away and not recovered or recol-
lected until after the Warren Commission had completed
its investigation and published its_report. However, this
conversation could have also bee withbeld

has do2en wnrabol : :

i tine

 
   

 

The Committee, hiremmej=omeans=re=dets

se XBLAN ai an Sor HOS Raenags inaction

theceaecebbabeeiey. «The Committee can state, however, that
ColAeren ecccr

whatever the truth may be, the conversation did #eke

pagee and the. eransdipht was not provided the Warren Com—
mission.
& .$

As for the-questien ecm dade we withholding
of information concerning Calderon's intelligence back-
ground, the record reflects that the Commission was merely
informed that Calderon may have been a member of the DGI.
(Cite 5 May memo.) The memoranda which providedmore ex-
tensive examination of her intelligence background were
not made available for the Commission's review. Signifi-

we WL heros
cantly, the May 8 memorandum written by ae .

following his debriefinggf AMMUG-1 indicatedthat AMMUG-1

 

 

 

AW 530380

Docld:32271350 Page 5°
  

=

 

Ca| deren

and a second Cuban Intelligence officer believed WB to

 

be a CIA operative. It is possible that this information
was not provided the Warren Commission either because
there was no basis in fact for the allegation or because
the allegation was in fact true. If the allegation

were true, the consequences for the CIA would have been
serious, fer Tt woul ‘demonstratedthat a CIA operative,
well placed in the Cuban Embassy, may have possessed in-
.formation prior to the assassination regarding Oswald
and/or his relationship ot Sopan intelligencd te that
Gervices possible involvement in a conspiracy to assassinate
President Kennedy.

toran''S
Regarding possible association with the CIA,

 

y erected

reveal@ no ostensible connection between Calderon and

the CIA. However, there are indications that such contact
between Calderon and the Agency was contemplated. A
September 1, 1963 CIA dispatch from the Chief of the Spe-
cial Affairs Staff to the CIA's Chief of Station in Mexico
City states in part:

...Luisa Calderon has a sister residing in
Reynosa, Texas, married to an American of
Mexican descent. If (CIA asset) can further
identify the sister, our domestic exploita-
i tion section might be in a position to follow
fc up on this lead...Please levy the requirement

n (CIA asset) at the next opportunity. -
C 935, Sept. 1, 1963)

DocId: 32271350 Page 6

ile. omaanrrre tam hsp
 

 

AW 53030

con Ten Bdh OXTED (7 >4 - Clim 2-3

As discussed in an earlier section of this report,
the Warren Commission did not gain access to the CIA's
production from itd
in Mexico City untit an advances/stage in its investiga-
tion. The record reflects that Mssrs. Willens, Slawson,

Feamcy A SuargeMocet€. opie unt

and Coleman did not review the production*until they

visited Mexico City on April 9, 1964. At that time, they

reviewed a number of 3)£rom the Soviet ard Mihan
Embassies. Thesi ncJuded one call to the

- Soviet Embassy on September 27g believed to have been

made by Oswald; two calls mac- hy Silvia Duran from the
Cuban Consulate to the Sovi : Uonsulate, and one call from
the Soviet Embassy to the Cuban E..bassya made by an uni-
dentified caller (Cite Salwson ..-... ~ of Apiraa ei, L004.)
On September 28 th eration record@da

call by Silvia Duran at the Cuban Consulate to the Soviet

ers

Consulate. (Cite.)

On October 1 ne Operation recorded two
calls made by a person later identified as Lee Harvey
Oswald to the Soviet Embassy. (Cite.)

The Commission representatives were also supplied
with th¢ ‘ £ Be two conversations that
vvanapi bea between the Cuban President Dortic@Sand the
Cuban Ambassador to Mexico, Armas. These conversations

concerned Silvia Duran's arrest, whether Oswald had been

DocId: 32271350 Page 2
 

 

AW 530380

Status in System:

 

JFK RECORDS

Cross Reference:

v09-16-96ccr

None

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER
Other Agency Equity

HSCA

180-10142-10046

CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION
22-20-02/3

None

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES
DOCUMENT TYPE
SUBJECT(S)

CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS
Date in: 01/26/96
TTFFFFFF
FFFFFFFF

DoclId: 32271350

eee oe oe oe

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

HSCA
CIA

00/00/00
7
REPORT

Released under the John
. Kennedy
Assassination Records
ollection dct of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#: NW 53060 Date:
bé6—-01-2017

 

WC; CUBAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY; CALDERON, LUISA; CIA,

FILES;
UNCLASSIFIED

3

POSTPONED IN PART
08/07/95

Box i1

Page 1
 

 

offered money while at the Cuban Embassy sand the general
state of affairs at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City
following the assassination. (Slawson memo of April 22,

1964, pp. 45-46).

 
 

T Khe Comm tees
@ veview of CIA files «74 corro-
. Ome ra ndiem Cejervli
; borat@@m of Slawson's fe i th D>)

f~ ; a
rovided to and reviewed by the Commission. 3% On-@
Gf reiteSlawson's record IS

CIA document, blind memorandum #f entitled "Material

from P-8593 shown to Warren Commission" (Station Oswald
File) and is dated April 10, 1964. (FOIA 653-828). This
document records that the Warren Commission was shown calls

made by Oswald to the Soviet Embassy. These includedthree ofWh
. ConrtPSTAK (OAS
nee. September 27 listed above, one call of

September 78, two calls of October 1, and one call of

net

october — Seunnee <
. Re

While thig"does not correspond to the listing of

aiis set forth E Slawson, it does independently establish
Ci

Tom
November 22, 1963 were shown to

 

 
  
 
  
   

tnat{mo caiis
the Warren Commission.

In addition, this document corroborates the showing ~~

 
 
 

  

€5 the Warren Commissiop
N ——_—

ommittee has queried former Commission and CIA
representatives in an effort to determine if a transcript

of the Calderon conversation was ever shyfpn to the Warren

HW 53080 DocId:32271350 Page 3
 

. Or “\ mer
CSAS) -3-
WK W
Se “
ee ‘Commission. The response @n both accounts has uniformly

been that the Calderon conversation was never made avail-
able to the Commission nor was its existence ever made
known to the Commission. (Rankin. dep; Slawson interview,
Willens response to letter, but see Rocca deposition
wherein he states that he is sure. the Commission knew of
it, Helms hearing.) In addition, the Calderon 201 file

bears no reference to the conversation nor does it indi-

 

cate that it was ever made known or, provided to the War-
ren Commission for its analysis.

pe, “The available evidence supports the conclu-
sion that the Warren Commission was never given the informa-
tion or the opportunity by which it could evaluate Luisa
Calderon's significance to the events surrounding Presi-
dent Kennedy's assassination. Had the Commission been
expeditiously provided this evidence of her intelligence
background, association with Silvia Duran, and her com-
mentary following the assassination, it may well have

potenti

given more serious investigative consideration to her @ael

Kno ledger oe Oswald Ark hea Cuban govern mm—ants

   

 

prestble involvenent in a conspiracy to assassinate President
: Kennedy.

(Quote Rankin on ie would have been done.)

Two difficult issues remain which are raised by

the Committee's finding. First, why didn't the Agency

 

 

 

HW 53080 DocId:32271350 Page 4

 
