53080

 

“ Page Three

Office of Security file on Ed Morgan, Maheu's attorney, there
is a memo to the DCI dated 19 November 1970 which reviews

the Mafia operation. Paragraph 5 states that: "Mr. Maheu
advised that he had met one John Roselli on several occasions
while visiting Las Vegas. He only knew him casually through
other clients, but was given to understand that he was a
faigh ranking member of the syndicate and controlled all the
ice making machines on the Strip# Maheu reasoned that, if
Roselli was, in.fact, a member of the clan, he undoubtedly
had connections leading into the Cuban gambling interests.")

(Comment: Confirmation of the earliest Maheu-Roselli

_ contact is gound in Roselli's FBI. file and consists of an

alleged telephone call in 1959 from Maheu to Roselli.) (See
Roselli Write-up)

(Comment: Maheu and Roselli had mutual contacts in
Las Vegas prior to 1960, including Hank Greenspun, editor of

the Las Vegas Sun.)

Roselli, although apparently skeptical at ‘first, agreed
to a meeting in New York City with Maheu and O'Connell to
discuss further details. (Interim Report, p. 76; Office of
Security memo from Morgan file, dated 19 November 1970) Al-
though the Inspector General's Report placed the meeting at
the Plaza Hilton on 14 September 1960, Roselli recalled that
the discussion took place during Castro's visit to the United
Nations which began ‘on September 18, 1960.

(Comment: Tony de Varona admits going to New York City
at the time of Castro's visit, but it is unlikely that he was
in contact with Roselli at this time or (féStimony of de
Varona) that his visit had an assassination motivation. Ac-
cording to a 19 November 1970 memo to the DCI, it was at this
September meeting in New York City, that Roselli “agreed to
introduce him (Maheu) to a friend, —'Sam Gold', who knew the
Cuban crowd.")

(Comment: The timing of the introduction of both
Giancana ('Gold') and Trafficante ('Joe') is important to the
analysis of the "true" role of the mob in the Castro assassina-
tion plots. According to the 1967 IG Report, the entrance of
Giancana took place "during the week of 25 September 1960".
(1967 IG Report, p. 18))

In contrast, the SSC Interim Report at p. 76, does not
fix a date certain for Giancana's initial appearance but (al-
though it was "certainly prior to October 18." (p. 76)) be-
cause of conflicting evidence between the 1967 IG September

_ date and Maheu's Senate testimony which set the initiation in

November 1960. As a compromise, the Interim Report reasoned
that Giancana had been introduced to Maheu "prior to October

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DocId: 32272935 Page 9
AW 530380

 

Page Four

18" because (1) the Las Vegas wiretap occurred on October

30, 1960; and (2) DDP Bissell had received an FBI memo, dated
18 October 1960, which revealed an FBI ELSUR quoting Giancana
as discussing his involvement in an assassination plot
against Castro”. (FBI memo dated 18 October 1960 from Hoover
to Bissell, Interim Report, p. 79)

(Comment: Each of the dual reasons listed in the
Interim Report on p. 77 are subject to critical analysis
which will be dealt with separately below.)

(Comment: Although the 1967. IG Report. stated that
"Maheu pointed out 'Gold' to O'Connell from a distance but
O'Connell never met either 'Gold! or 'Joe'", the Interim Report
disputes this observation by. apparently quoting from O'Connell's
Senate testimony and stating that "the Support Chief, who
was using the name 'Jim Olds'," said he had met 'Sam' and
‘Joe', once, and then only briefly. (O.C. 5(30)75, pp. 26-
29; Interim Report, p. 77))

(Comment: Conflicts appear also on several relatively
minor points surrounding the September 1960 meetings in New
York City and Miami. For instance:

1. Did Roselli know from the beginning that the
operation was CIA? ;

a. O'Connell stated that Maheu told Roselli that
they were representing international business interests
whereas Roselli testified that Maheu told him that
O'Connell was CIA (Interim Report, p. 76). Also, foot-
note 1 on page 76 indicates that Roselli told O'Connell
"about three weeks after the New York meeting", which
is during the Miami involvement of Giancana, that "I
am not kidding. I know who you work for."

The importance of Roselli's recognition of CIA
initiation is that it is doubtful if Giancana and
Trafficante could have been enlisted unless they could
be sure of government protection. This theme will be
developed mocyre fully below.

2. Roselli told his Cuban contacts that he was an
"agent of some business interests of Wall Street that had...
nickel interests and properties around Cuba..." (Roselli; 6/24/
75, pp. 9, 17) :

 

 

 

DoclId: 32272935 Page 10
 

 

 

 

 

AW 530380

Page Two

. It is not the purpose of this analysis to detail
the conflicting viewpoints of. the SSC and CIA with regard
to the significance to the work of the Warren Commission

of the CIA's Castro assassination\attampts’ and to resolve
the parties controversy as to the operations' importance.
Instead, this paper seeks to present a comprehensive review
of all the facts, drawn from a variety of sources, of
organized crime's involvement or potential involvement in
the CIA operations against Cuba during 1960-1963. Certain
influences and conclusions will then be drawn upon the nature,
scope, and motivation of the syndicate participants in the
operations.

INVOLVEMENT OF ORGANIZED CRIME IN CIA PLOTS
TO ASSASSINATE FIDEL CASTRO

The genesis of the utilization of the United States
criminal syndicate by the CIA to attempt to assassinate Castro
is placed by the 1967. Inspector General's Report as occurring
during a conversation between the Deputy Director of Plans,
Richard Bissell, and the Director of the Office of Security,
Colonel Sheffield Edwards* (1967 IG Report, p. + Interim
Report, p. 74) Edwards assigned the specific tasks of
locating the right party to "eliminate or assassinate" Castro
to James "Big Jim" O'Connell, who was the Chief of the Opera-
tional Support Division of the Office of Security. Both men
agreed that Robert A. Maheu, who had been previously
utilized by the Agency in several sensitive covert operations,
would be contacted to recruit the necessary personnel. :

Although Maheu and O'Connell differ-as to who initially
brought up John Roselli's name for consideration, there was a
meeting between Maheu and Roselli at the Brown Derby Restaurant
in Los Angeles in early September 1960. (Interim Report, p.
75) os

Comment: Maheu seems the logical person to have
thought of and contacted Roselli for several reasons. In the

** Maheu's CIA history and relationship to O'Connell
are detailed on pp. 74-75, Interim Report.

 

 

DocId: 32272935 Page 3

 
 

 

BACKGROUND

In April, 1976, the Senate Select Committee to Study
Government Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities
(SSC) published their Final Report (Boék VY which in essence
faulted the CIA for its errors of ommission in not informing
the Warren Commission of the Agency's on-going plots against
the revolutionary government in Cuba and its attempts on the
life of the premier, Fidel Castro. The Committee's rationale \ :
is detailed on pages 6-7 of its Findings, but one paragraph i
succinctly sums up their position.

"Senior CIA officials also should have realized that
their agency was not utilizing its full capability to investi-
gate Oswald's pro-Castro and anti-Castro connections. They
should have realized that CIA operations against Cuba, par-
ticularly operations involving the assassination of Castro,
needed to be considered in the investigation. Yet, they
directed their subordinates to conduct an investigation with-
out telling them of these vital facts. Those officials, whom
the Warren Commission relied upon for expertise, advised the
Warren Commission that the CIA had no evidence of a foreign
conspiracy." (p. 7, Book V)

 

Stung by the Senate criticism and the "rippling effect"
that Book V occasioned in the media, the CIA prepared a com-
prehensive report in 1977 designed, to answer, at least within
the Agency, the critical questions posited in the SSC Final
Report. However, even the CIA's 1977 Report tacitly recognizes
the inadequacy of the CIA's narrow response to the Warren
Commission's quest for all possible relevant information.
("Relevancy" is, of course, the "buyword" upon which both
the Senate and Agency each base their position on the importance
of the anti-Castro plots to the Commission's work.) On page
10 of the Agency's conclusions, the 1977 Report acknowledges «
that:

"While one can understand today why the Warren Com-
mission limited its inquiry to normal avenues of in-
vestigation, it would have served to re-inforce the
credibility of its effort had it taken a broader view
of the matter. CIA, too, could have considered in
specific terms what most saw in general terms ~— the
possibility of Soviet or Cuban involvement in the
assassination (JFK) because of tensions of the time.
....The Agency should have taken broader initiatives,
then, as well." (p. 10, 1977 Report)

 

AW 53080) DocId:32272935 Page 7

 
 

economic and political sanctions, paramilitary operations (which re-
| ceived recurring publicity in the press), as well as a variety of

covert operations that were not known publicly. On 18 November 1963
Fore sident Kennedy - -- four days before his death -- delivered a major

pol icy address in Miami, accusing Castro of having betrayed the Cuban

Bey

[revolutions at the time the press, reportedly on-the basis of what
"White House sources" said about it, viewed it as a call for the Cuban

I people to overthrow the Castro regime.

entree aenrs:8 ie OO RCH MAR MURS TEN Haale PRESET SEE at

The United States provided a haven and base for Cuban exiles, who
conducted their independent operations against the Castro government.
“Sone of these exiles had the support of CIA, as well as from other
“alerents of the U.S. Government, and still others had support from
‘private sources. With or without official U.S. support these exiles
’ spoke in forceful Latin terms about what they hoped to do. The Cuban
“intelligence services had agents in the exile community in America
“and it is likely that what they reported back to Havana assigned to
CIA responsibility for many of the activities under consideration,
“whether CIA was involved or not.

We do not know the extent to which the Warren Commission took
“what might be characterized as "judicial notice" of the tensions
/detween the two governments and their leaders; it certainly was in

the public domain. ~That consideration was given the possibility of

Pp

HW 53080 Docld:32272935 Page pUauidd! .

 

"

ee ee Ee

SANS Te SREP MRR eit ree BA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

— eee eer
Sonesoe tree

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

natant EEN en TENOR ON EVE NERO

ee ee |

 

 

 

 

cuban or Soviet involvement in the assassination is no secret, clearly
reflecting a recognition of the question at the time. That a request
was not made by the Warren Commission, nor volunteered by the intel-
ligence agencies, for extensive review of all Cuban operations is being
faulted today. Yet, in the light of understandings at that time, it
could well have appeared to members of the Warren Commission and its
staff as not directly relevant, in fact, to the specific issue of the
murder of the President. In the absence of evidence to the contrary
a case could still be made for that view, although the evolution of
public perceptions probably would not accept it without reservation.
The SSC Final Report has fixed on the Cuban operations of the
intelligence agencies--primarily those of CIA--for special attention
in considering the question. Implicitly it accepts the theory that
there could well have been conspiracy in the murder of President
Xennedy, and that Castro could have been behind it, having been pro-
voked by depredations against Cuba or plotting against his own life.
However, in advancing its thesis, the SSC Report cautioned that it
had “seen no evidence that Fidel Castro or others in the Cuban govern-
ment plotted President Kennedy's assassination in retaliation for U.S.

operations against Cuba."

53080 Docld:32272935 Page 6.

 

 

 

 
 

 

Conclusions

 

 

Factual errors, both in the extensive treatment of a selected opera-

 

z |
é Basically, the research effort for the present paper produced two '
x I
general conclusions. irk) ithe SSC Final Report contains numerous |
a - |

|

{

|

 

ition (AMLASH) and in a number of separate incidents that it presents.
iSecond. while one can make the point in principle that the Warren

Commission could well have broadened its review to include the anti-

  
 
   

stan programs of the U.S. Government, in trying to make the case for |

ythat concept Book: V of the SSC Final _Report went_to_such_lengths in_its
reatment as to detract from the point at hand. It is difficult to

 

 

racterize it more generously.

ina very real sense, the SSC Final Report has compounded the I

On a flawed presentation it has accused

While it has

 

Pr=tiea of public perception.
es tntellia ence
§ agencies of derelictions and worse.
ratats re : os : .
ed the public sense of unfinished business yet to be done, it

os $73 ba * : :
& sadly beclouded the issue as to have done a disservice to

 

 
  

= Fate ir ie
HW 53080 DocId:32272935 Page 2‘ * ae
 

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/18/201
Identification Form z

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA {
RECORD NUMBER: — 180-10145-10148 ‘

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

 

 

 

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 50-61-01
. Document Information
ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE >
Released under the John
DATE: 00/00/0000 - Kennedy
PAGES 27 Assassination Records
Ollection Act of 1992
SUBJECTS (44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#: NW 53060 Date:
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES bh 6-05-2017
SSCI
CIA, METHODOLOGY
CIA, FILES
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS:  Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 08/25/1995
OPENING CRITERIA : \
COMMENTS : Box 27 ~

voA
AW 53080 DocId:32272935 Page 1
 

  

AGM TS 2
MoeeES

ii lenis

   

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

future attempts. at objective and dispassionate inquiry.

While one can understand today why the Warren Commission limited
its inquiry to normal avenues of investigation, it would have served
to reinforce the credibility of its effort had it taken a broader

view of the matter. CIA, too, could have considered. i

 

terms what most saw then in general terms--the possibility of Soviet
or Cuban involvement in the assassination because of tensions of

the time. It is not enough to be able to point out erroneous
criticisms made today. The Agency should have taken broader
initiatives then, as well. That CIA employees at the time felt--as
they obviously did--that the activities about which they knew had

no rel evance to the Warren Commission inquiry does not take the place
of a record of conscious review. The present research effort has
undertaken to conduct such a reviews it is noted that the findings
are essentially negative. However, jt must be recognized that CIA
cannot be as confident of a cold trail in 1977 as it could have

ceen in 1964; this apparent fact will be noted by the critics of

the Agency, and by those who have found a career in the questions

7

ic

lready asked and yet to be asked about the assassination of

President Kennedy.

10

   
 

PE eee

DocId: 32272935 Page 3

 

 
 

CIA Operations Against Cuba

 

The SSC Final Report speaks of operations against Cuba and the

castro regime, and contends that they should have been reported in

   

detail to the Warren Commission as part of the subject matter that

jt consciously took into consideration. A case can be made for
specific considerations of these various activities by the Warren

Commission, at least as part of the unique background of the times;

ses

it might have provided it additional investigative leads. However,

to advance the general thought is not to discard the usual tests of

 

evidence that must still control how the findings are treated.

It should be noted that at the time of the Warren Commission

: aac EP ne eH DP ROSE HET TR RBI

  

inquiry there was no secret about the tensions between the Kennedy

Administration and the Castro regime. Book V of the SSC Final

 

Report refers briefly to some of the more dramatic events, such as

;

i
|
i
|
i
i}
||
i
|

the Bay of Pigs in April 1961 and the Missile Crisis in October 1962

bg
£
:
&
3
Fa
5:

' (see pages 2, 3, 10 and 11). In fact, the totality of American

policy and practice must have appeared threatening to the Castro

-

TT

regime, and most certainly must have been considered by it as pro-

vocative.

Additional U. S. policies and programs that could have been

 

viewed negatively by Castro were the breaking of diplomatic relations,

 

ormeonatsrmrcrrstenssconert oe

53080 DoclId:32272935 Page 4
