 

HW 55134

 

 

@ rd ,

whether or not such preventive action should be available
to the FBI.

These matters are currently being addressed
by a task force in the Justice Department, including the
FBI, and I am confident that Departmental guidelines and
controls can be developed in cooperation with pertinent
Committees of Congress to insure that such measures are
used in an entirely responsible manner.

Probably the most important question here
today is what assurances can I give that the errors
and abuses which arose under the Counterintelligence
Programs will not occur again?

First, let me assure the Committee that some
very substantial changes have been made in key areas of the
FBI's methods of operations since I took the oath of
office as Director on July 9, 1973.

Today we place a high premium on openness —-
openness both within and without the service.

I have instituted a program of open, frank
discussion in the decision-making process which
insures that no future program or major policy decision
will ever be adopted without a full and critical review

of its propriety.

 

DocId:32989571 Page 9

 

|
 

 

. @ 8

Participatory management has become a fact
in the FBI.

I have made it known throughout our Headquarters
and Field Divisions that I welcome all employees, regardless
of position or degree of experience, to contribute their
thoughts and suggestions, and to voice whatever criticisms
or reservations they may have concerning any area of our
operations.

The ultimate decisions in the Bureau are mine,
and I take full responsibility for them. My goal is to
achieve maximum critical analysis among our personnel without
in any manner weakening or undermining our basic command
structure.

The results of this program have been most
beneficial...to me personally...to the FBI's disciplined
performance...and to the morale of our employees.

In addition, since some of the mistakes of the
past were occasioned by direct orders from higher authorities
outside the FBI, we have welcomed Attorney General Edward
Levi's guidance, counsel, and his continuous availability --
in his own words -- "as a ‘lightning rod' to deflect improper
requests."

Within days after taking office, Attorney General

Levi instructed that I immediately report to him any

HW 55134 DocId:32989571 Page 10

 

 

 
 

‘ @ Ss

initiated actions designed to counter conspiratorial:
efforts of self-proclaimed revolutionary groups, and
to neutralize violent activities.

In the development and execution of these programs,
mistakes of judgment admittedly were made.

Our concern over whatever abuses occurred
in the Counterintelligence Programs -- and there were
some substantial ones ~- should not obscure the underlying
purpose of those programs.

We must recognize that situations have occurred
in the past and will arise in the future where the
Government may well be expected to depart from its
traditional role -- in the FBI's case, as an investi-
gative and intelligence-gathering agency -- and take
affirmative steps which are needed to meet an imminent
threat to human life or property.

In short, if we learn a murder or bombing is to
be carried out NOW, can we truly meet our responsibilities
by. investigating only after the crime has occurred, or
should we have the ability to prevent? I refer to those
instances where there is a strong sense of urgency because
of an imminent threat to human life.

Where there exists the potential to penetrate

and disrupt, the Congress must consider the question of

HW 55134 DocId:32989571 Page @

 

 

 
 

 

What I said then -- in 1974 -- and what I believe
today, is that the FBI employees involved in these programs
did what they felt was expected of them by the President,
the Attorney General, the Congress, and the people of
the United States.

Bomb explosions rocked public and private
offices and buildings; rioters led by revolutionary
extremists laid siege to military, industrial, and
educational facilities; and killings, maimings, and
other atrocities accompanied such acts of violence
from New England to California.

The victims of these acts were human beings --
men, women, and children. As is the case in time of peril --
whether real or perceived -- they looked to their Government,
their elected and appointed leadership, and to the FBI and
other law enforcement agencies to protect their lives, their
property, and their rights.

There were many calls for action from Members
of Congress and others, but few guidelines were furnished.
The FBI and other law enforcement agencies were besieged
by demands...impatient demands...for immediate action.

FBI employees recognized the danger; felt

they had a responsibility to respond; and, in good faith,

WW 55134 DocId:32989571 Page 7 -~4-

 

 
 

 

outside the FBI other than the present Attorney General.
At the outset, we pledged our fullest cooperation and
promised to be as candid and forthright as possible in
responding to your questions and complying with your
requests. )

I believe we have lived up to those promises.

The members and staff of this Committee have
had unprecedented access to FBI information.

You have talked to the personnel who conduct
security-type investigations and who are personally involved
in every facet of our day-to-day intelligence operations.

You have attended numerous briefings by FBI
officials who have sought to familiarize the Committee
and its staff with all major areas of our activities
and operations in the national security and intelligence
fields.

In brief, you have had a firsthand examination of
these matters that is unmatched at any time in the history
of the Congress.

As this Committee has stated, these hearings
have, of necessity, focused largely on certain errors
and abuses. I credit this Committee for its forthright
recognition that the hearings do not give a full or

balanced account of the FBI's record of performance.

HW 55134 DocId:32989571 Page 5

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

It is, perhaps, in the nature of such hearings
to focus on abuses to the exclusion of positive accomplishments
of the organization.

The Counterintelligence Programs which have
received the lion's share of public attention and critical
comment constituted an infinitesimal portion of our over-
all work.

A Justice Department Committee which was formed
last year to conduct a thorough study of the FBI's
Counterintelligence Programs has reported that in the
five basic ones it found 3,247 Counterintelligence proposals
were submitted to FBI Headquarters from 1956 to 1971. Of this
total, 2,370 ~- less than three-fourths -~ were approved.

I repeat, the vast majority of those 3,247
proposals were being devised, considered, and many were
rejected, in an era when the FBI was handling an average
of 700,000 investigative matters per year.

Nonetheless, the criticism which has been
expressed regarding the Counterintelligence Programs
is most legitimate and understandable.

The question might well be asked what I had
in mind when I stated last year that for the FBI to have
done less than it did under the circumstances then existing
would have been an abdication of its responsibilities

to the American people.

Docld:32989571 Page 6 7“ 3-

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

gy. OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR @ r )
oa

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

 

FOR RELEASE

10 A.M., EST

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1975

STATEMENT OF

CLARENCE M. KELLEY

DIRECTOR

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

‘BEFORE THE

 

SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
U. S. SENATE
WASHINGTON, D. C.

DECEMBER 10, 1975
: ‘ \u

ALLINFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN S NS BY 2 Ady lene

Prgarot
pe 55134 DocId:32989571 Page 2

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

el | [po -[OlEs

BEDS earch ’
ARUP NED

 

 

 

HW 55984 Docld:329 3

 

 

 

 
 

 

I welcome the interest which this Committee
has shown in the FBI and most particularly in our
operations in the intelligence and internal security
fields.

I share your high regard for the rights
guaranteed by the Constitution and laws of the United
States. Throughout my 35-year career in law enforcement
you will find the same insistence, as has been expressed
by this Committee, upon programs of law enforcement that.
are themselves fully consistent with law.

I also have strongly supported the concept of
legislative oversight. In fact, at the time my appointment
as Director of the FBI was being considered by the Senate
Judiciary Committee two and one-half years ago, I told
the members of that Committee of my firm belief in
Congressional oversight.

This Committee has completed the most
exhaustive study of our intelligence and security

operations that has ever been undertaken by anyone

HW 55134 DocId:32989571 Page 4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
