 

Oo
O

Page
Me. Hawkins . .
June 21, 1967 : RE: Lillic Mac Mchiaines

RESULTS (cont'd):

She continued that her husband (Harold McMaines) spoke up and stated that he
did not want to let her go and that he wanted te consult with an attorney. She
_gaid thot the two investigators then offered to buy a ticket for her husband
also. She said that after her husband insisted on talking with an attorney first,
the two investigators told her husband not to consult with an attorney because
raight get hurt if he did and they wanted to keep everything quiet. She said

that they did leave however. ; ;
the Subject explained that she told this entire story to a reporter named

nermian with the World rald in Omaha. Ghe said that after the story
: appeared in print she and her husband both lost their jobs. She went conto relate
the reporter ébanierman teld her that she needed an attorney and arranged

\

 

    

for her to meet attorncy Lex Hawkins.

 

.
The Subject was given four separate tests and was asked the following relevant |
questions and gave the answers indicated: .

iSirest Test:

 

Do you have any intention of trying to lie to me during this test? A. No.
Have you.told me the complote truth since we have been talking? A. Yes.
Did you attend the party at Ferrie's home that Perry claims you attended?
A, No. ;
. Did you ever meet Shaw? A. No. ;
\Ve Are you deliberately trylag: to withhold any inforn nation from me regarding
the party? A. No. :

 

Second Test:

Q. Have you told mie the c omplete truth here today? A. Yes.

Q. Did you attend the party Perry says you did? A. No.

Q. Are you trying to withhold any information from me regarding this case 2?
A. No. -

 

 

 

HW 54462 DocId:32161772 Page 9 .

 
 

Co 8

 

ge 9
Muy. Hawking
June 21, 1997 | RE: Lillie Mae McMaines

 

 

Third Test:
eres e emcee om

&. Did you le to Mr. Hawkins at all? A. Yes. :

Q. Did Perry ever tell you that the President was going to be assassinated ?
A. No. . ; :

Did you go to the party at Dave's house that Perry says youdid? A. No.

Arc. you attempting to protect or cover up for anyone? A. No.

Are you trying to hold back any information from me now? A. No.

 

Have you told me the complete truth here today? A. Yes.

Would you lie if it would help you stay out of jail? A. Yes.

Weve you ever present when any people talked about assassinating the
President? A. No.

is Perry telling the truth about you attending the party? A. No.

Are you attempting to withhold any jaformation frorn me now?. A, No,
Have you purposely lied to any of my questions? A. No.

 

uring the first three testa, her polygrams contained reactions to the relevant
question: “Are you trying to withhold or conceal any information fram me?"

Following the third test, she explained that she suspects Perry Russo might. be
"a little queer" for Mike Fitzgerald. There was not a reaction to the question
\ ya tie test following this explanation, :

The Subject was asked by this examiner why she thought Perry Russo was telling
this story. She explained that the last time she saw him, which was in June or
July of 1965, he asked her if she would marry him. She stated that he said that
he wanted to. marry her so that he wouldn't have to go into the military service.
She stated that she told him she would not marry him. She then quoted him as
saying, "You have got to marry me and hely keep me ont of the service." She
stated that she again told him she would not marry him aad then further quoted
chin. as saying, ‘Uf you won't marry me, 1) have to find someone else who will.’
She added that she believes he is telling this story in an endeavor te avoid going
into the military service. : .

 

 

 

HW 54462 DocId:32161772 Page 10

 

“
 

 

 

, So. CC oe , - rs
" Page 7 oF oo 8 oo _
Mir. whkins - ; : .
June 21,1967 ~ RE: Lillie Mae McMéaines - :

 

RESULTS {contd}:

| ‘The Subject explained that Perry Russo habitually made notes about everything.
She said that he mace notes of things he had to do, the times he was supposed to
be somewhei ad and places he had to go. She said that Perry told her he made. .
notes of ev fything because he was so busy that he did not want to forget anything,

  
  
  

  

The Suvject explained that on one occasion she went to Perry's house and Miss.
ia deald was there, She said that Mike told her that he had just found Perry
6 bathroom with his wrists all slashed up and that he had tried to coramit
suicide. She said that she then left and did not see Perry.

 

- The Subject stated that when Perry first introduced her to Jimmy Ervin, he
~ Suggested they all cso to Jimmy's apartnent and he would like to make photographs
(“\e8 her and Jiinmy engaging in coitus. She said that a girl friend of hers named
Jeannie became very angry with Perry when he rnade this suggestion. She said
hey did not go. ° .
The Subject stated that the most men she ever ‘engaged in sexual intercourse with,
one immediately following the other, would be two. She said that these were two
[Pyines she hustled when she was working as a prostitute, She related that she
Jfhustled one man one night and he went into the bathroom after undressing. She

 

| i that she locked him in the bathroom, took $3120.09 from his pocket and van

ll gute the room, She stated that on one occasion Perry wanted to notograph her
| ¥ P Pp

Uo and a girl named Kathy engaged in a sex act together but she sald that someone
came in unexpectedly and the act waa never consummated.

   

\ rin Subject related that two inve -stigators from District Attorney Garrison's
office came to her home in tha middle of the night of Merch 8, 1967, in Omaha.
She said that they requested hez to leave immediately with therm and return to
| New Orleans for the purpose of looking at sore photégraphs. She said that they
told her that they did net know what the photographs were. She continued that she
teld them that she could not. leave then because she had a coat and other clothing
inthe cleaners, She said that these tvo men, Simnis and Jonah, told her not to
_worry~--they would buy her some new clothes.. She suid that they further told her
that she would stay in the finest hotels and eat the finest foods.

 

 

 

HW 54462 DocId:32161772 Page 8

 
 

. . .
Page 6
My, Hawkins

June Z1, 1967 _ RE: Lillie Maze McMalaes

RESULTS (cont'd):

The Subject said that the next time she saw Dave Ferrie’ was less than a week
after firat meéting him and was ona Sunday. She explained that Dave invited
her to his apartment fox lunch with hirn and his two roommates, She said that
Dave picked her up at her place ina blue Ford station wagon and they arrived at
Dave's apartment at approximately 12:30 or 1:00 P.M. She said that she stayed
ut this apartment until about 5:30 P.M, at which tirne he drove her back to ber
Wiace. . :
Subject said that she next saw Dave Ferrie on the following Wednesday or
\Urnurseay when he carne by Sam's place where she was employed... She eaid that
Dave asked her if she would go out with him the following Friday night. . ;

 

(\Fubject said that on this Friday night, Dave picked her up at her apartment
about 6:00 or 6:30 P.M. and they first proceeded to Dave's apartment where one
IK Dave's roornmates and his date were waiting. She said the four of them then_
went, to several places to dance and drink but they did not have dinner.

 

3

The Subject ernphaticallf# denied ever meeting Shaw or Oswald. She said that s}
| lpever attentes a partyAt Dave Ferrie's house. She stated that she had never been
to a fcothall game bufshe did attend basketball and baseball games with Perry
Russo and Lefty Petérson. ©

   
 
 

 

 

The Subject stated/that Perry Resso was extremely interested in politics. She
gaid that he was a Republican and a strong advocate and backer of Goldwater,

The Subject stated that she attended a political meeting with Perry Russo and
three other men but she could not be sure of their names. She related that the
meeting was held in a big house on Canal Street ‘in either April or y of 1965.

! She said that she and three men stayed ina back room of the houge and watched.
television. She said that she did not aee all of the peaple at the meeting. She said
that she did not hear anyone speaking Spanich nor did she see eny Spanish, Cubans.

| or Puerto Ricans at this meeting. Lo

 

The Subject commented that Lefty Peterson is. "off upstairs" but is a good guy
otherwise. _ ,

 

 

 

 

 

HW 54462 DocId:32161772 Page 7 .
   

 

‘Page 4

Mr. Hawkins ;

June 21, 1967 , ; RE: Lillie Mae Mecsiaines

RESULTS (cont'd):

Subject st#ted that when she was about four months pregnant, she rnarried a

Prank Agems in Dallas, Texas. She did not tell the circumstances surrounding
a divorfe. from Adams. . 7 :

    

The Subject stated that when she was between 15 and 16 years of age, her
‘nother took her toa psychiatrist because she had run away froin home. She
aid that she visited the psychiatrist about four times but she did not know what

he reported about her.

ubject related that she gave birth prematurely.on August 30, 1963. She said
that she was released from the hospital on September 3rd or 4th, 1963. She said
that she went to Perry Russo's house the day following her release from the
Lospital but she did not see or talk with him again until June or July of 1964, |

    
   

bubject then related how Perry Russo photographed her on several occasions
while she was engaging in the act of coitus with different men. She explained
that Perry had his own dark room and developed the pictures himself.

| \pabject then related that she and a girl named Ann visited her baby in the ho spital
requently. She further stated that her parents" came from Alabama to New
Crleans and also visited the baby in the hospital.

   
 

Subject continued that-her baby was released from the hospital on Septginher 20,
1963, and on this same date she leit New. Grleans with a James Robvezt Ervin
Russe had introduced her to him). She said that the two of them agi the baby.
went by bus to her "parents'’ home. She gave her "parents" addr
.\/ia Eight Mile, Alabama and she said that this town is located near Mobile.

She went on to explain that James Robert Ervin was unable to find employment
in Mobile and so he went to New Orleans and obtained a job in an establishzent
called Little Crystal Cafe. She said that this establishment is located on Roysl
Street in New Orleans. She said that Jimxyny worked and stayed in New Crieans
during the week and he would hitchhike to her "parenta'’ home in Eight Mile,
Alabama, over the weekends. . ;

    

J pa

 

HW 54462 DocId:32161772 Page 5

sus as Box 326

 
 

as ™
. io : a
Page 5. .
Mr. Hawkins .
June al, 1967 ’ RE: Lillie Mae McMaines

RESULTS (cont tat

Subject stated that she and Jimmy left Eight Mile in February of 1964 (Leaving
the baby with her mother") and they went to San Bernadino, California, where
they stayed with an aunt of hers. She said that from the time she left New
Ovleans to go to Eight Mile and then to California, she did not make one trip
to New Orleans. :

 
   
  
 

Nupject related. that she and Jizamy went through a wedding ceremony in Tiajuana,
Mexico, in June of 1964. She continued that Jimmy left her the latter part of

his same month. She said that the day after Jimmy left her, she went to New
Qrleana by bus, . : .

 

Subject related that when she arrived in New Orleans, she called Perry Kusso
and he came to the bus depot and drove her and her personal belongings to his
ome, She'said that she spent the night in Perry's apartment and then the foliow-
g day she rented a room for herseli, She said that aiter she rented the room,
ghe went job hunting and she met James Robert Hrvin on the street. She said
that they decided to live together again, She said that she did obtain a jobasa
[Fase She said that she and Jimmy lived together for only one week and he

   
  
 

gain walked.out on her. She said that he left on July 3, 1964:

 

The Bubject said that she thea turned to prostitution ag a means of sapporting
herseli and incorder to save up enough money to get her baby back from ber
"mother." She iurther explained that she gave Perry Rusgo “around a hundred
dollars" to keep for her but he never gave it back to herY She said that on one
ther uccasion, she loaned Perry $20.00 to use to pay fis insurance but he did
ot repay this money either.

  
 
  
 
   
 

The Subject stated that the first time she met Da was in either the latter
part of January of the first part of February of 196. She explained that she was
with Perry Russo and he wanted to see Dave Ferrjfe about something and so the
two of them went to Dave's apartment. She said ¢hat Perry introduced her to
Ferric and his two roommates. She said that they stayed at Dave's apartment
for only a few minutes and they leit. : . . . .

 

 

 

 

 

HW 54462 DocId:32161772 Page 6 .

 
 

 

; #9816 - 67
- : - °. . June 21, 1967

:

    
   

fey at Lay
42 Fiith Avenue

MAE
cetection of deception techniqus

    
 

we

MAINES was examined oa the polygraph,

  

 

>

 

 

ee ject was examined in this office on June 19, 1967. She was given a Relevant

ahd Irrelevant type examination for the purpose ot ascertaining if she possessed -
y knowledgé of an alleged meeting in Dave Ferrvie's home wherein tllere was :
rhal intga’co urse relating to a plot to assassinate the late John F. Kennedy.

ul
oo

 

Dearingfthe pre-test interview, the Subject stated that she was bora Lilliy
T\ dgeiiett on Gctober 22, 1944, in Lucedale, s2issippi. She stated tha
“\\ frother dicd when her younger sister was born ind that she was raised/by one of
nek father's cousins, Jarmes Mofiett, and his wiie Ethel. She referred to these
eople.as her parents. She stated that she was raised near Mobile, Alabama.
She said that she docs not know whether or not James and Ethel Moffett ever
adopted her.

   
 

 

   
 
   

 
      
 

Subject stated that she is presently married to Narold kfeMaines, aged 38 years.
She said that he does not have a regular job and works Aut of an “employment
effice' in Omaha, Nebraska, as a truck driver and ayfa furniture mover.

 

he Subject stated that ever siace she was eld enough to understand and remember,
her "mother" constantly told her that her older sister Gertrude, who lived in New
Orleans, Louisiana, was "a tramp and ao good." She stated that these statements

 

 

 

 

 

HW 54462 DocId:32161772 Page 2 |
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

 

- AGENCY: — FBI

RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10144-10133

RECORD _ SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 89-43-7034, 7035

Released under the John
. Kennedy
Assassination Records

ollection dct of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#: NW 54462 Date:
1O-04-2017

 

 

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION.

ORIGINATOR: CIT
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 06/21/1967
PAGES: 26

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 62-109060-5483

DOCUMENT_TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL ‘Unclassified
CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW_DATE: 10/29/1998
STATUS Redact

COMMENTS: INC 2 CIT RPT

 

HW 54462 DocId:32161772 Page 1

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

NEW
CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE: — 02/09/2001
 

UP
a
(>

”

Page 2
Mr. Hawkins
~ June 21, 1967 . REt Lillie Mae McMaines

RESULTS (cont'd);

finally caused her to run away frora home in 1962 and proceed to New Crleans
to locate her sister Gertrude. She said that she just had to find out if her
sister was really "bad." ;

During six hours of interview and interroyation, the Subject gave the following
information regarding her stay in New Orleans, her returmto Mobile, Alabama,

hea on to San Bernadine, California, then back te New Orleans, then. to Omaha,
Nebraska, and iingly to Des Moines, Towa. :

 
  
 

Jubject stated t#at when she first went to New Orleans she decided to use the
name Sandra Moffett, She explained that she had been in New Orleans for appron-
imately three weeks before her sister permitted her to go out von the tow
Herseli. Sh¢ y 2 :
the said that the meting occurred about 19:30 P, Me as @ was walking down
ourbon Street and that Perry Russo, "Ken," Letty Pep€rson and "Timmy" were
ilso walking along Pourbon Street. She related that 9% they passed on the street,
Timmy winked at her and she smiled. She continued that they all stopped on the
sidewalk and talked. She said that during this conversation, Perry Russe volun-
I teres to drive her home. .

 
   
 

   
 
 

 

car and proceeded to drive toward her sister's home where she was staying but

they stopped on the way ior coifee and gasoline. She said that Perry Russe asked

her if she would go to school with him the following morning and she replied to him
hat she would go with hirn provided her sister would permit her to do so.

[e continued that she, Perry Russo, Aeity, Ken and Timmy all got into Perry's

  
 
   

She continued that Perry Russo stopped by the hofise the following morning tut ner
sister would not permit her to go with him but Per sister did agree that she could
attend a party that was being given for Ken Wak that night.

Subject stated that that’ party was held at a place called the Frenchman's Ina. She

said that Perry was supposed to pick her up at 8:00. P.M. but he was late because ©

it was raining hard. She said that sne and Perry arrived atthe party at approxi-
mately 3:00 PLM ; , . : :

The Subject stated that she and Perry continued to date until the early part of 1963.
‘She said that she became pregnant and aiter she told Perry that she was pregnant

* up again.

_ : - : .

he told her to “get lost" until aiter the baby was born and then she should look airn

 

HW 54462 ‘ Docld: 32161772 Page 3

 
 

, Page 3
Mr. Hawkins . . ; .
June 21, 1967 RE: Lillie Mae McMaines

-RESUL'TS (cont'd):

The Subject stated that when she first told Perry Russo that she was pregnant,
a man (unknown to her) placed Perry in a hypnotic trance and questioned him.
She said that while in the trance, Perry acknowledged that he was the father of
her yet unborn baby. She said that Perry later denied that he was the father.

She went on to explain that she, Perry, and the unknown n hypnotist" (she des
vibed his age as between 40 and 50 years) went to a place called the Royal
Castle and, while there, this unknown "hypnotist" again placed Perry ina
hypnotic trance. She said that he did not question Perry at this time but gave
nimi a post-~hypnotic suggestion, "When I snap my fingers you will awaken, get
off the stool, walk to the door and then return to the stool where you will freeze
in your tracks and will be unable to move." She said that when the man snapped
(Ais fingers, Perry opencd his eyes, got off the stool, walked to the door and
hen turned and walked back to the steal. She said that Perry stood by the staol
nd went through what appeared to be attempts at moving his body but he did not
lnetually move. She aaded that, in her opinion, Perry was faking his inability to
move while standing by the stool. ,

Sabject said that the next time she saw Perry (efter telling him that she was
‘Db. egnant) was a very short time later and she spent about one-hali hour ta king
with him in his home. She said that when she departed his home, a friend of his
| named "Fide" knocked her down on the lawn, hit ker in the stomach with his fist,

and made the comment, "Why don't you leave him alone?" She explained that she

screamed loudly when atruck by Fido hoping that Perry would come outside but
fr did not. She said that Fido went into Perry's home after knocking her down

nd striking her. She said that as soon as she regained her sense of direction,
| she got up and went home. : ‘

 

\

i! The Subject stated that when she was about three months pregnant, she attenipted
suicide by taking 175 aspirin. She said that a girl friend named Kathy found her
and took her to the Charity Nospital in New Orleans by taxicab. She said that her
stomach was pumped at the hospital and she said that the hospital notified the
police departinent but her girl friend Kathy talked the officer out of takin, ng her te
jail. ;

 

HW 54462 DocId:32161772 Page 4
