 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hotey>
DATE: 11-14-2017 an ; .
Do : a caw

wee Ma VO

She returned to Washington, D.C. in July, 1950,
‘and Morgan told her he was glad National Management
did not approve her plans as she could form her own
corporation and represent the Butler Corporation of
Minneapolis, Minnesota, -headed by Robert Butler, the
Ambassador to Cuba, which company was interested in
securing atomic energy contracts. Morgan told her
not to worry about financing as that could be arranged
through the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, which
arrangement was later confirmed to her by the Chairman
of the R.F.C., in the presence of!Morgan. In Morgan's
office, in.the presence of Dick Paxson, she then called
the Chicago firms affiliated with National Management,
and obtained their consent to forming her own corpora~
tion, such conversations being preserved on a tape re~
corder. .

.

| Morgan and a former Bureau agent,.took her.to
Senator fydings! “office around. August..6,,.1950; the

Senator was’ told of her interest in eiting contracts

for Stomie energy construction and said that he would

be happy to be of any assistance he could, and his ‘
office made an appointment for her to see a MegAtiilians, a

head of construction for the Atomic Energy Commission.

  

   

 

Around August. 11,1950 _ m4 organand, Senator..Brien |
McMahon took subject,to,.lunch, atthe, Occidental. Restau- i
rant, in, Washington, y_discussed the .

 

The necessary papers were then prepared and
Christensen Corporation was organized under the laws
of Delaware on August 18, 1950. Shortly thereafter
she telephoned the Butler Corporation in Minneapolis, but >
Robert Butler was not in; thirty minutes later Robert | A f
Butler called her from Cuba and said he would immediately
send a representative from Minneapolis to Washington to
see her. That evening "andy! ¢fongbethen) » chief engineer
of Butler Corporation, met hér in the offices of Welch, Mott
and Morgan, at which time Paxson, and Welch were also present.

 

 

 

 

; DocId: 32336433 Page 9
 

“Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey=
DATE: 1i- 14-2017 _
yee La fy"

 

Morgan told "Andy" taplefiristensen Corporation could be
instrumental in getting Government contracts for Butler,
Corporation and indicated that ‘because of his dealings
with Senators McMahon, Tydings and Connally; “no diffi-~
culty would be experienced. That evening a further
conference was held between the same parties, attended
also by a Butler Corporation attorney from Virginia
near Washington, D.C., who was also a newspaper publisher
| and bank president. The Butler attorney remarked that
; subject would have to make large campaign contributions
to the Senators involved, and also discussed the fee to

be paid hime Shortly thereafter e subject went to
the Butler Corporation offices #h Minneapolis and dis-

cugéed the matter with Rober snd pec son Walter

tler, "Andy" (Longbothem) and Eriksen, treasurer of
the Butler Corporation, as a reSult of which a contract
was entered into between Christensen Corporation and
Butler Corporation under which Christensen was to act as
Washington representative for Butler in consideration
of 10% of Butler's net profits on Government contracts
procured, plus an additional 5% for expenses, Robert .
Butler told her, "how you buy your groceries, I don't ,
care at all; that is your business, you are there to
represent me and to do it." ;

 

    
 

é .
(On August 16, 1950 the subject drew a draft on the
Merchandise National Bank of Chicago in the amount of . :
$20,000, payable to Welch, Mott and Morgan for legal “%
fees. While she did not have sufficient funds on de-
posit at that time to cover the draft, the bank had been
advised that a $30,000 deposit was on its way, which
amount had been loaned to her’ by a friends The draft
-was not put through for collection and she later cancelled ite

Around this same time she also entered into negotiations .

for a lease of office space in the World Center Building, -
Washington, DeCe, at an annual rental of $6,600, for :
which she gave a check but later recalled it when the proposed

deal fell throughe 5

¥

In_the latter part of August, 1950 she. met,,Robert..Butler
and_ Ed. Morgan. in, her..suite.at at, nevhe,MayfiowerHotel,..at,.which
time Morgan informed her that..she was to be the pay-off.mane

The pay-off to Senators Connally, Tydings and Lucas was to

  

 

 

 

 

| ——

| Doca: 32336433 Page 10
 

leased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 USC 2107 HoteyS
DATE: Al- 14-2017
“h ve a os
. . a C4

Available information indicates that after her release

* from prison in August, 192, the subject lived at the home of her
parents until October, 192, at which time she was employed as an .
inspector and later as a tool designer by the Detroit Tool Engineering
Company, Detroit, Michigan’, engaged in the performance of. Government
contracts, While so employed, it appears that she met Ros Nene stensen,
an army engineer, assigned to work at the company; that” the subject ——
married Christensen in 1o9uk and shortly thereafter accompanied him to
California where he-was assigned to Hamilton Field, Californias After
the war subject returned with her husband to Chicago, Illinois in 196,
where Mr. Christensen was employed in the engineering department of the
Socony-Vacuum, Companye

| —> . The allegations in the testimony of the subject... given.on. Novenber-30,
1951 and January 19, -1952,,..t0.,.the Marin. Count California.officials,..
to which “investigation i is. ee ater, are summarized in

fo TMLLacL Tha had. : edt that,.re urse also ,

SestbasaaeP abet NEN Ti ae ne

be had to the testimony
eisai ASAE ESSAI

 

 

   
 

 

    

 

In April, 1950, because of her connections in Washing=
ton, DC. subject was made president of National Manage= i
ment Corporation of Chicago, a holding company: formed for
the purpose of procuritig Government construction contracts,
and in June, 1950 she came to Washington. for the purpose of
securing such contracts. She heard thaia clique of leading

        
   

 
 
 

Sepdtors in Coneress... including Bric ffelahon,_,Scott..Lucas,
dings, and a Tonio Gordon

 

the. award. ¢ “ot co f contracts. for. th

aaternieteche?

hydrogen 1 bomb p mb plant. t to cost %

to this “Gdigue was was 35 through id} } peti or, an, mer member “on the” daw
firm of Welch,. tote, and Mor gan, ‘ot “Washington, DeCos. > “ho ~

was then “serving “as. “general. “counsel to the tydings lnvesti~
gating Committee. She retained the firm of Welch, Mott~

and Morgan as legal -counsel, at an annual: TESST -$205 000 ,

In order to secure hydrogeh bomb plant constpaétion contracts,
“told her in, the >.presence of DicKt
welch, his.partner, that, contracts. could be obtain
by paying off $100,000 to $150,000 to the "boys on the e hills"

She returned to Chicago with ih Duds! aschen, her associate, q
to lay before the officers of National Management Corporation fy
the matter of opening a Washington office, but the proposal

was turned down because of the prohibitive coste

 

     

 

 

 

 

 

; DocId: 32336433 Page 6
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 199? (44 USC 2107 Wotey=
\ DATE: 11-14-2017 .

ee Oe O

°

In @ Release Progress Report dated August 13, 1912 it is stated:

1. Custodial: Continued assignment in the Dairy until

July 19, 1942. Did not do satisfactory work and because

of her inefficiency was moved from one department to another,
but on every occasion it was still like trying to fit a
square peg into a round hole. She is capable of doing good
work, but is so enamored by her own estimated good looks and
pretty hands that her work is done in a neglectful and hap-
hazard way, When reprimanded always has her alibis fixed up,
which in her own opinion is sufficient to explain her failure.
In the cottage she is an unstable type, who cannot be depended
upon to perform any of her duties without the maximum amount
of supervision and direction. She does not keep a neat

room and is usually untidy about her personal appearances.

. She misquotes both officers and inmates, thus often causing
friction. Cannot be depended upon for self direction, much
less to assume responsibility for others. Warnings, repri-
mands and other forms of discipline slide right off her back ve
as easily as the proverbial "water off a duck's back." She :
typifies the ogomaniac. -

 

|
| 2. Social: Het It is not believed that this sentence has i
. made much of an impression on subject. She does not like to :
work and will hope to find some man to support her so that
it will not be necessary for her towork. It is not expected
that she will ever make a satisfactory adjustment to society ‘
and that she will again be in difficulty with the law.

3. Training: -+-- Because of subject's difficult personality,
it was necessary to excuse her from the formal classes which

had been assignede

h. Psychiatric: Patient is a psychopath utterly incapable ~
of handling her emotional reactions, Possesses no judgment

and her life will be one difficulty after anothers

The subject became eligible under the law for conditional release,
from confinement on August 19, 19li2, at which time she moved to her mother's
_ home in Grand Rapids, Michigan. ,

 

‘’

 

|

Docld:32336433 Page 7
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 Use 2107 Hotey-
_ DATE: _i1- 14-2017

: : Ne

The following comments are made in the pre=sentence probation
report submitted to Judge Moscowitas.

Defendant herself admits having indulged in promiscuous

sex activities, but claims to have been "discreet"

in her choice of "customers." Defendant also reluc=

tantly admits that she drank heavily, but is inclined

to look upon this as part of her assets as a "glamor

girl." .Defendant is completely egocentric. She

considerg herself beautiful. and "photogenic™ and is

proud of her attempts to live "dangerously." Her present

offense she feels is unimportant except as it contri-

butes to her publicity as a desirable figure in so-

called "cafe society." She appears to have no intention

of altering this sordid way of life unless authoritative

_ Means are used. *%** She drank heavily, indulged

. in promiscuous sex activities and committed this offense
with no thought of consequences to herself, to her family
and upon others whom she involved. She appears to be
utterly conscienceless and completely without remorse. #%#%*
Defendant is obviously not material for probations She is .
in need of medical and social treatment in a controlled Top,
environment. : : i

 

Following conviction the United States Attorney submitted the
usual report on convicted prisoners in which he stated that he regarded H
the subject as an habitual criminal and that neither he nor the _Judge -
considered parole advisable in the case. h

Subject was admitted to the Federal Reformatory for Women at.
Alderson, West Virginia, on November 13, 191, and in her Admission Report -
it is stated:

The subject gives the impression of one who has been

a problem to her family. since childhood; who has been
willful, and has deliberately lived a daring life.

She has projected her wilfull thinking into situations,
and has wished to identify herself with social and
professional circles. Self=centered, untruthful, ego-
centric, independent, unscrupulous and an impressionist.
Subject can unmask, can discard her mannerisms and
affectations, and be an unassuming, pleasant person.
She has warped ideas on social conditions and needs in-
sight regarding her conduct, morals, and standards, This -
sentence has come as a bitter experience yet the publicity
and notoriety has been but a part of the thrilling adventure;

x

 

 

 

 

j Doclda: 32336433 Page 5
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC Zi0f Hote;
DATE: 11-14-2017 —_
- oo t . . _ aa .

7 C la.

or

she fails to comprehend the seriousness of her
offenses Until subject realizes the necessity
of working legitimately, can overcome her passion
for telling wmtruths, and the desire for decent
standards is aroused, it is felt that she will
continue being a social parasites

; On January 15, 1942 the subject made application for parole to
which she became eligible under the law on March 1, 1942, and after a.
hearing on February , 192 by the Parole Board her application was
denied on March 6, 1912.

In a Progress Report to the Parole Board, dated January 31,
192, it is stated: a ;
Subject has been a problem since admissione Her
many untruths and fantastic stories regarding herself
have made her very unpopular with the inmate groups.
Correction makes no impression and she profits little
by reprimand, Her desire for attention, both from the
girls as well as the officers, makes her most annoying
at times. She is affable, has a sense of humor, and
can be pleasant when she drops her many affectationse
She has projected her wilful thinking into situations, and.
has wished to identify herself with society and professional +-
circles for so long, that she is unable to shed this
cloak of imageryo

 

k
In a. Special Progress Report dated May 21, 192 it is stated:

She tells such big tales that some girl is always

calling her down and then there is an argument to

settle.e No one in the dining room wishes to eat with .
her because of the tall tales she tells of her past -
experiences. She is courteous to the officers, but this :
is merely on the surface. She is not popular with the
group because of her’ concentrated efforts to make out
that she is so much better than anyone else.

'

 

 

Docld:32336433 Page 6
 

 

ONE ‘under the John F. ras Records Collection Act. of 1992 (ag Tse 2ToF NEte y=
*~ DATE: 11-14-2017 - .
. 4

 
 
   
  
       

oe

, Office Memorindum ¢ UNITED STATES GO ERM y

TO .: Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation DATE: March a,
. : : JMM:JFC%ed
FROM): James M. McInerney, Assistant Attorney General 1)6=1-15-161
AW Criminal Division
_ suBjEcT: Iois Paula“Christensen

Bribery a CONFIDENTIAL
oes. hays “ehriste ns en.
Reference is made to your memoranda of February 14, March : ay: and ~
_ March 18, 1952, relative to the subject matter. You state that in ~
November, 1951 the subject was arrested in Marin, County,” califorgia
on a bad check charge, and subsequently made, lengthy. statements to. thee - fs
| county District,,Attorney..concerning..her.alleged associatién: “with the” A i
. (e er-Butler..Gorporation, and certain ernment officials, el

 

 

 

transcripts of + which statements ‘(attached “to your memorandum of February
1952) you advise were furnished to the Bureau by Senator Richard dixon Z

woes Fonrneter ree ere

 

As you are aware, some of the activities involved in’
Mrs. Christensen's statement to the Marin County, “California officials
were “thé” “subjects of. investigation in 1950, the results of which were
, incorporated in the “feports of Agent Milton L. Snyder, made at-Minneapolis,
Minnesota, on October 17 and November 8y 1950, and the report of Agent
Rosser L. Nalls, made at Washington, 1 De Co on October 19. 12508 Based

 

 

you" were ‘advised on Novenber vee 3980 that no further investigation, of
the matter .was desired at that times \). ; =

h,
In view, however, the present allegations made by the subject :
about officials of the-Butler. Corporation, as well as various Members of - |

Congress and Government officials, it is desired that further investi gatio:

[ve made to determine whether’ there is evidence of + the substantive vio violati ion,
SFX COnSpIFaCy tO Violate, any Federal law, particularly 18 U.S.C. 201, . Eee
202, 20h, 205, 216, 218, 432 and 4330 -

 

 

 

   
   

 

 
 
 

 

; subg bod for moral I contnet, integrity, truth and voracitye The Geparte ;
(Ain Te I & ; @ a 4
” Lois Paula Christensen, nee Lois Paula Lauckner, was born in ‘Aub oS
mother states that as a child the subject was headstrong, untruthful, :
self-willed and béfif upon having her ow way, The subject attended high - ba
graduating. Upon inquiry, an official of the high school, Py letter of ,
December ), whl, Sveti Lauckner (Za, 3 &e
(
a-12 Gl = 0

    

 

‘mental files reveal the following bagkeround, information About the. Sud Jechss

Michigan, on September I2,:1919, the youngest of three. children. Her.

school in Saginaw, Michigan from 193) until May, 1938 when she quit without oy.
"aie

‘a

 

 

| Docla: 32336433 Page 2
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colléction Act of 1997 (af Ust 2lu?r Hote;

DATE: 11-14-2017 JFK Assassination System Date: 6/8/2015
: : - Identification Form

eee

Agency Information

 

AGENCY: FBI -
RECORD NUMBER: —124-90134-10017
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 62-92991-43X

SSeS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DEPT. OF JUSTICE
FROM: DOJ/CRIM
TO: HQ
TITLE: > *»-
DATE: — 03/21/1952
‘PAGES: 12
SUBJECTS :
EDWARD PIERPONT MORGAN
[Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Confidential
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: = Withhold -
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 09/25/1998 i
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ
COMMENTS : MEMO, REFERRED TO DOJ

vol
Docld: 32336433 Page 1
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey?T
DATE: 11-14-2017 .

rr ae O
-? . . Ky
By on
oe (

While she attended our high school, Lois was
considered very ‘silly, boy crazy, and overly
mature physically. She was dishonest and
unreliable. Her excuses for absences were.
usually quite fantastic, It was rumored
around the school that she indulged in liquor
and drugs so that we were not sorry when she
left school.

 

According to the Parole Report of Agent J.P. Gleason, dated
January 2, 192, at New York City, the subject advised that during the
period February, 1938 to February, 1939, she carried on an affair with
a married attorney of Niagara Falls, New York. In January, 1939
she was hospitalized in Saginaw, Michigan and received medical treatment
for complications resulting from an abortion. In February, 1939
she married one Car] Bose in Indiana, whom she claims to have left
after three weeks, obtaining a divorce in September, 1939.

 

 

. Upon interview, subject stated that following her divorce in /
1939, she renewed relations with the attorney in Niagara Falls and } Le
became pregnant around December, 19392 It appears from Lauckner's / Vs

statement that the attorney was fearful of his reputation, and that he /
paid her $10,000 on condition that she would never see him againe ‘The /
subject states that she accepted the $10,000 and went to Detroit, Michigan,
where she gave birth to a daughter in a private hospital on August. 28, .
19,0, and thereafter arranged through the attending physician for the
child's adoption.

ao

. While in roit, Michigan the subject states she met an attorney |
by the name offfVince." She says that she moved to New York City in ‘* \
September, 1940, and thereafter lived at an apartment hotel, during which

time "Vince" regularly gave her $150. per month. Subject states that

she never had a steady job and never tried to obtain one during the ‘time
she was in New York Citye She ‘admits thate ing December, 190 and
January, 1941, she was employed by Pol. dler, operator of a house of
prostitution in New York City, which émployment has been verified by a com
worker. She also claims to have worked in New York during this period -
as a model and night club entertainer, but according to her probation
report did not supply any verifiable information of legitimate employment.

During the spring of 191 some of the employees at the apartment=

’

 

 

 

 

; DocId: 32336433 Page 3
 

" Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 HopeyT
DATE: 11-14-2917 ot

ae, ae FY

.: - VQ a,

°

hotel where subject was living concluded that she was possibly a call
girl because of her drinking activities and the number of men who
visited her rooms:

She was described by some of the tenants in the
building as a girl who used foul language and who
was constantly endeavoring to interest men in here
Investigation at a number of bars and grilles fre-
quented by Lauckner indicated that she was a general
nuisance, a terrible liar, and a thorough tramp.

' She was also described as being noisy and objectionable
after drinking and it appears from the number of
different stories which she told that she was an invet-
erate and consummate liar,

It is reported that of this period "she tells fantastic
stories of being wined and dined in 'cafe society,' of meeting
an elite crowd that knew gay times. According to her account, life .
was a series of cocktail parties, penthouse gatherings, and men oe
waiting to serve her pleasure, #4 In order to give herself notoriety, be
she identified herself with the German seasraider in the last war, ‘
Count Von Lauckner, claiming to be his cousin. (All connection
with the Count has been disqualified by subject's sister who maintains
that this was but another of subject's lies in order to gain publicity.)"

 

Subject claimed that from "Vince" she learned sufficient legal 4.
“jargon to enable her to talk in a lewyer's vernacular. She used
various aliases during this period, and under the name of Carol Hille
began representing herself to be an attorney in the Lands Division of
the Départment of Justice. In June of 191 subject was badly sunburned
while at the beach and upon returning to her apartment fell and injured
her hipe She was hospitalized at Mt. Sinai Hospital in New York for a
period of eight days. Upon being presented a hospital bill of $160.69
she gave a bad check in payment and induced the hospital officials to
accept it upon the representation that she was an attorney in the Lands. -
Division of the Department of Justice. Upon discharge from the hospital
subject went to Saratoga, New York, where she was arrested on August 21,
1941 for impersonating a Federal officers. It is reported that from the
time of her arrest until the date of her trial on October 23, 1941, “the,
subject took advantage of the circumstances to obtain publicity for her=
self. She was convicted in the Southern District of New York, on three
counts of impersonating a Federal officer and was sentenced by Judge Grover
Me Moscowitz, on October 30, 191, to be imprisoned for-one year and a
day in the Federal Reformatory for Women, at Alderson, West Virginia, and
to be placed on probation thereafter for a period of three yearse

LS

 

 

 

j; DocId: 32336433 Page 4
