 

 

AW 55509

Critical Evalution of the
Security-ssestigation

In the area of domestic intelligence,
the mandate of the F.B.I, has been both
broadly and vaguely defined. .

Given this charter and the history
of the sometimes overpowering influ-
ence of the views of the late Director
J, Edgar Hoover on his subordinates
and on successive Attorneys General,
it was understandable that a security
investigation should be initiated into
the possible influence of the Commu-
nist Party, U.S.A., on Dr. Martin Luther
King Jr. Two of King’s close advisers,
at the outset of the security matter,
were reported to be Communist Party
members by sources relied upon by the
Bureau. .

The security investigation continued
for almost six years until Dr. King’s
death. It verified, in our view, that one
alleged Communist was a very influen-
tial adviser to Dr. King (and hence the
Southern Christian Leadership Confer-
ence) on the strategy and tactics of
King’s leadership of the black civil
rights movement of the early and mid¢-
sixties.

‘Another had no such weight althoug'
hy seemed to be of use to King. B

 

DocId:32177310 Page 5

 

this very lengthy investigative concen-
tration on - on the principal
adviser established, in our opinion, that
he did not “sell” Dr, King any course
of conduct or of advocacy which can
be identified as Communist or “party
ine.

King himself never varied publicly
or privately from his commitment to
nonviolence and did not advocate the

sete oy

overthrow of the government of the -
United States by violence or subver- °

sion. To the contrary, he advocated an
end to the discrimination and disen-
franchisement of minority groups
which the Constitution and the courts
denounced in terms as strong as his.
We concluded that Dr. King was no
threat to domestic security.

. And the Bureau’s continued intense
surveillance and investigation of the

adviser clearly developed that he had;
disassociated himself from the Commus *

 

nist Party in 1963, because he felt -i
failed adequately to serve the civil
rights movement. Thus the linch pin of
the security investigation of Dr. King
had pulled himself out. ,

Mane 8

We think the security investigation, :
which included both physical and tech-

nical surveillance, should have been ©

terminated on the basis of what was
learned in 1963. That it was intensified

and augmented by a COINTELPRO type .

campaign against Dr, King was unwar-
ranted; the COINTELPRO type cam-
paign, moreover, was ultra vires and

very probably in violation of 18 U.S.C. .

241 (and 242), i.e. Felonious.

The continuing security investigation ‘

reflects also that the Attorney General
gand the Division charged with responsir
Dility for internal security matter?
failed badly in what’ should have beejx

irm supervision of the F.B.1.’s internet

security activities, he

—~—~—E&;———E_xz_——_—

 
 

eb-n50 Wey.

 

©
Ae L-75)
”

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

 

 

 

 

 

AW 55509

 

 

- Fastive Agency Upholds Inquiry \

 

: By ANTHONY MARRO_ ar -
‘ ‘Spectal to The New York Times, : !

WASHINGTON Feb. 18—A major Te-
'yiew ‘by the Justice Department, has con-
'Cluded that the Federal‘Bureau of Investi-
; gation’ s inquiry into. the murder of the
' Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was
“thoroughly, honestly and successfully”
conducted, and that the best available
evidence suggests that James Earl Ray,
the convicted murderer, acted alone.

Yet the report made-no effort to offer
conclusive evidence. on that point. “Proof
that others were not involved’ is here

| ByF. BI. Into Murder of Dr. King
: .

 

Excerpts from the report, page Il.

 

as elusive: and’ difficult as it has uni-
Versally been th -criminal law,” it says.
The Justice Department investigators,
who. made-an- eight-month review of the
F.B.1.’s handling of the case, also conclud-
ed .that--the-:buréduy might, have had
grounds for starting a security investiga-

 

surveillance was clearly unwarranted.

The - investigators said in. a report
released today that.the bureau never de-
veloped evidence that Dr. King had any
’ Affiliation with the Commiunist Party, and

at it was a personal feud between him

d :the ‘late J. Edgar Hoover, Director

the F.B.I.—not legitimate national se-

 

~} rights leader by circulating stories about

 

tion of Dr. King, but that: its six-year}

 

curity concerns—that resulted in the bu-
reau’s “determination to discredit Dr.
King.” 4

The: Justice Department investigation }
was ordered.last April by then Attorney
General Edward H. Levi after the Senate |:
Select Committee on Intelligence dis-|'
closed that the bureau had engaged in
a six-year surveillance of Dr. King that
had included the use of wiretaps, elec-
tronic bugs and paid informants, and that
it had attempted to discredit the civil

his personal life. !

In light of these disclosures, Mr. Levi
ordered an investigation to’ determine
. whether the- bureau ‘might have been in
any. way involved in Dr, King’s assassina- ||
tion,. whether its.investigation of the mur-
der had been “thorough and honest,” and |:
whether there was any new evidence that
might warrant reopening’ the case.

Although not specifically charged with
seeking: evidence: 6f a conspiracy, the in-
quiry had to address.the question whether
the bureau had ignored such evidence \in
its: investigation.

‘After sorting ..through ‘more thai
200,000 documents and ‘Boe a
| About 40 witnesses, a group of lawyer-in-

 

 

 

 

  
  
   
   
   
    
  
        
      
   

 

 
 
 
 

Serebt_s
ace -t-

NY TIMES

  

LATE JERSEY EDITION

Date: 2/19/77
Edition:
Author:

EditoAeM. ROSENTHAL
Title:

 

i
Character: i
or : i

|

Classification:

Submitting Office NEWARK, NJ

CT Being lavestigated Se

 

FEB 22 1977

FBI-NEWARK |

  

 

DocId:32177310 Page 2
 

JFK Assassination System Date: 12/6/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information Released under the John

 

 

el

AGENCY: FBI + Kennedy
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10188-10394 Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992
RECORD SERIES: NK (44 5c 2107 Note).
ase#: NU 55509 Date:
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 100-57235-27, 28 BZ oat
Document Information
ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:
TITLE :
DATE: 00/00/0000
PAGES: 0
SUBJECTS :
NAR
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS : Not Assassination Related
CURRENT STATUS: Withhold
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/01/1994
-
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :
v9.1 1
HW 55509 Docld:32177310 Page 1
 

 

vestigators headed by Michael E, Shaheen
Jz_a—Inustice Department attoTaey;-con-
cluded that although the F.B.I.’s surveil-
lance of Dr. King had become “‘twisted,”
the bureau’s subsequent investigation of
his murder had been a “‘credible and thor-
ough job.”

In a statement issued today after the
release of the 201-page report, Clarence
M. Kelley, the F.B.I. Director, said: “I
noted with great satisfaction the conclu-
sions of the task force that the F.B.I.’s
assassination probe of the Dr. Martin Lu-
ther King.slaying was ‘credible and thor-
ough’; that there was no evidence of a
conspiracy, and that the report clearly
indicates no complicity on the part oi\
the F.B.I, in this assassination.”

The report is not likely to end all
speculation that Mr. Ray was only one
figure in a broader conspiracy tq kill Dr.
King. For one thing, the Justice Depart-
ment investigators concede that it is still
not known where Mr. Ray obtained the
money he needed to purchase the expen-
sive equipment he bought and to do the
extensive traveling he did before the as-
‘sassination and in the months between
the murder and his arrest.

Arrested 2 Months Later

Dr. King was shot on a motel balcony
in Memphis on April 4, 1968. Mr. Ray, |
who escaped from the Missouri State
Penitentiary in 1967 while serving a 20-
year sentence for-armed robbery, was ar-
rested at London Airport on June 8, 1968,
65 days after the King assassination. He
pleaded guilty to Dr. King’s murder an
is serving a 99-year sentence in Brush:
Mountain Prison in Petros, Tenn.

_ Attorney Genera] Griffin B. Bell sal

on a television news show last Sunday
that the report left some questions unan-
swered, “I think that if you read the re-
port, you could lean to either side of.
it,” he said. “You could say that there’s
no evidence of a conspiracy, but you
could still wonder...if there happened to

however, Andrew Young, the
United States delegate-to the United Na-
tions, who is a former House member
and aide to Dr. King and who was himself
under surveillance by the F.B.I. at the
same time as Dr. King, said that the re-
port left some questions unanswered an
hoped that it would not cause the House
to abandon its investigation of the assas-
-sination. .
The investigation by Mr. Shaheen’s
group followed an eatlier, less extensive
investigation by the Justice Department’s
civil rights division, w
dered in November 1975.
The report rele:
recommendation
civil rights division’s study
consideration should be given t
ayment to Dr. King’s family or to
Xing Foundation as compensa
_ =

Today,

 

vielation of Dr. King’s civil rights.

“The reason for this, the report said
was that the statute of limitations proba-
bly barred any criminal prosecutions, and
that for the King family to file a civil
suit might “be more embarrassing than
helpful,” presumably because of the na-
ture of the material in the F.B.I. files.

A Justice Department spokesman said
today that he did not know what, if any-
thing, might come of this recommenda-
tion. He alsd said he was not certain
whether the department would follow a
recommendation of the Shaheen group
that Congress be asked to pass a bill
ordering the destruction of the derogato-
ry material on Dr, King still in F.B.I. files.

The investigation by Mr. Shaheen’s

volved a review not only of the so-called
“Murkin file’ (“Murkin” is an acronym
for “murder of King”), but also of F.B.I.
records in 15 cities. It concluded that
there were several weak spots in the bai-

d \edly that he would be willing to kill Dr.

hich Mr. Levi or-

ased today says that one
that resulted from the
udy was that some
‘o a direct
the
tion fof the

group cost an estimated $200,000 and in- |.

No Backing or.Payment
As for a motive, the report relies heavi-
ly on testimony from former prison in-
mates that Mr. Ray was strongly biased
against blacks and had suggested repeat-

King, particularl
him to do it,

‘The Teport’s conclusion, however, is
the best available evidence is that

y if someone would pay

 
 
  
 

Ray killed Dr. King on his own, withdut
the backing of or payment by others.

“We acknowledge that the proof...that
lothers were not involved is here as elu-
sive and difficult as it has universally
been in criminal law,” the report said.
“But the sum of all of the evidence
of Ray’s guilt points to him so exclusively
that it most effectively makes the point
that no one else was involved,” the report
continued. “Of course, someone could
conceivably have provided him with lo-
gistics, or even paid him to commit the
crime. However, we have found no com-
petent evidence upon which to base such
a theory.”

Although the report concluded that
some of the F.B.I. surveillance of Dr. King
—which included illegal break-ins, unau-
thorized buggings and the leaking of de-
rogatory information about his sex life—
was ‘very probably...felonious,” it said
no agents who took part should be pun-
ished.

The report said that the persons who
ordered ‘the activities were either dead
or retired from the bureau, and that the
few agents still in the bureau who played
sa role in Dr. King’s surveillance were un-

 

 

 

t
Jerlings “far removed from decision 1@- ;
sponsibility.” :
The report released today is a rewrit-
ten, condensed version of the report given ,

 

reau’s investigation, but none serio

 

be a conspiracy.”

Moreover, the release of the report at
this time could further cloud the future
of the special House committee estab-
lished to investigate the deaths of Presi-
dent Kennedy and Dr. King, since oppo-
nents of that investigation are likely to
argue that a further study of the King
assassination is likely to be duplicative
and unnecessary.

According to a number of House mem-
bers of both parties, the continued exist-
@ce of the select committee has been

riously threatened in recent days iby
the outbreak of an open battle between
i chairman, Representative Henry 3.

onzalez, Democrat of Texas, and its
chief counsel, Richard A. Sprague. »

 

HW 55509 DocId:32177310 Page 3

i

Mr. Ray killed Dr. King.
‘The rep

US
enough to challenge its conclusions *

ort said that the F.B.I. shoul

 

 

 

ave worked harder to obtain information
‘bout Mr. Ray from members. of his fami-
i who may have been in touch with him
after Dr. King’s murder. And it agrees
with some critics of the investigation that
the question of where Mr. Ray obtained
the money he needed to travel to Europe
after the killing is still not fully an-
swered. :

The F.B.L was able to show that Mr.
Ray received checks totaling $664 in
1967, when he was employed as a dish-
washer and cook’s helper in Winnetka,
All. But the only explanation it has come
up with for his having money for travel
and expensive ‘equipment is that he
probably committed several robberies_or
burglaries. eae

=

to Mr. Levi before he left office last
‘month. John Wilson ,a Justice Department -
spokesman, said, however, that no
anges had been made in the group's
findings, and that it simply had been edit-
d to delete what he termed “salacioys ‘
sonal material” and certain classified’;
information from the F.B.1’s files. ;

 

 

4

 
 

 

FD-350 (ev. 21-11-75)

    
  

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

 

 

 

1 ) _—
| nxcetpts From JusticéDepartment Report on

ef

De-King Assassination

: i - Jt was possible for the task force
WAS8BZETON, Feb. 18—The follow- to create a welldeeuented history of
ing are excerpts from the report of the James Earl Ray from the moment of
Justice Department Task Force that re- hia escape to his capture in England,
viewed the assassination of the Rev. Dr, using the investigation reports in the
Martin Luther King Jr. F.BI. files and to corroborate and fill
. in essential details with Ray's own
ith i statements (admissions) in his letters
Critical Evaluation of the to author William Bradford Huie.
Assassination Investigation From this chronology, from the labo-
First, the task force has concluded ratory proof, and from Ray's judicial
that the investigation by the F.B.I. to admissions it was concluded that he
ascertain and capture the murderer of was the assassin, and that he acted
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., was thor- alone. We saw no credible evidence
oughly, honestly and successful con- probative of the possibility that Ray
ducted. We submit that the minute de- and any co-conspirator were together
tails compacted in this report amply = at the scene of the assassination. Ray’s
support this conclusion. assertions that someone else pulled the
| At the very outset of the investiga- trigger are so patently self-serving and
tion, telegrams went to all field offices so varied as to be wholly unbelievable.
of the Bureau instructing the Special They become, in fact, a part of the
Agents in Charge to take personal evidence of his guilt by self-refutation.
supervision of the investigation, to Third, we found that conspiracy leads
check out all leads in 24 hours, and (aliunde Ray’s versions) had been con-
noting that they would be held person- scientiously run down by the F.B.I.
ally responsible, (HQ-44-38861-153). even though they had no possible rela-
The files we reviewed show that this tion to Ray’s stories or to the known
directive was conscientiously followed. facts. -

‘

  
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
   
 
  
  
  

 

Cndicate page, mie
newspuper, city and stute.?

PAGE 11
“NY TIMES

LATE JERSEY EDITION

The Bureau sought first to identify and The results were negative.
locate the murderer using the obvious We found no evidence of any com-
leads. They checked out aliases, licity on the part of the Memphis Po-
|| tracked the traces left under the Galt ice Department or ofthe FBI f
‘| alias and used the known fingerprints e acknowledge that proof of the

    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  

from the murder weapon and the con- = = —
‘South “Main Blue Zipper Pe is] fo Ba volved, proof that obhers | and
cs backtracking ended in Atlanta difficult, as it has universally, ai of
At this point the Bureau initiated a the. inal, aw. cr Ray's guilt points to
check of the crime site fingerprints him so exclusively that it most effec-
against the white male “wanted fugi- tively makes the point that no one else

Date: 2/19/77
E-dition:
Author:

tive” print file. This produced the al- was involved. Editor A.M, ROSENTHAL
most “instant” discovery that the Of course, someone could conceivably Title:
wanted man, Galt, was James Earl Ray, have provided him with logistics, pr
an escapee from Missouri State Prisqn. Seven paid him to commit the crime. :
In fact the “instant” discovery wi: However, we have found no competent

 

4 tedious hand search started in a file awidence upon which to base suchh a Character:

. eory.
f some 20,000 prints. That it took onty : " or
o hours to make a match is said
by the Bureau experts to be largely
sheer luck; it could have taken days.
We accept the explanation that the fin-
gerptint search was a normal next re-
sort after normal lead procedures were
exhausted.

Second, the task force views the evit.
dence pointing to the guilt of James: :
Earl Ray as the man who purchased ‘ el
the murder gun and who fired the fatal :
shot to be conclusive. *

Classification:
Submitting Otice NEWARK , NJ

(7 Being Investigated

INDEXEI

FEB #3 1977

FBI-NEWARK

      

HW 55509 DocId:32177310 Page 4
