-he

III. SPECIAL TARGET AUDIENCES .

: the. armed forces
In addition to such primary targets as labor, /and farmers, efforts
should be made to weaken the regime's support from the following sectors:

A. A special effort should be made to convince Cuban youth, who
are generally considered the hard core of Castro's support, that the
attention and importance they are now given is only temporary and that
the system they are helping to maintain will rob them of all freedom and
subject them to a discipline that stifles their natural desire for change
and freedom of expression. The current campaign in the Soviet Union to
rescind the freedom of expression which was allowed after Stalin's death
should be exploited. The loss of university autonomy in Cuba should be
exploited.

B. For the Cuban Negro audience, who comprise some 30% of the
population and a large part of Castro's support, special attention
should be. given to factual reporting of the U.S. racial scene and a
careful backgrounding of developments. We cannot hope to convince the
Cuban Negro that there will be any early solution to the U.S. 's serious
racial problems, but we can strive to offset the deadly Cuban propaganda
exploitation of events such as those im .Birmingham, Alabama, and to
kncék down the venomous exaggerations of "Radio Free Dixie."

IV. PROGRAMMING RECOMMENDATIONS

A. Use should be made of recorded interviews with reputable Latin
American leaders, including labor and students, who take a critical view
of Cuba's communist regime and Cuba's ties to the communist bloc. Our
aim isto convince the Cuban people that the Castro regime's claims of
solid-support from the Latin American people and of the imminence of other
Cuban-type revolutions in Latin America are false and to show that instead
the Latin Americans are choosing a democratic path to social and economic
progress.. Reports of specific progress under the Alliance for Progress
(the building of schools, hospitals, housing, etc.) should be given atten-
tion in the broadcasts to Cuba. :

B. Interviews with Cuban refugees in the broadcasts to Cuba should
be considered primarily as vehicles for reflecting the resistance of the
Cuban people to communism. Through the reports of our interviewees of
specific and local resistance, we hope to give our audience a sense of
identity with a general national resistance to the communist pressures
demanding collaboration and conformity. (Refugee interviews in the other
Spanish hours for the Latin American audience, by contrast, should be
primarily vehicles for reporting conditions in Cuba.) The interviewee
should be encouraged, if this can be accomplished convincingly, to pay

COHPEPENT IAD

———

NW 49061 DocId: 32205474 Page 5
HW 49061

_—

tribute to the courage of the people who remain in Cuba, as a means of
off-setting the natural resentment of those left behind toward the exile. .

6. Regular use should be made of analyses, book reviews, documentaries,
and dramatizations which give an understanding of communist ideology and
practice as a means of providing the Cuban people with a perspective on
the experience they are enduring and bolstering their will to resist. The
liberal use of quotations from U.S. and Latin American leaders and writers
which contrast the philosophies of Democracy and Communism is recommended
as useful in setting the inspirational tone suitable for Latin American
audiences. :

/NoTE: SECTION TWO FOLLOWS7

DocId:32205474 Page 6
 

opt SONPEDENETAD . La

USIA INFORMATION GUIDANCE ON CUBA - OBJECTIVES AND THEMES
October 2, 1963 ;

SECTION ONE - VOICE OF AMERICA BROADCASTS TO CUBA 7 | PD
Av

I. OBJECTIVES

Our main objective in the Cuban broadcasts is to keep the people of
Cuba informed about developments inside Cuba and in the outside world,
providing them a perspective in which to view their experience. In this
effort, we strive to demonstrate U.S. support for Cuban freedom and con-
cern for their present plight; to encourage the spirit of resistance in
the Cuban people to the communist ideology and the pressures they face
(each man and each family is a fortress against communism); to keep alive
the hope and conviction that Cuba will again be free; and to discourage
adjustment and cooperation with the regime which betrayed their hopes for
the revolution. We do not, however, urge the Cuban people in any way to
revolt. .

II. THEMES

A. - In pursuance of this objective, we stress the following aspects

of U.S. policy toward Cuba:
1) The U.S. "cannot coexist with a Soviet satellite in this hemisphere."

2) The U.S. has made it clear, in the words of President Kennedy, that
twe would not accept a: Hungary in Cuba."

3) The U.S. is exerting every means except those which would being on
the danger of an international war (i.e. military action and blockade)
to isolate and destroy the Castro communist regime.

4) Although not bound by a no-invasion pledge, it is not the intention
of the U.S. under present conditions to invade. One reason for this
position, in the words of President Kennedy, is that it would mean
‘killing thousands of Cubans and Americans, with all the hazards
around the world" (Press Conference, February 14, 1963). He also
said (December 31 backgrounder), "we are involved in attempting to
check the advance of the Sino-Soviet bloc of a billion people, so
that we have to maintain a perspective that is bound to be different
than theirs (the exiles)."

5S) The economic measures taken by the U.S. against Cuba are aimed at
freeing the Cuban people from the communist regime, not making them
suffer. .

GONPIDENDEAEL - GROUP | (Downgraded at 3-year intervals. ¢
Declassified 12 years after date of

hese ENE sie OS
“Ef 11652, Sec. 3{E) and 5(D) or (ED, . origin)
saan vate 019/94 -

AW 49061 DocId:32205474 Page 2

__« DECLASSIFIED
ne

 
r

JFK Assassination System : Date: 5/5/2016
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10010-10078

RECORD SERIES: NSF

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: USIA
FROM:
TO:

TITLE: USIA INFORMATION AGENCY GUIDANCE ON CUBA

DATE: 10/02/1963:
PAGES: 5

SUBJECTS : ,
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
- DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Confidential
RESTRICTIONS: = 1C
CURRENT STATUS: — Withhold
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 08/23/1993

OPENING CRITERIA: UPON AGENCY REVIEW

COMMENTS : NSF:CO:Cuba, General, 10/63:Box:39

v9.1 5
HW 49061 DocId:32205474 Page 1
HW 49061

6)

7)

8)

- the

1)

2)

CONFIBENPIAE
-2-

In its dealings with the Cuban exiles, the U.S.Government takes into -
account the desires of the much larger number of people inside Cuba.
President Kennedy has explained (April 2), 1963) that the U.S. refuses
to recognize a government-in-exile because there is "no evidence that
the exiles themselves could develop a government which would necessarily
be the government which the people of Cuba would freely choose."

The U.S. is convinced, as President Kennedy has said on a number of
occasions, including the Declaration of Central America, that "Cuba
will soon join the family of free nations."

We are also convinced, as are Cuba's other neighbors ,» that "A genuine
Cuban revolution will live again." (Declaration of Central America.)

‘The U.S. is on record as sympathizing with the original aims of. the

revolution and. as recognizing the right of the free Cuban people to
carry out progressive reforms. Giving special emphasis to this theme,
we want to reassure the Cuban people that the U.S. would not lend its
support to any movement which would attempt to restore the oppression
and corruption of the Batista dictatorship.

‘'B. In reporting and commenting on developments inside Cuba, we stress
following aspects:

The continuous loss of freedom as the communist system tightens its

grip on the people, relating this to communist ideology and tactics

and dispelling the rationalization that these measures are only temporary
or "voluntary" sacrifices for the revolution.

The material losses of the Cuban people under the communist regime,
relating these losses to the worldwide failure of communism to produce.
Contrast the contradiction between promise and fulfillment, making the
point that old promises are forgotten and new ones made and that this
will always be true as long as the communist regime is in power. Give
special attention to: a) decreases in production; b) the meaning of
the emulation (work norms) campaign; c) the enforced savings campaign;
d) rationing; c) the loss of labor benefits; f) the new levelled wage
scales; g) the false agrarian reform and restrictions on the campesino.
Whenever possible, in commentaries and interviews, the Cuban people

should be given credit for their refusal to cooperate and work en-

thusiastically for the communist regime. Caution: In reporting
economic conditions to the Cuban people who are well aware of their
own situation, extreme care should be exercised in determining the
reliability of the source. We should never pitch our message solely
on materialistic grounds, which are open to change, but should link

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId:32205474 Page 3
CONPERENTIAT
=

the material losses to the loss of basic freedoms, giving priority to
the latter. In citing material losses, we should not give the im-
pression that the pre-Castro years were the "good old days" and should
recognize that many Cubans are no worse off materially under Castro
than they were under Batista.

3) Internal political developments, such as the formation of. the PURS
(United Party of the Socialist Revolution) which demonstrate that the
inevitable tendency of power is away from Castro and the young July 26
revolutionaries and toward the experienced organizers of the communist
old-guard.

4) The dependence of the Cuban regime on the Soviet military and Bloc
technicians and teachers (e.g. the report that 100 out of 600 professors
at the University of Havana are foreigners), often meaning a loss of
power and position for the Cubans.

; C. In reporting and commenting on Cuba's relations with the Gommunist
Blec, we stress the following aspects:

1) The inability or unwillingness of the Bloc to provide economic aid in
sufficient quantity to prevent the Cuban people from suffering food and
goods shortages;

2) The exploitive nature of the economic relationship: the Soviets take
hides and fruit while the Cubans lack shoes and food. The Soviets have
a good deal in their purchases of Cuban sugar for which 60% of their
payments are in barter and which they sell to the Russian people at
cents per pound. .

3) Castro's trip to the Soviet Union did not represent a tribute to him -
personally or to Cuba as a nation, but instead represented a successful
maneuver by the Soviet to use Castro as a pawn in their struggle with
the Chinese to retain control of the international communist movement.

4) Castro's subservience to Soviet dictates is apparent in his acceptance
following his visit to Russia of the role of Cuba in the Communist Bloc
"as a raw material supplier. In emphasizing the importance of sugar and
in postponing industrialization, the Castro regime is assuming a role
which it previously claimed made underdeveloped countries slaves to
imperialism.

5) Cuba is a pawn in the Soviet game, as was so evident in the withdrawal

of the missiles, and there is the ever-present possibility that the
Soviets will sell out their Cuban followers when it suits their interests.

CONFIDENESAL |

—————

HW 49061 DocId:32205474 Page 4
