The program must primarily concentrate on and reach
the Cuban population, the political and military power centers and selected
individuals inside Cuba. Its purpose will be to maintain morale and increase
the will to resist. Initially the following themes and general guidance will
be emphasized:

COVERT

1) Expose the betrayal of the original aims of the Revolution.

2) Expose the contradictions between past and current promises and per-
formance of the Castro regime.

3) Expose the encraochment of Bloc Communists into the domestic affairs
of Cuba and increasing foreign domination of Cuba by Soviet imperialism.

4) Stimulate disaffection in the leadership and ranks of the supporters of
the Castro regime, principally among the militia, the government
bureaucracy, organized labor, youth and students, farmers.

5) Inspire tensions between Cuban leaders and Bloc representatives.

The following psychological/political warfare activities
are considered compatible with and essential to the operational plan:

1) Stimulate and guide the propaganda and political action activities of the
Cuban exile political, professional, student, cultural and other groups
and individuals which have an existing or potential capability for com-
municating with and influencing the behavior of their counterparts inside
Cuba. Also utilize these groups and individuals for propaganda activities
in Latin America and other critical areas.

2) Continue and expand operations involving the infiltration of propaganda
material into Cuba via the open mails, legal travelers or controlled
couriers. :

3) Establish a propaganda balloon launching capability with appropriate
policy authority to conduct propaganda balloon launching operations.
(CLA proposal, questioned by State and USIA)

6a

 

HW 54214 DoclId:32424896 Page 2
 

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

FROM. :

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS ::

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

Date : 07/14/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

 

AGENCY INFORMATION Peleased under the John
. . Kennedy
JCS . Assassination Records
202-10001-10165 ollection Act of 1992
JCS FOIA # 4 (44 USC 2107 Note}.
DOC 166 ases#: Nl 54214 Date:

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

OsD
BRIG GEN LANSDALE

ALTERNATE COURSE B
08/14/62

12

MONGOOSE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
TOP SECRET

1c

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
03/09/98

Bracketed portions withheld by Joint Staff.

 

EXEMPT PER E.0, 13526
SEC 3.3(b) SOX

16
pate exempren: MAR 2

JS RE-REVIEW DATE: 3/ 2502037
QUAY Te RecbAsé fs RedncTas

NW 54214 Docld:32424896 Page 1

 
- 2. Rural Cells: Three-~- to five-man teams equipped with W/T
communications should be infiltrated into the rural areas
to recruit, train, and arm. small "legal'' compartmented
cells. The infiltrated trainers will be withdrawn if they
are seriously endangered or if they pose a threat to the
security of the resident rural cell. These resident rural
cells would have limited intelligence functions until called
into action in the event of an uprising. Spotting, recruiting,
and training of the infiltrees can be accomplished within
CIA facilities and existing policy approvals.

3. Commando /Sabotage Teams: (Described in the Economic

section above. }
F. MILITARY

1. DOD continue to develop and refine contingency plans in
order to take advantage of any unforeseen breaks.

2. DOD continue to support CIA and other agencies to the full
extent of DOD capability as required.

Iv. POLICY IMPLICATIONS
The policy implications of the activities outlined above include:

A. Authority to conduct propaganda balloon launching (State and
USIA questioned).

(Al \ VT Teanmon te ase U8. Navy cnimariaan f ey

 

Cc. “Authority to overfly Cuba for re-supply/infiltration/exfiltration __
6D) missions using CIA aircraft with U.S. or other contract crews.

D. Authority to conduct selected sabotage principally against major.
Cuban industries and public utilities, i.e., refineries, power plants,
transportation, and communications.

 

G C )() ; E.ffAuthority to utilize Guantanamo Naval Base for limited covert
Al operatigia} purposes including agent infiltration/exfiltration, support for
clandestine maritime operations, and for holding and interrogating Cuban
agents and suspects who enter the base. (The scope of the woven
operational use of Guantanamo would not provide the Cuban governme

HW 54214 DocId:32424896 Page 3 - .
1
a additional issues to enable them to increase their alreafly existing
r planned pressure on the U.S. retention of Guantanamo.) }/State and £ Al
Defense representatives disagreed to CIA proposal.

F. Authority to occasionally utilize DOD facilities to provide
specialized training for the commando/sabotage teams when such
training cannot be duplicated at CIA facilities.

ll

AW 54214 DocId:32424696 Page 4 .- on
