 
 

DL 44-1552 :

  
   
  
   
     

. ROBINSON is described as follows, as obtained through
observation and interview:

Race: White

Sex: + Male

Born: June 24, 1938, Bonham, Texas
Height: . 5'i0"

Weight: 175 lbs.

Hair: Brown

Complexion: Light

Eyes: : Blue

 
 

 

@ | @
LI | DA

Lh ivecl, LEY tay,

Ltpek. LF, SF E3

WS ¢ wong Lavy liber Pete gn, —- hh LF
ong onal § aM we ES Ze
palpC2.> pe pe boo

ea oe LIS. le i des eae

. CG hig: cr LY, SF AF Lake chen Polite

0 beniplelide Leg Lk, pelt in ack,

 @, pov Ab, 9638 Lwae enteticl Ly the
Mstind rm Gphce iv radii

a Cbg ELbiicar” 70 na ee, a
am al 2.00 fon, 0 Lote Bape

| for —, Ath beth A euntd Maca rtleok
at whol 1) 30 pom tive Cbeblendl Upbece tf fecnpr
Curl bre PZ laud Mate Zoe AUN

at S00 donk Art, Lisle EE Gages, ,
fe GME (ike, “

oye

 

ok . . . oot
AW 55115 DocId:32989563 Page 10 “:
DL 44-1552 : 4 _

.

"] have read the above statement consisting of this

page and two other pages and it is true to the best of my knowledge.
'"/s/ JIMMY GEORGE ROBINSON

“Witness: JAMES P, HOSTY, JR., Special Agent, FBI, Dallas, Texas,
6/24/63
DONALD J. CESARE, Special Agent, FBI, Dallas, Tex.,
6/24/63,"

ROBINSON stated he considered THERAN M, WARD the one
‘mainly respansible for the violation of his civil rights since

 

he was the one who issued the warrant for his arrest. ROBINSON
described WARD as follows: .
Race: White
Sex: - Male .
Ages Approximately 40 years ae:
Height: 6! cess
Weight: 165 Lbs,
Hair: Dark.

ROBINSON described

the detective as follows:

eee _.... .Race? White wee ne ee
Sex: Male
Height: About 5'8"
Weight: 160 lbs.
Hair: Dark

ROBINSON described the two police officers as follows:

No. 1
Race: White S
Sex: . Male =
Height:.. 6t1"
Weight: . 190 lbs.
Hair: . . Blond
Eyes: Blue
Complexion: Light
No. 2
Race: White
Sex: Male
Height: 5'10" e
Weight: 185 lbs.
Hair: Blond
Eyes: Blue
Complexion: Light
‘ ov

AW 55115 ‘DocId:32989563 Page: 8‘:

 

J cones seeeeer te emote

4

 

 
 

HW 55115 DocId:32989563 Page

»POVLANAL ODYUREAY Vi

VAY LOTT,

7

JIMMY GEORGE ROBINSON, 200 Second Avenue, Garland, Texas,
was interviewed and furnished the following signed statement:

"Garland, Texas
June 24, 1963

"J, Jimmy George Robinson, make the following voluntary
statement to James P, Hosty, Jr., and Donald J. Cesare, who have
identified themselves to me as Special Agents of the F.B.I. I |
haye been advised that this statement may used in a court of
law. No force, threats, or promises were used to obtain this
statement. ,

"J was born June 24, 1938, Bonham, Texas, I completed
eighth grade in school. . .

"On June 20, 1963, I was arrested by the Garland, Texas,
police for assaulting my wife, Pauline Robinson. I was arrested
at 9:35 AM, and released at 2:00 Phi, & later learned from my
half brother Donald Kaiser that at about 1:30 Pl, two Garland
police officers and one Garland detective, names unknown, accompanied
. my wife to our residence at 200 Second Aves, Garland, Texas. :

“The Garland Police then searched my office and

removed
sone of my literature i had concerning racial integration and the
Jewish conspiracy. They also took my membership list for the

National States Rights Party. I am the organizer for the National
States Rights Party in the Dallas, Texas, area,
"Ny office is a separate building behind my house. The
National States Rights Party rents this office from me for one
doilar a month. Wy wife had no right to let the police search
this office as it was not under her control. My membership list
was returned, but they kept my literature. They also took pictures
of my office and some of the signs I had.

"J feel that my civil rights have been violated because
the Garland Police searched the office of National States Rights
Party, of which I am the head in the Dallas area, without my consent,

 

my)

On 6/24/63 at Garland, Texas File #_ DL 44-1552 _

SAS DONALD J. CESARE, “and

by JAMES P, HOSTE JR /jeg Date dictated __ 6/24/63
wh tg .

. This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It 1s the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed “ene ‘OSuR CY.
ENULOOU:

eo ; toe

a . re
Po ae re t

 

 
 

 

HW 55115 DocId:32989563 .Page & «- ' : a eee - rv?

 

SAC, BALUEIMORE 2/6/63
SAC, DALLAS (100-0)

Leos Sm
UE, GEN, P. A, (del7/VALLE
INFORMATION CONCERUING
(INTERNAL SECURITY)

 

On 1/31/63 JIMMY croncz/ropnison, Route 1, Garland,
Texas, mace available the following letter which he received
from a source he regused to disclose,
mimecographed .
This7/letter read as follows:

41 Cornhill Street
Annapolis, Maryland

34 September, 1961

  

‘Servants in government, and their appointed advisors, follicwing a
course of action contrary to their cath of office, destructive
of the Constitution they have sworn to uphold, and leading
‘eientiessiy to the loss wr their freedom and their sovereignty,

they must perforce take the most effective action to restore sane,
constitutions 1 government, or perish as a free and sovereign peoplc,

"A government that aids and abets the enemies of frecdem
at home and abroad; recklessly spends the substance of the nation
in the purchase of votes and in the pursuit of a pro-communist
policy; punishes patriots who dare defy the communist enemy they
are trying to shield, while giving positions of power and pelf
to those traitors who give aid and confort to this enemy; employs
the power of the press and all other communications media to
deceive the people as to their real aims and objectives; behaves
as though this nation were already but a proviace of the illegally
joined United Nations; is willing or unable to meet the constant
flow of crises provided by an arrogant enomy, yiciding piece by.
piece the entire world into their ruthless hands; shows every sign
of having yielded their powers to an unseen, irresponsible and
thoroughly rapacious government within the government; then even
the bread and circuses no longer can hold the people in check.
They must take matters into their own hands and force the traitors
out of power and cblige their elected representatives to honor
their oath of office.

i  eneres

Fi
"When a free and sovereign peeple find their elected |
§|
|
|

rurtet ey ’
PA tet

 

 
 

 

es , @ , ®

DL 160-0 .. - ,

 

7 ON
"In such case there are several courses of action open
te the people. Kelitical organization to vote out the traitors .
and vote in the patriots is cne, Pressure by personal appeals, .
petitions, letters and telegrams is another. But the time cones
_ when the enemy, feeling strong and secure enough, Shamelessly
_igneres these efforts cf the people, and makes ready to replace
constitutional povernment with socialistic tyranny openly and
.quickiy. Then there is yet another course cf action left: The
‘organization of a powerful, armed resistance force to defeat the
‘aims of the usurpers and bring about a return of constitutional

' ' government, . i

"The formation of such a nation-wide force, under the
second article of the Bill of Rights, and for the legitimate
purpose of preventing a commaunistic takeover of their beloved
country, with the to.al loss of their freedom, cannot fail to
bring into being again that sovereignty which, under our form of
government, iS based upon the peeple, Government rules by the
consent of the governed, and, when the governed refuse further to
consent to heing vetrayed, then beware! Those in government who
have been loyai need have ne fear, But when the day comes that
the people, in the exercise of their constitutional rights and
sovereignty once more take up arms as they did ia 1776, then must

‘c+. - the traiters take flight. For the wrath of a free and mighty

people, a God fearing people, against atheistic tyrants can be .
terrible and swift. i pray toe Ged that ceurses one and two will
suifice, but if they do not, then i pray to God that this last
instrumentality be given His grace to discharge our obligation to
defend those sacred rights He, and He aione, gave unto us."

"/s/ P, A. del Valle"

‘The above is being furnished for the information of
the Baltimore Office, No further action being taken by the
Dallas office. .- :

| . JIMMY GEORGE ROBINSON is a- self-admitted organizer for the
NSRP. a7

~2-
B .
HW 55115 Docld:32989563.. Page 6” ° vet na Oe a er ces

 

 

bs dal

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
File #:

 

— lg 2 at 35
‘Serial Scope:

 

 

Cee _ 12 48%

 

 

 
 

 

aan 6 rT ) a

SAC, BALTIMORE 2/6/63

SAC, DALLAS (100-0)

. q q.
UP, GEN. P. A. Loran
YUFORMATIO CONCENHING

mera eb

(INTERNAL SECURITY)

On 1/31/63 JIMuY croncn/nopmeon, Route 1, Garland,
Texas, made availablie the following letter which he received
from a source he reiused to disclose,
mimeographed
This7/letter read as follows:
"Lt. Gen. P, A, del Valle
41 Cornhill Street
Annapolis, Maryland

34 September, 1962

"When a free and severeign pecple find their elected
~-  - -gervants in government, and their appointed advisors, following a
course of action contrary te their aath of office, destructive
of the Constitution they have sworn to uphold, and leading
Velentiessiy to the loss of their freedom and their sovercignty,
| they must perforce take the most effective action to restore sane,
constitutional government, or perish as a free and sovereign people,

“A government that aids and abets the enemies of freedon
hoo at home and abroad; recklessly spends the substance of the naticn
in the purchase of votes and in the pursuit of a pro-communist
policy; punishes patriots who dare defy the communist enemy they
are trying to shield, while giving positions of power and peif
to those traitors who give aid and confort to this enemy; employs
the power of the press and all other communications media to
deceive the people as to their real aims and objectives; behaves
\ as though this nation were already but a province of the illevally
joined United Nations; is willing or unable to meet the constant
flow of crises provided by an arrogant cnomy, yielding piece by. |
piece the entire world into their ruthiess hands; shows every sign
of having yielded their powers to an unseen, irresponsible and
thoroughly rapacious government within the government; then even
the bread and circuses no longer can hold the people in check.
They must take matters into their own hands and force the traitors
out of power and cblige their elected representatives to honor
their oath of office, ,

rag as gt
EXC rn are

 

 

| HW 55115 “Docld:32989563 ‘ Page 3~ . se . wy ee!

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

: DL 100-0 ce : : .

 

"In such case there are several courses of action open
toe the people. Belitical organization to vote eut the traliors
and vote in the patriots is one. Pressure by personal appeals, .
petitions, letters and telegrans is another Dut the time comes

. when the enemy, Foeling ovrong and secure enough, shanelessly

_ ignores these efforts cf the people, and makes ready to replace
‘-constitutienal severnnent with socialistic tyranny openly and
.quickiy. Then there is yet another course Gi action left Tue
“organization oc? a powerful, armed resistance force to de Feat the
“gims of the usurpers and bring about a return of constitutional
‘government. . !

"The formation ef such a nation-wide force, under the
second article cf the Bill of Rights, and for the legitimate
purposs of preventing a cammunistic takeover of their beloved
country, with the to.al loss of their freedom, cannot fail to
bring into being again that sovereignty which, under our form of
government, is based upon the people. Government rules by the
consent of the governed, and, when the governed refuse further ts
eonsent to being betrayed, then beware! Those in government who
have been loyal need have no fear, But when the cay comes that
” the people, in the exercise of their constitut ional” rights and

sovereionty once more take up arms as they did ia 1776, then must
_the traitera take flight. Yor the wrath of a free and mighty
pecple, a Ged fearing people, against atheistic tyrants can be
terrible and swift, i pray to Ged that ceurses one and two. will
suifice, but if they do HOU, then 2 pray to God that this Zast
jnstrumentality be given His grace to discharge our obligation to

defend those sacred rights He, and He alone, gave unto us."

 

“/s/ _P,. A. del Valle"

‘The above is being furnished for the information of
the Baltimore Office. No further action being taken by the
Dallas office. .. . .

JIMMY GEORGE ROBINSON is a- self~admitted organizer for the
NSRP. 7

 

55115 " DocId:32989563 Page 4” an . ae - is or

 

 
