*. . .Interview: Jessie Curry — - ; 6

he received a call from Mayor Caball who was inquiring on the.
status of their plan. While on the phone with the Mayor,
Captain Fritz evidently decided, not hearing from Chief Curry,
that it was alright to bring Oswald downstairs--which he did.
Minutes later Chief Curry was informed that Oswald had been
shot. Chief Curry stated that had he" ;gone downstairs and séén.
the reporters in areas off limits. to them, he would have

oo halted .: the entire transfer until they (reporters) were © moved
back into their designated area. Chief Curry could not conceive
why Batchelor had" permitted the news media to roam on off-limits
‘areas.

Curry stated’ that he had a practice to always form a
‘special squad to investigate any unusual incident. After the
Oswald shooting he did just that and appointed Inspector J.H.
Sawyer to head it. Chief Curry said that there were no ill
feelings or dissengion among: any men in.the department because.

_of this unit. Also no ‘pressure was exerted to disband the unit.
It was disbanded when the investigation was fully completed.
The purpose of this unit was to find out what caused the breakdown
in security allowing LHO to be shot and who was responsible,
if anyone, for any errors that may have occurred.

Chief Curry implied that he knew who made the mistake.

. He continued that the investigation disclosed that Police Officer

Vaugh. left his post to direct traffic in order that the decoy

HW 54756 DocId:32261319 Page 9
. is. Interview: Jessie Curry : . ; 7

police vehicle could leave the basement. Curry assumed that .
Vaugh took this action out of respect for Lt.. Pierce, who was
the driver. curry, stated that he never blamed Vaughy for this
action nor did he think it advisable ‘to single him out and
bring him up on departmental charges. curry felt if he did
accuse Vaughnand single him out, then people would. think that
he had taken: that action in order for the heat to be taken off
himself. This special unit, Curry said, was terminated after .
it had conducted a full and thorough examination into the
operation security of the transfer of LHO on Nov. 24, 1963.
There was never any pressure brought to bear to disband this .
unit.. After all the’ leads were checked into and there was:
nothing left to investigate, captain Jones submitted a | full
and | complete report to my office. (Curry) .

When asked’ if there existed an intelligence report on
Ruby prior to his shooting of LHO, Chief Curry replied that
he did not know of any such file on Ruby -and further ‘more he

3 would be no reason to keep: such a file on Ruby.

 

because: he was only a small time night club owner.

At no time was any pressure put on the Dallas Police
Department by the FBI or any other governmental agencies, so
stated Chief curry. He has never seen or recalled any special

- orders by any governmental agencies governing: any of his actions
during the period of the Presidential assassination.

2

2

AW 54756 DocId:32261319 Page 10
7. Interview: Jessie Curry . oo ; 6.

abil the adverse publicity 1 his department would receive if the
news. media were excluded.. ;

Chief Batchlor was in charge of the security in the

“basement and was instructed to thoroughly search the entire
basement, including even the air conditioning ducts. ‘Also, men

. were posted on all entrances of the building and basement to
insure that no. one but authorized personnel and’ the news media
was * allowed to enter. Also, there was a designated place for
the news media. to ‘be placed and that was behind’ the railing
separating the basement auto ramp from the. ‘garage. According
to Curry, there was no. possible way anyone could. have known
the exact hour that ‘Oswald was to be moved,:.intluding curry
himself. .

That Sunday ‘morning, he called Captain Fritz ana told
him that whenever he was finished with the questioning of
Oswald. . ~ they would | set the plan of ‘Oswald's movement
in motion. No one was fully briefed on the entire transfer
plan of LHO and about ten ranking offices knew only what their
specific:éipervising duties were. Chief curry then received
a call from Captain Fritz informing him, that’ he” had completed
the interrogation of LHO. Curry informed Fritz that he was.
going downstairs to. check to see if the security was in order
and that if he did not hear from him (curry) in three ox’ four: minutes,

to bring Oswald downstairs. As Curry proceeded to go downstairs

AW 54756 DocId:32261319 Page 8
+. .Interviewr Jessie Curry _ . . 4

suggested | that perhaps Special Police officers may have worked
for Ruby,..as it was not against their regulations. These
special police officers are not regular police officers and
they did not come under his jurisdiction. Their sole function
is to supervise dance halls.
The plans for the movement of Lee Harvey Oswald were

_ formulated by Chief Curry, Captain Fritz, of. Homicide, Chief
Stevenson, head of Criminal Investigation, and Chief Lumpkin,
who headed the Jails and Services Division. Curry informed

us that. no big plans were made, nor any official reports made,

a but they just sat down and verbally discussed what would be

the best way to move LHO to insure his ‘safety. Curry was aware
that many threats were made against Oswald and a group, whom
he could not identify, was-°.attempting to seize him. These
plans were made sometime on Saturday, November 23, 1963.

There was never any decision made to move Oswald on Saturday evening.
"Curry. recallssa “group of newsmen. approaching. him

on Saturday and wanted: to know if it was necessary for them

to sleep there all night to insure that they would not miss
viewing the movement of Oswald. Chief curry: stated that he
told the news media that Oswald will be moved ‘tomorrow morning
and if they returned by 10 .AM Sunday morning they would not
miss anything. Chief curry said. that he was reluctant to have

the newsmen present during Oswald’. transfer but was concerned

AW 54756 DocId:32261319 Page 7
ye ‘Interview: Jessie Curry : . : 2

recall the Club's name or what year this incident occurred.. -

’ The license was. rejected because this club had excess arrests
for arurike and fights.” Ruby had called Curry in. an effort to-
convince him that his Club had no more fights than other night
clubs in Dallas. Chief Curry was of the opinion. that this
call did not alter his decision to suspend the license for a
certain period of time--curry always followed a recommendation
of the Vice squad. in these matters.-

Curry was, quite certain that Ruby was never a registered _
informant with his department. He remarked that it was quite
possible that. Ruby may have had a detective. ‘friend that he was
giving information to. | As far as any , allegations that Ruby had

. access to DPD files,. curry ‘termed this as absolutely ridiculous:

In the area of organized crime, carry said that this

_ never existed in Dallas. The only. gang that he knew about was
headed by Lois Green, a local man, and this: was a loosely
organized organization. This. gang’ s criminal activity concen-.
trated mostly on burglaries, gambling and safe cracking. This

gang never tried to influence the. DPD in any: manner. Chief _
Curry had never heard Jack’ Ruby's:-name connected: with the Lois
Green gang. During his administration, the DPD was free from
any political or outside pressure. Chief Curry stated that
when he became Chief, the town was clean and the police department

was. free of corruption. “He said. that it remained: that way until |

AW 54756 DocId:32261319 Page 5
'’ Interview: Jessie Curry , 3

the day he left office.

‘The. large scale organized. -gambling that occurred was, pack
in the mid- forties with Benny Binion and. his group. which.
included Harry ‘Urban, Bob, ‘Minyard and Lotta Milk. He estimated
the daily take for this policy operation, which was mostly
among Blacks, to be about $600 a day. Before this operation
could ‘spread any further they decided to put an end to it.

Most of these men were eventually run out: of: town. Whenever

his department had received word that a member of any so-called

organized crime figure was in town, he would immediately dispatch

a Police officer to inform this person that he’ was not welcome
in Dallas...

Chief Curry stated that there were never: any. intelligence
‘files missing, he never heard of any such rumors nor had he

ever conducted any investigation to recover: any’ such inissing
documents.

It never came.to Chief Curry's attention of any unusual
activity of police officers frequenting any of Ruby's clubs.

As far as any pay-offs of Ruby to Dallas police officers,
Chief Curry thought. that this was most unlikely because there
was no need for Ruby to ‘pay any police officer. He imagined
that Ruby may have bought an officer a drink or picked up a
tab now. and then, put that would be the extent of any payoffs.
Curry is certain that no police officer worked ‘in’ Ruby's Club

because that was against police department regulations... He

AW 54756 DocId:32261319 Page 6
AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

 

vol

AW 54756 DocId: 32261319

JFK Assassination System ; Date:
Identification Form

Agency Information

HSCA
180-10105-10388

NUMBERED FILES
014451

Document Information

HSA
CURRY, JESSIE G.

05/06/1978
10

CURRY JESSIE E.

DALLAS, TX

RUBY, JACK; BACKGROUND; FAMILIARITY WITH THE
POLICE

OSWALD, LEE; MURDER BY RUBY; TRANSFER TO COUNTY
JAIL

RUBY, JACK; BACKGROUND; BUSINESS & FINANCIAL
INTERESTS

GREEN, LOUIS

SUMMARY
Unclassified
3

Redact
10/25/1995

Box 258.

Page 2

10/7/201
eos Poe aes ran
Released under the John §
Fennedy

jocument Information :
be :

Unclassified:
O38

 
KENNEDY _

014451

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE
1. tdentifying Information:

Name_Jessié E CURRY pate 5-C-78 [0:45 Am.

 

= \
Address 2503 LOVING Place Re fat Rove ~ rot! DAY raw. Rin iB
_ City/State DALLAS, Tex ‘telephone 2'4/327- 69/8
Date of Birth _(o-3-(4/3 Mors Marcus,
Social Security £60 2% (9/6 o.2> /Fie iene
Children :
. Physical Description:

Height G-/ .. Color Byes Klug Hair ite
Weight Q2S ' ‘Special Characteristics’

Ethnic Group

 

.

.
Pa ar)

3. Personal History:

a. Present Employment: __ . j — snuwk:
Address aad,
Telephone ; ;

b. Criminal Record
1. Arrests

2. Convictions

4.__ Additional_Personal Information:

a. Relative(s): Name

 

Address

—_—_

 

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

investigator 4 oStP tt Ay Sasreai —

HW 54756 DocId:32261319 Padiate ; Form #4-B

 
hye, KENNEDY

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

 

 

Name Jessie Curry ; Date 5-6-78 Time 10:45 A.M

Address 2°08 Loving : . Place Holiday Inn - Regal Row
Dallas, Texas Room #118

Interview:

Staff Investigators Joseph J. Basteri and Albert Maxwell
interviewed Jessie E. Curry who on November 22, 1963 was Chief
of Police of the Dallas Police Dept. and commanded a force of .
1800 men. Curry entered the department in 1936 and rose up
through the ranks to Chief of Police in 1959. He retired in
1966 because of poor health.

Chief Curry gave us a brief history of the conditions
that existed in Dallas in prior years. The year 1936 was the
Centennial Year for Dallas and the town was wide open. It re-
mained that way until 1945 when Chief Carl Hanson took over the
reigns of the department and Will Wilson was elected the District
attorney. They and the city officials decaded to clean up the
city and by 1948 Dallas was a clean city and remained that way
to present time. :

Chief Curry had not known Ruby and had only one contact
with him--and that was when he rejected a renewal of his license

for a club that Ruby had owned on Ervay Street. Curry did not

C)

Interviewer Signature LEE)

 
  
   

 

 

Typed Signature José
, Date transcribed 5/17/78 :

BY: cs Form #4-a
HW 54756 DoclId:32261319 Page 4
