 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Wotey~
DATE: 11-14-7017 .

 

 
  

  

Erank Sinatra. dast time Senator Kennedy,
was in California for a visit he stayed in Sinatra’s home in Palm Springs.
e advised that Sinatra and Lawford are the ommers of Puccini's

Restaurant in Beverly Hills, California.

  

The informant also advised that Confidential Magazine was
attempting to obtain private investigators to verify or disprove the rumors
| concerning the party. The Los Angeles Office has no verification or
other information concerning this matter. The informant, however, is
in a position to know of investigative activities conducted by Confidential
Magazine.

By Airtel dated 3/23/60, the New Orleans Office advised that
Mr. Joseph Hegertian, who operates a public relations business in New
Orleans and who is a possible criminal informant of that office, furnished
the following information:

we Hegema: vised that among his clients in the public relations
field are, Jerry Wald, Hollywood motion picture producer, and Phillip
Frank tel, New Orleans top hoodlum. He said that in the course of
representing Kastel's gambling interests he has met @ number of well
known hoodlums such as Meyer Lafisky, a gambler operating in Miami
and Havana, and Joe Fisthetti,. who Hegeman believes is the. dominant
figure in the racketeering element in the Miami area. Hegeman said
that as a result of his numerous contacts with these individuals he has
met socially a number of their associates whose identities are not known
to him and whom he has not sought to identify. w s¢t sk ams:

Hegeman said he has overheard a number of conversat ns
between these individuals concerning their activities: Within. a
week he returned from the Miami area and while there he lear

    

Docld:323115271 Page 2? —
 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 15997 (44 Usct Fit Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017
4/10/201

JFK Assassination System Date: -

Identification Form

 

Agency Information

 

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10318-10002
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER:  62-116606-FOLDER 96
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: TOLSON
TITLE:
DATE: 03/29/1960
“PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS :
JFK
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: = 12/30/1997
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

_

v9.1
DoclId:32311521 Page 1
 

 

= ion Hot oF USC FiO Hotes.
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 US C2107 Notey
DATE: 11-14-2017 C cy
. : iN,
: Sed

March 29, 1960

individuals whom he declined to identify, except to state they were
members of the underworld element, that Fischetti and other unidentified
k f and actively end ing

   

hoodlums are financially s

nephew of hoodl oe Fisch and that Sinatra is only booked to appear __
after clearances obtained with Fischetti. ~ :
RR TOE I ET I ANI

Hegeman said that Sinatra's song writer, Jimmy vata Husen,

is presently writin ign songs for Kennedy, Hegeman indicated

‘that it is his opinion that Sinatra and Van Husen aré being made avai 1
|*2 assist Senator Kennedy's campaign so that Fischetti and other hoodlums
ave an entree to Senator Kenned yy. ~

Hegeman advised that Senator Kennedy's brother-in-law, Peter
Lawford, has been cultivated by Sinatra and they are now apparently
close associates. He said that Lawford has one half of one percent interest
in the Sands Hotel in Las Vegas.

   

  
   
    

   

     

 

Hegeman said that when he was in Miami he had occasion to over-
hear a conversation which. indicated that Senator Kenned ee

com ised with a woman in Las Vegas, Nevada. He said he knew
Senator Kennedy was staying at the Sands Hotel in Las Ve about six
or eight weeks ago and that he had observed Senator Kenneiy in the night
club of the Sands Hotel during this period. He had no idea as to the

; id entity of any possible female companion,

Vo. Hegeman also advised that when, Senator Kennedy was in Miami
\ Florida an airline hostess named Susan ‘Stallings was sent to visit Senat yr
Kennedy. He did not know just when this occurred and declined to identify
his informant. Hegeman advised that he was considerably disturbed
at receiving all of this information as he would hate to see a. pawn. of the
hoodlum element such as Sinatra have access to the White Houge..:.

 

    
   

      

  

  
    

  
  

for

a7

rd as a strong Kennedy
eh Hopes” is the Kennedy

     
