#6

 

29 November 1963

_ MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting at his residence with President Johnson
10:00 a.m. - Thursday - November 28th.
for approximately 30 minutes

l. The President reviewed the Checklist and made the following
comments:

a. Are we doing all possible to keep Venezuelan
authorities informed? I reviewed briefly our penetrations
and our activities.

b. What is the real future in South Vietnam? The
President expressed the desire for an objective appraisal
and any recommendations that I might have for modification
of policy, changes of personnel and draw up a rough estimate
of what ie the outlook, The President continues to be
concerned over public reaction and Congressional reaction
against our activities in South Vietnam. The President is
obviously opposed to Lodge (his opposition goes back to
conflicts in the Senate). He asked for recommendations as
to who would be a good man and who could run the American
team.

He noted Item b. in the Check list and I pointed out
the press exaggeration and distortion which appeared in the
New York Times. He asked that 1 personally meet with the
head of the Times in New York, pointing out how such distorted
reports seriously damage the American interests, 1 stated
that I would do this.

 

We discussed Item 2.f. having to do with the high level of
communications traffic and I stated that this could be considered as an
unfavorable indicator.

The President noted without comment report on Israel, USSR,
India military aid and Burma,

c, The President asked what the outlook was with Greece. I told
him that we expected that Karamanlis would eventually be restored to
power, The President stated that he had vigorously opposed our

1%

 

ee IP Aa or ths © ms

 

AW sga4a,’ Docld: 32263375 Page 2
v9.1

HW 53244

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE : °

CLASSIFICATION :

: RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :
OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Docld: 32263375

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

LBJ
177-10001-10472

NSF, JOHN MCCONE MEMORANDA, MTGS. 23 NOV.-27 DEC. 63, BOX |

Document Information

CIA

MCCONE, JOHN Released under the John

. Eennedy
Assassination Records
Ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#iNU 53244 Date:
Hé—-13-2017

 

11/29/1963
4

NEED SUBJECT ASSIGNED

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
Unclassified

1B; 1C

Redact

04/21/1998

DOC. #7

34
Page 1

8/26/201
 

HW 53244

 

withdrawal of assistance to Karamanlis, which he felt had a great deal
to do with his loss of office.

a, 1 pointed out to the President that we could expect seme
trouble in Brazil.

6. The President asked about the future of Prime Minister Inonu
of Turkey. 1 stated that we expected that his government would fall
and that he would loge office soon after his return.

{, I repeated to the President briefly my meeting with President
Macapagal which is covered in a separate memorandum prepared by
My. Colby.

g. Also! raised the question of the importance of our taking ;
iniative in the Indenosia matter by working with Macapagal. We might bring
Indonesia round and also straighten out the Malayasia problem.

2. The President thea turned to Cuba. He asked how effective our
policy was and what was the future of Cuba. He asked how effective the
economic denial program was and how we planned to dispose of Castro.

He said he did not wish any repetition of any fiasco of 1961, bat he felt that
the Cuban situation wae one that we could not live with and we had to

evolvé more aggressive policies. He looks to us for firm recommendations.
In this connection we should prepare a briefing and aiso we should study
carefully various courses of action. ; :

3, The President then raised the question of the deal between the
Rumanian government and the Ferguson company fer the procurement
of a steel mill and asked whether I thought thie was a geod thing. I
replied affirmatively, stating that in my opinion economic relations with
the satellites would tend to break down the closemess of ties between
the satellites in Moscow and this should be a very definite policy
effort on our part. I noted that Moscow had discoutaged the Rumanian
steel rill because it did not fit into their pattern of economic integration
of the satellites and the Soviet Union. The President then stated that he
agreed that we should attempt to pull the satellites away.. He then brought
up the question of Tito and asked if I could give him the name of the best
man who could serve as Ambassador to Yugoslavia who would be able to
‘win the girl away from Khrushchev." He said that in his opinion this man —
should be an experienced, able man, perhape in his 50's and preferably a
Republican, who could carry the confidence of the Republicans and a
personality who could win Tite's confidence and allegiance. I responded by
stating that 1 would prepare @ list of competent people whe I felt could

 

DocId:32283375 Page 3
 

HW 53244

 

serve in this capacity and also in others. In this connection, the
President stated that he was not satisfied with the Ambassador-elect
to Yugoslavia and had therefore held up the appointment. His request
for help and the suggestion of names in connection with Yugoslavia and
the satellites is along the same line as to who would be a good
representative in South Vietnam.

4, The President asked concerning our relationships on the Hill.

I said that they were excellent. The only problem was a continual
harangue for a Joint Committee on Intelligence. I said that I felt that if
Senator Russell would expand his Committee to include Fulbright and
Hickenlooper, and Vinson expand his Committee to include two members
of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, that the issue would be put to
rest. The President said he thought this was a good idea and that he wuld
speak to both Fulbright and Russell about it.

5, Ithen reviewed the brochure on the OXCART by giving the
President a broad picture of this development. I explained that surfacing
of it was a problem which had been under consideration by Defense and
CIA which I had discussed with President Kennedy. I said that McNamara
was pressing for a rather early release but that President Kennedy
felt that the timing of the surfacing was of very great importance. ‘I said
that I felt that the timing was even of greater importance now and I had
some reservations about surfacing this vehicle in the first few days of
President Johnson's administration, The President seemed to agree and
suggested that McNamara, Rusk, Bundy and I meet with him on F viday for
a discussion of this problem.

No arrangements were made as to the time of Friday morning's
briefing. :

JAM/méb (tape)

 

DocId:32263375 Page 4
