     

 

ei
2
$

se
O

    
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
     
 
    
 
   

DDO INSTRUCTIO oo ~ OPERATIONS- GENERAL - on
NO. 50-19 ot 4 September 1973 .

 

\ we :
e. Citizens of Norway, West Germany and The Netherlands

The operational use of any citizem of Norway, West Germany or The
Netherlands is, wader certain conditions, contingent on prior approval
of the national intelligence service concerned. These countries are par-...-
ticularly sensitive in’ cases involving the operational. use of their citizens ;

who are merchant seamen and who are serving on ships carrying their o
flags. Each case involving the proposed operational use of a citizen of ;
on of these countries will be reviewed: by the Chief of the European
Division in the-light of the agreements existing between this Agency and

 

 

 

  

the national intelligence service: concerned. After weighing. all of the: ~-  ~ 7 rf
‘equities, the Chief of the European Division will decide whether approval . ed
is * Fequired from the national, intelligence service .coricemed.. When re- ~

    
 
   
 

pean Division.

“Merchant Seamen’ on r int
» The. ‘operational use: of\ mer ant séamen? regardl
“-who are serving on ships - carry @ the. flags cali. d
- United Kingdom_(or. its overs jendencies), New Zealand, Norway,
West Germany or The Netherlands’ is, under certain conditions, subject
to provisions of the agreements. existing between this Agency and the < -
national intelligence service concerned. Each case involving the proposed
operational use of such a merchant seaman. will be reviewed by the Chief
f£ the European Division or the Chief of the East Asia Division, as ap- :
proptiate, in the light of the pertinent interservice agreements. After;
weighing all of the equities, the Chief of the European Division or the -
Chief of the East Asia Division will determinie the course of action to ~~
: _ be taken with regard to the national intelligence s service concerned. :

   

  

    

 

 

% “APPROV. AL BY “THE DDO REQUIRED

-Approval by the Deputy ‘Director for Operations for the operé ional ‘use -
"of any individual who falls into: one cf the: categories described’ in this -para-
. graph will be requested by: smemorandum. The individual's ‘covert approval ”
| status willbe described in the memorandumy to the Deputy: Director..fo
., Operations, together: with.a concise expianation of ‘the intended operational -
Use Gin connection with this parag ntacts by the Domestic
individuals’ or firms”do not require » apptoval by -
Operations | provided they: constitute-“merely.” briefing
for the purpose ‘of obtaining ‘information acquired by an individual
or representative of a firm in the course of his normal activities. [f, however, :
in any case the contact is on behalf of anc other element of the Operations

   

 

       

 

         
 
 
 

 
 

       
    
 
   

 

   
   
e,

   

ay
?

  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
    
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
   
   

DOE 50-10

    

 

OPERATIONS-CENERAL
4 September 1973

oe DDO INSTRUCTION
NO. 50-10

Directorate or another agency; or if an individual or firm will be requested
perform an operational task or to deviate from his or its normal pattern -
of activity; or if the activity, even though consistent with the individual’s
or firm’s normal pattern of activity, will take: place because requested or
funded by the Domestic ‘Collection Division; that casé- will be-subject to- -)
the requirement for approval by. the Deputy. Director for Operatjons.). way
2, Publishers, Producers, Journalists, or Employees. of Public Information * . “

Media (see DOI 240-6) ,
toe - (1) Operational use of publishers or, producers of public i information media
C - a "_-requires prior approval by the Deputy Director for Operations whenever
~ . : : there is danger, that such activity might serve in any way to influence
: , ‘public opinion. Such activities include but are not limited to the
“publishing of books, newspapers, or magazines,. the. making of films,’
the production of TV or radio: programs or the issuance in the ‘United
- States of zny public opinion influencing: information media. The: op-
‘erational use ‘abroad of _publishers or ‘producers of public information: :
media for non-U. S.-audiences does not require approval by. the Deputy
Director for Operations, even though such activities: may have som
couse nintended and unsolicited fallout in ‘the United: States. we
2° (2) “Approval by the Deputy: Director for Operations i is also requited prior
"ito the operational use of journalists, newspaper, TY, radio, or news
service correspondents or stringers, _and\: I ployees- of news media ¢
including TV and radio stations whenever, the individual is'a U.S. °°
citizen or when the news eer involved is, under” US. ownership ..

or ‘control.

 

 

 
 
 
 
  

 

    

  
  

jus employees Exceptional individual cases

involving priority operational\ actives will be considered on their merits:

Prior approval. by the Deput) Director for Operations y wal be required °

in all cases. -

~ ¢. Individuals Engaged i in “Public Relations ‘Activities (see pot 50. 18):
: ‘Tndividuals engaged in public relations activities which in any way have

cr seek to have an influence on public opinions in the United States are

". considered to be in a Separate sensitive category. In view of the’ peculiar - :

“ "aspects of public” relations ‘activity, including the special requirements of -

“the Foreign Agents’ Registration Aci, ‘approval by the Deputy “Director

~ for Operations is required prior to the operational use in a public relations :

   

     

 

 

 

 

   

    

ca capacity of any: individual who is engaged in- public:
ad who is located in or operating ay United Ste

cid:32361370. Page 10

 
   

  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
    
     
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
       

  
 
 

DOL 50-16

 

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

no DDO INSTRUCTION »
. _ 4 September 1973 -

NO. 50-10

provided to, the FBI. In accordance with this policy, the following a
categories of DDO. assets will be identified to the FBI: DDO per-
sonnel, agents of the Operations Directorate who are either U.S. citizens

or alien residents, and foreign agents of the Operations Directorate
recruited abroad who -come to the’ United States for operational
purposes. ; cow a. an. oe ve : '

and Human Sources of Foreign Intelligence Registered by Other

   
 

 

ce. Age
U.S, Agencies .
oN - . °. . “.° The Interagency Source Register (ISR) has been established. at head-_
‘e Bo “> | + quarters to provide for United States Intelligence Board (USIB) agencies
. a __ a centralized record of agents and human sources of foreign intelligence.
A principal purpose of the ISR is to register primacy. of interest and
prevent. multiple recruitment -or unintentional. duplicate. operational usé
-of such agents and human ‘sources. Jt is USIB policy that rio individual __
- . registered in the ISR by'oné-USIB agency will be used for operational pur-
poses ‘by any other USIB.agency without the specifié. prior approval of the
agency having primacy of interest. If a DDO eler sires to arrange the
transfer or joint operational use of a registeréd individual, the ISR will con-
: tact the agency: having primacy of to determine whether there is a
willingness. to ‘discuss this ér: : Se
simented_as Citizens) of Australia, Canada, the
its Overseas Dependent Territories) and

 
 
 
 
   

  

   
  
   
 

    

 
  

New Zesland mo a ; ;

(1) The operational use of ¢ hé above-named countries (includ. °

oN . ing the overseas dependeticies of the United Kingdom) is. restricted
io oo by agreements with the intelligence or security ‘authorities ‘of such
countries, which require the prior approval of the appropriate liaison.

_. authority. Such approval will be obtained at the earliest feasible stage
: of development through the European Division (in the case: of citizens —
--of Canada or the United Kingdom), or through the East Asia Division.
a (in the case of Australian. or New Zealand citizens).
-{2) The above restriction also governs the use of false documentation
'.. representing DDO. ‘or agent personnel as citizens of the above- :
" named: countries. Approval for, thé use ‘of such documentation “will
ragraph (1)

 

 

 

 

    

 

be sought through
ove. i els

(3) Authority to make operational use, of the person:
“described” in the above: subparagraphs without obtaining the ‘prior ”
apptoval of the liaison’ authority concemed may be granted only -
by, the Deputy Director for Operations ey the Director. ot

the same channels as_stated in s

  

 

       

    

documentatio:

 

ANY

   
 

 
   

 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
 

Co

DOL 50-10

aN
>
a

  
   

DDO INSTRUCTIONG: ‘ OPERATIONS-GENERAL
\ _ 4 September 1973

NO. 50-10 \

e. Employees. of U.S. Private Detective Investigative Agencies | .
DDO policy prohibits the operational use either in the United States
or overseas of the employees of any U.S.-owned or -controlled - private
detective investigative agency. This policy does not apply to operational
use cf employees of orggnizations which are engaged strictly in commercial
or credit investigations. Bs re

   

6. EXTRA-AGENCY CONCURRENCE REQUIRED
a. Employees of Other U.S. Government Agencies :
* Approval for the operational use of staff or contract (including foreign) ~
emplovees of other U.S. Government agencies will be granted only in’
cases where the employee's parent agency in Washington has been notified -
of and-has approved of the intended’ operational use in accordance with |
-. the provisions of DOT 10-5. no Se a
DDO Agents or Assets in the United States’:
“Yn accordancé’ With ‘the’ agreement: existing -betwe'
_ of Investigation and. this ‘Agency, the restrictions listed,
the operational. activity of the Operations Directoratévednducted in’ ‘the -
=> United States..Coordination. with the FBI,o appropriate. niformation on:
“ ppo operational activities in the. ated Ss. is the responsibility of .
- |- the Chief, Liaison Group, Op Staff. rae eee
(1) All investigations by'ithis ‘Agency. “Of foreign officials ‘in the United.
States. require the prio} coricurrence ‘of the FBI; In‘ this

     

 
    
 
  
 
 
   
   
    
   
  
   
 
 
     
   
   
    
  

en the Federal ‘Bureau :
thelow apply to”

 
 

    
 
 

 

   

: context, the
term “investigation” means ysysteifiatic. and- direct inquiries ‘or pro- ;
cedures (such as physical of tee! nical surveillances or neighborhood : ; ran
inquiries) aimed at developin? information concerning an individual's . Ue, > :

activities or background; “investigation” does -not include the ac-
ceptance or the development of information through social contacts
” or contacts normally made by Agency officials in discharging. their."
cover functionse:s-2" Eee ele wey oS Se
_ Any approach in the’ United States by a DDO ‘element for recruit-
ment of any foreign official or’of any, visitor from a Communist country
‘requires the ‘prior: concurrence of the FBI vse les
Any planned meeting’in the ‘United States for assessment nd social
_ development, between a DDO element and a foreign official of known -
~-or presumed ‘interest to the-FBY or, hetween.a DDO element and an :
official or-visitor from a Communist country requires that prior not
“+. fieation be provided to the FB : ne :
(4) Whenever -domestic DDO- operations. involve matters ‘pertaining. to
=" the national ‘security of the United States, appropriate identification

of persons engaged in the operations in the Upited States will be

    
 

 

 

 

     
   
   
 
   
 

    

    

   
     
    
     
      

   
   

 
    

 
 

 

 

DDO INSTRUCTION | \s
NO, 50-10

   

   
 

DOL 50-10

* “OPERATIONS-CENERAL
4 September 1973

5, OPERATIONAL USE PROHIBITED

a. Members ard Trainees of ACTION |
(1) Tt is Agency policy that members and t trainees s of ACTION will not be

(2) i

 

 

 

 

“he had been. assigned “while” with ACTION:

used in any capacity, with or without remuneration, by the Agency °

‘or by organizations under its jurisdiction. (The term “members of AC-
TION” will be understood to mean, anyone employed by or associated
"with ACTION except trainees.) a

It is Agency policy that former members of ACTION may be em-
ployed or used by the Agency or by organizations under its jurisdiction :
only in accordancé with the following:

{a) Except as stated in (b) below, a former. angenber of ACTION

may be employed or. used operational ny element of the

 

“the ‘provisions of “subpa: or
specific prior approval ‘of the Deputy Director for. Operations.

Fo ‘ormer trainees whose ACTION service inchided duty or training over-  -
seas are subject to the rules governing employment or use of former -
members of ACTION (subparagraph (2) above). Former trainees who-
did not serve at any time as members of ACTION and whose ACTION

service did not include duty or training overseas may be employed or

used operationally by DDO elements provided the specific prior ap :
provel of the Deputy Director for Operations is obtained.

 

‘A former member or trainee of ACTION. whose employment or use
is permitted by subparagraph: (2) or (3). above may not be assigned.,
to or used in a country for Which he had been’ train dor to whi h

 

 

‘Information m eived by the. Domest

from ‘private, corporations and oth

  

   
   

  
  
 
   
 
  

  
    
  
   
  
    
             
   

C (
Ko DOL 50-16
” se . DDO INSTRUCTION )PERATIONS-GENERAL
NO. 50-10 . 4 September 1973
aon & s
(b) If the individual: is.
trainee whose AGTION service included. duty or training over-
_ seas, five years’ must have elapsed since his separation from .
Lo ACTION, © 2, me :
C : Coot . ; Té contact with a.former ACTION member or a former trainee whose ° .
7 a oe a. ACTION service included duty ‘or training overseas should be un--

De

io .

ho are yeceiving

 
   

Officials or Employees of the I nternational Association for Cultural Ereedom
DDO: policy, prohibits’ the operational use of the- officials or ernployees
__of the International Association for Cultural Freedom. Contacts with. such”
“individuals which’. DDO officers are obliged to make in their cover. ¢ a:
” pacities must .be limited to their. cover: assignments.’ ce
‘d.. Officials, Employees; “ tzes of the. Ford, Rockefeller and Carnegie.
Foundations ° me le eet :

       
     
  
       

    

 

 

Gran

  
  

    

icials or-employ‘es :
ja On! rionoperational.cad

  

eral; -however, there is 10

 
 

they

     

 

     

 

n

2

a
Sent a rae

DOI 50-16

 

      
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
    

     
  

wa NEN ‘

Ws WF  OPERATIONS-GENERAL

i. ~ ppo iygrauction ©
4 September 1973 .

NO. 50-10 _

 

"RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL USE OF. CERTAIN»
CATEGORIES OF INDIVIDUALS - oe

Rescission: CSI 50-10, 13 5 July 1970

   

 

  

 

E Elemental i in the ct duct of clandestine xe operations i is the use of human
agents to ) accomplish the missions “of the Operations Directorate. In gen-
: gral, it is DDO policy to select agent assets with primary: regard ‘to the .-
7 . agents’ abilities, target access, and security, and with few restrictions as

to their origins, professions or status as members of particular groups. The
‘ basic rule is that any consenting adult may be used by the Operations
Directorate, There are, however, certain sensitive categories of individuals
"or groups whose operational use by the Operations Directorate is prohibited -
“or in some way restricted for reasons not ne! ecessarily. related to security

considerations.

 

 

 

 

     

Ss
> 4
p>
oO
w
a
to
I
3
gE
Oo
ee
jay
re)
oO
w
com
ced
7
cay
i
oO
gh
co}
foal
wn
2
Ea
oO
5.
pO
fo}
B
fo}
io]
oO
fo]
at
a
g
oO.
Ay
ion!
a)
a.

(1 ¥ The = Agency has been directed by -U.S. Govern

restrict or avoid the operational use of a parti
dividuals.

(2) The Asmey has entered into a

 

ictive apcimnent with an
official respobsible for. a."

    
      
 
      
 
 
  
 

    

The ‘purpose or this instruction is to set. forth the prohibitions and ‘policy
: ns) which currently

 

esivictions (as distinguished from security

tain to the operation |

   

re stric

    

      
     
    

 

more detailed guidance than this | instructioa. The’

1 approval procedures set forth ia ‘do not supersede or

the rec

ex in any way

and DOLE , 10-8.

 

    

HW. 53294°. DocTd:32361370 Page, 2°. .
Date: 02/14/05
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY. INFORMATION

Released under the John

. Kennedy
AGENCY : CIA . Assassination Records
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10118-10372 ollection Act of 1992
x RECORD SERIES : JFK (44 USC 2107 Note).
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A ase#: Nl 53294 Date:

slalatataheiehatetatedaietatatatatietetetenatatstetataieiaeaaianaielaneeialaaiaieiaienelaneenane 6-14-2017
DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL USE OF CERTAIN CATEGORIES

OF INDIVIDUALS.

DATE : 09/04/1973
PAGES : 33,
SUBJECTS : OPERATIONAL
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER
‘ CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : -1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/14/93

JFK50 : F55 : 1993.08.14.12:47:48:750063 : 1993
DELETIONS STILL’ VALID AS OF 4/22/99.

COMMENTS

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10118-10372

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

@ purpose oz this“ insiruction” is" to set" rortaT tne" pronto STAN PON
ictions) which currently | J

 
  
 
  
 

trictions (as distinguish ned £ from security
to the operati
special -anproval-

  

 

 
 

ade ta’

   

ropriate, ‘reference |

 
      
  
  
 
  
 

 
 

an has been att
t forth in
ements for

" more detaited guidance
al apptoval proced
i 7 alter in any way the
and DOLF 105 5.

  
 
 
   

   

‘do not supersede cr
fS contained in DOL

 

   

 

       

  

*, Docld: 32361370 ,,
   

    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
     
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
    
   
   
   
   
    
     
    
   
 
    
  
 
   
   
   
 

 

DOL 56-16

     
 

DDO INSTRU! CTION

OPERATIONS-GENERAL
NO. 50-10 ,

4 September 1973.

3. DEF! ‘ETIONS.

 

 

Withia the context’ of this instruction, the definitions 5 listed below vill apply. ; :
Special note must be taken of the fact that the key term-“operationad UWE be ae
employed throughout this instruction has been defined in the most succinct * / :
manner consistent with clarity. Tt has not been feasible, liowever, to cover in 1.”
a definition the entire scope of possible variations in operational circumstances
which may be encountered in DDO activities. The definition of “operational
use” is intended to provide guidance for the majority of cases, ‘and must be
employed with responsible- operational judgment. Issues involving a deter-
mination of “operational use” which cannot be résolved with reasonable aS-
a | surance by ‘the responsible operating components will be referred to the
rt Deputy Director for Operations for decision. : *

 

 

a. Operational Use .
“Operational use is interpreted to mean n the: recruitment, ., utilization,. or train-
_. ing of any individual or.group for DDO purposes on ‘either a witting or
unwitting basis by or on the behalf of an element of the Operations Direc-
~torate, Utilization is made ofan individual or group whenever. that” in-
‘dividual or SFOUP, responding to the direction ox solicitation of a’ DDO__
. element, provides information, performs services; vides cover, or supplies’
- financial, materiel, or other support necessary. fox fie accomplishment of
DDO operational objectives either, ditectl lirectly, to or. for an ele-
raeat of the Operations Directoraté : :

b. DDO Element
Any person or groupes

. either directly or indi
this definition are employees,

c. Onerati ational Contact : oy : ‘
vy association having a as. its purpose the initiation or “furth ance > of DDO

 

      
  
  
  
 
  

  

  

 

 

  
   
 

ir which i is responsible to, owned o or controlled
tly” by. the’ ‘Operations Directorate. Included under
embers of Agency proprietary mech- -

   
 

      

   

rations.

 

    

und cover or twenty f five separate categories as outlined ‘be low a
_in greater detail in paragraphs 5 through 8 of this Instruct fon
y Operational Use is Prohibited (see paragraph 5)
2) Members and trainees of ACTION; | °
0 Fulbright grantees;

 

     

| Dovid: 32961370" Page 3—
     

  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

DOI 59-10

   

OPERATIONS-CENERAL
4 September 1973

mo "PDO INSTRUCTION®
NO. 50-10 | SS

Aw

(0) ‘Officials or employees of the Intemational Association for Cultural |
Freedom;
(d) Officials, employees, or grantees of the Ford, ‘Rockefeller and =
Carnegie. Foundations; . oo
(e) Employees of U.S. private detective jnyestigative, agencies.
/ @), Operational Use Requires Special Extra-Agency Concurrence (see
"paragraph 6): Arp AMLOUTE OFH SHJADDOL |. ete
_ (a) Employees ‘of other U.S. Government agencies; : ae
_(b) DDO agents or assets in the United States; - :
(c) Agents and. human. sources of foreign intelligence registered by > --
other U.S. agencies; _ -
(d) Citizens (or persons documented as citizens) of Australia, Canada, °
the United Kingdom (including | its ee Uppendtent ‘entories)
and .New- Zealand; -
(| Citizens of Norway, West Gen

 

 

   
   
  

  
 

- (b) GARE employee: : . ‘

(c) Individuals eng gaged i inxpublic’ relations ‘activities;

(d) Officials, representatives or employees -of .Communist’ countries
- in the United States; .

(e) Foreign delegates or. employees of the United Nations assigned

in the USS. ‘and | U.S. citizen delegates or employees _wherever .

assigned;

Staff members or officials of Red, Cross’ societies;

Olficials of the Vatican State; :

‘U.S. Government-funded professors, lecturers, students or grantees;

Members of ecucational’or private voluntary organizations;

(j): Officials or employees of the African-American “Insti

<). Volunteers to America. ~

>. (4) Operational” Use. ‘Requires ‘pro al by

at paragraph 8): >

 
    
 
    
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

 

 

         

  

   

  

* restriction will be ‘co jatrolied Py

cppbteable .
in his particular ca. :
