-8-

 

0: There was absolutely none. As a matter of fact
the project handling the Bay of Pigs had absolutely

no idea of what was going on as far as we were concerned.

We had no relationship with the project down there, it

was an entirely separate operation.

B: The only relationship might have been the fact

that Bissell knew what you were doing and Bissell
was involved with the direction of the Bay of Pigs. Apart
from that relationship you don't know of any other?

0: There wasn't any other. Of course, Colonel King,

who was the W.H. Division Chief, naturally was
involved with the Bay of Pigs project and he knew about
this, but that's where we were cut off.

. B: I believe you said that, the knowledge of this
; particular project at the time you were involved
was kept to a very few people, is that correct?

0: That's correct.
B: Who knew besides you and Colonel Edwards?
0: Well, starting from the top I assume, I only can

assume, that Mr. Dulles and certainly Mr. Bissell
because I sat in Mr. Bissell's office when we discussed.
it at a later time, not at the inception of it but I,
at One point, we had sort of a reporting situation where
we brought him up to date on it. J.C. King ~ Colonel
J. C. King, W. H. Division, the Chief of T.S.D. who I
think at the time was probably one of the Roosevelts,
either Corney or Archie, I don't know which one, the
people in T.5.D. at the lower echelon,as far as I know,
were never officially briefed on it. ~ There was a Dr.
Treicher and a Dr. Gunn, but I don't - they may have known ~
what was going on but they were not as far as I know ever
officially briefed.

AUVdGIT Gaod “a ATwagS AHL NOUT KdODOLOHA.

B: Gunn is G-U-N-N and TreicHer is T-R-E-I-C-H~L~E-R
I believe, is that correct?
oO: Right.
: Ry ' . 1
B: Did Banneman Edwards' assistant know at the time?
0: No,

eo

HW 53244 DoclId:32204786 Page 9
-9-

B: Now, you mentioned T.S.D. how did they get involved?

0: Well, they got involved in the determining whether
they could come up with some sort of esoteric
materials to take care of the assignment.

B: This was rather than using a gun, is that correct?

QO: Well tHe, I guess this was discussed beyond me.
I don't know. I think they thought that they'd

use something a little bit more exotic than just having

an out-and-out shoot-out. I don't know whe made that

’ decision.

B: Well, to the best of your knowledge were pills
developed inside the Technical Services Division?

0: Yes.

B: And these were pills designed to poison and kill
someone?

0: That's right.

B: Do you know what kind of pills they were? The
technical names that were used for them?

0: No. All I know is that it had a very lethal
amount of botulism.

B: And the pills were supposedly going to dissolve
in liquid.

0: That's right.

B: Now, did you ever obtain any of these pills?

O: | Yes,

B: And when you got them to whom did you give them?

0: To ‘Roselli.

B: Do you know approximately whether this took place

in 1960 or 1961?

HW 53244) DoclId:3227047686 Page 10

 

AWAIT GuOd ‘ad ATwuaso AHL Nod AdOOOLOHa
-7-

  

B: It was a figure that you think right now was a
$100.000?

O: I think it was, right.

B: It could have been more - it could have been less?

0: Right.

B: And when yu say this syndicate you are referring

to the ostensible group of international. businesses
that supposedly were trying to arrange this? Is that
correct?

oO: Right.

B: Now, what happened after this conversation?

0: Well, Bob Maheu and I went down to Miami, we met
Roselli and he was staying at the time at the
Fontainebleau and he said that he would work out some deal
where he could get in touch with people in Cuba that could
_handle the assignment. Bob was being pressed by Hughes and
he was sort of commuting back and forth from L.A, to Miami-~-
subsequently I was sort of left with Roselli as sort of his
hand-holder and Bob‘was spending more and more time out in
the West /Coast. He did get in touch with these people who
I didn't know who they were, he said that they were types
that had contacts in Cuba and they could handle the assign-~
ment. Eventually| I did meet a fellow by the ‘name of Sam
Gold who I later found out was Sam Giancana. I didn't
know it at the time. Imet_a fellow who was identified as
Joe who was considered a\claims jcourier - I found out he Cop
was Trafficante who was one Of the top Mafia figures and .
this all came out when we saw their pictures in the Sunday
newspaper. lp to that point neither Bob Maheu nor myself
knew really who we were dealing with.

FHL Wows AdODOLOHG :

 

xaWddIteadod -y aTwagqs

* B: Now, do you remember about when this first meeting
in Miami took place?

0: Well, again, I say if I met -Roselli in October which
I'm just staking aS the starting point in October
‘60, it was probably sometime in February. of '61.

B: Now, at that particular time the Bay of Pigs
operation was being planned. Do you know if there
was any relationship between what you were doing and the

Bay of Pigs operation? .

* Please refer to the attached memorandum dated 20 June 1975. “

 

HW 53244 DoclId:32204786 Page 8
-6-

 

B: Well, let me backtrack a minute. The Cuban missile

erisis was in October of 1962, and I believe you
said that you left for the Far East in June of 1962, but of
course, did you mean that this conversation took place when
the Soviets were bringing missiles in there, or just that
they had Soviet influence there? ,

O: It was the Soviet influence. I now withdraw that
because I guess we really didn't know that there
were missile there but we knew there was a potential for

but he made it quite clear, if it was in the interest
-of national security and so forth, that he would do it. He
didn't want to do it for any compensation - he never did
take any money, paid his own way, not only his hotel fees,
but he also paid for his air flights and so forth and so
on. I don't think that I was fooling him, I think he knew

who I was.

it there.
B: Were you introduced as being a person from the CIA? ‘g
0: No, I was introduced as being an associate of Bob 3
Maheu-who worked for Bob Maheu. Q
i]
B: And what name did you use? .
o. ; P|
0: At that time I used my true name, O'Connell. £
B: When you met with Roselli for the first time? 3
. ° by
0: Right. a
B: All right, then what happened? :
0: Well, he eventually decided he would try to help us Ps)
ny
8
>
H
ow
5
B: You'mean by that that you were a CIA agent? <

0: That's right.
* B: Did you ever mention any particular sum involved
that might be pid?
0: Yes, we said that this syndicate, these groups,

were willing to pay I think it was a $100,000.

* Please refer-to the attached memorandum dated 20 June 1975. oo

HW 53244 DoclId:32204786 Page 7
 

Br Did Edwards state to you who gave him the assignment?

O:> Well, as far as I recall he said it was Bissell.

B: Did he ever state whether or not the Director of
Central Intelligence, Mr. Dulles, knew about the
matter?

O: Yes, he did.

B: And what did he say?

O: He said it had the approval of Mr. Dulles.

Br, All right. Do you have any idea approximately

when such a conversation would have taken place
between you and Edwards?

O: No. Not at all. I--as I say--I think I have or I
have some sort of material that may give the approximate
_ dates, but I don't know at this point.

B: | Do you know whether it’would have been in 1960 or in
1961?

O: My guess would be probably 1960, but again I just can't
be sure. . .

B: Do you know if it would have been in 1960 if it would

have been in the first part or the last part of 1960?

* O: Well, I do recall that I think it was October that I
met “Roselli for the first time, and that was at the
Plaza Hotel in New York, and my guess is it was probably
October 1960, but again I don't--it could have been 1961.

AaWddIT aod “a GiwaaS qHL Nous AdODOLOHG |

B: All right. Really, what you're saying is that you
have no exact recollection as to when it was except

your best recollection right now was that it was in the Fall

of 1960. Is that correct? ;

Oo: That's right.

B: Now you mentioned : Roselli. Before we get to Mr.
: ~ Roselli, did you get in touch with Maheu?

O: I didn't know “Roselli, Maheu was the man that con- | «
_tacted . Roselli. ’

* Please refer to the attached memorandum dated 20 June 1975.

HW 53244) Docld:32204786 Page 5
B: All right. After Edwards talked to you to get in
touch with Maheu. Did you get in touch with Maheu?

0: Yes.

B: And what did you say to Maheu, and what did he say

to you, if you remember?

0: Well, I explained what the project was all about.

He wasn't particularly happy about taking on the
assignment, primarily, I guess, because he was getting very |
close with the Hughes people and they were demanding a lot
of his time and he didn't feel he could spend too much time
with us, but he did also recognize the fact that we had in
the past subsidized him, and he felt that he owed us the
--he. was committed to a degree, and he took it on on that
basis.

B: And then what happened?

O: Well, he said he knew a fellow out in Las Vegas,

because at that point that's where Hughes was operat- -

ing out of. He didn't know his background but he figured he
must be somewhere involved with organized groups out there
because he-~-as he understood it--he had the ice machine con-
cession of all the casinos out there, and he identified him
as a fellow by the name of . Roselli. I met Roselli--he came
in to New York-- :

(End of tape 1, begin tape 2)

B: Now you mention that you met Roselli in New York.
Was that pursuant to a pre-arranged plan with Maheu?

O; That's correct. He asked Roselli to come to New
York and that he had something he wanted to talk with

him about. I was introduced, to’ Roselli as an associate of
Bob Maheu~~the discussion,pretty much on the basis of Maheu
having several international clients who had interests down
in Cuba. They were concerned about losing their investments,
and they were pooling together a sum of money that they could
offer if somebody could eliminate Fidel Castro. Initially

Roselli didn't want any part of it. We did appeal to him
on the basis that this was in the best interest of national
security--at that time of course we were aware of the fact
that the Cubans--the Russians were bringing in missiles, and
so forth and that they were threatening the country.

HW 53244 Docld: 32204786 Page 6

 

AUWVdaGIT quoi “a aiwaas GHL WOWd AdODOLOHA
178-10002-10329

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES
Washington, DC 20500

 

May 17, 1975

MEMORANDUM

TO : The File

FROM : David W. Belin

SUBJECT : Interview with James P. O'Connell

Belin: This is a memorandum of an interview with James P,

O'Connell: 1333 Elsinore. Avenue, McLean, Virginia

B:
O:.
B:
Oo:

B:

plot to assassinate Fidel Castro of Cuba. Mr. O'Connell says
that he is not certain now concerning particular dates when
Matters might or might not have taken place because they in~
volve situations that took place approximately fifteen years
ago. And he also says that he believes that he made some
notes which the last time he knew the notes were in the

O'Connell, who resides at--

\
And what's your zip code there?
22101
And what's your ‘phone number?

356-9666

The date of this interview is May 17, 1975, and Mason
Cargill of the Commission staff is also present. I
reviewed with Mr. O'Connell matters pertaining to an alll

KUWdGIT GYOd “YX GIVYID FHL WOdd AdODOLOHa’

personal safe of Howard Osborng who was then Director of the
Office of Security, and he indicates that. with regard to
particular matters of this interview that the best recollection
he could make would be if he had the notes in front of him.

He is goingand try to see if he can get those notes but the
interview is going to be based on his best recollection now

in the absence of his notes. Is that accurate, Mr. O'Connell?

0:

B;

Correct.

Mr. O'Connell I believe that you said that you came
to the CIA from the FBI approximately in 1951. Is
that correct?

_ ‘
os :
RE _ an

" IAY.CONTAI UATOMALSEGURIANEGRIATOR

HW 53244 DoclId:32204786 Page 2
JFK Assassination System Date: 8/27/201

Identification Form

 

Agency Information

Released under the John F. Kennedy

v9.1

RECORD a ONDER, tex toon 10329 Assassination Records Collection
° , ~ uo“ bet of 1992 (44 SC 2107 Note).
RECORD SERIES: ASSASSINATION FILES eases NW 53248 Date: Oss is —2017

AGENCY FILENUMBER:  A-I(1) INTERVIEWS RE ASSASSINATIONS
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
FROM:  BELIN, DAVID
TO: FILE
TITLE: INTERVIEW WITH JAMES P. O'CONNELL
DATE: 05/17/1975
PAGES: 19
SUBJECTS :
. ORGANIZED CRIME
MIAMI
MAHEU; ROBERT
GIANCANA, SAM
CUBAN EXILES
CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS
ROSELLI, JOHNNY
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
- DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS |

CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Unclassified

Consulted; 1A; Mandatory Review Material; Other Work Copies
Redact

05/24/1995

CIA SOURCE NAME BECOMES OPEN

Unmarked, but may include classified information.

 

 

 

 

99

HW 53244 DoclId:32204786 Page 1
2Q-

O: December 1951,
B: And when you came to the CIA, what did you do?
O: I was assigned to the Office of Security and ini-

tially my first assignment was a desk chief, the
title of--at that time, I believe was Covert Security
Clearance Branch, or Desk.

B: And then what did you do?

QO: Well, I progressed through the years in the Office

of Security--it's the only office I ever worked with
in the CIA, and eventually when I retired two years ago, I
was Deputy Director of Security for Physical, Technical, and
Overseas Apffebrs. SECT Y .

B: -I believe you said that you were in the metropolitan
Washington area during the latter part of the 1950s
until approximately June of 1962?

O: That's correct, I was assigned in the Washington
area until I went overseas--the Far East--in June
of '62. ms

B: During the 1950s, did you ever have an opportunity
to become acquainted with Robert Maheu?

O: Yes, I did. ,

B: And what was the occasion of that?

O: The occasion was about 1952 or '53. He was at that

time working independently as a security consultant
and he had just left the job with Small Business Administra-
tion where he was the Security Officer and he was striking -
out for himself. Robert Cunningham, who was my boss at that
time, knew Maheu ad the FBI Hada high regard for his capa-
‘bilities and abilities, and Ne were looking for a covert
asset in the Office of Security and Mr. Maheu was struggling
in the sense that he didn't have very much capital. We gave
him a retainer so he could open up an office and in return
he did certain assignments for us.

B: In the Office of Security.
O: For the Office of Security.
Bs For the Office of Security. Maheu had been an FBI

agent at one time. Is that correct?

HW 53244 DocId: 32204786 Page 3

 

AUWdGIT Guo “UY GTwaaS AHL NOU AdODOLOHa.,
 

-3-

O: Right.

B: And do you remember off-hand what the retainer was?
O: I believe we gave him $500 a month,

B: Subsequently, did you have contact with him from

time to time over the latter part of the 1950s?

O: Well, from the time I was assigned as his case offi-

cer, which was approximately 1953-54, again I'm not
too sure of the dates, I handled him, if you want to call
it that;,, until 1962 when I went averseas.

B: You were his case officer?
O: * Right.
B: ' Now, I want to ask you whether or not you ever heard

inside the Agency of any plansor schemes which might
have involved the assassination of any foreign leader. other
than Fidel Castro?

O: I can say categorically no.

B: To the best of your knowledge has the Agency ever
been involved in any plots involving murder or assas-~
sination of anyone in this country?

O: Not to my knowledge.

Bs: Now, Mr. O'Connell, some time in the latter part of

1960, according to our interview before we started
making this tape, you said that Shef Edwards came to you
with regard to a particular matter. Is that correct?

AUVdaIT Good “ay AIWYRS AHL WOUd AdODOLOHd |

_ O: That's correct.

B: Could you just relate what Edwards said to the best
of your recollection and what you said.

O: Yes. He indicated that he had gotten the--the office
had gotten--the assignment to come up with somebody

or some organization that could take on the assassination of

' Fidel Castro, and he thought perhaps. Bob Maheu might know

i somebody that we could contact or he could contact, and I was

told to talk to Bob, which I did. .

HW 53244 DoclId:32204786 Page 4
