 

 

HW 53244

significant and -woult€p¢
_ evaluating the report:b Pop: ,
wh:

. yet been established.

   
  
     
 

  
 

i
fH

wadue to consumers in

 
 

remarks to those made eoovice officials around

the world in pursuance" o dat appears to be a semi-offi- ;
cial "line." (A good: example of this is to be found in :
SITNIKOV's ‘meetings, with Pierre Salinger | in Moscow in (8) .

the spring of 1363.) E :

9. Finally, itis ‘the part of the report: that deais
with Lee Harvey Oswald's. relations with the KGB--or
rather the lack of suchia. relationship--that raises seri-
ous problems. As you. areaware, much the same story about:
Oswald, although in considexably greater detail and

allegedly based on first-hand. knowledge, has been related

by NOSENKO. This Agency firmly believes that NOSENKO did
not in fact have first-hand: knowledge of the relations
between the KGB and OSWALD,;.and that NOSENKO's story on |
OSWALD is a KGB-prepareg message. Similarly, this Agency
believes -that [SHAMROCK 4 statements on OSWALD cannot auto-
matically be a€cepted.as accurate or valid, and that the

exact nature of the KGB relationship with OSWALD has not (Ss)

     

>

Attachment
As Stated Above. Pn

 

@ of the similarity of these Ey

 

 

 

DocId:32172206 Page 5
 

   

aa

   
 
  

és BOACKETED Gulex,)

 

   
    

29 March 1967”

 

Gane oi Loe) 7 ae
SUBJECT: Covered Opp ..
en Aken Harvey OStive fe
1. i Please refer: ‘to Yy ‘ informal note, dated
27-March” 1967, captioned. a ‘above, in which you propase |
to disseminate to the Department,of Justice and Depart
ment of State a memorandu “containing {certaiz SHAMROCK,
information concer cning the.a assination of President
Kennedy. |: res
“SAS you are aware, t a “meeting on 18 January
1967 poktieen representatives of your — this

“

 
  

 
 
 
 

  
  
 

Agency to discuss [Eke handling off SHAMROCKE! was agreed
that for the time being there.would be no. dissemination
to other agencies of information from this source with-
out prior agreement between, your. Bureau and this Agency,
and that there will be: no “fio®i fication of other agencies
about gthe existence of oa new sourcePat. the present
time. We gather that you ,now.prepared to make some

 

dissemination of §S: SHAMROC Beormation to other departments
and Pee We Gin believe that certain items of[SHamM- a)

   
 

ROCK ' sfpo0s
nated at th
or Ee this™ “Kg ke any “dissemination OLESHAMROCK for-

we “believe that we should.reach a t on the

    

 
    
 

   

Baie, we. W oe
e responsible for. the. dissemin c

 
 

 

 

DocId:32172206 Page 2

    
 
 
  

IN

_ ORIGINAL

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

« AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10175-10025
RECORD_SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-1ST NR 5574

 

 

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO: Released under the John
a . Kennedy
TITLE:

Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 03/29/1967 ase#: NU 53244 Date:
bé6—12-2017

PAGES: 5
SUBJECT: LIAISON WITH FBI, ADMIN, PROCEDURE

 

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

STATUS Redact
RESTRICTIONS: ©
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
” JEK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS: INC NEWS ARTICLE

 

 

ORIGINAL Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW_DATE: 10/22/1998 UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

 

AW 53244 DocId:32172206 Page 1

 

 

 

 

 

 
    
   

 

—
Cj ; on
8 4. As far as source-de Criptions are concerned, we

believe that it is important that the source description
used by both your Bureau and.'the ‘Aggnoy clearly state ©
that the reliability of the” qyrce[hinselz (rather than
simply that of his saformation]} has" not yet been estab- EN)
lished. Prox example; one of € following descriptions |
might be appropriate: : : :

 

 

oO fe. "A confiden: alinformant, contact with — oes
(+ f whom has been insuffici nt to.establish his é
\. bility" ee) oye

j ; Z . >. "A Govieifesurs ab — : ,

not been est&blished";

£. Fisoviet offictal[Wio is aware that his :
information is being: passed to the U.S. Government J

i

 

    

(5. fEecanse muchof the..positive intelligence infor-~ ~
mation £FémPSHAMROCK hich we;would propose to disseminate i]
at this time" deals with United NationsPtatters, and much
of it will inevitably raise questions” from consumers, we
believe tha iil ultimately find it necessary to d
6tss the exi and natu DF tHE SOprs (x
07 Pe tary of State“RUsKT™ While we do
not sée any necessity for this atthe’ present time, we.
do wish to call your attepgion to the fact that extensive
dissemination of [stantnockth forma cion on [United ‘Nations ‘S

   
    
 

   

    

     

matters will ver} likely’ require that this be. done

C6: Even subject. to agreement on thezpoints raised
sabove, however, we still have serious reservations about

the dissemination of the. information contained in your
memorandum. This report deals: with a subject which owing

to exceptional circumstances. makes objective evaluation. —

of the information set. forth’ extremely difficult. Essen-
tially, the report contains ‘two basic elements: the ‘

a
information aboutKthe xKcB 5 oppores established to in- ~“#L tm

 

vestigate the circumstancés.o resident Kennedy's death,
and information on Lee Harvey Oswald's relationship with
the KGB. S far as we know, there has been no previous

ay reporting Oh the existence, fsugh a-commisgion. It is
important to note, nowevesgins ofEne alleged conclusions
, f this commissiog¥-that r€sident Kennedy was killed by

@ conspiracy of right. wing’ monopolists--have long com-

prised the standard Soviet line on this subject. To cite
but two examples, KHRUSHCHEV.took this tack in an inter-

view he granted to columni's

  

Drew Pearson in early 1964).

i
1
i
f

 

 

i

t

a
wpe

 

 

 

 

 

 

HW 53244 DocId:32172206 Page 3

 
 

 

HW 53244

cme

    

(see attached column from the. ashington:Post of 26 June

1964); a complete ‘statement.of the Soviet line on: Ken-

nhedy's death is to be found in a-book called "Where do
the Tracks Lead?" \[Kuda vedut sledy] by A. IORYSH and ani

B. SERGEYEV, which was submitted for publication on 2 Sep- i

tember 1964. This book. ‘spells’ out the theory of a right

wing conspiracy in great detail. {lt is interesting in

this connection that ‘the surname of one of the two authors,

SERGEYEV, is identical withthe alias used by SITNIKOV

in his contacts with both Pierre Salinger and Donald

Brennan. In any event," aside. from the existence of a

KGB commission to consider the problem, none of ehe ce

 

ings of the commissionijvas ‘reported by {5 SHAMROCK
either new or: signi ficant,

 

7. (further i in this ‘regard, we. note that the iden-
tification of SITNIKOV as being chief of a sector, Infor-- 4
mation Section, International Department, Central Committee :
of the CPSU is misleading in’ that, "according to[ SHAMROCK i
at the time that SITNIKOV. was studying the assassination t
of President Kennedy he was’ “still Deputy Chief of the In- !
formation Service, First Chief Directorate, KGB. i(See . ; i
transcript of Meeting #17, page 12, in which SHAMROCK_] ‘ 7

ates SITNIKOV's transfer to.the CC in 1965, when SKRYABIN - i
retired and VIDYASOV became “chie £ the Information :
Service.) rurthesnore , (buaunoce|Sbcribed to KULEBYAKIN,
who was then Chief of thé American Department of the FCD,
the chief responsibility for ‘weighing the evidence that a
had been gathered by KGB sources on the President's : : “
death. (Seeftranscript of Meeting #4, page 18, R&We sug- a
gest, therefo?e, that the report be ‘made consistent by ae |

|

 

“either including KULEBYAKIN! S name or geleting SITNIKOV'sS;
or at least the SITNIKOV ‘Clearly identified as still
within the KGB at -the time

3. fin connection with. the Soviet assessment of
president Kennedy containegon, page 2 of your memorandum, |
‘we also note {that (GiansogifMon: nea his discussion of ; 4
this topic by ‘providing the current Soviet assessment of
President Johnson. (See, fEranscript of Meeting #4, page 20 OX
While it is true that this assessment of President John- iG
son was in answer -t direct. question by one of the in- 2% °° oy
terviewing ctflcers fla ‘that the sourcé's information on ‘3%! :
this is not directly elevant to the assassination of u
President Kennedy, we. nonetheless, believe that the jux oe
position of Beavnock: emarks on the two. Presidents oe i

7

  
  

 

 

DocId:32172206 Page 4
