M to...

-6-

go down to Cuba during the Christmas holidays and that Justice Department
recommends that we lift our travel restrictions. If we don't, we will probably
be obliged to put many of the students in jail when they return; this will be
embarrassing. Mr. Ball added that the State Department is tentatively opposed
to lifting the travel restrictions because of the effect it will have on Latin
American countries. We have beentrying to get the Latin Americans to impose
restrictions on travel to Cuba: if we lift our own restrictions, our position will
be considerably weakened. Mr. Ball said that he would be meeting with the
Attorney General later in the day to talk about the subject.

Tentatively, the President indicated that he favored maintaining the travel
restrictions and a policy of selective prosecution.

- Gordon Chase

2 (100 me oe me eee mere ow:

 

HW 54214 DocId:32977052 Page 7

 
     
    
      
         
         
    
     
    
    
   
   
    
   
   

2B: Mr, Bundy gave a very quick briefing on some other aspects of the current
Cuban situation. (The group paused to read the attached CLA situation brief. }

-. fa) With respect to Soviet/Guban military strength on the island, Mr.
| Buady noted that one of our primary objectives isto ensure that there is no
to yeintroduction of offensive missiles, The carmera is our best inspector and, so
far as we know, there are no offensive missiles new in Cuba. Mr. Bundy added -
that we ate concerned about the transfer of SAM control to the Cubans in about
mid-1964, and we will have to watch this development carefully, As for the

Soviet troops, the general consensus of the group was that the big withdrawal
are over and that, from here on, the withdrawals will proceed more slowly.

-. (b) Mr. Bundy noted, in passing, our anti-subversion efforts. The key to

the problem is to build up the will and capabilities of the Latin American

_ €ountries to counter the chreat. Our efforts in the field of controlling travel
“between Latin America end Cuba are also important. :

(c) Mr. Bundy described briefly the very tenuous, sensitive, and marginal
contacts we have established with Castro himself. The initiative is on Castro's.
part and we are essen:iall faced with a decision as to whether or not we are ~~
- | prepared to listen to what Castro has to say. Mr. Ball noted that such U.S./_

-- Cuban contacts could kave an unsettling effect on Soviet/Cuban relations, =

  
  
 
 
    
 
    
    
  
  

. Bund described several unilateral and bilateral courses of action we :
take in the future to make life difficult ’sr Gastro. . ;

  
   
  

fo) Mr. Bundy said that we can take further unilateral shipping measures
«» @.g. Close ports and deny U,S.~-financed commodities to lines engaged in. _
Free World shipping to Cuba. He noted, however, that we have found through
past experience that bilateral measures are more effective in reducing Free
World shipping te Cuba. At the same time, we should not deceive ourselves.

ee ee re

4 pane ae,

 

 

MW 54214 Docid:32977052.. Page 5

 

 
-5-

We should recognize that the Soviets are capable of handling all Cuba's
shipping nceds even if we are able to eliminate Free World shipping to Cuba.

(c) Mr. Bundy said that the President could make a public statement in
the near futuré, taking a more vigorous line than we have in'the past. He noted
that in his November 18 speech, President Kennedy made two points about Cuba
-- the first was designed to encourage anti-Castro elements within Cuba to

revolt, and the second was to indicate that we would not permit another Cuba in
the Hemisphere.

(d) Bilaterally there are possibilities of increasing our pressures against
Free World trade to Cuba. Spain should be a high priority target.

NOTE: At this point the President left the-room and there was a brief discussion
about the exiles in Florida. Mr. Crimmins said that resettlement remains our
basic policy. It is true that the exiles feel that the pressure for their resettle- .
ment is intense. In fact, it is no more intense now than it has been for some time.

5. On the President's return to the room, Mr. Bundy introduced the subject of
_ the discovery in Venezuela of the Cuban arms cache. _

{a) Mr. Helms gave a graphic presentation of the link between the arms
cache and a plot to upset the elections in Caracas.

(ob) Mr. Martin explained the status of the OAS investigation of the arms”
cache, The evidence is convincing in showing that the arms were from Cuba.
The OAS investigating team is still working on its report. Hopefully, it will be
able to tie the arms cache into a general plot to subvert Venezuela. The report
should be ready by about January 10. : : ,

(c) Mr. Bundy described the types of action we can hope to get in the OAS
asa result of the discovery of the arms cache. The most interesting is the
surveillance action where we have essentially two basic choices -- we may want
to push for a system which involves search and seizure of Cuban vessels on the
high seas; this implies the possible use of force. Or we can push for a system
involving the search and seizure of Cuban vessels in territorial waters; this
evades the issuc of force. Mr. Bundy added that it is still too early to know
how far the Latin Americans will go in support of force against Castro. We
have put out feclers.

6. Mr. Bundy brought up the problem of lifting travel restrictions on Americans
who wish to goto Cuba. Myx. Ball noted that a great number of students want to

~~

TOF ee me ee tee oem

 

 

AW 54214 DocId:32977052 Page 6
 

  
     
     
  
  
      

 

THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON.

_p Op SECRET —SENSEWE-

 

December 27, 1963

MEETING WITH THE PRESIDENT - December 19, 1963 - 10:55 ALM. -
SUBJECT: Cuba
Others Present: Acting Secretary Ball; : wnbassador Thompson; Deputy

Under Secretary Johnson; Assistant Secretary Martin;
retary Gilpatric; Se

   

 
 

-ge Reedy; Gordon Chase.

The primary purpose of the meeting was to brief the President in depth about
some of the basic Cuban issues, Essentially, the discussion described where
we have been since January, 1963, @ we are now, and where we can go. —
{An outline which was prepared for the discussion is attached, } ae

         
   

   
 

1. A large part of the meet
and a general discussicn of
Government's economic dent

cussion covered 6 areas.

 

4 ntally ne n Cuba, s
Canada.and Great Britain.

 
AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

 

FROM

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

NSC

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

145-10001-10180

NSC

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

GORDON CHASE

MINUTES OF MERTING WITH THE PRESID

AM

12/27/63

6

CUBA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

1B

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
02/10/98

NOJOINT. STAFF OBJEGTION
DECLASSIFICATION
CONCURRENCE OF

&

Date 06/25/98
Page : 1

Released under the John
. Eennedy
Assassination Records
Ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#: NW 54214 Date:
HO-10-2017

 

 

ENT, 12/19/63-10:55

HW 54214 DoclId: 32977052

Page 1
 

 

   
 
 
  
   

-2-

 

The group agreed that this is not. an casy problem; Mr. Ball said that our
‘“callies have always been reluctant to interferé with private traders and have
- always had a different view of Free World/Bloc trade than we have had.
> Nevertheless, it was also agreed that we should intensify our efforts and that
there are still things we can do. First, Mr. Crimmiing noted that we could
asider ways in which the new amendment to the Foreign Assistance Author-
; tion Act (prevents assistance to any country whose planes or ships carry
‘eommodities to Cuba) can be used to reinforce our economic denial program,
; Ball said that the question of Canadian trade in sensitive items
padian Minister of Economics and Trade on

   
  
 
   
   
   
   
   
 

    

  

ernments: alse. Third, the P esident directed that the agencies prepare @

detailed memorandum including the narnes of companies and commodities in-
wolved in Free World trade with Cubs)which, inter alia, will be useful for his
forthcoming talks with Prime Ministers Home and Pearson. .

      
   

a

  
 

 

 
  
  
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

-3-

 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
   

tthere are a number of dishdvantages | to ene
Minces of total success (e.g. target destroye
80-58 while the chances of partial success {target destroyed, peopl

 

a venly sOmewhat better than §0-50, Second, if the raiders get caug hey will
~undoubtd@ly admit their CLA connection. (General Carter bellevg@this point

hyway.) Third,
evel. In this
so that Castro,
v7, will not be able
all said that it might
mnbassador Thompson
red to be ina situation
Vo They will draw a lot
nm. Anattack on a big

mn his negotiations for more

was weak we get Blamed for everything that happens in. Cub:
such an atta will be highly visible and will have a high nois
 eegard,. Mr. i and said that we might want-to Ne low for n
presently under @ strain because of the arms cache disco
. to shift the accusi finger In our direction. Fourth, My
slow up the withdra® ai of Soviet troops from Cuba. FL
said that the timing seygned bad ~~ the Soviets. now ap
where they may be thinkigg of cutting back aid to ©
vet conclusions frorri the firg acts of President Job
Cuban target could give Cast 2 g important lever
Soviet aid.

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
    
 

 

A Genersl Wheeler thought. that, to im grove: <4
t.y to hit the Matanzas power plant

kav already ‘been some free-lance ra

: that an air strike might cause petaliayy

hance of success, we might want
drgcit should be noted that there
rer Cuba. Alexis Johnson pointed out
against one of our U-2 flights. :

 

 

in response to: a question, Secret Nance ty dicated that he was in favor of an

2 attack ‘on Matanzas.

10. air or ground’ itack on the Matanzas power
iuse of its high proqability of failure and be-
n. However, it was agre ad, in principle, that: low~. ’
go forward along with the planing necessary to.
lability. ; 7

: it was decided that there wil
plant : at this time, primar:
cause ot the: Soviet dim
piak sabotage. efforts
z Sevetop an air strike ¢

 

 

 

   

 

d described Clas program in aiding Dye autonomous
hich will be operating from outside the QJ. S.. Ome group,
Manuel Artime, will start operating out of Up sta Rica and
Sbruacy; the other group is headed by Manolo Raywwho is some-
cof Artime, but probably has the best following witht
will conduct externally mounted raids on Cuba, andlyill se
wide Cuba to conduct internal sabotage and to establish contiict with dis? :

ir. Fitzgerald added that there are some disadvantages in Whese oper-
atiog/~- the groups Rren't trained by CIA and they operate.outside of QA control,
But here are advantages too +- they operate from outside United States% rritoery-

d we will have relatively little trouble denying u, 5. association with theme group

   

 

 
