 

WW 53320 peerdosVatseiw” bage wionle ore with us,

 

€

interview of Pablo HERNANDS2 Hoyas (covt. )

 

ve W8Ye encircled and I was left Alene. A lot of militia troovs were
thrown acainst me, Then my fire? departure was for Severna, that is,
for Santa Clara and from there. to davanea; And then I made-a connection
to come-over here, My idea here As to contact hegor Joaquin MEMBIBERES.
Then you were separated from your group?

Yes, I was dispersed, -T and another Young fellow,
dnd where is “he?

He. 1S Still in vavana,
de didn'+ want

Well, T-didu't wave time to send word te hin, This opportunity
for me: to come was Something which hepvensd very fest,

And “bien was 14 Oy orsenigation that sade contact With vou for vou so
come on this trio, or whet?

Well, I came here through a conteét of our own people, Supposedly
anyone coming from the hills and havine contacts can easily find a way
to leave,

And teen you head no orobleus while leaving in the boat "BLAxcy NIevasP"

Well, the problem was. that the trip took. too lone. We Left there
on the end and arrived on ‘the 9th. We had a very rough tine, ~Ghe boat
broke down, we- almost sank twice, spent three days on some keys almost
without anv. food and water, Then an airéraft flew over the keys where
we were, and it sent word te a.Coast Guard cutter asica brought-us over

here.

That is how you sot. here?

Ana whet 1

& Your persone] opinion resardine the towas néar the Epcembray;

 

alvays Some Co

 

 

 

 
 

53320. Docld: 32373612 Page 10

iovas’ (cort. )

 

Interview of Pablo HeRvAN 2
Do you know any of their names?
Jhose nanes?
Of the Communists.
Yes, I-know some,
Can vou five me their neanes?

Yes, le were reported that @ man was a member of the G-2, his name

is Anoé@)  QERNA

 

Nhere- is: he fron?

e's from “anicaracua, from a part called Quirro. I think he owns
a-g@rocery Store, And another man from there who is named Andres. PEREZ
and who isa. Communist.

Where 2S PERE2 Prom?

Also from Quirro. And there is another man celled Arsenio (iaU)
from-Saniearacna, There are many other Gs but I don't remember their
names,

And-what other forces are operating in that area, in addition to CONGO

 

PACHUCO's forees.

Well, there ie another man called Luis VARGAS, and another called GUILLE
What is GUILIEN's first name?

Well, I.don'’s kmow, He operates in a différént area and everyone
kwowS him as GUILLEN, He Sisns just GUILLEN, We have nad some conver
sations but -have had Little contact,
And where is he from, how old i8 he?

We 48 fron ta <oga,from around that area in Las Villas ‘province.
Does he have brethers?

tes, he has brothers, But like IT said, I have had very little contact

oy

And now old is ne; is

 

Well, I @on't Xnov

 

 
 

é ; Set - ¢ Sas

interview of Pable HERNANDEZ Movas (aont. )
then Lt would. not -be possible ‘to send in an operation through there
to deliver arms to you?

Well, Having a diréeetimx connection with the people who are organized
in thatvarea, the arms could be delivered to them, I don't know, That
is’ just. a vague oroject, I don't know how it might be: done,

And were you being furnished any arms?

i Very few, . Lately some were coming in. But-a lot. of anminition is
necessary-and ‘we are very short on anmo, Lt is very starsé,
And: food, how -are all those imsurgents fed?

well, food: has to be rationed, Cows are boveht from the peasants
themselves,

And then you are aiso receiving funds for those purchases of livestock?

ies, the organizations in thé towns send money, but sometimes 16 is

 

@lso a little scarse, But something is received.
And then vou see.a lot of bullets there?

Yes, even the woodn ficht. . the women peasants ask for rifles to
fight, and even the boys fight. There is a@ Lot of dilenityv in Cuba. The
only ones who are with. Fidel is the rabble, the lowest elements, bunch of
thieves and criminals, Anyone with dignity is against Fidel and against
Communism, “Fidel:only has the support of & small bunch of Communists,
the problem is that people are living. in terror and everyone “is afraid,
But all he has is en insienificant bunch of Communists, And° the peovle
can! even move, They send anyone to the execution wall for the slightest
thing, I believe that if Cuba is attacked by different places that this
will -soon.fall...The Cuban people are desperate for something to happen
So they can go out and fisht.

And did vou come to make a contact, of do you have a@ nission here in the

United Stetes?

 

WW 53390. Dochi39379H 2 Bayadpey because T wes in e very difficult situation,

 

 

 
 

    

: (

Interview of Pablo HERNANDEZ Moyas

“

(cont. )

those whom. we have had’ to turn down because there were no arns for them,
then the uscanbray would soon. be free,

And-is there a way of imtroducing that materiel over there?

Well, everything is possible in this life;- nothing is impossible,
tes, but DT mean, are there places through which the arms could be: brought
in?

Sure, of course, Arms can be brought in through anywhere,

Buteol mean some specific place?

Sure, there are places, You see, Cuba is all-organized: today,
and all those orsanizations have their plans because many people have
gone there, and they say that they are gsoing to drop arms sad all: that,
and everyone is waiting, Some of those organizations have over LOO men,
others. over 200, others over 300, and all those men are unermed and are
only waiting for the arms to go into action, go up the “hilis, of: do
Whatever might -be necessary. For example, a farm in the area where we
operate, there is a point, I believe that the vlan is right here in
the United States to drop arms, but nothing has ever peen dropped,

And is that point.on the coast, orve...?

No, 1t-i5: in the Escambray itself put in the more level part of
the mountains, Arourd Manicaragua, the Salte de Manicaragua,
And whet could be done, drop the arms?

Yes, they could be air dropped,

And itowould not be possible. by land?

Yes, At -covld- be done but it would be much more difficult. Sut

there 1S so much vigilance in Cuba....
Ava what about through the coast?
No, the coast is very far, The coast is near to Trinidad and

Sancti Sviritus, but far from other inland areas. And there is-much

yirilence also.
AW 533200 Docldi32373612) Page 7

 

 

 
 

 

ros (
Interview of Pablo HERNANDEZ Hoyas (cont...)

to comb the area, and when they get up there they find that things are
quite different, Now the militiamen are not fighting with the same
enthusiasm which they had previously for the fieht. Their is much
‘discouragement among them, and many of them are also good men,

“bre they collaborating with you?
Yeo, they are,
ote what form are they collaborating?

Well, with food-and things like that. When we are encircled it

becomes. very hard to obtain food because they seize all roads and: paths,
And it-is not. as if we were. operating on open country. We operate in

guerrilla groups moving about and when we are attacked it is very

 

 

heard to find food,

oe And what-do those officers do, do they leave you food or what?

\ = Well, no, let allow our contactsto operate by looking the other way.
Of course, in those posts there is always some militiaman that ise
Sommunist or something, but our men operate freely.

dnd those who are collaborating or supporting the Regime, don't you
think that they may die in combat and thus they will be eliminated as
time passes?

Well, those men are already on a black list. Nhen the-time comes
they Will be eliminated, Also when “ilitia forces were sent from Havana
to comb the woods, as they call it, as these troops are not very experienced
in the mountains, the ones with experience are the Militia troops. that
have been in the mountains for some time, then some of them who are- ood
people would send ws word that the troops were coming .so thatowe:- could
ehance our position. .Then the troons would becin to comb the area
put we-were already out of that area and they would not: find anything,
Then.the siilitiamen themselves warned you of this?

Yes, they themselves. warned us,
AY 53320: Docla: 32373812 Page. 5

EER TAT ee Re RRR ROPER eet ean a areT RIESE TSE ee ena aAD OES RENEE Ae Ona NSERC R OEE R ASE RESON RRR ETE NEM R ERNE TENN RAITT TST MnH TER NW SENT RO NRTA MERE ON TNT |

 

 
 

HW -53320.Docld: 32373812 Page 6

/eien the Castro Rerine lmnowines about it, inflltretine exveditions taking

   

a z
interview of Pablo HERNANDEZ Moyas (cont, )

You Mean that the militiamen who were permanently assigned. to the area
were. the ones who warned you?
Yes, they sent us word, .
And this has been total collaboration from those men, OF....9
Well, this collaboration has already béen civen for some months,
Before everyone fought but then they realized things and collaborated
with us. Now everyone in Guba is collaborating,
And how do you see things. -Do you think that if you had more cooperation
and received more supplies of arms and ammo do you think that more of
your men could operate in that area?
Yes, of course, If the Escambray had received more attention Fidel
night no longer be in vower, And they should have taken better care of
it, but they were busy With other things.... why mention them? The most
Sacrificed people were we men From the #scanbray, and if they hed furnished
all the requests which were made, then things Might be different today.
the thine is that we were abandoned to our own luck, to Whatever we could
do by ourselves, And I think that we Have done even nore than we might
conceivably have been cavable of doing, If we had had armms.... from the
béeinning there were hundreds of méu who wished to go up the hilis but
they did not have arns,-And they had to be turned dow because we had
nO arms to give them and they would have been & hindranee for us, What
Cen en unarmed man do in the woods? To accept them would have meant their
capture, If there hed been enoush arms thé Escambray would se frec boday.
And you think thet -if more matériel] is sent in, thet more men could
onerate in that area?
fhe Uscambray would soon be free. Infiltrating men into the eseanbray,
without
aeteriel- and everythine, “lost of the peasants in that area are dyine to
seta pifle.in their hands, sad if all those seovle-are arned oYroperie,

Le eee

 

 
 

Peer

OPaneAaS st: cna ae ooh
WH 53320" “povta}i2a7 3 Page.2 Sov vrenades, ate,

—_ — 7/3

INGERVISW- OF PARtO HERNANDEZ HOYAS,

  

Vest, Florida, on 9 January 1962, and was
interviewed" by Cesar PIOSDADO, Customs Agént,

     
   

 

[BOC MICRO. SER

DEC 11972
| MICROFILMED

dhat is your tual name, 4 PTSEs ea

 

©anlo. AERNANDE? NOYas,

4Hen and where ware You “bern?

1 Was born on 6 Tune Lose ay Hanilearagua, Las Villas province, Guba,
Wet is your occupation?

Commerce, I worked in. a shoe store in Santa Clara, Las Villas,
Do Foi belons to any undereround &roup?

Ewes uy dao the ALLLs fighting, in ¢he kscanbray , under Major < Foaquin
MEMBIBERES ,
Uow lone were You an insurgent in the hills?

Tt was 14 Months uy “in the hills, from 26 August. 1960 “untiy &pproximete iy
two months ESO,
What other “8jors or Chiefs were operating in that area also?

1 was with Conco PACHSCO, The chier of the Escambray is Osvaldo
RAMIREZ.
During your stay in the hills, how many men were there, -how many men did
you have? :

The sscambray is divided into guerFilia Groups. The Has counts on
300 men in arms, in edditien te the rest of the everrilis Srouvs which
are also under this headduarters ,
What-is the total nunber of wen fighting in that area?

i estimate that there are &pproxinately 2,000 armed men in the
sscembray.
and are cthey well equisped, Bre vou tsceivine eras in the HSCaRbTa yy

fell, lately we nays been receiving &, duYing thé vast few MONTES whi ds

es

 

 

 

 
 

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD. SERIES
AGENCY FILE: NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION: SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION . FORM

AGENCY “INFORMATION

Grn ‘eleased under the dohn F. Eennedy
404-16309-10004 Lasassination Records Collection
oFK Ben Qf 1s92 (44 USC 2107 Note).

#iNY

DOCUMENT: - INFORMATION

LA DIV WORK FILE 320 Date: 06-27-2017

 

 

AGENCY ORIGINATOR. : CIA
FROM :
TOs
TITLE : ‘TRANSCRIPT OF RECORDED INTERVIEW OF PABLO HERNANDEZ
MOYAS
DATE: 01/0171962
PAGES <7
SUBJECTS : MOYAS
DOCUMENT “TYPE: -PAPER
CLASSIFICATION + SECRET
RESTRICTIONS“: 1B
CURRENT STATUS .:° RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/03/98
COMMENTS : UFK-WFO4 >: 00 : 1998.09.03 .131532:25:293128
[R] “ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10309-10004

HW 53320 “Docld:32373812 Page 1

 

 
 

AW 53320)) Daohlia24ii8le4-Bage 3 2

    

Interview of Pablo HERNANDEZ Moyas (cont. )
Then you-have been receiving suvvlies?
YeS, a little delayed but we are receiving some, Now 4t-igea
Little more advanced, .
Yow is the morale -of ‘the insurgents in that area?
iveryone who is in arms in that area has a hieh morele,
And have they brought Militia troots te the Escambray?

Theat ois. tremendous .~ When they start one of their offensives they

Send 50,000 or 60,000 Eilitia troops, . We “have to flisht every day,

But Sometimes we have a good. situation because there is control within
the Militias themselves, that is, militiamen from cooperative farms and
RPenses are sent. there by our own organizations, and they are good men,

At least we have a good situation with them. The problem ig shen they

unleash one of their offensives. Sut When thines ere quiet we have a
Sood situation,
HOW are you receiving the arms with which you are belns supplied?
We ere receiving then through contacts,
Do you have contact with outside Cuba, or how were ‘vou setting these arng?
i think that lately we have had eontact With other countries, but
I do not know who they are because we only receive them and we don't.
know how they are obtained,
And who 18 the main contact which you have for Osvaldo RAMIREZ?
Well, I-bélons te another group. ‘To CONGO PACHECO and Joaquin
MEMBIBERES |
And-do you-nave contact with people outside thé ascanbray area?y That is,
did you have contacts in the town so they would support you?
Of course, people were Collaborating with us throughout las Vildas
province ,

Can-you divulge the name or names of these contacts or néople whe were

 

 

 
 

ees on . ren)
bo ( oT
Interview of Pablo HERNANDEZ Moyas (cont.)
Yes,.one of our main contacts was 4 man named Rafaelito LUGONES,
This interview will not be published will it? (question by. HERNANDEZ Moyas |
No, this is strictly secret and confidential. (Anterviewer)
Well, alse another man from Santa Clara called Andres (LNU) who
used. to-comé to the U.S,
You mean he comes to the U.S.?
Ho, he used to come, He is now under arrest,
Do you remember any other names? MG
No, I really don't... You see, there aré so many and I have trouble
remembering the names.
And then you say that there are approximately 2,000 men in the Escambray?
ves, 2,000 armed men. What we need is ammunition,
The time when you were there, what was ‘the most needed type of ammunition?
The most nécessary ammunition was .30 Caliber, we had three. .30
were

Calibers and-we/short of ammo. We also neéded grenades. Hand grenades

a “are extremely necessary, it is the most effective weapon. I¢ 4s very

 

effective because one is always surrounded there, they encircle us and
then we can. break through with grenades and the enemy is afraid to come
near us if they know we have them,
4nd how do the militiamen behave in combat?
deli, Some militiamen fight well and others run like the devil.
And. in your opinion, do you ‘think that the majority of them run cor what?
Well, at this stage of the game those who fight are Communists,
Today those who ere not Communists will not Light, When we first rose
in- rebellion, everyone Would fight. Those who were deceived and who
belleved in the Revolution and all that.. But now thet they have realized
what Communism is, the militiaman who is not a Comaunist will not flee,
The. Communists are the ones who ficht. And now the Militia troops do not

go-up the hills with the Same original enthusiasm, they have to be forced
HW.53320 9 Docld:32373612 Page 4

 

 
