 

 

f.54756,

DocId:32268213 Page 8

-John David Hurt Interview
“Page 5.
. After the interview Hurt offered to provide any other

information he could, as he and his wife both expressed the
desire to clear this matter up. They asked what they should
‘do if they are contacted again by media people. We advised
them that that would have to be their judgment, but that they
“could certainly ask their callers to provide sufficient iden- >
“tifying data or to appear in person. Harold gave Hurt one of
“the Committee's business cards so they would recognize us if we
had to contact them again.

‘We asked how long Hurt had been disabled and he said since.

 

1961. His: wife then volunteered that it was 1955 when he be- .

 

-came disabled. Hurt said that he is receiving full government a

“disability. He showed us his Social Security. card; the, number |

for.

 

  

 

 

 

“ks: 107-05-5407-A. He did not know what the notation "A" stood

 

 

 
 

 

AW

 

might have given his name out. loosely to have caused this”
fusion" with the Oswald case. Hurt stated that he has no. “close
_ ‘relatives, and that no males in‘his family. have his exact name

We asked if any relatives had lived in Texas or ouisiana. He,
she had moved to South Carolina well before the assassination.
for intelligence work, he said he had had none. «He said he.

“language background he had was Spanish, but that it was. very

limited.

 

{54756 “Doold:32268213 Paye 7

 

John David Hurt Interview
“Page 4.

He could not give the names of any other men with whom he

served and said he has not had further contact with any of

‘them. He said his last contact with the military was approxi"

mately 1947, after he resigned, | when he received a letter of-
fering him a commission. He declined the offer.

Hurt stated that after his military service he entered the

“insurance business, working in claims. He said he was working.
‘for. about a year in South Carolina and after that in North |

*\Carolina.

‘Hurt. stated that he received a law degree from the Univer-

sity of Virginia but never-practiced.. I do not believe it is

‘clear from the interview, but my recollection is that he was in

Law ‘school before he entered the service.

We asked him if there were “any relatives or friends who

   
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
   

"

con

 

‘stated that his sister lived for a time in Louisiana,’ but. ‘that

-When asked what training Hurt had received to prepare nim:

ma ‘received no training in any type of code work. He said. the only

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

“Page 2.

‘being on a slip of paper and "the man who killed Kennedy" had o
. rumor and he said people from the "news media" had contacted him
' County Jail. He acknowledged ‘that the telephone number 834- 7430

: know, to whom the other number on the slip, 833-1253, “belonged. -
“Hurt stated that he was at home at the time of the assassination Le
ana that he never received a call from Oswald or anyone else in

«connection with it.

“tion and that it is a complete mystery to him and his wife as‘to |
“how his name has come up in this case. We asked for any possible
"© explanations, and Hurt and his wife could offer none. However Rea:
- has. wife (who: remained in the room throughout the interview)
- stated that at some time around the time of the assassination _

‘the telephone company in Raleigh had mistakenly given their num

“that party for a time. She could not remember exactly when that

oscurred or the name of the party, but she thought the calls

the same phone number for about. 20 years; they said they had xe
"gently moved to their present address at the time of the ‘assassina~
tion, | but ‘they had had the number transferred from their other

“address in Raleigh.

John David Hurt Interview

there because of the "rumor" about his name or phone number
supposedly tried to call him. We. asked where he had heard that -
about it. We showed him the telephone slip from the Dallas

was and is still his number; however, - he stated that he. does not

   
  
  
 
  

Hurt says he had never heard of Oswald until the assassina~

 

 

 

 

-ber to another party and that they received calls intended for

 

 

   
  
 
   

they received were local. The Hurts stated that they have haa

 

 

 

 
B

John David Hurt Interview
Page 3.

Mr. Hurt stated that he has never before spoken to nor

RTT TREAT SOTA STA)

“been interviewed by anyone from the government about this mat-
ter. He has had several calls from news media people, but

‘could not give details of those contacts. He said that about

 

‘two months ago he received a call from a woman in Washington .
- whom he did not identify further, but who wished to come to
"Raleigh to speak with him about this. He said that when we
appeared he assumed I was that woman; I assured him I had never
called and did not believe anyone from our Committee had ever.

“called him.

 

.When asked about his background, Hurt stated that he was in,

  
  
   
 
 
  
 

: the Army and that he served in the Army counterintelligence corps
AC. I.C.) in Europe and Japan; his dates of service were approxi-
“mately 1942-1946. Hurt stated that he enlisted in the service,
“When asked about his Intelligence work, he said the work in

“Europe involved interviewing nationals of European countries to

 

“determine if they had any connection with the German Secret Police,

pursuant to their requests to come to the United States. He sbald

   
  
  
   
 

: the people were German, Norwegian and Swedish primarily. He

“ stated that he was. stationed in Japan on Honshu Island near a

 

place called .""Karosawa" (phonetic). He said the only work of, any
. significance or particular interest he did there was to. stumb1
“upote ‘a bullion of silver which the Germans were using to trade.
22 ith the Japanese.

‘Hurt stated that his commanding officer in the c. T. Ce. wa

 

~ Melville Grimes, who. he believes is now | Practicing law. in Baltimore.

 

A 54756: Docld:32368213 Page 6

 

 

 
   
     

HW/§2756 | Docla: 32268213"

Page 2

Bye Avec! aoe robert Blakey

 

—

 

Kenneth Klein
CLO ; Charlie. Mathews
: Jim Wolf oo
> Tiny Hutton.
Jackie Hess
 CLi£t Fo

   

  

   

 

_
Special Instructions:

ee

 

 

 
 

 

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 10/13/20

Identification Form

eee
Released under the John
. Kennedy

Agency Information

 

 

AGENCY: HSCA nedy
RECORD NUMBER: —_180-10120-10343 Assassination Records
Ollection Act of 1992
RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES (44 Use 2107 Note}.
ase#:NU 54756 Date:
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 014830 HOU Sineoi
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM:
TO: .
TITLE:
DATE: 04/11/1978
PAGES: 6
SUBJECTS :
ACTIVITIES AFTER ASSASSINATION
OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, ASSOCIATES AND
RELATIVES
OSWALD, LEE, ACTIVITIES OF NOVEMBER 22-24...
HURT, JOHN
DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
‘RESTRICTIONS: 3
_ . CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 01/31/1996
OPENING CRITERIA :
“COMMENTS: Box 283. ‘

vol |
HW 54756 Docld:32268213 Page 1
 

KENNEDY >

es7ag2

 

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

ll. -Identifying Information:

-Namegohn David Hurt

‘City/State Raleigh, N.C.

Date of Birth 5/12/09

“Physical Description:
9 Height

i : Weight

‘Ethnic Group

 

.
ays
Be

3s Personal History:

 

 

: Europe an apan
“Telephone P P

 

Criminal Record
(1. Arrests __

“2. Convictions

 

Rad#tional Personal Information:
a. “Relative(s): Name Wife

Address Same

“b. Area frequented:

 

 

c. Remarks:

‘Address_201 Hillsborough St., Apt.4 Place_Residence
“elephone Raleigh: 834-7430

M or S Married

“Social Security 107-05-5407-A__: spouse Billie G. Hurt —_

cal Present Employment 7 Unemployed, on government disability gE
"Address Served in the Army ‘Counterintelligence Corps (C. I. wen in

 

 

i ne ae Lurite Bot.

Date 4-11-78

wo

Children

Color Eyes _- Hair

Special Characteristics ©

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7 Sn . ' Investigator Surell Brady, Wore Rose and sim Rely,

“Rife 4-13-78

 

 

 

nyisa756. Docld:32268213 Page 3 Date

Form: ain Bo:

   

 

 

 
 

 

KENNEDY

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

‘Name John David Hurt Date 4-11-78 Time 6:00 p.m

 

address 201 Hillsborough St., Apt. 4 Place Residence

 

Raleigh, N.C.

 

Interview: On Tuesday, April 11,1978 at approximately 6:00 pom.
Harold Rose, Jim Kelly and I went to Hurt's home in Raleigh. | It
is located in a small apartment puilding ona main thoroughfare

in ‘the downtown portion of the city. Hurt's wife, Billie G. “Hurt,

 

~ answered the door. Harold identified us and ‘asked for Mr. Hurt.
“She “let us in and went into the bedroom to get Mr. Hurt. The apart-
“ment is small and modest & but neatly furnished.
John ‘Burt came out of the bedroom where he: had been lying in
bed and | was clad in neat pajamas. “ue appeared to ‘be middle- aged

~ and is relatively short. He suffers from what he described as

arthritis; most of the fingers on both hands are missing cand the

 

 
  
 
   

‘ remaining fingers are severely cripped. He explained when we,
: asked about his disability that doctors had amputated his’ fingers:
‘because the arthritis was so crippling that he would have ‘more. use
of his limbs without the fingers. ’ (He in fact handled a cigarette,
relatively adeptly.): It is also apparent that his body is covered

in a severe rash which causes the skin to redden and which, apparent

 

“ly. stays irritated. He described that condition to us as “psorii asis.

As soon as we introduced ourselves, Hurt said he. knew we were: 7
_sinterviewer Signature ; :

 

 

“pyped Signature Surell Brady, Harold Rose and Jim Kelly
: Bowne, Lo [Broke

 

Date transcribed ‘Rife 4- -13- =78_

 

 

nw (54756~ Docld:32268213 Page -4-

 

 

 
