[-66-]

BYRNE: At that point, when we held a meeting with Mr. Buck, I was then quite

surprised to find that very little had been done outside of the fact that

the hall was selected and they were starting to work on tickets. But I
guess they were waiting for somebody to come from Washington to start organizing things.
So very little had been done up to that point, but there were beginning to be rumbles. It was
that day, as I talked to Mr. Buck and then I talked to others who I’d been put in contact with,
like labor people, that I found out that there was a great deal of dissatisfaction with the basic
format of the visit. The Democratic Party people were rather put out that the Chamber of
Commerce was going to be the sponsor, which they point out was probably Republican
dominated, and that the rank and file Democrats were not going to get a chance to see and
hear the President. The labor people were vociferous on this point. Some of them got
downright nasty about it. But of course I told them we were faced with—this was

[-67-]

the format and this was what we’d have to work through.

Mr. Buck was—as I say, the Chamber of Commerce was Republican dominated, but
he was a Democrat of the old school, long, curling, white hair, sort of looked like Tom
Connally. And he the executive secretary there, a man by the name of Milt Atkinson [Milton
A. Atkinson, Jr.], who is very conservative, a Republican I’m sure, who was actually
supposed to be handling a lot of the physical arrangements for the Chamber. But Mr. Buck
played it rather cool, and he dealt directly with me on tickets that were to be laid aside, and I
ended up controlling for the White House about five hundred and fifty tickets out of the
twenty-two hundred, I think it was. And I never know who paid for them, but Mr. Buck took
care of that.

CAMPBELL: There was a charge, then, for attendance at the breakfast?
BYRNE: Yes, I believe it was three dollars a ticket.
CAMPBELL: And the bulk of the tickets were made available how?
[-68-]
BYRNE: Ihave a printed letter here from the Chamber of Commerce that I

pulled out of my file dated November 14". It’s from Mr. Buck to

“Dear fellow member,” (Chamber of Commerce). And it mentions the
fact that a breakfast is being sponsored at 8 a.m. in the Grand Ballroom at the Hotel Texas,
November 22", “The capacity of the ballroom is limited. The Presidential party, including
those who will be traveling here with it, further restricts the tickets that can be supplied to our
members. Applications for tickets will be filled at the price of three dollars per ticket in the
order received at the Chamber of Commerce offices”—and they give the address—“with a
limitation of two tickets per member. Telephone orders cannot be handled.” So people from
the Chamber of Commerce who belonged to the Chamber of Commerce could get two
tickets, but they had to go down to the Chamber and pick them up. And that was a basic
ticket format.

CAMPBELL: And, in other words, no instructions had come from
[-69-]
Washington prior to your arrival concerning apportioning of tickets.

BYRNE: I believe that they had told Mr. Buck that they would expect some
tickets to be made available to the President, and I’m sure that that was
mentioned to me by Jerry Bruno before I left. That was something I
went into right away with Mr. Buck at our first meeting and he assured me that some tickets
would be there.

CAMPBELL: That some tickets would be available. Now you had several people to
deal with there. Who represented Governor Connally in Fort Worth at
that time in your discussions? Did he have someone locally?

BYRNE: Well, yes. The first people I believe I contacted outside of Mr. Buck
were the Belews, Marjorie and David Belew [David O. Belew, Jr.],
B-E-L-E-W. Marjorie Belew is the State Committeewoman and David,
her husband, was a lawyer in town and I believe it was the, probably the night 13" or the 14"
that I went to their house where—they called a meeting

[-70-]

and brought people together like... [Interruption] We had this meeting at the Belew’s house,
and I’m not absolutely certain now whether it was the same night as the arrival. I may
possibly have met them before. I met with them before I met with Mr. Buck on the 13". I
may have met them on the night of the 12". So it was either the night of the 12" or the 13"
where we sat down and we talked about the whole event coming up. As I indicated, with
Mrs. Belew was her husband David, Bill Potts [William S. Potts], who was County
Democratic Chairman, Garrett Morris, who was State Committeeman and he’d been
campaign manager for Governor Connally in the last campaign, Garland Ham of the United
Auto Workers, John Heath, of the International Association of Machinists, and then a public
relations representative from Bell Helicopter, who was a friend of the Belews, Bill Haworth
[William F. Haworth], who they thought might be useful. But as you can see, Governor
Connally was pretty well represented by the Belews and Garrett Morris.

[-71-]

CAMPBELL: Was Senator Yarborough represented?
not really clearly defined between you.

BYRNE: Well, looking back on it, I guess I’m what they later would call team
captain. That’s what I was, except the strange thing about it was I
hadn’t done

[-64-]

any previous trips and for some things that I should have known in that position, I had to
depend on Bill Duncan, who had much more experience in advance trips for a president. But
basically, his concern was with security and, of course, the communications men were with
the communications, and I had all the political things to deal with. As I think and compare
that with later trips I did when I became quite an active advance man, I think I probably ran
into as many political problems at Fort Worth as any place, and I didn’t give as much care or
concern to physical arrangements as I did in later trips. As a matter of fact, I wasn’t.... There
was only one of me, of course, and I was involved in all business about the program and the
tickets, and I really didn’t have the opportunity to make many of the physical arrangements.

CAMPBELL: About the physical arrangements, how was, for instance, the Hotel
Texas chosen, do you know?

BYRNE: That was before my.... Before my entrance into it, it was decided he
was going to stay at the hotel.

[-65-]
CAMPBELL: And that the breakfast would be held there?
BYRNE: And that the breakfast would be held there. To go back a bit, when my

talk with Jerry Bruno—this was the one thing, that was clear; that

there was going to be a breakfast. It was going to be held at the Texas
Hotel. That it was going to be sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce and that Raymond
Buck [Raymond E. Buck] was the chief contact.

CAMPBELL: Then was he almost an immediate contact when you arrived in Fort
Worth?
BYRNE: I remember getting there. I guess we left on the 12", early in the day,

and got there in the evening. And I had a meeting with him 9:30 or 10

o’clock the next morning on the 13" of November to which I brought
Bill Duncan and his assistant This is one thing I did then and which I did in nearly all the
other places contrary to many, many other advance men. I always cut the Secret Service men
in on all political arrangements and found it to be worthwhile.

CAMPBELL: How far along was the planning for the breakfast?
was going along before you left?

BYRNE: No. As I recall, Pierre Salinger [Pierre E.G. Salinger] had said
somewhere along the line, made an announcement, that she was going
along on the trip, but whether or not she was going to Fort Worth was

open until fairly late in the game.

CAMPBELL: All right. Then when did you arrive in Texas?

BYRNE: I remember leaving the day after Veterans Day, November 12". We all
piled into a twin-engine aircraft at Andrews Air Force Base and took
off for Texas. I remember it lasted a tremendous length of time, being

an old propeller pushed airplane. I didn’t know many of the people on the plane. As a

[-62-]

matter of fact, I don’t know whether I knew any at that point. Many of them I came to know
subsequently, in that some of them very well. There were advance men; there were Secret
Service agents; there were the White House communications agency boys. And as we went
down there—I think Fort Worth was the next to the last stop—we stopped at all the other
points along and dropped everybody off.

As I think back now, I remember talking with one advance man who I later on came
to know rather well. This gentleman was Max Edwards [Max N. Edwards] who was with the
Department of Interior. He was a fellow from the Southwest of the country, and he had one
of the stops. Marty Underwood [Martin E. Underwood], I believe, was along. I didn’t know
Marty at that point. I came to know Marty very, very well in ensuing years. We worked
together on the Johnson campaign in 1964 and were very, very closely associated. I presume
he was on that plane, but I didn’t know him at the time.

CAMPBELL: Then, at your stop in Fort Worth, who was involved?
[-63-]
Who from the Secret Service?

BYRNE: The.... I remember as we all got off the airplane.... I had talked on the
plane with the fellow from the Secret Service who was in charge. The
agent in charge of the trip was Bill Duncan. With him was Ned Hall,

acted as his assistant on the trip. There was Major Jack Rubley, who was the head White

House communications man on the trip, and he had a young second lieutenant with him who

he was breaking in by the name of Bill Hartnett, who was the other communications man.

When we arrived in Fort Worth we were met by Mike Howard, who was the local Secret

Service man. And that was the basic group that worked on the advance trip.

CAMPBELL: On the advance. And you’ve indicated before that responsibilities were
Second of Three Oral History Interviews
with
John E. Byrne

September 16, 1969
Washington, D.C.

By Ann M. Campbell

For the John F. Kennedy Library

CAMPBELL: When were you first contacted about President Kennedy’s [John F.
Kennedy] Texas trip?

BYRNE: As I recall it, was about a week before Veterans Day, November 1 1%
1963. Jerry Bruno [Gerald J. Bruno], who was at the Democratic
National committee and, of course, had been known as JFK’s “Mr.
Advance Man” apparently needed several people to go to Texas and he asked Bernie Boutin
[Bernard Louis Boutin], who was then Administrator of General Services Administration, if
he could spare somebody, and the assignment came to me. Boutin suggested me to Bruno,
and I went over to the committee

[-59-]

and talked to Bruno. As I say, that was about a week before Veterans Day in ‘63, and that
was the first word of it that came.

CAMPBELL: And this was a first experience for you in advance work?

BYRNE: Yes. Let’s say I had done things for the Governor of Maine [Clinton
A. Clauson] and also I had made some arrangements for President
Kennedy when he was a candidate for president in Maine just on the
state level. But this was really the first time I did a presidential advance.

CAMPBELL: Advance trip. Do you remember what the first word was from Bruno?
What were your first instructions, general instructions?

BYRNE: Let me think now. I know I went over to the Democratic National
Committee and sat down with him, and he started asking me a lot of
questions about what I’d done in the past. As I remember he was rather

cryptic about the whole trip at this point and we didn’t speak very long. He just told me the

basic format; that there was going to

[-60-]

be this series of visits in Texas he didn’t even designate Fort Worth until the end of our
conversation. He was still looking for people to go to the various places. I believe it was in
that conversation, at the and, that he decided that I was going to Fort Worth.

CAMPBELL: Was there an indication of who he worked with at the White House?
Where did his instructions come from?

BYRNE: Well, he was working directly for Kenny O’Donnell [Kenneth P.
O’Donnell].

CAMPBELL: For Kenny O’Donnell at the White House.

BYRNE: At the White House, yeah.

CAMPBELL: Then, what other briefing did you have before you left for Texas?

BYRNE: I don’t believe I had really any briefing much at all, Ann. It was

decided I’d go, and everything was always done very fast and quick

conversations and, “You get down there and keep in constant touch
with us,” that was the word. “Let as know everything that happens, everything you’re doing,
and check out things.” So that’s mostly the way it was.

[-61-]

I don’t know whether, as I think back now, whether there had been any discussion at
that point about the difficulties that were posed by the split between Yarborough [Ralph W.
Yarborough] and Connally [John B. Connally, Jr.] and also between Yarborough and Vice
President Johnson [Lyndon Baines Johnson]. I have a suspicion that this wasn’t discussed
with me before I left.

CAMPBELL: Were you aware that Mrs. Kennedy [Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy]
Suggested Citation
John E. Byrne, recorded interview by Ann M. Campbell, September 16, 1969, (page
number), John F. Kennedy Library Oral History Program.
John E. Byrne, Oral History Interview—JFK#2, 9/16/1969
Administrative Information

Creator: John E. Byrne

Interviewer: Ann M. Campbell

Date of Interview: September 16, 1969
Location: Washington, D.C.

Length: 53 pages; Please note: there is no page 93

Biographical Note

Byrne, press secretary to the Governor of Maine (1958-1960); an executive at the General
Services Administration (1961-1980); and advance man for President Kennedy's trip to
Texas (1963), discusses how he became an advance man for JFK’s November 1963 trip
to Texas, arrangements in Fort Worth, Texas for a short public appearance and a
Chamber of Commerce breakfast for JFK, and JFK’s assassination, among other issues.

Access
Open.

Usage Restrictions

According to the deed of gift signed on February 24, 1998, copyright of these materials
has been assigned to the United States Government. Users of these materials are advised
to determine the copyright status of any document from which they wish to publish.

Copyright

The copyright law of the United States (Title 17, United States Code) governs the making
of photocopies or other reproductions of copyrighted material. Under certain conditions
specified in the law, libraries and archives are authorized to furnish a photocopy or other
reproduction. One of these specified conditions is that the photocopy or reproduction is
not to be “used for any purpose other than private study, scholarship, or research.” If a
user makes a request for, or later uses, a photocopy or reproduction for purposes in
excesses of “fair use,” that user may be liable for copyright infringement. This institution
reserves the right to refuse to accept a copying order if, in its judgment, fulfillment of the
order would involve violation of copyright law. The copyright law extends its protection
to unpublished works from the moment of creation in a tangible form. Direct your
questions concerning copyright to the reference staff.

Transcript of Oral History Interview

These electronic documents were created from transcripts available in the research room
of the John F. Kennedy Library. The transcripts were scanned using optical character
recognition and the resulting text files were proofread against the original transcripts.
Some formatting changes were made. Page numbers are noted where they would have
occurred at the bottoms of the pages of the original transcripts. If researchers have any
concerns about accuracy, they are encouraged to visit the Library and consult the
transcripts and the interview recordings.
   
    
     
  
              
     
      
          
 
      
        
   
       

NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION
JOHN F. KENNEDY LIBRARY

   

Legal Agreement Pertaining to the Oral History Interviews of
JOHN E. BYRNE

  

In accordance with the provisions of Chapter 21 of Title 44, United
States Code, and subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth, I, John E. Byrne, of Alexandria, Virginia, do hereby
give, donate, and convey to the United States of America all my
rights, title, and interest in the tape recording and transcript of
personal interviews conducted on August 29, 1969; September 16,
1969 and October 10, 1969 at Washington, D.C., and prepared for
deposit in the John F. Kennedy Library. This Legal Agreement
supersedes the Legal Agreement signed by myself on October 20, 1993
and by the Acting Archivist of the United States on October 21,
1994. This assignment is subject to the following terms and
conditions:

(1) Until December 31, 1999, the transcript shall not be
available to researchers. Thereafter, the transcript shall be
available to all researchers.

   
  

   
   
  
   
  
    
  
   
   

(2) Until December 31, 1999, the tape recording shall not be
available to researchers. Thereafter, the tape recording shall be
available to all researchers.

(3) I hereby assign to the United States Government all
copyright I may have in the interview transcript and tape.

(4) Until December 31, 1999, copies of the transcript and the
tape recording may not be provided by the Library to researchers.
Thereafter, copies of the transcript and the tape recording may be
provided by the Library to researchers upon request.

(5) Until December 31, 1999, copies of the transcript and tape
recording may not be deposited in or loaned to institutions other
than the John F. Kennedy Library. Thereafter, copies of the
transcript and tape recording may be deposited in or loaned to
other institutions.

 
John E. Byrne—JFK#2
Table of Contents

Topic

Circumstances of Byrne being an advance man on John F. Kennedy’s
(JFK) November 1963 trip to Texas

Advance team

Arrangements for Chamber of Commerce breakfast in Forth Worth on
November 22, 1963

JFK’s short public appearance outside the Hotel Texas in Fort Worth

JFK’s arrival in Texas

Security for the trip to Texas

Response of local Texans to JFK’s visit

Hostility between John B. Connally, Jr. and Ralph W. Yarborough

Arranging lodging at the Hotel Texas

JFK’s speech at the Forth Worth breakfast

Organizing the motorcade from Forth Worth to Carswell Air Force Base

JFK’s assassination
